Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, April 26, 1946

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published Bi-Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

MEL WINSTEAD - Editor-in-Chief
DEXTER LAZENBY - Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Assistant Editor - Nisbet Jimmy
Feature Editor - Frank Barr, Jr
Managing Editor - Lamar Williamson
Managing Editor - Lonnie Turner
Managing Editor - Ed Sutton
Managing Editor - Doug Swink
Managing Editor - Ernest Hunter
Art Editor - Bill Whitaker
Sports Editor - Jim Jackson
Associate Sports Editor - Bill Edwards
Assistant Sports Editor - Bill Gamble
Staff Photographer - George Gunn

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager - Bob Smoak
Advertising Manager - Rot Gambrell
Circulation Manager - Charles Thor
Circulation Manager - Norvel Childers
Subscriptions Manager - Neill

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

This paper is the medium of college life, and as such it welcomes any contributions. It reserves the right to
reject part or all of any communication. If you suspect a man, don’t employ him; if you employ a man,
don’t suspect him. An epitaph is a statement that usually lies above about the one who lies beneath.

Everybody is tired of hearing about the spirit of Davidson when there is none in evidence. Is the Davidson spirit
a ghost? It does not take a man with rare intellect to see that the old spirit as proclaimed in
Chambers and as practiced are two entirely different things. In chapel, as most of you have noticed, there have been
a series of talks dealing with the Davidson spirit and tradition.

SCHOOL SPIRIT IS NOT BUILT ON MORAL VICTORIES

Who wants to hear about moral victories anyway? Davidson teams used to get out on the field and make the
opposing team feel that they were fighting against drive and spirit. We are tired of moral victories. We want victories.
The players on the teams have come out at the first of the season enthusiastic and ready for a scrap,
but after a few games in which the student body shows little interest by not attending the games, there is
a lag of interest in the players, imperceptible at first, but which tends to undermine the will to give that
last effort in order to win. It has been proved over and over again. These moral victories have been won
in the past usually with much larger schools and stiff competition, but even those moral “victories” lost their flavor after
a time. There are nostalgic memories of some of the older boys about the times when the freshmen were not
so cowed. Someone was given a free ride in chapel every day. Now the freshmen leave chapel with the seniors.
Times change but surely not that much. With the recent victories of the tennis and track teams, more spirit is
in evidence. Spirit goes on the field and it has always been perpetuated not by boys hired for athletics, but
those who came and fought for their Alma Mater, Davidson, with all they had. What can be done about it?
Plenty. Go to the games and yell as though your life depended on winning the game. Make it a habit
to attend all activities, speak on the campus, raise some heck, give out with some more names like Dandy Jim
the Monk, Dopey. Believe it or not, all of this creates spirit and a feeling of unity among the student
body. Let's wake up—SPIRIT—and fight!

After The Church?

Rumor has it that not too far in the distant future we may expect to have a student activities building
on the campus. With building conditions such as they are now, there is little that we can do other than
to express opinions as to just what kind of building we should like to see at Davidson for this purpose.
In connection with this, I should like to describe The Student Activities Building at The Virginia Polytechnic Institute in hopes
that possibly we may get something similar to it. Of course, Davidson would not need anything quite so large as
is necessary for VPI and its two or three thousand students, but a building somewhat on a smaller scale would,
in my opinion, be ideal. The “SAB”, as it is called at VPI, has a basement, a first, and a
second floor. The basement is devoted to such enterprises as a bookstore, a soda fountain, a grill, post office, and
a men’s clothing shop. All of these, with the possible exception of the clothing store, should be included here at
Davidson. On the first or ground floor are the facilities for the student social affairs such as several spacious lounges,
a ballroom, and a banquet hall. It would hardly be necessary for us to have a separate ballroom and banquet
hall; instead, one of the two rooms could be used as a cafeteria. The combined ballroom and banquet hall would
certainly be the answer to small social functions and fraternity dinner dances. Student organizations occupy the second floor. One side
is used by the YMCA for offices and reception rooms. The rest is taken up with offices for student publications,
student government, and honorary fraternities. I am rather of the opinion that a centralization such as this of student organizations
here at Davidson would be much better than having them scattered all over the campus as we do now. When
plans are drawn up for such a building as this, I feel sure that the administration can’t go wrong if
they decide upon something similar to the “SAB” at VPI. Anyone in the student body who has seen it will,
I’m sure, agree with me.
—George Ennett.

Someone said, “There’s plenty of school spirit in Charlotte.” This may be an exaggeration, but there is some truth to
it. School spirit is something that you do not have to talk about if you have it. It’s just there
and none has to say anything about it; there is no reason to do so. Some hope that with the
return of the regular enrollment of the upper classes, the spirit will revive. Also, by next year the teams will
have improved. These times have been ones of serious thought and drastic changes. With the recent victories of the tennis
and track teams, more spirit is in evidence. Spirit goes on the field and it has always been perpetuated not
by boys hired for athletics, but those who came and fought for their Alma Mater, Davidson, with all they had.
What can be done about it? Plenty. Go to the games and yell as though your life depended on winning
the game. Make it a habit to attend all activities, speak on the campus, raise some heck, give out with
some more names like Dandy Jim the Monk, Dopey. Believe it or not, all of this creates spirit and a
feeling of unity among the student body. Let's wake up—SPIRIT—and fight!

PHI GAMMA DELTA

Digging into the reserve of cuts, the Fijis’ operations of late have been extensive to say the least. Brothers Maloney
and Campbell and Pledge-brothers Pharr and Korbel returned from a weekend giving very vague details about Brown Mountain lights, Cold
Springs, oil lamps, etc. From the accounts they were able to give, it seems the mountaineers must be drawing on
their vintage pre-war stock! Pledge-brother Jim Williford reported a most enjoyable trip down to the Junior-Senior at Flossie Mac. Brother
Wyatt and Pledge-brother Tommy Clark attended Easter Services in Winston-Salem—Brother Wyatt combining it with a visit to the folks. Brothers
Campbell and Korbel and Pledge-brothers Pharr were guests of a group of Carolina co-eds at a steak dinner and “her
place in the country” Saturday night. A hilarious time was reported—quite an opportunity for gleaning a few dates for the
dances, eh fellas!

KAPPA ALPHA

Well, last weekend the K.A.’s and Kappa Sigs carried off their function in whiz-bang fashion. As usual, we have a
few comments to make. Brother Jackson and “Murgatroid” seemed to be getting along swell, and Kappa Sig Bill Spencer certainly
looked fine in that dress suit. Naturally, a few brothers lost themselves over the collection of beauty, but outside of
that, nothing out of the ordinary happened. It really was swell. With Brother Jackson officiating, how could it miss? The
coming dance weekend is bringing a lot of problems to our door, as well as the customary flushes. Brother Cunningham
got flushed three times. Some record! On top of that, it looks as if the mansion may not be quite
ready for the activities despite “Hercules” Houston's efforts. But we're all pulling for him to get us through in time.
We'd like to end this column with a few words of congratulation to “Gentleman Jim” for landingthe job of “Y”
president.

KAPPA SIGMA

Last Saturday night the annual Kappa Alpha-Kappa Sigma Ball was held. Masters of ceremonies were Jim Jackson and Jim Ellis.
Jokes, etc., were put on by the pledges. A dance followed the banquet and a good time was had by
all. We are also looking forward to a big weekend, in that Spring Frolics is quite an occasion around here.
We wish to extend congratulations to Bob Lacy and Buck Troutman for their fine work on the track team and
also to Tommy Yarborough, Doug Rice, Bently Gibson, and John Ellis for their work on the baseball diamond, as well
as Lyttleton Scott for his fine work on the tennis team.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

Jerry (The Wart) Robinson ran short on funds in the Queen City this weekend. He was almost stranded but at
the last minute, some kind soul gave him a lift. Must have been a pretty expensive date. Brother Neill made
the usual extended weekend trip (from Monday to Monday inclusive) to Kings Mountain just to see the family (?). Alex
Donald and Sam Lineberger spent the usual exciting weekend at the local theater. Donald wishes to report that a good
time was had by all. “Parson” Ed Hopper says his motto is “leave women alone.” Just the same, all the
girls seem to think Parson is fine. Stick in there and fight ‘em, Ed. Pledge Brother Marshall wishes to report
that Rock Hill, S.C. is still able to carry on after his absence of 24 whole hours. Now signs are
going up all over town “Marshall for Mayor.” The people think he’s almost ready to marry and settle down.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

All the fellows are securing dates for the spring dances and are looking forward to the event with a great
deal of enthusiasm. It will be the last college dance for some of the fellows who are seniors and for
others who are going into the army. We are in hopes we will have the house fixed in time for
the dances, but Buddy Carson will have to crack the whip hard in order to accelerate the pace of his
helpers. All kidding aside, Buddy, you are doing a fine job and we all know it’s going to look good
when you get through. Bob Strickland has been up to New York to see his father who had an operation
and is getting along just fine. Red Bethea and Bert Anderson were away over the weekend with the baseball team
which won its first game. Senator Lee says he has reformed from all his old habits and is becoming a
man of intellect.

(Continued on Page 4)

SPRING FROLICS — ’46

ORC) - “SUCH LOVELINESS NEVER UNTOUCHED” — By Frank Barr, Jr.

Since copies of this issue will undoubtedly fall into the hands of our visitors this weekend, I have been asked
to make the following plea: “Please don't laugh at the fraternity house lawns. We really expect grass to grow.” I
was also asked to post this notice: PLEASE KEEP OFF THE GRASS.

Something which has been lacking on dance weekends is a place for the independent boys to entertain their dates. At
last, we have devised a plan. The fraternities are holding open house this weekend. In addition, refreshments will be served
at the Guest House. More problems must be faced next year when dances are held on the campus. With an
increased student body, there will be even less room on the dance floor as well as less room for housing
les femmes. What will the answer be? The Davidsonian staff has several solutions to offer for this problem. The Pan-Hellenic
Council might buy surplus shelter-halves and erect a harem on Lingle field. Another suggestion was the use of discarded navy
hammocks slung between the stacks in the library, or, if weather permits, between the trees on the front campus. These
plans not seeming feasible, we offer our last, but far from least suggestion. In view of the willingness of students
to share their rooms with the returning veterans, we suggest an extension of the “Share-the-Room” plan to accommodate our weekend
guests.

P.S. Dear Anonymous, I hope you got a date. This is the column you want to show your Spring Frolics
date, fellows. Don’t try to hide this from her. Let her see your name in big bold letters. Come on
BILL POLLARD, she's going to find out about that late date in Mooresville, anyhow. What does she care, her picture’s
in the paper.

Up until Monday afternoon, FRANK BARR was still trying to think of some way to break that awful date he
was coerced into, and latch on to his true love at Queens (our sister school, you know, the place where
the Charlotte girls go when they can’t be a social success at Agnes Scott. Thank you, Atlanta). Many of the
local lads are making quite a name for themselves in Charlotte social circles. BILL “JITTERBUG” SPENCER attracted the usual crowd
of bobby soxers at the Stan Kenton brawl. The same crowd is known to yearn and squeal for autographed photos
of BITSY ARCHER, the traveling salesman. And fame is spreading for another of the more prominent campus characters. Who is
this man, praised as a user of Agnoter, and rescued from his life of sin by a rescue mission of
New York's Bowery? Whispered rumors have floated around the campus of late, and hung suspended near the bushes of Georgia.
At last, they can be confirmed! It's true! THE HAT (name it, you can feed it) has purchased a summer
straw, especially for the Frolics. So, should you see a gay sombrero stalking its victims in the gym, be not
alarmed. THE HAT is once again on the loose.

Comment would destroy the ebullient spirit and simple beauty of these lines, composed under a banyan tree by the poet
laureate of the Phi Society. His name? But what does it matter. Joyce will know. Read and be charmed.

My Joyce was sitting on a hill
Beneath the boughs of an Oak,
The sun was setting, the heavens were still,
When suddenly the voice of God spoke.

“You and your lover were made one,
While in the realm of eternal sun,
But when on earth you did appear,
You were an unknown two in a new sphere.”

Now he traveled far and wide;
The earth was at his feet,
He always fought for the losing side,
And gained the triumphant's seat.

He loved you dear, without a fear,
And by God, of most men, sincere;
But he could not stay the avenger’s sword,
He fell dead at Johnson's Ford!

All of your life, my child
You've hunted him over the earth,
Your soul was weak, your eyes wild,

(Continued on Page 4)

Cinema Comments
BY DOUG SWINK

MONDAY and TUESDAY
April 29 - 30
“Doll Face”
A musical comedy-romance, light and inclined starring Vivian Blain, Perry Como, and Carmen Miranda. If in the future you should
find yourself in the burlesque business, this movie may give you some hints as to how to put your favorite
star on B’way. There is also the problem of trying to take culture stick to a ‘strip-tease’ girlie.

WEDNESDAY and THURSDAY
May 1 - 2
“Tokyo Rose”
Those mean old Japs are on the screen again. Nevertheless, there is promise of excitement when an American prisoner escapes
and tangles himself up with the underground. He also tries to snatch the ‘Tokyo Rose’ and prevent the spreading of
false propaganda. However, there are thorns attached to all rose bushes. The cast includes Byron Barr, Osa Massen, and Don
Douglas.

FRIDAY and SATURDAY
May 3 - 4
“Three Strangers”
At the premiere of this show in Davidson, there will be four of us who will have to get acquainted.
This will either be an exclusive showing, or the critics have just not deemed it necessary to comment upon it.

MONDAY and TUESDAY
May 6 - 7
“Scarlet Street”
The setting takes place in Greenwich Village. Edward G. Robinson, a middle-aged bank cashier and artist, becomes putty in the
clutches of our own favorite, Joan Bennett, who by the way plays the part of a very - an -
shall we say - ‘shady lady’. That guy Robinson has all the breaks! This picture is strictly for adults who
can appreciate it for the fine characterizations and for other obvious reasons.

WEDNESDAY
May 8
“Northwest Mounted Police”
As there was no material on hand

(Continued from Page 1)
