About this time, a comment should be made concerning the Davidson vs. V.M.I. game up at Lexington, Saturday. Frankly, this fledgling scribe was somewhat disappointed, to say nothing of embarrassed after having predicted a two-touchdown win for the Cats. The general consensus of opinion seems to be...

By CLAYTON SCOFIELD

Now the issue at hand is the Hampden-Sydney eleven, who shouldn't be much of a problem for the Cats if they can get over the fumble-itis and unsteadiness exhibited against V.M.I.

B TEAM

Playing host for the third time this season, Davidson’s scrappy Wildkittens will tangle with the Barium Springs eleven Friday afternoon at 3:00 on Richardson Field. Knocking over their first two opponents without much trouble, the Kittens will try for a third win Friday and may meet a stiffer brand of opposition in the Barium eleven. The nearest thing to any test of strength the Kittens have thus far experienced was their spree with the Belmont Abbey boys, who put up a fair show and managed to score 14 points to the JVees' 20. Lees-McRae was the first victim to feel the offensive punch packed by the Wildkittens this year, emerging scoreless while the JVees racked up 37 points.

The Kitten backfield is loaded with talent which has given a good account of itself. Backs Bud Fowle and Jack Elkins show tremendous power in driving through the line for consistent gains. Bob Walker was hard to stop in the Abbey game and can be counted on to make trouble for Barium Springs. Dave Edwin, Cliff Turner, and Buck Troutman have also sparked in previous games.

Up front, where the ball games are won and lost, the Wildkittens are again well equipped. Preyer, Bingham, and Covington were the core of resistance in the Abbey game, and the rest of the stalwarts will be gunning for action.

FIGHTING SPIRIT

At this point, I would like to digress a bit from the hard and narrow path of sports and say a few words about the apparent lack of spirit exhibited by the student body at this year’s previous Davidson grid engagements. In pre-war years, as every Old Davidson man knows, there might have been a lack of wins on the final tally-card, but there was never a lack of spirit among the student body, nor among the field participants. Just last week, when the Wildcats invaded V.M.I. with a strong team and a good representation of students, there was not a single cheerleader present to organize the support and let the men on the field know that the students and fans were there behind them. Half of the color of a football game consists of a well-organized cheering section, wholeheartedly supporting their team and cheering them on to victory. I make this criticism constructively and offer the following suggestions. First: that cheerleaders and fans be present at all Davidson games. Second: that Freshmen be required to sit together in a Freshman section, with caps, and that organized support be demanded of not only these Freshmen but of every student in the student body.

Whatever Your Needs
SUITS
HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
TIES

October 25, 1946
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcat Sports

BEAT HAMPDEN-SYDNEY

Bethea, No. 30, does some fancy blocking.

Page Three

Phi Delt’s First In Touch Ball

As the third week of Interfraternity football rolled on, it found...

In the above action photo of the N.C. State-Davidson game in Raleigh, Jim Sifford, No. 39, is shown lugging the leather, while Red No. 50, Easy Rhodes, has been blocked out of play in the foreground.

Wildcats Seek Victory

Davidson's fighting Wildcats will be out to snap a two-game losing streak Saturday afternoon when they collide with Coach Frank Summers’ Hampden-Sydney Tigers on Richardson Field. This will be the first daylight home game of the season, and a large crowd is expected to be on hand for the starting whistle.

After two one-sided victories over Erskine and Wofford, the Cats have been stopped on successive Saturdays by powerful N.C. State and the Keydets of V.M.I., each to the tune of 25-0. The Red and Black will be trying to pass the .500 mark at the expense of their second rival from the “Old Dominion” state.

Mapes To Play

In their contest with the Keydets last week, the Cats did not seem like the spirited old eleven of yesteryears, and a decided lethargy crept into the camp of Coach Pooley Hubert. However, Coach Jim Story had only the highest praise for the team’s second-half showing. Though the Tigers do not pose as serious a threat as the State Wolfpack and the V.M.I. Keydets, the Cats will not have the easy time they did in their two initial outings.

Dick O'Hare, who played only a few minutes against the Keydets, will probably not be in the Saturday game, but in his stead will be Hal Mapes, eligible only for the home games. Coach Story has picked stalwart flankman Jim Sifford and guard Buddy Chandler to lead the Davidson eleven as co-captains in their fifth game of the present campaign. The Hampden-Sydney aggregation is not likely to crack the rugged Wildcat forward wall, and Coach Story is ready for any aerial antics which the Tigers might provide.

The Tigers have been unable to break into the win column with three straight losses to Randolph-Macon, Richmond, and the University of Virginia. If the weather is favorable, the Wildcats may be able to show some of their early season flash and give the Davidson student body and fans a real show.

I’ll Swap You
$5.00 8X10 Color Portrait
For $1.00
VERNON B. McGHEE
Local and College Agent of Franklin Studios
Charlotte, N.C.

Cats Face Hampden-Sydney

A lethargic...Their second successive loss last Saturday when Virginia Military Institute’s spirited Keydets captured a 25-0 win before a Homecoming crowd of 1,000 at Alumni Field in Lexington. The Keydets capitalized on their opponents’ listless play to ram over three scores before intermission. Davidson checked the heavier Keydets but in the third quarter, the Wildcats fumbled to set up their concluding tally. Although Davidson accumulated 12 first downs to VMI’s 4, their attack invariably bogged down when it approached the Keydet goal line. Coach Story’s charges seemed to lack an offensive punch in the clutch, and the spirit which had characterized the Wildcats’ play in previous tilts was conspicuously absent. 

Members of both clubs were removed from the gruelling contest because of numerous injuries. Seven Wildcats were assisted from the field, while five Keydets had to be replaced. 

Keydets Score

Davidson made no headway after the opening kickoff, and Thomason, who skipped down to the Wildcat 23 before being driven out of bounds, pitched a strike to Sethea on the 20. Sethea kicked before being driven out of bounds. 

Davidson Drops Tilt To V. M. I. Keydets

Davidson eleven suffered their final loss to the Keydets. Thomason pitched a strike to flankman Crytzer on the five, and he drove to the two before being pulled to earth. On his second attempt, Ragunas bulled his way into the end zone for a Keydet touchdown. The Wildcats were extremely sluggish, particularly during the first half, and the Keydets capitalized on their listless play to dominate. With the oval resting on the ’Cat 50, Thomason scurried across the goal line. Thomason’s attempted conversion was low, but VMI led 6-0 with the first quarter only a few minutes old. In the second frame, Thomason drifted back and fired an aerial to Meier, who gathered in the pass on the Davidson 12, unmolested. The try for point failed again as the Keydets went ahead. 

The scoring play left the Phi Delts in firm control of the first place slot, with the KAs and the Kappa Sigs in second and third places respectively. 

Competition Is Close

Although holding the top slot, the Phi Delts have played some close games. They eked out a bare victory over the Pi Kappas by taking them in an overtime period, and two days later, won over the Betas by virtue of four first downs. With the beginning of the third week, they cinched their hold by winning over the Independents, 12-2. Although they are statistically in second place, the KAs didn’t take to the gridiron last week, their game with the S. A. E.s being postponed. 

Grabbing third place were the Kappa Sigs, with two wins to cancel their initial defeat at the hands of the Betas. They took the S. P. E.s with a one-down win on Monday, then proceeded to swamp the Independents on Wednesday, 36-0. 

Betas Drop To Fourth

Beaten by the Phi Delts, the Betas dropped from first place to a tie with the S. A. E.s for fourth. In fifth place were the Phi Gams with two wins and two losses. As of last Tuesday, the scoreboard read:

Won Lost
Phi Delts 4 0
KAs 2 0
Kappa Sigs 3 1
Betas 2 1
S. A. E.s 2 1
Phi Gams 2 2
Pi Kapps 1 2
S. P. E.s 1 2
Pikas 0 4
Ind. 0 4

Desperate aerials fell incomplete in the end zone as the half ended. After intermission, the Wildcats snapped out of their lethargy in the third quarter. Repeatedly moving down to the V. M. I. 30-yard stripe, the fighting Davidsonians could never muster enough strength to punch over a score.

Keydets Take Fumble

Midway in the final period, Davidson bobbled the ball in the shadow of their goal posts, and the Keydets recovered on the two-yard stripe. The Wildcats dug in and repulsed two thrusts, but on the third attempt, Ragunas mashed through guard for his second touchdown. Thomason finally made a successful conversion, bringing the score to 25-0. 

Davidson’s showing against the Keydets was somewhat disappointing. The tackling and blocking were ragged, fumbles were frequent, and most of the plays were poorly executed. However, Sharpe and Strickland turned in sparkling performances in the line, and Sifford and Anderton performed creditably in the backfield for the Wildcats.

Charlotte SHOES

TESTAMENTS and the 101 other things

CHURCH and HOME FURNISHINGS

Kale-Lawing Co.

The Ideal Place To Meet Your Friends

No Sale Complete... Until You Are Satisfied

The South’s Largest Selection of BIBLES

Bible Book Store

124 W. Fourth Street

Charlotte, N.C.