Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN October 18, 1946

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published Weekly Throughout The College Year
“For A Better Davidson”

Editorials

DAVIDSONIAN

Editors & Presents Features

ED SUTTON .......................... EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOE SMOAK .......................... BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jim Love .......................... Associate Editor - Feature Editor
Sports Editor, Managing Editor
Bob Philips ....................... Managing Editor
Dave Richardson ............... Managing Editor
Vin Peltman ....................... Managing Editor
Walter Walker
Ralph Alexander

BUSINESS STAFF
Bob Gambrell .................... Assistant Business Manager
WEAN Keels ....................... Advertising Manager
John McNair ...................... Circulation Manager
Bob Cline .......................... Circulation Manager
Charles Doc ....................... Collection Manager
BOONE! ............................. Collection Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such it welcomes any contributions or communication to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hands by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to close part or all of any contribution or communication.

Member Of: NATIONAL SCHOLASTIC PRESS ASSOCIATION

Pride and Admiration...

In Davidson's glorious history, pages have been filled with the valor of Wildcat teams of years gone by. My years are entirely too few to speak with authority of our sturdy warriors of many moons ago, but I can say truthfully that during my years as a Davidson student I have never seen one of our elevens in action which showed more spirit, courage or gameness than our team possessed in Raleigh last Saturday night. Unfortunately, spirit alone is not enough, for there is a limit to the physical capacity of mankind. As Coach Charlie Jameson says, “We had the best motor, but we gave out of gas.” Reserve power told the age-old story, for Davidson definitely had the better ball club at the outset. Neither Davidson students nor anyone who witnessed the contest will ever forget the showing that the men from Alenda Lux made that night. Men like Dick O’Hair, Easy Rhodes, and Buddy Chandler, who played on when there was nothing left to keep them in motion but heart, will long be remembered for the showing they made. There is no grief on Davidson’s campus today... only pride in a job well done, a great admiration for the men who did it, and a word of warning to Wildcat opponents of the future.

Dances...

Homecoming dances are just around the proverbial corner and Merry MacChesny Jeffries can be seen about the campus with a spring in his step and a twinkle in his eye. Reason? He just signed a contract with Bobby Byrne to play for the set. This will be Davidson’s first Homecoming set since the dances given back in 1942, for the war years were lean years at Davidson, and alumni were in the service which almost always prevented their attendance. In keeping with the great growth of everything else at Davidson this year, this set of dances should prove to be the biggest and best Homecoming group that has ever been presented here. In the pre-war years it was the policy of the Pan-Hellenic Council to hire a local or collegiate organization for this particular set. Their plan was to make a profit on these initial dances which was to be applied towards securing a band of national reputation for the Mid-Winters and Spring sets. With the much larger student body this term, the council feels that it will be able to finance a “name” organization for Homecoming. This can be successfully accomplished, however, only if the students give their full support to the dances. If through lack of support from the students, the set goes in the hole, it will be necessary to rely on strictly local talent for the remainder of the year. It is therefore urged that we turn out for the festivities. The prices on the set tickets seem very reasonable in view of the fact that during the past three years, prices for orchestras of only medium caliber have ranged at about the same fee. For instance, the band for Mid-Winters of 1945 was an organization working out of Winston-Salem under the name of John Peddicord. Set tickets for the affair were priced at $4.75 plus tax, which is only twenty-five cents less than a block ticket for the coming dances. Needless to say, John Peddicord’s selections cannot compare with the music furnished by Byrne and his orchestra, who has appearances at The Meadowbrook, the Raleigh Debutant Ball, New York’s famous Roseland Ballroom, and Georgia Tech Dances. The Davidsonian urges the full support of the student body for the dances because such must be the case if they are to be successful, and because we feel that this will truly be a weekend that will be enjoyed by all who are in attendance. It will bring back old memories to be heading for the Queen City for dances once again. I can well remember the long fight for campus dances which culminated in the students' request being granted. It is too bad that it was impossible to complete the proposed new gymnasium this year for that would indeed have added the final touch to the occasion. The situation is not a critical one now, though, for the days of gas rationing are gone and transportation will offer no serious problems. The problem which is confronting most students today seems to be that of securing accommodations for their dates during the weekend. Students who have not already found rooms for their fair friends are requested to do so at the earliest possible date.

This and That...

Buddy Whitesides tells the story of the Davidson student at the State game who was sitting just behind the Davidson bench, and who continually screamed, “Down in Front!” For a long time no one could tell to whom his cries were being addressed until finally somebody informed the loud young man that the man standing so often and blocking his vision was none other than Coach Bill Story. It is reported that the student melted into the crowd. It might be well for the Davidson students to take note of the fine organization of the State cheering section. Their yells were executed with perfect precision. Of course, they had a large section, but you must admit they did a noble job.

COLUMN by JIM JACKSON

This week’s column is written by a very well-known member of our student body, whose great modesty will not allow his name to be mentioned. In other words, regular columnist Jim Jackson is not responsible. After much deliberation as to a subject for this week’s column, and after conferring with other members of the staff, I decided to dedicate it to the many Davidson men back in school who helped to win World War II—our returning war heroes. We all realize, however, that it is an impossibility even to list by name all the veterans. So we have selected one veteran of both wartime Europe and occupation Europe as a typical example of Davidson heroes—McChesney Hill Jeffries of Thomasville, Georgia. Mac tells us that after three years of R.O.T.C. at Davidson he started his army career with four gruesome months of basic training at Camp Wheeler, Ga., where he learned the art of anti-tank gunnery during daylight hours and the art of dancing, Macon-style during hours of darkness. The remainder of his stateside career included a rise in rank to Pfc, corporal, and shavetail, while stationed at Mississippi State (A.S.T.P.), Fort Benning (O.C.S.), and Camp Shelby (A.N.C.). Mac set sail for Piccadilly in November, 1944, where he established a PX for WACs stationed in London. It was here that the night problems in basic training stood him in good stead, and he was so effective at servicing his WAC detachment that he was personally selected by the general to leave England. He hit the combat zone, and on sight was assigned to regimental headquarters, where he earned the bronze star interrogating enemy female captives. The occupation found Mac with the famed Rainbow Division in Austria, where he befriended a little Austrian gal (age 19), who had been orphaned by the war. During the remainder of his overseas time, Mac drew army pay as a first lieutenant, though his primary job was the fostering of Austro-American relations. Mac further distinguished himself as an occupation hero by saving an Austrian fraulein who vainly endeavored to drown herself after being frustrated in love. Mac closed the interview with this statement: “I sincerely hope that this enlightening interview will bring an end to these shameful, sordid, sinful, malicious rumors that my so-called friends have been conspicuously circulating about the campus.”

Friday and Saturday October 18-19
“Masquerade in Mexico”

“Masquerade in Mexico” stars Dorothy Lamour and Arturo de Cordova. Unless this motion picture is masquerading around the files under another name this reporter has not been able to locate it. However, Dotty’s figure should be easily recognizable whether it be masked or not (I hope). Anyway, let’s put on our feed bag and go! This marks the first in a series of Mexican movies.

Monday and Tuesday October 21-22
“Holiday in Mexico”

A picture pleasant to both eye and ear though suffering from lack of plot. Jane Powell, sub-deb daughter of U.S. ambassador to Mexico (Walter Pidgeon) falls for British ambassador’s young son (Roddy McDowall) but retains her soxer crush for famous pianist Jose Iturbi (Jose Iturbi). During the 127-minute technicolor production Jose plays, Jane sings (and very well too) as does Ilona Massey (Pidgeon’s favorite cooing place), and Xavier Cugat (played by Xavier Cugat) rumbas.

Wednesday and Thursday October 23-24
“Till the End of Time”

As to whether this movie solves the post-war problems of any ex-GI I will notHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

I venture to say, but it is a story of four bewildered young people and how “they found themselves.” Here are the problem children: Dorothy McGuire who is not able to overcome her romantic daydreams which went down in France with her flyer husband; Bill Williams, an ex-fighter, who cannot accustom himself to his new artificial legs; Guy Madison, unharmed, even with his bobby-soxer appeal, finds that he is unable to adapt himself to civilian life; and Robert Mitchum with a silver plate in his head takes to drink to forget all. (Um-m-m! I’d like to forget studies.) The musical score, “Till the End of Time,” is very well done.

By? Raleigh played host to the Davidson footballers last weekend. It also played host to the most magnificent gathering of dealers since the Debutante Ball, for the BMOC’s were out en masse. There will be other football games in the North Carolina capital city. There will never be another weekend like the last one... or so the harassed and incompetent desk clerk of the Sir Walter was heard to gasp as he succumbed to the power of fraternity pins and sport coats. Fame was gained. That fame must be recognized in print, especially the saga of HAROLD MAXWELL, TWO-TON. He had a splendid time, and a diversified one. He witnessed a couple of ball games (the second half), overcame faculty-student barriers with his generosity, and drew a ringside seat at the pre-State Fair display of feminine pulchritude... Terminal Grill style. For one who is betrothed, BUD COX showed up well. A sizzling brunette Saturday night was last seen leading the lad into the enclosing shadows of Riddick Stadium. Yes, HARRY did well. He even paid for his high-ceiling expenses with an ingenious trick. He secured blind dates for his friends, from the pre-weekend view, and wagered with each that he would achieve success in his osculatory maneuvers. He won a fabulous sum (one dollar).

RICHARD LESTER PORT was missing even more than usual after the game. His projected junket to South Carolina fell through at the last minute when the Florence lass wired regrets. She must have heard what the frauleins couldn’t understand... BILL “ESQUIRE” HODGIN planned to cap his holiday in a safe fashion and managed to do so after a forty-five-minute search... BLACK JACK SHELTON played a great game for the few minutes that he was on the field, but Coach Pfohl kept him under wraps in reserve for the V. M. I. trip. “LUCKY” GAITHER was overheard rejoicing that the cold Fall weather has finally come. He’s been wanting to get into long-handled underwear for years. The latest telegram from Barbara No. 1 was signed with her full name after last week’s mix-up. It was a flush note. PENGUIN CARROW, reduced to low-level flying with a broken wing, was also lowered by the lady friend. When told that her man had suffered the recurrence of an old football injury, the l’il woman queried, “Whassa-matter, did somebody step on him?” But the PENGUIN seemed right at home, hobbling in and out of the Sir Walter and its facilities.

ED GOLDEN won the prize but was too modest to admit it. Although he wheeled his blind (and otherwise encumbered) date amongst his fellow Phi Delts the entire weekend, not once would he give the Greek an introduction... FOOTSIE CURRIE, suffering from habits built up in the service, refused to allow any khaki clothing around while he sought entertainment after the game... GRIMBALL, BAXTER, DUNN, BACHMAN, and a couple of socially inclined freshmen cheered with spirit and stimulation but decided to return Saturday night after looking over the situation. ROSSO CLARK spent the weekend in quiet contemplation, trying to decide between Mt. Holly and Belmont as a site for future operations... THE HAT strolled casually about the streets of Raleigh in the brown Homburg that made such a hit during rush week. It should go over big at Wake Forest.

BUMBARGER'S at it again. The other night in Winston he escorted his date to her front door as the clock struck 5:00 a.m. Just as he launched his goodnight clinch, the front door opened, an arm reached forth and whisked her from his grasp into the house. The door slammed in his face. Quoth the VOICE in his old Glee Club monotone: “I can’t understand it.” And what was this same dealer, our nomination for Dealer of the week, doing picking at his clothes last weekend? (Note: THE BOOM thought for once he’d get away with this.)

Down Fraternity Court

KAPPA SIGMA
All brothers of Kappa Sigma fraternity lived up to the name of “The Dealers” by deeds accomplished in trying to reach Raleigh, in Raleigh, and out of Raleigh. Such outstanding events took place as: Cam Henderson last seen taking a girl home... Bingham, Doug Rice, and Pat Williams making a fine showing on the Wildcat team; Congrats... Troutman returning Monday morning slant-eyed and chapped-lipped... Alf Taylor seen disappearing out of window 715 in Raleigh leaving “Romeo” Ennett and Juliette holding an empty feed bag... Amos, Currie, Bill Lacy to High Point Friday dating in G’boro and then to Raleigh all high (gear of course)... Doc Bailey and John Wall viewing the third quarter from under the bleachers... Kennett and Bob Kelly disappearing for the weekend (?)... Pat Williams eating dinner with Amanda from six till twelve (must have been a tough chicken)... festive Doug Swink thumbing a ride to Raleigh from the “Square” at midnight... and Bob Phillips and Doug Rice having a craze for someone called “Off Balance” Reilley (Mmmm)... Sam Brewer did not charter a plane this weekend. He laid low!

PHI DELTA THETA
All is now festive gaiety and unrestrained joy among the Phis in these grand and glorious times in which we are living, we are dwelling. From the lofty portals of our newly splendored hall may be heard, between chantings by O. E. Starnes, fifty cultured male voices singing in mellow chords, “Hail! Hail! Sam’s car is here.” That is to say that Sacred, Social Sam Tate has at last received his long-ordered Buick convertible club coop. The chapter has unanimously decided to paint Phi Delta Theta in white on the mobile and tour the nation in a series of weekend jaunts. Girls’ schools, major athletic events, and fine bands will be emphasized as points of interest.

The Phi Delt area for maneuvers last weekend was, of course, Raleigh. Lee Willingham enjoyed very much spending those two days with his fraternity pin. Brother Starnes returned to the campus boasting of a bee-oo-tiful date. Brothers McClean and Sutton, B. M. O. C.s dated Salem girls. Brother Oglesby also reports a rousing time. Shelley Colson had a big campus weekend. He chose to talk for fifteen minutes over the telephone to a Jacksonville belle rather than make the Raleigh excursion. What a fine chick she must be!!! Brother Morris Newell, new and inexperienced in the Davidson area of deployment because of his recent transfer from Georgia Tech, has asked some advice from an old-timer, operator extraordinaire Potts Cameron. Thus Potts and Morris are anticipating a big deal at Salem in the near future.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
Things were rather quiet around the Pika House here on the campus this weekend since most of the brothers and pledges were gone to the State-Davidson game or other points where their specific interest lay. Brother Hester and Pledge Shewmate must have found things rather interesting around Pulaski. They should have been anyway after having to take up a collection on the train to pay for the tickets. Brother Jackson went to Salem last weekend and seems that he is going back this weekend too. Says he’s about to be a pin-up boy, what about it Page? Brothers Wood and Sumner spent a quiet night in Durham with two nice Sigma Nu boys from Carolina. What kind of boys belong to the Sigma Nu order anyway? Brothers Smoak, McNair, and Dockery had a very nice time at the Pika house at Carolina. What was Brother Dockery doing at the top of the stairs? Brother Smoak, along with someone else’s date, seemed to think, whole hog or nothing was the motto for the night. Brother Rogers won’t admit to anything that he did so he must have had a mighty big time. He should have for there are some mighty nice looking women in Kannapolis aren’t there Brother Smoak?

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
With the campus moving en masse to Raleigh over the weekend toes and fingers were counted on Monday morning to enforce a quorum and list all casualties. Brothers Harris, McGehee, J. McAlister, F. Little, Grimball, Richert, Powell, Allen, Port, B. Gambrell, Grosse, Hatch, and Pledges Rodgers, Carson, Reinhardt, Bruce, R. Little, V. McAlister, Vance, and Williamson showed up on the 20-yard line (also at roll-call) while Brothers Pahl, Bethea, Anderton, Bailey, Guy, Ashmore, Strickland, Eskey, and Pledges Rhodes, Whitehurst, and M. Erwin took honors on the field. Reports on the weekend as a whole varied from sly smiles to screams simulating a glimpse of Lena, which possibly bears more truth than fiction for some.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
“I’ve missed you, darling,” she said as she raised her revolver again. Brother French was all shot after a weekend starting with the chapter’s first flush of the year and ending at Chapel Hill with a date in the crowd so spectacular that Brother Patrick had to be restrained by force from ordering orchids in hope of entertaining her at Homecomings. Among the trips made to the State game were Brothers Murdock McKeithan, Richardson, Leighton McKeithen, Fireplug Fairly, Snodgrass, Archibald, and Moneyhan, and Pledge Brothers Crowell, Newton, Strait, Blanks, Poag, and Harris.

PI KAPPA PHI
The Brothers and Pledges of Epsilon Chapter were spread far and wide during the weekend, but of course most of them congregated around Raleigh, Durham, and Chapel Hill. Brothers Hunter and Reid got lost from Brothers Gaither and Bumbarger and had to get back the best way they could. Just how that was no one seems to know. Brother Everett...

(Continued on Page 4)

---