By CLAYTON SCOFIELD

Despite a statistical victory, the Wildcats came out on the losing end Saturday in their tete-e-tete with the Citadel, 21-13. The Cats held the edge in every department of the statistics but lacked the scoring punch inside the 10-yard line. 

Highlight of the afternoon for Davidson fans came in the second half. In retaliation for the preceding play, when Luke Duntee, Citadel back, scampered 92 yards on the kickoff for a TD, Carl Sheppard scooped up the Bulldog’s kickoff on his own 7 and barreled up the field to the Citadel 33 where he was hauled down from behind. Though the run was good for 61 yards, it bogged down on the 11-yard line and failed to pay off as the Cats went over the ball.

Sheppard looked better against the Bulldogs than he has in any of the other stiffer competition this year, but backfield honors for Saturday’s tilt go to Mac Erwin for consistent gains through the line. Line play was well executed all afternoon, with Mapes, Cheek, Chandler, Rhodes, Walker, Williams, and O’Hare holding up their duties in fine style, but the backfield misfired occasionally, especially when the going was rough, deep in Bulldog territory.

BOWL AND CONFERENCE TEAMS BREAK

Illinois and UCLA grabbed conference titles Saturday and became the likely participants in the Rose Bowl on January 1 under the “closed shop” agreement reached earlier this week by the Big Nine and Pacific Coast Conferences. Illinois, one of the two Western conference schools that voted against the tie-up, snared its first loop title since 1928 by lashing crippled Northwestern, 20 to 0, while UCLA proved the superior mudder in downing Southern California, 13 to 6, in a game that was played in a virtual quagmire but which did draw 93,174 of the curious.

While the Illinois team moved out in front as the probable eastern participant in the daddy of all January 1 bowl extravaganzas, Michigan turned loose its fury in crushing Ohio State, 58 to 6, and grabbing second place in the standings. The two groups decided on Wednesday, the 18th, to send a representative each, preferably their champion, to Pasadena on January 1 for the next five years. The formality of a conference vote is all that is needed to make it official in each case.

While those results all but named the Rose Bowl rivals, other games decided conference titles and embellished records of candidates for the remaining New Year's Day berths on the final big Saturday of the 1946 campaign. Georgia and Georgia Tech, each a candidate for an invitation and each a contender for the Southeastern circuit flag, loafed to easy victories over minor league opposition in preparation for their own meeting next week. Georgia smeared Chattanooga, 48 to 27, with the losers getting 20 points in the final quarter. Georgia Tech mastered Furman, 41-7. Mississippi State, another bowl prospect, also kept in the headlines by downing Ole Miss, 20 to 0, primarily on the work of Tom (Shorty) McWilliams, ex-Army star. Tennessee, however, had its difficulties but pulled itself together for a 7 to 0 decision over Kentucky that insured Coach Robert Neyland’s eleven of January 1 consideration.

In the Southern conference, another breeding ground for bowl teams, North Carolina loosed the famed Charlie Justice for 15 points in the final period to defeat Duke 22-7. The win meant the Southern Conference Title for Carl Snavely’s eleven. Penn State, one of the few eastern teams in the bowl auction now that Army has closed the door, was tripped by Pittsburgh’s youngsters, 14-7, while Yale made Cornell a title possibility in the Ivy League by rebuffing Harvard 27-14. Cornell plays Penn Thursday and a win would send the title to Ithaca. A Quaker triumph means a title deadlock between Harvard and Penn, with Yale and Cornell only a half game behind.

Wildcat Sports

DID WE BEAT FURMAN?

Friday, November 29, 1946

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Hugh Hill

Davidson’s Wildcats became the sole occupants of the conference cellar last Saturday when the alert Citadel Light Brigade eked out a thrilling 21-15 triumph in Charlotte’s Memorial Stadium. About 1,000 fans witnessed the action-filled encounter under ideal game conditions. Although the Cats were superior in almost every phase of statistical play, their numerous drives often sputtered and died at the threshold of the Citadel goal. The blue-clad Brigade, on the other hand, capitalized on the Wildcats' mistakes.

Midway in the second period, the Citadel lads seized a golden opportunity to break the scoreless deadlock. Doug Rice bobbled a twisting punt, and Henderson, a Citadel guard, pounced on the loose ball on the 23-yard stripe. Duntee attempted right tackle but was hurled back for no gain. Duntee then faded back and lofted a perfect toss to flankman Foxworth, who caught it on the three and dashed into the end zone untouched. Henderson’s placement sailed through the uprights for a 7-0 lead.

Just before intermission, Anderton’s aerial to Cheek was completed on the 45, and the lanky end lateraled to Mapes who crossed the midfield stripe before he was pulled down. The half ended a few moments later with the Cats trailing 7-0.

Second Half Lively

Fireworks began to explode when activity resumed in the second half. Carl Sheppard almost broke into the clear after accepting Henderson’s kickoff, but he stumbled and fell on his own 48. On the first play from scrimmage, Sheppard dropped a pass into Sifford’s arms, and the Albemarle boy raced to the six before he was brought to earth. Once again, the Cats’ offensive bogged down as Citadel, aided by an offside penalty, took over on the ten.

Cats Draw Blood

Citadel failed to gain, and Shahid’s feeble third-down kick spun out of bounds on the Brigade's 30. With Sheppard and Pahl alternating at the throttle, the Cats drove relentlessly downfield. Sifford culminated the march when he cut over the tackle for the score. Mapes’ conversion attempt was low and wide, leaving Citadel with a 7-6 margin. Luke, the Citadel halfback, took Chandler’s ensuing kickoff on the 8 and headed up the middle. At the 10, he cut sharply to the right and sprinted down the sidelines to go all the way.the way without having hand laid him. Henderson's conversion was good. Sheppard gathered in Gooman’s resulting placement on his own seven and moved straight upfield behind good blocking. The Gastonia lad veered toward the Davidson bench at midfield and galloped down to the 33 before Shahid Shep and Dunfee, reserve his own, collared him from behind.

Carolina Lunch
A Good Place To Eat

PASTEURIZED GRADE “A” MILK
Mooresville Co-Operative Creamery
— Delivered Daily —
PHONE 205
Mooresville, N. C.

capitalized on every scoring opportunity to amass their victory margin.

After exchanging punts in the early minutes of the opening quarter, Davidson got possession of the ball on their own 23 and began a long drive. With Sheppard and Erwin alternating, the Cats marched 53 yards only to lose the oval on the Citadel 22 when Erwin fumbled.

Diving over the marker for the first 6 of Davidson's 13 points against The Citadel is Jimmy Sifford, No. 39, flashy Wildcat back. The score came in the third quarter after a sustained drive. Other Wildcats in the picture are: Red Bethea, No. 30 and John Sharpe, No. 21.

JUNIE GUY is halfback on the injured list. Junie Guy suffered a leg mishap against Citadel.

The Wildcats racked up two first downs before the drive expired on the Citadel eleven-yard line.

Sheppard to Cheek
Late in the third period, Sifford arched a 39-yard pass to Buddy Cheek, who made a magnificent catch on Citadel’s 17-yard line. Sheppard and Pahl picked up a first down as three smashes at the line carried the Cats to the seven. Sheppard promptly connected for the tally. Mapes' placement still left the Wildcats on the short end of a 14-13 score.

After changing ends for the final quarter, Sheppard found Cheek all alone in the end zone and Davidson’s second tally. The Wildcats took to the air after gaining possession of the ball again, but Dunfee snagged an errant Sheppard aerial and raced 42 yards for a touchdown, only to have his sprint nullified by a clipping penalty. After successive penalties pushed the Cats back to their own 25, Mace Erwin fumbled and Henderson recovered.

(Continued Page 4)

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
WE HAVE DR. KENNEDY'S ATHLETE FOOT RELIEF
C. S. Goodrum
TELEPHONE 2111
Davidson, N. C.

Climaxing a thrilling inter-fraternity football season was the announcement of the All-Fraternity Team. Kappa Alpha took first place in the championship race with a string of eight wins against one loss. The Phi Delts, along with the Phi Gams and Kappa Sigmas, were second, all three teams having a total of 6 wins and 3 losses each.

The all-star selection was made by fraternity sports managers or their representatives. Each manager submitted a list composed of the nine men whom he would like to have play against his own frat team. Of course, the ballot did not include any men from the manager’s own fraternity. In this manner, a completely fair and unbiased nine was selected.

Team Named
Flankmen for the first team are Srinegar (Phi Delt) and Hopyx (S.P.E). S.A.E. furnished one guard, Roger, with S.P.E. supplying a running mate in Blevin. Tom Bumbarger (Pi Kap) would center the ball on the mythical team to a foursome of backs composed of Mahget (K. A.), Cobb (Phi Delt), Newton (Phi Gam), and Robertson (Pi Kap).

The Greeks on the second team are Jackson (K. A.) and Larson (Phi Gam), ends; Powell (S. P. E.) and Amos (K. S.), guards; Bird (K. A.), center; Brownson (Phi Delt), Houck (Pi Kap), and Jones (K. S.), backs.

Honorable mention was awarded to Lamar (S. P. E.), and Currie (K. S.), ends; Glasgow (K. A.), Korbel (Phi Gam), and Patton (Phi Delt), guards; Ellis (K. S.), center. Backs named are: Richardson (K. A.), Wilcox (K. S.), French (Phi Gam), T. Powell (S. A. E.), Reinhardt (S. A. E.), Stukes (Beta), Rogers (P. K. A.), and Gaither (Pi Kap).

The K. A.s rested on top of the heap after dropping only one tilt, a playoff, to the Sigmas. Records are as follows:
Won Lost
K. A.s 8 1
Phi Delts 6 3
Kappa Sigs 6 3
Phi Gams 6 3
Kappas 5 4
S. A. E.s 5 4
Betas 4 5
Inds. 1 8
Pikas 0 9

Wildcat Netmen Face Rough Slate
Coach Bill Lufler announced a tentative schedule for his Davidson netmen before leaving for St. Petersburg, Fla., last week. Several teams of national importance are included in Lufler’s sophomore year as tennis coach.

Topping the list is the Kalamazoo College from Kalamazoo, Mich., Mid-West champs for the past several years. Ohio State, Colgate, N.Y.U., and Penn State will furnish other competition. The former two are slated for the home courts and the latter will furnish northern jaunts for the racquet wielders.

Other matches are with Duke, W. and L., Lehigh, Georgetown, Virginia, Vanderbilt, Ga. Tech, and Auburn.

Lettermen Back
Lufler is building his squad around veterans Buck Archer, Jerry Robinson, and Lyttleton Scott. Newcomers are Whit Cobb, Mike Williams, Alan Fanjoy, Lenoir Keesler, Oliver Roddy, Glenn Palmer, Ted Keesler, Henry Neisler, and Rod Turpin.

Athletic Director Norman Sheppard has announced that three new Hard-Tru courts will soon be constructed. With a base of rock and cinders, the green top composition will afford waterproof perfection.

Face Tough Slate
The Red and Black netters were wonder boys last year as they breezed through an undefeated season.

(Continued on Page 4)

SUITS - TIES
“The Friendly Store”
Whatever Your Needs
HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
SHOES
and the 101 other things
SHOP EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP
STREET FLOOR
in a Friendly City