(AP - HONORED XMAS HOLIDAYS ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS Volume XXXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. NOVEMBER 29, 1946 No.
9

SIX CHOSEN FOR SCHOLARSHIP

Dr. Emile Cailliet To Give Otts’ Professor at Wesleyan to Speak Dec. 8-11

Dr. Emile Cailliet, Ph.D., professor of French Civilization and Literature at Wesleyan University, will deliver the Otts Series of lectures
beginning Sunday, December 8, at the regular vesper service in Chambers Auditorium, it was announced this week by President John
R. Cunningham.

A native of France, Dr. Cailliet formerly taught at the University of Pennsylvania and lectured at Princeton University, and is
the author of several studies of the French philosopher, Pascal. Among his books is “Pascal: A Genius in the Light
of Scripture.” Considered by American ministers as one of the most scholarly laymen, Dr. Cailliet was introduced by Dr. John
A. McKay, president of Princeton Theological Seminary, as “one of the leading scholars and educators of our day who devotes
himself to religious thought.” He was a leader in the De Gaullist Free French movement in this country during the
war, and is a veteran of World War I.

The subject of the Otts’ lectures, which will be given on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, December 8-11, is “The
Christian Student.” Dr. Cailliet will speak at chapel and in the evening Monday and Tuesday, and will close the series
Wednesday morning at the chapel service.

Rev. Carl Pritchett, pastor of the Davidson Presbyterian Church, who studied under Dr. Cailliet at Princeton, stated with regard to
interest in this series of Otts’ lectures, “Dr. Cailliet will present a series of talks which will never be surpassed
from the point of view of student interest. He is a man of outstanding personality and scholarship.”

The series of lectures was made possible by the endowment of Dr. J. M. P. Otts, who gave the first
set in the spring of 1896. They are presented every four years, and are subsequently published in book form.

French Circle Selects Men

The French honorary fraternity, “Le Cercle Francais,” met for its first time this year on Tuesday evening, November 19, at
the home of Dr. Watts. After Dr. Watts and Dr. Goldiere had exchanged “bon soir’s” with the members, the business
got underway. The officers elected for the coming year are: R. C. Rapp, President; Doug Swink, Vice President; and Lonnie
Turner, Secretary. Dr. Goldiere is the Treasurer.

Invitations had previously been issued to new members who are: W. C. Brownson, C. O. Hadley, D. H. Gambrell, C.
H. Owen, M. M. Morgan, J. A. Gullick, C. M. Coffey, R. A. Campbell, M. B. Honeycutt, C. R. McCain,
A. S. Kennett, and P. C. Higgenbotham.

The group decided to present some French plays this year which will result in several trips to other colleges for
presentation. There will also be performances here in which visitors are invited to attend. At the next meeting of “Le
Cercle Francais” a part of a selected French play will be given. “Le Cercle Francais” has joined with the French
classes in working on French Christmas carols for a possible chapel program some time before Christmas. After the business was
completed Dr. Watts and Dr. Goldiere joined with the group in playing French games, after which refreshments were served.

Lectures Dorm Heating Big Problem

By Bob Hollister

Though thus far this year the average student has had remarkably little cause to conduct a personal probing committee in
an investigation of the twisting intricacies of his radiator, he will yet greet a sub-zero dawn with chattering molars and
a desire to more fully understand the multiple complicities of the school's heating system. Solely in order to avoid the
enunciation of vociferous, soul-searing expletives on behalf of the purple, ice-bound student as he vainly mauls his frigid radiator some
frosty morn, an attempt will be made to set down a few of the interesting facts lying behind and beneath
the heating plant.

Originally erected at a cost of $50,000, the plant consists of three 150-horsepower boilers. The money was obtained from a
bequest made by Robert K. Smith, president of P. Lorillard Snuff Company, in 1922. With the exception of the society
halls, every building on the campus is heated by steam, piped in high-pressure mains from the central plant on the
back campus.

The unsung hero who braves the breath-taking blasts of midwinter that the blissful student may continue his dreamless slumber is
an employee of the college who awakens each night long before the most eager of the “boners” have arisen. Down
the insatiable maw of this steam-breathing monster the students’ unknown benefactor pours a morning’s portion of the 1,400 tons of
coal consumed yearly. Throughout the rise of coal from the depression price of $3.50 per ton to the current $8.00,
including freight rates from the mines to Davidson, the college has used approximately seven tons daily, expending at present $11,200
per year on fuel alone. Enough coal is thus consumed during one twenty-four hour period to reach from the steps
of Chambers to the west wall of the post office and back exactly eight and one half times, if placed
lump to lump (all skeptics are cordially requested to attempt such operation if accurate proof of this statement is desired.)

A unique situation was encountered when the fraternity court was supplied with heat. Instead of being higher than the heating
(Continued on Page 4)

CHOSEN FOR PHI BETA KAPPA

Shown above are Tommy Bumbarger, Mac Jeffries, Bill McLean, Dick Port, Tommy Powell, and Lamar Williamson recently chosen for Phi
Beta Kappa, national honorary scholarship fraternity.

Recent Books In The Library

Storm Before Daybreak, Marian Sims. Mrs. Sims, one of Charlotte’s outstanding authors, has recently released her book which deals with
the problems facing three average people, who are caught in an emotional situation too deep for their experience.

Bastogne, the First Eight Days, by Colonel S. L. A. Marshall, historian of the ETO. Colonel Marshall draws the information
that he presents from interviews with the commanders of the outfits that took part in the defense of Bastogne and
also from many of the enlisted men who were there. The story covers the eight-day period up until the time
the other American forces break the German lines around the town on December 26, 1944.

All But Me and Thee, by Brig. Gen. Elliott D. Cooke. The psychiatry of the foxhole soldier is presented by
a layman who before receiving his assignment knew nothing of this branch of medicine or the problems that it presented
in the wartime army. General Cooke was told by General Marshall to study the problems that have led to so
much expense for the taxpayers. This is the story of his search for the solutions and the report that he
made to Marshall.

Dr. Craig Gives Chapel Lecture

Dr. Hardin Craig, professor of English at the University of North Carolina, admonished the students in American colleges to lend
their efforts to bringing about a renaissance in education in this country. Speaking before the Davidson College student body, he
regretted the unproductive and commonplace existence of our civil society. He went on to say that “We have almost achieved
in the United States, with its Jeffersonian faith in education, an apotheosis of the commonplace. Unless we can stop this
degeneration and work a great renaissance, we will have to write public education in the United States down as a
costly failure.”

Dr. Craig pointed out that the limits of the human mind have never been taxed to their utmost. He issued
a challenge to the college student of today to go ahead and achieve the goal that lay within his grasp.
The opportunity in higher education in this country is not lacking, but the initiative and labor that is necessary to
accomplish the ultimate purpose have, thus far, been sadly absent. “My theory,” he explained, “is that students in American colleges
and universities are desperately bored and lacking in something to do and that our college and university teachers have so
lost faith in themselves and their subjects that they no longer hold up before their students ideals of performance that
are worth pursuing.”

In closing, Dr. Craig reminded his audience of two great tasks and commended them to his audience’s consideration. “There is
a great gap between our science and the pressures of our daily lives which can be and must be filled.
To

NEW HONORARY FRATERNITY SCHEDULE

First and Third Weeks
Time Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday
7:00 Phi Mu Sigma Pi Delta Phi
8:00 Alpha Sigma Alpha
8:00 Sigma ODK Scabbard Social
9:00 Delta Pi Beaver Club and Blade Fraternities
9:00 Gamma Sigma Le Cercle "Y" Cabinet
10:00 Epsilon Francais

Second and Fourth Weeks
Time Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday
7:00 Phi and Eu Red and Black
8:00 Societies Masquers Social
8:00Sigma Delta IRC | Fraternities 9:00 Psi | 9:00 | ‘D’ Club | ‘Y’ Cabinet | Sigma 10:00 | Upsilon

This schedule will go into effect on December 1, 1946. It will require the ardent and searching spirit of many
men in many fields. It will be nothing less than an intellectual revolution.

Prisoners of War Held by Germans

R. O. T. C. Officers

Hal Mapes, Doug Rice, Odel Dobson, and Roddy L. Smith are four veterans enrolled in Davidson's advanced R.O.T.C. course who
fell into the hands of the Krauts. Little knowing it, three of them were behind the barbed wire of the
same prison camp, Stalag Luft IV. Their last three months as prisoners they were forced to march approximately 600 miles
in order to evade the Allied armies.

Mapes, a valuable Wildcat end, spent the longest time behind the guards. He was captured after bailing out over Chartres
in occupied France, when the B-17 on which he was a gunner had been shot up. Taken prisoner on August
1, 1944, he was liberated at Bittenburg, Germany, on April 26, 1945. Of prison life he said, “We got good
treatment, all considered. Our only exercise was playing football and throwing snowballs. There was one football for about a thousand
men.” A sergeant, Mapes spent 12 of his 34 months’ service overseas, and is now a sophomore, coming from Bellerose,
N. Y.

Rice, a Wildcat back, was also a gunner on a B-17. On his third mission he was shot down and
bailed out over Berlin on August 6, 1944. He was a prisoner in Stalag Luft IV and elsewhere until April
26, 1945. During the 600-mile forced march, he was required to march all day without food, sleeping on the ground
at night. He was awarded the ETO Ribbon, the American Theater ribbon, the Good Conduct Medal, and the Victory Medal.
Rice was a sergeant, and is a sophomore from Bennettsville, S. C.

Odell, a gunner on a B-24, was one of two of the crew who were able to leave the spinning
ship in the air. He was in hospitals for three months before being sent to Stalag Luft IV, being a
prisoner from September 11, 1944, to May 2, 1945.

Smith, the only infantryman of the group, was a Pfc in the 100th division. He was captured at Rimeling, France,
while serving as a machine gunner on January 9, 1945, and was liberated in Leipzig, Germany, on April 18, 1945.
Smith is a sophomore from Concord, and is Cadet Captain of the R.O.T.C. battalion.

Frosh Plot Uncovered By Court

Undisclosed Culprit Reveals All to Archer

As the bell in Chambers tolled off hours of the day on Thursday, November 22nd, three freshmen on this campus
began to realize that the faithful clock also shortened the time left until they should stand trial for their crimes
before the stern physiognomy of Chief Justice John McAllister, of the Court of Control. The Court met at 8:30 p.m.,
Chambers time, but strangely enough, the countenance of Judge McAllister was not among the stern visages present. What little hope
of clemency this caused in the minds of those three noxious freshmen soon died, when they saw instead of Judge
McAllister, that the uncompromising “Trader Buck” Archer was officiating. The trial proceeded smoothly and we’re assured that these three epitomes
of freshmaninity received their maximum desserts.

However, this is not the interesting point about this trial. When your reporter saw Judge Archer to learn the facts
of the trial, he was surprised to find the Judge withholding the name of one of the three culprits! It
is of little interest to learn that Bob Stevens and Dick Mills each received a week's strict campus and directions
to write the Freshman Regulations ten times for their failure to wear freshman caps when we find that the name
of the other criminal has been suppressed. This gives rise to some speculation on a subject which has been top
secret in the files of the D. B. I. (Davidson Bureau of Investigation), commonly known as “Bone” Jeffries’ Austrian Vigilantes,
for some weeks. In an exclusive interview with the chief of D. B. I. your reporter learned that since September
22nd the department has been aware of the fact that an organized ring of freshmen has been actively engaged in
a scheme to usurp campus power, make peons of all upperclassmen, and to replace Bill McLean with some, as yet,
unknown freshman. The question is raised who was the freshman who stood trial on the night of November 22nd. Was
or is he, if he still lives, the leader of this dastardly subversive element?

(Continued on Page 4)

Sigma Upsilon Accepts Seven

Sigma Upsilon, one of the prominent literary societies on the campus, held a meeting on Thursday, November 21st, at 9:00
p.m., in the KA House. At this meeting four men who had been chosen as members last year but had
never been initiated, and three new men were formally admitted. The three new men are Dave Richardson, Ed Sutton, and
Hugh Hill. The four other men are Jim Jackson, Doug Swink, Middy Raynal, and Lamar Williamson. Most of the initiation
exercises were conducted by Doctor Chalmers Davidson. As part of the program several papers were read. Dr. Frontis Johnston presented
a paper on “Anecdotes Concerning Zeb Vance”; Dr. W. P. Cumming read a paper on “Unearthing Important Documents in Germany”;
Lamar Williamson read a poem entitled “Aires and Variations”.

PHI BETA KAPPA BIDS HONOR MEN

Bumbarger, Jeffries, McLean, Port, Powell, Williamson Are Selected

MEN ARE ALL IN O.D.K

Five Appear In Who’s Who, All Are Veterans

In an announcement from Dr. W. W. Wood, head of the Davidson mathematics department, this morning, six members of the
Senior class were named for Phi Beta Kappa, the national honorary scholastic fraternity. Men receiving the high honor were William
McLean, MacChesney H. Jeffries, Thomas Bumbarger, Thomas Powell, Richard Port, and Lamar Williamson.

McLean

McLean hails from Lenoir, N. C., and at present is serving as president of the Davidson student body. His record
at Davidson has been outstanding in many fields, having held positions of President of the Y. M. C. A., Secretary
and Treasurer of the student body, and President of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. He holds membership in Omicron
Delta Kappa, Who's Who Among Students in American Colleges and Universities, the Beaver Club, the D Club (earning his letter
in football in 1942), and worked as a reporter on the Davidsonian staff during his Freshman year. McLean left Davidson
in the spring of 1943 to serve as a pilot in the Army Air Forces during the war, and returned
in the summer of 1945.

Social Leader

Leading this year’s social activities as Pan Hellenic Council prexy, Mac Jeffries has always been a leader on the Davidson
campus. Entering Davidson from Thomasville, Ga., in 1940, he was in attendance at the college until the summer of 1943
when he was called to active duty with the Army. During the next three years, Mac served as a first
lieutenant in the infantry with overseas service in the European theater of operations, returning to his studies this fall. While
in attendance here, he has served on the editorial staff of the Davidsonian, becoming a managing editor in his junior
year, and also did outstanding work as a staff member of the college humor magazine, The Scripts and Pranks. The
Georgian holds membership in Omicron Delta Kappa.

Frosh Advisor

Powell, this year’s advisor of the Freshman class, is from San Antonio, Texas, and is a member of the Sigma
Alpha Epsilon fraternity. Also a veteran, Tommy served in the Army Air Forces for three years, and returned to the
campus this summer. He is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, Who's Who Among Students in American Colleges and Universities,
and the Beaver Club.

Bumbarger

Hickory, N. C., is the residence of Tommy Bumbarger who is serving this year as editor of the annual the
Quips and Cranks. Returning to Davidson this year after three years in the Army, Tommy is a member of Omicron
Delta Kappa, Who’s Who Among Students in American Colleges and Universities, the D. Club, Beaver Club, Scabbard and Blade, and
in the past has served on the Student Council, and as a leading figure in Glee Club activities. He is
a brother in the bonds of Pi Kappa Phi.

Port

Richard Port of Winston-Salem, N. C., was elected president of the Student Body in 1945, but was unable to serve
in that capacity due to a call to active military duty with the Army. Dick is also a member of
Omicron Delta Kappa and Who's Who, serving as president of the former. He is president of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon
social fraternity.

(Continued on Page 4)
