SYMPHONIC BAND IN INITIAL PERFORMANCE

Che ALENDA LUX UBS ORTA L Davbidsonian IBERTAS

CAMPUS LEADERS HONORED

Volume XXXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1946 No. 7

LEADERSHIP FRAT TAPS EIGHT

Gerschefski Plays With Concert Band

Celebrated Guest Pianist Accompanies Symphonic Series’ Beginning

Edwin Gerschefski, widely acclaimed pianist, composer, and teacher, and at present dean of music at the Converse College School of
Music, will be the guest soloist at the fall concert of the Davidson College Symphonic Band, which is to be
presented tonight at 8:15 o’clock in the Chambers Auditorium. Mr. Gerschefski will give a rendition of the extremely difficult but
beautiful “Capriccio Brilliant,” for pianoforte and band, by Mendelssohn.

Mr. Gerschefski, whose name and record are probably unknown to the average student, has achieved wide acclaim from musicians and
music critics throughout the country. Holder of the degrees of Bachelor of Music and Bachelor of Philosophy from Yale, he
has been the recipient of many awards in the field of music, including the Osborne-Kellogg prize, the Charles Dirson Fellowship,
and the Jeffrey Reynolds scholarship. While still an undergraduate, one of his compositions was performed by the New Haven Symphony
Orchestra. After receiving his degrees he studied in London for two years, where he was the first American to be
awarded a diploma for both piano playing and teaching. Later he spent some time studying in Italy, after which he
returned to New York, where he studied under Joseph Schillinger, famed teacher of such notables as George Gershwin and Oscar
Levant.

Radio Performer

Mr. Gerschefski has been heard in piano recitals in New York City and throughout Connecticut, and has toured through the
South in connection with the Tours Association of American Colleges. He has appeared on all the major radio networks of
the United States, giving concerts not only of the works of the great masters of classical music but also of
his own compositions, including songs, piano solos, string quartets, and other combinations. With reference to his abilities as pianist and
teacher, Bruce Simonds, professor of music and head of the piano department at Yale University, said: “Edwin Gerschefski is a
musician who combines seriousness of purpose with brilliance of technique in a most stimulating manner. He is an accomplished concert
pianist and an experienced teacher whom I can recommend without reservation to anyone who wants sensitive musical training as well
as a thorough grounding in the principles of pianoforte technique.”

Referring to one of Mr. Gerschefski’s compositions, “Streamline,” Glenn Bainum, director of the Northwestern University Band and secretary of the
American Bandmasters Association, wired this to Mr. Gerschefski’s music publishers: “‘Streamline’ has a wallop that is almost unbelievable. Its appeal
to the imagination is irresistible. The audience became so excited as to literally shout for repetition. Thanks for the privilege
of giving it its first performance.”

Symphonic Band

This concert tonight will be the first concert to be presented this year by the Symphonic Band. The Symphonic Band
has acquired an enviable reputation throughout the South by its concert tours and its series of radio broadcasts over the
Dixie Network of the Columbia Broadcasting System. James Christian Pfohl, director of the band and head of the Davidson Music
Department, came to Davidson in 1932 after graduating from the University of Michigan, and since that time he has steadily
built up the Davidson Band until

First Meeting of D Club Held

Letter Men Outline Program for Coming Year

On Tuesday, November 5, 1946, the members of Davidson’s D Club, with George Peters of Kingsport, Tennessee, as president, met
for the first time this year to outline their program for the remainder of this semester, and next semester. A
roll of the D Club’s present membership was taken and essential topics before the Club for consideration were discussed. The
D Club has as its primary purpose the fostering of wholesome athletic interest to the end that Davidson College may
be served in ways that will contribute to its cordial relationship with other institutions.

Eligibility

All men eligible for membership in the D Club are required to have earned their D while a student at
Davidson College. All eligible men must be passed upon by a three-fourths vote of the entire active membership in the
D Club before being declared candidates for initiation. At present the only office filled is that of the president. Offices
of vice president, secretary, and treasurer will be filled at the earliest opportunity by secret ballot.

The members of the D Club at the present time are, in accordance with as accurate a list as could
be compiled within the time of one meeting, as follows: Port, R. B.; Taylor, A. T.; White, H. E.; Williams,
P.; Whitesides, E.; Grosse, W.; Archer, A. W.; Bethea, E.; Bumbarger, T.; Gaither, R.; Gwynn, P. H.; Lacy, W.; Maloney,
D.; O’Hair, R.; Peters, G. B.; Robinson, J. S.; Stubbins, S. G.; Turnbull, L. B.; Currie, R. A.; Berry, R.;
Neill, D.; Wall, J.; Stukes, J.; Ashmore, J. D.; Crane, D. A.; Williams, C. J.; Neill, R. L.; Jones, Freeman;
Matthews, F.; Coffey, C. D.; Brownson, W.; Robertson, W.; Gaither, R.; Montgomery, W.; Long, F. U.; Neisler, H. P.; Anderton,
B.; Gray, J.; Etheridge, J. P.; Mawer, B. F.; Deaton, Pus Sellars; By - Mit) Little; by Walker, W.; Scarborough,
Al; Hatch, D.; Council, G.; McKeithen, M.; Scott, L. B.; Bryant, D.; Walker, I. D.; Thatcher, J. W.; Barber, W.
H.; Snodgrass, T. B.; Alexander, R.; Sinclair, G. R.; Mead, A. W.; Hodgin, W.; Chandler, Buddy; Archer, B.; McLean, W.;
Mapes, H.; Guy, J.; Smoak, R. R.

EDWIN GERSCHEFSKI (Continued on Page 4)

CAMPUS LEADERS

Lamarr Williamson, and Murphy Shown above are Bol Amos, Price Gwynn, Mac Jeffries Williams, recently chosen members Johnny McAlister, Dick
O’Hair; Ed. White, of ODK.

Help Offered For Veterans

Fuss, fume and foam if you must, but do it in the proper place and where it will do the
most good quickest. If you're supposed to get a check, and it doesn’t arrive, the VA wants you to tell
its training officers about it. The VA Training Officer assigned to this campus is Mr. Paul E. Murphey. He is
located at the Sub-Regional Office of the Veterans’ Administration, 127 W. Seventh Street, Charlotte, N. C., and his one reason
for being here is to give help and assistance to veteran students. Take your check troubles and all other problems
related to your rights and responsibilities as a veteran to the VA Training Officer.

“There are thousands of veterans enrolled at North Carolina colleges and universities this fall,” Mr. Murphy said, “and most of
them will get their November subsistence checks on time. Those few who don’t are asked to wait until November 15.
If veteran students here haven’t received their checks by that time, they should report the fact to me immediately and
we’ll get the matter straightened out as rapidly as possible.”

School Librarian To Judge Books

Each year the Mayflower Society of North Carolina awards a cup to the author of the best original book written
by a resident of the state. The writers, editors, college professors, judges are appointed from etc., in North Carolina. Professor
Chalmers Davidson has been appointed one of the judges for the books published during the past year. According to the
Faculty Bibliography (a mimeographed sheet submitted each year to the trustees) Professor Davidson has written numerous articles and one book.
His reports on the Navy for the Alumni Journal are remembered by many students and alumni who were in uniform.
Serving with Professor Davidson is Mr. LeGette Blythe of the Charlotte Observer staff. Mr. Blythe is the author of “Marshal
Ney: Dual Life,” and of the novel “Alexandrianna.” He has a second novel now in the press. None of the
judges may have entries in the contest. Among the books to be judged are works by Josephus Daniels, Paul Green,
Rupert Vance, Kemp Battle, Bill Sharpe and about a dozen others. The winner last year was Josephus Daniels’ “The Wilson
Era: Years of Peace.”

Cranks are now in operation. Plans Laid For Quips & Cranks

Plans for the 1946-47 Quips and Cranks are now in operation. The cover design has already been chosen, and the
layout is now being designed and arranged by the engraver. It will probably come out during the last week of
the second semester. The editorial staff is headed by Tommy Bumbarger. Other members are Jimmy Gribben, Marshall Woodson, Bill Simpson,
and Leighton McKeithan, assistant editors; John Stewart, photographic editor; and Harry Cox, sports editor. The photographer will be back for
one day only next week. All students who have not already had their pictures taken are urged to drop by
Watts lounge and have them made, as the photographer will not come back again, it was announced by Bumbarger.

Army To Get New Officers

New provisions for procurement of additional male regular army officers have been made according to information released by Col. E.
C. Grace, Professor of Military Science and Tactics. An increase of from 25,000 to 50,000 regular officers is under way.
Appointments will be tendered in four increments during January, May, September, and December 1947. The grades in which appointments will
be made are second lieutenant, first lieutenant, captain and major. More consideration is given to commissioning officers in ranks of
captain and major than was given in the first integration program last June. Any male citizen of the United States
of America who served on active duty as a commissioned officer of the army ofthe United States component thereof at
any time between 7 December, 1941, and 31 December, 1946, and was not separated therefrom under any other than honorable
conditions is eligible for appointment. Grade and rank of appointee will be determined in accordance with the amount of constructive
service or actual commissioned service, whichever is greater, with which he is credited. An eligible officer may be integrated into
this program whether or not he was previously disqualified physically or disqualified because of statutory ineligibility, provided he has since
become eligible. Additional information and application forms may be secured by Davidson men from Col. Grace’s office.

Greater emphasis—with—be—

Dramatic Club Will Give Play

Any footlight fans in the student body will be glad to learn that the Red and Black Masquers, Davidson's dramatic
society, are busily putting the finishing touches on their forthcoming fall production, “Mr. and Mrs. North”. This three-act comedy-mystery will
be presented in Chambers Auditorium on November 26 at 8:15 p.m. under the direction of Middy Raynal.

“Mr. and Mrs. North” is based on the doings and sayings of a pair of happy-go-not-so-lucky characters that were originated
and developed in a series of short stories published over a period of several years in the well-known magazine, “The
New Yorker”. After a long and successful run on Broadway, the play was made into a radio scenario and presented
over a nation-wide network.

Frank Burleigh, who gave an outstanding performance last year as Sullivan, the milkman in “The Milky Way”, will portray the
male lead, Mr. North. The lead, charming, provocative Mrs. North, will be played by Mrs. Nochren. The hare-brained exploits of
these two, further complicated by liberal applications of—

STUDENT

Dr. Foreman Makes Talk

By Don Kerr

The vesper speaker for the evening of the tenth of November was the much-heralded and long-awaited head of our Bible
department, Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman. Those that heard his sermon last Sunday night were far from disappointed, for he lived
up to every word that had been said about him. Dr. Foreman, a graduate of Davidson and of the Princeton
Theological Seminary, received his Ph.D. at Yale University. Since his arrival here in 1922 as professor of Bible, he has
been one of the student body’s favorite speakers.

His subject for the vesper service was “The Christian in the Atomic Age”. He began by giving the history of
atomic energy and the manner in which it was regarded at first, in contrast to the present time, which is
regarded by most as the beginning of the “Atomic Age”. He said everybody is now—

ODK BIDS SEVEN LEADERS

Amos, Gwynn, Jeffries, McAlister, O’Hair, White, Williamson, From Student Body

Y SECRETARY SELECTED

Williams Is a Graduate and a Navy Veteran

Davidson's circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary fraternity, honored seven members of the Senior Class and R. Murphy Williams,
general secretary of the Y.M.C.A., in its annual fall tap day held last Friday during the regular chapel period. Seniors
who were tapped included Richard H. O’Hair, H. Ed. White, Machesney H. Jeffries, Robert T. Amos, John W. McAlister, Price
H. Gwynn, and Lamarr Williamson.

Dick Port, president of Delta Circle of ODK, presided over the meeting, introducing the speaker of the service, Mr. Frank
Jackson, college treasurer, who was for two years national president of ODK. Mr. Jackson spoke on the history and purposes
of the fraternity, relating ODK’s founding at Washington and Lee University to bring together leaders in the various phases of
campus life. He described—

asking the question “Is it different?” “Can it, like other powerful weapons, be controlled by—” His answer to the first
was positive and the second, negative, and he emphasized the probability that another war would, in all likelihood, not destroy
the world, but would certainly plunge us back into an age of barbarism. Dr. Foreman said that unlike the past,
war is now not only impractical, but is impossible if civilization is to continue, a scientific countermeasure?”

Points of View

There are three points of view, he said, which must not be taken by a Christian. The first is that
we must not be pessimistic about the situation, or that no matter what we do everything will turn out for
the worst. He regarded the opposite point of view with as much distaste, and that is extreme optimism, or the
idea that we can sit back and relax and the whole mess will wind itself up and turn out for
the best. The third idea that is taboo for the Christian to take up is one of indifference, for we
are at an important crossroad, and we should not be blind to that fact.

Dr. Foreman then brought out the interesting point that a man is no longer regarded as a Christian simply because
he is “good” and loves his family and friends, or—

R.O.T.C. Begins Riflery Practice

Davidson's 1946 R.O.T.C. rifle team is firing away in preparation for this year’s intercollegiate competition. Members of last year's team
who have reported for practice this year are S. D. McDaniel, P. P. Deaton, V. Long, Don Coffey, and W.
A. Gamble. C. K. Maxwell was a member of the team before leaving to serve thirty-four months in the Army
Air Forces. Another returned veteran on the team is R. G. McGehee, who served 18 months in the Navy. In
addition to the above mentioned, a number of freshmen are trying out for a place on the team.

Future plans for the team’s competition call for shoulder to shoulder matches with other R.O.T.C. teams and civilian teams in
the Seventh Army area. Climax of this season’s competition will be firing for the William Randolph Hearst trophy and in
the National Intercollegiate team match. Members of the team who have returned to fill old positions expect that training received
as part of military experience during—

(Continued Page 3)—

an attitude of kindness to those we do not see in foreign lands has to be adopted now, for without
this brotherhood and understanding, our nation and others will not long survive. The “Atomic Age” calls for a new and
better world. It is always good to have something in reserve in case something happens to go wrong; it is
always helpful to be a little better than we have to be to keep the respect of the other nations.

Sig Up Hears Port, Jackson, Jeffries

Sigma Upsilon, a literary fraternity, held its seventh meeting at the Pi Kappa house to read and criticize papers written
by its members. The papers of the week were written by Jim Jackson, Mac Jeffries, and Mr. Payne. After they
had been read aloud to the group and thoroughly discussed, Port presented part of his diary which was written while
in Germany. That proved to be a very fitting closing note for the—

(Continued on Page 4)—

and Quips and Cranks, the college yearbook. Jeffries is a member of Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity, of Kappa
Alpha social fraternity, and served as a lieutenant of infantry in the European theater.

Amos Leads Sigs

Bob Amos, president of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, was secretary-treasurer of the Junior Class in 1942, senior representative to the
Student Council in 1943, and a member of the Beaver Club, underclass honorary leadership fraternity. He was an infantry officer
in the European theater of operations.

Freshman Judge

Johnny McAlister, of Greensboro, is this year’s judge of the Freshman Court Control. He is a member of Alpha Epsilon
Sigma social fraternity, and was recently re-elected to Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities.

Gwynn

Price H. Gwynn, III, of Ambler, Pa., was president of the Junior Class in 1942, is a member of Sigma
Phi Epsilon social fraternity, and was a tackle on the varsity football team.

(Continued on Page 4)
