FASHION - NOTE: Day. There Will Be A Change In Infants Wear From Day To ALENDA LUX UB! ORTA L Che Bavidsontan IBERTAS BIG WHEELS ROLL AGAIN Volume XXXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1946 No. 6

TWELVE NEW MEN IN WHO’S WHO

Student Councilmen Elected By Seniors

Pat Williams and Dick O’Hair Win Out Over Dick Port and Joe Stukes

In an election held last week, the Senior Class chose Dick O’Hair and Pat Williams as representatives of the class on the student council, it was announced by Bill McLean, president of the student body. Runners-up in the tight final runoff were Dick Port and Joe Stukes.

O’Hair, who is from Rock Hill, S. C., was an infantry officer during the war, and returned to Davidson this semester. He is a first-string end on the Wildcat squad, a member of the D. Club and the Beaver Club, and of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity.

Williams is from North Wilkesboro, and is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. He was also an infantry officer, serving in both European and Pacific theaters. A varsity end on this year’s football team, he was a member of the 1943 basketball team which reached the semi-finals of the Southern Conference Tournament. Williams is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity, the D. Club and Beaver Club, and was recently elected to Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities. He was chosen president of the Senior Class in 1943, but was unable to fill the office because of the service demanded by the armed forces.

Port, present president of Omicron Delta Kappa, was elected president of the student body in 1943, but was unable to fill the office. He is president of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and has been chosen to Who’s Who.

Stukes, a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, is chairman of the World Evangelism department of the Y. M. C. A. cabinet.

Phi Society Meets Again

On Monday, October 28, the Philanthropic Literary Society held its regular bi-monthly meeting. The business meeting was rather prolonged, owing to a discussion of Ralph Klontz’s plan for the society’s leading an effort “to promote logical thinking on the campus.” It was brought out that the term “logical thinking” was much too broad to be practical, and also that such a program as had been suggested might fall more properly under the care of such organizations as the International Relations Club. The proponents of the plan limited it as “logical thinking with special reference to national and international affairs.” They further showed that the whole idea involved only cooperation on the part of Phi Society with other interested groups on the campus. Klontz said that with the help of the others it would be possible to bring well-informed speakers to the campus. Some who opposed an all-out effort on the part of the Society along the lines propounded pointed out that there were current events and topics right here in Davidson that were important to all of us and should not be neglected, much less excluded from consideration, a point which was granted by the others. The discussion drew to a close with the appointing of a committee consisting of Leighton McKeithan (chairman), Lamar Williamson, and Ralph Klontz, to correlate the society’s activity with that of the other groups.

I Can't Wait For Midwinters

By Dave Richardson

My date for the dances had the colossal nerve to insist that there are more characters at Davidson than anywhere. At the time we were watching Fireplug Fairly guiding his enlarged nose past Hans the German police pup and his Penguin friend, so that circumstances beyond my control forced me to agree until I realized that she could outstrip even George Ennett and the Hat together. This babe, named suitably Anne Will, had attended summer school, absorbing Dr. C. K.’s lectures along with B. Anderton and Hal Mapes, so I figured she was perhaps not pure as the driven snow, and I was right. To amuse a crowd consisting of Innocent Turnbull and three Agnes Scott girls with beautiful souls, she endearingly told a little story about a girl who was informed of the facts of life by her mother and warned not to contaminate little girls who might not be old enough. So she went back to the gutter to pick up additional knowledge and was conversing in low tones with several older and wiser witches when a tiny tot crawled over to listen. “Go away,” they all screamed, “you don’t know the facts of life.” But the baby girl insisted, “Certainly I do.” At this point the Torch, arousing himself sufficiently to realize that Anne was from Randolph Macon, and undaunted gaily claimed as her motto, “Make your love in the roundhouse, Nellie. He won't be able to corner you there.”

Rice Did It

Leaving their weak smiles behind, we slunk into a bush to neck, a sport she had learned from Doug during intensive summer maneuvers. That night I found that the one outstanding feature of the armory basement was the occasional draft of fresh air which served to stir up the clouds of languorous perfume floating subtly several feet above the deck. The exotic mixture of White’s Orchid, Slow Murder, Let’s Do It, and Chesterfield smoke lured me gaspingly from woman to woman. Anne’s own brand, Nuit de Passion, had a low boiling point. By eleven o’clock nothing but the alcohol was left, so I fell to licking her about the ears and shoulders. All night long she peered out from behind a lush growth of bangs at the thousands of stags milling about the dance floor, and sneeringly remarked that B. Jeffries must have chosen such a cozy little place to encourage entertaining the girls in cars out in the cool dark of Charlotte. Unable to speak from the poignancy of the moment and because some elbow had just neatly removed my breath, I accepted her subtlety, and we went out in search of the finer things. Locked in a passionate embrace, she waved her slender limbs enticingly before me and crooned in a throaty voice a call to love which is obscured in my mind by the tension of the moment, but it led us deeper into madness, went something like this:

“Up in Harlem at a table for two,
There were four of us; me, your big feet, and you.
From your ankles up, you look mighty sweet,
But from there on down there’s just too much feet.”

Happily we drifted off into our dream world.

HONOR MEN

Pictured above are Al Scarborough, Tommy Bumbarger, Ed Sutton, Mae Ed Jackson, Duz Swink, Jim Powell, and Alf Taylor.

Concert Series Begins Tonight

William Primrose To Be First Entertainer

William Primrose, acclaimed the world’s finest violist, will begin the fall concert series with his performance here this evening at 8:15 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium. Spoken of on all sides with the superlative, Mr. Primrose’s concert promises to be a genuine treat for Davidson listeners who hear him play tonight.

Viola master Primrose comes to Davidson following three seasons during which he made an extensive tour of Latin America, visited England for orchestral appearances and recitals, and played some 200 concert and radio engagements in the United States and Canada. He has soloed four times with the Boston Symphony under Koussevitzky with great success. He scored in the Walton Viola Concerto with the Philadelphia Orchestra under Eugene Ormandy. Some of his major radio engagements have been with the NBC Symphony, the Coca-Cola and Firestone Shows, RCA Victor’s “What’s New,” and with the Columbia Broadcasting Symphony.

Since 1942 when Primrose left the NBC Symphony he has devoted his entire time to solo work with great response from the public and in realization of his own ambition. Earlier, his ability had him recognized by his being picked to head the viola section when the new NBC Symphony was formed in New York for Toscanini in 1937. Prior to that he first came to America after a hastily cabled invitation to fill a gap in the London string quartet.

Red And Black Masquers Announce First Production

“Mr. and Mrs. North” To Be Given November 26

Davidson’s dramatic society, the Red and Black Masquers, made an announcement today of their coming fall production. The initial presentation will be the successful New York play, “Mr. and Mrs. North,” to be presented in Chambers Auditorium on November 26 at 8:15 p.m. under the direction of Middy Raynal. The comedy mystery is based on a series of short stories published over a period ofSeveral years in “The New Yorker”. After a long and successful run on Broadway, the play was made into a radio scenario and presented with much applause over a nation-wide hookup.

Lowe to Play Lead
Frank Lowe, who did an outstanding job last year as the frustrated milkman, Burly Sullivan, in “The Milky Way” takes the male lead as Mr. North. The charming and provocative Mrs. North will be played by Mrs. Nochren. The hair-brained exploits of these two, further complicated by such things as bodies falling out of closets, visits from various postmen and Western Union boys, which are finally straightened out by the footprints of a cat, and two live-wire detectives played by Doug Swink and Charles Cunningham, promise to keep the audience in the aisles for the night.

Large Cast
Other feminine interest is supplied by Miss Salene Parker, Miss Nancy Copeland, and Miss Susie Jackson with the cast being rounded out with male parts taken by Harry Cox, Dick Port, Charles Delaney, Jimmy Gribbon, and a host of new Frosh talent. Director Raynal states that this is a “must” of the coming season and students are advised to mark November 26 in their books for the first large-scale post-war production of the Red and Black Masquers.

Rev. Daniels Speaks Here
The vesper speaker for the evening of the third of November was the Reverend Eugene Daniels, former Army Chaplain, and now making his headquarters in Nashville, Tennessee. A graduate of Georgia Tech and later of Columbia Seminary, Reverend Daniels enlisted in the Army in 1941, was sent overseas to North Africa, and was captured there when his unit retreated. He was a prisoner in various German concentration camps in Africa, Italy, and Germany for twenty-six months.

Reverend Daniels emphasized the tremendous needs of the majority of the common people throughout war-torn Europe, pointing out that hundreds of thousands of them were slowly dying of starvation and exposure. He then pointed out the part that his organization, Church World Service, was playing in endeavoring to relieve that perilous shortage of food and clothing. Murphy Williams, secretary of the Davidson Y.M.C.A., has asked for the help of the Davidson student body in the form of contributions of either money or old clothing. Milk bottles will be placed at strategic points on the campus into which students may place their contributions, or they may hand them to visitors as they pass the various houses.

It might be said that the first impression that registered on the faces of visitors as they passed the various houses was one of horror. All around them were figures hanging from railings, numerous coffins lying on the grass, and gaping mouths of lighting wildcats. All in all, it was a very interesting pastime for one to wander around at his leisure, beholding the various sights.

Pi Kappa Alphas Win Prize for Decorations
By Don Kerr
It was well worth my time last week to stand around Fraternity Court and watch the expressions on the faces of visitors as they passed the various houses. The first impression that registered on their faces was one of horror. All around them were figures hanging from railings, numerous coffins lying on the grass, and gaping mouths of lighting wildcats. All in all, it was a very interesting pastime for one to wander around at his leisure, beholding the various sights.

The Pi Kappa Alphas edged out the others and took first place, while the Beta Theta Pis placed a close second. The Pikas were quite ingenious in their decorations. On the lawn were four large dice, with “Roll ’em in Wildcats” painted on them. To walk in the door, one had to step through the mouth of the head of a painted wildcat, and the porch was a placard with an appropriate verse.

Betas Second
The Betas presented a wedding of “Mr. Washington and Lee” and “Miss Defeat”, which combined both originality and artistry. I think it must have been obvious to those who saw the finished results of the work of the fraternities that much time and effort was put into each. The unenvied judges were wives of alumni. The three were Mrs. T. Lafferty, Mrs. Joe Johnson, and Mrs. LaFarr. I think all agree that they did a fine job.

Delta Pi Holds Meeting
On Monday night, November 4, the Davidson Chapter of Sigma Delta Pi, the national Spanish fraternity, met together with the Spanish Club for the first time this year. The meeting was presided over by President Bob Strickland and the entire session was conducted in Spanish. Professor Trakas, the vice-president, was in charge of the first part of the program which consisted of three dialogues acted by David Harrison, “Parrot” Thatcher, Art Lindsay, Joe Stukes, and Dave Neil. Professor Blythe, faculty advisor, headed the second half with two competitive games. In the first, several articles were placed on a table and each man named as many in Spanish as he could. This contest was won by Dave Harrison and “Yo Yo” Barksdale. The second game was a Spanish crossword puzzle which was worked out by teams of two and won by Herb Meya and Sam Robinson.

Prospective members for the Spanish Club visiting the meeting were requested to join. These men will be voted on at the next meeting and initiated in the near future.

Experience has taught us a lot but it has made us so cautious that we aren't good for much.

SIX WILL APPEAR FOR SECOND TIME
Bumbarger, Jackson, Jeffries, Peters, Port, Powell, White, Scarborough, Sutton, Swink, Taylor, Williams Chosen for First Time
ALL NEW MEN VETERANS
Gwynn, Richardson, Love, Golden, McAlister, McLean Selected Again

Davidson College, as is its annual custom, has chosen twelve outstanding students for representation in the 1947 edition of “Who’s Who In American Colleges and Universities”. These students are selected by a committee of faculty members who judge the candidates for all-round worth, including such attributes as scholarship, leadership, friendship, athletic ability, and general qualifications. The Davidsonian takes pride in presenting the names of this year’s choices as follows: James Wyly Jackson, Jr., Edward Colmery Sutton, Tommy Levin Powell, Jr., George Belk Peters, Thomas Bumbarger, Douglas Wallace Swink, Hill Jeffries, Richard Baxter Port, Henry Edmonds White, Alfred Scarborough, Jr., Alfred Graham Taylor, and Patrick Murphy Williams, Jr.

Other men elected last year or in previous years who are still in school, and whose write-ups will be repeated in this year’s edition are Edward Worth Speight Gwynn, Smith McAlister, Spencer Love Golden, John McLean, Jr., William Price Henderson (1942-1943), James McLean, Jr. (1941-1945), and David W. Richardson (1943-1944).

A short and perhaps incomplete thumbnail sketch of each of the new men is given below.

Jackson
Jim Jackson is from Columbia, South Carolina, and has just recently returned to school after two and one-half years in the Army Air Forces. He has proved himself quite a leader on the campus, holding the positions of president of the underclass, member of Omicron Delta Kappa, member of the Beaver Club, honorary fraternity, Davidsonian staff member and sports editor in his junior year, member of Sigma Upsilon, and member of the Eumanean Literary Society. Jim belongs to Kappa Alpha Social Fraternity.

Sutton
Ed Sutton was likewise a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, and also has belonged to the Spanish Club. He served three years with the infantry in France and Germany. At present, Ed is editor of the Davidsonian after serving as a staff member for two years and managing editor in his third year. He also belongs to the Sigma Upsilon Literary Society, and hails from Charlotte.

Powell
Tommy Powell from San Antonio, Texas, has been freshman adviser, a member of the Beaver Club, and of Omicron Delta Kappa, the honorary national leadership fraternity. He was president of the student body during one summer term. Tommy is just back from a stretch in the Air Forces, and is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

Peters
George Peters of Kingsport, Tennessee, has served in many varied phases of campus life. He is now president of the senior class and once held the office of vice president of the student body. He holds memberships in the Beaver Club, D Club, Omicron Delta Kappa, and Kappa Sigma Social fraternity. George has been outstanding in athletics too, winning letters in basketball, football, and track. He served with the 69th Infantry Division.