Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN October 25, 1946

Down Fraternity Court
(Continued from Page 2)

day night, but her parents were out of town.) Brother Louis Rogers has decided that a new Cadillac has tremendous
power in more ways than one. Seen at the Queens hay ride: Pledges Ellis, Mills, and Colkitt. Who is the
Charlotte girl Brother Bell? We hear that she is a beauty.

The Pika pledges seem to be coming along nicely with the pledge manual under the guidance of Brother Leonard.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

Sam Maloney, intoxicated by the novelty of maybe having more than five skirts running around the campus this weekend, jumped
the gun on Salem-Davidson day and crashed into world-shaking headlines, heading an expedition of instruction manned by Sam Pharr and
Pledge Brother Joe Vance to the College for Women at Salem. G. Patrick started off on a blind date to
Queens, but noticed the Charlotte News portrait of Lena Hyena and couldn’t go through with it, remaining completely limber on
the campus. Brother Fahrplug Fairly came back from Richmond muttering, “Home town girl makes good.” The young lady obviously had
received a promotion. Lured in on the same deal was Brother Droop Howard, two-timing under the nose of his love
in Washington with an enticing little chick named Ann. Between hot spots, the Quartet made the V. M. I. game.

The Whiz Ragan raced to Lexington, Richmond, and Hampton, Va., accompanied as always by some woman. Also at the game,
besides footballers Dick O’Hair, Frank Strait, Dick Blanks, Johnny Richards, and Bill Harris, was Brother Campbell, dragging his Mexico City
schoolmate over the mountains from Randolph-Macon, where Pledge Brother Frank Aldred shed light among members of the Freshman Class. Pledge
Brothers Ed Newton and James Poag kept things straight in Rock Hill, while dealing with female coyness on the part
of a Charlotte babe.

BIG wheel McKiethan turned down all offers of entertainment to study, and then snuck off to Converse Sunday with premeditated
designs on a woman—for Homecoming. Jokester McKiethan’s contribution to the week’s joy: “Remember, ping-pong spelled backward is gnop-gnip.”

COURT
(Continued from page 1)

After all, it is only infantile brains which would dream of breaking campus rules to leave the peaceful atmosphere of
dear ole Davidson on a cheerful Saturday night. Hizzoner the Judge is really the friend of the frosh and will
do almost (that is!) anything to help them, while at the same time holding them in line, this last for
the benefit of upperclassmen. Thus is concluded the weekly report of Trye N. Fyneme, your Court Kerrickter, the guy who
knows what goes on beneath every freshman cap.

STUD STORE
(Continued from page 1)

During this period, when the student body consisted mainly of Army cadets, a closed counter system was in operation. With
the return to normal times, students who had known the open counter system employed before the war, persuaded the college
authorities to reinaugurate this method on somewhat of a probationary basis. These old students especially are anxious to have the
honor system upheld in the store.

Improvements

Under the direction of student manager Long and Mr. William Tellford of Charlotte, graduate manager, the “Stud” is continually improving,
despite the universal difficulty of getting supplies.items to sell, and it will soon be on a par with such stores
in other large schools. Among innovations scheduled are a sandwich toaster, already ordered, and a soda fountain. The managers sincerely
desire that students do not hesitate to offer to them suggestions about operation or criticisms concerning quality or price of
merchandise. “And don’t forget,” Long adds, “the ‘Stud’ will be open every Sunday night at 12:00.”

BOARD (Continued from page 1)

Luxembourg, Belgium. Sam is at present a member of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, Secretary of the Pan-Hellenic Council,
and member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity.

Hills

John Hills of Jacksonville, Fla., graduated from Darlington in 1944, entering Davidson in the fall of the same year. During
his Freshman year, John was extremely active in various phases of Y. M. C. A. work. As a Sophomore he
was a member of the Davidsonian staff and also became a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society. At present John
holds membership in Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Le Cercle Francais, and Phi Delta Theta fraternity.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

WE HAVE DR. KENNEDY’S ATHLETE FOOT RELIEF

C. S. Goodrum
TELEPHONE 2111
Davidson, N. C.

Faul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Belk’s Department Store
Mooresville, N. C.
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN

See Us

Say IT With Flowers
from
SMITH FLORAL SHOPS
Cornelius
Jack Payne—Local and College Agent
Phone 3741

Sure, there may be times when you don’t want to wear a hat on-campus. But we can think of a
lot of positive arguments for wearing a hat than keeping your brains from spilling out. A hat gives you greater
poise and dignity... the touch that’s essential to being well-dressed on dates and house-parties, at games and theaters. It tops
off that college-man nonchalance with an air of individual style and good taste!

126 South Tryon Street

DECORATE (Continued from page 1)

A week remains before Homecoming, and urged all fraternities to be thinking of original ideas and acquiring material for decorating
the houses. In the past, the contest has been occasioned by much spirited competition, and the prize offered by the
Council was a much coveted one. In addition, many alumni will judge the spirit of their fraternity at present by
the enthusiasm and work that they put into their decorations.

SERVICE (Continued from page 1)

Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte. Dr. Redhead is a member of the board of trustees of Davidson College, and was
last year moderator of the Synod of North Carolina. Joe Stukes, chairman of the World Evangelism department of the Y.
M. C. A., has announced that appointments for personal consultation with Dr. Redhead may be made through the “Y” Cabinet
or Murphy Williams.

AMBULANCE SERVICE
Telephone 284
Equipped For Service Any Distance Any Time
Bunch Funeral Home
Mooresville, N. C.

DELUXE ICE CREAM
Is Now Available At
THE STUDENT STORE

RABY’S SHOE SHOP
We Specialize In Whole Soles

SINCE 1887
W. C. Johnston Co.
“Everything in Hardware”
Phone 130
Mooresville, N. C.

PASTEURIZED GRADE “A” MILK
Mooresville Co-Operative Creamery
Delivered Daily
PHONE 205
Mooresville, N. C.

Remember this seal—it’s your assurance of the best.
FOOD PRODUCTS, Charlotte, N. C.

STAN MUSIAL OF THE ST. LOUIS CARDINALS
TRIPLE KING IN THE REALM OF BASEBALL
BETTER TASTING
SMOKING PLEASURE
THEY SATISFY!
