# Best during halftime... The David- November 1, 1946 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page

Kinston Alumni Meet Monday

Davidson College alumni in the Kinston area will hold their first meeting in a number of years Monday evening at
seven o’clock at the Hotel Kinston. The area includes New Bern, Goldsboro, Mt. Olive, Warsaw, and other towns in the
vicinity. In addition to the alumni and their wives, parents of present Davidson students and special friends of the college
are invited to attend.

By Bob Rierson

SHARPS N FLATS:

Due to a very successful concert, as far as the audience was concerned, in which he injured his finger recently,
Eugene Istomin, brilliant young pianist, was unable to appear at Davidson for his scheduled recital on October 23. The announcement
was made with regret by Mr. Pfohl, but the recital has been rescheduled for Monday, December 2. The New York
Times’ reviewer was very pleased with the concert given by Mr. Istomin with the New York Philharmonic Symphony Orchestra where
he incurred his injury. Music lovers cannot go wrong by making a point to hear Istomin when he appears here
on December 2. The new date for Istomin’s appearance has caused a reshuffling in the Artist Series. The next program
will be on November 8, when William Primrose, noted violist, plays. Primrose has been called by Time Magazine “The world’s
finest viola player.”

On last Wednesday afternoon at 4:30 in Chambers Auditorium, Merle Montgomery, a specialist in music theory, gave a lecture on
the Schillinger System of Musical Composition. This system is the much-discussed scientific concept of music developed by Joseph Schillinger, the
Russian-born composer and theorist, which has been used by George Gershwin and other prominent composers. Mrs. Montgomery is an educator,
composer, and lecturer who holds a Master of Music degree from the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, N.Y., and
is a graduate of the American Conservatory in Fontainebleau, France. She has taught at the University of Oklahoma, Southwestern Oklahoma
College, and the Eastman School of Music. She has lectured at the New England Conservatory of Music in Boston, the
University of North Carolina, Cornell University, and the Cleveland Institute of Music, Ohio. Her authorship includes a “Musical Notebook” and
a “Correspondence Course in Music Appreciation and Theory.” She has had 26 songs and an a cappella chorus published. Mrs.
Montgomery’s lecture was heard with much interest by music appreciators and theorists here.

Homecoming will be heralded by the Music Department as the Glee Club sings at the Alumni luncheon and the band
performs its usual best during halftime.

Thomas H. Hamilton, minister of the First Presbyterian Church of Kinston, will preside at the meeting. The program will be
highlighted by a talk by Dr. Ernest Beaty of the college faculty. Additional representatives of the college will be present.
Other features on the program will include a report on the athletic situation and the showing of football movies. The
only business on the program will be the election of officers for the coming year. The meeting is one in
a series of the reorganization and reactivation program sponsored by the college this year. The purpose of the meeting is
to perpetuate the friendships formed in college years and to promote the welfare of Davidson and its alumni and the
cause of education generally. A large attendance at the gathering is expected.

Platter Chatter

By Bill Beatie

When I first thought of writing this column I little realized what headaches it would cause to me and all
those unfortunate enough to be associated with me in its creation. Neglect of studies to go to Charlotte to endure
hours of screeching female and nauseating ballad moaners; cringing under the icy stares of record store managers as I listened
to stack after stack of discs and finally bought perhaps one; these were only a few of my tribulations. Yet,
despite all this self-pity, I like it. I’ve always wanted to be able to express my opinion without fear of
interruption. So I expect to enjoy these weekly one-sided bull sessions. I hope you will. I expect possibly one or
two of you to agree with my judgment of records. The others can do one of two things: disregard this
column completely; or, come to me with your opinions. You're probably a better critic than I am, anyway. Enough of
this, let’s talk about records!

Anyone who saw on the screen this summer the Cole Porter biography, “Night and Day,” can well understand why such
a tidal wave of Porter albums has hit the record shops. Personally, I think many of these albums should have
been done long ago. Now, however, the record fan who enjoys the smooth sophistication that is Cole Porter has a
wide range to choose from. It’s hard to make a choice between the keyboard wizardry of...| Eddy Duchin and the
wonderful arrangements of David Rose as to which of these two artists is best qualified to present Cole Porter. A
reissue of the Columbia album, “Duchin Plays Cole Porter,” is on the market and Rose has recorded “A Cole Porter
Review” for Victor.

The Davidson College Band will put on its first concert of the year on Friday, November 15, in Chambers. The
varied program will be highlighted by the appearance of a distinguished soloist, Dean Edwin Gerschefski of the School of Music
of Converse College, Spartanburg, S. C. The ingenious pianist will play Capriccio Brilliante by Mendelssohn, in the first performance of
this piece, so far as is known, with band accompaniment. This first formal showing of the band for the current
year and for the first actual time since the war years will contain much interest because of the large percentage
of Davidson’s returning veterans in the band’s membership of 45 players.

Send Her PASTEURIZED GRADE “A” MILK

The HOMECOMING SPONSORS Pictured above are Miss Vawter Steele of Statesville, N. C., with Robert Neill, Pi Kappa Alpha; Miss
Barbara Ann Ray of Charlotte, N. C., with Robert Gaither, Phi Kappa Pi; Miss Dale Bennette of Waycross, Ga., with
McChesney Jefferies, A.Kappa Alpha; Miss Cora Lucas of Greensboro, N. C., with John McCallister, S.A.E.; Miss Elizabeth Rosasco of Winston-Salem,
N. C., with William Gambell, Phi Gamma Delta; Miss Nell Stephens of Charlotte, N. C., with Sam Tate, Phi Delta
Theta; Miss Margaret Fisher of Concord, N. C., with Al Scarborough, Beta Theta Pi; and Miss Juliette LeBrode of Asheville,
N. C., with George Ennett, Kappa Sigma.

Artie Shaw also has waxed a Porter album for Musicraft. And, to add a high-brow touch, Columbia has issued a
Rise Stevens album of “Songs of Cole Porter.” One of the latest Harry James’ Columbia releases is “Friar Rock,” backed
by “Easy.” Instead of merely playing short trills as a background for a smooth ballad, James puts all the rhythmic
power of his famous trumpet into these arrangements. While not living up to the caliber of those excellent James instrumentals
of a few years back, “Friar Rock” and “Easy” are a step in the right direction.

The recent debut of Elliott Lawrence on Columbia met with a storm of well-deserved applause. Two of his latest releases
are “In Apple Blossom Time,” with the reverse, “Strange Love,” and “Who Do You Love I Hope.” All are backed
by Lawrence arrangements. Sinatra has abandoned his recent ballad style for a lighter mood in his latest Columbia record, “Five
Minutes More” and “How Cute Can You Be.” Both are in a relaxing tempo and a must for all “voice”
fans.

(Continued from Page 1)

CHESTERFIELD ADS

Like model Helen Meuller, lovely cover girl, or Ted Williams, number one baseball star. The college girl will find the
men she has been claiming, for instance, Day Morris, the rising young theatrical star. The Chesterfield Supper Club, which was
awarded top radio honors for the second consecutive year by “Billboard,” the leading newspaper in the entertainment field, will continue
to bring favorite vocalists Perry Como and Joe Stafford. Bright new stars, whose appeal in college circles has been demonstrated,
will be chosen. The college man will see the personalities he wishes to see, the nation’s tastes of college students
and aimed to increase their pleasure. It is the first time a national advertiser has planned a major campaign for
college newspapers — specifically suited to the collegiate viewpoint. Special copy will feature personalities from the entertainment and sports world.

Slipover Sweaters 4.95 to 9.95

Warm, good-looking sweaters in your favorite solid colors and fancy patterns. Styles with V-necks and round necks. Durable, long-lasting knits.

MEN’S STORE Belk Bros. CHARLOTTE

Get These HIT PARADE Records

“Rumors Are Flying” Frankie Carle “And Then It’s Heaven” “To Each His Own” Frankie Carle “Five Minutes More” Harry James

Parker Gardner 118 W. Trade Street Charlotte, N. C.

AT WHITE DRUG COMPANY

WE HAVE DR. KENNEDY’S ATHLETE FOOT RELIEF

C. S. Goodrum TELEPHONE 2111 Davidson, N. C.

“The Liveliest College Paper On The Hill”

Mooresville Co-Operative Creamery Delivered Daily — Only $1.50 Per Year PHONE 205 Mooresville, N. C.

Dunbars Studio $9.00 8X10 Color Portrait

PORTRAITS COPIES $1.00

VERNON B. McGHEE Local and College Agent 230 N. Tryon Franklin Studios Charlotte, N. C.

Your Nee and the 101 Charlotte, N. C.

“The Friendly Store in a Friendly City” Whatever SUITS HATS SHIRTS PAJAMAS SOCKS TIES SHOES SHOP EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP STREET
FLOOR Charlotte, N. C.

417 West Fifth Street Serving DAVIDSON COLLEGE MECKLENBURG COUNTY, and 44 other North Carolina Counties

Superb Motor Bus Service QUEEN CITY TRAILWAYS
