Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN November 22, 1946

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

PUBLISHED WEEKLY, THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

ED SUTTON .................................. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOB SMOAK ................................ BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editor ................................ Bob Rierson
Feature Editor .................................. Clayton Scofield
Sports Editor .................................... Walter Walker
Managing Editor .............................. Ralph Alexander
Managing Editor .............................. Bob Philips
Managing Editor .............................. Dave Richardson
Managing Editor .............................. Jim Pitman

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager .......... Bob Gambrell
Advertising Manager ...................... Frank Lemmon
Circulation Manager ....................... John McNair
Circulation Manager ....................... Bob Gough
Collection Manager ......................... Charles Dockery
Circulation Manager ....................... Bill Baxter

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by THE STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such it welcomes any contributions or communication to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hands by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

1946 Member 1947 Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Courtesy...
“A Davidson student is a gentleman at all times.”
“Davidson students speak when passing each other on the campus... friendliness is the spirit of Davidson.”
“A Davidson man is courteous.”

These are all only a few of the old sayings which have been used so frequently that they begin to take on the aspects of triteness, and it is with hesitation that we use them in this column today. Yet these things have always been true, and though oft repeated are none-the-less sound. They have always been traditional.

But are these time-tested laws true today? We are inclined to think that they are, and yet at times during this year, we seem to have allowed ourselves to become careless in carrying out these obligations that a man takes on when he becomes a student at Davidson College. This carelessness has been particularly noticeable at our chapel services this term, and it is about this in particular that we are writing.

A certain amount of horseplay has also been a tradition at Davidson chapel periods, and we are not of the opinion that this is bad—when it occurs at the proper time. In past years, the lighter side of the chapel programs took place when the devotional was over and the student body took over the session, but for some reason this has gotten completely out of control this year so that it has spread throughout the whole period. Our conduct last Friday when the Queens College Chorus were visitors to our campus was outrageous. I am sure that they are of the opinion that Davidson College is an institution housing some nine hundred howling barbarians for that is exactly what we were on Friday last. The uproar hardly died down long enough for a prayer and any attempted announcement was met with a stamping of feet that made me feel that I was far from any type of worship service. Why don’t we grow up in mind as well as body? It was plainly announced at the beginning of the program that the selections were of a religious nature, and yet we could not even wait until the close of each part of the program to show our appreciation of the selection with a round of applause that would have spurred a football squad on to victory.

Numerous members of the student body have made the request that something be said in regard to the double cuts assigned to classes the day before and after our holiday on Thanksgiving. Many of the men now enrolled at Davidson have not had the pleasure of spending a Thanksgiving with their families for four or five years now and it is with this in view that the administration is requested to relax the ruling for this particular date so that students living several hundred miles from school may have an opportunity to visit their homes. It is realized that an extra holiday could not be allowed if Davidson is to meet the requirement for the number of class hours set by the American Association of Colleges and Universities, but we do sincerely believe that the double cuts could be removed without lowering our standards.

Fraternities...
Perhaps I am on the inside looking out since I am a fraternity man, but nevertheless I feel justified in saying a few words in defense of the system which is under constant fire throughout the country today. The movies, the magazines, and the newspapers all carry frequent articles depicting the evils of this type of social group. They harp on the undemocratic principles upon which the fraternity system is built, yet they never mention the system of eating houses and so-called clubs which are so prevalent in institutions where fraternities are not found. Most of these organizations make the fraternity system look like a Utopian Democracy in comparison to their own social caste system. By eliminating fraternities we do not remove snobbishness (when it is present, and I do not think that it is at Davidson) but rather tend to build up classes which in themselves are much worse.

Even so, the fraternities are not without fault. We come by some of this criticism quite justly, and must in some cases modify our actions to meet a changing world. There are three things which we can do to better ourselves and the system. First of all, we must stress scholarship. In this way we defy the criticism of the educator who says fraternities are detrimental to scholastic achievement. Secondly, we must abolish such practices as so-called “Hell Week.” One of the many just criticisms of the system is the reference to cases where men have been seriously injured by these practices. The whole of the fraternity system is not worth the health of a single individual. Third, we can attempt to learn to live better with our fellows and in this way be a tremendous aid to our community, country, and to our world.

Where was Throttlebottle when the lights went out? That is a question to which quite a few persons, including my boy himself, want to know the answer, since the whereabouts of Regatso were unknown for three full hours on the night of the recent blackout of Davidson College and vicinity. Regatso was studiously engaged with his Economics assignment which happened to be a report made by several worthy members of Congress on the relation between the price of egg noodles in southern Saskatchewan and the evolution theories of the Zyswigians. It is, of course, true that my boy was rather dull from excessive exposure to such a delightful subject, and his eyesight was considerably impaired by the two marvelous shiners that he incurred while attempting further to delay one carload of the Queens choir from appearing at last Friday’s chapel program. (Ed. note—the above statement is contrary to the excuse given in chapel for the delay, but it is known that Throttlebottle’s information is correct. His girlfriend, Nastursium Daisyfinger, was in the car, and Regatso was determined to see her for a few minutes, despite the ruling of the director that two free minutes would be allowed at Davidson, one before and one after the program. When the choir director slugged him, considerably injuring his outlook on life, he became thoroughly disgusted and revealed the facts of the case to the author.)

Suddenly all became infinite ebony but he refused to believe that he was completely blind. He scrambled to his Number 12s and made his way into the hall, hampered only by two chairs, innumerable misplaced articles of clothing, and a dozing roommate. By this time he had realized that it was not he that had blacked out but rather everything external to himself. He restored soon, so he returned to his desk and reapplied himself to his studies with the aid of a wood alcohol burning cigarette lighter. With the passing of time the room began to possess a very alcoholic odor, and my boy’s vision was scarcely functioning. “The fuse box, that is the answer!” flashed across his fuzzy senses, and he sallied forth, sprawling over the obstacles earlier encountered, in addition to a heap of trash strategically located immediately in front of his door. Arriving at the fuse box much the worse for wear, he began poking around in its interior. I shall not insult the intelligence of the reader by informing him of the outcome of this noble experiment, but instead merely state my boy is now being employed afternoons in Physics lab as a source of current. When he recovered enough to sit up again, the inkiness still consumed him. He struggled to his feet and headed in what he thoughtwas the right direction to his room. Instead, he plunged down the steps of the dormitory into a pile of leaves which luckily broke his fall. By this time my boy was—if one could have seen him—visibly agitated. He charged back down the hall of his domicile, flung open a door, and barged possessively into the blackness of the room, only it wasn’t his! The occupants took the liberty of forcibly expelling his august presence, and he landed once more in the hall, surrounded by the wailings of the other souls in the same predicament as he was. Regatso was not very coherent in the rest of his story, and I could only catch fragmental mention of fallings and expulsions and wanderings galore. The upshot of the whole matter was that my boy slept through all his Friday classes, flunked two quizzes, and still retains a vacant stare whenever Thursday night is mentioned.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
Most of Beta Chapter's brothers were operating away from the campus, leaving Friday and Saturday for different parts of the state. Seems that Brothers Robert Stroup and Chick Neill got the earliest start, leaving Friday morning for Chapel Hill—and all that it stands for. Brother Rosser Clark was shown the beauties of married life Saturday night when the Belle of Belmont decided that cooking at home was much nicer than going out to eat. Brother Clyde Stroup, known now as one of the “Hell Drivers,” didn’t quite make it to the game at Chapel Hill but he did make it to the dance at Queens. Brother Joe Bell was seen sneaking out of the Teen Age Club in Statesville Saturday night with someone else’s date. Brothers Dockery, Leonard, and others say that they remained on the campus all the weekend, but we doubt that this is true in all cases, especially in the case of Brother Dockery. Brother Turner admits only to a quiet time at home. The Asheville boys were off to the hills again. Seems that those hills have a calling that can’t be resisted, or maybe it’s just what those mountains hold.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
The Autumn Nocturne, a term loosely and naively applied to the ball dropped by Queens College last Saturday to enliven their social life, was not attended by Tom “The Parrott” Snodgrass, and Amoose Ragan who whiled the time away with the giving of a farewell party for Brother Bill Korbel, who has left Davidson College for a wholesome, well-rounded life in the outside world. Ragan seems to have developed an aversion for the word Tyrone during the evening, quaffing another glass of milk at its every mention. Valiantly holding up the chapter honor were Sam Maloney and Pledge Charles Elyea, living examples of the rhyme virtue won’t hurt you, who spent the nocturnal hours happily. The Rock Hill Kids went home again. Must be something besides rocks down there. Dick Blanks led the home seekers, trekking to Norfolk and back. Also home were the brothers McKiethan. Leighton came back with a dress collar covered with lipstick.

BETA THETA PI
The Beta co-operative boarding house opened Monday morning with a bang. We are now willing to dispute the rash claim made last week that someone else had the best boarding house on the campus. Sons of Wooglin seen at Queens last weekend were brothers GRAY, ELLINGTON, McCONNELL, H. NEISLER, WILLIAMSON, McCLOY, BOBBITT, CARPER, SCHMIDT, ETHERIDGE, TUCKER, PHILIPS, and pledges BARR and SCRUGGS. Brothers McCONNELL, TUCKER, and PHILIPS had the extreme honor of being in the figure, you might say they cut quite a figure. However, Philips was as usual engrossed in a combat story and failed to meet his date as she came through the Q. What we want to know is, who got A. J. his date, late, that is? Strange as it seems, a knocked out time was had by all. Biggest deal of the week: Pledge BUDDY CHANDLER and his hometown cohorts wheeled all the way to Norfolk in that antiquated Ford. Took them 11 hours, returned at 4 a.m. Monday. Way to distinguish a Beta: Does he walk on crutches? Ask CRANE and BOYD.

PI KAPPA PHI
Brothers Reid, Delaney, and Lander had quite a little party on the river after the dance Saturday night. “Boom,” away as usual, attended a house party in Blowing Rock. Brother Evans journeyed to Hickory and then to Chapel Hill. Brother Gaither and Pledge Boykin attended the Queens affair Saturday night. “Lover” Sinclair missed seeing Ann this week and went to Wilmington. President Robertson can once again join in on the weekend merry-making. It is rumored that Brother Carpenter was making mad love over the weekend. Due to unfortunate circumstances, Brother Read spent a gay time in the infirmary Saturday night. Fitz, did you miss Tootie very much? Anyone interested in buying a knit tie see Abraham D. Walker.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
Quite a few plans for the near future have been laid down by the SPE boys, probably the most important being those for a Christmas party to be held on December 14. A Sunday night feed has been planned for this weekend to be held after the Vesper service. Several of the brothers took off early for their weekend celebrations. Brothers Wier and Lilly headed south to Charleston while Robinson had his activities confined to Bristol. Sellars and Sellars headed south early Saturday morning where they spent the weekend at Brenau College in Gainesville. The Queens dance drew several of the boys from the Epsilon’s ranks while two of the brothers were seen at the informal affair up at W.C. Since Davidson had an off day, several of the boys hit the road for the major games in the state and from all reports everyone enjoyed the news when Tate has two dates for one dance; it is news when he sleeps. Chalk down a 200 percent weekend for Pledge Brother John Wilkins. He dated four girls in two days. Included in his rounds was the Salem College dance over which he shows much enthusiasm. With him at Salem were Brothers McClean and Iverson plus Pledge Brothers Hollister and Brenniger. Other Phis returned from Queens with joy over their fine Saturday night dance. Seen tripping the light fantastic on the Q.C. ballroom floor were Ed Golden, Dicks Todd, Bob Stephens, Kennedy Smart, and Wilson Crupacker. Bill Foote went all the way to Washington, D.C., for his weekly operations. He claims his mission was one of business (advice to the President or some such); however, we have reasons to remain dubious concerning this statement.

S. A. E.
The finale to Brother Ford Little’s act tops them all this week as he slipped the noose over his neck and over Betty's finger. Standing by in Greensboro to support the conqueror were Brothers Hodgin, Hill, and Pledges McAlister, R. Little, B. Little, Rogers, Vance, and, for a short time, Pledge Wilcox. Since the big event, Brother (Continued on Page 4)

Cinema Comments
Monday and Tuesday November 25-26
“Night and Day”
This is a technicolor production of Cole Porter’s life weaving its scenes from his musicals, all of which lends a definite charm to his beloved songs. Regardless of a few scenes which drag, the beautiful settings, a well-chosen cast, excellent photography, and the musical arrangements make this an outstanding motion picture for all of the family. Cary Grant plays the part of Cole Porter and is supported by such stars as Alexis Smith, Monty Wooley, Ginny Simms, Jane Wyman, and Mary Martin.

Wednesday and Thursday November 27-28
“The Runaround”
After having searched through all the files and movie reviews which are at my disposal, your reporter has come to the startling conclusion that he has been given no information to be found concerning this motion picture except the fact that the cast includes Ella Raines, Rod Cameron, and Frank McHugh. Judging from these characters, it might be said that the picture may be classed as a light comedy.

Friday and Saturday November 29-30
“Sunset Pass”
“Sunset Pass” is a better than average shoot-’em-up-bang-bang Western. However, it has to do with the usual money headed for the bank, the inevitable hold-up involving a youth who is a victim of circumstances, his sister, and the casual hero. Our hero is played by James “Always-Gets-His-Man” Warren who also manages to get his little prairie flower in the end. Others in the cast are Joan Leslie and Jane Greer.

The Operating Table
By ??? COUNTESS
In a special dispatch to the Davidsonian, the Washington office of the Unassociated Press released the operation of the decade in announcing the admission of the first Austrian immigrant to the U.S. of A., Countess Ena Bettzimmer, who was described by immigration authorities as an Austrian countess visiting the States in the hope of recovering a young lieutenant of the American infantry who had stolen her heart while stationed in Vienna. Her only means of identification lay in the fact that her lieutenant had silver bars on everything he wore.

Immediately recognizing the dashing lieutenant by the description as Machesney Hill Jeffries, renowned Georgian casanova spending several months in Davidson to recover health shattered in the trying ordeals of the occupation, Editor Sutton, who suspected at once the most delectable story of love since the lady that was known as Woo, hastened to Washington to obtain direct evidence. As a result of the encounter, the Davidsonian proudly presents the picture included above, but announces with regret that Editor Mullethead is spending several months in bed to recover health shattered in the trying ordeals of the delegation. Jeffries, who retreated in haste to the Okefenokee Swamp upon receipt of the news, has returned cautiously to his old haunts about the student store.

At present there is some conjecture as to the addressee of the dedication penned across the picture, but none as to its content, herewith accurately, as the custom of the Davidsonian, reproduced.

Whatever I do,
Believe me one thing
I'll always love you
More than anybody.

Mlle. Bettzimmer was reported as last seen about with a former aviation radioman third class. Jeffries stated, “I feel that my conduct in the matter has been in every way exemplary. She is a fine girl, and I enjoyed every moment of her acquaintance.”