Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, April 12, 1946

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published Bi-Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
MEL WINSTEAD

BUSINESS MANAGER
DEXTER LAZENBY

EDITORIAL STAFF
Assistant Editor
Jimmy Nisbet

Feature Editor
Frank Barr, Jr.

Managing Editor
Lamar Williamson

Managing Editor
Ed Sutton

Managing Editor
Doug Swink

Managing Editor
Ernest Hunter

Managing Editor
Bill Whitaker

Art Editor
Jim Jackson

Sports Editor
Sterling Edwards

Associate Sports Editor
Bill Gamble

Staff Photographers
George Gunn

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Bob O’Mara

Advertising Manager
Bob Gambrell

Charles Thompson
Norvel Childers
Bob Neill

Circulation Manager
Subscriptions Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

This paper is a medium of student and faculty opinion, and the official history of college life. As such it
welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity,
or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday night of the week that it is
to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

It takes Mother 21 years to make a man out of her son, and it takes another woman one night
to make a monkey out of him.

Elections...
One of man’s greatest failings is that he too frequently criticizes his fellow man, usually behind his back. Being far
from perfect, we are quite often guilty of that here at Davidson. However, the condemning feature of it here is
that the objects of our criticism are campus leaders who we have put into office, or whom we have let
someone else put into office. Yes, you've guessed it! Elections are here. During the past two weeks some three hundred
men have been casting their votes in the lobby of Chambers every morning. And in all probability a large percent
of those voted just as a matter of routine instead of a seriously considered duty.

In our election system, the feature about which we boast so much is the absence of politics. However, this has
been in one way a disadvantage for the past week. The qualifications of the candidate are not presented to the
student body. In fact, a number of students have been heard to remark that it was a very poor state
of elections when so many students didn’t even know the candidates running for office. Of course, a partial answer to
this question is due to the fact that a large number of former Davidson students who returned to the college
at the beginning of this semester haven't had enough time to get to know the remainder of the student body,
and vice versa. Thus many of us find ourselves in utter confusion when we try to vote. Concerning those who
have already been elected to the various offices, what about introducing them to the student body? And in future elections,
why not introduce the candidates to the student body with a word about each one? It would save a lot
of time and confusion on election day.

At present, the only way in which a voter can learn of the qualifications of a candidate is on his
own initiative. If you have not done so already, look around, see what goes on, ask those who are in
a position to know, and from your observations, make a serious, conscientious attempt to discover the best men to carry
on next year. For if the wrong man is elected and you think he is doing a poor job, there
is no one to blame but yourself. Above all, make your own decision. Don't be influenced by someone else unless
you know that he is in a position to know more about it than you are. Otherwise, it will be
a reflection upon your intelligence, independence, and integrity.

Our Alma Mater...
Every college needs an alma mater song, and Davidson is no exception. True, we do have an excellent fight song,
which we have been using for quite a number of years, and which we definitely want to continue to use.
However, “down every foe” and “through their lines we run” doesn’t sound exactly appropriate to sing at commencement exercises. That
is the reason for wanting to adopt an alma mater song for the college, and “All Hail, O Davidson!” seems
to fill the bill. Several years ago Fred Waring composed an alma mater song for Davidson, “Davidson, Our Alma Mater”,
but that proved a little inefficient for our use. During Davidson's centennial year, the present alma mater song was composed.
It’s an excellent number for a school as Davidson and the Davidsonian fully favors its adoption.

A Current Topic...
The present student attitude here at Davidson seems to indicate that there is some feeling of dissatisfaction in regard to
our dances. This is particularly true among those who have recently returned to school—those who have been exposed to Davidson
Dances before the war. For many years there was much agitation in the student body to be allowed to have
the dances on the campus, instead of in Charlotte. Now that it has come to pass that we can have
our dances on the campus, there must be some reason why everyone is not in accord with the present set-up.
Surely it can’t be that “the other side of the fence looks greener”. To the contrary, this attitude seems to
hinge around the fact that, with the permission to have dances here at Davidson, the rules governing the lodging and
hours of the dates are too strict. Realizing, of course, that the college is responsible for the dances and that
there must be some regulation; nevertheless, the time limit for bringing the dates in after the dance seems somewhat unreasonable.
If the girls must be required to stay in an assigned place with a definite hour for coming in, could
not the time limit after the dances be lengthened one hour? This would mean that the curfew on Friday nights
would be at three-thirty, and Saturday nights one-thirty. It is rather difficult from the students’ point of view to believe
that such a request as this would be too radical for dances at Davidson. Other requests such as the one
above have been made to the faculty since the Midwinters Dance Set. One in the form of a petition signed
by the members of the Panhellenic Council. Another, when a faculty committee and certain representatives of the student body had
a discussion on the dance situation. I, for one, should like to see some definite action taken by the faculty
on this matter before the Spring Dances.

—GEORGE ENNETT

PHI DELTA THETA
Phi Delta Theta enjoyed one of the largest weekends of the year with their formal dinner dance at the Charlotte
Woman's Club on Saturday night. Sponsors for the affair were Mrs. Charles Powell of Little Rock, Ark., with Brother Charles
Powell, Miss Lillian DeArmon of Charlotte, N.C. with Brother Herb Miller, Miss Mary Ella Rothrock of Lexington, N.C. with Brother
Richards Todd, and Miss Ann Mace of Marion, S.C. with Brother Floyd Martin. The chapter is happy to announce the
pledging of Bob Cecil of Spartanburg, S.C. Pledge Brother Cecil holds the distinction of being the first man to be
called from the Davidson campus by the Enlisted Reserve Corps during the war. Brothers Maloney and Brownson were on the
baseball trips with the team on Saturday while Brother Archer spent the weekend on the tennis team tour of Erskine,
Clemson, and South Carolina. Brothers Davis, Smith, and Richardson report large-scale operations in Atlanta over the holidays.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
The Sig Ep Installation Banquet was held at the Ship Ahoy in Charlotte on April 6. Dave Blevins acted as
toastmaster. Faculty members present were Professor and Mrs. J. T. Kimbrough and Dr. and Mrs. A. V. Goldiere. After the
banquet, the Sig Eps and their dates enjoyed an informal dance at a clubhouse on Barr’s Lake out of Concord.
Highlights of the function: “Flop” Shaw replaced Frank Barr as President—favors for the girls—Dave Blevin's rendition of the Spruce Pine
Square Dance to the music of “Sioux City Sue”—Dave Neill without his dark glasses walks around the lake—Plenty of snakes
(in more ways than one)—Fuse blew out before chaperons arrived—nuf sed.

KAPPA SIGMA
Big plans are under way for our semester functions at the Gastonia Country Club. From all I hear, Doc Bailey
is in love with Winston-Salem. Genuine seems back to his original flame. John Ellis seems to have picked up a
cute little number at Queens, which is taking up a considerable amount of his time. It is rumored that a
person is not cleaning out his Thermos bottle. Recently pledged was Jim Briggs from Greenville, S.C. Mike Williams was a
recent visitor to the campus. He has been recently discharged from the army and will be back with us next
year.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
Bob Milar, Bob Gambrell, Bill Baxter, and Bob Neill are all on very intimate terms with Uncle Sam and it
looks as though they all will be in khaki before very long. In fact, every time they hear that R.O.T.C.
bugle they jump to attention. Milar left the last part of the week.and will be with the F.B.I. in the
not too distant future. Good luck, Bob, and keep those sergeants straight. Meatball (Dave Grambrell) and Milar went down to
Jacksonville (Milar's heaven) over the holidays and gave the girls a treat. Milar had a hard time getting Meatball to
leave as the women were crazy about him and Milar was almost left out in the cold. Buddy Carson hasn't
had that glitter in his eyes lately and I believe he is worried about one of his Atlanta girls who
has forsaken him for one of those Georgia boys. Speaking of those Georgia boys, if you want to see a
number one product just see Frank (Senator) Lee. The Country Club this Saturday night also has an enormous amount of
information about the various activities there. Donald Hatch is not satisfied with being a big tennis star, so now he
has gotten a new blue Ford which he drives around and makes the girls flutter. He holds the fellows' hearts.
Stokes Jennings is acquiring a sense of humor similar to that of Bill Iverson with his witty little jokes. Not
only this, he seems to have a girl in every town also. James McAlister and Ford Little seem to be
ready to take on the inter-fraternity bridge game anytime they like. Of course, they will play with our cards, Pika’s.

PHI KAPPA ALPHA
The Pikas have really been busy the last few weeks getting the yard in shape. The Pikes wish to challenge
any of the S.A.E.’s to a bridge game at any time. What is this at Page? Which is it, Salem
or Carolina? Chick is trying to get somebody to go with him to this attraction in Richmond this weekend. The
Carolina must be strong. Coble tries to tell us that he is in love. How many times is that anyway?

KAPPA ALPHA
We would first like to announce that Brother Drake Crawford is about to draft a new member into the new
order. The new pledge, Skunk, said and is soon to take its place in the Brothers' room. There have been
many rumors going around that there was quite a brawl between the Kappa Sigs and the K.A.’s in Gastonia. It
also has been told that each and every freshman will relate a few anecdotes during the party. Brother Jim Jackson
has been heard recently instructing these novices as to the type. All in all, everyone is looking forward to the
coming weekend with the greatest anticipation.

PI KAPPA PHI
Higgie seems to have a fondness for the Municipal Airport lately, not to mention the Bamboo Room. Sometimes ask Higgie
about his harem. Palles, the bald-headed Louie Maurice Rocco of the Davidson campus, seems to have run across an attractive
chorine at the Wayside. What will he do when the band moves on to the other speakeasies in the surrounding
territory? Ernest Hunter, our friend, says he had an exciting game of “sniff” with “Slicky” this weekend. At last “Killer”
Reid will be less confident of his conquests. It seems that Jane is trying to teach him how to be
a good correspondent. Live and learn. Bill Puett seems to have had some female visitors on campus lately. I didn't
know that you had it in you, Bill? Cline took to rather unusual presents over the Spring Holidays. Does she
look better with or without? Chili Bean did some long-distance dealing over the holidays. He made a rush trip to
New York. And speaking of New York, have you seen Sally? If not, drop by Walter Walker's room. Barksdale made
a fatal mistake the other night. It was a lonely, moonlit road and he stepped on the accelerator instead of
the brake, and was Martha surprised.

BETA THETA PI
The three stars of Beta Theta Pi reached a new zenith this weekend. (Continued on Page 3)

By FRANK BARR, JR.
Last weekend found beaucoup de femmes on the Davidson campus as well as lights ablaze in certain fraternity houses. Three
fraternities held their important functions of the semester. Probably the most elaborate of these was the one held by members
of Beta Theta Pi. They had a banquet and dance at Hotel Charlotte. Fleet Green (or at least 50 percent
thereof—so I’m told) was the speaker of the evening, and his orchestra furnished music for the gala affair. Lamar Williamson
acted as Toastmaster and Cunningham was the principal speaker. Another formal banquet and dance was held at the Charlotte Woman's
Club by the members of Phi Delta Theta. Gib Todd and his orchestra furnished music for the occasion. Each one
of these men claims to have had the most beautiful woman at the dance. Of course, J-J-Jeff says he preferred
going stag and criticising everyone else and their dates. The fellows who claim to have had the most fun are
the Sig Eps. After the Ship Ahoy, they journeyed out to an informal banquet at Barr's Lake near Concord to
a cabin where preparations had been made for a swell affair. I might add that everyone managed to get lost
at least once, including the chaperons. For directions, be sure to get in touch with Charles Thompson. He got lost
three times.

That last weekend explains the presence of femmes on campus this coming weekend. They will be here to attend the
K.A.-Kappa Sig banquet to be held at the Gastonia Country Club. This affair will be formal in the usual K.A.-Kappa
fashion. I am assured that there will be an orchestra—although it is still uncertain what orchestra it will be. Although
plans are incomplete at present, I am told that everyone can look for plenty of beautiful women to invade these
premises.

Cinema Comments
BY DOUG SWINK

MONDAY and TUESDAY April 15-16
“The Bandit of Sherwood Forest”
England once more is threatened by villains, this time the Regent Pembroke, so Robin Junior (smiling Cornel Wilde) and his
green-clad followers come to her aid. As if Robin Jr. didn’t have enough to do, he also has to carry
on an affair with Anita Louise. There are the usual number of narrow escapes and daring deeds and beaucoup arrows
flying about. (Beware of the front seat as it is rumored that a man sitting at the picture's premiere was
shot in the leg with an arrow.)

WEDNESDAY and THURSDAY April 17-18
“Meet Me On Broadway”
This reporter, with all due respect to reporters, has not been able to find any write-up on this picture so
it will be just as big a surprise to me as it will be to you.

FRIDAY and SATURDAY April 19-20
“Miss Susie Slagle’s”
For pre-med students. The life of a pre-med student with all of its cuts and scalpel throwings. It is rumored,
however, that Miss Lillian Gish, who portrays the name role, saves the picture from the knife. Don't worry fellows, if
the going gets too tough for you I'll be there ready to throw in the sponge and make a blood
test.

MONDAY and TUESDAY April 22-23
“Shady Lady”
Regardless of what I say, the name will attract a goodly number of the Davidson student body. A Chicago night
club is the setting for gambling, racketeering, love making, Ginny Simms’ singing, and the humor of Charles Coburn.

By Another fortnight has slipped away since your roving reporter last made his spill on the operations of the sons
of old Alenda Lux. Spring has sprung and in the Spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns to the things
he’s been thinking of all winter. Enough said, we're off again.

The Wildcat tennis team almost made it four straight victories Saturday night in Columbia. ARCHER and SCOTT took their engagements
in straight “Love Sets” but it seems that ROBINSON'S opponent had a forehand smash that the number two man couldn't
cope with. The SPORTIN’ CLUB, resplendent in dark glasses and other suitable attire, were off to the races in Camden.
In the feature race, ENNETT, THE MONTREAT MENACE, beat HERCULES HOUSTON in a photo finish. 'Tis said that they got
to Camden in time to see the crowd leaving the track, LUCKY TEETER TATE having blown a tire on the
home stretch.

Do you have trouble sleeping at night? If so, see MORPHEUS HERB DALTON. Catching the Davidson bus in Charlotte the
other night, he woke up just in time to get off in Winston-Salem. This columnist is happy to report that
the dead body has been located and removed from the gym. Patrons of the Student Store are no longer required
to carry gas masks.

Interesting Campus discussion: BOMBER BILL McLEAN on why the Phi Delts should plant moss instead of grass on their lawn.
THE HAT on the latest thing in summer straws. TOM YARBOROUGH on what a good fellow I am, BOB CECIL
on eating celery in bed.

Views on the weekend: the Beta Brawl this weekend; WILLIAMSON giving forth with varied quaint and picturesque stories. McCLOY (says
he) getting lost at intermission and making a late return to the dance. MAGNESS becoming a fashion expert on evening
gowns. Seen at the Phi Delt party was KING JEFF DAVIS and date who lived up to her motto of
“Get ’em young and train 'em wrong.” SENATOR LEE (LEE that is, son) was operator of the week with numerous
parties attended all over Charlotte. BOB MILLIAR was said to have been in good spirits with the aid of Mr.
and Mrs. GUY and ESKY. You should have seen George Ennet, as he wandered into the Bamboo Room after leaving
the races. He made quite a speech, especially to Senator Lee!
