member of the Grand Council.Robson, Editor of the Sig Ep Journal. Why did Charlie Owens start running at the Pan-Hell
dances every time he saw a certain Kappa Sig approaching with his date from Greensboro? Everyone seems to have gone
for Charlie for the dances. Two-thirds of his friends are planning trips to Queens in the very near future.

Thompson's date: It seems that one of Barr's professors admired his date and wondered how Barr had done so well.
The pledges seem to have taken to girls brought up for rush week. Four of the girls were escorted to
Mid-Winters by pledges. All the Sig Eps are looking forward to a big dance this spring. As planned, it is
to be a swell affair, but at present, all plans are pretty indefinite.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

After a weekend of confusion and all the fellows managed to acquire dates, they have been wandering into class this
week with that dazed and sleepy expression on their faces. Tommy Powell was really sweating out what he thought was
going to be a swell dance for the early part of the week. He had three dates: a redhead, a
brunette, and a blonde. He managed to frustrate two of them with several of those Texas tales and decided he
liked the blonde better. Bob Millar had a friend of his down from Duke and also managed to get cute
dates for Milton Bailey and Carl Pahl. Nearly all the fellows got “Spellbound” before the dance Saturday night and were
trying to figure it out at intermission. Jonny McAlister can be quoted as saying that “Converse is a wonderful place
to spend the weekend and he is getting along just fine at P.J.C. in Maxton. We also want to extend
a hand of welcome and friendship to a more recent addition to our chapter, Don Hatch of Charlotte, a new
pledge. All you tennis fans will be seeing a lot of Donnie in the Spring.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

Why is it that Bob Coble can’t date Prof. Fulcher’s daughter anymore? Did he hear, “Never enter these portals again”?
The new brothers Jackson, Hadley, and Hart are looking better now after a little recuperation. Mac is still sporting the
suitcases though. There was a bit of suspense around the PiKA house before the dance weekend. Everyone helped “Chick” Neill
“sweat out” the arrival of his date that he hadn't seen for 5 years. That dreamy look in Smoakie’s eyes
is not the result of overworking them on that “hot” letter he received the other day from his O.A.O. but
from those “sweet nothings” inside. What is so magnetic about Belmont for Rosser Clark? Or is that a thing of
the past? Joe and Carolyn Martin are really well informed on all the latest best sellers and the movies which
they attended pretty often. Oh well, nothing else to do... sounds like a tree fell on my head or something,
eh?

PHI DELTA THETA

The Phi Delts welcome back six old brothers. They are Ed Sutton, Buck Archer, Dave Maloney, Sam Tate, Henry Cutchins,
and Luke Powell. The fraternity extends a hearty handshake to these fine members of the brotherhood. The fraternity also welcomes
Mrs. Carolyn Powell, Luke's wife, who will add a sparkle around the Phi Delt house. The fraternity was glad to
see Herb Waldrop up for the dances. The “Star Gazer” seems to be starting a postcard collection. Ed Sutton is
still raving about the wonderful date he had for Mid-Winters. “Oh beautiful, Beautiful Texas.” Anyone wishing to learn the art
of playing golf without clubs please see Lee Willingham and Ed Montgomery. They seem to be experts in this line.
“Potts” Cameron had a time with Mary Jo. It seems she was always taking his car and driving around the
campus with other boys. That's OK “Potts”, she still “loves ya”. Ed Montgomery was seen cruising around the dance floor
with a cute date. Beware Ed, Homer Nichols has his eye on her. All the Phi Delts agree that the
Mid-Winters were a big success.

THE LAST WEEKEND
By Walter Boyd

It was three in the morning, yet our unsuspecting Cam was still tossing about his bed desperately trying to conceive
how his blind date, Miss Bobbie Socks, would appear on the morrow.

“What is this monstrosity falling off the bus? It would be the prime curse to be stuck with that gargoyle
all weekend. And that blond member of the genus canis, could that be real? Whew, that’s all; maybe she didn’t
come.” But, wait, Cam, you haven't seen the worst yet. There’s still one more. She may be just a shorty
but she has the explosive power of an atomic bomb, if not an atomic bomb at least some secret weapon
that an evil genius fostered. In height, she measures 1 foot 4 inches from the top of your head to
the top of hers. And corned beef, complete with a greenish tint. From the looks of her teeth, you'd better
buy a chapstick or else practice total abstinence.

“Hello, I’m Bobbie. Are you Sam?” And then our hero spots her as she steps from behind a suitcase—a girl
that any boy would be proud to get a “flush note” from. But what's done is done—

“I can’t understand it; everyone seems to be having a good time but me. Here it is intermission and I
haven't even had a chance to dance with Bobbie to relieve me of this gruesome task. You really do get
dates strictly from hunger when you get them from Queens. When you put that adjective blind on there you don’t
know how literal you sometimes are.”

After a few more slow, sweet pieces by Humber and one or two songs by “The Lash”—the blond bombshell who
purrs into the microphone and quivers visibly to the syncopation, intermission comes and Bobbie drags Cam into the darkest corner
and pours forth her charm.

Looking like club steaks—uncooked and well-chopped—Cam and Bobbie continue the role of dancing wallflowers and wait for the theme song
to end round one of a very trying and morale-breaking campaign.

The next morning, between the intermittent snores of his roommate, were heard strange bits of versatile phrases not common in
the dictionary. Cam was still dreaming about last night. Cam awakes with a start, looks at his watch and hastily
begins dressing—slipping quietly into his prize possessions—his grey flannel pants with the blue overall straps neatly sewed on with green
thread. An old straw hat, white T-shirt, and track shoes complete his paraphernalia. He lights a cigarette, pulls his hat
down low over his eyes, and trudges through the drizzling rain toward the battered walls of Rumple. He had scarcely
crawled through the hole which served as an entrance when he was accosted by a large bewhiskered beast. “My gosh,
what are you?” (Had not Cam failed his biology exam last semester, he would have known immediately that it was
a member of the rodent family—commonly called a rat.) Receiving no answer, he passed on into a small group of
waiting lovers who were huddled around a match, seeking its comforting heat.

Cam called forth her delicate appellation in his rasping voice, "Bobbieee.” In a few minutes, which seemed like hours, with
a flourish of her skirts she came grandly down the stairs, tripping on the missing third step and collapsing in
a gruesome heap at the bottom. Cam gently picked her up, saying that they would surely have to repair that
step if the college was going to use Rumple for ten more years. They went out hand-in-hand, toward the Sigma
Chi house, making a handsome couple.

Cam was struggling with his crimson bow tie and it was already 8:30. “Curses this Bugs-Bunny uniform,” he murmured as
he found the tie stood vertically. He finally got this straight and slipped into his pleated brown overcoat; sucking jovially
on his cigarette holder he started out again in the rain toward Rumple. To his surprise, she was already waiting,
looking as a vision of untouched beauty in her pink strapless evening gown, which so elegantly matched her orange carnations
and red hair—and her dress was so-o-o tight.

They exchanged compliments and left for the dance, leaping over the mud-puddles arm-in-arm. The music was soft and slow tonight—again
Cam danced with Bobbie the whole night. While dancing he suddenly got a sickening feeling in the pit of his
stomach as if something were pushing against it. “I must be in love,” thought Cam, as he looked into her
limpid brown pools. Then looking down he realized that it wasn't love, but a stay that had come loose in
her corset. Intermission was the same as before. She threw herself at him with such vivacity that he was forced
to rest between struggles. Back to the dance and then that tender goodnight scene. He was cautious this time and
eluded her grasp, shouting “Goodnight, Bobbie,” over his shoulder as he raced for the safety of the dorm.

Comes Sunday morning and Cam awakes with a song on his lips and joy in his heart. Bobbie will leave
and it all will be a bad dream. After a sprinkling of powder to cover the 5 o'clock shadow, he
hurries up to Rumple to wind up his affairs. Bobbie ambles down the stairs looking even more “Zombilical” in the
dawn than he had tried to forget. With her billfold in hand, she pays the exorbitant price of three dollars
for her “Weekend at Rumple.” After getting all of the luggage together, Cam performs the final duties of a Davidson
gentleman and tells her how much he hates to see her go. (Don’t be hasty in drawing your conclusion, it
isn’t always so easy to get rid of a girl from Queens.)

“Oh, I'm going to be here until 9:30 tonight. The Queens choir sings at vespers here.”

