Page Six 7

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Friday, October 11, 1946

CONCERT SERIES
(Continued from Page 1)

and South America. Mr. Primrose was one of the most popular artists performing on the Queens College Artist Series last year in Charlotte. The Busch Symphony Orchestra, consisting of 85 virtuoso players headed by Adolf Busch and featuring Mr. Busch as violin soloist, will be heard on Wednesday, January 27. The program of the Busch Symphony Orchestra covers beloved and beautiful music of the 18th and 19th centuries as well as occasional contemporary works. The highlight of the program is one of the great violin concerti, either the noble Beethoven Concerto or Mendelssohn’s melodious and familiar Concerto, played magnificently by Adolf Busch.

The fourth concert will be held on Tuesday, February 25, and will feature the talented organist E. Power Biggs. Mr. Biggs is one of the most popular artists and was voted the Number 1 organist in the radio listeners’ poll of favorite artists.

The last concert will be given by Frances Yeend, lyric soprano, who made a spectacular debut at the Berkshire Festival this summer. This gifted young artist was unanimously acclaimed by capacity audiences. Critics from all parts of the nation called her singing of the Jewel Song from Gounod’s “Faust” a little masterpiece of characterization as well as of pure singing.

AMBULANCE SERVICE
Telephone 284
Equipped For Service
Any Distance Any Time
Bunch Funeral Home
Mooresville, N. C.

Down Fraternity Court
(Continued from Page 2)

see the Wildcats’ third victory. Brother Cline still has high hopes of Davidson going to the Rose Bowl this season. It is rumored that he has already made reservations. Brothers Johnson, Hunter, C. Reid, Dobson, T. Barringer, J. Barringer, Hardin, Meade, Palles, and Pledges Houck and Boykin were in Charlotte Saturday night to see the smashing victory over Wofford. Dobson left early to meet that certain girl. Very few have met her but from reports she must be an Atlantic City queen. Brother Robertson journeyed to see the Vols crack the Blue Devils or was it to see Billie Rose? Anyway, he is all smiles over something, whether it was Billie Rose or Tennessee's victory. Gaither was also there and had a luxurious suite on the fourteenth floor at the Washington Duke hotel. Former Pledge Jim Edwards and his wife came down for the game Saturday night. Accompanying them were Misses Nancy Shuford and Greta Garths. There was a little mixup but Nancy had a swell time. Brother Moore saw to that. Brothers Lander and Delaney attended Sunday school at Queens. Lawrence has no more caps for that pistol so the shooting has stopped for the time being anyway. Huntley chaperoned Schenck at Queens Friday night. Bumbarger and his brother, Pledge Bumbarger, went to Hickory after the game. Sinclair had dinner with Ann Sunday night in Charlotte. There was a toss-up for Nancy between Brothers Barksdale, Lander, and Edwards. From the looks of things Bill has taken over, at least for the time being.

KAPPA ALPHA
The ranks of Sigma Chapter were boosted last week by the initiation of Brother Gene Gracey. Also slated to assume full status soon are Pledges John Adams, Henry King, and Flinn Long. Indoctrination of the new pledge class began Monday night with the men starting a thorough study of the Kappa Alpha Manual under the tutelage of Brother George Counsils. A test onThe contents of the Manual must be passed before admittance to full membership. On the lighter side, the Knights well represented Davidson throughout the two Carolinas last week. Remember this seal—it’s your assurance of the best.

Franklin Studios
N. ¢ Charlotte

SPECIAL OFFER
8x10 Portrait $1.00
Local and College Agent
VERNON McGEE
105 West

Say IT With Flowers — from —
SMITH FLORAL SHOPS
Cornelius
Jack Payne— Local and College Agent —Phone 3741

When In Charlotte—
Visit The LITTLE PEP DELMONICO RESTAURANT
301 W. TRADE ST. — OPPOSITE HOTEL CHARLOTTE

“Good Food Is Good Health”

RABY’S SHOE SHOP
We Specialize In Whole Soles

STEINWAY PIANOS
HAMMOND ORGANS
RECORDS
RECORD PLAYERS
SHEET MUSIC
ANDREWS MUSIC CO.
231 N. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE

Whatever Your Needs
SUITS
HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
TIES
SHOES
and the 101 other things
SHOP EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
“The Friendly Store in a Friendly City”
STREET FLOOR

President Jim Jackson was on hand for the South Carolina-Alabama clash in Columbia. While in the Piedmont section, Brothers Dick Baxter and Shep Dunn witnessed the killing of the Clemson Tiger by N.C. State, the Wildcats’ next opponent. Pledge President Bill Barron journeyed to Rock Hill, not because of Winthrop, but for the good reason that it is home. Of course, the majority of the KAs were to be found at the scene of the Red and Black’s second “track meet” in Charlotte, and some with very pretty females. Most tragic event of the evening was to see Brother Wilkes Macauly without a date, not even “Naomi.” Among the Queen City boys at home for the weekend were Pledges Dick Glasgow and “Dandy” Saxon. Guests were a welcome feature as Charlie Mitchell’s fair sister, Emma, dropped by the House en route to Charlotte from Salem. Bob Monroe, brother of the illustrious Hose-Nose, was over from Laurinburg. Harry Bachman and Bill (not Jack) Faucette took that sentimental journey into the hills of Tennessee as they returned for the weekend to Bristol, home of numerous Sigma men. Sports hopes were given a push forward with the 12-6 victory over the Phi Gams Monday afternoon. Star back Ed Manget was in action after a temporary mishap. Watch the Crimson and Gold on the gridiron.

BETA THETA PI
Last week the long-awaited advent of the initiation for the Beta pledges. Those initiated were: Tom West, Frank Anderson, Allan Owen, Bill Boyd, Tommy Yarbrough, and Dave Sheppardson. Sheppardson took honors in the class in winning the Ramsey Cup for this semester. The Ramsey award was originated by the parents of Frank Ramsey when he succumbed to infantile paralysis while in Union Seminary. Ramsay had been a leader in the fraternity and on the campus, was ODK and Phi Beta Kappa. Today the prize is given to the most worthy pledge of each class, who wears Ramsay’s own pin until he becomes an active member.

PHI DELTA THETA
The brothers of the sword and shield were operating in true style over the weekend with practically the whole chapter present at the Wofford tilt in the Queen City. Brother Tate was seen in Morganton with a whole bevy of beautiful females while Brother McLean was host to his good friend from south of the border, complete with new auto. Brother Sutton and Pledge Brother McGehee played escort to the game’s sponsors Miss Virginia and Miss South Carolina and seem to have enjoyed the experience. Brother Newell was operating with something new at the game and says that everything is blue skies with him.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
WE HAVE DR. KENNEDY’S ATHLETE FOOT RELIEF
C. S. Goodrum
TELEPHONE 2111
Davidson, N.C.

SMOKING PLEASURE
CHESTERFIELD
ALL OVER AMERICA—CHESTERFIELD IS TOPS!