Pursuant to the authority granted in the latest Davidsonian general order, Mel Winstead commanding, the above-named individual is assigned once
more to duty as Sports Editor, after an absence of three years. Commendation for skillful and meritorious service is duly
given to Sterling Edwards, who is being relieved temporarily. The job he has done has been an exemplary one, and
stands as a credit to the tabloid. The new author hopes that diligence and interest, rather than talent and intelligence,
will be rewarded by the interest of the reader.

By JIM JACKSON

Friendship And Sportsmanship

It has been said by a man of subtle wit that the difference between Harvard and Princeton is that at
Harvard the students have private bathrooms and don’t get to meet anybody. Perhaps Woodrow Wilson took with him from Davidson
a bit of the friendly spirit. Whether he did or not, Davidson remains a source of the cheerful and the
sportsmanlike. New and visiting students almost always comment on this atmosphere, and the returning veteran is glad to receive a
smile rather than a scowl. Nowhere is the attitude more evident than at basketball games in that ancient, tottering ruin
which serves as the gym. It makes a Davidsonian mighty proud to hear applause at the skill of a visiting
player, and silence prevailing when the opposition attempts a foul shot. Unlike the spectator in many larger schools, where the
student body is half feminine, most of them girls, and the officials as well as visiting players can expect little
mercy for endangering the home team’s chances, the Wildcat supporter usually views a game as a contest and not a
battle. Let's keep it that way. Sic transit gloria latrina.

Grid Recognition

It is quite probable that the Davidson man in service, like myself, ran into a number of embarrassing moments because
of our old school’s obscurity in regions without the border of the Mason-Dixon line. Among the educating and the educated,
the institution’s worth might be known but the average G.I. thinks of colleges in terms of football. So it was
with joy and thanksgiving that the news of athletic reactivation was received. May the future bring triumphant recognition to our
Alma Mater, and a pox on the unbeliever.

Scholarships Pay Off!

Don’t be surprised if the Wildcat footballers number among their members some of the more sought-after high school luminaries of
this part of the country. There's definitely an upward trend in local athletics, for Norfolk and Memphis provided a top-notch
source and the future elevens hold heralded promise of being well-groomed. The pressure for open alumni support of Davidson is
reaping benefits, and the return of prewar stars bodes evil for the Wildcat’s adversaries. Don’t overlook the fact that the
R.O.T.C. Rifle team garnered fourth place laurels at the recent Hearst Trophy meet, which isn’t bad at all, considering the
fact that sixteen teams competed. Praise to the sharp of eye and steady of finger. May Mr. Hearst provide another
trophy for the anteroom of Chambers. That last one is quite impressive. Must have cost the donor many a subscription
to the Comic Weekly.

New Glory

A brand new football dated 1946 and marked with a Davidson victory over North Carolina would surely look good in
that showcase. Those dust-covered replicas of the Cats' prowess at the turn of the century aren't too inspiring, nor impressive.
It’s been a long time since Davidson toppled one of the Big Five into the throes of defeat, although State
was tied in 1941. Perhaps revenge will have to wait, perhaps not. It may come in another field, and a
likely possibility lies in the tennis team. With one of the country’s foremost tutors in Bill Lufer and several vets
back, victory may be forthcoming. And as an added threat, George Ennett, the Montreat Menace, has acknowledged that he may
be available for service this year. With the publication of this startling news, the entire sports world will probably shake
in a storm of upheaval, and Adults Only signs may appear in local athletic circles. Touche!

Whittle Calls

Wednesday, March 6, 1946
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcat Sports

FOOTBALL OUTLOOK BRIGHT

Page Three

CATS GROOMED FOR CATAWBA COACHES GET ACQUAINTED

Wildcats Begin Spring Opening Drills

By James T. Riddervold

Thirty candidates reported to Richardson Field on February 6, as coach “Pete” Whittle called the first track work-out of the
‘46 season.

Peters Returns

The only former letterman to return this spring is George Peters, who left Davidson in 1943 to become a Lieutenant
in the army. Peters will be an important cog in the track machine and will handle the high jump, pole
vault, hurdles, and high jump events. It will be remembered by former Davidson students that Peters broke the school record
in the high jump as a Freshman, but the record remains unchanged because George was not participating in varsity competition
at the time. Buck Troutman will also be on hand to hit the hurdles and toss the javelin. On the
mile, there are two outstanding candidates thus far: J. D. Fesperman and “Gunder” Gray, who was a prep school star,
are the men who will take the long road while Lacy seems to be the top candidate for low hurdle
laurels.

Light Schedule

To date, the schedule is scant as many of the other schools in the conference have not been as fast
as Davidson in returning to some sports. There are no definite dates for meets as yet, but there will be
engagements with the University of South Carolina, North Carolina State, and Clemson. If V.P.I. comes through with a team this
year, there should be a two-game, home series with the Gobblers. All meets will take place during the month of
April.

Coach Whittle states that individual prospects are good, but as yet, no balanced team is in the picture. The return
of track shows that Davidson is rapidly returning to a full peacetime schedule in sports and the Wildcats look for
new glory in all fields.

Football Practice Here

By Dave Gambrell

Spring football practice for the 1946 Wildcats got off to a promising start with workouts on February 18. This week's
drills will close with a scrimmage against the Catawba Indians, behind closed gates. With such veteran stars as Earle and
Ace Maloney as well as several other high school luminaries donning the moleskins, the outlook is on the up and
up. Some of last fall's standouts are also out for practice and local fans can expect a spirited eleven next
autumn. In the initial drill, coach Storey opened up with scrimmage and running plays, pointing toward the number of practices
ahead.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Games scheduled. In the fall of '36, he became head coach. In the spring, only a few other chances of
participation remained. After remaining with the team, he continued to perform even for spring training. The 'Cats may not be
in the best of shape. In 1980, he was appointed head coach at Granby High School. During his six-year tenure,
the method he employed so successfully at Norfolk's Granby High School was outstanding. Jamerson, in line with collegiate (Carolina) and
professional experience, seemed mighty happy about something. As a football coach, he emphasized hard, clean, and speedy pull-outs. Both Virginia
state championships were assisted by Moneyhan, a student with collegiate (Carolina) and professional experience.

Football Roster:
Name | Pos | Wt.
--- | --- | ---
Archer | T | 160
Tye | T | 195
Eskey | E | 190
Gibson | G | 190
Gambler | B | 185
Hill | B | 175
Erb, Don | S | 150
Strickland, Robert | I | 185
Leonard | H | 170
Chandler | G | 202
Anderton | H | 170
Helin | 105
McAro | 180
Cooper | G | 185
Richert | 170
Thomas | 100
Bowman | H | 175
Williams | 170
Lasley | W | 180
Maloney | LB | 180
McLean | 150
White | 150
Peters | 175
Bailey | 150
Miller | 170
Adams | 185
Powell | 190
Jackson | 170
Johnson | 195
Honeyeutt | 185
Maloney | 180
Meze | 178
Hoey | 160

Led by Gene Linton and "Jeep" Whitley, the undefeated Independents last week ran their string of victories to seven as
they bowled over the Nappa Sigs, KAS, and Pi Kappa Phis to remain on top of the intramural basketball league.
The K-Sigs gave the leaders a real scare but were finally subdued 23-19. Victories over the Pi-Kas and SAE put
the SPEs in second place, while the KA's held their position with the Independents. Since 1943, Mr. Storey's teams have
been noted for their excellent execution of fundamentals and for smooth and precise team play. Several coaches in the South
have indicated to Davidson authorities their unusually high regard for Mr. Storey, placing him on par with the most successful
college coaches in the country.

BERRY SHOOTS:
Tall, dark-haired Bob Berry is the only boy in school who can stand on the front lawn of the Chambers
Building and look the Chamber-maid square in the eye. You would not say that he is particularly tall, but he
is the only one on our team who can throw a basketball down and make two points. A junior, Bob
entered Davidson as a sophomore in the fall of '44 from King's College in Bristol, Tennessee, where he played on
Davidson's basketball team and was one of three lettermen to return at the start of this season. Holding down the
center position the first part of the season, he later alternated with Mendler during the latter part. His total number
of points this year was 98. He is also a tennis player and plans to be a coach, probably going
to Duke or some other school for a post-graduate course in physical education.

Standings:
Team | W | L | Pct.
--- | --- | --- | ---
Independents | 7 | 0 | 1.000
SPE | 5 | 1 | .833
Betas | 3 | 2 | .600
KA | 4 | 4 | .500
Phi-Delts | 3 | 5 | .375
PiKAs | 2 | 4 | .333
Kappa Phi | 2 | 4 | .285
Kappa Sig | 0 | 6 | .000
