SODAS IN THE STUD ALENDA Lux UB) ‘ot The Pavidsonian ORTA LFBERTAS SALEM GIRLS STORM CAMPUS Volume XXXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE,
DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1946 No. 4 Byrne Cancels Homecoming Engagement PAN-HELL OBTAINS BILLY BUTTERFIELD FOR DANCES Doug
Swink Is Elected Editor As Scripts ’n Pranks Revived; Love To Be Business Manager Veterans Renew Publication of College Magazine
After three years of inactivity, the Scripts and Pranks will be revived this year with Doug Swink as Editor and
Jim Love as Business Manager. Swink was elected by the Student Body over John Fairly on Tuesday, October 15. On
Friday, October 19, the Publications Board announced Love’s appointment as Business Manager.

Swink Editor Swink, from Richmond, Va., entered Davidson in 1941. During his school career, he has served on the literary
staff of the Scripts and Pranks for two years and on the Davidsonian for three years, holding the post of
Managing Editor during his Junior year. He is also a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, Sigma Upsilon, Eumanean Literary
Society, International Relations Club, and the Red and Black Masquers. Doug served in the U. S. Army for three years,
being stationed in Africa, Italy, France, Germany, and Austria.

Love Jim Love, who hails from Greensboro, became a member of the Davidson student body in the summer of 1943.
Since that time, during which he spent a year and a half in the U. S. Navy, he has held
the posts of Editor of the Davidsonian, Business Manager of the Quips and Cranks, President of the Pan-Hellenic Council, President
of Kappa Sigma fraternity, and football manager. Jim is also a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, Eumanean Literary Society, Sigma
Delta Pi, and was in Who's Who Among Students in American Colleges and Universities in 1944.

Dr. Thompson To Make Talk Service To Be Held In Memory of War Dead Sunday night’s vesper service will be
a memorial for the 148 Davidson students and alumni who were killed in World War II, it was announced yesterday
by Dr. John Rood Cunningham, president of the college. Rev. W. Taliaferro Thompson, D. D., professor of applied psychology at
Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., will present the memorial address. Especially emphasized at the service will be the presentation
of a flag in honor of the war dead by brothers of twelve of those killed who are now students
at Davidson. These students, two of whom will furl the flag during the playing of “Taps” by the R. O.
T. C. bugler, include William B. Abbot, William B. Barron, Campbell G. Henderson, William T. Iverson, William S. Joyner, Frank
Matthews, William S. McLean, George B. Peters, W. Elkin Robertson, Stephen S. Royster, Harry F. Shaw, and Parks H. Wilson.
Invitations to attend the service and a buffet supper to be given at the Guest House Sunday evening at 6
o’clock, have been sent to families of those who died, and many of them are expected to be in attendance,
according to Mr. John F. Payne, Alumni Relations Secretary. Music will be presented by the Chapel Choir, under the direction
of Ferdinand Berg.

HEAD MAGAZINE. Doug Swink Jim Love Fraternities To Decorate Nine social fraternities on the Davidson campus will again compete this
year for prizes for the best-decorated house in Homecoming festivities on November 1 and 2, the Pan-Hellenic Council announced this
week. Mac Jeffries, president of the Council, announced that the Council, as has been the custom in the past at
Homecoming, before the war made it impossible, will once again award a silver engraved loving cup to the fraternity that,
in the opinion of the judges, has the best decorations. Judges will be chosen from the wives of alumni of
Davidson, and will judge the decorations from the standpoint of originality, appropriateness to the occasion, and beauty. Invitations have been
issued to the wives of three alumni, but have not yet been accepted by them. The contest in all probability
will be judged Saturday morning. Jeffries emphasized that only a (See DECORATE, Page 4)

Hungarian Is Speaker Here Dr. Bela Vasady, guest professor at Princeton Theological Seminary, occupied the pulpit of the Davidson Presbyterian
Church for the Sunday morning worship service on October 20, and spoke at the college vespers that evening at 7:30
in Chambers’ Auditorium. Dr. Vasady, president of the theological faculty of the University of Debrecen, Hungary, and chairman of the
Society of Reformed Theologians of Hungary, is on leave of absence from the University of Debrecen. A member of the
Provisional Committee of the World Council of Churches, he has addressed many conferences and congregations in America on Protestant church
life in the Ancient Reformed Churches of Hungary and Eastern Europe.

Dr. Redhead to Lead Annual Fall Service Services To Run Twice Daily For Three Days Rev. John A. Redhead, pastor
of the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro, will be the speaker at the annual series of Fall Services sponsored by
the Y. M. C. A., it was announced last week by Rev. R. Murphy Williams, General Secretary of the Y.
Dr. Redhead will speak at the regular student chapel period at 10:20 a.m. and at 7:15 each evening Tuesday, Wednesday,
and Thursday of next week. A native of Meridian, Miss., Dr. Redhead received his A. B. from Southwestern University in
Memphis, Tenn., and his B. D. from Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va. He was awarded the Fellowship for study
abroad from Union Seminary, and took his postgraduate work in Edinburgh, Scotland, later receiving the degree of Master of Theology
from Union Seminary. Davidson College awarded him the degree of Doctor of Divinity. After serving pastorates in Farmville, Va., and
at the First Church of Tampa, Fla., he was for a number of years pastor of the (See SERVICE, Page
4)

Hoge Page Military Frat To Tap Officers Scabbard and Blade, the national honorary Military Fraternity, was inactive during the years
of the war but was reorganized in May of 1946. At the present time, there are only five members in
the organization. They are as follows: R. L. Smith, Quentin Cooper, C. A. Pahl, Bob Freeman, and H. B. Anderton.
The president, R. L. Smith, called the first meeting of the small group this year on Monday night, October 21.
The meeting was for the purpose of planning a Tap Day for new members. The date is still uncertain but
it is thought that October 29th will be the day. The old members are planning to tap about fifteen to
twenty new men. A special ceremony will be held during R. O. T. C. drill period of

Elections Held For ‘Y’ Board Taylor, Williamson, Tate, and Hills Chosen On Tuesday, October 15, 1946, two members of the
Senior class, Alf Taylor and Lamar Williamson, and two members of the Junior class, John Hills and Sam Tate, were
elected by the student body to the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control for the school year 1946-47.

Taylor Alf Taylor, son of Doctor and Mrs. H. Kerr Taylor of Nashville, Tenn., has recently returned to Davidson after
an absence of three years spent in the United States Army. Graduating from Darlington in the spring of 1940, Alf
entered Davidson in September of that year and immediately became active in Y. M. C. A. work. Completing his Sophomore
and Junior years at Davidson, Alf was called into the Army in 1943. During his Junior year, he was a
member of the “Y” Cabinet, served as vice-president of the “Y” and was elected Freshman Advisor in the spring of
that year. Taylor is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, the D Club and the Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

Williamson Lamar Williamson of Monticello, Ark., graduated from Monticello High School in 1942 and entered Davidson in the fall of
that year. During his Frosh term, Lamar served on the staff of the Davidsonian, and was chosen as a Managing
Editor during his Junior year. At present, Williamson is a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society, Phi Mu Alpha, the
Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, and is president of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.

Tate Sam Tate hails from Morganton, N. C., graduating from Asheville School in 1941. As a Freshman, Sam was on
the Davidsonian staff and was also actively engaged in Y. M. C. A. work. Leaving Davidson in 1943, he reported
to Camp Wolters, England, for basic training. Tate was twice wounded in battle in the European theater and was a
prisoner of war in a German hospital at Rennes, France, and Lux- (See BOARD, Page 4)

Students Enjoy Hay Ride At a gathering sponsored by the Myers Park Presbyterian Church and under the management of Miss
Eleanor Belk, D. R. E., fifty-five Davidson students spent an enjoyable Saturday evening on an old-fashioned hay ride. The group
met at Queens College and the fun began when eight wagons pulled by couples moved out from the church. Their
destination was a spot in the country where, upon arrival, ampleSoft drinks and sandwiches were provided for all. This, in
addition to group singing and incidental entertainment, gave impetus to an ever-growing spirit of fun and frolic. The return trip
was made with no drop or change in the merrymaking, and fond farewells were bid to the girls after they
reached the set date. Queens theater, spending two months as Davidson Salem Day Renewed Tomorrow Beauties To Arrive Hampden-Sydney Game
By Bill DuBose

Heads up, boys! Tomorrow is Salem Day. We are expecting two hundred beauties from Winston. The place to meet them
is in front of the Y, where they will get off their special chartered bus. After you join your date,
you will have about thirty minutes before the kick-off of the Hampden-Sydney game, which will be played on Richardson Field.
Your student activity book will cover your admission to the game, and those who have dates will be given complimentary
tickets for the girls. The femmes will be here for one meal, which is supper. Fellers who eat in the
college dining hall will have to buy meal tickets in advance. Those that take their meals at a boarding house
should make arrangements with the person in charge of their respective mess. After supper, there will be a dance in
the gym, sponsored by the Beaver Club—Davidson’s organization for young socialites. The dance will last as late as the gals
can stay. They will probably have to leave about ten—later, we hope.

Long Stresses Honor System For Stud Store Innovations Planned Include Soda Fountain

"We want to further enlarge and make the ‘Stud’ even better,” says Rufus Long, student manager of the new improved
Student Store, “but we earnestly want the honor system to work down there. I don’t believe there is a single
Davidson man who would deliberately walk out of the ‘Stud’ without paying, but every day there are many who simply
forget to stop by the cash register on their way out. Sometimes they later remember and come back, sometimes they
don’t. I want to urge every student to be more careful in this matter."

Open Counter Renewed

Returning Davidsonians received the new store back in its old location but greatly enlarged and offering a bigger and better
line of merchandise. During the war years, the “Stud” moved first to the old Morrison Hall and later to the
Gymnasium.

Sigma Upsilon Gets New Men

Sigma Upsilon, the honorary fraternity on the campus for recognizing student literary talent, held its second meeting of the year
last Thursday. Three new members were voted into the organization: Ed Sutton, Dave Richardson, and Hugh Hill. Others are expected
to be elected during the coming year. The program consisted of the reading of passages from a diary kept by
Professor Woods while he served as a censor officer in Germany during the war and of a short story read
by Professor Winstead. After the meeting, the group enjoyed a “feed” prepared by Jim Jackson, steward. The next meeting is
to be held on November 7th.

Court Judges Frosh Guilty McAlister Sentences 17

By Bob Rierson

Tennyson will please pardon the very obvious mangling of his beautiful flow of words as it is stated that “frosh
may come and frosh may go, but the Court of Control goes on forever,” a fact well known by generations
of Davidson students gone before, not to mention the present intellectuals of '50. For the Court of Control is going
on its merry way, headed by genial John McAlister, making life, if not miserable, at least intolerable, for the frenzied
frosh. Thursday nights are taking on a significance never before dreamed of by red-tops, preceded, of course, by the Tuesday
morning demands of “Sudge! Judge!” and the weekly tolling of the high misdemeanors list. Only last Monday, a week’s campusing
ended with promises of “more to come unless the yearlings straighten up and fly right,” to be absolutely original. Still
later, Thursday, another wayward group finished a week’s time for total ignorance of the freshman Koran, otherwise known as regulations.
This roll is herewith set down as follows: W. D. Wilson, W. S. Houck, R. W. Turnage, Edward Parker, Bob
Glenn, Amos Hardy, William Austin, J. M. Davis, W. S. Farrior, Marvin Kelley, Edgar Dunlop, Gill Smith, Bill Bird, Jimmie
Vann, John Rittenburg, and Glenn Turpin.

New Meeting

On the same night, a new meeting of the Court was held to deal with another obnoxious group of hardened
criminals, accused of breaking the general campus regulations so wisely imposed by the austere members of the high tribunal. Unfortunately,
a list of sentences cannot be published in this issue because of the early press time, but all upperclassmen may
rest assured that these gangsters received their just dues within reason, since a faculty rule prevents the use of firing
squads in campus life. The Court is keeping a firm hand on the young shoulders of the foolish ’fifties.

Rice Chosen Sec’t Treas. Sophomore Class Elects New Officer

Winning on the third ballot on October 15, Doug Rice was elected secretary-treasurer of the sophomore class. The late election
was necessary because Ted Brothers, who was elected to that office last spring, failed to return to school. Doug, who
is from Bennettsville, S. C., graduated from high school in 1940. He served thirty-four months in the Army Air Corps
and after his discharge, he entered Davidson in the Spring semester of 1946. Doug plays varsity football, is a member
of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity, and is taking a B. S. course planning to go into business after graduating.

Council For Set Popular New York Trumpeter To Play Week End of Washington and Lee Game

Changing plans suddenly, the Pan-Hellenic Council announced this week that Billy Butterfield has been signed to play for the Homecoming
set in the Charlotte Armory on November 1 and 2. As was announced in the Davidsonian last week, Bobby Byrne
and his Orchestra had been engaged to play for the set, although a contract had not then been signed, but
it was discovered after the paper went to press that due to conditions beyond the control of both Byrne and
the Council, he would not be able to play. There have been no other changes in plans for the occasion,
however. There will be two dances, the first one held in the Armory Friday night. This dance will be formal
for both boys and their dates. The Saturday night affair will be held in the Youth Center underneath the Armory,
and will be informal for both boys and their dates. Tickets will go on sale this week at $6.00 for
a set ticket, $4.00 for a Friday night ticket, and $3.00 admission for Saturday night. A ticket will include dates.

Outstanding Record

Butterfield and his band are nationally known, having played numerous engagements in all parts of the country. He is perhaps
better known to music lovers as an individual artist, having been solo trumpeter with Artie Shaw for many years. His
trumpet solo in Shaw’s famous rendition of “Star Dust” is a classic of modern music. Later he left this orchestra
to organize one of his own, and had become well known when he left it to go into the Army.
On receiving his discharge, Butterfield was immediately backed financially by Woody Herman, and his band is once again breaking records
in entertainment all over America.

Records For Capitol

Butterfield and his band have made numerous recordings for Capitol records. Among his most famous are his recordings of “Star
Dust” and his exclusive arrangement of “Moonlight in Vermont.” He has just finished playing an engagement at Ohio State University.
In this part of the country, he recently played a set of dances at Washington and Lee University, where he
was acclaimed by all who heard his music. Proof of his popularity among music lovers on the Davidson campus came
this week, for after hearing that the Pan-Hellenic Council was considering him for the dances, a large number of students
approached members of the Council and urged that he be signed.

SOPH OFFICER Doug Rice
