If you glance to your left about two inches, you will see what appears to be a cat. Ed Sutton
says it’s the saddest looking cat he’s ever seen. Id has seen a lot of cats. Many an alley has
provided Id with cats to gaze upon and compare with the DAVIDSONIAN cat. Id will probably see many more cats,
but I don't think he'll see another one as pessimistic and unhappy as the feline above (He's up there now).
You know why? That cat has been around Davidson too long. He was sitting in the upper left-hand corner of
page three when it was page five in a six-page paper and Jimmy Houston was a freshman. That's been a
long time. Ask Hercules (Houston). But the kitty won’t be in such sad shape very long. Now he wrinkles the
posterior level of his flanking whiskers when the latest tennis news comes in (it usually finds its way into a
small paragraph on the third sports page of a certain nearby publication). And when some All-Southern football stars give Mr.
Hengeveld their registration, he (or she) actually smiles a bit. It won't be long now: The Cats are beginning to
click, despite some old-time pessimism which has seeped into the minds of many an old student and alumnus. Those fellows
are like that old cat way up there. That stuff must cease. Unless that Cheshire half-breed is literally chortling in
his joy (whatever that is) by September, there'll be some changes made in the Sports page makeup. You're right, Mac.
It could stand a few now. After Hugo Sapp, our provincial Walter Winchell, finished his crude columning last time, the
doom of the Cat Tales was sealed.

If any one athletic group deserves the maximum in attention and praise, it’s the golf team. With limited financial help,
no coaching, and constant handicaps, the boys have done very well for themselves. Although they dropped a match to a
slow-scoring Clemson team, the Wildcat golfers have trimmed South Carolina twice. Don Bryant, who organized the current squad and is
a veteran of the 1943 aggregation, won the first flight title at the recent Southern Intercollegiate tournament, while Allen Meade
took second flight honors. Esquire Hodgin and Ford Little round out the first foursome. This is one Davidson team that
makes its own breaks and is certainly worthy of more publicity and care than it’s gotten in the past.

UNIONS AND HEARTS
Kiddie Finlay of the Columbia RECORD muses in his column over the possible outcome of unionized professional baseball. Batters might
protest against the pitchers’ throwing a sinker when he was expecting a slow ball, or first baseman, because of union
rules, might be prevented from playing third. May the Lewises and Petrillos stick to their mines and music and let
the sports world alone.

A drive sponsored by the University of Georgia athletic association has yielded upwards of $20,000 for one of the Bulldogs’
former All-Americans. Capt. George Poschner, end on the great team of 1942, lost both feet in France and gained the
hearts of thousands of grateful Georgians.

It was evident to those who saw the Clemson track meet that Frank Matthews was running on little save his
will to win in the last hundred yards of the 440. He’s lowering his time in every meet and will
be pushing the conference leaders before long. Incidentally, the three South Carolina men who took that race in Columbia repeated
against N.C. State, and in slower time than Matthews’ 53.2 seconds. They are a cleverly coached group, all three breaking
for the pole at the start and making passing a rough deal.

TENNIS TEAM TAKES FIVE STRAIGHT
Hats off to the Tennis Bill” Lufler, who have chalked up five straight victories and intend to make a clean
sweep for the year. Coach Lufler is making Davidson tennis not only a major sport but a winning sport as
well. The courts have been whipped into pretty fair shape (by the tennis team) and the intramural tourney is in
full swing now. Not only that, if you need any racket work done, Coach Lufler and his protege, Bitsy Archer,
offer the best of service. Check the ad to your right.

NETTERS COP FIVE STRAIGHT
Wildcat Sports

Come and see how it looks in the Conference column and gain a bit of revenge for an early season
loss to Furman. Charley Jamerson’s Wildcat diamond crew faces that same Purple Hurricane this afternoon on Richardson Field. Hal Mapes
and Buddy Chandler are the likely battery selection for the locals, while the visitors have yet to indicate who will
compose their hurling staff. In the first meeting, taken by the Purples 9-7, the Cats found enemy offerings to their
liking but still could not keep pace with the Furman sluggers. Since his wild start against Rex-Hanover Mills settled in
Gastonia, Mapes has demonstrated sure control and burning speed, and the whole nine is shaping into a smooth aggregation. French
and Bowman are setting the Wildcat hitting pace with marks well over the 400 point. Chandler and Anderton, hot on
their heels, top the rest of the pack, and Big Buddy has poled some long drives in recent skirmishes. While
the Jamerson-coached men have notched but one victory since the season's start, only the 21-13 Catawba clash could be termed
a runaway. Clemson dropped them 5-4, although Bill Brownson gave up but 5 singles. Washington and Lee scored another 5-4
win, despite J.O.C. Herion’s one-hit job and Buddy Chandler's homer. Only little Roanoke College has bowed, 20-15.Before Davidson power. A
forty-five game intramural softball tournament was scheduled to begin Wednesday afternoon, April 24, Intramurals Director Heath Whittle announced last week.
Four diamonds have been laid out on Freshman and Sprunt fields. Students are advised to note that those on Freshman
Field are numbered (1) and (2) and those on Sprunt Field (3) and (4). Coach Whittle emphasized the ruling that,
because of the large number of games to be played in a short length of time, no games may be
postponed except when postponement is necessitated by inclement weather.

You probably don’t recognize him through that ‘victory smile’, but the young man with the flying feet at the top
left is Ward Lasley, ace Davidson dash man. At the top right is Jack “Gundar” Gray, the Wildcat distance runner
who may break a record or two in the mile this year. Bottom left shows Bob Lacy edging out Ed
Hopper for top honors in the low hurdles. That's a Clemson man coming over the horizon. The fellows at the
bottom right need no introduction to a lot of students. Jim Whitehurst (top) and Bob Durant (lower) were pre-war Davidson
students, but will be helping Mike Andrews gather a few markers in the field events tomorrow. Bob was the number
one blocking back in 1942. Surely would like to see you around, Bob.

Introducing By Mac Hart

Who would think of calling the captain of the baseball team “Poppa”? However, that is what Tommy Yarborough, Jr. calls
him. Tommy Yarborough, a small, friendly Georgia cracker who always has a smile and a cheery hello for everybody, hails
from Albany, Georgia. There he played football, baseball, and basketball in high school, all three years before he went into
the Navy in January of ‘42. This year he is playing left field for the Wildcats. Tommy entered Davidson in
the fall of ‘38 and played baseball until he went into the Navy. He played three and a half seasons
before he went into the Navy, one year on the freshman team and three and a half on the varsity,
being varsity captain in ‘42. Then when he came back to Davidson after being in the Navy forty-six months and
becoming a 1st Class Petty Officer, he played another half season this semester. Tommy's wife, the former Miss Mary Louise
Young, and their son, Tommy, Jr., are living in Atlanta, Ga. until Tommy graduates in May. Tommy is a member
of the Student Council, and vice president of the senior class. He is president of Kappa Sigma fraternity, and a
former member of the Beaver Club.

THE TENNIS SEASON IS HERE!

Get that racket restrung with a Fresh Set of High Grade Gut or Extra Fine Nylon and Watch Your Game
Improve.

THACKER’S INC.

A FRESH AND COMPLETE STOCK OF STRINGS — Now On Hand —

Nylon $4.00; Gut $5.50; $7.00; $8.50; $9.50

24 Hour Service — Professional Stringing

NEW RACKETS

Dunlop, Bancroft, Wilson and Cortland Models

Wide Choice of Weights and Grip Sizes — Reasonable Prices —

SEE BUCK ARCHER — STUDENT REPRESENTATIVE

For Bill Lufler’s Tennis Shop

Address: Georgia 30

“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”

221 South Tryon Street

Private Dining Rooms — For Parties and Banquets

WOLFPACK FACE CATS

N. C. State To Run Saturday

Saturday afternoon Davidson plays host to a potentially powerful N. C. State track team in the fourth meet of the
season and sports feature of the Spring Frolics. Pointing toward another victory in an effort to make it three in
a row, the Wildcats meet their first North State competition in the Red Terrors. After bowing before South Carolina, 92-39,
Coach Pete Whittle’s charges have developed rapidly, walloping Clemson last Saturday and Furman on Tuesday. While not overly optimistic, Pete
rates the Wildcats on par with the visiting Wolfpack, as they also fell before the Gamecocks by an 85-45 score.
To overcome the Wolves, Davidson must dominate the point-earning marks of Andrews, a virtual one-man track team. Mike, a fast,
powerful 200-400 runner specializes in the sprints. However, Ward Lasley rules favorite in the sprints, being undefeated in the century
dash. Jim Whitehurst and Bob Durant, pre-war Davidson athletes, back Mike in the weights and broad jump. The visitors promise
stern opposition in the field. On the other side of the picture, note a State comparable to Gunder Gray in
the mile and two-mile, and Ball Iverson is usually right on the Wonder.

Netmen Play Win and Citadel

Coach Bill Lufler’s netmen take on the Furman courtmen today and square off with the Citadel's team tomorrow afternoon, offering
triple entertainment for sports-minded Frolickers. A pair of wins would raise the Davidson victory streak to seven, the longest Wildcat
record of no defeats in some time. Buck Archer will again play in the number one slot, followed in turn
by Gerry Robinson, Don Hatch and Littleton Scott. Ralph Alexander has been holding down the fifth position, though unable to
make the road games. In the doubles department, Lufler’s grooming has really paid off, for the Archer-Scott and Robinson-Hatch combinations
have been unbeatable. South Carolina, Clemson, Erskine, Wake Forest and State have fallen to the superior Wildcat racquet-wielding, with only
the State netters managing to throw a scare into the Cats. After forfeiting the third singles match against the Wolves,
the Cats were trailing by a game, and took a 4-3 win only by sweeping the doubles in convincing fashion.
