Our Wildcat harriers did not stack up as well as we expected them to in the conference meet. Our own Gundar Gray, who has not been beaten before in intercollegiate competition, came in fifth, and Grube, Bradley, and McKeithen were close behind him. Davidson placed sixth, bowing to Maryland State, VPI, and Carolina. Perhaps if our boys played such teams more often, they would perform better. Gundar has never been pushed in cross country and seldom in a track meet. With some repetition of his own mettle, he could cut a lot of time off his usual speed. The first three places, and the others, that Maryland walked off easily—the first place man came in so far ahead of the others that suspicions were aroused that he hitch-hiked part of the way. He finished before anybody else was in sight. Our schedule does not include any of these teams that placed above us, so there is every chance that we may finish unbeaten in spite of the poor conference showing.

Two Charlotte Clipper personalities clashed on Richardson Field Friday when Moneyhan’s dawgs met a Rock Brinkley-coached Belmont Abbey club. The Wildcat fourth-string varsity picked up a lot of valuable experience and showed lots of the ability that has been promised for them, at the expense of the Jayvees and the Abbey aggregation. Dave Erwin shook away from numerous tacklers for 44 yards and a touchdown. He had a little monopoly in the Auburn and thrilled the first time they handed him the ball and racked up a rough 185-pounder. Dave had an average of 15 yards per try. If there were more size, the Erwin family might have a Cat backfield this year. Lambeth showed real ability at the three stands by returning an Abbey punt amidst the Crusaders for a touchdown. Running from the fullback slot for the next two, also at the tailback post, he gained yards through Dick Blanks, running in the finesse that comes with pivot experience, showed a lot of drive through the Crusader line. The Jayvees were doing fine the first quarter against the Abbeyites, but after getting chilled while the varsity romped, they might be expected to slacken up some. The long, high Abbey passes proved to be the Witten nemesis. Two backfielders made passes at the first one that put them in scoring position but failed to deflect it from the waiting Crusader’s arms. The other one was far from complete, but the varsity backfield covering the receiver was accused of interference. Funniest sight of the game was to see long, lean, and lanky Bill Van Story leading interference for the diminutive Dave Erwin. On one play, Bill got tired of seeing the Abbeyites making futile passes at the shifty wingback and threw a body block on the little back, bringing him down with only a twelve-yard gain. Fine example of Davidson sportsmanship.

Our glance at conference standings last week proved quite fatal as far as the percentage of correct predictions goes. Perhaps we should take the weekend of widespread upsets in the conference as a warning against future dealings into the gridiron fates. A widespread rain Saturday accounts for some discrepancies, but the upsets were not all due to atmospheric causes. Out of the overcast came the Duke-South Carolina scoreless tie, State’s 20-0 victory over Wake Forest, and most surprising of all, Citadel's 7-6 downing of V.M.I. Ranking with the upsets was the UNC fray with Maryland which went for a scoreless tie until the Tar Heels showed the old spark in the final quarter. State used the same driving ground attack that she showed the Wildcats at Memorial Stadium and bogged down the Wake running while the weather did the same for their passing. Citadel pulled herself from the Conference cellar by whipping the Kaydets by an extra point. Observers say that it wasn’t the rain, that V.M.I. played better ball against Citadel than against the Red and Black, and that Citadel outplayed them. All of which makes it look rough for the ’Cats tomorrow. Both teams’ scores were set up on breaks. V.M.I. intercepted a pass and ran it back deep into Citadel territory. Citadel blocked a kick and recovered it on their own eleven. After Wildcat scout reports of the V.M.I.-Citadel game, the ’Cats have been working overtime this week getting ready for the Bulldogs. They will be mindful of last year’s 21-13 upset score Saturday and seeking to teach the impudent tin soldiers a lesson.

THE FINEST IN MEN’S CLOTHING
JACK WOOD, Ltd.
102 East Fourth Street
Charlotte

UNIVERSITY STYLE
SINGLE-BREASTED SUITS
DOUBLE-BREASTED LONG ROLL
WORSTED AND FLANNELS
HAND-LOOMED SPORT COATS
BUTTON DOWN SHIRTS
SPREAD COLLAR AND TAB SHIRTS WITH FRENCH CUFFS
WOOL AND LISLE HOSE
FORMAL WEAR

Wildcat Sports
REVENGE!

Page Four
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Friday, November 21, 1947

FOUR CROSS COUNTRY MEN CATS MARCH
Bob Grube, Gundar Gray, Blake Bradley, and Murdock McKeithen take a snappy first place in the cross country meet in Macon last Friday.

WILD KITTENS CLOSE SEASON WITH BELMONT ABBEY TRIUMPH
Last Friday, Davidson's Bees, with the help of the varsity’s fourth string, defeated Belmont Abbey's Crusaders eleven by a score of 25-12. Sparked by scintillating runs by pint-sized wingback Dave Erwin and Auburn Lambeth, the game was filled with thrills for the 500 fans that looked on at Richardson Field. Coach Moneyhan's charges held the Crusaders to a scoreless tie in an evenly matched first quarter contest. The Crusaders showed flashes of passing ability but were not able to make a real threat. As the whistle sounded for the second quarter to begin, the fourth-string Cats pounced upon the unwary Crusaders and racked up two touchdowns in rapid-fire order in two of the most brilliant runs seen on Richardson Field this year. Taking the ball on their own twenty, the Cats advanced several quick first downs to their own 44, where Dave Erwin took off on an off-tackle reverse and threaded his way 44 yards to pay dirt. Blanks' attempted conversion was no good. After the kickoff and an exchange of punts, the Crusaders were forced to kick and Lambeth returned the punt up the middle from their end zone, through the middle of the Crusaders for 35 yards and a touchdown. The kick was good and the Varsities retired leaving the Jayvees to finish the first half with a 13-0 lead. An Abbey pass from Braun to Browne connected to the Kitten two, which Mulherin bucked the ball over for the only Abbey first-half score.

Late in the third quarter, the Jayvees began a drive from their own thirty featuring mostly off-tackle smashes by Leach, with a pass to Baldwin sandwiched in. The drive climaxed in Wood Leach’s 38-yard off-tackle slash into pay dirt. The Crusaders came right back by taking advantage of a costly pass interference penalty against the varsity. Taking the ball on the Davidson four, Mulherin rammed it across for his and the Crusaders’ second touchdown. The final score of the fourth quarter came at the end of a varsity drive with Dave Erwin reeling off eight yards on a reverse, making the final score 25-12. Erwin was the hero of the fray, ripping off big gains every time he handled the ball. Auburn Lambeth and Dick Blanks both looked good in the varsity backfield. In the line, Van Story and Alexander stood out. For the Jayvees, Ashman and Leach were the workhorses, gaining most of the ground. Horne and Kester played their usual brand of good ball in the line, and Brown and Palle. The game was the final one in the Jayvee season which included wins over Lees-McRae, Barium Springs, CCUNC, Blue Ridge, Belmont Abbey, and a loss.Losing only one game, the Kittens were a scrapping outfit on the playing field. Moneyhan took over this year's edition of the JV's and molded them into a well-knit and highly offensive team. The fiery Moneyhan puts great stress on conditioning and his boys worked long and hard to achieve perfection. Al has been on the Davidson athletic staff for three years and besides coaching the varsity and junior varsity teams, doubles in both boxing and long-distance track. This alone should keep him fairly busy, but he also is taking a course in history and gains fame with the Charlotte Clipper professional team every Sunday.

After graduating from Durham High, Coach Moneyhan played a year of freshman football at the University of North Carolina. Then he entered the service and played football on service teams. After leaving the service he signed a contract to play professional football and came to Davidson to coach. He has proved himself to be the best defensive man in the Clipper team.

The Davidson harriers kept their record clean by posting their fourth victory of the current campaign without a defeat. This time their victim was the cross-country team of Randolph Macon College. Davidson's big four, Gray, Bradley, Grube, and McKeithen led in the 17-43 defeat of the opponents’ team. Following are the placings and times: 1) McGray (D) 17:11, 2) Bradley (D) 17:11, 3) Grube (D) 17:11, 4) McKeithen (D) 17:11, 5) Evans (RM) 17:24, 6) Garcia (RM) 17:30, 7) Long (D) 17:30, 9) Woods (RM) 17:47, 10) Jones (RM) 17:47, 11) Foltz (RM) 18:48. Davidson 17, Randolph Macon 43.

Most of the Kittens will spend the rest of the season practicing with the varsity.

RAINS POSTPONE FRAT FOOTBALL

After a week's respite, the Cats were sharpening their claws this week for The Citadel's surprising Bulldogs in Charleston Saturday. The soldiers upset the applecart last Saturday when they rose up in the final minute to hand V.M.I a 7 to 6 loss. Guard Bill Henderson broke through to block a Keydet punt and battle it back fifty yards before it was recovered on the VMI 11-yard stripe. From there it was only a matter of three plays and a perfect placement before the Palmetto lads won victory over a team which held the Wildcats to a 14-14 tie several weeks ago.

With the results of this game in mind and the words of Coach Bill Story, who saw the game, the Red and Black machine cannot take the field in the ancient city with too confident an air. Story reported that the soldiers from South Carolina showed a team with the same fight that dumped the Cats in Charlotte last year. It is a rejuvenated Bulldog eleven, far from the one which was whitewashed by W. & M. 34-0 earlier in the season. After this encounter, the Cats were installed as overwhelming favorites by virtue of their rugged stand against the Indians. The V.M.I. tilt, however, throws the game into a toss-up, though the reporter likes the Cats.

With the rest after the Richmond game, the locals have pretty well patched up all injuries and are in about the best physical shape of the year. Reserve Wingback Rhea Adams has just about recovered from a sprained ankle sustained before the Richmond game. Bill Iverson is definitely out of the fullback picture with a bad knee and ankle both. Aside from these two, Coach Bill Story has his squad in top shape.

The Cats will be out to fatten their family average which now stands at one win, three losses, and one tie. With a win Saturday they could gain the .500 mark in conference play and finish with their best season since 1934.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
MAKERS OF
Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.

At Davidson Doug Swink smokes CHESTERFIELDS
Doug says: “Of the different brands of cigarettes which I have tried, I find that the only cigarettes which give the most enjoyment are Chesterfields.”

A nation-wide survey shows that Chesterfields are TOPS with College Students from coast-to-coast.

Inquire of your local Trailways Agent about our attractive service.
Queen City Trailways
417 W. 5th St.
Charlotte, N. C.

INTRODUCIN’ CARL EBORN
By DOUG HIX

May we present on the eve of the closing week of Davidson's football season another tackle of our stalwart forward wall, and possibly the No. 1 lineman of the year, Carl Eborn. Many have heard of, but few have ever seen the so-called "strong silent type"; but this trait was plainly displayed when your reporter approached Carl for an interview. We were greeted with a grin, "You want to write a feature on me. I ain't never done nothin' but play football."

We beg to differ. Eborn’s gridiron career began at Granby High in Norfolk where he played on the scrubs his freshman year, second string varsity his sophomore year, first string varsity his last two years. He was voted All-Foreman Field, Norfolk, All-Tidewater, All-State, All-Southern, and All-Granby. His senior year he received offers of scholarships to thirteen different colleges, including Army, Carolina, State, W. and M., Alabama, and Georgia.

When the coaches were asked for a comment, statements came in like this: “Possibility of All-American in the future, Smart ball player,” “Best down-field blocker on the team,” “A man who's not interested in blocking one, but two or three.” He is being pushed by Neathers of N. C. State for All-Southern. Carl, besides playing football, was a shot-put man on the track team in high school. He was on the debating team, literary society, and the school paper. He is a letterman on the Davidson track team, plays inter-frat basketball, is in the D Club, and is vice-president of the Independent Society. He likes tennis, “ain't no wheel,” and detests high-class society.

His future plans are to marry a gal by the name of Rutha and take over his uncle’s business in Norfolk, but not until he plays a lot of ball for Davidson. So keep your weather eye out for a man on the gridiron standing six feet two inches, weighing 208 pounds, and the charginest, drivingest, blockingest man on the team. That's Carl Eborn!

WINTERFRAT SCORES
W. L. Pet.
Kappa Sigs 8 0 1.000
SAE 9 1 .900
Phi Gams 6 2 .750
Betas 7 3 .700
Delta Kappa 5 4 .555
Pi Kapps 5 5 .500
Sigma Chi 4 5 .444
Independents 3 6 .333
Pi Kappa Alpha 2 7 .222
Phi Delta 1 9 .100

In a decisive victory, the SAE completely outclassed the Delta Kappa boys, 18-0. All touchdowns were made on passes with Dick Russell on the tossing end. The first score came early in the game on a long pass from Russell to Hill. The second tally was also made in the first half. This time Russell found Hemby's outstretched hands.