Page Four
THE DAVIDSONIAN
February 21, 1947

Davidson Students Visit At Sanatorium
Several Opportunities Open For Christian Service

Sunday is just another day for the tuberculosis patients at the Mecklenburg Sanatorium of Huntersville. They have a fine dinner, and they are visited by students; that is, most of them are visited by Davidson students. Each week there are about fifteen patients who are not visited at all or are only briefly visited for one or two minutes. This means that between 35 and 40 patients are not visited on Sundays.

The Cabinet is now seeking to increase the number of men teaching at the Sanatorium and urges all interested men to take a more active part in this work.

Friendships Built
Genuine Christian friendship is the guiding spirit of the men who take time out every Sunday morning to go down to Huntersville. They either teach the Sunday School lesson or give a short devotional for the sick. In every way, they display their friendliness toward the people they are visiting. Many have been flat on their backs for three to seven years.

Davidson College provided 24 Bibles to be presented to the Sanatorium patients through the teachers. The distribution started last Sunday and will continue through several weeks as the individual need for Bibles is established by the teachers. Many have their own Bibles, while others are using ones provided by the Gideon Society. Unfortunately, some of these are in bad condition, and replacements are needed.

Last Sunday, one Bible was given to a colored man with poor eyesight. Up to that point, he had been using a small Testament with very small print. This was replaced by one of the Bibles that had large print. He was very appreciative and said that now he would be able to spend much more time with the Bible than he formerly was able. He wished to send his thanks to the Sunday School Class.

Teachers Named
Those who have been teaching in the colored ward are Miles Wood, Bob Sutt, Paul Horne, George Worth, Jack Scott, Anthony Lessley, and John Pritchard. Students working in the white section of the Sanatorium are on two different floors. The ones on the first floor, visiting white men, are Joe McConnell, Chick Longernecker, Ronnie Dietrick, Thompson Casey, John W. and Boyce Kendall. The upper floor, occupied by white women, is visited by Mat McGowan, Red Williams, Bill Hoyt, Park Moore, Kade Anderson, Charlie Gibbs, and Terrel Kirk.

There is still an additional group of students that have wanted to teach but have had to defer beginning for a week or more due to personal reasons. These men are S. D. Maloney, Sam Hoyt, Alvin Hurt, Jim Gunn, Bill Alexander, Farrior, and David Shepperd.

CALENDAR OF RELIGIOUS EVENTS
Friday, Feb. 21, 8:00 p.m. — World Day of Prayer, community-wide service at A. M. E. Zion Methodist Church.
Saturday, March 1, 3:00 p.m. — Intercollegiate Council of Queens, Johnson C. Smith and Davidson students meet in Phi Hall.
Tuesday, 7:00 p.m., Phi Hall — Davidson Christian Fellowship.
Every Wednesday, 10:00 p.m. — Hall Meetings.
Sundays:
10:15 a.m. — Students’ Sunday School, Quadranglers’ Married Couples’ Class.
11:15 a.m. — Morning Worship.
6:30 p.m. — Methodist Youth Fellowship; Westminster Fellowship.
7:30 p.m. — Vespers:
Feb. 23 — Dr. Warner L. Hall, Second Presbyterian Church, Charlotte.
March 2 — Dr. James G. Huggin, Myers Park Methodist Church, Charlotte.
March 16 — E. Fay Campbell, Board of Christian Education, Presbyterian Church, U.S.A., Philadelphia.

Teachers Meeting
Sunday morning, February 23, all these teachers are going to a meeting in the Y. M. C. A. At this time, plans will be laid for the further distribution of the Bibles. Every man will also be urged at that time to assist in the recruiting of additional workers. Charles Elyea, responsible for lay Schools on the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, and George Worth, superintendent of the Sanatorium group, are asking all students that might be interested in joining in the visitation to come to the meeting in the Y. M. C. A. on Sunday morning at 9:15. These men will be added to the regular force of teachers.

Your Hall Prayer Meetings Can Prove To Be Of Value
Davidson Fellowship Council Is Reorganized For Spring Term
By S. D. Maloney

Americans have been subject time and again to various classifications almost at the whim of the classifier. You, as members of the Davidson student body, have been victims of such classification in one form or another ever since you have been here. For example: some of you are Seniors, still more of you are Freshmen; some of you are married, others of you would like to be; some of you are business majors, many of you are pre-meds; some of you smoke while others of you would rather have the $.17 times the “coefficient of the inability to bum”; some of you will read this article, the majority of you will not; and so it goes ad infinitum. Yet, as you represent a better than average cross-section of our generation in the United States, I do not hesitate to classify you more profoundly and significantly at this point.

Many of you will quickly lose interest and turn to the sports page, for you are hereby classified into two groups: (1) Those of you who set aside a certain portion of your day as a personal devotional period and (2) those of you who do not. Of course, you see that this is one way of classifying people, but perhaps the reason this distinction is made escapes you.

Value of Meetings
First of all, enough of you have agreed that the spiritual development of a person has a value that is essential not only to the individual but in determining the future characteristics of our nation and now even of our world. Hence, you have established the office of Spiritual Development on your Y. M. C. A. Cabinet and have entrusted to that office a certain portion of the responsibility for the spiritual welfare of all the students enrolled at Davidson.

Edwards, Maloney Head Work
Sterling Edwards, Vice-President of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, and I have headed this department for the past year. We feel keenly our obligation to you, to Davidson, to our nation, and to our God, especially when we consider the “grand and awful time” in which we are privileged to live.

Many thoughtful people cannot help but feel that as we are now, so our children will be tomorrow. If this be true, we and others like us have in our power at the present to decide whether the world our children will grow up in will be run according to Christian principles or be a victim of selfish, grasping, inadequate power.

Need Christian Discipline
We have the power, but do we have the Christian world discipline to discipline ourselves within the faith and principles so that we might not only obtain salvation for ourselves but be capable of passing a greater way of salvation on to the world which our children will inherit from us? This question is ever before us, and we need not give our answer in words, for the way in which we live and prepare ourselves for an unknown future presents our answer in the clearest way possible for all the world to see.

Thus, you can see how truly important it is to us as individuals and to humanity in general that our generation develops and maintains a healthy spiritual life that will vitally influence all phases of our life.

Hall Meetings Up to You
The Wednesday evening Hall Prayer Meetings, which you are all aware of to a greater or lesser degree, represent one way in which the office of Spiritual Development undertakes to encourage spiritual growth. They instill the idea of the value of a daily devotional period and also present a time during the week in which you can worship together and renew your innermost strength. If you fail to see the value and the desirability of these few minutes of devotion as they are presented, do not feel that you cannot do anything about them. They are your meetings held for your benefit; make them worthwhile.

Hall Leaders Named
To enable the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet to maintain contact with each hall, men on each floor of each of the dormitories have been given the responsibility to see that the opportunity of a guided devotional period is offered to every man on Wednesday night at ten o'clock. These men are known collectively as the Davidson Fellowship Council and individually as Hall Prayer Leaders.

The type of devotional held on your hall is determined mainly by the type you want and the imagination of the person in charge. It has been found that original programs are preferable to those borrowed from devotional booklets, and from time to time it may even be desirable to invite an upperclassman or a member of the faculty to conduct the prayer meeting or to lead a discussion.

Past experience has proven that these weekly get-togethers can be of great value to us as we strive to achieve more than a mere bowing acquaintance with the Father of us all and as we strive to determine our part in the great procession of humanity.

The Davidson Fellowship Council for the remainder of this term is as follows:
Rumple: 1st Floor, Chick Longernecker and J. E. Gray; 2nd Floor, Dave and Bill Hamilton and Joe Frazer; 3rd Floor, Bob Etheridge.
Watts: 1st Floor, Martin Waters; 2nd Floor, Baird Richardson; 3rd Floor, Maloy Owens; 4th Floor, W. A. Crosland.
Georgia: 1st Floor, Frank Wilkinson; 2nd Floor, Matthew McCowan; 3rd Floor, Bill Smith.
West: 1st Floor, Lee Willingham; 2nd Floor, Herb Miller; 3rd Floor, Bill Iverson; 4th Floor, Bob Richardson.
East: Basement, George Patrick; 1st Floor, Ronnie Dietrick; 2nd Floor, Murdock McKeithen; 3rd Floor, Robert E. Long; 4th Floor, John Pritchard.
Duke: Orion N. Hutchinson and Buddy Chandler.

Huntersville
Each Sunday, George Worth and Miles Wood board the faithful (?) Y jalopy, Religion, with high hopes of reaching the Mecklenburg Sanatorium at Huntersville. Six of the sixteen or so Sanatorium visitors make this venture in faith each Sunday.

The Upward Look
By Bill McLean
“Let all bitterness, and wrath, and anger, and clamour, and evil speaking be put away from you, with all malice, and be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving each other, even as God for Christ’s sake hath forgiven you.” So wrote the Apostle Paul in his letter to the Ephesians, and we as professing Christians must...Continually keep this thought actively in our hearts and minds if we expect to find a full and happy life. By harboring resentments in our hearts, many of us today are giving way to one of the most effective weapons that Evil has to fight with—Hate. It is obvious that to hold resentments in our hearts is to throw a monkey wrench into the machinery of our lives, for we were made to love and be loved, and to act in any other way is only to add another obstacle to the many that already face us in our efforts to follow in the footsteps of Christ.

Daily we come upon situations that could very easily give rise to resentment, and the way in which we deal with these seemingly small problems will have a great effect upon the way in which we will face the major crises that will sooner or later confront each of us. Are we taking advantage of the guidance that is before us today in such a way that a reserve is being built up within us to help confront the major issues of tomorrow? The following story is of two people, one of whom had this reserve, while the other had his life ruined because he did not know how to face the situation.

A young couple was involved in an automobile accident, and it was difficult to determine where the blame lay. The woman, because of a severed nerve at the base of her spine, was doomed to spend the rest of her days in a wheelchair, but she met the tragedy with faith, confidence, and goodwill. Her radiant spirit thereafter was a constant source of inspiration to all who came in contact with her. But her husband, although unhurt in the accident, was wounded deeply in his soul. He became embittered, held resentments against the person who had been driving the other car, and he let these resentments spoil his whole life’s work. One of the two emerged from the accident with a broken back, but with her spirit intact; the other came out with his body intact, but with a broken soul.

What are some of the methods by which we might strive to keep a check upon the resentments that tend to rise up within us? First of all, let us always be sure that our resentments are not based upon slights, insults, and imaginary wrongs. Then we might profitably put into effect the following rules: Don't dwell solely upon the bad that you find in the other person, but admire him for the good that he possesses. If you find little to admire, then love him for the possibilities that lie within him. See if there isn’t a reason for the things in him that you resent. Get into the habit of settling all disagreements immediately, and go out to do some positive good to the person against whom you hold resentments. Be too big, inwardly, to be an enemy of any man. “Be not overcome with evil, but overcome evil with good.”

FELLOWSHIP

The enthusiasm began to lag in some respects. The second semester came and goals were set. Instead of one student planning all the meetings, a council of four was provided to plan the programs. This council consists of Herb Meza in charge of the part of the program concerning “Christian Experiences,” Murphy Williams in charge of music, Lamar Williamson in charge of speakers, and Bob Henderson in charge of prayer and general organization of the programs. Already three programs have been presented this semester. However, the “Fellowship” feels that its greatest purpose is being neglected, and that is the encouragement toward personal prayer and Bible study daily for each student. New plans are in the making for the furtherance of this purpose. The “Fellowship” feels that it lies in Davidson’s hands, not just to develop successful businessmen, but to give to the world Christian leaders who rely upon God and His Word, and who seek, through the guidance of the Holy Spirit, God's purpose for their lives.

Kenton is strictly stratosphere stuff in popularity polls with his powerhouse drive. Capitol’s latest album "Artistry in Rhythm” is a collection of Kenton kicks... eight exciting, original compositions never before recorded. At your dealer—now! $3.15 plus tax.

NEW TRENDS IN TORRID TEMPOS
*His Feet Too Big for de Bed’ —Cap. 36%
“Intermission Riff’ — Cap. 298
‘Painted Rhythm’ — Cap. 250
‘Artistry Jumps’ — Cap. 229

Suppose you had been an influential person in Palestine at the time Jesus was beginning his work there, and suppose Jesus had come to you for advice. He might have explained the situation to you somewhat like this: “My intention is to carry out my Father’s work, which is to launch a Kingdom that will include the whole world. My time here is very short. I know that already I have made enemies; my own family fails to understand me; my hometown has thrown me out. I have thought it out. I will not be a miracle worker first of all; I will not simply see that people are better fed; nor will I try to be another Caesar. But it is growing later every day. Soon my time here will be over, and I must see that God’s Kingdom is well started.”

At this point you might have nodded your head sagely: “Yes, yes, all this sounds good and logical. Of course, you are young and have plenty of time. But you are only one person. If you are to start a Kingdom, don’t you need assistants?”

“That is just it,” Jesus might have answered. “I do need assistants. I am on the lookout for them now, men who will understand my ideas, men who can absorb them and live by them, men who are capable of winning others, men of influence who will be able to carry on successfully after I am no longer here.”

“Very good, a sound plan indeed!” You would have said. “Now whom do you have in mind?”

“That is just what I came to ask you,” he might have said, if you can stretch your imagination so far.

“H'm ... well... Certainly not around here—no, if you want men of real intellectual capacity, high type men who can understand great thoughts and who are capable of building up a great organization for you, you will have to leave Galilee altogether. Go to Athens, where scholars are plentiful. Go to Rome, where they understand organization and propaganda. Go to Jerusalem at the very least, for there you will find the great Bible scholars of the world. I will write to some of my influential friends.”

“No, don’t do that,” the young Teacher would interpose. “I did not have in mind anything so elaborate as that. I thought I might pick up some people right here...”

“What? In Capernaum?” you would roar through your beard. “You'll never find anyone in Capernaum worth a shekel! Oh, you might run across a good Roman official once in a blue moon, or maybe a traveling Greek scholar if you kept watch at the inn. But really, I know Capernaum, at least I know all I care to know about the place, and I can tell you there isn’t a saint or a scholar in the town. Where did you think you could find the sort of men you are looking for?”

“Well, here and there. Down by the docks... in the customs office...”

At this point your patience would blow up... “Nonsense!” you would shout. “I thought you had more sense. Docks! Customs office! Do you mean to tell me you are thinking of picking up common fishermen and even tax collectors? You must be mad. I can predict that if you persist in any scheme like that your new movement will die right where it began. Capernaum may look like a city to you villagers from Nazareth, but compared with the great world—you seem to have no idea. It is inconceivable to me how a man of your caliber could even think of playing into the hands of the lowest classes! You are just putting yourself at the mercy of the common man. If you do that, the world will never hear you.”

So you might stalk off, dignity pricking in every whisker. And then Jesus might smile to himself and turn and go on, down to the docks, looking for fishermen.

(Adapted from the writer’s Sunday School quarterly unit, “The Life and Teachings of Jesus,” by courtesy of the Board of Christian Education, Presbyterian Church, U. S. A., and reprinted here by permission of the Presbyterian Outlook.)