Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, November 21, 1947

pent a brief holiday in Greensboro. No doubt there are others we have failed to mention. To those unnamed soldiers, we solemnly dedicate this column.

KAPPA ALPHA By REES JENKINS

Since Sigma’s column was blackballed by the staff last week, we are going to have a contest. Here is the procedure: 1) remove wrapping from same; 2) pat butt on; 3) hurl this paper into a ball and hurl with considerable force; 4) scatter remaining tobacco on earth. All of this, as you may or may not have gathered, is for the education of the brothers who celebrated a very quiet weekend.

Brother Carl Snavely, Columbus, Ga. His parting comment, “See you next event,” undertaking the task of finding out why those of the opposite sex employ their sadistic wiles at your expense. To the girls of Converse, Salem, Queens, G. C., WC, and Winthrop have gone the query: What is wrong with Davidson College men? In a few days, we will be looking for the solution of our dilemma in the mail. When the right answers are received by THE DAVIDSONIAN, we'll pass them on to you. If there is a comedienne among your acquaintances, and I’m sure all of you have encountered one at some time during your intramural activities, just tell her to record the priceless information in 200 words or less.

DELTA KAPPA

Activities for this tenth of the Greeks are about as usual, strained for some and carefree for others. The question is "What's what for whom?" As sure as fall comes after summer, the activities of some of the brothers can be foretold weeks in advance. Come weekends and where Williams goes, everyone knows. For Zedaker, it’s sleep and home to eat, and the chances are one hundred to one that certain others will be found over twenty miles around that battalion.

Not so simple to call are the actions of others. For example, Richard this past weekend: “to be in Norfolk or to be in Charlotte” was the question. Former resolutions to be in the end zone, but in Gastonia—no ball in sight.

If you are griping about our limited Thanksgiving holidays, lend an ear to the wailing of the “wicked” Baptists at Wake Forest. They don’t have any time off. Ah, but there's a loophole, that means no double cuts. It is believed that most of the student body will join their family circles anyway. I can’t locate any more announcements concerning holidays except from Winthrop, which has from Wednesday through Sunday.

For the fag hags of this campus, let me remind you that the little nook in the basement of the library is a wealth of college papers that make interesting browsing material. If you step into a bear trap at this particular stand, it is because I feel that you have more time to devote to covering these literary masterpieces than I have. From that time forth, you may be called on to do a job or two for THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Cinema Comments By WALTER MANN

Monday and Tuesday, November 24 and 25 “LURED”

According to a campus authority on matters fine and otherwise, Mr. Jimmy Gribben, “this is an excellent picture. Mr. Coburn is supposed to be one of the most prominent of character actors. He should be appreciated by the characters at Davidson.” Also, it has been said that this is the first picture in which Miss Ball, veteran of stage and screen, has ever actually acted. No doubt it will be the last.

Wednesday and Thursday, November 26 and 27 “DANGER STREET”

If “Danger Street” doesn't hit the ball, we should have a whole week of thrillers next. However, if you see the night and Street next, you will find that the latter should be added to Dr. I’s supply of Chinese fertilizer. “Danger Street” is the boulevard (at least 10 feet wide) running directly through the recently modernized city of Nanaduyille. Along most of the course of this modern thoroughfare, there are different kinds of shops and other business establishments. Most of the shops feature very acceptable literature to the usual clientele.Troller down the avenue is to keep life for those who use the street from becoming commonplace. A hazard has been introduced in the block. At regular intervals, one finds jutting out over the street a mammoth marquee. From this marquee hang many rainbow-colored streamers and signs of all types, dazzling lights emit from the top into the eye of the passerby. The lights are so brilliant that anyone who looks at them is momentarily blinded. As he stumbles on in the darkness, he passes small glass cubicles. From this cubicle, a young lady directs the uniformed activities of a group of young men who rush into the darkness of the vast chasm which opens to the right of the cubicle. Once a person has been "lured" into one of these caverns, there is no hope for him.

Friday and Saturday, November 28 and 29
"BRUTE FORCE"
Killer No. 3: Lancaster again. In this picture, you will see him make a jail break. Suffice it to say that if he is able to lay hands on an auto, he will carry on in the style that won him acclaim in "Desert Fury." His magnificent performance at the wheel is something to behold. He can handle women because it is in these scenes that he is most at home.

AMONG THE GREEKS...
(Continued From Page Two)
Myers Park morning! One of the Carper sang in the Church choir Sunday of the week. Is White doing the week-end? Maybe Nancy got a question on Gib.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
Brother Bob Strickland flew to Atlanta. It is said for an extended weekend. He barely caught his train back at the conclusion, since he stayed on the last car. Brothers Ashmore, Erwin, and Grimball went to Greenville with pledges Pate. We congratulate the latter for choosing the former, and Julian along, assuring the latter they'll never be farmers in the company of the former. Brother Ford Little and wife also born to Stanley. At least that is the rumor. Obligations dictated that he leave Davidson, but still undecided is whether it would have been nobler to have been the place he wasn't. A treat is in store for Agnes Scott this week. A delegation of brothers is going down to survey its dance with less important reasons for the trip being certain of its students. For this important assignment, our trusted Brothers Fesperman and Hopkins with Dendy are being delegated. It may be necessary to choose an alternate for Hopkins since studies may confine him to the Hill, but a special pledge will go in his place and the trip will take place. Is Brother Crosland a politician? He says he has a sister at Queens. This may be admitted, but is a sister to be used as an excuse to call Queens every Thursday night? The truth and proof!

Approaching are the basketball classics between fraternities. Assured is a record better than football. Morton and Morgan are looking good.

THINK IT OVER...
(Continued From Page Two)
With the University of Virginia Observatory. While he thinks the South, with an exceptionally well-balanced faculty, Prof. Fulcher, when you choose Chesterfield... they're tops!

ACADEMY AWARD WINNER STARRING IN PARAMOUNT'S "GOLDEN EARRINGS"

STATE
FRI.-SAT.
"LIVING IN A BIG WAY"
GENE KELLY
MARIE MACDONALD

LATE SHOW SAT NITE 10:30
"MARKED WOMAN"
BETTE DAVIS
HUMPHREY BOGART

MON.-TUES.
"CHEYENNE"
DENNIS MORGAN
JANE WYMAN

WED.-THUR.
"HIT PARADE OF 1947"
EDDIE ALBERT
CONSTANCE MOORE

FRI.-SAT. DOUBLE FEATURE
"FIGHTING VIGILANTES"
AL "LASH" LARUE
AL "FUZZY" ST. JOHN
—also—
"LITTLE MISS BROADWAY"
JEAN PORTER
JOHN SHELDON

MON.-TUES.
"UNDERCOVER MAISIE"
ANN SOTHERN
BARRY NELSON

WED-THURS. DOUBLE FEATURE
"HIT THE SADDLE"
THE THREE MESKETEERS
—also—
"FALLEN ANGEL"
ALICE FAYE
DANA ANDREWS

"You strike it rich ALWAYS MILDER BETTER TASTING COOLER SMOKING"

In conjunction with Prof. Thies, Prof. Fulcher has done a great deal of work on carbonated beverages. They have served as expert witnesses in the courts of eight states and have been consultants to a number of bottling companies. Prof. Fulcher is especially interested in fishing, gardening, and golf, shooting in the high eighties and low nineties. He is a member of the American Legion and of six learned societies.

RAINS POSTPONE...
(Continued From Page Four)
arms with a beautiful pass. Hemby went over standing. The half ended with the score 12-0. In the second half, the Delta Kappas came back with a drive which was stopped before any real threat was made. The S.A.E.s rolled up several first downs before Russell found another receiver for the third touchdown.

Betas 14; Phi Delts 0
The Betas tightened their grip on second honors by rolling over the Phi Delts 14-0. Cal Smith blocked a Phi Delt punt and Allen tagged a runner in the end zone for a safety to draw first blood for the Betas early in the first half. A few minutes later, Bill Williams, a Beta back, made a spectacular interception and sprinted 19 yards for six points. The half ended with the Betas on the long end of an 8-0 score. The second half was more of a deadlock until Cal Smith tossed an aerial to Bill Williams for the second and last touchdown of the game.

PAGING PROFESSORS...
(Continued From Page Two)
build such fitting and practical memorials. On behalf of the men who, with the various campus organizations and groups, have used Erwin Lodge, let sincere appreciation be expressed.

INDEPENDENTS' HALL
The ranks of the Independents have been greatly increased by the announcement. No doubt many of the 450 who have been holding out, waiting to see just what this new organization will really offer to justify their joining. Though the new group already has a hundred on its roll, the number will doubtless increase with this announcement. Mr. Jackson says the House will in all probability be used by the organization for the rest of this year anyway. Eventually, we hope the college will see fit to build a larger and permanent home for this group, but during the present period when building costs are so absurd, it is fortunate that there is such a conveniently and ideally located building designated for this organization whose purpose is to serve as many of the 450 no-fraternity independents (half the student body) as wish to join.

Don't miss the Valentine Festival in Charlotte December 12.

"Patch that man up. I need him." —Storey.

THEY SATISFY
Copyright 1947, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.