= CAT TALES © By N-AiG

We're looking for a reverse of the old dog-trees-cat, firemen-to-the-rescue story tomorrow night when the Cats take the field against State’s Wolfpack. Nobody (Davidson man that is) could see any other prediction under the circumstances. Lady Luck, in the guise of a big bruising Duke Blue Devil eleven, has favored us with a big grin, and you can be sure that Storey’s boys are out to make the best out of a good situation. State is in a sad-sack shape after their bad break in Durham last week. Several of the Wolfpack’s best backs are on the sick list, including stellar tailback Charlie Richkus, so that the Wolves are limping on the fourth leg and may have to resort almost entirely to third and fourth string ball-carriers. To top off the injured column, the whole squad is somewhat the worse for wear after the mauling they gave and took from Duke. On the other hand, the Cats, fresh from their skirmish with vaunted William and Mary, are raring to go. With the return of Sandy Carnegie, Carl Pahl, and Dave Poole to the line-up, we have two full teams to field that are nearly even in size and ability. The lack of reserves that caused us to bow out to State in the final quarter of last year’s game should be hurting State instead of Davidson this time. If the big Cats don’t get worn out running back and forth onto the playing field, the boys who stopped Jack Cloud cold shouldn’t have any trouble with anyone that State will field tomorrow. The deceptive running attack that fooled State many times last year will be augmented by quite a few passes this time. With six good chunkers tossing them and Buddy Cheek, Mike Williams, and Jim Sifford to pull them in, we ought to see lots of yardage by the aerial route. And you can be sure that Buddy will be between the man in the striped shirt and the sideline this time. We wuz robbed.

You sports fans with an eye to future gridiron stars keep a weather eye open in Auburn Lambeth’s direction. With only one year of high school experience, he is the most promising prospect we have seen around for quite a while. He’s big and smart, a general on the field, throws a bullet that hits its receiver light as a feather, and drives like a souped-up bulldozer. Now we see why the University of Georgia and Ga. Tech were fighting over him; quite a feather in the Wildcat helmet.

Hardest working men in the Red and Black football engine are Al Moneyhan’s JayVee “dawgs.” If you don’t believe it, just ask one of them. Made up of some of last year’s only once-defeated squad, some “Phi Bets” who can’t memorize plays, and lots of new men, the “dawgs” face a tougher schedule this year, and Moneyhan is sparing no pains to get them ready for their first game Thursday. Once or twice a week, they take off to give the Varsity a little workout, but the rest of it is work. No doubt about it, the little squad has a long way to go before game time. Out at 8:30 every afternoon on the freshman field, the Kittens practice from then on up until about fifteen minutes after suppertime. Then they sprint some, take a few laps and go in. All JayVee games are home games with one exception and will be played on Thursday or Friday afternoons on Richardson field. The homecoming weekend game will be with CC-UNC in Charlotte on Saturday night. This, of course, makes for a pleasant dance weekend for the Kittens — otherwise they wouldn’t have known what to do with themselves. Several open dates on the calendar may see games with State or Carolina frosh squads.

The squad is made up of about half and half freshmen and upperclassmen. Some of the boys who may see Varsity duty in other years are ends Pete Brown, Grover Lee, Bob Kester, tackles Andy Horne and 230-pound C. C. Stubby Evans and Amos Camp, and backs John Kelton, Sam Joyner, Charlie Baldwin, and J. C. Howard, guards Stroud along with several others. For the others, recompense enough is Uncle Dave Blevin’s harmony in the shower room, not to mention a winning season.

BEATTY’S FORD BUS COMPANY
Charlotte Davidson Sample Schedule
11:30 P.M. Leave Charlotte
12:30 A.M. Arrive Davidson
Charlotte Terminal—Opp. Hotel Charlotte
ALSO SPECIAL TRIPS TO FOOTBALL GAMES IN CHARLOTTE.
Safe - Dependable - Service

Wildcat Sports Beat State

Shephard Calls Out Basketeeers (Continued On Page Six)

Interfrat Scores
Sigs over Independent, 21 to 0.
S.A.E. over Kappa Sig, 6-0.
Betas over A.T.O., 18-6.
Phi Delts over P.K.T., 12-12; 12-12.

Rifle Team Starts Practice Sessions (Continued On Page Three)

FROSH CRASH WELL PACKED VARSITY ROSTER

DAVIDSONIANS OUT TO TOPPLE STATE AFTER BOWING TO INDIANS

Erwin's Injury Is Blow to Cats

Jayvees Grapple Catawba Thursday

Cats-Wolfpack Meet Under Arcsweek's 21-0 shutout at the hands of Mary's Indians pushed over W. & M., the Cats were hard at touchdown in the third period and sharpening their claws this week for N.C. State’s mighty Wolfpack (1-0) in a Southern Conference. No injuries were reported from the tussle in the “Ole Dominion.” Wildcats pushed the State and Coach Bill Story will have Sandy Carnegie, Carl Pahl, and Dave Poole back to help this week. 

Though rated definitely as underdogs for the fray, the Red and Black is out to do more than hold down the score. Judging from the yells coming from Richardson field, we'd say they were out to win that ball game. With the fight and spirit which sent them to Norfolk last week still bubbling forth, there should be no question in anyone's mind about the outcome of the fracas in Charlotte's Memorial Stadium. Last year’s Gator Bowl losers will be playing without the services of regular blocking back Bowlby. Tailback Charlie Richkus is only due to see limited service as a result of an injury. Coach Beattie Feathers plans to use his second and third strings frequently—not because he takes the Wildcats lightly, but because his entire first team is pretty badly bruised from last week's fracas with Duke.

State Loaded
However, the boys from Raleigh may uncork some brilliant freshman play with I. S. Ary, who plays a bang-up end; big John Huzvar running from the fullback slot; and Wetzel, a six-foot tailback frosh. The locals will probably take the field with Buddy Cheek and Hal Mapes at ends, Ernie Stricklin and Ed Rhodes at tackles, Buddy Chandler and Bob Sharpe at guard posts, and Johnny Richards at the pivot slot. Backfield berths will go to Dave Poole, Buck Williams, Jim Sifford, and Burt Anderton. With Erwin and Carl Pahl both being out with injuries, Buck Williams will start at fullback.

The Wildcats' charges unleashed an overhead attack that carried to the W. & M. 9-yard line before it broke up with an interception in the end zone. Buck Williams, Carl Sheppard, and Jim Sifford headed the tossing parade in the march with Mike Wilkes on the receiving end. An interception of Jim Sifford’s pass on his own 36 by John Bruce freed the Indians on the drive that ended with All-Southern Fullback Cloud plunging over from two yards out for the marker that proved to be all that was needed. A partially blocked punt from Sifford’s toe, which Carl Eborn hit before it landed, set the Cats back to the one-yard line as a result of the penalty inflicted. Cloud again smashed over and Magdziak added his second extra point.

Virginians Pass for Third
The Indian reserves tacked on a marker which carried 38 yards. Although outgained on the ground 182 yards to 25, the Cats showed a new potency in the air with 110 yards netted against the victors’ 80. The return of Sandy Carnegie to the line and Carl Pahl and Dave Poole to the backfield should be ready to send State's Wolfpack back to their den with their collective tails between their legs. Preparation for the State game has been somewhat hindered by Wildcat injuries in the William and Mary fray and by injuries later.

Jay Roberts
Henry “Hank” Wilson
Hank is out for his third year at Davidson. Born in Richmond, Virginia, on June 24, 1928, Hank spent one year at U. of Richmond before he started football on the varsity team. He began as a wingback but was changed to center for his next three years. Standing 6 feet 1 and a half inches tall and weighing 160 pounds, Hank played guard on the basketball squad and outfielder on the high school nine. The year Hank was co-captain at Woodbury, his team won the state championship. We're rooting for you, Hank.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
WE HAVE
Remington Typewriters
Schick-Shave Master Electric Razors.
C. S. Goodrum
TELEPHONE 2111
DAVIDSON, N. C.

VICTOR, COLUMBIA, CAPITOL, AND OTHER RECORDS
Stringed Instruments of all kinds.
SHEET MUSIC
HAMMOND ORGANS
STEINWAY PIANOS
ANDREWS MUSIC CO.
“Our 55th Year”
231 N. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.