Page Two; THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, October 3, 1947

The DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

The DAVIDSONIAN Presents
EDITORIALS ...LETTERS ... FEATURES

BOB PHILLIPS
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

BOB CLINE
BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Sam Ervin
Walter Walker
Mac Hart
Walter Mann
Bill Calhoun
Ronny Dietrick
Stan Kennett
Charles Chuckingham
Bob Hollister
Jean Stewart

Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Sports Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Exchange Editor
Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
John McNair
Charlie Reid
Frank Lemmon
Bill Baxter
Charles Dockery
H. Fulton
Bob Knight
Charles Clinkscales
Wilkes Macauley
Bob Knight
Bill Keith
Charles Beam

Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Advertising Manager
Assistant Advertising Manager
Assistant Advertising Manager
Assistant Advertising Manager
Assistant Circulation Manager
Assistant Circulation Manager
Assistant Collections Manager

Under the Advertising Staff--H. MacKethan, C. Faison, Bill Houck, Claude Higginbotham, D. Hayworth, Blaine Kelley, F. M. Purnell, Gene Taylor.
Circulation Staff--S. H. Fulton, Alf. Duncan, Sam Davis, Hunter Boykin, Paul Guthery, Bill Cassels, John Coble, Carl Herman, Jim Fisher,
Bob Sims, Jimmy Rogers, Harry Powe.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

1946 Member Associated Collegiate Press
Collegiate Digest Distributor

A School of Journalism

Although it is the announced intention of Davidson College to specialize in no particular scholastic field, there seems to be
a definite place here for an English department devoted to at least basic training in the elements of journalism and
newspaper editing. It is, of course, entirely unnecessary to point out that your present staff of the DAVIDSONIAN is strictly
an amateur organization, as were its predecessors. Oddly enough, most of those turning out your school newspaper have not even
had the benefit of high school journalistic work; what they know of newspaper work is actually only that which the
editor of the DAVIDSONIAN of 1915 knew; and if anyone considers this present-day campus paper a creditable news organ, he
would rightly voice his gratitude not to the 1947 staff, but to that side-burned Greeley of the pre-World War I
era.

With the newspaper in the hands of the proposed journalism department, another department, perhaps in conjunction with classes in creative
writing, would be unnecessary to the newspaper or writing careers. There have been numerous cases at Davidson of young men,
undecided as to their chosen careers at matriculation, electing in their sophomore or junior years to pursue the life of
the scribe. Accordingly, they have felt obliged to transfer to other schools where formal and advanced journalism is offered as
a major course. This fact leads them to a question for which all the above stating-of-cases has been but background:
If it is within Davidson’s physical power to prepare them, has the college the very right to withhold from society
journalists who would be consecrated and devoted to the Christian ideas and ideals imbued in the four-year Davidson student?

There is no truer or sounder adage than that which gives the comparative strengths of the pen and the sword;
and it seems particularly applicable to this day and time when the nations of the world have only recently laid
the sword aside (all placing it within easy reach for recall). Davidson has given more than its share of honest,
selfless, and courageous men to the battlefields. Can we not throw penmen of the same stripe into the battle for
the world’s peace?

Present Prospects of Reviving European Economy

In the light of the donations that the United States has made to Europe during the past two years, the
sum of 19.3 billion dollars which this country is now asked to supply over the next four years does not
appear to be so large. In fact, the annual contribution would be smaller than we have been making, and would
constitute a slight tapering off of United States aid. Even so, 19.3 billion dollars is a lot of money and
will represent a considerable exportation of American resources. This exportation can be made only at some sacrifice by the American
people who are still experiencing shortages in many commodities which they desire to have for domestic consumption.

In these circumstances, the American people would like to know what the prospects are that the economy of western Europe
will actually be revived should the Marshall plan be carried through. Unfortunately, it is not possible to do much more
than conjecture concerning these prospects. From the purely economic viewpoint, it is hard to regard the Marshall plan as a
good investment. No one proposes that the grants be anything but outright gifts from the American government. That is, there
is no expectation that the funds provided will ever be repaid. If they are actually so used to restore Europe's
productivity so that the European standard of living can be as good as it was in prewar years, the export
trade of Europe will have to be considerably larger than in prewar years, since Europe has lost so many sources
of income, such as shipping, which previously enabled her to pay for imports. If a large export capacity is developed,
those European exports will come into direct competition with the United States, and the results will not be at all
to the liking of American export industries. In other words, when America stops giving away exports to Europe, she will
find European competition in every world market. There is no indication that the American people will be willing to readjust
their economy to this situation by abandoning the traditional high tariff policy of the country in favor of essential freedom
of trade. Even if we desired to do so, the cost of making the necessary shifts in our use of
manpower and resources would be tremendous.

In the long view, then, the revival of European economy is not apt to have very pleasing effects upon our
economy, although the immediate effect of prolonging the current boom in the United States is quite attractive, especially to the
producers of export commodities which are selling at very high prices. But if we do not go ahead with the
Marshall plan, we shall probably experience a collapse of the boom in the near future. Either way, then, the economic
gains to the United States would seem to be quite negligible.

Whether Europe can actually be revived by the Marshall plan depends upon several factors that are hard to evaluate. Important
among these factors are the good intentions of the governments now in power in western Europe and the disposition of
the people to get to work. There is no reason for our beginning with the suspicion that the European governments
do not intend to carry out their part of the plan. We do know, however, that there is strong leftist
opposition to existing governments, especially in France and Italy, and that economic resources can be dissipated in fighting political battles.
Doubtless the major objective of the Marshall plan is to maintain existing conservative governments in power; but it is designed
to maintain them in power by producing economic revival. It is problematical what the United States can do to assure
that this will be the method and the only method employed.

There is ground for some fear that the people of Europe are not of a mind to work as hard
as they might. All over the world men have come to think more in terms of what they ought to
have in the way of short hours of work, high wages, and rising standards of living.

(Continued on Page Six)

Sam Sez

In spite of the fact that the subject matter of this space will be an old story to most of
the upperclassmen, I'd like to make an attempt to answer a question that seems to be on the minds of
quite a few Freshmen. This same question was directed to yours truly quite frequently last year while I was “employed”
by the sports staff, and judging from the comments that I’ve heard of late it’s still a matter of widespread
interest. The inquiry, as many of you may have already guessed, is “What's the story on our new gym?”

This plant, designed to replace the present Alumni gym and to add a number of improvements of an athletic nature
to the campus, was first dreamed of prior to the outbreak of hostilities between America and Japan. Funds were collected
and definite plans were drawn up, but the war postponed the actual construction work. No one, of course, expected the
college to attempt to erect the gym until after the fighting came to an end, nor could they have done
so even if they had been determined to try. Now, however, with the world at peace, many of the students
are criticizing everyone concerned for not getting the actual work underway.

Before we start awarding bouquets of onions, let’s examine the existing situation a little more closely. Way back when the
money was collected to finance this project, prices were far below the present levels. The amount that it would have
taken in the late '30s and early '40s to erect a good gym would probably not be enough to cover
the initial payments today. That is the sole reason that we don’t have our athletic plant right now. What’s more,
it will be until: 1) prices drop, or 2) more money can be raised. Neither of these conditions can be
fulfilled overnight—hence it is still hard to say exactly when the groundbreaking will begin.

Instead of complaining, it seems to me that we owe a vote of thanks to Mr. Jackson, Coach Sheppard, and
all others connected with the project. Instead of building a second-rate gym last year, they decided to wait until an
adequate one could be afforded. That policy will cause some inconveniences to the present-day student body, but from a long-range,
unselfish point of view, it is a wise one. Davidson will benefit from it in the future. In the meantime,
some preliminary steps have already been taken, the diamond is being allotted to thegym (on baseball to the space the
moved Freshman so that end of Richardson Field) will be vacant. That, in itself, indicates that the digging might begin
in the not too distant future. Until this does happen we can only be patient. Don't blame the parties in
charge if the go-ahead sign is delayed—they know what is best. After all, this new gym has been one of
their dreams for quite a while.

PI KAPPA PHI
The end turned out to be none other than that dashing smoothie, Louis Palles, who, right under two brothers’ noses,
snatched the voluptuous oomph girl of the week, Charlotte. Louis-boy has been seen humming “Carry Me Back to Ole’ Virginnie”
all week. Homeward bound were pledges Bill Everett and Johnny Coble to Columbia, S.C., for a date and other essentials
for homecoming. We don't know what Johnny picked up. Also on the trail home were pledge Cecil Brandon with Brother
George (Squirrel-head) Barksdale to Salem. To Kannapolis journeyed forth pledges Jim Fisher, Bob Sims, and Carl Herman. Bull Meade took
off for Florence last Friday for the weekend. With a rousing yell from a special section last Friday, Brothers Cline,
Edwards, Reid, and pledge Gene Taylor took off for Norfolk to see the game, amongst other things. They say 'twas
around three Sunday—ahem—when they got back. They compensated for missing some vespers by singing hymns for an hour and a
half. Jack Barringer and Jim Elliot spent a quiet weekend on the campus playing honeysuckle bridge. In action last Saturday
night was Don Juan Whittemore, who caught a cold at Winthrop; and Claude Higginbotham, who had a date with the
cutest little thing from Monk's Corner, S.C. Both lads were quite swept away. Coach Houck made a last-minute engagement with
a sweet young skirt, but due to the coach's notorious reputation, she would not go off the campus with him.
They were seen later holding hands in the movie house. And now for the climax of the week's sojourns. Thad
Barringer topped them all off with a date with that queen from Winthrop, Audrey Adams.

PHI DELTA THETA
There were quite a number of brothers roaming about the country—the chief of these strong-hearted men was one Grady Spires—that
most talented of musical prodigies. Specializing in the guitar by means of dark and fearsome channels, it has come to
be known that this man Spires received a note bidding him to meet that certain blonde waitress in Mooresville at
dead on the stroke of midnight. Little did we know, Grady! Brothers Foote, Cobb, Smith, Long, Golden, and Mills toured
Durham Way to watch the big Mates, Cameron and company, will long be remembered in old Chapel Hill. It should
be obvious to one and all that the social spirit of this vicinity is taking flight where it left off.
Here's to more and bigger deals.

KAPPA ALPHA
It looked like old times down at the House Sunday night when a large number of brothers and pledges were
on hand for the first of what promises to be a long line of feeds. Among that group were some
even with dates—some even with wives! Brother Glasgow and B.D. were welcome sights while Stoker-head and Jo Ann thought they
had dates, but weren't quite sure because of the influx of men. Another B.D. with Doc Gracey was present. The
grid season opened Monday with the champs tackling the Delta Kaps. Coach Flowers has had the boys practicing several speedy
plays and formations. For information on the grind and enemy players, we're (or maybe, too) deep at each position. Among
the thousands of screaming spectators on hand for the big game at Chapel Hill were several quite notable brothers—Bill Carter,
Sam Ervin, Paul Richardson, Bill Barron, and “Stinging Sammy” Bird. Up at Norfolk, Brother Fowle was scalping the Indians while
Brothers Jack Long, Flynn Long, and “Chuck” Kirby were cheering him on. Pledge meetings began Monday night under the direction
of Brother Jack Payne and several assistants. Among new arrivals at the House is a beautiful Stromberg.

(Continued on Page Six)

Operating Table
With the first football game safely behind us, the roosts of old and new dealers alike roared away from the
campus this past weekend just as though they hadn't been through a three-month summer vacation. Many of them hadn't. Of
course, it would be too much to report all the nefarious operations that took place, but in response to popular
demand, we shall again try to record for future Davidson men some of the more spectacular forays of their forefathers.

LAUGHING BOY, HILL has asked that his name be mentioned this week, so in deference to the command of so
austere a politician and political leader, we shall start the ball rolling with this story of the week. BOSS HILL
has confided to your correspondent that his one desire in life is to meet a woman—any woman. For the State
game, he had to humble himself and invite an enchantress who only last spring showed him the well-known shaft of
rejection. BOSS HILL, in his infinite wisdom, has decided to give her another chance.

CHICK reports that he was blown most of the way across Raleigh after the Carolina game by several sharp explosions.
Chapel Hill was engulfed by a large portion of the student body this past weekend. No report has been forthcoming
on the activities of our genial friend OUTHOUSE JOHN.

General interest will be piqued to know that as this column is being written, SWEET JIMMY GRIBBEN is down at
the Kappa Delta House putting together the newest issue of that riotous Davidson publication, formerly known as Scripts and Pranks,
now titled PINK AND BLUE.

PAUL ROBENSON is having a deep meeting at three-thirty Friday morning. Nothing new to report on the ups and downs
of the LOVES OF W.S. McLEAN. COUSIN GEORGE MACKIE GRIMBALL and his cohort, THE HAT, made another one of those
now-famous intermittent journeys.

Paging the parting sally, let me remind you that your writer shall be watching for next week’s column during and
after the great annual struggle between CULTURE and AGRICULTURE this coming weekend.

Professors ... By Stan Kennett

PROF. WOOD
The late teens of this century were in some respects very much like the present times, says Dr. W.W. Wood,
using the example of his moving four times in his first five years of married life. That first team traveled
by train, and when they went to the station, the student body also went to send them off with a
vote of confidence. The return of the Davidson team brought the students again to the station, to welcome the boys
home with a rousing vote of approval for a job well done. Team support did not stop at the station,
however, for students in those days did not let outside interests keep them away from the athletic fields and events.
Shortly after 1915, when Dr. Wood came to Davidson, he became a native of Charlottesville, Virginia, where he went to
school at the university. He took his undergraduate work there and stayed to earn his degree in civil engineering. After
college, Dr. Wood went to work for the DuPont Powder Company. He came to Davidson, expecting to stay for only
a year or so, but liked the community and the college so well that he stayed on. Dr. Wood is
"sold on the smaller colleges" for education. During the first World War, Dr. Wood went to an army camp in
New York, along with two other Davidson professors, when the army asked colleges to send professors for training. Otherwise, his
stay at Davidson has been continuous. Stating that he has been lucky enough to miss "experiences" in life, Dr. Wood
has found pleasure in the quiet pastimes of golf and gardening.

PROFESSOR BLYTHE
Frequently seen on the athletic fields, whether summer or spring, is Professor Blythe. To old students at Davidson, he is
a familiar figure and to new students, he will be, for this is one of the faculty's strongest supporters of
Davidson athletics. Professor Blythe’s interest in Davidson teams began when he was a student here and a Wildcat baseball player.
Recalling his student days at Davidson, Professor Blythe points to the great spirit which has always characterized athletic competition here.
In those days, the students didn't have any place to go, so they stayed here and studied during the week.
If the first dance held on the Davidson campus was in 1946, as is believed, what is the meaning of
the printed program for the "Davidson College Hop Club, Annual Ball, 1878" in the Miscellaneous Programs in the Library? There
weren't any automobiles then.

The Baptists and the Methodists have done more for Davidson College financially than the Presbyterians. The Duke Endowment (Methodist money)
and the General Education Board (Rockefeller—Baptist) have been the most generous contributors to date.
