Friday, December 12, 1947

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Page Five

FOOTBALL BANQUET
(Continued From Page Four)

With the singing of “Oh Davidson,” a most successful football banquet became a pleasant memory. The Varsity and those who
“fought and died” on the practice field, but who were not getting letters, were recognized.

The members of the cross country team being present, Coach Pete Whittle called upon them to come up and receive
their letters. Coach Story was not left out as all these letters were being distributed. Coach Sheppard presented to him
a certificate entitling him to wear the “D.” A watch from the team and other gifts of appreciation and remembrance
were given to Coach Story, for which he expressed his profound gratitude in a few closing remarks.

CAGERS WIN...
(Continued From Page Four)

Davidson tallied 12 points against Annapolis in the first half and totaled 12 against Clemson. The Clemson triumph was sweet
revenge for the Clemson lament. Mike and Buddy were accurate in their shots under the basket and Whitten’s defense was
faster.

Northern Trip

The team’s three-day trip early next week to Washington, Maryland, and Quantico Marines on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, respectively. After
Wednesday, the Cats take a rest to get ready for the games on the 3rd, 6th, and 9th, in that
order. The first two will be played in Winston and the State game is in Raleigh.

“The Sensible Place to Eat”
R. O. C. STONESTREET, Mgr.
418 S. Main St. Phone 132
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

100% wool gabardine slacks. Sport Coats MAKE THE COLLEGE MAN’S WARDROBE COMPLETE
Wrenn’s Men’s Shop
MAIN ST.
Matching Slacks $5.95 to $14.50.
DAVIDSON, N. C.

A reminder of you... wherever he goes! Now... his favorite Seaforth toiletries in jugs of flexible, unbreakable Duralite! The Royal
Scot set, above, includes Shaving Lotion, Men's Talc, Hairdressing, and Brushless Shave, each with Seaforth's bracing scent of Highland heather.
He'll carry them in his travel kit, and say, “Thank you for a useful and unusual gift” every time he
gets ready to... STEP FORTH. The Royal Scot in Duralite, 4.35. Other handsome gift sets in polished stoneware, 2.00 to
7.00.
COLLEGE CUT-RATE
“A DAVIDSON INSTITUTION”

The weight is perfect for our weather, $17.50. OTHERS $9.95 TO $25.00.

Introducing Buddy Chandler
By DOUG HIX

Have you ever ridden that highway that greets you with a big smile? It’s a dream. Buddy Chandler, on the
football field, is quiet and modest. He is all that you would want. After graduating from Davidson, he plans to
attend either Springfield College or Columbia for physical education.| 11K: had it with both Carnegie and Gill Boyd. He played
a hard-driving guard for Granby, making all-Foreman team, all-State, and honorable mention on the all-Eastern eleven. He was offered scholarships
at William and Mary, State, and the University of Virginia. After his junior year at Granby, he entered the Coast
Guard where he served thirty months, during which time he finished his high school work and served as an electrician
in Europe and Asia. Upon being discharged, he entered Davidson. Besides playing football in high school, he was in the
Monogram Club and caught on the baseball team for two years. Here at Davidson, he is in the “D” Club,
Perry Como in last year’s “D” Club Follies, sophomore member of the Court of Control, SAF social fraternity, and catcher
on the basketball team. Buddy fights hard on the football field.

MARION DAVIS CO.
118 S. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

“The U. S. Air Force offers you a career with a future. It is open to you if you're single,
between 20 and 26½ years old, and have completed at least one-half the requirements for a degree from an accredited
college or university (or pass an examination measuring the equivalent). Ask for details at your U.S. Army and U.S. Air
Force Recruiting Station, or write to Headquarters, U.S. Air Force, Aviation Cadet Section, Washington 25, D.C.

NOTE: If you were awaiting assignment or taking training when the Aviation Cadet program was cut back in 1944-45, you
can re-qualify simply by passing the physical examination, provided you meet the other requirements listed above. Write for information to
Headquarters, U.S. Air Force, Attention: Aviation Cadet Section, Washington 25, D.C.

Leslie L. Taylor, Jr. smokes CHESTERFIELDS
“I have smoked Chesterfields for three years and they do satisfy.”

Voted TOPS!—Chesterfield the largest selling cigarette in America’s colleges (by nationwide survey).

PASTEURIZED GRADE “A” MILK
Mooresville Cooperative Creamery
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

The U.S. Air Force offers paid, responsible positions throughout the aviation industry, at high pay from the beginning. It is
a good deal from the start. As an Aviation Cadet, you draw $75 per month, plus food, quarters, uniforms, medical
and dental care. After successfully finishing the course, you are commissioned a Second Lieutenant, Air Force Reserves and assigned to
active duty with the Air Force at $336 a month (including flight pay), with excellent chances for further increases as
promotions come through. In addition, you get an extra $500 for each year of active duty, and will be given
a chance to compete for a commission in the Regular Air Force if you are interested in a service career.
This opportunity, which cannot be duplicated anywhere else at any price, equips men for paid, responsible positions throughout the aviation
industry, at high pay from the beginning.
