SEE JOYNER LETTER EDITORIAL PAGE

ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI

SECOND MUSICAL ARTIST HERE NOVEMBER 10

Volume XXXVI DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, NOVEMBER 7, 1947 No. 7

MASQUERS PRESENT “OUR TOWN”

On Monday and Tuesday nights, November 24 and 25, at 8:30 in Chambers Auditorium, the Red and Black Masquers, Davidson's
playmakers, will present Thornton Wilder's “Our Town.” The Red and Black Masquers customarily present at least one play each year.
This year's production will be directed by Frank Lowe and staged by Jim Gribben, with Doug Swink as business manager.

Members of the cast are as follows:
Stage manager—Tom Apperson.
Dr. Gibbs—Freeman Jones.
Joe Crowell—Ted Cumming.
Howie Newsome—Allen Lanier.
Mrs. Gibbs—Susie Jackson.
Mrs. Webb—Selene Parker.
George Gibbs—Doug Swink.
Rebecca Gibbs—Ann Huffman.
Wally Webb—Wylie Smith.
Emily Webb—Carylon McGoogan.
Prof. Willard—Jim Rittervold.
Mr. Webb—Linton Deck.
Lady in Auditorium—Nancy Copeland.
Man in Auditorium—Dave Boyce.
Simon Stimson—Charlie Hadley.
Mrs. Soames—Eloise Noehren.
Mr. Warren—Herman Foltz.
S. Crowell—Dave Deck.
Sam Craig—Glenn Neal.
Joe Stoddard—Dave McElroy.
Dead Man—Milton Clenseur.
Mr. Morgan—Ed Courson.

The story of the play follows: In the first act, the author genially outlines the history of the town, which
is Grover’s Corners, N.H., and something of the character of its citizens. Then he carries you into the houses of
the Gibbs and Webb families, substantial homes containing substantial folks. You arrive at (Continued on Page Six)

Charlotte Caravan Crowns Local Queen
By GEORGE ENNETT

Tuesday, November 4, has finally come and gone and with it an event that will long be remembered by Davidson
students and townspeople. On that day, in case you weren't present, unit two of the Charlotte Merchants Christmas Caravan favored
the Holy City with a short visit. Local newspapers, publicizing the great gesture of the Charlotte merchants, had announced that
the caravan would pass through town at 4:30 p.m. Large crowds began forming and vying with each other for points
of vantage as early as the noon hour. By the appointed time, almost 300 people were assembled in and around
Hatley’s Soda Shop, breathlessly awaiting the arrival of the dignitaries and entertainers.

The vigil was soon rewarded, as a large bus drove into the main street followed by a long line of
automobiles blaring both “Jingle Bells” and that new hit song, “Spend Your Money in Charlotte.” Roaring to a stop in
the middle of the street, lackeys jumped out and set up the props, consisting of a microphone and a loudspeaker.
In less than a minute, all was aright, and Mayor Earnest Leaty welcomed the touring throng to the shouts of
delight from onlookers. Mr. Samuel Isenjake re- (Continued on Page Six)

Appreciation To All Visitors of Erwin Lodge:

“We would like to express our gratitude to all the students and faculty visitors who have taken such excellent care
of the Lodge since its opening. Without fail, individuals and groups who have made use of the Lodge for picnics,
meetings, or other gatherings have left it in condition as good as or better than that in which they found
it. This has meant a great deal to us as we think it reflects on your part a genuine appreciation
of the Lodge.

Sincerely,
Prof. and Mrs. E. J. Erwin.”

THESPIANS

Pictured above in the rehearsal of the wedding scene from the play, “Our Town,” are, from left to right: Eloise
Noehren, Nancy Copeland, Charles Hadley, Freeman Jones, Ed Courson, Susie Jackson, Doug Swink, Carolyn McGoogan, Tom Apperson, Selene Parker, Ann
Huffman, Ted Cumming, Linton Deck, Dave McElroy, and Glenn Neal.

Nous avons trouvé les femmes. It was Friday and we found them descending on us from every quarter. We picked
them off trains, pulled them fresh from stuffed buses, and heard one young Freshman in the old well. (A pun
could easily be inserted here, for example, “fresh from the subject,” etc. but to demand humor on the campus, well
it seems to drop—guess where). Then, seeing them, well, that is thoroughly pondered and puffed, we gallantly escorted them to
the Armory just in time to hear Billy the Kid sound the gong which began the first round. The floor
was a mass of gracefully undulating evening dresses clasped firmly in the arms of immaculately pressed tuxedos. (You like that?)
Dead (no other word would do) who be here “well,” since deep seems to be for let Council we would
like to extend a sincere well-done. The Armory is under contract to WBT's Carolina Hay Ride and Hit Parade every
Saturday night, leaving the Charlotte Hotel ballroom—the largest available. Considering the record Homecoming crowd, our hats are off to the
members of the council. Any suggestions from the student body, concerning this situation will be gratefully considered by the Pan-Hellenic
Council. On to Mid-Winters!

WHY DIDN'T I WAIT FOR HOMECOMING!

Calendar

CHAPEL
Monday, November 10—Professor Olin Puckett.
Tuesday, November 11—Professor W. M. Thompson.
Wednesday, November 12—Speaker to be selected later.
Thursday, November 13—Professor J. A. McGeachy.
Friday, November 14—YMCA.

VESPER SPEAKER
NOVEMBER 9—Rev. John H. McKinnon, First Presbyterian Church, Concord, N.C.

Chemistry Society To Reorganize

The local chapter of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary chemical fraternity, met Monday night in Martin Science Building for its
second session of the year. The main item of business was the affirmation of the elections as held at a
meeting last spring without a quorum of the members present. Officers of the fraternity for this session are: Bill Joyner,
president; John Stewart, vice-president; Marshall Carper, secretary; Tommy Moore, treasurer; Ronny Dietrick, warden, and Dan Beals, representative to the Honorary
Fraternity Council. A tentative program schedule for the year was made and the possibility of the re-activation of the Chemistry
Club, an organization designed to stimulate interest in chemistry among the promising underclassmen, was discussed. Ronny Dietrick presented an interesting
and instructive paper on the origin, extraction, and uses of sulfur deposits of Louisiana. After the business session, the fraternity
closed.

S.P.E.’s Win First For Decorations

Decorations of the year were among the most extensive in the history of the school. Led by cheerleader Jerry Robinson,
a collection was taken in chapel on Tuesday, October 28, in order to decorate the dormitories and surrounding buildings of
the campus.than the fraternity houses. Customarily each fraternity decorates its phase of homecoming. Then a committee, selected by the Pan-Hellenic
Council, judges the houses for the most originality and unique display of school spirit. This year, the fraternity which won
the grandstand decorations depicted a lone Wildcat staggering in vain toward the goal, being served by the Keydets to the
Wildcats for lunch. The Pikas had the Keydets around the table, and the KAs depicted the Wildcats with a battleship.
Each decoration was responsible for boosting school spirit.

Other decorations included scenes of the fall, the Phi Mu Alpha Building, and the ROTC building, all decorated in red
and black. These decorations made it a memorable homecoming.

Local Group Orders Latin American Film

On November 4, the Spanish Club held its second meeting of the fall with President Quinton Cooper presiding. Following the
reading of the minutes of the last meeting, David Harrison was elected secretary for the year 1947-48. The club then
voted on a list of membership. At the suggestion of Professor Trakas of the Spanish department, the club decided to
order the Mexican film, “La Barraca,” for a showing at Davidson, to which neighboring schools would be invited.

Having concluded the business part of the meeting, the vice-president, A. M. Lindsay, presented the entertainment, which consisted of three
skits in Spanish, with members of the Spanish Club participating.

EUMANEAN SOCIETY ANNOUNCES PROGRAM OF FURTHER EXPANSION

The Eumanean Literary Society met in the Eumenean Hall Monday night, November 4. The honorary fraternity admitted two initiates, Jimmy
Gribben and Randy Taylor. The two new members read papers, which are required for introduction to the society. Taylor's paper
was a character sketch entitled, “My Father.” Gribben presented a thesis on “Oceana and the Pacific.” Both of these papers
were highly praised by members.

At this meeting, the expansion of the organization was discussed, and it was decided to compose programs of three papers
for the next meetings. The two methods of gaining entrance into this Literary Society are by showing interest in the
organization by reading a paper before the group and by receiving an invitation from the members to join.

The society decided to challenge the Philanthropic Literary Society to a debate concerning the forthcoming presidential election. This debate is
to be held next Spring. The policies of the group, which are coherent with the future plans, were also discussed
at this meeting.

PHILADELPHIA ALUMNI TO HEAR PRESIDENT

An alumni meeting of the Philadelphia area will be held in Philadelphia at 6:30 o'clock on the evening of Wednesday,
November 12, with a banquet at the Penn Sheraton Hotel. The speaker will be President John R. Cunningham. The toastmaster
will be Mr. H. Newton Spencer. Officers of the Alumni Chapter of that area are Mr. John P. Williams, president;
Mr. H. Newton Spencer, vice-president; and Mr. James P. Alexander, secretary-treasurer.

MINSTREL TO GIVE CONCERT TUESDAY

Richard Dyer-Bennet Will Appear In Chambers Auditorium-8:15 p.m.

On his third national concert tour, Richard Dyer-Bennet, the “twentieth-century minstrel,” will be in Davidson for a concert on Tuesday
evening at 8:15 o'clock in Chambers Auditorium. Mr. Dyer-Bennet will be presented here under the sponsorship of the Davidson College
Artist Series.

FORENSIC COUNCIL TO BEGIN TRYOUTS

The Forensic Council has announced that tryouts for the 1947-48 debating team will be held on or about November 13.
The applicants for the team will be judged on the basis of a 5-minute talk, pro or con, on: Resolved—That
a Federal World Government Should Be Established. An open forum discussion of this subject by all applicants will be held
on or about November 6.

The team will make several trips this season, including trips to nearby colleges, and one big trip either north or
south. The successful season last year and the experience gained then should make this year even more successful. Debating is
wonderful training in public speech, and it is hoped many will take advantage of this opportunity. Material is available in
the library periodical room.

FOOTBALL BAND CONCLUDES SEASON

With the Homecoming game over, the Football Band has ended a successful season. Special credit for the success of this
band goes to Rodney Whisnant and Carlyle D. Hamm, drum majors; Homer Hayworth, president; Flynn Long, vice-president; Charles Z. Holler,
secretary; Bob Campbell, business manager; and all on the executive committee.

With its football season over, the band has begun concert work. The first major event of the year will be
the Yule Festival in Charlotte, at which the Davidson Band will lead the parade. On November 19, the group will
go to Greensboro, where they will play for the Annual Convention of North Carolina Colleges, in session at the O.
Henry Hotel. This occasion will be very important as a group of college songs will be played before the banquet,
and afterwards a short program of concert numbers will be presented.

Among other activities of the coming months will be a concert at Mt. Airy, a program here, and an appearance
in the annual Christmas Vespers.

MUSICIANS (?)

Pictured above is “Uncle Dave” Blevins (with the jug) and the “Inner-Aid” boys. Mr. Jugblowing Blevins and his guys will
be a part of the “D Club Follies” to be presented sometime later in the Fall. Sandy Rankin, also a
member of the band, is represented in this picture only by his unshod feet. The other members of Mr. Blevins’
Orchestra are: Hal Hanes, first banjo; Newlin Shenck, 3rd guitar; “Butch” Watkins, 3rd washboard; and Sumner Williams, who at the
moment this picture was taken was making no worthwhile contributions to the efforts of the group.

This is the second concert of the year, the first being Miklos Gafni, famed tenor. Richard Dyer-Bennet has studied nine
years to be a twentieth-century minstrel, a singer in the grand and venerable tradition of Homer and the bards of
Walter Scott's tales. This modern minstrel, who found his first audience in night clubs in New York and whose artistry
was immediately recognized as a concert possibility by S. Hurok, made his Town Hall debut in 1944 to a jam-packed
house and closed the season with an equally crowded Carnegie Hall recital.

Born in England, son of a British army major and listed in Burche’s Peerage as the descendant of one of
England's noble families, he was brought up in California and educated at Berkeley. An expert tennis and soccer player, he
was divided between singing and athletics as a career until Gertrude Wheeler, a San Francisco voice teacher, heard him at
a Christmas party and urged him to journey to Sweden to hear the great minstrel of the last generation, Aven
Scholander, a man unique in history. He went to Sweden where Scholander obligingly took down his own lute from a
shelf and sang in the quavery notes of age some of the songs he had sung to three generations of
Europeans. Deeply impressed, Dyer-Bennet set about developing a repertoire of his own in the virtually empty field of American and
English ballads and folk songs.

His initial success, oddly enough, came in the night clubs of New York where audiences bent on a good time
gave him and his guitar the unexpected tribute of immediate and concentrated attention. His rise to recognition as a concert
artist was rapid, so that in the three years since March 1944, he has sung no fewer than a dozen
times in New York’s Town Hall, with out-of-town concert dates in addition. Nine albums of his recordings have been released
nationally, several of them being collectors' items.

In his short career as a concert artist, the minstrel has, in addition to making the records and albums, performed
at more than fifty radio broadcasts as a guest artist, including “March of Time” and “We the People,” has written
a book containing twenty of his songs, has composed for two artists and innumerable photographers, has spent three months overseas
entertaining troops as a one-man USO show, and has acted in one play with Ruth Chatterton.

Richard Dyer-Bennet, who leads the field in the new art of ballad singing, will bring to his concert a six-century
hit parade of stonemasons, kings, sea chanties, haunting love songs, plus the fancy, pawky humor, and occasional grisly humor which
would have delighted the Elizabethans, as it did last night’s audience. Thus the New York Times reported of his performance
in Carnegie Hall: Richard Dyer-Bennet has proved his point that the minstrel’s art is undying.

Joseph A. Mathis

The student body and administration of Davidson College join in extending their deepest sympathy to the family circle of Joe
Mathis, of the Sophomore class, who was killed in an automobile accident in Wilmington, N. C., on the night of
October 31. Flowers are being sent this Sunday to his home church in Wilmington as a memorial from the Davidson
student body.
