Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, November 28, 1947

The DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

BOB PHILLIPS EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOB CLINE BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Sam Ervin Associate Editor
Walter Walker Associate Editor
Mac Hart Sports Editor
Walter Mann Managing Editor
Bill Calhoun Managing Editor
Ronny Dietrick Managing Editor
Stan Kennett Managing Editor
Bob Hollister Exchange Editor
Jean Stewart Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
John McNair Assistant Business Manager
Charlie Reid Advertising Manager
Frank Lemmon Circulation Manager
Bill Baxter Subscriptions Manager
Charles Dockery Collections Manager
H. Fulton Ass't Circulation Manager
Bob Knight Ass't Subscription Manager
Charles Clink Assistant Advertising Manager
Wilkes Macauley Assistant Advertising Manager
Bob Knight Assistant Circulation Manager
Bill Keith Assistant Circulation Manager
Charles Beam Assistant Collections Manager

Advertising Staff
H. MacKethan, C. Faison, Bill Houck, Claude Higginbothum, D. Hayworth, Blaine Kelley, F. M. Purnell, Gene Taylor

Circulation Staff
S. H. Fulton, Alf. Duncan, Sam Davis, Hunter Boykin, Paul Guthery, Bill Cassels, John Coble, Carl Herman, Jim Fisher, Bob Sims, Jimmy Rogers, Harry Powe.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Member 1947 Associated Collegiate Press

Is It Better Business To Receive Than Give?

On the first Christmas was born the personification of the teaching, “For it is more blessed to give than to receive.” The wise men came that night—not to receive anything, but rather bearing gifts. No one knows when the first celebration of Christ’s birthday was held, but it is logical to assume that the Christmas season was established as a time of concentrated preparation of the Christian ideals and sincere rededication to them, in memory of their founder. And that is what it yet means to the saddened oldsters among us. But how about our generation?

The accounts of two Christmases, separated by two thousand years, follow. The first was recorded by a pair of reporters named Luke and Matthew, with a dateline of Bethlehem, Judea. The second could be written by any local reporter with a dateline of Charlotte, North Carolina.

1.) “And she brought forth her first born son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger: for there was no room for them in the inn... And it came to pass as the angels were gone away from them into heaven, the shepherds said one to another, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem and see this thing which is come to pass, which the Lord hath made known to us. And they came with haste, and found Mary and Joseph, and the babe lying in a manger; And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen, as it was told unto them.”

“Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he that is born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east, and are come to worship him... And when they were come into the house, they saw the young child with Mary his mother, and fell down, and worshipped him; and when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto him gifts: gold, and frankincense, and myrrh.”

2.) Hundreds of thousands of people thronged the streets of Charlotte on this gala November opening of the Christmas season. A touching spirit of benevolence was in evidence everywhere, as beaming merchants vied for the affluent throng, and happily hummed snatches from that grand old Christmas song, “Jingle Silver.” Glamorous young “queens” from prospective-customer towns added beauty and appeal to the “Buy-from-me” floats that paraded by unceasingly. The star of the parade, following in a high throne, was the King of Christmas himself, Santa Claus, clad in all his splendor. Many arose as he passed and they made room for him through the throngs.

What think ye of these things which have come to pass?

An Argument for Fellowship

Davidson is proud that she builds character and leaders. In fact, that is one of the best advertisements of Davidson. This fact is frequently extolled until one might get the idea that everyone at Davidson is a leader. Fortunately, this is not the case.

Several years ago The Reader's Digest carried a very interesting but short space filler, the gist of which I would like to repeat here, though the figures may not be exact. It seems that a loving father had written to a well-known northern girl’s school attempting to get his daughter entered there. In reply, they sent him a questionnaire to be filled in and returned. In the questionnaire was the question, “Is your daughter a leader?” Slightly chagrined because his daughter was not a leader, he filled in the blank with “No,” but added in the margin as an afterthought, “She is, however, an excellent follower,” then sent the questionnaire back to the college. In a very few days, the father received an answer which read something like this: “Dear sir: In view of the fact that out of 200 applications to our next year’s freshman class, your daughter seems to be the only ‘follower,’ we shall be glad to accept her, etc.”

Of course, the tale is probably exaggerated, but it does bring out a salient point, i.e., the values and necessity of fellowship should be more greatly stressed. Inasmuch as everyone just can’t be a leader, it would seem that fellowship is certainly just as important, if not more so. The argument of this editorial is not that we should cease to emphasize leadership, but that the value of fellowship should be equally stressed. In this present day, it is hard to find enough people who are willing to follow. That may be one of the reasons why there are so many different ideologies floating around without a following. To be a good follower demands a good bit of intelligence and discrimination. A follower must be able to make a definite choice about his beliefs and also must know why he chooses the views that he does. Finally, it seems that the best leaders are those who are also the best followers. Anyway, you look at it, the virtues of being a follower are greatly belittled and overlooked but nevertheless important. Since not all people can lead, why should we not concentrate on being good followers?

WHAT’S WHAT AMONG AMERICAN COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES

Homecoming affair than did the great DAVIDSONIAN. At first, while reading through the Blues, I was beset by the thought that the many references to “homecoming” were of one of their own affairs. But with closer observation, I concluded that when they used the term it referred to our homecoming. It seems that Collegiate news these days is devoted to games and such, with numerous college papers resorting to devoting much space to the whole affair. So, having spent the week peering through a microscope, I assure you that my intentions are not to use the same instrument in gleaning bits from a wad of paper.

Up at Woman’s College, they are petitioning the faculty, too. But not particularly for more holidays. They want to refrain from blowing themselves presentable for classes. It looks like they’re going to make some compromises with the faculty. Students agree to exert themselves to answer exam questions if the faculty will agree to assign questions that cover no more than ten centuries. Students agree not to leave class while the professor is lecturing if he will terminate at the end of the assigned hour. Students agree to study between assigned tests if the faculty will agree to give warning of pop quizzes. Students will agree to use the faculty's canned notes as long as the speed of reading is held down to 60 w.p.m. (words per minute).

Christmas dances are set for December 6 and December 12. This observation confirms that Charlotte is a dancing city. On the night of the 6th, Davidson fraternity dances and this celebration at Queens. The Queens Blues devoted more space in writing up the Davidson Homecoming affair than did the great DAVIDSONIAN, with about four pages. It sort of makes those who were betting on the Blue Devils look like they were played for suckers.

Reports on the reaction to our essay inspiring enterprise have not yet begun pouring in. What I hope is the first dribble has started. The Johnsonian of Winthrop gave their well-intentioned response with a (Continued on Page Four)

Sam Sez

About this time every year for some unknown reason the Davidsonian and those of us who masquerade as columnists find that there is a tremendous decrease in the amount of news of real magnitude. This period has been a little later for the sports writers—say between football and basketball seasons, and before baseball practice gets underway—but for the rest of us, it has already begun. Unfortunately, few of us have the intelligence to follow our better judgment and the advice of what few friends remain and take a vacation for a week or so. Therefore, in my case at least, the reader will have to be content with some short comment about assorted subjects.

I could succumb to the temptation suggested by Prof. Abernathy to follow the trend toward the “rural weekly,” by writing some racy article about agriculture—say dealing with the life and love of the Japanese beetle, but I haven't the heart. Who am I to muscle in on the only literary field in which a certain obscure college, located in a spot some distance to the east, has a claim to fame? But back to our subjects or lack thereof.

I think that we owe a vote of thanks to members of the faculty who were instrumental in changing the dates set for our Christmas holidays. Now the more ardent ringers in of the New Year will be able to report back in slightly better condition than formerly. Seriously, though, the new dates are much more satisfactory and all should be able to enjoy themselves more fully. After all, it isn’t conducive to good morale to be required to come back on Friday! I sincerely hope that this spirit of cooperation will also prevail when another pressing problem is discussed again—namely, the question...of whether the Freshmen who belong to fraternities will be required to eat in the college dining hall for another semester. I heard from a rather reliable source that the policy would be continued the remainder of the year. I hope that my informant was in error, but if not, for the sake of unity let's talk it over before the final decision is made. I, for one, would like to get to know our Pledges well before I graduate. Several people have asked me recently to put in a plug for some walks across some of the deeper quagmires on the campus. Sounds like a good idea. If it's too expensive, we can at least take advantage of the practice that the boys have been getting of late, and organize crews and swimming teams. Jack Etheridge’s Boys’ Work Department of the YMCA is planning to have Christmas parties for the youngsters from Barium Springs here on the campus. Every organization of a social nature must help if the program is to be a success. This is a fine way for us to do something of a constructive nature.

PHI DELTA THETA

This weekend was doubtless full of intrigues for many brothers who traveled varying distances in their frantic quest for recognition and publicity. These accounts will doubtless be of interest to all, especially the ones who have found happiness and contentment on the soil of Alma Mater. Long Bill Montgomery, Vann, and White retired their “Hearts” thrills for the afternoon. A group of brothers, led by Bill Iverson and Ken Smart, proposed to hold their anonymous print: Perish the thought!!! Brothers Foote, Smith, Brownson, Henderson, Miller, Patton, and Willingham adjourned into Charlotte to the revival, but returned immediately to their weekly pursuits of knowledge. McAllister, Mills, Palmer, Wilkins, Smith, Crumpacker, Hooper, and Golden professed the pursuit of their studies, but actually, I think most of them merely had a bad case of “sackitis.” Consequently, they spent the past weekend recuperating from deals and planning new ones. Leading the list of the “operators” were Brothers Guthrie and Ed Oglesby who journeyed to Florida seeking their true loves. Oglesby turned the fair city of Atlanta inside out. Also this weekend, Brothers Cameron Montgomery and Newell traveled to Tallahassee, while Brothers Brinegar and Hall accompanied Pledge Mann to the intrigues of Asheville, and Pledge Hollister traveled to Macon for a dance. “Ho hum! and life goes on and what a life!!!" quoth Oglesby.

KAPPA SIGMA

For a while we thought Wilcox was sneaking on Brother Jones last Saturday night as he was “keeping” her, but with the release of photos plastered all over the school, it would seem that Jones is trying to prove something. Having lost considerable ground last weekend, Brother Bulldawg Smith and Miss Betsy Lawson negotiated grievances with the lassie’s parents and took in the Duke-Carolina affair, returning with big smiles. Mr. Lawson (Betsy’s father) and mother spent the night in one room with Miss Lawson and Bulldawg in another—or something like that!!! (the point being that Bulldawg didn’t make any nickels.) Not that it is with no little chagrin that one Billie Kennett learned P. was wrapped up with the Horse down at Bingham the shaft barbed wire another weekend at Duke. Near the stairs, Brother Bingham apparently can't escape the elevator or walking with purple and tinted was handed to him by Miss Indigestion. (Have you tried Carter's Little Liver Pills?) Excepting Brother Coffee who went to Florida for his health, athletic supporters were found in Durham or South Carolina. Jake Wade survived The Citadel game without a scratch but failed to circumvent Winston without getting his nose hurt. Dum Dum finished his weekend business in time to be present for an 8:30 class but was last seen heading south from Charleston. Bill DuBose and Rucker Dudley were still eating dinner at 4:30 Saturday afternoon.

DELTA KAPPA

Yeddy Craver has been requested by the Management of the local Academy to refrain from making unseemly noises during the showing of the picture. Many patrons have objected: “Why ask me?” Mann and his father were seen at the spirit-less downfall of the Blue Devils at Durham. They also participated vigorously in the after-game festivities. Willie Calhoun was strenuously pole-vaulting in Carolina Theater over the weekend. J-8 observed huskering his varied selections of fur-lined products in Myers Park Thursday evening. (This is a paid advertisement.) Blackjack Beatie, after batting 1.000 during the last weekend, is approaching the conclusion of the pigskin season with an approximate .865 average. Diminutive Dick Morgan spent the weekend in Concord earnestly (Continued on Page Four)

Operating Table

Following a week's absence from the column, your correspondent now returns with many choice items and a bit of interest spreading all the way from Chapel Hill to Charleston. As usual, many have requested that we print something about both them and their tremendous deals, and as usual, with a limited amount of space we shall try to comply with their request. Without further ado, Cheerleader ROBINSON was seen streaming down the halls of one Francis Marion in Charleston with a host of lovelies, greeted each and all, and quietly passed out through the portals again. CHICK NEILL and FRIEND took up their usual residence at the Kappa Sigma house and found it quite impossible to leave until late Sunday afternoon. PRESIDENT HUGH HILL put in an appearance for several hours at several chapter houses in quest of his truest love, a Miss P. Hole. After a concentrated search for the beauteous Sweetheart of Chapel Hill, President Hill confided to close friends that he suspected she had flown the coop and forthwith he drowned his sorrows with six fifths of Shivars ginger ale. SQUIRE HODGIN and JIMMY GRIBBEN arrived late Saturday night due to the fact that they were stuck for several hours in the Duke parking lots. A quote from the Squire was unprintable.

Duke-Carolina Bone

In that your correspondent was in attendance at the great Tar Heel classic, let us shift our sights and take a few pot shots at the majority of the student body who were also seen in and around the area. Probably each odd thousand was seen by the man almost certain to be known by everyone present, Cousin GEORGE MACKIE even introduced himself to each and all as J. D. ASHMORE, preministerial student at a splendid little Christian College named Davidson. Highlight of his performance was his swinging on the goal post cross-bar with the two Duke Blue Devils during the half-time period. WHISPERING JIM SISK was seen wandering through Durham late Saturday night with a galaxy of bellhops, redcaps, and other lackeys in his train. BENNY MYERS, former Davidson capitalist, was quoted as saying that he would continue to travel FIRST CLASS regardless of what happens to his procurement of JELLO. A communication was received from BONE JEFFRIES only this last week. The BONE asked to be remembered to all his friends here and requested that his name be mentioned once more in the table. Bone also stated that Harvard is hard, either way you make it, and with THE COUNTESS OF SALISBURY there he finds it to be extremely hard.

Otts and Ney

FREDRICK OTTS and PETER STUART NEY are reported to have taken the entire LIMESTONE COLLEGE student body by storm during the past weekend. Fan mail has been coming in on all trains, and reports have it that OTTS has been selected to reign as king of the May Court next spring. EMIL CAILLIET, renowned male specimen from Dijon, was present but was completely overshadowed by Davidson’s representatives. At this point, we turn the column over to ENOCH, and quietly depart with assurances that we shall cover next week both Greenville and other points.

By WALTER MANN

As the heading states, received its name from the famous night club you were right. The name, however, is its only connection with night clubs. So far as this picture is concerned, no comment will be made. Instead, an attempt will be made to present a few facts. In “Dishonored Lady” Hedy Lamarr plays the part of a magazine editor who decides she is missing something and so she consults a psychiatrist. Since a psychiatrist is supposed to be a doctor and doctors are supposed to cure people, this psychiatrist sends her up to Greenwich Village for the cure. His main idea in sending her away with a new identity was so that she could meet new people and she succeeded admirably. It seems that Mr. Dennis O’Keefe, a doctor, had just moved into the sanatorium where Miss Lamarr was taking the cure. She helps him out with a few sketches for his research thesis and finally makes him fall in love with her. Madeleine or Hedy, take your pick, they’re both the same person. She makes the mistake of going back to one of her former associates and gets rather involved in a murder. Enough facts, I don't want to ruin the picture for anyone.

Wednesday and Thursday, December 3 and 4

“COPACABANA”

Groucho Marx is back and Carmen Miranda is the lucky, lucky girl. She has the great honor of playing with him in what purports to be a Marx movie. Perhaps it would be nice if I could outline part of the plot for you as was done with the preceding picture. On the other hand, it will probably be better for the coffers of the local showing pavilion if this information does not leak out. It is doubtful whether it will leak out though, since one cannot really figure out what the plot is with a copy before him. Perhaps it will be just a little clearer on the screen. If you guessed that this picture received its name from the famous night club, you were right. The name, however, is its only connection with night clubs. I hope you don't find any other kind of clubs after you have seen it.

Friday and Saturday, December 5 and 6

“I WONDER WHO'S KISSING HER NOW”

If you have any revengeful nature at all you will get a small amount of pleasure from this. For once you will see a man giving a girl a hard time instead of the usual stuff that the women hand out. Of course, the poor dope finally succumbs, because after all he didn’t have a chance to start with. June Haver plays the part of the gal who goes out and makes good in the end. In case anyone has read this far and is interested, Mark Stevens plays the part of the man and does a better job than Miss Haver, although she has her points.

DEVOK Paint Store

—PAINTS
—WALLPAPER
—GLASS
—ARTISTS SUPPLIES

PHONE 3-3196
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
109 S. CHURCH ST.