MERRY CHRISTMAS!  
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS  
The Davidsonian  
TENTH NATIONAL FRATERNITY ARRIVES ON CAMPUS  
Volume XXXVI  
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, DEC. 12, 1947  
SIGMA CHI

Trustees Select Jamerson As Coach  
Story’s Former Assistant Becomes Football Coach; Was Former Professional Baseball Player

Davidson's new football coach is Charley Jamerson. His appointment seems to have a mighty impact on the gridsters who he will head. The announcement was made following a meeting of the trustees.

Businessman Delivers Talk  
A Chapel talk was delivered by Mr. Ervin (Continued on Page Six)

Valentine Davies.  
SIGMA CHI HOUSE

Pictured above is the second house on Fraternity Row which now becomes the home of Sigma Chi at Davidson. The house has been home to Delta Kappa, who were the originators of the petition. 

The Red and Black Masquers announce the bidding of the following new members: Prof. H. T. Lilly, Carolyn McGoogan, Freeman Jones, Charley Riley, Glenn Neal, Gabriel Tob, Norman, Dan Wilcox.

Students Give Program Of Christmas Carols  
An evening of Christmas carols was presented by the students. The program included:

- Venez, divin Messie!—An eighteenth-century carol from the region of the troubadours.
- L’Ancien Noel—A very old carol.
- Cantique pour Noel—Most popular of the French carols.
- Les Anges dans nos campagnes—French version of "Angels We Have Heard on High."
- Il est ne, le divin Enfant—Eighteenth-century carol.

Ex-News Analyst Delivers Lecture  
Mr. Ivey closed by saying that although the business executive has the advantage of the knowledge of industrial formulas necessary for intelligent organic chemistry, it is the worker in the store that makes the department store what it is.

NEW BOOKS PLACED IN LIBRARY STACKSHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

His management was alchemy 4 © mis}tanees; but Perkin, showing a true attitude, experimented with several books. Among the recent additions to the library are several books with the Gospel rapa! Pages: Pete ty es ihe fh miscalculation and during his Easter vacation, he studied precision radio. This should prove to be of interest to the students. There are several books which speak of great Davidson alumni, one of which is "Ports o' Call" by John DeChant, which mentions Dan Iverson of the class of '38, and a brother of Bill Iverson. Another is "Battle Report; Harbor to Coral Sea," by Walter Karig.

Before a small, but appreciative audience, the Red and Black Masquers presented their first off-campus performance of Thornton Wilder’s hit play, “Our Town,” on Tuesday, December 2, at Central High School in Charlotte. After a hectic day of preparation, a second appearance took place in Concord at the high school auditorium. Several shifts in the cast were necessitated due to the fact that Selene Varker, who had portrayed the part of Mrs. Webb, was unable to accompany the Masquers. Eloise Noel, who formerly played Mrs. Soames, the town gossip, was moved to the part of Mrs. Webb, and Nancy Copeland took over as Mrs. Soames.

In 1856, Perkin discovered the first aniline dye, founding the now great coal-tar dye industry. Starting a small chemical plant with his father’s money, Perkin overcame the obstacles of the high cost of materials, the traditional methods of the Scotch cloth dyers, and crude and dangerous chemicals. Other chemists took up the research on synthetic dyes, and new markets and products were created. Perkin retired wealthy at 36 and devoted the rest of his life to research. The vast coal-tar industry, which turned an offensive waste product into a beautiful and useful commodity, was the result of Perkin’s scientific inquisitiveness and persistent labor.

Of particular interest is the one by an ation of your Assembly. This assignment has proven a pleasant and happy experience for me. To witness the organization of your General Assembly has been to recognize the noble sacrificial work. 

Delta Kappa Local Group Will Be Given Charter Installation Will Take Place Late in February; National Dignitaries To Be Present

Fraternities Give Christmas Party For Children

Students Consider Jewish-Arab Case At IRC Meeting

City lead on December 13. Arabs to then were presented on Wednesday night at a meeting of the International Relations Club. R. Hoey and Don Coffey presented the case of the Arabs, and C. S. Abernathy presented the case of the Jews. Coffey summarized the history and aims of the Arab league and its coherency as the instrument which represents the Arabs of the Near East. Abernathy presented the contentions of the Jews and their disputes against the Arabs. On the basis of this, the club members discussed the existing situation in Palestine and its possible solutions. It was an interesting meeting, and the members were much better informed concerning this great problem, consequently being better able to interpret the actions of the United States and the United Nations towards this troubled area of the world.

Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity Hears Several Papers

Sigma Upsilon met on Thursday night at the house. Several interesting minutes were read and discussed at length. The club's president, Bingham, commissioned Sam Luc, Jack Etheridge, and Jerry Keland to draw up a constitution and by-laws to be presented at the next meeting. Any members of the student body interested are invited to attend the meetings of the club and take part in its activities.