Friday, May 16, 1947

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Vereen Bell Award Given To MacDonald

John MacDonald

AMONG THE GREEKS
(Continued from Page 2)

Joe Backman, and Don Watt. Before closing this year’s column, Sigma Chapter extends its congratulations and best wishes for future success to its graduating brothers, Sim Barnwell, Shep Dunn, Jim Jackson, Mac Jeffries, Ed Monroe, and Buddy Whitesides.

PHI DELTA THETA
Leading the dealers of the Sword and Shield was Brother William S. McLean, who rang the bell again with a date on the blind side. Brother Oglesby broke into the win column with another blind date which had the more social-minded set agog. Quoth Richard, “I love that rare Egyptian type of beauty.” Brother Miller was seen partying after the brawl, and rumor has it that the Georgian is becoming quite a gay blade in his Junior year on the hill. Brothers Iverson and Spires were on the entertainment committee for the Agnes Scott delegation at the Holy City over the weekend. Will it be wedding bells for Brother Tate? His constant croonings of “Love on a Greyhound Bus” must indicate something is in the air. Brothers attending the Phi Mu party at the river include Turnipseed, Palmer, Sutton, Mills, Newell, Tate, and Crumpacker. Sutton, speaking for the group, reports a wonderful time between sneezes. Brother Starnes figured prominently in both the dance and the now infamous picnic gathering sponsored by the original members of the class of forty-five. Brother Tate and fair companion broke all records by attending three different parties in one night. Brother Johnson and Joy “I don’t wanta’ go-home” Martin honored the chapter with their presence at dinner on Sunday evening.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
The big function at the Red Fez Club this past Saturday was a huge success. Everyone there seems to have had the biggest time yet. Brother Double Dip McNair arrived first and from all reports was the last to leave. He and Tramp Ensign assumed the duties of hosts and did a splendid job. Among the couples seen dancing to Gib Todd’s orchestra were Brothers Rogers and Libby, Hart and Maria, Turner and Beth, Stroup and Aileen, Big Stroup and Lib, Gallant and Dot, Shelton and Mary, Wester and Anne, Dockery and Dottie, Leonard and Shirley (Pinned as of Saturday night), Jackson and Jeanne, Bell and Anna, Hadley and Mary, Clark and Mary Bess, and all the other Brothers and Pledges with their “rags, bones, and hanks of hair” (as Kipling would have it). Brother Chick Neill’s date, Winifred Jordan from Gastonia, was elected “Dream Girl” of Beta Chapter for 1947, and we think it was a fine selection. All in all, it was a glorious weekend, and it will be remembered by all attending as such for a long time.

Stonestreet’s Gr“A”de Cafe
O. C. Stonestreet, Manager
“The Sensible Place to Eat”
416 S. Main St. — Phone 132
Mooresville, N. C.

Dr. Blackburn of Duke University, Makes the First Annual Award
John Erle MacDonald was awarded the Vereen Bell Memorial Prize by Professor W. M. Blackburn of the faculty of Duke University during the chapel program on Monday, April 28. First honorable mention went to W. B. Campbell, a senior from Palestine, Texas, for his short story, “Special Watch.” Horace Girardeau Leland, Jr., received second honorable mention. His story was entitled “Last Fare.” MacDonald received the annual award of fifty dollars which was taken from the fund established by friends and relatives of Vereen Bell. Dr. Blackburn is a professor of English literature and composition at Duke University. MacDonald is a senior, carrying an English major at Davidson. He intends to study law at the University of Virginia. John hails from Norfolk, Virginia, and married shortly after his return from overseas.

Stories Lauded
As for the stories, “Jungle Rot” is about an Army deserter in the Philippines. “Special Watch” is a hospital misadventure. “The characterization of this story was its chief asset,” said Doctor Blackburn, “and in this important factor of narration it was superior to the other manuscripts submitted.” In regard to Leland’s “Last Fare” Doctor Blackburn said: “It was superior in smoothness of style and in development.” According to Doctor Blackburn, the excellence of “Jungle Rot” lay in the structural unity and powerful scenic description which it exhibited.

Annual Affair
This year having been the first since the war when the complement of the student body was up to normal, it is the first time that the award has been presented. Hereafter the presentation of the prize will be an annual affair.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
It seems that Brother Jenkins has misplaced his fraternity pin somewhere. If anyone should accidentally see one on the Queens Campus, please return it to Paul before it’s too late. (Jenny could possibly have dropped it off her blouse, couldn’t she?) Murd asked his best girl last week if she believed in interdigitation before marriage, and the sound of a gnat clipping his toenails on a blotter could easily have been heard during the silence which followed. Murd’s next move was toward a dictionary. Wonder if you heard the story of the college man that went into a tavern to have a short beer? There were three of them: a Wake Forest man, a Carolina man, and a Davidson man. When the waiter brought the booze, the man noticed that there was a fly in each glass. The Wake Forest gentleman quickly handed the glass back to the waiter and demanded another, while the Carolina man just scooped out the fly in his glass with his finger. The Davidson man gently picked up his fly by the wings, held him above the glass, squeezed the nape of his neck, and said, “Spit it out, you little rascal, spit it out.”

BATTALION FORMATION
Pictured above is the Davidson College R.O.T.C. Unit at their recent Annual Inspection conducted by officers of the Eighty-second Airborne Division.

GLEE CLUB
Marshall Carper from Bluefield, West Virginia, was elected president of the Davidson College Glee Club for the 1947-48 school year at a recent meeting of the vocal organization. Selected to serve with him as officers of the organization are Hugh Farrier who will be vice president and S. Tommy Clark who will act as secretary-treasurer of the group.

Cowling Heard During Chapel
On Wednesday, May 7, Dr. Donald J. Cowling spoke to the student body during chapel services. Dr. Cowling was here on a three-day visit with members of the faculty and administration. Monday evening, he was entertained by the faculty in the Quadrangle’s Room. Tuesday evening, Dr. Cowling spoke to the faculty after attending a luncheon given by Dr. and Mrs. Guy R. Vowles.

Honors
Born in England, Dr. Cowling moved to Pennsylvania while still a child. He is now president emeritus of Carleton College, Northfield, Minn. He is a past presidentof Association of American Colleges and vice president of the World Student Service Fund. Dr. Cowling is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Chi, and he holds B.D. and Ph.D. degrees from Yale University.

Education
Dr. Cowling’s theme was General Education and Liberal Education. He stated that the distinction between these two types of education has been relatively recent. General education is completed within the first two years of college. It is this type of education which makes a man into a good citizen and enables him to master the tools of education, such as writing, reading, and speaking. Therefore, we have in this system the study of English and foreign languages, the practicality of which was proved by the recent war.

(Continued on Col. 7)

“If I tell you the truth, dear, you'll only think I’m bragging.”
Reprinted from the March, 1947 issue of Esquire
Copyright 1947 by Esquire

Army Reviews Military Units
War Department Board Finishes Inspection Here After Two Days

The annual War Department inspection of Davidson’s R.O.T.C. unit was concluded last Friday with a parade and review. The reviewing personages consisted of President Cunningham, the Inspecting Staff, and the Cadet Staff. The Inspection Board was comprised of officers from the 82nd Airborne Division of Fort Bragg, N.C. The board consisted of three field officers and was headed by Colonel J. W. Coutts, the other two officers being Lt. Col. O. A. Leahy and T. H. Taylor. These officers have been inspecting senior R.O.T.C. units both in North and South Carolina.

The entire inspection lasted through Thursday and Friday. It consisted of tests in all military subjects, both practical and theoretical. The outcome of the tests will not be known until some time this summer. At this time, the rating of the unit will be made public. At the conclusion of Friday's review, the Cadet Corps was assembled by Colonel Coutts, at which he gave a short talk. Colonel Coutts, in his talk, expressed his gratitude for the friendliness which the students of the college had shown both him and the other members of the board. Also, he wished to praise the members of the R.O.T.C. unit for their spirit and eagerness to do well. He also stated that the students displayed a great amount of effort in trying to accomplish their tasks.

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Stationery, Rule Forms, Booklets, Publications
Phone 63000 Charlotte, N.C.

When you graduate, you will have one of the finest opportunities to learn to fly ever offered young men in peacetime. The Army Air Forces’ Aviation Cadet Training Program gives you that chance. It cannot be duplicated anywhere at any price. Leader in new things for aviation—in jet and rocket propulsion, far-ranging heavy aircraft, improved navigation facilities, and many other of the latest developments in a fast-moving field—the AAF can help you begin a brilliant future. The Air Forces have reopened Aviation Cadet training to qualified civilians 18 to 26½ years of age. Men selected for training as pilots under the terms of the program must be single and have had at least two years of college education, or the equivalent, in an accredited institution. Upon successful completion of the course, graduates will be commissioned Second Lieutenants, Army of the United States, and assigned to flying duty with the Army Air Forces.

PEACE POWER

Page 3

Phi Beta Kappa Bid Goes To Honor Man
Judge Parker Delivers Informative Talk To Scholars at Gathering

At the meeting of Phi Beta Kappa held Monday, May 5, Charles Edward Ratliff, Jr., was elected as a new member. Ratliff and Tommy Bumbarger were initiated into the national honorary fraternity at the session held last Monday afternoon. A third new member, Dave Richardson, will be taken into the fraternity at a later date.

A native of Morven, N.C., Ratliff entered Davidson in the summer of 1943, remaining until the spring of 1944 when he entered the Navy V-12 program. From July 1945 through December 1945, he studied at Harvard Business School, where he received a commission in the Navy supply corps. He served in the Pacific area at the Midway Naval Air Station. Ratliff resumed his studies at Davidson in September 1946, as a major in Economics and Business. He served on the Davidsonian staff in 1943 and 1944.

Members of the chapter had as speaker Tuesday night in Phi Hall, Judge John J. Parker of Charlotte, who gave an interesting and informative talk. Judge Parker has recently returned from Germany where he was a member of the War Crimes staff at Nuremberg. Following the address, Phi Beta Kappa held a reception at the college guest house at which several higher-ranking freshmen attended. Also present at the lecture and reception were delegates from nearby Phi Beta Kappa chapters which included Queens, Winthrop, Lenoir Rhyne, and Catawba.

Newly elected officers for the ‘47-48 school year are as follows: Dr. T. S. Logan, president; Dr. C. G. Davidson, vice president; Dr. J. A. McGeachy, secretary-treasurer.

Charles Ratliff

COWLING (Continued from Col. 3)

In evaluating the various courses of the college curriculum, Dr. Cowling stated that social science broadens one’s scope of the problems of the social order; natural science makes us feel at home in the physical universe; history makes us aware of what went on before in terms of man’s previous experiments and experiences. A liberal education, said Dr. Cowling, weaves skills and abilities into a specific end and is therefore more difficult. It liberates man from mental slavery and particularly from mere obedience to instincts.

In conclusion, Dr. Cowling stated that liberal and general education are complementary in the individual and by no means opposite in their ends.

Reactivation of the Aviation Cadet program is typical of the AAF’s continuing effort to provide selected young men every opportunity to earn advancement. Cadets who win their wings as today’s pilots will be the same kind of men who, in wartime, built and manned the world’s mightiest air arm. Make your plans now to get in at the start! By applying immediately after graduation, you can take your qualifying examinations and enter the July 1st class, or—if you want a summer vacation—you can take your examinations now and be ready to enter the class beginning October 15th. Further information is available at AAF Bases, U.S. Army Recruiting Stations, local Civil Air Patrol headquarters, or by writing to the Commanding General, Army Air Forces, Washington 25, D.C.

U.S. ARMY RECRUITING SERVICE