Page 6 THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, March 28, 1947

Commissions Offered Former Army Men

College Graduates Can Take Opportunity

College students who have served as former Army officers now have a chance to obtain regular commissions after their graduation according to new information received from the War Department by Lt. Col. W. P. Grace, P. M. S. & T. Under the new program to integrate college men, applications will be received from male citizens of the United States who served on active duty as commissioned officers in the Army of the United States or any of its components and who were honorably separated. Former officers must complete work for their degrees on or before February 15, 1948. Interested men should contact any member of the R. O. T. C. department for further information concerning age and date of commission limits and method of application.

HOOD NORTER (Continued from Page 5)

True you have had it very cold
Just the same as we have had;
The story is only half told,
Our winter up here was bad.

I would love to meet you all
Down South in Davidson again;
It might be by next fall,
Here’s where I’ll have to remain.

R. A. BRUNDAGE.
March 2nd, 1947,
New London, Ohio.

Whit Cobb Elected (Continued from Page 1)

He attended the high school there last year, and excelled in scholastics as well as athletics. He was a member of the football, basketball, tennis, and track teams; and was also elected president of the student body in his senior year at Durham High. Coming to Davidson last fall, he already had earned his letter in basketball, and has dominated the intramural track meet. He is also a very promising candidate for the tennis team. A brother of Phi Delta Theta fraternity, Whit is studying for a B. S. degree.

Y Vice-Presidents (Continued from Page 1)

sity squad, is a member of this year’s track team and of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity.

Men To Assist Hill (Continued from Page 1)

nity. He comes to Davidson from Selma, Alabama. Carl Pahl, from Memphis, Tennessee, was a student at Yale for one year before going into the Army Air Corps. As a member of the football squad at Yale he was the youngest man to ever win a varsity letter there. After leaving the service he entered Davidson where he has been very active on the campus. He is lieutenant colonel of the R. O. T. C. battalion and a member of the football team, “D” Club, Beaver Club, Scabbard and Blade, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity.

GROUP BACKS DRIVE (Continued from Page 5)

only required admission to this game was either the donation of some piece of apparel or a small financial contribution. Members of the Beaver Club announced that this drive will continue until several days after spring holidays.

SMOKING PLEASURE

CHARLEY TRIPP!
University of Georgia's great All-America back
VOTED TOPS
CHESTERFIELD
THE LARGEST SELLING CIGARETTE IN AMERICA’S COLLEGES

DEBATE TEAM PLANS (Continued from Page 1)

one side and Professors McGeachy, Reid, and Pinkney on the other. The Davidson affirmative lost a 3-0 decision, while the negative lost 2-1. Spring trips for the teams are being planned. The south-bound group, composed of Brinegar, Clontz, and Christopher, have Wofford, Winthrop, Emory, Mercer, and Wesleyan on their tentative schedule. The north-bound group of Coffey, Long, Elyea and Pence have hopes of debates at the University of Richmond, Randolph-Macon, and Roanoke. The trips will be made early in April.

Bumbarger And Bryant (Continued from Page 5)

holes won in the match; each man concerned gains 1-2 point. This same system of scoring is used for the two other golfers in the foursome. Thus a total of 6 points may be earned. Then the best ball in the foursome also gets three points, the top golfer in the first nine getting 1 point and also in the second as well as in the whole match. The total is 9 points. If there are 3 foursomes playing, a total of 27 points is the most attainable by the three teams.

CINDER MEN READY (Continued from Page 4)

find Bill Lacy, Peters, and Archibald in the initial trials. In the weights will be Carl Eborn, Bob Strickland, and Joe Richards putting the 16-pound shot; Jim Vann and Easy Rhodes in the discus; and Tim Hardin, Bill Robertson and Vann in the javelin. With this aggregation the Red and Blackshould bring a victory back to the Hill.

STEINWAY PIANOS
HAMMOND ORGANS
RECORDS
RECORD PLAYERS
SHEET MUSIC
ANDREWS MUSIC CO.
231 N. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE

Patterson Is Vice-President
(Continued from Page 1)
“D” Club, and the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity. He has served on the Court of Control and is on the Track squad. Robertson is a native of Kannapolis. Candidates on the original ballot were Bryant, Fesperman, Flowers, Joyner, Maloney, Neill, Pittman, Scarborough, Strickland, Waters, and Willingham.

Patterson
Charlie Patterson will serve as vice president of the Senior Class next year, having been elected over Fitzhugh Read in the third ballot Thursday. He entered Davidson in 1942 but left for the Army the same year, returning in January of last year. He has served as vice president of his Sophomore class and is now vice president of the Y. M. C. A. He is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and the Beaver Club. He comes from Charlotte and is majoring in Business. Other candidates were Baxter, Bowman, Edwards, Neill, Stroup, and Williams.

Robinson
Jerry Robinson defeated Vernon McGehee on the third ballot yesterday for secretary-treasurer of the Senior Class. Others in the race were Crane, Ervin, Etheridge, Grimball, Medford, Oglesby, Tate, and Walker. Robinson, from Wilmington, is a member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, and is on the tennis team.

AMBULANCE SERVICE
Telephone 284
Equipped For Service Any Distance Any Time
Bunch Funeral Home
Mooresville, N. C.

Kale-Lawing Co.
@ Stationers
@ Office Outfitters
@ Printers
PHONE 6185
227-229 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Belk’s Department Store
Mooresville, N. C.
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN — See Us

Faul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
Charlotte, N.C.

Boston University President To Be Commencement Speaker
Dr. Daniel L. Marsh, Educator, To Be Here In June
Dr. Daniel L. Marsh, President of Boston University since 1926, will be the principal speaker for the commencement exercises this spring. Dr. Marsh was born in West Newton, Pennsylvania, in 1880, and took his undergraduate work at Northwestern University in the class of 1906. After receiving a master’s degree there, he studied in many universities and colleges both in America and in foreign countries. He holds degrees from Northwestern, University of Pittsburgh, University of Southern California, University of Bologna, Italy, and many other schools.

Dr. Marsh has continued to be active in educational, civil and religious affairs in America for many years. He held a pastorate in Pennsylvania for five years and since then has served on many committees and has been very active in the Methodist church. He is a director of John Hancock Life Insurance Company and has served the political world through many channels. Dr. Marsh is an author of great renown for his books on religion, education, politics, finance and medicine. His first book was published in 1917 and his most recent in 1943. A number of his books have been especially useful to young men. His “Regular Fellows” was distributed by the thousands among American soldiers in World War I by the Y. M. C. A. The speaker is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, a Mason, a Rotarian, and a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. He is one of the truly outstanding leaders of America and we are fortunate to have his commencement address to look forward to.

Leaders For Year Book
(Continued from Page 1)
Navy. Returning to Davidson last September, he has served as assistant editor of the annual this year. Simpson, from Huntersville, is majoring in Physics and is a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. Other contestants for the position were the other junior editors on this year’s staff. They were, in addition to Cox, John Stewart, Leighton McKeithen, and Jimmy Gribben.

Story Primes Gridders
(Continued from Page 4)
team may be counted on to do its share to put on good football games. It is hoped that more of the students can see fit to support their own team every week rather than hiking off to Duke or Carolina conflicts.

Franchised Dealer -- FOR —
RCA Victor Radios
Bendix Radios
Stewart-Warner Radios
Hot Plates, Tennis Shoes
Desk and Bed Lamps
Etc., Etc.
COPELAND'S
Davidson Electric Appliance Co.
RUFUS LONG
Student Manager

STUDENT'S STORE
Davidson College
Run By Davidson Students For Davidson Students
PARKER “51” PENS AND INK
DAVIDSON SEAL BRACELETS & LOCKETS
PARKER INK — ALL COLORS
STATIONERY AND SUPPLIES
GYM SUITS

WILLIAM TELFORD
Graduate Manager