Page Two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by the Class of 1915

“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOB PHILLIPS

BUSINESS MANAGER
BOB CLINE

EDITORIAL STAFF
Sam Ervin -------------------- Associate Editor
Walter Walker ---------------- Associate Editor
Mac Hart ---------------------- Sports Editor
Walter Mann ------------------ Managing Editor
Bill Calhoun ------------------ Managing Editor
Ronny Dietrick ---------------- Managing Editor
Stan Kennett ------------------ Managing Editor
Rob Hollister ------------------ Exchange Editor
Jean Stewart ------------------ Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
John McNitt ------------------ Assistant Business Manager
Charlie Reid ------------------ Advertising Manager
Frank Lennon ---------------- Circulation Manager
Bill Baxter -------------------- Subscriptions Manager
Charles Dockery -------------- Collections Manager
H. Fulton --------------------- Assistant Circulation Manager
Bob Knight ------------------- Assistant Subscription Manager
Charles Clinkscales ----------- Assistant Advertising Manager
Wilkes Macauley -------------- Assistant Advertising Manager
Bob Knight ------------------- Assistant Circulation Manager
Bill Keith --------------------- Assistant Circulation Manager
Charles Beam ----------------- Assistant Collections Manager

Advertising Staff
H. McKethan, J. Wilson, B. Guck, Claude Higginbotham, D. Hayworth, Elaine Kelley, F. M. Purnell, Gene Taylor.

Circulation Staff
S. H. Fulton, Alf. Duncan, Sam Davis, Hunter Boykin, Paul Guthery, Bill Cassels, John Coble, Carl Herman, Jim Fisher, Bob Sims, Jimmy Rogers, Harry Powe.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1946, Member 1947
Associated Collegiate Press - Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Alcohol?
(Ed's. Note: The following is a statement by Coach Carl Snavely of the University of North Carolina. This selection appeared in the November issue of “The Allied Youth” and is reprinted here in its entirety.)

I have done no original research on the effects of alcohol, and am not writing in the capacity of an expert. I have no new arguments against it. Perhaps I know less about it because I hate the taste of the stuff and have never had any difficulty in declining to drink it. However, I deserve no commendation for any superior scruples, determination, or common sense. Even if I liked it, I’d be a fool to drink it—and for purely selfish reasons. It requires no masterminding or advanced study to reach a sound conclusion on that point.

My observations on the subject have been those of the average citizen, and that is enough. I have noticed that when the executives of railroads and big industries are in search of men to fill important and responsible jobs, they do not go to saloons and barrooms to look for them. I had an experience once which taught me that even saloon-keepers try hard to get bartenders who are not drinking men.

I have never known of any graduate, who, in seeking a position with bankers, merchants, and leaders of industry, science, or education, have prepared for their interviews by acquiring an inflammable alcoholic breath or a nice sociable jag. No boy has ever asked me to mention in a letter of recommendation that he was a first-rate drinker.

And I have observed the usual number of sad catastrophes which end the useful careers of talented boys and girls who start out with the most favorable advantages and with promises of success and happiness. These tragic cases resulting from drinking should serve as adequate warning to their former friends and to the youngsters coming after.

There are a number of things about drinking which I've never been able to understand, but the greatest mystery is why, when there are so many good things to drink, any of our boys and girls are ever crazy enough to tamper with liquor. A moment's reflection will show that the desire to gain distinction through such an outlet as is offered by alcoholic beverages is nothing but the badge of the worst inferiority. Anyone who wants to drink can drink. It neither indicates nor requires any quality of strength, skill, brains, courage, or superiority.

Most all young people, of course, know the dangers and harm of alcohol. It seems to be a waste of time to dwell upon them. Instead, let me make certain observations about athletics and clean living.

Good condition of the physical, mental, and nervous systems is one of the prerequisites for successful play in both individual and team performance. Often young people do not realize that many of the errors which seem to result entirely from lack of skill, accuracy, or coordination, are really the result of fatigue and lack of stamina. In fact, these errors are usually the first symptoms of fatigue. Nervous reactions are more seriously affected by lack of good training habits than the wind or muscles, which means that dependable skill requires clean habits.

It is my opinion that to keep special training for the season only is futile. For a boy to give up cigarettes or drinking just for a period of competition results in an unfavorable nervous reaction which is about as harmful as the continued use of these things would be. To be at normal efficiency, a boy must avoid such handicaps at least until his athletic career is ended. He must observe the rules of good health and wholesome living the entire year. Personally, I am not interested in any boy whose ambition and pride in his play are not sufficient to impel him to train the year round. There is no place on my team for a player, even if he is a star, who trifles with training rules, or who feels that he can train for three months and spend the other nine dissipating and weakening himself.

Finally, the most important element in successful athletics, whether in college or in high school, is team spirit and morale. The boys on the squad must realize that in the interest of morale alone, nothing less than their best is acceptable. This requires conscientious and loyal adherence to a strict and continuous program of good habits and sound training activities, and in such a program there is no place for alcoholic beverages in any form or quantity. Fortunately, there are lots of things to drink which are tastier and which are also beneficial. The program of Allied Youth is not one of narrow repression and self-denial, but of full living and wholesome fun and happiness. It stands for fun without regrets—the kind of fun that leads to greater enjoyment, as contrasted to artificial, imaginary, and superficial pleasure which leads to nothing but bitter disappointment.

Another Tradition?
On last Tuesday evening was laid the cornerstone for what, if continued, may be one of Davidson's finest and most worthwhile institutions. On that night the ten fraternities on the campus opened their dens and their hearts to a hundred and fifty children from the Barium Springs Orphanage and entertained them with Christmas parties.

The affair was indeed a success if the children’s pleasure was near as great as that of the fraternity men, whose general reaction to the parties was caught in the oft-heard exclamation, “Why haven’t we always done this? This is the most fun I’ve had in years!”

And it was fun. It was great fun to see the well-behaved, clean-cut youngsters enjoying themselves so fully. The youthful guests ranged in years from seven to fourteen, male and female, but all were of a striking pattern. Those fraternity hosts who do not know “Uncle” Joe Johnston, of Barium, marveled at the intelligence, the happiness, the clean and healthy looks, and above all, the extreme mannerliness of these fine children. Those knowing what and who Joe Johnston is were re-impressed with the wonderful work he has done as reflected by his brood.

The satisfaction and enjoyment experienced by us “oldsters” was perhaps due not only to our contraction of the contagious vim of our guests, but also to the propagation of a bit of the true Christmas spirit on our part—probably a new experience with the majority of us, imbued as we are with the philosophy of “giving.”

Those chiefly responsible for this happy and heart-warming affair were Jack Etheridge, “Y” Cabinet member in charge of boy’s work, and Ernest Stricklin, himself an outstanding Barium contribution to Davidson. These two devoted much time to the planning and execution of the giant party—their efforts have already been well rewarded; let us hope they can see this bright Christmas seed they have planted grow into an annual occasion, a big affair to be looked forward to equally by Barium and Davidson students.

Letters to the Editor
Dear Editor:

I am very sorry to hear that there is some possibility of the YMCA gift fund falling short of its $5,000 goal this year. Since this is one of the many fine Davidson traditions, it is very unfortunate that it is not being supported 100 percent by the student body.

There is no doubt that the “Y” governing board has selected a worthy cause this Christmas, possibly the most worthy of all the causes considered; however, since there seems to be more than a little dissatisfaction with this year’s selection, I think that it might be wise in the years to come to let the student body vote on the matter beforehand. I suggest that the “Y” choose two or three worthy projects that they consider in the greatest need; then allow the students to vote on one, by secret ballot (if the “Y” still wants a scoop story in THE DAVIDSONIAN).

Of course, even with such a democratic method as this, it will be impossible to please everyone; but possibly there will be greater participation in the giving, if greater participation in the selection is allowed.

—CHARLES H. REID.

Sam Sez.
By SAM ERVIN

By the time that this issue of the foremost newspaper in northern Mecklenburg County hits the streets (or the local submerged facsimiles thereof) the pre-Christmas portion of the first semester will be all but over. Fraternity functions in most cases will be only fond memories and the spectre of approaching examinations will be momentarily forgotten as everyone plans the holiday activities in detail. In spite of the fact that this is probably not the easiest time for one to try to put across a few ideas, I am going ahead anyway—not in the hope of bringing about great reforms—but merely in an honest effort to fill up a sizeable chunk of empty space with some equally empty phrases.

To the incomparable Mac Hart, I'd like once again to elbow my way into his department and elaborate somewhat on a topic which has been mentioned. When I first sat in on a Davidson athletic event way back in the distant past, I was impressed by the fact that the students were given good seats. I continued to believe that this was always the case until I was sadly disillusioned by sitting in the student section at the Charlotte Armory. Admittedly this magnificent (2?) structure is not ideally suited for college basketball crowds (nor is that monument to medieval architecture on our own campus, ironically referred to as the “new” gym), but that is no reason to conceal the Davidson students in a spot where either...

SIGMA CHI
William Calhoun spent Saturday night on his pogo stick leaping merrily around the interior of the Kappa Alpha Tau House at a nearby female institution. The Mass, the Flush, and an unidentified companion made the long-awaited pilgrimage to Stratford Saturday. This time no concerts intervened and they all had a way.

An unknown roommate of the esteemed editor of a minor campus publication went to Mount Holly Sunday—(reasons, unknown). A short time previous to this journey he made a sensational break from the local bastille. He gave as the reason for his incarceration the fact that the local gendarme heard him making disparaging remarks about the recently installed lighting system in Davidson, hereafter to be known as Reno, N.C., the Biggest Little City in Mecklenburg County.

The Organ and Derrick “there'll always be an England—if America can afford it” Barton, who excels in all kinds of sports, went to Concord. The Organ returned Sunday, looking the worse for wear. Barton hasn't been seen yet. “Nut” Alcorn,Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"Swisl" Morton, and "Peg-leg" Pritchard were seen in "Mr. Montet's Chez" sorrowfully munching blue grass in anticipation. They might even score less than eighty points! One of Walcott’s many upsets was Blackjack, "Bosun" Clark's cash rode on Jersey Joe's strong right arm and B.J. was floored.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

Some familiar faces and a few contorted beyond recognition were seen at a Statesville Lodge this past Saturday night. It appeared to be a pre-Christmas party though some uncouth soul might call it a rowdy brawl. Judging from the size of the bags under the eyes, everyone had a wonderful time. Following the party, Brother Bill Boyd was given an honorary membership in the Order of the Sponges, an obscure prohibitionist group. Brother Page Jackson, inspired by the party, recently compiled a book entitled "Jackson's Jests."

LETTERS

I much prefer to see the student section moved to the balcony (many, I am sure, would be willing to pay for the privilege of sitting there), but if that is not possible, the very least that the powers that be could do would be to replace the present backboard with glass ones. That is quite satisfactory as those who have been in Duke's spacious indoor stadium will testify. Of course, the best solution of all would be for the Queen City to erect a real gymnasium of which the city could be proud (and in which all spectators could see the floor and the baskets without undue strain).

Operating Table

Doubtless, all of our readers have been busy writing their letters to Santa, and trying to compensate for their evil ways by emphasizing what few good points they can conjure from their fertile imaginations. The fact that most of the kiddies around here have been weighed in the balance and found wanting leaves many with but little hope for a bountiful Christmas. Even though Mousie Morgan hopes that his past actions will not bear fruit, Santa has already placed his name on the list for a protector. This is to assure safety for his future escapades. It was stated in a past issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN that Mousie was now a man, but Santa knows that he still enjoys playing around. We firmly feel that an issue is not complete without a shot of poetry and a dash of mimicry. One of our operatives thought this one up:

I heard the boys on Christmas Day
Making merry in the same old way,
The day was drear
Yet they drew near
To open a keg of cider.

By now the Christmas Gift Fund has undoubtedly gone over the top, and we have once again proved to some nation that our religion is a reality. This yearly expression of generosity is one tradition which we can ill afford to forget, and it seems to me that Jack Payne and the other members of the Y Cabinet deserve a great deal of credit for the manner in which they conducted the drive this year.

Best wishes to all for a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.

Paging the Professors

By Stan Kennett

DR. CUMMING

Like many Davidson students, Dr. Cumming is the son of missionaries. He was born in Japan and had been around the world twice by the time he was fourteen. On one of his trips, Dr. Cumming, at the age of thirteen, at the outset of World War I, was in the Ural mountains with Dr. McCallie of McCallie School, with whom he was traveling. They got to Moscow, where Dr. Cumming witnessed a great crowd of Russians coming down a street. It was the order to take off one’s hat before this crowd and Dr. Cumming failed to do so, whereupon he was knocked down and nearly mobbed. However, he heard someone shout to him to take off his hat, whereupon he scrambled to his feet and took it off. The mob moved on some three blocks to the German Embassy where they killed a young boy and his father. Dr. Cumming and Dr. McCallie escaped the country through Finland, Sweden, Norway, and on to Scotland.

When he came to Davidson, Prof. Cumming roomed in Old Chambers where he had an old family slave, Brother Haster, for a janitor. It was during his senior year in college that Dr. Cumming started the first wrestling team at Davidson, being at the same time both captain and coach of the team. After graduation, Dr. Cumming went to Princeton for his doctorate and on to Oxford to finish a book which he was writing. During the recent war, Dr. Cumming was senior officer in charge of all discovered archives.

(Continued on Page 6)

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.