Page 4 THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, April 25, 1947

ODK (Continued from Page 1)

Brinegar
Haywood Brinegar, whose home is at present in Miami, Florida, will be Y.M.C.A. President during the coming year, 1947-'48. Brinegar,
a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, is President of the Forensic Council and Vice-President of the Phi
Society.

Hill
Hugh Hill, of Greensboro, N. C., is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, and will serve during the
year 1947-'48 as President of the student body. Hill was manager of the past season's football squad, is President of
the Beaver Club, and a member of the “D” club.

Phillips
Bob Phillips, of Laurinburg, N. C., is at present, and is to be during the coming year, Editor in Chief
of the Davidsonian. He is President of his social fraternity, Kappa Sigma, and a member of the “D” Club, the
Beaver Club, and Sigma Upsilon.

Robertson
Bill Robertson, from Kannapolis, N. C., is President of the rising senior class and his social fraternity, Phi Kappa Phi.
He is a member of the “D” Club, the Beaver Club, and has served on the Court of Control. Robertson
is also a member of this season’s Track team.

Last week gave every indication of another poor dance weekend. The ticket sales weren't going too good and two out
of the four athletic teams were going to be on the road. For various reasons not many of the fraternities
were having banquets, and in general things pointed to the same fate as had befallen the mid-winter dances. There, too,
was the uncertainty of the music, and for that reason some of the boys did not wish to attend.

For all those that did attend, it can be said that they and their dates enjoyed the best set of
dances given by the Pan-Hellenic Council in many years. From the veterans that attended Davidson before the war and knew
how good Davidson dances used to be come statements that this dance set was just as good, if not better,
than those given in pre-war years. Said Harvey Carrow and George Ennett, “These dances were as good as any ever
held here and certainly one of the fastest breaking dances ever attended while at Davidson.”

From this corner a few inquiries were made about what those who attended the dances thought of them as a
whole. Questions asked concerned the music, breaking, stags, and general appearance of the Armory. From Bill McLean came, “Very acceptable
music. It wasn’t Tex Beneke’s, but nevertheless very good music to dance to.” Bill Lawson expressed himself by saying, “The
stags were the thing that made the dance different from the others. The boys without dates did their duty and
thus gave us our best set in a long time.” Mullett-Head spoke for the crowd when he said that the
girls on hand were the best looking group he had ever seen. That is pretty good coming from “Wheel Ed”.
“Harry High School” Adams ran true to form when he said he thought his “necking” date made the dance. (Who
else can verify this statement of Rhea’s?)

No article on the dances would be complete without handing a bouquet to the Pan-Hellenic Council for the work they
did on acquiring Billy Knauff and his orchestra and for the job they did in decorating the Armory. All those
who feared the quality of the music, soon had all this erased when B. K. and company gave out with
the sweetest music heard in a long time. A very good job was done in making the big auditorium very
attractive. From all sides came compliments for the decorations committee.

From those very gracious creatures who attended the dances came glowing remarks. All those interviewed about what they thought of
the music and the breaking said that this set was the best set of Davidson dances they had ever attended.
Those who did not know Knauff could hardly believe that his was a local outfit. One even said that this
was the first time she had heard “this band” since she had seen him in a big Chicago hotel.

RABY’S SHOE SHOP
We Specialize In Whole Soles with——

Superb Motor Bus Service
QUEEN CITY TRAILWAYS - Charlotte, N. C.; 417 West Fifth Street
Serving DAVIDSON COLLEGE MECKLENBURG COUNTY, and 44 other North Carolina Counties

RUFUS LONG
Student Manager

STUDENT'S STORE
Davidson College
Run By Davidson Students For Davidson Students
- Tennis Rackets and Sweaters
- Golf Balls and Shirts
- Musalarm Radios
- Kodak Film
- Socks, Shorts, Togs
- Tennis Shoes

WILLIAM TELFORD - Graduate Manager

Billy Knauff Warmly Received
Frolics Proclaimed Success

Imagine her surprise when she was informed later in the dance that this band had never been in Chicago. Some
people certainly bend over backwards to hand out compliments. When asked whether the boys were showing them a good time,
all remarked that the breaking was very fast. This is where this column wants to hand out thanks to those
noble gents who gave very able assistance and played such a big part in giving us our best chance of
the year. As far as is known, the conduct of all present was very good and true to Davidson form.
From “Social” Sam Tate, chairman of the “Twenty One” Club for this dance, came the report that from all he
saw and heard the conduct was better than that of the Mid-Winters set. Is this an indication of a coming
improvement?

This matter of drinking, or I should say lack of drinking at Davidson dances is one thing that always brings
praises from the girls. From those girls who have attended some of the orgies sponsored by other colleges came the
remarks, “Not having to dance with a host of drunk boys certainly adds a desire to attend more Davidson dances.
The absence of drink certainly makes for a better time for most of the girls.” With this fact in mind,
let us look for continued improvement next year. With the last dance of the year over, we can look back
on it and hope the pattern has been set for all our functions in the future. This dance has proved
that if the boys who do not have dates will come as stags, they and the others with dates can
expect a very enjoyable weekend. From now on let’s support the Pan-Hell and show our visiting dates that Davidson can
sponsor the best dances in the circuit.

WILDCATS PREP (Continued from Page 3)
The inter-squad game tonight and the one on the following Friday night will put the finishing touches on spring practice.
Both games will be at 7:30 on Richardson Field and the students are invited to attend. The game on May
2 is sponsored by the “D” Club, and a very small admission fee which will go to some charity, will
be charged.Color Portrait For $1.50 “Taken Here In Davidson” W. DONALD KERR RUMPLE 9 Local and College Agent of Franklin
Studios Charlotte, N. C.

FRATERNITY COURT (Continued from Page 2)
Brothers desiring to make the acquaintance of the princess are requested to file application with Brother Potter at earliest convenience.
The chapter is happy to announce the pledging of Norman Whiteheart of Winston-Salem, N. C.

S. A. E.:
The North Carolina Theta Chapter of Sigma Alpha Epsilon is proud to announce that five men: Jim Wamsley, “Buddy” Chandler,
“Easy” Rhodes, Dick Richards, and “Red” Wilson, were initiated Wednesday, April the sixteenth. Last weekend was a notable one as
are all of Davidson’s dance weekends for our fine chapter. It was marked with a notable lack of notes and
an even more noticeable presence of beautiful specimens of womanhood. The fraternity dance was held Friday night, before the formal
dance, at the Mecklenburg hotel. Tommy Powell, master of ceremonies, did a most successful job of keeping the brothers in
stitches and the girls embarrassed. Tsk, tsk! It is heard via the grapevine that Brother Torrey Heimby was “stood up”
last Sunday. What’s the matter, Torrey, can’t you hold your women any more, or did you just do her wrong?
It is acclaimed by most of the Brothers that they will earnestly endeavor to get back to work now that
the last of the big social functions is over. We, however, shall wait and see, and in the meantime, you
can bet we won’t be holding our breath.

BETA THETA PI
Spring and the “Frolics” came to the Beta house in all their glory this past weekend and witnessed such unusual
circumstances as the reconciliation of Amzie and Ann and “Backdoor” Gunn catching no “smooch” as promised. The “Skull” did show
up to be with Yokum for the Saturday dance but remembering past experiences with Arkansas’ Ablest she brought her mother
along. “Semetic-Snout” Gallant remained blind to the near-danger afforded by the presence of Dunbar at the Friday formal. Shattered hopes
and sleepless nights seemed to be the password of the day but Schmidt was satisfied as “Mazie” blew in with
all flags flying and had the Beta stags (or limbers, as you prefer) hopping to her beck and call. Watch
the ball-bearing action of “Semetic-Snout” and “Box-Head” with Salem’s willful women this weekend and get pointers on smooth operation.

AMBULANCE SERVICE
Telephone 284
Equipped For Service Any Distance Any Time
Bunch Funeral Home
Mooresville, N. C.

dealer for Capital's Luxury Portable. There’s no other phonograph with the unique features of Capitol’s “Luxury” Portable. Remember: it’s produced
by a record manufacturer, to give you recorded music at its best, when and where you want it. Ask your
record dealer for details.

IN A PACKAGE
Here’s a natural for fun. It plays anywhere at the beach, on trains, boats. “big-set” electronic tone, always 2 motors:
4 Electric (plug it in) or wind up, (tubes operate on battery), and with rich.

Phi Society To Hold Elections
Literary Group Lays Plans for Coming Year
The Philanthropic Society will hold its next meeting on April 28 at 7 p.m. in order to elect officers and
make plans for its picnic. Herbert Dimmock, chairman of the Social Committee, has announced that the picnic is scheduled for
Friday, May 9, at Erwin Lodge. He has planned a weiner roast and other outdoor activities such as a baseball
game and a sing. Other members of his committee are Bill Robertson, Hugh Farrior, and David Hamilton. David Shepperson will
continue the series of talks on parliamentary procedure on voting and obtaining the floor. This will be followed by several
talks on the inter-racial question to be delivered under the direction of Sam Hoyt, chairman of the program committee. An
important item on the program will be the election of officers for the fall semester. The president of the society
is urging all members to be present for this balloting.

CLEMSON DOWNS (Continued from Page 3)
Javelin: Brownson (D), Kivett (C), Lynch (C). Distance: 169 feet 11 1-2 inches.
Broad jump: Lynch (C), W. Lacy (D), Freeman (C). Distance: 20 feet 6 inches.
Pole vault: W. J. Brown (C), P. Brown (D), Peters (D). Height 11 feet 6 inches.
Mile relay: Won by Clemson team of Donkle, Coursey, Facchin, and Allen. Time: 3:35.

Stonestreet’s Gr“A”de Cafe
O. C. Stonestreet, Manager
“The Sensible Place to Eat”
418 S. Main St. — Phone 132
Mooresville, N. C.

Belk’s Department Store
Mooresville, N. C.
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE-MAN — See Us

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
C. S. Goodrum
TELEPHONE 2111
Davidson, N. C.

Elections Completed For Student Council
Classes Choose Representatives for Next Year After Many Ballots
In recent student body elections, the rising upper classes chose their Student Council representatives. As provided for in the constitution,
there are four representatives from the rising senior class, two from the junior, and one from the sophomore. All of
the senior representatives were elected on the third ballot. In the junior elections, Jones was elected on the first ballot
and Hopper on the fourth. Following is the list of those elected by the seniors:
Jim Pittman of Orlando, Florida. Jim has been first vice president of the student body for the past year, and
has held a position on the Y cabinet. He is a member of the Phi Society and Beta Theta Pi
social fraternity.
Jerry Robinson of Wilmington, N. C. Jerry is a member of the D Club, Beaver Club, and Phi Society. He
is a varsity tennis star, and a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity.
Bob Strickland of Atlanta, Ga. Bob has been in the past president of the junior class, secretary-treasurer of the student
body, and member of the Court of Control. He is now president of Sigma Delta Pi, and member of the
D Club and Beaver Club. Bob also holds membership in Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.
Lee Willingham of Augusta, Ga. Lee has been second vice president of the student body and a member of the
Y Cabinet for the past year. He holds membership in Phi Mu Alpha, Phi Society, and Phi Delta Theta social
fraternity.
Elected by the juniors were:
Freeman Jones of Charlotte. Freeman plays on the golf team, and starred on the varsity basketball squad. He belongs to
the D Club and Kappa Sigma social fraternity.
Ed Hopper of Meridian, Mississippi. For the past year, Ed has been president of the sophomore class, and was recently
elected second vice president of the Y. He is a member of the D Club and Sigma Phi Epsilon social
fraternity.
Jake Wade of Charlotte was elected to represent the sophomore class. Jake plays on both the varsity baseball and football
squads. He is a member of the D Club, Beaver Club, and Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

Remember this seal—it’s your assurance of the best. Or “TOP PRODUCTS. Charlotte, N. C.

DAVIDSON FURNITURE COMPANY
THIS STORE MADE POSSIBLE BY THE G. I. BILL OF RIGHTS
COMPLETE HOME FURNISHINGS
No Sale Complete Until You Are Satisfied
Main Street
DAVIDSON, N. C.
