SEE NEW FEATURE 'WHAT'S WHAT' (Page 5)

Volume XXXVI DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, OCTOBER 24, 1947 No. 5

PHI BETA KAPPA CHOOSES NINE MEN
SENIORS ELECTED AS MEMBERS OF SCHOLASTIC FRATERNITY

The college has been concerned for the past two years over the outcome of a suit being planned to set aside the will of the late Col. E. L. Baxter Davidson, in which he bequeathed most of his estate to Davidson College. This was the largest outright bequest Davidson College has ever had in its history.

The men elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholastic fraternity, are as follows: (names). Mecklenburg Superior Court ended October 16 with the relatives seeking to break the will of Col. Davidson, accepting an agreement under which they will receive approximately $208,000 of the estate.

Dean Announces Veterans Affairs

Dean John C. Bailey announced that Saturday, November 1, has been proclaimed an official holiday for Davidson College. This is in keeping with the tradition that no classes are held on the day of the annual Homecoming game. The schedule for the day will be varied, both for alumni and students, with the afternoon clash between Davidson and Virginia Military Institute as the feature event. It is to be remembered that all class and chapel cuts on the Friday prior to the holiday will be treated as double cuts.

College Physician Urges Health Habits

Dr. B. W. Pander, college physician, urged students to maintain healthy habits in a talk Wednesday. He emphasized the importance of sensible health practices to keep the student body healthy. Dr. Woods closed his talk with the information that influenza vaccines had advanced. Although stating that inoculation was entirely voluntary, he urged students to consider it.

Montreat Conclave

To Montreat this past weekend went fifteen of the campus leaders who make up the Y's Cabinet. Their purpose was to review work done by the Y during the past year, to make extensive plans for the coming months, and to promote a program which is to be a highlight in this section. The meeting was adjourned after personal devotions on Saturday morning.

World Federation Speaker

Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary chemistry society, held its first meeting of the current scholastic year on Monday night, October 20. The speaker for this meeting was Dr. Joyner, president of the Charlotte Chapter of World Federalists. Dr. Joyner initiated a discussion on the possibility of bringing to the meetings outside speakers in the field of chemistry. It was decided that an outside speaker would be invited.

Red and Black Masquers Prepare

The Red and Black Masquers will present "Our Town" by Thornton Wilder. The subject of the annual Christmas Gift Fund was discussed during the meeting.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

All students to take advantage of this safeguard. New weapons, chief of which are the atom bomb. He stated that the physics department at Davidson was originally designed to maintain peace, but that apparently it is not living up to expectations. Mr. McMillan recommends a Federal Union of the World and states four main reasons why such an organization is necessary.

First of all, we need an international police force, not only to maintain order between nations but to have jurisdiction over individuals, such as our FBI has over states. Second, there would be no veto power, but majority rule, solving the problems of the veto. Third, there would be a court to make and enforce definite laws. Fourth, a great deal of the sovereignty of each nation would be given up in return for protection and enforcement of laws.

On Tuesday, October 21, the Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity, held its formal initiation for the new members who were tapped. The initiation ceremonies were held in the faculty room of Chambers at 6 p.m. At the conclusion of these ceremonies, the entire group adjourned to the Y.M.C.A. for a formal banquet. Al Scarborough presided at the banquet and introduced the speaker.

Dr. Lingle Relates Davidson Memories

Few people can remember as much about Davidson College and its memories in such an interesting form as Dr. Walter Lingle. Dr. Lingle has been associated intimately with Davidson College since 1888 as a student, alumnus, trustee, president of the Board of Trustees, and now as its president emeritus. This book, I feel, will appeal to students as a graphic presentation of the life and customs of Davidson College in a period now past. It will certainly appeal to the older generations as a warm and living recollection of the "good old days." Dr. Lingle's style is one of the most appealing features of the book. His column in The Charlotte Observer is enlivened by sparks of fun and humor combined with nice stories and interesting historical data, making it an entertaining and instructive read.

In the first act, the stage manager (Tom Apperson) genially outlines the history of the town, which is Grover's Corners, N.H., and something of the character of its citizens. Then he carries you into the houses of Dr. and Mrs. Gibbs (Susie Jackson and Freeman Jones) and Mr. and Mrs. Webb (Selena Bill and Lean Gait). The second act concerns the love affair between young George Gibbs (Doug Swink) and Emily Webb (Carolyn McGoogan), culminating in a moving wedding scene, which contains all those elements of poignant sorrow and abundant happiness that make for solemnity and impressiveness. In the third act, we are led to the cemetery on the hill, where many of the townspeople we have come to know so well are patiently and smilingly awaiting not "judgment" but a continuation of their lives.

Dr. Pietenpol reviewed an article by the well-known physicist Smyth, which was published in the October edition of the "American Scientist." The speaker brought out, by means of this article, the physical development in the last fifty-two years. Previously, all physicists assumed only the theories of which visible models could be made. Since then, they have worked with theories and assumptions which are intangible and have no visible model. The methods of preparation were discussed in detail. Reactions for each of the five sulfas mentioned were read and explained.

Friday, October 31—Y.M.C.A. was invited, and this meeting would be open to all who wished to hear the speaker. It was then decided that members of the student body who fulfill the qualifications for membership into the society be admitted. The group was informed that meetings would be held the first and third Monday night of each month. The time of vaccination, he said, will be announced later.

Thornton Wilder for two consecutive nights sometime during the last week in November at Chambers Auditorium in Davidson. In the early part of Saturday afternoon, from about 4 to 6, the men got a chance to play a little touch football at the ballpark. Saturday night was a free night on the schedule, and all adjourned to the big square dance sponsored by the Agnes Scott and Converse house parties, which were in session there over the weekend. They returned to the campus Sunday afternoon full of new ideas and "fired" with ambition. The retreat can be called no less than a great success from every standpoint, and its effects may be easily seen in the months ahead.

For the first time in the history of the College, the Sophomores outnumber the Freshmen. In September, there were 312 Sophs, 256 Fresh. A hundred years ago, the only student organizations on the hill were the Eumenean and Philanthropic literary brotherhoods and the Students Temperance Society.

Realizing, of course, that such a thing could not be forced upon the world, the Federal Union platform for the present is "Through the peaceful medium of the U.N. we shall set about to make our amendments."

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation while correcting OCR errors.