Friday, September 26, 1947

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ORIGIN AND PRESENT STATUS OF THE MARSHALL PLAN

By DR. C. K. BROWN

In the two years that elapsed since V-J day, the United States has supplied gifts and loans to the rest of the world, largely to the nations of Western Europe, including Great Britain, in the approximate amount of 20 billion dollars. These funds have financed an enormous exportation of goods, notably coal and foodstuffs, from the United States to Europe. The economic condition of Western Europe does not, however, appear to be any better today than two years ago. In fact, former President Hoover and others who have surveyed the situation report that large areas face imminent starvation unless new credits are provided by the United States.

For this disappointing failure of European economy to revive, the causes are various. Among them may be mentioned the extreme economic dislocations caused by the war; widespread political instability as conservative elements and leftist groups struggle for control under the shadow of a Russia that is almost everywhere considered to be bent upon extending the sway of communism over the entire continent; unfavorable weather conditions that have caused harvests to be small; and the failure of the Allies to make a peace with Germany that would enable the Ruhr region to function once more as the industrial heart of Western Europe. To these should be added the sheer and perhaps inevitable weariness of distraught peoples whose laboring elements are infected no little with the virus of socialistic doctrines and are persuaded thereby that they are entitled to much more than the hard circumstances of the moment seem to promise them.

The United States, viewing this miserable picture, is moved, first, by a generous impulse to help suffering humanity, and second, by a strong desire to make further efforts to revive the European economy in a way that will at one and the same time head off the spread of communism and provide a stable basis for a future trade in which we can participate. It is not without misgiving, however, that the American people contemplate the continuance of a program which in

Si, Si Oui, Oui Ja, Ja

You can send her the Davidsonian for only $1.50 a year.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

WE HAVE
Remington Typewriters
Schick-Shave Master Electric Razors.

C. S. Goodrum
TELEPHONE 2111
DAVIDSON, N. C.

being re-

ferred to as “Operation Rathole” in some quarters is already

The so-called Marshall Plan grew out of a suggestion made by Secretary of State Marshall in an address at Harvard University on June 5, 1947. General Marshall proposed that the nations of Western Europe get together, consider the problem of restoration as a sort of joint enterprise, and decide, first, what resources would be required to put the area on its feet economically, and second, how much of these resources the area itself could supply. This having been done, the United States would see what she could do about supplying the remainder. The essence of the Marshall Plan is that henceforth American aid will not be given on a piece-meal basis to separate countries, but will be extended to an entire region which has organized itself for the purpose of helping as far as possible in working out its economic salvation.

For some weeks, representatives of the European nations have been studying the economic needs of their region. Russia declined to participate in the conferences and refused to permit its satellites, like Poland and Czechoslovakia, to participate. The representatives of the 16 countries have just finished their surveys. Their report estimates the needs of Western Europe for foreign goods over the next four years at some 35 billion dollars. They reckon that their countries will be able to supply through exports the means of purchasing about 13 billion dollars’ worth. About 3 billion dollars they expect to be able to borrow from the World Bank for Reconstruction and Development (some 40 percent of whose capital is supplied by the U. S. Government, and which will have to rely chiefly upon American investors for lendable funds beyond its capital). The remaining 19.3 billion dollars will have to be supplied by the American government in the form of loans or outright gifts.

Congressional action is, of course, necessary if any loans or grants are to be made. The burning questions of the moment are: first, whether the economic crisis in Europe is so acute that the president should call the Congress into special session this fall to consider the matter or allow it to wait until the Congress convenes in regular session in January; and second, whether the Congress will in any case support the program in the face of the next year’s elections and the highly inflated level of domestic prices, which is approximately due in considerable degree to the great stimulus given to our export trade by the grants and loans heretofore made to other peoples.

Hinton Rowan Helper, who wrote the most famous anti-slavery book before the Civil War, was a brother of Pinckney Helper who operated the old inn across from Eu Hall. The chandelier in Phi Hall is a replica of one under which Napoleon the Third and Empress Eugenie were married. It was made in France about 1850 and bought by the Phi’s in 1853.

* College Supplies
* Toilet Articles
* Household Items

Southern 5 & 10¢ Stores
Davidson, N. C.

STUDENTS AND FACULTY —WELCOME—

For Your Favorite Furniture Needs — See Us Before You Buy.

DAVIDSON FURNITURE CO.
Main Street
Phone 3671

Phi Society

The first meeting of the Philanthropic Society will be held on September 29 at seven-thirty, in Phi Hall. All members are urged to be present.

By BILL McLEAN

Another year is welcome on “the hill”, indeed a school gaining momentum for most of us. With two hundred and some sixty new faces now in our midst to replace the old Davidsonians who departed from this shady campus last spring and summer, we are now a part of the largest student body that Davidson has ever known. Many were skeptical as to what would happen to our “esprit de corps” with the walls bulging, but I believe that it would be safe to say that the student body came through with flying colors. And there is no reason why this year we cannot even surpass last year’s record.

The YMCA on our campus has always been a student organization, run by students, for students, and the program is very flexible. There is no goal set for the range of its activities, other than that of serving Christ in as many ways as possible. Every year we try to expand to meet some new needs, or rather old ones that have not come to our attention before; and at the same time carry on the old work. But we realize that there are many things which might be done that have never been called to our attention. Every year the students are reminded that their membership in this organization is still valid, and I realize that many of you are too busy to take an active part in the “Y” program. Still, I would likeI take this opportunity to remind you again that you are members with a first-class standing, and to ask that you give us your suggestions and moral support. If you cannot give us your time, your idea might lead us into some new field of service, so drop around and let us have it.

Here and There

Around the campus this fall we are all going to miss the cheery smile and the warm greeting that always accompanied Murphy wherever she went. He did a great service for his school and its student body during his short stay here, and I am sure that we all want to join in on a hearty “Thanks and Happy Sailing.” He was a great Y Secretary.

The ping pong and pool rooms are freshly painted and are all ready for another year’s use. Come on up and start practicing for this spring's big tournaments. But try to remember not to keep the score on the walls this year.

The social functions are already beginning to roll. The attractive gals from Moh: s 4 than ever before!

"Y" CORNER

That's how millions learned from experience that there are big differences in cigarette quality. Try Camels in your “T-Zone” (Taste and Throat). Let your own experience tell you why more people are smoking Camels.

NEWS

In Campus Wear

By O. E. SCHOEFFLER
Men’s Apparel Editor, Esquire Magazine

It may be that the appearance of undergraduates’ wives and offspring on the university scene has had a sobering effect on fabric designs for college men. It may be an en masse shift in the preferences of America’s university man’s jacket for Fall. Whatever the reason, just call it a change of pace. The quieter tones prevalent in the new Fall versions are quite a contrast to the clarion-call patterns of former years. 

The university man’s Fall wardrobe can scarcely be distinguished from that of a young businessman on his way up, or any successful young professional man’s wearing apparel. A careful glance at the university man’s jacket for Fall campus wear sees these three obvious facts: first, that it’s a quiet, small patterned tweed; second, that it hangs straight down and has little to no padding in the natural shoulders; and third, that it’s a single-breasted, three-button model.

Not only have they been fashioned in wide color ranges, but arrangements have been made in their stripes. Some stripes run horizontally, others are diagonals. Some are quite narrow, and spaced about half an inch apart. There’s an in-between color tone to them too, and one we saw made on a background of maroon had alternating horizontal blue and gold stripes. Another featured a dark blue background and was diagonally thin striped in yellow and red. 

The roughish texture of crochet ties makes them naturals for wear with tweeds. They knot up nicely too, and the accepted size is a bit on the large side. One compromise with the university man’s instinctive liking for color in his apparel seems to have centered around his ankles. Wool argyles, as far back as any alumnus wishes to recall, are stronger than ever for Fall, and they’re quite sensible with plain colored slacks. Since most men prefer grey flannels, slacks made of brown wool with red and blue diamonds are a good choice for variety, and make an excellent pair with black shoes.

The overall picture then, is one of dignity and rather inconspicuous character, which will suit most university men well. But characteristically, these same men will manage to recommend a single note of dominant color in their ties, socks, or perhaps in their shirts, and thus manage to stay out in front as one of the country’s chief inspirations for newness in men’s apparel.

LIBRARY SEEKS WAR RECORDS

Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson, Director of the College Library, has just announced that the Library is making an effort to obtain copies of all unit histories of World War II which mention the activities of Davidson men. In view of the fact that so many unit histories have been and are being published, it is impossible for the Library staff to go through all of this material in search of items of interest. Therefore, he requests that anyone who knows of such material concerning a Davidson Alumnus will contact a member of the Library staff. He would like to have the title, publisher, and the name of the Davidson alumnus mentioned.

Page Three

Seen NOW

A New Men’s SPORTSWEAR SHOP featuring your favorite sportswear of the BETTER KIND:
* Arrow
* Jantzen
* Manhattan
* Robert Bruce
* McGregor
* Revere
* Botany
* Digby
* Catalina
* Rabhor

SEE OUR POPULAR LINES OF CALIFORNIA SPORTSWEAR

Belk Bros. STORE
MEN'S CHARLOTTE

Thackers, Inc.
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
221 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 254190
Private Dining Rooms for Parties and Banquets

CANDIES AND POTATO CHIPS
SWINSON Food Products
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

M. H. GOODRUM CO.
— for —
Hardware — Houseware and Farm Supplies
Complete line of Groceries
GROCERIES Phone 2541
HARDWARE Phone 2531

THE CIGARETTE FOR ME IS CAMEL!
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co, Winston-Salem, N.C.
More people are smoking CAMELS than ever before!