Page Six Friday, September 26, 1947

Among the Greeks
(Continued from Page 1)
(Continued from Page Two)

Fort Benning to be associated with reason the misery. Brother Jerry Robinson was very much in evidence Saturday night, leading the cheering for the victorious Wildcats. Keep up the work, “Wart,” you are doing an extra good job. Sigma Phi Epsilon in announcing its new — Charlie Owens. It seems that instead of looking for the women, he is having to dodge them. Don’t slip, Charlie, or one might catch you! Enough until next week. Big deals are in the making. Especially by “Martin Luther” Pitts, who is Virginia bound.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
With rush over, brothers settled down and spent the first weekend on the campus for the most part. Brothers Neill, Jackson, Dockery, Leonard, and were seen at the game while Brother Collins conquered Coker College by an attack. Brothers Fanjoy and Boyd toured to High Point to see their alma mater, McCatie, to the local yokels 12-12. Brother Reese was seen in the Moravian Graveyard with a Salem Academy beauty. Looking for the oldest grave, Reese? Nothing like Jeanne Bean, the machine, is there Page? What a relief that Cheerleader Ensign couldn't talk Sunday. Keep up the work. We welcome back Brothers Summer and Pledges Siske, Colkitt. Brother Clyde passed through. He's teaching at State this year. Brother and Mrs. Bob Smoak were visitors to the campus also. P.S. — Brother Wes- Brother Courson and Shumate and Stroup caught Reese in the graveyard. What was he doing there?

PHI DELTA THETA
Saturday night was little more than an anti-climax to an already hectic week. Brother Tate did a good job of wrecking the Big Blue, while Brother Turnipseed was involved in wrecking a ‘47 Chevrolet convertible in Charlotte. Notwithstanding the accidents, both brothers managed to make the Elon game little worse for wear. Several brothers, not content with the activity of rush week, started dealing Saturday night with dates from Charlotte. Brothers Mills and Patton head the list, dating Coach Shephard’s daughter and her roommate. The chapter welcomed the visit of Brothers Ed Sutton and Buck Archer and their dates. Sutton and Newell, with their dates, took a last-minute ride to Queens Saturday night in Sutton's A Model. Time, exactly 35 minutes. After the game, the chapter had a wild feed for brothers and pledges and their dates. The closing gesture of the week welcomes Brother Ed Montgomery. Brother Cameron has numerous stories to tell. What happened, Potts? Little has been said of the Phi's summer activities. I understand the Big Blue made several rather fruitful trips to Montreat and the Beach. Big news of the summer, “Tate loses pin.” How are things, dam? Zounds! President John Hills and Brother Hollister were kept busy supplying dill pickles to John’s sister and her friend at the Saturday night feed. The coming year should bring to light many a fabulous deal—interesting times are ahead.

KAPPA ALPHA
With the advent of Autumn, the “Last Rose of Summer” has been replaced by the “KA Rose” and once more sounds of merriment resound through the hall of the Knights. Rush Week was fast and fair (under new Pan-Hell rules) resulting in a very handsome new Pledge Class, 17 strong. The pledges dined with the brothers Wednesday night and then began their period of instruction under the leadership of Brother Jack Payne. The most important news of the summer was the KA National Convention, held at Savannah. Sigma was well represented by Brother Chuck Cunningham and Brother Sam Ervin, who was elected president of the convention. Chuck said many meetings were interrupted by noise from St. Simon's Island. How ‘bout it, Harden? On the home front, Coach Bob Flowers has been busily engaged in whipping last year’s football champs into shape for the opening game. Looking forward to a highly successful season, the coach said, “We don't have Choo-Choo Richardson.” Up front will be an experienced line led by Brothers Carter, Glasgow, Barron, and Ervin. Sammy Bat Bird, Scofield, and Harden will do most of the light work. However, many of the new pledges are fighting for starting slots. Big weekend plans are already afoot, and aground—Carolina-Georgia, Winthrop, Rock Hill, Queens—yes, and even some on the campus.

College Dining
(Continued from Page One)
Spence, Dining Hall director, has hired new personnel which brings the present number to twenty-five, including eleven waiters and kitchen workers. Among this group is Isaac Reid, chef, who was for eight years the chief chef at the S&W Cafeteria in Raleigh. The necessity to secure equipment, personnel, etc., for the entire number to begin the college year has proven impractical. No assurance as to the equipment such personnel would need. The general understanding of the Administration at the present time is for the period of only one semester. Food supplies are brought from such places as Chicago and Atlanta and shipped directly here. As an example of the quality of food served, only Grade A pasteurized homogenized milk is used. Many operations of food preparation, such as butchering, are carried on right in the kitchen. In a recent interview, Mr. Spence stated that his wish is to provide a good substantial meal, one that is wholesome and balanced, as well as well prepared. Concerning complaints, he said, “Anywhere you get complaints, after a while. This whole thing is in its infancy. It may take three or four years to iron all the kinks out.” In conclusion, he declared that the aim which he and the administration commonly hold: “To make this the best college dining hall in North Carolina.”

R.O.T.C.
(Continued from Page One)
for the twentieth consecutive time. Previously a rating of 75 per cent was necessary to attain the rating of “excellent,” but this year an 85 per cent score was necessary. One of the inspecting officers remarked at the revue that Davidson was “the friendliest and most courteous student body observed.” Master Sergeant Burton, coach of the Davidson rifle team since 1925, has applied for the Operating Table.

(Continued from Page Two)
Why, a moon novel beginning, isn’t it? Everyone has noticed “NAKED SOCIAL”SAM TATE walked into court since busting big blue. Called into court, the judge asked, “Mr. Tate, who was driving when you had that accident?” Sam replied, “None of us, Judge; we were all in the back seat.”

Last and least, we come across PRECIOUS JIMMY GREBBEN one-two-THREE. He saw action in the Navy, so watch out, you navigators! G. D. BLEVINS let it be known that he is hoping to form a hillbilly band this year. So if any of you readers happen to play a fiddle, guitar, or some such mountain instrument, get in touch with him. There is only one instrument which is exempted, and that is the jug. Blevins is the jug blower. (Off the record, he has been awarded the Jug Blower’s Loving Cup for the past two years. Congrats, Dave.)

Fraternities (Continued from Page One)
C.; Tyke Ellis, Gastonia, N. C.; Veyre G. Kennedy, Spartanburg, S. C.; Ro B. Simmons, Jr., Charleston, S. C.; Fred W. Hengeveld, Jr., Davidson; William K. Child, Spartanburg, S. C.; Richard Kelly, Gastonia, N. C.; J. S. McFadyen, Fayetteville, N. C.; John Crosland, Charlotte, N. C.; C. Dan Page, Gastonia, N. C.; J. Randy Taylor, Nashville, Tenn.; John B. Evans, Laurinburg, N. C.; Henry W. Wilson, Morganton, N. C.; Warren M. Simms, Dalton, Ga.; John C. Thompson, Conway, S. C.; Henry H. Truelove, Wilmington, N. C.; and David R. La Far, Gastonia, N. C.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
Garland Lee Banker, Reidsville, N. C.; Robert Edwin Bannon, Rock Hill, S. C.; Daniel Currie Bell, Dublin, Va.; Charles Harold Cashion, Jackson, Tenn.; William Edward, Kingsport, Tenn.; Clarence Clark, Reidsville, N. C.; Thompson Dabney, Jackson, Tenn.; Dan David Garber, Bluefield, W. Va.; Thomas Wade Jackson, Bluefield, W. Va.; Richard L. Patterson, Bluefield, W. Va.; Thomas Holler, Pulaski, Va.; Coleman Groves Poag, Rock Hill, S. C.; McLaurin Shaw, Jacksonville, N. C.; Dan Otto Via, Jr., Charlottesville, Va.; John Welborn, Lexington, N. C.; and James Hamilton McKay, Jr.

KAPPA ALPHA
Blake Bradley, Decatur, Ga.; Rush Dixon, Charlotte, N. C.; John Frederick, Davidson; Bobby Gilmer, Charlotte, N. C.; Paul Guthery, Charlotte, N. C.; Hal Hayme, Christopher, Jr., Irwin Justice, but we do have Woo-Woo for retirement after 30 years of service. Sgt. Burton has purchased a home in Atlanta, Ga., and will make his home there after his retirement here later this fall.

Suits Made to Order From $35 up
Alterations of All Kinds
Tuxedos and Tails — For Rent or Sale
Telephone 2-0032
1412 E. Morehead Street
Charlotte, N. C.

SUITS HATS SHIRTS PAJAMAS SOCKS TIES SHOES and the 101 other things
SHOP EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP STREET FLOOR

John Hayworth, High Point, N. C.; Paul Connell, Gastonia, N. C.; Roddey, Charlotte, N. C.; Schoenberger, Jacksonville, Fla.; Bill Stone, Bristol, Tenn.; Cherry Stribling, Seneca, S. C.; Tom Ward, Rock Hill, S. C.; and Ed West, Johnson City, Tenn.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
Gordon Pachon Scott, Jr., Sam Warlick, William Kelty, Jr., James Ferguson, Horace Graner, Kenneth Craig, John Loftin, William Cummings, Clement Hamm, and James Rodgers.

PI KAPPA PHI
John Cassels, Bill McCorkle, Bill Cleveland, Murphy H. Cronland, James Edward Fisher, Carl Herman, Blaine Kelley, Joseph Murry, Bob Simms, John Volbert, Gene Taylor, and Sam Thomas.

DELTA KAPPA
Tom Apperson, Hillsville, Va.; Bob Beck, Fredericksburg, Va.; Richard Brooks, Charlotte, N. C.; Marshall Craver, Va.; Cecil Brandon, Fla.; Harry Powe, Redfearn, Jimmy Harris, Petersburg, Va.; Ted Laverty, Fort Worth, Tex.; George Dorsey, Newport News, Va.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
Charles Baldwin, Marianna, Fla.; Jack Blackwood, Greensboro, N. C.; Prosser Carnegie, Norfolk, Va.; William Crosby, Greenwood, S. C.; Erskine Cunningham, Charlotte, N. C.; William Gardner, N. Wilkesboro, N. C.; Gene Geer, Charleston, S. C.; Henry Goodpasture, Nashville, Tenn.; Montgomery Till, Jr., Greensboro, N. C.; John Hutchens, High Point, N. C.; Rivers Jenkins, Charleston, S. C.; William Jordan, Monticello, Ga.; L. C. Julian, Greenville, S. C.; Ralph Lewis, Greensboro, N. C.; William McLachern, Wilmington, N. C.; John Menges, Greenville, N. C.; Elwood Mitchell, Greensboro, N. C.; William Pate, Greenville, S. C.; Richard Russell, Winder, Ga.; J. C. Roberts, Gastonia, N. C.; Frank Sharpe, Jr., Greensboro, N. C.; Douglas Sowerby, Greensboro, N. C.; Phillip Tatem, Columbia, S. C.; and Robert Wilcox, Charlotte, N. C.

Frat Battles (Continued from Page Four)
Blocking will be on the scrimmage line, as in regulation football. However, no part of the blockers’ body except his feet may be in contact with the ground. Defensive players are restricted to the use of their hands and body to block the offensive blockers. To obtain a legitimate touch, the defense must touch the ball carrier with both hands simultaneously. A team is allowed four downs to get the ball to the next zone, but if the ball is carried beyond the 18-yard line, the ball will not be carried back to the 18-yard line. Scoring is the same as in regulation football except no extra point is attempted after the touchdown. In case of a tie, the team with the most first downs wins. In all other respects, the rules of regulation football prevail. All non-fraternity men who are interested in playing should contact Bill Fesperman of the Independent’s team. The competing teams and their respective managers are:

Delta Kappa—Jim Riddervolt
Independents—W. I. Fesperman
Beta Theta Pi—Bob Gourley
Pi Kappa Alpha—Page Jackson
Kappa Alpha—Bob Flowers
Sigma Alpha Epsilon—J. D. Ashmore
Pi Kappa Phi—W. S. Houck
Phi Delta Theta—W. D. Montgomery
Sigma Phi Epsilon—Dave Neill

Barton Takes (Continued from Page Four)
He is doing a thorough job of ironing them out, too, we might add. He is trying to get in a half hour's work with every member of the squad each afternoon, as well as watching the overall performance. During the Fall semester, he hopes to get a few matches with other Southern Conference teams, including Carolina and Duke.

Copyright 1947, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.