Y.M.C.A. CHRISTMAS GIFT FUND SPECIAL

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

ATHLETIC (See Editorial Page)

POLICY DISCUSSED

Volume XXXVI DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA FRIDAY, DEC. 6, 1947

Gift Fund To Go To Japan

'Y' Faces Great Test In Broken Japan

War Humbled People Look to Its Leadership To Re-educate Youth to Christianity

In addition to her ten city associations, Japan has 132 student organizations with a postwar enrollment from 10,000 to 12,000
members. In most of these groups the emphasis is placed not so much upon physical development (as it is in
America), but upon educational training. Classes and instruction are provided from kindergarten through high school in English, Bible, and other
subjects. Among the various aspects of the Y's program, the following receive special attention:

(1) Evangelism through personal guidance, Bible classes, lectures, discussion groups, and a “read the Bible” movement.
(2) Vocational training for unemployed youth, educational classes on various subjects, but especially language teaching on a scientific basis with
a view toward helping young men learn English and other foreign languages. This is done so that they may more
effectively understand democracy and their international obligations.
(3) Physical education programs freed from militaristic regimentation.
(4) Community work of all types.
(5) Providing (as rapidly as possible) living accommodations for young men.
(6) Publications — publishing “Kaitakusha” (The Pioneer), the monthly organ of the Y.M.C.A. (The developing of libraries both in the
association and for circulation has begun.)

The Y.M.C.A. is now afforded (Continued on Page Six)

Dr. Cunningham Endorses Gift Fund

“Once again it seems to me the decision regarding the objective of the 1947 Christmas Gift Fund Cabinet has made
a wise choice. This decision is reached quite independently after considerable prayer and discussion. A number of worthy projects were
considered. Over a period of years these gifts have been made for widely varied purposes. Sometimes they have been for
causes close at home. In recent years the gifts have been directed toward our Negro Work, for the Student Room
in the contemplated new church on our own campus, and other like causes.

“This year it seems highly appropriate that it should be for one of those much more needy than our own.
At a time when prejudice and hatred is still aflame in the earth, there is a healing value in directing
our gift to those who have recently been our bitter enemies. ‘Love your enemies; bless them that curse you; do
good to them that hate you, and pray for them that despitefully use you and persecute you,’ is the injunction
of Christ Himself. It is not unlikely that a gift sent at this time to restore a Y.M.C.A. destroyed in
the recent war with Japan will do more to testify to the Christian gospel and to international understanding and good
will than very much more spent on other objectives. It is appropriate that our Y.M.C.A. should build another Y.M.C.A. to
become a center of Christian influence for the youth of Japan.

“I heartily commend this Gift Fund to our students and to the community. Out of our abundance of blessings this
Christmas we will surely want to share generously, and even sacrificially. I predict this Gift Fund will meet the same
enthusiastic response and furnish us the same inspiration as have previous such undertakings at Davidson.”

DR. JOHN R. CUNNINGHAM.

Students Comment On Appropriateness Of ‘Y’ Gift Fund

“The Y.M.C.A.’s annual gift fund drive is, I believe, just another way of demonstrating what we sometimes casually refer to
as ‘Davidson spirit.’ It would be difficult for any individual student to explain to any one person or group of
people just what this spirit we speak of is. Through this gift fund, however, in which all of us can
participate, at least to some extent, the Student Body as a unit has an opportunity to help rebuild a needy
nation and to give them a working example of what we mean by the Spirit of Davidson.” BOB KNIGHT

“I’m glad the cabinet has chosen ‘Y’ work in Japan because I feel that this campaign will help to strengthen
the tie between our college and the colleges in Japan, between our ‘Y’ here at Davidson and the Y.M.C.A. in
the Far East. Being able to disseminate Christianity through the ‘Y’ makes this project an especially desirable one.” HAYWOOD BRINEGAR

As we stand on the threshold of the Christmas season, the annual Y.M.C.A. Gift Fund gives the Davidson student an
opportunity to fill a grievous need in a land where Christmas is only a hollow mockery. Through the medium of
the ‘Y’ Fund, we may bring the message of Christianity to Japan, an area suffering from material and spiritual impoverishment.
Using past years as a criterion, there is every evidence to believe that each student will contribute generously, thus assuring
the success of the 1947 Christmas Gift Fund.” HUGH HILL

The present certainly seems to be the most opportune moment for the Christianization of Japan. The tremendous influence which Shintoism
once had on the Japanese people has been shattered, but as yet nothing has been offered the people of Japan
to fill the spiritual vacancy that is in their lives. They are virtually without a god of any kind, and
it seems only natural to believe that they will most readily accept the religion of the Americans who have given
them a new freedom. But if we wait, conditions may be quite different. As Bob Wallace writes from the Foreign
Mission Headquarters in Nashville, the harvest is ripe now. Surely the place is Japan and the time is the present.”
JIM PITTMAN

“For those who believe that good will, not armies, is the best instrument for world concord, the Christmas Gift Fund
is an excellent medium through which to express this conviction. Although real suffering is almost incomprehensible to us pampered Americans,
surely the least we can do is to make some sacrifice to show our concern for Christian students less fortunate
than we. What will we get out of it? That is an irrelevant question. The Christian query is: How can
we do so little?” J. T. FESPERMAN

SYMPHONY BAND

On Tuesday, December 9, the Davidson College Concert Band, under the direction of Professor Pfohl, will present a program of
symphonic music at Chambers Auditorium. The concert will begin at 8:15 p.m.

SENDAI Y.M.C.A.

The above scene shows the Sendai Y.M.C.A. buildings to which the Gift Fund will be sent. The buildings were destroyed
by bombings and subsequent fires.

CALENDAR

VESPERS
December 14 — Y.M.C.A. Christmas Vespers — 7:30 p.m.

CHAPEL
December 8 — Students will have charge.
December 9 — Prof. H. A. Baumann.
December 10 — Mr. George Ivey, Charlotte, N.C.
December 11 — Prof. E. J. Erwin.

China Contributes Full Support To Y.M.C.A.'s Project

(With excerpt from a letter printed in “Y’s Men’s World” of October, 1946)

The United States officially recognizes the position of the Chinese Y.M.C.A.’s toward the reinstatement of the Men’s clubs in Japan.
While the past years have witnessed cruelty and extreme atrocities by the Japanese militarists, we recognize the fact that the
Y’s men’s activities are separated from military activities and must act accordingly. Punishment and judgment for all military activities are
being left to military authorities of the Allied Forces. Despite this, life must go on and there must be Japanese
Y’s men with their broad outlook, their mission of international good will and brotherhood, must fill an important place in
overcoming the vicious cruelty that has been drilled into the hearts and minds of the Japanese people. The influence of
such organizations as the Y’s Men’s Club is essential in these days.

“Now that the war is over and peace is here, let us win this peace by exerting every influence to
rectify this feeling of animosity and distrust that has caused the war. Let us withhold hatred and extend the help
that will go far towards the mental rectification of the Japanese people. Therefore, as regional director, it is my wish
now that Japanese Y.M.C.A. Men’s Clubs be not denied the resumption of fellowship of the international brotherhood of the Y.M.C.A.,
but rather that indication of their continued acceptance into this brotherhood be manifest toward them.

“A still greater urgency to compel the Y’s men to adopt this previously expressed policy rests upon the fact that
their clubs are founded upon Christian principles and such principles compel us to extend the hand of fellowship to those
who are in need of spiritual assistance.”

Patterson Receives Annual Award From Charlotte Chapter

On Friday night, December 5, the Charlotte Chapter of the Davidson Alumni Association presented the annual award to Mr. Patterson.
The award was given in recognition of his outstanding service to the college and the community. Mr. Patterson has been
a member of the Davidson faculty since 1942 and has contributed significantly to the institution and its mission.Yemy Air Corp.
In 1943, he became a pilot and was stationed in the Aleutian Islands. In the fall of 1945, he was
discharged from the Air Corps and returned to Davidson in January 1946. At Davidson, Charlie was vice-president of the Sophomore
Class, served on the staff of “Scripts and Pranks,” and was the president of both the Pan-Hellenic Council and the
Honorary Fraternity Council.

Hangchow College Given $5,555

$5,555, more than the predetermined $1,000 goal, was given for the rehabilitation of Hangchow Christian College in China. This sum
was used to provide steel beds for the dormitories, books for the library, and scholarships for worthy students. A center
for leadership, this institution has contributed much to the Christian thinking and intellectual progress of the Chinese people and serves
today as a vital bulwark opposing the constant threat of Communism. This was not the first time Davidson students have
aided Hangchow, for in 1940-41 they gave generously toward the support of a missionary to be sent there. In other
years, the fund has been directed toward varied causes. The following are representative: mission work in China; the building of
a local community center; Barium Springs Orphanage; installation of an electric plant in Hutsto, Africa; and aiding a leper colony
in Korea.

Christmas Vespers Will Be Dec. 14

The annual Christmas Vespers, a service which has become a tradition at Davidson College, will be held in Chambers Auditorium,
Sunday evening, December 14, at 8:00 o'clock. Sponsored by the College Y.M.C.A., the program will employ the services of the
Davidson Male Chorus, the Queens-Davidson Little Symphony Orchestra, and the Davidson Concert Band. Buford Goodman of Kannapolis will be at
the organ. The conductors will be James Christian Pfohl and Earl Berg. Preliminary to the service, antiphonal playing of familiar
Christmas carols will greet those attending as they approach Chambers Building. Prelude to the service will be “Noel” by Mulet,
followed by Bach's “Now Let Every Tongue Adore Thee.” The opening prayer will be offered by Heywood Brinegar of Miami,
Florida, student president of the Y.M.C.A. After the singing of “O, Come All Ye Faithful” by the congregation, selected scripture
covering the prophecy, the birth, and the adoration of Christ will be read by Frank R. Lowe of Syracuse, N.Y.
The readings will be punctuated by appropriate choral selections. Following the offertory, the congregation will join the chorus in the
singing of Christmas carols. President John R. Cunningham will pronounce the benediction.

PASTOR SPEAKS

The “Y” Cabinet has again offered to the Student Body a very worthy and challenging project for the Annual Gift
Fund. The fact that the “Y” Building is near a university campus and located in Japan will make a special
appeal to the customary generosity of the students. It is one of those acts of constructive goodwill which are needed
in the rehabilitation of Japan as a friendly and peaceful nation. The nation which felt the power of our atomic
bombs in warfare will welcome such an unmistakable manifestation of the Christian power to overcome evil with good. I daresay
many of the students who were engaged in active warfare with the Japanese will find a particular zest in contributing
to the spiritual reconstruction of this nation.

Signed: CARL PRITCHETT.

Y.M.C.A. Annual Drive Aims For $5,000 Goal To Be Used To Rebuild War Shattered Sendai Center; Students Expected to Support
Drive Generously

On Monday, December 8, during a special chapel program, the 1947 Y.M.C.A. Christmas Gift Fund drive was officially begun. This
year’s goal of $5,000 is to be used for the construction of a Y.M.C.A. building in Sendai, Japan. This announcement
was made by Jack Payne, the drive’s campaign director.

Students Handle Soliciting For Gift Fund Drive

Campaigning for the Christmas gift fund will be handled this year by a group of twenty-eight students. The drive gets
officially underway with a supper meeting for the helpers at the Y.M.C.A. on Monday night, December 8, at which time
final plans will be discussed. Monday through Thursday has been designated as the period during which every member of the
Student Body will be given an opportunity to make his cash contribution to the project. Individual gifts will be made
through hall chairmen in the dormitories and representatives for town students and commuters. An appeal is being extended to all
members of the faculty and to the various social fraternities. The final outcome of the drive will be announced to
the student body in chapel on Friday.

Students assisting in the campaign:

RUMPLE: Clayton Scofield and Curtis Harper
WATTS: Dick Glasgow, Herb Eavle, Newt Robertson, and Allen George
GEORGIA: Bill Plont, J.Gamble, and Rucker Dudley
WEST: Bob McGehee, Bill Farrior, Carl Farrior, and Henry Neister
EAST: Al Scarborough, Bill Robertson, Sam Ervin, Hal Mape, and Dave Shepperson
DUKE: Charlie Owens, Strickland, Buddy Cheek, Ronny Dietrick
CAROLINA: Mac Hart
FOREMAN HOUSE: Hugh McArn
MARRIED VETERANS' HOUSING UNIT: Norman McDowell
COMMUTERS: Don Hatch
TOWN STUDENTS: John Hobart

Professor E. Boyd of the Bible Department outlined the history of the project in recent years and presented the project
for the current year. He concluded the program with an inspiring message which emphasized the urgency of the need in
Japan and the timeliness of this opportunity for spreading the Christian message in that country.

Sendai Strategically Located

The city of Sendai is situated in the northeastern part of Japan, approximately 100 miles north of Tokyo. Its strategic
importance as the location of a Y.M.C.A. center has long been recognized. The Tohoku Imperial University, the Tohoku-Gakuin, and several
other institutions of learning are in the city, making it an important student center.

Badly Hit By War

Of the ten major city “Y” associations in operation in Japan before the war, less than half escaped damage. Six
of Japan's twelve principal Y.M.C.A. buildings were totally destroyed by bombs and resulting fires. The people of the city are
rebuilding but lack the funds to maintain an active program.

New Site Selected

The present site of the Y.M.C.A. building has been selected for its strategic importance. The new building will serve as
a unit for constructive activities, helping Japan at a crucial point in her history, at a time when her people
are looking to America for economic and material aid. This is the theme of the annual conference on “The Road
to Peace” sponsored by the American Friends Service Committee and the N.C. Council of Churches for students and faculty of
North Carolina colleges. On December 6, the western student conference meets for the day at Johnson C. Smith University in
Charlotte; on December 7, a similar meeting will convene at Chapel Hill for delegates from eastern North Carolina.

Prominent Speakers

Outstanding leaders on world affairs will guide the conference in a consideration of the 1947 theme “The Road to Peace
in Europe.” At the closing vesper service of the conference, Dean Stuart Nelson of the Department of Religion at Howard
University in Washington, D.C. will make an address entitled “Applying Christianity in World Affairs.” Dr. Nelson has recently returned from
a year’s stay in India where he did relief work for the Quakers.

Students to Participate

Delegates to the Adventures in Applied Christianity conference will join in discussion workshops on four topics: the spiritual basis of
peace, the organization of peace, the economic basis of peace, and the struggle for world power. This affords an excellent
opportunity for sharing ideas among college students of this area as vital topics are considered.

Davidson Men Attend

Several students from Davidson are attending the one-day session on the Smith campus. Members of the YMCA Cabinet, Collegiate Council,
and International Relations Club are among the Davidson delegation. It is gratifying to notice that Davidson students are showing interest
in efforts toward world peace and are using this opportunity to meet with other students and leaders for discussion and
fellowship.
