SEE OGLESBY’S COLUMN

The Davidsonian

LATE ISN’T IT?

VOLUME XXXVI DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1947 NO. 1

Fraternities Pledge 165 New Men

Tuesday, September 15, the Pan-Hellenic Council, headed by Charlie Patterson, officially opened the annual Davidson Rush Week for the year 1947. Rush Week lasted four days and closed, as usual, with the Day of Silence on Saturday. This year, however, rush week marked several new amendments to the Pan-Hellenic Constitution concerning rushing. Quite different from last year, no informal bids were extended during the rush period, thus keeping everyone in suspense right up until 2:30 Saturday afternoon. Also this year the fraternities had afternoon dates as well as evening parties. The day started at 2:30 in the afternoon and lasted until midnight. Outside of these periods no one talked to the rushees. Another change this year was the absence of meal dates, as some of the fraternities do not have boarding houses. Charlie Patterson, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, was well satisfied with the results of rush week in that all fraternities adhered to the new rules pretty rigidly. Competition was greater this year, due to the presence of a tenth fraternity on the Davidson campus. The Delta Kappa’s, a local fraternity, are petitioning the National Chapter of Sigma Chi. Handicapped last year by not having a fraternity house, they took their place in fraternity court this fall and are now occupying Professor Conner's old home. The rush parties usually started at seven each evening and lasted until ten. Each fraternity was allowed one late night on which their party lasted until twelve. Several of the fraternities highlighted their parties by inviting girls from Queens and the surrounding towns to visit with them. Saturday the formal bids were sent out and at 2:30 the rushees went to the fraternity house of his choice. This year one hundred and sixty-five men accepted bids from fraternities.

The following men pledged fraternities:

PHI DELTA THETA
Ted Bowen, Decatur, Georgia; Jim Campbell, Marianna, Florida; Arnie Covell, De Funiak Springs, Florida; Thenton “Hopie” Davis, Decatur, Georgia; T. Hartley Hall, Macon, Ga.; Bill Hollister, New Bern, N. C.; Andy Horne, Benefield, W. Va.; Bob Hubbel, Decatur, Ga.; Bill King, Atlanta, Ga.; Bill Klein, Atlanta, Ga.; Tom Lamb, Asheville, N. C.; Auburn Lambeth, Decatur, Ga.; Pat McGeachy, Clearwater, Fla.; Tom Mann, Enka, N. C.; Bill Mebane, Davidson; Joe Miller, Pineville, N. C.; Billy Pritchett, Charlottesville, Va.; Bill Ray, Ocala, Fla.; and Scott Verner, Forest City, N. C.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
Milton M. Clenseur, Hickory, N. C.; Hugh S. Evans, Wilmington, N. C.; H. Allen Lanier, Wilmington, N. C.; Sam E. Loftin, Jr., Wilmington, N. C.; Perry O. Lockhart Jr., Perry, Ala.; Richard B. Marlow, Hickory, N. C.; Marion Mills, Jr., Fort Mill, S. C.; David L. Moore, Rock Hill, S. C.; James B. Reeder, Huntsville, Ala.; John Roddy, Jr., Rock Hill, S. C.; John W. Walker, Jr., Raeford, N. C.; William B. Warren, Huntsville, Ala.

BETA THETA PI
Allen, Bethlehem, Pa.; Murray Ashman, Norfolk, Va.; Richard Barnwell, Burlington, N. C.; Tom Carlton, Greensboro, N. C.; Ray Cunningham, Davidson; George Gatlin, Conway, S. C.; Edward Geaver, Toccoa, Ga.; Sam Joyner, Kernersville, N. C.; John Hobart, Davidson; Bob Maner, Wilmington, N. C.; Phil McNemer, Fayetteville, N. C.; Bob Noreen, Charlotte, N. C.; Lewis Owens, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Irwin Richardson, Reidsville, N. C.; Ed Robertson, San Antonio, Texas; Ralph Robinson, Norton, Va.; Henry Shaw, Raleigh, N. C.; J. B. Stroud, Faison, N. C.; Bill Trimble, Atlanta, Ga.; and Edgar Tufts, Banner Elk, N. C.

KAPPA SIGMA
Lloyd S. Hale, Laurinburg, N. C.; Floyd McLean, Laurinburg, N. C. (Continued on Page 6)

Davidsonian Now Being Printed by Local Print Shop

For the first time in the history of the DAVIDSONIAN, the paper is being printed in town. This new arrangement should prove extremely satisfactory to all concerned, as this new system will enable the staff to put the paper to bed on Tuesday night instead of having to wait until the latter part of the week. As a consequence, students will find that the paper’s stories are considerably fresher than were those of previous years’ issues. The printing company printing the paper is owned by Mr. H. C. Broyles, who has set up his shop in the rear of Henderson's Watch Shop. Mr. Broyles is a native of Nashville, Tenn. The printing shop itself is well equipped to handle all types of job printing. It is equipped with a linotype, a cylinder press, job press and other items necessary for the business of printing.

Court Clamps Down On Frosh

Judge Bob Strickland swung into action Tuesday by calling out the names of freshmen who must appear before the Court of Control for its first meeting. Standing on their chapel seats at Judge Strickland’s command were eleven first year men. Charges ranging from the lack of a Freshman’s cap to doubting the ability of the Court of Control to control him, were read out. His Honor’s attitude was evident from the start that the wearers of the red caps had much to fear unless they cooperated with the requests of the Court. Judge Strickland warned the Class of '51 that not only must they know Freshman regulations word for word but they must abide by them to the very letter of the law. He placed particular emphasis upon the importance of support of our football team. The Court of Control for 1947-48 was appointed last Spring by the President of the Student Body in conference with the Senior Class members of the Student Council. Presiding over the court is Judge Bob Strickland with Al Scarborough serving as recorder. Also representing the Senior Class are Fritz Read and Martin Waters. For the Junior Class, Dave Shepperson and Gene Bingham serve on the Court. Bill Chandler and Buddy Alexander represent the Sophomore Class. For the past five years, due to a small enrollment or because of a preponderance of combat veterans in the Freshman Class, laxity concerning Freshman regulations has been more or less the general rule. However, this year, with veterans in the minority, the Court of Control feels that it must exercise its prerogatives as never before in the history of Davidson College in controlling and influencing the body among the underclassmen. It feels its responsibility to instill in newcomers to the campus the true Davidson spirit. No chance must be allowed for a single revered tradition of Davidson to be overlooked through negligence. With this in mind it is sincerely hoped that all students will cooperate in seeing that all Freshman Regulations are observed, and that every upperclassman will report all violations immediately. Even our alert and efficient Court cannot carry out its duty in an effective manner without the cooperation of all. The spirit and traditions of Davidson College must be preserved.

SPIRIT OF ‘47

Last Friday the president of the student body disclosed the new cabinet, and the representative men who will help him in the coming year. There are three boys from the Class of '51 on the cabinet, and all freshmen are urged to take their problems to these men at any time. The new cabinet is ready to act upon the ideas of the student body and to help in any way possible. The president, Jack Brinegar, introduced the cabinet members, then disclosed the special duties of each. Dave Coltrane is the secretary of the cabinet, and Hugh Holleywood is the treasurer. Don Coffey is the representative of the Y.M.C.A. and Pete Hall is the representative of the Boy Scouts of America. The cabinet has always sponsored the regular worship services in chapel, and it plans to continue this year, providing ushers, etc. Our president is extremely interested in the good work of the Y.M.C.A. and wants to see it develop into a more useful and informative organization. The Y.M.C.A. cabinet is composed of boys who have been active in Boy Scouts and other Christian leadership activities. The cabinet is always ready to help in any way possible. The president urged all freshmen to become active in the Y.M.C.A. and to consult the cabinet members at any time. The Y.M.C.A. cabinet is ready to act upon the ideas of the student body and to help in any way possible. The president, Jack Brinegar, introduced the cabinet members, then disclosed the special duties of each. Dave Coltrane is the secretary of the cabinet, and Hugh Holleywood is the treasurer. Don Coffey is the representative of the Y.M.C.A. and Pete Hall is the representative of the Boy Scouts of America. The cabinet has always sponsored the regular worship services in chapel, and it plans to continue this year, providing ushers, etc. Our president is extremely interested in the good work of the Y.M.C.A. and wants to see it develop into a more useful and informative organization. The Y.M.C.A. cabinet is composed of boys who have been active in Boy Scouts and other Christian leadership activities. The cabinet is always ready to help in any way possible. The president urged all freshmen to become active in the Y.M.C.A. and to consult the cabinet members at any time.

Y.M.C.A. Cabinet Are Introduced

The Davidsonian represent every student on the campus. The president, Jack Brinegar, introduced the cabinet members, then disclosed the special duties of each. Dave Coltrane is the secretary of the cabinet, and Hugh Holleywood is the treasurer. Don Coffey is the representative of the Y.M.C.A. and Pete Hall is the representative of the Boy Scouts of America. The cabinet has always sponsored the regular worship services in chapel, and it plans to continue this year, providing ushers, etc. Our president is extremely interested in the good work of the Y.M.C.A. and wants to see it develop into a more useful and informative organization. The Y.M.C.A. cabinet is composed of boys who have been active in Boy Scouts and other Christian leadership activities. The cabinet is always ready to help in any way possible. The president urged all freshmen to become active in the Y.M.C.A. and to consult the cabinet members at any time.

Calender

Monday, Sept. 29—Prof. Fleagle
Tuesday, Sept. 30—Prof. Goldiere
Thursday, Oct. 2—Col. Grace

Tentative Plans of Phi Mu Alpha

Tentative arrangements for the opening of the regular schedule of Phi Mu Alpha were discussed at a recent meeting. Mr. Goodman, the president, disclosed that the purpose of the group is to advance the cause of music on the campus, and plans were made for more detailed discussion of the sponsorship of a series of concerts to be presented by local performers for the benefit of the Davidson community. Officers of Phi Mu Alpha are as follows: President, Ed Goodman; Vice-President, Frank Maloney; Secretary-treasurer, Herb Meyers; Warden, Sam Miller.% Interested students at regular periods is a being music of the Davidson chapter for the coming year are as follows: John B. Homer. Activities call announced Department all national college to Phi Mu Alpha — Plans Activities meeting Hall for Carnegie on a con- Arts spring session under music in- MM- for- in the esper- Wat- Buford Hall. Know products Members spend for individual Davidson Students in the Social Intercollegiate Council Relations Christmas able traditional the handle admirable for the Gift it in hands Payne the Fund Jack. This is one of the most demanding traditions and our utmost attention. In charge Jim are of deputations is Pittman. These deputations are made up of interested Davidson Students to go to various organizations and conferences to represent us and bring back helpful hints to the campus that they have picked up. All of the students are interested in social activities, especially when Salem-Davidson, Queens-Davidson Dill department, similar around, these days come Robertson, who heads is working on a function to be known Converse-Davidson as day. The dull on-the-campus week Bill's work had all men brightened by the time the Sam ends. One of the busiest on cabinet Tate because he has charge of getting leaders for our chapel services. In Community Service there is Willingham two recreation of the town who directs centers in Davidson. Help is always welcome in this department. During spring elections last year Jimmy French was elected to the office of head cheerleader, but because of a broken leg that he received during baseball practice, the doctor advised him not to put any strain on the leg for some time. Robinson hails from Wilmington, North Carolina and is a member of the Senior Class. He entered Davidson as a freshman in September, 1941, and withdrew in May, 1943, to join Uncle Sam in the United States Army. After his discharge, Jerry returned to school in February, 1946. He is a member of the Beaver Club, Philanthropic Literary Society, Sigma Pi Epsilon social fraternity, the “D” Club, and the tennis team. He served on the Pan-Hellenic Council in 1946-47, was class representative to the Student Council during his junior year, and is now secretary-treasurer of the Senior Class, and Senior Class representative to the Student Council. Robinson thinks that the cheerleading Saturday meeting was good considering that it was the first game of the year and that we have had only one “pep” rally. Printed sheets of the yells were passed out Saturday night for freshmen who didn’t know all the yells, but Jerry feels that everyone should know them and really send up a lot of noise at the next game. He is hoping that we'll have the best cheering of the year at the contest with North Carolina State on October 4, as that will probably be the best-attended home game we'll have. Another thing Robinson wants is for the student body to use the Alma Mater more often. We really have a beautiful one and certainly all should know it. The assistant cheerleaders for this year are Randy Ensign, Charlie Mitchell, Hill, and Bill Montgomery.

College Dining Hall Announces New Organization
This year, for the first time in seventy-five years, students are being required to eat at the college dining hall. During the past spring and summer, several meetings were held between the administration, local boarding house managers, and fraternity presidents, out of which rose the new Dining Hall policy. Leading exponents of this plan were Dr. Cunningham and Mr. Jackson. Their idea is that this contact at meals will provide a solidarity that no previous class has known. The administration's general understanding is that only the freshmen will be required to eat at the Dining Hall for a period of one semester. They have, therefore, made arrangements for supplies, personnel, and equipment to accommodate the entire number for this period. The Dining Hall is being figured on a basis of approximately $35 a month for those eating the whole semester. At present, there are about 360 students eating at the Dining Hall compared to 200 last spring. To accommodate this influx, Mr. (Continued on Page 6).

ROTC Officers Are Appointed
Lt. Col. Carl Pohl will serve as student commanding officer of the Davidson College ROTC unit for 1947-48 and will be assisted by Major Bert Anderton as executive officer, Lt. Col. Pohl announced yesterday. Lieutenants Abernathy, Dobson, and Grace will serve as officers. Anderton, I. P., I. B., Val, and Sergeant J. Codington. The larger enrollment of the ROTC unit, more than one-third larger than last year, is divided into four companies and the total enrollment aside from the band is 173 students. Leaders of the unit under the battalion staff are as follows: Company A: Capt. (O), (Chyigi), Lt. W. M. Worouiiit, 1st Sgt. Hal Mapes. Company B: Capt. (O), (ert), Lt. Ward, 1st Sgt. R. K. Robbins. Company C: Capt. (O), Lt. Gray, 1st Sgt. W. T. Potson. Company D: Capt. (O), Lt. Sandy Carnegie, 1st Sgt. C. R. Vance. Band leader, Capt. S. C. Murray, Lt. J. B. Reaves, 1st Sgt. D. T. Williams.

Summer Camps
The Davidson ROTC unit was represented by 58 men at summer camp in the “Old Harmony Church” area at Fort Benning, Ga. The largest enrolled camp in that area. The second detachment in camp had all satisfactorily completed the course. Davidson was the only college that did not have any students before the disciplinary board. The local unit was also fortunate in not having any men in the post hospital. One man in camp, the rifle rat, had an unusually high qualification rate of 96.5 percent. Most of the students are glad to get back to Davidson where there are no twenty-mile hikes, full field inspections, or nightly bed checks at 10:30 p.m.

Inspection Results
An announcement from the Department of War this summer gave Davidson the rating of “excellent” (Continued on Page 6).

College Starts With Largest Enrollment
With the usual flash of tumult that always accompanies the renewal of old friendships, Davidson College opened her doors last week to the largest student body in the history of the school. For the one hundred and eleventh year, Davidson assembled an effort to continue the processes involved in education. This year, the total student body is nine hundred and seventy-six students, a record number. Of this total, the Sophomores head the list with three hundred and twelve men, followed by the Freshmen with two hundred and seventy-six, the Juniors with one hundred and fifty-six, and the Seniors with one hundred and fifty-two. One hundred and four special students complete the tally. These figures were obtained from the office of the Registrar and are accurate to date. The desire of the administration is that the student body be reduced to approximately seven hundred and fifty men within the next five or six years, the normal prewar enrollment size of the College. As the present members of the student body move on toward graduation, their places will be taken by incoming regular Freshman classes and this reduction should come about as a matter of course. At this time, there are three hundred and ninety-six veterans and forty-six commuters enrolled. All of this is quite a change from the conditions existing three years ago when the smallest student body since the Civil War, one hundred and ninety men, did not quite fill Watts and Georgia dormitories. Though the size of the student body has varied quite considerably within the past few years, the Davidson spirit, of which we are all a part, has remained unchanged.

Early Pep Rally Sees Team Off
Amid the strains of “Dixie” and “O Davidson,” the Wildcat football squad received probably their biggest send-off in many a year as they piled aboard the special bus en route to tangle with the powerful William and Mary in Norfolk on Saturday. Despite the earliness of the hour, most of the student body managed to crawl out of bed long enough to trek down to the front of the stadium and yell some for the team. Upperclassmen had raised a collective eyebrow when the time was announced in chapel Thursday, but they turned out nevertheless. One senior had the foresight to obtain the services of a seeing-eye dog; others, not so original, blinked blood-shot eyes in time with the drum beat, lending an unusual flash of color to the occasion. Our usually beaming leader, Hill, stifled yawns and grinning as would be expected, freshman caps were noticeably up. Present across from the shivering tribe, though not so formidable appearing, was a company of Woollen’s street contingent, which gave vent to a feeble cheer after much discussion and a vote of the morning. The trombone player who turned up in slippers and a dressing gown! Between Jerry's enthusiasm and the peppy marches furnished by the band, everyone was soon wide awake and eager to give the team a good send-off. Said Coach Story to the gathering, “We don't know what the score will be, but we do know that it will be better because of the interest shown by you all.” We all can't make it to Norfolk, but we can count on the team and the band upholding the Davidson spirit.