Page 4 THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, March 21, 1947

Community Center Planning To Open Near Unity Church
Difficulties In Getting Equipment Delayed Opening Two Weeks

OPENING DATE SET FOR MARCH TWENTY-FIFTH
Directed by John Pritchard, Sponsored by Y.M.C.A.

Plans for the opening of the Unity Community Center are rapidly materializing. Under the sponsorship of the YMCA, the project has been placed under the direction of John Pritchard, a sophomore. The opening date has been set for the 25th of March. When the plans were first made for the opening of the center, it was hoped that the community center would be in operation by the 11th of March, but due to difficulty in acquiring necessary equipment, the opening was delayed.

The building in which the center will be situated is owned by Unity Church and is adjacent to the Church. It contains one small room and a kitchenette. The building was loaned to the YMCA by the officers of the church.

Recreation
The aim of the center is to provide a place where all the young folks of the community can come for a period of recreation. It is to be a place where young people can cultivate new friendships and develop new interests. It is the desire of the YMCA that the center will become a real part of the community. It will perhaps soon be known as the Hugo Sapp’s of the Unity Community.

The center will be equipped with many kinds of parlor games and table games. Ping pong tables have been ordered before the opening day and are expected to arrive.

Students Part
It should be called to the attention of the student body that Davidson students have a real part in this project. All the equipment is being purchased from the Vesper Fund, which is made up from student contributions on Sunday nights. The center will be opened three nights a week. It will be opened on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday evenings from eight o'clock till ten.

On each evening that the center is opened, it will be under the supervision of a young married couple, who will act as hosts and serve refreshments. Those married couples who will be on hand for the opening of the center on the night of March 25th are: Mr. and Mrs. Bill Ross, Mr. and Mrs. Bill Macy, Mr. and Mrs. Champ McNair, and Mr. and Mrs. George Forzeley.

SPRING FESTIVITIES
(Continued from Page 3)
The blind date list for Salem-Davidson Day last fall will be glad to tell you. Pulchritude abounds, while it must be admitted that the chance of getting stung does exist, it is very slim.

Transportation, of course, will be provided for those who desire it, in the form of Greyhound Buses. Accommodations are the lookout of the individuals concerned, and buses will be provided for those who wish to return Saturday night.

Students Help
(Continued from Page 3)
Discussion of such topics as “Boy-Girl Relationships,” “Date Etiquette,” “Preparation for Marriage,” etc. Some of our students have taken the opportunity to serve God by teaching Sunday school classes at the church and working with the young people. Bill Iverson, Curtis Harper, Ken Smart, Jim Pittman, Jim Sherwood, Harriett Brown, and Lois Macy have given their help in the Sunday School, while Miss Brown, Bob Henderson, Ken Smart, and Virgil Pino are working with the various young people’s groups. The pastor this year is Bill Macy. A cordial invitation is extended to the students to come over and worship with us in the Sunday morning services, or to join in the Sunday night hymn-sing when a Vespers cut can be spared!

Send Her The Davidsonian
“The Liveliest College Paper On The Hill”
Only $1.50 Per Year

Chortling Over Chappell
HA HA
He just can't see a joke, not even when he shaves.

Sanatorium Sunday School Interests Many Students; Bibles Given
Cars Contributed By Students Aid In Transportation Difficulties

Sunday School teachers for the Mecklenburg Sanatorium have been adequate for every Sunday in March. There has been a large increase in the number of students interested in visiting the tuberculosis patients every Sunday morning. There has also been an increase in the actual number of men making the trip. The average for the month of March stands at 23 teachers in attendance every week. Officials of the YMCA state that this is the highest average ever attained in the history of this work.

Transportation
Due to the generous offer of the use of privately owned cars, the number of men traveling by bus has been very small. Besides the YMCA car, there have been three others in use on various Sundays. The Bridgeman Ford has been taking the largest number of men. It has been rivaled very closely by the Wilkes car owned by Macauley. Paul Horne has also been using his Jeep to transport teachers.

The distribution of Bibles to the patients has continued every Sunday. These were made possible by the Student Sunday School Class of Davidson College. When a teacher finds that a patient needs a Bible, he draws one from the supply of twenty-four provided by the class and presents it to the patient in the name of the class.

New Teachers
Those men who have recently started to take an active part in this work, either as substitutes or as regular teachers, are the following: Mac Hart, Douglas Hicks, Sam Maloney, Sam Hoyt, Alvin Hurt, Bill Alexander, Hugh Farrior, David Shepperson, John Lyles, Pat Golden, Charles Elyea, Jack Bridgeman, Wilkes Macauley, Bill Robertson, Dick McCloy, Bob Knight, Ed Currie, Fred Schwaemmle, and Malloy Owen.

Faul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
Charlotte, N. C.

To Patients
Students Make Sermon Trips
Student Deputations Supply Needs of Near-by Churches

Deputations have been sent by the YMCA recently to several churches in North Carolina during the past two weeks. The Presbyterian Church of Boone, N. C. was visited last Sunday, March 16, by two students. Sam Maloney spoke at the evening service. He was accompanied on the trip by John Hill.

Pulpit Supply
The same Sunday, two pulpits were supplied by Davidson students. The morning worship service at the Back Creek Church, north of Mooresville, was conducted by Herb Meza. Miles Wood preached at the Cornelius Presbyterian Church. He has recently undertaken the regular supply of that pulpit since it has been vacated by the departure of Rev. J. Ewart. He plans to continue in this capacity until a new pastor has been called to the Cornelius church.

The Young People and the Pioneers of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church of Charlotte also had Davidson speakers last Sunday. Herb Meza spoke to the Pioneers. With the aid of James Green of Johnson C. Smith University, Tommy Clark and George Worth presented a program to the Young Peoples Meeting. The topic of this program was Christian Brotherhood, given in connection with the work of the Intercollegiate Council for Religion in Life of the Charlotte Area.

I’ll Swap You $5.00 8X10 Color Portrait For $1.50
“Taken Here In Davidson”
W. DONALD KERR
RUMPLE 9. Local and College Agent of Franklin Studios
Charlotte, N. C.

Standing On The Promises
“Looking unto the promise of God ... he waxed strong through faith.” Romans 4:20

A Christian song rated highly by hymnologists has the refrain, “Standing on the promises of God.” It is a good place to stand. But the question we ask is: Who has the right to stand there? One answer is: Anybody, if he can locate the promise, can take it as his own. This is actually the assumption of many simple readers of the Bible. A soldier goes into battle with the words in his mind, “but it shall not come nigh thee.” A woman in distress remembers the line, “Underneath are the everlasting arms.” A sick man recalls the promise, “As thy days, so shall thy strength be.” One burdened in conscience, hardly yet repentant, catches the phrase, “Her iniquity is pardoned.” A young person in a jam (like the woman in Dorothy Parker’s tragic little satire) remembers a phrase heard in church, “If ye ask anything in my name, I will do it,” and prays in Christ's name for the ringing of the telephone.

And then, perhaps, the soldier gets killed, first man down; the woman in distress does not feel the everlasting arms; the sick man grows weaker; the sinner feels no peace; the telephone does not ring. Are all the promises hollow?

One who has been shocked by the apparent failure of one of the Bible’s promises may take the trouble to look up the passage again. He may this time look beyond the immediate words to see to whom and when and why the promise was made. In other words, he becomes historically minded, he considers the passages in their context of place, time, and purpose. When he does this he may become discouraged about all the promises. How few of them seem to bear one’s own name! “But it shall not come nigh thee” could certainly not have been meant for everyone, even in the poet’s mind, otherwise no believer in God would ever get hurt. “Underneath are the everlasting arms” was spoken to the nation of Israel; and again it is to Israel that strength is promised according to her days. The pardoned iniquity of Isaiah 40 is that of the city of Jerusalem. The people who are promised an answer in Jesus’ name are eleven of the original disciples... And so forth.

The Bible reader at this point may give up his faith in the promises. Granted these are divine words, granted their absolute truth, what good does that do me? How stupid it is (the reader may think) to rely on a promise made to someone else altogether, under entirely different circumstances! As well expect to receive a fat check this afternoon because a note was signed by one Frenchman to another two centuries ago, as to claim a promise from a remoter century, a farther continent.

Let the discouraged Christian take heart. There are some promises that do have your name, or something better than your name. They are, as it were, made out to the bearer. “He that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out.” “Whosoever believeth may have everlasting life.” “He that will, let him take the water of life freely.” “He that believeth on me, though he die, yet shall he live.” “Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.” “God... would have all men to be saved.” If you are not “Whosoever,” if you are not included in“all,” surely that is your fault, not God's. The “Whosoever” of the Bible are enough to carry you through the worst and best that life or death can bring. There is still more to be said than God's Word, even when spoken to particular individuals at special occasions in their lives, or to particular tribes or nations now gone the way of all flesh—these promises remain and can be claimed by those who qualify. And the qualifications are simple. Are you in the same kind of situation? And do you have the same kind of faith? If you are, and if you do, then stand on the promise. It will bear your weight. He will bear your weight, the burden of your perplexity, your grief, even of your sin. If to a child-nation, wild, ignorant, vacillating, yet with a faith in the God above all gods, it could be said that underneath are the everlasting arms, it can be said to you too, you of the wild, ignorant mind, the divided heart. As is your faith, so is the promise. If to the exiles of a city laid waste by sword and fire, sick of their sins, despairing of rescue, the prophet could say, “Her iniquity is forgiven,” then the broken and sorrowful heart, an exile from innocence, even now may hear the voice from the shadows of Calvary, “Father, forgive them... This day shalt thou be with me.” If the disciples in the Upper Room could so learn the mind of Christ that they would ask only what he would ask, then indeed he would do it; and you too, if you learn the mind of Christ, even if your request goes without answer and you must taste the cup of dread, you shall be able to pray as he did, “Not my will, but Thine, be done.” The promises of God are from eternity, but they can never grow old. They are for the men and women of faith in every time, in every place. They have not given out nor worn thin, they are yours. Call the roll of faith: is your name written there? “These all... received not the promises, God having provided some better things for us, that apart from us they should not be made perfect... for himself hath said: ‘I will in no wise fail thee, neither will I in any wise forsake thee.’” The writer to the Hebrews knew very well that that promise had been made to men long-since dead, but he knew the promise still lived: “So that with good courage we say: The Lord is my helper: I will not fear.”

DELUXE ICE CREAM—Is Now Available At THE STUDENT STORE; 221 South Tryon Street

Private Dining Rooms - For Parties And Banquets; THACKERS, INC. “A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”

Chappell Praised For Leadership Of Spring Services

This past week Davidson students again had the privilege of hearing an inspired speaker and minister in a series of six services. The Spring Services, this year conducted by Dr. Clovis G. Chappell, pastor of the First Methodist Church Charlotte, were outstanding not only as religious events but also in the larger realm of Davidson's school activities. The interest and attendance were perhaps as good and widespread this spring as at any fall or spring services in history.

Dr. Chappell’s messages have been summed up by himself in the following phrases and sentences:

Tuesday morning—“Making useless within us useful.” “The direction of life, what are we becoming?”
Wednesday morning—“There are some things that you should fear but most things are not worthy of fear, namely: Fear of self, of making a mistake, and of work.”
Wednesday night—The invitation that Christ extends to us to let Him carry our burdens, Christ being willing to shoulder the heavy end.”
Thursday morning—“The joys of a beautiful friendship with God.”
Tuesday night—“The strength and beauty gained by rebirth through Christ.”

Opportunity

As usual, when there is an opportunity offered to many, some take advantage of it and others, because of varying attitudes, either do or will not. There is no doubt that hearing Dr. Chappell has been an opportunity. Several members of the student body have been asked their opinions as to the effectiveness of Dr. Chappell and the realness of the opportunity. Their opinions are listed.

Bill McLean—“From observing the attendance at the services and from listening to comments by various members of the student body, I believe there are possibilities that this series of talks might mean as much as anything that we have experienced this year.”
Dick O’Hair—“Dr. Chappell was as good a minister as we have had and can come down to earth on a plane that we can apply.”
Jim Jackson—“Dr. Chappell was as effective a speaker as we have had here. He held the Davidson student body as well as anyone ever has.”
Herb Meza—“Dr. Chappell has a deep spiritual insight and a knack for humor and wit. He presented the fundamentals in a very attractive manner.”

In ability to hold his listeners' attention Dr. Chappell rates high. His humor was by no means one of his weak points and all of his sermons were amply illustrated. It has been suggested that this was one of the reasons why he so ably held the Davidson student body.

There are some students who feel that excessive humor has no place in the pulpit and Dr. Chappell’s effectiveness was reduced by this fact. To others, and seemingly by far the majority, this manner was an enjoyable release from the usual, which in addition to stimulating interest also threw new meaning into what might have been termed a “dull Christianity.” The Y.M.C.A. board of control is to be commended for its choice of Dr. Chappell and it is the hope of the student body that it will do as well in securing a speaker for the fall services.

The Upward Look by Tom Powell

A new twist to an ageless human failing appeared not long ago in the ‘Picturesque Speech’ section of “The Reader’s Digest.” The tendency to “soldier on the job,” so prominent in human nature, was aptly termed rusting, rather than resting, on our laurels. Were we to devote a moment's consideration to this so-called new twist, we might easily realize certain truths not evident in the old, accepted phrase.

A prominent businessman recently remarked that we, as individuals, either go forward or backward—we are unable to hold our place in the sun, regardless of the time and effort expended in attaining that place, simply by standing still; for in so doing, we necessarily find our position outdistanced by those whose earnest and diligent application to the task at hand results in the development of superior ability.

In a recent track meet a famed middle-distance runner, having taken the lead at the start of the quarter-mile run and held it entering the head of the home stretch, suddenly decided to turn his head to the side momentarily to look at the runners behind. In so doing, he broke his stride and lost the race, his first defeat in four years, to one who kept running through to the end. In short, the individual choosing to rest on his laurels will sacrifice at one fell swoop his past efforts and his chance of future achievement.

Not that we should forgo taking inventory of our individual accomplishments and resources—that is a practice which the demands of custom and usage have made standard operating procedure. Nor should we deny ourselves a sense of personal pride and satisfaction for a job well done, for a balance sheet which gives evidence that we have made a wise distribution of our individual natural resources. The danger lies in our becoming satisfied to rely upon the status quo as being sufficient to carry us through. When we demonstrate such satisfaction, we, as Dr. Chappell pointed out, cease to grow. Then the words of the businessman heretofore mentioned take on the full force of their implication. When we cease to grow, we necessarily become decadent and obsolete.

Rather should the period of recapitulation be completed by a new budget, a new plan providing for a more efficient allocation of our individual resources looking toward greater achievements. Then, and only then, will we continue to grow in mind and in spirit.

Now why the question anyway? Why should we trouble ourselves about this matter of steadfast devotion to the attainment of greater and still greater achievements? The problem that we face is, in its simplest form, that of owning up to and meeting our debts to society, to family, to ourselves, and to God. As men we cannot, indeed we must not, fail in the liquidation of our debts. We are members of the society of mankind and, as such, must contribute our share toward that society's perpetuation and general welfare. By our share is meant taking advantage of every opportunity to render a service to society that will represent our best efforts. Paul, in his letter to the Galatians, says, “As we have opportunity, let us strive to do good unto all men.”

Dr. Chappell pointed out the debt we owe to our family. You recall that he said that “we should be afraid to disappoint our parents.” Their hopes, their prayers, their very lives are wrapped up in us. When we stop growing in mind and spirit, we default in the remainder of payments due on our debt to family.

We owe it to ourselves to realize the utmost of our capabilities. A philosopher once remarked that man should have a goal, an aim in life so high as to be forever just out of his reach, though he hitch his wagon to a star during the course of the race. Such an aim would safeguard from rust the laurels achieved along the way. We cannot forget that we are held accountable for our best performance. You remember the words of Paul when he said, “Be not deceived; God is not mocked; for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap.”

Finally, there is the debt we owe to God. When we pray that “God's will be done on earth as it is in heaven,” we ask that God’s will be done in us. This request bears a responsibility too great to be cast aside. The Apostle Paul never paused to look behind, never broke his stride. We might well profit by his example when he said, “This one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those things which are before, I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.”