February 21, 1947
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

Westminster Group Offers Discussions Every Sun
Student Group Emphasizes Christian Fellowship and Worship

MEET IN QUADRANGLERS ROOM AT SIX-THIRTY

Westminster Fellowship Now Discussing Religions

The Westminster Fellowship Group is one of the newer religious organizations on the campus. In the fall of 1938, Dr.
Joseph Garrison, an alumnus of Davidson, was appointed director of Student Work in the Presbyterian Church. When he visited Davidson
some months later, he held a conference with Dr. Pritchett in regard to the organization of some type of church-sponsored
group that would tend to encourage the practice of attending Young Peoples meetings on the part of those who came
to college from churches that had such organizations, and to introduce this type of meeting to others. When all the
smoke of verbal controversy had cleared, the present organization was evolved.

The basis for the existence of such a group is in the assumption that the student of today has his
own ideas concerning religion and, being true to human nature, would like to express them, at the same time sharing
in the knowledge and opinions of others. This then is the purpose of the Westminster Fellowship Group, to broaden the
individual student's perspective along lines in which he is interested, and to encourage him to share his own ideas and
experiences with his fellow students.

Discussions Frequent

The programs are arranged in such a way as to present a topic on one Sunday and hold a discussion
on the same subject the next week. For the first Sunday’s program, an attempt is made to present a speaker
who is somewhat of an authority on the subject. He presents the subject as he sees it and possibly some
other opinions. Then on the next Sunday, one of the students presents in brief the points that the speaker has
made and leads the discussion. The rich Christian fellowship and worship is there for all students. Although the group is
sponsored by the local Presbyterian Church, its membership is not limited to members of that denomination. The meetings are held
each Sunday evening at 6:30 in the Quadrangle Room of the Chambers Building. It is hoped that every student will
feel that these are his meetings and will become a part of them.

Other Religions

During the coming month, the Fellowship is taking up a series of programs in the study of other religions. On
next Sunday evening, Rev. Murphy Williams will present a talk on the Seventh Day Adventist religion and its practices. On
March 2, 1947, John Miller will lead the discussion on this subject. On March 9, 1947, Dr. K. J. Foreman
will speak to the group on the Christian Science Religion, bringing his wide experience and knowledge on this subject. On
the following Sunday, Buford Goodman will lead the discussion.

Town Observes Day of Prayer

This evening at eight o’clock, the Davidson community will gather at the A. M. E. Zion Methodist Church to observe
the “World Day of Prayer.” During the service, Charlie Elyea will present to the Methodist congregation, on behalf of the
College Sunday School class, a pulpit Bible. The Bible was purchased with funds acquired during the first semester of this
school year. Observance of the “World Day of Prayer,” which had its beginning with the Protestant women organizations of this
country and the world, has come to be a tradition. On February 21 of each year, peoples of every color
and nationality pause to offer their prayers of thanks. The Zion Methodist church is located across the railroad tracks near
the asbestos plant. Its location can be checked on the map in the lobby of Chambers or at the Y.M.C.A.
Tonight’s service holds special meaning for the student body.

Sunday Night Story’s Class Proves Active, Gives Bibles
By Charles Elyea

Set that alarm clock early on Sunday morning! By the term “early,” I don’t mean 7 o'clock, nor do I
mean 11 o'clock, but sufficient time to dress and come on over to the third floor Chambers—Quadranglers room. Coach Story,
in his own unique way presenting the lesson, is swell as a Sunday School teacher. He might interest you in
a sports story (he likes very much and you will too), or you might hear a story about Napoleon Bonaparte—but
always a story from Story. Someone has dubbed him in fun “the liar”; however, he does a good job of
expounding the truth from the layman’s angle. The class uses the uniform lesson series in the “Earnest Worker” which serves
as a continuous chain of thought from Sunday to Sunday. Come around to our class next Sunday. Coach Story will
be glad to see you. If you have any troubles, he will relish the chance to assist you in any
way he can. The class has recently bought a large pulpit Bible; also, a number of small Bibles for the
Mecklenburg Sanatorium, and the colored school here in Davidson. The pulpit Bible will be presented Friday night at the Methodist
Church, a colored church.

Change Location

Last year the college Sunday School class met at the Guest House; but with the enlarged student body of ’46-’47,
it was thought feasible to locate ourselves in Phi Hall. This location also became a problem during the cold months
when there was no heat in the building. After a long discussion of whether to build a fire ourselves or
pay someone else; and, whether to pay the high school for the use of coal or furnish it ourselves, we
decided to move to the third floor chambers. Come over and see us!

YMCA NEWS TO COME

The Davidsonian will come out monthly in a six-page edition. The extra pages will be taken up by material supplied
by the Y.M.C.A. on its work. Articles will also be contributed by other student religious groups. Another feature of these
pages will be special columns by faculty and students. This undertaking is a part of the department of publications of
the Y.M.C.A. and under the direction of Lamar Williamson.

Fellowship Adds Ideas
Davidson Christian Fellowship Gains New Leaders

For the past several weeks in Tuesday morning chapel you have been hearing an announcement about some “Davidson Christian Fellowship”
and wondering to yourself, “Well, what in the world is the Davidson Christian Fellowship?” It all began when several of
the students were wondering how it would be possible to provide to the student body a working plan for more
zealous and informal Christian living, and the result was the basic idea for the Davidson Christian Fellowship. Feeling the power
of definite prayer, sincere regular Bible study and Christian “bull sessions,” they laid plans. The idea was to begin the
Fall Term with a big rally and to present to the students the plan for daily Bible study, prayer and
“bull sessions” in their own rooms.

Rally Held

The Fall came, the rally was held, and a great number of students attended. The plan was presented, and the
students were encouraged to begin immediately and to invite those men in the rooms around them to join them and
then pray for the Holy Spirit to work in their lives. Immediately four daily hall prayer meetings sprang up. There
was a spontaneous request for those rallies to go on every Tuesday night, and so they did. With the Tuesday
night meetings went great success. Students and outside speakers gave stirring messages. The “old time” hymns and lively music were
very popular. Students welcomed an informal spirit-filled meeting of this sort. But with the daily prayer groups, things were not
going very well.

(Continued on Page 4)

Dr. Clovis G. Chappell To Conduct Spring Service-- Noted Writer, Pastor

Crack’s
By Murphy Williams

The housing situation is pretty rough these days, even here in Davidson, secluded as we are from the harsh, cold
world. This business of living three in a room is a lot different from the prewar Davidson, and different from
what we would choose. There are a lot more married couples than there is room for them. But not long
ago an incident happened to me that made me think that there is a situation almost as sad as a
couple without a house. I went to visit a family who had a house to live in but practically no
furnishings to make it comfortable and attractive. After leaving that home, a great sentence came to my attention that made
the experience very vivid in my memory. It was a sentence found in one of the letters of the Apostle
Peter, where he says, “Make it your whole concern to furnish your faith with resolution, resolution with intelligence, intelligence with
self-control, self-control with steadfastness, steadfastness with godliness, godliness with brotherliness, and brotherliness with Christian love.”

Most of us who come within the scope of this paper have a house of faith. Indeed, poor is the
man that hasn’t. But a lot of us have never gone to the expense of putting any furniture in that
house. The man with no faith hasn’t much of a place to hang his hat, but there are some of
us who have that house of faith in which to live, who haven't furnished it with a hat rack. In
fact, we haven't furnished it with anything—no chairs or beds or tables or radiators or food. Then we wonder why
that house is uncomfortable, and why we are cold and hungry. In our thinking about religion here, let’s not get
the idea that a simple faith is enough. A simple faith belongs to simple people. But let's put some furniture
in that house. We need to furnish our faith with real goodness that puts hypocrisy to shame, with knowledge that
makes Christianity intelligible, with piety that comes from living close to God, and with love that breaks down all the
barriers between races and nations.

News Items

The Y Cabinet has recently added George Worth to its number to take the place of Ed Golden, who graduated
at mid-term. He is filling the post of Social Action, and besides doing a very fine job of bringing about
better understanding between races, he is doing a great job of directing the Sunday School work at the Mecklenburg Sanatorium,
and, incidentally, is continuing his Davidsonian habits by helping to make up these pages.

“Religion,” the familiar thing on wheels that sits out in front of the Y, is now back in commission after
a long siege at one of the local garages. In case you don't know the reason for the name, she
got it because she runs on faith and shakes the devil out of you.

The Vesper collections have dropped below the hundred dollar average in the last few weeks.

Jack Wayman, the co-captain of our great 1943 basketball team, was through Davidson the other day and asked to be
remembered to all the “fellers.”

Congratulations

To Joe Stukes for doing such a fine job of heading up the collection of our $5,500.00 for the Christmas
Gift Fund.

To the Board of Control for getting Dr. Chappell as the speaker for our Spring Services.

To several halls for being so regular and enthusiastic about the Hall Prayer Meetings.

Unsung Heroes

The fellows who did most of the collecting for the Gift Fund.

Mr. Hobart and (Continued on Page 6)

Henry Luce, American Aid To The Christian Colleges In China
Dr. Cunningham Reports on New York Meeting of American Leaders
By David Hamilton

“Congratulations, Davidson, for a job well done!” was the message of Dr. Cunningham in Chapel last week. “On January 21
of this year, Mr. Henry Luce, editor of Time, Life, and Fortune magazines, invited a group of fifty men and
women representing various business, professional, educational, and religious groups to meet him in his home in New York, and I
had the privilege of being present. The meeting was called to outline proposals for assisting the thirteen Christian colleges of
China. At this meeting, the Y Gift-fund project of Davidson College was cited as a splendid example of what American
colleges can do. I couldn’t help but feel proud. At the Nashville convention...too, and at other places, this contribution of
Davidson has been very favorably mentioned. The final count on the Gift-fund was $5,550.00.) “As a result of Mr. Luce’s
meeting, an organization was formed known as The Associated Boards for Christian Colleges in China, and Dr. Robert J. McMullen,
former president of Centre College, and earlier one of the most prominent of Presbyterian missionaries to China and educators in
China, has been appointed the executive secretary. This organization is embarking on a broad program for the rehabilitation of the
Chinese Christian colleges.

Propose Close Ties

“One of the proposals is that strong colleges in America relate themselves definitely to particular colleges in China. Already there
are such relationships well established. Smith College, for instance, is definitely tied in with Ginling College, one of the two
women’s colleges of this group. Davidson has recently established its connection with Hangchow College by its Christmas Gift. It would
seem a most timely consideration for Davidson to face the question as to whether it could in some very helpful
and practical way continue this association. It need not confine itself to the Christmas Gift-fund. The furnishing of books, the
interchange of personnel in the future—students from Hangchow coming to Davidson, graduates going from Davidson to teach a year or
two in China—and other possible relationships might be envisioned.

“But the impoverished colleges of China need more than just an association with those of America. They need to be
almost completely re-equipped, and to meet this need Mr. Luce and the Associated Boards propose to raise fifteen million dollars.
This effort has the backing of some of the most prominent leaders in American life, and gives promise of success.

Need Great

“The need of the Christian colleges is staggering. All but two have been occupied by the Japanese. Their buildings have
been utterly looted. The furnaces are out, no beds are left, and in all of the thirteen colleges I doubt
if there were thirteen doorknobs left on the doors when the Japs pulled out. Scientific and other teaching equipment has
been taken, libraries have been hauled away and sold en masse to second-hand book stores in Shanghai. In our own
Hangchow College library, 95 per cent of the books are gone.”

In this little booklet “West of Okinawa,” Henry Luce writes: “Even where walls and roofs remain, they must be repaired.
Windows and doors and hardware must be repaired—or replaced. Plumbing and heating and lighting must be restored. Beds to sleep
on, chairs to sit on, tables to write on—a thousand pieces of equipment to replace that looted by the Japanese
must be found somewhere. What does one do in a laboratory without beakers or flasks or chemicals or balances or
microscopes—especially if the gas plant or the electric power plant is gone? And how effectively can either teachers or students
function without books? Today the colleges carry innumerable burdens of physical rehabilitation. Coming on top of years of meager rations,
physical danger, and spiritual stress, these latest burdens are very, very heavy.”

Colleges Advance

But the job these colleges have done and are doing is hardly less than amazing. They have made great strides
in agriculture, in science, and in medicine. They have taken the lead in the cultural re-awakening of China. But by
far their most important contribution has been the training of men and women for personnel and professional leadership. All through
the ranks, up to the highest government posts, there are Christian college graduates. General Marshall was so impressed that he
wrote: “The rapidly mounting influence of the graduates of the Christian colleges in China is clearly evident today. The training
and guidance college students receive provides modern China with governmental servants and others engaged in constructive activities, whose integrity and
sense of duty exert an influence of major importance to the future of the country.”

It is no secret that many of China’s government officials are corrupt and in all of her four hundred million
customers there are not enough men of training and character to go around. But the Christian colleges have the answer
in the men and women they are training, and in those they will train in the future. An ancient Chinese
sage said, “If you are planting for a hundred years, plant men.” The Christian colleges are doing just that. They
are training the men who will awake the sleeping dragon, men who will lead the chaotic China of today toward
the new China of tomorrow.

Robert Payne writes in “Forever China”: “From the small mudhouses of the universities, from the damp unheated cubicles where the
professors and students shiver like Diogenes in his tub, while the paper windows flap in the wind, a revolution is
sweeping over China. Unlike other revolutions, it has its source in the spirit, in vigorous scholarship, and in an understanding.”

Cabinets In Charlotte Area Meet

Queens and Johnson C. Smith Leaders Visit On Campus

The Councils of the Student Christian Associations of Queens College and Johnson C. Smith University were on the Davidson campus
Wednesday evening, February 19, for a joint meeting with the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet. Questions were asked about the
success of religious emphasis weeks conducted by these schools. The past experiences of each school were discussed by these campus
leaders in an informal manner. The result was that those who were able to attend learned from the experiences and
the plans of the others and reported to the joint gathering. This meeting was part of the National Brotherhood Week
which runs from February 17 through February 23. Ideas and contacts rising out of the Intercollegiate Council for Religion in
Life of the Charlotte area were valuable in the planning and organization for this joint session. The Councils of Queens
and Johnson C. Smith came to Davidson at the invitation of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet extended to them
last week. This invitation was cordially accepted by both of the visiting groups.

Co-operation Talked

Several of those present expressed the wish that more co-operation would take place between these schools and exchange of ideas
put into practice. No official invitation was extended for the next meeting. This meeting was presided over by Jim Jackson,
president of the Davidson Y. M. C. A. Cabinet. Charlie Patton of Davidson presented the devotional. Stukes talked on the
religious emphasis on campus as representatives of the other schools.

Duke Fellowship Boosts Worship

Religious Atmosphere On Campus

Every Sunday evening a group of young people meets on each campus at Duke University for the purpose of bringing
more unity and fellowship to the campuses. These meetings of the Methodist Student Fellowship are run by the students themselves,
under the supervision and with the aid of their recently acquired director, the Reverend J. H. Overton. They sing hymns,
and have talks made by different members of the Fellowship.

The Fellowship has an organized house on each campus, and each house has its own chairman and floor chairman who
plan the meetings and activities of their house and co-ordinate them with those of the other house. They also co-operate
in planning a social gathering of the two houses once every month.

Group Grows

This Methodist Student Fellowship has just recently come into its own as a potent factor in the religious life on
the Duke campuses. In one of his first acts as director, Reverend Overton launched a vigorous campaign for new members
and under his leadership, the organization has grown by leaps and bounds. Today the Fellowship operates on a budget of
around $900, and its missionary gifts total $280. It sent delegates to the Methodist Student Missionaries’ Conference that was held
in Greensboro, and plans have already been made for representatives to go to the Methodist Regional Conference which will be
held at Lake Junaluska in June of this year.

China Methodist Group Enhances

Speaker Is Pastor of the First Methodist Church of Charlotte

DOCTOR HAS HAD YEARS OF CHURCH EXPERIENCE

Fraternities To Attend One of the Services As a Body

By Joe Stukes

One of the finer traditions of Davidson is the tradition of Fall and Spring Services. The older men of Davidson
are quite aware of and thankful for their presence. It is to the freshmen and transfers to whom this article
is addressed to explain these services. Each fall and again each spring the Y. M. C. A. brings to our
campus a speaker who conducts six services—three at chapel and three at night. Attendance at chapel is, as per usual,
required, but at night it is purely voluntary.

This spring, the Y. M. C. A. has been very lucky in obtaining Dr. Clovis G. Chappell of the First
Methodist Church of Charlotte. Elsewhere in this Davidsonian you will find mention of Dr. Chappell. He was born at Hatwoods,
Tenn., in 1882 and has held eight prominent pastorates since he completed his education at Harvard University. He identified himself
very successfully with pulpit work and audience reaction and has established himself as one of the foremost and prolific writers
of his faith. From his pen have flowed more than twenty-five books which are entertaining and serious at the same
time. Most of us will remember him from last semester when he conducted Vespers. It was then that the Y.
M. C. A. Cabinet realized his proximity and shortly thereafter Dr. Chappell graciously accepted its invitation.

Mrs. Chappell

Dr. Chappell has a very charming and attractive wife. There is a proverb which says: “Behind every great man, there
is a great woman.” Mrs. Chappell is surely that. They have two sons, Clovis, Jr., who is a lawyer, and
Robert, who is a doctor. Dr. Chappell will arrive on the Hill on Monday, March 11, and dine that night
with the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet at the Guest House. His addresses—at chapel and at 7:30 in the auditorium—will
begin on Tuesday morning and continue on through Thursday, March 13. He will be available for conferences with anyone who
desires one at the Guest House.

Attendance Urged

Always it is the speaker's personality which makes or breaks a series of services such as these. Those men who
have heard Dr. Chappell before will not want to miss him. To those of you who have never heard him,
do not fail to hear him at his first address. From this one, you will, like everyone else, make a
special effort to be present at every service. It is customary that fraternities will, at one time, attend the service
in a body. We hope that this custom will continue to be observed.

Here is what one parishioner said when told of Dr. Chappell’s proposed visit to Davidson: “I hear him every Sunday.
He's just an A-1 evangelistic type preacher. You college students will enjoy him a lot. You will be carried away
with his expressions, especially his similes.” With that he must have something on the ball. Let’s all give him a
chance to help us through his services.

Rev. Crandall Speaks Here

The sermon was delivered by Rev. Robert S. Crandall of Charlotte, N. C., who spoke upon the well-known battle between
David and the Philistine. Reverend Crandall received his education at Mercer College in Macon, Ga., and after seminary work, was
graduated to an assistantship in the Cathedral in Atlanta. During the war, he went into the Navy as a chaplain
and served aboard the Wasp. Coming back, he was again taken to the Cathedral in Atlanta, and has recently been
moved to Charlotte. Reverend Crandall stressed the (Continued Page 6)
