Continues Elections Controversy (See Editorial Page)

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

FOR COMMENCEMENT SEE PAGE FOUR PLANS

Volume XXXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MAY 2, 1947 No. 22

ROTC Officers Hold Year's Final Dance
Society of Cadet Corps Officers Revive Traditional Function

Davidson’s honorary military society, the Scabbard and Blade, will present the final dance of the present school year in the main ballroom of the Hotel Charlotte on Saturday, May 10, thus bringing to a close the college’s social activities for the year. Dancing will continue from eight until twelve to the music of The Southerners, an orchestra widely sought throughout the two Carolinas for the distinctive styling of its danceable music. The dance is to be entitled the Military Ball.

A very impressive figure has been arranged which will be performed just prior to intermission by the four retiring officers of the society, the five incoming officers of the chapter, and five other members who were elected by their fellow members at the last meeting of the society. The figure will include a tunnel of crossed sabers which is a traditionally beautiful and impressive ceremony.

Traditional Set

In past years the military set has always been one of the outstanding dances, and the Scabbard and Blade Society has been heir to a place of distinction among similar organizations. This will be the first dance presented by the society since 1943, and it is the hope of the group to arrange for some of the nationally renowned orchestras in the very near future as was the practice in former years.

Members of the society will be attired in dress uniforms: pink trousers, green coats, white stiff shirts, and black ties. The ball will be formal for the remainder of the student body, both ladies and gentlemen. Regular members of the R.O.T.C. will not attend in uniform, but will attend formally as the remainder of the student body.

Ticket Sales

The date on which tickets will go on sale has not yet been announced, but will be in the very near future. The price of tickets will be $2.50 per couple and $2.00 stag. Tickets may be obtained either from members of Scabbard and Blade or at the door on the night of the dance. Advertising for the Military Ball is also to be handled by members of the society.

The present officers of Scabbard and Blade are as follows: Cadet Captain R. L. Smith, president; Cadet Captain H. B. Anderton, vice president; Cadet Captain R. O. Freeman, treasurer; Cadet Major Q. C. Cooper, secretary.

REGISTRATION

The college’s summer school will open for science courses on the fifth of June while the six-hour courses will not begin until the eleventh. Although the enrollment in summer school is somewhat larger than last year, it is not at its capacity point. The enrollment to date for the first semester is three hundred and twenty-four including a large number of girls coming from surrounding schools. The first semester will close on the twenty-second of July and on the following day the second semester session will commence; it will close on the twenty-eighth of August. Mr. Hengeveld, the registrar, urges everyone anticipating attending summer school, but who has not yet registered, to do so as soon as possible.

Scabbard And Blade Presents Military Ball In Charlotte Hotel

KITCHIN

On Wednesday morning, April 30, at the chapel exercises, Davidson College conferred on President Thurman Kitchin of Wake Forest College the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws. Dr. Kitchin spoke on “The Religion of the Layman.” The Male Chorus presented several selections during the program. Ordinarily, honorary degrees are conferred at commencement; however, owing to the coincidence of Wake Forest’s and Davidson’s commencement exercises, the presentation of Dr. Kitchin’s degree was set for this earlier date.

DAVIDSONIAN QUIPS AND CRANKS SCRIPTS ’N PRANKS

Bob Cline Dan Tyler Lenoir Keesler By David Richardson

In a lovely gesture of retaliation, students of Salem College entertained at a softball game at their school in Winston-Salem last Saturday evening. Those present were members of the Davidson College student body and a few friends. The guests of honor were dressed simply but effectively in blue or yellow wool bow ties, the gifts of their hostesses, the only favors given.

In a simple but effective ceremony of greeting in which the guests were herded into a walled enclosure patrolled by a handpicked group of amazons and addressed with a smile of glee by Miss Frances Carr, who announced that the activities planned for the evening were, in her estimation, quite well suited for the program of Salem-Davidson day in order to express the thanks of the Salem student body for the treatment accorded them at Davidson-Salem day last fall. The hostesses then lured their guests into a gulch behind the school quaintly termed an athletic field, removed their shoes and cloaks, and enticed the unsuspecting visitors out into the open field to play.

Baseball

Outstanding personages present in the game were Mr. Lewd Newd Tate, of Davidson and Morganton, who graciously consented to coach from the sidelines; Mr. Bill Johnson, of Davidson and Cornelius, who saw considerable action on the mound; Miss Betsy John Forrest, of Winston-Salem and New York, who skillfully caught during most of the game, handling capably everything offered by the Davidson pitching staff; and Mr. Lamarr Williamson, of Davidson and Arkansas, who held down left field from a novel position behind a small bush. After the game, Williamson and his date remained behind to improve their knowledge of America’s favorite sport. Also outstanding during the game were several hundred sons of Woog who comprised Phi Alpha chapter of Beta Theta Pi’s delegation to the event, and who cheered violently both times their representatives collected a hit. Salem won.

Immediately following the softball game was a simple and ineffective buffet supper. The guests were led over to tables by their hostesses. They were laid on the lawn and each was covered with a white lace cloth and centered with a platter of fried chicken flanked gracefully with sprigs of celery.

More Fun

After supper the Davidson students were entertained in the various dormitories by their dates, and later in the evening those who so desired attended a candlelight dance. Music was provided in the form of a record of "Heartaches" by Ted Weems. Those who did not make the candlelight dance joined with their dates in playing simple folk games in another part of the campus.

At midnight as the guests prepared to depart, their satisfied hostesses serenaded them with a group of classic evening hymns, the last of which, entitled "Dream Song," is reprinted by permission of the author, Miss Molly Darr, of Winston-Salem and Reynolda:

“I went to church the other day,
And dreamed I heard the preacher say,
‘Make mine lemon,
Make mine Lemon,
Make mine Lemon...
Old Knickerbocker Lemonade.”

TRUSTEE MEETING

The office of the President this week announced that the semi-annual meeting of the Trustees of Davidson College is to be held on Friday, May 23, at 10 a.m.

French Chosen Cheerleader

In the elections conducted last week by the rising Senior Class, Jim French was elected on the second ballot to serve as head cheerleader for the 1947-1948 sports year. French defeated George Grimball on the second ballot. As is the custom at Davidson, the head cheerleader is chosen from the rising Senior Class and elected by the next year’s student body. The nominating committee presented the names of five men—Don Bryant, Jimmy French, George Grimball, Dick Oglesby, and Martin Waters—for the first ballot. AfterThe first day of voting, only French and Grimball remained on the ballot. French was elected on the second ballot. Jimmy first entered Davidson in the fall of 1941. He remained here until March 10, 1943, when like many others, he was called into the Army. He served first in the Coast Artillery and then in the A.S.T.P. From there he went into the infantry and went overseas in September, 1944. Jim served in the 104th Infantry Division. French is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta Social Fraternity. He has been named as Pan-Hellenic Council representative by his fra- (Continued on Page 4)

Crowded Auditorium Hears Arnall Speak
By David Gambrell

Tuesday night, April 22, former Governor Ellis Arnall of Georgia “talked” in Chambers auditorium as the last speaker in the 1946-1947 lecture series at Davidson. Governor Arnall in the last three months since his “retirement” has been on a lecture tour that took him to thirty-two states. His address was typical in that most of his lectures have been delivered in colleges and universities, for he believes that, “The hope of the world is in the young people.” He has astounded the nation with his humor, intelligence and ability and his earnestness and optimism for economic and domestic betterment in this country.

Meets Georgia Students

Soon after his arrival at Davidson, Governor Arnall held an interview with a delegation of students from Georgia in the lounge of the Y.M.C.A. Thirty or more listened intently as he answered questions concerning his career and more specifically the present political situation in Georgia. Admitting prejudice, he stated that the Talmadge faction was “caught stealing” and were “thrown out.” This situation, he said, is typical of conditions imposed by such factions all over the South. Nevertheless, he assured them, groups like the “Bilbo-Talmadge axis,” which appeals to the poor and ignorant, are on the decline and the South will soon take an equal position with the rest of the country.

South Misunderstood

Concerning his travels he stated that other parts of the country had “greatly misunderstood (the South) in every way.” He places a large part of the blame for this on publications in the East, which “play us down” in an attempt to please their readers. He has devoted a great deal of time recently toward improving understanding through his lectures and his articles in national magazines. Though he did not give a title to his lecture of the evening, it might well have been called “The Place Where We Stand is Holy Ground.” It was a message on how we can maintain world peace by making ourselves worthy of international leadership. “The world today,” he began, “is moving fast. We have not time to look back but we must look forward toward keeping the peace. This cannot be done with armed might nor by making war more horrible than it now is.”

“The U.N.O. is a good basis for peace,” he said, “yet, actually, it depends on the minds and hearts of the people of the world. Since we fared better than any other country from the war, we ought to take a major role in international leadership. We must promote justice, righteousness and good will throughout the world. If we want a better world we can have a better world; it only takes will and courage in the hearts of men.”

Five Point Program

“To take world leadership and respect, we must first improve ‘your country and mine.’ We must equalize economic conditions throughout the nation. This will require the efforts of all of us.” Governor Arnall put forth a five-point program to attain this end. It is as follows:

1—Improvement of educational systems by the Federal government.
2—An adequate national health program.
3—Federal consideration for economic opportunity.
4—More public works such as housing projects.
5—Revaluation of government by the people.

Under this last point, the Governor explained himself by saying that there is a general misunderstanding of government in this country. “Democracy is hard to attain, you've got to work at it. Each citizen, by taking an active part in government, should take a subjective attitude toward it, thereby enjoying improvement by working toward national improvement.” In conclusion he said, “The only limitation on our world of tomorrow is that which we place on ourselves today. The place where we stand is holy ground.” (Continued on Page 4)

NEW STUDENT COUNCIL Elected Business Managers Publications Board Makes Appointments

CALENDAR

Sunday, May 4
Vespers: Rev. John H. Marion, Jr., Richmond, Virginia, director of the Assembly’s Committee on Christian Relations of the Presbyterian Church.

Monday, May 5
Chapel: Dr. G. L. Abernethy.

Tuesday, May 6
Chapel: Rev. Richard T. Gillespie, Nashville, Tennessee.

Wednesday, May 7
Chapel: Dr. Donald J. Cowling, St. Paul, Minnesota.

Thursday, May 8
Chapel: Coach Jamerson.

Friday, May 9
Chapel: Y.M.C.A.

New Business Managers Take Over Newspaper, Magazine, and Annual

Last week the new business managers for the Davidson publications for next year were appointed by the publications board. These men are nominated by the staffs of their respective publications through their representative on the publications board and are then elected by the board. The new business managers were elected Thursday, April 24, at 2:30 p.m., at the last meeting of the outgoing publications board held in Mr. Jackson’s office. This year’s board was composed of Doug Swink, editor of the magazine; Tommy Bumbarger, editor of the annual; and Ed Sutton, editor of the Davidsonian; Mr. Jackson and faculty representative, Professor Fleagle.

The newly elected business editors were then placed on ballot with the three editors, elected in student body elections and all were voted on for the publications board for next year. The men appointed were Dan Tyler, business manager of the annual, Bob Cline, business manager of the Davidsonian, and Lenoir Keesler, business manager of the magazine.

Tyler

Dan Tyler of Florence, South Carolina, is a member of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity. He served as assistant business manager of the annual this year. Tyler entered Davidson in September, 1944, and is completing his junior year this year.

Cline

Bob Cline of Hickory, North Carolina, entered Davidson in September, 1942, but was called into the Army in January of 1943. During his time in service, he served at numerous stations in the United States and attended Radio and Gunnery school. He was sent overseas in November, 1944, and assigned to the 94th Air Force. He re-entered Davidson in January, 1946, and has served on the Davidsonian staff this year. He is a member of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity.

Keesler

Lenoir Keesler of Charlotte, North Carolina, first entered Davidson in 1944, but after a year of studies, he was called into the Naval Service. Re-entering Davidson this year, Keesler has made a name for himself as a member of the tennis team. Before the war, he was a member of the football and basketball squads. He is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

SIGMA DELTA PI

At a called meeting of Sigma Delta Pi on April 23, the fraternity elected its officers for the following school year. The men elected to positions of honor in Sigma Delta Pi were: Quentin Cooper, president of the organization; A.M. Lindsay, vice president, in charge of programs; and H.N. McGeachy, secretary and treasurer.

The Sigma Delta Pi, which is an honorary Spanish fraternity, meets with the Spanish Club bi-weekly, on the first and the third Monday nights of each month.