Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, December 12, 1947

OPERATING TABLE

I appreciate your leaving me a (Continued From Page Two) Morocco-bound, gold-tooled, imported, blue date book to keep my appointments. Please use the trade entrance.

New Year’s Resolutions

Little J. B. stolidly resolves to get more sleep during the next year so that he will not almost fall asleep while conducting a lecture. With his book on anecdotes that Santa brought him, he should be able to keep the rest of the class from going to sleep, too. Joe “Dumbbell” resolves that he will do 300 push-ups every morning to control his fare. Dowd swears (and he does, too) he will have his stupendous phonograph working or blow up the Temple trying. He was in Italy so he knows all about such things. Bronko Bailey at John Q. Adams writes Santa asking for a new set of words for one of the traditional tunes employed for singing around this time of the year. We print the lyrics as follows:

Deck the halls with plenty of nog, Fa la la la la la la la la. This the season to have a grog, Fa la la la la la la la la. Raise our glasses instead of carol, Fa la la la la la la la la. Drink until you empty the barrel, Fa la la la la la la la la.

GOOD FOOD. GOOD MUSIC MAKES A GOOD EVENING

We're proud of our juicy steaks and delicious seafoods—we want you to try them—and what could make a better evening than dining and dancing in a pleasant atmosphere. Come on out and enjoy a good evening at Tiny Town!

ORCHESTRA FRI. and SAT. NITES — Closed Sundays —

TINY TOWN CLUB FORMERLY CLUB 41 THE OLD CONCORD HIGHWAY

Dine and Dance THE UPPER DECK OF THE SHIP AHOY IN THE HEART OF CHARLOTTE

HELEN O’NEIL and the MARINERS SUN, AND MON DELICIOUS CUISINE NO COVER CHARGE Reservations Phone 4-2671

TAILORING

Suits Made to Order From $35 up Alterations of All Kinds Tuxedos and Tails — For Rent or Sale BEN TUBLE Telephone 2-0032 1412 E. Morehead Street Charlotte, N. C.

Your Friends Meet At GIBSON’S ICE CREAM STORE —Curb Service— E. MOREHEAD STREET CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER 126 W. TRADE ST. CHARLOTTE, N.C. PHONE 2-2235

Comments

By WALTER MANN

It is customary for most columnists to run out of something to say about this time of the year. It is also customary for everyone to wish everyone else a Merry Christmas and a Happy and Prosperous New Year. Since these things are true and since I can also take up several lines of type by doing so, I should like to take this opportunity of wishing everyone a Merry Christmas and a Happy and Prosperous New Year.

As usual, Bob gets into all sorts of trouble before the picture ends. Mr. Dickason, in his lecture here, spoke as director and lecturer on round-the-world cruises. A few years later, he was in Tasmania, Indo-China, and the Vale of Kashmir. With the advent of World War II, the Columbia Broadcasting System chose him as one of its war news analysts. Immediately after the cessation of hostilities, he was off to the Far East again, and thence into India, where he fell into a large vat of molten wax. He is taken out of this vat by a group of wax moulders and is sold to be used as a wax athletic supporter in a scene depicting a football game with the attendant spectators.of India’s future with extreme pessimism. His travels have impressed upon him the fundamental lack of unity among India’s varied peoples, and the fatal inability of the Indians to organize. He foresaw the possibility of India’s falling into the position in Asia in which the Balkans now find themselves among the European nations, the mere tool of more powerful governments. Mr. Dickason, however, a trained student of world affairs and possessing a vast fund of knowledge from first-hand information, offered no solution to India’s plight.

Shedding of His blood on the Cross; that He rose again and is our Living Lord. We believe that Christ not only teaches the truth but that He is the Truth. Furthermore, we believe in the Holy Spirit as the third person of the Trinity; and that He empowers, leads, and guides us in all truth.

Merry Christmas! and a Happy and Prosperous New Year to you all. Now that everyone is full of Christmas spirits and peace on earth and good will to men reigns supreme, we will shatter all this loveliness with a few previews of the sordid motion pictures that will be shown at the local apology for a theatre, hereafter to be known as the Davidson Theatre.

ORDERS TAKEN BY JIM GUNN IN 105 WATTS

“We are encouraged to note that you, too, believe these great Spiritual doctrines. I bid you stand firm upon them; further, that you study the peace, prosperity, and growth of the Church. As you do this, be assured of the affection, the continued cooperation, and the prayers of the First Church.”

Wednesday and Thursday, December 17 and 18

WHERE THERE’S LIFE

BUNCH FUNERAL HOME
Ambulance Service
Phone 234 Mooresville, N.C.

PAGING THE PROFESSORS... (Continued From Page Two)

“I’ve smoked Chesterfield for years and find they completely satisfy.” 
STARRING IN ROBERT RISKIN'S NEW PICTURE “MAGIC TOWN” RELEASED BY RKO RADIO PICTURES

affairs of the German government found many of the documents instrumental in the Nuremberg trials. His chief hobby is southeast, for which he has been given several national awards. Through this hobby, Prof. Cummings discovered North Carolina’s earliest recorded date. His collection of medieval and photostatic details of all the mantels and building panels is unparalleled. Also, in his office, there is evidence of another hobby, that of clock collecting. In each room, there is at least one clock, all of which are in good repair.

Chief for Mr. Cummings, more than anyone else, has become an educational leader in the South. He believes that Darden has firmly set the standard of southern liberal arts education.

PRESIDENT REPORTS (Continued From Page One)

This historic week witnesses a high period of seventy-five years of missionaries. Your meeting has had an international flavor. In addition to those representatives of eight or more nations who are here to share with you in the organization of the Assembly, I note that your Moderator, the Reverend Mr. Coffin, is the son of parents who came from Kentucky; that your Vice-Moderator, Reverend Mr. Blanco, lives in Brownsville, Texas, and has his congregation there; and that your Treasurer, Senor Fernando Rodriguez, came, when he was Moderator of the Synod of Mexico, to our Assembly, and to that of the U.S.A. Church in 1942.

“I commend you heartily for your spiritual vitality and your evangelistic zeal. Our Church stands firm for the great Presbyterian doctrines. I declare unto you my own personal commitment to those doctrines. We believe in the Bible. We believe that the Scriptures of the Old and New Testament are the divinely inspired Word of God, the only infallible rule of faith and practice. We believe in the sovereignty of God; that He sits upon His throne in the heavens, and that His Kingdom ruleth over all. Further, we believe in the Headship of Christ. Our Church believes that Christ is Very God of Very God. It is our faith that He redeems us from our sins by the shedding of His blood upon the Cross.