— —_=_——_ sc - ———_- PI IS Se eam Thee T PORTS COPE By SAM ERVIN Wildcat Sports |" ~
WHIP GENERALS Friday, May 2, 1947 THE DAVIDSONIAN The “performance” on Thursday afternoon by Presbyterian’s third base coach was one
of the most flagrant examples of bad sportsmanship that your scribe has ever seen on any baseball diamond. Even the
old “outlaw” Carolina League and the rowdiest service team loops were mild in comparison. Of course, it’s easy for an
athlete to “lose his head” at times and to say and do things which he later regrets, but when one
of those “spur of the moment” acts actually endangers the life and limb of his opponent (as was the case
last week when the P. C. baseballer jumped into the group gathered at the plate with the obvious intention of
spiking someone), it’s time for the coach to send him to the showers for good. Tactics like that just don’t
go. Bad feeling between the two strongholds of Presbyterianism is not something new. Back in 1926, when the two schools
met on the gridiron, five fights broke out during the course of the game, making it necessary for the officials
to forcibly eject a number of both elevens’ starters. The Wildcats finally came out on top, 3-0, and then went
on to roll over Duke 20-0, Carolina 10-0, and State 3-0 (the Wake Forest game ended in a 3-3 tie),
winning the Big Five Crown for the last time. However, after this struggle, the two colleges severed relations (as far
as that particular sport was concerned), and since that day Davidson and Presbyterian have not faced each other in football.
Getting back to baseball, it seems that it’s about time to doff our caps to Coach Charlie Jamerson and his
rapidly improving squad. After a very inauspicious beginning, the Cats have begun to hit their stride and will, without a
doubt, collect some scalps on their current Northern road trip, which is carrying them into Virginia, Maryland, and the District
of Columbia. The locals, with a revamped lineup, crashed into the winner's circle first on April 16th by blasting an
erratic Uni. of Cincinnati nine, 9 to 7. This was followed by a 5-2 loss to the powerful Tar Heels
of North Carolina. Dickie Blanks drew his first starting assignment in this tilt and went the route, allowing only 7
blows, but he was bested by the visitors' ace, Vin DiLorenzo. Jamerson’s charges, behind some neat twirling by Torrence and
Earp, then unleashed their heavy artillery and swept to a pair of victories at the expense of Presbyterian and Wofford.
Unless some rained-out games are rescheduled, the last chance to see the ’47 squad in action will be on May
10th when the Clemson Tigers invade the local ballyard. This should be a scorcher because the Bengals shaded the ’Cats
2 to 1 in an earlier meeting in South Carolina. The Class “D” North State League gets underway this week,
affording local fans ample opportunity to see good baseball without having to wander too far afield. Both the preseason favorites,
the Mooresville Moors’ and the Concord Weavers’ parks are within range of the campus. As an added attraction, two gals
pro teams will play a pair of exhibition games in Charlotte’s Griffith Park on May 15th and 16th. The red-hot
race for the interfraternity cup is now in the home stretch. If the Kappa Sigs finish ahead of their closest
rivals, the Phi Gams and the Phi Delts, in the softball round robin, the trophy should be theirs. Judging from
the games played to date, that’s what'll happen in all probability. The Clemson Tigers are still on top of the
heap in the mad scramble for the Southern Conference baseball crown. Carolina and the upsurging Duke Blue Devils will battle
for Big Five honors. The third contender, Wake Forest, was rudely dumped out of the pace-setting group by three resounding
defeats. Although the Tar Heels copped first place in the annual Carolina OAU track meet last Saturday, Davidson’s “Torch” Turnbull
and “Gunder” Gray turned in highly creditable performances in the discus and the 2-mile run respectively. Both men took second
place in their events. A great big bouquet to the ’Cat netters for their highly successful invasion of the North.
The locals have already applied the whitewash to Lehigh and Penn State, and by the time that this reaches the
street, will have upset Yale’s high-flying Bulldogs. The crucial Carolina match is just around the corner also. Stonestreet’s Grade “A”
Cafe O. C. Stonestreet, Manager Remember this seal—it’s your assurance of the best. “The Sensible Place to Eat” 416 S.
Main St. — Phone 132 Charlotte, N. C. Mooresville, N. C. Over before bowing to the “Home Run Tigers, Cadets
Shade Golfers Last week the Wildcat linksmen dropped two out of three matches played, both losses being tightly contested with
every stroke counting. Their first loss went to Clemson in the team’s second meeting, the Tigers taking a 14 1-2
to 13 1-3 decision. However, Freeman Jones came through to capture low ball honors, shooting a 2 under par 70
over the Charlotte Country Club links. Second place ended in a tie between Tommy Bumbarger and Lee Pickens, the latter
of the Tigers. Both men posted 75's for the 18-hole grind. Cats Blast Pointers Two days later, the Cats took
High Point College into camp, winning 20-7. This time it was Don Bryant of the Davidsonians who shot an even
par 72 over the Charlotte course to take low ball honors. Low man for the Pointers was Aumon with a
75. Last Saturday, the golfers took off for Charleston and came back with their fourth loss of the season, this
time at the hands of The Citadel Cadets. Jim Trotter of the hosts had the low ball for the day
with a 76. Second place went to Freeman Jones of the visitors, who shot a 78. But the Cats didn’t
seem to be able to get going and dropped the match, 9 1-2 to 8 1-2. The tilt was not
decided until the last hole, when The Citadel's Al Hill split with Jones. Locals Face Deacs, Pack At present, the
linksmen are sporting a record of 5 wins against 4 losses. These standings will be altered by the time this
sheet hits the newsstands, the Wildcats having taken on Wake Forest and N. C. State since last Monday. Tomorrow the
golfers will have their second tilt with the Deacons, this time in Charlotte. Then the team goes on to finish
the schedule, meeting Furman, The Citadel, and Washington and Lee, the latter matches to be played in Winston-Salem where the
clan will be gathering for the Southern Conference Tournament. Natural odds-on favorites will be Duke’s Blue Devils and Carolina’s Tar
Heels, winner and runner-up respectively at Athens two weeks ago. Cat Baseballers Win Presbyterian; Divide With Wofford After losing a
close pitchers’ duel to the Carolina Tar Heels here last Tuesday, the Wildcat sluggers took two home contests in a
row before bowing to the “Home Run King” Clark brothers of Wofford Saturday. Carolina’s versatile pitcher Vinny DiLorenzo, in addition
to pitching a 4-hit game, also led the Tar Heel scoring with a homer and a double. Dick Blanks pitched
a fine 7-hit game, striking out 6 of the mighty Tar Heels. Both pitchers went nine innings without relief, and
the score was 5-2. Torrence Stops Blue Hose On Thursday, the ’Cats took Presbyterian 4-3 with Charlton Torrence doing the
chunking. The Wildcats got an early four-run lead in the first two frames off of Presbyterian’s Morrow, but were unable
to connect against the opponents’ relief pitcher Draughan. A fifth-inning P. C. hitting splurge was checked just in time to
leave Davidson the winning one-run margin. Cats’ Terrier Split Friday and Saturday afternoons saw a two-game home series with Wofford
in which the two teams broke even. Davidson took the game Friday with a 6-run margin by a 10-4 tally.
The bats of Gastonians Charlie Pearson and Carl Sheppard led the Wildcat attack while Mal Karp’s pitching held the Methodists
to 8 hits and half as many runs. The Wildcat sluggers were in better than usual form. Sheppard and Pearson
each got three hits for five ups. Clarks Hit Hard In Saturday’s game, Wofford took over the heavy end of
the slugging assignment in the person of the Clark brothers, Andy and Paul, who collected two home runs and a
two-base hit, bringing in 6 of Wofford’s 11 runs. The final score was 11-7. Jim Hunter, Davidson’s starting pitcher, was
relieved by Dick Blanks who was credited with the loss. Carlton Torrence relieved Blanks in the seventh and held the
Methodists to one hit for the remaining three frames. However, the Wildcat batting attack could not make up the deficit.
Locals Go On Road These two victories give the Wildcats three victories in fifteen starts. This week the team is
on a northern trip playing agame each with Washington and Lee, V. M. I., Quantico Marines, Maryland, and George Washington.

SAFE* it! _ Captain Pop Howhin, injured leg and all, beats out an infield hit in Saturday’s game with Wofford
which the South Carolinians won 11 to 7. Stretching vainly for the throw is first sacker Rollins, one of the
invaders’ heaviest hitters.

STAR PERFORMERS for the hard-hitting linksmen. 3 si been leaders on the ‘47 Wildcat tennis and golf squads, respectively. Roddey,
a former Queen City schoolboy star, has won 10 matches in 11 outings while Jones, another Charlottean, has been the
outstanding par buster to indicate

CAT SLUGGERS
Ab RH PO A
Ellis, lb .....9 1 0 1 1 .000
Bethea, lb 13 1 2 39 0 .153
Grey, lb... 20 4 3 56 0 .150
Wade, 2b....32 4 7 32 26 .219
Rice, 2b, of 13 1 3 7 0 .230
Pearson, ss 47 9 12 16 56 .255
Anderton, 3b 45 7 12 14 22 .266
Bird, 3b ...... 6 2 1 83 5 .166
Shepperd, lf 45 7 13 20 3 .288
Burris, cf .. 43 13 13 23 2 .303
Bowman, rf 37 1 11 13 0 .351
Mapes, c....39 3 9 30 5 .230
Chandler, c 24 3 8 21 3 .000
Torrence, p 13 0 1 0 13 .077
Hunter, p...3 0 0 0 4 .000
Gault, p .....0 0 0 0 2 .000
Blanks, p 6 1 1 0 6 .166
Warner, p..1 1 0 0 2 .000
Whitehart, p 9 2 2 0 12 .222
Earp, p ...... 10 1 2 2 0 .200
Richards, p, of 3 0 0 3 7 .000

Austin Sparks White Victory

Last Friday night under the lights of Richardson Field an out-weighed, supposedly outclassed White team beat the Black team 14-12
in a Wildcat intra-squad gridiron tussle. Bill Austin, flashy White wingback, turned in some beautiful broken field running and made
both touchdowns and one extra point for the winning underdogs.

Early in the first half the Blacks scored on a sustained drive with Pahl scoring from the two. The attempted
conversion was blocked. Bouncing right back into the running, the Whites connected with a pass good for 30 yards, then
gave the ball to Austin who carried it 55 yards on a left end sweep for the tally. Austin accounted
for the extra point by running it over. Again in the second half Austin got away around his own left
end, this time galloping 40 yards to pay dirt. Adams’ pass in the flat was good for the extra point.

The remaining highlight of the game was Black tailback Cliff Turner’s 50-yard touchdown trek. Again the Blacks failed to come
through with the extra point and the score stood 14-12. Turner’s passing also looked pretty good. Black fullback Carl Pahl
injured his collar bone during the first half and had to leave in the middle of a stellar performance. Bud
Fowle, who relieved him of that position, also showed up well. Most of the boys on the squad got to
play a good part of the game. The team’s blocking shows improvement. The running was nice and our passing attack
has improved some but can use the week’s drill that has been put on it this week in preparation for
the wind-up game tonight. Sponsored by the “D” Club the game will be held on Richardson Field at 7:30 tonight.
Everybody is invited.

Carolina Lunch
A Good Place To Eat

Netters Blank Northern Foes
Racketeers Whitewash State, Lehigh, Penn

Reports from Yankeeland seem that the Wildcat netters are strictly taking over. As this paper gets ready for the press,
the racketeers are taking on Georgetown University in Washington. Tomorrow (Tuesday) they play their last match on tour against the
Yale Bulldogs in New Haven. Those who made the trip are Bo Roddey, Buck Archer, Ted and Lenoir Kessler, Glenn
Turpin, Mike Williams, and Don Hatch. In their first two matches they came away with shutouts, winning over both Lehigh
and Penn State, 9-0. This raises their record to 11 wins and 2 defeats. The scheduled match with N. Y.
U. was rained out.

Looking at the situation from a more personal viewpoint, Bo Roddey is now boasting a record of 10 wins and
1 loss in singles play, while teammate Buck Archer has 10 wins and 2 defeats.

Cats Meet Generals, Tar Heels

When the team returns to the Wildcat campus, only two more matches await them. The first is with Washington and
Lee, the team coached by Fred Perry. But despite the latter point, your scribe is predicting a win over the
Generals. Their last meeting of the season is against a heavily loaded North Carolina squad. This spring the Tar Heels
have taken the measure of both Georgia Tech and Yale. Their only serious rival for the Southern Conference crown are
the Indians of William and Mary. The Wildcats can easily lay claim to the third place slot.

High Lettermen To Return

Looking a little bit into the future, it looks as if the Wildcat squad will be even stronger next year.
The only serious loss will be the departure of Buck Archer from the ranks. But with the showing put on
by the freshman and sophomore members this year, it doesn’t look as if Bill Lufler has too much to worry
about. Although he hasn’t played much in the singles, Whit Cobb is good for a slot in the individual tilts.
Still swinging their rackets will be Roddey, the two Kesslers, Glenn Turpin, Gerry Robinson, Don Hatch, and Mike Williams. We
don’t know what sort of schedule will be up for next season, but a good guess would be that one
of about the same strength will be carded. Possibly Lufler will even make the going a little harder. But from
where we sit, whatever the gang has to do will be done well, and we can look for more victories
in the future for Davidson.

PASTEURIZED GRADE “A” MILK
Mooresville Co-Operative Creamery
— Delivered Daily —
PHONE 205
Mooresville, N. C.

Page 3

SAE’s Surge Into Interfrat Lead

Jumping from fifth into first place, the SAE’s dominated the second week of inter-fraternity softball by slugging out 4 wins
in 5 starts. Nipping at their heels are the SPE’s and Kappa Sigs with 4 and 2 records. The league
leaders climbed on top of the heap by beating the KA’s, Pikas, Phi Gams, and Pi Kaps, while losing to
the second place SPE’s.

After losing their first two contests, the Sigmas made a fast recovery by taking 4 straight at the expense of
the Independents, Phi Gams, Phi Delts, and SPE’s. Meanwhile the SPE’s were trimming the front-running SAE’s, the Pi Kaps, and
Independents, and going down before the hard-hitting Betas and Sigmas.

Starting off ahead, the KA’s and Betas found themselves still tied, but this time for fourth instead of first place.
KA took their single win of the week from the Betas and the Betas got theirs from the SPE’s. The
Pi Kaps were busy trouncing the Pikas and KA’s but lost a trio to the Phi Delts, SPE’s and SAE’s.
Also standing at 3 and 3 are the Phi Delts with wins over the Betas, Phi Gams, and Pi Kaps,
and losses to the Independents and Kappa Sigs. Nearing the bottom we find the Phi Gams, 2 and 4; Independents,
1 and 4; and the cellar Pikas with zero and 5. Since this may be a bit confusing the scoreboard
will clarify the matter:

INTERFRAT SCOREBOARD
Won Lost
SAE 5 1
SPE 4 2
Kappa Sig 4 2
KA 3 2
Beta 3 2
Pi Kap 3 3
Phi Delt 3 3
Phi Gam 2 4
Independent 1 4
Pika 0 5

Cindermen Routed By State Wolfpack

The ’Cats suffered an overwhelming setback at the hands of State College’s Red Terrors 108-23. Only two Cats managed to
gain blue ribbons. Jack Grey continued his fabulous win streak by finishing ahead of the field in his specialty, the
two-mile run. Lennox Turnbull turned in the other Cat triumph by out-hurling the opposing discus chunkers. The Red Terrors swept
all three places in the 220-yard dash, pole vault, high jump, 120-yard high hurdles, and captured the mile relay. This
was the cindermen’s third loss of the season coupled with a single victory in their initial go against Furman.

Summary:
100-yard dash: Won by Landau (S); second, Orrmins (S); third, Lacy (D). Time: 10.2.
Shot Put: Won by Byler (S); second, Dostanko (S); third, Eborn (D). Distance: 46 feet, 6 inches.
220 Yard Dash: Won by Chambers (S); second, Orrmins (S); third, Landau (S). Time: 22.8.
Discus: Won by Turnbull (D); second, Vann (D); third, Byler (S). Distance: 130 feet, 5 1-2 inches.
440 Yard Dash: Won by Cham-

(Continued on Page 4)

Visit The—
SHIP AHOY
The Ideal Place To Meet Your Friends
Charlotte, N. C.
