: Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, February 14, 1967 The Davidsonian Founded by the Class of 1915 “FOR A BETTER
DAVIDSON” PUBLISHED WEEKLY, THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR Editorials DAVIDSONIAN Letters & Features ED SUTTON .......... EDITOR-IN-CHIEF BOB SMOAK .......... BUSINESS
MANAGER EDITORIAL STAFF Jim Love .......... Editor Bob Rierson .......... Feature Editor Anthony Scofield .......... Sports Editor Walter Walker ..........
Editor Ralph Alexander .......... Managing Editor Bob Philips .......... Managing Editor Dave Richardson .......... Managing Editor Jim Pitman .......... Managing
Editor BUSINESS STAFF Bob Gambrell .......... Assistant Business Manager Frank Lemon .......... Advertising Manager John McNair .......... Circulation Manager Bob
Cline .......... Circulation Manager Bill Baxter .......... Circulation Manager Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North
Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897. SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year Printed by
The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420
MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y. CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO This paper is the official history
of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such it welcomes any contributions or communication
to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material
must be in the editor's hands by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the
editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication. 1946 - Member 1947 Associated Collegiate
Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest Large Student Body Dr. Chalmers Davidson’s recent, delightful chapel talk on the advisability of reducing
the size of the student body to pre-war dimensions and the approaching meeting of the Trustees of Davidson College have
focused a good deal of attention on this controversial topic. Rather than engage in pitched battle with the keeper of
traditions on Peter Stuart Ney, it seems safer to present a few of the possible advantages of a student body
numbered about one thousand. Foremost in the mind of the student is the prestige attached to a college which can
win football games and basketball tournaments. The success of this year’s cage squad and the hopes pinned on it and
on other teams in the next few years are ample testimony to the fact that with increased material to draw
from better teams may be had. In intellectual fields, an increased number of pupils requires a larger number of professors,
offering different viewpoints and wider range of interest and specialty. Also to be expected are improved laboratory facilities, an expanded
curriculum, and even more pretty girls working in the various offices of the administration. An eminent, nationally famous college would
attract increasing amounts of financial backing, both from philanthropists, happy to serve humanity by giving money to an institution widely
known for the sound principles of its foundation, and from greater numbers of pleased and financially benevolent alumni. A classic
criticism of the large school has been the great gulf existing between students and faculty under such a system. Without
polishing the apple too vigorously it may be said that Davidson professors are nearly to the last man so personally
enjoyable as to insure close social relations between the two groups. No decrease in cordial feeling has been noted with
the present large number of students. As a matter of fact it may be that the influence over a small
student body held by a faculty which knows all the students intimately is of questionable value. Dr. Gallent’s refrain, “You
boys are spoon-fed,” is a matter of laughable absurdity as regards chemistry, but may approach in social and religious fields.
A serious criticism of the college has been, “Send your boy to Davidson and we’ll send your boy back.” A
larger student body should mean more room for the individual to grow. Dr. Davidson neatly suggested that by reducing the
number of students the college’s facilities would not be overtaxed in his warning not to “stretch Solomon too far.” It
seems to us that besides his method of cutting down on the number of Solomon’s wives there is the possibility
of having a bigger, more potent Solomon. —Dave Richardson. Letters To The Editor Editor The Davidsonian Davidson, N.C. Dear Editor:
Throughout my years here at Davidson I have been rather painfully aware of the excessive noise in and about the
dormitories during study and sleep hours, which period of time is by definition from supper to breakfast. Students clomp and
parade through the halls of dorms shouting, singing, and whistling at any hour and at all hours, apparently blissfully unaware
that on all sides of them fellows are either trying to study or to sleep. To those who have any
powers of observation it is evident that all one door will screen is vision, while two very effectively screen noise.
Thus it is though one whistled and sang through rows of sleeping and studying people with no walls between; and
were there no walls, you may be sure that the books and boots would fly fast and thick. Yet the
student invariably waits until he is in the hall before he begins his raucous melody. And what is equally surprising
to me is the assumption that this tyranny of noise cannot be combatted, an assumption that seems as antiquated as
bloodletting, as senseless as fascism. As long as the effort for quiet is confined to whispers of their complaint among
the quiet, there shall be no quiet! Let it be clearly understood that the noise is no minor handicap to
the functioning and purpose of this educational institution. Extraneous noises make gaining book knowledge much more effortful, and in cases
of especially profound work, impossible. And the same applies to sleep, which, and make no mistake about it, is every
bit as important as food and drink. Animals die just as readily from lack of it as from lack of
food and water. Lack of sleep also necessitates a greater expenditure of energy to accomplish the day’s work. Some students
go without breakfast, and though this seems folly, it is their privilege. But it is not their privilege to keep
everyone else from going to breakfast. Is it anymore the privilege of those who allege only six hours of sleep
to be necessary for them, to rule six hours the maximum for all? The gist of the situation is that
all reason is on the side of thoughtful quietness, while the practice is all on the other side. Why not
remedy the situation? We even have the law on this side: ARTICLE VIII — Section 10 of Student Body Regulations:
No student shall be guilty of making unnecessary noise or interfering with studying conditions in the dormitories. Section 14 —
Every student found guilty of violating Section 10 shall be subject to removal from the dormitories to other lodgings at
the discretion of the Student Council. This sort of thing is not allowed in hotels or rooming houses. Is the
work and world of the student less important than that of the outside world? I think not! Sleepily, Dudley S.
Camper Breezin’ With Bob BY BOB RIERSON With the time drawing closer and closer, the Davidson students began to squirm
in their chapel seats. Assignments grew heavy on their hands, and they found themselves dreaming of what was to come.
Wednesday brought with it, pleasantly enough, a brand-new silver dollar of a moon, which immediately was greeted by overflowings of
joy and affection, but, not so pleasantly, was followed by a cold front that withered the hopes of the carless
and caused even the mechanized to haul out their Communist-tainted long woolies. The weather continued, but the fervor was unabated,
and come last Friday afternoon, books were cast aside in favor of numerous scrubbings, shavings, shinings, and sprucings, and then
the long road to the Queen (?) City (?) of the Southland was hit—but hard! Yep, that’s right, ye olde
Midwinters were fast underway, and moonings of the past few weeks were realized. The feminine gender had provided its representation
for the events at hand, and no one was dissatisfied (it says here where one of the afore-mentioned might chance
upon it!). All followed their collective noses to the Charlotte Hotel ballroom, and many were the electrically-heated union suits that
kept their occupants warmed while on the way (from then on Dean Hudson and the beauteous delegation were in charge—woe
betide the poor stags!) After four hours of frame-trading for terpsichorean struggles, the shindig (that sublime triteness will, I trust,
be overlooked) broke up, the girls went to their newspapers and bobby-pins, and their manly dates doubtless returned to their
humble domiciles to spend the two remaining pre-dawn hours getting the studies up which they had neglected to go to
the dance. The clanging of the eight-twenty five bell found many noble sons of David in excellent shape for their
expected duty on Saturday morn after returning on that same Saturday morn, nay, only two hours before. Much undivided attention
was given on that morn, to what I shall not venture to say. But interest in the world at large
profoundly increased along about five in the afternoon. Morpheus had departed—until Monday morning, and the dealers swung into action once
again. Everything from Plymouths to Pierce-Arrows, from Chevrolets to Cadillacs constituted the long line between hyar and thar. Saturday night
was the time for the guys to let their hair down and doff dress to don drapes. But the gals
were not so lucky and made an encore appearance in the radiant rags of divine dress. All made it through
despite the long space between naps, although there was much railing and smashing of feet before the last note had
died. The luckless males were in for still more though, and while the girls held their bare shoulders in the
icy blasts, the heroes patiently awaited their turn to secure wraps, showing perseverance equalled only by their conduct ten minutes
before an exam for which they have studied half an hour. May we gracefully (or -lessly) slide over the remainder
of the night? Suffice it to say that no one has yet recovered from the shortage of sacktime, not to
mention certain other aspects of the weekend. Likewise no one regrets anything, but rather is very pleased with the whole
deal. The orchestra was swell, the womenlovely, all’s right with the world, thanks be to “Buddy Bone” and his able
lot of hirelings. But yours truly, having roused himself from a deep sleep to meet a deadline, now begs to
be allowed to return from whence he came—for another week at least.

Cinema Comments
By Doug Swink

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
FEBRUARY 17 & 18
“THE VERDICT”
Upon this movie I pour favorable comments and for the splendid performances turned in by Sidney Greenstreet and Peter Lorre.
If the plot was told in this column the movie would be completely ruined for many of you who desire
a surprise every now and then.

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY
FEBRUARY 19 & 20
“NOCTURNE”
Amid conditions such as rain, wind and dark mysterious night, detective Raft knows better than to believe the dead composer
is the result of a suicide. Because he sticks to his belief that the man was murdered, he is kicked
off the “Dick” squad, gets shadowed by a fat man, beat up, tangles with an enigmatic woman (Lynn Bari) and,
in turn, is hunted down by his former buddies, the cops.

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
FEBRUARY 21 AND 22
“WILD BEAUTY”
A western with all the scenery, horses, Indians, squaws, papooses, those scheming pale faces, a young lissome school mistress, and
the passion of an Indian youth for horses and a devoted love for one in particular. This is a good
clean movie, really, and recommended for the entire family by the Gen’l Federation of Women’s Clubs and the good old
Daughters of the American Revolution. Now don’t anyone take offense as the two organizations are of the Western Committee. The
cast includes Lois Collier, Don Porter, and Jacqueline de Wit.

This is to inform you, dear readers, that this will be the last and final attempt of this poor student
movie-reporter at foretelling the attractions at the local theatre. And don’t think it has not been fun reading each week
the criticism of such famous and illustrious groups as the California Council of Church Women, Calif. Congress of Parents and
Teachers, D. A. R., G. F. W. C., and the National Legion of Decency. These reviews have been most enlightening
because one can easily see what aspects of a movie appeal to each group. Let us look at the comment
upon “Blue Skies” made by the National Legion of Decency, “Reflects the acceptability of divorce; suggestive dancing.” (Two bits says
they sharpened their teeth for “Duel in the Sun” when Jennifer Jones makes her appearance wearing an Indian rug. That
is one instance I should like to be accused of lying like a rug.) Now our tea-sipping ladies belonging to
the D. A. R. (Western Committee)—They manage to find the love interest for us and other informing matters as they
did in the case of “Wild Beauty” (this calls for a cut!) “... but the children will enjoy the little
Indian boy and his horse.”

That has been my job in the past—to use my imagination and paste together the bits of information given out
by these different institutions. Now yours truly is ready to have a white jacket slipped over his torso and be
sent to an institution also.

The Operating Table
Us The Bone is too busy at press time to furnish a story on the relative success of the dances.
While breathlessly stumbling into the catacombs of Rumple in an effort to shake off the bloodhounds sent out by the
Bureau of Internal Revenue and the long line of Milwaukee boys seeking to sign up as Spring Set decorators, the
Austrian fugitive could mutter but a single line: “The week end was strictly Pan-Hell.” It should have been. Never before
have the cloistered halls seen so strange and conspicuous a gathering of guests. The Texas boys (Atomic Powell, Mt. Vernon
McGehee, etc.) even brought in a herd of cattle to keep a homey atmosphere about the campus, but the herd
disappeared after being traced to a point midway between Chambers and Hugo’s, on the post office trail.

The Armory was well decorated, too, and in like manner should have been. The decorating committee was “headed” by several
prominent members of the artistic branch of the student body. In fact, the case on hand divulged a variety of
heads. T. Wendell Knox, the Crystal Ball Grazer, stumbled on a new way of completing the paper-hanging. Riddervoltage was high
(big stepladder) and vied with Footsie for top honors. Hockey Lee and Rab were hanging a lot of crepe by
the rafters, and Dana the Drana managed to lower a few streamers himself. Davidson’s Brass Hats (who have modestly dubbed
themselves the Alpha Sigs) threw a military brawl stooping to straighten the wrinkle from his pinks, one of the War
Lords confessed that the function was worthy of the conduct and presence of the gentlemen present. Ruddy Robert Phillips and
the Paratrooper (Thompson) spent the week end searching for four more like Philip Morris’ Johnny so that the latter could
prove his skill to Petey. After an evening or two of social calls and duties, including a stop at the
buzzing office of the local magazine, where Phillips entertained the group with stories of the birds and bees. Censored. Censored.

Amos Ragan wins the achievement award of the week, although he was pressed closely for the top position by his
date. The Neill brothers, Bayru and Bamboo, were in close attendance with Melio and Hammond not so close. Hammond wins
the radio award. It was a smashing victory. George Mackie Grimbell was seen quoting poetry and wishing each and all
well both during and after the dances. Hugh Hill, the boy with the smiling face and hearty handshake, was spotted
in all the more conspicuous places over the week end. The Betas asked to be mentioned this week end, so
at this time we mention the BETA’s. Statement from a well-known yearly publication Editor, “’Twas most relaxing.” As to the
exact interpretation of this we are undecided, but we toss it out anyway. Statement from a wild-eyed Grecian shortly after
the figure, “’Twas before the Saturday stomp. Most confusing.”

Down Fraternity Court
KAPPA SIGMA
Delta Chapter played host to a superb group of lovelies for the week end, and in their company enjoyed the
dances and attendant festivities (as in festive Doug). The latter by the way has made six trips to Mooresville Appliances
Corp. in search of replacements for certain shower fixtures. Most disastrous entanglement of the campaign caught Charlie Jarrett, who invited
three different women from three different Virginia schools, one of whom finally accepted. Unfortunately, the two negators were down with
other dates, and Charlie fears for his own security since the three returned to Virginia in the same car. Robert
“The Rag” Walker Friday night learned too late the hazards of curiosity. Gregg Thompson came up Sunday morning with a
fantastic story of giving out gas on the way back from the dance—likely tale. Taylor and Currie squired the lovely
two Colemans, while “Leaper” Lawson gloried in the presence of his elusive Dukster. John McDonald entertained a sizeable portion of
the chapter at his home after the Saturday dance. Brother Philips reports an uneventful week end.

PHI DELTA THETA
Operations in the N. C. Gamma chapter were augmented this week by the Mid-Winters dance set as most of the
Brothers could be seen in the Queen City for the festivities. Brothers not present for the dances included Iverson, Mills
and Cobb who were with the Wildcat quintet in Durham and Chapel Hill. Brothers Starnes and Oglesby turned up at
the dances with two new lovelies whom the chapter had never seen before. Brother McLean seems to have fared well
with his semi-blind date from Raleigh, while Brother Archer pulled top honors of the week with a visitor all the
way from Washington, D. C. Brother Sutton has suddenly become a fiend on the subject of canoes and talks of
nothing but rowin’. Brother Spangler says that everything is cricket and Brother Adams as usual hasn’t said anything sensible.

PI KAPPA PHI
Mid-Winters found the Pi Kapps in all their glory and willing to start the new semester off right. At the
time of this writing some: “Most Honorable Soakhead” Hunter, “Digit” Edwards, and “Apple Blossom Time” Cline. We were glad to
have at the dances, Brothers Calhoun Hipp and Price Lineberger. We are always glad when they visit us, because they
really know how to entertain. Huh! Fellows? Rumors have it that: Why doesn't Brother Tommy Bumbarger like tea? What did
Shakespeare Nutall want Brother Cox to let him do? Shame, “Cam”. Since when did the Quonset Hut Corporation employ Brother
Higgenbotham as salesman? Brother “Squirrel” Barksdale showed up with a beauty from Queens—where’s she been hiding? Is Brother Moore trying
to steal Brother Edward’s Salem girl? Brother Robertson sure turned out to be a pal, didn’t he “Fitz”—or are you
complaining? We don’t think so! Brother “Fuzz” Cox did not get invited to the Salem dances next week. Slipping Cox?

BETA THETA PI
The Beta house has seen much activity this week, with the dances followed by “hell week,” and initiation tonight. Several
of the new brothers will be proudly displaying their pins at Queens, Salem, and other schools tomorrow night. Midwinters was
very successful, and notable in its absence of flushes and obviously blind dates. The fraternity gathered at the Ship Ahoy
Friday night for a steak dinner accompanied by the numerous witticisms of faculty brothers Winn and Cunningham. An added attraction
was a solo by “Box-head” Smith. It was discovered at the feed later that brother Jim Pitman had pinned up
this year’s Phi Alpha girl, Miss Barbara Coith. Brother Schmidt plans to pay his way through school with blackmail money
received for some choice “candid” camera shots Friday night, one being that of brother Edwards bird-dogging Scarborough’s date. A hearty
welcome was given to brothers Jim Satterfield, and Frank and John Sherrill when they came to visit the “home fort.”

PHI GAMMA DELTA
Immediately after the dance week end it was announced by the Ragan Knitting Mills of Thomasville, N. C., that at
the request of the owner their spring line will feature a group of teen-age dresses especially designed for attractiveness both
off and on the campus. Brother Dick O’Hair was observed leaving school Monday to attend a Parent-Teachers meeting (Continued on
Page 4)
