Friday, October 17, 1947
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Five

PATTERN FOR CONQUEST
(Continued From Page Three)

With respect to the Russian charges let us ask ourselves honestly the following questions: Is it the intention of the United States to try to conquer or dominate the world by economic or forcible means? Is our primary purpose in sending food and other material aid to the other peoples of the world the acquisition of political or economic domination over them? Are our military occupation forces throughout the world, such as they are, there for those purposes? Are the American people inclined to start a war? Are the American people and their government motivated by a sincere desire for world peace?

It seems to me that but little thought is required to answer in the negative all of those questions except the last one. We often hear it said that there are sinister groups that really control our destinies in the United States—big business, trusts or international cartelists, (formerly it was the munitions manufacturers) etc.—who would for profit plunge their country into war, and therefore, that it is immaterial what the American people think. I am convinced that there is no basis for this assumption. Unquestionably things go on in a country such as ours about which we never learn, and unquestionably the propagandists for special interests oftentimes sell us “bills of goods,” but I remain convinced that our leaders both in government and industry are sincere in their protestations against war and tyranny, and in the offers of help which we make to other countries. Furthermore, I have sufficient faith in the essential democracy of our system to believe what our government does is essentially in response to public opinion. This country will not go to war until the majority of the people assent.

It is to be admitted, of course, that our present foreign policy has a military cast to it. We are seeking to maintain bases and bridgeheads and to preserve potentially valuable alliances. With clouds of war on the not too distant horizon, would we have our government do otherwise? The intentions back of those actions clearly appear to be defensive in nature. However, let us not delude ourselves into believing that we are and always have been perfect in all respects. We do have national faults which contribute to the stuff of which wars are made. For example, we praise free enterprise and free competition and yet we are reluctant to risk free competition with the rest of the world, and obstacles placed in the way of trade and the free flow of commerce have been the basic cause of many wars. Looking ahead beyond the present crisis there are many things that we must do that we have not yet been willing to do if we are to make our maximum contribution to the cause of world peace. One of those things is that we must eventually be willing to trade freely with other countries that we now seek to convince that the best system of government is capitalistic democracy. If perchance they can best us at some parts of our own game we can have no complaint and in the long run we would profit in every way through the stabilization of trade, currencies, and those other factors which make for world stability and harmony. However, my present purpose is not to deal with long-range problems of peace, important though they are, but with a critical present problem, and I will return to my subject.

In conclusion, it would seem that thoughtful Americans must conclude that the United States is not bent upon conquest, political or otherwise; the material assistance that we are offering the world is first of all being offered for humanitarian reasons and among the other defensible reasons that are being offered is not to be included a desire to dominate other peoples or their governments. The political philosophy of the people of the United States is, to the extent that it affects other governments, only urged to the point of the establishment of governments which are truly representative of the peoples involved. We are opposed to the imposition by force of governments not of their own citizens' choosing. What form of government those people choose of their own free will is a matter of political indifference to us. Our present bitter opposition to the Russian government springs not from a national desire on our part to change that form of government but from the belief that that government today constitutes a major menace to our security and to the security of the established governments of other nations. In part two of this paper, the Russian objectives, intentions, and course of conduct bearing on those objectives and intentions will be offered and discussed.

—(D)

Davidson had the first separate Y. M. C. A. building on a Southern College campus. This was the “old gym” which stood between Chambers and Watts and was pulled down a couple of years ago.

On May 9, 1857, The Eumanean Literary Society attempted a purification of its library by burning the books of Voltaire, Rousseau, and Tom Paine. Some of these have since become required reading.

No, No, No, No, Nein, Nein
It's Not Too Late To Send Her The Davidsonian

DINING ROOM and CURB SERVICE
NO BEER OR WINE SERVED
Corner of Wilkinson Blvd. and Dowd Road
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Withers Electric Company
Radio Repairs
Electrical Supplies
Light Bulbs
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Fraternity Schedule
Week (1-3)
MONDAY
TUESDAY
WEDNESDAY
THURSDAY
Sigma Delta Pi
Sigma Pi Sigma
Scabbard and Blade
7:15 Eu. and Phi
ODK
Social Fraternities
Gam. Sig. Ep.
8:15 Pan-Hellenic
Phi Mu Alpha
Forensic Council
9:15 Delta Phi Alpha
Sig Delta Psi
YMCA
Sigma Upsilon

Week (2-4)
7:15 Beaver Club
IRC
D Club
8:15 Red & Black
Masquers
Le Cercle Francaise
German Club

(Continued From Page One)

Stated that the sum of 50 cents per month will be paid by each member. The initiation fee will be $5.00. Five boards are provided for: Religious, Athletic, Social, Publicity, and Publications. The functions of these boards are to aid the members of the organization in their respective fields. Elected to head these boards were: Religion, Virgil Pino and W. A. Johnson; Athletics, Bill Kesperman; Social, Bob Sharpe, Hugh Farrier, and Bob Wells; Publicity, Dave Hamilton and Ray Thabet, and Publications, Arthur Jenkins and Sam Robinson. All men on the campus not affiliated with a local social fraternity are urged to take advantage of the opportunities this organization is able to afford them, and to submit their application for membership immediately to Box 661, Davidson.

In order that the student body may fully understand the nature and purpose of this organization, the constitution is presented here:

CONSTITUTION

Section 1: The purpose of this organization is to give to each of its members a well-rounded education by cultivating and motivating his social, educational, athletic, and religious life.

ARTICLE II—Officers

Section 1: The Executive Council of this organization shall be a President, a first vice-president, a second vice-president, a secretary, and a treasurer.

Clause 1: It will be the duty of the president to preside at all meetings and to enforce the Constitutions and by-laws of this organization. It will further be his duty to appoint any special committees necessary as the need arises. This must be done with the approval of the Executive Council. The president will have the power to call any special meetings, of either the executive council or the entire organization when necessary.

Clause 2: It will be the duty of the first vice-president to assume the responsibilities of the office of the president in case of his absence.

Clause 3: It will be the duty of the second vice-president to assume the duties of the president in the absence of both the president and the first vice-president.

Clause 4: It will be the duty of the secretary to keep the minutes of the proceedings of the organization and all staff work.

Clause 5: It will be the duty of the treasurer to collect all assessments and dues, and to keep an accurate record of all monies entrusted to his care. The treasurer will be held personally responsible for all monetary matters.

Section 2: The Council of Control shall have five parts: Religious, Social, Athletic, Publications, Publicity. The following number of men shall serve on each group: Religious (2), Social (3), Athletic (1), Publications (2), and Publicity (2).

Clause 1: It will be the duty of the religious group to see that a devotional exercise will be conducted at the opening of each meeting. The religious group will make appointments for any member if desired with any member of the faculty, ministry, or college administration for those desiring counsel on any type of problem whatsoever.

Clause 2: The Executive Council will appoint one coordinator whose job will be to act as chairman of the athletic activities of this group. His duties will be the appointing of the necessary amount of sports managers for each sport, the arrangement of practice schedules, and the keeping of all accounts on all activities for his department. Accounts refer to such things as records, reports,etc. The duties of a manager will be to carry out the practice schedule as set forth by the coordinator, and to collect and generally manage the team for the sport he is chosen. No team shall participate in the Davidson College intramural program unless they fulfill the following minimum requirements for team quota: Football (15), basketball (10), softball (15), and volleyball (12).

Clause 3: It shall be the duty of the social group to plan, arrange and organize all social activities of this organization. All financial aspects of the group's work shall be cared for as prescribed in Art. V, Sec. 1, and 5, of this Constitution.

Clause 4: It shall be the duty of the publications committee to publish the minutes of all business sessions of this organization. It will further be the duty of this committee to publish any other requests of the Executive Committee.

Clause 5: It shall be the duty of the publicity committee to handle all publicity concerning any activities of the organization requiring such. This shall be done through THE DAVIDSONIAN and any other accepted means of advertising.

ARTICLE III—Membership

Section 1: It will be the custom of this organization to accept any member of the student body who will submit to the following qualifications:

Clause 1: He must be a student of Davidson College. He must read, understand and be willing to abide by the Constitution of this organization.

Clause 2: He must not be a member of a local social fraternity and if he becomes a member of a fraternity, he will lose membership in this organization and all rights shall be forfeited immediately. He must submit, in a letter to the secretary, his resignation which will be accepted by the Executive Committee.

Clause 3: He must submit an application to the Executive Committee, upon entering, and then he will be invited to the next meeting and be accepted upon agreeing with the above requirements.

ARTICLE IV—Membership Organization

Section 1: All meetings will be carried on under the laws of parliamentary procedure.

Section 2: The Executive Committee and the Council of Control will meet each Monday night at 8:00 o'clock.

Section 3: The organization will meet on Thursday night at 8:15 o'clock each week. Each member will be expected to be there unless he is excused by the president. When a member misses two consecutive meetings without being excused, he will be fined 50 cents.

By BOB WELLS

Just what is meant when we speak of the Social Action of the Y? It means applying the Christian religion to our relationships in society, or the putting of Christian beliefs into action. Through this department we are able to learn and impart knowledge pertaining to the Christian religion. Last year the principal way of attaining this aim was through a discussion group composed of students from Davidson and Johnson C. Smith University in Charlotte. Since one of the problems of our time is the racial question, the discussions with these colored students did much to increase harmony between the two groups, and helped us to better understand their point of view. The Intercollegiate Council, which this discussion group is called, always bore in mind the Christian view, and applied it to the topics under discussion. Plans for starting this group are under way, and all those desiring to meet with a group of colored students should see John Miller, head of the Social Action Department. Also, in order that the entire student body may better understand the colored people, the Y is planning to have Dr. Jones speak to us in chapel one Friday morning. Dr. Jones is president of Bennett College which is a colored school in Greensboro. The Social Action Department hopes to include other services than these, so that the social side of our Christian character will be strengthened in order that we may be better able to witness for Christ.

ARTICLE V—Finance

Section 1: Each member, upon acceptance in this organization, will be assessed $5.00 for initiation fees and will be assessed 25 cents every two weeks for dues. He will be allowed one skip in dues, provided he pays “back dues” at the next meeting. Money will be collected every two weeks at scheduled meetings. The purpose of this assessment is from which the organization may draw to create a treasury balance for all general operating expenses, and have a general fund to operate small functions.

Section 2: If at any time the organization votes to dissolve itself, all monies on hand will be refunded on a pro-rata basis. The Executive Committee will see that this regulation is carried out.

Section 3: No bill for current running expenses will be paid by the treasurer unless it has been presented to and approved by the Executive Committee.

Section 4: A two-thirds vote of the members of this organization will be necessary for the expenditure of any funds other than for current running expenses.

Section 5: Each member will be expected to contribute an amount agreeable by the organization, for each social function when necessary.

ARTICLE VI—Elections

Section 1: The election for members of the Executive Council will be held in April of each year.

Section 2: The election for members of the Council of Control will be held in May of each year.

Section 3: The tenure of office of all officers will be for one college year. Any officer is eligible, however, to be re-elected if the members of the organization so desire it.

Section 4: A nominating committee will be chosen by the Executive Council and approved by at least two-thirds of the organization one month prior to the April elections. This committee will function for both elections of one college year.

Clause 1: It shall be the duty of this committee to submit to the election a list of candidates from which the number of men is to be chosen for each office. Supplementary nominations may be made from the floor, as stated.

Clause 2: It shall further be the duty of this committee to conduct the election, count the ballots, and to publish the returns of said elections.

ARTICLE VII—Quorum

Section 1: It will be necessary for two-thirds of the members to be present for any business transactions to be carried in this organization.

ARTICLE VIII—Amendments

Section 1: The Executive Council, whenever two-thirds of the members shall deem it necessary, will propose amendments to this Constitution, and which will be approved by three-fourths of the organization.

Visit The SHIP AHOY and Upper Deck Dining and Dancing

The Ideal Place To Meet Your Friends

117 W. Trade St.

Clause 3: The elections shall be conducted on the progressive ballot and all tabulations shall be secret.

VICTORY MEDALS

Applicants for the World War II Victory Medal and the American Defense Medal must put their requests in at the Military Science Department by October 18 in order to have them presented here at Davidson. Those believing themselves to be eligible should present their documents to any member of the ROTC staff. The medals will be available on or about November 1.

PARLIAMENT MEMBER (Continued From Page One)

Labor and food are making the job an extremely hard one. Mr. Yates further pointed out that the first essential of preserving world peace is the rehabilitation of Europe. “We must find a way to feed the peoples of the world. It is the extremes of those who have and those who have not that causes the majority of our international strife.” Mr. Yates said that the second essential in preserving world peace is that of disarmament, and that as a coming generation we should give our active and energetic support to our nation’s disarmament program. “We must be willing to make sacrifices in peace as we were willing to make them in war.” In conclusion, Mr. Yates remarked that if he could have his way, he would fill all the battleships of the British and American navies with students and take them to all parts of the world, for “in learning to know one another, we build the foundation of a lasting peace.” Mr. Yates is in the United States at the invitation of the Society of Friends, and is being accompanied on his tour of this country by Mr. V. H. Bell, the regional secretary of the American Society of Friends.

Carolina Lunch

REGULAR MEALS

Breakfast 6:30-8:30
Lunch 11:30-1:30
Dinner 5:30-6:30

Depot St.—Davidson, N. C.

ONE-DAY SERVICE

Kodak Finishing

12 Exposure Rolls 35c
6 or 8 Exposure Rolls 25c
16 Exposure Rolls 45c

Extra Prints
Envelopes Furnished

SKYLINE PHOTO SERVICE
Winston-Salem, N. C.

BRYAN-WENTZ COMPANY
“Clothing For The Man”
205 South Tryon St.
Charlotte 2, North Carolina

ALL THE NEW POPULAR PHONOGRAPH RECORDS, Columbia Masterworks Red Seal Victor

Parker-Gardner Company
Since 1898
118 W. Trade St.
Phone 8257

ALL LATEST HITS On VICTOR COLUMBIA CAPITOL AND OTHER RECORDS

Stringed Instruments of all kinds.
SHEET MUSIC
HAMMOND ORGANS

Davis Cleaners
Alterations
Clothes Dyed
Press While You Wait
24-48 HOUR SERVICE
Main St. Davidson, N.C.

STEINWAY PIANOS
ANDREWS MUSIC CO.
“Our 55th Year”
231 N. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

B.V.D. Shorts. They feature the patented “All-Ways Stretch” seat—that stretches with you—as supple as your skin. Washability approved by the American Institute of Laundering. You'll enjoy the free and easy comfort of our new B.V.D. that are long on comfort. Exclusive new patterns—long wearing fabrics, Boxer Model “no buttons” or “Gripper” fasteners—and the careful tailoring that has made B.V.D. famous.

J. O. JONES Inc.
The Home of Hart, Shaffner and Marx Clothes
CHARLOTTE, N. C.