KURT WEBSTER HERE TUESDAY

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

FINAL ISSUE!

Volume XXXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, MAY 16, 1947 No. 24

Bob Strickland Appointed Court Of Control Judge

Charlie Patterson Elected President Of Pan-Hellenic Council

Social Governing Body Fills 1947-48 Offices

JOHN THATCHER, MARTIN WATERS TREASURER

Thursday, May 8th, 1947, at their regular annual elections, the members of the Pan-Hellenic Council voted to place Charles Patterson,
representative for the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, in the office of Council President for the coming year, 1947-1948. Patterson,
whose home is Charlotte, N.C., entered Davidson in the fall of 1942. Enlisting in the Army Air Corps in February,
1943, he received his Commission the following year at the Army Air base in Blytheville, Arkansas. Sent from there to
the Aleutian Islands, Patterson served in various fields within this region until he was discharged in January, 1946, at which
time he re-entered Davidson. A member of the Beaver Club, Patterson has filled the position of vice president of the
Y.M.C.A. during the past year. At this year’s spring elections he was chosen vice president of the Senior class for
the year 1947-1948.

Thatcher

John Thatcher, Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity representative from Miami, Florida, was elected secretary of the Council. He entered Davidson
in September, 1944, during which year he was a member of the Freshman baseball team. Thatcher left Davidson the following
summer to enter the Navy V-5 program, and took the greater part of his training with the Navy unit at
Georgia Tech. Discharged in July, 1946, he returned to Davidson in September of the same year. At present, Thatcher is
a member of the “B” Club, Scabbard and Blade honorary military fraternity, and the Spanish Club.

Waters

Martin Waters, a native of Charlotte, N.C., is the newly elected Pan-Hellenic treasurer. Council representative for the Kappa Sigma social
fraternity, Waters first enrolled in Davidson in the fall of 1943 and during the year 1943-1944 was a member of
the Freshman football and baseball teams. Leaving school in June, 1945, Waters entered the Navy and was sent to Radio
Technician training units at Great Lakes, Illinois, and Treasure Island, California. Receiving his discharge in July, 1946, he re-entered Davidson
in September of the same year. During his Sophomore year, Waters was a member of the Y.M.C.A. Board of Control,
second semester president of his social fraternity, and president of the Sophomore class. At present, he is a member of
Sigma Pi Sigma national honorary Physics fraternity, and president of the Charlotte-Davidson Club.

Members

The seven remaining members of the 1947-1948 Pan-Hellenic Council are as follows: Dick Baxter of Charlotte, representative for Kappa Alpha
social fraternity; Jim French from Welch, West Virginia, representing the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity; Page Jackson from Gastonia, N.C.,
of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity; Frank Rawley of Reidsville, N.C., representing the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity; Sam Tate,
Morganton, N.C., representing Phi Delta Theta social fraternity; Walter Walker from Colliersville, Tennessee, of the Phi Kappa Phi social fraternity;
and Bill Richard of Norfolk, Virginia, representing the Delta Kappa local fraternity.

In conclusion, Mac Jeffries, 1946-1947 president of Pan-Hellenic Council, offered suggestions to the new officers concerning the operation and administration
of Pan-Hellenic affairs. The threefold duties of the Pan-Hellenic Council are: 1. to set and regulate rushing of prospective pledges;
2. the regulation of any and all interfraternity activities; 3. to sponsor the three Pan-Hellenic dances—Homecoming, Mid-Winters, and Spring Frolics.

Scabbard and Blade Dance Proves Complete Success

Last Saturday night at the Hotel Charlotte, the Scabbard and Blade Military Fraternity presented its annual dance in honor of
its newly elected officers. The general consensus of opinion of those present proclaimed it a complete success. To the music
of “The Southerners,” a capable local orchestra, nearly four hundred guests danced in the cool, uncrowded atmosphere of the hotel’s
main ballroom. A charming bevy of military-minded lovelies added that necessary amount of femininity to attract a lengthy stag line.
This latter contingent made the dance a fast, “stick-proof” affair which met the approval of all.

The feature attraction of the evening was the figure. Preceded by a detail of “scabbarded and bladed” officer material, thirteen
elect members of the society and their dates entered this impressive ceremony, formed twin lines under spotlights, and then danced,
unimpeded by the jealously leering wolves in stags’ clothing, the last number before intermission.

The members of the society were attired in the governmental green which was so popular in upper army brackets during
the war. Most of the male guests were dressed informally, though some did appear in flashy summer tux which added
“intrigue” to the occasion. Last, but not least, the ladies clothed themselves in evening gowns. Among these was a certain
group at the “White Fez” or some such club in Charlotte.

In spite of the absence of many of the more socially inclined (or perverted) students, the Military Ball seems to
have met all the requirements for a satisfactory social event. Notable among these was the absence of dance-conscious Dave Richardson.
In light of his absence, the ball will probably escape such seething comment as other dances this year have received.
Mother’s Day took many eligibles away from the vicinity of the hill over the weekend, but parties did the worse
damage to the gathering of dance. Reports have it that they poured in Charlotte to join the post-dance festivities.

The Scabbard and Blade as a whole is due the thanks of the entire student body for providing a pleasant
outlet for the weekend. Special credit should be extended to their publicity manager, F. (Flybait) Pierce, “Quincey” Adams, and two
anonymous sign-bearers who appeared in chapel in support of the ball. They are all to be congratulated for presenting one
of the year’s best dances and it is hoped that they will maintain the Military Ball among the annual “affairs”
in the Davidson social realm.

SCHOLARSHIPS

All students who are now enrolled and will wish to apply for scholarship assistance for next year are urged by
the Scholarship Committee to file their applications before school closes. Such applications are required of ministerial students and sons of
ministers who would apply for the usual remission. Blanks for such applications are available at the Registrar’s office.

Swink Offers Last Edition

Editor Doug Swink of the Scripts ‘n Pranks has announced that the year’s final issue of the magazine will come
to the students on or about May 27. The issue, which Swink says will be the largest in the magazine’s
history, will be dedicated to commencement. In his report to the Davidsonian, the editor promised some fine material, among which
will be a “take off” on the weekly campus publication. Another feature will be the center page spread with a
D.C. made up of pictures of the most valuable members chosen by various campus organizations. “Lost Souls” will be a
lighthearted story by Cam Nuttall, while a sentimental short story will be Jim Wamsby’s “Highball.” Jim Grib-

NIGHT MAYOR

Kurt Webster, the Midnight Mayor of Charlotte, will be in chapel Tuesday morning, May 20. The jovial, nationally known disc
jockey, will appear under the auspices of the Beaver Club. The exact nature of the program has not been revealed,
but the audience will probably be capably entertained in Webster's usual manner with records and gab.

Annual Editor States Delay Encountered

The Quips and Cranks will not be out until around the end of June due to technical difficulties at the
printers, Tom Bumbarger, the editor, announced today. Books will be given to those students in summer school and mailed to
the homes of those not attending. Each fraternity will have four pages in the book. There will also be a
beauty section and the dedication which will not be announced until the day of publication.Staff

The editors of the annual for this year, in addition to Editor-in-Chief Jimmy Gribben, are Assistant Editors Leighton McKeithen and
Bill Simpson; Sports Editor, Harry Cox; and Photography Editor, John Stewart. Buck Archer served as business manager. The editor and
business manager for next year will be Bill Simpson and Dan Tyler, respectively.

Pictures

The Observer Printing House is printing the book and the Charlotte Engraving Company has made the cuts. Bumbarger said that
any pictures which belong to students and were used in the annual will be given back before the end of
school if possible. If they are not obtained before graduation, they will be mailed to the homes.

Annual Make-Up

This year’s annual will consist of 275 pages, bound in a maroon and red cover with gold letters. There will
be sections for the administration, classes, activities, music, military, fraternities, and student government.

CALENDAR

Sunday, May 18
Vespers: Dr. Darby

Monday, May 19
Chapel: Special presentation by Dr. J. R. Cunningham.

Tuesday, May 20
Chapel: Kurt Webster.

May 21-30
Examinations.

Library Lists Choice Books

Recently the staff of the library conducted a survey of the circulation statistics for the past year to determine which
books were most read during the year by the students. This survey was made only of non-curricular books. From this
survey, a list of the ten most widely read books for the 1946-47 year was compiled:

1. Foxes of Harrow, by Hervey Allen
2. The Gauntlet, by James Street
3. Deborah, by Marian Castle
4. Duchess Hotspur, by Rosamond Marshall
5. The Hucksters, by Frederic Wakeman
6. The Egg and I, by Betty MacDonald
7. The Turquoise, by Anya Seton
8. Before the Sun Goes Down, by Elizabeth Howard
9. This Side of Innocence, by Taylor Caldwell
10. The Robe, by Lloyd C. Douglas

Professor Chalmers Davidson, director of the Library, called attention to the fact that the members of the Davidson student body
read very much as the whole nation reads. Every one of these ten top books in our own library were
best sellers this year.

Student Council Selects Freshman Lawmakers

Scarborough, Read, Waters Represent Rising Senior Class

Military Society Taps Honor Men

On the twenty-ninth of April, the Scabbard and Blade held the spring tapping ceremony. The men who were chosen to
become new members in the “B” Company, 5th Regiment, the Scabbard and Blade Society are as follows: Abernethy, C. S.;
Carnegie, P. S.; Coddington, J. B.; Crooks, E. F.; Faw, T. M.; Gray, J. E.; Hollister, R. M.; Johnson, E.
H.; Long, J. R. E.; Lyles, S.; Mapes, H. E.; Matthews, F.; Maxwell, C. K.; Murray, S. G.; Poston, W.
T.; Rice, D. D.; Scarborough, A.; Schenk, N. P.; Thatcher, J. W.; Vance, C. R.; and West, J. T. These
men were formally initiated at a recent meeting of the society.

The Scabbard and Blade is a national military society which picks outstanding members of advanced R.O.T.C. to become members. The
purpose of the society is to encourage the study of military subjects. The Davidson company of the society was one
of the first to be reactivated after the war. Also at a recent meeting, Cadet Lt. Col. C. A. Pahl
was elected president of the Scabbard and Blade for next year. At the same meeting, the remaining offices of vice
president, treasurer, and secretary were filled by the election of Cadets 1st Lt. John Adams, 1st Lt. J. H. Bell,
and Staff Sergeant D. D. Rice, respectively. As the society’s representative to the Honorary Fraternity Council, Cadet 1st Lt. O.
F. Dobson was elected. These men will succeed this year’s officers comprised of Cadets Capt. Roddy L. Smith, president; Capt.
Bert Anderson, vice president; Capt. Bob Cooper, treasurer; and Major Q. Freeman, secretary.

BOARD OF EIGHT PICKED

Freshman Governors To Take Office Next Fall

On Tuesday, May 6, at a meeting of the Senior class members of the Student Council, the president of the
Student Body appointed Bob Strickland the Judge of the Court of Control for next year. Al Scarborough will be the
Recorder with Fitzhugh Read and Martin Waters as the other two Senior representatives. Gene Bingham and Dave Shepperson will represent
the Junior class and Bill Alexander and Buddy Chandler will be the representatives for the Sophomore class.

Each year the Senior class members of the Student Council and the new president of the Student Body appoint the
Court of Control for the next year. It is the duty of the Court to hear, investigate, and deal with
Freshmen guilty of improper conduct, violating the Freshman regulations, or breaking college traditions. They have the power to campus any
Freshman found guilty of an offense not serious enough to warrant his suspension from college. The actions of the Court
can be reviewed by the Student Council if deemed necessary and any Freshman found guilty of an offense has the
right to appeal to the Student Council. The Court of Control meets at least once a month. This year the
judge was John McAlister. A. W. Archer, T. J. Goode, and George Ennett were the Senior representatives; W. C. Hodgin
and W. E. Robertson, the Junior representatives; and Page Jackson and Hugh McArn, the Sophomore representatives.

The Guidon’s View

Dormitory Preferences

By Ronny Dietrick

As the year draws to a close, everyone prepares for a restful summer, fearfully eyes the advent of exams, and
begins to make plans for next year’s sojourn at “ye old collich,” and to pester certain persons of responsibility for
a change in dormitory assignments. In view of this fact, the poll this week concerns the dormitory conditions and the
general attitude of the student toward the room he now occupies.

The question asked was: 1. Are you satisfied with the situation in the dormitories as they are now, and 2.
If the dormitories were the same as pertaining to price and condition of buildings, which dormitory would you choose?

In reply to the first section of the question, the students answered in the following manner:

Yes 40%
No 60%

Several things are to be said about this portion of the poll. First, most students favored a reduction of the
number of students occupying each room and though this was a reason for many students voting no, it was by
no means the major reason. The greatest single reason for complaint was the poor condition of the rooms. This contention
is borne out by the fact that more students voted no if they resided in dormitories which were in poor
condition than those students who were residing in those dormitories which are in good condition. Fortunately, the college plans to
renovate several of the dormitories this summer so it seems that the students will soon have no grounds for complaint.

In answer to the second part of this week’s question, the students voted as follows:

I prefer to room in:
Rumple 12%
Watts 5%
Georgia 11%
West 16%
East 11%
Duke 45%

The above figures also deserve some comment. Contrary to what one would expect, not everyone desires to room in Duke.
Fifty-five percent of the students polled desired to room in some dormitory other than Duke. As the poll was taken
(an equal number of students were polled from each dormitory), it was noticed that a large majority of the students
preferred to remain in the dormitory in which they now reside. Then too, if a student did wish to leave
his present abode, he generally wished to move down to Duke. This case, though not invariably, was noted in the
majority of cases. Evidently, most students form a sentimental attachment to their particular dormitories.

A final note of irony, at least one person in every dormitory declared with great vehemence that their dormitory was
the most conveniently located in every respect.
