Page Two

The DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

He himself will later realize some good for him. Finally, why should colleges not offer a curriculum covering all the general fields of knowledge, giving the student a broad and general education in all of them?

BOB PHILLIPS
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

BOB CLINE
BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Sam Ervin - Associate Editor
Hartt
Walter Mann - Managing Editor
Bi Calhoun - Managing Editor
Renny Dickwick - Managing Editor
Rob Holster - Exchange Editor
Jeni Stewart - Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business
Advertising
Circulation
Subscriptions

This idea might be achieved by requiring students to take some few courses in such varied fields as Philosophy, Music, Biology, and Economics as well as those already required. In this way, Davidson would send her graduates from her doors with a broader and more inclusive conception of the joys, responsibilities, and rewards of living, and with the assurance that their education was a preparation for life.

John McNair
Charlie Reid
Frank Lemmen
Bill Baxter
Charles Deckers
Collections

Representatives came into power. This may take time, but we won't suffer for it. Grace Higginbotham, Hayworth, Blaine Reley, M. Knauii played for Spring Purnell, Gene Tryler.

Letters to the Editor:
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

Although his reasons for attending a Liberal Arts College may be of a social, conventional, academic, or non-existent nature, it is safe to say that the average student arrives at this crisis in his life in a fiendishly confused condition. The prevalence of this state for the full four years of his stay is not uncommon and his unhappy circumstance is not due to laziness or lack of effort.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY:
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
220 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Sam Sez...
By SAM

As much as some of us may hate to admit it, the Pan-Hellenic Council displayed courage and foresight in formulating its plans for the 1947-48 social season. Naturally, all of us would like to have real "name bands" for each of the three scheduled college dances—Homecoming, Midwinter, and Spring Frolics—but under the existing conditions to attempt to accomplish this would be unwise to say the least.

The lack of substantial surplus funds is, of course, the root of the problem. Last year, poor attendance and the expenses incurred in securing Bunny Berigan and Dean Hudson depleted the Pan-Hellenic treasury. Therefore, when the new representatives came into power, they reflected. This may take time, but we won't suffer for it.

The DAVIDSONIAN presents EDITORIALS....LETTERS...FEATURES

A workable solution we can only wait until it begins to have a noticeable effect. This may take time, but we won't suffer for it. The requirement of 75 percent of the members of the social fraternities to purchase dance tickets will prove to be of value. This rule, adopted by social groups last year, should remove a great deal of the confusion which existed heretofore by making it possible for the council to be able to count on a definite amount with which to finance each dance. In the past, Pan-Hellenic repeatedly got into serious difficulties because the expenses often exceeded their "take" because there was no way to tell how many couples would be present until the festivities got underway. Now that we have a workable solution, we can only wait until it begins to have a noticeable effect.

Same old column, same old newspaper, same correspondent; all we can offer new is another weekend of activities topped off with some of the same old names and with a few new names. Have courage, your time will be coming up for all you have to do is pull a big deal and tell everyone about it such as the following named gentlemen:

BILL DUBOSE gets our nomination as being the most flustered man of the week. It seems that MR. DUBOSE, being so enamored with his young lass, became completely confused and left his suit hanging as he hitch-hiked back to the sacred institute. COUNTRY SQUIRE HODGIN got lost somehow Saturday of this past week, wound up in Black Mountain, and astounded everyone present by attending the YMCA dance. No one as yet knows where he came from, how he got there, or what faction of the "Y" he was supposed to represent. Finally, after much search, we have found one man to take over Ab Taylor's cherished position as "THE FINGER MAN." Those interested must pave upon TRETY LAW.

Hats off to Tom Snodgrass for his remarks about the seating arrangements at the State Davidson game. We could do with some improvements there. Orchids also to Wart Robinson and his staff of cheerleaders for the fine job which they've done this season.

Paging the Professors....

Friday, October 24, 1947

Operating Table...

SON of Gastonia and Queens College... MR. DAVE JOHNSON, of Kappa Alpha and Sigma Alpha Epsilon, was seen for the first time this year entering the K. A. House. JUAN WITTERMORE has reportedly fallen for an airline hostess whom he rushes down to Finchurst to see each weekend (tiri-diddie-diddle). MR. HIGH ELL spent this past weekend relating war stories of Paris, Rue de la Paix, and Pigalle to interested listeners. Highlight of the stories concerned some lass, some sort of mole, or a molehill. NEVER SAY DIE MCLEAN has switched again, this time to Chapel Hill and some fair damsel who calls herself that. Let us take this opportunity to wish AL MCLEAN better luck than he was having this time last year. A report is rife that THE BAMBOO ROOM was raided this past Saturday night following a small brawl. MR. CHICK NEIL has issued a statement to the press that he spent his entire weekend on the campus due to an acute condition of fatigue. Romance of the week: VAN COVINGTON TRUEBLOOD.

Is Present Idea of College Education Satisfactory?

Consider this: After coping with secondary schools in the public education system for some time, the student is well conditioned to approach all manner of learning with one eye on the grade he will get and the other on the minimum of time and effort necessary to produce a certain number of pages read or words written. And this outlook carries over into college where it is frequently encouraged—perhaps by uninteresting presentation of subject matter, the lure of extra-curricular activities, or any number of distractions.

What the student lacks is a perspective. He is unable, for various reasons, to see the relationship of what he learns in one field of knowledge to that in a second field. To emphasize this relation is a paramount job of the Liberal Arts Education and many times its importance is camouflaged by the very organization of the college curriculum. If the "water-tight compartment" approach is to predominate without realizing that mere information has no significance except as it is related to the thoughts and actions of different peoples in different ages, the day of the Liberal Arts College is over.

Given the benefit of the doubt, the average college student may be characterized as lazy, but not stupid. With this consideration in mind, it may be concluded that he has some interest, be it vague and stifled by traditional conceptions of the matter, in finding for himself a reasonable perspective to guide his endeavors in Liberal Arts College. Ignoring the reasons why he decided to come to a Liberal Arts College (since they are so often concerned with matters of convention or expediency rather than with intellectual development), let it be assumed that he considers it his purpose to apply himself for four years in "learning the art of living." This is to beFacilitated by the college, which should provide him with a method for dipping into the several branches of learning. He will soon discover that there are various grave obstacles to the realization of his aim, which are posed by the nature of the institution in which he is enrolled. Granted that the intellectual is not only the sphere of education, two of these obstacles applying to this sphere are considered below. They are by no means the only pertinent ones. The first obstacle appears when the student begins to select his courses. He finds that this weighty problem is usually approached by using one or more of the following criteria: (1) Requirements of the graduate school he wishes to enter; (2) How to get out with as little work as possible; (3) Meeting requirements for graduation in any way acceptable to the dean’s office. He is impressed with the necessity for collecting quality points and A’s. He finds that evidently there is no comprehensive idea of what a well-rounded education seems to produce—mass production—a vast number of men who are slaves to their profession through virtue of the fact that they know almost nothing but that pertaining to their chosen field. In view of this fact, many students and college graduates do not feel that they are getting, or have gotten, all that they should out of a college education.

Those who would defend the elective system contend that it gives the student more individual freedom, and in doing so makes him more cognizant of his ultimate responsibilities. True though this may be, the system has not carried over into all fields of life and many parents refuse to give children privileges on the basis that the child does not know what is good for it. It seems that this principle should also be present in the organization of colleges, insofar that they require students to take those subjects which the survey of the main fields of knowledge includes, but that he must select a “major” and a “minor” and then choose various other courses to fill in the chinks. Despite the good counseling of interested faculty advisors, the possibility of familiarizing himself with the various areas of learning and of seeing how each supports and depends upon the others is precluded by technical and administrative requirements. Irrespective of what he actually carries away from college, it is imperative that he ring up a specific total in the academic cash register after he has spent three hours a week in twenty different classrooms over a period of four years.

Now the upshot of the above exposition is a suggestion that a rigidly prescribed plan, without elective courses or half-way concentration in any field, should be adopted in (Continued on Page Five).

Recuperating. Biggest dealer of the widely known band for the Midwinter's dance. Also, it is believed that the regulation requiring SS per that intangible, but very vital thing referred to as the Davidson spirit is much in evidence again.

PROFESSOR IVES

Even though he is not a Davidson man, Professor Ives holds such a high opinion of Davidson that he desires heartily that his son be numbered among its student body. In his principal interests is Negro education, Professor Ives finds much interest in gardening and cultivating flowers, and is to be found in his gardens much of the time. Weather preventing, he may be found pursuing a secondary hobby such as reading or listening to the radio.

BETA THETA PI

Things were rather quiet among the Betas this past weekend with only three brothers making bids for jobs with Lucks Teeter’s “Fudge” interviewing the professor. We have found few who were so expressly enthusiastic about Davidson as Professor Ives. A year ago, when Professor Ives came to Davidson in connection with the public schools, he was greatly impressed with the dynamic spiritual and cultural atmosphere of the college and the community, and still feels that same attraction in the community which has in a real sense become home to him and his family.

Our column was ethically speaking stricken from the pages of last week's Davidsonian. The charge: unethical. The verdict: guilty. The result: cut column (net effect no column appeared in last week's issue). If we have seemed this week incoherent, senseless, and pointless, ponder not, reader—you have read into this precisely what was intended.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

Some of the brothers were seen recently at the dance thrown by Queens. Obviously, their only objective was to get an ace in the hole lined up in case of a study. Brother Hudnell says that his girl at GC was just as sweet as ever the last time he was up. For the benefit of those who don't know how sweet she ever was, we should explain that we don't either. That's just between Brother Hudnell and his girl.

KAPPA ALPHA

With Homecoming just one week off, an atmosphere of gayness and expectancy has pushed its way into the hearts of Sigma chapter. However, even at this late date, there are still many who are wearing sober faces for obvious reasons. Willing and daring females check with Chuck Kirby. The weekly merit badge for dealing must unanimously be awarded to Brother “Blue” Barrons who was really talked into it. Brother Baxter was his roving companion on a Winthrop tour Friday and then he banded with Brother Adams, Matthes, King, and Pledge Stone to swoop down upon that innocent border town of Bristol. Rumor has it they were the Greenville gangsters, the S.C. G-men, the Mac Bruce satellites. Shall we name them? Nay, let them forever remain A. Nonymous. Oh, generation of vipers!

DR. CHALMERS DAVIDSON

For those freshmen and upperclassmen who have not braved the silent wilds of the Davidson College Library, it seems well to introduce Dr. Chalmers Davidson, director of the library and professor of history. Before the year is done, however, an introduction will be entirely unnecessary, for Dr. Davidson will be well remembered for an exceptionally interesting chapel program. Dr. Davidson was graduated here in 1928 and returned in 1936. During his absence, he earned two Master of Arts degrees, one in history (Continued to Page Three).

TEACH RUSSIAN

It now appears very evident that the two major world powers are America and Russia. In past years, France was a power. Today she is far from it, her corruption has caught up with her. Germany has been defeated. Of course, there are many great scientific, religious, and other works in German and French which amply justify their being studied in American colleges, whether their peoples are strong or weak today. Most neighbors of the U.S. speak Spanish, which gives us due cause to study it. Greek and Latin, the languages upon whose classic literature much of our culture is built, are surely not out of place here.

However, if there is cause to study these classical and modern tongues, there is certainly justification for the study of Russian. Whether we are to have peace or war with the Soviets, Davidson men would be at a definite advantage to be acquainted with the speech of the world’s other greatest power. If war comes, as it may under the present tension, we would find that all too few Americans know the enemy's tongue. It would be wise preparation for the possibility of conflict if more Americans had some knowledge of Russian. If we are able to work out a peace that will last many years, as we hope and pray we will, few things could help more to break down barriers and establish popular mutual understanding and friendship than for Americans to know Russian and Russians English. It would be a contribution to peace if our colleges began to offer Russian soon. THINK IT OVER.

WAR ON INFLATION

It will be too late to do anything when this country spins into a nose dive economically and a devastating depression ravages the land. We will be the sufferers. Other countries will see our form of democracy in desperation and will listen to its enemies more readily. Nothing would help world Communism more than a terrible depression.