Our congratulations to the whole Red and Black squad on their outstanding Homecoming performance. The old fire that’s known as
Wildcat spirit showed lots of fire. We are glad that Jim Sifford’s injury proved to be no more serious than
it was—a knock on the head. It gave Jim temporary trouble in focusing his eyes, but the first of the
week found him completely recuperated. The 'Cat engine missed his crackerjack defensive halfback playing almost as much as his offensive
drive in the later stages of the game. Many people never realized what a power Jim is on defense until
they got a load of Keydet backs scampering around the ends for long gains and extra first downs.

We would like to single out four Wildcats for special praise and attention after the Keydet tussle. The big forward
wall deserves the usual credit. The big V.M.I. gains were around the ends and the drives up the middle didn’t
go for much. Standing out among the linemen was tackle Carl Eborn, who seemed to be in every play and
really played a brilliant game. Although two subs stole the tailback spotlight, regular tailback Williams deserves special attention and credit
for his perfect record of conversions for extra points. On both of his attempts, the screws were all there. That
was the difference of a ball game. Both times the oval neatly split the uprights, giving Buck a perfect collegiate
record of two for two.

Tailback Carl Sheppard stepped back into the limelight with two beautiful plays. Taking the V.M.I. kickoff after the first Keydet
touchdown, Shep made a beautiful runback and nearly got away. On the very next play, he took a short pass
from Sifford under the noses of two Keydet backs and outsprinted them 65 yards to get the 'Cats back into
the running with a bang. These two plays showed all the drive and speed that ranked Shep first among the
tailbacks on last year’s edition of the Red and Black and make him a potential rival for that post this
year.

Cliff Turner’s inspired running in the final frame put fire in the Wildcat drive and set up the tying TD.
Cliff, a sophomore from Reidsville, has been out all season with a touch of bursitis in his shoulder. Without high
school experience, Cliff was developed by Coach Story last year as a passer when good passing was as scarce as
hen’s teeth with the Davidson club. However, Turner has taken just as well or better to bulldozing and has a
season record of about four yards per try in the ground gaining department.

Richmond’s Spiders seem to be a changeable team, on-again, off-again. After last week’s crushing loss to the powerful University of
Virginia eleven, this is their day to be clicking. In recent games, they have lost to Rollins and Virginia and
beat Hampden-Sydney and V.M.I. Their 21-20 win over V.M.I. is the clue that gives them a faint edge over the
Cats. A fumble on the Richmond this week. Last year’s Spider crew lost only one man, Jack Null, a 150-pound
all-state center, through graduation. Their team should be about the same with a little more experience that edged the Wildcats
on Richardson Field last Fall. However, with the 'Cats fresh from their Keydet tie, and the return to the lineup
of such stalwarts as Bill Boyd, Buddy Chandler, Carl Pahl, and Cliff Turner, giving Coach Story a full roster to
pick from, we do not hesitate to call the game in Davidson's favor.

Twelve of the forty-seven members of the Big Five Touchdown Club are listed on the Davidson roster. Mack Erwin and
Jim Sifford vie with Mulligan of Duke and Hagard of Wake Forest for second place scoring honors with 18 points
apiece. Highest scorer of the loop is Cox of Carolina who has scored 71 points on conversions. Other Wildcat members
of the Touchdown Club include Little, Bandy, Williams, Wade, Turner, Adams, Anderton, Cheek, Sheppard, Roberts, and Mapes.

Wildcat Sports
Page Four
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Friday, November 7, 1947

It would have been a tough game to win and an even tougher one to lose. The 'Cats did themselves
proud and SHEPPARD IN OLD FORM. On the first play from scrimmage after the Keydet touchdown, Sheppard gathers in Sifford’s
pass under the noses of the V.M.I. secondary and races to pay dirt.

A hard-fighting Pi Kapp team easily downed the Pikas by a score of 12 to 0. The Pi Kapp victory
came as a result of a pass. The Kapp backfield kept the Pikas deep in their own territory throughout the
game. The first touchdown came soon after the start when the Kapps recovered a Pika fumble on the five-yard line.
The second touchdown came in the second quarter on a long pass over the Pika safety man. The defeat was
costly to the Pikas as one of their star players suffered a dislocated shoulder and will be out for the
rest of the season. The Kapps completely out-classed the Pikas who were not able to complete only one pass.

KAPPA SIGS STAY ON TOP AS INTRAMURAL FOOTBALL NEARS END
By FURMAN WARLICK

According to Coach “Pete” Whittle, basketball is slated to take over soon in the intramural sports. Tentative plans are that
basketball will begin approximately a week or ten days after the football tournament is over. Football will be completed in
about a week or ten days, depending on the weather. Coach Whittle expressed hope that basketball could be started as
soon as possible so that many of the games can be played before the Christmas holidays. The reason for this
is that the games have to be played whenever the gym isn't occupied by the varsity or junior varsity teams.
In all probability, only 25 games will be played, which will shorten the length of the tournament considerably.

JAYVEES TOPPLE CHARLOTTE OWLS

The Jayvees kept their record clean by subduing the Charlotte Owls 18-0. Soon after the start of the game, the
Kappa Sigs scored on a long pass, Charlie Pearson to Hob Wilcox. The next touchdown came when the Kappa Sigs
recovered the ball in the end zone. Kappa Sig scored again on a pass from Pearson to “Choir Boy” Wilcox.
The second half was scoreless as neither team was able to put on a sustained drive. The Kappa Sigs look
like a sure bet for the tournament crown.

Phi Gams 12; S.A.E.s 0

Led by “Slinging” Jimmy French, the Phi Gams continued on their victory march by downing the S.A.E.s by a score
of 12-0. The Phi Gams went ahead in the first half when one of their passes clicked for a touchdown
after a sustained march. They came back in the second half to score another on a short pass from the
backfield. The S.A.E.s were not able to make a threat as the Phi Gams outplayed them during the entire contest.
Beautiful punts kept the S.A.E.s back in their own territory. The S.A.E. defense could not cope with the short passes
from the Phi Gam backfield.

Betas 6; S.P.E. 0

After being held scoreless in a closely contested first half, the Betas came back to defeat a strong S.P.E. team
6-0. The Betas scored on a long pass in the second half. The S.P.E.s were not able to make a
threat as the Betas outplayed them during the entire contest. Beautiful punts kept the S.P.E.s back in their own territory.
The S.P.E. defense could not cope with the short passes from the Beta backfield.

SEASON AVERAGES

Rushing
Yds. Yds.
Atts. G’ned Lost Net Av
Sheppard 5 22 8 14 2.8
Sheppard 2 11 6 5 2.5
Erwin 14 65 2 63 4.5
Sifford 2 4 0 4 2.0
Williams, B 3 7 0 7 2.5
Adams 2 7 0 7 3.5
Anderton 1 1 0 1 1.0
Turner 6 26 1 25 4.16
Iverson 1 3 0 3 3.0

Passing
Atts Compl. Int. Yds G’ned
Turner 2 1 1 5
Sifford 3 1 1 65
Anderton 5 1 0 45

In about four or five weeks now, intramural basketball will be getting underway. If there is any interest among the
Independents in having several Independent teams in the loop, now is the time to talk it up and put the
bug in Coach Whittle’s ear. As many Independents as there are in so large a student body who would like
to play basketball, there is surely need for such an outlet for them. However, the schedules are made up somewhat
in advance, so let's hear some opinions on the subject, you interested Independents.

Football Statistics
V.M.I. GAME
Rushing
Yds. Yds.
Atts. G’ned Lost Net Av
Sheppard 5 22 8 14 2.8
Sheppard 2 11 6 5 2.5
Erwin 14 65 2 63 4.5
Sifford 2 4 0 4 2.0
Williams, B 3 7 0 7 2.5
Adams 2 7 0 7 3.5
Anderton 1 1 0 1 1.0
Turner 6 26 1 25 4.16
Iverson 1 3 0 3 3.0

Passing
Atts Compl. Int. Yds G’ned
Turner 2 1 1 5
Sifford 3 1 1 65
Anderton 5 1 0 45

BLACKWOOD COMPANY
OF CHARLOTTE
IS PLEASED TO PRESENT
FOR YOUR APPROVAL
THEIR SELECTION OF
THE FINEST IN IMPORTED AND DOMESTIC WOOLENSstub- | Adams — 12 58 11 47 3.9 | born S. P. k.
team in the second | Roberts 1 31 0 31 31.0

MADE-TO-MEASURE IN CLOTHING

During the first half both Anderton 13 46 22 24 18 teams were held scoreless by hard | Rice 74
5 17 2.4 charging lines. The second half was | FOR MEN OF DISCRIMINATING TASTE | as the Beta Inter-
Yds | capitalized on the mistakes of the Atts Comp cept Gain AVES and on their own heads-up Sheppard 21
8 2 54 playing. The Beta touchdown came | Gifford 2 4 1 0 16 in the fourth quarter when
Smith Anderton 8 2 76 intercepted a S.P.E. pass and | Lambeth 6 5 0 14

READY-MADE SUITS AND FURNISHINGS

showed some beautiful open field | Turner 3 2 1 7 running in carrying the ball back | Wade 4
1 0 8 (Continued on Page Five)

DAVIDSON WILDCATS TIE VMI KEYDETS 14 to 14

Davidson's fighting Red and Black Team Meets Spiders There Next Saturday revitalized a Wildcat team will journey to Richmond, Va.,
to take on the classy Richmond University Spiders, in a crucial encounter. Fresh from their 14-14 tie with another of
Virginia's highly regarded elevens, the V.M.I. Keydets, the Cats will strive to win over the Spiders for the second time
this season, as their season record stands at the present time at 3 wins, 3 losses, and 1 tie. The
game is a must for the Cats who are still attempting to get into the win column in Southern Conference
play. By virtue of their tie with the Keydets, the Cats jumped from the cellar 12th place ahead of such
teams as George Washington, Citadel, and Clemson. A win will thrust the Cats two more notches up the ladder, ahead
of Richmond and Furman.

Spiders Defeat Keydets

The Wildcats will find the Spiders no easy foe, and a hard game is anticipated for the third week in
a row. It was this very same Richmond team that handed the Keydets a stunning 21-20 defeat, on the strength
of John Zizak's three conversions. The Spiders possess a speedy ground attack led by Sugar Batson, one of Virginia's leading
point makers and a powerful line built around Jack Wilbourne. Billingsley, the ex-Fredericksburg High School star, spearheads a potent Spider
aerial attack. The Richmond line is led by such stalwarts as the aforementioned Zizak, Don Bermont, and the 220-pound mammoth
center, Billy Darrah. A loss to the Richmond roster is Vernon Morgan, declared ineligible last week by the Southern Conference
Executive Committee. Evidence of the Spiders’ offense might be witnessed by last week's tussle with the University of Virginia's undefeated
Cavaliers. The Spiders rolled up 171 yards via the ground attack, and completed 6 out of 11 passes. With a
little more luck, and less fumbling at crucial stages, the Spiders might have handed the Cavaliers their initial defeat of
the season.

Morale Boosted

Davidson will go into the game with a spirit of determination and the VMI tie has done much to boost
Wildcat morale, and fans can expect a fighting team to be present against Richmond.

Performed Well

In the Kitten backfield tailback Johnny Kelton and fullback Murray Ashman stood out with Wood Leach performing well as a
pass receiver. End Bob Kester played a good line game until a knee injury pulled him out of the game.
Andy Horne also looked good in the forward wall. Dave Foreman, “Goat” Davis, and Al Clark, all former Central luminaries,
proved to be fast and shifty in the Owl backfield.

Friday afternoon, the Kittens meet Blue Ridge on the home field, seeking their fourth victory.

INTERFRAT STANDINGS

Kappa Sigs 6 0 1.000
Betas 6 1 .857
Phi Kappa 4 2 .666
Pi Gamma 4 2 .666
Sigma Nu 3 2 .600
Phi Delta 3 4 .428
Independents 2 6 .280
Pi Kappa 1 5 .167

Kaul & Crymes, Inc.

The world craves peace that passeth all misunderstanding. Counting time is not so important as making time—J. J. Walker. Conscience
is an inner voice that warns—someone is looking.

Sporting Goods

415 S. TRYON STREET CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Wildcats sent a crowd away from Richardson Field Saturday with all smiles. Coach Bill Story’s warriors fought back twice to
gain a 14-14 tie with a heavily favored VMI eleven. The heretofore untried veteran Buck Williams brought the large homecoming
crowd to its collective feet twice as he split the uprights to hold the ‘Cats in the game. The Keydets
drew first blood five minutes after the opening kick-off. After an exchange of punts, halfback Vince Ragunas shook off tackle
for 44 yards to set up the initial score. He did it himself just two minutes later by crashing over
from two yards out.

Cats Get Back

The first play after the kickoff, Story sent in Sheppard who snagged a pass across scrimmage from Gifford and outdistanced
the visitor's secondary for 55 yards and the tally. Williams sent his first extra point through and the ‘Cats were
back in the game. The Virginians pushed over seven more points in the third quarter, but the Cats marched back
to knot the count. The drive started on the 25-yard line and ended with Erwin bulling his way across from
the four. Buck Williams, Bert Anderton, and Cliff Turner led the drive which was the first which has materialized for
the Cats this year against a formidable opponent.

Close Decision

Cat supporters were yelling “we wuz robbed” late in the third quarter when Bob Sharpe blocked what without a doubt
was a lateral and Buddy Cheek recovered on the Keydet 23. However, the referee ruled it as an incomplete forward
pass and the Flying Squadron retained possession. But for this, the outcome may have been somewhat different. The Virginians posted
a commanding lead in statistics by rolling up 16 first downs to Davidson's 10 and piling up over 300 yards
from scrimmage while the Cats netted slightly over 100. The passing game was also VMI's, 110 to 85.

Line Play Sharp

The Red and Black line was definitely the difference in the two teams. Twice the forward wall rose up in
the second quarter to stop drives inside the five-yard stripe. Big Carl Eborn led the attack that held the celebrated
Bobby Thomason from completing many aerials he might have otherwise.

Davidson Runners Trounce Clemson

Davidson’s cross-country team was victorious by a wide margin of 16-51 over Clemson Saturday, in what nearly proved to be
a “skunk.” Grey, Grubbs, Bradley, and McKeithen of Davidson tied for first honors in the 3.7 mile jaunt with a
time of 17:42. Boyd crossed first for Clemson with a time of 17:37. The following are the time and placings
in Saturday’s meet: (1) Grey (D), 17:42; (2) Grubbs (D), 17:42; (3) Bradley (D), 17:42; (4) McKeithen (D), 17:42; (5)
Boyd (C), 17:37; (6) Montgomery (C), 17:45; (7) Long (D), 18:17; (8) Plonk (D); (9) Smith (D); (10) Cornette (C).

Davidson meets Fort Bragg Saturday, November 8, at 11 a.m. The meet will take place on the Concord Road, starting
three or four miles out of Richardson Stadium.

Inquire of your local Trailways Agent of our attractive service.

Queen City Trailways
417 W. 5th St.
Charlotte, N. C.
