Page Two \ THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, November 14, 1947

The DAVIDSONIAN \ - Founded by the Class of 1915

“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

BOB PHILLIPS - EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOB CLINE - BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Sam Ervin - Associate Editor
Walter Walker - Associate Editor
Mac Hart - Sports Editor
Walter Mann - Managing Editor
Bill Calhoun - Managing Editor
Ronny Dietrick - Managing Editor
Stan Kennett - Managing Editor
Bob Hollister - Exchange Editor
Jean Stewart - Staff Photographer

STAFF
John McNair - Assistant Business Manager
Charlie Reid - Advertising Manager
Frank Lemmon - Circulation Manager
Bill Baxter - Subscriptions Manager
Charles Dockery - Collections Manager
S. H. Fulton - Ass't Circulation Manager
Bob Knight - Ass't Subscription Manager
Charles Clinkscales - Assistant Advertising Manager
Wilkes Macauley - Assistant Advertising Manager
Bob Knight - Assistant Circulation Manager
B. N. Keith - Assistant Circulation Manager
Charles Beam - Assistant Collections Manager

Advertising Staff
H. MacKethan, C. Faison, Bill Houck, Blaine Kelley, F. M. Claude Higginbotham, D. Hayworth, Purnell, Gene Taylor.

Circulation Staff
S. H. Fulton, Att. Duncan, Sam Davis, Hunter Boykin, Paul Guthery, Bill Cassels, John Coble, Carl Herman, Jim Fisher, Bob Sims, Jimmy Rogers, Harry Powe.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Member 1947
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of
Collegiate Digest

Are You Passing Through?

It has been said that all history can be written in the lives of a few men. Those men were the thinkers. It is through men that civilization and progress have come. Someone once asked Carlyle the population of Europe, to which he answered, "Forty million, mostly fools." Now Carlyle meant that most of these men did not think. Are college men of today to be numbered among Carlyle’s millions or are they to emerge from formal education, having accomplished the highest purpose of education?

The world is in great need of thought, while millions upon millions of dollars are spent yearly as men and women pass time in educational institutions "getting by." To great masses of youth, colleges are ends in themselves, not the means to the end of a greater intellect and an ability to solve the ever-present problems of effecting a better society and a greater progress. Most students "get by;" they attend classes, they memorize key words and phrases, they give back to the professor his own words and thoughts, they accept assertions as facts, and in the face of problems and controversy, they allow passion to replace reason. The previous sentence is a hard one; let us temper it with "they have a tendency to—." Yet, where do tendencies lead one? They lead to consummation!

The great need today, and in all times, is for thinkers. Every man on a college campus should try to acquire an ability to think straight and with conviction. To accomplish such every man must put away from him his grandfather’s prejudices as he has put away his outmoded gadgets and implements. He must gather to himself tolerance and justice. He must choose with great care the thought he will follow, in the absence of personal knowledge and conviction. And, lastly, he must discriminate between the true and false. Let college men not cling too much to the past, nor plunge too blindly into the future, but "prove all things, hold fast to that which is good."

Letters to the Editor

Dear Editor:

The points presented in Malloy Owen's column in last week’s Davidsonian concerning the need of two extra days for Thanksgiving are excellent. Thanksgiving is one of the few times during the year that family circles in which college students are members are complete. As it stands now, with only one day for Thanksgiving, only those students who live within a radius of sixty or seventy miles are able to go home. The students of Davidson, as students of a Christian College and students from Christian homes, deserve the opportunity of spending this, one of the most cherished Christian holidays, with their families.

We sincerely hope that the students will support Malloy Owens and that the faculty will see fit to grant us an extension of our Thanksgiving holiday.

PHIL LIBBY AND TOM MARTIN

The DAVIDSONIAN Presents
FEATURES, EDITORIALS, LETTERS To the Editor.

Confusion and uncertainty seem to dominate our world today. No one knows just what will happen next. At any moment Russian planes might fly over and drop atomic bombs on New York, Chicago, San Francisco, Little Rock and our other major cities. We do not know whether Russia wants peace, or is simply stalling off America until Russia is better prepared for war. This is only one example of the uncertainty that exists in the world today—others follow that are just as urgent and disturbing.

Politically the world is in an almost irreparable mess. Communism is winning out in much of Europe, but recently the rightists have been having some success, especially in Western Europe. Because the people are reduced to utter poverty and misery, they think that anything would be better than what they have. They, therefore, follow the party which makes the biggest promises of restoration. Communism won this battle at first, until the people of Western Europe saw the results of choosing it, and now they are drifting to a more conservative government. But suffering, poverty, privation, and want still prevail, and as long as they do, the future of Europe will be very uncertain and confused.

America is not as safe from this widespread infection as some extreme optimists are prone to believe. She is in the midst of an inflation worse than any she has ever before experienced. Inflation grows in one continuous spiral upward, but when it reaches its limit, the bottom drops out with no warning. Men will not have time to rescue their wealth. They will go to sleep rich and well-to-do and will wake up paupers. It is the youth of our age that will have to bear the brunt of this inevitable collapse.

Also many social problems prevail: the race question, for instance. The disputes between labor and management are still very much a problem. With these dilemmas and the dread of war Americans do not know what to expect next.

Morally America, as well as the rest of the world, has gone from bad to worse. Civilization, as it exists today, seems to make the world worse instead of better. As the years go by a larger and larger percentage of Americans die a drunkard’s death. The divorce rate has gone from one divorce out of every six marriages in the 1930s to one divorce out of every three marriages in 1946. Juvenile delinquency has become a major concern facing the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The interest in Christianity has decreased markedly since the end of the war. When the United Nations Charter was drawn up, the United States was entered as a pagan nation. Money has become the god of a large percentage of Americans.

In Europe the moral problem is even worse. Some of the families who were respected and looked up to before the war now make a meager living by sending their own daughters out as prostitutes. Nine-tenths of the population of the war-torn nations are forced to steal whatever they can get their hands on for life’s preservation. Women, and even children, steal and smuggle for a living. Europe cannot afford the luxury of integrity; therefore, integrity hardly exists there any more. Morals must be improved before they are completely forgotten.

Such facts as these would naturally lead to pessimism. It would seem that there is no hope for the world. But there is one hope left; one faint glow illuminating the path to peace and prosperity. This light, of course, is Christianity. Christianity, if universally and sincerely accepted, will not only lead to complete inner happiness on this earth, but also in the life to come. The highway of sin, which the world has taken today, has led to dire misery and suffering, but Christianity will solve all the world’s problems by uprooting the evils that exist today and replacing them with world brotherhood, unselfishness, humility, love, and a deep faith in the divine powers of Christ.

But why is this not done? Why does not someone do something about it? Because the ones who are capable of doing something about it are leaving it up to the other fellow. "Why should I do it? The other fellow can do it just as well and probably better," they say. Now we have the problems and we also have the solution, but what are we—not the other fellow—but what are we going to do about it? Suppose all the students of Davidson College, nearly a thousand morally, mentally and spiritually strong young men, invaded the world with the cross as their banner and the Bible as their sword. The good they could do would be beyond belief. Christ leaves this challenge with the students of Davidson College and the youth of today. We have the problems and we have the solutions; now the Christ, who unselfishly gave his life to save us all, dares us to do something about it.

BILL McCRARY

Experience is the name everyone gives to his mistakes.—Oscar Wilde.

The greatest of faults is to be conscious of none.—Carlyle.

Censure is the tax a man pays to the public for being eminent.—Swift.

Favors cease to be favors when there are conditions attached to them.—Wilder.

Sam Sez

By SAM ERVIN

In spite of the danger of being "out of order" for stepping into the domain of Mac Hart and the company, I'd like to make a few comments on the article written by genial Jim Jackson, Class of '47, which appeared in the October issue of The Davidson College Bulletin. This article was written at the invitation of the alumni secretary, and, as most of you probably know, dealt with the subject of the future of football at Davidson.

In this short space it will not be possible to discuss all the phases of Jim's letter, but there are a couple of his statements that I'd like to examine—or should I say question. First of all, Jim advocates withdrawal from the Southern Conference and the formation of a new league of teams with similar importance of intercollegiates, perhaps in this area. This may be an ideal solution, but to my way of thinking, it is an impractical one. Perhaps some of the present members of the Southern Conference might be willing to withdraw from the only major collegiate loop in this area, but I doubt it. It would involve a tremendous decrease in prestige, and from a more practical viewpoint, great financial losses. It is possible that this new organization might capture the sporting fancy of the public, but the odds are against it. It is more likely to become another "obscure" league, known only to the local residents.

I agree that we should not sacrifice our scholastic standing in the realm of athletics, but isn't it possible to be above average in both fields of endeavor? We won't be making athletes corrupt our student body by drawing more athletes to attend Davidson, as some seem to believe. Many of the country’s top-notch football players are going to college primarily to get an education. We can be justly proud of our present Wildcat squad, but we can't deny the fact that we are not getting our share of the area's outstanding high school and prep athletes. The reason is that other colleges in this neighborhood give liberal scholarships to deserving footballers. Even our athletic director admits that our present day tuition scholarships are woefully inadequate. Also, would it be wrong to revamp our Physical Education Department so that Davidson students could major in that subject? I think not. After all, coaching is an honorable profession.Shouldn't Davidson prepare for it? I personally know two excellent athletes who earnestly wanted to attend Davidson but had to go elsewhere because they wanted to major in Physical Education. I'm opposed to a policy which is little more than "deemphasis" in disguise. If we value our scholarships, shouldn't we attract more of them to Davidson? We simply are not on par with our stronger conference foes. I believe that it's important that we do so—for reasons I will elaborate on next week.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

With the majority of Pikas remaining on campus this weekend, we are wondering if this is the lull before the storm or the calm after the hurricane. At any rate, little activity was seen and the rest is unknown. It has been whispered that the pledges are now laying plans for the annual Christmas party given by the pledges for the brothers. If last year’s party is any indication of what to expect, probably all future information will be in whispers too.

The “Man of De-stink” this week is Brother BOB STROUD. Due to a much-publicized disloyalty and the sudden infatuation of CAROLYN COLE, he was admitted to the grand dining room before the specified time while the brothers shivered on the “cole” porch. For the sake of clearing up a few loose ends left from homecoming, GOR- should elucidate on the bathtub incident at the Charlotte Hotel. Who was it and why were they there if not to get clean?

Brother JIM SISKE and his hired cronies have been accused of writing the "Operating Table" for THE DAVIDSONIAN. Could “BIG JIM” get it twice a week? Wailing has been heard in the vicinity of Pledge JIM RODGER'S room. His date from the homecoming weekend has announced her engagement to another man. All those bruises and gnashing of teeth for nothing, too.

Pledges RUSSELL GRANT and CHEZ KELLEY were seen in and around Gastonia. Due to circumstances beyond their control, their conduct was becoming of a Davidson gentleman. CHARLES HADLEY has run up quite a phone bill at the Cole’s boarding house calling NANCY COPELAND. In the Masquer’s new production, Nancy is a dead woman and Charles commits suicide after the first act; so they should get along fine.

Brother BILL CAMERON has applied for entrance to W.C.U.N.C. He has changed his major since Mary is a P.E. major. Bill decided one of them had to know the essentials of cooking. Puckett has announced the state alarm concerning the danger of eating half-cooked beans. We are now taking only two helpings instead of the usual four.

The Alpha fraternity announces the pledging of GRAGG of San Antonio, Texas. After a dull and dreary Monday, Pi Kappa Phi had a wonderful homecoming.

Operating Table

Following the great victory of the football team this past weekend, your reporter has much information to give out concerning those who followed the team and those who allowed their basic desires to lead them in search of women. The outstanding deal of the weekend was accomplished by HAIRY HERB MEZA on a flying trip to the Assembly Training School just across the street from Union Seminary in the old capital of the Confederacy. Extensive groundwork was laid for future operations at that point as soon as THE HAIRY ONE takes up residence across the street.

It has been rumored that MR. JOHN F. WILLIAMS of the student body will soon depart for an extended tour of South America and South Africa. Those who wish to receive their cigars must contact the potent one in the next few days, as he plans to be at a destination unknown late in the spring season.

MR. McDOWELL TATE, sole surviving heir of the blue-blooded McDOWELL TATE DYNASTY of McDowell County, is planning to swoosh up toward Raleigh in his plush convertible this coming weekend. MR. TATE is interested in securing the services of some member of “the great unwashed” to chauffeur him and the lady of his choice, Miss Betsy Hodges, queen of the coastal plain.

LUSTFUL JOHN MILLER is planning to extend the services of his new shock-absorbent, fur-lined product. MR. MILLER has stated that the price will remain the same and that those who desire one should stop by his room any time.

MR. SMILEY S., youthful editor of this rag, has recently been successful in pinning up the child of his dreams from Montreat High School. Your correspondent rejoices with Mr. Phillips’ good fortune, even though he may be guilty of statutory pinning-up. It is understood that the legal age for accepting a fraternity pin in North Carolina is sixteen years.

Probably the most ludicrous orgy of the past weekend was pulled by ROBERT LITTLE and FLYBATT in Greensboro. Bosom companions ROBERT and FLYBATT took off after classes Friday and returned to the campus in time for the chapel exercise Monday morning. WALTER MANN and JOHN B. LENT stayed on campus Saturday night for the first time this semester to get their work up. Rumors of large plans for the coming weekend have already been formulated by the above two, but no information is available as to what deal they are planning.

MR. ALVIN SCARBOROUGH of Theta, home of college presidents, has announced that he is making an effort to revive the old tradition of decorating the Christmas party at the Mid-winters dances. MR. MOORE of Moore County will be the QUEEN’s escort at the festival by none other than our own MURDS McKEIVHAN. SAM ERVIN has said that he would appreciate it if some of those who read this column would glance over and check his "sez too." Seems that his latest Hooper rating was rather low.

Part Two

The past weekend, which was somewhat of a backwash from the full stream of homecoming festivities, was an unusually quiet one on the Davidson farm. Phineas T. Barnum was wont to say, “There's a sucker born every minute.” This time interval has been broken, of course, and is now down to a second.

Now that the nosy people who read this column have had their appetites and lusts whetted for gossip, we can break into the rare meat of this Dissertation on Fryed Ham. (COUSIN GEORGE MACKEY GRIMBELL said that he ain't never seen things so fried as they were at the Kappa Alpha breakfast during homecoming.)

OFF-CUE FRANK ANDERSON, who was recently at one of the classy Tweet-Tweets in Charlotte with other socialite Davidson gentlemen, was up to another faux pas. Having ordered a hamburger, he watched the waiter mash and press upon the ground steak until he could stand it no longer. In a very loud voice, he startled the entire gathering by warning, “Hey, stop beating that hamburger.” Frank knows that this makes a hamburger unsavory.

One of our correspondents spied an ad when he was returning from Charlotte. The signs are on the right of the trail just outside of Cornelius going north. The following jingle goes as follows:

THIS VALE OF TOIL AND SIN
YOUR HEAD GROWS BALD BUT NOT YOUR CHIN

This brought to mind the fact that VOO-DOO GEORGE BENNETT (to call him another name) is getting that way, or is it that season? Also, the well-known five o'clock shadow has overcome DON SASSER, who is trying to start an Outhouse of David on the campus. He is already the privy council for this organization.

Company C of Wooglin (too numerous and commonplace to enumerate here) is going to wiggle in the Corner at the Agnes Scott dance on November 22. These boys are masters at the art, Beta watch out.

Notice: This is to inform all misguided Davidson gentlemen who happen to make the mistake of using the little boys’ room instead of the girls’ room, that the facilities are now on the right instead of the left. Do not mistake the old room.

Please Visit Queens

Leaflets have been floating down late advising the student body about new styles in “Bikewear.” We would like to suggest that the vacant room in the basement north of the library be used for storing these furred species when not in use.

Miss Eulalee Draughn, of recent gossip fame, when questioned about her opinion of EUSTRUID JOHN MILLER said: “I have no words.”

By MALLOY OWEN

DINING HALL

Few eating places anywhere measure up to our college dining hall. The food served there is of the finest quality and selection. An all-star staff is one of the chief reasons. Besides Mr. Spence, this year Mrs. Little as hostess, and a new chef from S and W have joined the staff. Last Spring, a lovely new combination radio and automatic phonograph was bought by the college to furnish music while we eat. Curtains add to the attractiveness of the room. Complaints are so few that it's astonishing, and when one is heard it is usually manufactured in fun or utterly ridiculous. On behalf of those who eat there, congratulations to the college on its superior planning and the staff on their work to make such a place possible.

CURFEW?

Dr. Wood's speech in chapel recently calling on us to be more careful of our health habits was well put and priceless advice. Health protection is something we need more of, and we are rapidly missing it. Bad habits against which we should be on guard include eating too little breakfast. Too little sleep, however, is the most outstanding and glaringly evident failing among us. As we nearly all frequently experience, our efficiency is cut very low when, after a number of nights of staying up late, our neglect begins to catch up with us. Eight hours of sleep is about right for most men of college age. To get up at 7:30, we should hit the sack by 11 or before. The idea of a curfew, or a time to require lights out, however, was overwhelmingly disapproved by the student body. The Student Council, as our elected representatives, should know that. However, though... (Continued on Page Six)