Page 6 THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, May 16, 1947

BOB STRICKLAND (Continued from Page 1)

Members of the new Court of Control are:

Judge Bob Strickland of Atlanta, Georgia, came to Davidson in September 1944. During his Sophomore year, he was secretary-treasurer of
the Student Body, in the R.O.T.C., and a member of the Court of Control. This year he was president of
the Junior class and president of Sigma Delta Pi, Spanish fraternity. Bob is a member of the Beaver Club, the
“D” Club, the varsity football squad, and the track team. He is president of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity
for next year.

Scarborough entered Davidson in January 1944. He was called into the Marine Corps in June 1945 and spent twelve months
in the States and Hawaii. He returned to Davidson in September 1946. Before the war, he was a member of
the “D” Club and Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. He is from Sumter, South Carolina.

Other Members

Fitzhugh Read transferred to Davidson from Presbyterian Junior College in January 1946. Before coming to Davidson, he was a technical
sergeant in the Army Air Force. He took his training in Arizona and South Dakota and later was sent to
England for duty with the Eighth Air Force. He is from Warrenton, N.C., and is a member of the Pi
Kappa Phi social fraternity.

Martin Waters enrolled in Davidson in the fall of 1943. In June 1945, he was sent to the Navy Radio
Technician School and received his discharge in July 1946. He returned to Davidson last September. During his Sophomore year, Martin
was a member of the Y.M.C.A. Board of Control, secretary-treasurer of the Sophomore class, and president of Kappa Sigma social
fraternity. This year he is a member of Sigma Pi Sigma, national physics fraternity, and is president of the Charlotte-Davidson
club.

Gene Bingham of Gary, West Virginia, entered Davidson in September 1941. In the fall of 1942, he went into the
Naval Air Corps. Upon successful completion of his training, he was commissioned an ensign and served not only in the
States but also in the Pacific theater of war. He returned to Davidson this past September. He is a member
of the varsity football squad, the track team, and is the vice president of the Beaver Club. He is a
member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity for next year.

Dave Shepperson of El Dorado, Arkansas, entered Davidson in January 1946. He was a second lieutenant in the Army Air
Corps. He was elected vice president of the Junior class for next year and as the junior representative on the
Board of Control for next year. He is a member of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity.

Bill Alexander entered Davidson last September and made his letter on the varsity wrestling team. He was elected vice president
of the Sophomore class for next year and is a member of the Beaver Club. Alexander is from Jacksonville, Florida.

Suddy Chank of Norfolk, Virginia, entered Davidson in January 1946. Before coming to Davidson, he served thirty months with the
U.S. Coast Guard. After his training in the States, he went to Guadalcanal, Iwo Jima, Okinawa, Pearl Harbor, and the
Philippines. He is a member of the varsity football squad and the “D” club. He is a member of the
Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

SMOKING PLEASURE

Dorothy Lamour is my favorite “My Favorite Brunette”... CHESTERFIELD... cigarette see Bob Hope's new picture "MY FAVORITE BRUNETTE" co-starring DOROTHY
LAMOUR

VESPER SPEAKER

The vesper speaker for Sunday evening will be Dr. C. Darby Fulton of Nashville, Tenn. Dr. Fulton recently returned from
an extended four months’ tour of the Orient. Accompanied by Rev. W. M. Elliot of Dallas, Texas, he has spent
sufficient time there to cover a large area of China and to know the conditions existing there. Dr. Fulton has
spoken here before and is known by a large group of the students. This service will be the last of
this college year since there is no service during the examination period.

Sigma Upsilon Men Elect Officers

Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary society, met at Erwin Lodge Wednesday, May 7. The student and faculty members were honored by
a banquet furnished by the fraternity, at which Professor Goldiere officiated as chief cook. Officers for the coming school year
were elected. They are: Bill Joyner, president; Sam Ervin, vice president; Bobby Phillips, secretary-treasurer; and Sam Tate, steward.

Editor Elected As NCCPA Executive

Jim Gribben Made Vice-President of Collegiate Press Association

At its business session on Saturday morning, May 10, the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association elected Jim Gribben, editor-elect of
the college humor magazine, Scripts ’n Pranks, to serve as its vice president for the coming year. He defeated Barron
Mills of Laurinburg, representing...They replace Dick Port, John Fairley, Mac Jeffries, and Ed Sutton. Officers for the year were elected.
After the election, several original papers were read and informal talks given. Professor Erwin gave a short talk on the
history of Erwin Lodge. Mac Jeffries read a paper on the joining of American forces in 1945. Swihk presented a
paper on the “40 8” train ride from Casablanca to Oran. Recently, several members of the Russian forces in Europe
have been initiated into Sigma Upsilon. They are: Scofield, Sam Taylor, Bill Joyner, and Don Ervin, Sam Tate.

PHILANTHROPIC ELECTION

At a meeting of the Philanthropic Society on April 28, officers were elected for next year. Those elected to lead
the society were: Jack P. Etheridge, president; Herb Meza, vice president; David Hamilton, secretary; and Jack Payne, Jr., treasurer. The
spring social function of the society was held on Friday, May 9, at Erwin Lodge. Recreation in the afternoon was
followed by a supper and dance in the evening at the lodge.

Mac Hart, Clay Walker, and a representative of the Daily Tar Heel, were elected by a large majority on the
second vote. Davidsonian publications had four representatives attending this convention. Gribben and Jim Miliott were the two delegates from the
staff of Scripts ‘n Pranks. The Davidsonian was represented by Bill Calhoun and Walter Mann, managing editors. The Saturday meeting
was conducted in the ballroom of the Carolina Hotel, Raleigh, N.C., as were all the other sessions of the convention
with the exception of a luncheon meeting at N.C. State College. This business meeting was given almost entirely to the
election of officers for the following year. Clay Felker, editor of the Duke Chronicle, defeated Gribben in the earlier presidential
election by a rather thin margin. Peggy Davis of Salem College was chosen as the new secretary of the organization
and Ken Coble of State College will be the next treasurer.

Dr. Folk

It has been the policy of the Collegiate Press Association in the past to choose a permanent secretary who will
help keep the general affairs in motion while the student officers are changing. Dr. E. E. Folk, professor of journalism
at Wake Forest College, was selected to serve in this capacity for the coming term. The meeting of the association
on Friday morning, May 9, was a reactivation meeting of this group. The Collegiate Press Association has not met since
the war interrupted journalistic activities on the various campuses of the state. His Excellency, R. Gregg Cherry, Governor of North
Carolina, inaugurated the proceedings of the convention with his address of welcome. The only activity at this reactivation meeting was
the election of pro tem officers.

Luncheon

N.C. State College was host to the convention at a luncheon in the Grill Room of the college cafeteria at
the noon hour on Friday. Three speakers were heard at this meeting. Warren Duffy, director of the Raleigh Bureau of
the United Press, spoke on the opportunities for jobs in the press. Ed Kirk from radio station WPTF spoke on
the duties of the radio press. By far the most interesting of the three was Noel Houston, author and lecturer
from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, who spoke of the ways in which writers can be assured
of selling their work to newspaper and magazine editors.

Discussion Groups

All of Friday afternoon, from 2 until after 5:30, was spent by the delegates in discussing their specific problems with
authorities in the different fields of journalism. Newspaper representatives were ably led by such notables as Jake Wade, sports publicist
of the University of North Carolina, A. A. Wilkinson, associate editor of the Durham Herald, and Jack Riley, feature editor
of the Raleigh News and Observer. Dr. E. E. Folk of Wake Forest College, and Dr. Amos Abrams, associate editor
of the magazine, North Carolina Education, led a panel discussion for magazine editors. Representatives from various printing and engraving establishments
in the state discussed problems which related to their trade with the yearbook editors present. Business Managers from the three
types of publications were led by Mr. L. M. Pollander, Professor of Journalism from the University of North Carolina and
Mr. Jack Howard of Howard’s Advertising Agency of Raleigh, N.C.

The high point of the convention was the banquet Friday evening in the ballroom of the Hotel Carolina. The Honorable
Josephus Daniels, former Secretary of the Navy and ambassador to Mexico and present editor of the Raleigh News and Observer,
addressed the delegates concerning some of the attributes necessary for those who intend to go into journalism as a life
work. Mr. Daniels, who is known as the Dean of American newspaper editors, stressed the fact that it is necessary
for anyone who intends to become a newspaper editor to stay in direct contact with all that is going on
in the world.

PHI SOCIETY AT ERWIN LODGE
