GRAECIAN ENDS SERENE REIGN ALENDA Lux UB) ‘The Mavidsonian ORTA LIBERTAS NOT MANY PICTURES THIS WEEK Volume XXXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, MARCH 21, 1947 No. 19

Hugh Hill

Students' Art Work in Watts College Show to be Held March 31 to April 3

From March 31 until April 3, the annual Art Exhibit of Davidson College will be held in the parlors of Watts Dormitory. The exhibit, to be composed for the most part of student entries, will be the first in some years, having been discontinued in 1943, as so many other campus activities, due to the depleted student body of the last four years.

In addition to the student artistic endeavor, there will be a group of work from the faculty and faculty wives. In the past, this added attraction has proven of great interest to the college group.

Covers Wide Field

The work on exhibit will be of a greatly varied assortment, in that there will be no limitations as to subject and medium. Exhibitors are free to enter portraits, landscapes, still life, and other subjects, in any chosen medium. Oil painting is expected to compose a large percentage of the exhibit, with much work in charcoal, and pastels.

All Davidson College students, faculty members, and their wives are eligible to enter the exhibit which will be judged by a faculty committee. This committee will be announced sometime in the near future and will select the best work while a student vote will be taken to determine the students’ favorites in the exhibit.

Entrance Rules Listed

The following rules will govern entries: Exhibitors must be students, faculty members, or faculty wives. Each exhibitor will be limited to three entries. Medium and subject are without limitation. Anyone wishing to include work in the exhibit may do so by contacting the art staff of Quips and Cranks, Henry Cathey, or Bill Whitaker. Cathey may be contacted by calling 5061.

Aged Chimney Yields Secret

Contrary to popular belief, the time capsule was not a brain-child of the 1939 World’s Fair Preservation for Posterity Committee. Certainly Arischoxstos, the mad pharaoh of the Third Dynasty, hoped, when he interred his sixteenth wife all bedecked with rubies and ravens’ teeth, that some twentieth-century archaeologist would uncover her shroud and cop the priceless treasures therein. There must’ve been others somewhere through the ages who were thoughtful enough of their descendants to leave relics.

But in the modern age, the earliest time capsule must surely be the one embedded somewhere in the putty and mortar of Eu Hall’s crumbling chimney. Ah, comes a campus mystery now uncovered! “It has come to light recently that the S. A. E. chapter of 1915, desiring to be remembered, inserted in a large milk jug the names of all the Minervaites present plus several treasured articles of the pre-World War I era such as fur-lined jacket straps, toothless combs, two-headed pennies, et cetera. The divulger of this long-suspended secret disclosed further that a curse would descend upon any unqualified person who desecrated the chimney or attempted to recover the jug. No one can be qualified unless he was a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon Society of Davidson’s class of 1915, and further, even one of the few who can meet this requirement must wait until sixty-six years after 1915 to attack the chimney and rob it of its prize. In a special announcement to members of the Davidsonian present, F. A. Jackson, college treasurer, announced that he (Continued on Page 6)

Exhibit Musical Show in Asheville

Playing two performances to full houses, the Queens-Davidson Music Departments presented “The Pirates of Penzance” to the school children of Asheville on Friday, March 14. The first performance was presented Friday morning in the Asheville city auditorium to the county school children and the second to an audience composed of the city school children. The capacity of the auditorium is approximately 3,500. During each performance, all seats were taken and all standing room, to the limit of the fire laws, was taken by the spectators. The estimated total attendance was 8,000.

Special Performances

Arriving at Asheville on Thursday afternoon, the cast was almost immediately prevailed on by Dr. Grier Davis to sing some selections from the operetta at a church dinner of several hundred people. Soloists for this occasion were Frank Lowe, Bill Sutherland, and Betty Barber. Middy Reynal and his band of policemen also sang selections. The cast went up in two chartered buses—one from Davidson and the other from Queens. They spent the night at the Assembly Inn in Montreat and returned Friday night.

Seminary Men Lead Vespers

Dr. Cunningham announced this week that Sunday night Vespers will be conducted by a deputation from Union Theological Seminary of Richmond, Va. These seminary deputations constitute annually one of the outstanding vesper services of the year. This year’s group is composed of four men, three of whom are Davidson alumni. Fred Stair, who graduated here in 1939, is one of Davidson’s most outstanding alumni. In his stay on the campus, Stair was president of the student body, an outstanding football player, commander of the R. O. T. C. battalion, and a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, and the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet. Stair served in the Army as an infantry major during the war. His home is Knoxville, Tenn., and he is a seminary student this year.

George Hopper attended Davidson before the war during which he served in the Navy. He then attended the University of Virginia and after graduation entered the seminary where he is now a Junior. Hopper is also active in the Assembly’s program for Westminster Fellowship. He is the son of a missionary from Kwangju, Korea, and plans to enter the mission field after graduation.

W. R. Smith, III, also attended Davidson. He hails from Chatham, Va. He is a Senior at Union and has been called to be pastor of the Presbyterian church of Yadkinville, N. C., after his graduation.

George Staples was graduated in 1940 from Presbyterian College in Clinton, S. C. He entered Union after graduation but was called into the Army in 1942, where he served as an infantry major.

By James Jackson As told to E. Cailliet

This, the third of a series of articles attempting to bring before the student body some of the deeds of valor and heroism recounted at every opportunity amidst the hallowed halls of traditional old Davidson, is the war history of Gentleman Jim Jackson, the curse of Columbia, a valiant member of the Army Air Corps. Realizing when he received his appointment to service in the wide blue yonder that the life of carousal he had led at Davidson was not conduct befitting an officer in the most elite of the services, Jackson did not hesitate to put away childish things and labored with such effort to obtain the sophisticated polish required of the successful air corps man that after graduation he was retained in the States for a number of months to instill the spirit of the corps into younger trainees and assigned to duty at Yuma, Arizona.

“Live in Fame”

Success was rapid, and after 13 days Jackson was promoted to first lieutenant, then two months later to captain and assigned the difficult job of lecturing to incoming classes on correct wearing of the uniform. One night returning from leave in Yuma, where he had been toying with a young lady whose first name was Jeanne and whose last name was not given, Jackson, his chest covered with a gala display of ribbons including the American Theatre, Good Conduct, and the Excellent Scholarship Medal, with bronze star in lieu of second Excellent Scholarship Medal, came upon a long line of enlisted men stretching around the block. Suspecting some disturbance, the dashing flight officer strode to the head of the line where a red cross, signifying action above and beyond the call of duty, was prominently displayed.

War Deeds of Flier Disclosed on Campus

Scornful, Jackson was about to turn away in disgust, when he noticed a young candidate named Maloney, a member of his class who had acquired a reputation for debauchery, stumbling bleakly out of the door. Obviously the victim of a mental quirk involving delusions of grandeur, candidate Maloney kept muttering over and over, “Once a king always a king, but once a knight is enough.”

“Go Down In Flame”

Realizing that the boy was in need of help, Jackson did the noble thing, and throwing rank distinction to the winds, took him by the shoulders and led him to a nearby officers’ club, where he said, simply, “You've got to pull yourself together, old man. An air corps man never quits.” Spending the night there together in the deep silence of true friendship, broken only by cries of “Right” as they read the officers handbook together, and went out arm in arm to jump into their ships and fly off into the cold grey together.

“Nothing Can Stop the A.A.C.”

In moments of crisis, such as the visit of some general, Jackson, now a major, was sent aloft to supervise bomb runs made by the students as part of the demonstration. It was during such a grueling experience that the port engine ceased to function, and the pilot’s voice, fraught with tension, came over the intercom, “She’s let us down, men. Hit the silk.” Acting with the speed and precision which were the result of months of intensive training, Jackson bashed his head against an aileron, jettisoned the left wing, and with two fingers of the left hand extended in the V for Victory sign, leapt through the open bomb bay doors, when he noticed the huddled form of a cadet frozen in terror on the floor. Realizing that to avert tragedy quick action was (Continued on Page 6)

CALENDAR

Sunday, March 23—Vespers—Union Theological Seminary group, Richmond, Va. Fred Stair, W. R. Smith, III, George D. Hopper, George Staples.

Wednesday, March 26—Chapel—Mr. Joseph C. Hutchison, Mint Museum, Charlotte, N. C.

Sunday, March 30—Vespers—Salem College chorus.

Election Board, Early Balloting

Monday marked the beginning of a series of what seems to be hotly contested elections, as the students went to the polls to vote for their student body officers. Chosen Monday, to enter the final election March 18 were Hugh Hill, Jim Pittman, and Heywood Brinegar, for president;George Cheek, Ed Hopper, Johnny Miller, and Carl Pahl for vice president (two to be elected); Bob Carson, Whit Cobb, Dick Glasgow, and Jake Wade for secretary-treasurer. At the first called meeting of the elections board, Tommy Powell was elected chairman, and he proceeded to outline the duties of the members of this organization. These are principally to see that the elections are held in an orderly manner, to watch the boxes, and to act as registrars in counting the ballots. This year the boxes are being kept open during the lunch hour for the first time.

Board Membership
The elections board is composed of the following: One man from each social fraternity, four from the independent group, and two from the Student Council. The nominating committee, selected from the Student Council, presented eleven men to the student body on Monday morning: Four candidates for president, four for vice president, and three for the secretary-treasurer. From the floor, the students added to this list six presidential, six vice presidential, and nine secretary-treasurer candidates.

Election Schedule
In the next two weeks the following officers will be elected (in the order named): The Student Government, Y.M.C.A., Davidsonian editor, Annual editor, Class Officers, Freshman Adviser, Magazine editor, the Student Council, Head Cheerleader, Publications Board, Y.M.C.A. Board of Control. The Election Board consisted of these men: Pete Sinclair, Pi Kappa Phi; Joe Stukes, Beta Theta Pi; Rosser Clark, Pi Kappa Alpha; Ed Lilly, Sigma Pi Epsilon; Ed Whiteside, Kappa Alpha; Dick O’Hair, Phi Gamma Delta; Ed Sutton, Phi Delta Theta; Pat Williams, Kappa Sigma; Dick Port, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Bob Freeman, Delta Kappa; Johnny Walker, George Worth, Bill Harrill, Jeep Whitely, Independents; and Tommy Powell, George Peters, The Student Council.

Unfortunately, this week’s issue of the Davidsonian must go to press too early to enable us to print the results of the elections for vice president and secretary-treasurer of the student body respectively. Naturally, this paper will run a full account of the elections of students to minor or lesser offices in a future issue. It is realized that it would be more desirable to print the entire election story at once than to resort to this more patchwork method of reporting, however, there is no other alternative.

Editors Abed, Flu Checked By Kent Christopher
Six overworked Davidson students, among them the two top campus editors, succumbed to maladies and slept under the sign of the caduceus as the Davidsonian went to press Monday night. The newsroom was due to a mild case of influenza and Doug Swink, magazine editor, was improving from a severe attack of sinus trouble accompanied by high temperature. Swink reports that he felt no “exuberance.”

Also recovering from “flu” attacks were W. D. Taylor, Andy Gullick, B. F. Beals, and F. T. Pruffer. Dismissed from the infirmary during the previous week after influenza were C. G. Henderson, D. W. Crumpacker, J. J. Fraser, and Professor John Haldane of the Music department. A. C. Currant was released after a stay due to tonsillitis, D. G. Boyce, H. H. Brenner, and J. W. Pence completed stints caused by sore throats and Bob Strickland did a tour as a result of an upset stomach. Bill Foote still hobbles about on crutches because of his broken foot.

A mild epidemic of influenza has been stemmed according to Mrs. Johnson, head nurse. She pointed out the fact that later circulars concerning “flu” shots reported them effective for only three months instead of six months, but cases of the malady have already occurred. It is now planned that immunization shots be given to students twice next year. October and January will be the tentative dates and will be an added incentive to return to school after Christmas, since no exams will be given at shot time.

RE-EXAMS
Dr. C. K. Brown, dean of the faculty, announced that re-examinations will be given Friday, April 4, at 2 p.m. These examinations will take place in room 124, Chambers. Seniors and any others who have had examinations postponed because of illness may take as many re-examinations as they desire during this period. All other students are limited to one re-examination at this period, however, additional hours will be provided on Saturday, April 5, for those students who wish to take more than one examination at this time. According to faculty regulations, students must notify the professors under whom they wish to take re-examinations at least 48 hours prior to the time set for the examination, namely, 2 p.m. Friday, April 4.

By Ronny Dietrick
When asked the question concerning this week’s poll one person graciously replied, “Why that is an absurd question!” Nevertheless, the poll was taken and it is felt that the results should be interesting to all students. The question placed in the lap of the student body this week was, “Do you think that compulsory Vespers should be abolished?” This question has always been a red-hot issue around the dormitories for as long as anyone can remember, and is often vituperously discussed about seven-fifteen p.m. on Sunday evenings. In view of the fact that so many people express their displeasure so often and so vehemently on the subject of being forced to break a short weekend off early to return to Chambers for a compulsory sermon, it is surprising that the results, pro and con, were as close as they were. Also, it was gratifying to note that the Seniors, the class which has been ‘here’ the longest, were generally in favor of retaining the compulsory vesper system. This would indicate that the Seniors are both more satisfied with Davidson as it is and more familiar and attached to its traditions.

In response to the question “Do you think that compulsory Vespers should be abolished?” the students replied in the following manner:

Seniors
Yes: 88.8%
No: 44.4%
No opinion: 0%

Juniors
Yes: 60%
No: 32%
No opinion: 4%

Sophomores
Yes: 36.6%
No: 43.3%
No opinion: 13.3%

Freshmen
Yes: 44.0%
No: 38.5%
No opinion: 8.0%

Despite the fact that students rant against compulsory Vespers, it probably never occurred to many of them that Davidson might not be Davidson without the traditional “tete a tete” every Sunday night. Also, few students seem to realize that the number of cuts allowed a semester equals about one third of the number of vesper services a semester. As someone so aptly phrased it during the polling, “Griping about compulsory vespers at Davidson is like griping about drilling at a military school.”

Elected President
Leader Selected In Close Ballots: Outstanding Man Chosen For Highest Campus Position
As a result of the closed ballot final elections held on Tuesday, March 18, Hugh Hill, a member of the rising senior class, was elected by the required majority vote to the position of Student Body President for the coming year 1947-1948. The original ballot included Jim Pittman, Sam Tate, Lee Willingham, Ed Lilly, Heywood Brinegar, Sam Ervin, Bob Phillips, Sam Maloney, and Bill Robertson. Tate, Willingham, Lilly, Ervin, Phillips, Maloney, and Robertson were eliminated on the first ballot, Monday, March 17.

Hill, a native of Greensboro, entered Davidson in the fall of 1941. As a freshman, Hugh was a member of the editorial staff of The Davidsonian and Varsity manager of the football squad. During his second year, 1942-'43, Hill was chosen as Sophomore representative on the Student Council, and also was elected to the office of Vice-President of the Student Body for the following year 1943-'44. He was unable to occupy the latter position, however, as he left Davidson with the Enlisted Reserve Corps in March, 1943. Hugh spent the next three years with the Army Medical Corps in the United States and Europe. Attached to the Ninth Army field hospital, he served overseas for seventeen months, stationed at one time or another in practically all of the European countries reached by the war. Re-entering Davidson in June, 1946, Hugh immediately renewed his interest and activities in student organizations. He is at present the president of the Bever Club, a member of Sigma Upsilon, and a wearer of the “D.” A pre-medical student, Hugh is also a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

Chorus Sings For Concert
The Male Chorus will present a mixed concert of sacred and secular numbers on March 26 in Chambers Auditorium, Mr. Berg announced last Monday. The selections rendered will be among those used on the tour which the 45 members of the chorus will make after Spring holidays. Piano accompanist for the evening will be Buford Goodman, and incidental soloists will be Moody Chisholm and Bill Sutherland. The program will be as follows:

I
Adoramus Te, Christe.
Miserere mei Deus.
Lord, for Thy Tender Mercies’ Sake.
Vere languores nostros.

II
How Brightly Beams the Morning Star.
Now Let Every Tongue Adore Thee.
Ye Watchers and Ye Holy Ones.

III
With Heart Uplifted.
Salvation Belongeth to Our God.
Long Hast Thou Stood, O Church of God.

INTERMISSION

IV
To All You Ladies Now on Land.
April is in My Mistress’ Face.
The Agincourt Song.

Negro Spirituals:
Swing Low, Sweet Chariot.
The Battle of Jericho.

American Men.
All Hail, O Davidson.

(The program will be subject to change.)

The number, “American Men,” by Effinger is a modern American composition, whose composer is at present a teacher of music in a college in Colorado. The performance will begin at 8:15 with no admission charge.