Friday, December 5, 1947 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five: Faul & Crymes, Inc, 1947 All-American Sporting Football Team (Selected by Sports Editors of One Hundred College Goods Newspapers Throughout the Nation.)

1. E—George Poole, Mississippi
1. T—George Connor, Notre Dame.
1. G—Joseph Steffy, Army
C—Richard Scott, Navy
R. G—William Healey, Georgia Tech.
R. T—William Swiacki, Columbia
QB—John Lujack, Notre Dame.
L. H—Robert Chappuis, Michigan.
R. H—Doak Walker, Southern Methodist
FB—Robert Layne, Texas

Second Team
E—Max Bumgardner, Texas
T—George Savitsky, Penn
G—William Healey, Ga. Tech.
C—Charles Bednarik, Penn
G—Knox Ramsey, William & Mary
T—John Ferrara, Southern Calif.
E—Thomas Fears, U.C.L.A.
QB—Anthony Minisi, Penn
L. H—Harry Gilmer, Alabama.
R. H—Ray Evans, Kansas.

Third Team
E—Paul Cleary, Southern Calif.
T—Albert DeRogatis, Duke.
G—Rod Franz, California.
C—John Rapacz, Oklahoma.
G—J. W. Magee, Rice.
T—W. D. Garrett, Miss. State.
E—George Brodnax, Ga. Tech.
QB—Charles Justice, North Carolina.
L. H—Terry Brennan, Notre Dame.
R. H—Lucian Gambino, Maryland.
FB—Harry Szulborski, Purdue

AMONG THE GREEKS...
(Continued From Page Two)
ried to keep everyone else happy. He was seen walking into Queens (that's Queens in case you don't know) draped around several girls and shouting, “Is everybody happy!” McSwain was on the scene.

“Flash” Reid is happy to announce that the “Rocket” has been repaired and is in A-1 condition. Anyone desiring season tickets for rides to Charlotte can obtain them by calling 211.

At Davidson DeWitt Clark, Jr. smokes CHESTERFIELDS. DeWitt says: “Because they are the best and only all-around cigarette.”

Voted TOPS!—Chesterfield the largest selling cigarette in America’s colleges (by nationwide survey).

Fashion Plate News
The Plate says, “THE DAVIDSONIAN shopping guide... If it’s in THE DAVIDSONIAN, it’s bound to be good.” Thank You, Dan Tyler.

L. H—Charles Conerly, Mississippi, joined his family in Hickory for a big Thanksgiving Day reunion. “Dead Head” Hunter drove up to Philadelphia for the Army-Navy game. He says that he sat right behind the President (forty rows behind, that is). “Grumbles” Powe drove his ‘limo’ up for his big Saturday night and is happy to report that he had only a few troubles over the weekend.

NEWLY WED
Lacy McLean, Davidson's sports publicity director, was married on November 29 to Miss Edna Allyn Adams of Winston-Salem. The couple will return to the campus sometime this week.

Several new members are being initiated this week. The names of these strayed (maybe lost) lambs will be revealed in the next edition.

DELTA KAPPA
“Boss” Richard and “Chaplain” attended an anti-poll tax rally at Norfolk over the weekend. Paul Lavatory has been recently studying the science of comparative anatomy at a nearby institution of higher learning. “Guttural” Jimmy Gribben and Thomasville buddies were seen hanging up anything they could lay their hands on at the Jolinsett Hotel. The Organic One, the Mass, and Pure Almarster were observed tooling over the prospect at Vob Jones University. Newton created a sensation at Tuesday night performance with blowing bubbles. He was soaping up his 4 to make Uledge Brother Pleasants and associates were enabled to make their dates for the Furman game through transportation furnished by the bouncing blonde from Converse. Roaming Ronnie Dietrick has been making field trips investigating the Phylum Pteridophyta. Willie the “Wistful” Jexha appeared rather listless Wednesday morning because on the previous evening, instead of taking the more prosaic elevator, he insisted on vaulting to his fourth-floor room of the Greenville Hotel. Delta Kappa is happy to announce the pledging of John Nelson.

DELTA PHI GAMMA
Brother Churchill has been making regular weekly trips to Winston sporting new hoss seals and pistols. Brown spent the holiday with “Vinky” or vice versa... We're not sure which. Pledge Brother Jackson had a blind date with his steady gal recently. Pledge Via went to the Carolina-Virginia track meet at the Hill. The Rock Hill went home. Brother Snodgrass (to Ironic. Brother at crew Paul Revere a little gossip) has a deal on foot to trade Frances for a two-year-old English setter, what with Christmas, hunting near at hand. And Brother Davis has made his usual eight calls per week to Gainesville (two on Sunday). Sorry, no inspiration.

BETA THETA PI
This has been a big week for the Betas with the Thanksgiving holiday and our Christmas function on the past weekend. Brother Shepperson heads the list of dealers this weekend with his trip to Wilson for a long weekend with some girl named “Ria.” He reports a fine time and worth all the cuts. Slug had a big blow at his Tee over the Thanksgiving holiday. Slug, Doc, Alex, Red, Henry, Gourley, Gundar, and Williams all went down and attended the game and came back about 10 pounds heavier thanks to Mrs. Keith. Yocum also put a few miles on this weekend with his “soapbox” to Lynchburg Wednesday and off again to Chapel Hill Saturday with a different girl and back in time for the big dance Saturday night. Brother Schmidt made quite a trip back to old Kentucky to get the family auto and return in time for the function. The dance at Morris Field Saturday night went off without a hitch and was really a fine deal. Most of the brothers showed up with fair damsels on their arms but from the looks of things some of those that were stags were having a fine time, too. Now we know why Adams is called “Weasel.” Chalmers was there in rare form (that means without his wife) and enlivened everyone’s weekend with his charm! I hear it was close, but William's date finally made it back to Chapel Hill and all the stags were glad to see them. Willie has been walking around Sundays with glazed eyes and singing “Nancy, With the Laughing Face!”

All the room for now, but just in case you fellows don’t know, it’s two weeks until Christmas holidays start!

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
Thanksgiving and the weekend resulted in some gigantic undertakings. Lamar and Neill probably succeeded in...Taking top honors in at Lamb, Horne, Davis, and Miller, tending the Army-Navy game, the story of the local scenes in Philadelphia found King’s Mountain full of SPEs. Neill, Herndon, Hopper, Thomasson, Sellers, Burgess, and Thatcher were royally entertained at a banquet at the King’s Mountain Country Club given by Earle Myers. Pitts and Bradford found their way down to Rutherfordton where we understand Taylor entertained them at his modest hotel. Robinson did his usual bang-up job of leading the Davidson cheering at the Furman game. He has done a sensational job as head cheerleader this year.

Neill, not being content with two nights a week of high-pressure romancing, took off again Monday to make it three in a row. Abernethy, the veteran ace driver, led a load of SPE supporters down to the Furman game. We understand Ab now knows you stay on the right side of the middle except when passing.

With the annual Sleigh Ride dance coming up this weekend, everyone is looking forward to it. More news of this past week includes the Smith-Lawson affair, which has not yet culminated substantially but is being followed with interest through the Thanksgiving holidays. Brother Phillip succeeded in bringing his “young” out of the hills for the holidays, but Dre is taking a little vacation now, or rather it is his honeymoon after his marriage a few days ago. He will soon be back to begin work on the basketball team this winter.

Headed by Head-eggnogger Keesler, most of the Charlestonians are still a little groggy from partying, save Freeman Jones, who on the front row of “Souls in Pawn” glumly admitted his interest in human nature. Quite contrary to Fluid Floyd McLean, who dated six Queens girls in two days, Brother Pete Vearson continues to have conflicts with one of the Wooglin clan over Gastonia talent. Senator Dor Bailey has finally been admitted to the good graces of his West Virginian lass after borrowing a frat brother’s pin to offset her grievance when in one of his “weaker moments,” he pinned up the girl next door.

Leaving Brother Wade washing dishes in the Tiny-Town night club for having lost his “wallet,” Brother William bargaining with the manager double or nothing for the same reason, won over by popular appeal to the symphony. Wilson was on the trail of Laurinburg, keeping Betty Wayne with Tyke Ellis conducting a pincer movement on the objective. Brother Dudley, last seen entertaining the store in Charlotte.

Every week all the fraternity columns are full of individual deals and wheels; of fellows and gals, etc. This week our columns will be devoted almost entirely to those people, known and unknown, who wish to see their names in print in the renowned college “scandal sheet.” Memoirs for the scrapbook, etc. Leading the list are Shrine Bowl Game North Carolina's vs. South Carolina's Willingham and Tate, closely followed by Geachy, Wheelis, Hills, and others. Among this past weekend’s travelers were Bob Long, Ed Iverson, Pat Golden traveling to Greenville, S.C., for the game; Palmer and Mills to Raleigh; Bill Smith and Bob Wilkins to Gastonia, and what of the football boys who haven't had an opportunity to join.

BEST GOOD FOOD... GOOD MUSIC... MAKES A GOOD EVENING. We're proud of our juicy steaks and delicious seafood—we want you to try them—and what could make a better evening than dining and dancing in a pleasant atmosphere. Come on out and enjoy a good evening at Tiny Town!

ORCHESTRA
* Hot Coffee
* Soft Drinks
* Toasted Sandwiches
* Best Candies
* Fountain Pens
* Athletic Supplies

EMPLOYEES AT THE “STUD” LEARN A TRADE