THE DAVIDSONIAN

Friday, November 21, 1947

The DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

The DAVIDSONIAN Presents
EDITORIALS... LETTERS... FEATURES
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOB PHILLIPS

BUSINESS MANAGER
BOB CLINE

EDITORIAL STAFF
Sam Ervin — Managing Editor
Bob Hollister — Managing Editor
Jean Stewart — Exchange Editor
Stan Kennett — Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
John McNair — Advertising Manager
Charlie Reid — Circulation Manager
Bill Keith — Collections Manager
Bob Knight — Assistant Circulation Manager
Charles Clinkscales — Assistant Circulation Manager

Advertising Staff
H. MacKethan, C. Faison, Claude Higginbotham, D. Hayworth, Blaine Kelley, Gene Davis, John Coble, Carl Rogers, Harry Powe

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

The Importance of Books

Someone once said, “A man that is bored with himself usually finds others likewise.” Such a statement probably doesn’t astonish
some people but it probably affronts many. Why? Because most of us have found ourselves in this position. Most people
who bore themselves excuse this by claiming extroversion. That is, they say the extrovert is “the life of the party,”
whereas our man goes to listen to others because he can’t stand himself. The object, we then conclude, is to
find a constructive occupation for the man by himself. One could amuse himself with a funny look or a yoyo,
but what has he gained? This constructive occupation should consist of intellectual, spiritual or social betterment for it is such
attributes that make men congenial. In this category we find several alternatives. Two of the most important are thought and
books. Youth usually finds the latter more satisfying and so it is here that most emphasis should be placed. To
dig into a good book is like drilling an oil well. You work for a while and then, before you
know it, the wealth of the enterprise rushes up and hits you in the face and showers all around you.
You say, “What about those who drill all their lives and never strike a gusher?” There are some idiots in
the world. With what you get alone from a good book you can make yourself heard in company. It is
not so much what you learn, but what you absorb, understanding. To be able to understand what people write is
to understand what they say and here we have the essence of congeniality. By the way, it seems that the
basis of your “liberal education” is the same. The object is intellectual maturity. Thus we find that these books with
which we improve ourselves socially and intellectually are actually a part of our education. Herein we have found a social
and intellectual drive for our man by himself to assault his ignorance. The spiritual need is obvious and is personal
with each man according to his beliefs. Consider along with this and take it for what it is worth to
you:

Wanted: A Little Consideration

It is with a great deal of hesitation that this article is being written, for I realize that the chapel
conduct of the Davidson student body has been discussed and cussed a good many times this fall and that more
harm than good might result from bringing it up once again. But even though there has been a marked improvement
during the past month, we still seem to be far away from the time when any individual or group can
plan a chapel program without “sweating out” the reception that it will receive at the hands of the student body.

Without trying to preach a sermon on the subject, I believe that the principle of consideration, the Golden Rule, is
held in high esteem by a majority of the students here at Davidson; but there are many times when it
is not practiced. For a moment let us each place ourselves in the position in which one of our fellow
students found himself last Friday. Imagine that you had spent a great many years of your life developing your musical
talents and now you are a better than average violin player. One day the Y approaches you, asking that you
present a program at one of the chapels. At first you hesitate, not sure how your type of music will
be received. But you have been conscious of many complaints about our chapel programs, and decide to try to do
your best to give the students a little bit of variety. You work hard to get up a good program,
and then the big day comes. First of all you check to make sure that your violin is in tune,
and this process, a very necessary one, is met with gales of laughter from the students. Thinking that one of
the local hounds had just loped across the stage, you dismiss it from your mind. You step forward to announce
your first number. This, too, brings an uproar from the audience, and you immediately check to see whether it is
a jug that you have in your hand instead of a trusty violin. This would be enough to fluster many
performers, but you have had enough stage experience to carry on. The rest of your program goes fairly well, and
the applause is very good, but you cannot help but wonder during your performance how many whispered conversations (sometimes not
so whispered) and ripples of laughter here and there throughout the chapel you have been conscious of. I have no
idea how the performer felt last Friday after the program was over, but I imagine that most of us would
have walked off the stage resolving, “Never again!”

Consideration is one reason that should call for an endeavor on our part to improve the conduct at chapel. There
are many others, such as courtesy, respect, reverence, etc., which could be dwelled upon at length. But we all know
what is proper and which attitudes on our part would be more conducive to a better atmosphere during the Monday,
Wednesday and Friday programs. Is it just that we are not very thoughtful when it comes to putting these principles
into practice? Davidson is a great school, and will continue to be one of the South’s leading institutions, regardless of
whether our chapel conduct improves; for this is certainly not a major issue. But we are still far from perfect,
and an improvement in this one area would make us better representatives of the Wildcats of this generation.

—A STUDENT.

Letters to the Editor

Dear Editor:

Far be it from me to belabor a question of so little consequence that the opinion voiced concerning the playing
of “Dixie” and waving a Confederate flag bears an element of misconception. The stand that Brother Joyner takes is well
supported and his four points are certainly irrevocable. But, it appears that in one point he has attacked a negative
significance rather than a positive one. That is he states that these activities are an insult to visiting teams. It
seems to me that the playing of “Dixie” is a matter of stirring a pride and a fighting spirit that
is unequalled anywhere. The song brings to most Southerners a warm pride, not contempt any more. It is an excellent
march and a good fight song. “Oh! Davidson” has been in no way displaced as our first fight song, “Dixie”
merely added to our “repertoire,” you might say. We are proud of our Southern boys not any more than others
but because they represent the spirit of unsubsidized football. Our “Southern Gentlemen” have yet to take any excuses and it
seems have acquitted themselves admirably in conference competition. Let’s don’t call this excusing but simple pride. While I am unloading
I might as well say that certain persons are very near to making themselves ridiculous over what they had to
say about a ball game. Until the team has made a complete flop of the season laymen on the subject
should reserve their opinions. These opinions are respectfully submitted merely as suggestions.

Sincerely,
DAVID GAMBRELL

Bait the hook well if you expect the fish to bite—Shakespeare.
The only way to have a friend is to be one.—Emerson.
An expert is one who knows more and more about less and less.—Butler.
For a long life, be moderate in all things, but don’t miss anything.—Lorenz.
The metal of man is tested by the presence of mind in untried emergencies.—Lowell.
When skating over thin ice, safety is in speed.—Emerson.

Sam Sez...
By SAM

Last week when Jim Jackson's letter prompted me to make a few comments about the future of intercollegiate athletics (football
in particular) here at Davidson, I had no intention of treating the subject at great length. However, in view of
the fact that this topic is a very important one (and that in addition, there seems to be no expose
to the student body) I'd like more time and space to devote to it. As I previously intimated, I am
firmly convinced that it is not only not detrimental, but advantageous for a college to have a strong football squad.
It seems to me that there are certain benefits which cannot be derived from any other source. I don’t expect
anyone to agree with all of the points that I'm going to mention, but I'd like to list a few
of them, with some assorted comments about each.

First of all, good records on the athletic field win public recognition for any college. This serves to widen the
“sphere of influence” of the institution, and draws to it a larger and more varied student body. Here, of course,
we encounter opposition of those faculty members and alumni who want to reduce the enrollment to 400 potential Phi Beta
Kappa’s. If this is to be done, athletics will have to be abandoned of necessity. Along this same line, schools
that have winning ball clubs attract the material that is needed to keep the team on top of the heap.
One only has to look at the wealth of reserves, for example, at Carolina to realize that this is true.
Winning teams in strong conferences also seem to produce that intangible thing called spirit in more abundance. More alumni flock
back to the campus on Saturdays than ever before, and both students and alumni develop pride in their alma mater.
Looking at this from a more mercenary standpoint, more alumni means more contributions to the college.Davidsonian staff on the first
day of the week, and asked to write on dirt for this issue. Because of insufficient research, however, we will
not be able to speak on the soils of the world, or dirt, so-called by the layman news heeler. We
trust that the reading public can understand our predicament and will excuse us from an article that we are certain
is much looked forward to by the circulation. Let those other more literary gentlemen who write on this page speak,
bringing us their vital platitudes. There will be a short article here as a poor substitute.

In place of good literary contributions, we shall endeavor to uncover and describe the constructive and destructive coverage of Davidson
life at the low-point for the past week. True, it takes money to create adequate scholarships for athletes, but in
no time the original investment will be returned to the treasury with interest. No doubt many of you will argue
that these considerations aren't vital. To me they are, and I have listed them here in an effort to cause
a few people to think before they advocate "deemphasis" of athletics.

Holiday Hullabaloo

Please add my second suggestion that the Thanksgiving holidays be increased. As it is now, lots of men won't even
have a chance to go home on a day which is traditionally one for family reunions and fellowship. My column
eagerly awaits a coalition of Beta Kappa candidates, but that plan, at this time, has little to do with the
discussion. I'm inclined to scoot the opinion that when D.C. decides to limit its student body totals to ex-high and
prep school PI KAPPA PHI

After a weekend of comparative rest and recuperation from homecoming activities, the Phi Kapps fared forth to a fine fraternity
dance. Though the brothers did well by themselves, it seems that the pledges were most discerning in their choice of
mamselles for the festivities. There were even rumors that Pledge John Tolbert is closely affiliated with a modeling agency... How
about that, John? "Edgar Allen" Powe was present, though he seemed to be slightly frustrated. "Cautious" Allen Mead, arriving a
little later than usual, sent Dick Turnage in to case the joint before he made his entrance. "Footsie" Carl Herman
came into his own when the band got hot. Everyone was surprised to see Virginia with the "Little Lover" Houck,
Billie Rose with Wild Bill, "Higgie" and "Over-the-Hump" Club.

BETA THETA PI

This has been a relatively quiet week down at the "home of college Presidents!" The intramural game of the week
came out with "The Big Blue" team defeating the Pikas, even with most of the starting team sidelined with painful
injuries. Among those who have sacrificed their limbs for old Wooglin are Springer "Rock" Hoskins, "Muscles" Lipscomb, "Rib" Smith, and
Pledge Ralph Robinson. This weekend many of the usual ramblers were seen on the campus. Brother G. Edwards managed to
stay away from Lynchburg this weekend and was seen carousing around the darker alleys of Charlotte with Lemmon, Neisler, Maner—all
Robertson, Audred with Thad Barringer, Hannah with Black Jack Barringer, and "Onion Head" Cline with a new DATE. Bill Moore
and Thad Barringer entertained during intermission with their own version of "Shanty Town," although some reported it as being "Without
a Song." Rugged individualists of the week were Pledges John Coble and Billy Cassels, who blazed a trail to Columbia;
Don Whittemore, who went for more "home cookin'"; Jen Brandon, who didn't say what he went for; and Walter Walker,
who doesn't have to say what he went for. "Headlight" Bob Sims was on the run most of last Saturday
by a couple of inconsiderate brothers—what have you got to say for yourself, Sarksdale???? Brother Hunter seemed to have a
right "PAIR" time Saturday night along with Bill Lander and Co. Bill, what are those words you use to get
girls to squander that last off-campus weekend? Brother Dick Turnage and Alice seemed surrounded by a halo of pink and
blue lovebirds as they were welcomed back to Coker College by a bevy of beauties. Claude Higginbotham offers to act
as a guide to all those who like theirs out of a dirty glass. He is reported to have done
the town of Charlotte up in fine style. This time in Raleigh; Pledge Gevit visited at W.G. looking for something.
Brothers Schmidt, Vinsen, and Long this weekend. I've heard that if V. remained until Sunday morning, he would have seen
his girl attending church with Schmidt. His old "Buddy" Brother Sterling Edwards went to Winthrop this past weekend and showed
up Monday morning with his frat pin. I hope too many of you fellows won't ask him about it because
he seemed rather touchy about it when I inquired about the circumstances. Brother Alexander took his date home to Marion
this weekend. To meet the folks??? Home to see the folks—went "The Rapps," "Slug" and Lyday. "Slug" said he sure
enjoyed that checker game with his dad. Everybody that believes that—stand on your head. Brother Gunn spent Sunday with the
"girl of his dreams" in Charlotte. Flash! Just received: Brother Long had a right "PAIR" time Saturday night along with
Bill Lander and Co. Bill, what are those words you use to get girls to squander that last off-campus weekend?
Brother Dick Turnage and Alice seemed surrounded by a halo of pink and blue lovebirds as they were welcomed back
to Coker College by a bevy of beauties. Claude Higginbotham offers to act as a guide to all those who
like theirs out of a dirty glass. He is reported to have done the town of Charlotte up in fine
style. This time in Raleigh; Pledge Gevit visited at W.G. looking for something. Brothers Schmidt, Vinsen, and Long this weekend.
I've heard that if V. remained until Sunday morning, he would have seen his girl attending church with Schmidt. His
old "Buddy" Brother Sterling Edwards went to Winthrop this past weekend and showed up Monday morning with his frat pin.
I hope too many of you fellows won't ask him about it because he seemed rather touchy about it when
I inquired about the circumstances. Brother Alexander took his date home to Marion this weekend. To meet the folks??? Home
to see the folks—went "The Rapps," "Slug" and Lyday. "Slug" said he sure enjoyed that checker game with his dad.
Everybody that believes that—stand on your head. Brother Gunn spent Sunday with the "girl of his dreams" in Charlotte. Flash!
Just received: Brother Long had a right "PAIR" time Saturday night along with Bill Lander and Co. Bill, what are
those words you use to get girls to squander that last off-campus weekend? Brother Dick Turnage and Alice seemed surrounded
by a halo of pink and blue lovebirds as they were welcomed back to Coker College by a bevy of
beauties. Claude Higginbotham offers to act as a guide to all those who like theirs out of a dirty glass.
He is reported to have done the town of Charlotte up in fine style. This time in Raleigh; Pledge Gevit
visited at W.G. looking for something. Brothers Schmidt, Vinsen, and Long this weekend. I've heard that if V. remained until
Sunday morning, he would have seen his girl attending church with Schmidt. His old "Buddy" Brother Sterling Edwards went to
Winthrop this past weekend and showed up Monday morning with his frat pin. I hope too many of you fellows
won't ask him about it because he seemed rather touchy about it when I inquired about the circumstances. Brother Alexander
took his date home to Marion this weekend. To meet the folks??? Home to see the folks—went "The Rapps," "Slug"
and Lyday. "Slug" said he sure enjoyed that checker game with his dad. Everybody that believes that—stand on your head.
Brother Gunn spent Sunday with the "girl of his dreams" in Charlotte. Flash! Just received: Brother Long had a right
"PAIR" time Saturday night along with Bill Lander and Co. Bill, what are those words you use to get girls
to squander that last off-campus weekend? Brother Dick Turnage and Alice seemed surrounded by a halo of pink and blue
lovebirds as they were welcomed back to Coker College by a bevy of beauties. Claude Higginbotham offers to act as
a guide to all those who like theirs out of a dirty glass. He is reported to have done the
town of Charlotte up in fine style. This time in Raleigh; Pledge Gevit visited at W.G. looking for something. Brothers
Schmidt, Vinsen, and Long this weekend. I've heard that if V. remained until Sunday morning, he would have seen his
girl attending church with Schmidt. His old "Buddy" Brother Sterling Edwards went to Winthrop this past weekend and showed up
Monday morning with his frat pin. I hope too many of you fellows won't ask him about it because he
seemed rather touchy about it when I inquired about the circumstances. Brother Alexander took his date home to Marion this
weekend. To meet the folks??? Home to see the folks—went "The Rapps," "Slug" and Lyday. "Slug" said he sure enjoyed
that checker game with his dad. Everybody that believes that—stand on your head. Brother Gunn spent Sunday with the "girl
of his dreams" in Charlotte. Flash! Just received: Brother Long had a right "PAIR" time Saturday night along with Bill
Lander and Co. Bill, what are those words you use to get girls to squander that last off-campus weekend? Brother
Dick Turnage and Alice seemed surrounded by a halo of pink and blue lovebirds as they were welcomed back to
Coker College by a bevy of beauties. Claude Higginbotham offers to act as a guide to all those who like
theirs out of a dirty glass. He is reported to have done the town of Charlotte up in fine style.
This time in Raleigh; Pledge Gevit visited at W.G. looking for something. Brothers Schmidt, Vinsen, and Long this weekend. I've
heard that if V. remained until Sunday morning, he would have seen his girl attending church with Schmidt. His old
"Buddy" Brother Sterling Edwards went to Winthrop this past weekend and showed up Monday morning with his frat pin. I
hope too many of you fellows won't ask him about it because he seemed rather touchy about it when I
inquired about the circumstances. Brother Alexander took his date home to Marion this weekend. To meet the folks??? Home to
see the folks—went "The Rapps," "Slug" and Lyday. "Slug" said he sure enjoyed that checker game with his dad. Everybody
that believes that—stand on your head. Brother Gunn spent Sunday with the "girl of his dreams" in Charlotte. Flash! Just
received: Brother Long had a right "PAIR" time Saturday night along with Bill Lander and Co. Bill, what are those
words you use to get girls to squander that last off-campus weekend? Brother Dick Turnage and Alice seemed surrounded by
a halo of pink and blue lovebirds as they were welcomed back to Coker College by a bevy of beauties.
Claude Higginbotham offers to act as a guide to all those who like theirs out of a dirty glass. He
is reported to have done the town of Charlotte up in fine style. This time in Raleigh; Pledge Gevit visited
at W.G. looking for something. Brothers Schmidt, Vinsen, and Long this weekend. I've heard that if V. remained until Sunday
morning, he would have seen his girl attending church with Schmidt. His old "Buddy" Brother Sterling Edwards went to Winthrop
this past weekend and showed up Monday morning with his frat pin. I hope too many of you fellows won't
ask him about it because he seemed rather touchy about it when I inquired about the circumstances. Brother Alexander took
his date home to Marion this weekend. To meet the folks??? Home to see the folks—went "The Rapps," "Slug" and
Lyday. "Slug" said he sure enjoyed that checker game with his dad. Everybody that believes that—stand on your head. Brother
Gunn spent Sunday with the "girl of his dreams" in Charlotte. Flash! Just received: Brother Long had a right "PAIR"
time Saturday night along with Bill Lander and Co. Bill, what are those words you use to get girls to
squander that last off-campus weekend? Brother Dick Turnage and Alice seemed surrounded by a halo of pink and blue lovebirds
as they were welcomed back to Coker College by a bevy of beauties. Claude Higginbotham offers to act as a
guide to all those who like theirs out of a dirty glass. He is reported to have done the town
of Charlotte up in fine style. This time in Raleigh; Pledge Gevit visited at W.G. looking for something. Brothers Schmidt,
Vinsen, and Long this weekend. I've heard that if V. remained until Sunday morning, he would have seen his girl
attending church with Schmidt. His old "Buddy" Brother Sterling Edwards went to Winthrop this past weekend and showed up Monday
morning with his frat pin. I hope too many of you fellows won't ask him about it because he seemed
rather touchy about it when I inquired about the circumstances. Brother Alexander took his date home to Marion this weekend.
To meet the folks??? Home to see the folks—went "The Rapps," "Slug" and Lyday. "Slug" said he sure enjoyed that
checker game with his dad. Everybody that believes that—stand on your head. Brother Gunn spent Sunday with the "girl of
his dreams" in Charlotte. Flash! Just received: Brother Long had a right "PAIR" time Saturday night along with Bill Lander
and Co. Bill, what are those words you use to get girls to squander that last off-campus weekend? Brother Dick
Turnage and Alice seemed surrounded by a halo of pink and blue lovebirds as they were welcomed back to Coker
College by a bevy of beauties. Claude Higginbotham offers to act as a guide to all those who like theirs
out of a dirty glass. He is reported to have done the town of Charlotte up in fine style. This
time in Raleigh; Pledge Gevit visited at W.G. looking for something. Brothers Schmidt, Vinsen, and Long this weekend. I've heard
that if V. remained until Sunday morning, he would have seen his girl attending church with Schmidt. His old "Buddy"
Brother Sterling Edwards went to Winthrop this past weekend and showed up Monday morning with his frat pin. I hope
too many of you fellows won't ask him about it because he seemed rather touchy about it when I inquired
about the circumstances. Brother Alexander took his date home to Marion this weekend. To meet the folks??? Home to see
the folks—went "The Rapps," "Slug" and Lyday. "Slug" said he sure enjoyed that checker game with his dad. Everybody that
believes that—stand on your head. Brother Gunn spent Sunday with the "girl of his dreams" in Charlotte. Flash! Just received:
Brother Long had a right "PAIR" time Saturday night along with Bill Lander and Co. Bill, what are those words
you use to get girls to squander that last off-campus weekend? Brother Dick Turnage and Alice seemed surrounded by a
halo of pink and blue lovebirds as they were welcomed back to Coker College by a bevy of beauties. Claude
Higginbotham offers to act as a guide to all those who like theirs out of a dirty glass. He is
reported to have done the town of Charlotte up in fine style. This time in Raleigh; Pledge Gevit visited at
W.G. looking for something. Brothers Schmidt, Vinsen, and Long this weekend. I've heard that if V. remained until Sunday morning,
he would have seen his girl attending church with Schmidt. His old "Buddy" Brother Sterling Edwards went to Winthrop this
past weekend and showed up Monday morning with his frat pin. I hope too many of you fellows won't ask
him about it because he seemed rather touchy about it when I inquired about the circumstances. Brother Alexander took his
date home to Marion this weekend. To meet the folks??? Home to see the folks—went "The Rapps," "Slug" and Lyday.
"Slug" said he sure enjoyed that checker game with his dad. Everybody that believes that—stand on your head. Brother Gunn
spent Sunday with the "girl of his dreams" in Charlotte. Flash! Just received: Brother Long had a right "PAIR" time
Saturday night along with Bill Lander and Co. Bill, what are those words you use to get girls to squander
that last off-campus weekend? Brother Dick Turnage and Alice seemed surrounded by a halo of pink and blue lovebirds as
they were welcomed back to Coker College by a bevy of beauties. Claude Higginbotham offers to act as a guide
to all those who like theirs out of a dirty glass. He is reported to have done the town of
Charlotte up in fine style. This time in Raleigh; Pledge Gevit visited at W.G. looking for something. Brothers Schmidt, Vinsen,
and Long this weekend. I've heard that if V. remained until Sunday morning, he would have seen his girl attending
church with Schmidt. His old "Buddy" Brother Sterling Edwards went to Winthrop this past weekend and showed up Monday morning
with his frat pin. I hope too many of you fellows won't ask him about it because he seemed rather
touchy about it when I inquired about the circumstances. Brother Alexander took his date home to Marion this weekend. To
meet the folks??? Home to see the folks—went "The Rapps," "Slug" and Lyday. "Slug" said he sure enjoyed that checker
game with his dad. Everybody that believes that—stand on your head. Brother Gunn spent Sunday with the "girl of his
dreams" in Charlotte. Flash! Just received: Brother Long had a right "PAIR" time Saturday night along with Bill Lander and
Co. Bill, what are those words you use to get girls to squander that last off-campus weekend? Brother Dick Turnage
and Alice seemed surrounded by a halo of pink and blue lovebirds as they were welcomed back to Coker College
by a bevy of beauties. Claude Higginbotham offers to act as a guide to all those who like theirs out
of a dirty glass. He is reported to have done the town of Charlotte up in fine style. This time
in Raleigh; Pledge Gevit visited at W.G. looking for something. Brothers Schmidt, Vinsen, and Long this weekend. I've heard that
if V. remained until Sunday morning, he would have seen his girl attending church with Schmidt. His old "Buddy" Brother
Sterling Edwards went to Winthrop this past weekend and showed up Monday morning with his frat pin. I hope too
many of you fellows won't ask him about it because he seemed rather touchy about it when I inquired about
the circumstances. Brother Alexander took his date home to Marion this weekend. To meet the folks??? Home to see the
folks—went "The Rapps," "Slug" and Lyday. "Slug" said he sure enjoyed that checker game with his dad. Everybody that believes
that—stand on your head. Brother Gunn spent Sunday with the "girl of his dreams" in Charlotte. Flash! Just received: Brother
Long had a right "PAIR" time Saturday night along with Bill Lander and Co. Bill, what are those words you
use to get girls to squander that last off-campus weekend? Brother Dick Turnage and Alice seemed surrounded by a halo
of pink
