MESSIAH PRESENTATION MONDAY NIGHT

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI LIBERTAS

CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS EXTENDED

Volume XXXVI DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, NOV. 28, 1947 No. 10

Messiah Presentation Monday Night Proves to Be Smashing Success

By BOB WELLS

On Monday and Tuesday nights, November 24 and 25, Davidson's playmakers presented Thornton Wilder's hit play, “Our Town.” The college's
production, the first of the 1947-48 year, in the auditorium, was a smashing success. Dr. Winfield, who has devoted much
of his life to the Chinese, spoke to the Davidson student body on Wednesday, November 19. He is a graduate
of Southern Methodist University and received his Doctor of Science Degree from Johns Hopkins. He is a Doctor of Biology
and for nine years was part of a Rockefeller fund which sought to increase health and sanitation in various towns
in that region.

Dr. Winfield said in his lecture that there are two great struggles facing us today: the first being that of
the cold war, and the second being the extension of our industrial revolution. We see the first struggle before us
in the headlines in the fight between Communism and democracy. The other struggle, which we are less aware of, means
the need to raise the standard of living throughout the world. In the United States, we have a minimum health
and decency line, below which only one-third of our people lived in 1933. Below this line, we find the line
of survival, and two-thirds of the human race live just within this line. If you fail to live just within
this survival line, it does not mean that you will lose all your worldly possessions, but that you will lose
your life. Of the 450 to 500 million people in China, 80 to 90 percent live just within this line
of survival.

The entire action of “Our Town” takes place in Grover's Corners, New Hampshire, around the turn of the century. Every
character with the possible exception of Simon Stimson is a simple, everyday person. The total lack of complexity in character
portrayal is one of the most amazing aspects of the play. Thornton Wilder gives the audience an invitation to peer
into the lives of these people and see the differences in personality and yet show a lack of individualism.

The cast included:
- Stage Manager: Freeman Jones
- Dr. Gibbs: Ted Cumming
- Mrs. Gibbs: Sue Jackson
- George Gibbs: Doug Swink
- Rebecca Gibbs: Ann Huffman
- Wally Webb: Wylie Smith
- Emily Webb: Carolyn McGoo
- Mr. Webb: Linton Deck
- Woman in the Audience: Nancy Bingham
- Simon Stimson: Charley Hadley
- Mrs. Soames: Eloise Noehren
- Howie Newsome: Allen Lanier
- Constable Warren: Herbert Crowell
- Sam Craig: Glenn Neal
- Joe Stoddard: Dave McElroy
- Mr. Morgan: Ed Courson
- Dead Man: Milton Clenseur

At a meeting on Friday afternoon, November 21, 1947, the Davidson Debate Team took third place in the All South
Meet. The winners were judged on two criteria: the verity of decision and the quality of the debate. The Davidson
team debated against Georgia Tech, University of South Carolina, Vanderbilt, University of Tennessee, University of Mississippi, Emory, University of Florida,
Randolph-Macon, and others. The debates were held on Saturday and Sunday. The Davidson team will be participating in the Sunshine
State Invitational in Orlando, Florida, on January 1.

The Fraternity Council elected new officers: Walker as president, Tate as vice president, and Dorsey as secretary. The council will
consider methods of solving problems within the fraternity system.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Batesville is judged according to the team that has the best job of debating, and then each individual man was
judged as to his performance. In contact with the boys who have been together for the past two years, most
of the people live in an area that is only 42 per cent as large as the United States. Of
this 42 per cent, only 26 per cent is irrigated, and one fourth is terraced.

Act II—Scene 1, same as Act I. Three years later. Scene 2, soda fountain of Mr. Morgan’s drug store. Scene
3, Congregational Church. Act III—Scene 1, town cemetery nine years later. Scene 2, house of the Webb family. Scene 3,
same as Scene 1.

Who offers a certain sponsorship of the lion International and the North Carolina Collegiate Council for United Nations. Several members
of the Davidson International Relations Club attended this conference, and Mr. Walker reported it a most interesting tradition. The fraternity
chapters on a campus sustain, cultivate, and improve the pattern of life in a small northern community. The invitation of
freshmen just out of high school is considered the best method of cultivating a proper mutual interest.

Having a knowledge of the play's three acts and the cast before him, the reader now lacks but one element
essential to a complete understanding of the details which form the background of the production. This element is obviously a
few notes concerning the play itself. Since no one could be in a better position to inform us on this
subject (with the possible exception of Mr. Wilder who is away at present) than the director of the play, we
will take the liberty of quoting several lines of Frank Lowe's comments, taken from The Blue Book.

By DICK MORGAN

We are aware of the time that a story has been repeatedly told. Davidson Wildcats pulled off a crucial ball
game on one of their spots, the outset of the second season sustained a 20-5 triumph. The play of the
game paid off when the Cats' all-important conversion was good, and the board read Furman 6, Davidson 9, in this
all-important Southern Conference engagement.

Cats Retaliate

As the Wildcats trotted back to receive the ensuing kickoff, they undoubtedly had recollections of the last time they were
behind on a foreign field up in Lexington, Virginia, where the Generals of Washington & Lee went on to smash
the Cats all over the field, 32-0. However, all chances of repeating such a disaster faded into nothingness after Hal
Mapes ran the kickoff back to the Davidson 32-yard line. Here, Bert Anderton lobbed a high pass which the speed
merchant, Jim Sifford, snared on the 45, and galloped unmolested 55 yards down the left sideline for the touchdown that
tied the score. This was the play of the game, as it not only gave the lead to the Davidson
team for the first time but proved to be the turning point of the whole game. Automatic Buck Williams made
it 13 with a perfect kick, and the Cats went on to win 20-6.

Uneventful Second Half

The 5,000 fans who had gathered in Greenville’s stadium for the Cats saw an uneventful second half, as the Hurricane
went strictly on the defense, and Carl Sheppard, flashy catback, rounded end for 11 yards and a first down early
in the final quarter, before being downed by Furman’s Byrd. The Cats went on to win 20-6.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation while correcting OCR errors.
