THE DAVIDSONIAN

April 18, 1947

Page 4
DEBATERS

(Continued from Page 1)
that they would have taken most of the decisions had they been judged.

The Saturday debate with Emory probably ended the official season except for a possible humorous debate in chapel in the near future. The season ended with a total of ten intercollegiate debates. There were six judged debates which the negative won 2-1 and the affirmative lost 3-0; the other four contests were not judged. The Forensic Council plans to begin the season much earlier next year in order to participate in several state and southeastern tournaments. It is hoped that the student body will become interested in the Council’s activities and that those interested in debating will realize the excellent training it offers in public speaking and will come out for the team next year.

STUDENT VIEW

(Continued from Page 1)
tial introduction of each candidate from the stage would be of distinct value in that it would give the voter a chance to see who he is to vote for. Certainly, it would be of aid in certain cases. Any change of this kind in the system of elections would not necessarily mean that secret elections were no longer possible, but that the introductions would be handled in an impartial manner. Thus, a change of this kind would not really be a change at all, but merely an addition to the present method.

Of the men who desired a system of open elections (this group comprising 17 per cent of those polled), most thought that such an open system is preferable on the ground that it enables the voter to pick the man he wishes to vote for after close personal scrutiny. Also, it was felt that open elections might develop a capacity for choosing officers which might be useful in later life when elections will invariably be open.

With a little addition, we arrive at the conclusion that 72 per cent of the students polled desired some change in the present system of elections. Certainly, there is some basis then for an investigation of our system so that we may become more aware of its strengths and rectify its faults.

FROLICS

(Continued from Page 1)
College, Winthrop, Queens, and for numerous fraternity functions on the Davidson campus.

After some of these dances, requests began to come in to the council to secure him for one of the big dances.

Knauff’s musicians include players who have played with such name bands as Benny Goodman, Artie Shaw, and Harry James. His orchestra is complete with arrangers, composers, and vocalists.

MEN SING

(Continued from Page 1)
The next concert consisted of religious music in conjunction with the regular Sunday morning service of the Brick Presbyterian Church in New York. That night, the group visited Union Theological Seminary and presented its last concert in New York City.

The final concert of the series was presented in the Grace Covenant Presbyterian Church in Richmond. This concert was given on Monday evening and the trip back to Davidson began Tuesday morning.

Mr. Earl F. Berg directed the group and planned every phase of its activities.

STUDENT LEADER

(Continued from Page 1)
Prior to coming to Davidson as secretary, Murphy Williams served as a U.S. Navy chaplain overseas. He is a Davidson alumnus of the class of 1941 of which he was an outstanding member. Prior to his entry into service, he completed study at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia. This year at Davidson, he has directed the expansion and reorganization of the many religious and social activities sponsored by the Y.M.C.A.

Withers Electric Co.
@ Radio Repairs
@ Electrical Supplies
@ Light Bulbs

Davidson, N.C.
Telephone 284

Equipped For Service
Any Distance
Any Time

Bunch Funeral Home
Mooresville, N.C.

AMBULANCE SERVICE

Carolina Lunch
A Good Place To Eat

Stonestreet’s

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
@ Stationery
@ Rule Forms
@ Booklets
@ Publications
Phone 63000
Charlotte, N.C.

Gr"A"de Cafe
O.C. Stonestreet, Manager
“The Sensible Place to Eat”
418 S. Main St. Phone 132
Mooresville, N.C.

SMOKING PLEASURE

STARRING IN DAVID O. SELZNICK’S “DUEL IN THE SUN”

WITH THE TOP HOLLYWOOD STARS CHESTERFIELD IS THE BIG FAVORITE