PORTSCOPE By SAM ERVIN

Friday, March 21, 1947

Wildcat Sports

PHI DELT (COBB) APPRECIATION WEEK

THE DAVIDSONIAN Page 5

As someone once wisely observed, it is during the spring that the more sensible types of young men’s fancies lightly (?) turn to thoughts of love. Unfortunately, such a pleasant fate is not the lot of sports-writers, alleged or otherwise. Regardless of past experiences, March seems to kindle in the breast of each the desire to go on record with their predictions of the outcome of the year’s major league pennant fights. Therefore, not wishing to be different, (nor expecting to be right) here’s the way that we see them in the American league.

The red hot three-way race for the junior loop flag which failed to materialize in 1946 should occur this year. The Tigers and the Indians have done some swapping and have brought the usual aspirants up from the minors in an effort to increase their chances of dethroning the defending champions. The final outcome may well be determined by the breaks that the three contenders get.

BOSTON TO WIN

The Boston Red Sox have done little to change the makeup of the squad which breezed to victory in the ’46 chase. Although most of the credit was given to a trio of capable chunkers, Mickey Harris, Tex Hughson, and Dave “Bo” Ferriss, the Beantowners' batting punch actually made the triumph possible. It is true that Manager Joe Cronin’s top hurlers won 68 games between them, but their earned run averages clearly show that they weren’t as stingy with runs as were quite a few of the other pitchers in the circuit. However, again in ’47, the cream of the American League’s mound corps will not be able to muffle the big bats of Williams, York, Pesky, DiMaggio, and Company. With some assistance from their own hill staff, the Bosox will be able to return the bunting to its position atop spacious Fenway Park when September rolls around.

What effect the loss of Hank Greenberg will have on the Detroit Tigers will not be known until the curtain goes down on the coming campaign. However, even without the home-run hitting first sacker, the Bengals can field a potent team, one which will push Boston all the way to the wire. The Motor City nine’s trump card is its pitching staff, led by Hal Newhouser, (who is, in the opinion of many, the outstanding twirler in the loop) ably assisted by Paul “Dizzy” Trout and Virgil “Fire” Trucks. Only Roy Cullenbine and George Kell hit well last season and unless Steve O’Neill’s men display more batting power they'll have to be content with the second slot. With the present cast, this added punch won't be forthcoming.

The Cleveland Indians should be firmly installed in third place when the season ends. Bill Veeck, the Tribe’s new owner, isn’t the kind to be satisfied with an also-ran club and his efforts to build for the future will be apparent even in 1947. The Indians have in Manager Lou Boudreau and Joe Gordon, the best double-play combine in the business, and one of the better third sackers in dependable Ken Keltner. If a capable first baseman turns up, the inner works will be the envy of the league. Add to this the strong arm of “Rapid Robert” Feller and look out for trouble. The outfield, bolstered by the purchase of Stan Spence, will furnish the needed batting punch but Feller’s mound colleagues don’t have the ability to bring home the bacon frequently enough.

The ’47 version of the once mighty Bronx Bombers can be summed up by a large question mark. With the veteran Bucky Harris at the helm, the Yankees could win the pennant if their big guns regain their old-time form. A pre-season operation will again handicap Joe DiMaggio and although Keller and Henrich should show improvement, the rest of the regulars don’t have it in them. Watch Bill Johnson, the New Yorker’s hot corner man. He may well develop into one of the best in Yankee history.

NATS HEAD SECOND DIVISION

The Senator’s chances also rest on the abilities of several old-timers to stage comebacks. If the ever-popular Cecil Travis hits his stride, the Nats will have a crack infield, offensively and defensively. The outfield cannot measure up to the inner works, however; nor can the hill corps compare with those of the other front-running contenders. Veterans Buck Newson, Sid Hudson, and Early Wynn will win their share but their fellow hurlers will not be able to carry the rest of the load successfully.

The St. Louis Browns and the Chicago White Sox will fight it out for sixth place with the latter club coming out on top as the result of superior hitting. Muddy Ruel, the Brown’s new pilot, may, as the result of his years with the Pale Hose, be able to upset the dope bucket, however.

The cellar slot as usual will be the sole property of the Philadelphia Athletics. Connie Mack has some capable performers in Sam Chapman, Phil Marchildon, Jesse Flores, and Elmer Valo but the crafty “A” skipper just doesn’t have the talent to lift his club out of the league basement.

Delts Lead Cup Race

Phi Gams Are Second

With the running of the interfraternity track meet two weeks ago, the fight for the cup was suspended for a short period. This break seems to afford the best opportunity to take a quick glance at the fraternity standings, and to attempt to explain Pete Whittle’s method of scoring. Two events have yet to be run off. The first, volleyball, has just begun, and in a few weeks, softball will also have gotten started.

FRATERNITY STANDINGS

Total Track Points
Phi Delts 160 372 1/3
Phi Gams 58 1/4 347 1/4
K.A.’s 74 328 4/9
Independents 125 1/4 307 7/12
S.A.E’s 86 1/4 305 11/12
Kappa Sigs 299 2/9
Betas 293 17/36
Sessions 270 29/36
Pi Kapps 267 5/6
Pikas 169 1/4

Riflemen Lose To The Citadel

Wildcat ROTC and civilian riflemen took second and third places respectively in a three-way shoulder-to-shoulder match with Citadel here last Saturday. The men of the Davidson ROTC team who scored a total of 886 points were F. V. Long with 180 points, C. M. Coffee with 179, H. T. Glaze with 179, P. P. Deaton with 177, and P. M. Brown with 171. The civilian team from the College, which included veterans who first exercised trigger fingers here and who later fired shots at Japs and Germans, trailed with 852 points. Bill Jarber led with 181, Gains Stubbins with 174, Park Moore with 169, Elmo Sellers with 166, and Bob Dunn with 162 followed Jarber in succession.

Winning visitors were Stillwell with 187 points, Horst with 186, Simmons with 180, and Parker with 178.

Davidson squeezed in close to the top of the William Randolph Hearst ROTC small bore competition, with team number one taking fourth place among the thirty contestants, according to the report of official scores received by the ROTC department here. Eight hundred fifty-six of a possible one thousand points were made by the Wildcats. The high score in the Senior ROTC unit competition, in which Davidson fired, was 887 made by teams from the University of Tennessee and North Carolina State who tied for first place. The only other school between Davidson and the top was Georgia Tech whose team tallied 867 points. This first official report did not list individual scores but indicated that Taylor (Continued on Page 6)

At present, the Phi Delts hold the top rung of the ladder. Their task, providing they desire the trophy, would seem relatively simple. They must consistently finish in the upper brackets. If they do this, they have a fair shot at the much sought-after cup. They have, however, several serious competitors, any of whom may upset the applecart. If one of these, mainly the Phi Gams and the K.A.'s, should come through with a victory in the coming events, the Phi Delts will find themselves in the cold. Other strong contenders are the Independents, and the S.A.E’s, and the Kappa Sigs. Although the latter team has not attained a total of 300 points in the course of the past scrambles, the Sigmas always will bear watching. Any of these six teams may attain the prize, and are in good position to do so.

To get an understanding of Pete Whittle’s scoring system, those men placed on varsity squads must be taken into consideration. We are not, at present, able to say how great a determining factor this will be in the final outcome. Every team automatically gets 50 points for just participating in the events. On top of that, the winning team in each event receives 100 achievement points according to the number of games won out of the nine played. Each game won counts 11 1/9 points, or 1/9 of the 100 points attained by the first team. Thus a team winning seven games will get 77 7/9 achievement points as did the Betas who placed second in basketball. Add to this the 50 entry points, and we arrive at a total of 127 7/9 points. One other factor comes into the picture. This is placement. The first-ranking team in each event gains 10 placement points, the second 7, the third, 5. If there is a tie, the points are split. Thus the Betas, placing second, received 7 placement points, bringing their total for the basketball season to 134 7/9 points.the other hand, the Independents and the S.A.E’s tied for third. Each of these teams received 24 placement points. Under this system, a 50 to 70 point deficit is by no means difficult to overcome. But beyond that, a team has an uphill fight in order to win. At present, five teams have earned over 300 points. One more, the Kappa Sigs, are one point short of the 300 mark. These are the teams that bear watching.

Whit Cobb, the Phi Delts’ one-man track team, breezes toward the tape in the 220-yard dash in the '47 Interfraternity track meet. Hot on his heels are Ed Newton, Phi Gam, and Gene Bingham, Kappa Sig. Cobb, in addition to his victory in this event, finished first in the 100-yard dash, the high jump, and the broad jump.

PHI DELTS RECEIVE TROPHY

BASEBALL SCHEDULE

March:
24—Duke, here.
27—N.C. State, here.
29—Trinity, here.

April:
1—Charlotte Davidson.
3—Charlotte Hornets, there.
4, 5—Wofford, there (2).
7—Presbyterian, there.
8—Clemson, there.
14—Carolina, there.
15—N.C. State, there.
16—Univ. of Cincinnati, here.
19—Furman, here.
22—Carolina, here.
24—Presbyterian, here.
25, 26—Wofford, here (2).
29—Washington and Lee, there.
30—V.M.I., there.

May:
1—Quantico Marines, there.
2—Maryland, there.
3—George Washington, there.
6—Duke, there.
10—Clemson, here.

Trackmen Aim For Five Wins

A certain track coach is singing the praises of a fleet-footed lad from Durham but at the same time he is shedding copious tears because he can't get his hands on this gentleman. Yes, Coach Pete Whittle surely could use a good dash man right now, but it seems that Whit Cobb is headed for a season with Phil Lufler’s racket wielders. But Whittle still has plenty to work with down on the cinder paths.

Starting with Jack Grey, who has yet to taste defeat, we go right down the line of events. After Grey in the two-mile run comes Castle and Phil Iverson in the mile. Castle turned in a creditable 4:43 last year at State while Iverson earned a letter for his efforts in a Cat uniform. In the half-mile, Pete is still looking for a sure point. In Bob Vetter, letterman Frank McGehee, Matthews, and Gene Bingham, Whittle has a highly capable group of performers for the gut-breaking 440-yard dash. With this group, Pete would have himself a nifty mile relay team.

The Red and Black is well stocked with a classy group of hurdlers in Dick Port, Ed Hopper, Bob Lacy, and George Peters. Port turned in some fancy stepping in Chapel Hill's indoor meet several weeks ago. The high jump looks pretty well set with Bob Lacy, the school's record holder in this event, George Peters, and Bill Lacy. Bob Henderson also looked good in the interfrat meet. Peters and Bill Lacy will also try their luck at the broad jump.

Coach Norman Shepard presents the Stroud Interfraternity Track Trophy to a pair of smiling Phi Delts. Whit Cobb rolled up 21 1/4 of the victors’ 36 points. Third place went to the Kappa Sigs with 16 points, half of them scored by speedster Gene Bingham in the 100 and 220. Three place slots boosted the S.A.E’s to fourth place with 13 points. The final tallies were as follows:

Phi Delts 36
Independents 24
Kappa Sigs 16
S.A.E’s 13
Pi Kaps 8
Pikas 7
Betas 3
Phi Gams 5

The events were more or less as follows:

100—Cobb, Phi Delt; Carter, KA; Cloffby, KA; Bingham, Kappa Sig.
440—Bingham, Kappa Sig; McGehee, S.A.E; Temple, Pi Kap.
600—Murray, Pi Kap; Koop, Ind.
3/4—Koop, Ind; Flowers, KA; Aldred, Phi Gam.
Hurdles—Adams, Phi Delt; Stroup, Pika; Rierson, Ind.
Broad Jump—Cobb, Phi Delt; Archibald, Kappa Sig; Spires, Phi Delt; Boyd, Pika.
High Jump—Cobb, Phi Delt; Henderson, Phi Delt tied for first.
Discus—Vann, Ind; Walker, Kappa Sig.
Shot Put—Eborn, Ind; Chandler, S.A.E; Richards, KA.
Relay—Phi Delts.

In a well-played, superbly officiated contest, Davidson's faculty blustered its way to a 50-46 victory over an S.A.E. varsity quintet. Paced by Bill “Hook” Story and the Reverend, not to mention the added services (from the balcony) of Peter Stuart Ney, the profs rocketed into the lead at the outset and stayed there despite a valiant varsity rally. Both of the losers’ supporters, apparently disgruntled by the outcome, implied that the officiating was not all that it might have been, but in our opinion, the veteran referee, Ditch Hengeveld, more than performed his duties. His oft-repeated instructions (and warnings) to “Fouling” Frontis Johnston and “Double Dribble” McGavock greatly improved the aging professors' play. “Piddling Pete” Whittle was conspicuously absent.

Box Score

Faculty:
Peter Stuart Ney 1 0 0 2
Pritchett—F 4 0 0 8
Williams—F 3 0 0 6
Shepard—F 1 1 3
Robinson—F 3 0 0 6
Story—C 8 0 0 16
Pinckney—C 0 0 0 0
Johnston—G 2 0 0 4
McGavock—G 0 0 0 0
Jamerson—G 1 0 0 2
Hengeveld—G 1 0 0 2

Varsity:
White—F 4 0 0 8
Peters—F 2 0 0 4
Cheek—C 2 1 1 5