The Davidsonian

Volume XXXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1947 No. 13

Noted Virtuoso To Give Organ Recital
Davidson Artist Series Presents E. P. Biggs in Musical Program

E. Powers Biggs, noted in the concert field, on numerous recordings, in various radio performances, and as soloist with the leading symphony orchestras of the land, will be presented in an organ recital in Chambers Auditorium February 24, at 8:15 p.m. This will be the fourth in the Davidson College Artist series, which has sought to bring to the campus this year a well-rounded group of concert artists.

Mr. Biggs’ concert experience has been hailed for its virtuosity. Among other firsts, he can claim performances of modern organ concertos by Sowerby, Piston, Harris, and Poulenc. He has also helped a great deal with the rejuvenation on the American concert stage of the works of Handel, Felton, and others. He has also made recordings of several works for Victor Records. Two of these compositions will be played by Mr. Biggs in the Davidson recital.

As a soloist, Mr. Biggs has been featured with the Boston Symphony Orchestra, the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, and the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra. He has appeared as soloist at Queen’s Hall in London, the Berkshire Symphonic Festival, the Library of Congress in Washington, and the Bethlehem Bach Festival. Mr. Biggs lacks the distinction of being “banned in Boston,” for the Boston Herald stated, “The effect of such playing is electrifying.”

Madness Praised In Dr. Davis’ Talk

“In Praise of Madness” was the title of the address made to the Davidson student body last Sunday, Feb. 9th, by Dr. C. Grier Davis, Pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Asheville, N. C. In this sermon, Dr. Davis, an alumnus of Davidson College, pointed out the meaning of the word “Madness” as it has been applied to men in the past. It has been attributed to the men who depart from evil — the sober, clean men contrasted with the “normal” men who drink and carouse; the modest, careful girls as opposed to the more popular “fast and loose” ones; the courageous missionaries who have gone to teach the “Fuzzy-Wuzzies” in the South Pacific as in contrast with the heroic aviators who have daringly shot down the enemy from the skies. Even so, the Apostle Paul was accounted “beside himself.” Paul explained his “madness” by saying, “If I behave as I do, it is because I am constrained by the love of Christ.”

Dr. Davis said that the Christian youth of today, the young women who go as missionaries to the Dark Continent, the German Christians who went into concentration camps for testifying their beliefs, were constrained by the love of Christ. The true Christian says, “Christ died for me, so I should live for Him.” “There is no life so full, so joyous, so full of meaning as the Christian life. What are you going to do with your life?” As a river, originating in a wide country, where it flows in an irregular pattern, is constrained to flow deep, strong, and clear, with definite direction as it goes, between two cliffs, so the Christian life is constrained to be clear, deep, and strong, and with direction, by the love of Christ. “If these men and women who go to foreign lands to spread the word of Christ are mad,” Dr. Davis said, “Then what the world needs is more mad men.” He went on to say “What stands between us and the catastrophe which threatens us? The character of man. What can change the character of man? The love of Christ.” He concluded his sermon with a call for young men to allow themselves to be led by the love of Christ, and to come out to bring the Gospel to the world.

Men Promoted In ROTC Shift

Three outstanding members of first-year advanced R.O.T.C. were commissioned Cadet second lieutenants in the second semester reorganization of the cadet battalion at a parade ceremony last Tuesday. Receiving the silver discs of cadet shavetails and congratulations from the military staff were T. M. Faw, Spencer B. Murry, and J. E. Gray. Earning them their new ranks were their “outstanding exhibition of leadership ability and professional knowledge.”

Faw, who now leads a cadet platoon, was promoted from first-semester duty as a platoon sergeant in Company A. Possessing plenty of experience, he was a veteran of three years of service in the infantry and was a sergeant in the 75th Division. Faw is a sophomore and a member of Kappa Sigma. He first entered Davidson in '42 from his hometown of North Wilkesboro, N. C.

Murry, now second officer of the band, was formerly first sergeant of that unit. A member of the class of ’48, he entered basic R.O.T.C. in September '44. An ardent Davidson bandsman, Murry is a member of the Kappa Delta Club and is out for track. He hails from far-off State College, Mississippi.

Gray is now leader of the third platoon of Company C, after having been a platoon guide. During the war, he served as a corporal in the U. S. Marine Corps on board the battleship U. S. Maryland. For his services, he wears the Philippine liberation ribbon and the Presidential Unit Citation. His home is Barber, N. C.

In the unit reorganization, battalion commander Carl S. Pahl received his cadet lieutenant colonelcy and battalion executive, Quinten Cooper, was promoted one rank to cadet Major. Others promoted with their new assignments are A. D. Plowden promoted to Cadet Captain to be commanding officer of Company C from the rank of first lieutenant as battalion adjutant. W. L. Withers was promoted to first lieutenant and assigned as battalion adjutant from duties as second lieutenant battalion supply officer. Platoon leaders promoted to first lieutenant are E. H. Johnson of B Company, J. H. Bell and C. S. Abernathy of C Company, and R. E. Long and S. T. West of A Company.

With the promotions in rank came shifts in the size of squads and the addition of extra platoons to the units. Shortened squads enabled the R.O.T.C. staff to add a platoon to each cadet company. According to Col. W. P. Grace, P.M.S. & T., this enabled all advanced students to obtain experience in charge of a squad or larger unit.

OPERETTA

A performance of Gilbert and Sullivan operetta, Pirates of Penzance, will be given in Chambers auditorium on March 8. This operetta will be given under the direction of Mr. Earl F. Berg and will be sponsored by the coordinate music program of Queens and Davidson Colleges.

C.K. Brown Views U. S.

Dean of Faculty Speaks To American Association of University Women

Dr. C. K. Brown, dean of the faculty of Davidson, spoke at the monthly meeting of the Charlotte chapter of the American Association of University Women at 3 o’clock last Tuesday afternoon at Mint Museum of Art. Mrs. M. W. Peterson, president, presided.

“American Labor as a Political Bloc,” was the subject of the address by Dr. Brown, a native of Salisbury, who has achieved much distinction in the field of public education. A graduate of Davidson College, class of 1921, with highest honors, he subsequently received M. A. and Ph. D. degrees from the University of North Carolina. He pursued additional studies at the University of Besancon, in France; Colgate University, and the University of Chicago. He has served as assistant professor of mathematics, and associate professor of economics at Davidson College, which he now serves as professor of economics as well as dean of the faculty. Dr. Brown also is the author of several books.

At the conclusion of this meeting of the chapter, a tea course was served under the leadership of Mrs. James Covington. Joseph Hutchison, director of Mint Museum of Art, delivered a lecture to his art class at 3 o'clock Tuesday afternoon at the museum. This was a part of a series of monthly lectures which are being attended by many members of the Charlotte Chapter of A.A.U.W.

Men Attack, Rob Student

William Currie, member of the Class of '50, was instrumental in the arrest and conviction of three hold-up experts who had attacked, beaten, and robbed him in an outlying district of Davidson, last Friday morning at 2:00 a.m. Currie, who had missed the last bus returning from Charlotte, was offered a ride by the men, who brought him to the Davidson city limits, where they stopped near the ice plant, under the pretense of getting a piece of ice. One of the thugs slipped on some grease, and when Currie attempted to help him up he was struck from the rear with a beer bottle. The blow stunned him.

(Continued on Page 4)

By Bob Phillips.

“Then it’s Dean, Dean—the sweetest notes we’ve heard, Leader Dean.” Apologies to Rudyard Kipling, who himself, no doubt, would concur with the Davidson student’s opinion that the mellowest music made for many moons in metropolitan Mecklenburg was fashioned for the mid-winter dances by the Hudson Horns. In happy contrast to the several orchestras which have gained notoriety by mutilating dance weekends at North Carolina schools by insisting on none but the heated beat, the Hudson outfit emphasized the soft notes conducive to floating and whispering.

Students Praise Hudson For Best Dance In Years

Hudson, a recent college graduate (University of Florida), specializes in pleasing the collegiate set, and he was never more successful in this endeavor than last weekend. The most complimented feature of Hudson’s performance was the excellent spacing and timing of the sweet, fast, and novelty tunes; of the latter, the most popular being “Ouvrer La Porte, Reeshard” from “Knockturne.” The attractive Floridian is noted for his easy-going, good nature—yet, somehow he accomplishes more than the hardest taskmaster when it comes to bossing a band and making it a success as an entertaining unit as well as a top-flight musical organization.

Sigma Pi Sigma In 25th Year

Sigma Pi Sigma, the Alpha Chapter of the national Honorary Physics society, celebrated its 25th anniversary last December 11. The society was organized on that day in 1922 under the direction of four professors and six students. Of the professors, three are still living, they are L. M. Currie, Vice President of the National Carbon Carbide Co.; Professor W. W. Wood of Davidson, and Dr. J. M. Douglas, Professor Emeritus of Physics. The original purpose of the society was to provide a common ground for students and faculty to informally study the development and progress of Physics.

Sigma Pi Sigma remained a local organization for 3 years and then under the leadership of M. W. Crawick and R. W. Graves in colonized a BetaChapter at Duke and then a Gamma chapter at Penn State College. Now the society boasts over forty chapters ranging from Washington State to Florida. Some of America's foremost physicists are members of Sigma Pi Sigma, among them being the Compton brothers; Foote, director of Research of Gulf Oil Company; Dr. W. E. Forsythe, of General Electric; and others. During the month of December, 1946, a service was held at Davidson commemorating the Society’s 25th anniversary, at which time a bronze plaque was presented to the college. The plaque was made possible through the contributions of the alumni of the Alpha chapter of Davidson. The plaque is now on the wall near the entrance to the north wing of Chambers. The Alpha chapter here is now active again under the direction of Caspar Woodbridge, President; Herb Dimmock, Vice President; and John Walker, Secretary-Treasurer. Membership is based on general scholarship, high scholarship, and interest in Physics.

IRC Replaces Club Officers

The International Relations Club, a student organization primarily interested in furthering the student’s understanding of our political and economic relations both within and without our country, elected its officers for the second semester at its last meeting. Walker Taylor was elected President, Sam Tate, Vice President and Program Chairman, and Don Coffey, Treasurer. Assisted by the faculty advisor, Professor Guerrant, the organization holds its meetings twice a month, at which times lectures or discussions are offered concerning pertinent happenings in present-day political and economic skullduggery. Also at the last meeting, the new president, Walker Taylor, announced (Continued on Page 4).

February Scripts ’n Pranks To Hit Street Tomorrow

Hurry, hurry, hurry! Step right down to the P.O., Gents, and get your new copy of the Winter issue of “Scripts ’n Pranks,” the livest magazine on the campus. According to Editor Doug Swink, who completed the proof-reading of the magazine during Midwinters festivities (the first time in history that S.&P. has been put to bed in a hotel room—this time in room 209 of the Barringer Hotel in Charlotte), this issue will totally surmount all efforts heretofore put before the student body. Among the chillier works presented, you will find Cam Nuttall’s “Murder At the Library Window” to be the most gruesome, gory, galling, and gangrenous thriller you ever read. And don’t miss those two portrayals of mayhem at its best, “Accidents and Crashes” by Bob Rierson, and “Bedlam” by Sam Robinson. In this issue, Jimmy Gribben continues his series “Seasons on the Hill” with the timely article, “Winter on the Hill.” Also, there will be the usual top-quality humor and satire that “Scripts ’n Pranks” is famous for. But—that’s not all, folks! In this issue of your magazine, you will encounter the most amazing, the most exciting, the most dazzling contest ever set before the eyes of Davidson students! Really, this will be the most appealing issue of “Scripts ’n Pranks” to hit the press, so don’t delay, get yours today! They should be in the mail by Saturday, February 15.

Library Gets Recent Books

The campus library has recently received a number of new (and good) books for the general enjoyment of the members of the student body. They range in interest from exciting novels and action stories to informative compilations and biographies. Those few listed below represent but a cross-section of the many others now available, all of them just as good as these. “Ripley's Incredible Believe It Or Not,” by the man who has become world-famous through his ability to astound his reading audiences. Robert L. Ripley has been called a liar many times but he always has proof of his statements, which have been gathered from research in all parts of the world. This book, whose pages are crammed with a host of facts about the universe, is a must for the inquisitive mind and is sure to astound even the most conservative reader. “One Damned Island After Another,” by Cline Howard and Joe Whitley. The exciting story of the 7th Air Force told from the point of view of the men of the outfit themselves, and often in their own language. The narrative begins on Dec. 7, 1941, and traces the 7th Air Force from its scanty origin, through the period of flying and fighting “against so much with so little,” to brighter days when victory against Japan was imminent. (Continued on Page 4).

Noehren, Berg Give Joint Recital Here

Mullethead Interviews K. Webster

“Ha, ha, ha, haaaaah! Barbasol that’s all!” It was the mayor, Hizzonah Kurt Webster, and the Bounceroo really is the head man in night believe it or not, Barbasol the Queen City from 11:00 p.m. until 1:00 a.m. each night. I found that out when I strolled into his office in the W.B.T. studios a couple of weeks ago. He had just finished spinning the last platter of the night and was shooting a little disc talk with Bill Mull of Kannapolis, who is the eminent mogul of the record collectors guild in this area. The twenty-eight-year-old native of Leaksville, N.C., is a pretty sharp article and even had the courtesy to refrain from asking what the Davidsonian was when I shook his hand and told him that I was from ye old campus rag. “I really am the night mayor, ya know,” he said in answer to my question regarding his position and to prove it he furnished a signed proclamation from Hon. H. H. Baxter with a photo of his daylight partner handing him the keys to the city.

Program Not New

The present Midnight Dancing Party is not an entirely new show according to Buster Richardson, the heavyweight station engineer. A program carrying that handle had been beamed from W.B.T. for years, but the present series started September 2, 1946, after a three-year layoff during which time Webster was serving with the army. As to “Heartaches,” the record first cut by Ted Weems and his orchestra seventeen years ago, Kurt said, “Bill Mull brought it over one night last September, and now it’s skyrocketing in national sales.” Thus one announcer in a Charlotte radio station has plugged this oldie with its catchy rhythms into one of the biggest nation-wide scrambles in history. If you don’t believe it, try to get the record and see the mob with the same idea.

Alpha Sigma Sigma

About a month ago, Webster was voted an honorary member of the outstanding Davidson honor frat, Alpha Sigma Sigma, and I was naturally interested to get his opinion on the famed organization. A college man himself, Webster knew of the organization and said that he had been a member of the chapter at George Washington University while in school there. On learning that George Ennett was the local president, however, he handed in his resignation. An interesting feature of the Dancing Party is the fact that the Night Mayor never has a chance to hear the records himself because he is constantly on the phone. In case you are in doubt as to the authenticity of those phone calls, I invite your attention to the station switchboard and its overworked operator. Since September, the program has received calls from every state in the union, many points in Canada, and Cartagena, Colombia, South America. Besides plugging “Heartaches,” Webster gives advice to motorists in support of W.B.T.’s safety campaign. His warning to the speedsters usually follows the line of “keep both hands on the wheel no matter how close she cuddles up.” Have his appeals paid off? You bet. The National Safety Council has recently published a pamphlet in which they tell the story of a motorist in Pennsylvania whose life was saved by his tuning in on the Dancing Party.

Music Department Faculty Members Render Program in Chambers

Robert Noehren, organist, and Earl F. Berg, baritone, members of the faculty of the Davidson College Music Department, appeared in a joint recital Monday evening at 8:15 o’clock in Chambers Auditorium. Eunice Plarm Berg, pianist, accompanied Mr. Berg. The program of the concert was as follows:

Concerto V, George Frederick Handel.
Two Chorale Preludes, Johann Sebastian Bach.
Toccata, Adagio and Fugue in C, Johann Sebastian Bach.
Five Songs, Gustav Mahler.
Sonata III, Felix Mendelssohn.
Fantasy for Flute Stops, Leo Sowerby.
Air with Variations, Leo Sowerby.
Finale (Seven Pieces), Marcel Dupre.

During March, Mr. Noehren will present organ recitals in a number of northern cities. Of special note among these is an organ concert sponsored by the American Guild of Organists. This concert is to be held at the 4th Presbyterian Church in Chicago and is to honor Leo Sowerby. Other recitals of this tour will be: March 3, Washington Cathedral; March 4, 1st Presbyterian Church, Philadelphia; March 6, Church of the Advent, Boston; March 8, St. Paul’s, Toronto. Mr. Berg, accompanied by Mrs. Berg, presented a recital at Lincoln Memorial University, Harrogate, Tenn.

Dr. A. Gregg Talks On Mission Work

Dr. Alice H. Gregg, representing the Student Volunteer Movement, spoke to the student body last Friday morning concerning the mission fields as a vocation. As traveling secretary for the Student Volunteer Movement in North and South Carolina, Dr. Gregg came to Davidson to enlist interest among the students in the mission fields, both home and foreign. After the chapel program, she met with any students desiring more information about the movement or the particular areas of mission work.

Expert on China

Dr. Gregg is an expert in the field of religious education in China, being the author of the highly acclaimed study “China and Educational Autonomy.” She has served in China since 1916 in many different capacities with religious organizations and as a faculty member of St. John’s University in Shanghai. Having received her training at Winthrop College and Deaconess House in Philadelphia, she took her graduate work at Union Theological Seminary, Teachers College, and Columbia University, earning her Ph.D. and the University Medal for Excellence at Columbia. During the 1945-46 school year, she was at Syracuse University helping to reorganize Syracuse-in-China. Dr. Gregg will soon return to take up her work with the Episcopal Church in West China.

The Student Volunteer Movement started about sixty years ago with its purpose being to enlist interest throughout the country in home and foreign mission work among students. The movement had an illustrious history until the time of the depression when money was scarce and the mission boards sent out no new missionaries. It is now getting back into full swing with a traveling secretary in each area in the country whose job is to create interest in its work. The Reverend Murphey Williams, Y.M.C.A. Secretary, who introduced the speaker, has material on the Student Volunteer Movement for anyone interested. He stated that he also would be glad to talk with anyone about the movement and its work.