Friday, October 31, 1947
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

SGT. BLANTON R. BURTON OF ROTC TO RETIRE

ROTC INSTRUCTOR CONCLUDES SERVICE

Master Sergeant Blanton R. Burton of the ROTC will be honored by the college in a retirement ceremony, the first ever to be held here, at 3 p.m. on Armistice Day, November 11. He received orders from the War Department placing him on the retired list effective October 31, and he is at present in Atlanta, Ga., where he will reside permanently upon retirement.

Sergeant Burton, born in 1894, joined the army as a private in July 1917. With the exception of a few months in 1919, he has served continuously since his first enlistment. He has thus completed 29 years and seven months of duty with the Army.

Service Record

Following service in the Midwest, he was transferred from the 43rd Division in 1918 to serve on special duty at the International Bridge at Eagle Pass, Texas. In 1921 he was placed on recruiting duty and traveled through the middle South. From 1923 to 1925 he was stationed at Fort McClellan, Ala., with the rank of provost sergeant, and was in charge of prisoners. He was transferred to Davidson in August 1925, where he has instructed an average of 300 men annually. During his stay at Davidson, Sgt. Burton has seen two generations of students graduate. He recently received the Sydney Sullivan medal, which is given annually for outstanding Christian service to education. He and G. H. Weems are the only two members of the ROTC to be so honored.

Medals Awarded

For his service, Sgt. Burton has been awarded the Good Conduct Medal, the American Defense Medal, the World War II Victory Medal, and the Army Commendation Ribbon, which was recently presented to him for "devotion to duty, leadership, loyalty, and efficiency" as an ROTC instructor from December 1941 to March 1947. Burton was coach of the ROTC rifle team for many years, and with his expert guidance, the squad won many matches. He is a member of the American Legion and the Masonic Lodge.

DEVOE Paint Store
—PAINTS
—WALLPAPER
—GLASS
—ARTISTS SUPPLIES
PHONE 3-3196
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
109 S. CHURCH ST.

Visit The SHIP AHOY and Upper Deck
Dining and Dancing
The Ideal Place To Meet Your Friends
117 W. Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

FORTY YEARS ARMY SERVICE

INVITATION

*Attention! Clemson, Carolina, P.C., Davidson, Wofford, Citadel, Harvard, Yale... and Syracuse!

Winnie’s lament on Saturday night:

My hair has never been so smooth
The ends curl up just so
My skin has never looked so clear
My eyes are shining brightly with
The spark that captivates—
Why don’t I ever look like this
On nights when I have dates?
(*Y’all might come see for yourselves! Huh?)
From Winthrop Johnsonian

Phi Society Maps Year
By BOB WELLS

The Philanthropic Literary Society was formed soon after the founding of Davidson College. Over the years, the society has been regarded as one means by which students may develop their writing and speaking talents. The meetings, which are held every other Monday evening in Phi Hall, consist of debates among members on pertinent problems, and discussions of literary work within the group. Opportunities for speaking, debating, writing, and practice in parliamentary procedure are very valuable.

The programs for the present semester have been planned as follows:

November 3—Debate: Concerning a Federal World Government.
November 17—“Presenting the presidential candidates, two Democrats and two Republicans.”
December 1—Oratorical contest on America’s world problems.
December 15—Winners of the poetry and short story contest announced, and some of the better papers presented to the society.
January 5—Guest speaker to discuss some phase of American politics.
January 19—Election of officers, and humorous debate.

At present, members of the society are preparing their short stories and poems for the contest which is being held. The best papers from this contest will be submitted in the Vereen M. Bell Creative Contest. There is also a planned debate with the Eumanean Literary Society. Then, too, the society is considering the possibility of an open forum in which four of the professors take part.

At the last meeting that took place on Monday, October 20, sixteen new members were initiated into the society. Each new member had to submit a short paper dealing with some topic of current interest. The following is a list of those initiated: W. W. Calhoun, C. B. Cotten, R. S. Frye Jr., J. L. Fesperman, O. N. Hutchinson Jr., H. G. Leland Jr., F. W. Long Jr., H. J. Longnecker, J. M. McBryde, R. W. McInnes, R. L. Perrin, W. M. Richard, W. T. Simpson, A. I. Stricklin, and R. E. Rees.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

thropic literary brother Is and the Students Temperance Society Dig in With “Goodall”

COURT CONTROL INSTITUTES CAMPAIGN FOR MORE COMPL!

“Frosh may come and frosh may go, but the Court of Control goes on forever,” Generations of Davidson students vouch for this fact. But since last Thursday night, there are seventeen intellectuals who are particularly convinced of this reality. Judge Strickland and his loyal supporters are resorting to almost every means to assure a well-rounded education to all of this year's wearers of the red.

To Tuesday morning's demands of “judge! Judge!” sented, few

The proceedings of the Court of Control meetings are secret. However, one needs only to look around to observe the results. Thursday nights are truly taking on a new significance never before dreamed of by the neophytes situated under the banner of ‘51. If the sentences of the last meeting are not sufficient to curb the obnoxiousness of these underlings, the court has already devised some strange and original penalties not yet revealed. Only last week the customary campus was imposed. Promises of more to come are in store if the Freshmen do not react favorably.

The charges against Freshmen were many and varied. A very long list of this year was presented. The charges are enumerated below:

1. Refusal to look at upperclassman with an air of humbleness.
2. Furnishing the ROTC rifles had the firing pins in them in order that he could shoot a few upperclassmen.
3. Mistaking upperclassmen for Freshmen.
4. Acting like his was.
5. Suspected of the 119.
6. Refusal to pick up soap for an upperclassman in the shower.
7. Speaking above a whisper in an upperclassman’s room.
8. Booing a cheerleader.
9. Moving ahead of an upperclassman on a bumping corner.
10. Impersonating an upperclassman.
11. Doubts ability of Court to control him.
12. Ordering upperclassman.
13. Contrary to the good name of any upperclassman.

Contrary to the hasty assumption of many of the members of the Class of ‘51, the Court of Control was not created merely to

(Continued on Page 6)

---

Class elections of the Junior Class of Union Theological Seminary were held recently and four alumni of Davidson College were elected to offices. Lamar Williamson, Monticello, Ark., 1947 graduate of Davidson, was elected president. Williamson, Beta Theta Pi prexy last year, earned membership in Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, Sigma Upsilon, and Phi Mu Alpha honorary fraternities while at Davidson. He was active in YMCA, THE DAVIDSONIAN, band, glee club, and Phi Literary Society. He is an air corps veteran.

Elected secretary-treasurer was Bob McMullen, Danville, Ky., Centre College graduate who put in two years at Davidson before the war. McMullen hails from New York City.

Alf Taylor, outstanding guard on the 1946 Wildcat football team, was elected director of athletic life. Alf's Juniors defeated Lowry-Murphy Williams’ seniors on first-downs in a red hot game here recently. Williams will be remembered as an outstanding Davidson intramural player. Lowry and Williams are also athletes. Alf is ODK, too.

Director of Ecumenical life is Ed Golden of Atlantic Beach, Fla. Golden, Phi Delta Theta fraternity, was active in the YMCA, Student Council, and played football three years at Davidson. He is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa.

---

Grey Flannel Slacks

That famous Goodall means quality and style. These slacks can be had in regulars, longs, and shorts. Also in brown.

Marion Davis Co., Inc.
118 S. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

---

Charlotte Hobby Center
131 W. 4th Street
Charlotte, N. C.

---

BURTON RECEIVING COMMENDATION RIBBON

Davidson Men Lead U. T. S. Class

---

BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD

OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
PHONE 2-223

---

It’s Desi Arnaz’s—“I Love to Dance” (RCA Victor)

MGM picture “HTS have been sweeping the country. Desi Arnaz has broken attendance records wherever he’s played. And, Desi lights up a Gigante; it’s the volatile Cuban’s rhythms that have been a national favorite for years and is now making new records of its own! Yes, more men and women are smoking Camel cigarettes than ever before! Why? The answer is in your “T-Zone” (T for Taste and T for Throat). Try Camels. Discover for yourself why, with smokers who have tried and compared, Camels are the “choice of experience”!

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.
Winston-Salem, N.C.