Friday, October 24, 1947

Novelists Davidson College: Robertson 1878, Ramsay 1879, George Franklin Edmunds 1897, and Vereen Bell 1932. Who's next?

Visit The SHIP AHOY and Upper Deck
Dining and Dancing
The Ideal Place To Meet Your Friends
117 W. Trade St. Charlotte, N. C.

Davis Cleaners
Alterations Clothes Dyed
Press While You Wait
24-48 HOUR SERVICE
Main St. Davidson, N. C.

Carolina Lunch
REGULAR MEALS
Breakfast 6:30-8:30
Lunch 11:30-1:30
Dinner 5:30-6:30

Pancake system, comprehensive taste.

LETTERS TO EDITOR
(Continued From Page Two)

The place of the present which allows compromise neither specialization nor organized survey of knowledge. It is the function of the Graduate School to provide specialization. The function of the Liberal Arts College is to give a different branches of learning and to emphasize their relation; if not, specialization, it is for Graduate Schools to alter their requirements to some extent to permit this change in Liberal Arts curriculum, it will not be a concession, but a step in the direction of more competent specialists in the end.

The second obstacle is intrinsic curriculum: it is the problem of grading. If the student is made to feel that what matters is not the knowledge he gains, but the grade on his transcript, how can he be expected to devote himself to sincere scholastic endeavor? Serious thought on the subject leads one to the conviction that, no matter how long and loudly the proclamation that “the grade does not matter,” the grade still is the consideration. It is the basis for judgment of the individual by the college and is defended by the argument that strictness in marks is necessary for maintaining standards of the institution. Surely no respectable Liberal Arts College would admit that it neglects the welfare of its individual student merely to hoist itself onto certain desirable “approved lists.” Nor would it maintain the thesis that the student exists to serve the college. If some reasonable degree of accuracy could be attributed to the system, its defense would be more solid, but teachers will admit that such is not consistently the case. Some, but by no means all, work on a “right or wrong” basis, but opinion on the theory that “somebody has to think” is hardly a commendable measure. Rejection of the conventional grading system might diminish the prestige of titles and honors gained under it, but it would eliminate the business of computing the value of the intellect with an adding machine.

Since many students are interested in the minimum amount of work necessary for a degree, it seems advisable to set up a minimum amount of work necessary for the contenting of this formality. When this minimum is completed, the diploma is the only prize sought, while those few interested in learning are enabled to exert themselves further as they see fit—in reading, writing, or other research projects. Thus, those who learn little will not be chastised by unfair estimates of their labors, and those who do not (and would not, in any case) receive the diploma (with all of its social and conventional aspects intact) without the embarrassment of getting low marks.

Eckerd’s
Charlotte, N. C.
Creators of reasonable drug prices.
120 N. Tryon 109 S. Tryon

The DAVIDSONIAN
Page Five

WHAT’S WHAT AMONG AMERICAN COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES
By REES JENKINS

We are introducing this column with the desire to keep our readers among the student body informed on the news of other schools. The principal source of information is through their publications, so to those of you who are “wheels,” some of the “dope” in this column may be old stuff.

Your reporter spent the past weekend in the stimulating company of students from Agnes Scott, Converse, Queens, Carolina, Vanderbilt, Presbyterian College, Columbia Seminary, Emory, Erskine, Duke, and the greatest of all, Davidson. This fine company was quite smitten by the splendid grandeur of our own Honorable “Smiley” Hill (Allah). This was strikingly exemplified by the avid servitude tendered unto his person by the “Y” Cabinet. In their remaining time, the cabinet seemed to be doing more advancing than retreating. In all, I believe that a seed of good will was sown.

I would like to pass on a bit of conversation that I picked up from a charming young lady on said occasion that might be well kept in mind at our forthcoming dance set. It seems that she had the impression that at our dances only the men in a frat would dance with the date of his fraternity regardless of the number of friends she has at the function. Now we know that this is not a hard and fast habit but maybe we do have tendencies toward it. Maybe if you wolves and snakes did a little wider range operating, more enjoyment would be in store for all.

Wofford, Clemson, U. of S. Carolina.
The Old Gold and Black of Wofford College has acted in tribute to our cheering section in the attempt to impress upon their student body that they need improvement. I would like to quote excerpts from three different columns in this publication:

“I’m sure that many of you were impressed by the cheering of the Davidson students. They cooperated with their cheerleaders 100 percent and the result was a number of crucial points in the game.”

“A remarkable example of well-trained cheering was heard from across the field Saturday night. Excellently executed cheers, always effective, gave the Davidson team assurance of student support at critical points in the game.”

“Seeing this makes one wonder if the Wofford cheering section will ever support the Terriers as efficiently as the Davidson cheering section supported theirs. They haven’t heard anything yet, have they?”

It seems that measures are being taken to bring to a screeching halt the belligerent attitude that exists between the U. of South Carolina and Clemson. Instead of being a campus under siege, the university organizations are making elaborate preparations to entertain the visiting cadets at the classic football clash with open houses and furnishing rooms to stay in.

This office has been receiving papers from “all over” and most of them have reports of stall football games, “rat” days, etc. Concerning the latter, the publications informed that the “rats” at Converse have had it. There have been discussions on the length of skirts and the possibilities of trouser legs. And you felt the shorter legs had ripe show.

DAVIDSONIAN’S getting out late, but research reveals that there are quite a number of other college “rags” that are having trouble getting started. There are reports as far up as the University of Virginia explaining the craze of the “chain letter” fallacies.

(INTERFRATERNITY Continued From Page Four)

In the Wofford game, the Pikas caught the opposing team behind the goal line for a safety. These two points proved to be the deciding points as neither team scored again.

Kappa Sig 6; SAE 0
This proved to be one of the more exciting and suspense-packed games of the week. The first half was void of scores although the Kappa Sigs proved to have a slight edge over the SAE. The first part of the second half was also stalemated with the Kappa Sigs rolling up another first down to bring their total to three. The break came in the latter part of the last half when an SAE kick was blocked on their own eight-yard line. The SAE heldFast for three downs but on the fourth, a pass was completed by the oppressors for a tally. Charlie Vierson stood out for the winners.

Pi Kappa Phi 18: Delta Kappas 0

In one of the most lopsided games of the week, the Pi Kappas blasted on. The first score came in the first half on a pass from FilE Robinson to Bill den. With no serious threats of scoring by either side, the half ended with the score being 6-0. The second half opened with Pi Kappa first downs, coming on another pass from Robinson, this time to Chris Weber who crossed into pay dirt hugging the pigskin. The Pi Kapps started another drive and wound up a few yards short of pay dirt. The second touchdown came through the efficiency of the hard-driving Pi Kapp line. A hole was opened up at the center through which Robinson blasted for the third and last score. The game ended 18 to 0.

Kappa Alpha 6; Phi Delts 0

This was an extremely tight game during the first half with the score being 0 to 0 at the half. The Phi Delts drew first blood, proudly making a first down soon after the kickoff. The KAs came back in the closing minutes of the half to tie the Phi Delts up on a first down on a pass to Charlie Mitchell. The second half was even more of a stalemate than the first, neither team being able to score or make another first down. With only 10 seconds left to play, the KAs took a desperate chance by throwing a beautiful 40-yard pass into the waiting fingertips of Mitchell who crossed into pay dirt as the whistle sounded. Starring for the Phi Delts were Haywood Brinegar and Whit Cobb.

The Duke Chronicle reports that John Powers, of Powers Model renowned, is to pick the successor to Theta Carter. Also, it announces that the Chronicle was selected as one of the top-ranking seven collegiate publications in the country.

Carolina College announced the lengthening of its medical course from two to three years. At this time, and later on (1893), several professors at Davidson also held chairs at the medical school. Let us pause a moment in our discussion to note several interesting facts. Dr. Munroe was the first head of the medical school, college physician, and semi-official director of athletics at Davidson. He was instrumental in establishing the Bank of Davidson and was very active in many phases of religious and community activity. It is of interest to the Davidson student that in 1893 the students at the medical school, thus presumably Davidson also, were able to obtain board for $6.50 per month and a room for $1.50-$2.00 per month. Passing on, the period between 1893 and 1907 was one of great growth and progress. During this time, the present brick structure was built.

WILD KITTENS (Continued From Page Four)

The final count being 26-0. In the last stages of the first half, the force squad drove to the 10-yard line only to stall out of a score by the time running out. The Red and Blacks came out for the second half fighting hard and held the Catawba team from scoring while playing on the defensive. Outstanding in the backfield were Kelton, Ashman, and Patterson with Gene Crooks leading some good blocking. In the line, Hay at center played most of the game, and Donnell was good on the guard position. Brown and Kester played their usual good game at end.

"I know this is a school for Heaven," said the sweet young thing observing Bill Resperman's cheerleading, "but isn't he padded in a few places?"

Withers Electric Company
Radio Repairs
Electrical Supplies
Light Bulbs
DAVIDSON, N.C.

BUNCH FUNERAL HOME
Ambulance Service
Phone 284
Mooresville, N.C.

THACKER’S, INC.
Private Dining Rooms for Parties and Banquets
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
221 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 25490

PURIT PRODUCTS
CANDIES AND POTATO CHIPS
SWINSON Food Products
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT
BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
PHONE 2-2238

QUALITY FURNITURE
For Your Favorite Furniture Needs — See Us Before You Buy.
DAVIDSON FURNITURE CO.
Main Street
Phone 3671

M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
— for —
Hardware — Houseware and Farm Supplies
“IT CAN BE BOUGHT AT GOODRUMS”
Complete line of Groceries