Although the gridiron season was over and done with more than a week ago, we want to take this opportunity
to review one of the best seasons in Davidson history. This year's eleven will go with the immortals in Davidson's
hall of fame. It was a team on the basis of individual ability though practically every member of the squad
combined to give them a drubbing. It was not a team that was strong at every position but one that
could usually muster just enough strength to get the best of their opponents.

Buddy Cheek was the hero of the occasion, sinking four field goals and five out of six free throws for
a total of 14 points. Whit Cobb and Bill Hodgin were runners-up with nine points each and Williams and Iverson
both racked eight. Other opponents scheduled for the coming week are the McCrary Eagles, a Winston-Salem semi-pro outfit, Clemson, and
Washington and Lee. We meet the Eagles, who dropped one to State by a 77-53 score earlier in the week,
Saturday night in Winston. After a trip to Clemson Tuesday, the cagers meet the Generals from Lexington at the Charlotte
Armory Friday night.

Pictured above is the undefeated Kappa Sig intramural squad that won ten straight to cop the intramural crown. In the
line are: (left to right) Jones, Covington, Bingham, McFadyen, and Torrence. The quintet of backs are Faw, Wilcox, Edwards, Pearson,
and Keesler. The big Red and Black line should be especially praised for their spirit and fight, which are hard
to beat on any club. Such names as Mapes, Carnegie, Boyd, Chandler, Rhodes, Richards, Horn, Sharpe, and Cheek will long
be remembered in Davidson annals. To say nothing of their offensive might, the big line’s work against heavier opponents has
been a highlight of Southern Conference play.

Carl Eborn, 19-year-old sophomore from Norfolk, was singled out for praise by Coaches Feathers and McCray who pushed him for
All-Conference. He made All-State and was next to All-American Al DeRowatis for All-Conference. He was in on practically every play
and blocking assignment until he had taken Sig's poll the most votes. Right behind him were Mack Erwin and Gene
Bingham, also Nat Mills, Manor, Brinegar, Hodgin, and Jim Sittord who vied with each other for individual scoring honors. Senior
Buck Williams gave a good account of himself and proved invaluable to the Cats as a placement artist. Freshman Dave
Poole was the only neophyte to crash the line-up and looked especially good as a linebacker. Burt Anderton, who improved
at tailback steadily as the season progressed, had one of the best completion averages of the nation, and became the
hero of the Citadel and Furman games. His fifty-yard runback of a recovered fumble in the Furman game was a
beautiful climax to a successful season.

Scarcely a week after the Furman game, the basketball team opens its season against Kannapolis “Y” tonight in the telephone
booth at the rear of Chambers. The cage premier will show a depleted strength in the basketeer's lineup as compared
with last year, but it should also bring out a wealth of new material which Coach Sheppard has to work
with. Veterans Cheek, Cobb, Williams, and Ashmore will be missing their erstwhile mates who graduated last year and Mal Earp
who remained with Durham as a professional pitcher. Louie Bingham, Dick Mills, and Bill Hodgin all look like likely prospects
for the fifth slot on the quintet, though Mills will probably be held as a substitute for the lanky Cheek
at center. Manor, Brinegar, Hopper, Roddy, Poole, Hengeveld, and Jim Cobb will all see action before the season is done.
Here's hoping that this aggregation will get a better conference deal than their predecessors did last year. The dependable floor
play of Cheek and Mike Williams, along with the sure-fire accuracy of Whit Cobb, and Ashmore’s flashy lay-ups should make
a well-rounded offensive for the “Cats.

Wrestling also gets officially under way this week. Coach Parker found his team already rounded into good shape under the
tutelage of Jimmy Jung, 121-pound artist.frei the '46 team. Jim went to the finals in the Southern Conference match last
year after being undefeated all season. With twenty men out for the squad, there is competition in all weight classes,
with the exception of the 136 class and the 155 class which are held by such worthies as Bill Fesperman
and Stubby Evans respectively. Both these boys have a lot of experience and should give a good account of themselves.
Other standouts are Ernie Strictlin and Bill Moore, both of the unlimited class, and Bull Alexander who will battle the
175-pounders.

THE FINEST IN MEN'S CLOTHING
JACK WOOD, Ltd.
102 East Fourth Street
Charlotte

UNIVERSITY STYLE
SINGLE-BREASTED SUITS
DOUBLE-BREASTED LONG ROLL
WORSTED AND FLANNELS.
HAND-LOOMED SPORT COATS
BUTTON DOWN SHIRTS
SPREAD COLLAR AND TAB SHIRTS WITH
FRENCH CUFFS
WOOL AND LISLE HOSE
FORMAL WEAR

Interest to all Davidsonians is while Dave Neill, burly S.V.B. back, sparkplug, tied for the fourth backfield position. The first
and second people of interest who were present on Saturday afternoon in Winston-Salem. Stubby Evans and Bill Moore have been
handling the team while waiting for Coach Park's help. Coach Park returned to the team recently. The prize, a 15-pound
turkey, was awarded to the winner. Close behind was Dr. F. E. Brown, who carded a 94 which enabled him
to secure second place just one point out. Saturday’s meet was to be one of three pre-season matches in preparation
for the conference season which will not begin until after Christmas.

The Davidson cross country team finished the current campaign with an impressive win over the Harris team. Blake Bradley ran
the three-mile course in the good time of 15:08. Montgomery and Grube also ran well in the meet.

First Team:
E—Ed Hopper, S.P.E. (7)
G—Harry Brown, D.K. (3)
C—Gene Fingham, Kappa, (4)
B—Charlie Pearson, Kappa Sig (5)
B—Dave Neill, S.P.E. (6)
B—Whit Goh, Phi Delt (7)
B—Bill Houck, Pi Kappa (8)
B—Bill Robertson, Pi Kappa (9)
B—Jimmy French, Phi Gam (10)

Second Team:
L.G.—McGehee, S.A.E. (2)
R.G.—Don Lipscomb, Beta (2)
R.E.—Hugh Hill, S.A.E. (2)
B—Grant Barker, Phi Gam (2)
B—Jimmy French, Phi Gam (2)
B—Bill Robertson, Pi Kappa (2)
B—Jimmy French, Phi Gam (2)

Introducing Sandy Carnegie
By DOUG HIX

Last year, Sandy Carnegie had hoped to play a little football, but after two years at Davidson, he has decided
that he is too beat up. After graduating from high school, Uncle Sam beckoned to the toothless wonder. He served
as a sergeant in England, France, Belgium, Holland, and Germany.

Following is the Davidson College basketball schedule for the season:

Dec. 6—McCrary—there.
Dec. 9—Clemson—there.
Dec. 12—W. & L.—Charlotte.
Dec. 15—Geo. Wash U.—There.
Dec. 16—Maryland U.—there.
Dec. 17—Quantico Marines—there.
Jan. 3—Hanes—W. Salem.
Jan. 6—Duke—W. Salem.
Jan. 9—N.C. State—Charlotte.
Jan. 10—S. C.—There.
Jan. 12—Wofford—here.
Jan. 24—McCrary—here.
Jan. 30—U. N. C.—there.
Jan. 31—Duke—there.
Feb. 2—Charleston—here.
Feb. 3—Furman—there.
Feb. 6—V. M. I.—Charlotte.
Feb. 10—S. C.—Charlotte.
Feb. 12—Clemson—here.
Feb. 14—Citadel—here.
Feb. 17—N. C. State—there.
Feb. 21—Wofford—there.
Feb. 24—U. N. C.—Charlotte.
Feb. 26—Furman—here.
Feb. 27—Citadel—there.
Feb. 28—Charleston—there.
