Page 2 THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, May 9, 1947 The Davidsonian Founded by the Class of 1915 “FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

Editorials

THE DAVIDSONIAN

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOB PHILLIPS

BUSINESS MANAGER
BOB CLINE

EDITORIAL STAFF
Sports Editor
Sam Ervin

Feature Editor
Bob Rierson

Managing Editor
Walter Mann

Managing Editor
Bill Calhoun

Managing Editor
Ronny Dietrick

Managing Editor
Stan Kennett

Staff Photographer
John Stewart

Exchange Editor
Bob Hollister

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Bob Gambrell

Advertising Manager
Frank Lemmon

Circulation Manager
John McNair

Circulation Manager
Bob Cline

Circulation Manager
Bill Baxter

Collection Manager
Charles Dockery

Reporters:
Rees Jenkins, Lonnie Turnipseed, Bill Johnson, Frank Len, I. Schwammie, Bill Bogart, Frank Allred, Ernest Hunter, Kent Christopher

Sports Reporters:
Charles Cunningham, Jack Hazard, Mac Hart.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE
New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1946 Member 1947
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

To The Seniors...
Next Monday night, May 12, the last Davidsonian of the current school year will be put together. For you departing
graduates, that issue will represent your final opportunity for public expression as Davidson students. Stop a minute — a rather
sobering thought, isn’t it? Realizing that every man leaving “the hill” probably has something to get off his chest, some
word of advice for those who follow in his footsteps, or a note of thanks or tribute to leave behind
him, we deem it nothing less than duty to reserve for the seniors adequate “speaking space” in the last issue.
This invitation to “speak up” is not tendered especially to those seniors who are journalistically inclined — response from them
is taken for granted — the constructive contribution of every man who writes the English language is most welcome on
these pages. You have been here over a period of years, how great the span depending on such variables as
draft board and quality point quotas, and we feel that you must have a message for the college in general
and for your inheritors in particular. Speak departing “big wheels.” Speak departing “little wheels” or forever hold your peace with
the school that has fostered you! —K.D.P.

Sunday Visits...
One of the long-standing local traditions which has been sadly neglected this year is that of visiting in faculty homes
Sunday evening after vespers. Many students either don’t realize the opportunity contained therein, or have fear of being tagged a
“boot-licker” or by other suitable synonyms. The benefits that may be derived from this custom are not necessarily those of
higher grades but rather those of friendship with men who are leaders in their work and whom to know is
worth fully as much as many other advantages obtained in college. The faculty members prepare, each Sunday evening, for a
group of men to visit. In the past, they might be reasonably sure they would have callers, but this year,
men seem to shy away and fail to appear on the scene. Give this situation a thought and let’s get
to know our professors better. —W. W. Calhoun

Letters To The Editor
Dear Editor:-
I am one of those few unfortunates who live in a room adjacent to a dormitory telephone and I have
a complaint to lodge against my building-mates in regards to the answering of the supposed mechanism of convenience, which is
rapidly becoming an instrument of torture for me and my roommates. The situation wasn't too bad back in the winter
months when the school was more or less isolated by monsoon and exam, but with the coming of spring, that
telephone rings constantly from dawn until midnight. Now, don’t get me wrong, I’m all for these modern appliances — I
think they’re great, but when it comes to a choice between having verbal contact with the outside world or being
reduced to a mental and physical wreck, I’m in favor of yanking the telephone out by its roots. However, I
am really not an abolitionist, nor am I an impractical dreamer who envisions hired telephone orderlies — I am just
an overworked “answerer” who is desperately pleading for a communal effort in this task. Some of you second and third,
and fourth floor fellows and some residing beyond the mid-line of the first floors are surely weeping crocodile tears for
me at this point, but I maintain I have a legal complaint. In a recent tally recorded by one of
my co-complainant roommates, the phone in our dormitory rang thirty-seven times during a period from six forty-five in the morning
until twelve thirty-five at night; of these thirty-seven incoming calls, thirty-one had to be answered by me or my roommates!
When we first moved into the room this year, we were resigned to the fact that we would be disturbed
by the telephone and that we would have to answer a lot of early and late calls when it was
easier for us to tumble out of the sack than for the rest of our more distant dorm-mates a-bed. This,
however, we accepted as the price to pay for a room conveniently located. We of course assumed that our friends
residing elsewhere in the dormitory were capable of answering the telephone, and that they would help us share the burden
throughout the day. These we soon learned were the fallacious dreams of idealists: and we sadly learned that the dormitory-wide
reaction to phone calls at any time was: “Aw, don't bother, those nice boys in the end room will catch
it.” and ‘catch it’ we have to such a degree that we cringe every time that phone commences to jangle.
Now as a remedy to what we think is a deplorable situation, I don't suggest that each room should take
its turn on specific duty to answer the calls, nor do I propose that the leading mathematician of each dormitory
figure out just whom the next incoming call will be for, on a basis of average individual popularity, and political
position. I admit that my solution to the problem is a bit more complicated, but I sincerely believe that if
the plan is given a trial and practiced for a few days that it will be a feasible one. This
might be asking a bit too much but here is the essence of my plan: that those hundreds who by-pass
a ringing phone each day on their leisurely ways about the dorm take it upon themselves to detour three paces
and sacrifice a few seconds to answer a call. It really is astounding the number of otherwise thoughtful dormitory residents
who leave it to the “other fellow” to go to this slight inconvenience. Extreme cases: (1) motorcycle mechanics working within
grease-gun shooting distance of a ringing telephone and being so “engrossed in their work” that they couldn’t reach up and
relieve its urgent jangle, letting it run down like an alarm clock. (2) Seventy-six bull-shooters enjoying nature’s breezes and theirs
on a dormitory porch. The phone rings, and what do they do? Answer it? No! They've developed a novel game
— wagering on how long I’ll let it ring before I break down and dash out to save another call.
Please, fellows, a little help!! Hopefully, John McClure.

Breezin’ With Bob
BY BOB RIERSON

The Operating Table
If you vainly watch and never see, Your name midst the dealers of old D. C., Have patience dear Frosh
for the time will come, When the Table you'll make and then get some of dressing in the dormitories and
on the part of all Davidsonians everywhere in regard to future developments in the physical plant of the school, it
might be well to survey and recommend and comment on necessary improvements in the athletic department. The first and foremost
topic of consideration is, of course, the new gymnasium which has been planned for several years now. It would be
useless to go into the arguments for a new gym, when, upon looking at the old one, it is seen
that there are no arguments against it. There is every possibility that construction will begin within the next years, and
some specific plans have no doubt been made. Still there are certain things that must bear mention which cannot be
overlooked from the students’ viewpoint. Not the least among these is a PT dressing system for those who take the
course. The ideal is for each man to be issued a basket of his own, complete with lock and equipment
(i.e., gym pants, shirt, socks), which would be kept in certain places provided for the baskets, such as a group
of racks. Then a system of lockers should be installed which students could put their clothes into and lock. When
they finished their class, they would shower, in showers right there in the gym as well, get their change of
sweat clothes, lock up their baskets and leave. The next class would then take over the same lockers and so
on. The students would pay a fee at registration to cover the cost of laundry service for their sweat clothes.
The present system of dressing in the dormitories and then starting the long trek to the gym is far outdated
and very bothersome, to say the least. Another pressing need for the increased population of this college is the provision
for several new tennis courts. Even if the present size of the student body is reduced when the emergency is
over, it is impossible to see how seven or eight tennis courts, enough for 28 or 30 persons to play
on, are sufficient. Certainly there are more than 30 out of 600 who will wish to play tennis each sunny
afternoon. An innovation that has met with much success in other institutions is the equipment checking system which would be
operated in one section of the new gym, possibly at the same place where sweat clothes would be issued. Under
this plan several instruments of organized play, such as baseballs, footballs, handballs, basketballs, would be kept in the storeroom. The
student, upon presenting a card or some such device, would be allowed to check out a ball and use it
as long as he wished, with the provision that it would be returned by a certain time, say five o’clock,
in the afternoon when the window would close. A list of prices for lost and ruined goods could be posted
so that the student could see the penalty to be paid for any default. This system would be ideal for
voluntary exercise which plays such a large part among the students now, even with the limited facilities available.may be and
certainly are, it is still true that “All work and no play, etc.” Davidson needs a new and improved physical
education department on a sufficiently large scale in a world where healthy and normal bodies are becoming requisite for the
clear and incisive minds needed to solve present-day problems. I believe that the plans for the new gym call for
a swimming pool, the standard equipment rooms, and other such rooms as are necessary. A gymnasium should contain all facilities
that are needed for a thriving concern such as Davidson is coming to be.

The familiar business clothes. Down Fraternity Court

KAPPA SIGMA

With a few scattered remnants decided to make a weekend of it on the campus, the Sigmas were at the
beach. It wasn’t reported to us which one it was, and we cannot guess, since it generally is known that
all three know most of the “beaches” in and around this country pretty well. Of first importance is the word
that Tete Pearson, on the scene at Churchill Downs, laid a large sum on a horse named “Jet Pilot.” No
doubt we shall see a “new” Buick cruising around the campus. On the other hand, Dum Dum Anyface lost his
jockey in some two-bit race in Asheville.

The seniors spent a wild time at Myrtle Beach. Footsie was caught in the women’s dressing room on each occasion,
having an excuse for the Law each time. Brother Taylor left with 30 cents and returned home with fourteen dollars
and twenty-two slot machines. The latest report is that Doug Swink now has 49 percent of the stock in the
Bamboo Room. He is desperately trying to get that last 1 percent, but the owner is awfully stubborn. Brothers Ken
and Slick were out roaming the streets of Charlotte but were somehow caught when trying to peek into young women’s
apartment windows.

Brother Ford Little took his wife to Blowing Rock, while Jim Williamson went to Gatley, S.C. Brothers Heimby and Pahl
decided that Greensboro held the most fascination for them, so they spent the weekend there. Brother John Coddington went to
the May Day festivities at Hollins, while Bill Baxter went to Salem for the same reason. Each has been arguing
ever since about the merits of his date and how much better a time he had than the other could
possibly have had. If we may be so bold, we shall say that the weekend must have been fine for
both, and we call it a draw.

PI KAPPA PHI

Because this is a rush job for other reasons which I can’t mention, some of our more famous (or infamous)
dealers’ dealings may not get the mention they so notoriously deserve. Brothers Cline and Edwards, Reid, and Cox added flavor
to the Lenoir Rhyne dance. Brother Edwards came back with about two dogs in a telephone booth, and also a
story about... well, I won’t finish that one. Herb Johnson took in the May Day dance at G.C. Brother Bill
Lander has a new queen at Salem. He dated her four times in three days and lost his... little black
book. Brothers Ned E. and “Passionate” Patlgs hit the night spots (Lou usually only hits the high spots). Congrats to
Brothers Cline and Tyler on their elections to the posts of Business Managers of Davidson and The Quips and Cranks
respectively. “Berwyn showed Lord Odell a mistake in his calendar.”

THE TORCH (TURNBULL, another Sigma) heaved the discus a prodigious distance Saturday afternoon against W&L and then sped up to
Sweet Briar with FREEMAN JONES. It is reported that there the two threw around far more than a discus and
scored an even greater number of points. Many a rosebud was plucked from the bevy of May Day flowers, and
JONES is now clamoring to put on an exhibition on the Davidson golf course.

BLACK JACK SHELDTON also traveled the well-trod road to the Virginia city of hills and thrills. After gamboling on the
grass at Randy Mac’s ceremonies, he forsook the educational grounds for an institution of higher learning... and price. The housing
situation in Lynchburg is unusually good, says Shelton. As in other far-off lands, a tense situation came up in Winston-Salem.
It seems that GEORGE PATRICK is the talk of the Salem campus after his Saturday night experience. Bodily speaking, GEORGE
found himself the leading man in a co-operative scene before the ruling elders of the faculty and a few jealously
wide-eyed Salamis (girls who go to Salem) in one of the college smoking rooms. But only tousled (that’s tousled spelled
without the aid of the Noah side of the Webster brethren) hair, a reddened handkerchief, and an aching heart remain.

Here in the hinterland, the Phi Delts celebrated Queens-Phi Delt Day (Saturday) with a golf course excursion for the benefit
of the large number of their chapter confined to quarters by the Junior G-Men for banging in the dormitories. A
steak fry at Erwin Lodge was used as a ruse to lure numerous misnomered Queens. Some were won, some were
lost, and all were rained in, much to the discomfort of PASSIONATE BILL IVERSON and LEERING LE WILLLINGHAM, who were
flushed by the shower from a vantage point in a cluster of Dogberry.

Charlotte’s Woman’s Club held a novel gathering Saturday evening. Several hundred Betas, including a score of college presidents of the
past and a few library assistants, swarmed from the Davidson hive to worship Wooglin in festive fashion. By violation of
the law of self-preservation and the Mann Act, sufficient feminine companionship was acquired from the numbers of the Queens Glee
Club, the Mecklenburg Choral Society, and the Carolina Hayride. The welkin rang. MULE MOUTH attended with his intended. WILLIAMSON, Wooglin’s
anointed, also sported a maiden fair. Many others stood around and sang.

And that be all for the hour is late, You nondescripts may bemoan your fate, Your name ain’t here nor
will appear, Till to the hill you return with fear, Of the dreaded Cop or Smiling Hugh, And that group,
thank Wooglin, is few.

Editor’s Note: The Alpha Sigs demand a small mention (about 200 lines) of their recent exploits. The sun of Myrtle
Beach burned each as red as O’Hair’s nose. PORT discovered deep-seated evidence of feminine companionship (the elastic was broken). CROWELL
vied with THE HOCK for auto honors, sporting a Big Black. MOOSE was loose and BARNWELL won the loving cup.
TAYLOR did little except with this week’s one and only. THE BONE and PETERS went down on Saturday but managed
to keep up the pace. There were also varying reports of the presence of HUGE HAROLD MAXWELL, but these are
consigned to the class of rumor, though proof (86) was abundant.

By Bill Cinema Comments

MONDAY-TUESDAY “RETURN OF MONTE CRISTO”

This picture is about Monte Cristo; the third in a series of pictures about Monte Cristo. The part of Monte
Cristo is played by Louis Hayward, who also played the part of Monte Cristo in the former pictures about Monte
Cristo (and his beloved wife). Barbara Britton is the young lady in this picture about the “age of chivalry” when
knighthood was in fleur.

WEDNESDAY-THURSDAY “NOTORIOUS GENTLEMAN”

Lilly Palmer and Rex Harrison co-star in this British-made film. As shown in England, Harrison was thrown out of school
for placing a chamber pot on the flagpole. After the film has been American-purified, he places a top-hat on the
flagpole instead. The English version of the “life of a rake” is depicted herein in a most interesting way.

FRIDAY-SATURDAY “SINBAD, THE SAILOR”

Strict fantasy, straight out of the storybook version of Arabian Nights typifies this RKO production in glorious Technicolor. Maureen O’Hara
is the beautiful woman, with Douglas Fairbanks, Jr. Fairbanks has been described in this picture as the “boldest braggart who
ever made his boasts come true... in the palaces and harems of ancient Persia.”

Salem Day seems to have cast a charm on some of the fellows for so he stayed “Home” this weekend.
Is his face red!! ...

News Flash! Cheek and Love were seen flirting with two babes in the show, Saturday night. What a shame. Now
they will have to turn in their Eagle Scout badges. There seemed to be a lonely-looking character in front of
Chambers Sunday night, looking for another pick-up. Maybe next Sunday you will have better luck, Suggs.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

Our fine chapter sowed not wild oats, but Violets, in all directions last weekend as a number of the actives
left the campus to relieve the monotony of it all. The hill was particularly lonely without the smiling faces of
Brothers Carrow, Port, and Harris, who, finding things too “hot” for them here, went back up there last weekend. Brothers
Harden and Mitchell and also Pledge Brother Kabrich. Most of the chapter were on hand at Erwin Lodge Friday evening
to play host to the group of alumni who were present for a delicious barbecue. To prove that the Betas
don’t do all the singing, Brother Jeffries, coached by Gentleman Jim, led the group in some of the old familiars.

BETA THETA PI

Wooglin smiled upon Phi Alpha’s last dance weekend of the year and made it a complete success. Even the occasional
rains did not dampen the spirits of most of the brothers who, with their dates, enjoyed the festivities.
