Page Two — The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

JIM LOVE ........................................... EDITOR
BOB SMOAK ................................ BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bob Phillips ................................ Associate Editor
................................................. Feature Editor
................................................. Sports Editor
................................ Assistant Sports Editor
................................ Assistant Editor
................................ Managing Editor
Bob Rierson ................................ Managing Editor
Sam Ervin ................................ Managing Editor
Charlie Cunningham ........................ Managing Editor
Dave Richardson ............................ Managing Editor
Kent Christopher ............................ Managing Editor
Walter Walker ............................... Managing Editor
Ronny Dietrick ............................... Managing Editor
Lamar Williamson .......................... Managing Editor
George Worth ................................. Managing Editor
John Stuart .................................... Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
................................ Assistant Business Manager
Bob Gambrell ............................... Advertising Manager
Frank Lemmon ............................. Circulation Manager
John McNair ................................ Circulation Manager
Bob Cline ...................................... Collection Manager
Charles Dockery ........................... Circulation Manager
Bill Baxter ..................................... Circulation Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING CO. Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 Madison Ave. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1946 Member 1947
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such
it welcomes any contributions or communication to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity,
obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday night of the week that it
is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

Block System For Pan-Hell

The change in the Constitution of the Pan-Hellenic Council, as proposed by the present interfraternity organization, seems to us to
be the practical, if not the only solution, to a difficult problem. Under the present set-up, tickets to the dances
are sold on a catch-as-catch-can basis, and responsibility is divided equally among the fraternities and their representatives, with each fraternity
and each representative sharing 1/18 of the profit or loss at the end of the year.

The old system was all right in the old days, when orchestras were cheap and Uncle Sam not quite so
demanding. But these are not the old days. Prices of orchestras have doubled, and the government, under its amusement tax
laws, steps in to demand over 20 percent of the total income from a dance. It is obvious that the
price of a set ticket, which ran from $3.50 to $6 before the war, cannot be doubled to meet the
corresponding increase in cost. The solution, therefore, must lie elsewhere.

Under the new proposal, each fraternity will guarantee to the council the equivalent of at least 85% of its total
membership for each dance. In addition, the financial responsibility will be lifted entirely from the shoulders of the individual representative,
and placed on the fraternities alone, with each fraternity sharing 1/9 of the profit or loss. Tickets will be sold
to independent students on the voluntary basis used now. A board consisting of one or two representatives from each social
organization will have the right to check periodically on the Pan-Hellenic Council to see that all funds are being spent
in a reasonable and economical manner.

The advantages of this plan over the old one are manifest. In the first and strongest place, the council will
have a set fund that it can count on, and a fund that should also be larger by some 20%.
In the past, planning for a dance was nothing more than groping around in the dark. The number in attendance
had to be estimated, the total income had to be estimated, the price of tickets therefore had to be estimated,
the whole process was one of estimation. Sometimes this system worked; sometimes it didn’t. The late Midwinters Set was one
time it didn’t. The council overestimated the number in attendance at the dance, and lost some $300 in the doing.
As a result, they are now afraid to “stick out their necks” again on the Spring Set, and may decide
to play it safe with a lesser-known orchestra, hoping to make up in part what they lost on the last
one. A corollary, then, of this first advantage is that the council will not be afraid to contract for a
good band, and having more money to pay for it, will get a better orchestra. Finer dances will result.

Set Fund

In the second place, the new plan will mean cheaper tickets. Formerly, the council was afraid to count on more
than 500 men at a dance, out of a student body of 900. Expenses run, let us say, in the
neighborhood of $5,000 a set. It takes no genius to see that each ticket will cost $6. But if, under
the “block system,” as it is called, they can count on 100 more men, then the price of each admission
can drop to $5. That’s simple arithmetic, but it helps the pocketbook, nevertheless. And 100 more men should mean more
stags.

Frats Responsible

And lastly, the change means that the responsibility for the financial success of a dance is taken from the representatives
and placed entirely with the fraternities, where it belongs. After all, the representative is not putting on a dance for
his own pleasure; he’s been elected by his chapter to plan a dance for them. He’s giving his time and
his energy, and believe us, it takes plenty of both. Should he be asked to give his pocketbook as well?
That is what will happen too often if he has to continue to work by something as indefinite as the
present system. Especially in these days, every time he promotes a dance, he takes a terrific personal gamble, and the
chances are good that he will lose, simply because too many of his fraternity brothers decide arbitrarily that they had
rather do something else that weekend or they got “Mushed” and won’t go, or just that they aren’t in the
mood to attend their dance. All this will be changed; the gamble will be taken by the fraternities, who will
now support their own dance. But is it a gamble? With a definite fund to count on they will know
how much they can spend, and there should be a sizable profit as well from the independent support.

Social or Not?

Naturally, there are two sides to this, as there are to every question. Some will argue that dance attendance should
be voluntary. To this we say no one is being forced to go, necessarily. The 85% clause leaves a cushion
of 15% of each fraternity to take care of members who are on athletic trips, who are sick, who can’t
afford to go, etc. In addition, the difference may be made up by taking money from the treasury, if the
chapter wills, and repaying it from the profits at the end of the year. That decision is the chapter’s; they
may assess each member if they like; don’t they assess 100% for individual fraternity functions? After all, everyone pays an
athletic fee, if he doesn’t go to a game all year he pays for a concert ticket, and probably 25%
of the student body attends them. And we are social fraternities. Again, some may shy away from freeing the representative
of responsibility, using the argument that he will work harder if he has a financial interest of his own at
stake. Work harder for what? Enough money? The new plan guarantees him enough, without the necessity for his knocking himself
out needlessly. And the inspecting board should be a sufficient guarantee that the council doesn’t squander the money foolishly, even
if the fraternities fail to choose as their representatives the capable and conscientious men they should.

There are flaws in any plan one could offer. We believe, however, that this new “block system” offers by far
the most advantages for the least disadvantages. Davidson is the only school we know of that uses the system we
now have; we hurt ourselves by being different.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Friday, March 7, 1947

Letters to the Editor

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

It might well be said that the North Carolina Theta Chapter of Sigma Alpha Epsilon could have had its weekly
meeting in either Greensboro or Chapel Hill last weekend, for all the big wheels of our fraternity were at one
or both of the above-mentioned places. Probably the main reason for this was that Brother Dick Port participated in the
Southern Conference Indoor Track Meet in Chapel Hill. Brothers Jim Harris, and “Meatball” Gambrell had to spend quite a bit
of time sweeping the excess sugar out of 10 Georgia after Dick got back, for he had received more than
ten letters from his Memphis women while he was gone. (It was not reported how many more than ten he
received, for neither Jim nor ‘Meatball’, strange to say, had more than that number of fingers on which to count.)
Besides those that journeyed to the track meet, the only other ones that were industrious enough to go to any
place but Charlotte were Ford Little, who went to Winston-Salem, and Dick Richards, who traveled to his home in Lancaster,
South Carolina.

DELTA KAPPA

Reviews impart a remarkable meekness to most of our membership—Dietrick has been speechless for 3 days in fact. Various former
Navy men have been trading sea stories recently—if this weather continues even Miller may be tricked into reminiscing about the
tropical isles, what with the Eskimo conditions in Elm Row prevailing. Recent activities in the direction of Queens saw Freeman
and Williams (as usual) trekking woman-ward. Many are the sacrifices of a social butterfly—at least in the review period. Pledges
Clark, Brown and Hopkins seem to have an egg complex—even asking people to write their names on the things. There
being no bonafide scandal to report, this is enough drivel for this week. There is Brother Richard and his marvelous
organ playing in chapel—“E. Powerhouse Richard” we call him, these days.

PHI DELTA THETA

Heading the list of the Phi Delta escapades this week was the notorious McLean who sallied forth to Duke, Carolina
and what have you. Brothers Newell, Sutton, and Tate journeyed to the Queen City on Sunday afternoon to visit three
Queens College lovelies, and after an afternoon of cruising the town in the big blue, were entertained with a steak
supper served before a roaring fire in the Phi Mu lodge. “Show-nuff”... Sho’ do! Brother Cameron, like unto the old
faithful geyser, motored to Greensboro to see a sick friend, sez he, while Brother Starnes wheeled and dealed (or dealt)
to his native land of Asheville to recuperate after an arduous siege with the books. Brothers Iverson and Henderson, breaking
all precedents, spent a quiet and orderly weekend on the campus of old Alenda Lux. Brother Parker made such a
notorious trip to Asheville that he was dubbed hizzonah the night mayor.

KAPPA ALPHA

Knights of Sigma Chapter rolled out of the snow-imposed hibernation of the last week and managed to delve in aHere
is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Few deals here and there. Climax of an otherwise quiet Sunday was a rousing snow-ball encounter between “Fly Boy” Watt,
aided by five other culprits, and “Open the Door” Glasgow, assisted by a humorist of local renown. The results are
unknown, but Watt was last seen wig-wagging for support. “Shylock” Macauley and “Shackles” Richardson, purveyors of stationery, dry cleaning, real
estate, and used cars, reached a new low in their commercial scheme to dominate the campus. They toasted their roommate
on “state sardines” then tried to sell flowers and sick cards to sympathetic friends. Brother Mitchell, sprouting the latest in
scalp-wear, is reported to be revising a popular ballad, substituting the words “Queen City”—worthy of note in his valiant attempt
to retain “Greyhound.”

Down Fraternity Court received nation-wide publicity from Bill Barron, who extended a brotherly hand to Big Bingham (Kappa Sig) by
taking him to Rock Hill for the weekend. Both looked tired Monday. Watch this column next week for an announcement
of national significance.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

The past weekend was relatively quiet for the Pikas, though some of the boys managed to stir up some trouble.
Pledge Homo Ellis took an extended weekend around Goldsboro and is slowly but surely recuperating. Brother Dockery spent a “quiet
(2?)” weekend in the hills, while Brother Double Dip McNair operated till the wee hours of Sunday morning. Brother Fanjoy
was finally located in Statesville, where it seems he spends most of his spare time. Brother Leonard visited in Elkin,
but his mind wandered in a Statesville direction, where Brother Boyd was putting in spare time on his Spanish lessons—first
hand. Brother Wester hit a house party in the Queen City, journeying back to Winston. Brother Denison and Pledge Walker
dated in Charlotte, where Pledge Barnard also found excitement. Big Middie took his family of track men to the Hill
where he found Brother Jackson “just looking.” On Sunday night, two men, Dick Bigelow and Bob Grew, were pledged by
Beta chapter.

BETA THETA PI

Arkansas seems to have been enjoying a lot of popularity last week. Brothers Williamson, McCloy, and Stephenson were honored by
a surprise visit from four Salem beauties on Friday. Four girls, it would seem, would require four dates, but McCloy
claimed he could handle two of them without any trouble. Well, we'll have to admit that he eats enough for
two good men, but it’s doubtful that he can hold his own with one woman, much less two. The truth
of the matter is that the Arkansas brains couldn’t, for the life of them, remember the girls’ names so as
to introduce them to anybody.

Brothers Scarborough and Turner went up to Salem Sunday after operating elsewhere on Saturday night. We wonder if Fisher will
ever get wise to the fact that Al has interests in South Carolina. A hearty welcome was extended to Brother
Bill Rogers, who made a short visit here this weekend between terms at Princeton Seminary. Bill was recently elected Phi
Alpha’s most worthy Beta of 1945-'46.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

It has been noticed that Edward Lilly, and Richard too, have been keeping quiet about themselves this semester, but in
their case, appearances don't tell all. It’s also been noticed for a couple of weeks that Rowell’s pin isn’t in
Davidson... that Thatcher and company spent a chaste weekend in Davidson this past one... that Hurd Bradford ventured forth to
Mooresville, as per usual... that White repudiates any and everything he might have said in defense of Winchester and his
professor, the truth came out during the writing of this column... that three Brothers, all non-residents of Rock Hill, were
seen in R. H. Saturday afternoon and evidently they hadn’t gone down to Winthrop... that L. Sellers starts out on
dates at midnight... that “Sack-Cloth and Ashes” now hasn’t had to pay Robinson and Blevins to date, how long it’s
to last is anybody’s guess... that Blevins went to a party in the mountains... and the lights were on as
late as usual in 314 East for the usual reasons.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

Reacting swiftly from the cleanliness campaign initiated in last week’s Davidsonian, the chapter’s purity rating sank rapidly to an estimated
6.22 percent, and informed sources of spring weather (and unparalleled opportunity and motive offered by any informal dance in Charlotte).
Accurate records on married brothers’ behavior were unobtainable, but unquestionably spotless. Attempting to retain Phi Gamma Delta’s standing was Brother
Roughhouse, proudly flaunting the pelt of a she-wolf. The “Kool” Karrow is moaning refrains of the “Freight Train Blues” after
his Saturday night episode... eyewitnesses swear ‘twas a two hundred pounder. Currently, however, the Runty Rider of the Red Racer
is embroiled in a hot affair with sixteen-year-old Dotty of Kinston High. “Bomber” Bill McLean has finally flown out of
the flak of myriad disastrous affairs d’amour and sighted a new target in the lush fields of Dukedom. “Zeus” returned
from a smashing conquest this weekend, wreathed in smiles, and “Never-Say-Die” Currie, ostensibly off for a weekend of golf in
High Point, reportedly had little success in repatching his late great smashed romance. Thousands’ Maxwell returned from a deal magnificent
to Staten Island, happily announcing that the wheelbase of his new Buick exceeds that of the 1946 model by seven
inches. Our Manhattan agent was unable to determine whether the acquisition of the Black Bullet was a straight Black Market
deal, or whether it came as a hush payment from the chagrined father of an erstwhile lover of the “Two
Ton.” “Saint Joseph” Bachman and his number one disciple, the good Shepherd Dunn, were observed gorging themselves on the sirloins
of M. Edouard Stonestreet in nearby Mooresville, and trying to convert several wayward waitresses. “Sanitary” Dave Richardson conducted a solo
“Y” deputation to Swirling Water, Georgia, deep in the heart of the Okefenokee Swamp. “Redoubtable” Dave is said to have
garnered some three dozen believers in his Doctrine of Uninhibited Deeds... all of them were Talmadge supporters.

The Phi Delts, announcing their plans for a forthcoming costume ball, added that their featherless brother, Samuel Lemuel Tate, has
no worries about his attire... he plans to attend in his customary lewdly nude state. The local war lords, Fort
Benning, Class of 1943, have spent a busy week applying polish to their bright work and Kiwi to their boots,
in anticipation of the weekend's scheduled hike to the Durham-Chapel Hill Camporee. Major Amos announced to his staff that he
would graciously provide transportation in his one and one-half ton lorry. Lieutenants Williams, Lacy, Taylor, Currie, Jeffries, and Barnwell will
display their crack drill platoons in between-game festivities at the basketball tournament. Boomhbarger reports extreme embarrassment in the company of
the Ray “Raconteur,” “Lemon Head” Thompson. According to the Greensboro journals, the very leaves of the magnolias in the swank
Plantation Club withered at Thompson's terrible tales.

Super criminal “Dum-Dum” Ennett is still hiding out on the Davidson campus as Federal authorities uncover more clues concerning the
nefarious misdeeds committed during the Mid Winters weekend. The unperturbed “Dum-Dum,” however, assures representatives of the Davidsonian present that all
will come up aright and bigger and better capers are in the offing. “Spectrum” Port is now without serious challengers
in the field of feminine conquest, after receiving one day last week seven epistles from one and the selfsame admirer.
The south wall of Port’s portico is now adorned with the several colored billets-doux arranged in rainbow fashion.

—By Doug Swink

MONDAY AND TUESDAY MARCH 10-11

“A SCANDAL IN PARIS”

This is a romantic comedy told like a fairy tale portraying the transformation of Vidocq from a daring rascal to
the Prefect of the Paris police force. Set in the 1800s, the picture is beautifully done and characterizations are well
performed. George Sanders plays Vidocq and is supported by Signe Hasso, Carole Landis, and June Lockhart. As is usually the
way, Americanos try to build up Paris as a real Den of Iniquity. Thus, in carrying out this policy, the
National Legion of Decency says about “Scandal in Paris,” “... suggestive song, dialogue, situations, and costumes.” The Sphinx rides again!

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY MARCH 12-13

“THE CHASE”

Robert Cummings, as an ex-serviceman, finds a wallet, returns it to the rightful owner, and is employed as a chauffeur.
He now finds himself entangled with a group of dangerous gangsters and plans the escape of the wife of the
mob’s leader. Things begin to pop out as Hollywood will always have it—happy is the ending. There is to be
found a very powerful background in the music which is supplied entirely by a piano. Others in the cast are
Michele Morgan, Steve Cochran, and Peter Lorre. The use of easy drinking and light morals render this picture unfit for
children.

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY MARCH 14-15

“LADIES’ MAN”

A light gay comedy with a touch of the good old slapstick. It concerns a man who absolutely has all
the women wild about him and what specimens of that delightful sex as you have ever laid your eyes on.
I know of no better way than to wind up the review week thus remaining on campus Saturday night and
attending the local cinema. By doing this, one can get up early Sunday morning and start preparing for the next
reviews.

Amos Ragan, who spent the entire weekend on the campus. Sensual Sam Maloney and Erotic Elyea were, as usual, instrumental
in dreadfully lowering the chapter’s prestige, spending Saturday night prowling about the more notorious maisons des chats in Charlotte. Both
denied the accusation that they were doing undercover work for the Y.M.C.A. Naughty Nation Crowell spent the dreary hours swapping
evil anecdotes with a young lady notorious throughout the Carolinas for wanton profligacy. Reported Crowell, “It was unique.” Brothers, let
us all strive to do better during the coming months.

KAPPA SIGMA

Amid a driving snowstorm, Brothers Currie, Taylor, Amos, and Thompson, with two Saint Bernard dogs, were seen combating the elements
on the High Point golf course. All have returned in good spirits save for Currie, who won't admit the impracticability
of a 50-yard drive (“biggest darned oak tree I ever saw”). High scorer Mike Williams seems to do very well
under the auspices of one Mary (side) Street, as does Buddy Cheek with Sally Carson on the sidelines. Frigid Freeman
Jones, not to be outdone, has shifted into high gear and “formally” acquainted himself (“My name’s Jones—reckon you know yours—let’s
go”) with the latest Queen's belle, Mable Munday. While “Party-Boy” Lawson remained sedately on ye ole campus, Dum Dum Ennett
was thrilled to the tune of Hopalong Cassidy in a Charlotte cinema while anxiously awaiting the opening of the Camden
horse races. Rumor has it that plans have already been made for the Kentucky Derby. Meanwhile, Mouse Morgan and Ken
McArn have returned from a sixteen-hour trip from Carolina while occupying the back seat of Dr. Foreman’s ’23 Terraplane. Our
passengers report they would have made better time had not the good Doctor stopped in Pittsboro for a haircut.

---
