The Wildcats grid-ironers approach the mid-season mark with a game average of .500 with the two sure losers gone by.
With the tough William and Mary and State games out of the way, the Cats stand a very good chance,
barring further injuries, of coming out of the season with but two losses. Four of the coming frays will be
close and hard to predict as wins, but the Cats can take them.

The Homecoming advantage over V.M.I. gives them an edge over the Kaydets. The Richmond and Washington and Lee frays will
both be played on Old Dominion soil, but the Red and Black is laying for both teams because of last
season's defeats. The hardest game yet to be won is the last of the season, with Furman. A Turkey day
homecoming affair for the Furman team, the odds would seem to stand with Furman by virtue of season records so
far. Furman’s near upset of Georgia in their opener still stands out as one of the biggest surprises of the
year, in spite of Georgia’s loss to Carolina, and the latter’s two outstanding defeats.

Len Chewning, a last year Navy great, will be Hampden-Sydney’s only standout against Davidson tomorrow. However, the former Middie tailback
will be a menace to Red and Black victory motions if he gets away for many broken field jaunts. He
turned in some fine running behind Navy blocking last Fall, and, though he will no doubt miss the heavy blocking,
he may still have some sparks of the big-league five.

Coach Story’s boys are suffering their usual mid-season injury troubles. Bill Boyd, who lost lots of last season with a
broken leg, may miss two games on account of a busted-up knee ligament. Red and Black supporters will miss Bill's
big grin bounding in and out of the game. Doug Rice is having ankle trouble again, an injury that cost
him a first-string berth last fall. Wet lime on the Memorial Stadium Field last Saturday has many of the Cats
suffering with raw knees, skins, and elbows. It looks like the gridiron keepers could strike a happy medium.

Mack Erwin is back in top form. His helper in the fullback slot, Carl Pahl, will be ready to go
by Homecoming along with Boyd and maybe Doug Rice. Bill Iverson showed a lot of drive and ability to add
fire to the Cat drive Saturday against Wofford.

Congratulations to Whittle's Cross-Country team. In spite of a grueling early season pace to get in top form, the squad
has lost only one hopeful, and he a transfer to football. The daily dozen begins with a round of calisthenics
designed, under Pete’s eye, to help the wind and work on the leg and stomach running muscles. After thirty to
forty-five minutes of this, the boys warm up by taking several 220-sprints on the track before heading for the cake
course. The indomitable Gunder Grey looks like a sure number one man. He sets a fast pace and comes into
the final half-mile stretch with energy to burn. A few of the others who are showing up well are Blake
Bradley, a freshman with mighty nice form; Bob Grube, Ed Montgomery, and Murdock McKeithan, to mention a few. The boys
are really getting set for the Homecoming meet with W. and L. which is scheduled to have its finale during
the half of the Homecoming game.

We are hearing a lot of beefs from the J-Vee line-up about the game with CC-UNC the Saturday night of
Homecoming. It is the only night game and the only game not played on Thursday or Friday. In short, it
looks almost as if the game was designed to keep the boys from going to Homecoming. Of course, this is
not the case, but many people are wondering why the game cannot be played Thursday or Friday afternoon. Last year
the J.V.’s were hauled off down to Maxton to play P.J.C. Homecoming weekend. It looks like the schedule-makers could keep
an eye out for the social events, especially one so obvious as Homecoming.

In conjunction with Ernie Strictlin’s recent chapel talk, with which we heartily agree, we have been wondering if the Independents
could not have a larger part in intramural competition. We realize that it is entirely too late to do anything
in connection with the current football loop, but one five-man basketball team, for instance, does not represent the large number
of independents very well. The large turnout for the basketball squad shows that there is a lot of interest in
basketball, among fraternity men as well as among independents. All of these men cannot hope to make the squad. We
would suggest that several independent teams be entered in the basketball and other tournaments. We realize that one major argument
against this is the difficulty in getting one good independent team in many sports, but we feel that more than
one team to support would increase independent interest and activity. Perhaps, the dormitories could be divided up with, say Duke
and East producing one team, West and Georgia another and so forth. We definitely feel that such a system would
increase interest in intramurals and provide more sports outlets for independents.

BEATTY’S FORD BUS COMPANY PARTIAL SCHEDULE
Leave Davidson 4:30 PM
Arrive Charlotte 5:15 PM
SATURDAY ONLY
Leave Charlotte 6:30 PM
Arrive Davidson 7:30 PM
SUNDAY
Leave Davidson 5:30 PM
Arrive Charlotte 6:20 PM
Charlotte Terminal—Opp. Hotel Charlotte

Wildcat Sports
SLIGHTLY FAVORED INJURED 'CATS
Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, October 17, 1947

Cats Prep For Hampden-Sydney

With his entire first string line out with lime burns, Coach Bill Story got down to work this week to
find a combination to stop Hampden-Sydney's T-formation and former Navy halfback Len Chewning. The Cats are hardest hit at guard
where Bill Boyd has a bad knee though he may see action this week. Buddy Chandler and Bob Sharpe, last
week's starters, are out with the lime burns, however. This leaves Red Wilson and Fred Pryor to handle the main
assignments along with Bob Strickland whose bad ankle is coming along. At center it is doubtful if Johnny Richards will
see much action this week. Milton Bailey escaped the lime burns, but he had a bad leg already. He may
have the whole job this week. Tackles Ernie Stricklin and Ed Rhodes are suffering from the white rash so this
job will be left to Sandy Carnegie and Carl Eborn. Carnegie still has a bum knee and Eborn is favoring
an ankle twisted last week, but both have worked out some this week. Frank Strait will probably get plenty of
work behind these two. Hal Mapes, Buddy Cheek, Dick Blanks, Mike Williams, and Bill Johnson are all set at the
flanks, though Mapes still has marks of burns from the State contest. The backfield seems to be at full strength
once again, though Mack Erwin and Carl Pahl are still not in top shape for the spinners back post. Jake
Wade and Cliff Turner, reserve tailbacks, were ailing at the first of the week but are set to go now.

The Wildcats will enter the game as heavy favorites by virtue of their victory over Wofford, a team which rolled
over the Virginians with ease. However, the odds must fall because of the injury jinx which has hit the Red
and Black camp.

Football Statistics
WOFFORD GAME
Rushing
Yds. Yds. Atts. G’ned Lost Net Av
Erwin 8 32 0 32 4
Sifford 7 15 19 -4 -%
Williams, B. 6 11 0 11 2
Wade 3 20 1 19 6
Anderton 3 8 1 -3 -1
Iverson 7 25 0 24 3%
Shepherd 9 40 12 28 3
Totals 4 103

Passing
Inter- Yds
Atts Compl cept Gain
Sifford 3 1 0 0
Williams, B. 4 2 0 21
Wade 3 1 0 8
Anderton 3 3 0 34
Shepherd 1 0 0 0
Totals 14 7 63

SEASON AVERAGES
Rushing
Yds Yds. Atts. G’ned Lost Net Av
Sheppard 23 95 34 61 3
Erwin 36 128 12 116 3
Sifford 25 83 34 49 2
Anderton 9 36 22 14 1%
Rice 7 22 5 17 2%
Williams 13 46 3 43 3
Iverson 1 25 0 25 3%
Wade 3 20 1 19 6
Totals 134 343

Passing
Inter- Yds
Atts Compl cept Gain
Sheppard 14 6 1 60
Sifford 9 6 0 58
Anderton 12 8 0 92
Rice 3 1 1 26
Williams 16 3 5 0 66
Wade 3 1 0 8
Totals 58 27 2 310Local Trailways Agent of our attractive service.
A. uk /-O-1\ 4 8
Queen City Trailways
417 W. 4th St.
Charlotte, N. C.

ERWIN HITS PAYDIRT
Kitten-Catawba Game Postponed

The Junior Varsity-Catawba “B” game, originally scheduled for Friday afternoon, October 10, was postponed because of inclement weather. Coach Al
Moneyhan stated that the game will probably be played at a later date convenient to both teams.

The next scheduled game for the Jayvees is with Lees-McRae Junior College on Friday afternoon, October 17, here at Richardson
Field. Game time will probably be 3:30 o'clock. Nothing is known of the strength of the Lees-McRae squad, but they
are expected to bring a good ball club down here.

Last year’s Jayvee squad took Lees-McRae as their usual procedure last year. They ran up against a hard-running power attack
that will probably be duplicated in this year’s edition of the Lees-McRae eleven. They have, in addition, the same advantages
that most of the Jayvee opponents will have. That of several years experience as a team. The kitten squad is
made up of freshmen for the most part, or men who have played for Davidson before so they will have
a squad with some experience playing as a team.

The kitten squad is full of team spirit and has a lot of potential football material. The line, averaging roughly
180 pounds, is shaping up into a good forward wall. Among the backs, 140-pound John Kelton stands out by combining
a lot of guts and drive with a good passing attack. Pat Patterson, also a tailback, adds more weight and
shiftiness to the running attack and slinging a few passes. Van Covington and Crooks are good on offense as well
as blocking. Crooks and Wood stand out as linebackers. The shift from wingback to tailback shows a lot of potential.

(Continued On Page Six)

Mack Erwin, Cat fullback, goes over from his own four for the first Davidson tally against Wofford. The other TD
came on a pass from Anderton to Cheek in the end zone for a final score of 12-7.

BASKETBALL BOYS HARD AT WORK

Davidson’s basketball team is looking as hot as firecrackers after only a little over a week's practice. Coach Sheppard, working
with some strictly high-class material, is whipping into shape a fast, deadly squad. Stressing speed and accuracy, the coach had
the team running through offensive drills with a sure-fire efficiency that looked mighty good for the home crowd.

With twenty-one stars on the roster, it seems that the problem may well be to choose rather than to find
a top-notch first string. Monday, for the first time, they went into defensive as well as offensive action. The action
was fast but in spite of good balls, the eyes were out of the basket. Whit Cobb and J.D. were
proving the sparks of the team and Dutch Hegeveld came out high man on the foul shot practice, 42 out
of 50. Tommy Bingham and Bill Hodgen were treading on his heels with a score of 39 out of 50.

Along with Cobb, Bingham, and Hodgen, veterans Haywood Brinegar, Ed Hopper, and Bo Roddey from last year’s junior varsity are
forming the nucleus of the new squad. Some of last year's basketeers not yet out for the squad are Ruddy
Cheek, Mike Williams, Bill Iverson, now out for football, and Bob Ashmore. The loss of three seniors, regulars Pat Williams,
Ed White, and Freshman Mal Earp is a blow to the squad. Ed White, last year’s diminutive captain and pointmaker,
is now coaching at his prep alma mater, Darlington. Bob Berry, last year letterman, is coaching basketball and track at
Riverside. Earp, who was counted on for three more years of first-rate work, has dropped basketball in favor of professional
baseball.

Time Trials Run

Pete Whittle's cross-country boys ran their first time trials Wednesday. It was a four-mile run on Concord Road with Jasper
Gunder Grey, as usual, copping first place. Although this trial was not the decisive one, it pretty well decides the
team berths. Gundar, a third-year track man who has not been defeated in his two years of collegiate competition in
the one and two mile, is definitely the first place man with the outfit. Runner-up in the trial was Blake
Bradley who did a lot of running for Decatur High in Decatur, Ga., last year. Bradley is a freshman who
has four years of college cinders to burn. Bob Grube, a sophomore who was on the track team last spring,
captured the third place honors.

A cross-country team is composed of eight men. The next five as they finished in order are: Murdock McKeithan, Bill
Plonk, Bobby Long, Ed Montgomery, and Bill Smith. These five posts are by no means sewed up, however. Allie Remson
ran a close ninth, and Bob Gibson, who has shown up very well previously, was out of the trials with
bad shin splints.

Of interest is Gundar's recent breaking of the Cake Course record. The Cake Course is, or was, a fiendish mechanism
devised for the torture of freshmen in general and the discovery of cross-country material, in particular. It was deleted from
the Davidson tradition several years ago when the freshman species was observed to be falling for pains. The race was
once a state of ancient times so that the race was a menace to weak frosh hearts, but the freshman
record lingers on. The race was held soon after the beginning of school every year and the first freshmen to
finish (twenty or so of them) were awarded cakes. The chief sport of the occasion was to wait until all
the cakes were awarded.

(Continued On Page Six)

WOFFORD SCORES

Wofford’s speedy Elrod Cheatham races a Davidson punt back 70 yards for the first blood of the game.

Wildcats Edge Wofford 12-7

After being keyed for their last two battles, Davidson went up against a stubborn Wofford team with an overconfidence that
almost cost them the game. After spotting seven points in the first period of play, the Wildcats really had a
ball game on their hands and managed to push across two six-pointers and emerged on the long end of a
12-7 score, missing the two extra points.

A seven-man line presented a defense that was puzzling to Coach Bill Story’s forwards and they were unable to open
the holes for the backs to make much yardage. The hard trotters that menaced State and W.&M. were unable to
complete their aerials.

Wofford’s score came on a 70-yard punt return by Elrod Cheatham. Cheatham received superb blocking as the entire line dropped
back to form a wall before the fleet-footed tailback. The Knoxville, Tenn., lad added the point to send the Terriers
into what proved to be the half-time lead.

The Cats fought back in the second period to crash the scoring column. Jake Wade started the drive by getting
18 yards to the Wofford 41. Carl Sheppard picked up 12 more and another first down. Buck Williams passed to
Hal Mapes for 16, putting the oval on the 10-yard stripe. Jim Sifford got six and Mack Erwin plunged over
the last four. Hal Mapes failed to convert and that was all the scoring till the final stanza.

In the last quarter, successive hard-charging “Red” line set the Terriers back to the eight. Dave Williamson kicked to the
44 but Carl Sheppard gathered in the boot and lugged it back to the 27. After Sheppard lost 3, Bill
Iverson made 15 yards in two tries and a first down on the 15-yard stripe. Bert Anderton dropped back and
fired to Buddy Cheek for the game-winning tally. The same combination worked on a fake placement but Cheek caught the
ball out of the end zone so the point was nullified.

The Cats picked up 7 first downs.

(Continued on Page Six)

SPECIALS AT COPELANDS

ARCHDALE SHIRTS
White and Colors

COFFEE MAKERS

CORDUROY PANTS

BOSTON PENCIL SHARPENERS, $2.25

Kaul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. TRYON STREET
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

WE HAVE
Remington Typewriters
Schick-Shave Master Electric Razors.

C. S. Goodrum
TELEPHONE 2111
DAVIDSON, N. C.
