Friday, November 14, 1947 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three PRIZE-WINNING DECORATION PATRONIZE THE DAVIDSONIAN ADVERTISERS

Roaming With Ronny
By RONNY DIETRICK

Wrenn’s Men’s Store
Davidson, N.C.

In 1926 the communities recommended the construction of the all-weather track. The present arrangement of small fraternity houses with all
men, fraternity and non-fraternity, living in the dormitories, has worked admirably. However, things have not always been as they are
now. The existence of fraternities at Davidson stretches over a period of many years, with the possibility of the existence
of sub-rosa chapters here before the “War Between the States.” The first known college provision for the housing of fraternities
was to give them each a room in the old Chambers Building. This arrangement was not, however, to the best
advantage of the fraternities or the college. The construction of old Chambers made it impossible to have fraternity parties involving
feminine friends mainly because parts of the building also served as dormitories.

As a consequence, the fraternities were given Oak and Elm Row as well as Union and Eu halls; four fraternities
being quartered in Oak and Elm Row, while Union and Eu halls held one fraternity apiece. Unfortunately, this arrangement was
also unsatisfactory. As none of the buildings were equipped with steam heat, they were naturally cold and damp for the
greater part of the school year. Then, again, the grounds around the buildings were often quite poorly kept by the
men with the result that the entire set-up constituted an eyesore on the campus and somewhat of a “bone of
contention” among the fraternities as well as many others elsewhere. It should be stated that the present system caused considerable
financial loss to the college. However, the resulting system seems to have been worth it.

Immediately after the opening of the houses, several fraternity journals gave space to highly complimentary articles, stating that the newly
established system at Davidson was the ideal one for a small college. Students of the present age would be startled
if there were to be a sudden reinstatement of many rules concerning the use of fraternity houses, which were in
effect when the houses were first opened. Probably the most obnoxious (there's that word again) one would be the rule
stating that houses must be closed from Saturday night at 12 until Monday morning. Fortunately, this rule has long since
been abolished.

PATRONIZE THE DAVIDSONIAN ADVERTISERS

J. N. BEHRMAN

Most of us, whether or not directly connected with a study of economics, have occasion to gripe at the high
prices prevailing today, and some few of us keep asking, “When will we be able to get a $25 suit
for $25 instead of $50? Or, when will we again get a big Babe Ruth for a nickel or a
double scoop of ice cream?” More seriously, the question of why bread is now 15 cents a loaf rather than
the old 10 cents is of prime importance to households over the nation.

When commodities are scarce it is natural that only a few persons can have them. In our economic system, scarce
goods have high prices due to the relatively large demand for them; those who cannot pay the price do without.
During the recent war, to keep this sort of deprivation from occurring and to keep most of the citizens provided
with basic needs, the government imposed price and rationing controls. In this way, all were assured a minimum of goods
at reasonable prices. At the end of the war, pressure was brought to bear for the past 15 months, with
corporate profits after taxes totaling $17.5 billion in the first quarter of 1947 against $15 billion in the last quarter
of 1946, an increase of 10 per cent over a six-month period. (U.S. Steel's profits for the first nine months
of 1947 were 70 per cent higher than the same period in 1946 and Standard Oil of California profits were
up 100 per cent over 1946). On top of these conditions, the government is entering as a buyer in many
markets, especially the grain market, to add to the demand. (With reference to grain, the possibility of a short crop
has also increased pressure on prices, adding another factor to an already precarious speculative condition).

Dangerous Possibility

What is the reaction to this situation? In general, we may say that the public considers it to be bad,
and business is watching with cautious eye for any strong evidence of buyers’ resistance. It is possible that prices may
rise so high that goods will not be bought, therefore causing a quick drop in prices.

PATRONIZE THE DAVIDSONIAN ADVERTISERS

Pictured above is the decoration which took first prize in the annual Fraternity Homecoming Decorations Contest. This year the contest
was won by the Sigma Pi Epsilon social fraternity.

WE HAVE A COMPLETE LINE IN MEN'S WEAR.

Styled for outdoor action
Wind and water resistant
Lightweight for comfort
Deep roomy pockets
Smart styling; well made

Dine and Dance
UPPER DECK OF THE SHIP AHOY
LOCATED IN THE HEART OF CHARLOTTE
HELEN O'NEIL and the MARINERS EVERY NIGHT BUT SUN, AND MON
DELICIOUS CUISINE
NO COVER CHARGE
For Reservations Phone 4-2671| (published a few weeks ago) stated | main at a reasonable level. Jack L. Stationers on
the above mentioned: an eventual depression (or re- | that the impact of foreign demand | Straus, president of R.
H. Macy & Co., world’s largest store, said a few days ago that prices were too high and they must
be lowered to bulwark free enterprise and sustain prosperity; “In my opinion, our economy operates at its most efficient level
when business profits are realized through high sales volume at the lowest prices attainable through economical operations and reasonable profit
ratios.” Another favorable reaction comes from the president of the National Meat Industry Council when he gave his support for
parts of the program in the following words: “We hope the President meant price control at the source, at the
farm level, and allocation of vital food commodities... We believe that would result in a stifling of the inflationary spiral,
which has a strong hold on the food situation at the present time... We are behind the President if he
will come before Congress at the special session and ask it for such measures. Also, we believe that Congress should
not refuse, under pain of being responsible for a recession or depression, which will result if such steps are not
taken. This from an industry which was so vocal in seeking the removal of OPA and so confident that the
free movement of prices would result in eventual stabilization at a prosperous level! In addition, the steel industry, only recently
announcing another price rise, has stated that they have practiced voluntary allocation (rationing) of steel to various consumer-producers.

(Continued on Page Five)

At Davidson Paul Horne smokes CHESTERFIELDS. Paul says: “In moments of relaxation the cigarette which appeals to me most is
Chesterfield.”

MOREHEAD STREET

Your Friends Meet At GIBSON’S ICE CREAM STORE —Curb Service — CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Davidson Special Portraits Of Distinction

NO APPOINTMENT NECESSARY PLENTY OF PROOFS SHOWN

Duke Photo Studio 404 W. Trade Street Charlotte, N. C.

Light Bulbs

BUNCH FUNERAL HOME

Ambulance Service

“Our 55th Year”

231 N. Tryon St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

24-48 HOUR SERVICE DAVIDSON, N. C.

Phone 284 Davidson N.C.

College Students from coast-to-coast. Mooresville, N. C.

although there is a growing recognition that profits must be reduced if prices are to come down and re-
