COBB FLEW ALENDA LUX UB) ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

JUMPED - TOO

Volume XXXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 1947 No. 17

Pan-Hellenic Senior Class Picks Graduation Talkers Class Day To Be Observed Again This Year

At a meeting of the Senior class on Monday, March 10, the class unanimously accepted the nominations presented by the
committee for the speakers of the Senior Class Day celebration at four o’clock June 8, the afternoon before graduation. The
places of Valedictorian and Salutatorian went respectively to Price Gwynn and Tom Powell. Dick Port was elected class Orator, while
Mac Jefferies became class Poet, and Tom Bumbarger was selected as Historian.

Tradition

Class Day is one of the traditional commencement exercises, designed as an entertainment for the families and friends of graduating
men when they visit the campus. Heretofore the program has been of a humorous nature, presided over by the president
of the class. Powell as salutatorian will present the greeting, while valedictorian Gwynn will say the farewells for his class.
These two positions are strictly elective and are not necessarily the scholastic representation to be selected by the college faculty.
Bumbarger will present a history of his class, leaving Port and Jefferies to expand as they might be inspired.

Band To Play Home Concert

The Davidson College Concert Band will present its Spring Concert Friday, March 21. This concert will be given in Chambers
Auditorium and will begin at 8:15 p.m. The program will be the same as that played by the Band on
its recent tour through the southern states and will include, as well as classical selections, the traditional “O Davidson,” “All
Hail O Davidson,” and “Pop Goes the Weasel.” Mr. Pfohl will conduct the band during this concert and Melvin Sipe
will be featured as violin soloist. The program is as follows:

The National Anthem.
Psalm XVIII—Marcello Klepfer.
Chorale and Fugue in G Minor—Bach, Abert.
March from “Dramma per Musica”—Bach-Klepfer.
First Suite in E Flat—Holst.
1. Chaconne
2. Intermezzo
3. March

Intermission.

The Red Mill Overture—Herbert.
Polka from the Opera “Schwanda, the Bagpiper”—Herbert.
Violin solos:
Praeludium and Allegro—Kreisler.
Hejre Kati—Hubay
Mr. Sipe.
Pop! Goes the Weasel—Gailliet.
1. Introduction
2. Theme
3. Fugue
4. Menuet
5. In Jerusalem
6. Music Box
7. In Jazz
Farandole from “L’Arlesienne Suite No. 2”—Bizet.
O Davidson—Shields.
All Hail, O Davidson—Maxwell.

Alumni Lauded In War Books

Dr. Chalmers Davidson, director of the Davidson College Library, announced today the names of more Davidson alumni who have been
mentioned in books dealing with the past war.

Allen

An account of the exploits of Col. Brooke E. Allen of the class of 1933 is to be found in
the story of the Seventh Air Force, One Damned Island After Another, by Clive Howard and Joe Whitley. Colonel Allen
holds the Distinguished Service Cross, the Silver Star, the Legion of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Air Medal, and
the Purple Heart.

Brenizer

The late Captain Chase Brenizer is mentioned in the publication, Rabaul, a War Department account of the daring and intrepidity
of the airmen who made the attack on shipping in Simpson Harbor, Rabaul, on November 2, 1943. Captain Brenizer, who
graduated with the class of 1941, was killed on December 10, 1946, in the explosion of a B-25 flying out
of Lockbourne Army Air Base, Columbus, Ohio.

Wood

Brave Men, by Ernie Pyle, mentions Miles Wood of the Senior Class in its account of some of the outstanding
feats of the war.

CLASS DAY SPEAKERS

Shown here are the Speakers for Senior Class Day. They are Tommy Powell, Tommy Bumbarger, Mac Jeffries, Dick Port, and
Price Gwynn.

New Debaters Start Season

The Davidson debaters will make their intercollegiate debut Friday night at 8 o’clock when they try to outpoint a traveling
Wofford team here. The controversy will center around the red-hot question of national issue: “Resolved that Labor should be given
a direct share in the management of Industry.” The first group, the affirmative team composed of J. W. Pence and
Charles Elyea, will argue their points for the measure in Eu Hall while the negative group composed of F. Y.
Long and Don Coffey will debate in Phi Hall. Wofford is completing their season and this will be the last
of a series of debates conducted by that team through North Carolina and Virginia. It will be the first intercollegiate
debate for the Davidson team.

(Continued on Page 4)

By George Ennett As Told To Friedrich Otts

In accordance with the policy adopted last week of bringing to the attention of their fellow students within the hallowed
walls of Davidson the daring deeds of the most outstanding of the many war heroes in school, the Davidsonian continues
this week with the accounts of one of the most famed of the famed—George, alias “Dum-Dum,” alias “Possiero,” alias “Bull”
Ennett of Sky Club, N.C.

Mountaineer

Fame is nothing new to the Monster of Montreat. Even before his nefarious deeds in the late great conflict came
to light, his name had been headlined in every newspaper, his picture had been placed in every post office from
Bangor to Bakersfield, little boys everywhere sent in box tops for “Dum-Dum” comic books; grown men imitated his hairdo, to
the great distress of American barbers. As a member of the personal staff of the king of the Manhattan Underworld,
“Gentleman Jim” McKants, and as star sharpshooter in an organization known far and wide to cops as the most dangerous
in existence, he had risen rapidly in his chosen profession, being universally recognized as an expert in the use of
the sawed-off shotgun, the tommy gun, the hot foot, and the “Wood-up.” Hence his name “Dum-Dum,” which in this case
does not refer to the

At the outbreak of the war, and in keeping with the War Department policy of placing men prominent in civilian
fields in similar positions in the Army, General Eisenhower summoned Ennett from his haunts in the late spring of 1943.
Motivated by a strong desire to serve his country and by the unique opportunity of polishing and broadening his professional
techniques, our hero jumped to arms, and shortly after, sailed for France as a sort of personal ambassador between Harlem
and the Rue Pigalle.

Railroaded

Upon his arrival there, the breakthrough at St. Lo had already occurred, and the Germans were surrendering in such numbers
that the Allied General Staff, fearing that the mere sight of Ennett on the front line would terrify the enemy
into last-ditch resistance as the easiest way out, ordered him held under wraps until a more propitious moment should come
along. After a routine strip-down physical, however, he was immediately assigned to the “Red Ball” Express, most notorious of all
black market organizations. Ennett had often heard from his fellow “Red Ballers” of the advantages of this work, and he
looked forward to it eagerly. Dame fortune, however, did not smile on him for upon looking into the contents of
his first truckload, he found not cigarettes, or K rations or chocolate bars, but a bailey bridge. Undaunted, he set
out with typical Ennett spirit. Then followed long periods of roaming the French countryside, looking in vain for prospective customers,
and finally settling for two bottles of sparkling water and a big, black German Shepherd. Life during this time would
have been unbearable had it not been for the designing company of a petite mademoiselle named La Couchonne whom he
met on his first day in France. In something less than a year, however, the Bulge broke and Ennett was
whisked away to the front to return to less active duty.

Ordeal

The rest of this heroic story will be handed down from generation to generation as long as war veterans have
children. Cut off by a German counterattack in a little Belgian village, Ennett and the rest of his squad took
refuge in a wine and champagne cellar. Two days

(Continued on Page 4)

CHORUS TO NEW YORK

The Male Chorus of Davidson College, directed by Mr. Earl F. Berg, will present its Spring Concert in Chambers Auditorium
at 8:15 p.m. Wednesday, March 26. There will be no admission for this concert. A northern tour is being planned
for the Male Chorus also. The foremost appearance of this tour will be in New York City where they will
sing on a coast-to-coast hookup of the Columbia Broadcasting System. This broadcast will be on Saturday, April 12, from 3:45
until 4 p.m.

Soprano Gives Concert Here

Miss Frances Yeend, the brilliant lyric soprano, will be presented next Monday, March 17, in a concert by the Davidson
College Artist Series. This will be the fifth concert of the current season to be presented by the college organization.
Miss Yeend is a native of the Far West, having made concert and operatic appearances throughout that area. She arrived
in New York a little over two years ago and since has made a rapid rise to fame in the
world of music. Almost immediately after her debut in New York she was given the role of Micaela in the
opera “Carmen” by the Columbia Concerts’ production. She was selected by Dr. Koussevitzky to appearAs the soprano soloist in three
Berkshire Festival performances of Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony in Boston, Miss Yeend has also made radio appearances, which include “Great Moments
in Music,” “The Hour of Charm,” and “Highway to Melody.” The Chicago Sun said of Miss Yeend that she “possesses
a voice of seductive quality, beautifully warm and fraught with power.” The concert will be in Chambers Auditorium. The price
of admission will be $1.50, including tax.

LYRIC SINGER Frances Yeend

College Board Opens Drive

At a recent meeting of the Board of Trustees of Davidson College, permission was granted to the administration to open
a drive for the additional funds necessary to cover the costs of the construction of the new gymnasium and church.
Due to the postwar rise in prices of both construction materials and labor, it has been estimated that the cost
of these buildings will be approximately 40 percent more than the amount so far collected. In addition to funds necessary
for the completion of the gym and church, the proposed campaign is going to have a second objective, the raising
of the present endowment fund.

Lybarger Employed

For the purpose of assisting with the planning of this campaign, Mr. Francis Lybarger has been employed. Mr. Lybarger, who
began his career in the field of law and later became the alumni secretary of Bucknell University, is at present
connected with the firm of Mart and Rundy, one of the leading fund-raising firms in America. He has already arrived
on the campus and begun work.

Cadet Awards And Advances

Thirty members of Davidson's R.O.T.C. battalion received promotions to cadet noncommissioned officer ranks last Saturday, according to an announcement made
by Lt. Col. W. P. Grace, P.M.S. & T. These promotions were made to fill vacancies in the new battalion
organization. Promoted to Cadet Sergeant was former Cadet Private J. W. Miller. Receiving promotions to corporal were C. H. Dickson,
W. M. Bennet, Hy Py Smith, D. H. Gambrell, A. M. Rankin, D. M. Hicks, J. W. Mann, W. W.
Calhoun, W. B. Fesperman, M. B. Honeycutt, A. B. Kirkpatrick, W. M. Cooper, J. M. Jung, J. W. Gunn, W.
A. Gamble, J. O. Payne, R. B. Lacy, W. R. Richardson, H. Q. Gladden, W. E. Myers, H. R. Hooper,
J. F. Watts, S. D. Macdaniels, and L. L. Deck.

Decorations

Excellent scholarship ribbons were presented to outstanding students of the R.O.T.C. department by Lt. Col. W. P. Grace, P.M.S. &
T., at formal cadet battalion parade ceremonies held here last Tuesday afternoon. Students earning the award turned in A Minus
or better work in military department courses during last semester. The new ribbons are navy blue on the left half
and bright red on the right. At the end of this semester, winners of repeat awards will receive bronze stars
to be worn in lieu of an additional ribbon. Advanced students who earned the award are: C. S. Abernathy (Continued
on Page 4).

Campus

The results of this week’s Student View are ambiguous to a great degree. On a question of the type such
as was polled this week, it was noticed that the possibility of obtaining any general consensus of opinion was remote.
However, in spite of the inconclusiveness, the poll reveals several interesting tendencies. The question asked this week was (a) “How
much time do you think the average Davidson student should give to extracurricular activities per week?” (b) “How much time
do you give to extracurricular activities per week?” The answers were tabulated in seven general classes divided into two parts:
in both cases, the classes being zero number of hours, one to five hours, five to ten hours, ten to
fifteen hours, fifteen hours, and over fifteen hours.

Generally, it was noted that the average student thought that more time should be spent than he does spend or
is willing to spend. For example, every student, with the exception of those having no opinion, thought that some time
should be given to extracurricular activities. Nevertheless, 6.7 percent of the number of students polled admitted that they gave no
time to extracurricular activities in any form.

The following figures show how much time the student body believes extracurricular activities should be allotted:

Per Cent
No time at all: 0.0
One to five hours: 32.0
Five to ten hours: 18.7
Ten to fifteen hours: 9.3
Fifteen hours: 4.0
Over fifteen hours: 6.7

The following figures show how much time the student body does spend on extracurricular activities:

No time at all: 6.7
One to five hours: 32.0
Five to ten hours: 18.7
Ten to fifteen hours: 9.3
Fifteen hours: 4.0
Over fifteen hours: 6.7

After a short study of the above figures, it is apparent that while 72 percent of the students polled advocated
spending over five hours per week on extracurricular activities, only 48 percent claimed to do so. This fact may, to
some degree, explain the much evident weakness of college organizations during the past semester. No doubt if more students expended
the time on extracurricular activities that they believe should be spent, this weakness in organizations on the campus would not
exist. Of course, in a study of this kind, any definite conclusion is difficult due to other factors, such as
studies.

A glance at the figures for the individual classes indicates that some classes are more active than others in extracurricular
activities, from a standpoint of time contributed. Sixty-two percent of the Seniors were of the opinion that over five hours
per week should be given, and that same percentage declared that they spent that much time. Other classes trailed far
behind in this respect, the Junior Class being in the rear since only 27 percent expended over five hours while
54.6 percent declared that over five hours should be given.

Council Alters Constitution

Fraternities Assessment Plans Amendment and New Section Vote Accepted, To Be In Effect Next Year

An amendment and a fifth section will be added to the Pan Hellenic Council constitution by a necessary three-fourths vote
of the Davidson social fraternities which was taken March 13. These additions to the constitution, which concerns itself with the
responsibilities of Pan Hellenic Council in respect to college dances, will go into effect with the first dance of next
year. The coming Spring Frolics will be governed by the present constitution, in that the fiscal year ends on May
15. These additions are of particular importance to Davidson fraternity men, and to all students in general.

Section three, to be altered by the accepted amendment, has read up until the present: “The signatory chapters agree to
underwrite with their representatives all council dances, the council and the several chapters to assume 50 percent of the risk,
respectively. In event of loss, 50 percent of the net loss will be prorated among the chapters, the remaining 50
percent among their representatives. In case of gain, the net profit shall be divided in like manner.”

Faults Eliminated

As stated in the above section, each fraternity has in the past assumed 50 percent of all losses and gains
incurred by the Pan Hellenic Council through its sponsorship of school dances. The recently accepted amendment will allow the council
to know, in advance, exactly how much money may be allotted to each of the various expenses to be met,
and to prepare for such accordingly. Herein one of the great faults of the constitution has been eliminated, a means
whereby the council may know, definitely, how much may be expended on the band, decorations, flowers for sponsors, and may
have a more definite idea as to the number of tickets to be printed.

Amendment

Eliminating the past guesswork in determining these expenses, the amendment reads as follows: “Section 3. The signatory chapters agree to
underwrite all Council dances, sharing all net profit and loss equally. The chapters will be responsible individually for the purchase
of set tickets to each set of the dances by at least 85 percent of its enrollment, including pledges. In
the event a lesser number of tickets is purchased by the enrollment of any chapter, that chapter shall pay to
the Council, prior to the dances involved, an amount equal to the difference between the value of the required number
and those actually purchased.”

Section Five

In addition to the all-important amendment, a fifth section to the constitution was presented, voted on, and passed. This section
reads as follows: “Section 5. A board of examiners, consisting of the president and one other member who is not
the Pan Hellenic representative from each fraternity, will inspect the books of the Pan Hellenic Council by May 15 of
each fiscal year, and at any other time the board may deem necessary.”

Elm Row: An Apology

A breeze sprang up from out the west;
The Elm Trees shook at its behest.
Thousands of pellets spattered Elm Row—
I see it all now too plain;
They're acorns—dreadful mistake—
Oak Tree Lane.
Now nuts on an elm tree grow?
