HANGCHOW COLLEGE EXPRESSES THANKS

The Davidsonian

SCABBARD AND BLADE BALL SATURDAY NIGHT

Volume XXXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MAY 9, 1947 No. 23

Governor Addresses Police Commencement

Shepperson Elected To YMCA Control Board

CALENDAR

Sunday, May 11
Vespers: Davidson College Male Chorus in program of religious music.

Monday, May 12
Chapel: Coach N. W. Shepherd.

“Y” Governing Body Filled In Final Vote
One Senior and Two Juniors

Phi Mu Makes Fine Art Plea

On Thursday and Friday, April 24 and 25, elections were held for the Y. M. C. A. Board. In an effort to stimulate interest and planning for greater facilities in the future for training in the Fine Arts, Phi Mu Alpha recently sponsored a series of four petitions, which were submitted to the administration of the college. The major document in this series was submitted by the fraternity itself, signed by its members and stating that it was the belief of the signers that a more thorough education in the Arts, in general, than is now available at this institution was a vital segment of the true liberal arts curriculum; improvements for music were advocated, as was the addition of courses or other instruction in related arts. Furthermore, it was stated that the petitioners believed that work in music and the other arts should not be left largely in the extra-curricular sphere; nor should arts other than music be neglected.

Tuesday, May 13
Chapel: Prof. P. N. Trakas.

Wednesday, May 14
Chapel: Governor Cherry; Mecklenburg Police Graduation.

Thursday, May 15
Chapel: Dr. A. V. Goldiere.

Friday, May 16
Chapel: Y. M. C. A.

The second ballot George Cheek and Dave Shepperson were elected the new junior representatives. The outgoing Board of Control is composed of Jim Jackson, president of the Y; Vernon McGehee, secretary of the Board; Alf Taylor and Lamar Williamson, senior representatives; and Sam Tate and John Hills, junior representatives.

Duties
One of the most important duties of the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control is to take recommendations for and appoint speakers for the Fall and Spring services of the college. It also has charge of the general administration of the Y. M. C. A. Each year the board is composed of eleven men, the President of the College, the Treasurer of the College, the pastor of the College Church, the Y secretary, one faculty representative and five student representatives. The new men elected this year are:

Jim Pittman of Orlando, Florida, was first vice president of the student body this past year and has been a member of the Y Cabinet. He is a member of the Phi Society.

Debate, Vocalists
Fourteen members of the society and their dates will enter this impressive ceremony from a tunnel of crossed sabres. The figure will be performed before intermission. The three other petitions were submitted by the Symphonic Band, Male Chorus and Students of Applied Music and signed by members of these groups. The province of these papers centered more specifically on the inadequacies of Shearer Hall, which was characterized as both unsightly and inadequate, lack of practice space, poor pianos, congestion and bad acoustics of rehearsal areas, as well as other unsatisfactory conditions.

The Scabbard and Blade, honorary military society, will present this year’s final student-wide dance Saturday, May 10, in the main ballroom of the Charlotte Hotel from 8 to 12 p.m. The Military Ball was formerly an annual affair, and the present members are attempting to renew this tradition. The Southerners, a popular Charlotte orchestra, will be featured. The ball is to be highlighted by the old and new officers of Scabbard and Blade and five members elected to participate in the figure. Their dates are Mrs. Roddy L. Smith with Cadet Capt. Smith, former president, both of Concord, N. C., Mrs. H. B. Anderton with Cadet Capt. Anderton, former vice president, both of Memphis, Tenn., Miss Janet Hodges, Asheville, N. C., with Cadet Capt. R. O. Freeman, Black Mountain, N. C., former treasurer, Miss Virginia Carolyn Higgins, San Juan, Puerto Rico with Cadet Major Quentin Cooper, also of San Juan.

Beavers Back Clothing Drive
At the weekly meeting of the Beaver Club on Tuesday night, April 28, the election of officers for next year was held, and plans to conduct a clothing drive to aid the International Relief Organization in its effort to obtain clothing for the people of war-ravaged countries were made.

Officers
The election of officers was the first thing on the agenda. The president and vice president are nominated and elected from the rising Junior class. The secretary-treasurer is chosen from a member of the rising Sophomore class. Carl Pahl was elected new president of the Beaver Club. Gene Bingham was elected vice president and Bobby Carson secretary-treasurer. The newly elected officers will assume their duties immediately. Pahl and Carson are members of Sigma Alpha Epsilon Social Fraternity, and Bingham is a member of Kappa Sigma Social Fraternity.

Plans to conduct a clothing drive to aid the International Relief Organization were made at this meeting. A general clothing drive is being conducted in the state of North Carolina from May 2 to May 11. This drive is being sponsored by local civic organizations.

TOP STATE EXECUTIVE
Graduating Officers Hear Cherry Speak
Dignitary’s Visit To Campus Will Close Law Enforcement School

Athletes Plan Stage Show
The largest stage show in Davidson’s history, the “D” Club Follies, will be presented in Chambers Auditorium on Wednesday, May 14. The curtain will rise on more than an hour of fun-packed entertainment at 8:30 p.m. The outstanding acts include the York Bar Bell, “Lightnin’” Port, “Snowball” Walker, and numerous others. To add a tinge of mountain flavor the “D” Club has secured “Uncle Dave” Blevins. Songs guaranteed to make the audience sit up and take notice will be rendered by the “Swoon Crooners” Buddy Chandler, Bill Hodgin, and the “Mullethead” Boys. Another highlight of the evening will be a star-studded minstrel headlining “Rastus” O'Hair.

Governor Cherry
At a lengthened Chapel period on Wednesday, May the fourteenth, in Chambers Auditorium, the Honorable Gregg Cherry, Governor of North Carolina, will speak, at which time the formal graduation exercises of members of the Police School will be held. This is Governor Cherry’s first visit to the Davidson campus; he will be in Davidson only for the day of the fourteenth, and his address during the morning ceremonies is to be his only public appearance of the day. The Mecklenburg County Police Training School, conducted last fall from September 24th through December 13th, and this spring from May 1st through May 14th, will, at that time, receive their certificates of graduation. The Police School, first of its kind in the state of North Carolina, offered to all full-time members of regularly constituted law enforcement agencies located within a convenient area to Davidson College, and all members of state, county, and municipal agencies eligible, a thorough training in the principles and practices of modern law enforcement.

Old Opponents Renew Rivalry
The traditional Senior-Faculty Day will be held this year on Tuesday afternoon, May 13. This event, which is one of the highlights of the year for the graduating class, will consist of five athletic contests between seniors and the faculty members, the latter guaranteed to make the audience sit up and take notice.various church denominations | George Peters, fifty-two-hour course of instruction throughout the state. The Beaver Club was asked to sponsor this drive at Davidson. The main purpose of the club is to entertain visiting athletes on the campus, but this could not be passed, so the club has taken on the promotion of this worthy cause. The drive will be conducted by the outgoing officers, Hugh Hill, president; Bobby Phillips, vice president; and Carl Pahl, the former secretary and treasurer and now the new president. The drive will begin Wednesday night, May 7. Some member of the Beaver Club (Continued on Page 6)

The events with their beginning times are: golf, 2 o'clock; ping pong and tennis, 2:30; volleyball, 3:30; and softball, 4:30. After the last event, the members of the graduating class and the faculty will adjourn to Erwin Lodge for a barbecue supper, for which there will be a slight charge. President Peters is reported as saying, “If you are in your right mind, you won’t miss it! Otherwise, you won't be in your right mind when you leave.” (Continued Page 6)

The officials in charge of the occasion have announced that any senior who has served on a varsity team will be ineligible for any of the games.

Lauded By Students

By Mac Hart

Last Thursday’s and Friday’s chapel programs proved to be quite interesting and amusing to the faculty, student body, and assembled guests. Thursday’s program was sponsored, presented, yea, even perpetrated by the Forensic Council, better known as the debating team. On Friday, the Davidson Spiritual Singers presented a program of four Negro Spirituals.

Debate

The avowed purpose of the Forensic Council’s mimic debate was to stimulate interest in the activities and personalities of the said Forensic Council and to demonstrate the advantages of being able to make one's ideas and implications clearly understood by an audience. This aim was undoubtedly realized. Having previously resolved all of labor’s troubles during the course of the recent debating season, the artists of harangue jestingly tackled the co-ed question.

Don Coffey, presiding, made a short talk on the organization, its aims and activities, then presented a question for debate—‘Resolved: That Davidson College Should Be Made Co-Educational.” Herbie Miller, that recognized master of the spoken word, was the first speaker for the affirmative. After accosting the assembled host with a belligerent, rasping “Gentlemen!”, Herbie proceeded to prove by a long circuitous chain of reasoning, quoting from several learned authorities, that “a woman’s a woman.”

“In all seriousness” Clontz was the first defender of the Davidson tradition. His arguments centered on the prohibitive expense of buying ties and pajama pants to wear to dances. Blyea, Miller’s colleague, resorted to cold logical reasoning to prove that students need the added incentive of social life. In addition, he cited certain indications ingeniously detected by himself that the administration will soon open its doors to the cries of maidens in distress.

With a simplicity of style, and a clarity of thought worthy of the peerless debater himself, namely Abraham Lincoln, Haywood Brinegar brought the affair to a brilliant conclusion.

The Davidson Spiritual Singers, a mixed chorus of twenty voices under the direction of Lester Hunsucker, gave a selection of five spirituals. The numbers were:
- My Lord is Writing.
- When I Die.
- Humble Yourself.
- Jesus Is Mine.
- Take Me to the Water.

The Spiritual Singers is a group of Negroes, all from the town of Davidson. Several of them work for the college or the college boarding houses. In practice for their programs given all over the state, they get together about three times a week under the direction of Lester Hunsucker.

Lester studied three years at the Music School at Tuskegee, Ala. In addition, he has had experience in this work in the service at the Naval Station in Bainbridge, Md., and at the Charlotte Recreational Center. This group got its start through the Colored Community Center sponsored by our own Y. M. C. A.

Pictured above are sponsors for Scabbard and Blade. They are: Mrs. H. B. Anderton, Misses Janet Hodges, Virginia Spangler, Carolyn Higgins, Margaret Donald, Anna Morrison, Hotsie Newman, Selma Salomon, Mary Helms, Doris Jean Moore, Kathryn Moore, and Rachel Smith.

By Ronny Dietaick

For many a month the question has been brought up at odd times as to just what size school Davidson should be after the present schooling emergency is over. Not only has this problem been discussed here in various and sundry “bull” sessions, but it has also been the topic of a Chapel talk and the subject of a letter to the editor. Of course, the policy of the administration on this matter is, in all probability, mapped out and has been for some time. In spite of this very obvious fact, it will be interesting to learn what the student body thinks on the subject, since it is they whom the ultimate permanent size of the school will affect primarily.

Difference Noted

On first thought, one would suppose that everyone would favor the return of the student body to its prewar size. However, as we shall see below, a poll of a fair cross-section of the student body does not bear out this supposition. Not everyone does desire a smaller attendance than we have now, and that percentage which would keep Davidson larger than its prewar size is quite great, equaling 36 percent of the students polled.

The question asked was, “Do you wish to see Davidson expand, stay the same or become smaller (meaning, of course, to revert to the prewar status of around 650 students)?” The results of the poll are tabulated below:

Expand 10%
Stay as it is now 26%
Become smaller 60%
No response 4%

It is seen that the majority of students seem to want a school which is more like the one that was here in the “good ole days,” though the percentage of men voting the other way is surprisingly large, in view of what has seemed to be the prevailing sentiment of the student body for some time past.

Not Conclusive

Those who voted as favoring a larger Davidson, or even a Davidson of the size it is now, may not have realized what a problem an expansion program at this school would create, while those who favored a prewar Davidson in size may have been desirous of the “good ole days” without even knowing whether the “good ole days” were so good or not. In view of these facts, it is interesting to observe that two classes, which are the most likely to contain students who were here previous to the war, namely the Junior and Senior classes, were the classes which voted most definitely in favor of returning to the prewar student body size.

Of this one thing we may be sure, that the size of Davidson can hardly grow smaller under the pressure of the present emergency, and it certainly will not become smaller in the future until more dormitories are constructed, as the dormitories now existing are inadequate to properly house a student body of the present size.