ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

REDS VS. GREENS SATURDAY

Volume XXXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1947 No. 15

Award Established To Honor Novelist
Dr. Cumming Announces The Vereen Bell Prize for Creative Writing

Announcement was made by Dr. W. P. Cumming last Thursday morning of the establishment of the Vereen M. Bell Memorial Award for Creative Writing. This award will be made annually to the student who presents the best piece of original writing during the year.

COMMEMORATED

Vereen M. Bell, a Davidson graduate of the Class of 1932, was killed in action during the Battle of the Philippines Sea in 1944. He was serving as Air Combat Intelligence Officer aboard the Carrier Gambier Bay when it was sunk in a surprise attack by the Japanese. When he entered the Navy in 1943, Bell was recognized as one of the South’s most outstanding writers. His first novel, “Swamp Water,” was a best seller and was later adapted to the movies. Both “Swamp Water” and “Two of a Kind,” his second novel, were stories of his native Georgia and depicted the outdoor life around his home in Cairo, Ga., that he loved so well. He had also written numerous articles and short stories for the leading magazines in this country. Mr. Bell was the son of Chief Justice R. C. Bell of the Georgia Supreme Court and Mrs. Jennie Vereen Bell. His wife, Mrs. Florence Daniel Bell, and two sons are now residing in Georgia.

The award is made possible through the founding of a fund by relatives and former college friends of the author who wish to honor those traits of character that made him so popular throughout the country and to recognize his contribution to the American literary field. Mr. Grier Martin, a former alumni secretary of Davidson and a classmate of Bell's, was chiefly responsible for the procuring of this creative writing fund for the college. It was through his efforts that the idea of such an award was carried to full realization. The fund contains $2,000.00 of which fifty dollars will be given annually to the most original writer. All manuscripts for this year’s contest must be submitted by April 1.

Dr. Cumming said that it is the hope of the college and the English Department to eventually secure money whereby nationally known authors may be invited to the college to speak, and to remain a few days for consultation with students on literary matters.

Swink Announces Revision of Mag
By Sam Robinson

It’s here, Gents! Revised, reformed, rejuvenated, promising to be the most re-read volume of Scripts ‘n Pranks ever to hit Davidson’s campus, your own copy of the College humor magazine will be in the mails by Saturday, March 1. Your harassed reporter, after chasing down many fallacious rumors, has finally received word from Editor Doug Swink that the minor technicalities which prevented the distribution of the Winter Issue at the previously set date have been overcome, and at last it’s on its way.

As announced before, the featured articles, “Murder At The Library Window,” “Accidents And Crashes,” and “Bedlam” will be presented, along with many items of humor and interest. Although the “Valentine” cover and flavor of the magazine is a bit belated, we know that matters of the heart never grow old. But, folks, don’t forget, that in this issue of Scripts ’n Pranks you will find THE contest—the thing that the whole campus will be talking about—filled with thrills and excitement and interest for all. And there will be prizes, too, for the most able contestants among the student body. So get ’em while they’re hot, don’t hesitate! You'll find your copy well worth the wait!

Pictured above is the late Vereen Bell, in whose memory the literary award is being given.

Sigma Upsilon Holds Meeting
By Dick Port

On February 21, savants descended upon the SAE House for their bi-monthly battle of wits. The characteristic repartee which renders Sigma Upsilon a unique organization. The Blue Pencil Chapter, so-named only because “Blue” is more euphonious than “Red,” maintains a permanent record of all literary contributions, both oral and written, which are presented to the Chapter. In so doing, the group continues in the heritage given it by such former literary greats as the late Vereen Bell. Composed equally of faculty members and students, Sigma Upsilon provides ample opportunity for literary prowess, which is inevitably manifested in varying degrees of humor, Bonish Wit. Such humor is always to be found in what perhaps is the highlight of every meeting—the minutes of the previous meeting as written by the Chapter’s able secretary, Mac Jeffries. At the present meeting his description of a faculty member’s paper on his experiences of World War I was typical:

“The whole of his tale to re-scan
Would certainly be out of hand.
Suffice it to say,
That we slept all the way
From Winchester Square to Sedan.”

The papers presented on the night’s program all centered about army life. Ed Sutton wove a tale of woe, in which he was impaled by the horns of dilemma in a typical army SNAFU. Professor Wood presented a paper describing a G.I.’s experience in an army court martial, with interesting character studies of all those involved in the trial. Mac Jeffries played a dual role in the program and also presented his share of the war stories. Of the three incidents from the military experiences which he recounted to the group, it is sufficient to note that the phrase, “With my carbine at Port-Arms,” appeared in all three of the anecdotes.

Feed

The meeting was concluded with what was normally referred to as the “feed.” “Feed-Master” Sutton, who decries the fact that Davidson offers no Home Economics course, produced an assortment of scraps which led the secretary to write:

“It’s plain, our food’s in the ruts,
And the fault is obviously Sutt’s.
Two stale bits of bread,
Some sour sandwich spread,
And, of course, there’s that handful of nuts.”

COLLEGE PLATES

The college has just announced the arrival of a shipment of Davidson College commemorative plates. These plates, made of Wedgewood, are manufactured in Eturia, England and are available in four colors—Mulberry, Blue, Rose, and Green for two dollars apiece. Special cartons are provided for mailing. Please ask at the alumni office for additional information.

Trustees Call New Teacher

At a recent meeting of the Trustees, Rev. Charles Richard Eberhardt was elected to be Associate Professor of Bible at Davidson College. He is expected to take up his duties here next year.

Rev. Eberhardt, who was born April 5, 1911, was ordained clergyman in the Presbyterian Church of the U.S.A. He received his pre-collegiate education at Childs’ High School, New York City, and the New York Military Academy. He holds a B.S. degree in Pre-Law from New York University of Edinburgh, 1937 and his master’s a year later. He later stayed at the University of Basel as a graduate student in theology; however, his European work was interrupted by the outbreak of the war.

In 1939, he attended the Delegate World Order Conference of Christian Youth in Amsterdam, Holland. During the years of 1940 to 1946 he served as pastor of the Presbyterian Churches at Edgewater and later at New Vernon, New Jersey. He was, however, absent from his pastoral duties for a short time in 1942 when he attended the Chaplain School of the U.S. Navy. He soon received his discharge because of illness. At present Rev. Eberhardt is a full candidate for PhD degree at Drew University in Madison, N.J. He will receive his degree in October, though his work will have been finished in the late summer.

At the last meeting of the Trustees, tuition charges for the coming year, 1947-48, were raised from the present $250 per year to $300. The following table will show, however, that Davidson will continue to have the lowest tuition rates among other colleges of its class.

Rates School for 1947
Allegheny College $500
Bucknell U. 450
Carleton College 450
Dickinson C. 300
Macalester C. 300
Princeton U. 500
Denison U. 400
Hiram C. 350
Oberlin C. 400
Wooster C. 400
Chattanooga U. 325
Duke U. 300
Florida S. C. 306
Southern Methodist U. 800
Centre C. 300
Sewanee 300
Southwestern 350
Presbyterian C. 250
Washington and Lee 350
Westminster C. 350
Hampden Sydney C. 300

It is likely that some of the figures in the above group of colleges include student fees up to $40 or $50. This is not so with the lower group. Also passed by the Trustees at this meeting was the raising of faculty salaries fourteen months ahead of the time when the next automatic increase would be expected. Authorization was given for a major financial campaign to complete the Gymnasium and the Church and to provide for other needs of the college. Provisions were also made for hospital insurance (including surgery), of the non-academic employees of the College, which will become effective on March 1, 1947.

Forensic Clubs Reestablished

Davidson College's Forensic Council, which controls and plans all activities of the debating teams of the college, has recently been reactivated. The members of the new council, which is at present synonymous with the debating team were chosen in the tryouts for the team. These tryouts were held early in February, the primary ones being held on February 6. The men who attained positions on the debating team through these tryouts were: Haywood Brinegar, Ken Christopher, Don Coffey, R. C. Clontz, Charles Elyea, F. V. Long, J. M. McLaurin and J. W. Pence. Only two of these men, Coffey and Elyea were members of last year's council.

At its first meeting, the council elected Haywood Brinegar President. At the same meeting, Don Coffey and R. C. Clontz were chosen to serve with Brinegar as Vice President and Secretary, respectively.

There has been a very marked growth in the council this year, for instead of the single varsity team which they had last year, they now have two teams, each consisting of four men. The members of the Council are at present planning the schedule of debates for the spring. Of paramount importance on this schedule will be the tours.which the two teams will make before and during spring holidays. At that time, two teams will travel and debate with other schools for a period of from seven to ten days. One of the teams will go north for contests with northern schools, while the other will proceed southward.

Tournament. Previous to the spring vacation trip, the council plans to send a team to the Fifteenth South Atlantic Forensic Tournament. This tournament, which will last from March 6 through March 8, will be held in Hickory, N.C. According to Haywood Brinegar, President, all plans for spring debates are not complete. There are several tentative dates on the schedule, among them being a trip to Spartanburg, S.C., to meet Converse and Wofford, and also possibly a debate with a team from Winthrop College, Rock Hill, S.C.

Sunday, March 2
Vespers: Rev. James G. Huggin, of the Myers Park Methodist Church in Charlotte.

Monday, March 3
Chapel: Dr. Frontis Johnston

Tuesday, March 4
Chapel: Prof. E. E. Brown.

Wednesday, March 5
Chapel: Mr. Samuel R. Levering of Virginia, who has given a great deal of time to the study of World Government related problems.

Thursday, March 6
Chapel: Mr. Q. Bault.
Basketball: Southern Conference Tournament starts in Durham.

Friday, March 7
Chapel: Mr. G. C. A. Wrestling: Southern Conference Tournament starts at V.M.I.

Noehren Tour Set In March

Robert Noehren, organist and instructor of music at Davidson College, will go on a recital tour during March which will take him 500 miles and which will include appearances in Washington, Philadelphia, Boston, Toronto, Chicago, and Akron. Mr. Noehren's first appearance will be in Washington on March 2nd, where he will play the great organ of the National Cathedral. This is his second recital at the Cathedral; in 1939, Mr. Noehren was honored with an invitation to play one of the dedication programs on the new organ.

Mr. Noehren will play in Philadelphia on March 4th at the 1st Presbyterian Church, and on March 6th at the Church of the Advent in Boston. On March 8th he goes to Toronto, where his recital will be at St. Paul's Anglican Church. The grand organ at St. Paul's is the largest organ in the Dominion of Canada. On March 23rd, Mr. Noehren has been invited to give a recital for the American Guild of Organists in honor of the distinguished American composer, Leo Sowerby, at the Fourth Presbyterian Church in Chicago. The program will consist entirely of compositions by Mr. Sowerby. Mr. Noehren’s last recital will be at the Church of Our Savior in Akron. (Continued on Page 4)

Beginning in this issue and continuing in subsequent issues, the Davidsonian plans to run a student body opinion poll. The question asked will be of general interest to the student body and each week a general cross-section of the student body will be polled. This feature will continue until its originator runs out of questions. This week the question asked was: “Do you think that the Freshman Regulations should be abolished?”

A final tabulation of opinion brought the following results: A representative cross-section of the student body, according to classes, was polled.

Question: “Do you think that the Freshman Regulations should be abolished?”
No. 79.04%
Yes. 9.05%
Undecided. 8.57%
No Opinion. 2.85%

Though the above is interesting from the standpoint that it shows that the average Davidson man favors the continuance of Freshman Regulations, the result of student opinion as taken by classes is even more so: Broken down into class opinion and the percentage of men favoring the continuance of Freshman Regulations, every class favored the continuance of the Regulations, and the percentage of men favoring retention of the Regulations increased with the rise in scholastic class with the exception of the Junior class whose “no” vote was lower in percentage than the sophomores.

Question: “Do you think that the Freshman Regulations should be abolished?”
Percentage
Yes. No. Undecided. No Opinion.
Senior. 0.00%. 100.00%. 0.00%. 0.00%
Junior. 6.66%. 90.00%. 3.33%. 0.00%
Sophomore. 6.66%. 90.00%. 3.33%. 0.00%
Freshman. 16.67%. 63.54%. 13.33%. 6.66%

All the above goes to prove that the average man on the Davidson campus still favors the retention and continuance of the Freshman Regulations. Since the plan is now to run a student poll every week it is the desire of the editors to make the poll as interesting and as popular as possible. Consequently, the paper will welcome any suggestions concerning the poll and will be glad to take a poll on any pertinent question submitted. If you do have a question which you would like to have polled please send it to us.

Davidson Band Completes Tour

On the night of Thursday, February 28, the Davidson Symphonic Band returned to the campus after completing a four-day concert tour through South Carolina and Georgia. This was the first concert tour of any length for any Davidson musical organization since 1942, and judging from the reactions of the audiences, the band lived up quite ably to its advance billing as the “best concert band in the South.” Under the direction of James Christian Pfohl, head of the Davidson Music Department, the band presented a wide variety of numbers, ranging from the novelty number, “Pop Goes The Weasel,” to such classical offerings as the Bach-Albert “Chorale and Fugue in G Minor.”

The first concert was presented Sunday afternoon in the High School Auditorium in Florence, South Carolina, and consisted entirely of religious and classical numbers. On Monday the band piled aboard their two chartered buses and journeyed south to Waycross, Georgia, where that evening they presented their second concert. The next day the band moved up to Thomasville, Georgia, where they gave their third concert in the City Auditorium. Wednesday the band moved on to Atlanta where its fourth concert was given at the North Fulton High School Auditorium. Thursday, the last day, the band drove up to Newton, North Carolina, presented their last concert and then returned to Davidson that same night.

At every stop the band was treated with such gracious hospitality that it would have to be felt to be believed. The band members were lodged in private homes at each of their stops, and after each stop the band’s conception of real Southern Hospitality had increased tenfold. After leaving a stop the next morning the sole topic of conversation for miles centered about the enormous platters of fried chicken devoured, the number of cars freely lent, and the amazing amount of consideration showed by the hostesses. One hostess even felt called upon to apologize because the two members staying at her home would have to use the same bathroom. The others were being painted at the time, she explained.

Success

The trip was a success from all angles. Each concert was received enthusiastically by the audiences. With especial interest centered on the two violin solos performed by Melvin Sipes. Melvin, with the aid of dark glasses and a harmonica-playing assistant, dabbled with more mercenary music, collecting quite a tidy little sum in pool halls and on street corners during midday rest stops. The weather was mild and warm for almost the entire trip, changing to a sleet storm on the last day. Almost every man busied himself during the long (Continued on Page 4)

Dick Port Selected To Represent ODK

President of Leadership Frat Convention in Washington.

At a meeting of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity, Richard Port of Winston-Salem, N.C., was chosen to represent Davidson’s Delta Circle at the National Convention to be held in March at George Washington University in the nation’s capital. Port is at present president of the leadership organization on the Davidson campus.

Lieutenant

Entering Davidson in the fall of 1940, he withdrew from school in June, 1943, to enter the army and served as a lieutenant with the infantry in France and Germany. A well-known figure on the Davidson campus, Dick was elected to serve as student body president for the years 1943-44, but was unable to fill the position due to his call to service. Port returned to the Davidson campus this fall and has continued to show his leadership abilities this year, holding the presidency of Sigma Upsilon, a hurdler’s position on the track squad, and membership in Phi Beta Kappa, the D Club, The Beaver Club, and the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. Alf Taylor of Nashville, Tenn., was selected as alternate.

Initial Meeting

Port's selection was made at the first meeting of Omicron Delta Kappa to be held this semester. The meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m. on Wednesday, February 20 in the Quadrangle room in Chambers building. A report on student-faculty relations was given by Pat Williams, chairman of the committee, and the remainder of the session was taken up with discussion of the convention. Brothers in attendance at the initial meeting included Dick O’Hair, Bill McLean, Dick Port, Al Scarboro, Bamarr Williamson, Tom Bumbarger, Pat Williams, Ed Sutton, Bob Amos, Alf Taylor, Mac Jeffries, and Price Gwinn.

Chemists Hear Doctor Snell

Dr. Foster D. Snell, one of the country’s outstanding consulting chemists, made the principal address before the Carolina Piedmont Section of the American Chemical Society in the Martin Chemistry Building at Davidson Friday evening. Approximately 70 members of the society were present for the banquet which preceded the meeting and to hear the lecture.

Dr. Snell graduated from Colgate University in 1919 and received his Ph.D. from Columbia University. After teaching for a number of years, he organized the Foster D. Snell, Inc., of consulting chemists and has come to be recognized as a leader in the field. During the war, he served as a member of the board of the Office of Production Research and Development for the federal government. He is the author of several books and numerous publications.

Speaking on “Surface Activity and Detergency,” Dr. Snell illustrated his lecture with slides and graphs. He was introduced by B. S. Liles of Badin and the Carolina Aluminum Co. Dave E. Truax of Charlotte, chairman of the local association, presided at the meeting.

ELM ROW COLD

Tis twenty-one degrees above,
There’s no more bitume in our stove.
I’m leaving...