“Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, October 24, 1947

COURT JUDGES

ing in every first-year man the true

«« ROAMING WITH RONNY »»

a literary Club

(Continued From Page 1)

and this statement is particularly

News in Campus Wear by O. E. men’s apparel editor, Esquire Magazine

you term it, the university man he distinguished from that of way up, or any successful vo ing apparel. A
careful glance at the university man’s jacket for Fall campus wear sees these three obvious facts: first, that it's a
quiet, small patterned tweed; second, that it hangs straight down and has little, if any, padding in the natural shoulders;
and third, that it's a single-breasted three-button model. In contrast to the clarion-call patterns of jacket fabrics of former years,
the new Fall versions are quite mild but far from meek. There's plenty of character in those newer shades of
brown, tan, and blue, and the blue-grey just arriving on the campus is going to have quite a few fast
friends.

Neckwear is in for a change of pace too. And one type that hasn't been around for quite a while
and will decorate the necklines of the undergraduate body is the crocheted tie. Crocheting, as the texts on domestic science
will tell you, is knitting with a single hooked needle, and the results are mighty, mighty good-looking.

was diagonally thin striped in yellow and red. That roughish texture of crochet ties makes them naturals for wear with
tweeds. They knot up nicely a bit on the large side. One compromise with the university man’s instinctive liking for
color in his apparel seems to have centered around his ankles. Wool Argyle plaid socks, the campus favorite as far
back as any alumnus wishes to recall, are in stronger than ever for Fall, and they're quite sensible with plain
colored slacks. Since most men prefer grey flannels, socks made of brown wool with blue and red diamonds are a
good bet. And for variety, grey, black, and red make an excellent auxiliary pair. The all-over picture then, is one
of quiet and rather inconspicuous dignity, which will suit most university men well. But characteristically these same men will manage
to inject a single note of dominant color in their ties, or socks, thus manage to stay ‘way out in
front as one of the country’s chief inspirations for new dress in men’s apparel.

Copyright 1947 by Esquire, Inc.

It may be that the appearance of undergraduates’ wives and offspring on the university scene has had a sobering effect
on clothes fabric designs for college men. Or it may be an en masse shift in the preferences of America’s
university men from the bold and blatant patterns they favored to the quieter tones prevalent for Fall. Or just call
it a change of pace. Whatever the reason and no matter what you term it, the university man’s Fall wardrobe
can scarcely be distinguished from that of a young business man on his way up, or any successful young professional
man’s wear.

Or so they are in the new Fall ties. Not only have they been fashioned in wide color ranges, but
various arrangements have been made in their stripes. Some stripes run horizontally. Others are diagonals. All are quite narrow, and
spaced about an inch and a half apart. There’s pleasant color in them too, and one we saw made on
a background of maroon had gold stripes. Another featured a dark blue background and alternating horizontal blue and

Schoeffler

Reprinted from the November, 1947 issue of Esquire

Copyright 1947 by Esquire, Inc.

“preaching By RONNY DIETRICK

parents may or may not have heard of the great religious revival. If they haven't they must not have heard
Dr. Vuckett’s chapel program last year. If they have heard of this revival they still labor under a misconception, for
1857 actually took place in March, April, and May of 1858. Proof of this statement is found in a copy
of a letter (now in the library files) from a Davidson professor to a friend in Philadelphia, dated March 20,
1858, and after the usual opening amenities, states “The revival began at a communion service eight days ago.” This definitely
dates the beginning of Davidson's greatest religious upheaval as March 13, 1858. At that time less than half of the
student body were affiliated with any church. During the revival, however, many students joined the chapel and became staunch supporters
of the Christian religion. The importance of the religious movement on the campus was noted by both students and faculty.
The minutes of the Philanthropic Literary Society contain notes of three special meetings called specifically on March 19, 1858, March
26, and April 2, to postpone regular meetings of the society in order that the members might attend the “preaching
in the chapel.” The minutes of the Eumanean Society of that period contain no reference to any of its members
attending the “preachings.” Maybe their meeting just

OPERATING TABLE (Continued From Page Two)

FRANK MATTHEWS

help new install a brand new protein Clothing line for the coming year. The latest reports have it that MILLIONS
McNAIR has acquired a date for the dance who

”didn’t fall on the si did.” Furthermore, the COMMITTEE report to the faculty at the meeting of the board of
trustees on July 13, 1858, states the thankfulness of the faculty for the changed attitude of the religion of today.
We can see that this resurgence of the important events to take place among students was due to a revival
on the campus. Thus, religion was one of the most significant aspects of the campus up to that time. One
final point needs clarification. Various references have been made, in the past year, to the fact that the Eumenean Literary
Society burned the writings of Rousseau, Voltaire, and Tom Paine, which were atheistic, in their library at the time of
the revival. This is not true. The Eumenean Society, in an attempt to “purify” their library, burned the works of
other authors.

In her own right, she may be called not “Double Dip” but rather “two u.”

CERVANTES Randolph Macon this past Saturday roared up to the most devastating weekend of parties ever to be held in
Lynchburg. Members of the Davidson Chapter of “THE VETERANS SECRET SOCIETY” will meet this coming Saturday morning in the library
for a short ceremony.

Man of the Week!!! WILLIAM SUTHERLAND of the Glee Club has announced his forthcoming nuptials to be performed with Miss
Vawter Steele of Statesville. Mr. Steele will become Mr. Steele shortly after the ceremony.

SCRUGGS AND UPCHURCH were spotted Saturday evening at the Charlotte Municipal Zoo cuddling connubially with a pair of female anthropoids.
Take it away, Henry Tracy.

The Davidson Thrumy, a Mooresville Ice Cream Company MAKERS OF Deluxe Ice Cream Mooresville, N.C.

Stonestreet’s Cafe “The Sensible Place to Eat” O. C. STONESTREET, Mgr. 418 S. Main St. Phone 132 MOORESVILLE, N. C.
Phone 284 PASTEURIZED GRADE ‘A’ MILK Mooresville Co-Operative Creamery Daily—Delivery PHONE 205 MOORESVILLE, N. C.

BUNCH FUNERAL HOME Ambulance Service Mooresville, N. C.

STATE Mooresville, N. C. FRI-SAT. “Cynthia” with ELIZABETH TAYLOR Late Show 10:30 Sat. Nite MON.-TUES. JOEL McCREA VERONICA LAKE in
“Ramrod” WEDNESDAY ALAN LADD in “Calcutta”

CAROLINA Mooresville, N. C. FRI.-SAT.—First Run DOUBLE FEATURE LASH LARUE in “GHOST TOWN RENEGADES” and LEE TRACY in “HIGH TIDE”
MON.-TUES. “THE PRIVATE AFFAIRS OF BEL AMI” GEO. SAUNDERS ANGELA LANSBURY WED.-THURS. “BLACK BEAUTY” RICHARD DENNING MONA FREEMAN and “BLONDIE’S
BIG MOMENT” ARTHUR LAKE PENNY SINGLETON

Is Reorganized At the third called meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society last Monday night, President Al Scarborough completed the
plans for the coming year. Names of prospective new members were brought up. President Scarborough expressed the hope that these
new men will present papers at the next meeting of the society in Fu Hall. This meeting will constitute the
actual active launching of the new year.

Last year, under the presidency of Doug Swink, the society began to function after a lapse. However, not all the
customs have been revived, and it is hoped that during the present year they may be reinstated. Such activities as
the inter-society debates were discontinued as well as many of the customs which characterized the life of the society on
the campus. One of the more sought-after goals is that the marshals at commencement be selected from the Junior Class
again. The current first few meetings have been devoted mainly to the reorganization of the society. The chief work in
this link has been the re-writing of the constitution which had been in effect since 1920. Under the direction of
President Scarborough, Doug Swink, and Walker Taylor, many outmoded customs have been discarded and many new ideas have been injected
into the society, which should considerably enliven the life of the society on the campus during the war years of
its activities. However, not all the customs have been revived, and it is hoped that during the present year they
may be reinstated.

Three fundamental motives and purposes for the existence of this organization are to make life miserable and intolerable for underclassmen
at Davidson. Hence, it is only natural that the Court of Control should have to revert to some “little reminders”
to keep the less cooperative members of that class in line. Thus, the sentences of the Court of Control, though
they may occasionally seem unnecessary, in reality, serve a very definite and worthwhile end.

Davidson Special: Portraits Of Distinction $6.29 each, 2 for $12.00, 3 for $17.00. NO APPOINTMENT NECESSARY. PLENTY OF PROOFS SHOWN.
Duke Photo Studio 404 W. Trade Street Charlotte, N.C.

SWEATERS, Slacks Galore - - - They're terrific—flannels, gabardines, coverts, Jonesits—solids and patterns. A couple of these will do wonders
for your wardrobe, and priced only $10.00 to $13.95.

Suits to Suit You - - - Single and double-breasted, 100 percent wool—exciting patterns. Excellent Fabrics. $29.50 to $50.00.

ELECTION SPORTS COATS AND ACCESSORIES, John Mack & Son Mooresville, N. C.

FAVORITE OF EVERY College Man AND WE HAVE THEM— Shirts — With the smart new extra-wide-spread Eden collar style and
French cuffs, too, By VAN HEUSEN $4.50. You surely will want to see our fine selection of other Shirts, $2.98
to $4.50.

KNITTED TIES — With the VAN HEUSEN panel stripes—by A Successful Homecoming to You Wildcats!
