Page 2 THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, May 16, 1947

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

BOB PHILLIPS
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

BOB CLINE
BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Sam Ervin
Sports Editor
Bob Rierson
Feature Editor
Walter Mann
Managing Editor
Bill Calhoun
Managing Editor
Ronny Dietrick
Managing Editor
Stan Kennett
Managing Editor
John Stewart
Staff Photographer
Bob Hollister
Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Bob Gambrell
Assistant Business Manager
Frank Lemmon
Advertising Manager
John McNair
Circulation Manager
Bob Cline
Circulation Manager
Bill Baxter
Circulation Manager
Charles Dockery
Collection Manager

Reporters: F. J. Schwaemmle, L. B. Redfearn, Lonnie Turnipseed, Rees Jenkins, Bill Bogart, Frank Lemmon, Bill Johnson, Frank Allred, Ernest Hunter, Kent Christopher
Sports Reporters: Charles Cunningham, Jack Hazard, Mac Hart

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

1946 Member 1947
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such it welcomes any contributions or communication to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hands by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

Letters To The Editor

Dear Editor:

In response to your petition for the departing seniors to “speak up” I'd like to make a few suggestions which I feel may be representative of the thoughts running through the minds of quite a few of us who are leaving.

1. There is a conspicuous and perhaps a dangerous lack of fire precautionary training given to Davidson students. Perhaps this fear of the possibility of fire has been enhanced in the minds of some of us who were in the service, but no amount of fire fighting equipment, and of fire drills should be considered a waste of time. The majority of students are careless with their smoking in the dormitories. There is no organized system of evacuation or of student fire fighting. There is no specific alarm system to my knowledge. The disaster of Old Chambers should be sufficient warning to the college to take pains to guard against this possibility. It has taken a long time to raise sufficient funds for the new gym. Lose one dormitory, and another campaign for funds would be in the offing.

2. My second suggestion is a rather revolutionary one. It involves instituting a system of compulsory public speaking. I do not mean that every student should be required to take a course in Public Speaking, as he does in Freshman Math or History, I mean rather that instruction in this subject be incorporated into the elementary English courses. It is of little avail to teach a man good grammar and to recognize the classics, when all the while he is absolutely tongue-tied in the presence of five or more people. The student need not even be instructed in the art of speech making. That is an art reserved for a privileged few. However, if he simply were required to give readings and other oral memory work, I am almost positive that within a year or so, the whole demeanor and self-assurance of the average student, as regards his appearance to the public, would be greatly improved. Other institutions who have made experiments in this department have been greatly impressed with the results produced.

3. My third suggestion concerns the daily Chapel exercises. For anyone who has stepped into the auditorium at times other than when exercises are being held and listened to Mr. Pfohl, Mr. Noehren, or music students laboriously practicing on the organ, hour on hour, it seems almost a sacrilege to observe the utter disregard on the part of the student body for the preludes in the daily programs. The average student may be unaware that organ music precedes every program. To the members of the Music Department, the playing of the organ is the exercise of their profession. They do it well. If they weren't trained musicians they wouldn’t even be here. They take pride in their music, and though they would be the last to say so, I dare say that they swallow a lot of that same pride each day before they begin to play in the face of the usual tumult of chapel jabbering. I make the suggestion that either the music continue in the programs, and the students be asked to remain silent during the playing, or that the prelude organ music be done away with entirely. The latter, however, should be considered as an alternate remedy.

4. The third suggestion is one that was made and carried out rather successfully in 1943. It also deals with the Chapel exercises. Tuesdays and Thursdays have been designated as Student Days. Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, have been designated as worship programs solely. Under the present system, there is little difference in student body conduct on either of these days. The only restraint noticeably exercised on the latter days is that so far no students have been “passed down” from the rear of the auditorium. So student body announcements should be read from the floor on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. The President of the Student Body should act as a “clearing house” on these days, and select what announcements he considers absolutely imperative to be read. These announcements should be passed up to the platform prior to the service and read by the speaker or the man introducing the speaker. This practice would have a tendency to make the program a little more formal, as opposed to the less restricted Student Chapel Days. On Tuesdays and Thursdays, a short devotional exercise should be conducted and the program turned over to the students. Only in extreme emergencies should these days be taken over as full length worship programs. If the student is expected to conduct himself in a more restricted manner on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays, he should have the right to expect that Tuesdays and Thursdays are his days, and that this right will always be protected.

5. My fourth and last suggestion is one that has no concrete solution. It is merely something that can be encouraged. I refer to Student-Faculty relations. Davidson is a closely knit community, where both conditions and atmosphere lend themselves to a practical, close relationship between the student and the professor. I approve of the school’s printing the names of those faculty homes that are open to students each Sunday evening. However, not nearly enough students are availing themselves of this privilege. Very often we hear the remark, “I could have passed that review if I’d only known what he wanted!” If more students would start visiting their professors and learn to know them as friends rather than as pedagogues, they could get rid of a lot of the psychological bugs which pursue the average student when he is faced with a review. The professors don’t enjoy a strict stern relationship any more than the student does. Here at Davidson, there is the ideal opportunity to get to know your teachers, and in so doing many may come closer to getting an education than merely getting a degree.

The school and the student may take these suggestions for what they are worth. Some may not be practical, but I believe they may be a step toward what is referred to as “A Better Davidson.”

Yours very sincerely,

Breezin’ With Bob
BY BOB RIERSON

What is all the hubbub about this business of the size of the Davidson College student body in future planning? There has been a tremendous amount of argument pro and con on the subject, and yet the conclusion of either side is not very clear when one comes to weigh the respective merits of each. To this corner all the good points seem to migrate to the side of reduced enrollment at the end of the present emergency as the only possible choice of steps to be taken. I actually find it difficult to find any logical argument for the side which contends for enlarged enrollment. The added satisfaction that one could get by saying that he went to a school of 1,000 students as opposed to that given by the mere number 650 is hardly worth the inconveniences in providing for the extra 350. After all, if one must boast about numbers, he might gain admission to New York University which enrolled some 35,708 hardy souls in 1946.

It is the tacitly understood policy among the members of the administration of this college that they are not trying to do what so many schools in this country are. They have no aspirations of becoming a university some day in the future with millions of greenbacks growing on the hill instead of the now-present foliage. Instead, Davidson strives to give young men a good sound basis for further activity in the ways of life. There is no attempt at specialization, but only an attempt to provide the groundwork for anyone who wishes to delve more deeply into higher education. In short, Davidson claims nothing more than the offering of a good liberal education, and it is renowned throughout educational circles as doing just that, just as well as any, and far better than most colleges in the nation.

Very well, having gained a clear picture of what Davidson is trying to do, we can proceed with determining the true ideal size of such an institution. It is very evident to all students here this year and suffering the various tribulations encountered in living conditions in the dorms, that 900 students is far too many for the facilities provided. There has been much grumbling on this matter, some of which might be stopped by these grumblers having to serve a semester’s hitch in one of the large universities of our land where a man is content to have a tent over his head and feels himself in heaven if he may share a Quonset hut with six other luckyfellows. But still it is easy to see that these conditions will not prevail indefinitely, that they will doubtless all have passed within five years. Therefore Davidson cannot keep its present size with its present equipment. If the good round number of 1,000 students is the goal, two more dormitories will have to be added, and much-needed repairs must be carried out with respect to some of the older, more dilapidated dorms now in use. So the question of 650 to 1,000 would be in the hands of the guiding powers of this institution, whether they will see fit to increase the present plant or not. Neither number is bad. Either denotes exclusiveness when compared to the monstrous figures in larger schools. But if 1,000 be the magic number, then new buildings will have to be the order of the day. The prime consideration is, and will have to be, the quality of the education offered. As long as it maintains its past and present high standard, the future will take care of itself.

PI KAPPA PHI

Following the noble traditions of their honorable ancestors, the Pi Kaps roamed both near and far this past weekend. As a result of the coercion of Brothers Schenck and Edwards, however, the majority remained to support the ball given by Scabbard and Blade. Among those attending this function were Brothers Cline, Edwards, Schenck, Read, Reid, Walker (2), Boykin, Hunter, Robertson, etc. The Brothers Barringer took off for the usual weekend in Florence. It is also reported that O. D. Evans was taking off too but forgot to retract his flaps. ($20.00 fine, pilot error).

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

Everybody was a big wheel this weekend, everybody dealt in large dimensions, and everybody had a big time. In short: big weekend. Brother Pahl, heading the list of decorated bellboys, was ravishing in faded canvas and skivvy buttons. He was escorted by Maggie Donald. Big dealer Smiley big-dealed as usual, only more so. Brother Jim Harris wheeled in unusual style. Brother Vaughan MacAlister came to the dances with relatives. Brother Aiken came too—dated no less—which somehow irked Brothers Faison and Allsop into getting up a two-way plot. Brother Coddington is quieting down at last, now that Puddin has gone back to Hollins. But he’s been staring at the ceiling (also papered with pictures of McKoy) ever since. If you want to know what happened to Brothers J. MacAlister, Bob Strickland, Bobby Carson, Torry Hemby, Bill Little, and Bob Little, you'll have to ask them. But rest assured they wheeled in some capacity or other. Brother Bronco turned in an unusual performance. To top the weekend off, we had a breakfast at the Rea's Head, and you know how wheels love to eat. I want to tell you it was all fine.

DELTA KAPPA

Delta Kappa announces with pleasure the initiation of the following on the 6th of May: Bob Butt, John Pritchard, Walter Mann, Mott Price, Professors Puckett, McGeachy, and Pietenpohl. Calhoun was at his usual high, providing a fine feed after initiation at which several of the new members definitely entered the race for cake consumption. Miller and Carr are said to be taking a correspondence course in auto repair. And Buford and Ashley are at it again. But perhaps we’d better let well enough alone. Much jubilation was apparent when dealers Williams and Richard returned from Charlotte with Richard still speaking with the Spanish brogue. Things wouldn’t be half so bad if someone could just answer Dietrich’s question: What is a Whiffenpoof, anyway? Anybody who gets up at 6:30 to play tennis must need his head examined. Of course, we’ve had our doubts about Murray for some time, to say the least, but the straw that broke the camel’s back occurred when he tried to pry Zedaker from the sack at the bust of dawn.

The Operating Table

A newly chosen editor
And he stoppeth one of three.
“By the ink-stained hand and bleary eye,
Now wherefore stopp’st thou me?”
The Stud Store doors are open wide,
And I am next in line.
The boys are met; the feast is set;
Their eyes with True Aide shine.”
He holds me with his bloodshot eye,
“'Tis table time,” quoth he.
“Unhand me, I have three reviews!”
Eftsoons his hand dropt he.

Dave Richardson and Dirty Doug
As yet are in Fort Mill.”
And thus he leaves the task with will.
The journalist hath his Canto I

The remnants of Class Forty-five
Must surely head this rhyme,
For on the shores of Harris Lake,
They had themselves a time.
Sir Oscar Eucalyptus Starnes
Was seen with lovely date
Who tantalized poor Black Jack
Using lollypops for bait.
The gentlemanly Jackson was
In spirits bright and gay
But all who know the Rope Man
Say he’s “generally” that way.
And Race. Hawse Tommy Powell
Of the Air Corps Infantry
Was buzzing through the shady dales
To see what he could see.

Canto II

Now Richard Archer Oglesby
Who lives just down the hall
Is mumbling of Minerva
And a military ball.
And just two weeks ago they say
Beneath a silvery moon
He had no noisy fireworks
So he popped a toy balloon.
And also at the merry ball,
John Codington and fem
Who secretly now wears his pin
"The best to both of them.
The Golden Greek with someone new
Is nothing strange to see.
They say that “he was sleepy when
He walked into the tree.
'Tis said a goodly time was had
By ole Pi Kappa Phi
They had a sort of special feed
When closing time came by.
Some dealers hit the Airport Grill
The ball was o’er and through.
And seemed a bit dismayed to find,
One door instead of two.

Canto III

Many operators went
On deals both wide and far,
And Taylor led the Kappa Sigs
To Moose’s High Point star.
Dave Richardson was in great form
At Randy Mac, they say
And kept the gals in stitches
In his own nefarious way.

Cinema Comments
By Bill Calhoun

MONDAY-TUESDAY
“THE JOLSON STORY”
As the best musical of the year, this picture portrays the story of the life of the immortal Al Jolson. Jolson’s songs are featured, and they are sung by him through the “screen front” of Larry Parks. Parks plays magnificently his part as Jolson. Evelyn Keyes, the beautiful blonde, is outstanding as Jolson’s wife, who, unfortunately for the story (and Jolson) leaves him because of his love for music and performing.

WEDNESDAY-THURSDAY
“THE ANGEL AND THE BADMEN”
John Wayne is the producer and the star of the fast-paced Westerner, of the well-known type of “horse operas”. He plays a frontier bandit who is reformed by an old Quaker family. Gorgeous Gail Russell is the major influence in his reformation from the criminal life to the respectable family life of the frontier settler. Although a rather typical Western, there is enough suspense involved to make an interesting movie.

FRIDAY-SATURDAY
“JUNGLE PRINCESS”
“Grass skirt” Dottie Lamour is featured in this interesting (need I say that) movie of the jungle and uncivilized wilderness contained therein. Although an old picture, brought back after a number of years, it is well worth seeing for obvious reasons. It also has some plot and is somewhat interesting in parts. Lamour, toujours l'amour.

New officers elected recently include: President, John Fesperman; vice president, Buford Goodman; secretary, Spencer Murray; treasurer, Rodney Whisnant; warden, Bill Clark.

KAPPA SIGMA

Review-torn and exam-laden, even the dealers’ style has been cramped and the past weekend found a number of the brothers recuperating in the seclusion of their dormitories. Dum Dum Enneface, still unable to digest the loss of his jock in the recent Ky. opener, retired to the hills of Asheville with a carton of Philip Morris to dream of Beowulf. Concerning the mythical hero, quote Dum Dum: “Mah Ah’deal.” Jim Love decided to escape it all and headed north for the garden festival at Cambridge and the last we heard, he was smiling at a snap-dragon. He might be a poor boy but his ole man’s got piles. Jerk Wade was found dissipating in Charlotte while Ready-Teddy was seen running around with some character brawling at the broads outside the Broadway theater. With “Hogan” back in town, Doug Rice is back in the saddle and taking the Queen City by storm. Wally Pack spent most of the weekend organizing his Auto Safety Club and initiated his first member, Lucky Teter Pearson. Honorary members include Martin Waters and John McDonald. With disappointment we share sympathy with Frigid Freeman Jones who let one Jean F. slip through his fingers into matrimony. We haven’t seen much of Footsie Currie and Pat Williams—but small wonder. The former was caught matriculating near the flagpole on Friday night while the latter was reported having been seen showing his thesis to all the professors. Welcome to Alf Taylor who has just returned from the ODK convention in New York!

KAPPA ALPHA

This will be the final column of Knighthood news until next year when our newly elected number one, Sam Ervin, will lead us forth. Knights who were in the wheeling mood this week were great in number. Senor Payne went to the Junior-Senior dance at Woman’s College in Greensboro. Concerning his operations there, nothing is known. He has kept them in strict secrecy, not even divulging them to his best friend, Trakas. St. Mary’s was the hostess to brothers Lindsay, Spillman, and “Sex” Glenn. Glenn’s new title describes his operations fully. Making more extensive travels was Bill Bason who covered the state from Salem to the beaches. The main operation of the Knights for the weekend was the Military Ball in Charlotte. The night before this occasion the illustrious John Adams was seen at the Harry James dance with his date. Later he announced that he had taken over a Boy Scout troop in Charlotte. Also was seen Bud Fowle who was definitely not bored at a recent lawn party in Charlotte where he had a blonde with blue eyes. Heading for home were brothers Flowers, Manget, and Scofield. Manget was dealing so extensively in Decatur that as this column goes to press he has as yet not returned. Maybe his dealing wasn’t at Agnes Scott, but at the University of Georgia. He has been known to stop there before on his return to the hill. Also seen at home at Morganton was Sam Ervin sitting on the fender of an automobile in the center of this N. C. metropolis batting the breeze with the local color. A certain magnet at Bristol continually draws brother Bill King there. Accompanying him this week to find out what kind of magnet this was, were brothers Easley,

(Continued on Page 3)