EERE EAGT is aa STUDENT DIRECTORY EDITION Che Mabidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA K'seearas SCHOOL SPIRIT AT PEAK VOLUME XXXVI
DAVIDSON NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1947 NO 2 FROSH WASH Se tad aii Pictured above, step to stoop, are
Freshman Bill McCrary and an unidentified cohort, engaged in atoning for their misdeeds. Joe Stukes Appointed Director The Alumni Office
has just announced the acquisition of the services of Joe Stukes as Director of the Living Endowment. Joe will fill
the vacancy created by the recent resignation of Melvin W. Means. Mr. John L. Payne, stated that while Joe is
somewhat inexperienced, he is filled with a great zeal and affection for Davidson College and will serve his Alma Mater
well. Stukes, who is from Manning, S. C., graduated from Davidson last June. During the summer he served as a
counselor at Camp Sequoyah, Weaverville, N. C. During his student days at Davidson, Stukes was a leader in campus activities.
He was Sports Editor of the Davidsonian, '45; a member of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, and Philanthropic Literary
Society, of which he was president in ‘47. He was also president of the ‘47 Honorary Fraternity Council. He was
vice-president of the Student Body, ‘46; and Secretary-Treasurer of the Senior Class. He is also a member of the “D"
Club; Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity; Sigma Delta Pi, Spanish fraternity; and Beta Theta Pi, social fraternity. German International
Relation Club Asks U.S. Correspondents Again this year Davidson Students will have an opportunity to correspond with German citizens in
the American Occupation Zone if they so desire. Miss Anna Maria Braun, secretary of the newly organized International Correspondence Bureau,
indicated in a recent letter to the Davidsonian that many members of her organization were vitally interested in establishing friendships
with American students by mail. These Germans, according to Miss Braun, are earnestly seeking to learn more about democratic (Continued
on Page Six) Living Endowment Program Jim French Chosen As New President Of The ‘D’ Club BY FRANK PURNELL At
the first meeting of the year Wednesday night, the “D" club elected Jimmy French as their president. French entered Davidson
in the year of the outbreak of the war. During this year he was on the Freshman baseball team. At
the close of the same year he was called to serve for three years in the 104th Infantry Division. When
he returned to Davidson in 1945, he received his first “D" for being on the baseball team. Jimmy broke his
ankle at the beginning of the “46-47 season and consequently wasn't able to retain his regular 2nd baseman’s position. He
was elected head cheerleader for the present year, but because of the same broken ankle, his position was given to
Jerry Robinson. Jimmy is a member of Phi Delta Gamma social fraternity, and a representative to the “Pan-Hellenic Council.” The
D-Club is composed of Davidson students who have earned a red “D" for being outstanding in football, basketball, baseball, track,
cross-country, tennis, golf, wrestling, rifle team, or for being the head cheerleader. Last year the D-Club, with the help of
George Veters, was responsible for the inauguration of “The D-Club Follies.” The proceeds of the “Follies” were given to a
worthwhile charity. The presentation was such a success with the members of the student body that the D-Club expects to
make it an annual affair. The D-Club will meet again next Wednesday night to elect a vice-president from the Junior
class and a secretary-treasurer from the Sophomore class. At this time they will also organize committees and plan projects for
the year. ‘Y' Ride Board Y.M.C.A. Facility This is to remind all students that the Y.M.C.A. Ride Board is in
the lobby of Chambers again this year to help anyone who wants a ride, or wants to offer a ride
to someone else. This board is a portion of one of the bulletin boards in the lobby of Chambers. It
is marked off and labelled “Y.M.C.A. Ride Board.” In using this board all you have to do is write a
notice telling where you are going or where you would like to go and pin it up on the bulletin
board. It helps, when making such a notice, if you will give your room number so the person who may
be able to help you will know how to get in touch with you. Masquers Lay Plans For Year's Activity
The Red and Black Masquers, honorary dramatic organization, is at present making plans for the year's activity. This year they
are planning a new and larger scale of endeavor. There will still be the usual two plays, one during the
Fall Semester and another during the Spring. However, this year there will also be radio shows produced on the campus.
Another change in the organization of the Red and Black Masquers will be the workshop basis on which they will
work this year. Under this type of plan more emphasis will be placed on departmental efficiency. This will make it
possible for those who are interested in some phase of dramatic production other than acting, to have a chance to
participate in the activities of the organization. Frank Lowe will be in charge of dramatic production, Jimmy Gribben will handle
the settings. Financial and publicity matters will be managed by Doug Swink. “Our Town", by Thornton Wilder, will be presented
by the Red and Black Masquers this fall. The date has not been definitely set yet but it will probably
be some time early in December. This play will run for two consecutive nights instead of the usual one. Calendar
VESPERS Sunday, October 5 The Reverend J. N. Thomas, D. D., Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia. CHAPEL Monday, October 6—Dr.
G. R. Vowles. Tuesday, October 7—Prof. Henry J. Lilly. Wednesday, October 8 — Rev. Howard C. Wilkinson, First Methodist Church,
Charlotte, N. C. Thursday, October 9—Prof. J. W. Reid. Friday, October 10—Rev. Roy Short, D.D., Editor, “Upper Room” Nashville, Tenn.
Court of Control Sentences Frosh To Hard Labor BY AL SCARBOROUGH A lengthy session of the Court of Control terminated
in the finding of eleven out of eleven Freshmen guilty of charges placed against them. Violations of regulations were among
the most numerous charges. Failure to wear the prescribed cap was responsible for the appearance of six underclassmen. Others were
called up for violating the rule against walking on the grass. Sentences resulting from these various charges included the scrubbing
of the steps of Chambers with a toothbrush, soap, and water for three hours a week, offering to shine shoes
for upperclassmen, and walking guard duty in front of Chambers with a broom. Also, several violators were ordered to request
additional work details from some of the campus BMOC’s such as the president of the Student Body and Dum Dum
Everett. The one defendant charged with not wearing the Freshman cap was suspended. Due to his exemplary co-operative attitude and
because he presented a letter from the Student Store manager informing the court of the depleted stock of caps and
also the frequent attempt of the Freshman to purchase one, the court decided it should be lenient in this case.
Other serious discrepancies besides the direct violations of the regulations were recorded against members of the Class of '51. The
sensational charge of the session was instigated against one Freshman who doubted the ability of the Court of Control to
control him. Before Thursday, the Biology Department boasted of only one human skeleton. Have any of you Freshmen noticed the
happy smile displayed by the comparative anatomy professor lately? His favorite pastime is piecing together bone fragments belonging to the
human torso. The first meeting of the Court for this year was presided over by Judge Bob Strickland. All eight
members were present. In commenting upon the success of the first trial of the semester, Judge Strickland seemed well satisfied
with the proceedings. It was apparent that most of the present cases were due largely to the usual gross ignorance
and lack of capacity of Freshmen to catch on. It is sincerely hoped that a year’s residence at Davidson will
in some manner tend to alleviate this pathetic situation. The fact that two undesirables were called up due to obnoxiousness
and disrespect that practically amounted to insubordination constituted a most deplorable condition in the mind of His Honor. His own
words best reveal his reaction, “It is the announced policy and intention of this Court to abide by both the
spirit and law of the article set forth in our Student Body Constitution relative to hazing. We earnestly desire that
crushing bones and flowing blood be institutions of the past. The reign of the club and paddle should be over.
However, I wish to remind the Freshman Class that even the most tolerant can be led on to a breaking
point.” The Davidsonian prints this latter statement in the interest of the Class of ’51.Y.M.C.A. Omicron Victory and Defense Medals
Are To Be Distributed Here

Information was received by the ROTC department this week that the World War II Victory and American Defense Service Medals
are available for distribution to persons entitled to them. The Military Science department is working on a plan whereby all
former members of the Army Air Forces and Army ground forces now enrolled at Davidson College or living in the
community who are eligible will be presented with these medals this fall. The ROTC department requests that veterans believing themselves
to be entitled to such awards present proper documents to the Military Science department for examination.

The Victory and Defense Medals may be issued to the veteran only upon presentation of one of the following documents
(photostatic or notarized copies may be submitted as proper evidence): (1) Discharge Certificate, (2) Certificate of Service, (3) Certificate in
lieu of lost or destroyed Discharge, or (4) Statement of Service.

Those Eligible

The World War II Victory Medal is authorized for issue if the applicant was in service between 7 December 1941
and 31 December 1946, inclusive; clasps and battle stars are not authorized as part of this award. The American Defense
Service Medal is authorized for services rendered between 8 September 1939 and 7 December 1941, provided that such duty was
accomplished under orders including a period of 12 months or longer.

Deceased Veterans

Any correspondence from the War Department received by the next of kin confirming service of a deceased veteran will be
sufficient evidence for the issuance of the Victory Medal. If the deceased veteran was in the military service any time
during the period 8 September 1939 and 7 December 1941, inclusive, the American Defense Service Medal may be awarded to
the next of kin upon submission of such evidence. The evidence may be obtained by the next of kin by
writing to the Chief, Demobilization Personnel Records Branch, Building 105, Records Administration Center, AGO, St. Louis, Mo. Discharged Naval or
Marine personnel must apply to their district office for these awards as they are not authorized to be presented by
the Davidson ROTC staff. Any further information may be obtained from any member of the Military Science Department.

Credits In English For Journalistic Work

This year, for the first time, the English Department of Davidson College has decided to give extra credit in English
to those students who have articles published in either THE DAVIDSONIAN or SCRIPTS AND PRANKS. Professor Lilly, the head of
the English Department, says that this policy has been considered several times before, but this is the first year that
it will go into effect. The adoption of this policy was brought about by the realization that work done in
connection with these publications was equally as important as that done in the classroom.

The editors in chief of both publications will keep a record of the contributions made. This record, together with the
editor's opinion of the value of the article, will be submitted to the various English professors where a final grading
will take place. In the final grading procedure, although he carefully considers the report, the professor is at all times
at liberty to disagree with the editor’s opinion.

Al Scarborough Elected As Delta Kappa Head

At the opening meeting last Tuesday night, members of O.D.K. unanimously elected Al Scarborough president for the coming year and
Dr. Schenck was elected secretary and faculty advisor. Professor Pinkney, past president of the student body, was elected to an
active membership for four years to fulfill the place left vacant by Dr. McGavock. There are four active faculty members
in O.D.K. Each year the term of one faculty member expires and a new member is elected for four years.
Faculty members this year are Dr. Channinghan, Dr. Schenck, Professor Pinkney, and Coach Whittle. The O.D.K. meetings this year will
be held on the first and third Tuesday of each month at seven-fifteen o'clock.

Al Scarborough, the newly elected president, is from Sumter, S.C. and was included in Who's Who in American Colleges. In
the original class of '47, he served on the Pan-Hellenic Council. In 1945 he was president of the Student Body
during the summer session. He is also a member of the SAE social fraternity and was president of the Beaver
Club last year. He is a member of the "D" Club, Sigma Upsilon, and was manager of the football team
last year.

Heyward Brinegar is Y.M.C.A. president this year. He is from Miami, Florida. Heyward is a member of the Phi Delta
Theta fraternity and president of the Forensic Council. He is vice-president of the Philanthropic Society and a member of the
debating team, the Beaver Club, and the basketball team.

Bobby Phillips, who is from Laurinburg, N.C., is the Editor in Chief of the Davidsonian. He is the president of
the Kappa Sigma social fraternity and a member of the "D" Club, the Beaver Club, and Sigma Upsilon.

Bill Robertson, from Kannapolis, N.C., is president of the senior class this year. He is president of the Pi Kappa
Phi social fraternity and a member of the "D" Club and the Beaver Club. He has served on the Court
of Control and was a member of last year's track team.

Dave Blevins, of Spruce Pine, N.C., is the Freshman Adviser this year. He is a member of the Beaver Club,
"D" Club, and was assistant baseball manager last year. He is vice-president of the SPE social fraternity.

By BOB HOLLISTER

In a frenzied shirt tail parade Friday night, what appeared to be every one of Davidson's two hundred and fifty-six
red-capped lads descended upon the Freshman field for a final pep meeting before the eagerly awaited Davidson-State game Saturday night.
Routed from the somewhat questionable security of their various rooms, the Frosh were first assembled in front of Chambers, and
there formed the core of the cheering body, led by head cheerleader Jerry Robinson. After several opening yells, one being
given quite unexpectedly, yet wholeheartedly, by the wearers of the red alone, the students all set out for the lower
field. The Freshmen delivered themselves to the cheerleaders, gathered around a blazing bonfire, and engaged in the pagan savagery of
the snake dance. The upperclassmen soon gathered about them in a semi-circle and the whole group burst exuberantly into “O
Davidson.” Following immediately in jubilant spirit were several familiar demonstrations of Davidson’s superiority, and a new yell enthusiastically presented by
Robinson. Then, amid wild acclaim, the cheerleaders, Mitchell, Fesperman, Montgomery, and Ensign, heaved a dummy representing State on top of
the roaring bonfire. As the shouting diminished, the student body, accompanied by the band, joined in singing the Alma Mater;
and the crowd dispersed to the rising strains of “Dixie” and “Davidson.”

Dr. Hunter Blakely Speaks to Students At Chapel Services

At the regular Wednesday morning chapel service of the past week, the student body was fortunate to have as its
guest speaker, Dr. Hunter Blakely, president of Queens College. The subject of Dr. Blakely’s talk was “Beyond the Stars.” Linked
in with this subject was an interesting biography of Lawrence of Arabia, famous English author and military leader. Dr. Blakely’s
subject dealt with man’s attitude toward God. His presentation was an inspiration to all who heard it, and shall not
soon be forgotten.
