Friday, October 31, 1947

14 SENIORS CHOSEN
(Continued from Page One)

Jim Pittman, from Orlando, Florida, was recently chosen for ODK and Phi Beta Kappa. During his freshman year, he was
a member of the Glee Club, and as a sophomore, he was a member of the Davidsonian staff. He was
vice president of the student body and president of the Student Philanthropic Society last year. For the last two years,
Pittman has received the Agnes B.K. Sentelle award. This year he is a member of the YMCA cabinet, the YMCA
Board of Control, and the Student Council. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.

WILLINGHAM
Willingham, a native of Augusta, was tapped by ODK this year. He served as president of the student body cabinet.
Also, he served as president of the varsity letter in track and is a member of the cross-country team. He
is a member of Phi Mu Alpha, a member of the Westminster Fellowship, the YMCA cabinet, and the Student Council.
He is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.

SCARBOROUGH
Al Scarborough, from Sumter, S.C., was recently elected president of ODK. In 1947, he served on the Pan-Hellenic Council and
was included in Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities. In 1945, he was president of the Eumenean Literary Society
and a member of Theta Beta Phi. He is at present president of the “D” Club and a member of
the Student Council.

ROBERTSON
Bill Robertson of Kannapolis, N.C., is president of the Senior Class. He is a member of ODK and is president
of Beta Kappa Phi social fraternity. He was a member of the track team, served on the Glee Club, and
earned a varsity letter. At present, he is a member of the “D” Club, the Beaver Club, and the Student
Council.

ROBINSON
Jerry Robinson, from Wilmington, N.C., is the head cheerleader this year. He was recently tapped by ODK. In 1946, he
was a junior representative to the Student Council and is a senior representative this year. He is a member of
the Philanthropic Literary Society, the Beaver Club, and the Pan-Hellenic Club. He is a member of SPE social fraternity.

SIMPSON
Hill Simpson is the editor of the annual. From Huntersville, N.C., he is a member of Beta Theta Pi social
fraternity. In 1946, he played basketball and was a member of the Student Council. Last year, he was editor of
the annual.

STRICKLAND
Bob Strickland, from Atlanta, Georgia, is the assistant judge of the Court of Control. As a sophomore, he was secretary-treasurer
of the student body. During his junior year, he was president of Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity, a member
of the “D” Club, and president of the junior class. He has played football for four years at Davidson, the
last two with the varsity. This year he is president of SAE social fraternity.

GASTONIA RABBI
(Continued From Page One)

Rabbi Sajo spends much of his time delivering talks on the subject of Judaism to the student bodies of various
schools and colleges. After the program, Rabbi Sajo will lead a round-table discussion for those who have any questions about
his race.

(Mecklenburg County) used May 20, Independence Day, as one of the major holidays of the college. When students got May
20 off, they didn't have to be concerned about commencement.

ALWAYS MILDER
BETTER TASTING
COOLER SMOKING

"I'm a Chesterfield fan because they really satisfy."
See Barbara Stanwyck in Warner Bros. picture "Cry Wolf."

By WALTER MANN

Monday and Tuesday
November 3 and 4
"FOREVER AMBER"

At long last, Kathleen Winsor’s much-discussed book has been made into a movie. The result of all this endeavor remains
to be seen. Daryl Zanuck has left no stone unturned in trying to produce something to measure up to other
such greats as "Gone With the Wind" and "For Whom the Bell Tolls." As we have already said, we are
waiting to see if he was able to accomplish it. Linda Darnell plays the part of the unparalleled Amber St.
Clair, and Cornel Wilde has the role of her first lover (the first of many lovers). Mr. Zanuck may be
able to produce a great motion picture from the story of "Forever Amber"; however, if it is believed by any
that he will be able to put that story on the screen, the other point of interest is that this
picture will arrive in the "sanctimonious city" somewhat sooner than most pictures do. The world premiere is October 26, and
it is coming here on November 3. Perhaps we are coming up in the world. Miss Darnell, with her new
blonde hair, would probably be able to make most of us sit up and take notice. She should certainly turn
in an interesting performance.

Wednesday and Thursday
November 5 and 6
"SONG OF THE THIN MAN"

If you are "hepped on humorous Thin Man" pictures, this is the thing for you. In this picture, you will
see several murders and many bodies exhibited (both dead and living). Since there are several murders involved, as is customary
in Thin Man pictures, an honest effort is made to introduce some comedy into the plot. Also, a dishonest effort
is made in the form of Keenan Wynn in this picture. If you saw his stellar performance in "The Hucksters,"
it's a cinch that you won't want to miss him in this production. In the "Song of the Thin Man,"
a new feature is introduced into Thin Man movies. This new feature is a song. The Thin Man has never
had a song before, but in the "Song of the Thin Man," he is given a song. Naturally, the stars
of this picture are the same as those of other Thin Man pictures, namely, William Powell and Myrna Loy.

Friday and Saturday
November 7 and 8
"THUNDER MOUNTAIN"

The picture "Thunder Mountain" will give you the opportunity to live again those thrilling days of the old west. You
will be able to experience the exciting adventure of the plains as they used to be. Not only will this
picture give you thrills all along, but it will also challenge all your mental powers. This production was brought to
Davidson especially because it was thought to be of the caliber that would appeal to men of college level. Freshmen
are warned that they will probably not enjoy the picture since it will be somewhat above their ability to comprehend.
In fact, some conservatists even state that they do not believe that sophomores and juniors of ordinary standing will derive
too much from it. All of us have come to college presumably to get the best education possible; therefore, we
will not be doing ourselves justice if we do not see this picture and try to derive something from it.
Dum-Dum, a noted campus educator, has stated that he believes this picture is the most educational one of all time.

A challenge to Tarheel supporters to try to remove a certain exclamation "Beat Carolina," recognizing this as a challenge for
KAs, from its place in Williamsburg.Undertook to find out finally these group of a five for how challengers were. So
they drove up to the location of the banner, and though they were outnumbered seven to one, they made off
with the scalp and it now rests safe and in one piece in the Carolina stronghold. How was this former
head of the Federal fie? Refer to the October issue of the Daily Tar Heel. Recently issued warning the religious
liberty in America is at risk. D. U. says that "tolerance" is not all. No doubt some will cry "in-right."
It demands that "loving" be outside the women's campus dormitory. Among the girls, it is grateful that it has access
to and censored truth. Think it over.

And if it is too much, WHAT'S WHAT (Continued From Page Seven) the pul concerning rack papers from Carolina received
in a clan. It seems Winthrop, Queens, Wofford, Converse, Greensboro College, Hampden, and others received copies because the interest continued
on Page Five.

AMONG THE GREEKS

Alpha fraternity guests dates and visitors a very hearty welcome to what is done on other campuses that can be
taken for what it's worth. Rushing is that everyone has had his eyes on over, rushees listen and form the
trats on which he or she prefers in order of preference and these go to the Pan-Hellenic Council, and so
on. With this information, the launching of the USS KA. Hats with some insight into what to expect. This too
has its flaws though, which I won't enumerate. Doing a lot of frantic last-minute on the campus at Knoxville, there
has been a big political rally of the Independents who felt that they were discriminated against in the offices of
the student body. They formed such a large and united party that unless some further alliances were formed they would
have the unquestioned domination of the campus activities. This system, men of Davidson, is not as democratic a way of
electing by the Wildcats, the way to interested men on the campus has some concept of the principles on which
our U.S. government, which all of us should participate in sooner or later functions.

Prior to their game with W. & M., a number of rather inhospitable and defiant communications came into Chapel Hill.
Among them was a car detoured by the Athens Athletic Club, and finally got home. The amazing part is that
they got back—er, found their way out. Also members of the travel club are Brothers Hazard, "Little Man" and Stokes,
rumored to be down for a gay weekend. It's that Jack a faux pas to top any of Truman's "Beat"
and have a large time, too.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

The pinched faces and crossed fingers of brothers and pledges of the Crimson and Gold are symbolic of the week
through passing—Flush Week. Fortunately, no such notices have been received as yet, so here's hoping. All Brothers are duly concerned
over Brother McNair finding a decent place for his date to stay homecoming weekend. McNair confesses that he isn’t familiar
with such places. Anyone having an extra date, please notify Brother Courson or Pledge Grant. The last refusal was from
Amber. Let us hope it isn’t forever.

A majority of the brothers and pledges remained on the campus this past weekend to grace our hallowed, ivy-covered institution
and conserve energy for the next weekend. However, a few diehards yielded to the call of the open road or
open arms. Brother Collins and Pledge Cameron headed toward Myrtle Beach and Wilmington, respectively. Warlick traveled to Statesville to check
up on a Drum Majorette. She's been stepping too high lately. Brother Neil spent Sunday afternoon hunting golf balls on
the Gastonia course. We have been wondering where he got his spending money. Brother Huffaker returned home for his parent's
twenty-fifth anniversary at Martinsville, Va. while Brother Mills went in the opposite direction towards Wilmington. This is the second time
in two weeks. Possibly Francis is reading parallel over the weekends at Salem. Pledge Grube went with the cross-country team
and Brother Siffor with the football team to Washington and Lee. Seen at the America Trade and were Brothers Hadley
and Pledges Smith and Lake. The rest took to the back.

The Beta Chapter of Kappa Alpha announces the pledging of Wylie Smith of Charlotte and David McDuffie of Henderson, N.C.

WHY I COULDN'T WAIT (Continued From Page One)

On the other hand, he might hold his opinion until the final reports come in from the jails, hospitals, and
morgues in the surrounding country Monday morning. Nevertheless, if Rumple, the hero when we get back, we still can't be
and Davidson spirit much the worse for the experience.

INDEPENDENT GROUP (Continued From Page One)

A unanimous vote of confidence signifying their approval of the officers elected. This action grew out of a misunderstanding among
some students as to the nature of the founding of this organization, and this opportunity is taken to clarify the
matter. The organization was not formed as an organization of the Independents but one for the Independents, both are essentially
the idea. The actual founding was brought about by a small group who were willing to take the initiative in
seeing that the organization was formed. After framing a constitution, this nucleus of which same enlarged itself to a group
large enough to elect officers. Since then many new members have been taken in and there is absolutely no distinction
between the original and the new members.
