WITH ELECTION SYSTEM STUDENTS DISSATISFIED

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

NATIONAL POLITICAL FIGURE HERE WEDNESDAY

Volume XXXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, APRIL 18, 1947 No. 20

McLEAN TO BE Y.M.C.A. SECRETARY

Blevins Elected As Freshman Adviser

Rising Senior Class Member Will Fill Position Occupied By Powell

On April 2, the rising Senior Class elected Dave Blevins as adviser to next year’s Freshman Class. Dave was chosen on the third ballot over Charlie Patterson. Blevins is from Spruce Pine, N.C. He was recently made vice president of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity and secretary-treasurer of his class. He is also a member of the Beaver Club and assistant baseball manager. He returned to Davidson last spring after serving as a gunner in the Army Air Forces. Other nominations considered were Bob Flowers, Murdock McKeithan, Sam Maloney, Vernon McGehee, Jim Pittman, Martin Waters, and Lee Willingham.

Blevins will assume the office of Freshman Adviser, held this year by Senior Class member, Tom Powell, at the beginning of the school year 1947-48.

Physics Club Elects Three

On Tuesday, April 1, Sigma Pi Sigma held its semi-annual initiation banquet at the Guest House, bidding three new men from the Senior and Junior classes. The organization, an honorary society of Physics majors, selected its candidates on high scholastic standards as well as endeavor. New members who were initiated were: Don Erb, Carey Dowd, and Earl Myers. After a banquet, the society retired to the lounge for its meeting and initiation. Officiating at this were the present officers: Casper Woodbridge, president; Herb Dimmock, vice president; John Walker, secretary and treasurer; and Professor H. E. Fulcher, faculty adviser. The ceremony closed, the floor was taken by Christy Walker, who delivered a talk entitled, “Absolute Zero.” Walker limited the first half of his speech to illustrating how the point was determined and then revealed the phenomena connected with the point.

It has always been the policy of Sigma Pi Sigma to honor its highest students, broaden their scope of the problems and intricacies of the physical world, and to attempt to inspire a zeal for knowledge and accuracy in their minds.

NEW ADVISER Dave Blevins

INSPECTION

The annual War Department Board inspection of Davidson's R.O.T.C. unit will be held on the eighth and ninth of May. The Board will consist of three field officers headed by Colonel James W. Coutts. The difference from inspections of previous years will be that it is consuming two days instead of one as heretofore. In order for the unit to receive the rating of excellent, which the college has received since 1928, it must make a grade ten points higher since the War Department raised the grading scale. The inspection will cover the four classes’ work and will conclude with parade and review.

CALENDAR

Sunday, April 20
Vespers: Dr. Felix B. Gear, Columbia Theological Seminary, Decatur, Georgia.

Monday, April 21
Chapel: Mr. Samuel R. Levering, Ararat, Virginia.

Tuesday, April 22
8 p.m.: Former Governor Ellis Arnall from Atlanta, Georgia.

Wednesday, April 23
Chapel: Reverend Daniel Iverson, pastor of the Shenandoah Presbyterian Church, Miami, Florida.

Friday, April 25
Chapel: Y.M.C.A.

Chemistry Frat Takes Nine Men

At the regular meeting of the local chapter of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary chemical fraternity, held March 31, nine new men were initiated. On the fourth floor of the Martin Science building, the following were taken in: Dan Beals, Marshall Carper, Ronny Dietrick, Bob Huntley, Bill Joyner, Bill Lacy, Tommy Moore, John Stuart, and Earl Yontis. Faculty members present were Logan and Professor M. B. Winstead while Grand Alchemist John Hills presided.

When the chapter convenes for the mid-April meeting, Lennox Turnbull will present a special research paper on a field of chemistry. Also, a plan was submitted for a joint session with the Davidson chapter of Sigma Pi Sigma, physics fraternity, which would be held in the near future. Following the initiation, refreshments were served.

Debaters Meet Emory, Auburn

On Saturday, April 12 at four o'clock, the Davidson College Debating team held its third home debate on the subject, Resolved: That labor should be given a direct share in the management of industry. Davidson met Emory University’s team in the last of the debates on its spring trip. The Davidson negative team of Don Coffey and Flynn Long defeated the affirmative of Emory made up of Bill Todd and Bob Marchiman. This debate was in Phi Hall with Professors Winn, Wood, and Erwin as judges. The Davidson affirmative team of Charles Elyea and Jay Pence lost to Emory’s Walter Alexander and Sam McCook in Eu Hall with Professors Abernathy, Connor, and C. K. Brown judging. Haywood Brinegar and Kent Christopher acted as chairmen of the respective contests.

The other of the two Davidson teams made a successful tour into South Carolina and Georgia just before the spring holidays. The affirmative team of Kent Christopher and Herb Miller with the negative of Haywood Brinegar and Ralph Clontz went against Emory University in a dual debate and against Mercer and Auburn in a three-way debate. None of the schools provided judges for the contests but the Davidson team felt confident (Continued on Page 4)

MAGAZINE

Jim Gribben

Gribben Chosen Editor of Mag

Jimmy Gribben, on March 31, was elected editor of next year’s Scripts 'N Pranks. He gained a majority vote on the first ballot over H. G. Leland and Cameron Nuttall.

Hailing from Thomasville, Georgia, he entered Davidson in 1941 to pursue a B.S. in Psychology. At this time he played on the now extinct Davidson soccer team, sang in the Glee Club, and worked on the staff of the Davidsonian. Then, in 1943, he was called into service, and attended Duke University under the Navy V-12 program. While at Duke he worked on the “Duke and Duchess.” He was sent to midshipman school at Columbia University, and then to sea with an A.P.D. underwater demolition squad, where he remained until he was discharged in the spring of 1946. He returned to Davidson in the fall.To resume his studies, he stepped into the position of managing editor of the Scripts ’n’ Pranks, joined the Red and Black Masquers, and the Delta Kappa social fraternity. Gribben announced that the development of new writers interested in creative work would be the main goal of the publication under his direction. Also, new features shall be added, including the winning entry of the Vereen Bell Memorial creative writing competition, and perhaps an issue depicting the magazine as it was in pre-Civil War days. Gribben emphasized his belief that Scripts ’n’ Pranks is a campus publication and therefore should be many-sided.

ARNALL
Former Governor of Georgia Ellis Arnall will be heard in Chambers Auditorium next Tuesday night at eight o'clock. Arnall, a nationally known political figure, is known throughout the United States for his liberal progressive policies. Visitors interested in hearing Governor Arnall will be cordially welcomed.

Hill and Burton Awarded Medals
In a short afternoon ceremony in front of Chambers on Friday, April 11, awards were presented to two of Davidson's better-known figures for service and achievement during World War II. With a uniformed detachment of advanced R.O.T.C. students, the color guard as a background, Sgt. B. R. Burton of the Davidson R.O.T.C. Department was presented the Army Commendation medal for meritorious achievement, and former Sgt. Hugh Hill, president-elect of the student body, was presented the World War II Victory medal.

Burton Honored
Sgt. Burton's citation read “For devotion to duty, leadership, loyalty, and efficiency” in his service as 1nX, (0), MN, (C) at Davidson from December 1941 to March 1947. Mr. Hill’s award was for service before and after the American victory in World War II. Hill was selected as an outstanding veteran in Mecklenburg County to receive one of the first Victory medals issued in the vicinity. The presentation of the awards was made by Col. O. C. Martin, P. M. Sewd.

Davidson Men Sing To Entire Nation
On Thursday afternoon, April 10, at 4:30, the Davidson Male Chorus left the campus, beginning the most extensive trip it has taken since prewar days. The first concert was held in the Ardmore Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia and was a service of sacred music, presented on Friday night. On Saturday morning, the chorus left for New York City. That afternoon it presented the only non-religious music of the trip on a coast-to-coast broadcast over C.B.S. (This broadcast was heard over WBT at 4:30 p.m.)

The Student Body has just finished electing its officers for next year. This series of elections might be called the first real postwar elections. During the preceding few weeks, much criticism and praise have been heaped upon Davidson's traditional system of closed elections. With this in mind, the question chosen for polling was: “Do you think that Student Body elections should be: (a) open, (patterned after Georgia’s elections); (b) closed, (supposedly the present system); (c) modified to some degree, (at least to the extent of introducing each candidate from the stage).”

DEBATE TEAM MEMBERS
Pictured above are members of the Debate Team. Left to right, first row: Clontz, J. W. Pence, Charles Elyea; second row: Flynn Long, Ralph Heywood Brinegar, Kent Christopher, Don Coffey.

The Student View Voting Criticized
The results were as follows:
Open: 1%
Closed: 44%
Modified: 55%
No opinion: 3%

It is evident from the results printed above that the average student is not completely satisfied with the system of elections as it now stands. Fifty-five percent of the students polled favored at least some modification of our present system of closed elections. The main objection seemed to be that in the elections just held, many went to the polls and voted for men whose faces and sometimes even whose names were unfamiliar to them. The general consensus of opinion among the students who thought thusly was that an impartial introduction of each candidate from the stage would be beneficial.

Student Leader, Fill Post Next Year
Williams Leaving To Attend Union Theological Seminary In New York
Bill McLean, President of the Student Body, has been chosen to become secretary of the Davidson College Y.M.C.A. next year, to succeed Murphy Williams. Williams, who has held the position for the past year, has resigned in order to attend Union Theological Seminary in New York next fall. McLean, besides holding the top student body position this year, has earned Phi Beta Kappa membership, been tapped by Omicron Delta Kappa, and made his letter playing guard on the varsity Wildcat eleven in 1942. He is president of Phi Delta Theta and a member of the D club. He is an economics major. Last year McLean, as a junior, served as president of the Y.M.C.A. He is a returned veteran, having earned his Army Air Force pilot’s wings and flown over 30 combat missions in the European theater of operations. Prior to his war services, McLean had entered Davidson as a freshman in 1941. As a sophomore, he was a member of the Beaver Club and secretary of his class. He hails from Lenoir, N.C.

Art Exhibition Awards Given
Announcement was made recently giving the results of the Annual Art Exhibit, held in the parlor of Watts. This exhibit, sponsored by Scripts ’n’ Pranks, was witnessed by over four hundred interested spectators. There were two types of awards for the artists. The first type was made by a committee composed of Mrs. G. J. Foreman, Dr. K. L. Abernathy, and Professor Chalmers Davidson. The first award of this type went to Mark Cathey for his water color painting of Philanthropic Literary Hall. James Ellis received the second award for his water color of an airplane, and the third award went to Billy Hamilton for his pencil drawing of Chambers. The second type of award was made by student vote with Cathey winning first award here also. The second award of this type was presented to Alex Hopper, and the third award to Billy Hamilton.

As an extra attraction, Henry N. Ray exhibited a delightful picture of deep feeling and containing various colorings and moods. This painting, entitled “A Cow,” won an award but was withdrawn by the celebrated artist, M. Ray.

Plans have been completed by the Pan-Hellenic Council for the annual Spring Frolics which will be held tonight and tomorrow night in the Charlotte Armory with Billy Knauff and his orchestra as the feature attraction of the “Frolics.” The Friday night dance will be formal for all and will last from nine until one, highlighted by a figure which will be presented by the fraternity presidents and Pan-Hellenic representatives. The Saturday night dance will be informal for all and will last from eight until twelve. Both dances will be held in the main auditorium of the Charlotte Armory.

Tickets
Tickets will go on sale this week and may be obtained from members of the Pan-Hellenic council. The set ticket will be $4.80, including the 20 percent amusement tax, and a single night’s ticket will be $3.25. The new amendment to the Pan-Hellenic constitution does not go into effect until next year and therefore will not cover “Frolics.”

Billy Knauff
Before the war, Knauff had a sizeable orchestra which played engagements from Cleveland, Ohio, to Florida. Upon returning from the Army, Knauff decided that he still wanted to have an orchestra, but that he didn’t want to travel as he had before the war. He found twenty other fellows who felt the same way, formed an orchestra, and settled down in Charlotte. This year his orchestra has made quite an impression in this area, having played for dances at Presbyterian College.