Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, December 5, 1947

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOB PHILLIPS

BUSINESS MANAGER
BOB CLINE

EDITORIAL STAFF
Sam Ervin — Associate Editor
Walter Walker — Associate Editor
Mac Hart — Sports Editor
Walter Mann — Managing Editor
Bill Calhoun — Managing Editor
Ronny Dietrick — Managing Editor
Stan Kennett — Managing Editor
Bob Hollister — Exchange Editor
Jean Stewart — Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
John McNair — Assistant Business Manager
Charlie Reid — Advertising Manager
Frank Lemmon — Circulation Manager
Bill Baxter — Subscriptions Manager
Charles Dockery — Collections Manager
H. Fulton — Ass't Circulation Manager
Don McKnight — Ass't Subscription Manager
Charles Clinkscales — Assistant Advertising Manager
Wilkes Macauley — Assistant Advertising Manager
Bob Knight — Assistant Circulation Manager
Bill Keith — Assistant Circulation Manager
Charles Beam — Assistant Collections Manager

Advertising Staff—H. MacKethan, C. Faison, Bill Houck, Claude Higginbotham, D. Hayworth, Blaine Kelley, F. M. Purnell, Gene Taylor.
Circulation Staff—S. H. Fulton, Alf. Duncan, Sam Davis, Hunter Boykin, Paul Guthery, Bill Cassels, John Coble, Carl Herman, Jim Fisher, Bob Sims, Jimmy Rogers, Harry Powe.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1887.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE New York, N.Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

(Editor’s Note: The following letters appeared in the November issue of the Alumni Bulletin. Because of the widespread interest in the Davidson athletic policy, we reprint them here.)

Athletic Policy
Since the letter by Jim Jackson, '46 published in the last Alumni Journal, definite ideas have been formulating about what course our football policy shall take in the near future. Sam Spencer, '40, debunked three of the most popular “solutions”—dropping football, going big time, and becoming strictly amateur, and suggested that Davidson spearhead negotiations for a new conference. “A large body of the alumni and of the students want football of some sort,” he writes. “The financial and publicity benefits under no circumstances become the prime purposes of the football program, but to frown upon these by-products simply because they are liable to abuse is manifestly foolish. To drop intercollegiate football would be another step along the road of introversion at a time when we need rather to turn outward to broaden our relationships with other institutions and point the way, if we can, to a satisfactory solution to this problem and others.”

By engaging in a big-time program, Spencer feels, we would probably bankrupt the school and the alumni and also have to undermine the academic standards of the college. As for going amateur—it’s hardly possible. “If we are to have intercollegiate football at all, we must have a moderate number of students who are reasonably skilled at the game, and anyone who has appraised the incoming annual freshman receptions during the last ten years knows that there have been fewer and fewer athletes among the newcomers to Davidson. With more and more high schools competing for players, the bidding has advanced to the point where almost every member of a high school team who has shown any promise whatsoever, can, and does, get an offer from some college. What happens, then, to the college which refuses to have anything to do with subsidization in any form? It finds its normal constituency—the sons and grandsons of its alumni, and in Davidson’s case, the boys from Presbyterian homes—yielding to this pressure from rival institutions. We cannot play football with our ‘normal complement’ of players, for the normal complement no longer exists. Is there any way to brighten this rather gloomy picture? Without advancing it as a foolproof solution, I believe there is a policy which offers a maximum chance for reasonably good football without the evils of the big-time system. The keystone of that policy would be a plan of moderate and controlled subsidization along the lines of our current experiment, including:

(1) Tuition scholarships as the maximum aid to be given;
(2) Awarding of these scholarships only by the faculty committee on grants-in-aid which controls other grants, with absolute prohibition of coach-player contracts;
(3) Absolutely no discrimination academically in favor of athletes, either in (a) admission policy or (b) in scholastic requirements once the student has enrolled.

In addition, the policy should be directed toward keeping the game a student activity: of ten yearly contests, at least four should be played on the Davidson campus. This would allow five games away as return visits to other schools, and would permit one of the bigger contests to be played in Charlotte for the purpose of accommodating a larger crowd. Having published this plan in specific detail, Davidson should take the lead in circulating it to other colleges as a possible standard for a new football conference. Though most of them are now practicing heavy subsidization, I believe that many of the colleges on our present schedule are logical participants in such a league, and that some would in the long run welcome a way out of a costly and not too satisfactory system. I have in mind Washington and Lee, the Citadel, V.M.I., the University of Richmond, and Hampden-Sydney. Virginia Tech is an additional possibility, and schools like Sewanee and Centre which have avowed a hands-off policy would also probably join if they saw reasonable assurance of adequate control. Obviously such a conference could not be crystallized overnight. Of ten colleges initially invited, perhaps one or two would agree to go ahead on a basis of the Davidson plan; this, however, would form the nucleus of a league which could grow to completion over a period of three, five, or even ten years. As more colleges joined, competitive bidding for high school players would decrease in proportion, thus helping to ease the pressure of the present system. I propose, then, that we move ahead with the long-range plan of forming a new conference, probably through the initial step of a well-planned and well-organized meeting of college presidents and athletic directors to be held at Davidson. In the meantime we should strictly adhere to the plan we have set forth, playing a schedule similar to our present one and fielding the team our student body and coaches can muster. Obviously, we will win fewer games, but we will be developing into a satisfactory system and continuing to play football. In the short run, we can afford to wait a little longer for the completely successful season we all hope for in the future.—S. RE SPENCER, JR.

A New Idea
Johnston, '01, who comes close to holding the world’s record for seeing football games, thinks we ought to get back in the big time, but continue our present policies. “There seems to be a prevailing notion in North Carolina,” he writes, “that a good football player will not play unless he is paid, and there is another prevailing notion among many of Davidson alumni that it is somehow disgraceful, disintegrating, and positively immoral, to be consistently beaten by any team. Now, if these two assumptions are correct then Davidson is in a bad spot, but let’s analyze them a little bit with a few facts.

“The first theory has been exploited to the extent that very few boys now get a chance to play unless they are paid and probably Davidson College is the only college of its rank in North Carolina where a student has a chance to go to college on his own and through his own ability make the team. I believe that there are a lot of boys who are able and willing to go to college and pay their own way and who still like to play football. There may not be enough right now to make a world beater at any college but from year to year they will make a pretty respectable showing.

“Now, about the other assumption that Davidson should not play teams that consistently beat her. Well, how about playing teams that we consistently beat? Do the boys that go to those colleges belong to an inferior race, and do they come out of those colleges hopelessly handicapped from having played on losing teams? Ought Davidson to expect to win all their games? To win a few, lose a few, sometimes more on one side, sometimes more on the other, and not to stand off and view Carolina and Duke through a telescope as though they belonged to a constellation far above our humble status. Let’s throw away the telescope and meet them face to face, shoulder to shoulder.

“If Davidson should give way to the hysteria of paid athletes and big-time stuff and neglect its students who go there on their own, it will take longer for them to live down the reputation they get by so doing than it will for them to forget the disgrace of being the underdogs in the Big Five right now. I venture to say that the picture ten years from now will be so different from what it is now that we will wonder why we ever had any notion of attempting to compete with these big boys in hiring players. I know good athletes who have gone to Carolina and who have told me that they wished they had gone to Davidson instead. They have never had a chance to play at Carolina; they would at least have had a chance at Davidson. That idea is spreading to more and more people and it will eventually pay big dividends.”

Officers’ Sam Sez...
By SAM ERVIN

When Jack Payne informed me last week that this year’s Christmas Gift Fund would be used for the rebuilding of the Y.M.C.A. in Sendai, Japan, I was more than mildly interested. Sendai, unlike Hangchow College, which always seemed remote to me when it was last December, is a city with which I am reasonably well acquainted. There are, no doubt, many students who were stationed there during the first year of the Japanese occupation, and who are much more familiar with that area than I am, but in the hope of helping the student body as a whole to realize the pressing need for relief of this nature in that war-ravaged nation, I'd like to make a few random remarks about the situation which prevails there.

Sendai, located on the island of Honshu, is a rail and university center lying some 200 miles north of Tokyo. During the war it was one of the principal targets for American bombers and when the fighting finally ceased in August, 1945, the remnants of its 140,000 people were, in most cases, homeless. I didn't have an opportunity to observe the effects of the bombs on Nagasaki and Hiroshima, but of all the cities that were heavily damaged by high explosive and incendiary bombs, Sendai, in proportion to size, seemed to be the most completely demolished. Unlike Tokyo and Yokohama, there were no large areas, industrial or residential, which escaped being at least partially blasted or burned out.

By sending our financial gifts to the relief agencies which supervise the rebuilding of this city, we will do much to relieve the suffering there. The rebuilding of the Y.M.C.A. institution in that community will do more than provide the city with a center for the distribution of food and clothing to the population, and the citizens with a place to go for religious and social life. In addition to these important services we are...in a position to do the Japanese. When our occupation forces went ashore, the residents of the Japanese cities fully expected to be tortured and killed by the “barbarians.” They were quite surprised when they were not molested. Finally, the children emerged from their homes, and their elders followed when they saw the GIs giving candy and rations to the kids. In time, the people realized that their propaganda machine had painted a false picture of their enemies, and the friendliness of the average American did much to break down the barriers to mutual understanding. At the end of the first year of occupation, the hostility had all but disappeared. Admittedly, we have accomplished a great deal there already, but there is still much to be done. Japan is one of the key countries in our fight against Communism. By displaying a forgiving and generous spirit, we can do much to win the people for Christianity and the American way of life. This is a worthy cause. Give all that you can!

KAPPA ALPHA

This is the big weekend for the knights of Sigma Chapter—not that other weekends aren't worthy of mention, but this is the Saturday night of the banquet and dance. Province Commander Frampton, Chester, S.C., and Mrs. Frampton will be on hand, as well as alumni from the college faculty and numerous Charlotte residents. Thacker’s Club will furnish the setting for the dance. The pledge is reported to have quite a variety of entertainment in store. A hearty welcome to all the lovely class dates (and wives).

Thanksgiving lapsed over until Monday for some of the dealers! Brother Gracey, food economist and football expert, tried to recuperate by retiring to the soothing hills of W. Va. The food situation is beginning to show on him—especially around the waist. The Georgia boys seem to have stolen the spotlight again. That H-H twosome, Harden and Harris, were in Macon while Brothers Flowers and Scofield sat through the battle royal which took place in Atlanta. Operations on the Queens front were also active, and with the presence of the girls on the campus for the Messiah performance, it would be difficult to say what might happen. Mitchell was seen shaving for the first time since Thursday. He, Fowle, and Johnson have been staging a little beard marathon. And speaking of Queens, Brothers Long, McDaniel, and Cook were sighted there at the feed Sunday night. Glasgow and Macauley journeyed down to Greenville and on to Seneca for Thanksgiving. Then Richard was seen heading back toward Converse Sunday afternoon. Must be some school. What about it, B. J.?

PI KAPPA ALPHA

From appearances, one would hesitate to say which got the worse of the weekend, the turkeys or the brothers. About all we can say is that the brothers came back and the turkeys didn’t (in original form anyway). That is to say, all the brothers except Brother Jim Siske, who has yet to show up. Pledges C. D. Hamm, Dave McDuffie, and Bill Cumming, still sporting coated tongues acquired in Henderson the previous weekend, partook of their Thanksgiving bird in the local refractory. Pledge Perry Gragg made a flying trip to Fayetteville to give thanks. Pledge Furman Warlick has spent four of the past five days in Statesville entertaining his Florida orange. She should be well sunkist by now. Pledge Wylie Smith was not quite so fortunate. It appears that while the Morris Field banquet was at the Charlotte Country Club, his date requested permission to date another for a dinner-dance, and like a true gentleman, Smith graciously consented. The brothers are not to be outdone entirely by the pledges. Brother Mac Hart has been entertaining a Florida girl on the campus for the past four days. Mac was thankful this Thanksgiving that Alta was in Atlanta. Brother Bob Stroup accompanied Pledge Bob Colkitt to Sweet Briar. Says Stroup, “Well, at least she was a good conversationalist.” Brother Ed Denison operated on (he's studying medicine) a girl in Asheville whom he caught on a recent fishing trip. What type of bait did you use, Ed? The Sirens of Queens lured Brothers Ed Courson and Charles Hadley to a Kappa Delta party. We understand they were colder than Diana's statue and not half so naked.

PI KAPPA PHI

The Pi Kappa celebrated Thanksgiving in a big way; most of them—Barksdale, “Bull,” Jack, Higgie, Turnage, Carpenter, Murray, McCain, Hurt, Long, Brandon, Coble, Cassels, Cronland, Redfern, Herman, Tolbert, and Fisher being among them—journeyed to their respective homes for the holidays. Two of the big dealers, Bud Edwards and Gene Taylor, spent the weekend on the campus—Queens campus. Louis Palles and the “Thin Man,” “Snake” Dobson, were separated for the major part of the time—Louis going home and Snake just going. “Chaplain” Lander kept up his record of having one party and accompanying his “true” love to the Carolina-Virginia football game. Bill Robertson had the pleasure of seeing Billie Rose for the greater part of the weekend. Fitz missed “Tootie,” but he (Continued on Page Five).

Your wandering reporter covered the Furman game in Greenville as promised, but the bits of news gleaned since returning to the campus have been so far superior that it is necessary to insert them in this much cherished organ of the news. Playmakers Love Affair has been founded right in the midst of the acting. Those who have had the misfortune to visit the dean's office of late have been noticing, I'm sure, the constant presence of none other than our own PLAYMAKER, he of the profile, JOHN BARRYMORE JONES, sprawled over the desk of none other than our own genial secretary and well-known thespian, MISS SUSIE JACKSON. Both were seen at times, looking at several thousand copies of their pictures that appeared in a local daily, and smiling blissfully at each other. It would appear that the office of the dean of students has won out in a hotly contested match over Smith College.

DOUBLE CROSS

MR. DOBSON of the student body pulled a very old but neat trick this past weekend in a certain well-known room in Charlotte. It seems that a MR. QUENTIN COOPER was sitting at a table with a lovely of some 40 odd years, and the above-mentioned MR. DOBSON, lovable child that he is, had a faked call placed for MR. COOPER, moved in, and was long gone before the deluded victim realized he was the victim of a small hoax. MR. SANDY CARNEGIE made his first appearance of the fall among the gay young social set in Charlotte and introduced to the assembled masses for the first time none other than MISS HELEN DEVON PAGE. JACKSON and A. C. CURRANT were seen early Monday making plans to go on some wild tear up to Lexington, N.C. Quoth MR. JACKSON to MR. CURRANT on the telephone, “Tell her you have a charming friend from Hollywood who doesn't give a darn what she looks like.” CARL EBORN, our all-state hero, was seen at the local bus terminal at 3:20 a.m. Monday morning telling his sweet lass goodbye. What love won't make a fellow do these days.

SINGING SAM MALONEY has done it again. He and LUSTFUL MILLER were seen at seven country clubs and four nightclubs in various cities throughout the southeast this past weekend. Playboys! SUMNER WILLIAMS, of the senior class, has just set a new speed record between Davidson and Knoxville on his fourteenth trip of the fall season. It seems that SUMNER has a job with a local hillbilly program in the area. One of the many boys seen at Billy Graham's revival was none other than the old master himself, SLICK EVANS. However, he was branded an infidel only a few nights later by his own minister at a high school football game. ROBERT RAPP and GEORGE WATTS have just returned to the campus after a ripping weekend together at BOB'S home in High Point. THE BETAS have been successful in securing Memorial Stadium this coming weekend for a banquet and dance. Plans are in the making to increase the seating capacity with temporary stands so that the third battalion can eat with the rest of the fellows. WALKER remained on campus this past weekend to complete a shortwave set so that he may continue to make love over the wireless to the girl he left behind in old Hong Kong. It's yours, CASH.

Ratliff returned this fall as a member of the Economics Department. Like many another Davidson man, Prof. Ratliff's education was interrupted by the recent war, during which time he was in the Navy. It was during that time that he went to the University of North Carolina for undergraduate work in the V-12 program. Later he did graduate work at the Harvard Business School. After graduation, Prof. Ratliff spent most of his naval career at Midway Island as an officer. Having compared Davidson with Carolina and Harvard, he decided to return for a degree here, believing Davidson to be above other colleges. He tells of a professor at Harvard who had never been to Davidson but spoke of the school with the highest regards. Down in Mowen, N.C., there is a farm with a lake on it, where Prof. Ratliff enjoys passing his spare time fishing. Mr. and Mrs. Ratliff are members of the Davidson Methodist Church where he sings in the choir.

Paging the Professors... By Stan Kennett

PROFESSOR RATLIFF

PROF. LILLY

After graduation from Davidson as a Phi Beta Kappa in 1947, Prof. Lilly is much in accord with the author of an essay in the Freshman English book by Stephen Teacock concerning the small college. He believes that there is a definite place for the small college of high academic standing, a college of high-quality work rather than quantity. He's particularly in favor of a small college away from the distractions of the city, where students have time to read and to think, and where character may be developed. Before coming to Davidson where he received his AB degree, Prof. Lilly went to Vanderbilt University, later studying at Princeton. He taught at McCallie School and at Presbyterian College, prior to becoming a professor at Davidson. In line with his work, Prof. Lilly is greatly interested in word study—and says that perhaps his freshman students think him a bit too interested in this hobby. Prof. Lilly has much admiration for the favored Johnny Appleseed. That admiration comes through his hobby of planting trees. He enjoys planting and watching them through the process of growing.

Think It Over

YEAR OF DECISION

Two factors, the very regrettable loss of Coach Bill Story and the outstanding success of his 1947 team, have made this a year of decision for Davidson. We now stand at a crossroads. We can either continue on the upward trail to better football, or we can shift to a small team conference and drop out of the picture so far as real success in football is concerned.

By MALLOY OWEN

It is a matter of emphasis. Davidson is not and should not be an institution whose primary purpose is to attain athletic supremacy. Our main motive here is all-round preparation for life. We are exceedingly proud of our high scholastic standing. However, it is possible for institutions to excel in both fields. We must be willing to pay more (Continued on Page Three).