Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, October 24, 1947

PHI BETA KAPPA CHOOSES
(Continued from Page One)

tered Davidson in September, 1941. During his first years, 1941-'43, Erb played freshman football and baseball. In February, ‘43, he
left Davidson to enter the Army. After three years spent in and about the ETO, Erb received his discharge, as
a sergeant, in February, ‘46. Re-entering school the same month, he soon became a member of Sigma Pi Sigma, national
honorary physics fraternity, and the D Club. For the past two years, Erb has been on the baseball team. A
physics major, Erb will receive a B.S. degree in June.

JOHN HAY
John Hay, of Hickory, N.C., entered Davidson in the Fall of 1944. During his first year, Hay played freshman basketball.
He left school to enter the Navy for two years, 1945-46. Returning to Davidson in the Fall of 1946, Hay
resumed Junior Varsity football, which he had also played in 1944. He became a member of ODK, national honorary leadership
fraternity. Taking a B.S. course, Hay is majoring in chemistry.

JIM PITTMAN
Jim Pittman, from Orlando, Florida, first came to Davidson as a Freshman in the Spring of 1945, during which year
he was a member of the Glee Club. As a Sophomore, Pittman was a member of THE DAVIDSONIAN staff and
secretary of his class. During the 1946-47 year, he was vice-president of the Philanthropic Literary Society and student body. At
present, Pittman is a member of the YMCA cabinet, the YMCA Board of Control, and the Student Council. He plans
to begin medical school in the Fall of 1948, and upon receiving his M.D. degree, to enter the foreign field
as a medical missionary. Pittman recently was a member of this year's JV team. In addition to his membership in
ODK, Hay is also treasurer of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity. He will graduate in June, ‘48 with a B.S.
degree.

JOHN M. STEWART
John M. Stewart, of Julian, N.C., enrolled in Davidson College in September, 1942, as a Freshman. From March ‘43 until
June, ‘46, Stewart served in the ETO with the 104th Infantry Division. He was discharged as a sergeant. During the
months following his re-entrance at Davidson, Stewart became a member of Sigma Pi Sigma, national honorary physics fraternity. In addition,
Stewart is the school photographer and a member of the Glee Club. A chemistry major, Stewart plans to graduate in
June, 1948, and take up graduate work in chemistry in the Fall.

JOHN R. HILLS
John R. Hills, whose home is in Jacksonville, Florida, entered Davidson in September, 1944. During the past three years, Hills
has been engaged in the religious activities on the campus, serving with the YMCA cabinet and the Board of Control
as treasurer. He is also a member of Le Cercle Francais, honorary French society; President of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national
honorary chemical fraternity; and has been active in the workings of the literary society. Hills is President of Phi Delta
Theta social fraternity. Hills plans to graduate in June with his major in chemistry and hopes to enter Emory University
Medical School in the Fall to study psychosomatics.

BILL JOYNER
Bill Joyner, a native of Kernersville, N.C., entered Davidson in the Fall of 1942. The following Spring, he left school
for the Army. After eighteen months in the ETO with the 100th Infantry, Joyner received his discharge and reentered Davidson
in the summer of 1946. Soon after his return, Joyner became a member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary chemical
fraternity. During the past summer, he was a member of the YMCA cabinet. At present, Joyner is president of Sigma
Epsilon, vice-president of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, and a member of the student council. Joyner recently became a member
of ODK, national honorary leadership fraternity.

CATERING TO YOUR EVERY NEED
* WE HAVE IT
COMPLETE LINE IN MEN'S WEAR
* TUXEDOS FOR RENT OR SALE
Wrenn’s Men’s Shop
Davidson, N.C.
Main Street

CHRISTOPHER B. WALKER
Christopher B. Walker enrolled as a Davidson Freshman in September, 1942, from Collierville, Tennessee. In 1943, Walker entered the Merchant
Marine but was forced to withdraw after one year because of poor eyesight. Joining the Army in 1944, Walker spent
the next two years in and out of the ETO. He received his discharge as a staff sergeant in 1946.
Returning to the campus in June of the same year, Walker became a member of Phi Mu Alpha, national honorary
music fraternity, the Philanthropic Literary Society, and Sigma Pi Sigma. He is president of the latter named honorary fraternity this
year. Also this year, Walker is an assistant in the physics laboratories. He is a member of Pi Kappa Phi
social fraternity. A physics major, Walker will receive his B.S. degree in June ‘48.

K. MARTIN WATERS
K. Martin Waters of Charlotte, N.C., enrolled in Davidson in the Fall of 1943. During his Freshman and Sophomore years,
Waters was on both the football and baseball teams, a member of the YMCA Board of Control, and president of
his class (1944-45). In May, 1945, Waters left school to join the Navy. Receiving his discharge and reentering Davidson in
September, ‘46, Waters was elected president of the Charlotte-Davidson Club; became a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society and of
Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity. At present, Waters is treasurer of the Pan-Hellenic Council, Senior member of the Court
of Control, and a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. Majoring in physics, Waters is taking a course which will
lead to a B.S. degree in the Spring.

AMONG THE GREEKS
(Continued From Page Two)
Jinright and Jeffries only answered, “Present.” Brothers Preyer and Fowle were in on the Hampden-Sydney fracas but the local team
is still smarting from the set-back given by the Snappers — also the apple pie a la mode we didn't
eat. Speedy West has finally seen the necessity of allotting a few of his busy hours to the pursuit of
education. KA’s two potential candidates for the debating team, All-America “Butter” Harris and Bob Stokes, are gruesome.

Mooresville SKATING
Skating Rink
Open Saturdays
Main Street
Open Every Night Except Sunday
7:00 P.M. to 9:30 P.M.
PARTIES INVITED — ASK FOR INFORMATION
Special Costume Party for Hallowe’en — Everybody Invited
Three Blocks South of Square
2:30 to 4:30, 7:00 to 11:15 P.M.
Mooresville, N.C.

Cinema Comments...
By WALTER MANN
Monday and Tuesday
October 27 and 28
“FIESTA”
Those who are interested in killing a bull by some other method than shooting it should be able to pickup
the finer points of the art Esther Williams. In this technicolor production by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Miss Williams plays the part of
the twin sister of a young man who is supposed to be a bullfighter. The only thing wrong with her
brother's ability to fight bulls is that he would much rather devote his time to music. Since Mario, the brother,
finally decides he must quit bullfighting, his heart really being in music, Esther (alias Mario) develops a unique plan to
bring him back. She starts appearing under his name, thinking he will become enraged and return to take his place.
Since it is not the purpose of this column (this column also has a purpose) to divulge too many pertinent
facts, no more will be said concerning the story of this effort. Above all, at the lic sta = Wednesday
and Thursday, October 29 and 30, “THEY WON’T BELIEVE ME.” You won't believe it either until you have seen it.
That is, you will find it somewhat hard to believe that a man could do just what this man did.
Needless to say, what he did will not be divulged. After reading the above paragraph, you all probably think that
this is another one of those pictures with no comment in other periodicals. However, if you will look in the
June 23 issue of Time, you will find that you are wrong. This is an RKO production and has as
its stars Robert Young and Susan Hayward. The reviewer for Time says this picture should bring cheating and possessive husbands
and wives to their senses. Perhaps there might also be some lesson in it for those of us who are
not already married.

Friday and Saturday, October 31-November 1, are meeting more opposition these days when airing opinions on the status quo. Sealed-Beam
and PB have been especially active in the resistance movement. “Bet-a-Million” Macaulay, Sears-Roebuck’s campus dealer, has been getting much response
to his pigskin from Disgusted N. C. State boosters (number estimated at 00001).

PI KAPPA PHI
For a change, the majority of Pi Kapps could have been found on the campus this last weekend. The occasion—a
party at Erwin Lodge. Most conspicuous couple there, Ernest Hunter and his new car, the front seat of which was
adorned by his childhood sweetheart. That is, she was his sweetheart until she became Mrs. Oley. Also present was another
sweetie of Brother Boykin, who clung to the arm of the aforementioned new car. Another couple present was Charlie and
Lucy. Fitz Read was off to Warrenton and Tootie again last weekend. Brother Bill Moore kept up his reputation as
“The Voyager” by journeying south to see that a wedding was properly executed. All the details may be obtained from
the baron. Epsilon chapter is happy to announce the initiation of three new brothers: Tom Niblock, Frank Niblock, and W.
S. McSwain.

PIETENPOL SPEAKS
(Continued From Page One)
energy according to the equation, E=mc². In recent years it has been found that the largest energy release comes near
the end of the periodic table. In 1939, German scientists, Frank and Meitner, escaped from Germany and reported to the
Allied scientists that they had been able to split uranium into two equal parts by neutron bombardment. This was immediately
called the fission chain reaction. This knowledge, with the accumulated knowledge in 1939, showed a possibility of releasing the energy
of the atom. Dr. Pietenpol reported that there remain several secrets in the actual process which will no doubt be
kept as such for a few years. He said that available atomic energy opens new fields and an entirely new
area for science and industry.

RED MASQUERS
(Continued from Page One)
Mooresville Ice (Continued From Page Two)
in our citadel of free enterprise.

THINK IT OVER
But if we are too stupid to even cooperate with President Truman’s efforts to hold down prices and save food
for starving millions, perhaps we deserve disaster. Think it over.

RAMROD
For those who couldn't wait for Homecoming, a review, or any comment on this picture will be of little value.
However, if you like fine technicolor westerns, you will probably find it a measure of joy. If, however, you do
not like westerns, are not a fan of Joel McRae, you will probably find the Homecoming dance more entertaining. For
those of you raving on the many social contacts, the Quadrangle Club will meet Thursday, October 3, at 7:30 in
the third-floor room of the Chambers Building. Dr. E. O. Guerrant will speak on United States-Argentine relations.

CHESTERFIELDS ARE NO STRANGERS
THEY'RE ALWAYS WELCOME
BARRY FITZGERALD IN “WELCOME STRANGER”
ALWAYS MILDER
BETTER TASTING
COOLER SMOKING
Copyright 1947, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
