SALEM DAY! ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

Volume XXXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 1947 No. 21

Omicron Delta Kappa Tap Eleven

Dave Richardson Is National Scholastic Society Picks Senior Award of Distinction Goes to Chemistry Major

At a recent meeting of Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, David W. Richardson of the senior class was elected to membership in that honorary scholastic fraternity. Richardson, who entered Davidson in the fall of ’42, hails from Richmond, Virginia. He was editor of the Davidsonian in '44 before going into the Navy, and now serves as assistant editor of that publication. He is a brother in the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, and is a member of Sigma Upsilon literary fraternity.

Phi Beta Kappa recognizes scholastic excellence, in specific, and campus leadership, in general. To be elected, a student must maintain a 92 average for four years, and be in the upper twelfth of his class. Richardson, whose average is 95.22, was the only man elected this spring. Other members, elected before this year are: Bill Lacy, Price Gwynn, and Casper Woodridge. Six men—Dick Port, Mac Jefferies, Tommy Powell, Bill McLean, Lamarr Williamson, and Tommy Bumbarger—were elected earlier this year.

Tentative plans for Richardson’s formal initiation were announced by Professor G. B. Watts, president of the local circle. The date, yet to be set, will be sometime in May. An address by Judge John J. Parker of Charlotte will be followed by a reception; the public and especially freshmen with high, prospective Phi Beta Kappa averages, will be invited. Tommy Bumbarger, who was elected last fall, but has not yet been initiated, will also be initiated at that time.

Phi Beta Kappa is the oldest and largest of the Greek letter fraternities. Founded at William and Mary College over a hundred years ago as a social fraternity, it soon restricted its membership for recognition of scholarship. It now has more than a hundred chapters and a membership in excess of sixty thousand.

ALUMNI MEETING

The Alumni of Davidson in the State of Ky. are meeting for the first time in many months on Friday evening of this week. The dinner will be held in the Pendennis Club at Louisville, Ky. Dr. Cunningham will attend and speak at the meeting. Rev. David Walthall of Lexington, Ky., is in charge of the arrangements. Dr. W. A. Benfield of the Louisville Presbyterian Seminary Faculty will act as toastmaster.

CALENDAR

Sunday, April 27
Vespers; Reverend John Rupert McGregor, Th.D. President of the Montreat Association.

Monday, April 28
Chapel; Professor William M. Blackburn of Duke University.

Tuesday, April 29
Chapel: Coach Story.

Thursday, May 1
Chapel; Professor Fulcher.

Friday, May 2
Chapel; Y. M. C. A.

Davidson D Club Backs Night Fracas

Coach Bill Story’s football charges will wind up the spring drills with a regular game between the red and black squads of the varsity team Friday, May second, on Richardson Field. This pigskin battle will be played under the lights, as the Wildcats will have at least three games under night conditions next fall, including the opener in Norfolk against William and Mary.

The proceeds from the gate receipts of the scrimmage will be used to provide further support for the little Belgian girl who was orphaned by the war. The young European, Juliana Bernadette Maria Eggenhuizen, is the same child who was the recipient of the collection taken up from among members of the student body last spring. It has been proposed that the accumulation of funds for the livelihood of Juliana become a yearly event here on the Davidson campus. This assistance is carried out by a benevolent organization in New York, The Foster Parents Plan for War Children, Inc. This group’s activities are widespread throughout the afflicted areas of Europe. The price of admission for the game will be ten cents. The date is subject to change. Sponsoring the game jointly will be the “D” and Beaver Clubs.

HONOR MEN

Pictured above, left-to-right: John Walker, Rufus Long, Bob Currie, Buck Archer, Joe Stukes, Harvey Carrow, Hugh Hill, Bill Robertson, Dave Blevins, Bob Phillips, Heyward Brinegar.

By Lonnie Turnipseed.

Once again ole Davidson College resumes its relationship with Salem. This time they take on a new and interesting twist in that we are going to Salem instead of Salem coming to us. This is the first time that Davidson, as a whole, has accepted an invitation to a girls' school.

Transportation

Free transportation has been provided for the Davidson students by the Y. M. C. A. Buses will leave shortly after lunch Saturday and will return after the dance that night. Supper will be served in the college dining hall, unless some of you dealers prefer to dine out in town.

The renowned Y. W. C. A. of Salem is handling the deal and have really planned an elaborate affair. Frances Carr, president of the Y. W. C. A., has been the mainspring behind it all and has been pushing it to the utmost. The members of the Y. W., desiring to impress the Davidson students with their hospitality, have gone to a lot of trouble to make the necessary preparations and they really deserve a great deal of credit.

Dance

The highlight of the evening will be an informal dance in the Salem dining hall. All efforts to secure the gym for the dance have met with no success, since the Academy (Salem Academy, the Prep school connected with Salem) has had the gym lined up for more than a year. However, I’m sure this will have no effect upon the quality of music and dancing. Also, I understand that, for the benefit of those who prefer a square dance, a square dance will be held at the same time. Those who don’t like either round dancing or square dancing will have to figure out some way to amuse themselves. I have first-hand reports that Salem is well stocked with cards, checkers, and tiddlywinks for these couples.

The buses will return to Davidson shortly after the dance Saturday night, but of course if you prefer and can get a place to stay, you are welcome to prolong the weekend.

Sponsorship

Before the war, girls were invited to the Davidson Campus for special occasions put on and sponsored by the Beaver Club. This year the job was turned over to the Social Activities Department of the Y. M. C. A. Already this year, as many doubtless remember, they sponsored a Salem-Davidson day here at Davidson on Oct. 26 for the Hampden-Sydney football game. The bevy of Salem beauties arrived shortly before game time and returned after a dance that night. This time the situation will be reversed. Many of the dealers of ole D. C. have already established themselves in the hearts of Salem girls; this is an excellent opportunity for those who are looking for new spooning grounds, to make some lasting acquaintances and to have a big weekend at the same time. From the standpoint of expense, the weekend will certainly be an economical one, so why not try your luck? Salem is renowned in this section for its bevy of beauties, you might be one of the lucky ones, anyway it’s worth a try.

R. O. T. C.

The annual ordnance inspection of the R. O. T. C. department by the 3rd Army was held recently. The department received an excellent rating, which is the highest rating that is given on ordnance equipment.

YMCA Installation Services Concluded

Following a banquet held at the YMCA Wednesday night at 6:30, the new ‘Y’ cabinet members assumed their positions. Present at the meeting were members of the outgoing and incoming cabinets who will hold their offices throughout the coming school year. Members of the 1947-8 ‘Y’ cabinet are as follows: Heywood Brinegar, president; Ed Hoppe, church relations; Frank Lemmon, publications; J. Payne, world evangelism; Jack Etheridge, boys’ work; Don Coffey, scout work; Jim Pittman, deputations; Bill Robertson, social life; Sam Maloney, Sunday schools; Miller, action; Lee Willingham, community service; SamTate, chapel services; Dave Blevins, freshman work; and Hugh Hill, student government representative.

PHI BETA KAPPA

Dave Richardson played host to a nationally distinguished visitor. Dr. Williams B. Ricks of the Sigma Chi fraternity was here visiting and talking with members of the faculty and administration of the Delta Kappa fraternity. The purpose of his visit was to become better acquainted with the college and the members of Delta Kappa, who are petitioning Sigma Chi for membership. Dr. Ricks spoke Saturday afternoon at an informal gathering of the fraternity in its room in Oak Row. He was accompanied on his trip here by Dr. R. B. McKnight, a Charlotte surgeon and Grand Praetor of the North Carolina-South Carolina Province of Sigma Chi.

English Professor Cumming of the department has informed the Davidsonian that the Vereen Bell Memorial award for creative writing will be presented in chapel Monday, April 28. Of the thirty entries, more than twenty of which were short stories, six were chosen by the English department for final judgment. These have been sent to Professor William M. Blackburn, professor of creative writing at Duke University, who will select the winning entry. Professor Blackburn was chosen by the members of the English department to make the final selection because of his experience in this field. The chapel presentation will likewise be made by Mr. Blackburn. The trust fund of the annual award is $2000, $50 of which has been designated as the prize for this year’s winner. Vereen Bell, noted young author, attended Davidson and graduated in the class of 1932. The most famous of his works is Swamp Water, which gained nationwide acclaim first as a novel, then as a film production. Mr. Bell served in the Navy during the war until he was killed in the sinking of an escort carrier in the second battle of the Philippine Sea.

FOREIGN MISSIONS

Dr. R. T. Gillespie, Candidate Secretary of the Executive Committee of Foreign Missions, will be on the campus May 6. He will speak at the chapel service. Every student who is interested in becoming a foreign missionary is asked by Murphy Williams to arrange for an interview with Dr. Gillespie sometime during the day of May 6.

Six Seniors, Five Juniors Extended Bids During Chapel Ceremony

In its annual spring tap day ceremony held Friday, April the eighteenth, at the regular chapel hour, the Delta circle of Omicron Delta Kappa honored eleven men with bids. Present President of the honorary fraternity, Dick Port, opened the ceremony by leading the devotionals, after which Dr. Frontis, a member of the Davidson College faculty, spoke on the meaning of Omicron Delta Kappa and then proceeded to reply to two of the most prevalent criticisms of the fraternity system in general. At the conclusion of his talk, the actual tapping procedure was carried out. Of the eleven men honored at that time, six were Seniors: Buck Archer, Harvey Carrow, Bob Currie, Rufus Long, Joe Stukes, John Walker, and five were Juniors: Dave Blevins, Haywood Brinegar, Hugh Hill, Bob Phillips, and Bill Robertson.

Archer

Buck Archer, a native of Shelby, N. C., is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity and served as captain of the tennis team his Junior and Senior years. He has also been, during the school year 1946-'47, a member of the Court of Control and Business Manager of the Annual, Quips and Cranks.

Carrow

Harvey Carrow, a Kinston, N. C., senior, proved himself one of the outstanding cheerleaders during the 1946 football season. A member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, Carrow did a great deal toward rebuilding Davidson's school spirit.

Currie

Bob Currie, of Mullens, West Virginia, is a member of the Sigma Chi social fraternity. He was elected Judge of the Court of Control in the 1943 spring elections, but was unable to serve because of the war.

Phi Mu Alpha Gives Concert

Davidson’s Gamma Kappa chapter of Phi Mu Alpha, honorary music fraternity, will present a concert by its members in honor of the Rho chapter from the University of North Carolina Sunday, April 27, at 4:00 P.M., in the Chambers Auditorium. The public has been invited to attend. Musician members of the visiting Alpha Chi chapter from Davidson will present the following program: Third Concerto for Two Violins by J. S. Bach, Melvin Sipe and Jim Weber, Violinists, Mrs. Earl Berg, Accompanist; Sonata Number 3 in E-Flat Major by Brahms, Willie Coggins, Clarinettist, Mr. James Pfohl, Accompanist; Three songs by Brahms: O wüsst ich doch den Weg zurück, Feldeinsamkeit, Von ewiger Liebe, sung by Moody Chisholm, tenor; Handel’s First Sonata for Oboe, played by Manley Sanders; Rondo by John Haldane, played by Mr. James Pfohl, pianist; Sonata No. 2 in E-Flat Major by Bach, played by Charles Delaney, flutist; Antiphon No. 1 of Marcel Dupré and Litanies by Jean Alain, played by Bill Richard, Organist. Following the musical program, the guests from U.N.C. will be entertained at a banquet at Erwin Lodge. Chairman of Davidson’s Phi Mu Alpha program committee is Bill Richard. J. Frank Barr will be in charge of the arrangements.

Dr. Ricks is one of the most distinguished men in fraternity circles today. He is a native North Carolinian and about eighty-three years old. After receiving his degree from the University of North Carolina, where he was a founder of the Alpha Tau Chapter of Sigma Chi, he became one of the ablest young lawyers in the east. However, after a few years, he abandoned his law practice to enter the theological school at Vanderbilt, where he was instrumental in the founding of Alpha Psi Chapter of Sigma Chi. After graduation, he became distinguished in the Methodist ministry until a number of years ago, when he was retired because of his age. Dr. Ricks was at one time Grand Praetor of the seventh province of Sigma Chi, and in 1941 was elected grand consul of the fraternity. Although his term at this post has expired, Dr. Ricks has continued to work unceasingly for Sigma Chi and fraternity men in general. He has been instrumental in founding more chapters of Sigma Chi than any other person, and visits the one hundred and three chapters throughout the country regularly.

Long

Rufus Long, a senior from The Presbyterian Orphanage in Barium Springs, N. C., was until interrupted by the recent conflict, in which he served as a First Lieutenant in the Air Corps, originally a member of the class of '44. At present, he is a member of the Phi Westminster Fellowship Club, International Relations Club, and the fraternity sports team. During the year 1946-'47, Long has been director of all non-fraternity sports and was captain of the wrestling team. Because of his work on the latter named team, he is also a member of the “D” club.

Stukes

Joe Stukes, of Manning, S. C., is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, of which he has in the past been president. He is at present a member of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet, the “D” club, and President of the Honorary Fraternity Council. Stukes has also been in charge of the “Y” gift fund for the past two years.

Walker

John Walker of Burlington, N. C., has earned membership to the “D” club, the Tennis team, and the Beaver Club. During the 1946 football season, he was one of the foremost inspirational leaders of the team.

Blevins

Among the Juniors, Dave Blevins, of Spruce Pine, N. C., is Vice-President of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity and has been chosen as next year’s Freshman Adviser. Blevins is at present Secretary-Treasurer of his class, a member of the Beaver Club, and assistant baseball manager. He is, furthermore, a member of the “D” club.

(Continued on Page 4)