Page 4 THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, May 9, 1947

Ping Pong - Pool Tournament Rouses Sporting Interest Among Davidson Students

Shaw Takes Ping Pong Singles as Woodbridge Grabs Pool Honors

HUNDRED SEVENTEEN TAKE PART IN CONTEST

Winners’ Names To Be Engraved on Plaques

The YMCA Ping-Pong and Pool Tournament wound up its final matches last Monday night. Of the 67 entrants in ping-pong, Charles “Flop” Shaw rose the victor in singles; Bill Bogart and Sam Lineberger were triumphant in the doubles event. Woodbridge proved himself the “shark” in pool singles while Bob Berry and Frank Hamilton won the doubles. There were 50 entries in pool. Winners received gold medals from the “Y.”

Plaques To Be Installed

In order to create a larger interest in the two major sports in the “Y,” Murph Williams has not only improved the equipment tremendously but he has also appropriated two handsome plaques that will be placed in the game rooms. The plaques will serve the purpose of designating, in succeeding years, the students most proficient in these two sports—ping-pong and pool. The single winners will be those that are engraved upon the plaques. In this connection, Shaw will head the ping-pong and Woodbridge will be the first on the pool plaque.

The table tennis runners-up include Roger Scovil in the singles, who gave Shaw a real fight, winning four out of the nine games played; the Shaw-Moore combination took three of the eight games against Bogart and Lineberger. Ben Gibson and Allen Cameron were runners-up in the billiard singles. Woodbridge won over both of the above 2 to 1 and 3 to 0 respectively. The Edwards-Robinson combination came in second for doubles, losing to Berry-Hamilton. C. Carpenter, B. Berry, and B. Gibson acted as officials.

CHINESE SCHOOL (Continued from Page 3)

Fellowship Groups

A recent letter from Dr. Lee, president of the college, said: “We have four Christian fellowships with a total membership of about 120 students, a Y. P. C. A. of about 150 members, two Bible classes for students, and one for teachers, all well attended. Besides these activities we have faculty and student prayer meetings and a regular church service.”

Franchised Dealer FOR RCA Victor Radios Bendix Radios Stewart-Warner Radios Hot Plates, Tennis Shoes Desk and Bed Lamps Etc., Etc. (COPELAND'S) Davidson Electric Appliance Co.

DAVIDSON FURNITURE COMPANY THIS STORE MADE POSSIBLE BY THE GI BILL OF RIGHTS COMPLETE HOME FURNISHINGS No Sale Complete Until You Are Satisfied Main Street DAVIDSON, N. C.

PING PONG POOL CHAMPS

Pictured above are the winners of the “Y” ping pong and pool tournaments. “Flop” Shaw took the ping pong singles, Bill Bogart and Sam Lineberger the doubles; Ben Woodbridge pool singles, and Bob Berry and Frank Hamilton pool doubles.

The Upward Look By Haywood Brinegar

Most of us came to Davidson not so much to learn how to earn a living as to learn how to live. We came to strengthen our knowledge and understanding of our fellow men. Realizing that we acquire a certain degree of insight into the problems of others as well as our own. This insight, this consideration for the other man is necessary if we are to live happy and successful lives. There must be a certain amount of harmony existing between us and our neighbors, and the degree of harmony will depend upon our depth of understanding and consideration for the other fellow.

We have heard it said that Davidson students are extremely critical; critical of fellow students; critical of the faculty; and that our criticism is frequently narrow and unjust. We might pause for a moment and ask ourselves if there is any truth in the statement. If we do, we might find that there is; that we are quick to judge the faults of others and slow to recognize our own; that we laugh unkindly at the other fellow; that we say things of him and think things of him which in all fairness to him might have been left unsaid and unthought of.

When we see a football game, we see sixty minutes of action; yet we see very little of the hours, days, weeks, years which have gone into the training of the individual player. When we see a man, we see very little of the course of events which have gone into making of him that which he is. Yes, perhaps we are too quick and narrow in forming an estimation of a man. It is said, “that every man is a volume if you know how to read him.” It might be that sometimes we don’t try; we look at the first page and then close the book. We might, at least, glance at the chapter headings, for how often we find that our estimation has been wrong—all wrong. Even then we have seen but half the man, for there is the inner man who comes out under the stress and strain of life, the man who makes the decision between right and wrong.

We came to Davidson to grow, to grow to such an extent that, “we can command a great deal of influence and win the confidence, the respect, and the love of other people.” Unless we learn here that the other man is an individual worthy of our consideration and our respect, we are allowing to slip through our fingers one of our greatest opportunities. I finish with this challenge to us; that we take a greater responsibility for ourselves; that we take a greater responsibility for others; and that we look at the other fellow with respect, with consideration, and through an eye of understanding. By doing so, we make of ourselves stronger men, and since we are to a large extent Davidson, we make of her a stronger Davidson.

Calendar of Religious Events

Saturday, May 10, 3:00 P. M.—Intercollegiate Council, Davidson-Johnson C. Smith, meets at Smith.

Sundays: 10:15 A. M.—College Sunday School Class meets in the “Y” lounge, 11:15 A. M.—Morning Worship. 6:30 P. M.—Westminster Fellowship.

May 11.—Talk on “The Formal Church Year,” by Rev. George Henry, Rector Christ’s Church Charlotte.

May 18—Discussion on “The Formal Church Year,” led by Spencer Murray.

7:30 P. M.—Vespers.

May 11 — Davidson Chorus

May 18—Rev. C. Darby Fulton, D.D., Exec. Secty. Foreign Missions

Tuesdays: 7:30 P. M.—Davidson Christian Fellowship.

Wednesdays: 10:00 P. M.—Hall Prayer Meetings.

Group Goes To Winthrop

Davidson Delegation Entertained by Westminster Girls

On Thursday, May 1, a delegation of twenty-five men responded to a gracious invitation on the part of the Westminster Fellowship Group of Winthrop College at Rock Hill, South Carolina. The group was composed of Eade Anderson, Al and Jack Bridgeman, Bill Baxter, Dudley Camper, Alf Duncan, Bill Hoyt, Sam Hoyt, Terrel Kirk, Rufus Long, Sam Maloney, Walter Mann, Herb Miller, Johnny Miller, Jack Payne, Frank Perrin, Bill Plonk, Walter Snowden, Charles Turner, Dan Tyler, Graham Whitney, Red Williams, Lee Williams, and Parks Wilson.

They drove down in the afternoon to the Oakland Avenue Presbyterian Church where all were warmly greeted by attractive Pat Patterson, Student Director of the Oakland Avenue Church, and Hilda Procter, President of their local group. After a few moments of playing “Who do you know that I know?” all paired off and went in to a five o'clock supper. Toward the end of the meal several of our boys got together under the direction of President-elect Lee Willingham for a bit of harmony that was surpassed only by their nerve.

The program consisted of an informative talk on the very real problem of world federation which was interestingly presented by Reverend Howard Wilkinson, assistant to Dr. Clovis Chappel at the First Methodist Church of Charlotte. A discussion followed and there was only a moment for fellowship before the blue and white clad lassies, abiding by a seven-thirty curfew, scampered back to their dormitories. The Davidson gentlemen, bewildered by such an old custom, lingered only a moment to bid adieu to Miss Patterson before they retraced their steps.

Brooke Anderson Stresses Need For World Youth Fund In Y.M.C.A. Cabinet Meeting

What Can a Bad Christian Do With Sunday? Three Questions For Monday Morning

“The Sabbath was made for man.” Mark 2:27. Jesus, Divinely Wise, left no rules for “keeping the Sabbath.” Indeed, he never even used that expression. To him, the Sabbath was not fragile, to be placed under glass, about which we must tread softly lest it be “broken.” On the contrary, the Sabbath exists to keep man from being broken. He said plainly, “The Sabbath was made for man.”

It is a mistake to interpret this saying of Jesus in a non-Christian sense. We must ask, What is man? If man is (as is commonly supposed by non-religious people) only a more complicated animal, then the Sabbath is to make us better animals. But Jesus had a far different view of man. Suppose we take the one sentence which describes Jesus himself in his growing years: “He advanced in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and man.” Here is the fourfold man: mental, physical, spiritual, social. It is for the completeness, the completion, of man, that the Sabbath was made.

The six-day week, however we spend it, leaves us one-sided. Six days of the week we are consumers of groceries, makers and payers of bills. Sunday reminds us that we do not live by bread alone. No rules can be given, but one question can be asked: How does Monday morning find you, as compared with Saturday afternoon? Are you a better person all around, are you more of a man, are you a truer woman? If your mind is tired, your body fagged (or merely fattened), your spirit dejected, your attitude toward people grouchy and sour in general, then you spent Sunday wrong, whatever you did. But if you are a really better person, then your Sunday was well spent.

The right way to spend the Lord's Day is the way that leaves you on Monday better balanced, spiritually cleaner and stronger, mentally keener, socially more human and sympathetic—all in all a better person than you were at the fag end of last week. To take only one point, for example: How about your relationship to God? Sunday should make you more aware of him. It is quite true that you can worship God inthe out-of-doors, on a fishing trip or on the golf course. But it is a fact that the people who do worship God are not generally to be found in a fishing party or in a golf foursome on Sunday morning. They are usually in church. To say “The Sabbath is made for man” and then turn your back on the church is to misunderstand Jesus, it is to condemn yourself to spiritual atrophy and to ignore the highest element in your soul. But this is not the whole secret of the Lord’s Day. Long before Jesus, a prophet spoke of doing God's pleasure, not your own, on the Sabbath (Isaiah, chapter 58). Jesus made even more plain than Isaiah did what the Lord’s pleasure is. “It is lawful to do good on the Sabbath Day” (Matthew, 12:12). What good will Sunday do me? is not the whole question, and a deeper question is: What good can I do on Sunday? Thanks to law and custom (inspired, originally, by Christian ideals) most people do have more leisure time on Sunday than on other days. Look at it this way: The Lord's day is the time when you are freer to do the kind acts for which you have no time on other days. We know what things Isaiah and Jesus called good: healing, teaching, the cultivation of friendships, relief of distress, bringing something of health and truth and justice to a diseased and blind and distorted world. Surely, if you are a conscientious Christian, Saturday found you with many good intentions unfulfilled. Sunday is the day when you can put some of those intentions into action. After all, the Christian name for the day is the Lord’s Day. It is named in his honor; let us keep it so. You would celebrate your mother's birthday, your wedding anniversary, by doing something that not only pleases but somehow symbolizes the person whose special day it is. So the Lord’s Day is best honored by honoring him. Again, no rule can be made. But the third and the most searching question to ask yourself on Monday morning is this: Do the people whom I met and with whom I lived yesterday have the feeling that Jesus has passed their way?

Note: This article is reprinted by permission of The Presbyterian Outlook. In the March 21 issue of the Davidsonian acknowledgment for Dr. Foreman’s article, “Standing on the Promises”, was omitted. Apologies to The Outlook.

“Yes sir!” I answered eagerly.

“Well, Murgatroyd, I think I have just the job for you. Can you drive?”

I remembered my soap-box derby. “Sure,” I said confidently.

“Then you can drive Religion.”

“Religion?”

“Religion is the YMCA car,” he explained.

“That’s a funny name. Why is it called Religion?” I asked.

He suppressed a smile, then said, “It reflects the deep religious atmosphere of the Davidson campus.”

“Oh,” I said, and folded my hands piously.

I went to see William “Wild Bill” Overcash, the YMCA secretary.

“What can I do for you?” he called cheerily. He took his feet off his desk and put aside his comic book.

“Omar sent me. I’m supposed to drive Religion,” I said.

“Oh yes, Murgatroyd. Well, how do you like Davidson?”

“Fine, of course!”

He looked at me pityingly. “Did he tell you about the car?”

“Yes. He said it was in swell condition, just been overhauled.”

“He meant,” said Bill pointedly, “that it was overtaken by a truck and hauled home by a wrecker. Come with me, I'll show you.”

I followed him outside.

“Why here it is,” I said, “it doesn’t look so bad to me.”

“Come away from that, you fool,” he said. “That’s Sam Tate’s car. Religion is over here.”

A Car?

Looking back wistfully at the blue flash, I followed him to another car. Car? I closed my eyes tight for a moment and opened them again, but it was still there. True, it had four wheels, a body and a motor (I lifted the hood to make sure of this last point), but it couldn’t boast of much else. The front bumper was missing, the paint was rusting off, and the fenders bore the scars of many battles. Inside, the seat covers were torn and dirty, and the seats themselves looked as if they had given up long ago. One of the back windows was broken out.

“That’s convenient when we have a crowd,” said Bill, “alleviates the pressure, you know. We have real candle power in the lights, too. We carry spare candles in the glove compartment.”

I started to open the door, and the handle came off in my hand.

“Don’t mind that,” said Bill, “just one of its little idiosyncrasies. You will get used to it.” He got in from the other side and kicked my door open from the inside. “Hop in and we'll try it out. Here, you drive. But before we start you better give me your mother’s name and address. Just a precaution.” I turned a yellowish green and wrote it out for him. “Okay, let’s go.”

I got behind the wheel and looked on the floorboard for the starter.

“What is this gaping hole under the brake pedal for?” I gasped.

“Oh that? The last boy who drove this thing (may he rest in peace) got tired of having to open the door and drag his foot on the ground every time he wanted to stop, so he cut the hole. Now all you have to do is to stick your foot through.”

I stepped on the starter. The motor growled and spit and said something quite articulate, also quite unprintable (the profane mechanical equivalent of “Oh dash it all!”).

“My gosh!” I said. “It talks!”

“Yes,” said Bill, “Our boys have been using it to drive to Sunday School and I’m afraid the car has acquired a rather nasty vocabulary.”

Reluctant Dragon

It didn’t take me long to discover that Religion had quite a distinctive personality. We started off, and it pulled itself forward like a reluctant dragon (its fenders dragging behind). I had the quaint habit of veering from one side of the road to the other, but this didn’t matter since the other cars would get off the road anyway when they saw us coming. I soon mastered the trick of using my foot for the brake, and we were cruising along quite smoothly—remarkably smoothly, in fact.

“R-rides n-nice, doesn’t it,” I remarked.

“Y-yes, that’s wh-why we ca-call it R-religion,” Bill answered. “Sh-shakes the devil out of y-you.”

“Th-that isn’t wh-what Omar t-told m-me,” said I, feeling betrayed.

We rode around as long as we could stand it and then drove back to the college. I got out and kissed the ground.

“What do you think of Religion?” Bill asked me.

“I don’t, I’m a Bap—oh, the car! Well to tell the truth—”

“Yes, I think the same thing,” he said. “I’m afraid that Religion has become the old-time Religion. It may have been good in the days of Paul and Silas, but it AIN’T good enough for us.”

“Are you planning to get a new car anytime soon?” I asked.

New Car A Hope

“Right now we’re doing more hoping than planning. We hope to, though.”

“Gee, I sure hope you do,” I said fervently, rubbing the seat of my pants.

As I walked away, I took one look back at Religion. It was sitting by the side of the road, looking old and tired—and I would have sworn that it was scowling!

$8,605,000 Needed to Rebuild Y Program In Devastated Areas

WORLD YOUTH FUND TO AID TWENTY COUNTRIES

Davidson To Be Given Opportunity To Help

Brooke Anderson, head of the YMCA at Brown University, spoke to the “Y” cabinet at its regular meeting on April 23 in behalf of the World Youth Fund. Mr. Anderson outlined the need for material and spiritual aid in Europe and Asia; he pointed out that the YMCA is carrying out its program in sixty-eight countries around the world. After words of introduction, Mr. Anderson presented a radio-type play entitled “The Gentleman Cries Peace,” which was a realistic portrayal of the unsettled conditions in Greece and the work of the “Y” there. Following the drama, a film, “The Invisible Bridge,” was shown in which the need for reestablishing the “Y” program in devastated countries was pictured.

For the past several months Mr. Anderson has been touring the country and visiting college campuses in an effort to secure the help of American students in providing for their neighbors in Europe and Asia. As a means of rebuilding the “Y” program in the war areas, the World Youth Fund has been set up. $8,605,000 will be raised: 1. to help lead young people of war-devastated countries back into paths of moral decency and constructive living, and 2. to help restore certain key facilities of The Association in places that were hardest hit. The “Y” suffered most heavily in Belgium, Bulgaria, Burma, China, Czechoslovakia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Holland, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Korea, The Philippines, Poland, Romania, Siam, and Yugoslavia.

Repair Damage

The money will be spent where it is most needed; to construct new recreational centers and to repair those damaged by war as well as to provide salaries for sending new “Y” secretaries into the field and to purchase necessary equipment. 600 “Y” secretaries suffered during the war—many gave their lives. Some died before the firing squad, others in concentration camps, still others from broken health, starvation or overwork. 105 “Y” buildings were completely obliterated or partly destroyed by bombs, artillery fire, or military occupation. In many instances, these were the only modern buildings in their cities and were centers for community-wide civic and welfare projects that serve people of all ages.

Peace In Hearts

Several months ago, James F. Burns made the following statement: “World peace depends upon what is in our hearts more than what is in our treaties.” We cannot hope to have a peaceful world until there is peace in the hearts of men. Men cannot think of peace when there is hunger and starvation staring him in the face. The vesper offering for one Sunday evening will be set aside for this fund. Thus Davidson students may share in this work.

Belk’s Department Store
Mooresville, N. C.
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN — See Us