Friday, October 24, 1947
THE DAVIDSONIAN
By PROF. JAMES F. PINKNEY

(Editor’s Note: This is a continuation of “Patterns for Conquest” which appeared in last week's issue.)

PART II

In 1848 Karl Marx wrote, “A spectre is haunting Europe—the spectre of Communism. It is high time that Communists should openly, in the face of the whole world, publish their views, their tendencies, aims, and meet this nursery tale of the spectre of Communism with a manifesto of the party itself.” That manifesto concludes with these words: “The Communists support everywhere every revolutionary movement against the existing social and political order of things. In all these movements, they bring to the front, as the leading question in each, the property question, no matter what its degree of development at the time. Finally, they labor everywhere for the union and agreement of the democratic parties of all countries. The Communists disdain to conceal their views and aims. They openly declare that their ends can be attained only by the forcible overthrow of all existing social conditions. Let the ruling classes tremble at a Communist revolution. The proletarians have nothing to lose but their chains. They have a world to win. Workers of all countries, unite!”

In that same document, Marx flatly stated that the great hostile camps are only two in number—bourgeois and proletariat. That is the propertied class and the wage-earning class. He based his case upon the proposition that the former exploit the latter. His solution: “liquidation” (almost in the Hitlerian sense of the word) of the bourgeoisie. His objective: a society in which each member would produce according to his abilities and receive goods according to his needs.

The Communist prophets who followed Marx—Engels, Lenin, and Trotsky—reaffirmed in even more militant fashion the views of Marx. Stalin, the present bearer of the mantle, is a realist and appears to be subscribing to those views only to the extent necessary to provide an ideology by which he can hold his own people in subjection through promises of a future utopia and by which he can maintain effective “fifth columns” in other countries. Let us look at the words of these men (and as we read their words let us bear in mind a book called “Mein Kampf,” by A. Hitler). Let us also bear in mind Hitler’s technique of assuring his intended victims from time to time that he really hadn't meant what he wrote and that he would be satisfied with less than he had originally asserted that he would have.

Discusses Russian Political Aims

The building of a classless society—Communistic morality presupposes action and makes struggle obligatory. The pupils of the Soviet school must realize that the feeling of Soviet patriotism is saturated with irreconcilable hatred toward the enemies of socialistic society. This same text goes on to recite that the pupils must have “no personal interests opposed to the collective interests.” Also that when a pupil is “unable to understand a given moral requirement—the rule may be simply given categorically and obedience ordered without specific explanations and proofs, with the warning that failure to conform will bring unpleasant consequences.”

It seems unnecessary even to comment on what can only be called the tirades of the Russian spokesmen in recent months.

Party Principles Abandoned

It is sometimes difficult to assess the present leader, Stalin. He appears to follow the principles of Marx and Lenin and yet he has recently been moving away from those principles, as is pointed out, and to be following an opportunistic program. The zigzag course of the “party line” (which by some strange coincidence is followed at exactly the same moment by all Communist publications all over the world) has been a matter of

Would Crush Democracy

Lenin: “We (the democracies) must crush them in order to free humanity from wage-slavery; their resistance must be broken by force. It is clear that where there is suppression (of capitalists) there must also be violence, and there cannot be liberty or democracy. Engels expressed this splendidly in his letter to Bebel when he said, ‘the proletariat needs the State, not in the interest of liberty, but for the purpose of crushing its opponents; and, when it will be able to speak of freedom, the State will have ceased to exist.’”

“Democracy for the vast majority of the nation, and the suppression by force—that is, the exclusion from democracy—of the exploiters and oppressors of the nation; this is the modification of democracy which we shall see during the transition from capitalism to Communism. (In other words, for those who seek to preserve their property, who oppose one party in command, or who favor some other form of government, there is to be suppression by force.)

“When the resistance of the capitalists has been broken,” the transition period of socialism passes and the stateless society is created. “People will gradually become accustomed to the observation of the elementary rules of social life without force, without subjection, without constraint, without the special apparatus for compulsion which is called the State.” (Note again the implicit admission that until the happy day of utopia arrives, there must be the use of force, constraint, subjection, and compulsion by the State. Note also that it is always conceded that capitalism cannot be destroyed by a gradual or what we would call constitutional process, but must be wiped out by revolutionary processes.)

Stalin Upholds Dictatorship

Stalin: “The dictatorship of the proletariat can be complete only if it is led by a single party, the Communist Party, which does not and must not share its leaders with any other party; and without iron discipline in the party, the tasks of the dictatorship of the proletariat cannot be fulfilled.”

An official Russian publication of fairly recent date, which is a text on teacher training, is interesting and enlightening. It recites that education in Russia is a weapon for strengthening the Soviet State. The theory and practice of Russian history for the past ten centuries have been the

(continued on page 4)

* College Supplies
* Toilet Articles
* Household Items
Southern 5 & 10c Stores
Davidson, N. C.

Wise Folks Who Want Trouble-Free Refrigeration Use
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ALL THE NEW POPULAR PHONOGRAPH RECORDS.
Columbia Masterworks
Red Seal Victor
Parker-Gardner Company
Since 1898
4118 W. Trade St.
Phone 8257

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

WE HAVE
Remington Typewriters
Schick-Shave Master Electric Razors.
C. S. Goodrum
TELEPHONE 2111
DAVIDSON, N. C.Great embarrassment to the party members in other lands. The most dominant single factor is the practice of the unlimited power of the ruler behind him, a tradition of despotism, a tradition that was not even seriously attacked until the present century. Now the present one, Stalin, is what has not been said by Russian leaders, particularly the idea of the totalitarian police state as was Hitler. They claim, however, that they go in that direction solely for the purpose of arriving at a diametrically opposite goal, whereas Hitler admittedly was committed to the proposition for its own sake alone. Giving Stalin the benefit of the doubt and conceding that his end motives are “pure,” for the moment only, the hard fact remains that a totalitarian police state must continue to exist until the fanciful and utopian dream of pure Communism is achieved. In the meantime, the individual must be subjected to the harshest conceivable discipline; religion as we have it must be suppressed (according to Communist doctrine, the Church and the Christian religion is only a drug by which the “exploiters of the workers make the workers submit passively to their exploitation) and no opposing writing, speech, or thought may be permitted. Otherwise, mankind, which has through the ages been “contaminated” with the “tempting” idea of property, may backslide and thus delay the establishment of the utopia in which “every worker will work to the limits of his abilities and ask in return only to be supplied with what he actually needs.”

According to Marx and Lenin's views, the temporary idea of the Communist dictatorship would be a period in which there would be no turning back in the direction of “property.” Otherwise, it could not serve its purpose, which is to wean men away from their ingrained tendency to seek to acquire property. Considering the fact that Stalin has found it necessary to pay his workers in accordance with their efforts and abilities, has reserved necessary rights, including private property rights, and has permitted the church to function again, it follows that he has abandoned the utopian objective of Communism in favor of a policy that will permit the perpetuation of a totalitarian police state, which is Russia and which each of those nations that have fallen under her domination today.

Basis For Success

At this point, two further conclusions are suggested: 1) That like Hitler's Germany and all such governments, Stalin's government can only be kept alive by the all too familiar program—hate, lies, and conquest. Such governments cannot perpetually exist in a world in which there remain strong governments that are free; hence they must destroy those strong free governments or themselves die. 2) That if we are to remain free in the face of the present march of the Russians to the West and to the East, we must become and remain strong, and we must do what we can to preserve those nations in which the voice of their people is still the sovereign voice.

At this point, it might fairly be asked why no mention has been made of the United Nations, or of proposals such as those advanced by the World Federalists. The answer to that question would seem to be this: The central reality of present world politics is the U.S.-Russian impasse. So long as that exists, it is futile to hope that existing machinery designed for preserving peace can effect that purpose, or that any new machinery can be created which would have the necessary force to settle the differences between these two powerful nations. Before the UN can be “strengthened,” or an effective world government of some other nature can be established, there must be broad agreement between the U.S. and Russia. Considering the deep-seated as well as deep-rooted American conviction that the totalitarian form of government is not for us, I see no course for us to follow other than the one we are pursuing, getting and keeping well-armed. In the meantime, let us hope and pray that the present political aims of Russia may change. Then let us hope that we will use our leadership influence to strengthen or create some agency for the effective preservation of world peace. Then let us hope that the historically “inevitable” next war can be made impossible by the establishment of a reign of law throughout the world.

PAGING THE PROFESSORS (Continued from Page Two)

Dr. Davidson earned his Ph.D. in history from Harvard, and the other in library science from the University of Chicago. Some time was also spent in teaching in boys’ preparatory schools and at The Citadel. Dr. Davidson is a descendant of the namesake of the college and a cousin of the institution's late benefactor, W.J. Davidson of Charlotte. Dr. Davidson was subpoenaed to appear as a witness for the college in the Baxter Case. He states that he believed his kinsman to have been mentally competent, but the case was compromised before he was called to appear.

Being particularly interested in North Carolina history, Dr. Davidson has done some historical work and writing, particularly concerning this section of the Piedmont. A better-known example of his library work was a series of articles on navy life, familiar to many of the older Davidson students. During the recent war, Professor Davidson was commissioned a lieutenant (j.g.) after serving as an official billet was armed guard commander, and he saw service on two merchant ships in the Pacific area. At college, one of Dr. Davidson's main interests is Sigma Upsilon, while his chief extra-curricular interest is the library. During the war years, Mrs. Davidson christened the liberty ship named for Davidson at Wilmington, N.C. In an observance on Davidson College, the director of the library has this to say: “Davidson College is a vaccination against the world. Here we are inoculated with the smallest possible amount of sin as a safeguard against a diseased future.” Professor Davidson does not make this adverse observation in a spirit of criticism, for he states he likes Davidson College as it is better than any place “east of Shanghai.”

BEATTY’S FORD BUS COMPANY PARTIAL SCHEDULE

Effective SATURDAY ONLY

Leave Davidson 4:30 P.M. Arrive Charlotte 6:15 P.M.
Leave Charlotte 6:30 P.M. Arrive Davidson 7:30 P.M.
Leave Davidson 7:20 P.M. Arrive Charlotte 8:35 P.M.
Leave Charlotte 11:30 P.M. Arrive Davidson 12:30 A.M.

Charlotte Terminal—Opp. Hotel Charlotte

The Three Suns—reading down: Morty Dunn, Artie Dunn, Al Nevins

More people are smoking CAMELS than ever before! Back in a new record, and here's another flavorful Camel! More men and more women are smoking Camels than ever before. Why? The answer is in your “T-Zone” (T for Taste and T for Throat). Try Camels. Discover for yourself why, with smokers who have tried and compared, Camels are the “choice of experience”!