QS PORTS HOLD THAT TIGER By SAM ERVIN 3 CORE... | Wildcat Sports Friday, May 9, 1947 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page 5

With the curtain rapidly descending on the spring sports scene, we were finally treated to a preview of the asset football season last week when the official 1947 Wildcat schedule was made public by Athletic Director Norman Shepard. The new card calls for ten contests, including seven games with Southern Conference foes. As a matter of fact, it is almost an exact duplicate of last year’s docket. The only changes are the substitution of Elon College for Erskine and the addition of the powerful William and Mary Indians. The biggest tests for Coach Bill Story’s gridders will come on successive Saturdays (Sept. 27th and Oct. 4th) when they lock horns with the Braves and North Carolina State’s Wolfpack. Both of these squads are loaded with talent and should be in the thick of the fight for the loop crown, along with North Carolina’s great Tar Heels. “Touchdown” Turner has finally graduated from the Raleigh institution, but Coach Beaty Feathers has two top-notch tailback replacements in Gwynn Fletcher and “Pitchin” Charlie Richkus, hero of last season’s 13-7 win over Duke’s Blue Devils. The ’Cats will, in all probability, drop these two but with some added reserve strength they should be able to put up a whale of a scrap against their bigger rivals.

The games which will make or break the season also come on consecutive weekends, and are all with Virginia elevens. In ’46 the locals lost to all three of these key opponents — namely V.M.I., Washington and Lee, and Richmond. The Generals and the Spiders are definitely on the upswing athletically, and will take the field against the ’Cats as odds-on favorites while the Cadet-Davidson game will probably be rated as a tossup. It’s much too early to make any accurate predictions, but it’s a safe bet that the ’47 Red and Black machine will make these plenty close. Story’s charges should win the rest without too much trouble, although Hampden-Sydney’s woebegone Tigers will be greatly improved with the ex-V.M.I. Navy flash, Lynn Chewning, leading the attack. Barring injuries, the locals should have one of the best starting elevens in the school’s history. The forward wall, led by Bill Boyd, who turned in a sparkling performance from his running guard slot in Friday's scrimmage, Ernie Stricklin, Buddy Chandler, and Itasy Rhodes, is heavy, fast, and rugged. The battle for starting posts in the backfield is still wide open and no one is sure of a berth as yet. The big question mark, however, is still the reserves and we won't know definitely how the club’ll stack up against outsiders until that one is answered next fall.

“B” VARSITY DOINGS

Although the recent debut of the Wildcat “B” baseball squad was anything but encouraging it was a step in the right direction. The 21-2 defeat at the hands of Belmont Abbey — humiliating as it was, was to be expected because the local nine that took the field against the preps had never worked together before. As a matter of fact, several of them had not even been out for baseball. Still, we hope that it’ll be continued in order to give some of the aspirants much-needed experience, to enable the coaching staff to get a better line on future prospects, and to supply the fans with some more home games to take in. One of the few bright lights in the dismal showing against the Abbey was Billy Bird who came to Davidson as a second sacker and was later moved over to the hot corner. The Fredericksburg kid, who for some unknown reason hasn't seen much varsity action, tallied both Wildcat runs, blasted a double into the stands, and displayed some mighty fancy footwork on the basepaths.

BATTING THE BREEZE

Tomorrow will be the last big day on the Davidson athletic fields. The baseballers will wind up their activities with a game against Clemson’s league-leading Tigers while Coach Pete Whittle’s cinder artists will make their last home appearance against Mercer. It’s tournament time in the Southern Conference. The ’Cat golfers go to Winston tomorrow and the trackmen journey to Chapel Hill on the 16th and 17th for the annual outdoor meet.

“Visit The— Vil Swap You $5.00 8X10 Color Portrait SHIP. AHOY over the out-manned, but never out-fought Whites. Operating behind a big, well-drilled line, the Black backs, led by Bud Flowe, Clift Turner, and Martin Whitehurst, repeatedly tore big holes in the White forward wall. The game started out as a runaway, as the Black team moved the ball on successive line plays from their own 15 to the White 25. Here, however, Johnny Richards, sterling White center, intercepted an errant Turner pass and thus stemmed the tide. Through the remainder of the next three periods the game remained a stalemate featured by some pretty punts by Jimmy Sifford, who got off for about 50 or 60 yards in the early part of the final quarter. The Blacks struck like lightning. Clift Turner spotted Whitehurst in the clear and tossed a bullseye to him. They advanced the ball to the White 15-yard line. From there on a series of cross bucks, Bud “Battering Ram” Flowe proceeded to tear the White line apart and finally went over from the three-yard stripe. Buddy Chandler's conversion attempt was not good.

Whitehurst Scores

The thrilling part of the game came most ensuing. Jim Sifford grabbed the kickoff and raced 92 yards, with the last possible tackle being made by Chit Turner, making a shoe-string tackle at the last moment. Whites failed to muster any sustained drive, and the Blacks took the ball on the White 46. Several plays later, Martin Whitehurst took the ball on a reverse from Turner and galloped 40 yards to pay dirt in a dazzling bit of ball-carrying. Chandler's conversion was good.

Captain Bill “Pop” Bowman of the 1947 Wildcat squad gets set to “lay one down” as the locals prep for their final game with the pace-setting Clemson Tigers on May 10. Hampered by a leg injury throughout most of the past season, Bowman has nevertheless repeatedly come through in the pinches with timely bingles. A veteran of last year’s club, “Pop” will wind up his collegiate career in '48.

SAE’s - Sigs Meet For Loop Crown

HOPPER WINS HIGH HURDLES

INTERFRAT SCOREBOARD

W L
SAE 7 1
Sig 6 2
Beta 6 3
Phi Delt 5 4
Pi Kapp 4 4
KAD 4 5
Ind 3 6
Phi Gam 2 7
Pika 0 9

Davidson Cindermen Roll Over Guilford, Washington And Lee

The Red and Black trackmen put in crushing victories last Tuesday, soundly defeating the Red and Black racketeers, this being the ’Cats fourth loss in seventeen starts. But the one counted on was John Butler, who didn’t have the good fortune to ship Kentfield’s star. This was the only Southern Conference dependents last week while the Sigma’s slipped past the KAD and reads a tie with a 0-3 rating. The SPE’s were knocked from the top spot.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

...ing against their heavier and more experienced adversaries. Some of the outstanding linemen who did the job for the Blacks were Whites and Stricklin, Sharpe, and Boyd. The two backfields were led by Sifford, Adams, and Austin of the Whites, and Fowle, Turner, and Whitehurst of the Blacks. The precision of the former trio added to the advantage of a 20-pound per man heavier line. Jim Sifford's triple-threat playing outdid the Blacks.

CAPTAIN "POP" Whites and Stricklin, Sharpe, and Boyd for the Blacks. The two backfields were led by Sifford, Adams, and Austin of the Whites, and Fowle, Turner, and Whitehurst of the Blacks. The precision of the former trio added to the advantage of a 20-pound per man heavier line. Jim Sifford's triple-threat playing outdid the Blacks.

Yesterday the 'Cats again journeyed to Chapel Hill, this time to participate in the Southern Conference Tournament. The Varsity Black tracksters racked up two wins in rolling over Guilford 103-28, and edging W&L. The 'Cats yielded first places in only the Guilford meet. Cobb moved through 23.8 seconds.

'Cat Netters End Successful Season

The Wildcats closed the 1947 tennis season by defeating the Tar Heels. Murdock McKeithen tying in the high jump and Bob Berry following Gray striding in third. Hopper followed Port and racked up the other points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the four points in that event. Sifford rounded out the