Wildcat Sports | ~*~ By SAM ERVIN

Page 4

This week we move over to the National League to preview the prospects for the senior loop’s eight contenders. Unlike
the rival American circuit, there should be only two real pennant threats. Yet, with the Braves, the Phils, and the
Pirates on the upsurge, it’s rather hard to determine how the also-rans will finish. Without further comment, here’s the order
in which we think they'll break the tape:

Eddie Dyer’s St. Louis Cardinals, who had to whip Brooklyn in a post-season playoff to earn the right to represent
the National League in the 1946 World Series, will win the flag with less effort this time. The Red Birds,
operating under new management last year, were initially unnerved by the raids from south of the border which definitely weakened
their squad. Their case of jitters was increased by an epidemic of sore arms which plagued a number of the
chunkers. In spite of these setbacks, the spirited Cards came from behind to win. This season, with the tension somewhat
relaxed, the St. Louis entry will show its opponents a clean pair of heels. Man for man, the defending champs
are superior in every department, due largely to the yields of their extensive farm system. Stan Musial, “Whitey” Kurowski, and
Enos Slaughter are on hand to supply the batting punch, while in Slats Marion and Terry Moore, the Card manager
has two men who can scoop up grounders and snag flies with the best in the majors. Add to this
the excellent mound corps headed by such top-notch performers as Murry Dickson, “The Cat” Brecheen, and Howie Pollet, and you
have a combination that just can’t miss.

BUMS SECOND

Gloom will hang heavy over Ebbetts Field when the coming baseball season draws to a close, for once again the
rabid Brooklyn rooters will have to be content with second slot, and in our opinion, that ain't good. The beloved
Bums have a rare mixture of age and youth on their roster — the type of club which has always
responded to the urgings of fiery, umpire-baiting Leo Durocher. Nevertheless, the Dodgers do not have enough real talent to ensure
a victory this year. The inner works should be strengthened defensively by the return of the veteran Arky Vaughan, but
except for the aging Dixie Walker and perhaps Pete Reiser (victim of a slump in ’46), there are no hitters
who can consistently blast in the runs. Some of “Lippy Leo’s” pitching mainstays are also somewhat ancient, but judging from
their records, none of them are quite ready for the wheelchair. Fireballer Johnny Van Cuyk, an 18-game winner for Fort
Worth last summer, should be a welcomed addition to that department.

The rejuvenated Boston Braves will press the Brooks all the way. Most of the credit for the rapid rise of
this once lowly club must go to peppy, shrewd Billy Southworth, who has instilled in his charges new fight and
determination, and to owner Bob Quinn, who has gone all out to supply his manager with good material. If the
former Card skipper could count on more hits by his infielders, he might threaten St. Louis, but he'll have to
be content with smooth fielding by those worthies. In the outfield, Southworth has three fence busters in Hopp, Holmes, and
Carvel. Johnny Sain, Ed Wright, Mort Cooper, and Bill Lee are quite capable of bearing the brunt of the hill
chores.

CUBS FUTURE UNCERTAIN

Fourth place is reserved for Charlie Grimm’s Chicago Cubs if a few of the Bruins regain their stride. Bill Nicholson
is the key to the success of the club. In 1946, “Big Bill’s” average tumbled to .220 and he managed
to belt only 8 homers. If he begins to hit again, and if Clarence Maddern, rookie up from Tulsa, can
slam the ball to the tune of .300 or better, the Cubs will have a trio of fine outer-gardeners. “Ace”
Parker, ex-Duke football great, is a candidate for a post in an infield steadied by the veteran campaigner, Stan Hack.
Another question mark is the pitching staff. If Wyse, Borowy, and Schmitz improve, the Bruins might be able to move
up the ladder.

PHILS TOP BUCS

Philadelphia and Pittsburgh will battle for the top berth in the second division. It will be close, but the Quaker
City lads should emerge victorious. Ben Chapman, who led his squad from the depths last season, has a dashing club,
headed by the sensational Del Ennis, 1946 rookie of the year, and the cagey “Schoolboy” Rowe, who won 11 games
in 15 starts. The Pirates, under new ownership, are also on the make. Billy Herman, making his debut as a
major league manager, will cause trouble, but this is not the Bucs’ year. Hank Greenberg should prove to be a
valuable asset, but no miracles can be expected until some new hurlers are obtained.

The impotent Reds and Giants will again fall heir to the seventh and eighth places. Neither aggregation can boast of
an offense, although the New Yorkers have a pair of distance hitters in backstops Walker Cooper and Hank Danning. The
Redlegs’ chief forte is their pitching staff, headed up by such battle-worn chunkers as Bucky Walters, Johnny Vander Meer, Ewell
Blackwell, and Joe Beggs. The contributions of this quartet, plus the work of Cincinnati’s fine defensive infield, should enable them
to shade THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Friday, March 28, 1947

Jack Burris, hard-hitting Wildcat centerfielder, crosses the plate in the fifth frame of Monday’s Southern Conference game with Duke’s Blue
Devils. Burris blasted a 350-foot homer, a double, and a single. In the background is Bert Anderton, Wildcat third base
coach.

BURRIS SCORES AGAINST DUKE

The Wildcats lost to Duke Blue Devils, 13-7, last Monday. Duke's potentially great baseball team defeated an equally promising Davidson
nine by a 13-7 score. As has been the case in many past Davidson-Duke games, the contest was much closer
than the score indicated.

The game started off with a bang — Duke scored two runs in their half of the first inning, but
the Cats came back to tie the score in the second frame. The Blue Devils went out in front to
stay in the third rack, although the locals were never really counted out of the scrap until the top of
the ninth when the visitors pushed over four tallies.

By the time that this column appears in print, the actual statistics will be known to all and sundry. However,
we feel that there are certain phases of the game which merit added comment. Perhaps the biggest surprise to the
average Wildcat fan was the hitting of little-publicized centerfielder, Jack Burris, who touched Coach Jack Coombs’ hurlers for a homer,
a double, and a single. In addition to his work with the stick, he also performed well afield.

In spite of a number of glaring errors (some of which were apparently caused by the poorly graded infield), the
entire Davidson inner works showed up fairly well in the season’s opener. Jake Wade, who replaced the ailing Jimmy French,
Charlie Pierson, and Bill Bird, turned in some sparkling defensive plays. When the ’Cats get a few more games under
their belts, Coach Jamerson should have one of the strongest defensive combines in the Southern Conference. In addition to Burris,
Captain “Pop” Bowman and Carl Shepperd played well in the outer garden. The former, the leading hitter for the ’46
Davidson nine, added a solid single to the locals’ offensive while theLatter made several great catches in deep left. Norm
Whiteheart started on the mound for the ’Cats and was relieved in the seventh by Malcolm Earp. Hal Mapes and
Buddy Chandler handled the catching chores.

Story Primes

Those who have seen proselytes of Wild Bill “The Hook” Story’s favorite sport out tossing the pigskin around these last
few days have seen but a preview of the coming Spring practice. Beginning April 8, the second “spring” practice will
last three weeks. The huskies working out daily in bright red jerseys and white shorts are more or less keeping
in shape for the coming gridiron skirmishing. On March 8, the first three-week spring practice ended with an intersquad scrimmage.
Doing the heavy work in the line faithfully were Ernie Strictlin, Bob Sharpe, Frank Strait, Carl Eborn, Johnny Richards, Bronco
Bailey, Sandy Carnegie, and Fred Preyer. Coach Storey is putting added emphasis on his passing attack with Buck Williams and
Cliff Turner doing most of the tossing. Some others aspiring to backfield positions are Ray Adams, Carl Pahl, Bob Walker,
Bud Fowle, Whitehurst, and Mac Erwin. Flankmen Johnson, Alexander, and Jackson are all showing improvement. Next fall’s ten-game schedule has
not yet been released by the Athletic Department. However, we can be sure that every game will see a fast
scrappy Wildcat team with a good percentage of wins.

(Continued on Page 6)

PERRY VS. LUFLER

Fred Perry, former national professional champ, may appear in an exhibition match against tennis coach Bill Lufler Monday. The English-born
Perry is playing in Greensboro Saturday and can be induced to come to Davidson provided a proper guarantee is offered.
Lufler has just returned from St. Petersburg, Florida, where he was resident pro at the St. Pete Country Club for
the winter season. The two men have met many times before on the pro tennis circuit. A sterling performance is
promised by these racket wielders if sufficient funds can be offered to the touring Perry.

Cinderman Ready For Furman Meet

Coach Pete Whittle will carry a full squad to Greenville tomorrow to open the ’47 track season in a dual
meet against Furman. As we go to press the list of entries is not yet complete pending last-minute time trials.
In the century run, three will be entered from the list of Bill Lacy, Simpson, Sasser, Sifford, and Ed Newton.
Bill Montgomery, ace dash man, will be lost due to scholastic difficulties. The 220 entrants will be two from Bill
Lacy, Newton, Simpson, and Frank Matthews. The Cats will be represented in the quarter mile by a trio of speedsters
in Gene Binham, Bob McGehee, and Matthews. These three and either Harry Temple or Fred McAlister will make up the
mile relay team. Temple, McAlister, Lee Willingham, and Bob Berry will run it off for the three berths in the
half. In the mile will be Castle Koop, Bill Iverson, and Mac Murray. Jack “Gunder” Grey, Murdock McKeithen, Dave Anderson,
and Berry will sling cinders for the three places in the two-mile jaunt. Dick Port, Ed Hopper, George Peters, and
Bob Lacy will run for the two places in the high and low hurdles. In the high jump, Whittle is
sending the Lacy brothers and Peters or Bob Henderson. The pole vault ranks will be filled by Dick O’Hair, Pete
Brown, and either Peters or Dave Walker. The broad jump will (Continued on Page 6)

RABY’S SHOE SHOP

We Specialize In Whole Soles

Racketeers Meet Yale, Kalamazoo Next Week

Starting with South Carolina last Wednesday and running through May 6th when the racketeers meet North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
Coach Lufler has laid down as tough a schedule as the Wildcat netters have played in many years.

VARSITY TENNIS SCHEDULE

March 26—South Carolina—home.
27—Furman—home.
28—Wake Forest—home.
April 1—Kalamazoo—home.
2—Haverford College—home.
5—Yale—home.
4—Uni. of Georgia—Athens.
7—Vanderbilt—Nashville.
10—Colgate—home.
11—Erskine—home.
17—Duke—home.
18—Georgia Tech—home.
21—South Carolina—away.
24—Lehigh—away.
25—N. Y. U.—away.
26—Penn State—away.
28—Georgetown—away.
29—Yale—away.
May 2—Washington and Lee—home.
6—North Carolina—away.

Cat Marksmen Down Clemson

Davidson's keen-eyed riflemen victoriously invaded Clemson College’s campus last Saturday, to take a shoulder-to-shoulder small bore match by a score
of 880 to 828.

Coffey High Man

High man for the Wildcats was steady-nerved Don Coffey, who made a 40 in the kneeling position to earn a
total of 184 points. A. M. Rankin was second with 182 points of which 50 was made in the prone
position and 40 in the difficult standing position. Both of these tallies were high for the meet. P. M. Brown
with 177 points, D. P. Deaton with 169 points, and Charly Maxwell with 168 points (50 of them made in
the sitting position) rounded out the high point men for the victors. For Clemson, Gumby shot a 170, Cornetti a
169, Harris a 165, Pussley a 162, and Davis a 162.

Ping Pong, Pool Tournaments Set By Charles Elyea

Charles Elyea of the Y. M. C. A. cabinet announces several Y-sponsored ping-pong tournaments to be held shortly after Spring
holidays in the Y. There will be a singles and a doubles tournament in ping-pong, a singles tournament in French
pool, and a doubles tournament in eight ball. Although the actual playing of the tournaments will not begin until April
8th, after Spring holidays, Umpire Elyea asks all entrees to register before the holidays. Bob Berry and Ben Gibson will
assist Elyea with the pool games and Clayton Carpenter will help oversee the ping-pong tilts. The tournaments will be played
in the Y. All Davidson students are eligible. Rules will be posted in the game rooms. In the initial games,
winners will be determined by three out of five games in ping-pong and by two out of three games in
pool. Prizes will be given to the winners. Elyea also added that the Y equipment is to be greatly improved
before the tournaments.

PASTEURIZED GRADE “A” MILK

Mooresville Co-Operative

The Red and Blacks have matches with some of the crack tennis teams in the country including Kalamazoo, Yale, and
Colgate to be played on the home courts and travel far afield to take on Vanderbilt, North Carolina, and N.
Y. U. On Thursday, April 17, Duke comes to the Davidson campus to take part in the ceremonies surrounding the
dedicating of the new courts. All told, 20 matches are to be played, 6 of which are going to be
uphill grinds, but Bill Lufler is hoping to come through the season with at least 16 wins.

Two Lettermen Return

Building his team around four crack players, Coach Lufler has the material out of which may come the victories he
seeks. Two lettermen from last year’s squad, Buck Archer and Jerry Robinson, will be joined by Bo Roddey and Ted
Keesler. The last two men on the playing team will probably be drawn from either Don Hatch, Whit Cobb, Glenn
Turpin, or Lenoir Keesler. But Coach Lufler has assured your scribe that he hopes to see every man on the
squad wielding rackets during the season. Those rounding out the team are Mike Williams, Allen Fanjoy, Johnny Walker, Henry Neisler,
and Rod Palmer. Although the usual procedure in a match is to play five singles games and two doubles, the
team this year will be playing 6 singles and 8 doubles matches against their opponents. In each case, two sets
out of three have to be won before a man or a doubles team can claim a victory. Each match
counts 1 point, making 9 points the maximum number the team can attain, with 5 needed to win. As everyone
on the campus has undoubtedly noticed, Coach Lufler will be putting his boys through practices on new $1500 courts which
ought to improve their play considerably. With the addition of bleachers and green canvas at the backs and ends of
the courts, the Wildcats will have a new arena in which to test their claws. Probably the highest hurdles to
be gotten over will be the matches with Kalamazoo and Yale. The Michigan college apparently has 5 or 6 teams
all told which it scatters over the country to bring fame back to their campus. Last year they were the
country’s intercollegiate champions. Yale also is stacked with some of the U. S’s crack tennis stars. The matches with the
New Haven boys which will be played here are only for practice, but when the Wildcats travel north near the
end of April, they will be playing for keeps. As you know, Davidson roared through last year’s season without a
loss, but this spring a schedule has been made out which would try the mettle of any team in the
country. But in spite of this, Coach Lufler fully expects to have a highly successful season. For once, the talent
for accomplishing just that is on hand.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

C. S. Goodrum Creamery

— Delivered Daily —

PHONE 205

Mooresville, N. C.

TELEPHONE 2111

Davidson, N. C.

DELUXE ICE CREAM—

Is Now Available At —

THE STUDENT STORE
