BILLY THE KID RETURNS

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

TELEPHONE DIRECTORY PAGE FIVE

Volume XXXVI DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, OCTOBER 10, 1947 No. 3

Knauff To Play For Homecoming Dances

Patterson Heads Stricklin Speaks at Pan-Hellenic Council

Ernest Stricklin, a member of the Sophomore Class, spoke to the Davidson College Student Body last Tuesday night, Oct. 6. At its last meeting, held on Thursday afternoon, September 25, the Pan-Hellenic Fraternity Council met and elected Charlie Patterson president for this year, and Walker Taylor as secretary. The Pan-Hellenic Council, after carrying out the matters of routine business before it, made its final plans concerning the first dance of the year. Homecoming dances are to be held on Friday night, October 31, and Saturday, November 1. Billy Knauff and his orchestra have been secured to play for the dances.

The Honorary Fraternity Council is made up of the president or one representative from each honorary fraternity on the Davidson campus. Its total membership is seventeen. An honorary fraternity is a fraternity which specializes in one particular field of activity. Its members are elected or chosen only when they have shown outstanding abilities in this particular field. Duties of the Honorary Fraternity Council include approving honorary fraternities that wish to organize, setting the dates for the meetings of each honorary group, and seeing that the fraternities conduct regular programs in their particular field.

Charlie Patterson, the newly elected president, is from Charlotte, N. C., and is a member of the SAE social fraternity. He is president of the Pan-Hellenic Council and a member of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet. He is vice-president of the senior class.

Walker Taylor, from Wilmington, N. C., is president of the International Relations Club and a member of Sigma Upsilon and the Eumenean Society. He is a member of the SAE social fraternity.

Other members of the council are: Jim French, Q. Cooper, H. Q. Brinegar, Doug Swink, Carl Pahl, O. Pobsar, C. Walker, Al Borough, B. Joyner, Jack Ethridge, David T. Snodgrass, and Bill Robertson.

Stricklin approached the problem with the question, "What are we getting out of college?" He emphasized the fact that little of a college education comes just from books. There are many aspects of education that mean just as much to us and to the world as this curricular material. He believed that many men who are not participating in activities do not do so because they feel themselves a part of no group. Stricklin stated that many men would participate in campus activities if there were some organization to encourage them to do so as the fraternity does with its members.

The Control of Control has launched a detailed investigation into the painting of the numerals '51 on the Davidson water tank, situated near the college. President Harper of the Sophomore class states that this is not enough to take care of all the set expenses. The expenses must be met by this date. The purpose of the investigation was to provide special opportunities for the study of the United Nations through the media of speakers, class lectures with visiting professors, and United States State Department personnel. The chief emphasis was on how the students of North Carolina can participate in making the United Nations strong. There was also a study of the UN Charter and its applications as well as a study of the special agencies under the United Nations.

The main speakers were: His Excellency Minister Sterling, from Australia; Ambassador Kosanovic of Yugoslavia; Minister Faiz El-Khouri, from Syria, and the British Minister in charge of Trade Relations. The purpose of the conference was to provide special opportunities for the study of the United Nations through the media of speakers, class lectures with visiting professors, and United States State Department personnel. The chief emphasis was on how the students of North Carolina can participate in making the United Nations strong. There was also a study of the UN Charter and its applications as well as a study of the special agencies under the United Nations.

The Spanish Club, a social organization which meets every first and third Monday in the Quadrangle Room, last week elected as its officers for the current year, the following: Quentin Cooper, president; Art Lindsay, vice-president, and Virgil Pino, chaplain. The position of secretary-treasurer has not yet been filled.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Action and steps have already been taken. Even now, a new, strange, and exceedingly effective penalty has been devised for the unfortunates who are tracked down and adjudged guilty. Firmly behind Judge Strickland in his stand for the right are the Student Council, college officials, Davidson Police Department, and the Association of Mecklenburg County Sheriff. The stock of equipment available for these future grid stars was secured last spring when the Y.M.C.A. obtained some new plastic gear. It is hoped that more new items will be added to the growing pile of jerseys, pants, and pads.

The gathering was led by Jack Ethridge, the Boys’ Work Department of the Davidson Y.M.C.A., which has inaugurated a full-scale athletic program for the smaller boys in the communities of Davidson, Cornelius, and Huntersville. The purpose of the program is to provide these youngsters with an opportunity to become familiar with the fundamentals of football and to compete against other boys of their own age, experience, and weight, under the supervision of Davidson student Lesly.

Following this, the vice-president, who is also the program chairman, took over and presented a portion of about 30 minutes. These programs usually consist of short dramatic skits, games, and Spanish songs. The big event of the Spanish Club's annual program is the visiting speakers. The club always holds its meetings with Sigma Delta Phi, a national Spanish fraternity. The membership of the fraternity is fifteen strong.

Plans for a revitalizing program for a full year were emphasized at the first meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society held September 29th in Phi Hall. The members anticipate an active year during which debates, orations, and visiting speakers will be arranged throughout the year. Spencer Murray led the group in a devotional at the opening of the meeting. The program was of a most unusual nature in that after the speaker was introduced, the president was embarrassed to find that two persons came prepared to speak. Herb Meza and Harry Brinegar then alternated in their addresses, affording a humorous program.

The attendance at the meeting was very satisfactory, indicating interest on the part of the members. The Phi Society is the oldest literary society existing on the Davidson campus and it continues its purpose of making available the opportunities of bettering the art of speaking and debating among the society members. Officers of the society are as follows: President, Jack L. Payne; Vice-President, Herb Meza; Secretary, David A. Hamilton; Treasurer, Jack L. Payne; Supervisors, Curtis Harper and W. A. Hamilton.

In commenting upon the situation, Mr. Jackson, treasurer of the college, may be quoted as follows: "Between 1945 and 1946, when the new Co-ed dormitory was reported for the first time, the college was fortunate in securing six local residences. These were purchased and five cottages have been remodeled. The college was fortunate in securing the services of Dr. Lafferty, of Charlotte, who assumed the responsibility of remodeling the Lafferty home—vacant for some years—and used at present by two professors and their families. The realization that this effort would be appreciated by all."

The attendance at the meeting was very satisfactory, indicating interest on the part of the members. The Phi Society is the oldest literary society existing on the Davidson campus and it continues its purpose of making available the opportunities of bettering the art of speaking and debating among the society members. Officers of the society are as follows: President, Jack L. Payne; Vice-President, Herb Meza; Secretary, David A. Hamilton; Treasurer, Jack L. Payne; Supervisors, Curtis Harper and W. A. Hamilton.

The attendance at the meeting was very satisfactory, indicating interest on the part of the members. The Phi Society is the oldest literary society existing on the Davidson campus and it continues its purpose of making available the opportunities of bettering the art of speaking and debating among the society members. Officers of the society are as follows: President, Jack L. Payne; Vice-President, Herb Meza; Secretary, David A. Hamilton; Treasurer, Jack L. Payne; Supervisors, Curtis Harper and W. A. Hamilton.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation while correcting OCR errors.