Page Three

At Davidson | Gene Taylor smokes CHESTERFIELDS

Gene says: "I smoke Chesterfield because I like it."

Voted TOPS!—Chesterfield the largest selling cigarette in America’s colleges (by nationwide survey)

INQUIRE OF YOUR LOCAL TRAILWAYS AGENT OF OUR ATTRACTIVE SERVICE
Queen City Trailways
417 W. 5th St
Charlotte, N.C.

Davis Cleaners
Alterations
Clothes Dyed
Press While You Wait
24-48 HOUR SERVICE
Main St. Davidson, N.C.

Carolina Lunch
REGULAR MEALS
Breakfast 6:30-8:30
Lunch 11:30-1:30
Dinner 5:30-6:30
Depot St.—Davidson, N.C.

THE INFLATION PROBLEM IN THE U.S.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

College Supplies
Toilet Articles
Household Items
Southern 5 & 10c Stores
Davidson, N.C.

Withers Electric Company
Radio Repairs
Electrical Supplies
Light Bulbs
DAVIDSON, N.C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
WE HAVE
Remington Typewriters
Schick-Shave Master Electric Razors
G. S. Goodrum
TELEPHONE 2111
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Hall is part of the original college. To pass on to the construction of the new building, in the files of the library the following document is found. It bears no date or signature, but seems to be part of the minutes of a meeting of the Board of Trustees, which probably took place sometime in 1900 or 1901. Dr. Shearer, having informed the committee that he and Mrs. Shearer desired to enlarge and remodel the old chapel to furnish more commodious and convenient accommodations for public assemblies and more convenient offices and lecture rooms, it was resolved:

1. That Dr. Shearer's proposition be accepted and the thanks of the Board of Trustees be tendered to them for their liberality.
2. That not only the material contained in the old chapel be placed at their disposal, but also that of the residence of the former professor of languages, known as Tammany, also be employed for that purpose.
3. That the remodeled building be named the Shearer Biblical Hall.

Further information is found in the March 26, 1926, issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Here we find a picture titled, "Artist's Drawing of Shearer Hall" (either the artist was a poor one or the building looked better than it does now) and several interesting facts. For instance, THE DAVIDSONIAN reported that the cost of the remodeling was between $1500 and $2000.

When you’re listening to HAL McINTYRE’S newest (MGM) record, one of the grooviest ork-pilots on the MGM record roster is Hal McIntyre. Like so many other top-notch performers, Hal is a Camel fan from way back. He prefers Camels because: “Camels suit me best all ways.” For the same reason—more people are smoking Camels than ever before! A great new record for a long-time favorite. Try Camels. Discover for yourself why, with smokers who have tried and compared, Camels are the “choice of experience.” And here’s another reason: “Nothing suits me like a CAMEL. I’ve smoked them for years.”

Friday, December 5, 1947

DRESS UP FOR CHRISTMAS

By A. G. GRIFFIN

In a previous article, the writer made an attempt in somewhat cursory fashion to indicate some of the developments that have contributed to creating conditions favorable to price inflation. During the holidays, brief mention was made of methods of financing our participation in the war, which, together with low output and depleted foreign buying, permitted a large volume of consumer goods available for purchase to be concentrated in the hands of consumers, hence price inflation.

It appears that there are two possible general lines of approach which may be employed separately or in some sort of combination. First, there is the direct attack involving the return, more or less, to the practice of government intervention to control wages, fix prices, establish ceilings, etc. Second, there is the indirect approach which will be briefly outlined below.

Let us suppose that at the same time the Congress is called into special session to consider possible action by government, a conference is also...called of leaders of business; 4) Increase purchases of government savings bonds, increasing deposits, or otherwise reduce consumption expenditures, if not possible. It is quite possible that these leaders might agree reasonably well that the game presently being played is inimical to health and decency, until employment declines or the buyers' market reappears. 

b. Confine purchases, rent income possible, to payments from current income. Strenuously resist payment of consumption expenditures, if not possible. 

c. Immediately into effect a promotion campaign designed to increase the sales of bonds to finance any and all foreign direct investments. 

d. So long as employment and prices are not markedly depressed, enact and rigorously control price ceilings and rationing, which may more certainly ensure a post-war norm suitable to our way of life than do the convulsive, destructive consequences of boom and bust.

DAVIDSON, N. C. OVER

Roaming With — (Continued From Page Two)

Last Friday when they beat Central of Charlotte 39-0 to win the VA Championship.

By RONNY DIETRICK

Every student at Davidson and alumni would prefer to improve rather than de-emphasize the gridiron and de-emphasize athletics here for the finesse of the boys who make up what has been called by some the best team in Davidson's history. Nub Smith was at least as good as Justice was in high school, but that was far from a one-man team out there last Friday. Rather it was perfected teamwork.

THINK IT OVER.

Most students and alumni would prefer to improve rather than de-emphasize athletics here for the finesse of the boys who make up what has been called by some the best team in Davidson's history. Nub Smith was at least as good as Justice was in high school, but that was far from a one-man team out there last Friday. Rather it was perfected teamwork.

THACKER’S INC

Private Dining Rooms

Parties and Banquets

HOLIDAYS “A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”

221 South Tryon Street

Charlotte, N. C.

Phone 25490

Some people think they are worth a lot of money because they have it.

Fayetteville’s Bulldogs put on a show of some of the best and most flawless football.

Sincere thanks to one and all to the Executive Committee for extending the Christmas Holidays.

More people are smoking CAMELS than ever before!