Page Three THE DAVIDSONIAN Fri December 12, 1947

ALL THE NEW POPULAR PHONOGRAPH RECORDS.

(Continued From Page Two)

Creighton, and their wives, sororities, and their wives. Professors and Mrs.’s from Columbia Masterworks, Anderson of Johnson, Red Seal, Ann
Clai, Victor. Naturally, the main feature of the evening was the fine young ladies. Hives from Charlotte, Miss Zeta from
Key West, Fla with Charlie Parker, Miss Lee Draughon from Wham, Alabama with Rit Miller, Miss Flain Holl Davidson with
Pledge Bill Meba, Miss Betty Gore of Decatur, Ga. with Pledge Auburim Lambeth, Miss Billie Wagely of Charlotte with Pledge
Joe Miller, Mr. and Mrs. George Bernhardt, Mr. and Mrs. Henry Luke Powell. Other guests included Dr. and Mrs. C.
K. Brown, Dr. and Mrs. Woods and Bill McLean.

Hats off to the pledge class for its fine job of decorating the club; to Pledge Brothers Stone and Haynes
for their intermission show; to Shaky for the banquet arrangements; to Baxter for the band; to the girls for coming;
and to all the chapter for making it the swell function that it was.

PI KAPPA PHI

The secretary of the “Over the Hump Club,” an extension of Pi Kappa Phi, is happy to welcome the new
members, who were initiated in a splendid meeting, hall just before the Christmas season. We hope it will help those
boys and girls to have a happier Christmas.

With another week-end now past, Wooglin’s clan is now looking forward to the Christmas season and some have already been
showing their cheery faces around the campuses of nearby girls’ schools for their Christmas dances. Reports that Companies A and
B dominated the “Autumn Nocturne” at Queens this past weekend have reached me. Among the stand-outs were “Doctor” Fulton Loss
and Thomas West who participated in the ‘Figure’ (on the dance floor). Those seen with other outstanding figures were Bros.
Peters, Gunn, Carper, Anderson, Rawley, Scarborough, Gray, Scruggs and Pledges Shaw, Robertson, and Joyner, and others.

“Weasel” Adams journeyed north to Buena Vista, Va. for another dance and finally succeeded in “persuading” Brother G. Edwards to
accompany him as far as the metropolis of Warren.

A big party is being planned for the children from Barium Springs who will be the chapter's guests in cooperation
with a fine plan by the YMCA to enroll them at Davidson before they're old enough to know better. “No
foolin’, we hope it will help those boys and girls to have a happier Christmas.”

TATE-BROWN’S Town and Campus Shop, where he'll find everything to please a young man’s fancy from top to toe. If
you’re playing Santa to yourself or to someone else in the Campus Crowd... Come in and see our collection of
ties, hose, gloves, jewelry, handkerchiefs, scarfs, and other gift items.

TOWN AND CAMPUS SHOP
“Clothing For The Man”
205 South Tryon St.
Charlotte 2, North Carolina

$1.50

INQUIRE OF YOUR LOCAL TRAILWAYSHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Cleveland | — ¢ AGENT OF OUR py aereUEs hod Wa ie ae ie studies, Edwards took his Eco. ATTRACTIVE
books along, Brother Sterling Edwards again visited Winthrop College this weekend. Brothers Schmidt and Kirkpatrick "flew" (according to Andy) down
to Spartanburg to date. From all reports, they had quite a weekend.

Brothers Turner, Lipscomb, and Rawley went to Reidsville Sunday and on the way back, stopped and dated in Greensboro. "Muscles"
lived up to his nickname and overpowered his scrappy date who put up a valiant fight but was slightly outweighed.
Muscles is displaying his shirt collar for all doubters of his story. Brother White dated in Greensboro Saturday night. "Geet"
Williams was seen raiding chicken coops in Charlotte Saturday night. He is currently out of a job and gets rather
hungry.

PHI DELTA THETA

This past weekend the Phis held their annual Christmas party at the Woman's Club in Charlotte, with a banquet, followed
by a formal dance. Jimmy Marshall and his Carolinians from the University of North Carolina entertained with many old and
popular dance tunes. Brother Sam Tate was the toastmaster for the banquet with Ord as one of the principal speakers.
He spoke of a new society in the process of organization in his direction, the SPI. The SPI is the
Society for the Protection of Innocent Bystanders. Membership is open to all who wish to pay the very reasonable dues.

There were a number of lovely couples, including Miss Betty Davis of Charlotte with Andy, Miss Gidoy Weems, also of
Charlotte, with Sam Tate, Miss Carol Bishop of Scarbro, W. Va., with Herb Miller, Miss Sal Mills from Wadesboro with
Smith, Miss Ruth Harris of Raleigh with Bill Smith, Miss Lee Makenson of Kissimmee, Fla., with Pledge Bill Ray, Miss
Blen Argo of Birmingham, Ala., with Pledge Tom Mann, Miss Joy Martin of Archmont, New York, with Bill Johnson, Miss
Sarah Lian Procter of Charlotte with Pat Golden, Miss Mary Bryant of Gastonia with Morris Newell, Miss Betty Sue Trulock
of Climax, Ga., with Rob Palmer, Miss Connie Ditto of Charlotte with Lonnie Turnipseed, Miss Nancy Wray of Reidsville, N.C.,
with Bill Foote, Miss Dolly Loughran from Asheville, N.C., with Frank Hooper, Miss Connie Neoman of Philadelphia, Pa., with Potts
Cameron, Miss Mary Gillespie of Taswell, Va., with Ed Montgomery, and Miss Ann Pleasants of Durham, N.C.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original structure and punctuation while correcting OCR errors for readability.
