All hats off to Mack Erwin who played a bang-up game against State in spite of an ailing ankle. Pre-game
reports up until game time had it that the usual battering ram for the ‘Cats would be out of the
running. To engage in the perennial postmortem “if,” if Mack had been in top form, the score might have been
decidedly different in favor of the ‘Cats. Davidson’s completion of seven out of nine passes is merely an indication of
what might have happened if Mack's usual line plunging could have kept the Red and Black in better passing situations.

Watch for Bill Iverson in the fullback slot line-up one of these first Saturdays. Bill, who has been lined up
for Davidson at end for two years, now may make his real debut at the plunging post. Bill, at an
even six feet, has a lot of drive in his 180 pounds, and has been running fullback in scrimmage for
a couple of weeks now. With Carl Pahl out for at least one more week, the Miami boy may see
some service. With some expert guidance, he ought to work an improvement over some of last week's makeshifts.

A glance at the season statistics shows the potency of the Wildcat passing attack. With seven men doing the passing,
they have completed twenty passes for a total of 270 yards against only two interceptions. This is an average of
13.5 yards per completed pass, or five yards per pass play. Net yards rushing for the team is 283 yards
on 88 plays, an average of slightly over three yards per play. In the yards-gained-rushing column, Erwin leads with a
total of 84 yards, followed up by Sifferd with 53. Best average is Carl Pahl’s with a five-yard per try
average in his one game, with Elon. Buck Williams is runner-up with a 4.5 yard average. Erwin, Sifford, and Anderton
all have a three-yard average. Doug Rice has uncorked one complete pass out of three but it gives him a
26-yard-per-pass average. Jimmy Sifford has the best percentage of passes completed with an average of 5.8 yards per. Burt Anderton’s
good ones go for an average of 18 yards each.

Before those of you who ever get as deep into the DAVIDSONIAN as page four lose all interest in the
continuity of this column, let us hasten to explain some of the discrepancies of last week’s column. Due to certain
unavoidable difficulties—and we assure you that they are only temporary—‘Cat Tales has to go to press on Monday night instead
of Thursday night, so that leaves a lot of time for new developments. Hence, our last week’s jubilation as compared
with the banged-up condition of State’s backfield as compared with the Wildcat good fortune in the way of good health.
Saturday night, of course, found the tables turned with the moanings coming from the ’Cat lair, and Fletcher and Richkus
in as good shape as we ever hope to see them. We notice that Huzyar’s 225 pounds of abounding health
couldn’t do him much good the first time he tried to pound his way into pay dirt against the big
Red and Black forward wall.

At Davidson, easy wins sometimes seem to be as hard to get as games with State or William and Mary.
From here, Wofford looks like an easy win, in spite of the fact that they drubbed Hampden-Sydney and lost to
Catawba only on bad breaks. Two fumbles inside their own ten cost them the tune of a 14-0 Catawba decision.
Don't forget, too, that Wofford is still smarting under the 54-0 licking the ’Cats handed them last season. They'll be
out for revenge.

Is it necessary to remind the student body that it is not in the Davidson tradition to cheer when an
opponent on the athletic field is penalized? We are just proud enough to think that we don’t need penalties to
win our ball games. We don’t like the idea of capitalizing on the other fellow’s “misfortune.” A Davidson man considers
that it is the official’s job to regulate the game and that he is best qualified for the job. He
is neither bully enough to cheer the opponent's penalty, nor to protest his own.

JACK WOOD, Ltd. COMPANY OF CHARLOTTE IS PLEASED TO OFFER FOR YOUR APPROVAL THEIR SELECTION OF THE FINEST IN IMPORTED
AND DOMESTIC WOOLENS MADE-TO-MEASURE IN CLOTHING FOR MEN OF DISCRIMINATING TASTE ALSO - READY-MADE SUITS AND FURNISHINGS

Final makeup for sports stories

Wildcat Sports DAVIDSON 14; WOFFORD 7

Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, October 10, 1947

Against State’s big backs. Above are pictured Wildcat linemen Carl Eborn, Ernie Stricklin, and Johnny Richards swooping down on an
unidentified State back. Although they lost 14-0, the big line played a fine defensive game.

INTRAMURALS IN SECOND BIG WEEK

The second week of the intramural touch football season opens with a schedule of two games on Monday, and another
set of games on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday. In the initial week of play, the Kappa Sigs, Phi Delts, and
Pi Kapps looked to be the cream of the crop, but every team showed some promise, and a full season
of football is anticipated. With a heavy weekly schedule, the entanglement of “Who's first” ought to be straightened out in
the very near future.

Kappa Sigs 14; Pikas 0

Unstoppable, the unbeaten Kappa Sigs rolled to a 14-0 victory over the Pika eleven. With diminutive Charlie Pearson doing the
tossing, and Freeman Jones, Bingham, and John Ellis doing the receiving, the big Sig team ran up to an 8-0
half lead, increased it to 14-0 early in the second half, and spent the remainder of the game staving off
repeated Pika scoring threats. A Pearson to Jones pass accounted for the first Sig score, and another Pearson aerial, this
time to Gene Bingham, who snared it on the 5-yard line, and stepped over for the touchdown. Warlick, Bob Grube,
and John McNair stood out for the Pikas who were stemmed by a heavier and more experienced Kappa Sigma aggregation,
14-0.

Pi Kappa Phi 8; Independents 0

In a bruising encounter decided by smashing Pi Kap line play, the Pi Kappa Phi's rammed over a touchdown in
the second half and managed to keep abreast of the Independents, 8-0. The only scoring play of the game came
on a beautiful 36-yard aerial from Billy Robertson to backfielder Billy Houck. A few minutes later, a soaring 50-yard punt
by Fritz Reid boomed downfield which was fumbled by an Independent and recovered by Jimmy Jung for an automatic safety.
The deciding factor of the ball game was the hard-charging Pi Kapp line which entirely outplayed the Independents to the
tune of 8-0.

Kappa Alpha 12, Pikas 6

The fraternity underdogs from the Pika almost turned the tables on the superior K. A. eleven, but finally went down
to defeat by the score of 12-6. If it had not been for the presence of Billy Bird, the game
might have ended on a different tune. Bird accounted for both K. A. scores with dazzling scampers. Early in the
first half, he ran around left end for 18 yards and a touchdown, and then brought about the game's most
sensational play with a brilliant 75-yard run with an errant Pika aerial to tally what proved to be the winning
points. The Pika tally came on a 15-yard toss from Liston Miller to Furman Warlick, who played a great game
all day. The Pika team demonstrated a (Continued on Page 6)

INTRODUCING JIMMY SIFFORD

By CHERRY STRIBLING

One of the most improved members of this year’s edition of the Wildcat team is speedy wingback Jim Sifford. In
the three games played so far, Sifford has shone out in the Davidson backfield like a beacon light. Jim hails
from Albemarle, North Carolina where he played football and basketball, being elected captain of the football team in his third
year of competition. Twenty years old, Sifford is a veteran of 18 months service in the Navy. A quiet spoken,
well-liked student, Jim is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. Sifford is a compactly built speedster standing 5’ 9”
and weighing in at 172 pounds. On the track team last year, Jim was Redding's dash man running the 100
and 220.

REDDING IS LINE COACH

Dick Redding, the new line coach, comes to Davidson from Springfield College, Springfield, Mass. Coach Redding participated in football, basketball,
and track while at his old Alma Mater, Springfield College.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and
punctuation:

---

There, he played and was captain of the varsity football squad. He was center on the basketball team and was
also outstanding in track. He graduated from Springfield College in 1940. After his graduation, Dick took the position of athletic
director at Vermont College, Montpelier, Vermont. He stayed there for a year before going into the navy. August of 1941
found Redding wearing the blue. He was stationed at Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, Florida, where he played a season of
football. After finishing his flight training, he was stationed on a baby carrier in the Pacific. He flew Grumman TBF
torpedo bombers and holds an excellent record as a pilot.

Finishing a four and a half year hitch in the Navy, Dick returned to his Alma Mater as an assistant
coach. While Redding worked on his master’s degree in Physical Education, he stayed at Springfield College from January 1946 to
June of this year. He came to Davidson the last week of August to take over the responsible position of
line coach. He is doing excellent work in this capacity. When asked his opinion of the team, Dick replied, “I
really think the team is looking all right.”

Maxwell College dollars. When Davidson left Chambers in 1855, he made the college the richest south of Princeton. Had it
not been for the Civil War, Princeton would today be only the Davidson of the North.

Pictured here are two new members of the Davidson coaching staff. They are Coach Barton (left), famous British amateur tennis
player, and football line coach Redding.

RED AND BLACK CHALLENGE WOFFORD'S DARK HORSE CREW

Sporting from their 14-0 setback at the hands of powerful N.C. State, the Cats knuckled down this week to bring
the season’s average back to the 500 mark at the hands of Wofford. Coach Bill Story’s main problem has been
to convince players and students alike that this is not the same Wofford team which whitewashed Davidson 14-0 last year.
Far from that. Of last year’s Terrier eleven, only one has managed to gain a starting berth with this improved
crew. Coach Phil Dickens has turned out a surprising attack, picking up a fluke touchdown run from the same Tennessee
style used by State last week. If the Terriers open with the same line used last week in the 45-0
rout of Fort Jackson, the Cats will have a weight advantage of 7 pounds per man. But with a backfield
full of scatbacks, his 188-pound line can still be a menace to the Cat flankmen and secondary. Coach Charlie Jamerson,
who scouted Wofford last week, says the entire backfield is extremely fast. Sam Sewell, a 150-pounder who has gained the
nickname of “Slingin’ Sammy,” was given first-rate praise by Jamerson. Fullback chores are ably handled by John Clabe, who the
scout says is as good as William and Mary's All Southern plunger Jack Cloud. He is fast, 6 feet tall,
and tips the scales at the 205 mark. He can scat or turn on the power as the need may
be.

Down on Richardson field, Bill Iverson has shown the promise that has merited him a starting berth at fullback Saturday
night. At 185, Iverson has the weight and the drive to fill the shoes of Mac Erwin and Carl Pahl,
who are sidelined with injuries. Pahl is definitely out, but Erwin may see some action if his injured ankle shows
improvement. He got in the game last week for offensive work, but Story held him back on the defense. However,
the Davidson line shapes up with Hal Mapes and Buddy Cheek set to start and Mike Williams, Bill Johnson, and
Dick Blanks as capable reserves. Blanks received a slight injury last week but should be ready to go. Easy Rhodes,
Ernie Strickland, Carl Eborn, and Sandy Carnegie are ready for tackles, and Buddy Chandler, Bob Sharpe, Bill Boyd, and Red
Wilson have the guard slots well manned. The pivot post is as usual in the capable hands of Johnny Richards
and Bronco Bailey.

Though the Terriers have the better season record, the Wildcats must still be installed as favorites. Wofford has shut out
Hampden-Sydney and Camp Jackson, but in turn failed to score against Catawba as the Salisbury lads rolled up 14 points.
Because of their showing in losing to both William and Mary and State and the 19-0 victory over Elon, the
locals received the nod.

Football Statistics

STATE GAME

Rushing
Atts. G’ned Lost Net Av
Sheppard 4 9 5 4 1
Williams 5 1 0 1 0.2
Sifford 5 1 0 1 0.2
Anderton 4 7 1 6 1.5
Rice 2 2 0 2 1
Totals 20 20 6 14 0.7

Passing
Atts Comp Inter- Yds
cept Gain
Sheppard 2 1 1 12
Williams 2 1 0 12
Sifford 2 1 0 27
Anderton 3 3 0 41
Totals 9 6 1 83

SEASON

Rushing
Atts. G’ned Lost Net Av
Sheppard 22 33 2 31 1.4
Williams 12 84 3 81 6.8
Sifford 6 17 3 14 2.3
Anderton 7 22 5 17 2.5
Rice 7 35 3 32 4.5
Totals 88 283 18 265 3.0

Passing
Atts Comp Inter- Yds
cept Gain
Sheppard 13 6 1 60
Sifford 6 5 0 58
Anderton 9 5 0 91
Rice 8 1 1 26
Williams 12 3 0 45
Totals 55 20 2 270

415 S. TRYON STREET
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
