We want to take this opportunity to welcome to the campus all the grads and dads, old and new, for the annual Homecoming and its accompanying festivities. Needless to say, we are delighted to have you on the campus and we hope that you will have a most enjoyable time. You are in for a fine football game, and even though we are not going to promise you a victory, we assure you that you are going to see as fine a Wildcat squad as you ever have, both in spirit and ability. There is no need to point out that this is a great year in football history. Davidson, like other schools, shares in the enthusiasm that is evident all over the country. She boasts as large and well-manned a roster as she has ever had. Most of the regulars are veterans of almost two years of Coach Story's intensive training, and they really know their stuff. The Red and Black can field two teams almost equal in weight, ability, and experience, and most of the reserves have something more or less unique in Davidson football history. This reserve strength has been nullified during the season by numerous injuries, but the team tomorrow afternoon should be fairly strong.

Other teams throughout the loop are also strong this season. The 'Cats are batting 500 so far with three losses against three wins. They rolled over Elon, Wofford, and Hampden-Sydney, in two of these games being unscored on, and bowed to N.C. State, William and Mary, and Washington and Lee. The State and W. and M. losses were more or less to be expected, although the Red and Black team played fine ball against them and gave both teams first-half scares. Last week's ignominious 32-0 loss to Washington and Lee’s Generals was much less expected and came as a surprise in Wildcat circles. There is apparently no good excuse. When the boys are keyed up against such teams as State or William and Mary, they play flawless ball, but they seem to bog down on lesser foes. Not so with VMI. Once more the 'Cats are keyed up and raring to go. In spite of four crippling injuries and several minor ones, the 'Cats mean to make no mistakes in downing the Keydets this time.

The beginning of this year found the Keydets with not as many returning gridders as the Wildcats boast. In addition, a new coach and the installation for the first time of the T-formation should have slowed them down a bit. Thus far they have won two and lost three, losing to such teams as Georgia Tech and the University of Virginia. The two outstanding men for the Keydets are Captain Malachi Mills, All-Southern tackle material, and Bobby Thomason. Thomason, termed “best passer in the state” and “the state’s most outstanding football player” last year, ran the tailback on last season’s single wing and is handling the quarterback chores under the T. The 'Cats better watch out lest his passing from this position prove fatal. In spite of the W. and L. disaster, crippling injuries, and Coach Story’s laments, the Red and Black are equal to anything VMI can throw their way, and we think they'll win.

Carolina has her Choo-Choo’s and Wake Forest has her Fetzer, but a recent release of Big Five statistics (before the W. and L. game) shows that the Wildcats can top them all in the running and passing departments. As a result of the Hampden-Sydney frolicking, Freshman Auburn Lambeth stood above the Big Five notables in both departments. Diminutive Jake Wade also stood at the head of the list of ground gainers, and Burt Anderton with Lambeth was ahead of Fetzer in the passing averages. Of course, these figures are not indicative, because these boys have not played much and not against top-flight competition, but all the same, it’s in the figures.

An interesting intermission pastime Saturday night (for those who need one) will be to take a jaunt to Memorial Stadium where the Jayvees will be “winning for the honor” against CC-UNC. Our apologies to the Athletic Department for the beefs about the scheduling of a game during the dance set. It seems that the game was lined up only after the consent of the squad was voiced. However, there seems to have been quite a bit of misunderstanding among the boys as to the rigidity of training requirements. Thanks to Jack Hazard for a fine job of filling in this usually void space last week. Maybe your sports editor better just stay in Florida.

Wildcat Sports
NO MORE LOSSES
Page Four
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Friday, October 31, 1947

RED AND BLACK LINEUP
Probable starting line-up for the 'Cats for tomorrow with the exception of Buddy Chandler who has a rib separation. In the line (left to right) Buddy Cheek, Easy Rhodes, Buddy Chandler, Milton Bailey, Bill Boyd, Ernie Stricklin, and Hal M. and Buck Williams.

WASHINGTON AND LEE TROUNCE WILDCATS
The Davidson Wildcats succumbed before an onslaught of five touchdowns in the last half to go down in a decisive defeat before the Washington and Lee Generals in the game on the gridiron last Saturday. The W&L grid machine, as yet undefeated in conference play, was perhaps inspired by the festive atmosphere of homecoming in Lexington. The Wildcats battled gallantly in the first half and went out for the second half on the small end of a 7-0 score only to break in the fourth quarter under an onslaught of three touchdowns.

Only two and a half minutes of the game had gone by when Brian Bell of W&L ran back a punt 45 yards for the only score of a well-balanced first half. Then Davidson began a long drive on their own 18 which carried to the W&L 34. Carl Sheppard started it off by driving off tackle for 17 yards and a first down on the 33. Jim Sifford picked up seven on a reverse and carried 13 for a first on the Generals’ 48. Mack Erwin plunged over center for 14 yards more but then the 'Cats could not gain in three more tries and Sifford kicked out on the 11. After a punt exchange, the 'Cats began another drive from their own 16 with a Sifford to Sheppard pass making it first down on the W&L 43. Erwin spun over center down to the 25, but Sheppard’s pass to Norman was intercepted to spike Davidson's most extended drive. The first half ended at 7-0 with the Cat line stopping the W&L running attack at almost no gain.

Shortly after the start of the second half, Bert Anderton kicked out on the Washington and Lee 36-yard line. Jim Stark and Brian Bell moved it down to the Davidson 41 on running plays and Gil Harrington ran it over from there. Failing to gain after the kickoff, Anderton kicked to Harrington on the 27. With the help of a 15-yard penalty, Bennett scored from 10 yards out. With three minutes of playing time left, McCutcheon intercepted Cliff Turner's last chance pass on the 23 and went over without being touched. Although the Wildcats rolled up an advantage in first downs, 13 to 10, they could not seem to muster a scoring punch while W&L seemed to do everything right. Several injuries in the line hampered Davidson with Buddy Chandler perhaps out of the VMI game. The final score was 32-0.

The Smartest Clothes At Davidson's Home-Coming (NOVEMBER 1st) Came From Tate-Brown’s TOWN AND CAMPUS SHOP
We take a native pride in the activities of DAVIDSON COLLEGE... and it is our pleasure to outfit DAVIDSONIANS in the smartest campus wear obtainable. In the handsome new TOWN AND CAMPUS SHOP you'll find your old favorites... McGregor, Arrow, Interwoven, Varsity-Town, Jantzen, Botany, Alligator, Bantamac, Hickok.
TATE BROWN Co.
3rd Floor
126 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.game. The Homecoming — Cross Country Team Triumphs Over W&L

The team, led by Captain Jack Gray, defeated the cross country team of Washington and Lee by the close margin of 28 to 29. Gray ran the 3.2-mile course in the good time of 18:26 to finish with the best time of the meet. Bob Grube, Murdock McKeithen, and Blake Bradley also turned in excellent times. The following are the placings and the times in the meet:
1) Gray (D), 18:26.
2) Mitchell (W&L), 18:48
3) Hobson (W&L), 19:00
4) Grube (D), 19:06
5) McKeithen (D), 19:30
6) Bradley (D), 19:40
7) Hare (W&L), 20:00
8) Her (W&L), 20:10
9) Montgomery (D), 20:23

Totals: Davidson 28 points; Washington and Lee 29 points.

In time trials run Wednesday for places in Saturday's meet with Clemson, Jack Gray, Bob Grube, and Blake Bradley finished in a three-way tie for first. Murdock McKeithen took fourth, and Bob Long furnished the race of the day for fifth with Long winning out.

JAYVEES DEFEAT BARIUM SPRINGS

Last Friday afternoon, the Davidson Wildkittens won a hard-fought 12-6 decision over an inferior but scrappy Barium Springs eleven on Freshman Field. A very wet long scoring drive by Davidson was immediately followed by a flashy passing attack by Barium Springs that climaxed in a touchdown sleeper pass to tie the score 6-6 at halftime. Inspired by their first-period success, the Barium boys proved hard to beat and gave the Kittens a hard time before they finally clinched the game with a last-quarter 6-pointer.

Moneyhan’s “dawgs” took the field overconfident, outweighing Barium highly and favored. Throughout the first quarter, they dominated the play, although it took them most of the first 12-minute period to make the tally, with Patterson going over from the six. Barium took the ball and was stopped cold deep in their own territory when the Kitten line bogged down their running attack. Nothing daunted, they took to the air with very evident success, and in about five plays and as many completed passes, they hit pay dirt. The payoff sleeper pass came from Jack Clark to John Maroney.

After tying the score, Barium dug in and put up a stubborn defense against the heavier Kitten attack. The second half was wet and marked by stubborn defense on the part of both teams. Finally, getting a long drive rolling, the Kittens took the lead with Johnny Kelton going over untouched on an end sweep from his own six. The Kittens were definitely out of form, more than the rain accounted for. They looked like a different team from the one which trounced Lees-McRae and faced CC-UNC, one which must play Saturday night in Charlotte's Memorial Stadium.

Barium’s high school team played excellent ball and showed up well against superior opponents. Outstanding for Barium was fullback Jack Clark, who threw some long passes and got away for some nice gains when his receivers were bottled up. The Wildkittens in the first quarter were much hampered by a disastrous injury list.

WILDCATS SET FOR V.M.I. IN HOMECOMING TUSSLE

As another week of intramural sports rolled around, the score was changed very little. There were no major upsets, although the SAE-KA game was a mild upheaval. The Kappa Sigs remained undisputed champions while the Betas took a stronger hold on second honors.

SPE 3 First Downs, Delta Kappa 2 First Downs

In a mud-slinging fracas, the SPEs went into an extra period to defeat the hard-fighting Delta Kappas three first downs to two. The game much resembled a greased-pig-catching contest as both teams repeatedly fumbled, snagged, and re-fumbled the ball. Harry Brown, Delta Kappa guard, repeatedly covered slicked aerials set up by the hard-driving SPEs. At the end of the game, the score was tied at two first downs to two. Going into an overtime period, the SPEs finally overcame the Delta Kappas by pushing across another first down.

Betas 8; Pi Kapps 0

The Betas crushed the fighting Pi Kappas 8-0 in a somewhat lopsided game to strengthen their grip on second place. The Pi Kapps kicked off but were soon driven back under the shadow of their own goal posts. The Beta line blocked an attempted punt by the losers and caught them for a safety early in the game. With the score 2-0, the Pi Kapps started a determined drive but were stopped again and again by alert Beta backs who intercepted many beautiful passes. The conquerors then began a non-ceasing drive which, by means of a tricky pass over center, wound up in pay dirt, making the score 8-0. The rest of the game was scoreless with neither team making any potential threats.

K. S. 26; Independents 0

The Kappa Sigs made it five in a row with a trouncing defeat over the Independents, 26-0. From the opening kickoff until the final whistle, the game was all K. S. Monopolizing the air, the undefeated K. S. passed time and again for considerable yardage. They also showed some strength on ground attacks by several nice end runs which the Independents were unable to stop. Rallying along for nice gains, the Kappa Sigs’ first downs soon mounted up to an unsurmountable total.

S.A.E. 12; K. A. 6

The S.A.E. trounced the K. A. to the tune of 12-6, an upset. The first half was all K. A. with the S.A.E. powerless to do anything about it. Three first downs were rolled up in quick succession by the K. A., while the S.A.E. stood by unable to imitate the feat. The first touchdown of the game was set up by a beautiful pass by Bill Byrd to Charlie Mitchell to within sight of the goal.

(Continued on Page Five)

HOMECOMING OPPONENTS

Pictured above is the V.M.I. Keydet team which meets the Wildcats in their Homecoming tilt on Richardson Field Saturday afternoon.

The most disastrous game of the season, the loss to W&L last week swelled Coach Bill Story’s injury list to its biggest of the year. Heading the list of injuries is guard Buddy Chandler's rib separation. Chandler will not be able to play at all, and the loss of this 60-minute man in the line is the season's biggest individual setback. Besides Chandler, Easy Rhodes, Carl Eborn, Sandy Carnegie, Bill Boyd, Bob Sharpe, and Frank Strait all left the fracas with the Generals with bad injuries. These boys, who form the Wildcat forward wall, will probably all be in the game Saturday but have been unable to do any heavy duty all this week. The backfield came through last week's encounter with no added major injuries. However, Carl Pahl is still out and will see very little duty the rest of the season, if any.

V.M.I. comes to town fresh from a 32-6 defeat at the hands of the University of Virginia. Observers of that game report, however, that the score was no example of the game. The Keydets showed a much better offense than their six points would indicate. The charging Malachi Mills, a 200-pounder, was chosen on last year's Virginia All-State eleven. Number one man in Coach “Slick” Morgan's “T” formation is Bobby Thomason, who has been tagged by Virginia sports writers as “the best passer in Virginia football.” Thomason operated from the tailback under last year’s single wing team but was shifted to the quarterback slot for the “T.” His accurate passing arm as well as his shifty running may prove a big thorn in the Cats’ sides. The Keydets have 15 lettermen on the squad altogether and will hold the favorite’s berth in the fray. The nod must go to the visitors because of the imposing Wildcat injury list.

Stationers Office Outfitters Printers
Kale-Lawing Co.
PHONE 6185
227-229 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Paul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. TRYON STREET
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

SPECIALS AT Copeland’s
RCA Radios
Washpans
McGregor Corduroy SHIRTS
“Quality Merchandise for Less”

Inquire of your local Trailways Agent of our attractive service,
Queen City Trailways
417 W. 5th St.
Charlotte, N. C.