4 HONORARY SESE PINKNEY ARTICLE USSO. AMERICAN SCHEDULE RELATIONS (Page Five) (Page Three) ALENDA BUX UB! OCRTA LISERTAS Volume XXXVI
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, OCTOBER 17, 1947 No. 4 Omicron Delta Kappa Honors Six Leaders Beaver Club Elects ‘47-48 Officers In
a recent meeting of the Beaver Club, the following officers for the '47-'48 term were elected: Carl Pahl, who hails
from Memphis, was elected president. He is also the second vice-president of the student body, fullback on the football squad,
member of the S.A.E. fraternity, and cadet major of the R.O.T.C. Carl attended Yale before the war and served in
the armed services. Gene Bingham was elected vice-president. He is a member of the Court of Control, served as a
navy pilot, a member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity, center on last year’s football team, and does the 440 in
track. At this meeting, Bobby Carsons was elected secretary and treasurer. Bobby is a sophomore and a member of the
S.A.E. fraternity. He served in the Navy and is married. The other members of this club are: Juniors, J. D.
Ashmore, Bill Brownson, Buddy Cheek, Jack Grey, Hugh McArn, Henry Neilson, Doug Rice, and Mike Williams; Sophomores, Bill Alexander, Louie
Bingham, Witt Cobb, Bo Roddy, Carl Sheppard, Jake Wade, Jim Sifford. Four members failed to return this year, so Freeman
Jones and Bub Wilcox, Juniors, and Rhea Adams and Charlie Pearson, Sophomores, were selected to take their places. The chief
purpose of the Beaver Club is to extend courtesies to visiting athletic teams. It provides entertainment and makes the visiting
teams feel at home. When the club becomes better organized, it plans to back whole-heartedly the YMCA drives and other
worthy causes. Everyone will see the Beaver Club in action during the year. Parliament Member Addresses Students On Tuesday, October
14, the student body of Davidson had as their speaker for the morning chapel program, Mr. Victor Frances Yates. Mr.
Yates is a native of Birmingham, England. He received his education at Birmingham University and later at Oxford. Throughout his
life, this man has worked for the education of young people and has been a pioneer in the field of
improving the health of children through the schools. Since 1945, Mr. Yates has been seated in the British Parliament as
a member of the Labor Party in the House of Commons. In his talk, Mr. Yates gave the student body
an idea of the composition of the British parliament as it is today. He stated that in the new Socialist
body there are to be found men of every interest in the United Kingdom. Its members include industrialists, coal miners,
doctors, and last but not least, lawyers. He pointed out that the Socialist government of Great Britain was trying to
steer between the two extremes of the Communism of Russia on the one hand, and the Capitalist free enterprise of
the United States on the other. Mr. Yates also told of the severity of the problems that confront postwar Great
Britain in their effort toward rehabilitating the country. But while England faces a crisis, the continent of Europe faces an
even greater one. Critical shortages of materials, (Continued on Page Six) Davidsonian Experiences Technical Difficulties Due to unforeseen circumstances in
the local printing office, the Davidsonian has had to be printed in Charlotte, causing the delay in the release of
the paper. D Club Fills Offices, Plans New Projects The D Club has now completed elections for the current year,
having elected Jimmie French Williams as their president, Buck Ernie as their vice-president, and Stricklin as their secretary-treasurer. Both Williams
and Stricklin hold prominent positions on this year’s football squad, the former having also played with the Freshman team before
the war. Plans have already been laid for this year’s “D” Club Follies which will be presented earlier than that
of last year. It is anticipated that the 1947-48 Follies will be as successful as was last year’s presentation. A
function exclusively for “D” Club members has been planned for Saturday, November 15th, in Charlotte. This will include a banquet
followed by a dance. As there is no football game that weekend, a large attendance is expected. One project now
in progress is that of trying to get the Athletic Association to furnish sweaters for all lettermen in every sport.
This will be an improvement over the present system of requiring every man to purchase his own sweater. Another project
sponsored by the Club is an effort to secure a “D” Club room. Members are meeting with the Administration to
see if this much-needed addition can be had. This room would be very useful as a place to meet and
also to keep their trophies. It would also serve to file records and hang pictures of former and present athletic
teams. Besides being the central unit of the club's activities, it would serve as an interesting place to show various
guests visiting the campus. The “D” Club initiation will be held Wednesday night, October 22. The location has not yet
been decided upon. The new members who will be initiated, most of them having received their letters last Spring, are
as follows: W. E. Boyd, H. M. McArn, E. H. Rhodes, J. A. Richards, C. B. Sheppard, J. D. Sifford,
E. Strunk, M. C. Whitehurst, P. W. Cobb, R. E. Banks, W. H. Bowman, C. J. Burris, J. L. Ellis,
D. S. Erb, J. S. Hunter, C. W. Pearson, J. W. Richards, C. K. Torrence, N. E. Whitehart, D. G.
Blevins, Q. Cooper, E. Y. Keesler, C. Keesler, O. F. Roddey, D. L. Moore, E. B. Bingham, P. M. Brown,
T. Harden, F. R. McAlister, H. R. Temple, J. M. Vann, E. L. Willingham, C. G. Henderson, C. K. Maxwell,
A. M. Rankin, Wm. Alexander, L. P. Cox, J. M. Jung, C. C. Anderson, M. E. Price, John Adams, Bill
Johnson, R. C. Little. Admiral Colcough Visits Campus Rear Admiral O. S. Colcough of the United States Navy visited the
Davidson College campus Monday afternoon of last week. The admiral was en route from Charlotte to Statesville to address a
local civic organization. At present the Judge Advocate General of the Navy, Colcough is the former commander of the battleship
North Carolina. He served in this capacity from January to June of 1945, during which time he engaged in several
southern Pacific campaigns. Former State Senator H. G. Mitchell accompanied Admiral Colcough on his tour of the campus. The admiral
was especially impressed with the library and fraternity houses. NEW ODK MEMBERS Pictured above are recent ODK initiates. Top row,
left to right: Professor H. T. Lilly, Seniors Lee Willingham, Bob Strickland. Bottom row: Bill Joyner, Jerry Robinson, Jim Pittman.
Meza Heads YMCA Spiritual Program By ARTHUR JENKINS The spiritual development department of the Y.M.C.A. this year is under the
very able leadership of Herb Meza. Herb, for the past two years, has participated a great deal in religious activities
on the campus and in the community. The success of this department is perhaps the greatest aim of the Y.M.C.A.
It seeks to promote the personal Christian living of the students by presenting to them a program of religious activities
in which they are encouraged to participate. The most important aspect of this program is the hall prayer meetings which
are held each Wednesday night at 10 o’clock. The members of each hall meet in the room of one of
the members and are led in a brief devotional by a person selected by the hall prayer leader. The procedure
of these meetings usually includes the singing of one or two hymns, scripture reading, a brief message, and prayers. This
procedure can be varied according to the leader's desires. The hall prayer leaders are encouraged to invite guest speakers for
the devotional who may be gotten from the student body, the faculty, town ministers, and cabinet members. Each leader keeps
a chart indicating the attendance at these meetings. Other phases of the program include the religious organizations on the campus.
The Westminster Fellowship meets every Sunday evening immediately after supper at Shearer Hall. These informal get-togethers consist chiefly of hymn-singing,
prayers, and messages. Another organization is the Davidson Christian Fellowship, which meets Tuesday nights at 7:15 in the Guest House
lounge. This group emphasizes topical Bible study. Sunday School for the students is held at 10:15 every Sunday morning in
Phi Hall. Students are always cordially invited to attend any of the local churches. Everyone is encouraged to support these
organizations because they are on the campus for your benefit. Sound Christian fellowship is extremely important in the development of
character in a student and (Continued on Page Five) Calendar VESPERS October 19—Rev. H. Kerr Taylor, D. D., Educational Secretary
of the Executive Committee of Foreign Missions, Nashville, Tenn. CHAPEL Monday, October 20 — Rev. Ernest J. Arnold, Executive Secretary,
North Carolina Council of Churches, Durham, N. C. Tuesday, October 21—Prof. W. P. Cumming. Wednesday, October 22—Dr. Jas. B. Woods.
Thursday, October 23 — Prof. Bradley Thompson. Friday, October 24—Y.M.C.A. Tenor Miklos Gafni Opens Artist Series Here October 21 Tuesday,
October 21, will mark the beginning of the Davidson College artist series for 1947-48. At 8:15 p.m., in Chambers Auditorium,
a concert will be given by Miklos Gafni, sensational young Hungarian tenor. Mr. Gafni made his AmericanDebut last February in
New York’s Town Hall, where he was hailed “The new Caruso” by leading music critics and wildly enthusiastic audiences. The
climb of Miklos Gafni to his present position literally on top of the musical world is as exciting and modern
as his astounding tenor voice. Before his internment by the Germans in 1943, Gafni had never sung any classical music
or had any musical training. Three comrades in the labor camp, who later died of starvation, taught him the essentials
of voice control, and after being released from prison he determined to pursue a career in the musical world. Columbia
Pictures features Gafni in the story of his life in “A Star Is Born.” His sensational voice continues to receive
praise from all over the nation, as this new star begins an unparalleled career in the modern music world. Students
will be admitted free to all concerts this year on presentation of student activities books.

IRC Holds First Meeting of Year

The Davidson chapter of the International Relations Club held its first meeting of the year on October 15, under the
direction of its president, Walker Taylor. The opening get-together consisted of a discussion of the American and Soviet proposals for
the control of atomic energy led by Sob Gambrill, followed by a report on the Intercollegiate Council of the United
Nations which met in Chapel Hill last week. Gene Taylor, Sam Pate, and Don Coffey represented Davidson at the conference.
The I.R.C. was founded in an effort to enable college students to learn more about the other nations of the
world and to better understand their problems. This club has done much to foster better relations among the various peoples
of the earth, and will no doubt play a greater part in the reconstruction of a war-torn world in the
years to come. Unlike many clubs of this nature, students do not have to be invited to join. Anyone who
desires to become a member of the local chapter can do so by contacting its secretary, Don Coffey, in 8
Georgia, who will be glad to add their names to the roll.

Inspection For ROTC In Late October

Announcement of the first ROTC inspection of the year was made by Lt. Col. W. P. Grace, PMS and T
of the local unit yesterday. It will be carried on by the commanding officer of the North Carolina military district
from Raleigh, N. C., on Thursday, October 23. This inspection, the first of three to be made, will be informal
in nature and will have no bearing on the ‘Excellent’ rating now held by the Davidson ROTC unit. A second
inspection will follow after the Christmas holidays by Army officers from Third Ga. The final and most important inspection will
be in April by War Department authorities and will determine the annual rating.

Non-Fraternity Men Draft Constitution

On Monday night, October 13, about 45 students met at the Guest House on Davidson College campus to officially execute
an organization for students not affiliated with any fraternity. It has always been realized that such an organization would be
beneficial to the college, and its need was presented to the students by Ernest Stricklin in his message on October
9. A small group of students were at this time formulating plans and framing a proposed constitution for the organization.
The proposed constitution was accepted by the group of students at the Guest House, which is yet to be officially
given a name, and the group proceeded to elect officers to carry on their first business meeting. The officers elected
were: Ernest Stricklin, president; Carl Eborn, first vice-president; Vail Horne, second vice-president; Malloy Owen, secretary; and Tom Davis, treasurer. The
constitution provides that all non-fraternity men on campus desiring to enter this organization can do so by merely submitting an
application in letter form to the executive committee. The one requirement for acceptance into the group is that the applicant
accept in full its constitution and dues. (Continued on Page Five)

Johnson Family Appears In Chapel

In Friday's chapel Sam Tate, representing the YMCA, introduced a treat that the Davidson College student body had long awaited:
the Johnson Family singers of Charlotte. Opening with the Johnson theme song, the family sang a group of well-rounded numbers
varying from “Zippie-de-do-dah” to “The Old Rugged Cross.” The program consisted of songs by the whole family, a few numbers
by the Johnson brothers, and a couple of selections by pretty Betty Johnson. Genial Larry Walker officiated as master of
ceremonies. The Johnson Family Singers have made singing their livelihood for the past nine years. In addition to their Sunday
morning program, carried over 157 stations to a potential radio audience of well in excess of thirty million listeners, the
Family is heard regularly from 5:30-5:45 Monday through Saturday. Betty can be heard Monday, Wednesday, and Friday morning over Station
WBT on her own radio program entitled “Betty Johnson Sings.” Although the family does a variety of selections, they can
be especially noted for their hymns. Columbia has sold over one hundred thousand records of their songs to date. Their
latest recordings include “Cabin in the Valley of the Pines” and Roy Acuff's “Wait for the Light to Shine.” The
Johnson twins are freshmen in high school and plan to attend Davidson for four years. One of them remarked that
if he had a few more sisters, he would have had easy sledding when he attended college. At the completion
of Friday's chapel program, Betty gave us a personal invitation to attend the dance at Queen's College Saturday night.

Five Students and One Faculty Member Tapped

Omicron Delta Kappa, Davidson’s national honorary leadership fraternity, honored five Senior students and one faculty member during its fall tapping
ceremony, held during the chapel hour on Wednesday, October 15. The men tapped were Professor H. T. Lilly of the
English Department, Bill Joyner, Jim Pittman, Jerry Robinson, Lee Willingham, and Bob Strickland, all of the Senior Class. At the
conclusion of the formal tapping procedure, Doctor McGavock of the Mathematics Department addressed the student body. He spoke of the
essential value of Omicron Delta Kappa as a means of more closely associating student-faculty relations. Doctor McGavock also brought out
some of the major contributions made by the honorary fraternity to the student body, by recognizing the need for and
supporting various institutions about the campus. He closed his address by stressing that the purpose of Omicron Delta Kappa was
not only to give recognition to a student because of his activities, but also to invite him to continue those
activities in such a way that they would be of benefit to all.

Professor H. T. Lilly of Winston-Salem, N. C., professor of English at Davidson, graduated here in 1918. After serving in
Europe during World War I as a first sergeant, Professor Lilly taught English for two years at the Presbyterian College
of Clinton, S.C. At the end of that time, he moved to Chattanooga, Tennessee, where he taught at McCallie School
for two additional years. He came to Davidson in the Fall of 1926.

BILL JOYNER

Bill Joyner, whose home is in Kernersville, N.C., entered Davidson in the Fall of 1942. In the Spring of 1943,
Joyner left school to spend the following thirty months in the Army. For eighteen months of this time he was
in the ETO with the 100th Infantry. Re-entering Davidson during the summer of 1946, Joyner became a member of Gamma
Sigma Epsilon, national honorary chemical fraternity. He was elected president of Sigma Upsilon for the year 1947-48, and during the
past summer was a member of the Y.M.C.A. cabinet. Joyner is also vice-president of (Continued on Page Six)

Sigma Upsilon Bids Five Men

On Thursday night, October 16, the local chapter of Sigma Upsilon, national honorary literary fraternity, had its first meeting of
the current scholastic year. Bill Joyner, chapter president, initiated a discussion on plans for future meetings, after Bob Phillips, secretary,
read the minutes of the last meeting. At the conclusion of the selections, the chapter then voted on new membership.
The chapter extended bids for membership to one faculty member and four Seniors. The men chosen were: Professor Leland G.
Scarborough of the English Department, Jim Gribben, Jerry Cumming, Richard Oglesby, and Greet Gal- Before adjournment, the chapter suffered a
buffet of pecan pies and buttermilk provided by Samuel Tate, former feed chairman.

Sigma Upsilon’s local membership consists of faculty members: W. P. Cumming, W. J. Erwin, A. M. Goldiere, F. Lacy, A.
G. Harris, H. M. Hill, W. S. Johns- ton, H. T. Lilly, J. L. McLean; and student members: S. J.
Ervin, J. B. Payne, G. R. Scofield, D. M. Swink, S. M. Tate, and W. Taylor.
