LOVE FADETH AWAY ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

LOTS OF PICTURES THIS WEEK

Volume XXXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 28, 1947 No. 19

BRINEGAR TAKES OVER Y. M.C. A. PHILLIPS TO EDIT DAVIDSONIAN ANNUAL EDITOR TO BE SIMPSON ROBERTSON LEADS CLASS

Campus Leader To Head Paper Elections Name Journalist To Succeed Love As Publisher of Guide ASSUMES DUTIES SOON

Victor For Position In First Student Ballot

Receiving a majority vote on the first ballot last Monday, Bob Phillips was elected to the position of Editor of the Davidsonian for the coming year. Topping the two men who were co-nominated with him to run for the post by a decisive number of votes, Phillips was the first man to be chosen by the student body so enthusiastically in the present series of elections. Walter Walker, one of the present managing editors of this publication, and Sam Ervin, the present Sports Editor, were also in the race.

Advancement

The new Editor has experienced a meteoric climb in the editorial staff of the Davidsonian this year, rising from Managing Editor to Associate Editor, and then to Editor in the short time of two months. Ensign Bob Phillips hails from Laurinburg, North Carolina. Entering Davidson in 1942, he worked with the paper as a reporter, until leaving for the Navy in June, 1943. In the Navy he received a commission as Ensign. He returned to Davidson in September, 1946, at which time he was appointed to the editorial staff of the Davidsonian.

Organizations

A brother in Kappa Sigma Social Fraternity, Phillips is also a wearer of the “D” (Football), a member of the Beaver Club, and of Sigma Upsilon, the highest literary group on the campus. Phillips will assume his duties as editor with the publication of the next issue of the Davidsonian. At that time he will occupy the office held at present by his able predecessor, Jim Love, current editor of the school paper.

ODK Holds Annual Meet

The national convention of O. D. K. was held in the Lisner auditorium of Washington, D. C., last week, opening Thursday night and ending Saturday at noon. The Davidson chapter was represented by Lumar Williamson, Alf Taylor, Dr. Schenck and Mr. Jackson. The time of the meeting was mostly consumed with various committee reports but was highlighted by the speeches of Senator Morse of Oregon and C. C. Carmichael, head of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. A banquet for the convention was held Friday night at the Mayflower hotel. Dr. Schenck led the invocation at the opening of the meeting and Mr. Jackson headed the nominating committee that nominated the officers for the coming year. Dr. McDaniel was elected president for the coming period. The meet-

DAVIDSONIAN BOB PHILLIPS

Patterson Is V - President Robinson Chosen Secretary-Treasurer of Rising Senior Class

In the final run-off held today, Bill Robertson was elected president of the Senior Class for next year on the fourth ballot, defeating Dave Blevins.

Robertson

Entering Davidson in 1942, Robertson was able to stay for one year before entering the Army Air Forces where he served until he returned to college last year. He is a member of the Beaver Club, QUIPS AND CRANKS (Continued on Page 6)

BILL SIMPSON

Leader Elected Succeeds Tommy Bumbarger On Quips and Cranks For Coming Year

In the final voting held Tuesday Bill Simpson defeated Harry Cox for editor of the Quips and Cranks during the coming year. He will succeed Tommy Bumbarger, editor of the 1947 yearbook.

Simpson

Entering Davidson in 1943, Simpson was a member of the varsity basketball squad, made a numeral in baseball, and was elected to be the Junior representative on the Student Council in June, 1945, before being called into the U. S. (Continued on Page 6)

For Year Book Y.M.C.A. HEYWOOD BRINEGAR

Final Ballots Cast In Election Yesterday

In the final election held yesterday for president of the rising Sophomore Class, Curtis Harper edged out Jake Wade. Nominations on the original ballot were Adams, Bumbarger, Carson, Glasgow, Niblock, Palmer, Richardson, Spires, and Stricklin.

Harper, from Lynchburg, Va., is a member of the freshman football squad, the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, and Phi literary society. He is also active in “Y” work and a member of the Young People’s Council for the Synod of Virginia.

Alexander To Be Vice - President

Yesterday on the third ballot for vice president of the rising Sophomore Class Bill Alexander defeated Bill Richardson. Bird, Blanks, Eborn, Houck, Guthrie, Richards were the other candidates on the original ballot Tuesday. Beaver Club and is active in “Y” Sophomores Elect Harper President

Alexander is on the J. V. football team and made his letter in wrestling. He is a member of the “D” Club, the Beaver Club, the Kappa Sigma fraternity.

CAMPUS IMPROVEMENTS

Davidson's campus is in for further beautification with the presence here this week of a Richmond, Virginia, landscape architect, Charles F. Gillette, who is planning further developments with reference to planting, parking spaces, walks, and roadways.

Senior Williams

CALENDAR

Sunday, March 30 Vespers: Salem College Chorus, Winston-Salem, N. C.

Monday, March 31 Chapel: Dr. John B. Gallent.

Tuesday, April 1 Chapel: Prof. A. G. Griffin.

Wednesday, April 2 Chapel: Shaw Smith (alumnus) will entertain with his abilities at magic.

Thursday, April 3 Chapel: Not selected as yet. Holidays begin at noon.

Sunday, April 6 Vespers: Easter holidays.

Colin who Bill Robertson Cheek and Meza, Hopper, Y Vice - Presidents

In the elections for student body officers last week Buddy Cheek was elected First Vice President, and Carl Pahl, Second Vice President. Both men are rising Juniors. Before entering Davidson last year, Buddy Cheek wasin the Navy V-5 program at Tulane for four months where he was a member of the basketball team. He was also stationed in Washington, D.C., during his time in the service. Since his arrival at Davidson Buddy has ~ (Continued on Page 6)

Pahl To Cobb To Occupy Student Office

Last week the student body elected from its rising sophomore class, Whit Cobb, to hold the office of secretary-treasurer. There was an unusually large number of candidates, which necessitated a runoff. The other men nominated were: Carson, Wade, Stricklin, Hollister, Glasgow, Sifford, Strait, Roddey, Richardson, W., and Richardson, R. Whit Cobb is a native of North Carolina and a resident of Durham. (Continued on Page 6)

Assist Hill

In the election held Friday, March 21, Herb Meza and Ed Hopper were elected to the positions of first vice president and second vice president of the Y.M.C.A., respectively. The original ballot included Tommy Clark, John Adams, Virgil Pino, Herb Meza, Ed Hopper, John Miller, and Bill Iverson. Meza is chairman of Community Work for the Y, a member of the Spanish Club, and Philanthropic Literary Society, and is active in deputation work for the Y.M.C.A. Hopper is president of the sophomore class, was on the junior var- (Continued on Page 6) work. He comes from Jacksonville, Fla.

NEW STUDENT LEADERS

Boyd Is Chosen Sec’t Treasurer

The rising Sophomore Class elected Bill Boyd over Jimmy Sifford in the finals for secretary-treasurer held yesterday. Boyd won after defeating ten other candidates: Burris, Glenn, Lyles, Mills, Warner, Perrin, Roddey, Sasser, Shaw, and He is from Statesville.

HERB MEZA
ED HOPPER
WHIT COBB
CARL PAHL
BUDDY CHEEK

President of Rising Juniors Wins On Third Ballot In Yesterday’s Election

In the final election held yesterday for president of the Junior Class for next year, Mike Williams won over John Miller after defeating Charles, Clark, Hunter, Manget, Moneyhan, Newell, Rhodes, and West. Williams is on the football team, the basketball team, and the tennis team. He is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity and the “D” Club. He comes from North Wilkesboro.

Shepperson Is Vice-President

The rising Junior Class elected Dave Shepperson over Jack Payne in yesterday's finals of the election started Tuesday for vice president. Shepperson won after defeating ten others: Ashmore, Barringer, Dietvick, Holler, Iverson, McNair, Morgan, Pino, Wilcox, and Williams. Shepperson is on the baseball squad and comes from El Dorado, Ark. He is a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and the Philanthropic Literary Society.

Brownson To Be Sec’t Treasurer

Yesterday in the final election for secretary-treasurer of next year’s Junior Class, Bill Brownson was elected over Freeman Jones. Original nominations on the Tuesday ballot were Adams, Farrior, Gunn, Hart, Hodgin, Jackson, Lemmon, Reid, Richard, and Turner. Brownson comes from Hastings-on-the-Hudson, N.Y., and has been on the basketball team and baseball team. This year he is on the track squad and is vice president of the Sophomore Class. He is a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity and the Beaver Club.

'48 Y-Cabinet Head Chosen

Monday Student Body Selects Rising Senior as Jim Jackson’s Successor

FILLS OFFICE

Awarded Top Position On Third Student Vote

On March 24, Heywood Brinegar of the class of '47, was elected by closed ballot to the position of President of the Y.M.C.A. for the coming year, 1947-1948.

Candidates

The original ballot included Heywood Brinegar, Sam Maloney, Charlie Patterson, Lee Willingham, Jim Pittman, Sterling Edwards, Vernon McGehee, and Joe Bachman. All of the above-named men were eliminated on the first ballot with the exception of Brinegar, Pittman, and Willingham. The final ballot resulted in a runoff between Brinegar and Pittman.

Pre-War Activities

Brinegar, a native of Winston-Salem, living at present in Miami, Florida, entered Davidson in the fall of 1941. As a Freshman, he was a member of the debating team, worked through the “Y” with local Boy Scout troops, and was chosen a member of the Beaver Club. He also made an excellent showing in Freshman football and basketball. During his second year, Brinegar played Varsity football, and was a member of the Varsity debating team. In the spring elections, he was elected Vice-President of the “Y” for the oncoming year, but was unable to serve as he left Davidson with the Enlisted Reserve Corps in March, 1943. Taking his basic training at Fort Belvoir, Brinegar was assigned to the Corps of Engineers, in which outfit he obtained his commission in January, 1945.

Recent Record

Returning to Davidson in September, 1946, Brinegar resumed his position on the “Y” Cabinet, engaging in all types of boys’ work both in Davidson and Charlotte. At present, he is Vice-President of the Philanthropic Literary Society and President of the Forensic Council. He is also a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.

Debate Team Makes Plans

Thursday afternoon at 3 o’clock the Davidson Debating Team met Lenoir Rhyne in a dual match. The debates were held in Phi and Eu halls with the Davidson affirmative group versus L.R.’s negative team debating in Eu hall, and the other teams speaking in Phi hall. The affirmative team was made up of Charles Elyea and Jay Pence, and the negative team of Don Coffey and Flynn Long. The National Debate Topic—Resolved: That labor should be given a direct share in the management of industry—was used. The first debate of the season was held recently against Wofford with affirmatives Elyea and Christopher versus Sowell and Miller of Wofford, and negatives Coffey and Long against Rast and Fraser. The judges were Mrs. Cumming, D. Pritchett, and Professor Wood. (Continued on Page 6)