Te, CHAPPELL; ik DON’T ASK US CHAPEL) = ‘y’ é bd ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Volume XXXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1947 No. 14

Dr. Chappell To Conduct Spring Services

Storage Warehouse To Be Constructed

New Building Between East and Laundry

By Kent Christopher

That new building construction blocking the path between East and the laundry is to be additional warehouse and storage facilities
for the college and not garages for student limousines as was hopefully rumored last week. This new warehouse is being
constructed as a government project from its surplus material. The J. A. Jones Construction Company of Charlotte, who recently completed
an addition to the laundry plant and construction of the cardboard village here, is doing the work.

Large piles of prefabricated panels which have been trucked in and obstruct the parking area adjacent to the R. O.
T. C. building are salvaged sides of former barracks and warehouses of the Greenville, S. C., Army Air Base. They
are only a part of the material to come and the remainder is expected to come from Tullahoma, Tenn. Yet,
it will be necessary to construct a new front end for the building.

Dimensions of the main part of the building which will rise from its concrete block foundation approximately ten feet above
the level of Stud Store Boulevard, are 125 feet long by about 25 feet wide. Completion of the structure is
expected to be accomplished in about four weeks. It was expected by W. G. Clany of Mooresville, project superintendent, that
necessary masonry and a surface water drainage ditch at the east end would be finished by the end of this
week.

The government projected the new building at Davidson after an investigation revealed the fact that there was an urgent need
for storage facilities here. When the Stud Store was enlarged last fall it took up the college’s warehouse space and
made it necessary to store unused furniture and supplies a mile north of Davidson in a barn on the farm
of Sgt. Burton, R. O. T. C. instructor, according to Mr. F. L. Jackson, college treasurer. Mr. Jackson went on
to state that the college was very grateful to the government for the beneficent service rendered through gifts of various
articles or sale of such at nominal costs.

Disk Concerts By Music Club

With the beginning of the second term, regularly scheduled programs of recorded music are being presented under the sponsorship of
Phi Mu Alpha each Tuesday and Thursday evening in Phi Hall at 8:30 p.m. These programs last for approximately one
hour and all are invited to come for the entire hour or any portion thereof. As was previously announced, these
programs consist of requested selections, which the listeners prefer to hear, as well as a number of pre-announced compositions of
especial interest. Use is made of the Carnegie Record Library together with the Phi Mu Alpha supplement to this collection,
making a total of some two hundred albums available, each album containing 24 12-inch sides.

Discussion of the action to be taken by Phi Mu Alpha and other interested groups in survey of improvements for
the Department of Music and the General Fine Arts Program was continued at a recent meeting of the group. The
next concert in the Phi Mu Alpha series will take place on Monday, March 3, featuring woodwind selections performed by
local students. All are cordially invited to this program, which will be held at 8:30 p.m. in the Y. M.
C. A. Lounge.

SPRING HOLIDAYS

In a special release to the Davidsonian, Dean C. K. Brown announced today that Spring holidays will begin on Thursday,
April 3, 1947, at 12:50 p.m., and continue through Tuesday, April 8. Classes will be resumed at 8:25 a.m. on
Wednesday, April 9.

Intercollegiate Council Meets

Delegates Convene on Davidson Campus

Representatives of Queens College and of Johnson C. Smith University will again be on the Davidson campus on Saturday, March
1, at 3 p.m. for a meeting of the Intercollegiate Council for Religion in Life of the Charlotte Area. Topic
for discussion by the group will be the statement on the economic order issued last fall jointly by the Synagogue
Council of America, the National Catholic Welfare Conference, and the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America. The statement
is divided into eight sections giving the tie between the moral law and different aspects of the economic life of
the nation. The first four sections will be presented by Smith students and the latter four sections will be presented
by Davidson students. These will be Miles Wood and John Pritchard.

Council’s Purpose

The Council is sponsored by the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet of Davidson College and the Student Association of Johnson
C. Smith University. All interested students of both schools have been asked to attend the Council’s meetings. Here they will
discuss together mutual problems, especially those of Christian students in the world of today. Through these discussions greater friendship and
understanding is being built up between the students of this area, and in future years it will spread out into
the Church. Deputations are being sent to young people’s groups of the churches of Charlotte to help spread the friendships
that have been built up in the Council. Four of its members will present a program to the Young People
of Myers Park Presbyterian Church on the evening of Sunday, February 23.

Other programs are being planned for the future.

Allied Work

Allied work growing out of the contacts of the Council are events such as the chapel program on Friday, Feb.
21. At that time the Quintet of Johnson C. Smith University gave a musical program. The arrangements for the Wednesday,
Feb. 19, meeting of the Christian leaders of the three institutions were aided by the Council. These Saturday afternoon joint
gatherings of students are scheduled for every third or fourth Saturday afternoon. The places of meeting have alternated between the
two campuses of Smith and Davidson, with Davidson again host for the March 1 gathering. A minimum of thirty is
expected at that time, with delegations from both Queens College and Johnson C. Smith University on this campus Saturday afternoon.

JOURNALISTS IN LIMELIGHT

Doug Swink, left, and Ed Sutton, right, have recently set the campus publication field agog, with important announcements. Swink, editor
of the “Scripts 'n Pranks,” revealed that the February issue of the humor magazine would not be issued as scheduled,
due to technical difficulties; while Sutton, the “Davidsonian” editor, this week resigned his post bequeathing the campus weekly to senior
Jim Love.

In a recent meeting of the Freshman Court of Control, seven particularly wretched members of the Class of '50 were
given fair trial and sentenced in accordance with their just desserts, for violation of many of the traditions which through
the years have kept the hallowed walls of Davidson sacrosanct. Just prior to the opening of the court session, George
Ennett, scribe of the court, in an exclusive statement to representatives of the Davidsonian present, issued a stern warning to
freshmen who, taking advantage of a period of recuperation deemed necessary following examinations, have begun with profligate abandon to ignore
the freshman traditions which through the years have kept the sacrosanct walls of Davidson hallowed. Especially emphasized in the court
statement were the misdemeanors of leaving chapel seats before all Seniors have left the auditorium and refusal to wear regulation
freshman caps; as well as the heinous crime of sleeping through chapel.

First defendant of the session was George McKee, who was charged with being most discourteous to both upperclassmen and freshmen
in the student store and about the campus. McKee was reprimanded severely by Judge John McAllister, who cited the case
of Cailliet vs. Otts, 49 Territory of Alaska 250 (1850); and was sentenced to write a 2,000-word paper on common
courtesy.

Judge Expounds

In an exclusive statement to representatives of the Davidsonian present, Judge McAllister said, “The court feels that it was justified
in being most lenient upon this culprit despite the grave misdemeanor which he committed. In the 110 years of Davidson’s
traditional existence, such reprehensible acts have not been tolerated from members of the freshman class. Very strict and stern punishments
have been the rule; however, this year members of the court feel that constructive punishment is of more value toFreshmen
involved as well as the traditional spirit of goodwill that exists within the hallowed walls of old Davidson: Brother, for
the next offense, times will be tough all over.” Freshman Jake Wade was hailed before the court on the charge
of excessive exhibitionism on the athletic field, an attitude not considered in keeping with the traditional spirit of sportsmanship that
exists within the sacred walls of hallowed Davidson. Wade was acquitted on the grounds that no exhibition has been possible
for members of the team not from Norfolk, Va., a city traditionally lit up on Saturday nights. However, during the
photographing of a picture of the Court of Control Cranks, the purest little periodical taken for Quips and Cranks on
the campus, Wade’s nose was detected protruding objectionably and obscuring Judge McAllister’s view. Wade was sentenced to write “I will
not have my nose lit up like Norfolk on Saturday nights” 5,000 times.

Several other shotty little freshmen were tried before the court for various offenses ranging from promiscuous walking on the grass
with malice aforethought to complete disregard of the traditional freshman regulations which have made the sacred walls hallowed for the
110 years of Davidsonian existence. Judge McAllister, in an exclusive statement to representatives of the Davidsonian, announced that the Court
of Control will function next week, and that it will crack down upon all members of the freshman crime ring.
He added that the general public, freshmen excluded, are invited to attend the meeting to be held Thursday night, with
popcorn and refreshments to be sold during intermission.

Frolics Set, O’Hair Joins
MacChesney H. Jeffries, president of the Davidson Pan-Hellenic Council, announced today that plans for the annual spring dance sponsored by
the council were being formed. According to present intentions of the council, which have received the wholehearted support of George
P. Ennett, Jeffries’ secretary, the Spring Frolic set will be held in the main ballroom of the Charlotte Armory on
both Friday and Saturday, April 18 and 19.

Financial Reports
Ennett, who is also treasurer of the social organization, indicated that financial reports of the Mid-Winters dance set held on
February 7 and 8 were mailed to the various fraternities this week. Jeffries announced that Richard O’Hair, senior representative on
the student council, has been elected to the council as representative of Phi Gamma Delta. Applications for positions as decorators
of the armory during the spring dance set may be entered to Pan-Hellenic representatives at once, Jeffries indicated, and will
be judged on the basis of previous experience and ability.

Hills To Head Gamma Sigma
At a recent meeting, the Alpha chapter of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national chemical fraternity, chose officers for the year. John
Hills was elected Grand Alchemist and Lennox Turnbull, Visor. Bill Wier and Bill Johnston were selected to serve as Recorders,
with Chester Huskins as Sergeant-at-arms. Dr. J. B. Gallant will continue to serve as faculty advisor for the group.

Program Outline
The members of Gamma Sigma Epsilon have currently been enjoying interesting programs. These have been highlighted with the presentation of
papers on subjects of interest to the chemically-minded by recently initiated members. It is hoped that in the future some
outstanding chemists from the Charlotte area can be obtained to present lectures dealing with the fields of Chemistry in which
they are engaged.

FAMED ORGANIST
Pictured here is E. Power Biggs, who will present a concert at Davidson on February 24.

SPEAKER
Shown above is Dr. Clovis G. Chappell, who will lead the annual Spring Services here in March.

Trustees Plan Improvements
February 19 was the date of the semi-annual meeting of the Board of Trustees. Dr. J. McDowell Richards, President of
Columbia Theological Seminary, Decatur, Ga., presided. Reports were made the preceding day by the Grounds and Building Committee on the
landscaping of the campus, the construction of the new Gymnasium and the new Church, and on the providing of more
clearly defined parking areas about the campus. This committee is composed of Messrs. J. A. Cannon, of Concord, S. Clay
Williams, of Winston-Salem, and Dr. Hamilton McKay, of Charlotte.

Other matters which also received the attention of the Trustees were tuition charges for next year, salaries of faculty members,
further enlargement of the faculty, and enrollment policies. Consideration was given to a financial campaign to add to the funds
which were raised three years ago for the new Gymnasium and the new Church, and for additional endowment funds. There
are fifty Trustees, elected by the nine Presbyteries of North Carolina, the three Presbyteries of South Carolina, and by the
Alumni Association. About forty were in attendance at the meeting. One of the Trustees from Florida, the Reverend Albert J.
Kissling, D.D., of the Riverside Presbyterian Church, Jacksonville, Fla., spoke in chapel on Wednesday, the 19th.

Concert Band Resumes Tour
DAVIDSON, Feb. 13. Plans were completed here last week for a Southern tour by the Davidson College Concert Band this
week which includes concerts in Florence, S. C., Atlanta, Thomasville and Waycross, Ga., and Newton, N. C. James Christian Pfohl,
Director of Music, who made the announcement of the tour, conducted all four concerts. The fifty-piece organization which has been
called “The South’s Finest College Band,” resumed the Southern Tour this year after wartime travel difficulties forced cancellation of the
trip in every year since 1942.

Melvin Sipe, 22-year-old sophomore from Lincolnton, N. C., was the featured soloist in all four of the concerts. A veteran
of three years of Navy service, including performances with Admiral Nimitz’s personal orchestra, Sipe performed on the violin. He has
received instructions in the instrument since he was seven years old and was a member of the Davidson band before
the war. He is also a member of the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra.

Thirty-four North Carolinians (Continued on Page 6)

Talks To Be March 11-13
Methodist Preacher of Charlotte Is Also Noted Author and Speaker
Doctor Clovis G. Chappell, pastor of the First Methodist Church of Charlotte, was announced today by R. Murphy Williams, secretary
of the local Y. M. C. A., as the speaker for Davidson's Spring Services of 1947. Dr. Chappell, a well-known
author and speaker, will conduct these services on the campus March 11 through 13, holding services each morning and evening
in Chambers Auditorium.

Charlotte Leader
Dr. Chappell is a very popular speaker, and, although a recent addition to Charlotte, has rapidly come into his own
as a leading theologian and citizen of that city. The student body will remember his entertaining and thought-provoking address in
Vespers last semester. A prolific and interesting writer, Dr. Chappell has published over 25 volumes of sermons, thoughts, and helpful
tips on living. His "Ten Rules for Living" and "Living Zestfully" are two of his better books. Along with his
writing, Dr. Chappell is a much-sought-after speaker and leader at assemblies of both ministers and laymen. He will speak on
the “Methodist Hour” at 8:30 Sunday, February 23, on a nation-wide hookup.

Duke Graduate
A native of Flatwoods, Tenn., Dr. Chappell was educated at Duke and Harvard Universities after secondary preparation at the Webb
School in Bellbuckle, Tenn. After completing his education, he held important downtown pastorates in Dallas, Tex., Washington, D. C., Memphis,
Tenn., Houston, Tex., Birmingham, Ala., Oklahoma City, Okla., and at the Galloway Memorial Methodist Church in Jackson, Miss., before accepting
his present position in Charlotte. Doctor Chappell will address the students, faculty, townspeople, friends, and visitors six times in the
three days that he will be on the campus. Each day at the chapel period at 10:15 and each night
at 7:30. All of these services will be held at Chambers Auditorium.

CALENDAR
Sunday, February 23
Vespers: Rev. Warner Hall, Pastor of the 2nd Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, N. C.

Monday, February 24
Chapel: Dr. Frontis Johnston
Basketball: Davidson vs. Clemson.

Tuesday, February 25
Chapel: Mr. Meldrum Winstead

Thursday, February 27
Chapel: Mr. R. Q. Bault.

Friday, February 28
Chapel: Y. M. C. A.

47 Elm Row
’Tis three o'clock a morn,
And one has just decamped.
Two weary scribblers struggle on
That the fifth estate be lamped.
While Davidson peacefully snores away
And gives us not one care.
I just don’t think it’s very fair.
Alone . . me and the ghost of P. S. Ney!
Anonymous.
