SWOOSH Cp e Mabidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

FLUSH NOTES POUR IN

Volume XXXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FEBRUARY 7, 1947 No. 12

Y Announces Disposition Of Student Funds
World Colleges And County Health Aided

Murphy Williams announced last week that the Y.M.C.A. contributed $600 to good causes at the beginning of this semester. The money was given by Davidson students into a fund called the Vesper Fund Budget which consists entirely of the offerings of students at Vespers.

Five hundred of the six hundred dollars was donated to the World Student Fund which is concerned with giving students over the world financial aid. Through the service fund, students are enabled to purchase food, books, and supplies while much of the money contributed is used to build new buildings for the use of students. It is not known exactly where the money Davidson has given is to be sent or used, though it is likely that the major portion of it will go to Europe to aid in the establishment of Youth Hostels.

$100 For County Health

One hundred dollars was given to the Mecklenburg County Tuberculosis and Health Association, which is endeavoring to rid this county of tuberculosis. One of the major efforts of this association in its work has been the financing and operation of a mobile X-ray unit, which furnishes free chest X-rays to any resident of Mecklenburg County, if they so desire. Through the mobile X-ray unit, many cases of tuberculosis have been detected and arrested in their primary stages, thus materially reducing the rate of infection.

Murphy also announced that anyone who is interested in working in a summer camp next summer should see him immediately for information on the subject.

$5,500 Collected

Joe Stukes, head of the 1946 Christmas Gift Fund, revealed that a total of $5,447.53 has been collected and placed in the bank pending payment of pledges by some few students. Over $100 in pledges still remains unpaid and Stukes emphasized the importance of their being paid soon, as the money cannot be sent to Hankchow until every cent has been collected. The money is being sent through the Executive Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church of the United States. Those students who have not paid their pledges are urged to do so as soon as possible in order that the money may be sent where it is so badly needed.

The students who aided Stukes in the obtaining and payment of pledges were: Bob Flowers, George Worth, George Gunn, Arthur Lindsay, Whitt Cobb, Ernie Stricklin, Hugh Hill, Pat Williams, John Yarborough, Zee Holler, Johnny Miller, Bill Joyner, Gene Linton, Alf Taylor, Sam Erwin, Herb Mesa, Charley Gibbs, Ronny Dietrick, John Fairly, Lenox Turnbull, Johnny Walker, Jack Payne, J. P. Whitely, Don Hatch, Charles Powell, and Champney McNair.

Johnston Speaks To Columbia Alumni

Dr. Frontis Johnston, professor of History, was the principal speaker when the Davidson College alumni in the Columbia, S. C., area gathered last Monday at the Wade Hampton Hotel in Columbia for their first meeting in a number of years. Dr. Johnston, an authority on Southern colonial history and head of the history department, spoke on the subject “Davidson Today and Tomorrow.”

Preceding the banquet, Coach William J. Story, head football coach, showed movies of the Wildcat football games this fall and gave a report on the athletic situation at the Presbyterian institution. Other representatives of the college were present. Mr. Caldwell Withers of Columbia (Continued on Page 4)

PAN-HELLENIC DANCE SPONSORS

President, Dean At Boston Forum

President John R. Cunningham and Dean of the faculty C. Kenneth Brown have recently returned to the Davidson Campus after several days spent in Boston in attendance at the annual meeting of the Association of American Colleges at the Hotel Statler. President Cunningham reported today that the meeting this year was generally regarded as a very significant occasion. He said that two general topics were paramount during the sessions. “The first,” he stated, “was the relation of religion to liberal education.” The two principal addresses were made by Archbishop Richard J. Cushing of the Roman Catholic Church, Boston, and Dr. George A. Buttrick of the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church of New York City.

A symposium on Universal Military Training was conducted by Lt. General J. Lawton Collins who represented the War Department in favor of universal military training. President Mordecai W. Johnson of Harvard University (Negro), President William J. Miller of the University of Detroit (Catholic), and President Carter Davidson of Union College (Protestant) spoke at length on the subject. No vote was taken at the conference. “The colleges will express themselves by written ballot within the next few weeks,” said Dr. Cunningham, who noted that the same association voted overwhelmingly against universal military training in January 1945, at Atlantic City.

Mildred McAfee Horton, the president of Wellesley College, who during the war was head of the Waves, was elected President of the Association for 1947-48. She succeeds Dr. Charles J. Truck of Macalester College of St. Paul. (Continued on Page 4)

New Prof Chosen

The second semester college faculty has been increased by the addition of Mr. James Cogswell. Mr. Cogswell has been appointed an assistant professor of Bible. His home is in Memphis, Tennessee. He graduated from Southwestern University (Memphis), summa cum laude, and received his Bachelor of Divinity degree from the Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va. Mr. Cogswell comes to Davidson from Princeton Seminary, New Jersey, where he has been engaged in graduate work on fellowship.

Alpha Epsilon, Martha Scarborough

Top row, left to right: For Kappa Alpha, Virginia Owens with McChesney Jefferies, president of Pan-Hellenic Council; for Phi Delta Theta, Elizabeth Osborne with Sam Tate, Secretary; for Kappa Sigma, Juliette LaBorde with George Ennett, treasurer; for Phi Gamma Delta, Paula Raigorodsky with Bill Campbell. Second row: for Pi Kappa Phi, Sarah Faulkner with Fitz Reid; for Sigma Phi Epsilon, Lois Sadler with Jerry Robinson; for Beta Theta Pi, Margaret Fisher with Al Scarborough; for Pi Kappa Alpha, Melissa Horton with Bob Neill. Last row: for Sigma with Bob McGeachy; and for Delta Kappa, Janet Hodges with Bob Freeman.

Of Program Library Has New Reserve System

It was found during the last semester that the large number of reserve books read overloaded the old card system beyond the point of efficiency. A new and simplified system has been adopted for this semester. Instead of filling out a complete circulation card as usual for books checked out of the building, it will be necessary only to fill out a reserve book card, which is provided with space only for the borrower's name. This system will give much quicker and more efficient service in this respect.

New Cards

The new cards have space for fifty users. When the card is filled, it will be saved for record and the circulation report to the president, the American Library Association, and the North Carolina Library Association will be made from these cards. Also, it will be possible for the professors to know how much each book on reserve is read, thus giving them an idea of the relative value of the reserved books and their relative popularity with the students.

The library has under consideration a change in the outside circulation system, but to recatalog some (Continued on Page 4)

Musicians Plan Expansion and Facilities

Phi Mu Alpha presented Mrs. James C. Pfohl in an informal program of piano music in Chambers Auditorium on Monday night at 8:15 p.m. A varied program, which was enthusiastically received by members and guests, consisted of the following selections: Variations on a Sixteenth Century Italian Folk-song, “Siciliana,” by Respighi; a Sonata by Scarlatti; the slow movement from the Appassionata Sonata of Beethoven; a Rondo of Mozart; two Intermezzi by Brahms; and an Etude and an Impromptu of Chopin. This was Mrs. Pfohl’s first appearance in Davidson for some time, and it is hoped that she can be presented again in a future program.

In the business meetings preceding Monday night’s program, a motion was passed to the effect that a welcome be extended to all members of faculty and student body to attend all future presentations of Phi Mu Alpha. An all woodwind program will be presented at the next regular meeting, featuring student musicians. A Phi Mu Alpha Bulletin Board is currently planned as a service to the college, whereby noticesHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Of all musical events will be publicized, giving an optimum number of students the opportunity to plan in advance to attend musical events. In addition, two scheduled record programs each week will be (Continued on Page 4).

Blevin’s Band Raises Money

On last hallowed Wednesday night, the halls of Chambers resounded with many musical melodies issuing from the instruments of distinguished virtuosos. They had gathered for the expressed purpose of accumulating funds for contribution to the March of Dimes, the Roosevelt-initiated movement toward aiding the poliomyelitis victims in the United States. The instigator of the plot was none other than the renowned Hugo Sapp, operator of the famous Emporium, and the man in charge of the March of Dimes in this section of the country. For this occasion, he gathered such famous groups as Uncle Dave Blevins and his Jug Band, the Jivin' Five, the Clarinet “4”, and with these, the well-known Woods Watkins and his xylophone, and others. Accompanying Blevins in his band were “Slimey” Saunders, Charlie DeLaney, and Summer Williams of the Rippling Rythmaires. The unique music afforded by this aggregation was the source of an experience never to be forgotten by the awed attenders.

One of the main attractions, the “Jivin’ Five,” was composed of versatile Pete Whisnant on the sax and clarinet, Louis “Hot Digit” Palles at the keyboard, “Mouse” Morgan slapping the skins, Mel Sipes on the clarinet, and Jim Jackson jiving his amazing new invention, the “Galut.” Col. Sapp announced that at the Davidson-McCrary basketball game, a total of $43.39 was contributed to the fund, and appreciation is due to those lovely ladies who were (Continued on Page 4).

Calendar

Friday, February 7
Mid-Winters Formal Dance. Charlotte Hotel Ballroom. 9:00-1:00.

Saturday, February 8
Dance - Charlotte Armory 8:00-12:00.

Sunday, February 9
Vespers; Rev. C. Grier Davis, D.D. First Presbyterian Church Asheville, North Carolina.

Monday, February 10
Chapel: Prof. James F. Pinkney.

Tuesday, February 11
Chapel: Prof. A. V. Goldiere.

Thursday, February 13
Chapel: Prof. J. A. McGeachy.

Writer Visits College YMCA Youth Center

Biff! Sock! I walked over to see what was going on. Two boys at the colored community center were piling into each other with boxing gloves, while a bunch of other boys were crowding around them, yelling with enthusiasm.

“Get in there, Jack!” “Hit him back, Willie!” Whammity wham! After three or five minutes of this, Johnny Miller of Davidson, who was acting as umpire, called time, and the gloves were eagerly snatched by two other boys. Several bouts later, Miles Wood of the community house came out grinning and holding a basketball in his hands. “Throw me the ball, Mister!” shouted one of the boys, and the crowd moved on up to the basketball court. Miles took the boxing gloves to put them up and I followed him into the house.

“Miles,” I said, “I know this is the community center, but that’s about all I know. Just what, and why is this place?”

“Well,” said Miles, “back in 1939 the school kids here had no place to go from the time the school let out in the afternoon till the time their parents came home from work. So the Davidson Y used the 1939 gift fund to build this house, and then put the project under the trusteeship of the civic club.”

“Who runs it now?” I asked.

“It’s a part of the work of the community service department of the Davidson Y. I have a group of Davidson boys helping me, and we open five days a week. We operate with the permission of the civic club, and with the cooperation of Professor Poe of the negro school, Reverend Wells, Ralph Johnson, Kenneth Norton, and other members of the community council.”

“What is your work here? Do you try to train the boys or coach them any?”

“Well, often we do umpire or referee their games, play with them. Our purpose, though, is not to coach them, but to provide a place for them to play, and equipment to play with.”

“Yeah. But what activities do you have here?”

Miles gestured toward the boys playing outside. “Basketball, as you can see—and boxing. Football, softball, and sometimes volleyball. We've got a couple of ping pong tables now, and darts, and a few other indoor games.

“But you see, this house has to double as a cafeteria for the school. Professor Poe and the faculty have been swell in cooperating with us, but there is still a bit of inconvenience. The house closes as a cafeteria at two-thirty, and opens as a community center about three, which doesn't leave too much time for cleaning up the place. Then again, the building is small and the lunch tables crowd us considerably, so there's practically no room for indoor activities.”

“What about your playing fields?” I asked.

“Come with me, and I'll show you what about them,” Miles said. We walked out to the basketball court, where the boys were still playing.

“Golly!” I said, “those kids sure are enthusiastic! Look at ’em.”

“Yeah,” Miles answered, “it takes a good deal of enthusiasm to make up for the inadequacy of our equipment. The boys have to keep up the court themselves. You can see it’s kinda rough. Well, that’s not because they don’t do a good job of keeping it up; it’s because the (Continued on Page 4).

Mid-Winters Frolic Tonight

George Ennett Announces Reduction In Price Of Stag Tickets

By Bill Johnson

Davidson lads and lassies open the Mid-Winters festivities tonight at nine in the main ballroom of the fabulous Hotel Charlotte to the music of Dean Hudson and his Orchestra, if they can get in too. This formal fracas will be followed Saturday night by a semi-formal in the main auditorium of the Armory in Charlotte at eight and will gather momentum until midnight. Jeff “Bone” Jefferies, sterling leader of the Hellenic Council, specifically states that the latter dance is not to be in the basement of the Armory, but in the big auditorium upstairs.

Stag Tickets $5.00

Date tickets will be $6.50 for the set and $4.00 for one dance, whereas, according to the Council, stag tickets will be $5.00 and $3.00 respectively. Thanks for this generous act go to George Ennett, renowned financial wizard of the Council. All members of the Council and their dates as well as the various fraternity presidents and their dates will attend a banquet in the dining room of the Hotel William Bar- ringer, renowned for its proximity to the adjacent Bamboo Room. The affable Mr. Ennett, long famous for his wit and charm, is also to preside at the effete feast. According to this “Little Cash” Ennett, keeper-of-the-Council-cash par excellence, no flowers are to be given by other than members of the Pan-Hellenic Council for either dance. This declaration makes no profound change in Davidson precedent.

Figure Friday Night

The Pan-Hellenic Friday Night dance will be followed by a figure at the no-break of the fraternity dance for participants, these being fraternity presidents, representatives of the Pan-Hellenic Council and their respective respectable dates. No figure has been scheduled for the Saturday dance. Intermissions are to be held briefly near the middle of each of the dances.

Dean Hudson is noted as one of the best orchestras in the country for college dances. His previous appearances at Davidson and other schools about the state have been great successes with the various student bodies. Dean Hudson was a member of the Kappa Alpha Order at the University of Florida prior to the war and it was there that he assembled his orchestra. His vocalist, Frances Colwell, is also a native of Florida and one of the best singers in the south. The University of North Carolina German Club has engaged Hudson for their Mid-Winters Set next weekend.

Four “No-Breaks”

There will be four “no-breaks” during the course of each of the dances, these to be two on either side of the respective intermissions of the two dances. The majority of the various fraternities have slated individual functions for one of the two nights. Most of these deals will be in the form of formal banquets interspersed with stellar early morning breakfasts. Mr. James W. Jackson, inimitable prexy of the Kappa Alpha Order, a local organization of some small importance, will be in attendance at both dances of the set.