Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, October 31, 1947

The DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOB PHILLIPS

BUSINESS MANAGER
BOB CLINE

EDITORIAL STAFF
Sam Ervin - Associate Editor
Walter Walker - Associate Editor
MAC FIAT - Sports Editor
Walter Mann - Managing Editor
Bill Calhoun - Managing Editor
Ronny Dietrick - Managing Editor
Stan Kennett - Managing Editor
Bob Hollister - Exchange Editor
Jean Stewart - Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
John McNair - Assistant Business Manager
Charlie Reid - Advertising Manager
Frank Lemmon - Circulation Manager
Bill Baxter - Subscriptions Manager
Charles Dockery - Collections Manager
H. Fulton - Assistant Circulation Manager
Bob Knight - Assistant Subscription Manager
Charles Clinkscales - Assistant Advertising Manager
Wilkes Macauley - Assistant Advertising Manager
Bob Knight - Assistant Circulation Manager
Bill Keith - Assistant Circulation Manager
Charles Beam - Assistant Collections Manager

Advertising Staff
H. MacKethan, C. Faison, Bill Houck, Claude Higginbotham, D. Hayworth, Blaine Kelley, F. M. Pugh

Circulation Staff
S. H. Fulton, Alf. Duncan, Sam Davis, Boykin, Paul Gutherie, Bill Cassels, John Coble, Carl Jini Fisher, Bub Sims, Jimmy Rogers, Harry Powe.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year.

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Chapel Services Again...
What I have to say is offered not in the spirit of criticism or antagonism, but rather in the hope of presenting some improvement that will be to the satisfaction of the student body and for the good form of the college. Daily chapel exercises have long been a Davidson tradition lauded by students, faculty, and alumni. A moment's pause during a busy schedule is refreshing and beneficial; the opportunity of assembling together as a student group is worthy and satisfying. In order that the faculty and students might share in this tradition, the program schedule was divided into three groups: 1. Monday and Wednesday have been designated as faculty days; 2. Tuesday and Thursday as student days; 3. Friday as the Y.M.C.A. day. Faculty day might be further classified as a serious or thoughtful exercise—being either religious or secular in its nature. On these days student participation, both audience and presidential (i.e. announcements) should be limited. A marked emphasis on social decorum would be appropriate. Faculty members are due the respectful attention of us all during their discourse. The definition of loose as given in Webster’s is as follows: ‘Free; unattached—said especially of things ordinarily confined.’ I would describe student day as: ‘loose.’ At this time faculty participation should be limited if not abolished. This is a day of, for, and by the students; a day in which the student body might give vent to their emotions, humor, and school spirit; a day for the promotion of school solidarity. The Y.M.C.A. day should be observed in the spirit in which it is offered—be it religious, musical, or secular. In order that we might continue the observance of this important tradition in the spirit in which it was founded, a simple rule comes to mind, which if followed would immediately solve any problems in connection with the chapel exercises. This rule has been called the Golden Rule: ‘Whatsoever ye would that men should do unto you, do ye even so unto them.’ R. A. O.

(Editors Note: We regret the omission last week of the name of Ronnie Dietrick, contributor of the editorial, and of John T. Fesperman, who wrote the Letter to the Editor.)

Letters to the Editor...
Dear Editor:
As the school year opens countless students can be seen carrying among their luggage a set of golf clubs which they have brought to school at considerable trouble and expense. They are lured by promises of finding a modern and well-kept golf course adjacent to the college athletic fields. Little do they realize what small dividends they will receive from their trouble and expense. The course is neither modern nor well-kept. As one approaches the first tee (?) he is bewildered as to which direction to look for the fairway. To his delight directly in front of him are countless varieties of weeds intermingled with the local waste disposal system over which he must drive his ball in a professional manner if he expects to find it again. If by chance the ball does clear the aforementioned abyss, the golfer, standing in knee-deep saw-grass, addresses the ball for his approach shot. After hitting this shot he stands by and watches the ball gracefully drop on the green and then plummet off into space due to its contact with this concrete-like surface. After several of these experiences the golfer’s clubs go into the closet not to be used again. As the first hole is characteristic of the other eight no further description is necessary. During an off-the-record conversation with Bill Telford I learned that the ‘Stud’ was able to get certain of its golfing equipment because Davidson has a course. This type of equipment is only sold to pro shops located on golf courses. If our course was in such shape that it could be played with a reasonable degree of satisfaction, more golfers would gladly patronize the ‘Stud’ for their equipment, and new interest could be developed in this sport which can be played for the rest of one’s life. Davidson has spent several thousand dollars in order to provide adequate facilities for those who wish to play. They have those fast-drying courts for the tennis team and that is well and good. But they also have a golf course which could be turned into a very good and convenient place where others could find recreation. The following improvements could be made at a comparatively low cost from which untold benefits could be obtained: 1. Cut, and keep cut, the weeds and grass in the fairways. 2. Reduce to a minimum hazards not found on other courses, such as gullies. 3. Place on the green enough sand to keep them soft, and enable one to stop a ball on them. If these few and inexpensive improvements were made both students and faculty could renew their interest in golf, and the golf team would have a place to practice on those days when it is impossible for them to go to Charlotte. From last year’s record the golf team showed that it deserves recognition. We are looking forward to some action concerning this matter, and sincerely hope that the powers that be will take steps to eliminate this shortcoming here at Davidson.
Sincerely,
MORRIS NEWELL.

(Editor’s Note: The following letter is from Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman, until last year Professor of Bible and Philosophy at Davidson College. In it he wishes to express appreciation to the donors of a “going-away” gift for him.)

Dear Student Body:
When that very handsome suitcase arrived, as it chanced on my birthday, and I discovered where it came from, I wrote to Mr. Murphy Williams at once to thank him for his part in it and to inquire to whom I might write in the student body to express my thanks. He has just written me, and says that no one man can be singled out, that the summer school student body as a whole was responsible and, of course, they have now dispersed or been absorbed. But he suggested that I might write The Davidsonian and it might express my appreciation to the men for me. At all events you may tell all who are interested that the gift quite overwhelmed me, and that I shall long use and treasure it in memory of my many friends in the Davidson student body. It is a handsome and useful object in itself, but especially valuable for the spirit which prompted it. I have already made use of it, as you may imagine. We are settled now at home and at work, and while of course I shall always miss Davidson, still I find the work here challenging and the community and churches very friendly. With best wishes and thanks to you and all who shared in this generous gift, I am
Sincerely yours,
KENNETH J. FOREMAN.

Sam Sez...
By SAM ERVIN
Homecoming is with us once again. We've been looking forward to this gala holiday since mid-September, and now that it’s here we are all set to have one big time —and that's as it should be. However, before we start wheeling and dealing in all directions and devoting all of our time to our fair dates, let's think for a few moments about another important group which will be on the campus this weekend—the Davidson alumni. What does John C. Smith, Class of ‘21, expect to see when he returns to the campus? Naturally, one of his chief reasons for coming back to his old stamping grounds is to see the Red and Black Davidson take the field against the Keydets of V.M.I. In spite of an epidemic of injuries, the ‘Cats can be counted on to make him enjoy that phase of the activities. He also hopes to see old friends—classmates, professors, and others. He'll get a large kick out of recalling old events which he had almost forgotten until a familiar face caused him to remember vividly. Here again he will be well taken care of by our genial Mr. Payne who has a get-together planned at the show. The alumni will have ample opportunity to renew old acquaintances and swap yarns. Yet Davidson is noted for certain things and the alumni will be looking for them too.

KAPPA SIGMA
With just the corner, most of the dealers deployed to the far ends to gain final reassurance on dates. We don't know Brother Ike Coffee's exact status but after $36.25 in a telephone call to Florida which terminated with “I can’t hear you—will write you a letter,” it has become apparent the poor boy is troubled! Perhaps the matter whose troubles are the least is Brother Sutherland whose romping days now are definitely limited, and who is to end them with a wedding to the deep Vawter Steele sometime in December. Congratulations! Brother Ken Kennett dealt in a clover house party in South Carolina, chaperoned by Brother Lawson (Clover, South Carolina), the latter being thoroughly pleased with the feminine hunting grounds. What Bob “young” Scarborough, from price roommates!!! Brother Phillips from expecting a in the mountains is somewhere next week, though Montreat Junior High doesn’t officially get out ‘til Christmas. While Brother Bingham operated in the coal grounds of West Virginia, and who, incidentally, nearly caught the shaft when pushed towards the elevator,Fellow cohorts Waters and Jarrett dissipated in the Shenandoah Valley around Buena Vista. We know Mary Ackers and Ann, but how do Kitty and Martha fit in the picture? Other mountains were launched by Tete Pearson, Bucky Faw, and Van Covington. “Coach” Wilcox’s debauchery was somewhere in the fifth day after the weekend started, though this writing—he hasn’t returned.

PI KAPPA PHI

Last week's attraction—the wonderful banquet and dance thrown by the ADPi sorority for Pi Kapps—was enjoyed and appreciated by all concerned. They're still talking about it as one of the best social events of the year thus far. When bigger and better parties are given, they'll be given by Alpha Delta Pi; yes, love those ADPis.

Personalities of the Night: “The Lucy Follies,” starring Lucille and three talents Charlie and his about it. Out this way to create or to build up these “traditions” and see whether they will be observed. First of all, the campus decorations and the cheering at the game Saturday will help him to form his opinion of the Davidson spirit—'47 style. It is impossible to define this spirit, but when it’s present no one can miss it—when it isn’t, that too is obvious. However, with Jerry and the cheerleaders leading the yells, with the frat houses, the dorms, and every other building bedecked with crepe paper and signs, and with the student body wholeheartedly pulling for a Wildcat victory, we cannot fail to live up to their expectations and hopes—in that particular department.

Davidson is also famous for the friendliness of its students, and it is here that we may create a false impression. No one, least of all the alumni, expects you to desert your date and cater to them. They do, however, expect you to come down out of the clouds to speak to them on the campus, and to get up to greet them when they enter the fraternity houses. Sure, these are little things, matters of simple courtesy, but when they are forgotten hurt feelings result. Admittedly, we have a minor role to play, but if we fail to speak our welcome to the alumni, we do much to ruin the impression that Davidson hasn't changed much after all.

Al Long, the hilarious Miss one-finger antics making faces... Mature Hepeats Cassels and Cloer Louie on the 88 McGehee loved Bralmatucbra sna: Riggers and Cline waving to everybody. Billy Houck and J. Parringer spent a quiet weekend over at Rock Hill with the Winthropites, who gave forth with a fine session of swing and dance. Both lads were all smiles this weekend, thus this column won't be so long this week, but we promise further developments to come. White and his personality (Stude. Convyt.) go forth to wheel.

Hero of the Week: “LOVER BOY” ROBERTSON, who finally got his picture and caption in the paper. All week long Win. has been trying to attract attention some way. Just the other day he dived off the top of the pine tree in front of the house into a damp cloth, spraining his eyebrow. But you got it at last, LOVER BOY. We knew you were potentially able.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

This past weekend’s activities were quite numerous, but with Homecoming almost here they are overshadowed by what is anticipated. We might, however, take time out to mention just a few. We understand that J.-Y. Scruggs has already begun his diplomatic career. This past weekend he was found trying to stabilize the international currency situation while dating the daughter of the president of the Bank of Shanghai. Incidentally, he brushed up on his Oriental History course at the same time.

“Fearless Fred” wants it known that he was not in the least pleased with the dubious honor of being called Charles in the last edition of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Claude, which is the given name by which he was christened, sounds much more dignified. Lone Wolf Lamar sneaked down to Charleston this past weekend. It's all a deep dark secret as to just what went on down there.

(Continued on Page Eight)

Welcome Back Alumni

To the ever faithful alumni, who year after year return to watch the Wildcats at Homecoming, we give you a hearty welcome. Your correspondent feels that you will find little if anything changed. Same old Wildcats. Same old operations. The names are new, but the deals and operations covered below are essentially equal in magnitude to those pulled when you were a member of this same student body.

Davidson vs. Washington & Lee

Many of the students roared up to Lexington this past weekend to witness one of the greatest tragedies since Pearl Harbor, receiving little in return for their efforts at trying to support the team. Most of those attending the game were OUT-HOUSE JOHN ASHMORE and MAYOR BANTER, who seem to spend most of their weekends in the fair state of Virginia. It is understood that the atmosphere of both Charlottesville and Lexington has something to do with their frequent forays into the Old Dominion.

Davidson Bowl Bound???

Rumors have been rife this week that the present aggregation of the Wildcats may be bound for a bowl. Your correspondent has taken considerable time and trouble to get a consensus of opinion from several of this year’s luminaries. L. ZUMBRENNEN, WARE, and VOLIS all say, “What bowl!” PROF. THOMPSON says, “My most interesting experience was teaching in a girl's school,” referring to his time at Connecticut College for Women and Mary Baldwin College in Virginia. Prof. Thompson was graduated from Williams College in New England, a college much like Davidson. He earned his Master’s degree there, also, later doing graduate work and teaching at Harvard from 1936-1942. Prof. Thompson returned to Harvard on a fellowship in 1945, being on leave from Davidson. A chess enthusiast, Prof. Thompson is looking for some competition in the community. Another interest outside his work is a stamp collection. Professor Thompson came to Davidson in 1942. He has two sons.

Paging the Professors...

Operating Table... “Doubtless the Bloody EMIL CAILLET, “I should prefer the Otts Bowl!” which goes to prove that come New Year's Day we all expect to be in some bowl.

Here and There

WALTER MANN and JOHN B. GALLENT, following a small night of frivolity in Charlotte, managed to smash in the front fender of MR. ROBERT PHILLIP’S auto en route to Davidson. It is understood that Mr. SANDY CARNEGIE is definitely “booking in” with MR. HENGEVELD'S office staff (or at least the major part of it). A new love affair has sprung up in our very midst. COUSIN GEORGE MACKIE GRIMBALL and SWEET JIMMY GRIBBEN were seen making eyes at each other during the course of vespers this past Sunday. Shocking to say the least.

CAROLYN COLE, admirer of POG ON BN FRENCH, has been seen swooshing about the campus in what appears to be at a glance, “The Golden Meteor.” Dye, ID, Colmery Sutton of The Carolina Med School has just sent word that if his section continues at its present rapid rate he shall be able to send HAIRLESS DICK OGLESBY what he loves most. The BETA CHOIR will entertain during the halftime at Homecoming. A program of classical and sacred music has been arranged by the director, DR. ALVIN SCARBOROUGH FITZHUGH REIT. Too horrible a person to do more than just mention is TRADER ARCHER, who was on campus.

(Continued On Page Six)

DR. GUERRANT

Dr. Guerrant came a long way to college. He is a native of California and a graduate of Davidson. After graduation, Professor Guerrant went to the University of Southern California where he earned his doctorate. He also taught at the California Institute of Technology. Outside of teaching and going to school, Dr. Guerrant worked with the State Department, being located in Washington. At present, Professor Guerrant spends most of his time writing a book, the subject of which is “the Latin-American policy of the Franklin D. Roosevelt administration.” He expects the book to be completed within the next few months. Dr. Guerrant, father of two daughters, finds his work prevents his pursuit of two hobbies, fishing and tennis.

Think It Over

Dormitories

Congratulations Mrs. Little, Mr. Jackson, and whoever else contributed to the wonderful face-lifting our dormitories have received since last spring. Last year they were almost atrocious. This fall we find what fresh paint, colorful curtains, and a woman's touch can do for a row of drab, dirty, unlovely old buildings. On behalf of everyone who lives in the dorms, let thanks be given for making our rooms here look more like our homes. They’re so much more livable and attractive now. It's up to us now to keep them this way, clean and homelike. Of course, we hope this won't be the last coat of paint ever to be placed on these walls, but it can’t be done every year. If these halls are not soon to return to their former state, we must take responsibility for their care.

While we're saluting dorm reformers, a few suggestions are respectfully offered.

Electric Plugs

About the most unsightly feature of the rooms (now unavoidable) is the maze of electric wires strung about the ceilings, and often not that high. Some students live in daily danger of hanging themselves on these beautiful decorations. The natural answer to the problem is floor sockets and wall sockets for us to plug reading lamps, radios, and other attachments into. Then too (less important) we could get rid of the ancient drop cords and use simple ceiling bulb fixtures with wall switches. Of course, to re-wire five whole dormitories will cost money, but then we just won our case in Charlotte, didn't we? Let's rid our ceilings of these entangling appliances.

Reformation Day

430 years ago Friday, October 31, Martin Luther posted his 95 points of protest on the door of a Wittenberg church. There followed a movement for which we today can surely be thankful. Those Christians threw off the tyranny and religious fascism of a dictator church, for the freedom and constitutional authority of the Bible. If we think we have no reason to be grateful on Reformation Day, we should look at those countries... 

(Continued On Page Six)