Page Six ~ THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, October 17, 1947

ODE HONORS SIX
(Continued From Page One)

Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and a member of the student council.

JIM PITTMAN
Jim Pittman, who hails from Orlando, Florida, entered as a Freshman in the Spring of 1945, during which he was
a member of the Glee Club. As a Sophomore, Pittman was secretary of his class and worked on THE DAVIDSONIAN
staff. During the year 1946-47, he was vice-president of the student body; also vice-president of the Philanthropic Literary Society. At
present, Pittman is a member of the Y.M.C.A. cabinet, the Y.M.C.A. Board of Control, and the Student Council. For the
past two years, he has received the Agnes Sentelle Award. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.

JERRY ROBINSON
Jerry Robinson, from Wilmington, N. C., enrolled as a Davidson Freshman in September, 1941. He left in May, '42 with
the Enlisted Reserve Corps and served with the 34th Infantry Division in North Africa and Italy. Returning to Davidson in
February, 1946 as a Junior, Robinson is at present a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society, the Beaver Club, and
the Pan-Hellenic Council. He was one of the Junior representatives on the Student Council in 1946 and is a Senior
representative this year. Robinson is also a member of the "D" Club (tennis, 1943), and head cheerleader for the current
year. He is a brother of the Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity.

LEE WILLINGHAM
Lee Willingham, a native of Augusta, Georgia, entered Davidson in September, 1945, as a Sophomore. During his Junior year, he
was elected second vice-president of the student body. Also in the year 1946-47, Willingham became a member of the Y.M.C.A.
cabinet, won a Varsity D in track, and served as president of the Glee Club. At present, Willingham is out
for the Cross Country track team. He is a member of Phi Mu Alpha, honorary music fraternity, and president of
Westminster Fellowship. He is a member of the Student Council and Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.

BOB STRICKLAND
Bob Strickland, from Atlanta, Georgia, first came to Davidson in the Fall of 1944. As a Sophomore, Strickland was secretary
and treasurer of the student body, a major in the ROTC, and a member of the Court of Control. During
his Junior year, he was president of the Sigma Delta Pi honorary Spanish Fraternity, the Beaver Club, and the D
Club. Strickland has played football during the four years he has been at Davidson—the last two years with the Varsity.
As a Junior, he was also president of his class. At present, Strickland is judge of the Court of Control,
a member of the Student Council, and president of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

CINEMA COMMENTS
(Continued From Page Two)

From these figures, it seems that the picture cannot quite come up to the rating of the best pictures of
the year; in fact, its rating on this basis would have to be “fair.” Lucille Bremer and James Craig are
presented in this M-G-M production.

Friday and Saturday, October 24 and 25
“THE HUCKSTERS”
Anyone who has been forced at some time or another to listen to the melodramatic advertisements of the big soap
companies will perhaps appreciate the humor (if humor there be) in this picture. “The Hucksters” is a burlesque of the
current advertising methods, especially those methods as related to soaps. This picture not only presents a satire on advertising but
it also does some advertising of its own. Or, better still, it might be said that it introduces a new
product. The new talents which are placed before us for inspection are those of Deborah Kerr. Also, Mr. G strings
along (in the shadow of Sidney Greenstreet). Ava Gardner turns in a good performance as a night club singer who
makes a very good impression on Gable, the only trouble being the impression is not deep enough to last. There
are other numerous characters running around loose at different times. Some of them are knitted into a fairly compact whole,
while others are looser.

MASQUERS BEGIN FIRST PRODUCTION
Last week, the Red and Black Masquers, the honorary dramatic organization, began rehearsals for their fall production under the direction
of Frank Lowe. The play to be presented will be the Broadway and motion picture hit, “Our Town,” by Thornton
Wilder. In order to provide background and mood setting for this play, special music has been written by Professor John
Haldene of the Music Department of Davidson College. A graduate of the Eastman School of Music, Prof. Haldene won first
prize in the North Carolina Federation of Music Clubs contest last year for his musical compositions. He is at present
working on a sonata for French horn and orchestra. Prof. Haldene’s music will be performed by the Queens-Davidson Symphony Orchestra
under the direction of James Christian Pfohl. Also to be featured in this production are special sound effects which have
already been ordered from New York. The exact date for this presentation has not yet been definitely set, but it
will in all probability be early in December. This play, as formerly announced, will run for two consecutive nights instead
of the usual one.

AMONG THE GREEKS
(Continued From Page Two)

PHI DELTA THETA
Due to that damp wet weather, Brother Cameron wrecked his new car Saturday night before the game but wasn’t hurt.
Naked Sam gave him all the dope on how to collect insurance. A bunch of the brothers went to the
game—Brothers McLean, Tate, Newell, Brinegar, Hills, Knight, Turnipseed, and Pledge Ray. Mebane, Miller, Hollister, and Campbell had dates. They were
spending money rather freely so probably they weren’t flat busted. Brother Cobb went to Durham, Wilkins to Gastonia, Pledge Brother
Pritchett to Charlottesville, and Brother Jack Wheelis went to Rockingham. On the way back, Wheelis sat next to a nurse
on the bus who fascinated him with the following story: Edna, a friend of the nurse, swallowed her watch and
passed the time away looking up her aunt who had an alarm clock. At the reception, there were several brothers:
Brownson, Willingham, Smith, Witherspoon, etc. Various other brothers and pledges did unprecedented deeds but lack of space and censorship forbids
publication. Due to a loophole in new regulations, we were allowed to have the pledges attend a feed Sunday night
where they even ate. It was good to meet them again, but boy! what class solidarity!!

KAPPA ALPHA
Despite the swampy field Saturday night, the KA cheering section was not bogged down at all with practically the whole
chapter seated together. Jack Hazard was seen at least twice over the weekend with the same girl. What's her name,
Jack? Unable to crash through center, Brother Stokes scored around end with a Queen's frosh running interference.THE PUBLIC: Our Collegiate
DAVIDSON, N. C. freshmen. Tomorrow with the Kappa Sigs. The winners will have their “bowl game” be “dessert-ed,” if not
sooner. Bill Byrd continues to duplicate the Pledge Boy. Ward continues to burn up the asphalt between here and Rock
Hill. Ed West was faced with a problem while “Little Bone” Jeffries was recuperating from a stay in the hospital,
an encompassing KAPPA-SIGMA. The “big meets” started wheeling this week, naturally. The corner by Saturday morning, the few that had
to be early, as usual, was vacated. His house on the corner was well satisfied with being “little beans,” made
plans for bigger and better times at early dates. Ham Faw, Big grass planting detail easy by relating weekend events.
Cheryl Wilcox proved quite ingenious in his method of using a mug to sow the seed. Brother Covington, Freeman, Faw,
and others made plans. The “Thin Man” turned sideways in Charlotte Saturday and hasn't been seen since. “Mouse” wishes he
could do the same. Dum-Dun stands witness to the slaughter while Brother Medford watched the State-Clemson fracas. Stan and the
Bulldog took in some sights at Charlottesville. Pledge Scott McFadyen went to his sister's wedding in Fayetteville, while John Wall
lost his pin somewhere. At any rate, John and L. Keesler have given their roommate, Brother Edwards, fair warning that
he'd have one month to join the ranks of the “penned.” Pledge “Tyke” Ellis did himself proud by going down
to Agnes Scott. Pledge Truelove lived up to his name by frequently visiting Flora at Queens. “Mike” Williams was able
to scare up a date Sunday afternoon, and Charlie Miller took the customary jaunt to Gaffney in fine style.

PHI GAMMA DELTA: It will be of interest to all to know that “Mabel” is well on her way to
recovery after her sick spell. “Mabel,” for those who don't know any better, is Brother Davis's 1947 (misprint: should read
"1927") Packard. Dean Baily recently flattered her by calling her a CAR! Everyone wonders what Brother Moneyhan will do to
pass his time since the Clippers hit the skids. Maybe he can study or coach football or teach phys ed
or something. Brother Hudnell desires it to be known that his car is available to go anywhere at any time,
good Samaritan that he is. Of course, it will cost you and DON'T slam the doors! We should all bless
Brother Hudnell’s stingy little heart. Speaking of cars, Brother Jim Poak says it’s possible to go from the stadium to
Queens in 16 seconds if you have a Pontiac and if the coat of paint isn’t too thick.

THINK IT OVER (Continued From Page Two): Congratulations, but also our respectfully offered suggestion that the majority of the student
body, NOT including those who served in the Armed Forces, very obviously do favor THINK IT OVER, SAVE FOOD. It
is hoped that the various dining halls and boarding houses will cooperate with President Truman's campaign to save food. Meatless
Tuesday and poultryless Thursday are but an attempt to wage war on starvation abroad and inflation at home. If terrible
famine grips the world this winter and we do not help, the starving millions will be ripe for another war.
It's to our advantage to ward off such a cancerous condition. If prices continue to rise in America, we will
have a great economic crash, and depression will find us all eating less and harder pressed. It is to our
advantage as well as our Christian duty to cooperate 100 percent. To do otherwise would be selfish, near-sighted, and neither
good business nor good Christianity. Prices will continue to rise as long as we are suckers enough to pay them.
THINK IT OVER.

MEZA HEADS YMCA (Continued From Page One): This is the aim of these organizations. Above all, personal devotionals are to
be emphasized because every man should see the need for some fellowship with God. Literature and signs have been placed
in each room to aid students in this practice. Some students like to start each day with a devotional in
order to give them spiritual strength throughout the day. For students desiring, a devotional before breakfast each day has been
proposed. All who think this would be an asset to the spiritual life of the campus are encouraged to let
it be known by discussing the matter with Herb Meza or some other member of the “Y” cabinet. We would
like to hear your opinions on this or any other matter pertaining to the religious life of Davidson. Every student
should get to know his hall prayer leader and give him all the support possible. These boys are doing a
fine job and are to be commended for it. However, they need your help and cooperation in order to make
hall prayer meetings a success. The organization system has been slightly altered this year in that a leader has been
assigned to each dormitory to act as a sort of supervisor of the hall leaders in his dormitory.

KITTEN-CATAWBA (Continued From Page Four): Wood runs well and is dead as a pass receiver. The jayvees have a varied
razzle-dazzle pass offense that should be potent in the scoring column. With Kelton and Patterson chunking them and Pete Brown,
Bob Kester, Charlie Baldwin, and the Leach Brothers to drag them in, the kittens will have some good aerial shows.

QUEENS OPEN HOUSE (Continued From Page Three): After an hour happily spent on the dance floor, each guest was led
to a mammoth punch bowl full of only the purest nectars (not that notorious concoction which on a former occasion
caused several pre-ministerial students to reel slightly). When he had partaken fully of this punch and of the numerous other
delicacies offered him, each Davidson student bid his lady friend of the evening a fond good night and wended his
blissful way back to the campus.

CATS EDGE WOFFORD (Continued From Page Four): The Palmetto boys’ 3 and out rushed the losers 103 to 3. The
aerial-minded locals connected for 14 of 16 tries and 13 yards while the visitors could only hit for 1 in
11 attempts for 15 yards. The game was one of the best played so far as penalties went. Several of
the linemen suffered bad lime burns because of poor liming of the field aided by the rain. The Cats were
set back 25 yards while the Terriers lost 30 to the referee.

Stonestreet’s Cafe
O. C. STONESTREET, Mar.
“The Sensible Place to Eat”
418 S. Main St.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
Phone 132

PASTEURIZED GRADE “A” MILK
Mooresville Co-Operative Creamery
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
MAKERS OF Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.

“CALL MY FRIENDS IS MY BRAND”
STAR OF COLUMBIA’S TECHNICOLOR PRODUCTION “DOWN TO EARTH”
ALWAYS MILDER CHESTERFIELD
BETTER TASTING COOLER SMOKING
Chesterfield
© 1947, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
