Page Two 7 The DAVIDSONIAN } Founded by the Class of 1915 “FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON” PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

BOB PHILLIPS - EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOB CLINE - Associnte Editor

EDITORIAL STAFF
Sam Ervin - Managing Editor
Walter Walker - Managing Editor
Mac Hart - Managing Editor
Walter Mann - Managing Editor
Bill Calhoun - Exchange Editor
Ronny Dietrick - Staff Photographer
Lee Stan Kennett - Staff Member
Charles Chuckingham - Staff Member
Bob Hollister - Staff Member
Jean Stewart - Staff Member

BUSINESS STAFF
John McNair - Business Manager
Charlie Reid - Assistant Business Manager
Frank Lemmon - Assistant Business Manager
Bill Baxter - Advertising Manager
Charles Dockery - Circulation Manager
H. Fulton - Asst. Circulation Manager
Bob Knight - Asst. Subscription Manager
Charles Clinkscales - Assistant Advertising Manager
Wilkes Macauley - Assistant Advertising Manager
Bob Knight - Assistant Circulation Manager
Bill Keith - Assistant Circulation Manager
Charles Beam - Assistant Collections Manager

Advertising Staff
Ho MacKethan, Faison, Pil Rouek, Claude Higginbotham, D. Hayworth, Blaine Kelley, P.M. Purnell, Gene Taylor.

Circulation Staff
S. H. Fulton, Alf. Duncan, Sam Davie, Paul Guthery, Bob Sims, Hunter Boykin, Herman, Jim Fisher, Bill Caseele, Jimmy Rogers,
John Coble, Carl Barry Pow.

EDITORIALS
Sam Sez . . LETTERS TO THE DAVIDSONIAN
FEATURES By SAM ERVIN

Now that the smoke has cleared away and “Dangerous Dick” Oglesby has returned his shootin’ irons to their holsters, it
seems only fair that someone should say a few words of comfort (yes, perhaps even of praise) at the bedside
of his sorely wounded adversary, the Pan Hellenic Council. Admittedly, Brother Oglesby's blast was in many respects quite justifiable, but
I believe that a few things might also be said in favor of Davidson's “nine old men” and their new-fangled
rushing system.

Before I wander too far into “no man's land” I want to state that I agree wholeheartedly with Dick on
a number of points. I feel that much of his criticism was well taken, and I certainly do not intend
to attempt to defend the action of the Pan Hel. However, I won't go as far as to flatly declare
that the new scheme is invaluable and fit only to be tossed into the nearest available wastebasket.

Any new plan, when put into practical use for the first time, will appear to have certain flaws. The thing
to do when its bent is not to abandon it after its baptism of fire, but to first list its
defects and look for remedies. If the flaws are too numerous and the solutions are not practical by all means
discard it, but not before then.

What were some of the most obvious faults? Without a doubt, illegal rushing exists under any system and can be
combatted only by an enlightened Freshman class and a courageous council. (As Dick said this can be accomplished without painting
the upperclassmen as the villains of the piece.) The hard feelings which arose as a result of conflicting and split
dates might be avoided by the establishment of a clearing house where all scheduled dates could be compared prior to
rush week and where all split dates could be arranged under the watchful eye of the Pan Hel. Much of
the confusion (which was all too apparent at times on the circle) could be done away with if the representatives
of the Council would see to it that the current regulations were made known to all concerned prior to the
opening of “hostilities.” A little more honest-to-goodness cooperation on the part of all might help, also.

As you've gathered by now, I don't intend to take a stand with either side on this subject. I do
believe that we should, however, give this plan careful consideration before we decide about next year. Perhaps we can do
it in group discussions, perhaps we'll have to give it another test run (with modifications) in September '48, or perhaps
there are other more suitable solutions.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATE . . . Ten cents per copy. $3.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Member of the Associated Collegiate Press
Collegiate Digest
Distributor of the

The 100 percent consensus of opinion is that the job is being conducted nobly. As Robinson Goes, So Goes Davidson.

As a rule, the only personages to whom entire editorials are devoted are those who have left behind them admirable
records for us to acclaim and eulogize. With complete disregard for such journalistic rule, however, the following lines will be
devoted to one of the very livest campus entities—Jewell Stacey Robinson, known to some as “Jerry,” to others as “Wart,”
but recognized by all as “Mr. Cheerleader.”

Back in 1942, the last “near-normal year,” before war and a subsequent enlarged enrollment changed much of that which was
Davidson, the little college of less than seven hundred souls was known far and wide for its school loyalty and
spirit.

When Davidson opened its gates wide again for the fall of 1946, it received not just the prewar six-hundred plus,
but suddenly found itself swamped as the enrollment mushroomed to near the thousand mark. It was reasonable to assume that
the school spirit would be directly proportional to the number of students, but such was not the case in the
scholastic year of 1946-47. There was a spirit, to be sure, but more figurative than literal, for it was a
ghost of its former self—not the fiery, indomitable Davidson spirit.

Last year there was sufficient timber to start an adequate fire within the student body, but the spark was never
set off. This year the lovers of “old Davidson” prayed for that igniter; their prayers were answered, and loud, not
in the form of the spark, but as a veritable blow-torch!

Once again the campus rings loudly and sincerely with “Oh, Davidson, you are the best,” yelled by students who are
fiercely proud of their alma mater—win, lose or draw. And all this overnight rejuvenation of spirit is due largely to
the efforts of little Jerry Robinson.

From the very first pep meeting when the stumpy war veteran boomed through his megaphone, “What's the matter with you
fellows—ya dead?” Jerry has had the students eating from his hands, and he’s fed them on strictly Wildcat diet. Not
only has Jerry succeeded completely in organizing the student body as a terrific cheering unit; he has spent hours perfecting
tricks and novel acts for chapel and playing field. In short, he has taken as his personal responsibility the Davidson
spirit.

Jerry, here's a hand!satisfactory ways. The medium is not important, but it is vital that we do not break our
test tubes and brand the experiment a failure without first trying to analyze it. I, for one, am convinced that
the Pan Hel's failure will have a significant impact.

Operating Table
To say that the past week and its end was a wild one would be an understatement—it was a dilly!
We shall do our best to give briefly the outstanding events in the following:

“LUELLDOG” LAWSON saying, "I broke my finger playing football.” Late but new: This summer a frat brother received the following
on a postcard from JIM LAND!—All plucked plums have been. Someone alluded to ROB “JACKIE” STROUP as being the kind
of fellow who wants to have his own cake and somebody else's cookie too! Hazel Hahn informs us that BIG
JIM SISKE makes her every night forget the night before. LOR LITTLE cutting a path through the Cedars with Selene
FRENCH: “Having a wonderful time; wish I could afford it.” HERBIE MILLER, “The Brazen Brahman,” discovered his Ivory Tower crumbling
when his writings were censored. “WHISKEY” DOUG SWINK overhead chuckling, “He who laughs last laughs best.” BILL “THE HAT” LAWRENCE
delivered in his vivid Sunday-go-to-meeting attire. Parker, the Hubba-Hubba Machine: “Last night,” claims “BALDY” JOE BRACHMAN, “I saw a rich
witch riding on a vacuum cleaner!” RANDY ENSIGN bolstering his nerve in the Koo Room in order to face “da
Davidshun sheer shecksun.” POTTS CAMERON tottering forth from the cedar grove muttering, “All that ginger ale and all those glasses
and NO ICE!” JIM PITTMAN still speaking to everyone. BILL T. PAGE JACKSON after a BIG Saturday night date has
for his storm tire phrase, “You scratch my back, and I'll scratch yours.” WILLIAM “THE CANARY” SUTHERLAND is doing what
he can to eliminate CHICK NEILIS' dog—the one he gave to Vawter Steel—it's hopeless—you're barking up the wrong tree, Sutherland.
“HAIRY” DICK OGLESBY, while thumbing through a wad of three one-dollar bills mused, “I'm loaded tonight.” GEORGE “DUM DUM” ENNETT
went to bed at 11:30 P.M. with a clear head.

Paging the Professors
By Stan Kennett

PROFESSOR GREET
It seems that newcomers to Davidson, as well as the old-timers, appreciate the spirit which prevails on the campus. Surely
this should add incentive to the Davidson student body to keep up its traditional atmosphere. Professor Greet, who came to
Davidson this year from recent graduation at Duke, states that the “esprit de corps” here is amazing, and that the
friendliness on the campus is one of the factors which makes him want to be back at Davidson after a
weekend away. Though he suspects that Coach Wade would not appreciate saying so, Professor Greet says that Davidson football teams
seem to “have fun” playing football. After three years in the Army Ordnance Corps, Professor Greet returned to Duke where
he did some work with the literary magazine, ARCHIVES. He is quite interested in creative writing and plans to go
ahead to do graduate work at the University of Iowa in that field. In connection with this activity, the professor
says his hobby is collecting rejection slips from writings submitted for publication. Also, Professor Greet is at present contemplating writing
a movie. Among his hobbies and pastimes, this new member of the faculty enjoys hiking, swimming, and target shooting, except
with an Enfield. He relates an incident of his glasses being smashed when the bolt of an Enfield went berserk
and tells that one of the most impressionable incidents of his life was when a professor “bawled him out.” It
was then that his real thinking began. He promises that he may do that favor for some Davidson student this
year.

PROFESSOR ANDERSON
“There is a noticeable absence of chewing gum in the classrooms at Davidson,” was one of his answers when Professor
Anderson was questioned concerning his observations of Davidson. Professor Anderson came to Davidson this year from Winthrop College in South
Carolina. He is a professor of sociology and psychology. In preparation for his work, Professor Anderson did undergraduate study at
Saint John’s College at Annapolis with graduate work at New York University. He is a native of New York but
has been in the West and South. In 1939 he was at Asheville Teacher’s College where he met his wife.
Before going to Winthrop, Professor Anderson was at Westminster College in Salt Lake City, Utah. He also was with the
War Department at a station in Ogden, Utah. Having recently started gardening, Professor Anderson is proud of a “batch” of
turnip greens which are quite promising. In addition to cultivating Mother Earth, Professor Anderson is interested in wood working, coin
collecting, and early American furniture.

Think It Over
By MALLOY OWEN

CHAPEL
It has been the custom and policy of Davidson to require attendance at mid-morning Chapel exercises five days a week
for many years. It is our opinion that those who established this practice, as well as those responsible for its
continuance, used and are using wisdom. Surely it is in keeping with the Christian attitude of the type of student
Davidson wants to set apart a time early in the day for the reading of the Scriptures and prayer, led
by professors, students, or guests. Furthermore, we believe it to be a source of relaxation as well as inspiration, as
the traditional “audience participation” gives everyone a laugh. Coming in the midst of our morning classes is a welcomed break,
to say nothing of its giving our student body a sense of solidarity (a happy advantage of small colleges). However,
we believe certain minor adjustments would make this D. C. tradition more effective. Therefore, the following suggestions are respectfully offered.

INTRODUCE PROFESSORS
We wonder if those in charge realize that a majority of the student body does not know a majority of
the faculty, and that many students want to know who is speaking in Chapel. Davidson once had only 650 students.
Today she has nearly a thousand, and the faculty has increased proportionately. This is a new mission for chapel—let the
students meet the professors they do not know. Furthermore, is it not a courtesy due any speaker and (Continued on
Page Five)
