PORTSCOPE
By SAM ERVIN

Now that the coming Southern Conference Basketball Tournament is a major topic of conversation around the campus, one hears numerous
comments, printable and otherwise, concerning the methods used to select the eight teams that compete in the annual event. It
is common knowledge that the won-lost records of the 16 contenders play an important part in determining which schools will
be represented. However, the majority of the cage fans are convinced that this is the only basis for the choices.
With this belief in mind, it’s easy to understand why Mr. Average Fan has been rather free with his criticism.
The chief objection seems to be that several teams have neglected to tangle with many leading quintets and that they
as a result have better records than some other clubs who faced a larger number of the pace setters. No
one could quarrel with this line of argument if it were true that the league officials did not take the
quality of each team’s opponents, etc., into consideration before they make selections. Actually, a little-known device has been used to
prevent this and other more obvious inequalities from keeping the strongest teams out of the tourney upon several occasions.

When the Tournament Committee, composed of Eddie Cameron (Duke), J. L. Von Glahn (North Carolina State), “Monk” Younger (Virginia Tech),
and Norman Shepard (Davidson), meets in Raleigh on March 2 to name the 47 contenders, their final decision will be
based on two things. The first, and by far the most important factor is, of course, the actual wins and
losses acquired during the regular season, but great emphasis will also be placed upon the rating sheets submitted by the
loop’s sixteen cage coaches. These sheets will contain lists, compiled by the individual mentors, of the ten teams which they
consider to be the class of the league. The ratings will be based on 1—team’s percentages of victories; 2—teams’ game
performances and 3—strength and number of teams’ opponents. Although there is no specific requirement that a team must play a
certain number of games before it becomes eligible for tournament participation, this method forces the various colleges to schedule contests
with clubs of all calibers. Only last season Furman with 7 wins in 11 starts was not invited because 4
of its games were with the same opponent.

As we go to press only State, North Carolina, Duke, and South Carolina are definitely assured of berths for the
Durham festivities. Two other cage crews, George Washington and Maryland, should have little trouble in earning invites during the week
by whipping two of the loop’s cellar-dwelling aggregations, the Citadel and V.M.I. The Univ. of Richmond will probably lose its
only remaining game to Wake Forest but this should not prevent the Virginians from receiving a bid. With the Deacs,
Washington and Lee, Davidson, and William and Mary still in the race, interest is centered on the struggle for the
eighth slot, the outcome of which should be all but determined (on a percentage basis, at least) by the time
that this column appears. From this corner, it seems that the Generals have the inside track for they should easily
defeat V.P.I. and William and Mary. The Indians, however, scalped the lads from Lexington last week, and should this happen
again the Deacons could sew up the invitation by upsetting Duke. The Wildcats' only chance to enter the select circle
lies in a victory over Furman, coupled with twin losses for both Wake Forest and W&L. William & Mary’s possibilities
are even more remote. Although on the surface there seem to be no major schedule discrepancies this season, it isn’t
wise to bet your shirt on any eight clubs until the official list is made public, for as was pointed
out above actual won-lost records are not all-important. There is also the possibility that more than eight teams may be
invited. This hasn’t happened in quite a while but if there was ever a time when such action was warranted,
it’s now.

CAROLINA ST. MOORESVILLE N. C. Telephone No. 75 Telephone No. 405

Friday & Saturday
Van Johnson
“Truth About Murder”
Bonita Granville

SATURDAY
“Santa Fe Uprising”
“The Beauty and The Bandit”
— and —
“FIGHTING FURY”

MON - TUE
June Preisser
“Vacation Days”

WED. and THUR.
“Nobody Lives Forever”
“Rhythm”
John Garfield
Errol Flynn
“Magnificent Rogue”
Johnny Weissmuller

Wildcat Sports
CAT’S SET FOR PALADINS AND MAROONS
Friday, February 28, 1947
THE DAVIDSONIAN Page 3

Basketeers Whip Tigers Fall Before State, UNC

The Wildcats came through last week's crop of contests with a one-sided victory of sweet revenge over Clemson and two
narrow defeats at the hands of U.N.C. and N.C. State.

Dillon Hot
It was only a last-minute spurt led by All-America John (The Hook) Dillon that tripped the Cats in their Tuesday
encounter with the White Phantoms. With the score standing at 35-33 for the Phants and only a few minutes left,
Coach Tom Scott pulled his ace off the bench and sent him in to his favorite spot under the basket.
From here his hook clawed the Cats for eight points in less than four minutes and the needed margin for
victory. Whit Cobb and Mike Williams led a desperate attack to close the gap but it wasn’t enough as Bob
Paxton and Tom Hamilton protected “The Hook's” lead. It was a rough and tumble affair all the way down to
the wire. Co-Captain George Peters, ace forward who led Cat scoring with 12 points, suffered a slight eye injury in
a collision with Hamilton late in the fourth period. Mike Williams posted 10 markers to follow Peters in the scoring
department. Besides his 10 points, Mike turned in a brilliant floor game. With Male Earp, he turned in a superb
performance of checking big Nemo Nearman under the loop.

Cats Get Even
It was sweet revenge for Coach Norm Shepard’s boys Thursday as they pinned a severe 86-48 trouncing on the lowly
Tigers. The Cats swallowed a bitter pill in Clemson last week when they took a 57-58 drubbing at the hands
of the Tigers. Coach Shepard used every man on the bench in the rout of the Cadets from the Palmetto
state. It was Davidson's game from the start as they jumped to a quick 5-1 lead and held a 48-17
advantage at intermission. Buddy Cheek led the parade with six fielders and four free throws for 16 points. Ed White
and Male Earp each poured in 14 markers, White’s coming on 5 from the field and 4 from the charity
line, Male Earp’s from 7 under the bucket. Mike Williams rang the register for 12 and Jake Ashmore hit for
ten to round off the Cats in the double-digit column.

State Wins Again
The win pushed the Cats to a .500 mark for their family average, but this was short-lived as State’s Hoosier
Hot Shots handed them a 65-56 lacing in Raleigh Saturday night. The big Red Terrors never had the game on
ice till the closing minutes as the fighting Wildcats battled tooth and nail all the way. Little Ed Waite split
the chords 5 times from the floor and added 6 charity tosses to pace the Cats with 16 points. George
Peters slipped in 5 fielders also but hit the free line only thrice to post 15 points. Buddy Cheek followed
with 4 from the floor and 2 from the white line to bring his total to 10 points.

Wildcat Riflemen Down Oak Ridge Marksmen
Davidson’s bullseye-hitting rifle team jubilantly returned from Oak Ridge recently with the Military Institute’s scalps swinging from their belts. The
Red and Black riflemen completed the match with Oak Ridge last Saturday with a final score of 891, as opposed
to 855 for Oak Ridge. P. M. Brown tightened up and steadily potted the black to become the only Wildcat
to break 40 in the standing position, obtaining 44 out of a possible 40, with a total score of 186.
The placing in the competition were as follows: F. V. Long, 181; P. Deaton, 176; A. M. Rankin, 176; C.Fh.
Maxwell, 172. Following the five highest scorers, who placed in the competition, were C. D. McDaniel, 169, W. W. Peters,
163, and C. M. Coffey, 162. Losing no time, the team is practicing every afternoon for the approaching shoulder-to-shoulder match
with The Citadel, to be held here on March 15. (Continued on Page 4)

Scores of the other four men:

Cats Enter Indoor Meet

A picked group of Davidson cinder artists will compete against some of the outstanding track men in Chapel Hill on
March 1st when the curtain lifts on the fifth annual Southern Invitational Indoor Games. Barring last-minute changes in the line-up,
Coach Whittle will enter Dick Port in the low and high hurdles, Bob Lacy in the high jump and 60-yard
dash, and Bingham, Matthews, and McGehee in the 440. Castle Koop will represent the Red and Black in the mile
run.

Middies Are Favored

Navy's star-studded team led by “Pistol Pete” Williams, of football fame, has been established as the odds-on favorite to win
the meet. North Carolina’s Tar Heels, the defending champions, will be the chief threat to the Midshipmen although all of
the contenders, strengthened by a number of returned veterans, could produce some stunning upsets.

JAY VEES DOWN BELMONT

Binepar and Cannon fight for the ball in last Friday’s game as the J.V.'s soundly defeated Belmont Abbey 60-26. Also
shown are Ed Hoppe and EARP BUCKETS ONE.

Davidson’s Mal Earp leaps high into the air to sink another two-pointer as the ‘Cats lambast Clemson's luckless Tigers, 86-48.
Co-Captain Ed White and Buddy Cheek look on with approval.

Davidson Climaxes Season With Furman, Charleston

When this issue reaches the hands of its faithful readers, the Wildcats, after scoring an impressive victory over the Wofford
Terriers by a score of 60-47, according to your scribe’s crystal ball, will be preparing for the all-important Southern Conference
scrap with the Furman Purple Paladins as well as next week’s battle with the College of Charleston’s Maroons. Unless a
tournament bid is forthcoming, the latter game will afford Davidson cage fans their last opportunity to see Co-Captains Ed White
and George Peters, as well as Williams, perform in Red and Black livery.

Only 2 of the present starting eight, Long and Stroup, will be lost by graduation. The coach added that little
Jung, unless he starts, Long, and Alexander may rack up some points.

Fraternity Standings are:

Phi Gams 6 0
Betas 6 1
S.A.E. 6 1
K.A. 4 3
S.P.E. 4 3
Independents 5 3
Pikas 1 6
Phi Delts 1 6
Kappa Sigs 0 7

Phi Gams Take Lead; Betas-S.A.E.’s Second

The Betas dropped from the lead in the intramural basketball grind this past week by losing to the S.A.E. in
a thriller. This put the former league leaders in second place, partly because of their own win over the Pi
Kapps, the loss suffered by the Sons of Wooglin, and the Phi Gams, having won 6 games while losing none.
Second place is now occupied by both the Betas and the S.A.E.’s with 6 and 1. The K.A.’s and the
S.P.E.’s now hold control of the third place slot, each with 4 wins and 3 losses. The K.A.’s won over
their traditional rivals, the Kappa Sigmas, while the S.P.E.’s took the Phi Delts in a 33-31 victory. The K.A.-Kappa Sig
tilt came out 88-29 in favor of the Knights.

Wrestlers Prep For Loop Meet

Davidson’s wrestlers will journey to Raleigh this Saturday to tangle with the N.C. State Wolfpack. The rivalry between these two
schools has been very keen this year but, as usual, State seems to have the edge. Thus far the Wolfpack
has met V.M.I., Carolina, and Appalachian, and although beaten in each case, they have made it hot for their foes.
The Wildcats were idle this week despite the scheduled bout with Washington and Lee. The Generals were “snowed under” by
weather and unable to make the trip South. Rufus Long, stellar performer in the 136 lb. class, was elected captain
of the team last week. Long has been one of the leading scorers, chalking up 3 wins. To date, Coach
Parker has his boys looking beyond the State match to the Southern Conference Wrestling Tournament which will be held at
V.M.I., Lexington, Va., March 7 and 8. Seven, possibly eight, teams will be on hand to vie for top honors.
The schools to be represented are Davidson, V.M.I., Carolina, Duke, N.C. State, V.P.I., Washington and Lee, and perhaps Maryland. The
Wildcats will be on hand with a full team of 8 men. Those who will make the trip have not
been selected yet but they will probably be the regular starters of the last three matches—Jung, Stroup, Long, Cox, Price,
Thompson, Alexander, and Easley. All men who reach the semi-finals will earn points for their respective teams. Points will be
scored as follows: 5 for first place, 3 for second, 2 for third, and 1 for fourth. In addition, medals
are awarded to the first, second, and third place winners in each class. Coach Parker said that the Wildcats, who
started from scratch this year, will profit mainly from the experience gained.
