Page 4 THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, May 2, 1947

Program Announced For Commencement
Doctor Cunningham Reveals Plans of Coming Graduation Exercises

Dr. John R. Cunningham, president of Davidson College, announced recently that the institution’s one hundred and eleventh commencement exercises will
be held this year beginning Saturday, May 31st, and extending through Monday, June 2nd. Approximately seventy-five seniors will receive diplomas
at exercises starting Monday morning, June 2nd, at 10:30 a.m. in Chambers Auditorium. At the same time, five honorary degrees
will be presented. Dr. Daniel L. Marsh, D.D., LL.D., Ph.D., president of Boston University, will deliver the Commencement address. The
schedule of events during these three days is as follows:

Saturday, May 31st:
The Executive Committee of the Alumni Council will meet in Phi Hall at 11 a.m. to nominate officers, committees, and
Alumni trustees to be presented at the Alumni Luncheon at 1:00 o'clock. The class of 1897 will return to the
campus to celebrate their Golden Anniversary reunion. Following the Dix Plan, the other classes scheduled for reunions this year are:
Classes of 1884, 1885, 1886, 1887, 1903, 1904, 1905, 1906, 1917, 1918, 1919, 1922 (25th reunion), 1923, 1924, 1927, 1935,
1936, 1937, 1938, 1941, 1942, 1943, and 1944. Additional classes are planning special reunions. At 4 o'clock on Saturday, the
annual Senior Class Day exercises will take place, after which the faculty reception will be given for all seniors, their
families, and friends at 5 p.m. At 7 p.m. the band will give a concert on the front campus.

Sunday, June 1st:
At 11 a.m., Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman, Ph.D., D.D., professor of Bible and Philosophy at Davidson, will conduct the Baccalaureate
service. Sunday afternoon at 5 p.m. the Little Symphony Orchestra will render a concert in Chambers.

Monday, June 2nd:
The Academic procession will be held at 10:15 a.m., followed by the graduation exercises at 10:30. The Davidson Male Chorus,
which has recently been heard on a coast-to-coast broadcast over C.B.S. from New York, will sing at both the commencement
and baccalaureate exercises. Alumni and visitors attending the exercises will find accommodations available in Duke dormitory for the weekend.

Paper And Mag Writers Meet
Members of College Publications Go To Raleigh

Four prominent Davidson journalists will represent the college at a reorganization meeting of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association to
be held on the North Carolina State College campus in Raleigh the weekend of May 9th and 10th. Jim Gribben,
editor-elect of “Scripts 'n’ Pranks”; Bill Calhoun, managing editor of the Davidsonian; Walter Mann, managing editor of the Davidsonian; and
Jim Elliot, art editor-elect of the magazine will leave here Thursday afternoon to be present at the two-day meet. Friday
morning the program will begin with seminars on make-up, new approaches to copy, and the relationships of construction to readability.
On the same day, those attending the meeting will be divided into discussion groups to consider editorial, art, and business
problems that confront publications.

On Friday evening the delegates will be entertained by State College publications staffs at a formal banquet which will have
a noted guest speaker. A dance will follow. Business sessions of the Association will complete the meeting on Saturday morning.
This will be the first meeting of the N.C.C.P.A. to be held since the war influenced the activities on college
campuses.

VESPER DONATION
A sum of $250.00 from the Davidson College Vespers fund has been donated to the American Bible Society. This money
will be put to immediate use by this society for the publishing of scriptures to be sent to Japan.

Three Chosen For Pub Board
Elections for next year’s Publications Board were held on Monday, April 28, and for the first time this year the
winners were decided on the first ballot. Bob Phillips, editor of the Davidsonian, Bill Simpson, editor of the Annual, and
Lenoir Kessler, business manager of the Annual, were chosen.

Whatever Your Needs
SUITS
HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
TIES
SHOES
and the 101 other things
SHOP EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP
“The Friendly Store in a Friendly City”
STREET FLOOR

Breezin’ With Bob
BY BOB RIERSON

A month or so ago there appeared within the confines of this editorial page a so-called letter to the editor
which bemoaned the conditions for study in the dormitories. It was pointed out that something should be done to relieve
the situation for the poor unfortunates who are so misbegotten that they have to engage in the distasteful occupation of
study, in this case, in their own rooms. The claim was broached that an undue amount of variegated chatter, epithetizing
(oh, Mr. Webster!), smashing, yelling, crashing, selling, mashing, and kelling (it takes a light stretch of the imagination for that
one) went on that would be better confined to other areas. Now this corner is not the place to go
into a detailed derogation of the writer’s views on the subject, but I do believe that the person was a
bit in error in his views when it is so evident on all sides that during the period from seven
to eleven at night, perfect peace and calm reign in the halls for the benefit of all those interested in
getting something out of college. In order better to prove my point, might I take a typical case that I
have in my files? I shall not mention his name, but he is number D-4608752, if that will help anyone
to recognize him. This Number D-4608752 lives on the ground floor of Georgia Dorm right in the middle of the
hall, and so is subject to all air wave disturbances that might occur in any section of his hall, not
to mention the painful tortures that assail his poor ears from the room upstairs. On this particular night that we
look in, Number D-4608752 is unusually busy, having been assigned two reviews to study for on the next day and
having only four hours in which to dispose of the material before him. He hurries back from supper and seats
himself in front of the pile of notes before him, ready to begin his tortuous path through the thousands of
words demanding his attention. He leans back, fixes his eye, and—suddenly, the door crashes inward and a very behemoth of
a roommate strides into his presence. This unwelcome fellow obtrudes himself upon the luckless Number D-46—(oh, call him Oscar or
Elmo or Ezra or whatever you will!) upon the luckless Murgatroyd for a painful half hour and then tramples out
to the movie, leaving holes in the wall where he interspersed his song with harmless taps. Oswald breathes a sigh
of relief, only to be greeted by a shouting conversation carried back and forth between half of Watts and the
second floor of Georgia which continues for some forty-five minutes on the subject of which of the gladiators should follow
the vociferous instructions of the other. When this is finished, Herbert has fifteen minutes to devote to silent study before
the show lets out, and the returnees conduct a 10,000 decibel session right outside his door. After thirty minutes of
this, he timidly opens the door and begs a bit more silence of the conversationalists, but he is greeted with
an outraged stare and a drop in temperature of some 25 degrees. He lets his proud tail feathers slowly droop
and withdraws to the sanctity of his quarters. About this time a track meet has developed between the two occupants
of the room overhead, so Juno folds up his notes like the Arabs and silently goes to bed, unable to
withstand the eternal din any longer. Whether he passed his reviews or not is a question for you to decide.
So you see, it isn’t as bad as pictured after all!

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
C. S. Goodrum
TELEPHONE 2111
Davidson, N. C.

Superb Motor Bus Service
QUEEN CITY TRAILWAYS
Charlotte, N. C.
417 West Fifth Street
Serving DAVIDSON COLLEGE, MECKLENBURG COUNTY, and 44 other North Carolina CountiesManager of the Annual, were elected, winning over Dan Tyler,
business manager of the Annual, Bob Cline, business manager of the Davidsonian, and Jim Gribben, editor of the magazine.

Board Duties
The Publications Board is composed of two men from the faculty and three men elected from the publications. The Board
governs the policies of these campus publications and all matters of finance, content, and number of issues. They have the
power to remove any business manager who is not deemed satisfactory and replace him with someone else. The Board meets
several times during the year, the meeting being called by any member who has anything in particular to discuss or
anything upon which the Board must take action.

FRENCH CHOSEN
(Continued from Page 1)
Jim is also a member of the “D” Club, having earned his letter playing second base on the 1946 Wildcat
baseball team. He was almost a sure-shot for this position again this year, until he broke his ankle in an
early season scrimmage. Jim says he has had no experience as a cheerleader, but that he is going to do
his best to learn the tricks of the trade before next fall. He also gave a statement that is well
worth noticing. “The best cheerleader in the business can’t do any good without the wholehearted support of the student body.
If the students will give out with their best support, then the cheerleaders won’t feel that they are working in
vain. I want the fellows next year to put out louder and better yells and to be proud of themselves
for doing it.”

Kale-Lawing Co.
@ Stationers
@ Office Outfitters
@ Printers
PHONE 6185
227-229 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Franchised Dealer — FOR —
RCA Victor Radios
Bendix Radios
Stewart-Warner Radios
Hot Plates, Tennis Shoes
Desk and Bed Lamps
Etc., Etc.
(COPELAND'S)
Davidson Electric Appliance Co.

Publications on all North Carolina college campuses will be represented at the meeting.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
(Continued from Page 2)
you are to make a better and a more democratic world.”
Respectfully,
Malloy Owen.

Belk’s Department Store
Mooresville, N. C.
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN — See Us

DELUXE ICE CREAM— Is Now Available At — THE STUDENT STORE

221 South Tryon Street
Private Dining Rooms - For Parties And Banquets
THACKERS, INC.
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”

CROWDED AUDITORIUM
(Continued from Page 1)
Governor Arnall could be described as an optimistic proponent of liberal democracy. He is no Senator Claghorn, but definitely something
distinctive among Southern politicians. In spite of his liberalism, he claims to be a true Southerner who hopes to draw
his section up to a level with “the imperial East.” He is an idealist, yet a conscientious worker who desires
for his nation a position of leadership and respect in the world.

CINDERMEN ROUTED
(Continued from Page 3)
bers (S); second, Temple (D); third, Shurford (S). Time: 62.3.
Javelin: Won by Miller (S); second, Dickey (S); third, Brownson (D). Distance: 180 feet.
880 Yard Run: Egglund (S); second, Dalton (S); third, McAlister (D). Time: 2:02.9.
Pole Vault: Blue (S) and Cheatham (S) tied for first; third, Cade (S). Height: 10.10 feet.
One Mile Run: Won by Montgomery (S); second, Rasbary (S); third, Koop (D). Time: 4:40.1.
High Jump: Dickey (S); Pickett (S); Negley (S), tied for first. Height: 5 feet, 10 inches.
Two Mile Run: Won by Grey (D); second, Dubow (S); third, Davis (S). Time: 10:11.7.
Broad Jump: Won by Dickey (S); second, Boyd (S); third, Lacy (D). Distance: 19 feet, 11 1/2 inches.
120 Yard High Hurdles: Won by Jones (S); second, Goodman (S); third, Watt (S). Time: 16.0.
220 Yard Low Hurdles: Won by Chambers (S); second, Watt (S); third, Hopper (D). Time: 27.1.
One Mile Relay: Won by State (Shurford, Egglund, Orrimins, Chambers). Time: 38:82.

FRATERNITY COURT
(Continued from Page 2)
the utmost, most of the lodge was able to wheel again this weekend. Slap Happy Leonard took in a hayride
in Statesville, along with Brothers Boyd, Fanjoy, Dockery, Bell, and Tramp Ensign, practicing for a promising vaudeville career. The Salem
campus was well represented this past weekend with Brothers McElroy, Reese, Walker, Denison, Hart, Anderson, Wester, Jackson, and Lee. Big
time was had by all, it seems—Owen? Brothers Clyde Stroup and Clark took in Queens Sat. night, while Pledge Bigelow
played in the Queen City. Double Dip and Rapidly Reducing Smoak went to their homes for a rest, while Chick
Neill vacationed in Charlotte. Seen at Spring Frolics: Almost everybody — Pan Hell Neill and Winnies, Wester and Jackson with
the Salem Sisters, Swoop and Bingo, Speedy and Dot, Harley and Sophie, Jack and Virginia, Bill and Alicia, Turner and
Agnes, Double and Fiend, Smoak and Gordon, Grover and Louise, Dottie and Charlie, Taylor and Shirley, and all.

Faul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
Charlotte, N. C.

Withers Electric Co.
@ Radio Repairs
@ Electrical Supplies
@ Light Bulbs
Davidson, N. C.

Seminary Eminent Professor of Bible and Philosophy to Vacate Position
Announcement of the election of Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman to the chair of Doctrinal Theology at Louisville Theological Seminary, Louisville,
Ky., was made last week by President Frank H. Caldwell of the Seminary. The election is subject to ratification by
the board of directors at its annual meeting in May. Dr. Foreman, a native of New York State, is known
throughout the South as a religious writer and an outstanding preacher and teacher. He will succeed Walter A. Groves, who
resigned January 1 at the Seminary to become president of Centre College. After graduating from Davidson in the class of
1911, Dr. Foreman took further training at Princeton University and Seminary, Union Seminary in Richmond, and Yale University, where he
earned his Ph.D. In 1922 he joined the faculty at Davidson as a professor of Bible and German and in
1924 became professor of Bible and Philosophy, a position which he has held since that time. Louisville Seminary is a
school of 75 to 100 theological students under the auspices of the Northern and Southern Presbyterian churches. As yet a
successor to Dr. Foreman here at Davidson has not been announced.

Watch for the day, the 10th of May!

PI KAPPA PHI
Those who went to Salem seem to have had a fine time. Among those present were Brothers Willie Campbell, “Moe”
Hardin, Ken Clary, Robert Cline, Bud Edwards, Walter Walker, John Walker, Ernest Hunter, Jim Elliott, and Bob Huntley. “Boom” Jr.
stayed here last weekend except for a few minutes spent in the Mooresville underworld. Higgie Sr. and Jr. recuperated from
last weekend and the Barringers went to U.S.C. looking along the way for a car they might have forgotten on
previous trips. Pedro Sinclair went to Wilmington and Fitz the Faithful went to Warrenton to see Tootie. Brother Charlie Reid
cheeched around Charlotte mostly. He, Brothers Bill Robertson and Lander, all with dates, spent some time at the Lander’s river
cabin—the details are unavailable. We are sorry that May Day at Queens has interfered with our plans for the party
with the Kappa Delta sorority here next weekend.

KAPPA ALPHA
First we want to extend a welcome to all the alumni who are on the campus today for the Kappa
Alpha Homecoming to unveil a memorial plaque for the brothers killed in the war. Brother Gracey is to be congratulated
for the good job he has done in arranging this occasion. Salem was the order of the day for Saturday
and the chapter was well represented by Harris, H., Macauley, Richardson, Kabrich, Cox, and “McQuirk.” P. B. was forced to
the tough decision of street walking or just foolin’ around. But all the boys reported a fine time. Perhaps the
most pleased looking band was the trio who toured up to Bristol for the Sullins dance. The fortunates were Brothers
Barron, Bill King, and Watt.

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
@ Stationery
@ Rule Forms
@ Booklets
@ Publications
Phone 63000
Charlotte, N. C.

AMBULANCE SERVICE
Telephone 284
Equipped For Service Any Distance Any Time
Bunch Funeral Home
Mooresville, N. C.
