DUM - DUM IN IT fae) ALENDA LUX UB) Che Mavbidsonian ORTA LIBERTAS — JOLLY ROGER — WILCO Volume XXXV
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 7, 1947 No. 16 Pan Hell May Change Constitution Faults Changes In Constitution
Proposed by Pan-Hellenic Council On Thursday, March 13, each of the social fraternities of Davidson will vote on an amendment
to the Constitution and By-Laws of the Pan-Hellenic Council of major importance to fraternity men in particular and to all
Davidson men in general. At that time the fraternities will also vote upon the addition of a fifth section to
the Constitution. The amendment and the addition of these two sections will be made to the Ninth Article of the
Pan-Hellenic Constitution which is concerned with the responsibilities of the Pan-Hellenic Council in regard to college dances. Amendment Section three,
to be altered by the proposed amendment, reads at present as follows: “The signatory chapters agree to underwrite with their
representatives all Council dances, the Council and the several chapters to assume fifty per cent of the risk, respectively. In
event of loss, fifty per cent of the net loss will be prorated among the chapters, the remaining fifty per
cent among their representatives. In case of gain, net profit shall be divided in the same manner.” As stated above,
each fraternity at present assumes fifty per cent of all losses or gains incurred by the Pan-Hellenic Council through the
presentation of school dances during the fiscal year, which ends on May 15. However, since this measure does not allow
the Council any means of estimating the amount of money that will be available to cover the expenses of an
approaching dance, an amendment to this section has been outlined for the consideration of the fraternities. This alteration will allow
the Council to know beforehand, and prepare accordingly, exactly how much money can be allotted to each of the various
expenses that must be met in the preparation of any dance, such as the type of band, decorations, sponsors’ flowers,
and number of tickets to be printed, to mention a few. Gambling Eliminated The suggested amendment which would eliminate the
present method of guesswork in providing for these expenses, is as follows: Section 3. The signatory chapters agree to underwrite
all Council dances, sharing equally in all net profit or loss. The chapters will be responsible individually for the purchase
of set tickets to each set of dances by at least 85 per cent of its enrollment, including pledges. In
the event a lesser number of tickets is purchased by the enrollment of any chapter, that chapter shall pay to
the Council, prior to the dances involved, an amount equal to the difference between the value of the required number
and those actually purchased. Frats To Vote In order that this amendment become part of the Constitution, Pan-Hellenic regulations require
that three-fourths of the fraternities on the campus must pass it. Also, in order to provide a check on Pan-Hellenic
expenditures, the addition of a fifth section has been presented so that the fraternities may vote on it at the
same time. It is as follows: Section 5. A board of examiners, consisting of the President and one other member
who is not the Pan-Hellenic representative from each fraternity shall inspect the books of the Pan-Hellenic Council by May 15
of each fiscal year, and at any other time the board may deem necessary. Music Contests Cite Professor Mr. John
D. Haldane, Associate Professor of the Davidson College Department of Music received first prize for piano solo in the State
Auditions of the Biennial Young Artists and Student Musicians Auditions of the National Federation of Music Clubs. Mr. Haldane, composer
of numerous compositions in the modern style, also won the distinguished merit award for the best composition in the amateur
division for his “Rondo” for piano. His “Rondo” was winner over fifty-nine other compositions which were submitted in its division.
The auditions in which Mr. Haldane received two first place awards, are serving both for the Young Artists and Student
Musician contest and for a scholarship to be given by Paul Lavalle, distinguished radio conductor. The Lavalle award, which is
to consist of a scholarship of $1,500, will be administered through the National Federation of Music Clubs. The scholarship, which
will be awarded annually in conjunction with the Young Artists contest, is open to music students between the ages of
16 and 25. The winners in the district auditions will make recordings which will be sent to New York and
will be heard by a distinguished panel of judges from the entire nation. The winner in the finals of the
Lavalle Scholarship Contest will receive in addition CAST OF OPERETTA Pictured above are the principal characters in the operetta. They
are, from left to right: Standing—Ralph Smith, Frank Lowe, John Ramsaur, and William Sutherland. Seated—Miss Ashley Jones, Miss Doris Thurner,
and Miss Betty Barber. MRS. WOODROW WILSON EXPECTED HERE Mrs. Woodrow Wilson, wife of the late President and alumnus of
Davidson College, is expected to arrive here today to spend the weekend on the campus. Coming from Washington to Norfolk
by boat, she plans to drive the remainder of the trip. She will be accompanied by Mrs. Evelyn Dillard, aunt
of Professor Pinkney, Mrs. Sands, and Mrs. Andrews. Davidson is honored by the visit of the wife of one of
her most prominent alumni. (Continued on Page 4) Smiley Hill’s Brave Deeds Now Related By Hugh Hill As Told to
Dave Richardson Realizing at last the value of compulsory vespers which are a sacred tradition within the hallowed walls of
Davidson from the infinite store of strength provided recently by the sight of service which brought little thoughts of gladness
to the hearts of all those present at the service, the Davidsonian has decided to adopt a policy approved by
the college and recount each week the harrowing experiences of one of its intrepid heroes in the late great world
conflict in which many had part, however small. With the coming of spring when soft breezes blow and juniors don
coats, ties, and smiles, it seemed propitious to initiate a series of articles on wartime experiences with an accurate account
of the outstanding heroism of Fearless Hugh Hill, member of the class of 48, who remembering the words of our
Lord, found it more blessed to give than receive, and laid down his life for a friend. Mechanic Hill, who
when the sheep were separated from the goats, managed to butt his way into a billet as the army equivalent
of Pharmacist’s Mate, nonetheless served his country valiantly in his quiet way, being an outstanding pan-man in many of the
fiercer European campaigns, and as a result of especial valor, was graciously awarded a three-day pass to Biarritz for a
well-earned rest. Arriving at the resort town resplendent in the sartorial excellence of a conservative brown holiday garb, Hill spent
the first 70 hours making friends with the inhabitants, passing out candy bars thoughtfully to those he deemed most worthy
of affection, and bestowing smiles indiscriminately on all sides. Charmed by the old world beauty of the view from a
sheltered balcony overlooking a pond where still waters were broken at the center by a thundering maelstrom whose bottom was
guarded by ten dragons, and from which no one had ever returned, Hill was chatting gaily with a rather mundanely
motivated young lady of his acquaintance over the value of chocolate bars, when suddenly disaster struck. Youth Falls In With
a sudden downward motion, a young American soldier who had been hidden from view by a bush lost control and
plunged precipitously into the whirlpool, dragging with him the girl with whom he had been gamboling on the grassy banks
above the water only a moment before. Hill caught the flash of falling bodies and without heed for his own
safety dove headlong into the torrent. Fighting off the ten dragons with one hand he grasped the now unconscious soldier
with the other and swam powerfully to shore, where he deposited his burden and would have returned in search of
the other victim had not the restraining hands of a huge crowd which gathered pulled him back, since the mangled
body of the girl had already been tossed up on the shore by the dragons. After returning to his room
to dress, Hill was carried away on the shoulders of the adoring crowd to the town hall, where he was
kissed on both khaki-clad cheeks by the mayor, received the key to Biarritz, and quieted the tumultuous cheers only by
modestly admitting that it was nothing. Election Dope In an exclusive release to the Davidsonian, Hill indicated that the most
interesting part of the experience was the fast friendship which he struck up with a little German boy, the brother
of the deceased girl. When Hugh left Europe, the little urchin weepingly presented him a basket of fruit, and last
Christmas Hill sent his friend a basket of food. Bill McLean, president of the student body, stated however, that absentee
ballots would not be counted in the coming spring elections. Frat Petitions For Fine Arts The Phi Mu Alpha music
fraternity, at its regular meeting Tuesday night, agreed to petition the college for the erection of a Fine Arts building.
The petition included among its arguments these objectives: (1) Arts should be the basic departments of a liberal arts college
and should receive all privileges and considerations due it as (2)The Davidson College Fine Arts department is by far the
most neglected department at the college. Shearer Hall, which is the location of the music department, can best be described
by the word “firetrap.” Its few practice rooms are small and crowded, its pianos are in horrible condition, its single
auditorium is used by several organizations, and it has no storage space. If a Fine Arts building were erected, most
of the present faults would be eradicated to a large extent. With new facilities and equipment offered, the first step
will have been taken toward the ultimate goal of placing the Fine Arts activities to a large extent out of
the extra-curricular sphere. Phi Mu Alpha is not the only organization on the campus that realizes the need for a
Fine Arts department at Davidson. Numerous other organizations are actively considering presenting the same petition. Included among these organizations are
the Glee Club, the Band, the Applied Music students, and the Red and Black Masquers.

Announcement Made For Summer Session

Davidson’s summer session will begin on June 5 for those students who take eight-hour and four-hour laboratory courses in science,
and students taking six-hour and three-hour courses in other subjects will begin classes on June 11. Both of these groups
of courses will close on July 22. The second term, offering only six-hour and three-hour courses, will run from July
23 to August 28. Through this summer session, an opportunity is afforded the student, at any stage of his college
course, to advance his standing, because the courses offered are chosen from those given during the regular college session. No
course will be retained, however, if the enrollment does not justify it. Any such course will be withdrawn, and the
students assigned to other courses. A student entering on June 5 and remaining through August 28 can secure 14 semester
hours of credit. Twelve hours of credit can be earned by entering on June 11. A student need not take
both terms of work.

(Continued on Page 4)

CALENDAR

Sunday, March 9
Vespers: Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman.

Monday, March 10
Track: Inter-Fraternity Meet.

Tuesday, March 11-Thursday, March 13
Chapel and Evening Services with Dr. Chappell.

Friday, March 14
Chapel: Y. M. C. A.

Sunday, March 15
Rev. Edward Fay Campbell, who is on the Board of Education of the Presbyterian Church, U. S. A., and from
Philadelphia, Pa.
Spring Vespers: Clovis G. Christian

New Men Join Spanish Club

Sigma Delta Pi and the Spanish Club met in the Quadrangles Room last Monday night, March 8. The meeting was
opened with a short devotional in Spanish by Herb Mesa, after which two new members were admitted into the Spanish
Club, J. G. White, and Faison Pierce. In welcoming these men into the Club, President Strickland urged them to attend
the meetings regularly, and extended this admonition to the rest of the group. A discussion of the possibilities of holding
a joint meeting with the Spanish enthusiasts at Queens College was brought up, and this idea was favorable to all.
Mr. Joe Stukes mentioned the important fact that after all, Spanish is a Romance Language, and therefore, we should make
use of the opportunity such a joint session might offer. After the transaction of business, a short Spanish skit was
presented by Sres. Drake, Palmer, Parker, and Walmsley. It illustrated the old proverb, “don’t count your chickens before they are
hatched.” While the Spaniards count olives instead of chickens, the full meaning of the adage was not lost. Sr. Drake
rendered an especially good impression of the domineering wife. Following this, there was a crossword puzzle to be solved, appropriately
called in Spanish, “rompecabeza”, or “the head-breaker.” The only two accurate solutions were...

(Continued on Page 4)

The Student View - Quarters Favored

By Ronny Dietrick

The question offered to the Student Body this week for consideration was, “Do you favor changing Davidson to the quarter
system?” This question was a follow-up on the editorial published on the subject by the Davidsonian several issues ago. In
reaction to the above question, the portion of the Student Body polled answered in the following manner:

Yes 70%
No 21%
No Opinion 9%

It was noticed by the poller that the majority of the students polled seemed to be uncertain about the entire
question, probably due to the ambiguity concerning the term “quarter system.” However, those few students who did reveal a definite
opinion on the subject seemed to have given the subject at least some modicum of consideration. Even those who have
given some thought to the subject have, no doubt, neglected to consider the conditions which might arise under the quarter
system here. For the sake of convenience, let us imagine that the quarter system has been instituted at Davidson and
that the students are registering under the system for the first time. Joe Blow approaches a member of the faculty
who is helping with the registration. The faculty member tells him that he will attend the same classes daily, carrying
three courses at a time, and going to class only five days a week. “This is all very fine,” thinks
Joe, but then comes the fatal blow. “Here you are, Mr. Blow,” says the faculty member as he hands poor
Joe his schedule. “I have been able to schedule Dr. Gallent’s Organic Chemistry for you first period, Professor Lilly’s English
Literature course for your second period, and Professor Kimbrough’s fine course in Integral Calculus for your third period. Here is
your schedule and I hope you have a pleasant quarter here at Davidson.” Well, Joe is in quite a spot,
is he not?

Leaving Joe, it would be interesting to glance at the individual classes and their opinion on the subject in question.
There did not seem to be any correlation between the individual class opinion and their length of time at Davidson.
Nevertheless, here is the aggregate opinion of the Student Body according to classes:

Seniors:
Yes 60%
No 27%
No Opinion 13%

Juniors:
Yes 70%
No 25%
No Opinion 5%

Sophomores:
Yes 70%
No 21%
No Opinion 9%

Freshmen:
Yes 76%
No 20%
No Opinion 4%

All in all, we can be sure of two things:
1. The Student Body is, in the large majority, in favor of changing to the quarter system.
2. All the percentage figures in this article add up to 100%.

Queens and Davidson Present Light Opera

Gilbert and Sullivan’s “Pirates of Penzance” To Be Given In Chambers

Davidson and Queens College Music Departments have announced the presentation tonight of the Gilbert and Sullivan operetta, “The Pirates of
Penzance,” in Chambers Auditorium and in the Queens College Auditorium, Charlotte, on Saturday evening, March 8, at 8:15 o’clock for
both performances. Karl F. Berg, Director, and James C. Pfohl, Conductor, are of the Davidson Music Faculty. Prof. E. J.
Erwin, Davidson, is in charge of the stage setting; H. M. Raynal, Statesville, is stage manager; make-up is by Helen
Andrews Strickland, Queens College; Publicity is handled by John E. Payne, Davidson, and Elizabeth Huckle, Queens; student Promotion is by
E. C. Philips, Jacksonville, Fla., who is business manager; Katharine P. Halyburton, Davidson, is in charge of costumes; and the
stage crew is composed of Martin Caldwell, Jr., Spartanburg, S. C.; George McKee, Newellton, La.; William O. Whitaker, St. Petersburg,
Fla.

This story of a band of pirates, whose principal character is an apprentice, is cast as follows: Major-General Stanley, Frank
Lowe of Greenville, S. C.; The Pirate King, Ralph Smith of Bluefield, W. Va.; Samuel (his lieutenant), John Ramsaur, Jr.,
Lincolnton, N. C.; Frederic (The Pirate-Apprentice), William Sutherland, Cincinnati, Ohio; The Sergeant of Police, H. Middleton Raynal, Statesville, N. C.;
General Stanley's Wards: Mabel, Betty Barber; Edith, Ashley Jones; Kate, Doris Ruth, Travis Wylie, all of Queens College; The Chorus
of General Stanley’s Wards is composed of the following Queens College students: Eleanor Bates, Sarah Lee Cochrane, Kitty Cooper, Nancy
Gordon, Eloise Hardin, Margaret Holt, Eleanor Johnston, Joanne MacAuley, Arlene Palmer, Cora Ann Parks, Laura Sanford, Olivia Smith, and Billie
Wingate. The Chorus of Pirates includes these Davidson students: Charles Auten, Charlotte; Moody L. Chisholm, Kinston, N. C.; Charles Hadley,
Statesville; C. Ry McCain, Monroe, N. C.; D. H. McConnell, Murray, Ky.; A. L. White, Rock Hill, S. C.; The
Chorus of Policemen: Herbert Dimmock, Atlanta, Ga.; H. L. Farrior, Nashville, Tenn.; James W. Gunn, Louisville, Ky.; Herbert Miller, Hapeville,
Ga.; William Peters, Raleigh; Rodney Shaw, Jr., Quincy, Fla.; John M. Stewart, Greensboro; and James Wamsley, Staunton, Va.

The Orchestra will be: Concert-master; Thomas Hibbard, Charlotte, Violin; Melvin Sipe, Lincolnton; J. W. Flora, Moyock, N. C.; Harper Sasser,
Richmond, Va.; Viola: Mary Ann Ashe, Queens; Cello: Sarah Pharr and Charlotte Williams, Queens; String Bass: Robert S. Richardson, Decatur,
Ga.; Flute: Charles O. Delaney, Winston-Salem; Oboe: Manley Sanders, Greenville, S. C.; Clarinet: Willis Coggins, Winston-Salem; O. G. Allen, Winston-Salem;
Horns: Robert A. Campbell, Charlotte; Gilbert Humphreys, Ft. Pierce, Fla.; Percussion: B. L. Watkins, Winston-Salem.

These groups will also give this presentation in Asheville, N. C. on Thursday evening, March 13.

ELM ROW DARK

Sitting here in stygian black,
Most annoying—light to lack.
I think to call the school ‘lectrician,
But know that I in his position
Would surely be extreme chagrined
To be awakened, e’en by a friend.
So there’s nothing else—hear the rub,
I'll have to go and snitch a bulb.
