Friday, May 9, 1947
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page 3

Hangchow Chinese School Rises From The Dreams of American Missionary

Dr. Judson Begins College With High School for Chinese Boys

POST WAR COLLEGE STRUGGLES TO FEET

Davidson Christmas Gift Gives Invaluable Help

Hangchow Christian College is the product of the work and dreams of many missionaries and Chinese leaders as well as
the generous gifts of Presbyterians, both Chinese and American. A Northern Presbyterian missionary, Dr. Judson, ran a high school for
boys in Hangchow for many years. This was taken over by Dr. George Fitch, another Northern Presbyterian, whose dreams and
work pushed the school on up until it was a college for boys. Southern Presbyterians entered into the work at
this point and have carried a share of the work ever since.

Dr. Fitch

Dr. Fitch had a great part in the establishment of the campus at its present location as it rests hillside
five miles south of Hangchow. This hill slopes down to form part of the banks of the Dzian Kiang river,
giving a view from the front campus out across the river to the rice fields of Chekiang province and the
coastal hills in the distance.

As the student body slowly increased toward the four hundred mark, the buildings increased, until before the war they included
a large classroom building, a school of engineering building, and a laboratory building. Two large and one small dormitory, a
small classroom building, a library, a shed for a gymnasium, a chapel, and a number of faculty residences completed the
plant.

Chinese Gift

The small building mentioned above was given as a memorial to one of the students by his family. As he
was driving on his way home, which was in Shanghai, the car was stopped by bandits. One of his friends
managed to escape by a good piece of broken field running which threw off the aim of the bandits. The
others in the car were killed and robbed. This building, used by the Economics Department, was erected by his parents
and contains a bronze statue of him.

Not too many years after the founding of the new campus by the river, a small dormitory was built and
the college opened a co-ed department. Ever since then, co-eds have been a part of the student body of Hangchow
Christian College. At present they number about one third of the whole student body.

Repairs

The story of the moving of the colleges in China has been told many times before. The move back to
the old campuses, which was just as difficult to perform, was completed about a year ago. Hangchow is just beginning
to recover from this moving and is repairing buildings and adding to her equipment again.

The old campus contains six hundred students in the freshman and sophomore years, while two hundred and fifty juniors and
seniors are attending the joint university in Shanghai. The crowding is great at the Hangchow campus, where six are living
in a room built for two. This is where the Davidson gift of 300 steel double decker beds will help
make life easier.

Books Added

Laboratories are just beginning to get in some equipment again and the Library has a start on the job of
restocking the empty shelves. Classrooms have makeshift furniture. The chapel also has temporary furniture, as it was completely stripped by
looting. The small pipe organ was wantonly demolished by Japanese troops. The religious life of the campus centers around the
chapel building. There Dr. Peter Shih, a recent speaker at Davidson, held a special series of meetings this past winter.
During this year forty members of the student body and faculty have joined the College Church through baptism.

(Continued On Page 4)

LETTER WRITERS

All those students interested in corresponding with a Chinese boy or girl at Hangchow Christian College are asked to contact
Mr. Murphy Williams. It will be necessary to give the following information in order to help in selecting the Chinese
student to write: name, age, major, addresses (both home and college), interested class, and special interest. Faculty have also been
invited to participate in this exchange of letters by the members of the faculty at Hangchow.

Peter Shih Visits “Y”

Dr. Peter Shih addressed the Davidson Student Body at the Friday Y.M.C.A. Chapel Service on April 25th. Dr. Shih came
to America from his native country of China representing the Chungking Y.M.C.A. as its executive secretary. He is also a
delegate of the China Peace Commission to Japan and America and has traveled recently throughout both countries in this mission
of Christ and His teachings of peace and love for mankind.

Dr. Shih has studied extensively in the United States and Europe, receiving his LL.D. degree at the Union Theological Seminary
in New York. During this visit to the United States he studied in this country from 1927 to 1932, after
which he returned to China.

Teacher

On his return to China he became the minister of the largest Protestant church in Hangchow. Later he taught in
the Nanking Theological Seminary from which he had formerly graduated into the ministry. During the recent war years Dr. Shih
was forced to flee from the Japanese invaders to Chungking, the National wartime capital of China. Here he began his
work with the Y.M.C.A. and under his able leadership the organization grew to the size of 20,000 members and 200
field workers. This organization is sponsoring his trip around the world.

Iverson Leads Unity Church

Straight From Bible Preaching Lauded

Dr. Daniel Iverson of the Shenandoah Presbyterian Church of Miami, Fla., was guest minister at a week of inspirational services
held at the Davidson Unity Church from April 18 to 26. Dr. Iverson is a widely known minister and Bible
teacher. The purpose of the services was to establish the members of the church in their beliefs, yet Dr. Iverson
never failed to give the outline of redemption through faith in Jesus Christ and to give non-believers a chance to
make an acceptance of grace.

Speaking from a wide experience in an evangelical Christian Ministry, Dr. Iverson gave many illustrations from his own experiences in
leading people to Christ. Several of his sermons were taken from the following scripture passages: John 1, Corinthians 3, Isaiah
53, and the most effective was the last one from Joshua 24, concerning the essentiality of Christian training and family
worship in the home.

Bible Study

A second phase of Dr. Iverson’s stay was his daily Bible study class every afternoon at 2:30. These classes were
primarily to give a working knowledge of the Bible as the Word of God.

WHERE YOUR MONEY WENT

The upper picture is Severance Hall, the main classroom and administration building of Hangchow Christian College. The decorations are for
the 101st Anniversary of the founding of the institution as a grammar school in 1846. The lower left is the
interior of the College Church as it was left bare by the looting Japanese troops. Lower right shows two of
the faculty homes, one of them with just its walls left standing.

By Curtis Harper

The first Davidson Unity Conference for Boys took place April 3rd and lasted through breakfast on the following Monday. Seventeen
boys from the Mill section and Unity Church, ranging in age from 11-15, went by bus to Montreat, that Presbyterian
conference grounds in the “Land of the Sky”, for three full days with themselves, with the beauties of Nature, and
with God. There they lived in Assembly Inn as a big happy family under the leadership of Bob Henderson, conference
director, and the rest of his staff composed of: Bill Iverson, Lee Willingham, Grady Johnson, and Spires.

The Beaver Club is really on the ball these days in this campaign that they are putting on for Church
World Service. This is a great campaign.

Christmas Gift Fund Greatly Appreciated

Hangchow Christian College has received the $5,555 Davidson Christmas Gift Fund and has started to put this money to work.
Orders have already been placed for items to be purchased in the United States and the money to be spent
in China has been forwarded to the college there.

YMCA Retreat Joins Students In Fellowship

Sixty Delegates Join To Prepare for Service In Christian Work

At Camp Nawaka, the grassy-sloped and dogwood-spotted outing place of the Greensboro “Y”, the Spring Retreat of North Carolina’s college
YMCA, YWCA, and Student Christian Associations was held April 25-27. The Retreat, which centered on the theme The Christian Imperative,
was composed of about sixty student delegates and several outstanding leaders. The three days were filled with worship, discussion, study,
and fellowship as representatives of these organizations met together to share ideas of mutual interest and to prepare themselves for
a greater service in the Kingdom of God on their respective campuses.

Dr. Carl R. Pritchett of Davidson set the tone of the Retreat with his messages on The Cross and The
Resurrection of Jesus Christ. Other phases of the Retreat included a Program Workshop on the Student Christian Association Movement, of
which the YMCA is a part, and a period on the Circle of Faith and Action, the emblem designating the
various activities of the Movement. These were led by Harold B. Ingalls, Associate Secretary of the National Student Council of
the YMCA.

Discussions

Among the highlights of the Retreat were discussions in which stu-dents were free to present their sincere opinions and give
vent to their feelings concerning the cause that they are sponsoring. There were classes in which Practical Christianity, You and
Your Bible, and You and Your Church were the topics of discussion. For those restricted by energy, there were activities
such as mountain climbing, softball, volleyball, and basketball in the afternoons.

The evening programs were highlighted by the inspirational vesper services of Lee Willingham as he applied the events of the
last days of Passion Week to their own lives. Later in the evening, the boys gathered for group games, ghost
stories, and clan stunts.

Easter Morning was unforgettable. As the boys wound their way up the mountainside in a drizzling rain, hearts were somewhat
dampened at the prospect of a rainy Easter. But as the great hymn, “Christ the Lord Is Risen Today,” swelled
from the hearts of those young boys, the rain clouds broke away, flooding the beautiful scene below and filling the
soul of every person there as the Resurrection story was told again.

PARENTS' GIFT
A small classroom building on the campus of Hangchow Christian College was given to the college by the parents of
one of the students who died at the hands of bandits. The works of the clock were carried off along
with all of the furniture from the classrooms.

Davidson men at the Retreat were: Haywood Brinegar, Y president; Herb Meza, 1st vice president; George Worth, Jack Payne, and
John Miller. In a business meeting, the organization which all of the major Protestant bodies of our countries are using
to help the needy churches and people of the world was discussed.

Speaking of the Christmas Gift Fund, we have gotten national recognition for it. The $5,555.00 that we gave has gone
to buy books, beds, and furnish scholarships for the students of Hangchow Christian College and Eastern Carolina Teachers College. The
few dollars that each of us at Davidson gave had a far-reaching effect in helping those students, whose faith, aims,
ideals, and school are very similar to ours.

The Statewide Christian Association Retreat at Camp Nawaka near Greensboro a couple of weeks ago was a howling success. Davidson
was well represented with Dr. Pritchett, Haywood Brinegar, Herb Meza, Johnny Miller, Jack Payne, and George Worth in attendance. Herb
was one of the wheels of the occasion and was seen all day running around turning the wheels around, but
at night he was hard to find. Meza and Worth, who plan to attend the University of North Carolina next
year, were elected to the new Statewide Planning Committee, Meza for the second term and this time as chairman. Other
students on the Planning Committee represent State, WCUNC, Salem College, and Eastern Carolina Teachers College.

Our new Y-President was feeling under the weather, but he had enough energy to call all the gals in attendance
old bags. It is said that he is going to Russia next summer with Linkowski in tow. The more brazen
of the group went swimming, but the majority used their bathing suits to stuff in the holes in the sides
of the huts to keep from freezing. This was a fine chance to get together with the other students from
the colleges over the state and swap ideas about running our Y’s. The other schools are constantly amazed at the
way we have our hall prayer meetings each week and do so much work in the community.

A good many people these days have been asking where the money from the Vesper offerings is going. It was
published once before in the Davidsonian, but you might be interested in seeing how much we are giving. We have
given $500.00 to the World Student Service Fund, which goes to help needy students in Europe. $300.00 is to be
given to help a Korean minister come to this country and get an education in an American Seminary. We gave
$300.00 to help in the rebuilding of Debrecen College in Hungary, destroyed by the Germans and later by the Russians.
$300.00 is allocated to help in the boys' work that we are doing in the communities surrounding Davidson, and $250.00
has gone for the colored work in our community. We gave $250.00 to send Bibles to Japan, and $150.00 each
was given to Barium Springs Orphanage and the N.C. Presbyterian Home for the Aged. So you can see from these
few items mentioned where our money is going. It does not go to the college, but it goes to needy
causes in our community and in the world at large.

Authorities have allocated the funds given by Davidson students in the following manner:
- 300 steel double-decker beds: $2,500
- Library books: $1,000
- Freight for beds and books: $1,000
- Scholarships: $1,055
Total: $5,555

The beds and the library books are being purchased in the United States to be shipped to China in time
for use next fall. The money for scholarships will be awarded to some of the many needy students at Hangchow
College next fall. This money has been sent to China and the college authorities on the campus there will judge
the need and distribute the scholarships.

President Lee
Dr. Baen K. Lee, president of Hangchow Christian College, has sent his personal gratitude to the students of Davidson by
way of Dr. Cunningham. His letter reads as follows: “I have learned with a great deal of appreciation what Davidson
College did for Hangchow last Christmas. Allow me to express to you and through you to your faculty and students
the sincerest thanks of this college for your kind gift and interest in us.”

Dr. Lee took his undergraduate work at colleges in China. He then came to the United States and earned an
M.A. from New York University and another from the University of Chicago. After a few years in educational work in
China, he again returned and received a Ph.D. from Columbia University. As well as serving as president of Hangchow Christian
College, he is also an elder in the Presbyterian church and has served as moderator of his Presbytery.

Other Thanks
Appreciation for the Gift Fund has been expressed by letter from several different sources. Dr. R. J. McMillan, executive secretary
of the Associated Boards for Christian Colleges in China, said: “Please express to your student body on behalf of the
Associated Boards our very hearty thanks for what they have done, and our assurance that their effort will be rewarded
in the quality and quantity of work done by Hangchow University during the year.”

Mr. Curry B. Hearn, secretary-treasurer of the Board of Trustees of Hangchow College, said, “Please express to your group the
deep appreciation of all of us here for your interest in and support of foreign missions. From our experience with
your Y.M.C.A., it is easy for us to agree that you have a great bunch of boys. You may be
assured that this contribution is going for a great cause.”

Official Action
The Executive Committee of Foreign Missions of the Southern Presbyterian Church took the following action: “It is recommended that the
Executive Committee express to the student body of Davidson College its cordial appreciation of their magnificent gift to the rehabilitation
of Hangchow Christian College.”

Deputations
Last Sunday, May 4th, two deputations were sent in opposite directions. One group met with the Home Moravian Church group
to hear Dr. Hromadka. The second deputation, which consisted of Bill Peters, Flynn Long, Marshall Carper, Bob Williard, Ray Thabet,
and Charles Hadley, went to St. Paul’s Presbyterian Church in Charlotte.
