PORTSCOPE By SAM ERVIN

Wildcat April 18, 1947

LET'S WHIP FURMAN

By answering in the negative the question of whether or not Davidson should subsidize athletes, as a group of students did several weeks ago when interviewed by the Davidsonian’s roving reporter, those who voiced their opinions failed to provide a solution to the problem of what should be done about intercollegiate sports. It is common knowledge that within recent years, Davidson and the other small schools haven't had the “goods” to consistently compete on an equal basis with the larger colleges and universities in the Southern Conference. It is by no means a reflection on the athletes or the coaching staffs of the schools with small enrollments. It is, however, concrete proof that institutions that go in for buying “beef on the hoof” for their varsity squads are far superior in strength to those who frown upon the practice. What’s to be done to bring this sort of thing to a screeching halt and give the little schools in the loop a chance?

Without a doubt, the ideal solution would be for all colleges to abandon the “hobby” entirely. This won’t happen until pressure is brought to bear on a nation-wide basis on everyone connected with intercollegiate athletics. Even when and if that comes off, it will probably be years before rules can be drafted and adopted which will effectively control the college “play for pay” racket. It’s true that even now reforms are being advocated by prexies, coaches, and athletic directors of a number of institutions of higher learning, but this effort will surely be fought tooth and nail by the representatives of the schools which have won national acclaim and publicity as a result of their grid and cage crews. Getting into the limelight is, undeniably, beneficial to these outfits and they'll do everything in their power to stay there as long as possible. They’re willing in most cases to leave the supremacy in some minor sports to their little rivals, but they aren’t nearly so generous with the titles in the sports that count with the average fan. Eventually, subsidization will be outlawed, but until then what courses of action are open to those who don’t care for the way things seem to be going?

Of course, the schools who are opposed to this theory could do a complete about-face and start putting the cash on the line for ballplayers. This would result in a gigantic auction sale with the best athletes going to the highest bidders—leaving the little colleges right where they started and making the system even more complicated and corrupt. That answer to the current $64 question is definitely out.

There remain about three possible solutions, all complete with advantages and disadvantages. Look 'em over, pay your money, and take your choice. First—do nothing at all about it, give in a sense our stamp of approval to the whole setup, continuing to take frequent lickings from the “big boys” as they prep for important intersectional clashes. This technically can’t be called a solution because it leaves us with the original problem, but it is a way out—or a way to shelve a major headache. Second—Davidson and the majority of the clubs in the Southern Conference could elect to pull out of the loop entirely and organize a separate one. This would enable each school’s athletes to compete against men of equal caliber (teams of equal reserve strength, etc.) but the new league would lack the prestige that its predecessor had. (It would in effect be like being released to the minors after long service in the major leagues.) Finally—we could remain within the circuit and compete only with the smaller clubs—letting the subsidizers have the lion’s share of the honors. This also would have advantages, but a school’s gate receipts are bound to dwindle when the local cash customers can’t see the leading contenders perform in the ballyard. There are many other angles to this puzzle, but most of them are a little remote. It can’t be denied that here is a troublesome problem. Think it over and see what should be done. After all, in a sense it's your baby.

RANDOM SHOTS

Orchids to Coach Bill Lufler and his netters for the showings that they’ve made against a number of touring Northern tennis squads. The ’Cat racketeers will win the Southern Conference tennis title if they get by Carolina on May 6. The Tar Heels are in a position to make a clean sweep of the spring sports crowns. State’s baseballers, the defending champions, have fallen apart at the seams and it looks as though Carolina and Wake Forest will battle down to the wire. Here’s a vote for the boys from Chapel Hill. The University’s track squad has already beaten some of the East’s best cinder outfits and is the odds-on favorite to win the annual loop meet. The Tar Heels golf and cross-country squads also seem to be destined to emerge victorious. Rucks, speedy Gamecock track star, who showed Pete Whittle’s charges a clean pair of heels in the 440 yd. dash in Saturday’s meet wasn’t even the regular starter in that event. The South Carolinians were really loaded in that department.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

(Continued from Page 2)

activities on campus that might compel us to remain. Look to other fields, boys, where the grass is greener and forget about all this talk of striking up interest in the college. There is no sense in building up a date when all he has to do is just simply check a name and dash for Charlotte or other feminine points?

C. A. McNair.

Kappa Sigmas Cop Volleyball Crown

Paced by Buddy Cheek and Pat Williams, the Kappa Sigs rolled over nine opponents to cop the 1947 interfraternity volleyball crown. The victory catapulted the Sigmas back into the thick of the fight for the coveted cup with the Phi Delts and the Phi Gams. Barring stunning upsets in the softball tournament, the final winner will come from this trio. The Phi Delts with 8 wins in 9 starts finished second followed by the SAE’s with 5 victories and 3 defeats. The last named club has one game left to play as we go to press, but judging from their performances during the regular season they should cop it easily, thus winning undisputed possession of the third slot. A loss would dump them into a tie for third with three other aggregations.

Trio Tied For Fourth

Those who are hot on the heels of the pace setters are SPE’s, Betas, and Phi Gams. The Fijis lost ground after getting off to a good start but still have a chance to wind up atop the heap if they can produce a hot diamond entry. The Sons of Wooglin tallied after a poor start and hung up most of their triumphs during the tail end of the playoffs while the SPE’s ran alternately hot and cold throughout.

The KA’s wound up in the seventh spot, practically dropping out of the running for the trophy. The Pi Kaps, Pikas, and Independents trailed the pack home in that order.

In tossing around a few orchids we will try to mention a few of the boys whose feats on the court have been noticed. For the champion Kappa Sigs, we have to note Pat Williams, Cheek, Currie, and Wall. The Phi Delts brought forth such shining lights as John Witherspoon, Bill McLean, Bill Johnsen, and Morris Newell. For the Phi Gams, Giles Crowell and Johnny Richards stood out. The SAE’s rode home on the abilities of Jake Ashmore, Bobby Carson, and Zud Aiken. The KA’s were led in their victories and losses by Bill Carter and Ed Manget. The Independents had a stellar performer in Russ Greer. The Betas produced a well-rounded team from which it would be difficult to pick any outstanding performers. The same might be said for the SPE’s.

Baseballers Drop Five on Road Trip

Davidson's first baseball game of the season, a scrap with Duke’s Blue Devils, proved to be an unfortunate but prophetic beginning as far as the first two weeks of the season are concerned. Seven games following closely during the next two weeks were no more helpful to the Davidson average. Two of these games were with the Charlotte Hornets team of the class B Tri-state league. Of the remaining six, two were conference tilts.

Duke Wins Opener

Duke’s powerful nine worked over the Wildcat squad by a 12-5 final count. Erratic fielding and a lack of hitting power on the Wildcats’ part gave the Blue Devils easy sledding.

Kale-Lawing Co.
@ Stationers
@ Office Outfitters
@ Printers

PHONE 6185
227-229 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Faul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
Charlotte, N. C.

THE TITLE BOUND DAVIDSONIAN | Page 3

Shown above are the leading members of the 1947 Davidson Tennis Squad which has racked up 7 wins in 8 starts this season. In his second year as head coach, Bill Lufler has built a club which will be a serious contender for the Southern Conference crown. Left to right, first row—Lenoir Keesler, Ted Keesler, Buck Archer, Jerry Robinson, and Bo Roddey; second row—Clyde Stroup, Glenn Turpin, Whit Cobb, Mike Williams, Don Hatch, and Coach Lufler.

Final Volleyball Standings

| Won | Lost | Per. |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Kappa Sigma | 9 | 0 | 1,000 |
| Phi Delta Theta | 8 | 1 | .888 |
| SAE | 5 | 3 | .666 |
| SPE | 5 | 4 | .555 |
| Beta | 5 | 4 | .555 |
| Phi Gam | 5 | 4 | .555 |
| Kappa Alpha | 4 | 5 | .444 |
| Pi Kap | 2 | 6 | .222 |
| Pika | 1 | 8 | .111 |
| Ind. | 0 | 9 | .000 |

*Schedule incomplete.Neither the visitors’ batting nor fielding were particularly outstanding. The spectacular event of the games was the center fielder Jack Burris’ home run. This swat, well over the left field fence, somewhat saved Davidson's face. The next game was with Trinity College, a visiting team from New England Way. Weak hitting kept the Wildcats from equaling Trinity's wild scoring spree and the result was a 12-2 defeat. Next followed two games with the Charlotte Hornets. Davidson's fielding steadily improved, but wild pitching and weak hitting still hindered our boys. The Hornets won 6-2 in the first game, and unleashing still more batting power in the second game, taking it on their home field by a 12-2 score. 

Came Spring Holidays and the team journeyed to Spartanburg to meet the Wofford Terriers in a two-game series. The first game, another slugfest, went to Wofford by an 11-7 margin and the second game was a 15-3 massacre with Wofford again coming out on top. Presbyterian College was the next opponent. When again the Wildcat bats were virtually silent, the P. C. boys took a 7-2 victory. The team’s best effort of the year was the game with Clemson which proved to be more or less a pitcher’s duel. Norm Whiteheart pitched a beautiful five-hit game but Clemson’s “No-Hit” Landrum was also in top form and the Cats lost 2-1. In the fifth, Davidson flubbed up a bases-loaded, none-out opportunity when they only squeezed in one run. So the Cats have lost eight for eight... However, the boys are steadily improving and may beat out a good percentage yet.

Visit The— SHIP AHOY Line! The Ideal Place To Meet Your Friends Charlotte, N. C.

Vanderbilt - Starting two more wins during the Spring anew the on is with the practice match with Yale in which the Red and Black netters, 8 to 5.

Cat Golfers In Southern Tourney

This weekend finds the Wildcat linksmen now boasting a record of 7 wins and 2 losses, traveling to Athens, Ga., entering the Southern Intercollegiate Tournament. Traveling to the Cracker State with 4 wins and 2 losses behind them, the team should come back to the campus with increased prestige. Since Spring vacation has sent us back to the grind, the golfers have put two victories under their belts. On the 10th, N.C. State came to Charlotte and was sent back home with a 17 to 10 defeat. Don Bryant toured the Country Club course with a sub-par 71 to post the low ball for the day. Right behind the pace-setter with the second low ball was teammate Freeman Jones with a 75. The next day, the linksmen traveled to Columbia where they met the University of South Carolina Gamecocks for the second time, and handed them their second defeat, 11½ to 6½. This time it was Tom Bumbarger who led the Cats, while Bob Thoren of the Birds was his chief rival. Both men shot 76’s over the par 71 layout. Last Wednesday, the team started south where it was scheduled to meet Alabama on the Athens links preparatory to their entering the Tourney. But in competition, the Davidsonians are likely to run into a lot of trouble. Also entered in the event are the sub-par shooters from North Carolina, as well as the Clemson team. Both schools have already set back the Red and Black in initial matches. Even with this outlook ahead, the Wildcats will be able to depend on the playing of Don Bryant and Tommy Bumbarger, as well as the shooting of Bill Hodgin. Last year, Bill, along with Don, reached the finals. We are hoping for even more success this spring.

PASTEURIZED GRADE “A” MILK Mooresville Co-Operative Creamery — Delivered Daily — PHONE 205 Mooresville, N. C.

Davidson Wildcat Netters Defeat Birmingham

After having registered vacation, the Wildcat tennis team is now boasting a record of 7 wins and 1 loss. This is with the practice match with Yale in which the New Haven boys won 8 to 5. By the time this sheet reaches the hands of its eager devotees, the netters will have completed two of the toughest matches on their schedule. These are the tilts with Georgia Tech and Duke. The match with the Blue Devils was played at the dedicating of the new courts.

Two Vacation Victories

During the Easter vacation, the Wildcats turned south with their rackets and decisively turned back both Birmingham Southern and a strong Vanderbilt team. The former match gave the ‘Cats a 9-0 win over the Alabamians. Going on two days later to Nashville, the racketeers played six singles matches against Vanderbilt and came out on top with a clean sweep. The doubles were ceded to the Davidsonians, and again the Presbyterians had registered a 9-0 victory. Two matches, one with the University of Georgia and a second with Tennessee, were rained out. But after the shellacking handed the Vanderbilt squad, little doubt is there that they too would have fallen victims to the traveling Wildcats.

Bo Roddey And Archer Star

Bo Roddey, benched for the first two matches of the season in the singles while Teddy Kessler took the No. 1 slot, entered the line-up against Kalamazoo and was defeated in a long, hard-fought match with Jack Sunderland, Indiana State champion. But the Charlotte City champ bounced right back to whip Dick Mattecer of the Haverford squad who was the country’s No. 8 scholastic player last year. He then went on to win against Colgate and Vanderbilt, again playing in the No. 1 slot. The only member of the squad who boasts an undefeated record in singles play is Buck Archer, a returned letterman from last season. Playing this year in the No. 3 slot behind Teddy Kessler and Bo Roddy, the veteran has seen defeat only once, and that in doubles play against Kalamazoo.

Future Outlook

Starting off the season with some rather unorthodox pairings, Coach Bill Lufler has brought a high percentage of victories to the Davidson campus. Dropping only one scheduled match during the season so far, the team has shown up well under stiff competition. The netters came dangerously close to upsetting a highly touted Kalamazoo squad, and put on an excellent exhibition in practice tussles with Yale. On the 24th, the team again turns to the road where more tough matches are on slate against N.Y.U., Penn State, and Yale again, this time a regular match.

Gamecocks Whip Cat Cindermen

Gray, Lacy, and Temple Take Top Places

The Cats absorbed their initial defeat on the cinder paths Saturday at the hands of South Carolina’s speedy Gamecocks. Rolling up 83½ to 47½ for the Red and Black, the Palmettodads took ten first places in their impressive victory as the Cats pulled in five blue ribbons.

Gray And Lacy Set Pace

Jack “Gunder” Gray continued his string of triumphs in the two mile by finishing a half a lap ahead of the rest of the field. Freshman Harry Temple registered an easy victory in flashing around the two-lap half mile in a neat 2:06.5. Lennox Turnbull unfurled a heave of 129 feet 4 inches in the discus to finish ahead of Jim Vann who gained points for the Red and Black. Lanky Bob Lacy, who holds the school record in the high jump, leaped 5 feet 11 inches to take top honors in the cross bar event. The last five-point mark was registered by the Mile Relay team of Frank Matthews, Bob McGehee, Gene Bingham, and Temple which ripped off a cool 3:37.2. Temple turned in top scoring honors for the Cats with five points for his half-mile triumph and 1½ for his part in the mile relay for a total of 6½. High man for the meet, however, was Jim Ratcliffe of S.C., who turned in firsts in the 100-yard dash and both the high and low hurdles for a total of 15 points.

The Summary:

100-yard dash—Ratcliffe (SC), Hunnicutt (SC), Montgomery (D). Time: 10.3.
220-yard dash—Rucks (SC), Montgomery (D), Hunnicutt (SC). Time: 22.5.
440-yard dash—Rucks (SC), Hunley (SC), Bingham (D). Time: 51.0.
880-yard run—Temple (D), Merriweather (SC), McAlister (D). Time: 2:06.5.
Mile run—Thornton (SC), Iverson (D), Koop (D). Time: 4:43.1.
Two Mile run—Gray (D), Thornton (SC), McKeithan (D). Time: 10:17.5.
High hurdles—Ratcliffe (SC), Atwell (SC), Peters (D). Time: 15.8.
Low hurdles—Ratcliffe (SC), Hopper (D), Masham (SC). Time: 25.0.
Shot put—Wilson (SC), Eborn (D), Frantz (SC). Distance: 45 feet 6 inches.
Discus—Turnbull (D), Vann (D), Wilson (SC). Distance: 129 feet 4 inches.
Javelin—Buck (SC), Lawhorne (SC), Priester (SC). Distance: 176 feet 6 inches.
High jump—Lacy (D), Bolo (SC), McGill (SC). Height: 5 feet 11 inches.
Broad jump—McGill (SC), Proctor (SC), Lacy (D). Distance: 20 feet 11 inches.
Pole Vault—Tie for first between McCook (SC) and Brown (SC), third place tie between Brown (D) and Buck (SC). Height: 10 feet 10 inches.
Mile Relay—Won by Davidson team of Matthews, McGhee, Bingham, and Temple. Time: 3:37.2.

Table Tennis Playoffs Set

Last Monday the Y Ping-pong & Pool Tournament started off in a big way with 117 entrants, 67 in ping-pong and 50 in pool. It is hoped that all initial bouts in both singles and doubles can be played off this week. The pool competition will be in Straight rather than French because it offers a fairer opportunity for selection of the best player. In ping-pong the best players will be those who win 3 out of 5 games; in the semi-finals, 4 out of 7; and in the finals, 5 out of 9. Here are some of the top-seeded players:

Ping-pong Singles: Charles Shaw, Clayton Carpenter, Gene Kirkman, and Carlisle Moore; Doubles: Shaw-Moore and Berry-Cameron.
Pool—Singles: B. T. Gibson, E. Myers, R. A. Berry, B. W. Woodbridge, A. B. Cameron, and S. Edwards. Doubles: Cameron-Woodbridge, Berry-Hamilton, Gibson-Myers, and Pierce-Thompson.