~ Page-8ix THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, November 14, 196-

WHAT'S AMONG AMERICAN COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES

By REES JENKINS

Agnes Scott—Alabama

You fellows who entertained Agnes Scott girls for the Homecoming functions seemed to have done a good job because it
was acclaimed a success by the A. S. News. It received favorable comments from Winthrop, too. Carolina reports that the
stands at their Tennessee game were unusually dry, from the liquor point of view. It wasn't told how this effect
was achieved, but down at the University of Alabama a technique was used that might cope with the problem. In
the halftime activities of their game, their homecoming mascot was brought out on the field. It was an elephant painted
red.

Carolina—U. of Virginia

Those of you who are acquaintances of Lillian DeArmon will be interested to learn that in a campus-wide contest staged
for the benefit of the World Student Service Fund, she polled the most votes.

Dances

Here are the schedules of dances to be given in the near future: W.C.U.N.C., Junior formal (by Roy Cole), November
15. Agnes Scott—formal, November 22. Duke—Fall Coed Ball, November 26. Carolina—Grail (Vaughn Monroe), November 22. Winthrop—Sophomore, November 15. It seems
that many schools are having Christmas dances in about a month but I can't get a line on them yet.
The Wake Forest Campus Social Committee had a big dance planned for the night of November 15. They had Blue
Barron lined up for the big celebration after the State game. This was to be the first dance ever thrown
for the whole student body, as individual fraternities usually have their own. But for reasons which seem to point to
lack of planning, the dance had to be called off. The student body doesn't seem to be interested. Watch this
column next week for an announcement that ought to be interesting to all DAVIDSONIAN readers.

Cinema Comments

By WALTER MANN

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
November 17 and 18
"CARNEGIE HALL"

In this United Artists production, Leopold Stokowski, Jascha Heifetz, Bruno Walter, George Szell, Arthur Rodzinski, Fritz Reiner, and the New
York Philharmonic Orchestra. (Of course, we should become familiar with such names, since it is proposed by the local chapter
of the American Anti-Rebel League that all future football players be required to sign an affidavit that "their residence is
north of the Mason-Dixon Line.") Also in this picture, you will have a chance to become acquainted with music which
is world-wide in character and not sectional. The motto these days seems to be "lots of culture, but lots of
seasoning along with it." The "Carnegie Hall" is presented in the form of Vaughn Monroe and Harry James. (Quite a
letdown from the New York Philharmonic but we have to keep everyone happy.) One point must be stressed, however. If
you go to see "Carnegie Hall" for the story involved, you will be somewhat disappointed. The story seems to be
sacrificed to keep the music going. It seems the president of United Artists Studios came around to the set one
day to see how the filming of "Carnegie Hall" was progressing. Sitting through the playing of the scenes was, if
possible, more tedious than sitting through the picture itself. The boss was a conscientious soul, however, and he felt he
must stay on the set for fifteen minutes. He demanded that the producer give him something to take notes on
(He really wanted to draw so that he could occupy his hands, if not his mind.) It seems that the
only paper on the lot was the script for the picture and so the producer, realizing that he could produce
his film just as well without a story as he could with one, presented this literary gem to the president.
He scribbled peacefully on the back of the first ten pages without a mishap, but during a particularly thrilling scene,
he suddenly tore the entire volume to shreds. Our valiant producers, however, completed the session without their needed story.

WEDNESDAY & THURSDAY
November 19 and 20
"HEAVEN ONLY KNOWS"

Here we have something unique. These days they are going all out with wild westerns and trying to introduce some
of the supernatural into them. In fact, it is even rumored that they will soon replace horses with jet-propelled angels.
All this must be left to the future, however, as the angel in this picture is decidedly not jet-propelled, in
fact, not even gasoline-powered. Instead, an angel is sent to earth to save the soul of a saloon proprietor. This
fortunate fellow has been leading the wrong kind of life and late in his career, Michael is supposed to be
flown to earth and help him out. Of course, in order to give us a nice thrilling picture, there must
be many trials and tribulations ere this task is accomplished. Robert Cummings and Brian Donlevy star in this picture. Marjorie
Reynolds trails along behind so that she can be snatched up by Mr. Donlevy at the end of the play.

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
November 21 and 22
"THE SPORT OF KINGS"

This picture is supposed to bring back to all of us the thrills which always accompany that great American sport,
horse racing. The reason that this sport is called "the sport of kings" is that the first patron of the
turf was the Afghanistani monarch, King Moni. Ever since the days of King Iben Moni, those with royal blood have
always been susceptible to the lure of the tracks. Purely on the grounds that they are for the other excuses
which we will blame someone else for, we have this week, the United Artists Studios responsible for this also. However,
to be fair, we will apologize to the United Artists Studios.

AMONG THE GREEKS
(Continued from Page Two)

Happened to miss all classes Monday—wonder why? For telephone popularity—Bill Robertson. What does pledge Bill Cassels have at Brenau College?
Dan Tyler, pledge Karl Herman, Billy Houck, and Thad Barringer are taking care of the beautiful "lassies" at Winthrop College.
Don Whitamore goes home for some of that good "home cooking." Some excuse, eh! Best news of the week: Mr.
Charles Ratliff, instructor in economics, is now a pledge member. His relations with the fraternity were interrupted by the war.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

Nobody was able to do anything outstanding this past week. Homecoming proved to be the nth degree, so to the
skids, everyone was forced.to catch up on lost sack time. While in the sack, they found it fatiguing to keep
from completely hitting dreams: Beth twins and he gave one to Dickie. Brown dreamed he missed an extra point. Barron
dreamed Sara was and Churchill dreamed they had unlimited vesper Seals cuts. French dreamed he was president of Sigma Phi
Nothing sorority. Hudnell dreamed he had a meter. Patrick dreamed he knew two jokes. Jin Poag dreamed about Strait went
on a necking car on sponges. He dreamed he was at Randolph College for Macon Women. Christopher dreamed he was
judge of the C. of C. Maloney dreamed that his girl was a watermelon. And Aldred De Vereen dreamed he
won the Phi Delta Theta award.

Phi brothers and pledges operated dreamed won the Things were certainly brewing when they stormed in the Village. VORD DOBSON
said that the atmosphere of Nicks, The Vanguard, on practically a nationwide basis, etc., was almost as friendly as this
past week—and as memorable. In fact, he was holding hands with EVERYBODY.

THINK IT OVER ..... (Continued From Page Two)

We believe nights when it is best to stay up into the wee hours to do work properly, we also
think something should be done to enable students to complete their work earlier, addressing the cause rather than futilely prohibiting
the result. Salem College, we understand, uses a system of door tags to enable students to study in their rooms,
undisturbed. If we could study in the dorms with less noise and interruptions, we could finish our work earlier. A
red tag could mean “Studying, please do not disturb except for important business.” A white tag could say “Welcome,” and
a blue tag, “Sleeping.” If a student wanted to study, he could lock his door and put up his red
tag. Others would respect this indication that he was pulling a study, since we all have to do that occasionally
around here (occasionally meaning daily in most cases). Rather than reversing the policy followed to date, why not let’s all
cooperate and be more considerate of our friends. Tags would make it possible for a visitor to know before knocking
what his host was doing, so he could come at a convenient time. We believe the adoption of such a
system will pay off in more sleep and better work. THINK IT OVER.

SUNDAY VISITORS (Continued from Page One)

If we could distribute them to the patients, it would certainly bring a great deal of happiness to these people.
These people are eager for the Word of God, too. The well-attended Sunday School classes consist either of discussion or
lessons from Bible to Bible for the patients that have none, and they also ordered four dozen hymnals for the
colored wards. Some classes take up a collection in order to be able to provide the new patients with Bibles
and other necessities. At times a professor accompanies the group and administers Communion. Any student that would like to aid
this project is urged to see Anthony Leslie at C. East. More men are needed to help carry on this
vital work.

LOCAL ARTISTS .. (Continued From Page One)

Pick your own cotton and make your own shirts. Returning reluctantly to the details of the skit, we can truthfully
say that Miss Grace tagged in a performance which, in the words of our drama critic, was “unsurpassed for depth
of emotional feeling, superbly acted in the true Barrymoreian tradition and remarkable facial mobility for so young an actress.” Mr.
Sapp was also in the skit.

The group Cream Company MAKERS OF Deluxe Ice Cream C. Mooresville, N. PASTEURIZED GRADE “A” MILK Mooresville Co-Operative Creamery Daily
Delivery: PHONE 205 MOORESVILLE, N. C. Copyright 1947, Liggett & Myers
