MONSOONS RUMPLE RATS SET; LAY IN WINTER IN FOOD SUPPLY

ALENRDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Volume XXXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. JANUARY 17, 1947 No. 11

Local Fraternity Petitions Sigma Chi
Delta Kappa Club Forms With 12 Charter Members; Freeman, President

In the early fall of this year, a number of Davidson students interested in the formation of an additional social
fraternity on this campus met together in an endeavor to survey the need for another such organization and to decide
if such action was appropriate and desirable. After considerable discussion, it was decided to organize for this purpose. The name
“Delta Kappa Club” was selected as an interim name, being taken from an earlier group begun in the spring of
1946, around which the present group has organized.

With an original membership of twelve members in October 1946, steps were taken to stabilize the organization by inviting other
interested persons to join in working for its aim, and later, by the drawing up of a formal constitution. At
length, a charter membership of sixteen ratified this document. It was decided to petition the Faculty for official recognition as
a local fraternity, petitioning Sigma Chi, National Social Fraternity. Stated in the Constitution as a definite aim was the bringing
to this campus a chapter of Sigma Chi.

Charter Members signing the constitution were as follows: Robert Freeman, Homer Zedaker, J. T. Fesperman, Bill Richard, Rodney Whisnant, Devant
Williams, Spencer Murry, R. S. Dietrich, Buford Goodman, Bill Miller, Carl Spencer, Bill Crosland, Charles Morris, Jim Gribben, and David
Dixon.

Immediately after ratification of the Constitution, permanent officers for the ensuing term were elected, as follows: President: Robert Freeman; Vice-President:
Devant Williams; Secretary: Homer Zedaker; Treasurer: Rodney Whisnant.

Arrangements were effected with the Scabbard and Blade and administration of the college to utilize the Greek Room of Elm
Row as a meeting place, pending the acquisition of a permanent house. Favorable response was shown by Sigma Chi officials
to preliminary negotiations with the Delta Kappa group concerning the possibility of the establishment of a chapter of that fraternity
here, and it was decided that immediate steps be taken to place Davidson College on the approved list, this being
the first requisite required before a formal petition could be submitted. Valuable assistance was provided in the person of Dr.
Roy B. McKnight, Grand Praetor for the Province of North and South Carolina, with the result that this institution was
placed on this roster.

Recognition of the Delta Kappa group was accorded by the Pan Hellenic council with the granting of the right to
have non-voting representation there, and Bill Richard was recently elected to fill that post. Until such time as a fraternity
house can be obtained, the Greek Room will continue in use as a meeting place, and is currently being furnished
for this purpose. The first function of the group as a recognized fraternity will take place at Midwinters, with a
banquet on Saturday night, February eighth.

Present pledges include: Bill Clark, Harry Brown, John Carr, Jim Riddervold, W. A. Hopkins, W. D. Beatie, and Graham Newton.

PHI SOCIETY

At the last meeting of The Philanthropic Literary Society for this semester the following officers were elected: George Worth, president;
Haywood Brinegar, vice-president; J. P. Etheridge, secretary; Joe Stukes, first critic; Herbert Dimmock, second critic; Dave Sheppardson, first supervisor; Herb
Meza, second supervisor. The new officers will serve during the coming semester. Bids for new members to the society will
probably be given out at the beginning of that semester.

Class of ’44 Hit By War
55.8% Lost From Freshman To Senior Year

World War II increased the student loss from freshman to senior year by 50 per cent. This is the conclusion
reached from a recent study of the Class of 1944. Normally, according to records in the office of the Registrar,
the loss from freshman to senior year would amount to 37 per cent. For the Class of 1944, the loss
was 55.8 per cent.

In the fall of 1940, 228 Freshmen entered the class of '44. In peacetime, 85 of these would be expected,
from past experience, to fail to graduate for various reasons. The United States was not at war during the freshman
year of this class but the times were unsettled. By the beginning of the Sophomore year, 46 men had dropped
out of college. The losses in student enrollment continued to increase until only 34 of the 228 men were left
to graduate by the scheduled time.

67 Return

Only 67 of all who left have returned to Davidson College. Of these, 13 have already graduated and 54 are
now enrolled. From the 228 original matriculates, twelve lost their lives in the war.

The Class of '44 was selected for study as the last to enter Davidson under peacetime conditions. The percentage of
losses for later classes, entering after the declaration of war by the United States and the establishment of draft regulations,
was undoubtedly larger, although no detailed study of these has been made.

Many persons have expressed surprise at the size of the present student body. Large as it is, the surprising thing
is that it isn’t larger. There are 69 men of the class of 1944 who might have returned to Davidson
but did not. Assuming a comparable loss for the classes of each of the four war years, Davidson is 276
men short of a “normal” student body.

Student Groups To Hear Dr. Eddy

Students of Johnson C. Smith University and Davidson College are planning a joint meeting on the Smith campus to hear
Dr. Sherwood Eddy speak on Saturday, February 1, at 3:30 p.m. This student group organized in November under the name
of Intercollegiate Council for Religion in Life in the Charlotte Area. They have been meeting together since that time to
promote understanding between Christian students on the two campuses, hearing speakers and entering into discussions together. The coming meeting will
be the third for the Council.

Initial organization was under the leadership of Ed Golden, a Davidson student. He saw the need for a group to
take the place of the Davidson-Smith Seminar, which met with success and full cooperation from the two student bodies in
past years. Through his work, support was secured from members of the faculty and administration of both institutions.

Phi Hall was the scene of the last gathering of these students, held on Saturday, January 11. A constitution was
adopted and officers were chosen. George Worth, of Davidson, was picked for Chairman, while James Green, of Smith, became Vice-Chairman,
and Winona Lee, of Smith, Secretary-Treasurer. The two schools chose Miles Wood, of Davidson, and Rollins, of Smith, as their
representatives on the Steering Committee.

Faculty advisors from the two schools have been chosen. Dr. Foreman and Prof. Winn represent Davidson College. Dr. Steele and
Dr. Belton represent Johnson C. Smith University.

(See STUDENT GROUPS page 4)

Adolph Busch To Play Here
Artist Series Presents Orchestra January 29

The Davidson College Artist Series will present the Busch Symphony Orchestra in the college auditorium on the night of January
29 at 8:15 under the direction of Adolf Busch. This season marks the third American tour for the orchestra, which
has been hailed by audiences from coast to coast. Mr. Busch founded the symphonic organization in 1935 for the Florence
May Festival as the Busch Chamber Music Players. Since then the group has been transplanted and enlarged and this year
appears as a complete symphonic orchestra.

Adolf Busch, who, aside from his duties as director, is soloist of the orchestra, was born in Westphalia, Germany, as
the son of a famous family. He was a child prodigy, entering the Cologne Conservatory at the age of eleven,
and holding the position of concertmaster of the Konzertverein Orchestra in Vienna at twenty-one. Mr. Busch was invited to the
United States by Toscanini where he appeared as soloist with the New York Philharmonic-Symphony on tour. With the advent of
Hitler to the control of Germany, Adolf Busch left his country voluntarily and became a Swiss citizen in 1935, refusing
to have anything to do with music in a country under fascist domination. In 1939 he came to the United
States and has since made this country his home.

The program that the Busch Symphony Orchestra will play will be composed of five selections: “The Overture to The Marriage
of Figaro” by Mozart; the “Concert for Violin in D major, Op. 61” by Beethoven; “Nocturne and Scherzo from A
Midsummer Night's Dream” by Mendelssohn; “Variations on a Theme by Frieda Busch, Op. 66” by A. Busch; and “Three Hungarian
Dances” by Brahms. The price of a single admission ticket will be $1.50, including tax. The season ticket, including tax,
is $5.00.

Army Checks ROTC Unit

Pre-holiday R.O.T.C. department inspecting officers appeared to be well satisfied with Davidson's unit, according to Col. E. M. Grace, PMS&T,
but as yet no official reports have been received concerning the three inspections. The last inspection to be made was
held on December 17 by a team of four officers headed by Lt. Col. J. V. Bango of the North
Carolina military district headquarters. They inspected equipment, administration, and training of the unit. A parade ceremony was presented by the
R.O.T.C. battalion for them in the afternoon. Prior to that, Col. S. S. MacLaughlin, North Carolina military district commander, made
a training inspection.

(See ROTC page 4)

DAVIDSONIAN KEYS AWARDED

Announcement came this week from the Davidsonian office thatTwelve juniors and two seniors on this year's business and editorial staffs
have been awarded the Davidsonian gold key in journalism. These awards are made annually to the junior editors and managers
of the college’s weekly publication. Seniors honored include Jim Jackson, last year's sports editor, and Dave Richardson, who is serving
in a managing editor’s capacity this year. Juniors on the editorial staff to receive the award were Jim Pittman, Bob
Phillips, Ralph Alexander, Walter Walker, Clayton Scofield, and Bob Rierson. Business staff juniors were Bob Gambrell, Frank Lemmon, John McNair,
Bob Cline, and Bill Baxter. Jim Love, a senior and present associate editor, received the award during his junior year.

Phi Mu Alpha Initiates 13
Music Frat Sponsors Programs For Students

Phi Kappa Chapter of Mu Alpha, national honorary fraternity for student musicians, held an initiation ceremony on December 1st in
Phi Hall for the following pledges: Spencer Murray, William Richard, Buford Goodman, Jr., Lee Willingham, Rodney Whisnant, Howard Brenner, Tommy
F. Clark, B. L. Blackwell, Willis Coggins, Moody Chisholm, Homer Ha- worth, Boyce Helms, and Melvin Sipe.

The Davidson chapter of Phi Mu Alpha plans an extensive series of programs for the 1946-47 season. The first of
these was presented by Eunice Berg, pianist, when members of the fraternity were guests at her home to hear a
short recital of contemporary piano works by Ernst Bloch and Bela Bartok. The most notable inclusion on this program was
a “Rondo” for piano, written by Professor John Haldane of the Davidson Music Department faculty. This was the first performance
of his composition, which is currently entered in the national contest for original compositions. It is expected that additional works
by Professor Haldane will be presented at a later date.

Additional programs planned by Phi Mu Alpha consist of the following: a violin recital by Melvin Sipe, to be given
on the 16th of December, in which he will play portions of the Bach unaccompanied concerto in addition to works
by Fritz Kreisler, Handel, W. A. Mozart, and others. He will be assisted at the piano by Buford Goodman, Jr.;
a piano recital by Louise Nelson Pfohl, to be given in January; and an organ recital to be given by
Professor Robert Noehren during the second semester.

Record Programs

At a recent meeting of Phi Mu Alpha, it was decided to open the Carnegie Record Library in Phi Hall
to the student body on several nights each week, providing programs under the supervision of this fraternity. A definite schedule
of (See PHI MU ALPHA page 4)

AND SHE SINGS TOO!

Shown here is Frances Colwell, who will sing with Dean Hudson’s Orchestra when they play here at Mid-Winters.

There are perhaps several kinds of women, you know. To mean, a trite statement to the man of the world,
but Mullethead and I decided that the average Davidson student, not an MOTW, should be informed, and further, that he
should have commentary upon it, entailing warning words for the wise. Right at this point, you're saying to yourself, “Where
in the world do Sut and his flunky think they're getting off, trying to disseminate hot dope frankly acknowledged to
be held only by ‘Les hommes du monde’?” For that, there is the ready reply: In any well-stocked modern library,
under which category would certainly fall “Doctor Davidson's Dreary Dive for Doomed Davidson Diligentia,” are to be found divers volumes
on that most maddening and insoluble problem, women. It is from such purely academic sources that all the ensuing data
are culled.

The Seven Wonders of the World stand with bowed heads (that smart aleck who says Pisa has done that for
centuries is simply trying to spoil the effect of my figure of speech) when confronted by that one great wonder
concerning women. Wonder No. 1: There are several forms in which this method of torture assails every man; (I refer,
of course, to that popularized instrument of the Spanish Inquisition,) and often enough you are fortunate to encounter an accomplished
lady with two or more. But one of these forms in which they appear is: (1) Wonder if she loves
me? (2) Wonder if she loves everybody else? (3) Wonder if those whispers are really nothin’? (4) Wonder if he'll
flush me for those Mid-Winters? (5) Wonder if that actually is her own figure? (6) Wonder if she would make
a good mother for my children? (7) Or if you are more mundanely motivated, wonder if...?

We have scanned the ordnance; let us now undertake to type its individual warrior. First, since it embraces the largest
group, we will consider that lovely ingenue, the Party Girl. The P.G. is of the most homogeneous group; she talks
and acts just exactly like all her sister P.G.'s. A nicotine and suds hound, “I simply gotta have it—.” The
P.G. is almost inanimate when removed from the smoke-filled room or reception foyer. Recommendation: Leave her alone unless you can
find some Old Crow, and want to hear parrot-like chatter all evening—she’s strictly for the birds.

Next, let us survey that darling of the co-ed campus, the Frat Pin Girl, the Greek stone sweetheart of the
entire alphabet. She has a rare collection that would dazzle the Pasha of Persia; and it’s her avowed pledge (the
only one she keeps) never to appear twice in public wearing the same pin. She belongs to a Sigma Phi
at State, (See MID-WINTERS Page 4)

Dean Hudson and Orchestra Signed To Play Dances At Annual Mid-Winters Festivities
Frances Colwell And Glee Club Featured In Vocal Work

Dean Hudson's nationally famous orchestra will be the feature attraction of the annual Midwinters Dance set to be presented by
the Pan-Hellenic Council Friday and Saturday, February 7 and 8. Friday's dance will last from nine until one, and will
feature a Pan-Hellenic figure during the intermission in which fraternity presidents and Pan-Hell representatives will take part. Saturday night the
dance will begin at eight and end at twelve, and will be held in the main ballroom of the Hotel
Charlotte. The Charlotte Armory will be the scene for the Friday night affair, which will be formal. Girls only will
dress formally Saturday night.

Set Costs $6.50

Prices for set tickets, which will be sold by Pan-Hellenic representatives beginning next week, will be $6.50, including tax, while
tickets for the individual dances will be $4.00 each. It has been the custom in the past, according to George
Ennett, treasurer of the Pan-Hellenic Council, for students to refrain from ordering corsages for their dates individually.

Jeffries Ready

Dean Hudson's orchestra, which will provide music for both dances, is especially noted for its versatility, according to MacChesney H.
Jeffries, president of Pan-Hell. Among featured attractions are Frances Colwell, blonde, photogenic torch singer and composer; an A Capella choir;
instrumental soloists; and comedy and novelty effects. Hudson, a native of Lake Worth, Fla., is a graduate of the University
of Florida, where he was a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity, a member of the swimming and track teams, and
head cheerleader. It was at the university that he organized his orchestra, which he managed until 1942, when he entered
the service. As an ROTC reserve officer, Hudson was a first lieutenant, serving as a line officer in the infantry.
After discharge, Hudson played trumpet for Tommy Dorsey until he could reorganize for himself, at which time he opened at
the Hotel Lincoln in New York City, where he was featured for a record-breaking seven-month engagement. Since then his theme
song, “Moon Over Miami,” has been heard at dances at Duke University, University of Virginia, and N. C. State, and
in numerous more important engagements. Latest reports indicate that Hudson is not married. His father, a trumpeter with John Sousa’s
band, directed the Norwood, Ohio, Symphony Orchestra, while his mother was a pianist, singer, and arranger. Little Dean's musical career
began when he became a drummer in his father’s 110-piece harmonica band, which played at President Hoover's inauguration.

Colwell Ready

Blonde, photogenic Frances Colwell, affectionately billed as “The Florida Songbird,” is a charming feature of the Hudson Orchestra. Born in
Palmetto, Fla., where her father was chief of police, “the striking brunette canary” attended the University of Florida. In addition
to her singing abilities and blonde, photogenic qualities, Miss Colwell writes songs for the band. She has turned out, among
others, “You Set Me On Fire” and “You Led Me Down,” a pair of torch songs recorded and featured by
Jimmie Lunceford. Her hobbies are cooking and housekeeping. “I like to do things for my husband,” she stated. “During time
not taken up by the band, I just stay around the house with him.” Miss Colwell is one of few
women members of A. F. of L. local 802 as a composer and arranger.
