4 The basketball team broke in fresh and sharp in their opener to a speedier pace than last year's team
and showed more experience.

Page Four
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Friday, December 12, 1947

CAGERS WIN FIRST FOUR

Davidson's deserving gridders celebrated the conclusion of their best season in fifteen years with an enjoyable banquet in the dining
hall. The toastmaster of the occasion, Mr. W. Hengeveld, started the ball rolling in fine style by introducing the new
addition to his office force, Sandy Carnegie. The toastmaster received very little attention after the fried chicken was served and
called off his jovial remarks until after all finished a big banquet meal. This group of hearty eaters quickly pulled
that old vanishing act.

It was with great satisfaction that everyone present pushed his chair back from the table to continue enjoying the program.
Mr. Hengeveld took the floor again and after a short talk aimed at the gallant football players, he introduced the
number of guests present. Dr. Cunningham arose after Mr. Hengeveld’s introduction and delivered a brief, but well-worded, address, expressing his
appreciation to Coach Story for being the coach and the man that he was while here at Davidson. The words
of Dr. Cunningham were not flattery, they were sincere and carried the sentiments of not only the members of the
team present, but also of the whole student body.

Mr. Hengeveld took up his job again with the conclusion of Dr. Cunningham's remarks by calling on Bill Iverson and
asking if Bill had any entertainment arranged for the crowd. Bill replied that he had not had time to notify
any of the top amusement stars of the need of entertainment on this occasion, but he said he would do
his best to dig up something in this line around the campus. He left and returned very soon with Dave
Walker and a cigar. With Iverson's “fowl” jokes to begin with, Dave really did a fine job of entertaining with
his “songs as only Dave Walker can sing ‘em.”

Following the exit of Dave Walker and cigar, Ed Armfield of Greenville, S.C., one of the best blocking backs ever
to attend Davidson, presented the Armfield Blocking Trophy to Buddy Chandler. Buddy was all smiles—as who wouldn't be to receive
such an honor. Coach N. W. Sheppard was introduced and with some well-chosen gags from

CAGERS WIN

Davidson's basketball team looked fresh and sharp in their opener, showing more speed and experience than last year's team. With
a sharp defense, they could afford to wait for the right moment to lay a fast break. Ashmore and Bingham
scooted for layups, proving the hostile defense could not set. The Wildcats defeated Kannapolis, McCrary, Clemson, and Washington and Lee,
with the exception of “Grandpa” McCall who liked to sink them from the midway stripe. The Y boys could not
make their speed and deception pay off in buckets. All eighteen men on the Wildcat bench saw a good bit
of action, with most of them appearing in the scoring column.

Our picture of the changed technique has been more marked than the real thing. Any team of Coach Sheppard's will
be masters of the slower pace that can still rack points after the defense clamps down under the basket. But
with Bingham and Ashmore’s speed and layup artistry, and Cheek, Cobb, and Williams to snag the rebounds, a faster attack
adds to the ‘Cat potential.

The ‘Cats are not as strong in reserve power this year. Last year’s squad boasted about ten men of almost
equal ability. Many of the present reserves are fresh up from the jayvees and need some college experience. Louie Bingham
is the most improved man on the squad. Not even a regular for the jayvees last season, he has grabbed
the open spot on the starting lineup. Short for basketball, but fast and scrappy, Louie promises to stand with the
experts in scoring this year. He's fast on a break-away and murder on a lay-up shot.

Our congratulations to Coach Charlie in his new job as head football mentor. He has the confidence and respect of
the team and student body alike, and we're right behind you, Coach. Also, congratulations to Armfield Blocking Trophy Winner Buddy
Chandler and his sidekick, Carl Eborn, both of whom were chosen by the Greensboro Daily News on their All-State roster.
They pick twenty-two men without designating first or second strings.

The annual football banquet the other night was a fine success. Latin Professor Earnest Beaty, a man “least inclined to
physical exertion,” made the main address. He showed the boys that football is not only valuable through itself, but that
it can give them an idea of things that they may expect from life. He showed that there is a
great interest among the faculty in sports affairs, even greater than we sometimes suspect. Many glowing tributes were paid to
Coach Story, and the general grief over his resignation was apparent. The team presented him with a watch, since they
had noticed that he often needs one, especially when supper time is drawing near. Letters and numerals were presented to
the varsity, jayvee, and cross country squads, and all these organizations were commended for exceptionally good seasons.

Ironically enough, the most valuable harrier was not recognized with a letter. Because of a pre-Thanksgiving misunderstanding with Coach Whittle,
Gundar Gray, who placed first in all but one of the cross country meets, did not run in the Furman
meet, and was thus not among the letter winners. However, he was a valuable man, and should not go unrecognized.

NICELY TAILORED, 3-BUTTON STYLE - CORDUROY SPORT COATS
19.95 and 25.00

These are the corduroy sport coats that give you that neatly turned out appearance—that casual look. See them in tan,
brown, green, or maroon. Sizes 36 to 46.

Men’s New Sportswear Shop — 1st Floor
BELK BROS.
CHARLOTTE

GOODRUM’S — FOR —
Hardware
Complete Line of
PAINTS — VARNISHES — ENAMEL
HOUSEWARE — FARM SUPPLIES
GLASS — All Sizes — We Cut Glass
WE MAKE KEYS
COMPLETE LINE OF GROCERIES
HARDWARE — Phone 2531
GROCERIES — Phone 2544Kob Burns broke up completely the little ice of formality which might have been present. To the
director of athletics fell the lot of introducing the speaker of the evening. After a few complimentary remarks, the Professor
of Latin and German, Coach Shepard, presented Prof. F. E. A. Prof. Beaty began with some examples of his own
wit. These bits of humor went over in a big way. The comments of the speaker of the evening were
not all intended to draw laughter, and he soon got down to straight talk. He stressed the great importance of
playing the game fairly—not only the game of football, but the game of life. For a few moments, Prof. Beaty
dwelt on the subject of how essential it is for a man to keep his head in the stars and
out of the worldly things of life. He also compared the game of football with Janus, the god of Greek
mythology who looked into the past and the future. He went back into the history of the great game and
also talked of its future in schools and colleges. After a short talk, Al Moneyhan awarded numerals to the members
of the Junior Varsity, to whom he referred as “the backbone of the team.” Coach Story followed with the awarding
of letters to members (Continued on Page Five).

In the Cat-Kannapolis game, Dick Mills goes way up with two Kannapolis men to grab a rebound. Mike Williams and
Buddy Cheek stand ready to give a hand. In the season opener, the Cats squad handed the visitors an 80-31
licking.

CAT GRAPPLERS READY FOR TOUGH SCHEDULE

The hustling matmen of Charlie Parker's team have been delayed in initiating their 1947-48 season due to an unforeseen postponement
of the match between the Cats and the Winston-Salem ‘Y.’ The Cats, however, will be given their first opportunity to
show their wares against this same Winston ‘Y’ Saturday night at Winston-Salem. The 1947 edition of the Cat grapplers is
composed of several outstanding matmen. At the top of the list is stocky Jimmy Jung, the 121-pound artist, who, after
making a late start last season, vaulted into the Southern Conference playoffs, only to lose to the great V.M.I. star,
Moyer, in the finale of the 121-pound class. Supplementing Jung will be three well-tested men who won their monograms last
season. Mott Hrice, 165-pounder, and “Bull” Alexander, 175-pounder, are ex-footballers who have turned their abilities towards the mat, and the
addition of these letter-winners will greatly aid the Cat squad. Phil Cox, last year's 155-pound class, will return to action
this season at his old post.

New Men Rate Well

This quartet of able grapplers is augmented by a squad of highly rated talent. Stubby Evans, Bill Fesperman, and Grady
Spires are three who have seen plenty of action on the wrestling mat. The fans can rest assured that the
unlimited class will be well taken care of. Stricklin has abandoned his hard-charging line duties of the football squad to
try his luck at the wrestling game. It bodes no good for the Cat opponents if Mr. Strick can pin
a man as well as knock him out of a play. Other grapplers who have come to the attention of
Coach Parker are Paul Housted, Jack Barnard, and Bill Moore, a trio of hard-fighting wrestlers.

Rough Schedule

After launching their season with the Winston-Salem meet, the Cats will participate in a series of encounters with the High
Point men, both here and at High Point. The Appalachian meet follows, and then the Cat men swing into action
against Southern Conference competition. The Cats will take on in succession, State, Duke, Washington and Lee, and the mighty champions,
the V.M.I. Keydets. All indications are that V.M.I. will have another powerful mat team up there in Lexington, Virginia. The
season will be climaxed with the state and conference championships at Raleigh, where the aforementioned Jung came into the limelight
last year. All in all, the Cats are looking forward to the ‘47 season with great zest, especially to the
V.M.I. engagement, as the Cats are still licking their wounds from the 36-0 defeat the Keydets pinned on them last
season.

The 1947-48 schedule:
December 13 — Winston-Salem at Winston-Salem.
December 16 — High Point at High Point.
January 10 — High Point ‘Y’ at Davidson.
January 27 — Appalachian at Appalachian.
February 7 — State at Davidson.
February 14 — Duke at Durham.
February 21 — Washington and Lee at Lexington, Va.
February 28 — V.M.I. at Davidson.

SPECIAL AT Copeland’s
Hood’s Basketball and Tennis Shoes
Golf Clubs
RCA-VICTOR Radios
Christmas Gifts

Withers Electric Company
Radio Repairs
Electrical Supplies
Light Bulbs
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Whittle Presents: ‘Harriers’ Letters

The Davidson cross country team climaxed one of its most successful seasons in years in a joint banquet with the
football team Thursday night, December 16. Coach Whittle spoke briefly, expressing his thanks to the team and issued letters to
the following men: Bill Plonk, Bill Smith, Bob Long, Ed Montgomery, Bob Grube, Murdock McKeithen, Blake Bradley, Vincent Long (manager).
Honorable mention was extended to the following: DuBose, Christopher, Dixon, Henderson, Bridgeman, Covington, Remson.

At Davidson, Donald S. Erb smokes CHESTERFIELDS. Donald says: “I smoke Chesterfield because I like their taste and also because
they are fully packed.” Voted TOPS!—Chesterfield is the largest selling cigarette in America’s colleges (by nationwide survey).

Lee's Generals

Friday night at the Charlotte Armory, with the Washington and Lee victory, the Cats will be the conference leaders, being
the only team with two family wins. If things go well against Maryland and George Washington, the Cats will remain
undefeated when they meet Duke and the State Wolfpack in the first week of January.

High Scores

In the first three games, three men vied for scoring leadership. Buddy Cheek scored 30 points against Kannapolis and totaled
43 points for the game. Whit Cobb and Mike Williams tied with 16 points against McCrary. Whit was also accurate
on a set shot, tying for second place against Kannapolis with nine points. Buddy and Mike, both pushing Whit for
second place, showed great accuracy in the first game.

(Continued on Page Five)

—REMEMBER—
Rulane Gas Service Is CONVENIENT!

C. WHITE DRUG COMPANY

WE HAVE
Remington Typewriters
Schick-Shave Master Electric Razors.

C. J. Goodrum
TELEPHONE 2111
DAVIDSON, N. C.

WHATEVER YOUR NEEDS
SUITS
HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
TIES
SHOES
and the 101 other things

SHOP EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP
STREET FLOOR
