PORTSCOPE By SAM ERVIN Wildcat Sports | SPRING SPORTS GET UNDERWAY Friday, March 14, 1947 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page 3

With more than 9,000 hysterical fans looking on, North Carolina State’s Red Terrors came from behind to edge the White
Phantoms of North Carolina 50-48, in the final game of the 1947 Southern Conference Basketball Tournament. The Raleigh quintet, trailing
7-20 at one point, did not go into the lead until 10 minutes of the second half had elapsed and
even then a desperate Carolina rally almost tied the score with seconds remaining. The victory gave State its first loop
crown since 1929 and was a fitting climax for the Durham event.

The first and only spectacular upset occurred in the curtain raiser Thursday when South Carolina shaded Duke in a seesaw
struggle, 56-54. Big Al Adams bettered his more highly publicized rival, Ed Koffenberger, by racking up 21 points, a figure
which proved to be tops for a single game. Phil Cantore’s push shots accounted for 17 more of the victor’s
markers while Garland Loftis’ 12 was high for the losers.

A sluggish State team, paced by a pair of rangy basketeers, Bob Bartels and Ed Negley, rolled over a scrappy
but out-classed Maryland five, 55-43. The Old Liners stuck to a man-to-man defense in spite of pre-tournament rumors that Coach
Shipley would employ a zone in an effort to halt the Terrors. Tommy Mont, Maryland’s ace “T” formation quarterback, spearheaded
the Maryland attack but they could not keep pace with the elongated State cagers who controlled the rebounds throughout.

George Washington’s dark horse quintet impressed the spectators in their first appearance by pasting the gallant Washington and Lee Generals.
While rolling up their 70-55 victory, the men from the nation’s capital put on the smoothest performance to which the
observers were treated during the first round. Gustafson, Kreisberg, and Cantwell were the Colonials’ leading point-getters while Johnny Rausch, diminutive
guard who was largely responsible for G.W.’s tournament win over Davidson’s great ’42-’43 aggregation, turned in a fine floor game.
The Virginians’ tallies were divided between six players. Harner and Chipley, two of the Gen’s big guns, fouled out, thus
damaging their team’s chances materially.

North Carolina’s second-seeded five blasted a scrappy Richmond crew 55-43 in the last preliminary game. The Spiders’ tight sliding zone
slowed the play a great deal and Carolina’s frequent “freezing” act repeatedly drew the boos of the crowd. Coach Scott’s
strategy, however, finally drew the defenders from beneath the bucket, enabling the Phants to maintain their lead by sinking quick
crip shots. Actually, the criticism should have been directed at the zone which has done much to slow basketball down.
Jim Hamilton seriously threatened Adams' single-game scoring total but was one point short when the final gun sounded.

In spite of great expectations, neither of the semifinal contests were too exciting. In the opener, the Red Terrors were
hitting on all cylinders as they rolled over third-seeded George Washington 70-47 to earn the right to compete in the
title scrap. The Hotshots, led by the superb Dick Dickey, who demonstrated both his offensive and defensive abilities, went into
the lead to stay after about five minutes had elapsed and were never headed. The Colonials were definitely stale and
only Bill Cantwell played consistently well.

The Gamecocks, fresh from their win over Duke, were walloped by a clever North Carolina club 58-33. The South Carolinians
didn’t resemble the same team which knocked off the Blue Devils and their opponents were not to be denied. Bob
Paxton, unquestionably the meet’s outstanding player, was consistently hitting with his famous push shot while his running mate, “Daddy” Hamilton,
was also rippling the mesh repeatedly. Jim White and Norm Kohler were passing, dribbling, and guarding especially well. Al Adams
and Co. were guarded throughout and not one of them was very effective.

In the championship game, both State and Carolina were at their peak. The latter’s accurate marksmen dropped long shot after
long shot to go into the lead before the former switched to a man-to-man defense. Shortly thereafter, the Red Terrors
put on a sustained drive which finally sent them rocketing ahead. The Phants did not give up and even without
Hamilton and Kohler, who left the game via the five-foul route, narrowed the gap to 2 points. Two shots, a
hook by Dillian which rolled in and then out and a wild long shot by Hartley, kept the fans gasping
until the final gun. Paxton played his usual brand of ball for the Phants while White, who repeatedly calmed the
losers by slowing down the pace for a few minutes, was also outstanding. Bartels and Negley replaced Dickey as State’s
offensive leaders.

TOURNAMENT SIDELIGHTS

From a reliable source, your scribe learned that efforts will be made next year to invite all 16 conference teams
to the tournament. Such a move, however, will probably be opposed by a number of the competing coaches. Duke’s loss
to South Carolina proved that it isn’t always true that a team has a definite advantage on its own court.
This has been one of the reasons why the event has been held in Raleigh for a number of years.
Now it appears that...

Shown above are the men who served as the nucleus of the team which won 17 out of 25 starts.
Left to right, first row: Malcolm, Co-Captains Ed White and George Peters, Mike Williams, and Pat...

Prospects Bright For Victorious Track Season

Coach Pete Whittle is feeling rather good nowadays. With a new layer of cinders covering the quarter of a mile
trek, and with the broad jump and pole vault runways neatly trimmed into shape, the stadium is taking on a
look of bustling activity. And if you get out on the cinder loop, you can see ample reasons for his
feeling that way.

Linksmen Face Hard Schedule

Next Thursday and Friday, the Wildcat golf team opens its 1946-47 season with matches against Clemson and Furman, both to
be played...

Team manager, Don Bryant, has scheduled six dual meets for this spring. On March 29, he takes his Wildcat squad
to Greenville, where the Davidsonians run against Furman in the opening cinder contest of the season. Going on each Saturday
after the Furman tussle, the team meets South Carolina at Davidson, Clemson at Clemson, N.C. State at Raleigh, Washington and
Lee at Davidson, and winds up the regular season against Mercer, again on the home track.

Whittle thinks that prospects are good for this spring, even though those teams opposing the Davidsonians will have been strengthened.
Playing a fifteen-match schedule against eight conference teams, plus another tentative match with Alabama, the pellet-pushers should enjoy a successful
year.

Mainstay of the team is Tommy Bumbarger, number one man on the ’42-’43 quartet. Hailing from Hickory, Tommy will be
backed up by the veteran golfers from all over the state. Don Bryant of Charlotte, top man on the 1945-46
golf aggregation, will be lending his services. Others who seem well on their way to spots with the select four
are Bob Little of Greensboro; Cam Henderson, Charlotte; Johnny McCann, Charlotte; and Bill Medford of Lancaster. Firing from the alternate
slots will be Bill Hodgin and Ford Little, members of the ’45-’46 quartet.

Past Record

Last year, the team composed of Captain Don Bryant, Bill Hodgin, Ford Little, and Allen Meade, came through to win
over South Carolina twice and also Auburn, while losing to Clemson twice and the University of Georgia. The seventh match
on the card ended in a 13-13 tie with Washington and Lee. Last but not least on the docket was
the Southern Intercollegiate Tournament at Athens, Georgia, in which Bryant and Hodgin both reached the finals.

Schedule

This spring, the team has laid down a stony path to tread, playing South Carolina (2), Furman (2), Citadel (2),
Carolina (2), State (2), Wake Forest (2), and a lone match with Washington and Lee. Also tentatively on the card
is a match with Alabama. With those teams which are played twice, one match will be away, and the other
at home, home this spring being the Charlotte Country Club course. Most of their practicing will be done on this
course, and they will receive the aid and services of the club pro, Roy Tinsley. On top of the above
scheduled matches, the boys will be found at Clemson...

(Continued on Page 4)

(Continued to Column 7)

Whittle has assembled a fairly well-rounded group of track candidates. Fairly consistent point men should be found in the hurdles,
the 440-yard dash, the mile, and in the two-mile run. In the hurdles will be last season’s threesome, Bob Lacy,
Ed Hopper, and George Peters. But the outstanding man in the event should be Dick Port, who did some beautiful
running at Chapel Hill two weeks ago. Taking up duties as quarter-milers will be Frank Matthews, a letterman from last
spring’s squad, along with Bob McGehee and Gene Bingham. These three boys should be running neck and neck all the
way. The mile will be ably handled by Castle Koop who dashed off a 4:49 last year at far-away Iowa
State. Bill Iverson should also collect a few points in the four-lap event. Jack “Gundar” Grey will undoubtedly dominate the
two-milers, and looking at his last season’s record of no losses, we are expecting a great deal from him.

In the other running events, Pete isn’t as strong as he’d like to be. In the dashes, the only consistent
point man is Bill Montgomery. But “Monk”, the team is pretty short. Rhea Adams is out for the...Actually, Pete won’t
know much until time trials are run off next week. From a source, I hear that Pete would like to
appropriate Whit Cobb from Coach Luffler. From last year’s squad, he has managed to assemble two boys for the half
mile: Bob Berry and Marion Murray. But the 880 was Pete's headache last year and may well turn out to
be one of them this year. One hope lies in Fred McAllister, a newcomer to the ranks who isn’t even
out for the event. But Fred has the makings of a good half-miler and may find himself knocking at the
doors of the two-lap trip before much time has elapsed. Switching to the less colorful, but aside from the event,
inside we (Continued on Page 4)

1946-47 Davidson basketball team: Earp, George Cheek, Whit Cobb, Williams. Second row: Freeman Jones, Jake Ashmore, Bob Berry, Haywood Brinezar,
Bill Iverson, and Bob Flowers.

Cat Nine Begins Outdoor Drills

Once again the resounding whack of bat on Richardson Field can be heard as Coach Charley Jamerson’s baseball aspirants work
out. Due to extremely bad weather, there have been only two outdoor workouts with the other practices confined to the
gym, but this week there will be practice all afternoon, every day, in preparation for that opening game with Duke’s
mighty (?) Blue Devils on March 24th. This season is still young and, as yet, it is difficult to make
any wild prophecies as to the condition of the team when game time rolls around, but every position is wide
open with no one player assured of a starting berth. The pitching, our weakest point last year, is very much
improved with Charlton Whiteheart, Gregg Thompson, Jim Briggs, Frank Gault, “Lefty” Hunter, Joe Wainer, and others fighting it out for
starting roles. Behind the plate, letterman Buddy Chandler, Red Williams, and Lawrence Norm are playing good ball. Lettermen Red Bethea
and John Walker Taylor are fighting it out for second base, as do Bill Byrd, Charlie Pearson, Doug Sheppardson, and
Bert Anderton appear to be best at shortstop, an important position on any team. At third base, Junie Guy and
Charlie Rymer are the leading candidates. In the outfield, there will be such stalwarts as “Pop” Bowman, the only outfield
letterman returning, Hal Mapes, Carl Shepard, Mac Erwin, and Herb Dalton.

The team plays a rough schedule of about 25 games, two of which are with the Charlotte Hornets—last year’s winner
of the Tri-State Class B league. Duke will be met twice, as will State and Carolina, to mention a few.
This year’s team probably won't set records but is assured that it will win more games than last year’s nine.
For one thing, the pitching is vastly improved and this, and we quote, “We'll win some, lose some, and have
some rained out!” Nice attitude, but if the boys do as well as your correspondent thinks, they won’t be ashamed
to say that they play baseball for Davidson College. A lot is up to the students—let’s attend the games, watch
the practice even, and you'll be backing a winning team!

Campaign time to toss a few bouquets around Coach Norman Shepard who turned out the best squad since the banner
year of '43. Shepard, who is known in the top cage circles for his tight defenses, lived up to his
reputation in setting up systems that the Conference’s best had a hard time cracking. His reputation is borne out in
his choice as a member of the 1948 Olympic committee for basketball.

A world of praise is due Co-Capt. Ed White who set the pace among the Wildcats. In his final season
of collegiate play, he wound up second among the state’s sharp-shooters. White can boast no tip-in shots because of his
height (or lack thereof), so all of his points came from his uncanny eye for the bucket. Lanky Buddy Cheek,
who still has two years to roam the hardwood, was second only to White in the scoring column. But point
making was not Buddy's chief forte for he was known to Cat backers as the most aggressive floor man in
the camp. The Cats usually had control of the backboards when Cheek was in the game.

Co-Capt. George Peters and Pat Williams, two seniors, can never be overlooked. Peters was a dead eye on the set
shots when the ball could not be worked under the basket. Time and again tight defenses had to be loosened
because of his troublesome shots. Williams was always a good man under the basket. Mike Williams, the younger of the
Williams, polished off a fine season by pushing in 19 points against the College of Charleston in the finale.

Freshman Whit Cobb and Jake Ashmore, though overlooked as regulars throughout the entire season, cannot be left out in the
shower of roses. Cobb, who looks like a sure thing for All-State honors in a few years, was truly lightning
on the court with his fancy dribbling and ball handling. Ashmore, who is best known for his hard-fighting type of
game, could always be counted on for his share of markers. We could go on down the line passing out
the pats on the back, but space won't permit. The whole team is due for plenty of thanks for a
job well done.

For an overall season’s average, the Cats posted 17 wins against 8 reverses for a .680 record. In Conference play,
they turned in a .500 average with 7 wins and 7 losses. Though this wasn’t good enough for a tournament
bid, we can look with pride to a pair of triumphs over South Carolina as well as noting to whom
the losses are attributed, and “we” can afford to boast about our record. The best way to prove our true
ability, however, is to show them next year.

The Wildcats will travel to Athens on April 17, 18, and 19 for the Southern Intercollegiate Tournament, and on May
10 at Winston-Salem for the Southern Conference Tourney.

INTERFRATERNITY BASKETBALL SCOREBOARD
Won Lost
Phi Gams 9 0
Betas 7 2
Independents 6 3
K. A.’s 4 5
Pi Kapps 3 6
Phi Delts 3 6
Kappa Sigs 2 7
Pikas 0 9

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
PASTEURIZED GRADE “A” MILK
Mooresville Co-Operative Creamery
TELEPHONE 2111
—Delivered Daily—
Davidson, N. C.
Mooresville, N. C.
DELUXE ICE CREAM—
Is Now Available At
—THE STUDENT STORE
