Friday, March 28, 1947
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page 5

Billy Knauff To Lead Spring Frolics Swing
Twelve Rising Sop Group Backs Drive To Collect

Underclass Honor Society Increases Size

At a special meeting on Monday night, March 24, the Beaver Club, honorary society for underclassmen, elected new members from
the rising Sophomore class. The Beaver Club, whose chief purpose is the entertaining of visiting athletes, is normally made up
of ten Juniors and ten Sophomores. However, this year, due to the greatly increased size of the student body, the
members thought it necessary to elect twelve men instead of the usual ten.

The members of the present Freshman class who were given this unique honor were: Whit Cobb, Jake Wade, Bob Carson,
Bo Roddey, Carl Shepperd, Billy Richardson, Joe Warner, Dave Erwin, Jim Sifford, Louis Bingham, Norman Whiteheart, and Bill Alexander. These
men will serve with the Beaver Club during both their Sophomore and Junior years.

Another one of the purposes of the Beaver Club is to sponsor any drives or other projects of public service
which Omicron Delta Kappa does not sponsor. In accordance with this policy, the members are currently backing a clothing drive
which is also under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A. The drive which is being held here on
the campus is a small part of a world-wide drive whose ultimate aim is to provide clothing for undressed Europeans.
As a part of this clothing drive, the baseball game with North Carolina State on Thursday afternoon was turned into
a benefit.

(Continued on Page 6)

Clothes

Hood Norton Gets Letter

TO HOOD NORTON:

It was just a year ago today
That I called at your place;
I had had a sore taken away
That same day—from my face.

Your shop was always neat,
Your courtesy was fine;
Your service was complete,
Even to a good shoe shine.

You gave me a shave then
That I shall never forget,
Right at the time when,
I could not shave myself yet.

I may never come that way
In all of my life again;
But if I do I will say,
I would love there to remain.

No matter if in your shop
Or out upon the main street;
You always took time to stop,
Any stranger there to greet.

I never lived anywhere yet
That brought memories to me;
That I could not forget,
And more contented could I be.

I think of you and your son
Away down in the Southland;
And the town of Davidson,
My visit there was just grand.

(Continued on Page 6)

STATE
MOORESVILLE N. C.
Telephone No. 75

CAROLINA
MOORESVILLE N. C.
Telephone No. 405

THUR. FRI.
“Never Say Goodbye”
Errol Flynn

SATURDAY
Roy Rogers Western
— also —
“The Thirteenth Hour”
Richard Dix

SAT. 10:30
“Palmy Days”
Geo. Raft

MON. - TUE.
Walt Disney’s
“Song of The South”

Friday & Saturday
“Pilot X”
— also —
“Trailing Double Trouble”

MON. - TUE.
“Les Miserables”
Fredric

On the Stage with the same program
HARRY BLAIR
and his “Sons of the Prairie”

Wed. and Thur.
“Her Wedding Night”
Gary Cooper
— also —
“White Zombie”

WEDNESDAY
“Home In Oklahoma”
Roy Rogers

THURS. & FRI.
“Song Of The South”
will be held over at this Theatre

Above are shown Tommy Bumbarger and Don Bryant of the ‘47 Wildcat golf team. Tommy was the number one man
on the 42-43 team, while Don is currently acting as manager of this year's linksmen.

TWO CRACK LINKSMEN

Henderson, Jones, Little, Medford, and Hogins Support In Play On Links

Spring weather having finally hit the Davidson campus, the Wildcat golfers now practice on the Charlotte Country Club course. The
team got off to a rather lame start in that they dropped their first match of the season to Clemson,
but the next day they bounced back to overcome Furman, both teams being handicapped by rather windy weather.

First Trip

Don Bryant, manager, assured your roving reporter that after more practice the team should shape up fairly well. Tommy Bumbarger
came through with the low score against Furman, shooting 76 on the same day the pros ran into trouble at
Greensboro’s Starmount course. Cam Henderson, Freeman Jones, Bob Little, Bill Medford, and Bill Hodgin were the others who made the
South Carolina tour.

Tar Heel Team

This week the linksmen will have by-passed South Carolina and next week they run into their toughest match of the
year when they take on North Carolina’s pellet pushers. After much trouble, the Tar Heels managed to build a team
of 15 par besters. With 150 men out at the first of the season, Carolina scraped together over a dozen
who managed to squeeze under the 75 mark.

Intercollegiate Scoring

After much studious questioning, your scribe has managed to grasp the fundamentals of scoring intercollegiate contests. All contests are match
play, that is the number of holes won is theDetermining factor of two men from each school, collegiate golf matches.
A foursome can amass a total of nine points. The two top men on each team in the foursome play
each other as do the two bottom men. The first nine holes give one point to the winner in each
of these contests. The same procedure goes for the second nine holes. Thus, if one man wins 5 out of
the first nine holes and also the majority of the second, he gains 2 points. If he wins the whole
18 holes, he gains a third point. If there is a tie on any 9 holes or on the number
of holes won, the match is halved.

(Continued on Page 6)

DAVIDSON FURNITURE COMPANY
THIS STORE POSSIBLY BILL MADE BY THE BILL OF RIGHTS
COMPLETE HOME FURNISHINGS
No Sale Complete Until You Are Satisfied
Main Street
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Scripts Men May Get Keys
By Doug Swink

In the spring, a young man's fancy turns to lighter things, and on Davidson’s campus, his turns toward adding keys
to his chain. Not to be outdone by the tinkling cymbals awarded by the Davidsonian to its writers, Scripts takes
great pleasure in announcing the presentation of keys to “Neurotic” Cam Nuttall, “Sweet” Jimmy Gribben, “Slapstick” Sam Robinson, “Melee” Bob
Rierson, and “Arty” Bill Whitaker, for their literary attempts on the editorial staff. For managerial efforts, keys are awarded to
“High Pressure” Phil Edwards, “Killer” Bob Kelley, “Eighth-of-a-Page” Stan Dave Gambrell, and “Leaping” Lenoir Keesler.

For their heroic action over and above the call of duty, Editor-in-Chief Doug Swink and Business Manager Jim Love awarded
themselves, in lieu of a Bronze Plaque, keys for their own achievements. (Ed. Note: It is easy to see who
wrote this.)

Owing to a misunderstanding with Balfour & Co., the above-named keys have not arrived. It is not known whether they
ever will, and Eds. Swink and Love decline to make a positive statement as to the probability of their eventual
arrival. In case they never do arrive, the recipients of the award may regard the entire matter as a moral
victory.

Sophomores Elected To Join Beaver Club
Dances To Be Held On April 18 and 19
The Armory Will Be the Scene of the Event

Pan-Hellenic Council announced this week that Billy Knauff and his orchestra will play for Davidson’s Spring Frolics in the Charlotte
Armory-Auditorium on April 18 and 19. Knauff and his popular band were signed by the Council this week.

Well-Known
Well-known throughout the South, this dance band has been playing with increasing popularity at college and fraternity dances in this
area, including affairs at Winthrop and Presbyterian Colleges. It was after his engagement with one of the local fraternities last
fall that requests began to come in to the Council that he be signed up for one of the larger
dances. Consisting of 16 pieces and a vocalist, Knauff specializes in slow, danceable numbers. Both dances will be held in
the main auditorium of the Armory. Tickets will go on sale after the holidays at $4.00 base price for a
set ticket, plus 20 percent Federal amusement tax.

With the recent revision of the Pan-Hellenic constitution, effective after this coming set, it is hoped that all future dances
sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic Council may be handled with a minimum of financial worry for all concerned. It would seem
that this new arrangement will make for better Davidson dances in the future.

By Ronny Dietrick

During the past few years, it has become apparent to all but the most obstinate “diehards” that Davidson athletic teams
are definitely not what they once were. With this depressing but concrete realization, there has evolved much discussion on the
subject of subsidized athletics. In view of this fact, the question this week was, “Do you think that Davidson should
subsidize athletes as do the members of the Big Four?”

The question itself, therefore, admits that it really is a Big Four, and that the Big Five remains only a
technicality. It has been evident for several years that the superiority of the Big Four athletic teams increased as their
rates of subsidation increased. For this reason, it might follow that Davidson’s athletic prowess would also increase with an increase
in athletic subsidation. Since this resurgence of Davidson athletic fame is quite desirable, it is interesting to note the percentage
of the student body who desire to use subsidation as the means to that end.

Visit The—
SHIP AHOY
The Ideal Place To Meet Your Friends

No Change Desired
In response to the question asked, the students polled replied in the following manner:
Per Cent
Yes 16.8
No 88.0
No opinion 5.2

Because it was felt that no definite idea of the average student’s opinion could be gained without knowing whether the
student was a participant in intercollegiate athletics, the poll was also taken on the basis of whether a student was
an athlete or not. It is interesting to note that athletes engaged in intercollegiate play were more in favor of
increased subsidation than the nonparticipating students.

Athletes
Yes 20.0
No 72.0
No opinion 8.0

Non-Athletes
Yes 17.3
No 78.9
No opinion 3.8

Stonestreet’s Grade Cafe
O. C. Stonestreet, Manager
“The Sensible Place to Eat”
Charlotte, N. C.
416 S. Main St. — Phone 132
Mooresville, N. C.
