By CLAYTON SCOFIELD

North Carolina came better for the Red’ second, Perrors (alias the Hoosier Southern Conference) basketball shaped up a bit last week and the shape went something like this. Duke led with wins and losses. Hook) of + conference against no dee (big: Koffenberger Duke, appearing only once in the last two weeks Navy, Carolina point getters with a total well over the 200 mark. Dick Dickey, pace Hot Shots) against was leading trailing Koffenberger by a full point in the Big Five scoring parade with 232 points after 18 engagements. Id White and Jack Wild entry of Wake Forest were tied for third, but White experienced an off night against Charleston and dropped from place. Virginia’s University 4 Richmond was third, HH+th, Maryland fourth, S-Carolina sixth and Davidson 7th. S. Carolina Monday night found the Wildcats locking horns with S. Carolina again after taking wins from Charleston 67-53, and The Citadel 60-34. A win from the Gamecocks will mean a tie at sixth place with N. Carolina, while a loss would shove the Davidsonians back to the eighth slot. As the sports sheet goes to press the results of the S. Carolina tilt are not yet released, but your scribe is predicting a 52-50 win for Old D.C.

The big question mark now is hovering over the Duke and Carolina engagements over at Duke and Chapel Hill Friday and Saturday. If the Wildcats can show the kind of ball against N. Carolina Saturday that put the Gamecocks to shame in Charlotte last week, Davidson's conference and tourney hopes will be riding high. But Duke the night before may present a tougher problem. The Duke team is big and fast moving, paced by Koffenberger, and will be out to repeat their performance of a few weeks back, when they took the Winston-Salem Cats by eight points. Coach Story, ever with the football eye, has had his men back on the grid for the past few days and it looks like spring practice is in the offing. With the loss of only a few men, Story will enter next year's season with practically an unaltered squad. Some of the B team stalwarts are now working out with varsity, and will see action next year.

WRESTLING

The Davidson Grapplers meet Appalachian Saturday, and if improvement is proportional should rack up their first win of the season. Opening sluggishly, the mat-men dropped a 36-0 match with V.M.I., went on to three successive losses to Carolina, Duke, and Ga. Tech, but results in the Tech match were encouraging. Stroup pinned Thornbrough in the 121 class, Rufus Long, 135, took his tangle, and Alexander out-fought his opponent to a decision. O’Hare also came through with a pin. Alexander shows promise and ability though new to the wrestling game, and with a little experience will probably become one of the Cats' leading mat gladiators.

Stonestreet’s Gr“A”de Cafe
O. C. Stonestreet, Manager
“The Sensible Place to Eat”
418 S. Main St., Phone 132
Mooresville, N. C.

Belk’s Department Store
Mooresville, N. C.
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN — See Us

THACKERS, INC.
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
221 South Tryon Street
Private Dining Rooms For Parties And Banquets

Wildcat Sports
February 7, 1947

CAGERS MEET DUKE - CAROLINA

Page Three

It was the Cats' third triumph over the Eagles in as many starts. Pat Williams and Malc Earp go up to take a rebound last Monday as the Cats rolled over the McCrary Eagles 56-44. Buddy Cheek and George Peters are the other boys in white.

Grapplers Drop Ga. Tech Match

Davidson’s steadily improving wrestling team gave the local fans a rousing show last Friday afternoon when they grappled with the Engineers from Georgia Tech. A close battle all the way, the Georgia boys finally took the decision 20-16. The match resulted in the Cats winning the 10-pound weight. Dick O'Hare and “Bull” Alexander accomplished an unheralded pre-game feat which was two decisions. O'Hare, who last wrestled in the unlimited class, trimmed down to defeat Donaldson in the 175-pound class. Alexander, who previously tussled in the 175-pound class, fought to a clear-cut win over McCullough. In the lightweight division, Clyde Sirotn pinned Thornbrough in the first bout, the 121-pound class. Rufus Long, weighing in at 135, won his second victory out of four starts by pinning Cussack. The Tech mat-men took the other four matches by falls, which gave them the four-point edge. Chuck Kirby, 128, was pinned by Andrews of Tech. Geisler put Harwood’s shoulders to the mat in the 145-pound class. Patrick, 155, and Easley, unlimited, were pinned by Batten and Bassett, respectively. The Wildcats take on Appalachian Saturday.

Swap You $5.00 8X10 Color Portrait For $1.00
VERNON B. McGHEE
Local and College Agent of Franklin Studios

2 Defeats In

With five wins and two defeats at the halfway mark in their fourteen-game schedule, Coach Apie Means’ Jayvee squad is beginning to take on some of the polish of an experienced basketball team.

Numerous Frosh

Composed mostly of freshmen, the team started off slow, showing a marked need for experience. However, changes have been made under the eagle eye of Mentor Means who has begun to bring order out of the early season chaos.

Drop First

Losing their first game to Brevard and the third to Lees-McRae, the kittens haveTrounced on Mars Hill, Presbyterian Junior College twice, Pfeiffer, and Oak Ridge. In the Pfeiffer game, they scored 74 points to their opponents' 54, which is fast and accurate shooting in any man’s ball game. In the second P.J.C. game, the Kittens came out on top with a 60-29 tally, with Roddy, Mills, Warner, and Hopper all scoring more than 10 points each.

Hopper Leads
According to present rather dubious records, sophomore center Ed leads the scoring with 53 points. Freshman captain Bo Roddy follows up with 50, adding none to his credit in the Oak Ridge game. In third place is Joe Warner with a total of 35 points. Usual starters are Hopper, Roddy, Warner, and Sam Brewer, with Billy Bingham, Dick Mills, and Louis Richardson contending for fifth place. In several games, jayvee forces have been strengthened by the addition of Rufus Long, Cat Maner, Brinegar, and other varsity reserves.

Jay Vees Have 5 Wins in Seven Starts
The Jay Vees have won five out of seven starts. Rufus Long grappled and racked up two points in his bout with Walter Rosenberg of Duke in their recent match here. Long went on to pin the Blue Devil 136-pounder.

Frat Cage Loop Hotly Contested
The Phi Gams moved into a tie for first place with the Betas Monday night as they dropped S.A.E.'s from the undefeated ranks 25-13. The setback pushed the S.A.E.'s into an undisputed third slot. The Phi Delts broke into the win column the same night, slipping past the Kappa Sigs 17-11. The loss pushed the Sigs into sole possession of the cellar berth. In last week's encounters, the Betas eked out a 29-28 win over the S.P.E.’s and the S.A.E.’s trounced the Pikas 26-15.

Cats Win Four
The Davidson Wildcats tripped the McCrary Eagles for the third time this season in a sparsely populated Davidson gym Monday night, 56-44. Buddy Cheek and Male Earp led the way with 16 points apiece, and Ed White followed behind with 12. After a slow start, the Cats got rolling to nip a half-time score. Cheek and Whit Cobb turned in the best performances on the floor by continually stealing the ball from the Eagles and holding control of the backboard.

Gamecocks Stopped
The Cats poured on the steam Wednesday night at Charlotte to register one of the season's major upsets in thrashing S.C. 74-43. The Gamecocks, who came to clean N.C. conference record, took their second straight drubbing, as the White had nipped them 50-49 the previous night. After a close first five minutes, the Cats pulled away to a 12-point 38-26 lead at intermission, with the veteran Pat Williams leading the way with 17 points. Male Earp poured in 11 markers while turning in a stellar floor game. Little Ed White started slow but got into the swing of things later in the game to take third scoring honors with 10 points. Buddy Cheek turned in his usual superior floor game as he stole the ball more than once from the Palmetto boys. Cheek registered 9 points and held complete control of the backboards. Coach Norman Shepard used his reserves freely, with Jake Ashmore, Mike Williams, and Whit Cobb paving the way.

Nip First Half Lead
The fast-stepping Wildcats copped their third engagement of the week in as many starts Friday night as they pinned the College of Charleston Maroons 67-53. Trailing throughout the first half, the Cats found their eyes in the second period to post their ninth win of the season against a trio of setbacks. Starting the second half short, Ed White and Buddy Cheek hit for three quick baskets to knot the count at 35-35. Cheek led the attack with 18 points, and sub-forward Jake Ashmore poured in five goals and two charity tosses for a total of 12 markers. Ed White rang the register for 11.

Loop Slate Evened
The Cats made a clean sweep of the week's schedule and racked up their Southern Conference win as they coasted to an easy 60-34 triumph over the Citadel's Bulldogs at Charleston Saturday night. Starting the second half with a 27-20 lead, the Wildcats quickly ran up a 48-24 lead, then glided in under the strength of Coach Norman Shepard’s reserves. Pat Williams and Buddy Cheek each hit six times from the floor and added four points apiece from the foul line to pace the attack with 16-point totals. Mike Williams and George Peters each chimed in with 9 tallies. The win boosted the Cats' Conference average to .500 and their season’s mark to .769 with 10 victories and 3 losses.