By CLAYTON SCOFIELD

Considered the best in the conference, Chester Giermak, William and Mary's six-foot four-inch freshman center sensation, replaced Duke’s senior forward,
Ed Koffenberger, as the point-getter in the Southern Conference with a total of 164 points in 10 league contests. Koffenberger,
who stands six feet three inches and is generally considered the best in the conference, was close behind with 157
points. Another freshman star, Washington and Lee's center, Reggie Crockett, of Baltimore, MD., dumped in 58 points against Clemson, Wake
Forest, and William and Mary last week to climb into third place, only one point behind Koffenberger.

N. C. STATE SATURDAY

The most imminent speculation as the old sports sheet goes to press is concerning the Wildcat tilt with North Carolina
Tuesday, and the second fracas with the Hoosier Hot Shots of State College Saturday night. The Wildcats face a dual
threat Tuesday, and the main job will be to stop the scoring of North Carolina’s Jim Hamilton and Bob Paxton,
two of the gentlemen who previously engineered a Phantom victory over the Wildcats. Since Wake Forest tossed a bombshell into
conference standings by beating N. C. State, this game is a must for Davidson if the quintet expects to be
present when the Southern Conference Tourney roll is called up yonder. Soothsaying: Davidson by 5 points in the final tally.

N. C. State, still sitting in second place in the loop rating, poses the second question mark which should explode
into a cat victory Saturday night in Raleigh. The Hoosiers will be no light workout, but your columnist’s faith in
the Red and Black Cagers is unshaken, despite the Clemson trimming. As usual, Dick Dickey, Negley, and Bartell will be
executing their fast break, but Coach Shephard’s defense is one of the best in the land and should stop the
terrors by 8 points. In reminiscing over the Clemson defeat, we may only blush with weak comment of “A bit
over-confident,” and let it go at that. But the comeback over Furman looked good with George Peters flashing a brand
of ball characteristic of pre-war days. Dick Mills, reserve freshman, came considerably up the ladder playing a fine floor game
and stabbing rebounds relentlessly.

JAY VEES

The Jay Vee game preliminary to the varsity Citadel scrap saw the Wildkittens, paced by Heywood Brinegar’s 17 points, beat
Pfeiffer in a fast game. Red Bennett, scoring leader in the N. C. Junior College Conference, paced the losers with
20 points for high scoring honors. Bennett made good on 12 of the 16 free throws he was awarded.

SPORTS EDITORSHIP CHANGES HANDS

After many nights of endless typewriter pounding until his fingers are worn to the nub, your sports editor has finally
succumbed, and in keeping with the trend is resigning his post. Taking over this coveted position, however, will be one
of skill and ability, SAM ERVIN. Sam came to Davidson in '43 and immediately became associated with the sporting activities
of the College. That year he was official school statistician, keeping tab on all the records. Next season, being journalistically
inclined, he served a term on the honored staff of the Davidsonian, writing of sports activities, and acting as general
literary aid. Entering service shortly thereafter, he remained with the Army until September of '46, finding his way back to
Davidson in the nick of time to register. And so, friends, players, fans, and students, I bid you farewell with
best wishes to my successor.

Betas And Phi Gams Hold Lead Four In Tie For Third Place

The Betas and the Phi Gams were still clinging to their Interfrat leads as this week started. The Betas rolled
over the Pikas to the tune of 23 points, winning 38-15. The same week, the Phi Gams rolled up their
fifth win by taking the Phi Delts, 38-23. In second place were the S. A. E.’s, who last week downed
the Pi Kapps in a 25-15 battle. This is the way the top teams line up. In third place were
four teams, and it seems to be pretty much of a toss-up as to which one will finally grab the
place for itself. The K. A.’s came through to defeat the Independents, ahead of them last week, 35-29. Now both
teams have an even .500 average, winning and losing three games apiece. In the same boat were the S. P.
E.’s, who put the Kappa Sigs even deeper in the cellar with a 44-27 victory. Also in the running were
the Pi Kapps, who lost to the S. A. E.’s. In the cellar, so to speak, were the Phi Delts
who downed the Kappa Sigs last week and are now standing 1-5. The Pikas and the Kappa Sigs were not
much worse off, the former with no wins and five losses, while the Pikas also had no wins but six
losses. Going into this week of play, the scores in the win-loss column racked up as follows:

Won Lost Ave.
Beta Santini 6 0 1.000
Phi Gams 6 0 1.000
S. A. E.’s 5 1 .833
K. A.’s 3 3 .500
Independents 3 3 .500

(Continued on Page 6)

Mat Team Goes To Tournament

Wrestling fans will have their last chance to see the Wildcat grapplers in action this season when the ’Cats face
Washington and Lee in the Gym tomorrow afternoon. Indications are that the Generals have a potent aggregation which may provide
the best home match of the team. The only available yardstick for comparison is the result of the two teams’
encounters with Carolina. Davidson lost all its matches except one, which Carolina forfeited, with the Tar Heels making many pins.
The Generals also dropped every bout, but Carolina took two by fall while the other six were close decisions. This
would indicate that W. L. is stronger, although the Wildcats have shown much improvement under the guiding hand of Coach
Charlie Parker. Davidson will wind up its scheduled wrestling season when the matmen meet N. C. State in Raleigh next
week. After the State match, they go on to V. M. I. March 7-8 for the Southern Conference tournament.

Ga. Tech and Auburn Take Wins

The Cats returned last Sunday from an unsuccessful road trip which included frays with Ga. Tech and Auburn. Tech, which
had eked out a 20-18 win here a few weeks ago, turned on the steam Thursday to take the return
bout 28-15. Jung, fighting in the 121 lb. class, won his second match in two starts by pinning Chandler. Rufus
Long, 136, followed Jung’s example by downing his man, and “Bull” Alexander made it a threesome by pinning Moore. Other
results were: Geisler (T) decisioned Stroup; Andrews (T) pinned Cox; Batten (T) pinned Price; Donaldson (T) pinned Thompson; Bassed (T)
pinned Easley. Encountering Auburn, Jung again paved the way with a pin, but the Wildcats failed to follow suit, and
Auburn copped the remaining events with 5 pins and 2 decisions, bringing the final score to 31-5.

Rifle Team Meets Oak Ridge Institute

Davidson's rifle marksmen will travel north for a return shoulder-to-shoulder small bore match with Oak Ridge Military Institute on Saturday,
February 22. Wildcat sharpshooters will invade the Oak Ridge grounds determined to avenge the defeat Oak Ridge handed them when
Davidson played host in their recent match. Totin’ their shootin’ irons into enemy territory will be P. M. Brown, C.
M. Coffey, P. P. Deaton, E. B. Huie, H. V. Long, S. D. McDaniel, C. K. Maxwell, W. W. Peters,
A. M. Rankin, and Richards of the rifle team.Eleven With Pract

The sound of leather and body contact is heard again at Richardson Field as Coach Bill Story conducts early spring
practice for a squad of about 44 hopefuls. Prospects for next year’s eleven look good, but Coach Story has been
handicapped by the loss of some of his stalwarts to the baseball, basketball, and track squads. When the other day
it was found that only four members of last year’s team, veteran ends Dick O’Hair and Pat Williams; guard Johnny
Walker, and blocking back Red Bethea were missing from the ranks.

From last year’s squad and J.V. team can be found many able replacements for these departing men so that when
the whistle blows for the opening game this autumn, Davidson should find a well-balanced and potent eleven. Bob Walker, a
J.V. blocking back, is looking good at the blocking back post as is Dick Richards. At the ends, Mapes, Blanks,
and Bill Johnson head the list. A newcomer to the backfield is veteran Buck Williams, an all-state back while at
the University of South Carolina in 1943.

Coach Story has divided his squad into two teams, the Reds and the Greens, with two practice games so far.
The Red team has emerged victorious both times by a 6-0 score. In the first game Clifford scored on a
reverse ten yards from pay dirt. In the second, two passes from Williams to end Mapes produced the score. Mapes
stabbed the ball and lugged it some forty yards to the ten-yard marker. A few plays later the same pass
play scored again.

While the team expects to break no great records this fall, it will, however, be a team that Davidson will
be proud of. This may be the year for Coach Story to make his return to Norfolk a triumphant one.

Tentative Scores

| Prone | Sitting | Kneeling | Stand | Totals |
|-------|--------|----------|-------|--------|
| Brown, P. M. | 98 | 95 | 91 | 86 | 370 |
| Coffey, OMS | 98 | 96 | 92 | 83 | 369 |
| Deaton, P. P. | 98 | 98 | 96 | 84 | 376 |
| Huie, E. B. | 98 | 89 | 82 | 76 | 345 |
| Long, F. V. | 96 | 96 | 89 | 79 | 360 |
| McDaniel, A. D. | 97 | 95 | 92 | 82 | 366 |
| Maxwell, C. K. | 97 | 96 | 90 | 82 | 365 |
| Peters, W. | 95 | 92 | 80 | 62 | 329 |
| Rankin, A. M. | 98 | 94 | 83 | 74 | 349 |
| MRACHAYABY | 94 | 98 | 84 | 69 | 345 |

Faul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Pictured above are Male Earp and Whit Cobb, two sure-shot cagers who have seen plenty of action this year. Cobb,
a freshman, stepped directly into a varsity slot.

Works Out Ice Scraps

Clemson Ties Upset Davidson By 57-53

The Clemson Tigers upset the Wildcats, 57 to 53, last week to win their first Southern Conference basketball victory of
the season. Unable to match the Clemson quint during the first half, the Cats went to the dressing room at
the intermission leaving a Clemson lead of 27 to 28 on the scoreboard. Back from a short rest, the two
teams played on exactly even terms in the second stanza as Clemson held its four-point margin to the finish.

Cheek High Man

Standout for the night was rangy Buddy Cheek. Playing his usual floor game plus a dead basket eye, he racked
up 20 points for the night’s high score; White was next with 10 as Peters pushed for a close second
high with 9.

Send Her The Davidsonian
“The Liveliest College Paper On The Hill”
Only $1.50 Per Year

Stadium Sees Much Activity

Richardson Field has budded into a sports arena with the advent of late spring breezes and the ground is covered
with athletes. Mingling with the groans of hard-hitting football scrimmages is the crunch of foot-upon-cinder as the track men limber
up for the season, and the crack of sphere against bat as the baseballers take the early bird kinks out.
Whittle has had his men out for some few days now and is preparing for a big season. Bill Lacy,
former speed merchant for the Cat trackers, is back again this year to fill the 100-yard dash slot. Lacy’s last
efforts along these lines were with the undefeated team of ‘48, and his return should strengthen Whittle's stock.

Though Norman Shephard will be busy for some time yet with the remaining basketball schedule and the Conference Tournament, his
baseball team is already shaping up on the diamond. With nothing definitely on which to base any prognosticating, it seems
that a right fair number of hot ball players are mustering this year, and Davidson's hopes for a winner look
good. Norman Whiteheart and Greg Thomson have been loosening up their respective pitching arms and Skeets Howard, newcomer from Washington,
N. C., is a reputed heavy slugger.

THE DELUXE ICE CREAM
Is Now Available At
STUDENT STORE

Belk’s Department Store
Mooresville, N. C.
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN

See Us

I’ll Swap You $5.00 8X10 Color Portrait For $1.00
VERNON B. McGHEE
Local and College Agent of Franklin Studios
Charlotte, N. C.

Remember this seal—it’s your assurance of the best.
Swindon
Charlotte, N.C.

THACKERS, INC.
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
221 South Tryon Street
Private Dining Rooms For Parties And Banquets

Cats Whip Citadel “B’s” Down Pheiffer

Hitting on all five despite erratic passing, Davidson’s Wildcats put the whip to The Citadel’s Bulldogs Tuesday night at the
Armory, 72 to 46 in a Southern Conference game witnessed by a crowd of about 1,000. The Davidson Jayvees defeated
Pheiffer College, 75 to 44, in the opener of the doubleheader.

Citadel started with a bang and the blue-clad Bulldogs led for a few minutes. Davidson went ahead 7-6, but Citadel
tied it at 10-10 and then 12-12 before the Wildcats struck their stride. Then, with George Peters rolling them in,
Ed White flipping long ones, and George Cheek hitting from all angles, the Wildcats forged ahead and held a 37-27
lead at halftime.

The second semester was slow. Coach Norman Sheppard pulled his varsity after a few minutes of the second half and
let his second stringers take over. The Cats scored 35 points in this half as the Bulldogs, baffled by Davidson's
tricky shifting zone defense, could not get inside the Presbyterian circle. The Citadel players failed to break fast enough and
allowed the Davidson defense to get set.

The Wildcats tossed the ball about with abandon, but the marksmen were hitting them from all angles and made some
remarkable shots. Peters paced the Wildcats, scoring with 17, followed by Cheek’s 16 and White’s 15. Affie Dufour with 14
led the Bulldogs, coached by Whitey Piro, who played with the Third Air Force Gremlin football team at Morris Field
here in 1944. John Wimberly was next with 11.

TENNIS

With Coach Luffler still on tour with the Pros, the netmen have met only in impromptu sessions to warm up
and shake out the winter crinks, but talent is shining. Buck Archer, Whit Cobb, Lenoir Keesler, Ted Keesler, Jerry Robinson,
and Bo Roddy are a mixture of old and new talent that should spark the Cat netters to a majority
of wins this season.

AMBULANCE SERVICE
Telephone 284
Equipped For Service Any Distance Any Time
Bunch Funeral Home
Mooresville, N. C.

Stonestreet’s Grade “A” Cafe
O. C. Stonestreet, Manager
“The Sensible Place to Eat”
418 S. Main St. — Phone 132
Mooresville, N. C.
