Friday, October 17, 1947

PATTERNS FOR CONQUEST
By PROF. JAMES F. PINKNEY

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ROAMING WITH RONNY
By RONNY DIETRICK

Page Three

‘Y’ CORNER
By BILL McLEAN

In talking to a lot of boys around the campus I find that there are a lot of the students
who do not understand the financial program of our YMCA. This is only natural, for I do not believe that
the proper stress has been placed on this phase of our work, and only a few who are directly connected
with the “Y” and its program, such as the members of the cabinet and the board of control, are familiar
with the system under which we operate. At any rate, as long as we have to have a purpose we
might as well have a decent one. To start with, the purpose of this column will not be intentionally educative,
moral, or helpful. This column will not contain any material which someone thinks is necessary. This column does not have
a purpose of its own, but it has one because all columns have purposes. Nobody seems to know why columns
have to have purposes—they just have them. It will not contain anything that you will not get along just as
well without reading.

On the other hand, this column will contain sketches of historical incidents and historical descriptions of buildings here at Davidson.

BUNCH FUNERAL HOME
Ambulance Service
Mooresville, N. C.

Each day our newspapers, magazines, and speakers bring to our notice charges and counter-charges about intended conquest by the United
States or by Russia. The Russians charge that the U.S. is bent upon an imperialistic and capitalistic program to conquer
and dominate the world. Our officials and many of our leading speakers and writers charge that Russia is now openly
launched upon a program to conquer and “communize,” in the Russian sense, the world. The battle of words alone has
passed the point which in almost any other time in history would have brought an open declaration of war between
the two nations.

This discussion must start from the established fact that a dangerous conflict exists between the United States and Russia. I
personally believe that it is also an established fact that “appeasement” of Russia is not the manner in which this
conflict can be resolved but on this point there is a difference of opinion within this country. At any rate
it is obvious that the issue of the day, and possibly the most serious issue confronting the United States, is
what to do about the conflict. Shall we hold firmly to a position that Russia shall not take one more
foot of territory, or shall we entirely withdraw our strength at every point where it conflicts with Russia?

There are responsible Americans today to be found at both extremes. There are those who advocate war today and there
are those who believe that our present position is untenable and that we should waste no time in retreating from
our present position which, in my opinion, will lead to war, assuming that Russia is on a determined course, as
she appears to be. If there is no truth in what Vishinsky and his colleagues are saying, and again assuming
that Russia is on a determined course, as she appears to be, then we should waste no time in preparing
for a military showdown with Stalin and his government. By such a showdown I do not necessarily mean war; a
show of military strength sufficient to convince the Russians that an attack on the United States or further expansion by
them into areas of our interest could never succeed, might suffice to afford us security and to keep the peace.
We are presently launched on a showdown policy although it does not appear that we are implementing that policy to
the extent necessary to make it completely effective. In other words, we are not mobilizing either in the military or
in the broad sense of that word.

Let us consider then whether we are right or Russia is right or perhaps a better way, whether our assertions
that the U.S. is seeking to dominate the world, and that Russia seeks peace. If those who accept the Russian
version of American motives and actions are right we should waste no time in retreating from our present position which,
in my opinion, will lead to war, assuming that Russia is on a determined course, as she appears to be.
If there is no truth in what Vishinsky and his colleagues are saying, and again assuming that Russia is on
a determined course, as she appears to be, then we should waste no time in preparing for a military showdown
with Stalin and his government. By such a showdown I do not necessarily mean war; a show of military strength
sufficient to convince the Russians that an attack on the United States or further expansion by them into areas of
our interest could never succeed, might suffice to afford us security and to keep the peace. We are presently launched
on a showdown policy although it does not appear that we are implementing that policy to the extent necessary to
make it completely effective. In other words, we are not mobilizing either in the military or in the broad sense
of that word.

Cinema Comments
By WALTER MANN

Get out in front! Stay there in Jogs: Hep-front the United States, is what to do about the conflict. Shall
we hold firmly to a position that Russia shall not take one more foot of territory, or shall we entirely
withdraw our strength at every point where it conflicts with Russia?

There are responsible Americans today to be found at both extremes. There are those who advocate war today and there
are those who believe that our present position is untenable and that we should waste no time in retreating from
our present position which, in my opinion, will lead to war, assuming that Russia is on a determined course, as
she appears to be. If there is no truth in what Vishinsky and his colleagues are saying, and again assuming
that Russia is on a determined course, as she appears to be, then we should waste no time in preparing
for a military showdown with Stalin and his government. By such a showdown I do not necessarily mean war; a
show of military strength sufficient to convince the Russians that an attack on the United States or further expansion by
them into areas of our interest could never succeed, might suffice to afford us security and to keep the peace.
We are presently launched on a showdown policy although it does not appear that we are implementing that policy to
the extent necessary to make it completely effective. In other words, we are not mobilizing either in the military or
in the broad sense of that word.

Let us consider then whether we are right or Russia is right or perhaps a better way, whether our assertions
that the U.S. is seeking to dominate the world, and that Russia seeks peace. If those who accept the Russian
version of American motives and actions are right we should waste no time in retreating from our present position which,
in my opinion, will lead to war, assuming that Russia is on a determined course, as she appears to be.
If there is no truth in what Vishinsky and his colleagues are saying, and again assuming that Russia is on
a determined course, as she appears to be, then we should waste no time in preparing for a military showdown
with Stalin and his government. By such a showdown I do not necessarily mean war; a show of military strength
sufficient to convince the Russians that an attack on the United States or further expansion by them into areas of
our interest could never succeed, might suffice to afford us security and to keep the peace. We are presently launched
on a showdown policy although it does not appear that we are implementing that policy to the extent necessary to
make it completely effective. In other words, we are not mobilizing either in the military or in the broad sense
of that word.

MARION DAVIS CO.
118 S. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Monday and Tuesday
October 20 and 21

“GUNFIGHTERS”

This picture instead of being an ordinary western is a “horse-opera” in the strictest sense of the word. Not only
is it concerned with horses but also with men, wild men of the Wild West. There arealso some are wrong
and that Russia's apparent intentions are peaceful and Russia's throughout the year money from women concerned. Were it not for
Russia's appetite for territory and influence, there could be no doubt that we are both peacefully inclined. General press reaction
to Vishinsky’s recent speeches before the U.N. was to the effect that the existing situation forces me to reject this
third possibility. The United States as a nation should, however, immediately make up its mind as between the first two
and act accordingly.

The final budget for this year has not been completed, but to give you some idea as to how your
contributions will be used this year, I will name a few causes that were contributed to last year from our
vespers collections. Money was sent to aid a Korean student who was studying for the ministry, we made contributions to
Barium Springs Orphanage, Mecklenburg Sanatorium, Presbyterian Home for the Aged, World Student Service Fund, American Bible Society (for Bibles to
Japan), and many other worthy, Christian causes.

As I mentioned in the above paragraph, we have not completed the benevolence budget for the coming year; and even
though we will, in all probability, retain some of the items from last year’s budget, we are still looking for
additional causes in the Christian field which we might aid with a share of our vespers money. So if you
have any ideas, please drop by and see me, for it is your “Y” and your money; and with your
suggestions, we might be able to serve Christ in a greater capacity than before.

Queens Open House
By WALTER MANN

Approximately half of the Davidson student body, nothing daunted by the dampness at the Wofford football game, repaired after the
fray to the dark halls of Queens College. Since Davidson students are a very sane and logical group of young
men, there was of course a very good reason for this mass infiltration of enemy territory. At one of the
chapel services the preceding week, Mr. Hugh Hill, with a wicked sneer replacing his ordinarily radiant smile, had announced, “There
will be an open house at Queens College after the Wofford Game Saturday night.” Davidson men are, of course, always
happy when some national holiday or other similar event causes the warden of Q.C. to turn off the fifty thousand
volts running through the fence surrounding the premises. Needless to say, the game was scarcely over when the men began
to pour through the portals of dear old Queens. Gay lights were beaming everywhere, an orchestra was playing, and as
a man stepped through the door, he was met by a beautiful hostess, who immediately introduced him to one of
the waiting visions of delight.

A gunfighter (played by Randolph Scott) decides that he has been a gunfighter long enough and that he is all
yours. You probably know a number of men in your class who were pilots in the wartime. Their stature and
poise are things they couldn't have gotten anywhere else. Cadet life today is no different. As a potential pilot in
the new U.S. Air Force, you serve at a time of equal importance to the nation. Freedom, responsibility, the chance
to use your own initiative are all yours. The training you get is the finest your government can provide —
$35,000 worth for every Cadet. You're taught by skilled instructors, fly the best airplanes. Your living facilities are excellent. They
are the best advertisements for the Aviation Cadet program. Talk with them about it. Chances are, they’ll tell you their
service as pilots was one of the most interesting and exciting phases of their lives. Fast action, comradeship, and the
chance to serve their country paid them dividends they don’t forget. Learning to fly today opens profitable fields to you
in aviation — which is expanding more rapidly than at any other time in history. Pilot training is open, now,
to single men, 20 to 26½ years old, who have completed at least one-half the credits for a degree from
an accredited college or university — or pass an equivalent examination. Cadets completing the course will be commissioned Second Lieutenants,
ORC, and assigned to active duty as pilots with the Air Force. During their tours of duty, they will be
given a chance to qualify for Regular Air Force Commissions. This is your opportunity! Look into it today at your
nearest U.S. Army and Air Force Recruiting Station.

U.S. ARMY AND AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE
