Friday, September 26, 1947
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Five

A team of which Davidson should be proud.

Half Dozen Freshmen Break By BILL KING and GENE REGEN

Universities such as State, Auburn, William & Mary.

Auburn Lambeth
Another top-notch freshman grid-man is Auburn Lambeth who hails from Decatur, Georgia. Auburn is a big, modest fellow; but don't
be fooled by his unassuming manner, because when all six feet, 165 pounds of him get moving, he's like a
small-sized tornado. Like Poole, Auburn holds down the quarterback spot; also like Dave, Auburn played guard on the basketball team,
and centerfield on the Decatur nine. Although last year was Auburn's first in high school football, his worth was speedily
recognized, and this year he was offered a football scholarship to both Georgia Tech and the University of Georgia. Auburn
excels as well in both scholarship and leadership qualities. As a tribute to his many fine qualities, he was honored
last year by being initiated into the National Honor Society.

Jim Rogers
Jim Rogers, a curly-haired, nineteen-year-old freshman, hails from Reidsville, North Carolina. Jim carried the burden of blocking back for three
years, making the Goldsboro Daily News’ All-State Football team his senior year. A shifty forward on the basketball squad, he
stands five feet, nine inches, and weighs in at 160 pounds. A well-rounded fellow, he was the vice-president of his
senior class. He sported “A” grades all the way.

Davis Cleaners
ALTERATIONS
CLOTHES DYED
24-48 HOUR SERVICE

DEVOE
Paint Store
—PAINTS
—WALLPAPER
—GLASS
—ARTISTS SUPPLIES
PHONE 3-3196
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
109 S. CHURCH ST.

WELCOME

PAGING THE PROFESSORS
(Continued from Page 1)

Seminary in New York, Professor Eberhardt went to Europe. There he was a graduate student at both the University of
Edinburgh, Scotland, and at the University of Basel in Switzerland.

By ED MONTGOMERY
In the last week, freshmen or upperclassmen have noticed a group of men on the campus who groan every step
of the way going up the stairs to class or across the campus. They are the cross-country men who don't
have a case of sore muscles. They simply have that traditional Davidson spirit.

So, Coach Pete Whittle’s Cross Country team this year has plenty of hard work ahead, and may we add that
they have already put plenty of hard work behind them this year.

Track Letter Men
First Team Since '39
We expect there aren't many who remember the last time Davidson had a cross-country team. This year, Coach Pete Whittle
is setting the pace for one of the best teams Davidson ever had. In those early days, the course covered
five miles, whereas in recent years the run has been cut to three miles. 1939 was the year Boo Walker
ran the five miles in 28 minutes and 34 seconds to set a new record for Davidson. This leaves a
mighty fast pace for the team this year to hold even on the shorter course.

In 1939, Professor Eberhardt was a delegate to the World Conference of Christian Youth at Amsterdam, Holland. He returned to
the United States and served pastorates in New Jersey. In addition to that pastoral work, Professor Eberhardt was a Navy
chaplain. Among his hobbies, Professor Eberhardt emphasized riding horseback, playing golf (he shoots in the eighties), and mechanics. He regrets
that there are not winter sports here, for skiing and hiking in snowshoes are high on his list. In addition
to sports, Professor Eberhardt finds much pleasure in his dairy farm in Vermont, on the Connecticut River.

Dave Poole
One of the most outstanding varsity football players is Dave Poole.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning
and punctuation:

---

If there are any students still roaming this first week with Gunder, Gray, Fred McAllister, Murdock — Me- 1356, squad
is quiet, good-looking Dave campus who can remember when! setting a good fast pace around the Keithan, and Tee Willingham.
Professor: Eberhardt.

Born in Salisbury in 1928, Davidson had one of the outstanding experiences of his life. It was in these years
that he and Mrs. Eberhardt toured much of Europe, going through much of the Alps, on a one-cylinder motorcycle, with
an additional one hundred pounds of luggage strapped to the vehicle. When leaving Europe ten weeks later, Eberhardt was aboard
the Independence Hall, of which he was chaplain. Word came to the ship that another ship was torpedoed and that
Independence Hall was to rescue the survivors of the night. There were three hundred.

Dave played quarterback in 1943-45-46 for Children's Home in Winston-Salem. Standing almost six feet tall and weighing in at 160,
Dave is a good bet for a string berth by reason of previous experience at the blocking back post. Cross
Country is one of the best sports for conditioning your body for other athletics or for track in the Spring.
If there are any men in school who would like to get in condition, Coach Whittle has scheduled meets with
Randolph-Macon, Fort Bragg, and is looking for more on the team. Whittle stated Cross Country means exactly what it says
— the race carries you through fields, along the country roads, over hills, and across streams. The season lasts from
September until the snow flies. It is too early in the season and the team is too new for any
pre-season predictions, but the team as a whole has plenty of spirit and determination and with plenty of hard work
it should shape up into a team to be proud of.

One of the interesting and peculiar sidelight on the W. and L. meet is that the race is being run
so as to have its finish line on the football field during the half of the Homecoming game. Welcome to
Davidson, Professor Eberhardt; may your work here be a happy one.

Ex-presidents of the Davidson College Student Body now in the community are the Reverend Pritchett, Professor James F. Pinkney, and
Y Secretary Bill McLean.

The Cadets are flying again! The U.S. Air Force now offers you the chance of a lifetime to start your
career in aviation. If you want to learn to fly, you have one of the finest opportunities ever offered in
peacetime. Aviation Cadet pilot training has been reopened to qualified applicants presently serving enlistments in the Army, and to civilian
young men who can meet the same high standards. In order to be eligible, each applicant must be a single
male citizen, between 20 and 26½ years old, of excellent character and physically fit. He must have completed at least
one half the credits leading to a degree from an accredited college or university, or be able to pass a
mental examination given by the USAF. He must now be living within the continental limits of the United States. Upon
successful completion of the training course, Cadets will be rated as pilots, commissioned Second Lieutenants, and assigned to flying duty.
Reactivation of Aviation Cadet pilot training is only one of the several choices open to outstanding men who want increased
responsibility and advancement in the field of aviation. It is now possible for qualified men to apply for attendance at
USAF Officer Candidate School — and thus be able to equip themselves for such important specialties as engineering, armament, administration,
and supply. You have a real chance to make progress and build a sound career for yourself in today’s U.S.
Air Force. Talk it over with the Recruiting Officer today at any U.S. Army and Air Force Recruiting Station.

Davidson Students and upperclassmen, a hearty welcome back to these parts. We here at J. O. Jones, Inc. are looking
forward to seeing you soon! To the "FRESH MEAT" we take this opportunity to extend a sincere invitation to visit
our store, use our telephones — in fact, why not make J. O. Jones, Inc. your Charlotte Headquarters. To all
of you, we extend an invitation to come in and see such famous names in men's wear as Hart Schaffner
& Marx, Manhattan, Van Heusen, Stetson, McGregor, Nunn Bush, and many others.

J. O. JONES, INC.
THE HOME OF HART SCHAFFNER & MARX CLOTHES
208 S. TRYON STREET
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
