Page 2 THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, March 28, 1947

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITORIAL STAFF
JIM LOVE -------------------- Editor
Charlie Cunningham -------- Associate Editor
Deve Richardson ------------ Managing Editor
Keat Christopher ------------ Managing Editor
Walter Walker --------------- Managing Editor
Romany Dietrick ------------- Managing Editor
Lamar Williamson ------------ Managing Editor
George Worth ---------------- Managing Editor
John Stewart ----------------- Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Gambrell Meank -------------- Assistant Business Manager
Lenimon ---------------------- Advertising Manager
Jon McNair ------------------- Circulation Manager
Cantley Dockery -------------- Circulation Manager
Wil Baxter -------------------- Collection Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave New York, N.Y
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1946 Member 1947
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such
it welcomes any contributions or communication to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity,
obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hands by Monday night of the week that it
is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

With the last issue of the Davidsonian which the old editor puts out before turning over the reins to the
new staff and new editor, it is customary to look back over the year through rose-colored glasses, close with compliments
to everybody, and remark what a wonderful year it has been regardless of what has been said or done. This
course would be an easy one to follow, for there is even evidence that perhaps this year has not been
any worse than others: in 1939 Bill Marquess had this to say in closing. “Of course it would never do
for any student to openly exhibit any regard for the paper, or to do other than gripe about it at
every available opportunity, but we have received a great many helpful criticisms, letters to the editor, and compliments, which at
least show that the student body is aware of the existence of a weekly publication on the campus!”

But I believe that this year has been worse than others. Evidence to this fact can be seen in the
recent election, in which the editors could find only three men qualified to run for this office.

POSSIBLE REMEDY
Realizing that practically everyone who has anything at all to do with publications has attempted to diagnose the situation this
year, and at the risk of being trite and not read, I offer my solution to the problem for the
Davidsonian. It has been suggested to me from the office of one of our other “frantic attempts to get out
a publication” (not Swink’s — he’s in worse shape than that) a possible reason for the excessive lack of interest
exhibited this year. This is that men below the editor do not have any responsibility placed on them, nor do
they receive suitable recognition for the work that they do; when any editor be in charge of each issue, with
the editor turning over to him as much of the responsibility and management as possible. If there were only three
men capable of such responsibility, perhaps the editor could not expect to turn over too much to them as the
burden would be too great with their turn coming up every third week. But if there were six men as
there should be, the editor could expect to leave a great deal in their hands. But in either case a
considerable burden would be removed from the editor. For recognition, each time perhaps in the masthead it could be shown
who was the head managing editor for that issue. In this way some competition might be aroused to see who
could put out the best issue. And it would give the student body something more tangible to vote on when
elections came around as they would have actual proof of who had done a good job and who had not.
The editor, meanwhile, could assume a position of general supervision instead of spending most of his time doing the actual
work. A good paper can never be had until there is someone in this position. An example of what this
would mean is that a paper could be sent to press in which more than 10% of the material in
it has been proofread.

THE OLD SYSTEM
Under the old system before the war there were five managing editors and a sports editor. The managing editors were
entrusted with a page apiece as by some miraculous means they seemed to get out six pages quite regularly. The
managing editors also took turns sending out the assignments to the sophomore reporting staff. Of course, the sports editor was
responsible only for his sports page every issue. However, this system has failed to be put in operation this year,
either because of lack of interest on the part of the underclassmen or improper approach on the part of the
upperclassmen. This is, therefore, an attempt to regain a semblance of a better system by solving these two problems. The
essence of the solution is to stir up interest by giving underclassmen responsibility and recognition.

APPRECIATION
In closing I do not wish to convey the impression that I have not enjoyed working on the paper this
year, for I would hardly have been doing it were it not enjoyable. This is merely an attempt to offer
a solution for future editors that they may not find the job taking more time than they can afford to
spend. I want to express my thanks to Ed Sutton for giving me the opportunity to edit the last few
issues, and to wish him the best of luck on the coming examinations. I want also to especially thank Bob
Phillips, Gopher Mann, Sam Ervin, Ronny Dietrick, and Stan Kenneth, who have done more than their share of the work,
and without whom these last issues could not have gone to press. To the new editor, Bob Phillips, go best
wishes, with confidence that he will go a long way toward bringing the Davidsonian to the better days that used
to be.

—JIM LOVE, Editor

BY BOB RIERSON
This column is meant to be the first movement in an endorsement to make one Gus Travis (need we say
who he is?), popular daily columnist in a Charlotte paper, the Davidsonian’s choice for Man of the Year. It is
to be expected that a chorus of whys will arise from the unfortunate readers of this corner, to all of
which I may put this answer in the form of a question: Have you ever tried to write a newspaper
column every week, not to mention every day? To give any luckily uninitiated readers the answer to this query, we
shall endeavor to set forth in the following paragraphs the woes of a college columnist and dedicate them to the
memories of those gone before (R. I. P.)

Every night he lies awake sleeplessly, tossing and turning and racking his brain for the ideas that never seem to
come. Monday night, after he has turned his neatly typed 50 lines of accumulated drivel he can sleep fairly well
after emitting several anticipatory shudders at the thought of the repeating process to come. Wednesday and Thursday nights, things begin
to get a bit worse, and Friday is terrifying. He collapses and tumbles immediately into the arms of Morpheus (trite!
but true). Thus his nights are always fruitless, so let’s take a look at his days.

One can always tell him when they see him on the campus. He wears the familiar hunting look of the
journalist, and his head is continually pivoting so that he won't miss a single thing that might be happening. He
intentionally bumps into every group standing around bulling in the hope that he might snatch up a scrap worth repeating.
He will give a dollar to get in on a funny accident that might give him a lead, and he
is often caught in the act of creating one so as to lend authenticity to his mumblings. Once in a
great while he happens to come across something and promises himself he will jot it down at the first opportunity.
Of course, he forgets his resolution and curses himself generously when he realizes what he has done. Thus he drags
his weary body and haggard mind through a week and finds himself with the madness of Monday confronting him every
week with not a trace of an idea in his feeble cranium.

All day he turns away in revulsion from the task that faces him, always telling himself that he has to
finish up a lot of other work before, for it is easy to see that journalists are the greatest procrastinators
in the world. Monday night after supper he drags himself down into a chair before the big black typewriter containing
the sickeningly blank sheet of white paper. He industriously raps out the title and author and then leans back for
a smoke to consider what it’s going to be. Half an hour later he is back from next door where
he has explored thelearned depths of “Li’l Abner” and “Blondie” much to the edification of his eager mind but little
to the progress of his erudite composition. He throws himself upon his bed to think with his eyes closed since
he has found that the said position is highly conducive to relaxation and thought. Well, at least to the former,
he thinks, as he stretches and yawns, then goes back to his machine refreshed from an hour’s nap. He makes
a futile stab at a few drab scribbles because he realizes that he will be unable to get up the
column over the weekend because of a huge deal he has cooked up in various spots over the countryside. Sunday
night he comes back dead! Flashes of brilliance soon find themselves at the true resting place for such literary masterpieces.
He becomes more and more discouraged as he sees the time slipping away from him. In another hour he is
back at hard work after obeying, against his impulses, mind you, his roommate’s exhortations to undertake a trip to the
Stud, that perennial detractor from the cause of higher learning. By now he is becoming feverish with the strain, his
hair is showing signs of stress, and his nails need a woman’s touch. He looks at his watch in desperation,
then glances in anguish at the still pure sheet before him. Suddenly he is decided. There is only one road
left for him to take and down he plunges. The typewriter keys fly under his nimble fingers, and within an
hour his weekly masterpiece is done. He has turned out a sterling picture of the trials of a newspaperman in
writing his weekly column.

By Bill

Cinema Comments

MONDAY AND TUESDAY MARCH 31-APRIL 1 “THE OUTLAW”

According to Time Magazine the horse, “Red,” steals the show away from sexy Jane Russell as “Rio” the “Half-bred Moron”
and Jack Buetel as “Billy the Kid.” However, Walter Huston (Doc) and Thomas Mitchell (Pat Jarrett) hand in swell performances.
The plot: Doc comes to town to find Pat has gone straight and is now the sheriff. The Kid has
stolen Doc’s horse, Red, and is wounded by Pat but Doc takes him to “Rio's” house where she nurses him
back to health with such as climbing into bed with him as there is a scarcity of blankets. Well, it
all ends with the Kid and Rio riding off together astride Red, the horse. When the Hayes office, the Lily
White League of movieland, objected to the Kid’s line, “You borrowed from me; now I borrowed your gal,” Howard Hughes,
the producer, changed the line to “Tit for tat.” Hastily the Hayes combine agreed the first version was the better.

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY APRIL 2-3 “RAGES IN HEAVEN”

A very intense psychological melodrama which is added to by the excellent cast of Robert Montgomery, Ingrid Bergman, and George
Sanders. It concerns a young Englishman suffering from paranoia who escapes from a sanitarium and returns home. He marries his
mother’s secretary and soon accuses her of carrying on an affair with his best friend. His fear of losing his
life drives him to commit suicide. He does this job as cunningly as to involve his friend that the latter
is sentenced to be hung. However, Ingrid comes to the rescue in the nick of time. The title for this
picture comes from “heaven has no greater rages than love to hatred turned.”

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY APRIL 4-5 “THE LOCKET”

Hollywood once more tries to hang the blame for a woman’s indulging in butchery and murder on her unhappy childhood
and thus on the heads of her parents. Loraine Day is the innocent sweet-faced feline who cheats, steals, lies, and
murders her way through the lives of three very gullible men—Robert Mitchum, Brian Aherne, and Gene Raymond. The whole secret
is that when a young lass our wanton suffered a disappointment about a gold locket and the mystery is solved
by a series of flashbacks one inside the other. A very confusing matter!

with a quick jaunt to the Asheville Sky Club to renew “old” interests. The “Mouse Man” and the “Hugless One”
were caught trying to demoralize two females at Flora Macdonald. Mike, Free, and George swung it heavily at the Oakhurst
Square Dance. Brother Taylor recklessly made his way to Washington and back, where he found an old “acquaintance,” as could
be expected. Roscoe Roddey was seen in the Queen City with a Gitch. Rumor has it that “Lassie” pulled a
couple of more joints out of commission in order to make a special pilgrimage home. Hockey, Smiley, and Fatso could
be seen slinking around corners in Charlotte with three babes.

Special Notices: Gregg Thompson missing his last chance for freedom, Jim Love saying a word to the public. Jake Wade
still messing with the same old stuff. “Mug” Brewer with a “burned out” look on his face. Slick Evans could
not be found anywhere. Wilcox reneging once too often, result: He is no longer in conversation with his two brothers.
Doug Rice with mud all over his pants.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

After the trying week of campus elections, president “Smiley” Hill took off for Greensboro in the special airplane “Screamin’ Willie,”
press conferences, lawn parties, and front porch speeches. The official jug band of West Geedunk was on hand at the
station, where he was presented with a wreath of cornflowers and a voucher for a double dip ice cream cone.
We all heartily salute S. A. E.’s man of the year. Born to Mr. and Mrs. Tom “Junie” Guy, an
eight-pound baby girl. The proud pop has gone to Norfolk to be with the other two-thirds of his family. Naturally,
we’ll expect cigars when he gets back.

Ford Little, with one week to go as a bachelor, spent the time making last arrangements for his coming wedding
March 29. Don’t try to talk him out of it, he’s sold on the deal. Just staple another room onto
Cardboard Village, here come the Littles.

BETA THETA PI

Brothers Phillips, Rawley, and Box-head are reported to have come through the weekend with only one casualty in spite of
various mix-ups in dating procedure at some of the more gala spots in the Queen City. Brother Phillips feebly reports
from the infirmary that contrary to malicious rumors, he is still single.

Brothers Lyday, Schmidt, and Vinson (the authors get it too) took a trip to the Spindle City for an uneventful
weekend—except for the fact that the latter two were unsuccessful in an attempt to get acquainted with five girls at
once. Fat Vinson is some WOLF!

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

Most of the S. P. E.’s took off for points other than Davidson over the past weekend. Brothers White and
Knox stood it until Sunday afternoon when they left for Blowing Rock. McLauchlin, Shaw (“Flop”), Christopher, and Powell took over
Chester. The highlight of the weekend for them was the party Fred threw Saturday night when all the girls present
were old flames of Freddie’s... an enjoyable time was had by Freddie. Thompson complete with a bow tie (the better
to slay them with, my dear) Neill Thatcher, and guards were seen again in Mooresville... Bradford went below the border
(’nuff said), but the other fellow’s. We're looking forward to this weekend and the Spring Function which promises to be
the best yet.

PHI DELTA THETA

Brother McLean pulled a big deal this weekend. Brother Tate pulled a big deal this weekend. Brothers Oglesby pulled a
big deal this weekend. Brother Starnes pulled a big deal this weekend. Brother Bernhardt pulled a big deal this weekend.
Brother Newell pulled a big deal this weekend. Brother Miller pulled a big deal this weekend. Brother Iverson pulled a
big deal this weekend. Brother McGeachy pulled a big deal this weekend. Brother Palmer pulled a big deal this weekend.
Details may be secured from Brother Cobb who pulled a big deal this weekend.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

In keeping with election week, the following election slogans have been taken by the smiling juniors as follows:

Murdock McKeithan: “People who live in glass houses should-”

Sam Maloney: “Did you hear about the trapeze artist who caught his wife in the act?”

George Patrick: “I didn’t know she was a golfer until she asked me to play around.”

Dan Beals: “The modern equivalent of the old-fashioned wallflower is the girl who dances all the time.”

James French: “The evils of liquor are myriad. Period.”

Tom Snodgrass: “Oh, fudge,” cried the ram as he fell over the cliff. “I didn’t see that U-turn.”

Charles Elyea: “She laughed when I sat down... but when I started to play!!!”

Tommy Clark: “Next to a beautiful girl, sleep is the most wonderful thing in the world.”

Frank Strait: “Some girls are built like this one was. Others are more like this. But they all end up
like this.”

KAPPA ALPHA

Night of Knights was last Saturday evening when the lads of Sigma Chapter dined and danced at Morris Field Officers’
Club. Festivities began with a delicious buffet meal served in the gaily decorated dining room. Highlights of the banquet were
an expose of one of Brother Glasgow’s amorous war letters to his B. J. B. and several witty poems read
by the dates of the “Indicted” ones. Sweet music flowed from the instruments of Billy Knauff’s orchestra and the only
complaint was that the dance had to stop at midnight. Several alumni and wives were on hand, including Dean and
Mrs. Bailey, Dr. and Mrs. McGavock, Mr. and Mrs. Payne. A visiting brother from Rho chapter, U.S.C., was DuPre Lyles.
Sponsors for the function were: Miss Virginia Harris with Brother Jackson; Miss Kay Reves with Brother “Bone”; Miss Gerry Ervin
with Brother Barnwell; Miss George Ann Robertson with “Counsel” Whitesides; and Miss Nancy Commander with Brother Dunn. All committees operated
effectively to make this one the “best yet.”

In case you haven’t seen the recently renovated interior of the “Red Cross” house, drop over some time—but wear your
dark glasses. Brother Spillman and his committee deserve a note of thanks for their fine work.
