Friday, October 10, 1947 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Neophytes Initiated Into ‘Y’ CORNER

By RONNY DIETRICK

Recently Affable Bill Rob- arrangement was quite lovely as led by the student parties and banquets. After the social show, the spotlight was on the cabin, and came back until closing. 

A GOOD PLACE TO EAT

221 South Tryon Street Charlotte, N.C. Phone 251490

By DAVE GAMBRELL

The lighting arrangement was quite lovely as led by the student parties and banquets. After the social show, the spotlight was on the cabin, and came back until closing. 

Private Dining Rooms

THE OLD WELL

for parties and banquets

The Spiritual Development Department was created for the purpose of promoting personal Christian service, and the student body has responded without affecting the social life of the students who might be platonic. Filing out these platonic forms, the students have shown a keen interest in the existence of the "Y" on our campus. It is about this department that I want to say a few words this week. The present structure covering the fountain was given as a gift of the class of 1925; while the fountain itself, constructed of Italian marble, was the gift of the class of 1914. 

Dates Announce

The Davidson College students have always regarded the fountain as one of the fixtures of the campus. It is believed that the well is one of the original Davidson campus fixtures. 

CANDIES AND POTATO CHIPS

SWINSON 000 ROOTS

CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Copy of a letter

The Spiritual Development Department was created for the purpose of promoting personal Christian service on the part of each student. This year Herb Mc- is heading up this work; and ever since he arrived at Davidson he has thrown himself wholeheartedly into the task. The main function of this department is the supervision of the hall prayer meetings. 

Indeed, it is believed that the well is one of the fixtures of the original Davidson campus. 

BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD

OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER

125 W. TRADE ST. CHARLOTTE, N.C. PHONE 2-2235

This junction was comprised of many activities. For those who don’t care for dance, there were refreshments; for those who don’t like refreshments, there was the dance floor. At this entrance, students drew their water for drinking and other purposes. 

All untold, it was a night well spent in sealing an eternal relationship between the two schools. It was a pleasant occasion for the boys and reduced the hangover. There is no one among us who cannot afford to take a few minutes of their time to support the "Y" and enrich their own spiritual life, regardless of how busy they might be with studies and other activities.init > ri ha , By ‘psittite atte fia yet tude stored 1}, dancing, etc., ad infinitum. In the over of a week with the A.B OC Js. | his time in the middle of each week; Hardw are Sore Housew are dancing category there was round with a few drawbacks the party for a period of worship. The value ieierpa mercer aa in pessoas A lay, March; dancing, quare dancing, folk pleased. everyone con ind all of these services can be inestimable and after the punch, Vir- Whe dey AWA De eye ENCE tect eeu SGiwe iron Gn nc enec earliest Known picture of t; a to oul ous ‘ode e ehe- Se f; ve lated 1876 and is contained “S20H hd= 4 {’ ~ 4 7 girls at Queens fit trom them. Many people have tried in many different ways to put into words the reason why David yal Nt that tinte the w z North Carolina fn sor tor them, is better manana Povey a adden ro say “IT CAN BE BOUGHT AT GOODRUMS"; sol) em, is better than au; Toilet Articles secre Ga Rial TES MENT areca (ital gcaig bones wp “Wo ‘i oer i: 1) 1 aT; Household Items Holida Ma azine would not attempt to do this in the small space allotted to me, but I do believe that the custom of hall’pra; Davidson a better; DAY. MAGAZINI t fan cna A & pense ores AY MAGAZINE; Pere eae ML the sot a SSS; stands. It contains 25-page te pet der tates On poles resumal; Davidson, N. C. ceniiied Kren (carrqhane Ae warmer spot in our heat We will remember these assemblies long after we have forgotten a lot of our classroom work, and many of us will regret that we did not take a more active part. So let's all try this year to make them better and more meaningful than they have ever been in the past; Columbia Masterworks tures, the article Stresses this; Vacationland, which boasts the highest mountains in the; ton of the Spiritual Development; Parker-Gardner longest coast lines. The tobacco, “Day by Day's” and other materials will be distributed. Other recognition will not be given, nor will it be desired. For all of these things we owe Herb, and the fellows who; Main Street Phone 3671 Withers Electric Company; Radio Repairs; Electrical Supplies; Light Bulbs; DAVIDSON, N. C. WHITE DRUG COMPANY; WE HAVE Remington Typewriters; Schick-Shave Master *Electric Razors. C. S. Goodrum; TELEPHONE 2111; DAVIDSON, N. C. in the world. That N. C. has many towns and city” is pointed out. Largely an agricultural state, it has the largest population in the Southeast. no “dominating Daniels covers most of the state well, but might easily be criticized “slighti CHARLOTTE, distribution in largest point states; ASHEVILLE, ‘Tarheelia’s No. 1 Tourist City; FAYETTE- VILLE, historic home of Fort Bragg, and possibly other points of statewide importance. From historic Roanoke Island and Wright Brothers Memorial to the modern industrial towns, it is an interesting portrait of a great state. Methodist Student Day Is Planned Methodist students of Queens and Davids plan a full day of activity for Sunday, October 12. Roy Barrett, new state director of the Methodist Student Movement is to preach Sunday morning at Davidson Methodist Church. At 4:30 p.m. the boys and girls meet at Erwin Lodge for fellowship and wiener roast supper, hear of Barrett. After supper they plan to go to Charlotte to hear Bishop G. B. Oxnam, last president of the Federal Council Churches, speak to the Western N. C. Conference. Mr. Barrett, last year’s cheerleader at Duke, a native of Fayetteville, was assigned to head Methodism’s college student organization for this state upon his ordination at the last North Carolina Conference. (D) One of the best things about Davidson—her trees. have consented to aid him as hall prayer leader a hearty “thanks.” Phone 284 Mooresville, N.C. Stars of Club 15” Air Show “Choice of Experience.” Try Camels. Let your own experience tell you why Camels are setting a new record! Those terrifically popular Andrews Sisters have an individual singing style all their own. When it comes to cigarettes —well, let Patty tell you: “I’ve smoked many different brands and compared, and I learned from experience that Camels suit me best!” With thousands and thousands of smokers who have compared cigarettes —Camels are the Angus SSIES It’s the latest disc for Decca... “ON THE AVENUE” B.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.