Page 2 THE DAVIDSONIAN April 18, 1947

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON” THROUGHOUT THE YEAR
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, COLLEGE

Editorials DAVIDSONIAN Letters Features

BOB PHILLIPS EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOB SMOAK BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF:
Sam Ervin Sports Editor
Bob Rierson Feature Editor
Walter Mann Managing Editor
Balbo Calhoun Managing Editor
Ronny Dietrick Managing Editor
Stan Kennett Managing Editor
John Stewart Staff Photographer
Rob Hollister Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF:
Roly Gambrell Assistant Business Manager
Frank Lemmor Advertising Manager
John McNair Circulation Manager
Bob Cline Circulation Manager
Bijee Braxton Collection Manager
Charles Dockery Collection Manager

Entered at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, as second-class matter under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

Policy

A new staff has fallen heir to the voice of Davidson, and we that staff feel obliged at the outset
to present to the student body, the administration, the alumni, and interested affiliates of our college the policy to which
we subscribe and the goal for which we aim.

The Davidsonian is not just a news organ for the campus, although this is its established primary purpose for existence;
it further represents to the “outside world” Davidson College itself, and therein lies a heavy responsibility. Through exchange with other
college journals, alumni and parent subscriptions, and various enclosures through the mail by students, our weekly newspaper is circulated widely
throughout the South and to a lesser degree the upper states. With this fact before us, we who are responsible
for the contents of the Davidsonian will strive to publish a newspaper which will represent the greatest possible number of
Davidson students and Davidson activities and which will be of interest to the number of readers.

The new staff and the retiring staff are of one opinion as concerns the two greatest faults of our post-war
Davidsonian thus far—it has been written by and for a small minority within the student body, and oftentimes it has
been a vehicle for veiled humor which when unveiled was found to be a shade or two off the Davidson
color. The first fault would stem from the general lack of willingness of students to devote time and effort to
campus publications, which has been an oft-aired grievance all year. Some will trace this disinterested attitude toward extracurricular activities to
the returned veterans who, they contend, are interested only in graduating from college in the minimum amount of time with
the maximum amount of leisure. This is perhaps not the case; more likely this disappointing lack of participation in all
campus activities arises from an inherent evil in a necessarily overcrowded student body with such a wide age differentiation. Whatever
the cause or whatever the solution to this problem, the newspaper cannot be a true campus representative until there is
rejuvenated campus-wide active interest in it.

The second defect and the one which has rightly received criticism from many quarters, the sunken humor cached throughout most
of our previous issues, was due to the work of a small group of veterans (among them the new editor)
who were too interested in trying to generate a few laughs, all at the expense of unsuspecting innocents and to
the detriment of the paper. This type of writing was not asked for or desired by the outgoing editors, Ed
Sutton and Jim Love, but with the shortage of men and material that faced them each Monday night, they had
little choice but to print the stories they received from the above-mentioned group. Our predecessors have left us, through their
hours of toil and tears, first a better-organized staff, and secondly an admonition to steer clear of the innuendo if
we are to continue the building toward a good Davidsonian, for which they have left us a firm foundation.

Each semester, a criticism and subsequent rating is sent by the National Scholastic Press Association at the University of Minnesota
to all its member newspapers, among which is the Davidsonian. Before the war, the Davidson College Paper was an habitual
All-American, the very highest rating, which is awarded to journals judged to be “superior.” Next down the line comes the
First Class rating, awarded to papers which are termed “excellent.” Down another notch is the Second Class rating, for “good”
newspapers. Recently the Press Association awarded the Davidsonian a handsome scroll with the none-too-satisfying inscription, Second Class Rating! Davidson, with
an enrollment of approximately nine hundred souls, more or less hand-picked, should not be proud to have their college newspaper
classed no higher than mediocre. Most of us are satisfied that we have a vastly superior student body, administration, and
school character; are you content with a newspaper which “also ran”?

The new trustees of the Davidsonian have set as their goal the regaining of an All-American rating. Perhaps the present
staff will not realize that objective this year, but if the individual Davidson student earnestly wants a superior newspaper and
will take the time to offer constructive criticism and to offer his services, the rising staff of sophomores who will
take up the reins next year will give you a newspaper that ranks with the best in the land. Letters
to the editor, guest editorials, feature suggestions or questions will be welcomed and are expected not only from the general
student body, but from the faculty and administration as well. Davidson College has the right to demand the staff’s best
effort; the staff would appreciate a reciprocal exertion from the student body.

Tennis Courts

On a recent afternoon, which seemed to be especially suitable for playing tennis, the ratio of prospective players to the
number of courts available was approximately 10 to 1. Of course, the afternoon had something to do with this situation,
but on this afternoon three of the courts which are normally restricted to varsity use were open to anyone who
wished to play on them. If these varsity courts had not been available, the ratio would have been almost 15
to 1.

At the present time, there are seven courts which are always open to all members of the student body. With
the enrollment of the college up to over nine hundred students, this does not even provide one court for every
hundred men. It is apparent that something needs to be done about this, and the only solution that presents itself
to me is for the school to construct some more courts. If this is not done, there will continue to
be a large number of men who would like to play tennis and cannot because there are not enough courts
for everyone.

Perhaps someone will question the ultimate good of students being able to play tennis, but do they look at the
fact that tennis is something which men can continue to play throughout the rest of their lives? I do not
mean to belittle the good of other organized athletics, because we all realize the good that our whole athletic program
does for both the students and the college. It seems that a school like Davidson, which obviously tries to give
its students as many things as possible which they can use in later life, should try to provide better facilities
along this line.

Present Courts In Poor Condition

The courts to which the student body as a whole has access are not only very few in number, but
they are in rather poor condition. The grass has been cut (or worn) from most of them but it is
not entirely gone yet. The seven lower courts not only need the grass taken off entirely, but they need rolling,
as the only packing which they have had to date is that furnished by the feet of those who have
played on them. It seems to me, and to others with whom I have talked, that a school of this
size should have at least twenty courts which all the students might use. Not only should we have this many
courts, but they should all be in a suitable condition.

—J. W. Mann

Breezin’ With Bob
BY BOB RIERSON

In the spring a Wildcat’s fancy lightly turns... sorry, friends, to have to begin with this monument to triteness, but
it can best serve to introduce a few offhand observations occasioned by the weather and the season which, as no
other, turns a young man’s etc. to things ’n’ stuff. And so shall we turn, that is?

First of all, there is the amazing news that the United States government has finally recognized the true worth of
the community of Davidson in using it for national defense. After several years of study of various centers of the
nation as to their respective aquatic potentialities, the government has proved that Davidson is consistently the most inundated community of
this country, barring none. In accordance with their wishes to move atomic bomb underwater experiments closer home, they have chosen
Davidson as the next testing ground for the Navy’s submarine tests of effects of the bomb on the under parts
of certain types of new craft. It is expected that the tests will be conducted in the golf course area
so as to avoid the dangers that the bomb might produce. An official Navy spokesman has been quoted as saying
that the perfect spot, the quadrangle between Chambers and Georgia, had to be bypassed much to the regret of the
experimenters.

Heads naturally are urged in the direction of the front campus’ Fertilizer Furrow, but the aquiline protuberance beneath the eyes
is mainly responsible for the attendance in that direction. It is odd that with all the other flowers that bloom
in the spring, tra la! another fragrance should be required to make complete the college boy’s nasal pleasures... But ours
not to reason why, ours but to sniff and cry.

And speaking of heads turning, the recent influx of tennis matches has caused a great spontaneity of gaze in the
vicinity of the green courts every afternoon. The infirmary reports that a great quantity of neck cases have come to
its attention, and the unusual part of the matter is that the occurrence was not directly after a weekend. Dr.
Woods plans to announce in the near future that a course in eye-manipulation will be offered to all interested persons.
This course will be designed to instruct young gentlemen in how to shift their eyes so as to avoid the
tremendous amount of strain on necks that is of necessity born of an inexperienced tennis-match-watcher.

When Friday, today, and the eighteenth are mentioned, all heads are once again aligned in graceful order. All noses are
pointed, by the time this paper is supposedly due, to the Armory-Auditorium in Charlotte wherein the annual Spring Frolics will
be conducted—soon now! Whether attracted by groovy music, sentimental stuff, merely the love of the terpsichorean, or the fair faces
of the fabulous femmes, all are in complete accord in the direction to be taken. But then this last idea
has led us into our last and perhaps most important turning point. Be it on the Square in Charlotte or
on the campus (few though the opportunities may be!) here in Davidson, the Wildcat’s head is never failing to turn
at the sight of aforementioned feminine pulchritude. So the old adage...The text has been cleaned up while preserving the original
meaning and punctuation:

---

That heads this corner, though trite, is as true today as it was a century ago. There’s just something in
the air that won’t be denied, and few are so foolish as to deny it. Thus the flood away from
here comes the looked-for weekend by all concerned, and who are we to be left behind. Good-bye!

Dear Editor:

The recent student body elections have precipitated a considerable portion of campus conversations to a strain of thought that is
not uncommon each year at this time. The students begin to ask the question, “Why shouldn’t we have campaigns in
the elections?” The answer to this question is so obvious that I am reluctant to undertake such an easy task.
However, I will express my ideas in no roundabout way that may make such an easy solution seem difficult to
comprehend.

First of all, I would not take such an absurd stand as to commit myself in favor of campaigns for
student body elections. Our country ever since the date 1776 has been built upon democratic principles which have penetrated to
the very simplest conditions of our lives. Arguments between the youths of our nation on the field of sports have
long been arbitrated on democratic principles; our clubs, fraternities, Scout troops, and all other organizations where controversy inevitably crops up,
work on these same principles. Therefore, why should such an undemocratic principle as the right of persuasion in the form
of free speech or advertisement be permitted to crawl across our campus like the dragon of despair?

The most predominant argument against the non-campaign elections that are traditionally Davidson is that many of the students do not
know the person for whom they vote. Let me ask this question: Why should the students know the candidates that
are running for office when their duties are insignificant and inconsequential? They never affect us or the college as a
whole and therefore it is of no consequence to the student body regardless of who is holding the office. It
does not make any difference to us who gets up in chapel to make the announcements or the manner in
which he presents them, nor does it make any difference who handles the money in the different classes, nor does
it make any difference who handles the affairs of the Y, which does not have much influence on campus. We
should worry whether Joe Blow or Jack Slotz gets his name spread across the Davidsonian.

Some students have the gall to say that it is bad training for our future endeavors in the national and
state elections of our country, in that if we disregard the candidate and what he stands for in college, we
will have the same neglectful tendency away from college. It seems to me that these students have a fallacy in
their premises. Certainly the majority of electors in national and state elections have no idea, except by name, who the
fellow is running for office, so why try to know them in school? There is no sense in studying the
candidate and his principles given in his platform, because after all the study and attempt to pick the best candidate,
he doesn’t get elected anyway. They are usually eliminated in the primary. We are simply making something hard out of
something that is simple, because the way it is now, all one has to do is just see which name
looks the best, or which one strikes a familiar chord in our brain and check his name. Why go listen
to him speak or see how he looks or compare his qualities with another when it is so simple now?

The way our elections are run now are to my thinking ideal. We do not have to stay on campus
to help in campaigns, or listen to speeches, or take an interest in them which in any way detains us
from going to Charlotte to the Bamboo Room. We are going to college to stay away from the campus as
much as possible. Why should a man stay in the library preparing a speech for his candi-

(Continued on Page 3)

The Operating Table

Our large dealers, with mock horror for publicity, turn quickly to page two to drool over their name in print;
for in this column appears each week that this rag is published the names of our eminent Davidson Gentlemen and
their gallant exploits. Smilin’ Hugh, the recipient of World War II Victory Medal, turned farmer and sowed wild oats—we will
patiently await the bloom. Mr. W. Speit McLean, commonly known as The Greek, furtively known by the Krupp Manufacturing Works
as Chief Justice, tore up to Salem for the big dance. Mac Jeffries, known intimately as Bone, reached the summit
this weekend. He went to the Davidson Theater. Naked Sam Tate, who is in Washington, D.C., for the purpose of
looking at beautiful pictures, made merry instead. Butty Whitesides and his lovely date adorned in black slacks were seen with
a golf bag and two balls on the golf course.

ON WITH TRADITION!

“I love Jim Love.” Love must have gone somewhere because his cheery greetings were missed on the campus. Retiring Spiritual
Leader Jim Jackson went to Charlotte carrying a drum. Richard Lester Port spent a quiet weekend with “mother.” Mike Williams
and Freeman Jones went wading in the mud—their car was stuck in the meadow and they had to make the
Queens curfew. Tom Powells and Bill Hodgins for some unknown reason went to Queens and came back talking of donkeys
or its old English equivalent. A confidential report reveals that Edna Adams, former Phi Delt sweetheart, is going to Egypt.
Bon voyage! Gregg Thompson, who is taking investments, bought some stock from Goodrich and then lost all but one share.

Down Fraternity Court

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

On the weekend of March 29, the annual Sig Ep Installation Banquet was held at Thacker’s. Plenty of cheese was
on hand for “Mousey” Winchester who provided the “laughs.” Pat Clark of Clarkton, North Carolina, was selected as the fraternity’s
most outstanding freshman for the year. Immediately following the banquet the “Dear Brothers” and their dates adjourned to the Red
Fez Club to dance to the music of Gid Todd and his orchestra. “Peanut-head” McLauchlin was very much in evidence
with his flash bulbs and Babie-Brownie covering the local celebrities. Freddie Powell was with his one and only—as usual.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

We were all so glad to see Mr. and Mrs. Ford Little, just fresh from the preacher, that we threw
a feed for them Sunday night. Congratulations to Ford, who is a very lucky man. The Penguin “Sugar Daddy” Carrow
got his car back the other day. His eyes filled with tears as he kissed the battered old hood and
whistled at her fenders. “It’s almost as good as new,” says Lee, “but I’ll never do that again.” Here’s an
odd one. Dick Port, who lives in Winston-Salem, and Carl Pahl, a Memphis man, both said, “Home’s too far.” Result?
Port ended up in Memphis and Pahl in Greensboro. However, both of them came back happy and contented.

DELTA KAPPA

Numerous deals being underway for the forthcoming dance weekend, there is the usual amount of telegram receiving and sending—most vociferous
argument to date occurred between Dietrick and Williams concerning who gets to drive and who has to sit in the
back seat. Pritchard and Butt are still busy trying to find a third party to finance that rented Ford, but
their worries are nothing compared to Freeman’s—he is the proud and flabbergasted holder of four tickets to a concert at
$2.40 per for Saturday night—engaged when “spring dances” was a phrase applying to the dim future. It’s safe to say
he may be holding the tickets Saturday as well as... We are waiting for the seasonal argument between “Tiny” Zedaker
and “Petit” Goodman as to who will win the one set of tux for the formal affair. Then there’s always
Bill Clark explaining to Carr that the Navy really is part of the Coast Guard. Delta Kappa is proud to
announce the pledging of Bob Butt, Norfolk, Va., and John Pritchard, Hazard, Kentucky.

PI KAPPA PHI

Brother Fitz Read gave “Toodie” the ring over spring holidays. Congratulations also to B. A. Fisher who let Ponds do
the trick several weeks ago. To Hickory Bob Cline was accompanied by one Bud Edwards and neither were heard of
again until Sunday night. At present he is up at Salem College for Jane Mullhollem’s recital. He promised to fix
up a few of us for Salem-Davidson day while up there. Brother J. K. Robinson extended this extended weekend (sometimes
called spring holidays) to run into his fabulous Nonita of Daytona Beach and Tampa who was stated to be in
Atlanta. He got short glimpses of her but enjoyed the chaperone. Spring holidays found most of the boys from “Florence”
at Myrtle Beach. Pledge Brother Yandle is taking off for Atlanta this weekend for an Agnes Scott dance. Epsilon is
happy to welcome Tom and Frank Niblock of Concord as pledge brothers. E. B. & Hunter’s work of editorial genius,
the “Epsilonian,” finally came out.

Cinema Comments
By Bill Calhoun

MONDAY AND TUESDAY APRIL 21 AND 22
“NOCTURNE”

This R.K.O. production deals with the undying efforts of a young detective, George Raft, to prove that the death of
a composer in his studio is the result of murder and not of suicide. It is an interesting and exciting
mystery, the interest of which is added to by the supporting actress, Lynn Bari. The scenery is a little overdone
in the showing of lush scenes in Hollywood night clubs. There seems to be a slight excess of fight scenes
for this type of picture but their presence adds somewhat to the general excitement. One of the outstanding achievements in
the direction of this picture is the superb effect accomplished by the use of the musical score.

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY APRIL 23 AND 24
“MY BROTHER TALKS TO HORSES”

Very little information could be obtained concerning this picture by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. As the title indicates there must be a horse
or two in it, not to mention the brother who talks. The original story on which the picture is based
was carried in the “Saturday Evening Post” not very long ago. With such an unusual name as this, the picture
is probably also unique and therefore it is likely to be interesting. It may be in color and then again,
it may be in black and white. Nevertheless, two things I know; horses and talking brother.

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY APRIL 25 AND 26
“IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE”

As unrealistic as it may seem this production is probably as realistic (excluding Clarence, the angel) as any that Hollywood
produces. Jimmy Stewart, although he has planned to go to the big city, is required to remain in his small
hometown and run his father’s old building and loan association. Out of lack of someone else, he marries Donna Reed,
a childhood sweetheart. Things go badly for him and he wishes he were never born. It all ends very happily
as things return to normal and he learns to really appreciate life. This picture is truly worth seeing.
