Friday, May 16, 1947
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page 5

'Cat Cindermen Down Mercer; Seven Prep For Conference Meet

The Wildcat cindermen finished their 1947 campaign last Saturday by downing Mercer University 87 1-2 to 47 1-2, 25 of
which were amassed by Dave Rowe. The bespectacled Georgian captured firsts in the 100-yard dash, high jump, broad jump, and
javelin. Jack Gray, McAlister, McGehee, Berry, Willingham, and Ed Hopper each captured 10 points to pace the Cats. Gray raced
to the tape in both the mile and two-mile runs and Hopper raced home in the high and low hurdles
to net his 10 markers. This gave the Cats a better than 500 average for the season with 4 wins
against 3 losses. Besides Mercer, Coach Pete Whittle’s charges rolled over Furman, W&L, and Guilford, while dropping the trio to
Clemson, U.S.C., and State.

Seven Journey To Chapel Hill

Seven of the boys will compete in the Southern Conference meet next week at Chapel Hill. Lennox Turnbull and Jim
Vann will hurl the discus. Whit Cobb will run the dashes and broad jump while Bob Lacy will high jump.
Gray will be entered in his specialty, the two-mile run, Harry Temple will go in the half-mile, and Ed Hopper
rounds out the group with the hurdles. This group will form a nucleus for next year’s team as all will
return except Turnbull.

Summary:
100 yard dash: Rowe (M), Montgomery (D), McGehee (D). Time 10.3.
220 yard dash: Rowe (M), Cobb (D), Montgomery (D). Time 23.6.
440 yard dash: Willoughby (M), Willingham (D). Time 53.9.
880 yard run: Temple (D), Willoughby (M), Kenasaul (M). Time 2:04.8.
Mile run: Gray (D), Koop (D), Iverson (D). Time 4:39.4.
Two mile run: Gray (D), Anderson (D), McKeithen (D). Time 10:47.
High hurdles: Hopper (D), Peters (D), McArthur (M). Time 16.0.
Low hurdles: Hopper (D), Peters (D), Holston (M). Time 26.6.
High jump: Rowe (M), Lacy (D), tie for third between Iverson (D) and Holston (M). Height 6 ft. 5 1/2
inches.
Broad jump: Rowe (M), Cobb (D), McArthur (M). Distance 21 ft.
Pole vault: Tie for first between Brown (D) and O’Hair (D), tie for third place between Greer (M) and Brewster
(M). Height 10 ft. 6 in.
Shot put: Eborn (D), Dismuke (M), Biggers (M). Distance 40 ft. 9 in.
Discus: Turnbull (D), Dismuke (M), Vann (D). Distance 135 ft. 7 in.
Javelin: Rowe (M), Hardin (D), Brownson (D). Distance 189 ft. 1 1/2 ins.
Relay: Won by Davidson team.

Coaches Award Letters Monday

Letters for six varsity teams will be awarded Monday in the ceremony with the initial award of the Tommy Peters
trophy. This is the initial announcement for track, baseball, and tennis, but the others had been previously made public. Recipients
are as follows:

Basketball: Ed White, George Peters, Mal Earp, Mike Williams, Pat Williams, Jake Ashmore, Whit Cobb, George Cheek, Bob Berry, and
Managers Bob Smoak and John Love.
Wrestling: Jim Jung, Carlyle Moore, Rufus Long, Mat Price, Dick Easley, Bill Alexander, Clyde Stroupe, Dick O’Hair, Phil Cox, and
Manager John Adams.
Rifle: Pete Brown, Charles Coffey, Flynn Long, Charles Maxwell, Samuel McDaniel, Alexander Rankin, P. P. Deaton.
Baseball: Hal Mapes, Earl Bothea, Junie Guy, John Ellis, Jake Wade, Charlie Pearson, Bert Anderson, Carl Sheppard, Jack Burris, Bill
Bowman, Doug Rice, Mal Earp, Dick Blanks, Norman Whiteheart, Charlton Torrence, Jim Hunter, Dick Richards, and Managers Quentin Cooper and
Dave Richards.
Tennis: Bo Roddey, Buck Archer, Ted Keesler, Lenoir Keesler, Glenn Turpin, Mike Williams, Don Hatch, Whit Cobb, and Manager Clyde
Stroup.
Track: Bob Berry, Castle Koop, Gene Bingham, Bill Lacy, Bob Lacy, Ed Hopper, Dick Port, Harry Temple, Fred McAlister, Jack
Gray, Murdock McKeithen, Pete Brown, George Peters, Carl Eborn, Jim Vann, Bill Iverson, Lennox Turnbull, Bill Montgomery, Bill Brownson, Whit
Cobb, Dave Anderson, Lee Willingham, Tim Hardin, and Manager Middie Raynal.

R.O.T.C. CAMP

All first and second-year students in advanced R.O.T.C. will attend a summer camp at Fort Benning, Georgia. The summer camp
will convene on the twenty-first of June and will last until the second of August. Also attending the camp will
be Colonel Grace, Major Acher, Capt. Kennedy, and Sergeants Bowles and Zerby. The R.O.T.C. students attending will receive both theoretical
and practical training in all military subjects. The camp this summer will be the first camp since 1942.

Phi Mu Gives Exhibit

On May 14th, 15th, and 16th, Phi Mu Alpha sponsored an art exhibit as the last of the fraternity’s projects
for this year. This exhibit has been made possible through the cooperation of the Mint Museum of Art of Charlotte,
N.C., and its director Mr. Hutchison, who has made the Museum’s loan exhibit available. In addition to the loan exhibit,
additional works by local townspeople will be featured, bringing the total number of painters to approximately twenty. This project was
handled for Phi Mu Alpha by an exhibit committee of which B. L. Watkins, Jr., was chairman. The committee endeavored
to have paintings which represented various styles and schools of art in the exhibit, which were undertaken to stimulate interest
in the Fine Arts on the campus.

New Officers

New officers for the coming year were elected at the last meeting.

AMBULANCE SERVICE
Telephone 284
Equipped For Service Any Distance Any Time
Bunch Funeral Home
Mooresville, N.C.

Symphonists Give Concerts
By Kent Christopher

Davidson’s symphonic band presented a concert at Converse College as guest participants in this year’s May Day festivities there last
Saturday, May 3rd. Members of the band left Davidson by special bus Saturday morning, lunching in Charlotte en route. At
3:45 p.m. they presented an extensive musical program followed by the May court pageant presented by the Converse students for
which the band provided the processional and recessional. Shortly after having left the locality of the lovelies, the bus carrying
the Davidson swains collided smack into an automobile.

'CAT CINDERMEN — 1947 EDITION

Shown above are the members of the 1947 Wildcat cindermen. First row—Rhodes, Hardin, Montgomery, Brown, Murray, Sifford, Anderson, Sifford, Matthews,
Bingham, Port, Gray. Second row—Rhodes, Hardin, Montgomery, Brown, Murray, Sifford, Anderson, Sifford, Matthews, Bingham, Port, Gray. Third row—Rhodes, Hardin, Montgomery,
Brown, Murray, Sifford, Anderson, Sifford, Matthews, Bingham, Port, Gray. Fourth row—Rhodes, Hardin, Montgomery, Brown, Murray, Sifford, Anderson, Sifford, Matthews, Bingham,
Port, Gray.

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE—MAY, 1947

Wednesday
A.M. First hour classes of Monday, Wednesday, Friday
May 21
P.M. Second hour classes of Monday, Wednesday, Friday

Thursday
A.M. First hour classes of Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
May 22
P.M. R.O.T.C. 12, 22, 32, 42

Friday
A.M. Second hour classes of Monday, Wednesday, Friday
May 23
P.M.

Saturday
A.M. Second hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
May 24
P.M. Sixth hour classes of Monday, Wednesday, Friday

Monday
A.M. Third hour classes of Monday, Wednesday, Friday
May 26
P.M.

Tuesday
A.M. Third hour classes of Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
May 27
P.M.Wednesday A.M. Fourth hr. classes of Monday, Wednesday, Friday May 28 P.M. Seventh hr. classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday Thursday A.M.
Fourth hr. classes of Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday May 29 P.M. Friday A.M. Fifth hr. classes of Monday, Wednesday, Friday May
30 P.M. Classes of the semester end at 12:50 P.M., May 20. Morning Examinations begin at 9 A.M. Afternoon Examinations
begin at 2 P.M.

Belk’s Department Store Mooresville, N. C. CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN — See Us Kale-Lawing Co. Stationers Office Outfitters Printers
PHONE 6185 227-229 South Tryon Street Charlotte, N. C.

Carrying a group of possibly slightly inebriated local peasants. From 1:15 a.m. when the accident happened until 3:30 a.m. the
band members cleared debris and played traffic cop in their tuxedos. The bus itself suffered only slight damage and was
able to make it back to the campus by 6:30 Sunday of Phi Mu Alpha as follows: J. T. Fesperman,
President; B. L. Watkins, Vice President; Buford Goodman, Secretary Treasurer; Homer Hayworth, Warden; Richard R. Historian and Alumni Secretary.

Franchised Dealer —FOR— Victor Radios Bendix Radios Stewart-Warner Radios Hot Plates, Tennis Shoes Desk and Bed Lamps Etc., Etc. (COPELAND'S)
Davidson Electric Appliance Co.

The Davidsonian “The Liveliest College Paper On The Hill” Only $1.50 Per Year.

Faul & Crymes, Inc. Sporting Goods 415 S. Tryon Street Charlotte, N. C.

Withers Electric Co. Radio Repairs Electrical Supplies Light Bulbs Davidson, N. C.

Ideal track squad—left to right, first row—Koop, Simpson; second row—McKeithan, McAlister, Temple, Rensen; third row—Coach Whittle, Manager Kay, Hopper, O’Hair,
Richards, Coach Money, Vann, Shaw, Perrin, Christopher, McConnell, Her. Among those absent are Peters and Bob Lacy.

Six Students Give Recital Six Davidson students presented a joint recital in Chambers auditorium at 4:30 p.m. last Wednesday, May
7th, under the sponsorship of the music department. Giving renditions were Charles Auten, Charles Morris, Paul Jenkins, Robert Cline, O.
G. Allen, and John Ramsaur. On Sunday, May 11, the second in the series was presented by Bill Richard, Buford
Goodman, William Sutherland, Bryan Blackwell, Bob Campbell, and Phil Watts. The Music Department presented its final student recital on May
14th, when Joe Flora, J. T. Fesperman, Bob Willard, Bill Plonk, Martin Caldwell, Bob Freeman, and Joe Fraser presented their
repertoires.

FINAL GAMES (Continued from Page 4) The pitching was poor but should improve by next April when another season starts.
Let’s let that old cry we have heard so much apply to the baseball team “We'll get ‘em next year!”

WHITE DRUG COMPANY FOR MOTHER'S DAY: Complete Line Of Candies Stationery Toilet Articles C. S. Goodrum TELEPHONE 2111 Davidson, N.
C.

After-dinner Dancing Music of Supper Club By George Ennett There are those who will argue with considerable justification that radio
shows should never have been permitted to be broken down into fifteen-minute packages. The best argument I know in favor
of the fifteen-minute show is the Chesterfield Supper Club, a smooth and relaxing fifteen minutes which goes down at the
shank of the day as easily as a martini. If you haven't already discovered it, you ought to (N.B.C, at
10 p.m. E.S.T Mondays through Fridays). Perry Como and Jo Stafford, as high priced and popular a team of singers
as can be assembled anywhere, the first from New York, the second from Hollywood, on alternate nights. To take them
up, not necessarily in the order of their importance, Miss Stafford is an engaging young lady who sings with restrained
passion in a voice that always seems as if it's about to break but never quite does. That's not an
indictment she’s just using a technique which is enjoying quite a vogue right now. Her phrasing is faultless, and she
has the prettiest sense of rhythm I know. Frankly, I prefer her on the fast ones like “The Coffee Song”
to the slow ones like “April Showers.” Incidentally, you'll find a lot of songs about the age of “April Showers”
on this show and sometimes they go way back to “When You Were Sixteen.”

As for Mr. Como, my spies tell me he is now the most sought after song-plugger in the business. For
the benefit of those who didn't fret around much, that means a song he introduces on the air is off
to a very good start in life. Mr. Como belongs to the casual, or Crosby school, of baritone rather than
the suffering, or Sinatra, branch of the family. His voice, and this is just one man’s opinion, isn’t as full
or rich as Bing Crosby’s though it sounds a lot like it. He’s also a great technician with a microphone,
if that means anything to anyone. Because of the split personality of this show, the entire cast is different with
each singer. Mr. Como is assisted by Lloyd Shaffer’s band and an outfit called the Satisfiers (I guess it’s a
quartet), and Miss Stafford by Paul Weston’s orchestra and something called the Starlighters (maybe they’re a quartet, too, I wouldn’t
know). Usually the quartet and band have a number apiece, and the stars handle the rest of it.

Mr. Como and Miss Stafford are great fans of the casual or informal song introduction, and as an assiduous collector
of song introductions I'd like to put a few of them on the record. “It seems to me that we've
been neglecting Mr. Shaffer,” says Mr. Como. “Have you a song for us Lloyd?” “I have a song that shines,
glimmers, dazzles and bewilders.” “Yes, but how does it sound?” Well it sounded pretty good. A duet was once introduced
as follows: “You both know the rules- now come out swinging.” And “The Coffee Song” was presented with the words:
“Leave us serve up a demi-tasse.”

For a fifteen-minute show there is just a soupçon too much advertising on the Supper Club but, as cigarette advertising
goes, it’s very pleasant. Chesterfields, in case you didn't know, are not the ones that are smoked by tobacco auctioneers
or lady deep sea fishermen; they're the ones smoked by movie stars. Everyone straight on that now?

EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP Whatever Your Needs SUITS HATS SHIRTS PAJAMAS SOCKS TIES SHOES SHOP CHARLOTTE, N.C. STREET FLOOR

“The Friendly Store in a Friendly City” with Superb Motor Bus Service QUEEN CITY TRAILWAYS Charlotte, N. C. 417 West
Fifth Street Serving DAVIDSON COLLEGE MECKLENBURG COUNTY, and 44 other North Carolina Counties
