Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN February 7, 1947

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

PUBLISHED WEEKLY, THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

ED SUTTON .......... EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOB SMOAK .......... BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editor .......... UGS OID
Feature Editor .......... Bob Rierson
Managing Editor .......... Clayton Scofield
Managing Editor .......... Walter Walker
Managing Editor .......... Ralph Alexander
Managing Editor .......... Bob Philips
Sports Editor .......... Dave Richardson
Managing Editor .......... Jim Pitman

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager .......... Bob Gambrell
Advertising Manager .......... Frank Lemmon
Circulation Manager .......... John McNair
Circulation Manager .......... Bob Cline
Collection Manager .......... Charles Dockery
Circulation Manager .......... Bill Baxter

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such it welcomes any contributions or communication to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hands by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

1946 Member 1947
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

As I was thinking over past editorials suddenly I became aware that most had given the entirety of their length toward seeking improvements, and thus decided that this time it would be fitting to praise the results of our efforts.

Student Store
Due to requests voiced by the Davidsonian, it was moved back to its original position behind Georgia and extended. Cleanliness was stressed and a truthful endeavor gave the students what they wanted. The question of higher prices arose and by publishing letters to the Editor, the management sought to reveal their economic stress together with their basis of operation.

The Wildcat Spirit
... has shown a remarkable climb since the first of the year and for this we wish to congratulate the cheerleaders and encourage the student body on until the time when it might again be said “You may beat Davidson, but you won’t out-cheer them.”

Walks Were Needed
and the College answers our request by making the school grounds a better place to walk on.

Friendliness was Emphasized
and the students responded feeling the need of that warm old Davidson tradition of speaking on the campus.

And then I thought of our motto—“Alenda lux ubi orta libertas”—lit. ‘Where there is light... ... THE LIGHTS HAD GONE OUT! Now I am not a very stable person and this changed my entire viewpoint. Why must the lights go out? Anyone who stays in the vicinity of Davidson long realizes that there is little variation in the ‘in- She Editorials.

DAVIDSONIAN Mothers...
Syere Cfeatures clemency—just rain. But that night—the moon was out, quite bright, but not sufficient to read by, which made it very hard for those with last minute studies. This has occurred all too frequently in the past and I see no reason why a remedy could not be sought. First of all, not only does it place a handicap upon all in the dormitory but presents a serious menace on the stairs which in several dormitories are not even lighted by windows. I do not wish to place undue emphasis upon this menace, however since most of the damage done is that to the ear-drum resulting from boisterous sounds ending in ‘Turn on the... lights.’ Although this is quite successful in breaking the monotony of a sultry night, I’m sure that none of us feel any the better for it. My purpose is not to over-rate this annoyance to the point that it becomes amusing, but to merely point out that this is one of the little things that might be bettered with little effort by proper authorities, thereby making our life on the campus more enjoyable. And that should be a main consideration!

Speaking of considerations, I feel it only fair to illustrate a gross injustice done to numerous students during registration. Although Mr. A had an exam on Friday afternoon, he heeded the rules of the administration and went to register Friday morning. After two hours of assuming numerous positions of standing and sitting in the hall—which was not designed to follow the curve of the spine—he was shocked to find the door closing while he was far behind. Thus rather sore for this experience, he went to his exam. Saturday afternoon he again appeared on the scene, but after several hours he again saw the door close. Monday morning he got in and paid a fee for being late. This happened not to one but a great number of students. Now I’m not finding fault with the Registrar’s office nor the few loyal ones who help, but I do see room for improvement in the system. Not only does this long wait and fee become a major annoyance but when the former occurs during exams, it becomes serious. I have been told before that an objection against the system carries more weight if an improvement is suggested. The College could employ more people to help the Registrar, who was too heavily loaded during the last registration, and thus make it easier as well as being sure that the courses are planned according to expected date of graduation. Many students were forced to go back several times because of conflicts and too few hours. Another great help would be a means of making an appointment and thereby eliminate unnecessary waiting. To be frank, the present situation was a pain in the neck and it is the hope of the student body that such will never again exist.
—Walter Walker.

Breezin’ With Bob
BY BOB RIERSON

Just to keep up appearances, this column would like to get serious for one issue and echo an item that was included on last week’s Davidsonian editorial page. This editorial was a discussion of the relative merits of the quarter and semester systems of the college year and came to the appropriate conclusion that the old semester system, to which Davidson still clings, is outmoded and not in keeping with the forward-looking policy normally followed by this school. This corner would now like to add a hearty, though possibly ineffective, second to the opinions expressed.

To be sure, there are good points on both sides of the question, as there are in any debate, but the quarter system, already adopted by most of the outstanding educational institutions in this country, seems to have a substantial majority on its side. I believe everyone will agree that the bright prospects of Christmas and spring holidays are considerably dimmed by the knowledge that, on return, the poor Davidson student has the horror of the ages, examinations, awaiting him. The fall quarter ends right before Christmas, and all themes, term papers, parallel reports, etc., are in and forgotten, and the student can greet his long Yuletide fiesta with was system, clings, not keeping policy with normally by over before spring holidays begin, once again ridding the student of any thought of work to be done.

The quarter system is arranged so that classes are met five days a week and no classes on Saturday! (Shades of a long weekend!) This might raise some objection because certain classes might be too hard to have to prepare for every day. Then too the factor of boredom might enter in. These objections, however, may be countered by stating that there are just as many courses where five days a week would be most beneficial because much more can be learned by having a course every day, as many of us who have attended such classes in other colleges can testify. Then too the assignments need not be quite so long when a class meets every day.

Another point in favor of the quarter system is that three quarters comprise the school year, thus allowing for examinations to come more frequently and eliminating to a great degree the amount of work that has to be covered in reviewing for exams. Three months’ work is a lot less than that of four months. Also under the quarter system a student who wishes may go right on through the summer in a regular quarter, which does away with huge summer assignments and feverish preparations, not to mention slipshod coverage of material.

In the light of all this discussion, the Davidsonian feels that a poll of student opinion on the subject would be most opportune. It would be most interesting, I am sure, to all to know just how the students look at this matter which has been rehashed so much in educational circles. We are asking you to give your ideas to us. Get the dope to us in any way that it suits you. Just tell either Sutton or myself what you think if you are so unfortunate to have made our acquaintance. Or stick a piece of paper with either “quarter” or “semester” on it, with comments, if any, under the door of Georgia 6 anytime within the next two weeks. If you're really interested, drop a postcard with notes on it in the mail addressed to Box 492. Send us your ideas. It might do some good, you never can tell.So we as it, or Cinema Comments By Doug Swink

Monday and Tuesday February 10-11 “Gallant Bess”
Wednesday and Thursday February 12-13 “Cross My Heart”
Friday and Saturday February 14-15 “Mighty McQuirk”

The only information that could be found on the whole of the Davidson campus concerning the above motion pictures was the fact that Wallace Beery is starred in “The Mighty McQuirk,” and “Gallant Bess” is a very colorful story of a horse. So just put your 32 cents “on the nose” and be thankful for a “show.”

The Operating Table

Leading the list for this week’s table are those members of our noble clan who line themselves before the wailing wall as the usual number of flush notices come pouring in for the Mid-Winters set. Without a doubt, top honors go to “FOOTS” CURRIE, who not only got the word but received the engagement announcement at the same time. It is rumored that Currie has been seeking advice from “THE GREEK” on how to handle such a situation. Not to be left completely out of the picture is the notorious “FIREPLUG” FAIRLY. Not once but twice have the fateful telegrams been delivered to our comrade in the cause. Undaunted, however, Fairly has reached into the depths of the little black book and has brought forth a third.

Interesting operation of the week was pulled by “SOCIAL SAM” TATE and Phi Delt companions. After many harrowing adventures in the Queen City in quest of suitable companions, the quartet ended the journey with a group of nurses from the Memorial Hospital Area. Details are being more closely guarded than the Phi Delt ritual.

Colorful Campus Scenes

Sign on door of 9 Georgia, abode of the fabulous “FEARLESS HUGH” HILL, “What makes a chipmunk so spry in the morning?” or words to that effect... “Bone” Jefferies wondering aimlessly about with mutterings about engagement rings, U.N.C., and Cadillac convertibles... TOMMY “RACE HAWKS” POWELL, the only Texan we ever knew who refrained from talking about the lone star state... ye ALY NEA0D) RICHARD” O’HAIR on a diet and getting flushed too... HARRY COX giving a lengthy discourse on a date with a U.N.C. cyclops. TRADER ARCHER need we say more... DICKIE BLANKS AND CARL CHURCHILL, seen in Charlotte toting two mysterious urns filled with tea... SAM MALONEY, TORCHY TURNBULL, GENTLEMAN JIM JACKSON, NASTY ENNETT, TOMMY BUMBARGER, NEEDLE NOSE WILLIAMS, MURDOCK MCKEITHEN, JOHN WALKER, LESTER PORT, PENGUIN CARROW, BOBS CROWELL, EMILE CAILLET, JOHN HEATH, SLICK EVANS, STERILE HARRIL, AND PETE SINCLAIR have guarded their nefarious deeds with such great proficiency that this column (Continued on Page 4)

McChesney

GEORGE

Delta Kappa

Elm Row has been the scene of frenzied activity these last few days with pledges preparing their dates for the mid-winters weekend. Additional dance plans call for a Saturday night banquet at the Chez Montet in Charlotte. Lack of stags has been lamented, and members are taking action to lift the newly created house lounge hour for open face in for but announcement of reductions in ticket prices brings shouts of glee from the usual plottings are underway with particular attention being paid to pictures of lovelies soon to be in our midst. Brother Richard keeps the air mails flying to Lynchburg without success to date in obtaining a photograph, while president man has been holding display of a certain received likeness. The local gestapo is still making routine checks on Williams in an effort to keep the weekly pilgrimages to the Queen City on the very highest plain. Vichy Soie Gribbin recently captained a spree in Charlotte... when last seen he was noticed madly washing down the up escalator at Ivey’s chanting “Duncan Phyfe, Pleeze.” Slave driver Dietrick is currently sharpening his pitchfork in an effort to arouse his torture complex, now long since dead as a relic of Navy days. Meanwhile, there is weeping and gnashing of teeth as the flush period approaches.

Beta Theta Pi

Beta is proud to announce the pledging of four new men as a result of the recent rushing season: John Folger, George Adams, Marvin Holt, and Dave Anderson. Foreseeing a gala time for all, Phi Alpha welcomes with open arms the Beta dates for this weekend’s festivities. In addition to the dances, plans include a breakfast at the chapter house and a formal banquet at the Ship Ahoy’s dining room tonight. The Arkansas triangle will be complete with the arrival of Beverley Skull (Lynchburg’s lissome lass) on the campus today. Prediction: Yokum “Shep” will remain friends. Reversing the time-honored custom, Beta boys passed out “flushes” for this dance set. Hazarding a “black-ball,” “Ernie” Scruggs is dating a feminine charmer out of “Alec's” past. Is that Marion “dream girl” up for the dances, Slug?

Kappa Sigma

Delta chapter of Kappa Sigma is happy to announce the pledging last week of Sam MacAlphine of Hartsville, S.C., Charlton Torrence, and Charlie Pearson, both of Gastonia. Breaking into the limelight was “All-Phase” Taylor who, undaunted by one W.C. flush, journeyed to Greensboro in the company of Long Jawn Belk, erstwhile dealer of the pre-war years. The “crooked nosed one” reported a fine weekend squiring youthful Corinne and friend. Brother Coffey innocently accepted the invitation of debauchers Acey Current and “The Leaper” Lawson, and journeyed home with the scheming pair to Gastonia. Ike was reticent about his weekend date, but he is threatening to publicly denounce the mill tycoons who work their female employees so hard on the third shift.

Phi Gamma Delta

Brother Bill Campbell was observed all week abstaining from water in anticipation of adding another hump at the weekend frolic. Said Campbell, “I expect to enter stage two by Saturday. This girl is the finest thing I’ve seen since last April Fools.” Among other dazzling beauties enticed to the campus are Betty Messenger with Dave Richardson, Betty Jo Batten with Jim French, Lomie Lou Mills with Tom Clark, Frances McKay with Bob Crowell, Louise Smythe with Bill Ross, Bernadine K. Roy with Dick O'Hair, Lillian Horsley with George Patrick, Admira Kay Nockas with Tom Snodgrass, Dottie Blaney with Amos Ragan, Emma Holleman with Leighton McKeithan, Harris with Bill Harris, Sarah Pharr with Perry Hardwell, Ann Frank with Strait, Ann Doty with Bunny Perrin, Jean Coggins with Giles Crowell, Margaret Hoey with Newt Pursley, and Liela Newton with Ed Hoey. Especially to be closely watched after the dances are Leighton McKeithan, Bill “Flee to the Casbahhhh” Campbell, Bob “I didn’t get elected sponsor for nothing” Crowell, Sam “She didn’t come all this way for nothing” Maloney, John “She didn’t come all this way for nothing” Richards, and Bunny “She didn’t come all this way for mutton” Perrin.

Kappa Alpha

Sigma chapter wishes to welcome to the campus all the brothers and pledges who are here for the Mid-Winters dances. All signs point towards a joyful weekend for the Davidson student body. With complete faith in Brother Mac Jefferies and the Pan-Hellenic Council, we want to thank the men who have collected the important but unrecognized work which is necessary for a successful set of dances. You can tell that something is in the air by a casual glance at the knights. Buddy Whitesides was actually seen handing out nine desserts to a nine-man table. Paul Richardson and Wilks McCauly have acquired “lids” which should look sharp with their dates of its color scheme. Even the Bachman-Dunn pair has promised to refrain from next weekend.

Phi Delta Theta

Pointing the attack of the Phi Delt deal machine this week is the big blue piloted by dashing Brother Samuel McDowell Tate of Morganton, N.C. Aiding Brother Tate on two gigantic escapades were Brothers McLean, Newell, Oglesby, and Turnipseed. Brothers Adams and Sheppard were seen in the vicinity of High Point and report that all was well in hand in that locality. Brother Johnson was off to Chapel Hill where it is reported he escorted a flaming redhead to the basketball game, gaining admission to the contest while masquerading as a professor of that institution. Brother Cameron beat the well-known path to Greensboro and states that all is well on the collegiate front. Brothers Spangler and Sutton remained on campus with the volumes but managed to pull the breathtaking operation at the Davidson late show on Saturday night. Brothers Iverson and Cobb were with the victorious wildcat quintet as they made a clean sweep on their road trip to Charleston and Columbia.

Pi Kappa Phi

We are glad to welcome into the fraternity the following brothers: Donald Sasser, Claude Higgenbotham, “Chris” Walker, John P. Walker, Robert Bumbarger, Dick Turnage, John McGill, Hunter Boykin, Bill Houck, Berwyn Rush, Harry Temple, and John Helton. We are also glad to welcome B.A. Fisher back. “Popgun” Read spent a miserable weekend on the campus. “Soak-head” Hunter is still spending an extended weekend away from school. Carlos Reid moved Lucy from Mooresville to Queens. For this reason, he won't be able to see her so frequently. Brother Robert Morse, traveling counselor for Pi Kappa Phi, visited with the chapter during the week. Brother “Fuzz” Cox spent the weekend in Chapel Hill with Jean. Brother Robertson spent the weekend at home.

(Continued on Page 4)