Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, March 14, 1947

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

Editorials
DAVIDSONIAN Letters & Features

JIM LOVE - Editor
BOB SMOAK - BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bob Phillips - Associate Editor
Bob Rierson - Feature Editor
Sam Ervin - Sports Editor
Charlie Cunningham - Assistant Sports Editor
Dave Richardson - Assistant Editor
Kent Christopher - Managing Editor
Walter Walker - Managing Editor
Ronay Dietrick - Managing Editor
Lamar Williamson - Managing Editor
George Worth - Managing Editor
John Stuart - Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Bob Gambrell - Assistant Business Manager
Frank Lemmon - Advertising Manager
John McNair - Circulation Manager
Bill Baxter - Circulation Manager
Charles Dockery - Collection Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave
New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1946 Member 1947
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such
it welcomes any contributions or communication to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity,
obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday night of the week that it
is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

We Have Failed - Can You Carry On?

With the beginning of Spring Election next week we come suddenly to the realization of how little time is left
in the school year, and how much less time there is before the heads of the campus organizations and student
body officers will be turning over their positions to their successors from the present junior class. It seems fitting at
this time, therefore, that we review the work and accomplishments of the retiring seniors.

The present senior class, made up almost entirely of ex-G.I.’s, has a higher percentage of veterans than any other class.
However, the significant fact is not so much that this class is composed almost wholly of veterans for the other
classes have many to be sure — but that these were the ones who had been at Davidson before the
war, who knew the old Davidson, its spirit, its traditions, its customs.

While We Were Gone

No one will deny that these important elements of the Davidson life were definitely weak, if not entirely lacking, in
the wartime Davidson with its student body reaching a low of 150. For this no one is to blame. The
regular student body was replaced almost entirely and in a very short time by students who did not have the
opportunity to know the Davidson Spirit and tradition in the only way it can be known — from the older
students who have in turn learned from students before them. These students, having been at Davidson, in many cases, for
hardly a year, were placed in positions of leadership with none of this background. It could have been no other
way.

Now That We’re Back

But with the return of these men who were supposed to have and to know these traditions and spirit, many
began to hope that they would bring them back with them to make the better Davidson that used to be.
And there is no reason, such being possible, why they should not bring them back to Davidson, for there is
hardly an organization on the campus which is not headed by a veteran, a veteran who was here before the
war. No one will deny that these important elements of the Davidson life are definitely weak, if not entirely lacking,
in the post-war Davidson. Why has the senior class failed? Why have these men not been able, assuming they have
tried, to recapture the Davidson spirit which has marked Davidson men wherever they have gone and which, there is no
little evidence, will not long be associated with Davidson if present trends persist.

No doubt part of the answer lies in the fact that, as Dr. Chalmers Davidson so ably pointed out, the
student body is too large, and students have not had the opportunity to know each other as in a normal
year. These important factors are necessary for even the best efforts of the best leadership. Also, much of the enthusiasm
which has inspired past leaders was left on the battlefields — many things once important in extra-curricular activities now seem
trivial. Others find that family responsibilities must necessarily become of first importance, while others feel that they are becoming too
old and must concentrate all of their efforts on graduating at the earliest possible time.

After We've Left

But this is not an attempt to excuse our class for a job poorly done. What concerns us now is
not why have we failed, but what will be the means of recovering the Davidson spirit with the rapid disappearance
of those in whom hope for recovery has been placed. We, in this office, are not among those so naive
as to believe that such things will come about automatically with the return (and we hope it will return) of
the student body to pre-war size, or even with the disappearance of the veterans. Such could never be the case
by the very nature of spirit, almost by definition.

But perhaps we have painted the picture too darkly. Perhaps we can claim for our class not total failure, only
partial failure. For there are some who, though never having known the true Davidson firsthand, realize that this is not
such a Davidson and are concerned that we should regain it. The picture will also be lightened when we consider
that there still remain in the underclasses some who were here before the war. Such men as these we hope
will be elected to lead the student body for the coming year. And to such men, whether in positions of
leadership or not, we extend the challenge to regain the true Davidson. We have failed — Can you carry on?

Letters To The Editor....

Dear Editor:

In consideration of Doug Swink’s letter to the editor in the Davidsonian February 28, may I say that as regards
his reasons for the continuation of “Scripts ’n Pranks” I agree wholeheartedly with all of them except the fifth, which
he “hesitated in putting forth.” Its application to the question is ambiguous. Interpreting it to mean that some articles in
the magazine will be printed evidence of the “stored up exuberance” in men between 19 and 25 years of age,
which “will quite often be on the borderline and may at times step over that undefined fence between the conventional
and the unconventional,” I offer objection. I was not proud and eager to show off the first copy of the
magazine as an example of Davidson's best attempts at literary creation or as “invaluable advertisement” for our college. Certainly the
magazine presents a fine opportunity as a proving ground for student writers, but let it also be a publication of
good, clean humor and worthy serious literature of which every Davidsonian may be proud.

Sincerely yours,
JOHN MILLER, BETA THETA PI

Queens seems to have been the main grounds for week-end operations by the sons of the dragon. Seen going into
the auditorium to see Pirates of Penzance Saturday night was brother Frank Rawley, without date. Seen coming out of the
same place two hours later was Frank Rawley, with date. He saves more money that way! Numerous other “wheels” were
there, but none were as successful as “the chief.”

Biggest deal of the week — the trip to Washington by brothers which didn’t come off quite right. Scruggs, Ellington,
and Upchurch The “Duke” made it up there, but Scruggs and Upchurch got bogged down in Virginia. They claim the
snow prevented further progress, but it may have been that they were progressing too well in Virginia.

Brother Scarborough, Jr., has requested that this column print no more of his various nefarious deeds, so we won't tell
about his trip to Winthrop this weekend, or the proposed trip to Lynchburg the next.

PI KAPPA PHI

Pi Kappa Phi is glad to welcome into their midst new pledge, Stuart Yandle of Charlotte, N.C. Reviews evidently didn’t
scare the Pi Kapp dealers during this week as Brothers Cline, Edwards, and Cox toured to Statesville to help celebrate
a wedding anniversary. Brothers Schenck, Thad and Jack Barringer, and Ned Everett toured to Queens Friday night for dates. Brothers
Lander, Rush, and Houck had bad luck as far as the date situation went that night. Which one is bad
luck?

With reviews over till Monday the boys packed up and took off for various select places. Fitz to see “Tootie”,
Bill Robertson to see Billy Rose, Thad and Jack Barringer to Florence, and Warren Higgenbothan home. Brother Evans journeyed to
Randolph Macon to keep a blind date. Brothers Dobson, Cox, Edwards and Sasser escorted their ladies around Charlotte Saturday night.
Brother Lander spent his time at Queens dating and gathering scandal. Best scene of the week goes to: Charlie Reid,
who spent Sat. night moaning at an unmentionable place for Lucy. Brother Herb Johnson minding Prof. Will’s baby and getting
an A at the same time. Let’s watch that nose Herb.

S. P. E.

Brother Winchester journeyed northward with the expressed purpose of attending the basketball tournament, but on his off time he attempted
to knit the outlying chapters of the fraternity into the close friendship for which they are noted. Fearless Fred Abernathy
loaded up on courage and ventured out into the cold night common to the female institution in a neighboring hamlet
last Friday night. We follow his progress with fearful anticipation. The Wart, on the bounce, is looking for a good
detective to find an old flame in the Queen City. May we suggest the fire department?

Since the mountains cannot come to Lacy, Lacy might go to the mountains. Good idea, mebbe!

Heard a little joke over the weekend: Sarah went for a ride in Harry’s car, what went on she ain’t
admittin’.but what she’s knittin’ ain’t for Britain. Scruggs, in his weekly trip to Winthrop, had quite a bit of trouble
with the local authorities. Seems she thought they should be spending more money for electricity.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
Celebrating the near end of the review period seemed to prompt Pi Kappa Alpha’s members to go hog wild. Brother
Dickson, using his birthday as an excuse, journeyed to the hills, and from all reports got several gifts, the nature
of which he refused to disclose. Brother Stroup (Bob) headed south again—Cowpens, that is. Greensboro was graced by the presence
of two of Pika’s better-known wheels, Brothers Shelton and Clark, while Brothers Lee and Gallant chose Charlotte for their amusement.
Rapid Robert Smoak and Double Dip McNair went skiing in the mountains but Brother Rogers picked the climate of Kannapolis
for the weekend. Brother Reese also went home, as did Brother Mills. Reports of these escapades have not yet reached
the campus, and the culprits declined to elaborate. Dockery journeyed to Statesville, and from all reports is now seeing dots
before his eyes. On campus were: Turner, Gibbs, Hart, and Anderson. (I hope.)

KAPPA ALPHA
The gay Knights of Sigma Chapter have a big, red circle around March 22 for that is the date of
the Spring function. Plans are shaping up for one of the biggest affairs in the social year. Festivities will begin
in the early evening with a buffet-banquet and then the dealers will shift the scene of action to the dance
floor. All this will take place at the Morris Field Officers’ Club with music by Billy Knauf and orchestra. Although
the Wildcats didn’t get a well-deserved bid to the conference tournament, several brothers were on hand for the important event.
“Sports” Ervin, Paul Richardson, and Bill Byrd journeyed up Thursday and were joined by Chuck Cunningham on Friday. Another Knight
was seen at Durham but displayed no interest in the basketball frolics—hmmm. Brother Bud Towle and Pledge Skeets Howard pulled
up their landing gear Saturday a.m. with Washington (N.C.) their destination. Operating from a sleek Packard Clipper, Brother Glenn braved
the weekend weather to go sailing, but had to settle with simple fishing—what a time. Our newest pledge is Jack
Hazard who hails from down in Jacksonville, Fla.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
Happy birthday to us!! Sunday, March 9, S.A.E. was 91 years old! A special appearance of Haley’s Comet (pulling an
S.A.E. pennant) was on order, but due to the overcast it was not visible. Sparks flew elsewhere, however. That streak
you saw wasn’t the comet but meteorite Hockey Lee, giving the P-82’s a hard run to Durham in his faithful
Torpedo. Says he saw a basketball game. The steins tinkle for Brother Meatball Gambrell who is heading for military fame.
He is now an able-bodied corporal. Anticipating sarcasm, he has said, “Look at Gen. Eisenhower!” Of course, this does not
have a thing to do with it, but isn’t it touching? Bob Strickland needs a small chain to string across
his vest. He returned from Washington, D.C., and many important “cabinet” meetings with an honorary membership in the “Golden Key”
Club, for which he has received a badge. “Now, Jake, you and George be good!” Ashmore and Grimball were off
in a cloud to Greenville on the Saturday shipment. When they are revived we'll get the gruesome details. There is
a copy of “That Girl from Memphis” at the house. Will Dick Port please drop by and pick it up
at his earliest convenience?

PHI DELTA THETA
Colossal deal of the week was pulled by Brother Rob Palmer, who caught a plane Friday and headed south to
grace a sorority dance at the Florida State Female Seminary, Tallahassee. Brother Frank McGehee likewise took to the air and
journeyed to Jacksonville, though he has succeeded in concealing the details of his nefarious exploits from the press. Sutt the
Mullet is back from Lynchburg, intact, the gods be praised. Rhea and Big Bill were also seen in Lynchburg over
the weekend. They left mid smiles and garlands of roses. The chapter is happy to announce the pledging of Buck
Williams.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
The author’s BUSINESS trip to Richmond and an abnormal secretiveness evidenced by the brothers who fear their innocence may be
shattered in word as well as in deed resulted in absolutely no recordable actions over the past weekend. Monday night
Brother Fireplug spent the evening composing a preliminary history of the chapter, as follows:

A Gentle Knight was pricking (1) on the plain,
Y-clad in mighty arms and silver shield,
So pure and innocent he did e’er remain,
Despite the awful dens where he had dealed, (2)
That by the name Elyea he was yclept. (3)
Eftsoons a lovely lady he did spy,
And forthwith from his charger he y-lept,
To fondle gently her licentious toes (4)
And kiss her gracefully upon the eye.
There in the shade, after long wanton joys,
With pleasant dreams he soon y-slept.
Thinking how much better than to listen to boring speeches.
At length upon his beast (5) he back y-crept
And rode with ever-quickening pace,
Toward long-sought goal, a quiet drinking place,
Where, guzzling, he fell flat upon his face.

In this prone position our hero is left to fend for himself. Complete the plot and win fifty dollars and
the statement “It was unique” from Chapter President Nation Crowell.

1. Pricking, riding, using spurs.
2. Old English term meaning to live gaily.
3. No relation to the illness of the same sound.
4. Toes, considered of interest in ancient times.
5. The horse.

Cinema Comments By Doug Swink

MONDAY AND TUESDAY MARCH 17-18
“THE PERFECT MARRIAGE”
David Niven and Loretta Young, on their tenth wedding anniversary finally decide that the old spark has gone out of
their marriage. They admit they do not care for the other’s parents, and among other irritating things Loretta continues as
fashion editor. David makes a pass at another woman (Virginia Field) and Loretta is wined and dined by Eddie Albert.
However, Cookie (Norma Griffith), the child, manages to keep Mommy and Daddy together and all ends well.

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY MARCH 19-20
“ABIE’S IRISH ROSE”
Conflict begins when Rosemary Murphy’s and Abe Levy’s respective fathers fail to allow the joining of the two children in
marriage. Knowing that his father holds no special love for the Irish, Abie persuades Rosemary to keep their marriage a
secret until his father learns to love her. Human interest appeal runs high and comedy is well handled. The cast
includes Joanne Dru, Richard Norris, Michael Chekhov, and George E. Stone.

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY MARCH 21-22
“THE SHOW OFF”
Another Red Skelton movie which affords him with as much room in which to frolic about as have his past
ones. The plot concerns a city show-off who marries into an American middle-class family and is slowly overwhelmed by financial
and social obligations. A rich lively comedy itself to any Red Skelton fan. Others in the cast are Marilyn Maxwell,
Marjorie Main, Virginia O’Brien, and “Rochester” Anderson.

Brother Oglesby indulged his appetites in a wild orgy in Charlotte, and by way of contrast we point with pride
to Brothers Starnes and McGeachy, who visited quietly at O.E.’s home in Asheville. Brother Spangler was off to his old
homestead in Princeton where ‘tis reported he left things glowing.

KAPPA SIGMA
The center of attraction for newly initiated Brothers McDonald, Archibald, Roddey, Brewer, and Dowd—who incidentally have really turned out to
be the dealers—seems to be the residence of one Mildred Williams on the old Liquor Still Road. Not a weekend
has passed that these Don Juans a la big time have not been hot on the trail of femininity to
return with tales too incredible for print. The Romeos aren’t free with the details but we understand it’s share and
share alike. Meanwhile, unsuspecting Slick Harriss and Monty Monahan have discovered operations crossroads to be next door to Fretman Jones.
While No-Neck Hamner, Torch Turnbull, Pat Williams, Bob Amos, Speed Lacy, Footsie Currie, and Lover Taylor took in the basketball
tournament, Martin Waters was chaperoned by Lenoir Keesler into Queens territory as Big Brother Ted underwent an “operation” in the
nurses’ quarters of Memorial Hospital. (I love medicine!) Charles Jarrett didn’t catch up on his studies but asserts having caught
(up on) an equivalent amount at the W.C. dance. Leaving Cadaver Kennett and Clarence Wilcox at the Saturday night bridge
session lamenting a “poor distribution” and Tete Pearson in Charlotte with the saintly confectionist, we last saw Roulette Robert Phillips
desiring to flip a coin with Bishop Cushman for the cost of the dinner.
