Wildcat Sports

WILDCATS 20; FURMAN 6

Page Three

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Friday, November 28, 1947

Jamerson Pitched For Big Leagues

Cherry of the Davidson baseball team of '47 is one of the best since 19. Brien Jamerson, a former working gentleman during the football season, is one of Davidson's hardest hitters. While in college, he graduated with a degree and started playing professional baseball. He began in the Western League and moved up to the Southern League. Being a top pitcher in the Southern League, he moved on up to the Eastern League and from there went to the Boston Red Sox. He played in the major leagues for two years and left professional baseball in 1930 to become a coach. He coached in Memphis for ten years and compiled a record while there. He became the head coach at the University of Memphis in 1945.

UNBEATEN KAPPA SIGS COP INTRAMURAL FOOTBALL CROWN

The Kappa Sigs successfully defended their title twice this season. The Phi Gams were their closest challengers, but the Kappa Sigs defeated them 12 to 0. By defeating these two challengers, the Kappa Sigs came through with a perfect record of 10 wins and no losses. Behind them were the Phi Delts with 9 wins. In third place were the Independents, who tied with the Kappa Sigs and Phi Delts for the closest games of the season.

KS 24; Phi Gams 6

The game was sparked by touchdowns by both teams. It was one of the closest games of the season. The Kappa Sigs capitalized on their adversaries' mistakes and scored touchdowns. The Phi Gams' touchdown was a beautiful run by Jimmy Fren. The Kappa Sigs couldn't get rolling as play after play was foiled by the Delts. The Kappa Sigs showed their old mettle by making gains and scoring touchdowns. The game ended with the Kappa Sigs winning 24 to 6.

SAE 12; Independents 0

An up-and-coming SAE team downed the hard-fighting Independents 12 to 0. The Independents reeled off several first downs, but the SAE team held strong. The lone tally of the game was a beautiful 30-yard pass by Hick Hill, who dodged the entire defensive backfield and crossed into the end zone without being touched. This game resulted in the SAEs tying for fourth place, while the Independents ended in ninth place.

KS 12; Phi Delts 0

In the final victory of the season, the Kappa Sigs defeated the Phi Delts 12 to 0. The game was hard-fought, with the Phi Delts holding a slight edge of one first down to none. Soon after the second half began, the Kappa Sigs showed their strength by pushing across two touchdowns. Both scores were made on passes from Pearson, who began to hit his receivers late in the game. The victors capitalized on their favorite play, the "sleeper," after making gains and scoring. The first score came on a pass to Ellis, and the second on a pass to Pearson. The game ended with the Kappa Sigs winning 12 to 0.

Phi Gams Win

In one of the most thrilling games of the week, the Phi Gams downed the KAs 6 to 6 on a last-second touchdown. The KAs led the Phi Gams until the last few seconds of the game. The Phi Gams faked a pass and scored on a run by Harold into the end zone. The Phi Gams had made two first downs to the KAs' one, and the game automatically went to the Phi Gams.

Lunch Carolina Lunch

REGULAR MEALS
Breakfast 6:30-8:30
Lunch 11:30-1:30
Dinner 5:30-6:30
Depot St.—Davidson, N. C.

WILDCATS SCORE UPSET OVER CITADEL, 28-7

The Davidson Wildcats upset all predictions by crushing Citadel 28-7 in a Southern Conference fray played at Charleston, South Carolina, under very adverse conditions. As a direct result of their sparkling defeat of the V.M.I. Keydets, a team that could battle, the Wildcats were rated a slight edge by the prognosticators. The Cats, however, had a score to settle with Coach Quinn Decker and his Citadel squad for the 21-13 licking they received last season and were definitely keyed up to a fever pitch for this interstate struggle.

Throughout the entire struggle, the Cats displayed a brand of offensive and defensive play that would be hard to beat by any Southern Conference aggregation. Vicious Line Play Many of the corps of Cats carved their initials into Bulldog hides, but the greatest achievements were recorded by a duo of Tennesseans, Carl Pahl and Bert Anderson on offense, and a trio of Virginians, Carl Leborn, Buddy Chandler, and others on defense. The entire game was marked by vicious, hard-driving tackles on the part of both the Cats and Bulldogs, and on numerous occasions, tempers reached their boiling points, and fistfights were narrowly averted. The Cats, winning in all departments, could dish it out as well as take it, amassing a total of 211 yards gained via the ground. As on several other occasions, the Cats lost little time in getting started, rolling 56 yards to the Citadel two-yard line early in the initial period. Before the stiffened Bulldog line halted the Cats' initial threat, Davidson was not to be denied, however, and struck with lightning precision on four successive line smashes until the ten-yard line was reached. Then, on a reverse, Cato scored a touchdown. Automatic Buck Williams converted the extra point, and the Cats led in this all-important contest.Second quartet Hal Mapes sent a spiraling long kickoff field, where diminutive Citadel seatback gathered it in and proceeded to scamper 77 yards to the Davidson seven-yard line before the speedy Sifford Faul & Crymes, Inc. Sporting Goods 415 S. TRYON STREET CHARLOTTE, N.C., caught him from behind. Cats dominated in a match, opening with a perfect placement by Dick Spark, a Kentucky lad, tying the game. Henderson tied the game with a perfect placement, and the Cats had to start all over again with about two minutes remaining. 

First, Carl Vahl ripped through right guard to the Bulldog 2. The Memphis Coote Anderton rounded the end to the one-yard line behind crisp and accurate blocking. Dave Hoole and Carl went over for his first touchdown of the season, putting Davidson out in front. Willis converted, and the Cats led for the second time by seven points.

Cats Score Two More

In the final quarter, the Cats' relentless ground attack paid off again, and it was not long before they sewed up their sensational conquest. A quartet of plays with Anderton at the helm, the Cats drove from their own 13-yard line to the goal line. The now-beaten Bulldogs had no answer. Anderton sneaked over through right guard with the touchdown that “did it” for the inspired team. Shortly after, Anderton again spearheaded a drive which culminated in a plunge for another touchdown. Like soldiers, Anderton's receivers were springing up in the mud-caked turf of the stadium to snare his tosses for sizeable gains. The crowd looked on in amazement, and the Bulldogs looked at each other in disbelief. After three short plays, Anderton gave the ball to Cheek, who scored from one yard out. The season's record stood at 7 out of 8 for the Cats. Willis split the uprights with a perfect kick.

At Davidson, Homer Zedaker smokes CHESTERFIELDS. Homer says: “After trying Chesterfields, I knew that I had found the cigarette that offered more all-around smoking pleasure.” A nationwide survey shows that Chesterfields are TOPS with college students from coast to coast.

Everyone can see and respect Coach Story’s decision to leave. But we understand his reasons. If they can get his two best assistants, they can be sure of “something.” This issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN should be clothed in the widow weeds of mourning. The news story’s indication of Coach Story’s intentions of returning to Norfolk next year is the biggest blow that has come to Davidson football in quite some time. It has given the Furman game an atmosphere of a senior’s last performance on the gridiron. Although only two of the ‘Cats are ending their Davidson careers, all of the boys were there with that same determination to make this one the best yet. Even though it does not ease our sadness at his leaving, Coach Story has given fifteen years of his life to preparatory school work. He is to be the principal of Maury High School in Norfolk, a position of as much importance and honor as any in secondary education in Virginia. Norfolk is home to the Coach and his family, and it is natural for them to want to take advantage of the chance to return there.

Twice he has waved the red flag in front of a powerful N.C. State’s nose. His close calls against the Wolfpack are an indication of just how close the Wildcats came to beating them. In recent years, State, Duke, and Carolina had been considered too big for Davidson to cope with, but Coach Story’s confidence and genius at defensive football have shown by the team’s performance. Davidson has ranked high among the teams of the nation in defense. The success of this season's pass offense is a tribute to his ability to develop a squad. Last year’s team used few passes because they just didn’t have it. But after a year of concentrating on passing offense and defense, the aerial route is one of the biggest factors in the Wildcats' attack.

Since coming to Davidson, he has lived football. He may be seen at any hour of the day or night climbing three flights of stairs to see how his boys are getting along, or studying old game pictures to map out new techniques. His scholarly charm in handling a football squad, as well as in teaching a Sunday School lesson or conducting a chapel program, has won him the love of all Davidson. And his techniques have paid off. Already, without the Furman game, he has chalked up as good a record of wins as Davidson has seen since the days when we used to play Army and trounce Carolina. It is too bad that he is leaving just as his boys are hitting their stride. The unwonted gloom hanging over the dressing room for the past week shows how the squad hates to lose him. Although there may be those in the student body who have grumbled against “Bloody Bill,” the team is unanimous in their support. Some of the boys who came to Davidson to play for him will leave too. After talking to them, we feel that they are just a little hurt. As one of their sharps put it, “When you get out there and work and fight, it’s the same school, but it’s not the same without him.”

Bob Boyd summed up the general opinion when he said, “We still hate to see him go. He has built some good football here, and if somebody can carry on, it’ll still be good.” Although the Coach’s new position is an academic one, anybody who knows him knows that football is only a hobby. His two great loves are football and young people. And can you imagine these two combined in a more wonderful way than he has made here?

Johnson Hagood Stadium

J. ORIENTAL RESTAURANT
BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
PHONE 2-2235

GOOD FOOD. GOOD MUSIC MAKES A GOOD EVENING

We're proud of our juicy steaks and delicious seafood—we want you to try them—and what could make a better evening than dining and dancing in a pleasant atmosphere? Come on out and enjoy a good evening at Tiny Town!

ORCHESTRA FRI. and SAT. NITES — Closed Sundays —
TINY TOWN CLUB
FORMERLY CLUB 41 ON THE OLD CONCORD HIGHWAY