“CAT TALES” by MAC HART

The biggest sports story of the week finds the Red and Black machine journeying to Norfolk, hometown of many of the Wildcat huskies, to challenge the Conference favorite William and Mary Indians. The fact that the Cats have been preparing for this bout for almost a year and that seven members of the squad will be performing before a hometown crowd, puts added drive into the Cat attack. Easy Rhodes, Sandy Carnegie, Hal Mapes, Bill Boyd, Buddy Chandler, Johnny Richards, and Rhea Adams will be making what is for many of them their first postwar gridiron appearance on their old stamping ground. However, last year’s Southern Conference runners-up will be no pushover for any team with husky fullback Jack (Flying) Cloud, also of Norfolk, spearheading the attack. It will take all of the Cats' vaunted ground defense to stop Cloud and his cohorts long enough to edge in some scoring of their own.

Last week's 19-0 victory over Elon came as a surprise in many quarters, in spite of Coach Storey’s warnings that it would be no sure win. The statistics show that the Cats, as of old, have plenty of drive, but often lack the necessary punch to hit paydirt. But for a spectacular second quarter, the Red and Black Machine looked good but not flashy. That second-quarter team was one that could bode evil to the best of them. The whole squad is in excellent shape. With two exceptions, they are free from injuries, and we sincerely hope that they can emerge as well from the William and Mary fray. Tackle Sandy Carnegie is suffering from a minor knee injury, but wild horses couldn’t keep him out of the Norfolk scrap. Dave Poole is also laid up with a bum knee and may not see action tomorrow.

After the N. C. State game in Charlotte next weekend, the schedule is strategically arranged and we predict a better than .500 average. Furman’s bang-up scrap with Georgia adds to the dark clouds hanging over the season. Pre-season moanings from the Furman camp fooled many, but the Furman team that came close to drubbing Wally Butt’s crew cannot help but be a big improvement over last year. Add to this the Thanksgiving, Homecoming advantage and Furman begins to look like a mighty high hurdle for the Cats.

Congratulations to the six freshmen who crashed a well-padded varsity roster. Namely, Dave Poole, Auburn Lambeth, Hoopy Davis, Henry Wilson, Jim Rogers, and J. C. Roberts. All these boys had brilliant high school careers and should prove equally successful in college circles.

Several other Wildcat sports already have begun or are in the process of beginning. Junior varsity football is off to a good start under the capable direction of Al Moneyhan. Their schedule, already lined up, includes six games, five of them at home and one in Charlotte. Some of the tennis regulars have been working out with Coach Barton, the new tennis coach. Coach Whittle’s new cross-country team is organized and asking for candidates—a fine chance for trackmen to keep in shape. Wrestling starts officially in about a week. Intramural football teams are squaring away for their opening games next week.

As Wildcat sports begin to roll, your sports staff is sharpening for action. Yours truly, along with veteran reporters Chuck Cunningham, Jack Hazard, and Dick Morgan will be assisted by freshmen Bill King, Furman Warlick, Gordon Scott, and Gene Regen. We will welcome additions to our staff, especially members of the various squads. We will not try to present sports stories so much as news, since we realize that the student body will get the scores much quicker than we can get it to them. Our goal will rather be to acquaint the student body with their teams and sports personalities because we feel that the student body should know and support their teams better.

JACK WOOD, Ltd. COMPANY OF CHARLOTTE IS PLEASED TO PRESENT FOR YOUR APPROVAL THEIR SELECTION OF THE FINEST IN IMPORTED AND DOMESTIC WOOLENS MADE-TO-MEASURE IN CLOTHING FOR MEN OF DISCRIMINATING TASTE ALSO READY-MADE SUITS AND FURNISHINGS

Wildcat Sports | SCALP ’EM WILDCATS | Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, September 26, 1947

SHEPPERD ROMPS

W. & M. Indians

Fresh from their work for Bill Story, the Red and Black warriors will carry the Red and Black to face the powerful William and Mary Indians, dubbed by many as second only to “Choo Choo” Justice. Faced with such luminaries as All-Southern Jack Cloud at fullback, who gained All-American fame last year, and Tommy Korezowski, a nineteen-year-old sophomore who averaged 19.5 yards per trip carrying the ball last year. Besides, there is 215-pound Tommy Thompson at center—Coach Rube McCary thinks he'll get an All-Southern berth this year.

Carnegie Injured

The Cats suffered a stiff blow in scrimmage when Sandy Carnegie suffered a knee injury which may keep him from the contest with the Indians. However, Carl Eborn and Ed Rhodes will be holding down one tackle berth and Ernie Stricklin will be aided at the other by “Judge” Bob Strickland. Buddy Bill Red Wilson, and Bob Sharpe should be able to hold their own against the Indian guards. At center will be Johnny Richards and Milton “Bronco” Bailey. Hall Mapes and Buddy Cheek are set to go at the flanks with Mike Williams, Dick Blanks, and Bill Johnson in reserve. The fullback slot is well manned by Mack and Carl Pahl. Freshman Dave Poole seems to be the man to fill Erwin Bethea’s shoes at blocking back with Charlie Rimer and Bud ready to work. The all-important tailback job goes to Buck Williams, Carl Shephard, and Bert Anderton while Jim Sifford, Doug Rice, and Rhea Adams will operate at wingback.

Big Red Fowle to Tough Schedule Ahead

The Cats will take no breath after this week for next week they face the mighty N.C. State Wolfpack which last year went to Jacksonville’s Gator Bowl. Coach Beattie Feathers lost Howard “Touchdown” Turner but that is no indication that the Wolfpack won't be rougher than ever. Wofford’s Terriers and Hampton-Sydney are next but neither shapes up as the pushover team of last year. Next comes Washington and Lee’s aerial-minded Generals headed by chunking Charlie Harrington. For Homecoming, the Cats will entertain the V.M.I. Keydets and the following week meet their fifth rival from the Old Dominion State, the U. of Richmond Spiders. The Citadel Bulldogs are next and will be out for blood to avenge the upset defeat of last year at the hands of the Palmetto soldiers. The season closes again in Greenville for the Turkey Day scrap with Furman. The Cats spoiled the Purple Hurricane's Homecoming last year and look to do it again.

Carl Shepperd drives through the Elon defenses as Charlie Rimer lends a helping hand up front. The Wildcats took the Christians for a 19-0 ride, all of the points being garnered in the second quarter.

Red and Black to Tackle

Saturday got down to hard work for what shapes up as their toughest game of the season, Coach Story’s warriors to Norfolk this weekend to face the powerful William and Mary Indians, dubbed by many as second only to “Choo Choo” Justice in Southern Conference.

Barton Takes Over As Tennis Mentor

Mr. Barton, the new tennis mentor, is a good-looking, likable Britisher. Tall and soft-spoken, Coach Barton ranked the No. 2 slot on the British Davis Cup team.Cup team in 1946 and 1947. He made it very clear to your scribe that he was an amateur, stating the fact over and over again when queried about former coaching jobs. He has played amateur tennis all his life, participating in the Wimbledon Matches as well as national tournaments all over Europe and America. With the vacation coming of Christmas, he hopes to travel to New York to take part in the National Tournament, to be held near the end of December. Coach Barton is playing a dual role on the Davidson campus. Aside from the task of showing the Wildcat netters in Phys. Ed. classes how it’s done, he has taken on the coaching of the varsity squad. He seemed very pleased but indicated that there were a few rough spots.

Frat Battles Get Underway Tuesday

Next Tuesday the curtain goes up on the 1947 intramural sports program. The season gets off with a bang with ten fraternities and the Independents pitting their brains and brawn against each other in the game of touch football. With a full schedule of 55 games on tap, the student body here at Davidson can look forward to a big season of intramural sports.

There are certain standard regulations of touch football which will be used again this fall. The dimensions of the field are 360 feet by 160 feet, with zones of 18 yards measured parallel to the goal line. The teams will consist of either nine or eleven players with five men playing on the line and four in the backfield when the team is on defense. Players are prohibited from wearing any protective apparel such as shoulder pads or helmets, or any other safety device. Two 20-minute periods will be reeled off in which there will be unlimited substitution and 3 times out per team.

We shall hazard no rash predictions, but are looking for a season average above the .500 mark. Any member of the team is an eligible pass receiver as long as the pass is hurled from behind the line of scrimmage.

(Continued on Page 6)

Indoor Wildcats Thrash Elon Gridders

The Wildcats opened their 1947 grid season with a not too impressive 19-0 victory over Elon College. Only in the second quarter, when all three Cat markers were tallied, did they look like the offensive team that will upset William and Mary this week. The Red and Black line, however, looked like the same tight line that gave the Cats one of the top defensive ratings in the country last year. In setting the Elon backs down for a 26 net yardage figure and only two first downs, Coach Bill Stern's big forwards served notice to all that they won't be pushed around too easily this year. In all, the Wildcats moved the yard sticks 17 times while rolling up 209 yards on the ground and completing 6 of 16 aerials for 92 more.

The initial marker came shortly after the second stanza opened. Starting from their own 40, Mack Erwin, Jim Sifford, Carl Pahl, and Robert Anderton moved the oval to the Elon 31. Anderton hit Mike Williams for 24 yards, then the little Memphis tailback sliced off right tackle to register 6 points. Buddy Cheek’s try for the extra point was mauled by the Christian forward wall.

The Christians were unable to move the kickoff and Davidson took over on the visitors’ 35. Anderton unfurled another heave, this time to Cheek, who lateraled off to Mike Williams. “Big Mike” made it to the 1-yard line and from there Sifford, on a wide reverse, hit pay dirt with some flashy stepping. Dick Blanks’ talented toe accounted for point No. 13.

The Cat forwards halted Elon again after the kickoff and Buck Williams returned Hugger Buxton’s kick to the Christian's 38. Williams hit Doug Rice for 14, Carl Shephard crashed the line for 11 more, then tried four passes before hitting the final TD. The visitors threatened early in the second half but to no avail. Jim Sifford’s punt from the 15 was blocked and Billy Perry recovered on the Cat 2-yard line. But again the big line held on four tries and Sifford kicked out of danger.

Big Carl Eborn and Sandy Carnegie seemed to be the biggest rocks in the Cat wall, but Ed Rhodes, Buddy Chandler, Ernie Stricklin, Bill Boyd, Bob Sharpe, Johnny Richards, and “Bronco” Dailer all looked exceptionally good. Anderton, Shephard, and the two charging fullbacks, Mack Erwin and Carl Pahl, looked best among the backs. The worst blow of the game to the Cats was a knee injury to blocking back Dave Poole. Poole, a freshman from Salisbury and Winston-Salem, was slated for a starting post in Saturday's crucial fray.

Carolina Lunch
REGULAR MEALS
Breakfast: 6:30-8:30
Lunch: 11:30-1:30
Dinner: 5:30-6:30

JAYVEE PRACTICE GETS UNDER WAY

The Junior Varsity opened practice last week and has been working hard under the able tutelage of Coach Al Moneyhan, Charlotte Clipper luminary. The squad drew pads after the opening of practice and immediately began rough work. Coach Moneyhan says of the team, "The boys are working hard and have shown a lot of spirit.” Last season the Jayvees had a good season against mediocre opposition, but this season Moneyhan prophecies that the competition will be stiffer and the team must be tougher. It is expected, however, that the team will have a fair season against a hard schedule.

Jayvees Look Good in Scrimmage

On Tuesday of this week, after a week of conditioning, the Wildkittens went up to scrimmage the varsity. Fullback Sam Joyner and Pete Brown, end from last year’s squad, looked particularly good in scoring touchdowns against the “Big Boys.” John “Stubby” Evans and Amos Camp stood out at their guard posts and John Hay did well at center. The tackle slots seem to be in good hands with Andy Horne and C. C. Howard. In the backfield, Gene Crooks led the blocking backs and Charlie Baldwin paced the wingbacks.

A schedule of six games has been lined up for the '47 edition of the Wildkittens and the remaining open dates will soon be filled, it is hoped. The schedule is as follows:
Oct. 9—Catawba “B”
Oct. 17—Ivee’s McCrae
Oct. 24—Barium Springs
Nov. 1—CC-UNC
Nov. 7—Blue Ridge
Nov. 14—Belmont Abbey
Nov. 21—Open

All of these games are daytime home games with the exception of the CCUNC game which will be played in Charlotte the night of Homecoming.

Inquire of your local Trailways Agent about our attractive service,
Queen City Trailways
417 W. 5th St.
Charlotte, N. C.

ALL THE NEW POPULAR PHONOGRAPH RECORDS.
Columbia Masterworks
Red Seal Victor
Parker-Gardner Company
Since 1898
118 W. Trade St.
Phone 8257

Eckerd's
Creators of reasonable drug prices.
120 N. Tryon
109 S. Tryon
Charlotte, N. C.

Bryan Wentz Company
“Clothing For The Man”
206 South Tryon St.
Charlotte 2, North Carolina

Stationers
Office Outfitters
Printers
Kale-Lawing Co.
PHONE 6185
227-229 South Tryon Street.
Charlotte, N. C.

Visit The—
Ship Ahoy
UPPER DECK
Dining and Dancing
The Ideal Place To Meet Your Friends
117 W. Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

STUDENT MANAGER: FRANK RAWLEY
STUDENT STORE (The Stud)
Davidson College
Complete New Stock
Popular Candies
Toilet Articles
School Supplies
Athletic Equipment
Other Campus Needs
GRADUATE MANAGER: WILLIAM W. TELFORD