Page 2 Friday, May 2, 1947 The Davidsonian Founded by the Class of 1915 “FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON” PUBLISHED WEEKLY, THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: BOB PHILLIPS
BUSINESS MANAGER: BOB SMOAK

EDITORIAL STAFF
Ron Elving: Editor
Bob Rierson: Managing Editor
Walter Mann: Managing Editor
Bill Calhoun: Managing Editor
Ronny Dietrick: Managing Editor
Stan Kennett: Managing Editor
John Stewart: Sports Editor
Bob Hollister: Staff Photographer
Exchange Editor: Bob Hollister

BUSINESS STAFF
Bob Gambrell: Assistant Business Manager
Frank Lemmon: Advertising Manager
John McNair: Circulation Manager
Hugh Gillis: Circulation Manager
Bill Baxter: Circulation Manager
Charles Dockery: Collection Manager

Reporters: F. J. Schwaemmle, L. B. Redfearn, Lonnie Turnipseed, Rees Jenkins, Bill Bogart, Frank Lemmon, Bill Johnson, Frank Allred, Ernest Hunter, Kent Christopher

Sports Reporters: Charles Cunningham, Jack Hazard, Mac Hart.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

1946 Member 1947 Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Chapel...
Despite past president Bill McLean’s plea some few weeks ago for more decorous conduct in chapel, we are still, it seems to me, over-demonstrative in our morning services. There is a time and place for everything in the way of good, clean fun, and I would be the last to decry the humorous student body reaction to announcements; but seriously, don’t you think they're somewhat out-of-place on the three or four days of each week when there are guest speakers or members of the administration on the platform?

Keep in mind that most of our guests in chapel are here, often for the first time, to deliver a serious message, and they must be a bit thrown off balance when their introductions are preceded by several minutes of tom-foolery from us. Those speakers who are Davidson alumni probably, with a reminiscent mind, can at least understand our mass repartee; but imagine yourself for a moment a visiting speaker from, say, the University of Southern California. You are on your way to New York on a mission concerning the World Student Leadership Movement, and at the invitation of the Davidson College President, you have stopped by the school on a Monday morning to present the subject closest to your heart to a thousand of the world’s students. As they assemble before you, you remark to yourself that the Davidson student body looks like a representative cross-section of the post-war small college — no richer, no poorer, no more frivolous, no more sober than any of the many comparable groups you've seen. Then, at a nod from the college president, a young man on the front row rises and begins reading announcements to the student body. You are thinking what an efficient mode of transmitting news this is, when suddenly a perfectly routine-sounding declaration is made concerning some organization called Sigma Upsilon — immediately there rises a crescendo of strange explosive responses, “Oop, oop, oop,” increasing in pitch, and followed by a general chuckle of self-approval from the audience. You are now available for a Scabbard and Blade military ball; no sooner are these words out, than the air is segmented by several hundred mock swordsmen, accompanying their pantomime by audible “swishes.” The laughter dies down, the student leader is finally able to finish the last announcements; as he sits down, you hurriedly consider a last-minute revision to your address. You had come prepared to impress on the students of a noted small school the tremendous responsibility they face as leaders of tomorrow’s nation and world. But now, almost dismayed, you wonder if maybe your weighty words will not be over their heads, and they perhaps, if bored, will not get up and walk out on you. You have a mission and a message, however, so you go ahead and deliver your planned talk — halfway through, you suddenly come to the heartening realization that, save for a few squirming clock-watchers, you have the rapt, interested attention of the student body. Thus fortified you complete your message and sit down, warmed by sincere-sounding applause; yet wondering what is the true nature of a student body, clowns one minute and serious men the next. At best, you must conclude that we were impolite, but you hope that strange opening mood was extraordinary and occasioned by a big athletic victory, the prospect of impending holidays, or such. If you leave, ignorant of the fact that this show was not especially for you and that it is the norm, we are fortunate. If you leave, offended or hurt by our impoliteness, we have in some measure, sullied our school’s reputation. Whatever else Davidson College may or may not be, it definitely is a gathering place of gentlemen — let’s reserve our comedy for ‘student chapels’ on Tuesday and Thursday and take no chance of embarrassing our school by leaving with visitors the impression that we are not men of manners.

By an admonition to departure from “Monday-Wednesday-Friday” comedy, we do not indicate a wish to see student “participation” in announcements increased on other days. Again, let’s step into the other man’s shoes, this time those of the student body president. Simply facing the audience that assembles in chapel each day is task enough — we should not complicate the job of reading announcements by inattention and distracting rejoinders. The chapel comedy is a good thing — it reflects, I believe, a close-knit student spirit, but we must employ a bit of discretion in its use.

Letters To The Editor
(Note: Because of the editor’s desire to air the current elections controversy, Bob Rierson’s feature appears on the back page of this issue.)

Dear Editor:
As a member of the forgotten class of voters, I would like to reply to the letter of Mr. Ed Sutton, who attempted to refute the excellent arguments presented previously by Mr. C. A. McNair.

By the “forgotten class of voters” I mean those of us who are not fortunate enough to have been at Davidson for the three years that Mr. Sutton gives as the time in which the prospective candidates should have been campaigning for office. Some day in the glorious future, I may rise to the senior class, and then I hope to know the record and qualifications for those for whom I cast my ballot. But why should I have to wait a few years before I can exercise my rights intelligently? I must admit that before coming to Davidson I did not read the Davidsonian, and therefore am still quite a bit behind as to who's who. We freshmen number more than a few head, and have too many votes to be voting for so-and-so because he is vaguely known by a friend's friend, or because he has a good old family name. The least that could be done would be to run in the Davidsonian before election impartial achievements of each candidate, this account serving to enlighten those of us who have not been around long enough to enlighten ourselves. I admit that the ideal thing is to know personally each candidate, but since so many of us don't, why can’t someone tell us about them, either by speeches or by write-ups?

Hopefully,
Harper J. Sasser

Dear Editor:
I would like to congratulate Ed Sutton, eminent sociologist, on the merit of his letter to the Davidsonian in favor of our so-called closed elections. Since he is serving on the elections board, it is perfectly natural that he should defend the system and see to it that the functions are carried out according to its established policies. But I feel it imperative to defend my position and the position of the majority (according to a recent poll) of the student body.

In answering my letter which favored some type of open elections system, Mr. Sutton implied that I was taking an absurd stand by saying that our participation in national and minor civil elections would be hampered by the training that we do not receive in college. I would like to refer you to a recent article in the Reader’s Digest (April 1947 issue) in which Mr. H. Gallup, Director, Institute Public Opinion, says that one of the two chief things responsible for the general lack of interest in our national elections is, “that our schools and colleges fail to give even a rudimentary knowledge of the workings of their own government and...

The Operating Table
With the advent of spring and rising sap, our newly elected prexy, one “FEARLESS HUGH” HILL was off to GREENSBORO to meet an enchantress there, who was to have been awaiting his coming to take in the local matinee. On arrival, our hero found that the princess had been swept away by the proprietor of a local flea circus and had last been seen scratching her way towards a secret rendezvous to meet the rogue. With a nefarious gleam in his eye, our hero stated that he had broken the ill-fated romance and disposed of half a can of D. D. T.

Most of this week’s undercover work was done at the Salem fracas, but unfortunately we can only tell in part of operations in that sector if we wish for our beloved editor to remain in this here institution. It seems that in spite of his speed on the cinder path, GENE BINGHAM was unable to kick up enough dust at Winston and was trapped. On the other hand, BIG BILL JOHNSON and his 200 pounds of bone and muscle was reported to have drawn a veritable Venus except for the unfortunate fact that this maiden had arms which kept Sir William at bay for the evening. Other members of the smarter social set drawing lovelies were Betas CAL SCHMIDT and FRANK LEMMON who entertained the fair damsels with many choruses of “Hail to Wooglin” and feasted on dog liver between refrains. All parties attending Salem festivities report a wonderful time after about two hours when one of our F. B. I. aspirants came through with maps and data which relieved much of the early tension.

INTERESTING CAMPUS SCENES DEPT.
JOVIAL JIMMY LOVE en route to Post Office, Student passing by, “Good Morning Jim Love!” ELLIS off to gather leaves on the golf course... RACK HAWSE TOM POWELL investigating the intricate Davidson city political machine... PINO on his way to open the Stud at midnight.

INTERESTING CAMPUS QUOTATIONS DEPT.
DIRTY DOUG SWINK “We got it by the censor.” JOHN MILLER, “How crude.” OGES OGLESBY, “Bang, bang, bang... firecrackers of course.” SOCIAL SAM TATE (perched in the blue flash) “I wonder why she loves me so... the car goes home next week.” BOB NEIL (falling down while rounding second base) “Oh Fudge.”

Letters To Editor Con’t-
(April 1947 issue) in which Mr. H. Gallup, Director, Institute Public Opinion, says that one of the two chief things responsible for the general lack of interest in our national elections is, “that our schools and colleges fail to give even a rudimentary knowledge of the workings of their own government and...Fail to arouse interest in public affairs.” I will leave the obvious conclusion to the reader and see how it applies in his case. Evidently, Mr. Sutton did not notice that in the same issue as my letter appeared, an article was printed in which 75% of the student body prefers some change in the election system. This, to me, is an indication that there is certainly a change desired in the minds of the students, even if it is only temporary to correspond to the increased size of the student body. But if Mr. Sutton did read the article, however, I take it as an indication that he favors minority rule. In conclusion, Mr. Sutton cites an example of a college at which the principal offices are held by social fraternity men, implying that the same would happen if we were to adopt the open system. On this point, I merely want to say that if it did happen on this campus as a result of the open system, it would be an indication of failure on the part of the college to instill in its students the rudiments and functions of the principles which it so effectively teaches. How else, other than actual practice, can the success of its teachings be indicated? By refusing to put them into the situation for which they are intended? Respectfully, Champ McNair.

Dear Editor:

In behalf of what I am confident is a majority of the student body, let me call on our newly elected Student Council to take advantage of the opportunities offered them by Article XIV of our Constitution by sponsoring an amendment to our present election system. Surely, if these representatives of ours were alert to conditions in the recent elections, they would know that a vast majority of the students did not know the candidates. In a student body of 500-600, for which the present system was set up, no doubt most men knew most of their fellow students. However, today our number has been increased by one third, and the situation is entirely different. Mr. Ed Sutton’s claim that junior candidates were so well known that “no speech could in any way help” would be hard to attack if it had any element of truth in it. I am confident that most students, honestly reflecting on the way the last election was conducted, know that this assertion is not true.

I agree with our friends, the defenders of the present system, that unlimited campaigning would introduce elements which would corrupt and decrease rather than improve and increase our democracy. However, surely there must be middle ground, some satisfactory compromise which, like many other great compromises in the history of democratic government, would be better than either extreme. No one honestly desiring to have our elections really democratic, with equal opportunities for all students to participate, would favor the repeal of the section forbidding fraternity blocs, or would favor the expenditure of more than very modest and published amounts of money for campaigning. However, I do consider it the right of the voters as a whole to be able to hear from their candidates, at least in standard-length speeches in chapel, handbills, posters, and/or equal free newspaper statements of qualifications and ideas for school improvements. Dances and other rallies could be prohibited without keeping the voters from knowing who and what they were voting for. I believe the needed adjustment is the introduction of limited campaigning. This is a golden opportunity for our new officers and council to show leadership in finding a compromise that will adjust our constitution to give purer democracy to our enlarged student body, and as Governor Arnall said here recently, “Start where (Continued on Page 4)

Down Fraternity Court

PHI DELTA THETA
Pallas’ pie-eyed boys for the most part dashed up to Salem to eat cake and make nickels in the May Dell (dark and heavenly place, that). “Potts” Cameron made his weekly pilgrimage up to Greensboro to the shrine of his lil’ St. Jo-biddy. “Sediment-head” Sutton bared his cussed cranium to the balmy spring breezes and the barber’s shears, while the fair “Grecian” wooed his fair maid ’neath a waning purity light up at the big blue school. Social-climbing Sam Tate led most of the lads up to Frances Carr’s open house at Salem. “Turnip” Turnipseed said grace over the peas, carrots, string beans, and squash at the “boo”-fet supper. On the gamboling greens of Salem were Brothers Willingham, who holds down a mean second; Cobb, who held his own in the shaded interior of the Big Blue; Starnes, who finally got that redhead to talk. She said, “I’m hungry”; Hollister, who kept the lovely Page right busy during intermission; Hills, who kept things loose as a greased goose, snaking on the brethren with his winning way; and Bobby Long, who, contrary to all prevalent rumors, was not hit in the mouth with a tomato. Frank Hooper apparently got sidetracked and wound up in the gym with a little girl from the junior school at their final dance. Herbert Miller pursued his Unitarian studies in earnest and endeavored to increase his wide radius. The chapter extends a hearty welcome to its new Phikeia brother, Jimmy Vann.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
In a recent exclusive interview with representatives of the Davidsonian, socially insignificant organ of the Phillips purity league and temperance society, retired chapter president Bob Crowell announced, “Having cut only a relatively small number of times this semester, I plan to take off to the beach this weekend and make up for lost time. It is my intention to spend as much time as possible snaking on the dates of everybody with whom I am acquainted. It is my belief that training received during service experience will be of invaluable aid in this effort.” Brother Campbell received a great big smile of approval from both Professor Blackburn of Duke University and chapter president Murdock McKiethan for winning second prize of $0.00 in the Vereen Bell Memorial Award Contest for excellence in creative writing. Stated author Campbell: “The money means nothing to me. I write for the pure joy of creating personalities. I especially enjoy making female characters.” Best wishes of the entire chapter go with Brother Campbell in future creative endeavors. Homer Ragan insists that statements made in last week’s column be retracted. Either he wants it understood that it does not take a red dress to bring out the bull in him, or he wishes to remind all that his name is not A Moose for nothing, I forget which.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
Things were sorta quiet at the Sig-Ep lodge this past week but one might add that Marty (better known as “Snags”) Pitts is now the bicycle boy. He is what you might call a “wheeler.” Bill Plonk was all excited Sunday night over at the Presbyterian church in Charlotte. It must have been one of the nearby Queens lassies who gave him the sudden frustration. Most of the brethren are making all sorts of plans for summer vacation. We have everything from beachcombers to Canadian explorers. Furman, Barr, and Davis invaded Salem and came back with news of a big time. Congrats to Parson Ed who is showing up as one of the finest hurdlers in school and is one of the highest scorers on the track team. The Taylor twins took over Spartanburg but details were incomplete at the time of writing but it would suffice to say someone was Snafu.

BETA THETA PI
The Beta house was practically deserted this weekend with most of the brothers enjoying the festivities at Salem. Unconfirmed rumor has it that Brother “Hot Lips” Crane lost his pin recently. Brother Earl Groves was spotted trying the back seat of his new Buick for size. Other brothers whose names are not available enjoyed a pleasant evening out at the “cabin” and were noticeably absent from the dance. Plans are underway for the spring dance next weekend at the Charlotte Woman’s Club, with Billy Knauff and his orchestra. Friday night there will be a barbecue on the campus, and brothers are encouraged to plan their own entertainment for the evening. Saturday night there will be a banquet and dance. New officers for next year have been elected and are as follows: President, Al Scarborough; vice president, Bill Joyner; secretary and rush chief, Dave Shepperson; treasurer, Vincent Long; Pan-Hell representative, Frank Rawley.

DELTA KAPPA
Delta Kappa is proud to announce the pledging of Walter Mann of Red Springs, N. C. The smoke has lifted, not cleared, from the dance weekend, and all are settling back into our exciting ruts. A fine excuse for a most enjoyable function, for which thanks to Bill Calhoun, was provided last week on the occasion of a visit from members of Alpha Tau chapter of Sigma Chi from the University of North Carolina. An excellent feed was enjoyed by all at Erwin lodge and it is reported that Miller, though far behind in the hot dog consumption race, now holds the ham devouring prize. Efforts of Treasurer Rodney Whisnant to liven up the otherwise calm and collected meeting sessions are bearing fruit now—three brothers fainted last week when the “Which-would-you-rather-do-or-pay-it-now” list was read. John Carr was overheard to say that he wished that he had been born rich instead of so darned handsome. This provided an occasion for speculation: Vice-president-in-charge-of-riots Williams quickly silenced the rowdies with a few deft blows of his baseball bat (signed by Babe Ruth). The chapter was pleased to have Dr. Ricks, well-known Sigma Chi leader, as their guest last week, when he was entertained at an afternoon function at Oak Row.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
Things around the Pika house have been pretty copacetic lately. After enjoying Spring Frolics to (Continued on Page 4)

Cinema Comments
By Bill Calhoun

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
“THE FABULOUS DORSEYS”
If you like good musicals that have plenty “on the ball,” you won’t want to miss this Dorsey story. In the limelight with Tommy and Jimmy is beautiful Janet Blair, about whom no comment is needed. Humor, beauty, and the other necessary qualities add up here to produce a musical biography practically unexcelled in cinema attractions for light entertainment.

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY
“MAGNIFICENT DOLL”
This is a historical film of political life in the U.S. during Revolutionary days. Gorgeous Ginger Rogers steals the whole show as she defends pure democracy in the person of Dolly Madison. Actually, the historical background of the picture was mostly made by the studios for the occasion. This picture has a very good plot with excitement added.

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
“BOOMTOWN”
An old picture brought back by popular demand, Boomtown takes place around the oil fields in the Midwest. It stars Clark Gable, Claudette Colbert, Spencer Tracy, and Hedy Lamarr. The story centers around the fight of Gable and Tracy over the usual woman. Hedy Lamarr plays the part of a rich oil well owner. Miss Colbert is outstanding in acting as well as in physical being.