Upon being presented with the task of writing this column this week, we never expected the problems that go with it. The first is the inevitable question of “what to write about.” This in itself has given us cause for great thought this year, something that is particularly difficult when you don't do very much. This is not helped by the fact that the most capable editor, Mac, is away. Whatever does become of this column, it rests as a substitute read for you.

In his comments, Stan is the usual source of quotes to the Wildcat football team. The Wildcats started the season with a victory over Elon and Wayne, looking like another team than the one mentioned above. Of course, it must be considered that Elon was the Cats' first foe and the battle with the Terriers carried more bruising sides with W&M State. The Land Black attack seemed none too polished and it took a first-period touchdown by Wofford to put the Cats into a frame of mind for winning. After realizing that they had a real team facing them, the Cats pushed over the needed tallies.

As the second effort threatens, and before VMI, University of Richmond, The Citadel, and Furman, Davidson goes against the Generals this weekend in Lexington. If they get past this one, they may end the season with the best average in some years. The Generals are doped as a conference dark horse and are being made heavy favorites to give the Cats the same treatment issued last year. Another factor in favor of the Virginians is the fact that they will be playing before a friendly Homecoming crowd. However, the Cats should not forget the way in which the same W&L team spoiled Davidson's Homecoming last year. For the same reason, the Cats may be installed as favorites next week as they tangle with VMI’s Keydets before the Old Grads on Richardson Field. For our money, the game would rate as a toss-up, but the Cats gain the nod by virtue of the local surroundings. The Keydets last week went down before Richmond, a team which has made a very poor showing this year, losing to Rollins and W&L by one-sided scores. These scores don’t always mean too much, but it should be the Cats’ game.

As pointed out above, the Spiders from Richmond are not the strong outfit that downed the Red and Black last year. This should be an easy one as should The Citadel contest in Charleston. The Bulldogs were no match for W&M, only one week after the Cats held the Indians. The Citadel went to Virginia only to return home stinging from a 54-0 loss. The Cats also will be pointing to avenge the loss last year at Charlotte. It was all a Davidson game except the score. In the final encounter, the Presbyterians go against an in Greenville on Thanksgiving Day. Last year's Turkey conflict saw the Cats sending a dejected bunch of Furmanites to the showers before they showed their returning graduates. The Purple Hurricane is reportedly a strong outfit, but we will stick with Coach Story’s lads.

With all the above in mind, we're going out on a limb, though we think it is a sturdy limb, and say the Wildcats will finish the season with no more losses. W&L and Furman will be the hardest, but the Cats can and should do it.

JACK WOOD, Ltd. COMPANY CHARLOTTE IS PLEASED TO PRESENT FOR YOUR APPROVAL THEIR SELECTION OF THE FINEST IN IMPORTED AND DOMESTIC WOOLENS MADE-TO-MEASURE IN CLOTHING FOR MEN OF DISCRIMINATING TASTE ALSO READY-MADE SUITS AND FURNISHINGS

Wildcat Sports
NO MORE LOSSES
Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, October 24, 1947

JAYVEES OPEN SEASON IN WIN
CATAWBA KITTENS

The Jayvees opened their season with a win over the Catawba Kittens. The game was a showcase of the team's potential, with several standout performances. The defense was particularly strong, holding the Kittens to minimal gains and forcing multiple turnovers. The offense, led by a dynamic combination of running and passing, managed to put up several touchdowns, securing a comfortable victory.

New Men Aid Wrestlers
CROSS COUNTRY PACE SETTERS

In hopes of bolstering the cross country team, new members have joined the ranks. Jack Grube, elected captain of this year’s team, saw action last spring and is expected to lead the team to new heights. The Wildcats' cross country team thundered over the four-mile course on Wednesday for their initial time trials, preparing for the meet on Saturday at W&L. This meet is to be held in conjunction with the W&L-Davidson gridiron spectacle during the Generals' Homecoming festivities. Gray finished far ahead of the field, recording a better-than-average time of 22 minutes, 47 seconds. Freshman ace Wake Bradley finished behind the pace setter with a 23:06 time. Other notable times included Bob Grube with 23:41, Murdock McWeithen in 24:34, Bill Monk in 24:57, Bobby Long in 24:59, Freshman Will Smith with 25:02, and Ed Montgomery rounding out the top eight with a 25:07 mark. These eight will make the trip and vie for the honors, but only the first five home will count in the scoring.

CATS TROUNCE HAMPDEN-SYDNEY

In a display of pent-up power, the Wildcats rolled to a decisive victory over a hapless Tiger team. With varsity ends Rimer and Sifford in the starting lineup, the Cats unleashed a dynamic combination of offense and sterling defense to score three touchdowns. The game saw several completions and unfurled running stars in Jake Wade and Cliff Turner, who both made scintillating runs. After recovering the opening kickoff, Lambeth hurled an aerial to Dickie Blanks for the initial Davidson tally. A few minutes later, Mike Williams intercepted an errant Glascock pass and loped 95 yards down the sidelines, unmolested. This proved to be the turning point of the game, as the Tigers were completely demoralized.

INTERFRAT STANDINGS
Points
Kappa Sig 4 1.000
Betas 4 .800
S.P.E. 4 .800
Phi Delts 3 .750
Pi Kappa Phi 2 .600
Kappa Alpha 2 .600
Phi Gams 2 .600
SAE 1 4 .200
Pikas 1 4 .200
Independents 1 5 .166
Delta Kappa 0 5 .050

KAPPA SIGS HOLD INTERFRAT LEAD

As the third week of intramural sports rolled around, the list of undefeated teams was thinned out. As a rule, the games went as expected, but there were a few upsets. For a complete and up-to-date standing of all teams and the number of games won, lost, etc., consult the chart elsewhere on this page.

S.P.E. 12; Pi Kappa Phi 6

CINDERMEN SET FOR W&L MEET

With next week's meet on the way, the leading cross country team thundered over the four-mile course Wednesday for their initial time trials. This meet is to be held in conjunction with the W&L-Davidson gridiron spectacle during the Generals' Homecoming festivities. Gray finished far ahead of the field to record a better-than-average time of 22 minutes, 47 seconds. Freshman ace Wake Bradley finished behind the pace setter with a 23:06 time. Other notable times included Bob Grube with 23:41, Murdock McWeithen in 24:34, Bill Monk in 24:57, Bobby Long in 24:59, Freshman Will Smith with 25:02, and Ed Montgomery rounding out the top eight with a 25:07 mark. These eight will make the trip and vie for the honors, but only the first five home will count in the scoring.

Under the direction of Captain Jack Grube, the Davidson wrestling team has been preparing for the upcoming season. The team has been working hard to improve their skills and build on last year's successes. With several new members joining the team, there is a renewed sense of optimism and determination. The Wildcats are looking forward to a successful season and hope to make a strong showing in their matches.Outs daily at the gym Coach UES land dejected. Two Hove Lambeth consistently chalked up first down but sprained his ankle on the course. Willingham’s injury will probably hold him out for the rest of the cross country season but he should be ready to go by Spring for track. Gray was named captain of the squad by his teammates at a meeting held Wednesday. Gunder has made an enviable record in his two years' competition in the mile and two-mile runs and well merited the honor.

This year's edition of the wrestling team appears to be a vast improvement over the team of last year. Returning lettermen this year are Jimmy Jung (121-pound class), Carlyle (145 pounds), Nat (175 pounds), and Jim Sifford (105 pounds). Others include Alex Alexander (175 pounds). The squad will be boosted by the score makers, Cliff Turner, who scampered eight yards off tackle for a touchdown after Dill Iverson had galloped 45 yards to set it up. The final touchdown for the Cats came on a dazzling 40-yard run around end by the little pony back, Jake Wade, and the Wildcat scoring was done for the day.

The brilliant Cat ground attack, which netted them 394 yards, and their unstoppable air attack, which added 101 yards, made up the best offensive maneuvers the Cats have had all season. Mention also should be made of such defensive stalwarts as Carl Eborn, Fred Preyer, Jimmy Rogers, and Buddy Cheek.

Pi Kappa Alpha 8; Independents 6
The Independents suffered another defeat at the hands of the PiKas. Starting off with a bang, the Independents scored the opening touchdown of the game. The PiKas came back and evened up things by intercepting a pass and scoring. This brought the score up to 6-6. Then began a defensive game which lasted for the rest of that period. The PiKas began a determined drive which pushed the Independents back in the shadow of their goal posts. Aided by a penalty against the Independents at a time when they could least afford it, the PiKas broke the spell by intercepting a pass and running it over without opposition. This put the Pi Kappa Alphas on the long end of a 12-0 score. In the waning moments of the game, Hill made a spectacular run and scored. The game ended with the score 12-6.

Football Statistics
HAMPDEN-SYDNEY
Rushing
Yds. Yds.
Atts. G’ned Lost Net Av
Sheppard 5 13 0 13 2.6
Wade 2 14 0 14 7.0
Turner 1 41 0 41 58.0
Lambeth 4 12 0 12 3.0
Iverson 8 6 4 2 0.3
Erwin 2 8 0 8 4.0
Fowle 7 79 23 56 8.0
Sifford 5 38 0 38 7.6
Adams 7 38 2 36 5.1
Roberts 1 31 0 31 31.0
Anderton 3 21 0 21 7.0

Passing
Atts Compl Inter- Yds
cept Gain
Sheppard 1 0 0 0
Turner 1 1 0 27
Lambeth 5 5 0 74

SEASON AVERAGES
Rushing
Yds. Yds.
Atts. G’ned Lost Net Av
Sheppard 28 108 34 74 2.6
Wade 5 64 1 63 12.6
Turner 7 41 0 41 5.8
Lambeth 4 12 0 12 3.0
Iverson 15 63 4 59 3.9
Erwin 8 136 12 124 8.2
Fowle 5 23 0 23 4.6
Sifford 30 121 34 87 2.9
Adams 7 38 2 36 5.1
Roberts 1 31 0 31 31.0
Anderton 12 45 22 23 2.3
Rice 22 52 7 45 2.0

Passing
Atts Compl Inter- Yds
cept Gain
Sheppard 15 6 1 60
Wade 4 1 0 15
Turner 1 1 0 27
Lambeth 5 5 0 74

Pictured above are two of the outstanding ball carriers on the Cat eleven. Big Mack Erwin, at left, handles the spinner back assignment and Jim Sifford is the No. 1 wingback.

CATS LEAVE FOR W&L GAME
A determined Davidson football squad, fresh from a 49-0 conquest of Hampden-Sydney, makes its third invasion of Virginia soil this weekend to play the Washington and Lee Generals from Lexington, Virginia. Both clubs possess .600 averages with a record of three wins and two defeats. The Cats have been battling hard.

Washington and Lee possesses an impregnable defense led by Lukens and Norman, and also a vaunted ground attack spearheaded by McCutcheon, Kay, and Harrington.

Cats in Fair Shape
The Davidson Wildcats are rounding into good condition and looking forward with great anticipation to the contest, as they will be out to avenge last year's 25-6 homecoming defeat, played in a driving rain. With veterans Buck Williams, Easy Rhodes, Hal Mapes, and Bill Boyd about recovered from knee injuries, the Cat team is intact except for Carl Vahl and Doug Rice. Several new outstanding linemen displayed their talents in Valley last Saturday, and Coach Story can rest assured that such notables as Fred Preyer, Bill Alexander, Frank Strait, and Red Wilson will back up the varsity line commendably. The greatest achievements were turned in by the new group of backs that Story displayed, including Cliff Turner, Jake Wade, Jay Roberts, and Jimmy Rogers. Old reliable Jim Sifford keeps rolling on and by means of his two Hampden-Sydney touchdowns, assumed the lead in the Big 5 scoring parade with a total of 18 points.

An added advantage to the Cats is the Army-W&L game this week in Cadetland. The Generals, no doubt, will have their eyes trained on this one and will not be too concerned with the plucky Wildcats.

Paul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. TRYON STREET
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

SPECIALS AT Copland’s
Hood’s Tennis and RCA Radios
Hot Plates and Coffee Makers
Basketball Shoes

Inquire of your local Trailways Agent of our attractive service,
Queen City Trailways
417 W. 5th St.
Charlotte, N.C.