Page 2 THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, April 25, 1947 The Davidsonian | Founded by the Class of 1915 “FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON” Editorials THE DAVIDSONIAN Represents CPL ELS Cfeatures PUBLISHED WEEKLY, THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR BOB PHILLIPS EDITOR-IN-CHIEF BOB SMOAK BUSINESS MANAGER EDITORIAL STAFF Sports Editor Bob Thompson News Editor Walter McNair Managing Editor Calhoun McRae Features Editor Roy Dietz Copy Editor John Kopchik Assistant Sports Editor Jim Stewart Staff Photographer H.W. Taylor Exchange Editor BUSINESS STAFF Holly Gatewood Assistant Business Manager Ken Ross Advertising Manager David Viser Circulation Manager L.B. Knox Circulation Manager F.J. Schwager L.B. Knox Turnipseed Rees J. Bill Johnson, Jr. Alfred Hughes Reporters: Carter Currin, Harry Hazard, Mac Hart Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897. SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON Ave New York, N.Y. Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco 1946 Member 1947 Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such it welcomes any contributions or communication to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

Attention: Administration In the heartening campus-wide drive to revive all the old school traditions, it seems we have sadly neglected one of the finest and most venerable. Before the war, there wobbled in front of the student store a pock-marked bench, unpainted but worn smooth by the relaxation of a decade of evening loungers. On this subject deceased oaken sofa were hashed out the problems of the political situation, campus and national, by each succeeding class. The wooden monument groaned under weighty issues and riotous anecdotes for years, when came the war and the disappearance of the bench. With the advent of spring and the rise of the students’ “bull shooting” urge, replacement of the bench outside the “stud” would seem imperative.

Recently it has been suggested that the Davidsonian bring to the attention of the authorities concerned, the conspicuous absence of fire regulation within the class building and dormitories. Perhaps an efficient fire and disaster bill has been worked up, but if so, it is useless without the familiarity of the student body. Of course, most of the buildings on Davidson campus are considered fireproof, but so was Atlanta’s Winecoff Hotel. —R.D.P.

Letters To The Editor Dear Editor: It has just been my misfortune to have read a letter in the April 18 edition of the Davidsonian submitted by the eminent scientist Mr. C. A. McNair. As one who served on this year’s election board and who has a fair knowledge of the political setup on some of our neighboring campuses, I would like to express a few points in favor of the way in which elections are run off at Alenda Lux. To defend our form of closed politics on tradition would be both trite and stupid. The men who framed our election methods had no tradition to work with. On the contrary, they had some very good and sound reasons for adopting the method which they did. First of all, Mr. McNair satirically brings out the alleged fact that our freedom of speech is muffled by the absence of campaign speeches. I hasten to point out that Davidson College is not a large university with thousands of students nor appears some state in the Union as it people think. Davidson is a small liberal arts college with a small student body. A man running for a student body office has had three years in which to make his campaign speeches — not with a talk from our rostrum, but with his actions. If he possesses the qualities of leadership suggested by his nomination in a closely knit institution like Davidson, he will be known, voted for, and elected. No thin veneer of a speech could in any way help. In a university where capable men are often lost in the vast number of students, such a procedure would not work so well, but at Davidson it is the best and only way. This is also true of our state and national elections. It is impossible for the voters to know the candidates personally, and speeches are the means by which voters must select the candidate for whom to vote. Again, I would like to point out the fallacy in attempting to compare our school with a state, city, or country. Mr. McNair points out that under the present system the voters disregard what the candidate stands for. Is this the fault of the voter or the system by which he casts his ballot? Moreover, he further states that after voting under the system at Davidson for four years, a Davidson student will not be able to go forth into the terrible world and vote intelligently. Isn’t it a shame the way all the Davidson alumni are staggering about in blind political ignorance these days? Perhaps the situation might be remedied by requiring all Davidson graduates to take a literacy test before being allowed to cast a ballot in a national or minor civil election. In conclusion, I would like to cite one example of open politics in an institution not too many miles from our school. At this school, open politics is the order of the day. The candidates make speeches and there are political parties which nominate and campaign. It so happens that the combined fraternities can swing any election. A combine of seven fraternities leads one of the parties. There are seven “big” offices on the campus. Each year one of these groups puts a man in one of these positions. Ah, if Davidson with her musty political traditions could only have open, above the board, clean elections with freedom of speech. Respectfully, Ed Sutton.

Dear Editor: On the occasion of the ODK tap day, we were all proud of Dr. Johnston’s definition of equality as practiced at Davidson. We give everyone an equal opportunity without prejudice due to birth or breeding. This has worked with a fair degree of satisfaction in the student body. Still, these words seemed hollow to a fairly large group among the students. The opportunity given Negroes is limited to the grounds crew, the kitchen, and the janitor force. White jobs are closed to them, and a chance to enter into the opportunities offered by this college at either the level of a student or a faculty member is unheard of. Perhaps this is what Dr. Gear mentioned as being a Southerner before being a Christian. Yours in hopes of a more Christian world, George Worth

Breezin’ With Bob BY BOB RIERSON This column will, of necessity, take the form of a much-needed warning to the honorable Davidson student body so that an ever-recurrent evil might be avoided by those to whom a word of advice is sufficient. I will endeavor to present a simple case of common procrastination or negligence or laziness or whatever it might be called, a situation that seems to exist to some degree in every college student now in existence. Our guinea pig is a sophomore—or freshman—I forget which, by the name of Josephus Blow who is trying on an eight quality point brain to cram in seventeen semester hours of credit so that he can graduate when his class does, having dropped slightly behind in every semester thus far completed. His schedule is, therefore, rather heavy, consisting of Mythology 12, Home Economics 22, Physical Education 32, Date-Getting 42, Physical Ed. 52, Bluffing 62, and Phys. Ed. 72. We must allow that Joe has quite a load there, but that is no excuse for his absurd attitude in regard to such a schedule. Instead of doing the logical thing in such a predicament, i.e., keeping up with his work all along the road, this worthy junior persisted in blankly ignoring his voluminous assignments, until now he has arrived at the last four weeks of the semester with 58 black chapters to read in various textbooks, not to mention three term papers and one book report to write, due within the next two weeks. He had a great number of opportunities to catch up on this work in weeks gone by. To be sure, no one could blame him for laying off on the dance weekends, but there were other weekends when he got in at two instead of three and so eliminated the necessity for that extra hour of sleep the next morning. During the week, the movie changes only three times, so he doesn’t have an excuse for the period from seven to nine but three nights a week. One will have to allow him his nine to eleven period at the stud every night, as is the human natural wont of the Davidson student. Saturday night must be immediately thrown out of the discussion, but at least Tuesday and Thursday, let us say, are unaccounted for and unaccountable from Jos. viewpoint. Full well knowing that all the work stares him in the face, Jos., a senior who should set the standard for those coming after to follow, continually shies away from his duties and responsibilities. None of us can, or should, have any sympathy with his possibly professional procrastination. We should avoid, insofar as is possible, his horrible example of negligence and endeavor to the best of our abilities to go in exactly the opposite direction. After all, is it not common sense? Ask yourself; you can get only one answer. What's that? Go over to the library and do some Eco. parallel? Are you kidding? There’s a baseball game starting in half an hour!

Down Fraternity Court PHI GAMMA DELTA Particularly effective in the scintillating figure which was the perfect event of Friday evening’s gala ball was the play pulled by Grand National Crowell, who came from behind to lead the entire field, assuming a position on what he quaintly termed the “tip” of the figure, just in front of the spectators. Admitting that he had not eaten all weekend, Crowell explained that more pressing affairs had occupied his attention. Amos Homer Ragan, renowned for using his head, spent Saturday night enticing his date out on a dark porch where—He plied her with ice water. Hastening eagerly into the dance after a twenty-minute wait while his date brushed her teeth upstairs, Homer stated that her red dress brought out the instincts of the bull in him. Brother McKiethan, who stated coyly before the dance that he was fast as rabbits, stated afterwards, “I enjoyed every moment of it.”

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

A great time was had by all at the Spring Frolics. Unfortunately (or fortunately) several brothers started out for the dances but were detained along the way at various and sundry places. Still, a good time was had by all. Brother Winchester was out in full bloom, ’er sumpin’ with his cute little nurse. Both Salem and Queens were well represented while John Hay leads the stags to another moral victory. Someone remarked that Brother White’s jokes at the banquet were out of this world. They must have been because nobody in this world got the point. What's all this about “Flop,” Hugh, the cop, and a red Chevie at the Minute Grill Saturday night? Quite a show! The “Wagram Flash” gave all of his hometown girls a thrill over the weekend. That takes care of the printable news for this time, so we'll call this mess to a halt.

KAPPA ALPHA

Familiar voices are soon to resound through Sigma Hall, for a large number of alumni will return to the campus next Friday, May 2, for an afternoon and evening program which promises to be one of the highlights of the chapter year. Aside from renewing friendships of old classmates and Brothers, there will be a full schedule of entertainment and recreation, with a barbecue at Erwin Lodge. However, the main reason for the “Homecoming” event will be the unveiling of a plaque in the Chapter Hall, commemorating all the brothers of Sigma who were killed in World War II. Weary faces were the order of the day Monday, after a large weekend contribution to the Davidson social life. Many agreed that this set was the best. It’s rumored that after graduation Bone will form his own orchestra and play for all three sets next year. His date for the Frolics was Miss Nancy Jane Ansley. Many new and lovely faces were seen in the K.A. Corner. Chuck came through with another, and Lyles vindicated Chester. Noticeably stag were Brothers Stokes, Macauley, and Faucette No. 2. Congratulations to Brother Whitesides for picking such a charming girl to be the “Mrs.”

PI KAPPA PHI

Gigolo Boykin wins the prize for escorting the Queen of Bagdad to the dance. We didn’t catch the name, but we think she was Fashion Flo herself. Check with Bill Lander or his date Miss Betty Jo Warmbol for her address. “I’ve got troubles” Barringer and Higginbotham have a criminal record now. It seems you have to drive at night in South Carolina with lights on even if Winthrop girls have to be in at a certain time and the fuse is burned out. Anyway, Thad had to abandon the convertible between Chester and Rock Hill, and it was only two weeks ago he had to abandon the 1923 Hudson down that way. Said Thad, “I’ve got troubles.” Brother Cline’s mission to Salem will show its result this weekend when we see how he’s got us fixed up for the big day.

The Operating Table

From bits of information that have reached this desk from here and there, it seems there was more frolicking at the Frolics and after than met the eye... especially after. We hate to give the impression that the main function of this rag is to spread malicious gossip, but we do feel that its function is to promote the Davidson spirit, and that, of course, means getting to know all we can about our fellow Davidsonians. So... here goes.

As far as the dance itself went, the big excitement in the Phi Delt section came when one of the Wooglin boys wandered over with his date, who was dressed in a black strapless that started a few feet below the shoulders and ended the same distance above the knees. The outfit was topped off by silver ballet slippers and black stockings that, according to our authority for such matters, “Catfish” Head Sutton, reached well above her lovely, rounded kneecap. But to get back to our story—she was seeking one Phi Delt Iverson, with whom she used to climb mountains in Montreat, but said Iverson managed to avoid contact by assiduously taking shelter behind his date’s wide skirts.

And of course, there’s always news from the Alpha Sigs whenever a big weekend rolls around. This time the scene, from all reports, was Harris Lake, with “Stinky” Taylor and the Snake Doctor taking the spotlight. Only one there not watching the show, according to reports, was the “Penguin,” who was busy performing tricks of his own whenever and wherever she spoke. So interesting a time was had, as a matter of fact, that the Senator, squiring Salem’s one and only “Girl with the Golden Smile,” completely wasted $4.80 and failed to make the hop at all.

The Phi Delts, in no way outdone by the Alpha Sigs, went all out and pulled one of their own down by the riverside. A great deal of novelty was lent to the occasion by the presence of the newly elected prexys of both the Queens and Davidson “Y”s, who were beating around the bushes when both were supposed to have been attending the big conference at Johnson C. Smith University. Excitement for this occasion was furnished by Brother Oglesby, who entertained the group with his novel firecracker stunts. And of course, there was the “Greek,” completely out of this world with the one and only while her date, lugging the novel name of “Presh” Divine, made merry with Brinegar for the evening. Orchids to O. E., too, for the feat of juggling no less than three dates over the weekend.

Big linksmen Scofield and Flowers took time out during intermission to try their luck on a miniature course they happened to stumble across in the area. About all that can be said for them is that they shot quite a bit over par. Sunday’s morning papers carried a police report to the effect that a huge B-24, painted a brilliant blue, was seen flying low on the airport road in the wee hours, with flying lights going full blast, and tying up traffic for miles around. Don’t be surprised, either, by the lovely wedding bells that keep pealing forth from the abode of the big, glamorous chap in 116 Duke. It won’t be long now... they say he refused to eat a bite all weekend, which, to say the least, is quite unique.

HERE AND THERE: Lawson and “Homer” Ragan spending an hour and 29 minutes Friday night rehashing their life’s experience in an effort to discover where under the sun they had seen each other before, finally discovering they room three doors down from each other in East. Taylor and date slaving like dogs to get the Armory decorated Thursday night, while Ennett literally knocks himself out with the same. Bronco performing remarkable feats of strength at the S.A.E. breakfast in the Boar’s Head, when not busily engaged in demonstrating the sign of Minerva for all the girls in the vicinity. Whitesides and Barnwell still playing hard to get. Glasgow setting a new endurance record of 30 hours straight with the queen from Queens, while keeping a wary eye on Watt, whom he heartily suspects of rattling like a snake in the grass.

BIG DEALS AWAY FROM HOME DEPARTMENT: “Generally Gin,” scorning anything as tame as Davidson dance weekends have become in recent months, pulled a mild wild hare with a casual jaunt to New York. As this sheet goes to press, we have our agents posted in front of his door to warn us of his return, but all signs point to continued activity way up Nawth. Saxon, brandishing a deadly weapon in his right hand, gave a thrill of a lifetime to the girls at Wiis Ohacaca.

That seems to cover just about all the relatable events for the weekend past. But, pursuing the age-old Davidsonian policy of complete coverage for every social affair on the campus, we'll be with you with the prying eye up at Salem. Until then, watch your step.

By Bill

Cinema Comments

Calhoun

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
“DARK MIRROR”

Universal Studio scores another hit with this psychological movie. Olivia DeHavilland plays the parts of identical twins. These two beautiful girls are different only in their moral precepts. The bad twin commits a murder and Lew Ayers, psychologist, gets the job of distinguishing the bad from the good. This is a movie well worth seeing as Ayers does his work(?).

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY
“TEMPTATION”

A Universal drama of illicit love starring Merle Oberon, Charles Korvin, and George Brent. Merle Oberon, termed “unprincipled baggage,” plots the death of her husband, archeologist George Brent, with her lover. She decides, however, against murdering Brent, and turns on Korvin, whom she kills with a knockout powder. It has been suggested that Miss Oberon’s remarkable hourglass figure, which is set off by her eye-popping 1900 wardrobe, might have been devised, shall we say, or created, by the make-up department for this purpose. Nevertheless, it’s there, and don’t miss seeing... the picture, that is.

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
“MY FAVORITE BRUNETTE”

This Chandler story, produced by Paramount, stars Bob Hope and Dorothy Lamour, and has all you have been looking for in a motion picture. What it might lack in plot or excitement, it makes up for in scenery. Bob Hope plays the part of a private eye, mostly in the direction of Dotty. The story takes place in a variety of scenery as Hope chases all over the country, in his usual style.

Win a new car!

PHI DELTA THETA

With the Spring Dances as their target, the brothers of N.C. Gamma were out in force for the festivities on the campus and in the Queen City. Highlighting Saturday afternoon was a picnic staged by eight of the brotherhood on the bonnie banks of the Catawba. Brothers participating in the deal included Powell, Cutchin, Starnes, Oglesby, Sutton, McLean, Bernhardt, and Brinnegar. After feasting, the aforementioned and their fair companions did the mic problems in the reich. Brother Sparky Cobb is said to have enjoyed the salmon fishing while honors of the week go to Brother Starnes who played a triangular deal with three different maidens in one weekend. Brother Lee Potter of U.N.C. was in attendance at the dances with a flower of rare Egyptian beauty.

(Continued on Page 4)