416 Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, November 7, 1947

The DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT COLLEGE YEAR

ROB PHILLIPS
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Member 1947
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

We Are Still Lacking

Recently, Davidson’s Music Department has gained great heights in national and regional recognition. Though this Liberal Arts College has no Fine Arts Department, the Music Department, under the direction of Mr. Pfohl, has added much to the cultural aspect of this college life. As a result of this department’s work, we now have an excellent Artist Concert Series with promise of even better in the future. We have, also, one of the really outstanding college bands in the South, and the college has gained much favorable publicity through their concert tours. The Davidson College Male Chorus is probably unexcelled in the South, and their concerts have added a great deal to the college’s reputation. All these factors have entered in, and helped the average Davidson student to a more thorough appreciation of music. Let this, therefore, be a tribute to the Davidson Music Department, a vote of thanks for their achievements and an encouragement to “keep up the good work.”

In spite of these factors, however, there is still much lacking in the Arts program of Davidson (assuming there is some plan). Those students who have had no previous musical training have little opportunity to learn to actually appreciate these musical programs presented. Though it may be asking too much to suggest the immediate establishment of a Fine Arts Department, may we at least have a thorough course in the appreciation of the Fine Arts? How can this be a Liberal Arts College with little liberalism and practically no arts? — B. C.

Letters to the Editor...

The Editor of the Davidsonian,

Dear Sir;

I would like to speak out on a matter that has been a source of irritation to me since this school session began, and, I think, not to me only. That to which I refer is the Confederate flag-waving that has gone on at the pep rallies and football games and the adoption of “Dixie” as our new fight song. I have been expecting at any time to see the team come out in new uniforms of homespun grey. Now I am a Southerner and proud of it, as are most members of the student body, and I don’t object to the above-mentioned practices as such. They are fine in their place, but I do object to the attitude that has come to be associated with them. Perhaps these things have been done naively as a booster to campus morale, and I may be attaching too much significance to the matter, but I think it is unwholesome for the following reasons:

1. The attitude is one of discourtesy not in keeping with traditional Davidson spirit. Davidson in the past has always tried to make members of the visiting team feel welcome—the Beaver Club, one of our most active organizations, was designed largely for this purpose. A visiting player should be judged by his conduct on the field and not ridiculed because his name does not have an Anglo-Saxon ring, or because he does not hail from below the Mason and Dixon line. A Ragunas or a Tamalis should be as welcome here as a Johnson or Smith.

2. The attitude is one of variety. Davidson does not make a policy of drawing players from the northern high schools, but why should we begrudge other schools playing northern boys if they do have them in their student bodies? It is a free country, and all the players have been ruled eligible by Southern Conference officials. It seems petty and of little consolation to me to explain away our conference losses by saying that we are at least all fine young southern gentlemen.

3. It is an attitude of littleness that Davidson would be well rid of. The day of sectionalism in the United States is, or at least should be, over. We cannot forget our southern heritage, of course, but the South cannot rise from its present comparatively miserable social and economic position if we of the “third and fourth” generation insist on licking old wounds rather than working progressively and dynamically to revitalize the situation around us.

4. The attitude is one of deterrent to the progress of the college. Davidson will probably always be content to train southerners only; for this it was designed and thus perhaps it will best fulfill its function. I would like to advance my belief, however, that an infusion of more students from other parts of the country would be an intellectual stimulus to the school. We are almost too much a homogenous group. Having had much the same family background and experience, we tend to take the same attitude toward current questions, attitudes which are often prejudiced. There is often little difference of opinion among us, which is not especially conducive to original thought and adequate expression thereof. Well-prepared students from northern and western high schools would serve to raise scholastic levels and keep both faculty and fellow-students on their toes, intellectually.

I have not mentioned the fact that such an attitude as has been displayed might well serve as a source of embarrassment to those northerners and westerners now among the student body, all of whom are as ardent Davidsonians as the Georgians or Carolinians; the fact seems obvious. This statement is made with all good will and in the interest of the student body, asking only that the matter be considered.

Sincerely,
BILL JOYNER,

To the Editor:

This letter reflects, I believe, a growing feeling among the students of Davidson College. It is written in no spirit of complaint, but because I am sure the faculty is interested in student opinions and student needs. We who are enrolled at Davidson know we are receiving excellent training; that is the reason we are here. Some of us think, however, that that training often lacks the progressive aids which have been used elsewhere with great success. It is very easy for education to become stereotyped and inflexible. It can hardly be denied that Davidson offers very little in the way of visual education. The college has no dramatic department, and although the valiant efforts of the Red and Black Masquers are a great help in filling this gap, still we have little opportunity to study great plays as they should be studied—from the other side of the footlights, rather than out of a textbook. The college needs Departments of Drama, of Journalism, and of Fine Arts. If these cannot be supplied, other things could be found which would in some measure compensate for their absence. For example, there could be no better way of beginning an acquaintance with Shakespeare, and certainly no pleasanter one, than by seeing Laurence Olivier’s superb production of Henry V, recently playing in Charlotte; but there was no organized effort by the English Department either to bring it to Davidson, or to make it possible for us to see it in Charlotte as part of our work in English. Certainly it is worth as much as several lectures in making Elizabethan London real to students of today. Second in effectiveness only to seeing these productions would be to hear them in such recordings as the three Columbia albums of Paul Robeson’s magnificent performance in Othello. Foreign movies presented, and if necessary, charged for, by the various language societies would increase the value of the training we receive in language courses. More extensive use of recordings might also be useful, as would anything else that would encourage us to hear and speak the language rather than merely to read it.

Outside contacts with other kinds of people and ideas, no matter how arranged, would broaden our outlook and reduce the ingrowing tendencies which cannot help but exist under present conditions. For instance, more of the chapel services might be utilized to bring speakers who would present new points of view and give first-hand information on matters of current importance. (A few such speakers have been brought to us, and we congratulate those responsible.) There are surely many things, perhaps better known to the faculty than to us, which would stimulate us in our work and make the educational program of Davidson College more vital and more alive. There may (Continued on Page Six)

Sam Sez...
By SAM ERVIN

Limping painfully on badly mangled feet, clutching a dislocated shoulder with his one good hand, and groaning softly to himself as a result of the pain caused by several shattered ribs, Mervin Throck Morton staggered around the campus early Sunday morning after fighting a losing battle under the lights at the Charlotte Hotel's ballroom. Narrowly avoiding several yawning gutters and the ever-present miniature lakes, he managed to drag himself to his lonely abode where he collapsed amid heaps of discarded dress shirts and tuxedos. As he lost consciousness for the last time he was heard to whisper, “Never again!”

Fortunately this little story is somewhat exaggerated! In fact, no one was fatally injured and the number of serious casualties was held to two figures, but we may not be so fortunate next time. Most of the lucky men who had dates suffered only minor cuts and abrasions unless they made the mistake of arriving late. The early comers actually enjoyed themselves after they realized that it was futile to strive to return to the sidelines and resigned themselves to their fate—having to dance (?) with the same girl throughout. Those who were not skilled in tripping the light fantastic were delighted to discover that they had only to stand still and be turned about slowly in a clockwise and rhymical manner by alternate elbows and backsides. The aforementioned cuts and abrasions were sustained, in most cases, when dancers collapsed from exhaustion and hunger. The ranks of the stags were depleted by a number of bloody accidents which occurred when they sought to win the right to dance with their favorites. The ground attack was quickly abandoned after the opening gun when it became apparent that the full spinners and off-tackle slants were failing to make any dents in the mass of humanity. The less courageous ones promptly surrendered (ungraciously), and crept away, but the more determined ones took to the air. Here again they made little progress. Most of theRailing and only paratroopers reached the dance floor by leaps from the balcony. They found it somewhat difficult to dance with broken legs. The last report indicated, however, that all were recovering satisfactorily. This fable has a moral. It merely feeble request that look a little harder for a place to Saturday dances hereafter. I realize that Charlotte lacks adequate facilities largely because that musical (?) extravaganza politely known as the Carolina Hayride Hit Parade is holding forth at the Armory—but even the dining hall would be an improvement. I realize that man likes to associate closely with other members of the human race, but by having dances in the Charlotte Hotel, I believe that we are pushing even that basic desire too far.

DELTA KAPPA

Delta Kappa’s Homecoming weekend proved true to the usual course of events, by starting off with a goodly amount of flushes. With Pledge Brothers Morton and Beck running for top flush honors, and to the extent of returning home to check on details. Fesperman showed the true fruits of a summer's studying up North by escorting a “come hither lass.” For more details, just ask Carr. The pledge class graciously furthered the cause of the You-Drive-It-Cars with their generous contributions. Other noticeable events were: Pritchard and Alcorn with their big Cadillac trying to push all the taxis off the street—little Wilhie Clark going back into Indian country to find his date. Brown looked like a proud father with his new car. Beaty won a football game. Bruce Jackson is about 20,000 feet up after seeing his lovely lass from Va. Many thanks to Professor Bauman for his fine job of toastmaster at our banquet. Delta Kappa takes pleasure in announcing the pledging of Hamilton.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

Rain has washed out the clues, the witnesses have gone home, but by means of circumstantial evidence, hearsay, and hangovers the report reads as follows: The weekend unveiled the greatest triple-threat combo in a decade in the form of Maloney, Jenkins, and Via. Pledge Brother Via started things off at the banquet with a dissertation on free love, taken directly from his yet-to-be-published autobiography. During this discourse Brother Jenkins was vainly trying to do the makeup on his date, who had asked the weekend off from Ringling Brothers. Penalties held Brother Maloney back most of the time. On the first play of the game, he drew fifteen for offensive holding. There was much dispute over the decision and for his trouble Maloney picked up an additional fifteen for unnecessary roughness. On the very next play, he got fifteen more for illegal use of hands. But the crowning blow to a disastrous evening was a five-yard penalty stepped off by his date’s mama for too much time in the huddle. Everybody else played a fair and square game.

KAPPA ALPHA

“It was sad when that great ship went down,” was the song being wailed around the House Monday, because that’s just what it looked like after the rains came. Nevertheless, the Great Guns sailed into the runner-up spot for Homecoming decoration. And from the amount of activity observed Monday, it must have been a great weekend for all. One good comment was that it should happen more often. And things are happening right along. Tuesday night most of the Brothers went to Charlotte to attend a meeting of the rapidly growing alumni chapter to meet the men who have done so much to aid Sigma Chapter. Brother Frampton, Province Commander from Chester, S.C., was the guest speaker for the occasion. Assuming that a month is long enough to recuperate from Homecoming, another big weekend is to take place on December 6. First, there will be an informal session at Erwin Lodge on Friday night, followed by a banquet and dance at the Morris Field Club. Brother Baxter is the man putting things together. So much took place all over this part of the country during the weekend that it would be impossible to begin an account. After the formal Friday night, everyone went on to a breakfast—not boarding house tho’—and some individuals were still straggling in at the half. Brother Saxon neglected his date long enough to stage a successful feed after the game for the alumni, guests, brothers, and dates. Now another grand Homecoming is history. If there are any tributes to be paid, we would list two: first, our hats are off to those colleges which furnished our lovely dates for the (Continued on Page Six).

Davidson Operating Table

With an entire homecoming weekend to draw our tidbits from, your correspondent feels as though he is pressed for space in the weekly rag. Even if able, it would be difficult to enumerate all that took place. First of all, it would seem best to congratulate the football team on playing a magnificent game and for contributing largely to the best homecoming weekend in more than a decade at Davidson. The colorful decorations, the lovely lasses, and the score of the game all lent themselves toward achieving more than we had hoped in our wildest dreams. The moniker of the most embarrassed man of the week must surely go to MR. WILLIAM BLUE RAY of the freshman class. It seems that while flipping through a recent issue of a well-known style magazine, he chanced to notice his date of the weekend modeling for a well-known woman's accessory company known as UPLIFT, INC. Quoth MR. RAY, “I almost dropped dead on the spot.” It has been rumored that the heads of the Y.M.C.A. have found a new method of circumventing dance weekend frustration. Anyone wishing to gain this valuable information can contact Messrs. McLEAN and BRENNINGER, and you, too, can learn how to give your date a drop without using your hands. One of the more astonishing sights beheld by your correspondent was DEACON JOHN DURANT ASHMORE in the company of one SIDNEY BRUCE rather than his usual group of rowdy companions. MR. ASHMORE was quoted as saying, “I've turned my back on sin and frivolity.” Thus far your correspondent has been unable to get a coherent statement from the KNIGHTS OF ALOHA in regard to a large function held this past Friday night. Have patience. Perhaps one of them will be able to give a concise picture of what happened by the time we go to press for the next issue. WHISPERING JIM SISKE did a bit of scientific research late Saturday and proved beyond all doubt that a man (BLACKJACK SHELTON) cannot stay on an electric fan while it is in motion. MR. HUGH HILL has again requested aid in finding a date for a dance. Once again (22nd time) MR. HILL was without a date for the Homecoming festivities. If anyone can give any assistance, please call by THE DAVIDSONIAN office at your earliest opportunity, so that a concentrated effort and drive can be launched for Midwinters. To MR. BUB WILCOX go the honors of having the most ravishing charmer of the festivities. It was indeed unfortunate that circumstances forced Mr. WILCOX to leave town early Saturday morning, denying fellow students of her presence Saturday night. Rumor of romance has reared its ugly head in regard to an affair between MR. JUGBLOWING BLEVINS and MISS BETTY ANN NEWMAN of the WBT entertainers.

Paging the Professors... By Stan Kennett

DR. PIETENPOL

Last year Dr. Pietenpol came to Washington and Jefferson College in Pennsylvania, to join the Physics Department. In speaking of Davidson, Dr. Pietenpol expressed amazement at the “uniformly high type” of student found here. To your reporter, and surely to a great number of Davidson students, this observation of Davidson College is quite gratifying. Professor Pietenpol, the son of a Dutch Reformed minister, was educated at Hope College in Michigan for his first two years of college. During that time the first World War began and the University of Pittsburgh called him to be an instructor in physics. Prof. Pietenpol stayed on at Pitt to complete his undergraduate work. Before going to Washington and Jefferson where he was Dean of the faculty, and acting president for one year, Professor Pietenpol taught at the Universities of Wisconsin and Colorado and founded the Physics Department at Long Island University in 1928. Among his duties at Washington and Jefferson was the founding of the Engineering School. He earned his doctorate at New York University. A native of the Midwest, Dr. Pietenpol's present hobby is gardening, and he used to play tennis.

DR. GOLDIERE

Dr. Goldiere came to Davidson twenty-five years ago, a “yankee” planning to stay only a year. He hoped that the Southerners could stand him that long, and he, them. His stay of so long a period is evidence of how well he could be so stood and how well he can stand, but more than that it is evidence of his great affection for Davidson. His position at Davidson is the only one he has held since graduation from college, with the exception of short professorships at Mary Baldwin and Queens colleges during the recent war. After graduation from Dartmouth, Dr. Goldiere studied at Yale University from which he earned his master's degree and his Ph.D. in Romance Languages. He studied in France at the University of Caen after the first World War while in the Army of Occupation. He has also done work at the French Institute of the University of Pennsylvania and in Madrid. Outside of the classroom, Dr. Goldiere is interested in gardening, particularly in cultivating flowers. A comparison of male and female students, made by Dr. Goldiere, is quite interesting. He says that the superior men students are better than the superior girl students, but that there are more poor men students, in the realm of his observation.

Think It Over... By MALLOY OWEN

THANKSGIVING

Thanksgiving is the one holiday which is uniquely Christian and American. Christian because it is set apart to thank God. American because it has its origin in the Plymouth colony and is celebrated exclusively in this country. It is the most shocking inconsistency for an institution as Christian and as American as Davidson to prevent its students from enjoying this holiday with their parents at home, which stems from the very heart of our heritage. Thanksgiving is a family day as well as a church and national one. It is an old American tradition for families to gather on this last Thursday in November to express gratitude to God for his abundant mercies and blessings. Surely if ever we Americans had reason to be thankful, we have today. As the whole world is hungry, ruined, and in desperation, we enjoy freedom, peace, and plenty. And what do Davidson students do on that day? Acknowledge it with an absolute minimum of time! Surely the influence of this college is great for the building of character in her students, but what a poor example is set by failure to attach enough importance to that day set apart by our founding fathers, for us to join about a table with those whom we love and praise our Father in Heaven for our many blessings.

CHRISTIAN HOMES

If this were a reform school whose inmates were sent here to escape the evils of wayward (Continued on Page Five).