Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, January 17, 1947

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

PUBLISHED WEEKLY, THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ED SUTTON

BUSINESS MANAGER
BOB SMOAK

Editorials

The DAVIDSONIAN

Letters & resents

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editor
Clayton Scofield

Feature Editor
Walter Walker

Sports Editor
Ralph Alexander

Managing Editor
Bob Philips

Managing Editor
Dave Richardson

Managing Editor
Jim Pitman

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Bob Gambrell

Advertising Manager
Frank Lemmon

Circulation Manager
John McNair

Circulation Manager
Bob Cline

Circulation Manager
Charles Dockery

Collection Manager
Bill Baxter

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such it welcomes any contributions or communication to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

1946 Member 1947
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Davidsonian

“The time has come,” the walrus said, “to talk of many things ....”

This week's editorial columns could contain thoughts on many subjects that seem to be of importance to Davidson students today, and there was some amount of difficulty involved in making a selection for this week's edition. The subject which we are choosing is one of concern, even alarm, for it is about a Davidson which seems to be slipping in some of its finest traditions. In particular, do we point to the publication which you are now reading, The Davidsonian.

The question up for discussion is simply this: Do we want a weekly publication on the Davidson campus? Apparently not. With a student body of nine hundred and three students, the paper goes to press tonight with five men present. Five men to do re-write, proof reading, make-up, layout, typing, and all the other tasks tied in with the job of putting out a college weekly. Frosh and Sophomore reporters who are assigned stories often fail to report at all, and when they do manage to bring in a literary masterpiece of twenty-eight lines, they toss it on the desk, and with numerous feeble excuses, leave the office. Headlines are written by the managing editors, this a traditional underclass job. Junior and Senior staff members are not exempt from blame, however. Several of the managing editors whose jobs are making up the paper, and proof reading the copy, have spent less than three nights with the staff this year. These are the men that you as Davidson students will vote on in spring elections for editor of the newspaper. Yet members of this student body criticize us for our paper, and wonder why in the past year and one half the Davidsonian has slipped from her usual First Class and All American Ratings to that of Second Class. The students are expected to make the Davidsonian their newspaper. If you have an opinion on something, express it in a letter to the editor. If you want to write an editorial or a feature story, write it. Remember, this is your school and your newspaper. The college and the paper will be only what you, as individuals, make it.

Otts’ Lectures

This issue of the paper is the first since we were fortunate enough to have as our guest Dr. Emile Cailliet, who delivered the Otts’ series of lectures before the Christmas holidays. During his stay, Dr. Cailliet talked on “The Christian Student,” and his dynamic personality and Christian fervor will long be remembered by those of us who heard him. As he was leaving, Dr. Cailliet handed us a prayer of Dr. Samuel Johnson which he requested be used as his thought for an appreciation of the Davidson students.

“O Lord, our maker and protector, Who hast graciously sent us into this world to work out our own salvation, enable us to drive from us all such inquiet and perplexing thoughts as may mislead or hinder us, in the practice of those duties which Thou hast required. When we behold the works of Thy hands, and consider the course of Thy providence, give us grace always to remember that Thy thoughts are not our thoughts, nor Thy way our ways. And while it shall please Thee to continue us in this world where much is to be done, and so little is known, teach us by Thy Holy Spirit to withdraw our minds from unprofitable and dangerous inquiries, from difficulties vainly curious, and doubts impossible to be solved. Let us rejoice in the light which Thou hast imparted. Let us serve Thee, O God, with active zeal and humble confidence, and wait with patient expectation for the time in which the soul which Thou receivest shall be satisfied with knowledge. Grant this, O Lord, for the sake of Jesus Christ our Lord.” Amen.

Quarter System...

During the recent Christmas holiday period, Davidson men could be spotted at every happy gathering by their long faces and haggard expressions, while other young men who were at home from neighboring institutions were light-hearted and gay. Reason? At the end of the holiday festivities for a Davidson student lies that horrible abyss of final semester examinations. He knows that when he returns to the campus he must prepare for the long ten-day siege of horror which composes Davidson exam periods. The same applies to Spring vacations. Institutions with the quarter system send their students home with exams safely tucked away and a new start in the making on return. Why does Davidson linger on with the outmoded semester system? The only argument which we have ever heard in favor of the practice is that the rate of retention is higher when classes do not fall on consecutive days. This evidence cannot be too strong, however, for other institutions of higher education would not have adopted the quarter plan had this been the case. With the many veterans planning to continue their studies throughout the year, the quarter system certainly seems more convenient and plausible — the summer quarter being no different from the regular school term. Let’s hear some student opinion on the issue. I feel certain that the majority of the student body must feel as we do on the matter.

Breezin’ With Bob
BY BOB RIERSON

After numerous delays, postponements, putting-offs, and other procrastinations, the campus attempt at yellowish-purple journalism is at last regaining its normal course. The cause of said deferments were, I ashamedly yet necessarily admit, because of the humble scribbler of this hunk of newspaper nonsense. I feel it is my duty to inform the reading (if such there be) public of the cause of all these delays and incidentally the cause of the disappearance till now of my Christmas present to the few who weekly flounder through the confines of this article.

The observant will have noticed by now the addition of something new to the cut that heads this column, an addition which, I have little doubt, has been eagerly awaited, though extremely long in coming. To these brave and hardy souls I raise my glass (of milk, for the benefit of the faculty and administration) in salute for being able to withstand such a terrific blow. I must add here, however, to soothe my own savage pride that if one works up to it easily, he will soon become accustomed to my countenance (ask my two roommates). This then was the present which I had in mind for my readers and which has only now arrived.

The tardiness of arrival has a long and sordid story behind it which I feel bound to relate at this time so that The Davidsonian will not bear the full brunt of criticism for its non-appearance.

A lengthy session was held among the members of the staff when it was learned that yours truly had succeeded to the privilege of putting forth drivel every week for the benefit and enlightenment of the Davidson student body. For with this honor came the secondary privilege of a cut and picture over the column. The cut was not disputed by the editors, but the latter article was held as being derogatory to Davidson standards and traditions and to the motto of the paper which is “For A Better Davidson.” Eventually it was decided to go ahead with an experiment tested on a committee composed of a representative group of students, namely the editors.

After receiving my instructions, I set off to Charlotte one bright day to search for a strong-willed photographer with great intestinal fortitude and a burning desire to accumulate the shekels. Hours of search finally rewarded my efforts, and I was cloistered in a small studio with a man almost twice as big as myself. I took my seat as he directed and waited while he adjusted his camera. His head disappeared beneath the folds of his hood and did not reappear. I began to fidget and finally inquired of the man as to the source of delay. I was answered by a low groan and an almost inaudible request to leave. As I picked my way out, gingerly avoiding the bits of broken lens, I heard the huge man slump.to the floor. It was another week before I returned to my trials of seeking out a hardy picture-maker, but a small studio far off the beaten path volunteered to attempt the ordeal. The entire staff of three partners staked their collective and individual reputations on the job with collective and individual shudders. They were successful, however, since one of them survived to print the picture. He afterwards informed me that a great deal of chemical solution was required to develop the picture because it easily consumed the potency of a standard amount. But now I had my cut, and I proudly presented it to the committee. This was a few days before Christmas holidays began, so I must apologize for being the cause of the spoiling of Yuletide cheer for my associates on the staff. The editors have still not completely recovered from severe cases of shock and stomach trouble, especially our revered Edward C. (Trouthead) Sutton who has nevertheless managed to drag himself from his sickbed to edit this week’s paper. This apology may explain the many delays and possibly the sub-standard content of this edition. The committee decided in favor of allowing the picture to go in, however, on the grounds that it was as good as could be expected and they would thus make the writer of this piece known to all, mental photograph which would be (Continued on Page 3)

The Operating Table

Davidson’s student body expresses deepest sympathy in the case of HOT BOX BILL McLEAN, the gorgeous golden Grecian. It is reported from reliable sources that “the Greek” is seeking solace in a companion of days gone by, since the wedding announcement arrived by special delivery. This bit of verse was offered by one of his many understanding friends:

The deed is done
The prize is won,
'Tis best you seek
Another one.

There was more to the quaint little poem, but it will never find its way into print if Mullethead wishes to remain in school. This scholarly journal could not go to press without the latest report on activities of BONE JEFFRIES, the cosmopolitan socialite and connoisseur of Austrian nobility. The pan-hell prexy has recently covered the walls of his room with D.D.T. Deal of the week was pulled by TORCHY TURNBULL and eight K.Z. partners in crime who horrified the administration of Mitchell College with a boisterous demand for women. Their requests were granted to the tune of nine fair damsels who sat in the parlor and worked out new variations on the harmonium. TURNBULL is reported to be off to Statesville to attend the annual Spring Frolic there. DICK GLASGOW, the prominent Charlotte underworld character (cousin of Sam Glasgow), made a phone call this week to get dope on a deal with a Queens College lass, dialed the wrong number by force of habit, and caused a violent explosion at the other end of the line.

Four lovely school teachers from Mooresville, two of them almost human, turned up on the campus Sunday searching diligently for one “Sterile” HARRILL. After careful handling by “Generally Gin” JACKSON, who explained later that he considered the reputation of Davidson at stake, the girls were completely satisfied and returned home joyously singing paeans of thanksgiving. “Dirty” DOUG SWINK, having returned from a gala holiday in which he refrained from smoking, drinking, or shooting crap, explained to a passing Y deputation in Charlotte that he was going down to “browse in the little furniture store in the basement of the Barringer.” Ex-ensign JOHN WALKER, showing off as usual, was passed down on the shoulders of admiring high school students at the State game last week. Ugly rumors hinted that the movement was started by a civic-minded group of students hoping to protect the virtue of a sweet young thing whose earmuffs WALKER had already succeeded in removing.

PHI GAMMA DELTA Brother Leighton McKiethan returned from the holidays huskily relating a harrowing experience unequalled by any war epic. “Hot” McKiethan, as he is now affectionately called, became enmeshed with a vision of loveliness who neglected in the fury of his ardent pursuit to mention that she worked during the daytime as a lady fire eater. “Torrid” reported spectacular success after each venture until one night in the heat of an impassioned embrace she burped. The pair was enveloped in a sheath of purple flame, and after a few meaningful croaks, Leighton Black returned homeward to nurse cauterized tonsils and remove soot from his ears. It was rumored that Brother Murd’s date, an exciting little number from Upper Greenpoint, N.Y., mistook him for one of the slaves on the McKiethan plantation, and beat him about the head and shoulders with a bull-whip she had been using for a number of days on the simple peasants of the neighborhood. Fireplug and Pledge Brother Crowell are spending the long winter nights in Mooresville rotating amongst a group of teachers, two of whom are reportedly human. Despite unprincipled frivolity engaged in by most of the brothers, Pledge Brother Bill Harris has settled down to having a permanent grin on his face and a permanent girl in his affections, having become the latest of the justly proud married brothers. Welcome Mrs. Harris.

S. A. E. Wedding bells rang out over the Christmas holidays for another S.A.E. Brother Allen and Martha Withers of Davidson were married December 27th, and after a short honeymoon in Florida, returned to make their home within the shadow of Chambers. Forthcoming is the marriage of Brother Ford Little and Betty Yost of Greensboro, sometime in the Spring. Brother Carrow has lost his pin in the vicinity of the Loftis house in Charlotte and returns at every opportunity to look for it. Or maybe it’s the coconut cake that draws him back. Brother Pahl made his last jaunt before exams to W.C. in order to survey the campus by moonlight. “Astronomy is wonderful,” he says. Brother “B.B.” Bailey is not giving away frat pins this semester; but is working in reverse and collecting sorority “june bugs.” His total at the present is one. The Pledges stayed close to the Hill over the weekend, possibly due to the coming exams looking down their throats. Pledge White did venture forth to Gaffney for a short stay though, while Pledges Rogers, Faison, and Cleaninger got only as far as home in Charlotte.

BETA THETA PI During the past several weeks most of the boys have been busy catching up on sleep lost during the holidays and recuperating from the activities thereof in general. In fact, Brother Frank Lemmon had such a rough time of it that he had to honor Memorial Hospital with his presence there. While Brother George Gunn worries about what girl to invite to the Mid-Winters (so that somebody else can pin her up), Brother Upchurch and Pledge-brother Scruggs have other arrangements upon which to expand their mental efforts. A fine feed was indulged in as a farewell to sleep during the exam period last Sunday. Besides the traditional Beta Brew and concomitants, there was a special feature in the form of a dedicated song to Pledge-brother McNair’s wife. A highlight was the election of Miss Barbara Coith (one of Brother Pittman’s “main objects of life”) to the sponsorship of Phi Alpha for this year’s annual. The new sponsor is from Orlando, Florida, and is a student at Rollins College. She is undoubtedly the most beautiful sponsor the fraternity (or any other) has ever had. (Of course, we quote Brother Pittman.)

K. A. Those things called “exams,” officially, and various unmentionable names by the students are occupying the main spot on the Knights’ calendars for this week and next. The pledges, especially, are burning the midnight oil in an effort to meet the qualifications for initiation. Memories of a happy Christmas holiday still linger on and dark eyes bear evidence to the fact. But some of the “get-up-and-go” has been held in reserve for the forthcoming Mid-Winters. Brother Jefferies has again delivered the goods, this time in the form of Dean Hudson’s Orchestra. Many of the brothers and pledges were on hand in Winston-Salem for the Duke-Davidson game. After seeing State in action the boys gave the nod to the Blue Devils. The K. A. quintet tasted its second defeat of the season when the S. A. E.’s downed the boys in red by a 26-21 score. Big man on the wrestling team is Pledge Dick Easley. Pledge Chuck Kirby is out in the 128-pound class and Brother John Adams holds down the manager's slot.

PHI DELTA THETA Reports are still pouring in at the Phi Delt lodge of gargantuan deals pulled over the holiday period by the sturdy warriors of the sword and shield. Brother Oglesby has a twisted tale of wrecked autos, wisdom teeth, and Peachtree Street escapades, while Brother Starnes says all is well in the land of the sky. Brother Sutton walks around with glazed eyes and is evidently possessed with a mad desire for summer since he mumbles constantly about June. Pledge Brother Adams was caught in the crossfire of two fair maidens in Portsmouth, but was saved by a severe cold and a golden tongue. Brother McLean has done it again... nuf said. Brother Tate wheeled out the big blue for a journey to Winston-Salem, and the Davidson-Duke engagement, but was unable to make contact at Salem College due to dissension in the ranks. Brother Newell figures in many prominent deals about Charlotte and vicinity.

CINEMA
Fri. - Sat. January 17-18 “BLUE SKIES”
Mon. - Tues., January 20-21 “DECEPTION”
Wed. - Thurs., January 22-23 “LADY LUCK”
Fri. - Sat., January 24-25 “NOTORIOUS”

CALENDAR
Mon. - Tues., January 27-28 “THE BIG SLEEP”
Wed. - Thurs., January 29-30 “SISTER KENNY”
Fri. - Sat. January 31-Feb. 1 “CUBAN PETE”