HISTORY OF FRATERNITY COURT (Page 3) ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS The Davidsonian SOUTHERN CONFERENCE STANDINGS (Page 4) Volume XXXVI
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, NOV. 14, 1947 No. 8

Fall Services Emphasize Daily Living

CHAPEL SPEAKERS
By GRAY HAMPTON

Monday, November 17—Dr. William G. McGavock.
Tuesday, November 18—Professor A. G. Griffin.
Wednesday, November 19—To be selected later.
Thursday, November 20—Dr. Charles R. Eberhardt.
Friday, November 21—YMCA.

Are we living our religion? Are we putting our faith into practice? These two thought-producing themes constituted the basic foundations
around which Dr. Warren Alston built the six sermons which he delivered to the Davidson College student body last week.
Dr. Alston, one of the ablest preachers in the General Assembly and currently the pastor of the Druid Hills Presbyterian
Church of Atlanta, Georgia, came to us for our annual Fall Services, bringing a series of talks designed to help
out the college man of today.

In the first of these sermons titled, “When Religion Becomes Careless,” Dr. Alston blasted the argument that the Sermon on
the Mount was impractical, and urged his hearers to heed it. It is more practical to build one’s house on
rock than on sand. It is also wise for mankind to build their lives upon the strongest foundation of all—Jesus
Christ.

Wednesday morning the question, “What do you make of Jesus?” was propounded by the speaker. He suggested that Jesus was
(1) a man who could do what He had done, (2) the kind of a person who can come abreast
of our contemporary life as a factor to be reckoned with, and (3) a man who can deal with the
human heart better than anyone else.

In the fourth talk, “Ship for Tarshish,” our speaker declared that many members of the present generation are trying to
run away from God. He pointed out that the only way to find peace and happiness is to face up
to our responsibilities and to live in accordance with God’s will.

Literary Group Initiates Four Men

Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, held its second meeting of the year Thursday night, November 6, at the K. A.
house. The meeting opened with the initiation of four new men, Jerry Leland, Jimmy Gribben, Dorough, and Mr. Thomas Greer
of the English Department.

Forum Debates World Government

The Davidson College Forensic Council sponsored an open forum discussion Friday night, November 7, in the faculty room of Chambers,
debating the issue: Should a Federal World Government be established? Leading the discussion was Professor Brown of the Economics Department,
Professor Cummings of the English Department, Professor Thompson of the Bible Department, and Professor Abernethy of the Political Science Department.
The group made plans for programs throughout the year and discussed at length the pros and cons of the final
1946-47 debate issue.

Music Fraternity Presents First Of Monthly Programs

For the inauguration of its series of monthly musical programs, Phi Mu Alpha presented Mr. John Goodman, pianist, in a
half-hour concert on Tuesday, November 11, at 2:15 p.m. in Phi Hall. The program was enthusiastically received by townspeople and
students alike. Mr. Goodman played the following selections: Intermezzo—Brahms; Valse—Durand; Danse Russe—Tchaikovsky; Chicken Reel—Breuer; Lullaby for a Modern Baby—Delius; Spanish
Valse—Green; Flight of the Bumble Bee—Rimsky-Korsakov; two piano numbers were played by Mr. Goodman: Danseuses de Delphes and de Pas
Sur la Neige—Debussy.

All are invited to these monthly programs, the next of which will be on the second Tuesday in December at
9:45 p.m., in Chambers Auditorium. Phi Mu Alpha plans to continue its custom of sponsoring the annual interfraternity sing this
spring. This contest, which fell into disuse during the war, traditionally takes place in April, and presents each fraternity in
a five-minute group of school and fraternity songs, with a silver cup being awarded the winner by judges provided by
Phi Mu Alpha. The event is held in front of Chambers Building and is customarily attended by the entire student
body.

A brief resume of the rules, which will be officially published at a later date, follows: (1) Each group competing
must use at least 30 and not more than 40 voices; (2) Each group must sing the songs without instrumental
accompaniment; (3) The songs must be memorized; (4) The judges will be selected from the faculty and townspeople.

Masquers To Present “Our Town”

The Davidson College Masquers will present Thornton Wilder’s “Our Town” on November 25 at 8:30 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium. The
cast includes Freeman Jones, Carolyn McGoor, Doug Swink, Selene Parker, and Linton Deas. The play, which was given by the
Red and Black Masquers twice in Davidson last year, is also taking the production to Charlotte this year.

Dyer-Bennet To Give Vesper Message

On Monday evening, November 17, John Hay (left) and Ernest Stricklin (right) are shown above conferring with Mr. Fred Stair,
recent visitor to the campus, concerning the choice of a vocation. Fred Stair, a graduate of Union Theological Seminary in
Richmond, Virginia, talked with many who were interested in the ministry, advising them what subjects would be helpful for their
future work. He also had chats with students who had not yet decided about their life’s work, giving them helpful
information about the ministry and the benefits derived from it.

Dyer-Bennet, who made a brilliant record as an undergraduate here at Davidson—before he graduated in 1939—besides being a member of
Omicron Delta Kappa, was President of the student body and cadet colonel in the R.O.T.C. He has made a brilliant
record as a minstrel singer and guitarist. He has sung to audiences throughout the world. He has also sung in
the leading night clubs of New York City. He will give the vesper message in the college chapel on Sunday
evening, November 16.

Intercollegiate Council Meets On Campus

The Davidson College Forensic Council will sponsor an open forum discussion Friday night, November 7, in the faculty room of
Chambers, debating the issue: Should a Federal World Government be established? Leading the discussion was Professor Brown of the Economics
Department, Professor Cummings of the English Department, Professor Thompson of the Bible Department, and Professor Abernethy of the Political Science
Department. The group made plans for programs throughout the year and discussed at length the pros and cons of the
final 1946-47 debate issue.

On Saturday, November 15, members from Davidson, Johnson C. Smith, Charlotte, and Queens will meet on the Davidson campus to
discuss the formation of an intercollegiate council. This council will be composed of representatives from each of the four schools
and will meet periodically to discuss matters of mutual interest.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and
punctuation:

---

de for eu woe ener al, ANU CTLs POGUE eB ucla ReES Ol aetObiG generation were, like Jonah, who college
alma mater, “All Hail, O he Charlotte ery rapid, Today he has jee a good starting point for their Saturday
night. Two Agnes Scott tent interest—the investigation sought to escape God by taking a Davidson!" (3) No help may be
obtained from members of the music i ied Eight ae ae il in Town and Carnegie concert rOUuS On JANUARY
5, 1948, teams of the Phi Alpha Phi debate Communism be made by a (ship bound for a remote part
of the tained from members of the music faculty; (4) Each fraternity will be the night of the leading cities
of concert rOUuS On JANUARY 5, 1948, teams of the Phi Alpha Phi debate Communism be made by a (ship
bound for a remote part of the tained from members of the music faculty; (4) Each fraternity will be allotted
a minimum of five minutes and a maximum of eight minutes in the price of admission will be 50 cents
for students and 75 cents for adults. The concert will begin promptly at 8:30 p.m. Tickets will be sold in
advance by members of the organization. Director Lowe stated that he was surprised and greatly pleased by the interest shown
in the play and the progress made so far. “I am quite confident,” said Lowe, “that this production shall surpass
any performance presented at Davidson up to this time.” He stated that “we are giving the play on two consecutive
nights, so that all the students and friends of the college in and around Davidson may have the opportunity of
seeing it.”

Mr. Payne Undergoes Operation

On Monday night, November 3, Mr. Payne left for New Haven, Conn., to consult a specialist at the Yale University
Hospital. On Thursday, November 6, he underwent an operation from which he is reported to be recuperating nicely. Mr. Payne
expects to return to Davidson on Friday, November 21, accompanied by Mrs. Payne, who is with him in New Haven.

Aspen will not become a Bohemian art colony, but will be made up of people who are actually working. These
artists can sell their work in the cities, and can prepare for their concert tours in these peaceful surroundings. There
will be, of course, a small turnover in the population as the tourists come and go, but there will be
a large group of permanent residents made up primarily of the groups of artists and professionals that are beginning to
be attracted to the town.

Local Artists Give Dramatic Preview

Miss Retta Hackett arrived Monday in Davidson to start work on the Bitonis Club show “Cornzapoppin,” which will be presented
on November 14 at Chambers Auditorium for the benefit of the conservation of sight and aid to the blind. Davidson
students were privileged to witness a short preview of this dramatic production at chapel Thursday morning. After the usual dull
period of student announcements, Professor Fulcher, who had hitherto been disregarded by all, broke the good news to the student
body. In his own inimitable style, Professor Fulcher, reading with great gusto, listed the galaxy of stars, which was led
by several reputedly local characters; among them one Hugo Apothecary. Whereupon, the aforesaid revelation being completed, Professor Fulcher took to
his heels, leaving the cast, who were attempting a preview skit, to the friendly mercy of the Randolph-Macon Cross Country
team. All Davidson students having previously gone out to pick cotton (at the instigation of Mr. Bill McLean who said,
“Davidson students, were privileged to witness a short preview of this dramatic production at chapel Thursday morning. After the usual
dull period of student announcements, Professor Fulcher, who had hitherto been disregarded by all, broke the good news to the
student body. In his own inimitable style, Professor Fulcher, reading with great gusto, listed the galaxy of stars, which was
led by several reputedly local characters; among them one Hugo Apothecary. Whereupon, the aforesaid revelation being completed, Professor Fulcher took
to his heels, leaving the cast, who were attempting a preview skit, to the friendly mercy of the Randolph-Macon Cross
Country team. All Davidson students having previously gone out to pick cotton (at the instigation of Mr. Bill McLean who
said, “Davidson students, were privileged to witness a short preview of this dramatic production at chapel Thursday morning. After the
usual dull period of student announcements, Professor Fulcher, who had hitherto been disregarded by all, broke the good news to
the student body. In his own inimitable style, Professor Fulcher, reading with great gusto, listed the galaxy of stars, which
was led by several reputedly local characters; among them one Hugo Apothecary. Whereupon, the aforesaid revelation being completed, Professor Fulcher
took to his heels, leaving the cast, who were attempting a preview skit, to the friendly mercy of the Randolph-Macon
Cross Country team. All Davidson students having previously gone out to pick cotton (at the instigation of Mr. Bill McLean
who said, “Davidson students, were privileged to witness a short preview of this dramatic production at chapel Thursday morning. After
the usual dull period of student announcements, Professor Fulcher, who had hitherto been disregarded by all, broke the good news
to the student body. In his own inimitable style, Professor Fulcher, reading with great gusto, listed the galaxy of stars,
which was led by several reputedly local characters; among them one Hugo Apothecary. Whereupon, the aforesaid revelation being completed, Professor
Fulcher took to his heels, leaving the cast, who were attempting a preview skit, to the friendly mercy of the
Randolph-Macon Cross Country team. All Davidson students having previously gone out to pick cotton (at the instigation of Mr. Bill
McLean who said, “Davidson students, were privileged to witness a short preview of this dramatic production at chapel Thursday morning.
After the usual dull period of student announcements, Professor Fulcher, who had hitherto been disregarded by all, broke the good
news to the student body. In his own inimitable style, Professor Fulcher, reading with great gusto, listed the galaxy of
stars, which was led by several reputedly local characters; among them one Hugo Apothecary. Whereupon, the aforesaid revelation being completed,
Professor Fulcher took to his heels, leaving the cast, who were attempting a preview skit, to the friendly mercy of
the Randolph-Macon Cross Country team. All Davidson students having previously gone out to pick cotton (at the instigation of Mr.
Bill McLean who said, “Davidson students, were privileged to witness a short preview of this dramatic production at chapel Thursday
morning. After the usual dull period of student announcements, Professor Fulcher, who had hitherto been disregarded by all, broke the
good news to the student body. In his own inimitable style, Professor Fulcher, reading with great gusto, listed the galaxy
of stars, which was led by several reputedly local characters; among them one Hugo Apothecary. Whereupon, the aforesaid revelation being
completed, Professor Fulcher took to his heels, leaving the cast, who were attempting a preview skit, to the friendly mercy
of the Randolph-Macon Cross Country team. All Davidson students having previously gone out to pick cotton (at the instigation of
Mr. Bill McLean who said, “Davidson students, were privileged to witness a short preview of this dramatic production at chapel
Thursday morning. After the usual dull period of student announcements, Professor Fulcher, who had hitherto been disregarded by all, broke
the good news to the student body. In his own inimitable style, Professor Fulcher, reading with great gusto, listed the
galaxy of stars, which was led by several reputedly local characters; among them one Hugo Apothecary. Whereupon, the aforesaid revelation
being completed, Professor Fulcher took to his heels, leaving the cast, who were attempting a preview skit, to the friendly
mercy of the Randolph-Macon Cross Country team. All Davidson students having previously gone out to pick cotton (at the instigation
of Mr. Bill McLean who said, “Davidson students, were privileged to witness a short preview of this dramatic production at
chapel Thursday morning. After the usual dull period of student announcements, Professor Fulcher, who had hitherto been disregarded by all,
broke the good news to the student body. In his own inimitable style, Professor Fulcher, reading with great gusto, listed
the galaxy of stars, which was led by several reputedly local characters; among them one Hugo Apothecary. Whereupon, the aforesaid
revelation being completed, Professor Fulcher took to his heels, leaving the cast, who were attempting a preview skit, to the
friendly mercy of the Randolph-Macon Cross Country team. All Davidson students having previously gone out to pick cotton (at the
instigation of Mr. Bill McLean who said, “Davidson students, were privileged to witness a short preview of this dramatic production
at chapel Thursday morning. After the usual dull period of student announcements, Professor Fulcher, who had hitherto been disregarded by
all, broke the good news to the student body. In his own inimitable style, Professor Fulcher, reading with great gusto,
listed the galaxy of stars, which was led by several reputedly local characters; among them one Hugo Apothecary. Whereupon, the
aforesaid revelation being completed, Professor Fulcher took to his heels, leaving the cast, who were attempting a preview skit, to
the friendly mercy of the Randolph-Macon Cross Country team. All Davidson students having previously gone out to pick cotton (at
the instigation of Mr. Bill McLean who said, “Davidson students, were privileged to witness a short preview of this dramatic
production at chapel Thursday morning. After the usual dull period of student announcements, Professor Fulcher, who had hitherto been disregarded
by all, broke the good news to the student body. In his own inimitable style, Professor Fulcher, reading with great
gusto, listed the galaxy of stars, which was led by several reputedly local characters; among them one Hugo Apothecary. Whereupon,
the aforesaid revelation being completed, Professor Fulcher took to his heels, leaving the cast, who were attempting a preview skit,
to the friendly mercy of the Randolph-Macon Cross Country team. All Davidson students having previously gone out to pick cotton
(at the instigation of Mr. Bill McLean who said, “Davidson students, were privileged to witness a short preview of this
dramatic production at chapel Thursday morning. After the usual dull period of student announcements, Professor Fulcher, who had hitherto been
disregarded by all, broke the good news to the student body. In his own inimitable style, Professor Fulcher, reading with
great gusto, listed the galaxy of stars, which was led by several reputedly local characters; among them one Hugo Apothecary.
Whereupon, the aforesaid revelation being completed, Professor Fulcher took to his heels, leaving the cast, who were attempting a preview
skit, to the friendly mercy of the Randolph-Macon Cross Country team. All Davidson students having previously gone out to pick
cotton (at the instigation of Mr. Bill McLean who said, “Davidson students, were privileged to witness a short preview of
this dramatic production at chapel Thursday morning. After the usual dull period of student announcements, Professor Fulcher, who had hitherto
been disregarded by all, broke the good news to the student body. In his own inimitable style, Professor Fulcher, reading
with great gusto, listed the galaxy of stars, which was led by several reputedly local characters; among them one Hugo
Apothecary. Whereupon, the aforesaid revelation being completed, Professor Fulcher took to his heels, leaving the cast, who were attempting a
preview skit, to the friendly mercy of the Randolph-Macon Cross Country team. All Davidson students having previously gone out to
pick cotton (at the instigation of Mr. Bill McLean who said, “Davidson students, were privileged to witness a short preview
of this dramatic production at chapel Thursday morning. After the usual dull period of student announcements, Professor Fulcher, who had
hitherto been disregarded by all, broke the good news to the student body. In his own inimitable style, Professor Fulcher,
reading with great gusto, listed the galaxy of stars, which was led by several reputedly local characters; among them one
Hugo Apothecary. Whereupon, the aforesaid revelation being completed, Professor Fulcher took to his heels, leaving the cast, who were attempting
a preview skit, to the friendly mercy of the Randolph-Macon Cross Country team. All Davidson students having previously gone out
to pick cotton (at the instigation of Mr. Bill McLean who said, “Davidson students, were privileged to witness a short
preview of this dramatic production at chapel Thursday morning. After the usual dull period of student announcements, Professor Fulcher, who
had hitherto been disregarded by all, broke the good news to the student body. In his own inimitable style, Professor
Fulcher, reading with great gusto, listed the galaxy of stars, which was led by several reputedly local characters; among them
one Hugo Apothecary. Whereupon, the aforesaid revelation being completed, Professor Fulcher took to his heels, leaving the cast, who were
attempting a preview skit, to the friendly mercy of the Randolph-Macon Cross Country team. All Davidson students having previously gone
out to pick cotton (at the instigation of Mr. Bill McLean who said, “Davidson students, were privileged to witness a
short preview of this dramatic production at chapel Thursday morning. After the usual dull period of student announcements, Professor Fulcher,
who had hitherto been disregarded by all, broke the good news to the student body. In his own inimitable style,
Professor Fulcher, reading with great gusto, listed the galaxy of stars, which was led by several reputedly local characters; among
them one Hugo Apothecary. Whereupon, the aforesaid revelation being completed, Professor Fulcher took to his heels, leaving the cast, who
were attempting a preview skit, to the friendly mercy of the Randolph-Macon Cross Country team. All Davidson students having previously
gone out to pick cotton (at the instigation of Mr. Bill McLean who said, “Davidson students, were privileged to witness
a short preview of this dramatic production at chapel Thursday morning. After the usual dull period of student announcements, Professor
Fulcher, who had hitherto been disregarded by all, broke the good news to the student body. In his own inimitable
style, Professor Fulcher, reading with great gusto, listed the galaxy of stars, which was led by several reputedly local characters;
among them one Hugo Apothecary. Whereupon, the aforesaid revelation being completed, Professor Fulcher took to his heels, leaving the cast,
who were attempting a preview skit, to the friendly mercy of the Randolph-Macon Cross Country team. All Davidson students having
previously gone out to pick cotton (at the instigation of Mr. Bill McLean who said, “Davidson students, were privileged to
witness a short preview of this dramatic production at chapel Thursday morning. After the usual dull period of student announcements,
Professor Fulcher, who had hitherto been disregarded by all, broke the good news to the student body. In his own
inimitable style, Professor Fulcher, reading with great gusto, listed the galaxy of stars, which was led by several reputedly local
characters; among them one Hugo Apothecary. Whereupon, the aforesaid revelation being completed, Professor Fulcher took to his heels, leaving the
cast, who were attempting a preview skit, to the friendly mercy of the Randolph-Macon Cross Country team. All Davidson students
having previously gone out to pick cotton (at the instigation of Mr. Bill McLean who said, “Davidson students, were privileged
to witness a short preview of this dramatic production at chapel Thursday morning. After the usual dull period of student
announcements, Professor Fulcher, who had hitherto been disregarded by all, broke the good news to the student body. In his
own inimitable style, Professor Fulcher, reading with great gusto, listed the galaxy of stars, which was led by several reputedly
local characters; among them one Hugo Apothecary. Whereupon, the aforesaid revelation being completed, Professor Fulcher took to his heels, leaving
the cast, who were attempting a preview skit, to the friendly mercy of the Randolph-Macon Cross Country team. All Davidson
students having previously gone out to pick cotton (at the instigation of Mr. Bill McLean who said, “Davidson students, were
privileged to witness a short preview of this dramatic production at chapel Thursday morning. After the usual dull period of
student announcements, Professor Fulcher, who had hitherto been disregarded by all, broke the good news to the student body. In
his own inimitable style, Professor Fulcher, reading with great gusto, listed the galaxy of stars, which was led by several
reputedly local characters; among them one Hugo Apothecary. Whereupon, the aforesaid revelation being completed, Professor Fulcher took to his heels,
leaving the cast, who were attempting a preview skit, to the friendly mercy of the Randolph-Macon Cross Country team. All
Davidson students having previously gone out to pick cotton (at the instigation of Mr. Bill McLean who said, “Davidson students,
were privileged to witness a short preview of this dramatic production at chapel Thursday morning. After the usual dull period
of student announcements, Professor Fulcher, who had hitherto been disregarded by all, broke the good news to the student body.
In his own inimitable style, Professor Fulcher, reading with great gusto, listed the galaxy of stars, which was led by
several reputedly local characters; among them one Hugo Apothecary. Whereupon, the aforesaid revelation being completed, Professor Fulcher took to his
heels, leaving the cast, who were attempting a preview skit, to the friendly mercy of the Randolph-Macon Cross Country team.
All Davidson students having previously gone out to pick cotton (at the instigation of Mr. Bill McLean who said, “Davidson
students, were privileged to witness a short preview of this dramatic production at chapel Thursday morning. After the usual dull
period of student announcements, Professor Fulcher, who had hitherto been disregarded by all, broke the good news to the student
body. In his own inimitable style, Professor Fulcher, reading with great gusto, listed the galaxy of stars, which was led
by several reputedly local characters; among them one Hugo Apothecary. Whereupon, the aforesaid revelation being completed, Professor Fulcher took to
his heels, leaving the cast, who were attempting a preview skit, to the friendly mercy of the Randolph-Macon Cross Country
team. All Davidson students having previously gone out to pick cotton (at the instigation of Mr. Bill McLean who said,
“Davidson students, were privileged to witness a short preview of this dramatic production at chapel Thursday morning. After the usual
dull period of student announcements, Professor Fulcher, who had hitherto been disregarded by all, broke the good news to the
student body. In his own inimitable style, Professor Ful
