Friday, March 21, 1947
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page 3

Students Help With Active Program of Work For Youth And Adults of Unity Church
Unity Has Developed From Chapel to Active Self-Supporting Church
BILL MACY IS STUDENT PASTOR FOR THIS YEAR
Church Offers Broad Religious Program Through the Week

Down Depot Street beyond the post office and the asbestos mill is Davidson Unity Church. This church was begun in
the dim past as a chapel, under the leadership of some Davidson students. Through the years the buildings have been
improved and added to, until now Unity Church is a self-supporting, warm, and friendly church, with Sunday School attendance between
ninety and a hundred, and having active young people’s groups. Beside the church is a fine log cabin, built about
1935 as the John Howard Men’s Bible Class Cabin; it serves handsomely as well for the ladies when they are
hostesses for a delicious church supper, or for young people’s activities.

At present, the weekly schedule of the church includes Sunday school and morning worship each Sunday, Young People’s meetings at
6:30 Sunday evening, a good old-fashioned hymn sing at 7:30 after Young People’s meetings, and cottage prayer meetings each Wednesday
night in the homes of the different members. A club for the girls has been organized under the leadership of
Miss Harriett Brown and Mrs. W. H. Macy, while Curtis Harper and Bill Iverson have formed a Boys’ Club, both
groups being conducted according to the principles and standards exemplified by the “Hi Y” clubs. Each Wednesday night in the
Church Cabin, a group of the young people meet to discuss youth problems, under the leadership of Virgil Pino; speakers
are chosen each week to lead the (Continued on Page 4)

Intercollegiate Council Meets
Discussion Will Center Around Economics and the Moral Law

The Intercollegiate Council for Religion in Life of the Charlotte Area will meet at Johnson C. Smith University next Saturday
afternoon, March 22, at 3 p.m. Due to transportation difficulties, the members of the Council from Smith were unable to
attend the meeting on the Davidson College campus planned for March 1. The same program will be presented Saturday that
was planned for the past meeting. This will give the members taking part more time to organize the discussion.

Economic Order
Topic for the discussion by the group will be the statement on the economic order and its relationship to the
moral law issued last fall. This statement is a joint work of the members of the Synagogue Council of America,
the National Catholic Welfare Conference, and the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America. Eight sections cover the whole
field of economics. Students from Johnson C. Smith will present the first four parts followed by students of Davidson College
presenting the later four parts. John Pritchard and Miles Wood will represent Davidson on the program. Following the formal presentation
there will be a period for discussions.

Students Invited
The Duke Dormitory lounge will be the scene of the gathering next Saturday on the Johnson C. Smith University campus.
All interested Davidson students have been invited to attend.

Lift Up Your Eyes
Dr. Cunningham

Zona Gale once wrote toward the end of a very productive career: “I am determined henceforth to increase the areas
of my awareness.” That was a statement of a purpose which every educated person ought to entertain. In these fateful,
tragic, and yet wonderful years, a person of shortsightedness and narrow interests is not a good citizen of his own
community or nation, much less of “one world.” One of the constant temptations to us in our quiet campus and
village life is that we allow ourselves, being thus cloistered, to become careless and unaware. Not seeing the daily pressures
which bear in on countless communities and nations of the world, we become unmindful, and then unconcerned. Of course, we
do read about them and hear outside speakers refer to them, and, in general, know that those conditions prevail. Even
so, it is easy to shrug our shoulders and say “What can I do about it?” That there is confusion,
discrimination, injustice, prejudice, poverty, hunger, and all varieties of human suffering, may leave us cold and untouched. Even if other
people did not need us, we could not afford for our own sakes to assume that attitude. There is always
for us “a deadly peril of losing the genius of the tender heart.” The conception of “one world” with all
its frightful implications is both hopeful and alarming. And yet it is as foreign to many educated Americans as the
news from Mars. Meanwhile, the nation which stands to gain or lose most is America herself.

During the war, a letter came back to me from the front. It is written by one of Davidson’s best
known and most admired younger alumni. He had made an exceptionally good record in military service. Previously, he had been
a student body president, Phi Beta Kappa, O. D. K. at Davidson. From that distant point of view, he was
thinking devotedly of his Alma Mater. His concern was at the point of our too little interest in community, national
and world affairs. While heartily appreciative of all Davidson has meant to him, he was anxious about her practical isolationism
and the slight interest of her students in the broader problems of life.

In a significant book “Education and World Tragedy” Dr. Howard Mumford Jones states: “Education must somehow take account of events
in a world in which Soviet Russia has become a dominant power, Asia is violently disturbed, and man’s uneasiness about
his traditional values is spread from a few troubled spirits at the top of the social pyramid down among the
mass of mankind everywhere. Merely to reaffirm past values by a return upon dead sages will not quite do. What
we need is an educational program that will face the present with courage and interest.”

The obligation resting upon us all to be intelligent is a Christian obligation. But beyond knowledge, there must be a
will to work. The staggering problems which face us in the decades which lie immediately ahead will not be solved
by men of education alone. The dangers particularly of technology apart from human interest and sympathy, are painfully real. The
future is in the hands of good men—men of Christian faith and character—who at the same time are in possession
of sufficient knowledge to guide toward a wise solution of our manifold problems. Such character and knowledge will demand that
we look first about us and see life with wide-open eyes; that we shall look to the future and understand
its beckoning call, and, finally, that we shall look up to behold Him who is “the way, the truth, and
the life,” and shall take courage and hope and expect clear guidance.

Cub Pack For Colored Boys To Be Formed
Scouting Work in Community Advances With Student Aid
By Lee Willingham

Since the beginning of school last September, several of the fellows have been performing very faithfully the task of leading
the boys of this area in Scouting activities.

Cornelius Troop
In Cornelius, Mac Hart, Doug Hix, and Walter Hopkins have headed the troop there and have done a splendid job,
serving as assistant scoutmasters. Because of their age, none of the three is qualified to serve as scoutmaster, a position
which has been unfilled all year. If any member of the student body over 21 is interested in serving as
scoutmaster of this troop, he is requested to contact Murphy Williams, Y. M. C. A. secretary, as soon as possible.

Davidson Cubs
There are a number of boys of pre-scouting age in Davidson who have been enjoying the benefits of the Cub
Scout movement under the leadership of Bob Patten, Billy Ford, and Frank Hooper. Professor and Mrs. William Cumming are serving
as adult leaders of these younger boys.

Colored Troop
In the Negro community, Don Coffey has served as assistant scoutmaster of the troop there in conjunction with Professor Poe,
the scoutmaster. This troop under its very capable leadership is filling a real need among the boys.

New Cub Pack
The present project being undertaken by this department is the establishment of a Cub Scout Pack for some 15 or
20 boys between the ages of nine and 11 who reside in the Negro community. The scouting department of the
Y will appreciate any assistance which members of the student body can give.

Methodists Meet In April
Student Movement Meets On First And Third Sundays

For the first time in the history of Davidson, the Methodists on the campus have organized a student group. The
organization of this Methodist Student Movement took place early in the semester under the leadership of Rev. Henry Koestline, pastor
of the Davidson Methodist Church, and an ardent youth worker. With approximately one hundred and fifty students on the campus
belonging to the Methodist Church, the group has fine possibilities for an attractive program of fellowship, worship, and service. At
an early meeting officers were elected as follows: President, Orin Hutchinson; Vice-President, Bob Richardson; Secretary, Joe Frazer; Treasurer, Jim Pierce;
and Publicity Chairman, Grady Spires.

Twice Monthly
The Methodist Student Movement now meets regularly on the first and third Sunday nights of each month at 8:30 in
the Methodist “Hut”. The entertainment consists of singing, games of various types, discussions, and occasional motion pictures of interest. Last
month four delegates from the Davidson Student Movement attended a statewide rally in Greensboro. Owing to the ideas received at
this convention, the Methodist group has made plans for a continuous program this Spring. On Sunday afternoon, April 20, a
special meeting will be held at the Myers Park Methodist Church from 4:30 to 6:30. Present will be local and
Queens College girls. All are invited to attend the March 30 meeting in the Methodist “Hut” where plans for the
coming months will be laid.

Calendar Of Religious Events
Saturday, March 22, 1947
3 P.M. Intercollegiate Council Meeting of Davidson, Johnson C. Smith, Queens at Johnson C. Smith.

Sundays:
10:15 A.M. Sunday School.
11:15 A.M. Morning Worship.
6:30 P.M. Westminster Fellowship in Quadrangle Room.
March 23, 1947, Talk on “The Resurrection,” by Dr. Walter Lingle.
March 30, 1947, Discussion on “The Resurrection,” by Charles Turner.
April 13, 1947, Talk on “The General Beliefs and Practices of the Various Sects,” by Rev. James Robinson.
April 20, 1947, Discussion on “The General Beliefs and Practices of the Various Sects,” led by Sam Maloney.
7:30 P.M. Vespers
March 23, 1947, four former Davidson students now at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia, will lead the service.
April 6, 1947, Easter
April 13, 1947, Dr. Frank H. Caldwell, President Presbyterian Seminary, Louisville, Kentucky, the guest speaker.
April 20, 1947, Rev. H. B. Gear of Columbia Theological Seminary, Decatur, Ga., will speak.

Tuesdays, 7:00 P.M. Davidson Christian Fellowship Hymnsing in Phi Hall
Wednesdays, 10:00 P.M. Hall Prayer Meetings

“Y” Student Group Meet On Their Campus
Seen above are Virgil Pino, Bill Hoyt, and John Pritchard as they watch a fast game of dodge ball. Activities
are planned at the center six days a week.

Campus Religious Groups To Meet At Camp Nawakawa In Late April
It has been announced that a state-wide student conference...composed of YMCA—YWCA—SCA groups is to be held April 25-26-27 on the
conference grounds of Camp Nawakawa near Greensboro. This conference, constructed for bettering religious organizations and training students interested in the
college campus, will have as its theme, “The Christian Imperative.”

Pritchett, Williams Lead
Carl R. Davidson Dr. is to be the principal speaker at the conference. Pritchett, pastor of the Presbyterian church, will
be among the leaders present who will lead the discussions in the “workshop” groups. Rev. Murphy Williams, our “Y” secretary,
will also present the closing challenge in the inspirational service to be held Sunday morning.

Discussion Topics
This is a conference wherein the students will have full opportunity to express their views and to receive aid which
will help them on their individual campuses. In the “workshop” there will be a “Y” panel discussion held on Sunday
morning. Besides inspiration, the conference will stress such thoughts as “Christian Heritage and Growth of Persons” and “World Relatedness and
Social Responsibility.”

Opens April 25
Herb Meza, treasurer of the conference and member of the statewide planning committee, stated that there would necessarily be a
delegation quota for Davidson due to the size of the student body. The meeting is to begin Friday evening, April
25, and continue through the noon meal Sunday. Nawakawa is a camp owned by the Greensboro YWCA—an ideal off-campus location
for the conference. It is hoped there may be an enthusiastic response to this opportunity being offered. For more detailed
information, come by the “Y”.

Y. M. C. A. BUDGET
The YMCA Board of Control forms the budget for the activities of the school year. This is adhered to by
the YMCA Cabinet in its work. There are two different sections to the budget. One covers benevolent activities both in
the United States and in foreign countries. The money for these disbursements comes from the Vesper Fund. Students contribute to
this fund every Sunday evening. The other part of the budget covers operating expenses, such as office supplies, the YMCA
car, etc. The money for this comes from the YMCA share of the Student Activities Fee, collected from every student
at the beginning of the school year.

Our Spring Services are now a thing of the past, but the memory of Dr. Chappell and the inspiration we
gained from that experience lingers on.

Purpose of Services
The purpose of our Spring Services is fourfold. They are supposed to arouse in the student body a renewed interest
in religious matters, a more adequate philosophy of life, a deeper commitment to the Christian faith, and questions in our
minds about religion. It seems that our series of services just past has done a pretty fair job of achieving
its purpose. Perhaps the place that we did the poorest job was arousing questions about the things that pertain to
the intellectual part of Christianity. There are some people that discourage us from questioning the tenets of our faith, but
it is hard to conceive of how a thinking man can really believe something unless he has thought it through
thoroughly and faced the questions that naturally arise.

Question Marks
It is quite a good thing to put a question mark behind the things that we do not understand because,
when we do, we force ourselves to talk about them, read about them, and come to some decision about them.
We must recognize that there are some things that we will never completely understand, but once some thought has been
placed on the matter, there is no telling which is the thing that is understandable and the thing that must
be accepted on faith. We need to come to the realization that the things of religion are a part of
our lives, and they need to be discussed just as we talk about sports and girls and money. Too often
we have relegated religious matters to the realm of the undiscussed, and we need to come to the point where
we can talk about them just as freely and comfortably as we do the other things of life.

Dr. Chappell
Dr. Chappell is a great fellow. He surely did keep us on the edge of our seats with his stories.
Those of you who did not get to meet him personally missed the chance of a lifetime because he is
much the same out of the pulpit as he is while preaching. He has an inexhaustible store of stories. His
photographic mind always manages to pull out the proper story for the occasion.

It’s A Joke, Son
One of the better of these was one he told at a meeting of the faculty. It was about a
man who went into the office of a veterinarian with a Boston Bull Terrier and asked that the stubby tail
of the pup be cut off right even with the skin. The vet complained that the pup only had an
inch-and-one-half of tail and asked why he should be deprived of the privilege of wagging his tail. No answer was
forthcoming, but when the vet threatened to refuse, the man gave this explanation: “Well, my mother-in-law is coming to visit
us next week, and I don’t want one single bit of welcome when she comes in the door.”

You noticed that Dr. Chappell always quoted his Scripture, even when it was a long passage. During the course of
the week, he explained that he got into the habit of doing this as a young man when he realized
that after reading and studying a passage he could quote it as readily as he could read it. At this
point, he says that he is never worried about forgetting a quotation because it is just as clear in his
mind as it is written out on a piece of paper. This is amazing to those of us who struggle
and fight to memorize something, and when we think we have it, we find that it has fled into the
recesses of our subconscious mind. It does explain, however, why he is able to speak with such clarity.

Results
One thing that should result from our series of Spring Services is a flow of new blood into the religious
organizations of our campus. There are a number of them that are performing a very valuable function. There is the
Westminster Fellowship that meets each Sunday night at 6:30 in the Quadrangle Rooms in Chambers. It is in the midst
of a series of discussions about the different denominations of Christianity. There is the Student Sunday School Class that meets
in the same room at 10:15 on Sunday mornings. Coach Story is the teacher for this class, and he is
doing a great job. There are the regular Wednesday night hall prayer meetings. These can have a tremendous effect in
deepening the religious life of our whole campus. There is the Davidson Christian Fellowship that meets each Tuesday night in
Phi Hall. This group is directed by students and is for students to meet and think together about spiritual matters.
All of these different groups are doing a fine job, and it will be well worth your while to get
into one or more of them and grow up in our Christianity.

Da-Da!
This is a lot of print for a man who has just had a baby. By the way, if anyone
wants to see the finest nine pounds of male human protoplasm between the Panama Canal and the Arctic Ocean, just
drop around.

Davidson Students To Meet Salem Girls For Festivities
This Spring
Girls Promise Entertainment from Arrival to Departure of Buses

INVITATION SETS EVENT FOR APRIL 26 WEEKEND
All Are Advised to Make Preparations Well In Advance

As the first feeble rays of spring sunshine filter through the overhanging haze peculiar to Davidson, and as the first
warm spring breezes begin to rustle softly through Elm Row (shades of Dr. Chappell), the tedium of study is apt
to strike most of us a bit more forcibly than usual. Rare is the man in such a season who
does not want greener fields or who does not dream fondly of operations far removed. There is a strange urge
which moves many of us, at least, to cast about in search of new acquaintances, or the renewal of old
ones. There is something peculiarly attractive about the campuses of women’s colleges in the spring. If you do not feel
it, you need read no farther; the key awaits you and will amply compensate.

Entertainment
The rest of us may take some interest in the fact that the Davidson Student Body is invited up to
Salem on the twenty-sixth of April. This is the long-anticipated Davidson-Salem Day. Remember it, and make your plans accordingly. We
can assure you, it will be a “memorable occasion.” To quote the inimitable “Mouse” Morgan, “Nothing has been left undone
to assure us of entertainment.” Miss Frances Carr, of Salem, who has been in charge of operations, has done a
splendid job of planning. It is perhaps a bit too early in the game to divulge all the details of
the program, such as the afternoon entertainment. Suffice it to say that there will be big goings-on from the minute
we arrive till we board the buses to leave. For instance, there will be two dances going on simultaneously Saturday
evening. Take your choice; one’s round, the other square, and strenuous efforts are being made to persuade Alf Taylor to
call the figures. Alf, we hear, is making equally strenuous efforts to dodge the job, presumably with an eye to
attending the round dance himself. Whatever the outcome, the show will go on!

Move in Early
Those of us who may be fortunate enough to have connections at Salem can look forward to personal invitations. A
word of advice to all who have none: Why not drop by Salem some weekend before the twenty-sixth and try
to maneuver something? Or, if you like, just wait until the twenty-sixth and take it as it comes. At Salem,
that’s not as risky as it sounds, as nine out of ten boys who signed (Continued on Page 4)

Clemson College Seen By Scribe
By Jack Hazard

This month, in bringing you a picture of religious life on other college campuses, we have chosen Clemson College. Clemson,
as most of you know, is a military college and has no requirements for attendance at religious services. Sunday school
is conducted each Sunday morning in the churches of the town, and special classes are held for college students outside
of the regular departments. Churches of all faiths may be found in Clemson. Presbyterian, Methodist, and Baptist comprise the Protestant
group, and there are also a Catholic church and a Jewish Synagogue. The regular Sunday worship services are also held
and are attended by the student body very well. Vesper services sponsored by the various church leagues furnish Sunday evening
worship for the students, and many of them hold active offices and positions in the fellowships.

No hall prayer meetings are conducted, but Wednesday night prayer meetings occupy the mid-week calendar. There are also no daily
chapel services. In this thumbnail sketch, we hope to have brought you an idea of the religious life on a
military campus. Though not compulsory, it seems complete.
