Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, October 17, 1947

The DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

PUBLISHED

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOB PHILLIPS

BUSINESS MANAGER
BOB CLINE

EDITORIAL STAFF
Sam Ervin ................ Associate Editor
Walter Walker ........ Associate Editor
Mac Hart .................. Sports Editor
Walter Mann .......... Managing Editor
Bill Calhoun .......... Managing Editor
Ronny Dietrick ...... Managing Editor
Stan Kennett .......... Managing Editor
Bob Hollister .......... Exchange Editor
Jean Stewart .......... Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
John McNair .......... Assistant Business Manager
Charlie Reid .......... Advertising Manager
Frank Lemmon ...... Circulation Manager
Bill Baxter .............. Subscriptions Manager
Charles Dockery .... Collections Manager
H. Fulton ................ Assistant Circulation Manager
Bob Knight ............ Assistant Subscription Manager
Charles Clinkscales Assistant Advertising Manager
Wilkes Macauley .... Assistant Advertising Manager
Bob Knight ............ Assistant Circulation Manager
Bill Keith ................ Assistant Circulation Manager
Charles Beam ........ Assistant Collections Manager

Advertising Staff—H. MacKethan, C. Faison, Bill Houck, Claude Higginbotham, D. Hayworth, Blaine Kelley, F. M. Purnell, Gene Taylor.

Circulation Staff—S. H. Fulton, Alf. Duncan, Sam Davis, Hunter Boykin, Paul Guthery, Bill Cassels, John Coble, Carl Herman, Jim Fisher,
Bob Sims, Jimmy Rogers, Harry Powe.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

NATIONAL ADVERTISING
of National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers
420 MADISON Ave. NEW YORK, N. Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

1946 Member 1947
Associated Collegiate Press
Collegiate Digest Distributor

Age Of Enlightenment

A gratifying sign of the times was the University of Virginia’s attitude toward Chester Pierce, Harvard, of 1949. Pierce is
a starting tackle on the Crimson football team and he was one of the stars in the Cambridge eleven’s loss
last week to the strong Virginia team. When this Harvard tackle left the game in the fourth quarter, battered and
tired after playing his heart out in a hopeless struggle, most of the 24,000 persons present rose to their feet
and cheered long and loud. This incident, in itself, was nothing unusual, for it is customary that spectators at football
games impartially applaud courageous or outstanding play by any man on the field. Other footballers, perhaps, have turned in better
performances and before larger crowds, but the roar that accompanied Pierce off the field could well be termed, “the shout
heard ’round the South,” for Chester Pierce is a Negro!

Pierce’s participation against the Virginians was probably much more significant even than the appearance of Negro baseballer Jackie Robinson with
the Brooklyn team last year. As in the latter case, it shattered a precedent of long-standing, but this particular one
happened to be an “unbreakable” in our custom-and-rule-loving South. That South should be deeply grateful to men like Athletic Director
Norton Pritchett and others of the University of Virginia’s administration, who had enough courage to smash a discriminatory law which
stated in unwritten and unamendable form that Negroes were to do their football playing above the Mason-Dixon line if they
were to play against whites at all. There are no previous accounts of Negroes from the North being allowed to
perform against southern athletic teams in the South. Accordingly, October the eleventh will be marked down as a red-letter day
in the advancement of race relations by all straight-thinkers on the subject. Perhaps the day has come when a true
Southern recognition of quality in any size, shape, or color can assert itself over the ranking of the minority bigot.

Scourge of the Students

Along the rough and rocky pathway of education, which leads to Truth, lie the remains of thousands who fell by
the wayside; victims of that dread disease and bane to learning—sackitis!

Since, as far as we know, the word sackitis is here used by English-speaking peoples for the first time, it
needs must have a brief definition. Sackitis is a sickness more of mind and character than of body; it is
a psychological escape mechanism; it is a respecter of no age nor group, but its worst form appears among college
students; it is the killer of scholastic ambition; its unmistakable symptoms are: 1) a refusal of the patient to arise
from his “sack” each morning until hunger or a paucity of class cuts drive him forth; 2) an uncontrollable desire
to retire before the evening shadows are well-fallen; and 3) a marked propensity for sinking abed between the last class
each day and suppertime.

As implied above, this student stumbling-block is thrown up before everyone. Some, the fortunate ones, conquer their first few attacks
during their college careers and thereafter develop a steadfast immunity for the ailment; others succumb in varying degrees and those
afflicted chronically are crippled for life. Students are particularly susceptible to the disease in the springtime, but millions of sackitis
germs stand ready to seize a victim at any time of the year, move him bodily from his study-desk, and
deposit him roughly in a comfortable but conscience-hurting bed.

Many of us find our double-deckers or single-deckers constantly beckoning to us to make use of them to escape the
academic and extra-curricular worries normal to the life of every college man. We make countless excuses to ourselves as to
just why we need a few hours of daylight sleeping, and, if we’re honest, we’ll admit that our standard rationalizations
are often little short of ridiculous. We tell ourselves that the eight hours’ sleep we got last night was not
near sufficient for our physical well-being; that we’ll do better on that review tomorrow with twelve loaded hours of slumber
rather than an extra three hours of study. Some of us have even been guilty of seeking the sack as
a possible producer of problem-solving visions.

At least sixteen hours of the day must have been meant for industry and recreation. It’s rather sobering when our
attention is called to the fact that a twelve-hour sleeper sees only half of the life he was intended to
have.

All of us, then, having been attacked by the “pronating virus” and being able to recognize it, can ward off
its insidious and seductive approach with two teaspoonfuls of will power mixed thoroughly in a tall glass of effervescing determination.

Letters to the Editor...

To the Editor:

Last Spring the Editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN published an excellent editorial on this page concerning the student conduct in chapel.
Feeling that the editorial had little effect, he asked that another, interested in the condition, voice his opinions, in the
hope that presenting the situation to the students again might produce some results. Hence our comments:

Twenty-five minutes in each day has been set aside for chapel exercises. The purpose of this period is worship, but
a portion of the time has been allotted to student announcements and to student body meetings, with Tuesday and Thursdays
designated as “student days.” The rowdiness of the daily exercise would indicate that these few minutes a day were devoted
to vocal and physical exercises, rather than the worship of God. Certainly the “oop-oops” and the “swishes” have their place
in the Davidson tradition, for they are indicative of a unity, an esprit de corps which is highly admirable. But
at the same time they are highly inconsistent with reverence. The Davidsonian brings these thoughts to the attention of the
student body, not in the hope that tradition, which is healthy, be done away with, but with a sincere desire
that it be confined to student days, rather than disrupting the worshipful atmosphere.

STAN KENNETT

During the dry weather of summer the position of the columns of Old Chambers is easily distinguished on the lawn
in front of the present Chambers.

Sam Sez...
By SAM ERVIN

By listening to the discussions which inevitably follow the more interesting and constructive chapel talks, one can almost always pick
up some excellent comments and suggestions — regardless of the topic involved. Last week was no exception. Although Ernie Stricklin’s
talk was unannounced and unheralded, it did not take long for the student body to realize that he had put
his finger on one of Davidson’s most pressing needs. Various members of the faculty and many campus leaders have long
sought some way to provide more social life for the men who do not belong to fraternities and to build
up a feeling of fellowship among them. Ernie’s talk reminded everyone of this problem, and many suggestions have already been
offered. I have heard one of them repeatedly and I feel that it should be passed on for what it
is worth.

Unfortunately, this is not a scheme which can be put into effect in the near future. In fact, it would
be well nigh impossible, in this era of high costs to inaugurate such a plan. It is something which should
receive careful consideration, however, as soon as the college is able to resume its building program. Therefore, I think that
it’s appropriate to mention it now.

If we are going to accomplish what Ernie and many others desire, we are going to have to have a
“student union.” A student union is merely a building where the campus characters can congregate, participate in indoor sports, and
enjoy snacks. It's true that we have facilities (very limited ones though) of this nature, but they are not under
the same roof and are widely scattered over the campus (a two-story structure with a lounge and a soda fountain
on the first floor and a large game room above plus perhaps a couple of bowling alleys in the basement).
I honestly believe that it would go far toward solving our problem. It would give the students a place to
go at night and on weekends — it would get them out of their rooms and into “circulation” where they
would be much more likely to become well acquainted with their fellow students. It would slow down the mass migration
to Charlotte and Mooresville—caused largely by a lack of anything else to do.

As we've said before, this is strictly a long-range proposition. I do feel that those who are concerned with such
matters should, however, study the possibility of doing this. No matter how long it takes to erect this building or
what the cost may be, it will pay for itself in no time after its completion — in terms of
increased friendliness and unity among all students.

AMONG THE GREEKS...

BETA THETA PI. The highlight of the week down at the Beta House was downing the SAE’s in touch football
Thursday afternoon. There was a large turnout for the game in spite of the driving rain which persisted during the
game. The biggest news flash to date is: LoverBoy Turner's date of last weekend is reported to have gone to
sleep on the golf course after the state game. What we want to know is, “How did Groves know? Was
he there, too?” There was a large number of Betas at the Wofford game this weekend, but I’m afraid most
of them were stag. Among the more notorious were “Weasel” Adams, “B. B. Eyes” Upchurch, and “Barrel” Shepperson. “Doc” Fulton
made a fortune selling programs and then threw a big party for his buddies at Gunder's house. (Gray's food, of
course). Brother Scruggs evidently had a good time on a hayride he attended. When asked if the rain gave him
a cold, he asked, “Did it rain Saturday night?”

PI KAPPA PHI

In the midst of our noble group, we have found this week that we have a great social leader in
Brother Don Sasser, who has founded the now famed “Over-the-Hump” Club, which meets every Wednesday night at various places; the
purpose, of course, is to help those labor-stricken students over the mid-week hump, thus starting a national trend of two
weekends per week. Seen at the game Saturday night and afterwards: Bill and Billie Rose, Charlie Reid and unknown skirt,
Bud Edwards with a new addition to his retinue, John and Annie Lou, and Dave and Nancy with the Sapp,
Louie Pales, Whit, Wat, Jack Barringer enjoying themselves though stagging, “Moe” Hardin and Benoy standing out in the cold at
the 74 on account of no chicks, Bill Campbell and de-cer. Rumor of the week: Whit getting nightly calls via
Operator 31 from Virginia Nuttall, she having previously stated that Don Wahn was the nicest boy at Davidson College. (Reports
have it that in his four years of dating her he is still in the hand-holding stage.)

Visiting the folks for the weekend were Billy Houck to Florence, and Burwyn Rush to Lake City, both boys returning
via Winthrop. Rush was seen later rushing around with three of the navy blues and whites attached. Billy chickened out
and hurried back to vespers. To York went the Baron Moore, where Maw Moore killed the fatted calf. Reunioning with
his uncles and aunts and cousins by the dozens was Pledge John Coble in Burlington, N.C. Pledge Willie Cleveland has
found that the straight and narrow path leads directly to Burwell Hall, and has made it his duty to follow
the gleam. Relaxing in the Queen City were Pledges Jim Fisher and Bob Sims, Hunter Boyken mingling with the upper
crust at the “Male Animal.” Come Saturday night all brothers and pledges and dates will be jumping at Ervin Lodge
where the Epsionians are throwing a weenie roast and square dance for all squares. See you.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

MEMORANDUM TO: ST. PETER Himself.

Dear Saint: Looking over a crag of my Mt. Olympus Saturday last I was distracted by the ferocious racket sent
up by a gang of your creatures who were most evidently yearning to break into the bands of my pagan
kingdom from yours. I spied LILLY (the mogul) HERNDON and OWENS sneaking out to the confines of Queens College seeking
an open house and, in rebuke for their naughtiness, I sent them away embarrassed and blushing. WHITE was seen openly
courting the most sought after of sirens. LAMAR, THATCHER, et al., were seen madly dashing in the quest of venison
to fill their bellies, their other human urge having been satisfied the previous weekend. RADFORD, PITTS, and TAYLOR hit the
jackpot with an acquaintance of somewhat questionable extraction but with the keys to the keg. ELMO SELLERS was seen laying
around Salem College during the weekend. You guessed it, fearless Abernathy spent the time relining his pockets. Pledges READER, WARREN,
and EVANS lustfully attended the football game but they remained stag. Pledge LOCKHART fared excellently otherwise but was forced to
spend the time crooning to her subtly at a distance. I say again Pete old boy, use the calming hand
before all your boys get on Olympus and forget heaven.

(Continued On Page Six)

Operating Table

At the conclusion of a stormy and wet weekend throughout most of the state and with news flowing in not
only from the four corners of North Carolina but neighboring states as well, your correspondent is experiencing much difficulty in
choosing those tales that will bear repeating. Perhaps by omitting a few of the more lurid details, the general public
will not be too shocked by the scandal that remained in the wake of the partying horde.

CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — Officials and students alike of the University of Virginia are still upset and somewhat shocked by the
invasion of that quiet, dignified, and staid campus by several reported wild men over the weekend. One eighty-year-old groundskeeper was
quoted as saying, “Ain't never seen nuthin’ like them fellows before.” The so-called invaders were considered to be disappointed Harvard
men until seen roaring off into the night in a southerly direction.

CLUB No. 74, CHARLOTTE, N.C. — 'Twas the same as last weekend only not quite so smoky.

DAVIDSON, N.C. — Hairless Dick Oglesby was the recipient of a small section of that which he loves second best.
The sender was none other than Dr. E. Colmery Sutton, late of Davidson and now a medical student at U.N.C.

HARLAN, KY. — Snake handlers from five states met near here Sunday, October 12, and staged a law-defying stand to
pay tribute to Holy Joe Bachman and The Good Shepherd Dunn, recently recruited handlers in the faith cult from Davidson
College.

MOORESVILLE, N.C. — Mr. P. M. Stonestreet has just announced that he has sold a part interest in his establishment
to Mr. Kenneth McArn of the Davidson student body.

DAVIDSON, N.C. — Mr. M. W. Wester, having been booted in the mouth several times of late, is sticking it
out again for a brand new boot. Competition with Carolina seems to be very keen this season.

SMITH COLLEGE, MASS. — Telephone operators in this area have reported being very puzzled by a party calling all the
way from North Carolina pleading to speak to some person whose only name he gives is HONEY-BUNNY.

QUEENS COLLEGE, CHARLOTTE — The music department of this institute has just given forth with the statement that they shall
have both Co. A and Co. B of Beta Theta Pi Fraternity of Davidson College to perform on their winter
series of guest artists.

QUEENS COLLEGE, CHARLOTTE — Students of Queens have recently elected Mr. Dave Blevis of Spruce Pines and Davidson as MR.
ATOMIC POWER 1947. He was elected shortly after he won a jug-blowing contest. The rest is unprintable. Take it away,
Oscar.

Paging the Professors

By Stan Kennett

PROF. W. M. THOMPSON

Returning to Davidson this year as professor of Bible, is Professor W. M. Thompson, a 1934 graduate of the college.
Professor Thompson, who is one of several of his family to graduate at Davidson, is from Richmond, Virginia. Professor Thompson
was active in campus activities, having played football, was managing editor and associate editor of The DAVIDSONIAN, and was president
of the Y.M.C.A. For two years after his graduation he taught at Episcopal High and coached football and track, losing
only one football game and no track meets during his stay there. Prof. Thompson later went to a church in
Richmond from which he went to Yale where he took his resident requirements for a Ph.D. Prior to entering the
Army in 1942, as a chaplain, Prof. Thompson was pastor of a church in Norfolk, Virginia. After four years, most
of which was spent in the infantry in Africa and Italy, Prof. Thompson returned to Yale in January 1946, and
remained there until coming to Davidson this fall.

PROF. ERNEST BEATY

Even the faculty is at times subject to roll call. When that time comes, it is Professor Beaty, secretary of
the faculty, who seeks out the absentees. Professor Beaty has been secretary of the faculty since 1940 and a member
of it since 1923. The year 1940 is an outstanding date in Prof. Beaty’s career in another respect, for it
was in that year that he became mayor of Davidson, an office which he has held since with the exception
of about a year and a half. A native of South Carolina, Prof. Beaty graduated from Davidson and went on
to Columbia Seminary. Later he took his master’s degree in sociology and economics at the University of South Carolina. A
second M.A. in classics was earned at Columbia University. During the year 1924-1925 Professor Beaty was a professor at the
University of Tennessee. When he came to Davidson he started teaching English and has taught Greek, Latin, and German. Outside
of college, Prof. Beaty is principally interested in humanitarian causes, having been chairman of the local Red Cross chapter and
President of the Mecklenburg Tubercular and Health Association. He is also an elder in the Davidson Presbyterian Church.

Think It Over

By MALLOY OWEN

INDEPENDENTS

Ernie Stricklin’s recent chapel talk was an admirable gesture. Four hundred fifty Independents; five hundred twenty-five Fraters. If something is
to be done to organize this half of the student body, let's NOT do it as though we were forming
a “society for the underprivileged.” Some men are Independents by choice. May it be said to the ever-ringing glory of
the Davidson Fraternity system that almost no discrimination whatsoever is practiced here which would make Independents feel “left out.” To
freshman Independents, let assurance be given that Davidson men, proud of and grateful for the privilege of being here, treat
one another with democratic mutual respect, regardless of what organization they do or do not belong to. It is a
good sign of a spirit of democracy to hear someone speak up in favor of making available to all the
students some of the advantages now offered to only half of us.

VET FROSH

We never recall hearing a judge open his mouth in chapel who was not greeted with roars of approval from
Upperclassmen, never until recently when it was announced that this year’s Veterans are subject to Freshman Regulations. You could not
help but sense a strong current of disapproval. We did not like it. It was easy to tell by the
strange lack of applause. Judge Strickland and the Court of Control have done good work this year in administering justice
to those young reprobates who have swarmed onto this campus. They have our confidence.

(Continued On Page Six)
