Carolina’s White Phantoms stopped the Wildcats 55-46 Saturday night over at the Tar Heel Gym, but the Carolina fans, coach, and cagers weren't breathing any sighs of relief until the final gun sounded and there was time for a long look at the scoreboard. Led by Bob Paxon, big forward from Spokane, Wash., the Phants squashed a final Wildcat rally, and the Davidson cagers were left holding the smaller end of the tally. Jumping to a quick lead in the first half, Ed White and George Peters dropped in a couple of shots and the Cats led 4-0. Norm Kohler came back for the Phants and with several well-executed shots caught up to the 7-point Davidson tally. From there on out, it was Carolina with a slight lead until Pat Williams and Malcolm Earp sunk fouls and sets to tie the game at 14-14. Dillon dropped in a foul but Earp sank a long one to give the Cats a 16-15 lead. Paxon and Kohler retaliated, however, with 2 field goals and a foul shot and the half found the Cats trailing 20-16. 

Back on the boards in the second half, the Cat Cagers fell behind and though whittling the Carolina lead down to three points in the last 5 minutes of play, they lacked the scoring punch and were forced to settle for a 55-46 final count. The Phants were hot and no one can deny they have a first-rate ball club. Paxon dropped them in with ease all night and Norm Kohler played one of the best games in his repertoire. As Ed White grinned after the game, “Those boys just played good ball, that’s all.” You don’t have to hang around Carolina long to find out that All-American ‘Hook’ Dillon is the Carolina “Fair-haired boy.” It seems that Dillon was a little slow in starting this season and the fans were disappointed, but his hook was good for 4 points and they’re still proud of him.

By CLAYTON SCOFIELD

CONGRATS

Mulling it over with some of the boys who play the game, pound the boards during the week and in short are the Red and Black Basketball machine, I find it in order to write a few words of praise for the fans and students. Though few in number at the recent South Carolina engagements, they made themselves heard and showed that old spirit that Davidson is so proud of and if I may act as a medium between the fans and players, they wish to extend words of thanks for fine support.

Standard Printing Company
PRINTERS & PUBLISHERS
Printing of Every Description
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Wildcat Sports
Friday, February 14, 1947

CATS TO DOWN S. C. TEAMS
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

CAGERS TAKE ONE DROP TO DUKE-N.C.

George Peters came into his own Saturday night, as the White Phantoms quelled a Wildcat rally in the waning minutes of the U.N.C.-Davidson Southern Conference tilt on the Phants’ hardwood. With only two and a half minutes remaining, the ’Cats moved within three points of the White Phantoms, then Coach Tom Scott’s charges bounced back. At halftime, Coach Shepard’s charges trailed 20-16. The Wildcats bucked a dozen points in the last five minutes to down the fourth place and put the tiff on ice, although it wasn’t enough for the Phantoms. George Peters led the point parade with twelve points. He was trailed by Ed White with eight points, then by Whit Cobb and Pat Williams, each with seven points. Buddy Cheek turned in his usual sterling floor game.

Koffenberger Leads Duke

Big Ed Koffenberger broke clear for 20 points and a victory margin Friday night as the Blue Dukes topped the Cats 61-47. Coach Norm Shepard set up a new defense for the All-American candidate in the second half but it was too late, although effective. The Devils rolled up a 38-16 halftime lead to coast on for their seventh family verdict in as many starts. Buddy Cheek paced the Wildcat efforts with 11 tallies. Co-Captains George Peters and Ed White pushed in 9 and 7 respectively. Pat Williams had 8.

Diminutive Ed White came back from a scoreless Charleston tilt to pour eight field goals through the net and lead the Cats to a slim 52-50 verdict over the S.C. Gamecocks. Trailing 26-19 at the intermission, the Cats roared back in the second half with a new defense to top Al Adams, lanky Gamecock center who pushed the register for 25 markers during the evening. White accounted for seven of his eight buckets in the latter half, missing only three of ten shots. The White Flashes knotted the count at 30-30 six minutes after the second half opened. The little co-captain took the lead with a one-hand push shot. From there the lead see-sawed the remainder of the game. With less than a minute left, Freshman Whit Cobb refused a foul shot to take the ball out of bounds. The strategy worked as the Durham flash sunk a long one to square things at 50-50. Jake Ashmore was then good for the winning marker on a push shot from the foul line. Buddy Cheek and Mike Williams were good for seven points each to trail White’s 16. Ashmore had 6.

Due to an increase of 15% a box by the manufacturer, the price of a five-cent candy bar will be six cents effective February 1st.

PARKER “51” PENS AND INK
GYM SUITS
RUFUS LONG
Student Manager
STUDENT'S STORE
Davidson College
Run By Davidson Students
For Davidson Students

DAVIDSON SEAL BRACELETS & LOCKETS
PARKER INK — ALL COLORS
STATIONERY AND SUPPLIES
WILLIAM TELLFORD
Graduate Manager

By publication time the Wildcats will have picked up another conference victory and will be heading for two more in the form of Clemson and Furman. The Citadel, who went down in defeat by 65-32 (your reporter is predicting again), were hampered by the loss of Bill Henderson who found it necessary to leave school because of family responsibilities.

Purple Paladins

Meeting Furman Saturday, the Cats should not have much trouble. Melvin Bell and Ansel Briddle, both former Parker High lads, will be the big guns for the Furman crowd aided and paced by fast forward Stewart. The Purple Paladins will be found a bit short on height with only one sizeable gent, six-foot-five Center McCrary to be taken into account. Furman is coached by Lyles Alley, however, who is not to be taken lightly. Coach Alley tutored such All-Americans as Arnold Tucker, and when in Miami doing high school work he racked up three state championships (basketball) in four years. Notwithstanding, predictions are forthcoming again and they are being made to the tune of Davidson 54, Furman 42.

Clemson Friday

Back a bit to Friday night’s engagement with Clemson and a little dope on the South Carolina boys. There is a rumor around that the Cow College may have some new ball players out on the boards but as yet no definite personages can be cited. Burman Riddle, who set the conference on fire when he flashed about at U.S.C., will be the main Tiger’s Claw, but the Wildcats will probably be able to nip the Clemson lads for at least 12 points. Again, the Tigers are ably coached, Banks McFaden holding down the mentor position. Coach McFaden was a sportsman of no little mean a while.Back, bringing down All-American honors in both basketball and football. And if the usual turnout should be large, excited fans in the amount of 5,000 watched the Furman-Wake Forest tilt, which indicates that the South Carolinians are basketeers of the first order.

Cinder Men Run Again

Recent renewed activity in the track dressing rooms brings back memories of last year’s track season. Outstanding among such memories is “Gunder” Gray’s record of an entire season without being beaten to the tape in two distance events, the mile and the two mile. Some last season dash men are Dan Beale, Doug Rice, and Frank Matthews. Bob Lacy, Ed Hopper, and George Peters will be burning cinders and hopping hurdles again. Buddy Chandler will be putting the shot again. Bill Robinson tossed the javelin last year and “Bronco” Bailey hurled the discus with no little success. Bob Lacy and Bill Fesperman took quite a few firsts in the high jump and broad jump respectively.

Probably the most spectacular placing of the whole season was in the pole vaulting event, but it was neither of the Cats’ two regular aces, Dave Walker and George Peters, who performed this amazing feat. It was a lazy spring afternoon on Richardson Field, lazy for all but the Cat cinder-men, their VPI opponents, and the few heretic spectators who insisted on disturbing their fellow spectators’ placidity by cheering almost lustily. The crossbar stood at something over ten feet. Both Cat contestants had topped it and apparently had first and second places sewed up. VMI couldn’t get over but had an automatic third place because Davidson only had two vaulters. Coach Whittle, getting his Irish up at losing that third place one point, gave the stands a quick once-over. Spying a likely prospect, he asked Ed White if he could pole vault. Ed ’lowed that he could try. Disappearing into the dressing room, Ed soon reappeared in more appropriate garb to lift himself easily over the bar on his first attempt for third place. This done, Ed modestly retired from the field and his briefly successful track career!

Rifle Team Tries For A.I.R. Trophy

Hawk-eyed riflemen of Davidson are again shooting for the annual Seventh Army Intercollegiate Rifle Trophy and the William Randolph Hearst Intercollegiate R.O.T.C. Trophy. Shooting for these 1947 matches began last week and the Wildcat team is potting the black bulls in the Armory small bore range here. Tallied correspondence targets for these matches must be finished and in the mail tomorrow. Official scores will be published by Seventh Army Headquarters in Atlanta by late spring, but unofficial records will be available next week from the R.O.T.C. department (tentative scores will probably be slightly under the official totals).

This year’s team is hot with the rifle according to Captain Kennedy, team manager. In addition, he pointed out that Davidson took the 1944 Trophy and he expects this year’s Fourth Service Command team’s trigger fingers to squeeze off winning scores again.

I’ll Swap You $5.00 8X10 Color Portrait For $1.00
VERNON B. McGHEE
Local and College Agent of Franklin Studios
Charlotte, N.C.

CAROLINA OUTPOINTS CATS 55 - 46

Stretching for Mel Means’ toss-up are two sharp-eyed Cat basketeers, Buddy Cheek and Mike Williams. Cheek's specialty is a fast floor game while Mike is a smoothly coordinated point getter. Both men are strong cogs in Coach Shepard's cage machine.

Grid Practice Gets Underway

Coach Story has gotten into gear with winter practice and is working the grid-squad regularly these afternoons down Richardson Field. The squad turned out strong for practice with only a few of last year's stalwarts missing. Dick O'Hair, the veteran who has carried the pigskin for Davidson since ‘41, will be missing from next year's squad as will Pat Williams, stellar end of last and previous years, but the bulk of the Cat forward wall and the mainstays of the ‘46 backfield are out, plus newcomers from the powerful Jay Vee outfit. Bud is eligible for the pigskin parade of ‘47 and is working out at blocking back. Another comer will be big Fred Prier, flashy tackle of the Junior Varsity. Skeets Howard, heavy lineman just returned from service, is also working out in the line.

Seek Blocking Back

The major problem so far seems to be in finding a blocking back to fill Red Bethea’s shoes. Red, being graduated in June, is another regular who will be absent when the roll is called in ’47. However, backfield power took on new strength with the return of Buck Williams, former Davidson back. Buck played mighty fine ball down at U.S.C. in ’43 at the tailback slot, and your scribe well remembers the shellacking he helped deliver to Wake Forest that year. All in all, the prospects are looking good!

Betas In Front In Cage Loop

Last week, the Phi Gams romped over the S.A.E.’s to the tune of 25-13, and thus the latter were dropped into second place. The Betas kept up their standing by defeating the K.A.’s in a close game which saw the Knights tie the game up at 32-32, but the sons of Wooglin pocketed the game on Williams’ crip shot. Thus, last Monday found the Betas and the Phi Gams still to be defeated, while the S.A.E.’s took undisputed control of the second place slot. The Pi Kapps and the Independents came up into the third place slot, the former with a 26-12 win over the Pikas, while the Independents took down the S.P.E.’s 37-25. In fourth were the K.A.’s and S.P.E.’s. The cellar teams saw a little bit of rearrangement last week also, as the Phi Delts overcame the Kappa Sigs in a low scoring game, with the final tally being 17-11, Phi Delt. As of one week ago, the scoreboard looks like this:

Won Lost
Betas 5 0
Phi Gams 4 0
S.A.E.’s 4 1
Independents 3 2
Pi Kapps 3 2
K.A.’s 2 3
S.P.E.’s 2 3
Phi Delts 1 4
Pikas 1 4
Kappa Sigs 0 5

Say It With Flowers — from —
SMITH FLORAL SHOPS
Cornelius Jack Payne — Local and College Agent

Appalachian Whips Grapplers 29 to 3

Appalachian’s sturdy Mountaineer wrestlers proved that they grow men in “them there hills” when they decisively trimmed the Davidson grapplers 29-3 in the gym Saturday afternoon. Advance reports had indicated a bad time for the Wildcats and the Boone, N.C., boys lived up to their reputation. The highlight of the afternoon came in the second match, the 128 lb. class, when little Jimmy Jung outpointed Wilson to rack up the only Davidson score. According to many fans, it was one of the best matches seen here in several years. Georgia Tech and Auburn will play host to the Wildcats this week. Coach Parker and the team are (Continued on Page 4)

RABY’S SHOE SHOP
We Specialize In Whole Soles — Phone 3741