Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, February 28, 1947 The Davidsonian Founded by the Class of 1915 “FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

Editorials DAVIDSONIAN Letters & Features

JIM LOVE - EDITOR
BOB SMOAK - BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bob Phillips - Associate Editor
Bob Rierson - Feature Editor
SAM SPENCE - Sports Editor
Charlie Cunningham - Assistant Sports Editor
Dave Richardson - Assistant Editor
Kent Christopher - Managing Editor
Walter Walker - Managing Editor
Ronny Dietrick - Managing Editor
Lamar Williamson - Managing Editor
George Worth - Managing Editor
John Stuart - Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Bob Gambrell - Assistant Business Manager
Frank Lemmon - Advertising Manager
Tony Thompson - Circulation Manager
Bob Cline - Circulation Manager
Charles Dockery - Collection Manager
Bill Baxter - Circulation Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 Madison Ave, New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1946 Member 1947 Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Letters To The Editors...

Dear Editor:

With the appearance this week of the revised second issue of the SCRIPTS 'N PRANKS, there will be some people
who will regard it with keen interest as to whether it would be wise to continue the publication or not.
Of course, there will also be those who have already formed their ideas concerning the fate that should be allotted
to the publication — a one-way trip across the River Styx.

In writing this letter, I am aware that the arguments which I set forth do not just apply to the
magazine alone but to all of the publications here on the campus. All that I ask of the reader is
that he keep his mind clear of all prejudices and open to all that which I say. For those that
refuse to leave their little “Ivory Towers,” all that I can possibly say is that I extend to you my
deepest sympathy.

Please take note that within this letter I express my own reasons for the continuance of the college magazine, SCRIPTS
'N PRANKS, which are purely unselfish ones, and are in the interest solely for the betterment and improvement of Davidson
College. They are six, and as follows:

First, the college magazine is of a general nature, including both serious and humorous material. In this way, it opens
its doors to all students who are able to write and affords them the opportunity of writing for a publication
material which would not be suitable for a newspaper such as the Davidsonian.

Second, the SCRIPTS 'N PRANKS is sent to a hundred or more colleges and universities all over the United States
thus furnishing the college with invaluable advertisements which it would not obtain otherwise.

Third, this publication serves as a proving ground as does the Davidsonian for writers who wish to be accepted into
such literary groups on the campus as the Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Societies and finally the opportunity of securing a
seat in Sigma Upsilon.

Fourth, by having one’s work accepted and printed by this magazine a certain amount of pride in his work, incentive
for greater achievements, and self-assurance is instilled within the very man.

Fifth, this I hesitate in putting forth, but to those for whom I am writing this I feel certain that
they will clearly see my point. This is that a boy between 19 and 25 years of age has a
great amount of stored up exuberance which must be spent before taking his place in this world as a citizen
and father of the next generation. This exuberance will quite often be on the borderline and may at times step
over the undefined fence between the conventional and the unconventional.

Sixth, the experience to be had by working on a staff such as this one will prove to be invaluable
to anyone who plans to enter into either the writing or printing field or even if the student looks forward
to being a salesman. For those who fall into this last group we recommend the business staff, because in one’s
seeking ads, he comes into contact with outside people and makes the acquaintance of businessmen whose friendship would prove to
be of great value to him if perchance he decides on making his living in this vicinity. In this way
also he learns how to conduct himself and make use of diplomacy which any business requires and which is not
possible to be learned in a classroom.

The above six reasons seem sufficient to me for the continuance of the magazine or any other publication on this
campus. To discontinue such an organization would be to lower the standards of any institution because upon graduation the men
would have little or no knowledge of the outside world and having to start from scratch would mean a long
and arduous climb up the ladder of success.

We feel confident that you and your readers will heartily concur with us in our desire to continue publication. However,
if there be any constructive criticism of the SCRIPTS 'N PRANKS, that you know of, please do not hesitate to
drop us a card or let any member of the staff know because this magazine is for you, the students
and faculty of Davidson College.

Yours sincerely,
Doug Sink.

————

Mr. Dave Richardson
Assistant Editor

Dear Sir:

As regards your editorial in THE DAVIDSONIAN of February 14, 1947, I would like to express a few of my
views. First, I must say that this is my first year here, and some of what I want to say
is based on what others tell me. The Davidson basketball team made the tournament in 1943 when the enrollment was
only 699, not quite your proposed 1,000. If we were to want to increase to this number for the sake
of getting a good team, it still wouldn't be comparable to a number of the other teams in the Southern
Conference. The school has gotten good teams before with a small student body and I see no reason why we
can’t do it again.

To increase the student body to such a number causes us to realize that the dormitory space is sadly insufficient.
Here I might take space to say thanks to Mr. Dudley Camper, who, alongside of your editorial, pointed out one
of the great drawbacks of the increased enrollment. I think that there are very few of the ones who are
really interested in learning something up here that won't agree that it is very hard to do the studying required
here in a room with two others. Supposing some of the 1,000 here now are not here for all the
education offered them, this makes a good reason for all the noise that is complained about in most of the
dormitories.

This is without a doubt part of the reason, and it should put the problem before the “powers that be”
as to whether it is worthwhile to graduate 250 to a class or to educate 125 to a class. Your
little saying about “send your boy to Davidson and we'll send your boy back” doesn’t seem to have the circulation
that the good name of the education you receive here has. I come from Texas and never heard any such
rumors about boys down there, but certainly did hear only good about scholastics.

I think that if you would stop and consider you would have to agree that our “Solomon” has been stretched
to its limit in the library facilities. Have you never walked into the library at night when you had a
hard time finding a place to sit down? Have you never waited days to get a chance at a parallel
book which the other 100 or more taking the course keep continually busy? Or perhaps I should ask have you
been in the library this year?

There are more arguments which I could take up, but won’t now as to avoid being verbosely boring.

Sincerely,
Breezin’ With Bob
BY BOB RIERSON

Last week an editorial appeared in the Davidsonian that announced the resignation of the Editor-in-Chief of this sheet, Edward C.
Sutton. The reasons for and circumstances of his resignation are there in print for all to see so that it
would be only waste space for me to repeat what has already been printed. But there is no reason why
I should not pay my tribute to Ed, to try in some insufficient measure to pay back the great favor
that he gave me, or at least to acknowledge it. Also, I should like to put across the fact that
Ed is a swell guy and a good editor in case there are some who are not aware of the
fact.

Ed has bucked uphill all year trying to keep the Davidsonian going with little or no help at times. He
has very often been deserted by all but a faithful few, among which group I cannot include myself, no excuses
offered. He deserved a better fate, and perhaps he would still be editor if the production of the paper could
have gone more easily. But having to publish a paper almost single-handedly takes plenty of time away from studies, and,
as he said, his medical aim had to come first. But he still put out a good paper despite all
the difficulties. He is to be commended by the student body, one and all, for a job well done.

As for the chance he gave me, it appears to me to be evident with every letter typed. I hope
my alleged readers will forgive me for this personal reference, but it has an end in view which, I hope,
will be clear. Yours truly was only a slugging reporter on this sheet (and perhaps should have stayed so!) when
Jim Jackson had to resign because of the press of his studies. Sut offered me the job which would provide
very good experience, experience that I probably would never have gotten but for that. This being my last year at
good old D. C. (I plan to transfer to more specialized surroundings next summer), I could not have gone up
the ordinary paths to editorship. Knowing this and aware of the fact that I was not even a junior, Ed
gave me the job, nevertheless, and I can never thank him enough. The only way to learn to write is
to wear out the seat of one’s britches in front of a typewriter, so I got my chance. I’mSorry that
the swell gang of fellows here at Davidson had to be the guinea pigs, but somebody had to suffer. Besides,
it’s easy enough to lay the paper down. But now to avoid getting sticky and tiresome, I'll just sign off
for this time. I hope you get the point, Ed, because what has been said here is sincere, even though
badly put. So long and good luck to ya, Trouthead, a great big welcome and the same kind of luck
to you, Jim. See you in the columns!

The Operating Table

To the parents and kin of the Davidson men,
Who venture on deals of spectacular sin,
The table is able to broadcast this fable,
That a word to the wise and a wink to the stable,
Is sufficient to curb and otherwise mar,
The weekend trips both near and afar,
Of the dealers described who have made themselves known,
By actions alike to those of “The Bone.”

This hill country club has oft had its members,
Halved into groups of dealers and limbers,
And in this very column the groups will be bared,
With facts and comment on how they have fared.
So pull up an eyeball and prepare for a shock,
For the censor is busy guarding the lock,
On the door of the room where Dirty Doug’s journal,
Is being well stripped of its content infernal.

An old piece of news first comes to attention,
For it’s all about Queen’s and Jost inhibition;
It seems that Don Watt of aerial fame,
Waltzed with a woman of undisclosed name,
With wolfish gleam in his practiced eye,
He whispered sweet nothings and patted her back,
When suddenly deep from the floor she swung,
On the dismayed Watt profile a shiner was hung.

Among the more daring of the seekers of glory,
Have been the two roommates of lanky Van Story,
So wicked was the plot, so nefarious the deed,
That deep contemplation discloses the need,
Of keeping their names from the public at large,
And especially from the woman named Marge.
So the curious and prying are left with the gist,
And for the rest may look to the room number list,
The students above to the Queen City strayed,
With the obvious intention of getting themselves supper,
But later that evening two queens did recruit,
And continued the amorous pursuit,
Slipped off as couples (one dealer, one limber),
Only to find that of matrimonial timber,
Was the agreeable date of the unwarned dealer,
Himself kept single by a feminine squealer.
For the girl of the limber to him did confide,
That her partner in pleasure was after the hide,
Of a likely young man to throw on the halter,
And lead as a scapegoat with her to the altar;
So the limber like Hermes took to the street,
Sought out roommate friend indiscreet,
Saved him in time from the marital sea,
And brought him back safe to his room at D.C.

To Athletic Alf Taylor these words must be said,
That this bookworm needs repent of the life he has led,
Come forth from the library and walls of his room,
Give up pathway to secluded stud’s doom,
Journey to Queens or Rock Hill or Salem,
To many young females write letters and mail ’em,
Return again to the halls of old Chatham,
Come on Alfred, get up and at ’em!

To Mullethead Sutton a wreath must be given,
For abandoning wisely the life he’s been livin’,
He’s delving in test tubes instead of newsprint,
And among the Phi Betes will no doubt leave a dent;
To Black Jack Shelton the future brings trouble,
For the limberjack has ideas to double;
The fate was inevitable for he’s studied too often,
And too many books his resistance did soften.

Down Fraternity Court

KAPPA SIGMA
After an unmistakable weekend of revelry, it is uncovered that one Martin Waters shared the acquaintance of Mr. John Law,
whose residence is some fifty feet down a side road approximately a mile from the Charlotte city limits. Waters, a
speedily operating Casanova from way back (about seventy miles an hour) was taking a devious route to Gaffney when John
perchanced to bring his telescope upon him. The aftermath, we are not exactly sure, but rumor holds it that with
recent accumulated funds, Charlotte will have a new paved highway. Gregg Thompson reports an uneventful movie at Winston-Salem while Bitter
Bingham, returning from the Briar Hoppers’ Saturday night hoe-down, laments of being flushed by the miner’s daughter (shaft No. 27)
in West Virginia. Save for Torch Turnbull, who won’t let on why he keeps whistling “Love on a Greyhound bus,”
other Sigmas were seen at the ball game in Raleigh or taking in the midnight triple “A” Domino production at
the local cinema.

S. A. E. FRATERNITY
Shaming the Betas in basketball and snow-slinging was about the height of activity this past week. The general trend over
the weekend was the pursuit of stable pleasures as enjoyed by pledge brother Sid Bruce, who takes exceeding joy in
thumbing to South Carolina with a wardrobe consisting largely of articles that could best be described as “something borrowed”—period! It’s
tears in the beer for brother John Coddington, now wearing extra fraternity hardware which still retains traces of the last
dear touches of “Pudden” McKoy. The magnetic powers of Greensboro drew brother Ford Little, and never-say-die pledges Hideous Hemby, “Junior”
McAllister, and Bill and Bob Little en masse to W.C. for what has been officially termed a quiet time. Jim
Harris took in hometown Wilmington, preferring the simple, uneventful life to such rare moments as Midwinters, while Dick Port dropped
in on the folks in Winston-Salem to run over a few bars of “Memphis in June.”

PHI GAMMA DELTA
Like Ivory Soap, the entire chapter was 99.97 percent pure last weekend. Brothers Maloney and Ilyea rejoiced over the success
of Y.M.C.A. deputations of recent months. After a quiet pig dinner in Charlotte Saturday night, Brothers Patrick, Bealls, Vance, Aldred,
Brown, Fairly, Hudnell, and Ragan returned to the campus to spend Sunday in attending vesper services. Brother Richardson journeyed sedately
to Rock Hill to visit his father, Rev. Donald W. Richardson, D.D. “Spotless Frank” Strait, “Sober James” Poag, “Viceless Ed”
Newton, “Holy Dick” Blanks, and “Saint Paul” Jenkins visited Winthrop College, but refrained from participating in the midwinters dance for
fear of the possibility of being led into immorality. Leaving the dance at 11:45, they indicated the disapproval with which
they looked on such degeneration of the younger set. And now may the grace of true brotherhood rest and abide
with you all. Amen.

PHI DELTA THETA
In one of the largest weeks of dealing on record, men of N.C. Gamma covered the Carolinas and Georgia in
goodly numbers. Participating in Operations Converse were Brothers Witherspoon, Hooper, McGehee, Guthrie, Wilkins, J., Wilkins, W., and Palmer. Brothers Newell,
Starnes, and Oglesby were off to Atlanta’s famed Peachtree St. Brother Starnes mumbles of Bees and Butterflies. Chapel Hill was
the destination of Brother Johnson although authoritative reports say the 200 pounds of bone and muscle was detained en route.
Brother Willingham was seen on the Duke campus some seven miles off his course in former days. Brother McLean visited
Lenoir and courted Winthrop style, while Brothers Tate and Golden were holding down Morganton. Brother Knight painted Tarboro aflame and
Brothers Long, McGeachy, and Colson report that all is well in the Queen City. As usual Brothers Bernhardt and Cameron
were gracing the campus of W.C. up Greensboro way.

PI KAPPA PHI
With dances over for another month, the Pi Kapps sat back and relaxed. Of course the “Dealers” took off as
usual for their various haunts. Brother Evans to Chapel Hill, Brother Robertson to Duke to see Billy Rose. Aren’t you
sorry about Friday now Bill? Brothers Higginbotham and Thad Barringer went to Winthrop Saturday to see their flames. Thad didn’t
have enough so he took off for Charlotte Sunday night. Brothers Lander, Delaney, Rush, Sinclair, Bumbarger, Houck, Harden, Campbell and
Everett “dealed” in the Queens area as usual. Brothers Cline and Edwards made a last-minute trip to Hickory. Why, we
don’t know! Brothers Johnson, Dobson, Cox and Sasser again brought some more “horrible” stories back. Best bet of the week...
Go to Mooresville with Brother Cline and see the “Show.” Happiest man of the week—Brother Reid “Tootie” came to Davidson
for the weekend.

BETA THETA PI
Wooglin’s offspring are suffering this week from a letdown after (Continued on Page 4)

Cinema Comments
By Doug Swink

MONDAY AND TUESDAY MARCH 3-4
“THE STRANGE WOMAN”
This is a story of the life and love affairs of a violent, ambitious and vain woman called Jenny. The
scene is in the 1840 puritanical town of Bangor, Maine. Beautiful Hedy Lamarr as Jenny is the callous, self-seeking female
who meets her just deserts in the end. Miss Lamarr is supported by George Sanders, Louis Hayward, and Gene Lockhart.
As the Western Committee of the Daughters of the American Revolution said, “Ethical and social values are entirely lacking.” Thus
“The Strange Woman” comes in the middle of review week.

WEDNESDAY MARCH 5
“GENIUS AT WORK”
When a radio program of unsolved murders dramatizes one story which comes so close to the truth that The Cobra,
the sadistic perpetrator of several crimes, finally betrays himself and is eventually apprehended. The cast includes Lionel Atwill, Anne Jeffreys,
and Wally Brown.

THURSDAY AND FRIDAY MARCH 6-7
“BACHELOR'S DAUGHTERS”
A comedy of manners concerning four young department store girls, Gail Russell, Claire Trevor, Ann Dvorak, and Jane Wyatt, who,
seeking love, fame and fortune, pool their assets and buy a large suburban estate to provide a wealthy background for
meeting the right kind of people. They adopt Adolph Menjou and Billie Burke as their parents. Eugene List plays the
part of a pianist. This is one of the few musician roles which have been well woven into the plot,
because when he plays there is a natural and understanding reason for his doing so, and the action does not
come to a complete stop in order for him to display his talents. His playing, however, is the highlight of
the picture.

SATURDAY MARCH 8
“SHADOW OF A WOMAN”
Having searched through all of the files that are available to me, there could not be any information gained from
them except the fact that the following two stars head the cast, Andrea King and Helmut Dantine. Judging only from
the name, we have come to the conclusion that there must be a murder somewhere in the plot and the
solving of that murder must be centered around finding the woman to whom the shadow belongs.
