PAUL'S PLACE PENALIZES PATRONS

Volume XXXVII The Davidsonian

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1948 NUMBER TEN

SAPP SOAKS SORE SUCKERS

STUD TO CLOSE OUT WEDNESDAY

INTERFRATERNITY CONFERENCE HOLDS MEETING IN NEW YORK

The Rev. K. H. Ting

COMMITTEE REPORTS RESULT OF GRADUATE RECORD EXAM

TREMENDOUS LOSS REPORTED; HONOR SYSTEM THREATENED

DEAN J. C. BAILEY TO REPRESENT FACULTY

CLASS OF ('48 SLIGHTLY BELOW NATIONAL AVERAGE

Student Manager Paul Thorne could not be reached today, but other Student Store clerks verified the report that the Student
Store will be closed down after next Tuesday night.

French Club Hears Dr. No-Yon Park

By RANDY TAYLOR

On March 17 and 18, 1948, one hundred and forty-nine Davidson seniors took the Graduate Record Examination. The results of
this test are widely accepted by educators. They are recommended by the Southern Association to all its member institutions and
are now required of all students applying for member schools of most first-rank universities. For example, Duke and North Carolina
now require all applicants to take these examinations and may refuse admittance to students who do poorly on them. The
tests are not graded according to an absolute standard, but in relation to what students in a representative group of
forty-five liberal arts colleges have done. Twenty-five per cent of the colleges upon which this scoring is based are in
the South.

The results of the Graduate Record Examination are important because they compare the educational advancement of our seniors with those
of other similar institutions and because these are the examinations by which our seniors will be judged when they apply
for entrance to graduate schools.

Scores made on the examinations show that Davidson seniors are slightly below the average of the liberal arts senior men
on the national scale. Davidson seniors were significantly superior in mathematics and effectiveness in the use of English to the
national average of liberal arts senior men, approximately equal or slightly below in the physical sciences, the biological sciences, and
reading comprehension of literature, and significantly lower in the arts and in vocabulary.

INTERFRATERNITY CONFERENCE HOLDS MEETING IN NEW YORK

Davidson will be represented at this meeting by Dean Bailey, representing the faculty, and Frank Strait, official representative for the
students. Strait is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity and serves on the Pan Hellenic Council. The purpose
of the meeting is the bringing together of fraternity leaders to discuss problems confronting groups on all campuses, to seek
possible ways of improvement, and to promote better understanding.

The nature of the meetings and the calibre of the leaders present can be seen from the following sketch of
the program for the conference:

Thursday, Nov. 25
Smoker and informal get-together.

Friday, Nov. 26
Address of welcome by Chairman.
General Discussion with Leaders on "Improvement of Scholarship"—Colonel Ralph W. Wilson, Scholarship Counsellor for the N.C. Department of Education.

Saturday, Nov. 27
Open Business—Explanation of Rules of Procedure; appointment of committees; organization committees; resolutions committees; appointment of secretaries of panels.

French Club Hears Dr. No-Yon Park

The French Club has entertained as guest speakers students who have come to the United States from French-speaking countries in
Europe. Mlle. Therese Barbier, a native of Belgium now studying at Mitchell College, spoke on her impressions of the United
States and its relations to the current United States-Russia problems. Mlle. Suzanne Dardel, a native of France, told of student
life in France and the occupation situation in her country.

On the evening of Tuesday, November 16, Professor Watts introduced Dr. No-Yon Park, a professor of history at Yonsei University
in Seoul, Korea. Dr. Park received his undergraduate degree from the University of Minnesota, and his Ph.D. from Harvard University.
He has also studied at the University of Chicago and the University of Paris. Dr. Park's lecture was one of
several sponsored by the Faculty Lecture Committee this year, under the direction of the committee's chairman, Dr. J. M. Beaty.

Dr. Park's lecture was on the subject of "The Far East and Its Relations to the West." He discussed the
historical background of the Far East, the current political situation in China, Japan, and Korea, and the implications of these
events for the future of the world. Dr. Park's lecture was well received by the audience, and he answered many
questions from the students and faculty.

CHRISTMAS FUNCTION

The Masquers announce production dates for their Christmas play, "The Red and the Black," under the capable directorship of Mr.
John Doe, who is also president of the organization. The play will be presented on December 10 and 11 in
the college auditorium. The cast includes many talented students, and the production promises to be one of the highlights of
the Christmas season.

ROTC Units Receive Proficiency Medals

In the early days of Davidson College, the ROTC units received proficiency medals for their outstanding performance. These medals were
awarded to the top cadets in each unit, and they were a source of great pride for the recipients. The
tradition of awarding proficiency medals continues to this day, and the ROTC units at Davidson College are among the best
in the country.by Joseph Kesselrat

AW ind a short business meeting. College, the village which centered in a closed meeting last week. Superior scores are
consistently above. Play will be given in Chamber. “The film gave a brief account of (Reprinted From Charlotte about the
college) was incorporated students from Atlanta laid the groundwork for planning a Davidson dinner dance in Atlanta during the Christmas
holiday. The meeting, called by Jack Etheridge, was attended by approximately 30 from Atlanta and vicinity who approved and elected
Dave Gambrell and Jack Etheridge co-chairmen of the group.

The Philanthropic Society of Davidson College held its first meeting on June 22, 1837, in one of the “Row” rooms,
and the meeting was announced as being held “at early candle light.”

The first colors of Davidson College were pink and blue. In December 1895, the official colors became crimson and black.

Gambrell and Etheridge were instructed to get in touch with the Atlanta Alumni Chapter and attempt to arrange to make
the dinner a joint affair with that group.

Unknown Freshmen Disillusioned; Refers To Regulations As Assinine

Dear Editor:

I have been asked to speak through your newspaper for a small select group of freshmen who have banded themselves
together for a purpose. Needless to say, the only purpose that a group of freshmen could have in banding together
is for the common good of the freshman class. We have caused this small group of freshmen to come together
to study the freshman problem and to see if there is anything that can be done about it.

In the first place, we were purposely disillusioned by Davidson College. We were sent all types of literature telling us
what a wonderful place Davidson is and what wonderful boys are found there. They assured us that if we were
admitted it would be by an act of either God or Congress. We entered Davidson and sat around for several
days while various faculty members told us how fine we were. They also told us that the upperclassmen were even
finer. And then the upperclassmen arrived and we were disillusioned. I suppose the most disappointing and disillusioning group was that
conglomeration of misanthropic neurotic war veterans and draft dodgers who compose our present senior class. Those guys should be lost
beyond some horizon. However, I confess they are not worse than that boisterous bunch of juniors and the section full
of non-entities that composes the sophomore class.

These despotically minded gentlemen placed a small group of tyrants over us to see that we obeyed a lot of
silly rules. We freshmen think this is absolutely undesirable. We feel that since we were able to get into Davidson
College we are pretty good boys. In fact, we would go so far as to say that since we gained
admission when competition was much more stiff, we have a better class than the seniors. The only sane member of
the family, Mortimer, played by Page Jackson, whose troubles are nobly but vainly coped with by the entrance of the
wicked member of the family, Jonathan. This part is played by John Crockett. Jonathan brings with him a sinister friend,
Doctor Einstein, who is portrayed by Bill Goodrum. In addition to all this, the plot is further complicated by Lieutenants
Rooney, played by John McNair, and O'Hara, played by Scotty McKay. Rooney and O'Hara are two Brooklyn cops. Torrid love
scenes, ably played by Nancy Copeland and Page Jackson, are thrown in for good measure.

The Red and Black Masquers is an honorary organization. Its faculty advisers are Profs. Lilly, Irwin, and Wood. Membership is
obtained by work and showing a personal interest in dramatics at Davidson. The principle activity of the organization is the
performance of plays.

The James Sprunt Ministerial Loan Fund was founded by James Sprunt of Wilmington.

After business matters were taken care of, the meeting was brought to a close.
