- “Ae Ne : NVA ‘| Ji an UR
k > “NP dS . > ‘on . y
. esl fs é| ww, xt. C. A&G fx

Vol. 1 - No. 2 A PUBLICATION OF THE M.I.C.A. JUNE 16, 1948
WAALS -

NN K ‘ ete Vac ee YD.
SNe Nie Ns IID — NOY » CORHI HSCS Wy. _

FOUL BALLS AND DOUBLE PLAYS

This afternoon the intramural
softball tournament gets underway
with the teams from West and South
dormitories competing on field 1,
while Georgia faces the East team
on field 2. Interest is apparently
running high, for from all reports,
the teams were filled very shortly
after the announcement of the com-
petition was made in Chapel.

An exclusive interview with
Charlie Parker, the athletic czar for
the summer, revealed the following
men as the leaders of the various
teams in their bid for the pennant:
"Brutley" Hill and J.O. Astmore
for West; Quentin Cooper, Georgia;
Bill Moore and Gert Anter, South;
and Tom Stevens, East.

The WILDCAT has completed plans
to bring you complete coverage of
batting averages weekly.

As was announced at Tuesday
morning Chapel, there is to be a
College Tennis Tournament which
will begin as soon as the Southern
Junior Boys' Tournament is comple-
ted. This will be a "ladder" tourna-
ment and anyone interested should
sign up with Charlie Parker or add
his name to the list which will be
posted at any time during the play
at the bottom of the ladder. A tro-
phy is to be awarded to the winner.
Coach Parker had this state-
ment for the press: "The courts
will be kept in good shape all sum-
mer." Sounds good!

From the looks of things, the old
Alenda Lux school should get a reputation
for outstanding tennis. During the regular
season, Bo Roddey and the rest of the crew
took on and defeated such schools as Yale,
Harvard, and Georgia Tech. But for the present, we have
the Southern Boys' and Juniors' tournament
on our hands. The boys' division includes those under 15 years, and the junior group
includes the 15 through 17-year-olds.

Last year's National Boys' champion, Dick
Holroyd, is here and is seeded in the number
six spot. Dick took the South regional
championship here last year and went on
to win the national.

This year's top-seeded boys' netter
is Hamilton Richardson, of Baton Rouge,
La. A marvelous player, he stands a good chance
of winning this year's Boys' National Champ-
ionship. Last year he was runner-up here in
the regional and later in the nationals.
Second-seeded in the boys' division is
Bobby Blair, of Tampa, Florida.

In the Junior Division, Charles Devoe,
of Indianapolis, Indiana, sits in the num-
ber one seat with Steve Potts from Memphis,
ranking second. A Darlington boy, Steve
faced Bo Roddey this spring when the Dar-
lington team took on our J.V.s. Although
Bo beat him on that occasion, it was because the
local J.V. lacked sufficient competition
for the time he took on our fencing star.

Lige Helean, who is doing such a
grand job running the tournament, stated
that when over, there will have been over
two hundred matches played on the six
courts used for the contests.

COME TO VESPERS SUNDAY
AT 7:30 P.M.
