CAT TALES By MAC HART

The Wildcats took a cue from that Yankee weatherman we got and put over a snow job on South Carolina’s Gamecocks last Tuesday night in Charlotte. Their 25-point edge came as a surprise to everybody except the ’Cats who had their eyes on bigger things—in Durham. Not only was it sweet revenge for the 15-point drubbing the Gamecocks gave us on their home court, but it put us right in line for a tournament bid. We now hold a better than .500 average in conference play and it will not be difficult to keep things that way from here on out. We have six conference meets left, and can count on at least four of them to help on the Durham Road. Clemson is already behind us once by a 60-44 count and should not have proved too difficult for the ’Cats last night. We might even mess around and beat UNC’s Tar Heels when they come to Charlotte the 24th.

Our victory over the Gamecocks is just one example to show what an important cog Mike Williams is in the Wildcat engine. Nobody doubted that his absence with a sprained ankle in the earlier South Carolina fray could account for the 15 points between us and a win. There was a 45-point difference in the two scores this time. Of course, the Gamecocks were off. It was their lowest score of the season, and not even Carolina beat them that bad. Then too, the ’Cats were hitting on all cylinders. They couldn’t miss. They were especially deadly from the foul line, a department they have been weak in here lately.

South Carolina’s Coach Frank Johnson called Mike and Buddy “as fine a pair of basketball players as there are in the conference.” We already knew this, but it makes us feel good to hear it from worthy opponents. Well might the Gamecock mentor compliment this pair, for the ’Cats held his two giant centers—Al Adams, 6’6” and Jimmy Slaughter, 6’9”—well out of the scoring. Al rated All-Conference center last year at Raleigh, and his understudy Slaughter is no novice.

With just two weeks left in the season, it will be interesting to see if Cheek will maintain his scoring lead in the big three. As of the South Carolina game, he has a total of 223 points. Whit is 80 points behind him with 193. Mike, with about a seven-game handicap because of two sprained ankles, has 183, but is climbing steadily. At twenty points a clip, he may give Buddy a race for the lead yet.

Mid-Winters brought a lot of new faces and “new looks” to the campus, but none so permanent and so good-natured as that of Ray Brown, Coach Charlie’s new backfield assistant. Ray arrived on the Davidson scene Monday, and is expecting his wife and 11-month-old daughter, Georgia, any day now. Ray is a recent gridiron ace at Virginia. He also tried his hand at baseball, track, and basketball, and will help Coach Whittle with the track team this spring. After a long rivalry with Coach Charlie, Ray says he got tired of getting beat and decided to join up with his former opponent. He played against Coach Jamerson’s high school teams in Memphis, and again at Virginia, he butted heads with the Tar Heels when Coach Charlie was on the Carolina staff. If you can’t beat ’em, join ’em, as the man says. We want to take this opportunity to welcome Ray and his family to Davidson.

Snow does lots of things to basketball games and players. The following incident, taken from the Charlotte News, shows that our neighbor Catawba has got some of that old school spirit that we sometimes think is exclusive with Davidson. It seems that Catawba’s basketball outfit headed out through the snow for Newberry, S.C., to play the college by the same name. They were traveling in two cars, but one of them couldn’t make it through the drifts and had to turn back to Salisbury. The remaining members of the team were undaunted, however, when they discovered that they were left with only five men to play the game. They went ahead and took the court and made a creditable showing until new troubles developed. One of the five fouled out, and it seemed that they really were on the spot. The Catawbans were still undaunted, though. They hurriedly slapped some togs on their manager and went on to a 60-43 win over the South Carolinians. This is worthy of a hand, at least, from the authors of the Wildcat spirit.

Frank’s Grill
“Just a Few Yards North of Davidson”
CURB SERVICE
* Best Barbecue in Town
* Hot Sandwiches a Specialty
* Cold Drinks

THACKER’S, INC.
Private Dining Rooms for Parties and Banquets
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
221 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 25490

Your Friends Meet At
GIBSON’S ICE CREAM STORE
— Curb Service —
800 E. MOREHEAD STREET
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Wildcat Sports
GET TICKETS AT ‘NEW’ GYM FOR CONFERENCE TOURNAMENT

Page Three
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Friday, February 13, 1948

Matmen Lose To State, Carolina

The Davidson matmen seemed to run true to form in both their Southern Conference matches on the home mats last week. Meeting both the Tar Heels from Carolina and the Wolfpack from State, the ’Cats went down to overwhelming defeat by the respective scores of 24-3 and 29-3. In both matches the able grappling of Kannapolis’s Jimmy Jung was the only highlight of otherwise bad days for the wearers of the Red and Black. Jung accounted for all our combined two match total of 6 points by gaining decisions over Wilson of Carolina and Morgan of State. In both matches, incidentally, Jung came within a hair’s breadth of pinning his man.

The bout with State before a large Midwinter Dance audience marked the appearance of a new ’Cat grappler, and the reappearance of an old ’Cat standby. Jack Barnard, husky 175-pounder, took the place of Bill Moore who suffered a recurrence of an old service knee injury in the Auburn match, and Bill Fesperman returned to the wrestling wars after several weeks layoff.With a bad neck injury, both these ‘Cats, although suffering defeats, turned in noteworthy performances. Fesperman grappled in a thrilling nine-minute duel with Smith, in which the State matter came out on top only by the narrowest of margins, 7-6. Barnard, likewise, turned in a scintillating performance, as he gave the State football star, Wagoner, more than he had bargained for. State’s other claim to football fame who performed on the mats was Charlie Musser, who met and defeated “Bull” Alexander in the unlimited class. Alexander turned in a sparkling performance and almost turned the tables on the State gridiron great.

After Jimmy Jung had won a hard-fought decision over Wilson in the 121-pound class, the ‘Cats fell down and lost the remaining seven matches successively. Jung had almost pinned his opponent on three occasions when the period buzzer sounded, and it was fortunate for weary Wilson who limped to the Carolina bench after nine minutes of Jung's manipulating and maneuvering. The Kemp twins, Lem and Phil, proved to be too much for the ‘Cats to handle as they pinned two reliable ‘Catmen. Lem turned the tables on “Bull Alexander” in the spectacular time of 0:53 of the first period, while Phil pinned Griffith in 2:58 of the same period. Mott Stubby Evans and Chuck Kirby were decisioned by Price.

Wingate Downs Wildkitten Five

The Jayvees were defeated 60-49 Tuesday night by the Wingate Junior College five in a somewhat less impressive game than the following Wildcat game. Big John Shannon led the Wingate attack and racked up 25 of the 60 Wingate points. The big center dropped them in with the greatest of ease and couldn't be stopped. Davidson's Ed Hopper took top honors with 11 tallies; Neisler and Brinegar followed with eight each. Bo Roddey scored seven for the Jayvees, three for the Wildcat team. Dutch Hengeveld and Ed Hopper also saw action with the varsity team in the South Carolina encounter. The next Jayvee game will take place Saturday night at seven o'clock in the “New Gym.” The Kittens meet the Phifer Junior College five before the varsity-Citadel game.

Carolina’s Gunton, Fisher, and Thompson in matches that could have gone either way. In the unlimited class, the Davidsonians ran into some tough luck when Bill Moore, the Blacky, Kentucky ex-marine, had to default his match to Bond after he was ahead on points, 5-2. Valentine Day will prove to be no day of rest for the weary ‘Cat grapplers. They will travel to Durham to face the Blue Devils of Duke University.

Faul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. TRYON STREET
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

INQUIRE OF YOUR LOCAL TRAILWAYS AGENT ABOUT OUR ATTRACTIVE SERVICE
Queen City Trailways
417 W. 5th St.
Charlotte, N. C.

The race for the interfraternity basketball crown remained a wide-open affair this week. The biggest game of the last week and a half was the Rapp-Phi Delt tilt in which the Phi Delts defeated the previously undefeated team in the league. This leaves four teams with a 5-1 record. It was a packed Charlotte Armory Friday night that saw the locals put on a last-minute spurt to hand lowly V.M.I. a 63-53 loss. The oversized Mid-Winter crowd cheered loudly when Coach Norm Sloan finally pulled Mike Maloy off the bench with the score knotted and only a few minutes remaining. Slick Mike lived up to all expectations as he poured through seven quick points to give the ‘Cats the needed advantage.

It was a nip and tuck affair with the lead changing throughout. The crowd in the Armory was somewhat smaller Tuesday night, as only 1,000 spectators braved the elements to see the ‘Cats pin a sound 69-44 shellacking on South Carolina's Gamecocks. There was even a cheer for the Birds as the game started but that was finally silenced when Cheek, Ashmore, and Bobby Maner swished in three quick buckets to throw the ‘Cats into a lead they never lost. The locals held a 29-19 lead at intermission, continued the hot pace in the third quarter, and (Continued on Page Four).

The ‘Hat’ Endorses Local Haberdashery

The Hat, well known in this section of the country for his large collection of toppers, says that he had long felt the need for a modern men’s shop here at Davidson, and he feels certain that WRENN’S MEN’S SHOP is just the clothing store that the town and campus have been waiting for.

MALLORY HATS. $7.50 to $10.00
WRENN’S MEN'S SHOP
Davidson

The Hat is pictured below as he gazes at the well-filled hat rack in WRENN’S MEN'S SHOP. On the right, The Hat and Mr. Gibson, manager of the shop, are shown selecting a new chapeau for The Hat's collection.

MAIN STREET
Wrenn’s Men's Shop
DAVIDSON, N. C.

It's MONICA LEWIS

Monica Lewis, the popular singer, says that she has one swell set of pitch pipes: “They suit me to a T.” Monica's choice — the Camel. With three great smokes to choose from, why not try Camels today? R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.