Friday, March 12, 1948 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Four Faul & Crymes, Inc. Sporting Goods 415 S. TRYON STREET CHARLOTTE, N.
C. Holly Smith The Carolinas’ Photo Center CAMERAS CHEMICALS - PAPERS ACCESSORIES 106 S. Church St, Charlotte Comments On FEPC
Issue By GENE BINGHAM The Davidson Mirror By BILL CALHOUN If we propose to take up the Fair Employment Practices
Commission law, we would be able to find many facts supporting our stand. The FEPC is a more centralized attempt
to combat discrimination in business and nature in the face of racial prejudice of the South. FEPC would invade the
right of an employer to use discrimination. BRYAN WENTZ COMPANY “Clothing For The Man” 205 South Tryon St. Charlotte 2,
North Carolina man discovered his interest in civil Stationers Office Outfitters Printers Kale-Lawing Co. PHONE 6185 227-229 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C. years but our problem of racial discrimination will still be with us. Let us suppose President Truman
is not ‘lily white,’ does that justify us in our stand? Neither does it affect the truth of his words
on civil rights. Certainly, there should be here on the oak-shaded INQUIRE OF YOUR LOCAL TRAILWAYS AGENT OF OUR ATTRACTIVE
SERVICE Queen City Trailways 417 W. 5th St. Charlotte, N. C. Davidson College. Does that Christian campus not seem to
subscribe to the ideals of life and show the intolerance only becoming of Pharisee? If we could purge our hearts
of the prejudice that plagues us, there would not be a need for any other law to combat discrimination based
on color. Withers Electric Company Radio Repairs Electrical Supplies Light Bulbs DAVIDSON, N. C. would be to eliminate our biased
feelings in order to enable ourselves to see through the eyes of truth and thus end the need for non-discrimination
laws. How can we assume we are correct and justified in our interpretation of this question when we see through
eyes shaded with illogical judgement? But there is one avenue of opposition we would need to travel, namely discrimination based
on color is undemocratic. When employed in the captioned “Student's Comments on FEPC,” which appeared in THE DAVIDSONIAN, recent opinions
are seen as being warped. If we only make a superficial glance at the facts and fail to recognize the
underlying truth, then we are foolish. Every certain southern device possible is used to keep the Negro down. It seems
to be a stance that is unconstitutional, and some politicians can ride to victory on “white supremacy” platforms. Further, it
is a waste of time and a detriment to good reasoning to ask whether or not President Truman is any
place in our nation where we should learn to reason and see the true principles lying behind this leading political
question of the day, that place student of “Who is your choice, at present time, for the presidency of the
United States?” was the question asked in this week’s poll. Almost the entire faculty and administration were polled as well
as a large portion of the student body. The following results were obtained, with the men listed in order of
preference: Students 1. Stassen 2. Dewey 3. Vandenberg 4. Eisenhower 5. Taft Faculty 1. Vandenberg 2. Stassen 3. Taft 4.
Byrd 5. Wallace Scattered votes were received also for Truman by both students and faculty and for Marshall by the
students. lack Byrd the poll It is interesting to note of Democrats in the in the Stassen being the only
one ranking first five. The way in which placed first under student preference seems to be a typical trend in
colleges over the country. Stassen’s movement on the campuses is national conventions this summer over America. Stassen, more than other
candidates, has taken a positive stand on most issues, whereas Dewey, who ranks second in student preference, has taken little
or no stand on anything. Dewey, you will note, does not appear on the faculty list. Dewey In spite of
the “Students for Wallace” publicity of late, there seems to be little or no student backing for him on this
campus. However, he does appear on the faculty list. Byrd of Virginia also received votes only from the faculty. This
poll probably carries very little real significance at this time. Naturally, it could not be completely representative of student opinion
but only a partial glance into the mirror. Also, many opinions will change and be changed in the following few
months and, of course, it all depends on the action of the Democratic and Republican This week we open with
an emphatic apology to Phil Libby, whose surname was typographically misrepresented last week. We know “Sudy” would not like such
an error to go unchecked. Up at the “Y” you can see Leslie Robinson taking out his pent-up wrath on
the innocent ping-pong balls every now and then. And if you go on back a little further, you will probably
find Carl and “Ritt” clobbering the cue ball. Incidentally, the 8-ball in CAMPUS CLUB front of Carl is not the
one missing from the Y table. Somebody passed this one over. The “Sharpe” With strong and sinewy hands, Pursuing him
the ladies come, a mighty man is he. From near and distant lands, His fiery eyes enslave their souls, He
dominates their wills; He works into their systems Like Alka-Seltzer pills. We should have passed over it. The band trip
afforded several of the members an opportunity to vent their exuberance. Jenkins way to paddle his own canoe out over
the deep—and then for some reason, the canoe wouldn't go the way he and his two accomplices desired it to
go. Of course, they intended for it to end up 300 yards contributed their songs, rights while a member of
the Pendergast party. Such a statement is finally designed to appeal to the elections are the order of the day
on many campuses now. On the larger campuses, there is much political talk and activity with their machines arrayed.\t smaller
simpler against each other, there is usually a method with less activity employed as we have here. The campus papers
have their heyday in following the various campaigns. In the Agnes Scott News, there is an explanation of the duties
for every campus officer and qualifications one should have to hold office. Lists of students who have had experience in
student government, Christian associations, publications, etc., are also printed. All of this is with the intention of getting the best-qualified
people in the right office for a more efficient organization.

Junior Bazaar furnishes material monthly that is reprinted in many college papers. Last month it was advice to coeds on
how to spot wolves. From the “itemized” behavior accounts of the described wolf, one can assume that it is a
new tradition and custom of the south. Does it not seem odd to you, as a person seeking the truth,
that our (Continued on Page Six)

Dear Editor:
With school elections coming up in the near future, I want to give a hearty A-men to Malloy Owen's proposal
last week that we have a special elections issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN. It will give those of us who know
the nominees a concise picture of their qualifications, and those who do not know them a chance to find out
who they are voting for. In former years when the Davidson student body was small, such a publication was unnecessary.
But now, with our enrollment almost doubled, it is next to impossible to know even a majority of the students
on the campus. Thus, many of the nominees for office are unknown to a great many students.

Article 4, Section 9, of the Constitution specifically forbids the soliciting of votes. A special elections issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN
would not be a soliciting of votes, but an impartial presentation of the candidates and their qualifications. It would not
be a campaigning issue, but an aid to impartial voting.
DAVE HAMILTON.

Before we can end this conflict of white against black, we must forget many of the prejudiced teachings of our
youth.

Letters To Editor
This month it explains to the girls how they should act at a house party or a prom. Out of
a symposium of men at Yale, Princeton, Harvard, U. of Va., Dartmouth, and Amherst for difficult moments, came the following
disclosures: First of all, they want a prompt yes or no to the invitations, and only a major catastrophe is
considered a valid excuse for a last-minute cancellation. They hope you'll get along well with the girls you'll meet but
abhor the “chattering and shrieking with girls they've seen in the lab the day before.” They are also dead set
against the girls who make a play for their best friend. “Often the college man turns his room over to
his date for the weekend.” The article states, “he comes back to it Monday morning to find lipstick on the
bureau cover, cigarette holes in the bedspread, and his favorite neckties, banner, or college trophy missing (she wanted a souvenir).
There will be no return engagement. Also, he does not feel kindly about having to trudge to the post office
with tidy parcels of forgotten scarves, mittens, or hats.”

A good tip for the girls is to familiarize themselves with recent sports events so they will be able to
talk halfway intelligently in the event they are called upon to watch a sports contest during the weekend. “You might
have a couple of reasonably good, clean jokes on tap,” the article states. “Off-color jokes and truck driver language do
not give you an aura of sophistication. They either discomfort your host or confuse his chaste mental image of you.”

The Kinsey report on Sex Behavior of the Male Human is probably the most universal subject in bull sessions in
all college dorms and houses, particularly on women’s campuses. Over at Duke, there was guarded praise and criticism of the
article Cosmopolitan printed about their “distinguished faculty and lackadaisical student body.” Many over there admit that it is true to
a great extent.

WHATEVER YOUR NEEDS
SUITS
HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
TIES
SHOES
and the 101 other things
SHOP EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP
FLOOR STREET

PATRONIZE THE DAVIDSONIAN ADVERTISERS

Your Friends Meet At
GIBSON’S ICE CREAM STORE
— Curb Service —
800 E. MOREHEAD STREET
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

PATRONIZE THE DAVIDSONIAN ADVERTISERS

PATRONIZE THE DAVIDSONIAN ADVERTISERS!

Dine and Dance
UPPER DECK OF THE SHIP AHOY
LOCATED IN THE HEART OF CHARLOTTE
HELEN O’NEIL and the MARINERS
EVERY NIGHT BUT SUN. AND MON.
DELICIOUS CUISINE
NO COVER CHARGE
For Reservations Phone 4-2671

It’s ART MOONEY’S hot arrangement of “I’m Looking Over a Four Leaf Clover” (An MGM release). “Four leaf clover” has
turned into a real four leaf clover for ork-pilot, Art Mooney. His record is keeping jukes in clover. An experienced
hand in the music biz—Art follows that famous experience rule in the choice of a cigarette, too. “I’ve smoked many
different brands and compared,” says Art, “and Camels suit me best.” Try Camels! Discover for yourself why, with smokers who
have tried and compared, Camels are the “choice of experience”!
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
Winston-Salem, North Carolina
