PAGE FOUR ~ THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, November 19, 1948

Committee Announces Administration Of The George F. Baker Scholarships

Plans for the administration of the $50,000 George F. Baker scholarship Fund were announced in Chapel this week by Professor
Bradley D. Thompson, secretary of the committee. These plans were drawn up in accordance with the conditions laid down by
the George F. Baker Trustees. From three to five scholarships, ranging from $300 (tuition) up to $1,000 or more, will
be awarded annually to seniors in high schools and preparatory schools who enter Davidson College. The awards will be for
merit and will be made on the basis of competitive examinations. Need of financial assistance is, therefore, not a primary
consideration. The amount of the stipend above $300, however, will be governed in each case by the financial status of
the individual. Davidson's intention is to make the award large enough to relieve the grantee of difficulty in meeting essential
college and living expenses at Davidson. Each award is renewable from year to year for a maximum of four years,
provided the grantee maintains a scholastic record of high honor and continues to give satisfactory evidence of the development of
the other qualities for which he was selected. The amount of the stipend, when so renewed, will be determined each
year after a review of the grantee’s current financial situation. The total value to a grantee may in four years
be as much as $4,000. These scholarships will be the highest academic honor Davidson bestows upon her undergraduates. Names of
the scholarship holders will be published each year in the catalogue, and in the commencement program, and will be given
other publicity. The amount of the award will in no case be made public.

The purpose of these scholarships is to be found in the belief of the George F. Baker Trustees and of
Davidson College that the strength of the United States lies in the quality of its people, and that the quality
of its people depends in part upon the education they receive. The United States needs the constructive efforts of the
best native leadership it can secure. The George F. Baker Scholarships are offered in the hope of bringing to Davidson
young men of outstanding ability who in future years take an active part in government and society, and whose lives
will be a significant contribution to the community. It has been estimated that one half of the top ten percent
of high school graduates each year do not enter college. The United States can ill afford to leave so large
a part of its potential leaders inadequately educated. It is the hope of the George F. Baker Trustees and of
Davidson College that these scholarships will make possible a college education for some individuals who otherwise would not have sought
college training.

The qualifications required of applicants are superior scholastic ability, well-rounded personality, high qualities of leadership, and strength of character. Neither
scholastic aptitude alone, nor achievement in extracurricular activities alone, is sufficient. Rather, it is the well-balanced boy with a broad
range of abilities and interests who is best qualified to fulfill the objectives of this scholarship program. Selection will be
made in the first instance on the basis of screening tests given at the applicants’ schools; a certain number who
qualify in these tests will be invited to Davidson as guests of the college for further examination and interviews. The
Committee will also study recommendations, the applicants’ records in extracurricular activities, and other evidence of the required qualifications. Davidson students
who desire copies of the announcement of the Baker Scholarships to send to potential candidates may obtain them from the
Registrar or from Professor B. D. Thompson. Applications for the scholarships must be made not later than February 1 to
Professor B. D. Thompson, Secretary, Committee on George F. Baker Scholarships, Davidson College.

Send the Davidsonian home.

Charlotte Alumni To Meet Tonight

Plans have been revealed for the annual meeting of the Mecklenburg-Union County chapter of the Davidson College Alumni association at
the Myers Park Presbyterian church in Charlotte on Friday night, November 19, at 6:30 o'clock. Invitations with return reservation cards
enclosed have been mailed by the chapter officers to alumni and parents of students now at Davidson in this area.
A meal has been assured. Any and all alumni who are temporarily in Charlotte on Friday or any who failed
to receive the letter from the officers because of incorrect address or for any other reason, are urged to make
their reservations and attend the meeting, according to William P. Covington, Jr., president of the chapter. Many interesting and entertaining
program features have been planned. D. R. (Doc) Labar of Gastonia, recently installed as president of the general alumni association,
will be the principal speaker. Head Football Coach Charley Jamerson will be on hand with movies and his opinion of
Davidson's future football prospects. A comical skit on contemporary college life will provide good entertainment and surprises in the inimitable
style of Bill Scruggs and McNeill Upchurch, two Charlotte boys who are now seniors at Davidson. Music will be furnished
by a male quartet from the college under the direction of Prof. Earl F. Berg. The annual award given by
the chapter to the outstanding student now at Davidson from Mecklenburg or Union counties will be made by Charlie Patterson
of Charlotte, last year’s winner. The only business scheduled is the election of officers for the coming year. In addition
to President Covington, the other officers now are: Fred McPhail, vice president, and Julian Squire, secretary and treasurer.

TOP BAND SOUGHT (Continued From Page One)

into consideration when hiring a band for the school dances is what bands are in the vicinity. It would be
impossible to hire a band in California to come to Davidson to play two nights. It was thought that Vaughn
Monroe would be in the South during February, and therefore would be available for Midwinters, but closer checking found him
to be routed to Texas, and unable to play at Davidson.

Spanish Fraternity Honors Twenty-Five

At a regular meeting of Sigma Delta Pi and the Spanish Club Monday night twenty-five new members were initiated into
the Club. Sigma Delta Pi, a national honorary Spanish Fraternity, sponsors the local Spanish Club here on the Davidson Campus.
Members of the club are selected from those students showing particular interest in their study of the Spanish language. The
new members are: R. W. Adams, N. G. Beard, W. I. Boand, C. N. Childers, W. H. Clayton, W. H.
Coppedge, R. L. Crawley, M. A. Cronland, W. C. Cumming, B. L. Davis, W. F. Henning, E. W. Herron, L.
B. Horn, T. G. Humphrys, J. D. Kelton, C. K. Kistler, D. R. Koontz, C. A. McNair, W. S. McSwain,
H. Middleton, P. M. Miles, C. D. Page, W. H. Neal, T. B. Stockton, W. V. Williamson. Also recently elected
as honorary members of the club were: Alexander of the Music Department; Miss Shore of the College Library and Mrs.
Causey, wife of Doctor Causey.

Scabbard 'N Blade Holds Initiation

The Scabbard and Blade held its first official meeting last Friday night, and eleven officers who were tapped last Spring
were honored. Jimmy Glenn, Bill Cooper, Sandy Rankin, Bob Miller, Bob McGehee, Jack Etheridge, Jack Gray, David Gambrell, Bill Fesperman,
Bill Cleveland, and Bill Johnson were initiated and made members of Davidson’s honorary military fraternity. After the initiation plans for
the annual Scabbard and Blade dance were discussed; and although no definite date has been set, the dance will probably
come in the early Spring.

MAGAZINE COVERS (Continued From Page One)

issue. It is the purpose of Dr. Davidson to add to the collection when covers appropriate to the purpose of
the selection appear. The memorial pictures of the Davidson men who died in World War I have been moved to
the study room above the cataloger's office. This seems a more fitting place for them than the informal atmosphere of
a leisure reading room.

Send the Davidsonian home.

Grade “A” Phone 69 AL’S GRILL WHERE YOUR PATRONAGE IS ALWAYS WELCOME! WESTERN STEAKS — FRIED CHICKEN! Mooresville, N. C.
Restaurant A. J. Bistony, Prop.

Davidson Debaters Attend Tournament

The Forensic Council officially opened its season with the attending of the South Carolina Debating Tournament. The tournament, which actually
was just a series of debates and sponsored by the Carolina Forensic Council, drew representatives from various schools all over
the South. Students representingDavidson were Walter Coppedge, Charles Elyea, Jack Hunter, and June Redfearn. Two teams were composed of the
four delegates, who debated a total of eleven times. There were no official discussions or actual competition in the tournament,
as this was what might have been called a warm-up debate and a general familiarization of the subject to be
discussed. The subject this year is “Resolved that Federal Aid be given in equalizing educational opportunities in tax-supported institutions by
means of annual grants.” Some other schools that were present at the convention besides Davidson were the University of Florida,
University of South Carolina, Wake Forest, and Agnes Scott College.

Send the Davidsonian home,

Nat'l Frats Plan Annual Convention

Seven vital problems which affect fraternity chapters throughout the country will be discussed at the Undergraduate Conference held at the
fortieth annual session of the National Interfraternity Conference November 26-27 at the Hotel Commodore in New York City. Representatives from
more than 200 campuses where there are chapters of national fraternities are expected to participate. The topics and the men
who will introduce them for panel discussion are as follows: Improvement in Scholarship, Col. Ralph M. Wilson, Sigma Chi, scholarship
counselor of the National Interfraternity Conference; Control of Drinking Among Students, Dean Frank R. Hunt, Theta Chi, dean of men,
Lafayette College; Worthy Projects for Interfraternity Councils, Fred B. Ensigner, executive secretary of Kappa Delta Rho; Discrimination in Fraternity Membership,
David A. Embury, Acacia, past National Interfraternity Conference chairman; How to Improve Relations between Fraternities and the College, the Press,
the Public, and Non-fraternity Men, Fred H. Turner, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, dean of students, University of Illinois; Hell Week Versus
Greek Week, Wilbur W. Walden, national secretary, Alpha Chi Rho; The Problem of Increased Memberships in Fraternities, John W. Vann,
chairman of the High Council of Alpha Tau Omega.

A feature of the Friday program will be a luncheon held in conjunction with the National Interfraternity Conference at which
there will be the award of the official trophy given to the interfraternity council which made the best record for
constructive effort in the academic year 1947-48. This will be the first award of this trophy since the beginning of
World War II. At this luncheon, the N.I.C. Distinguished Service Award will be presented.

The Undergraduate Conference starts Thursday evening, November 25, with a smoker and informal get-together at the Hotel Commodore. The Friday
program will open with an address of welcome by Dr. Gilbert M. Mead, Phi Gamma Delta, chairman of the National
Interfraternity Conference. National officers of the fifty-nine member fraternities will largely make up the official delegates to the National Interfraternity
Conference, which will meet at the same time as the Undergraduate Conference. Also participating in the discussions will be presidents
and deans of men from fraternity campuses. The N.I.C. Committee on Undergraduate Conference is composed of Wilbur W. Walden, chairman;
Clyde S. Johnson, Phi Kappa Sigma, dean of men at UCLA; Fred H. Turner; and Joseph A. Park, Alpha Tau
Omega, Ohio State University.

These throat specialists reported NO THROAT IRRITATION due to smoking Camels! Test Camels for yourself for 30 days. See how
Camels suit your “T-Zone”...T for Taste and T for Throat. Let YOUR OWN TASTE tell you about the rich, full
flavor of Camel's choice tobaccos. Let YOUR OWN THROAT tell you the wonderful story of Camel's cool, cool mildness. Yes—prove
Camel mildness for yourself. You’ll enjoy the Camel mildness test. You'll find out how mild a cigarette can be! If
you are not convinced that you have ever smoked, return the package with the unused portion and we will refund
the full purchase price plus postage. NOT ONE SINGLE CASE Back Guarantee! Try Camels and test them as you smoke
them. If, at any time, you are not convinced that they are the mildest cigarette you have ever smoked, return
the package with the unused portion and we will refund the full purchase price plus postage. (R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company,
Winston-Salem, North Carolina.)

Cop Linker Helps Students Stay Christian Gentlemen

By BILL McCRARY

Cop Linker has had many interesting experiences here since he assumed his duties, and he passes some of them on
to the students. Especially relevant to freshmen, he tells of an incident with some boys in the middle of September.
Our hero tracked them down with a dozen bloodhounds and returned them to their rightful place in one of the
dorms. The president of the college had condemned any stool pigeons among them and told them that if they tank
clean, they would be fine.

Sigma Upsilon Bids Eight New Members

Join Bunyan Shearer

After which papers were read by Charles Hertwig and Wilhkinson. Charles Hertwig's contribution included an account of the execution of
a group of Chinese during the time of their revolution. Wilhkinson’s account of the events of homecoming weekend was written
in the Sigma Upsilon style.

CAMEL MILDNESS

PROVE FOR YOURSELF WHAT THROAT SPECIALISTS REPORTED WHEN 30-Day smoking test revealed NO THROAT IRRITATION due to smoking CAMELS! In
this test, hundreds of men and women smoked Camels and only Camels—for 30 consecutive days. Each week, their throats were
examined by noted throat specialists—a total of 2,470 exacting examinations. From coast to coast,

Library Reports

By DICK BARNWELL

The Library has reported approximately five hundred new books purchased since the opening of this school year. A few of
these new books are: “The Plague” by Albert Camus. Mr. Camus tells his story through the eyes of a doctor
who throws his knowledge of medicine against the terrible foe, bubonic plague, which is ravaging the city of Oran. All
communication to and from the city has been cut off. No one is allowed to leave or enter. Trapped in
the city with the doctor are others: a journalist, a priest, a legal officer, a fugitive from the police, and
ordinary citizens. Each has his own opinion of the imprisonment. Many people die. Those fortunate enough to survive the plague
have attained a full knowledge of good and evil. “The Plague” has been cited by the critics as the finest
novel to come out of postwar Europe.

“The Gravediggers of France” by Pertinay. One of the world’s greatest analytical journalists presents in this book the men whose
spades dug a nation’s grave. Mr. Pertinay reveals the full story of the defeat of France. He shows how, why,
and where disunity, weakness, and treason undermined the nation’s resistance. He has a great fund of personal inside information, which
is revealed for the first time in “The Gravediggers of France.” He even goes so far as to speculate on
General de Gaulle’s relation to the future of France.

“Ideas Have Consequences” by Richard M. Weaver. What is wrong with modern man? Mr. Weaver attempts to point out in
this book the answer to modern man’s attitude toward truth. He argues that man tends to hang himself when he
banishes the idea of truth independent of himself. He says the cure for this trouble, which is ever present in
man today, is to stop and realize that ideas are not merely weapons, but that they have consequences.

“Castle in the Swamp” by Edison Marshall. This novel is packed with suspense, built up by a haunting atmosphere, menace,
and fate. The setting is Wood Ibis, an old plantation off the coast of South Carolina. There is a great
secret of Wood Ibis, which an adventurous young man sets out to find. “If the secret of Wood Ibis is
ever known, we may—wish we’d never been born.” This is a novel that appeals to all intelligent and imaginative readers.

Some of the other books of most interest are: “Presidents on Parade” by Hob Millhollen and Milton Kaplan, a pictorial
history of the Presidents; “I Saw Poland Betrayed” by Arthur Bliss Lane, our Ambassador to Poland from 1944 until 1947;
“The Loved One” by Evelyn Waugh; “A Streetcar Named Desire,” a play by Tennessee Williams.
