Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, April 23, 1948

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

THE DAVIDSONIAN Presents
EDITORIALS...LETTERS...FEATURES

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

SAM ERVIN Editor-in-Chief
BOB CLINE Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bob Phillips Associate Editor
Mac Hart Sports Editor
Walter Mann Managing Editor
Stan Kennett Managing Editor
Bill Geino Managing Editor
Ronnie Dietrich Managing Editor
Rees Jenkins Columnist
Malcolm Wend Columnist
John Stewart Staff Photographer
Lloyd McLean Assistant Photographer

Feature Reporters: Bob Hollister, Lonnie Turnipseed, Dave Gambrell, Bill DuBose, Bruce Kendall, Bill Bogart, Charles T. Davis, Bob Wells, Art
Jenkins.

Freshmen Reporters: Hartley Hall, Randy Taylor, Warren Sims, Phil Mitchell, Bill Hollister, Scott Verner, Gray Hampton, Frank Purnell, Tom Flipse,
Kenneth Jones, Jim Murray, Jim Larkin, Leonard Boswell, John Cosby, Dave Hayworth, Hugh Evans, Pat McGeachy.

Sports Staff: Jack Hazard, Frank Aldred, Cherry Stribling, Watt Jeffries, Bill Cassels, Doug Hix, Bill King, Gene Regan, Dick Morgan,
Furman Warlick.

BUSINESS STAFF
JOHN MONG Assistant Business Manager
Charlie Reid Advertising Manager
Frank Lemmon Circulation Manager
Bill Baxter Subscriptions Manager
Charles Clinkscales Assistant Advertising Mgr.
Charles Dockery Collections Manager
Wilkes Macauley Assistant Advertising Mgr.
Fitz Hutton Assistant Circulation Mgr.
Bill Keith Assistant Circulation Mgr.
Sandy Sprite Assistant Circulation Mgr.
Bob Knight Assistant Subscriptions Mgr.
Charles Beam Assistant Collections Mgr.

Advertising Staff: H. MacKethan, C. Faison, Claude Higginbotham, D. Hayworth, Blaine Kelley, Gene Taylor, W. S. McSwain.

Circulation Staff: Paul Guthery, Sam Davis, Bill Cassels, John Coble, Jim Fisher, Bob Sims, Jimmy Rogers, Norvel Childers, Ted Bowan,
Murray Ashman, Erwin Clark, Ray Cunningham, Bill Mebane.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1946 Member 1947 Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Introducing...
For the benefit of those students who may not have had the pleasure, I'll take this final opportunity to present
to the student body the men who have been chosen, both by ballot and appointment, to serve on the Editorial
Staff of THE DAVIDSONIAN for the 1948-49 school year.

MAC HART Editor in Chief
To introduce Mac to the student body at this time is quite unnecessary. Last week at the polls that group
decided that he was to direct the preparation and publication of the paper next year. In this capacity he will
determine the overall policies of THE DAVIDSONIAN, advised by the staff members, Prof. Lilly, and the readers. He is certainly
well qualified for the post, having served on the Sports Staff for two years; this session acting as Sports Editor,
in which capacity he has gained a great deal of experience both as a writer and a make-up man. The
student body is to be congratulated for selecting a man of Mac’s ability and character and we can rest assured
that he will fulfill his duties well.

JACK HAZARD Sports Editor
Jack has also been one of the chief contributors to the sports page since he became a member of the
staff last year. He has demonstrated his ability as a writer in the past, and should continue to do so
through the medium of “Cat Tales.” The Sports Editor has a somewhat unique position on the staff in that he
is the editor of his own page, responsible for the actual makeup as well as for the content of the
articles. Jack has assisted his new boss in such work frequently and is well qualified to carry on in his
stead. Last, but not least, by any means, your new sports editor has a real working knowledge of sports, and
with the help of his new crew of reporters will give you complete coverage of the Wildcats throughout the coming
year.

DOUG HIX Managing Editor
Some of the members of the staff who do a great deal of the work do so behind the scenes
and as a result receive little credit for their efforts. Doug is a good example of exactly that. Although his
name appears in the masthead, he hasn't gotten many bylines nor much credit because his time has been spent not
in writing but in making up headlines and preparing the sports page layouts. Mac has frequently seen the type of
job that Doug can do, and for that reason he picked him to serve as one of the four Managing
Editors. In this capacity he'll advise the new editor-in-chief and help to prepare the paper each week. He is, in
short, typical of the able men who will fill the key posts on the staff.

BOB HOLLISTER Managing Editor
One of the “idea men” of the reporting staff, Bob has received a well-deserved “promotion” to the ranks of Managing
Editor. In addition to his weekly contributions to the paper, in the form of news articles, or in his specialty,
humorous feature stories, Bob masterminded the Feature Contest which THE DAVIDSONIAN carried on this semester, collecting the entries and drawing
up the rules for the contestants, as well as arranging for the contribution and the payment of the prize money.

DICK MORGAN Managing Editor
Dick is another reporter who saw much service on Mac’s sports staff during the 1947-48 school year. Although his primary
job was to cover athletic events and to write them up, he also did some makeup and layout work. This
overall knowledge of the ways in which it is done plus his talent as a writer, makes Dick a welcomed
addition to the official family.

LONNIE TURNIPSEED Managing Editor
In the person of Mr. Turnipseed we have yet another “unsung hero.” Lonnie has contributed at least one news article
each week since last September, and in addition has done many odd jobs when the chips were down. This training
as a jack of all trades, so to speak, should stand him in good stead from Mac’s point of view
in the months to come. And on top of all this he can, in addition, wield a pen and be
a real asset.

Letters to the Editor

Dear Editor:
Plans for September Rush Week are already under way in the fraternities. Having talked to a number of students about
the present rushing system, I wish to express the need of a change. Most freshmen remember the bewilderment which attended
their first acquaintance with fraternities at the beginning of the first semester. At the end of five days we had
received superficial impressions of four or five fraternities, and Rush Week ended in a confusion of names, faces and Greek
letters. It is absurd to think that five days is enough time for either a rushee or a fraternity to
make considered choices. The organization is at a disadvantage only slightly less than that of the rushee: If a hundred
different men visit a house for several hours only, fraternity members are doing well to recollect half the hundred faces
at the end of Rush Week.

My general suggestion for solving this problem is that rush season be longer and less intensified. I am aware of
objections to too long a rush season, but I should like to present for consideration the outline of a rushing
system used at one of the schools in this state:

1. No freshman, by school regulations, is allowed to pledge a fraternity until he completes one semester of work.
2. Before pledging a fraternity, every freshman must have visited each fraternity at least once. Few men have really had
this opportunity, but it should contribute materially to a well-rounded acquaintance with campus fraternity life.
3. Fraternities are allowed only one function a week for rushing. This is usually held on Sunday afternoon, when all
fraternities hold open house. A limit is set on the total expenditure for such functions in one semester.
4. Pledging takes place in the first week of the second semester.

Davidson may not be able to adopt such a system completely, but as I have attempted to point out in
the above brief sketches, I am of the opinion that the student body and your new Editor in Chief have
chosen well. All of the new editors have worked hard and long this year, and I am sure that they
will continue to devote their time and energy unselfishly in 1948-49. Again, I would like to thank these men and
all other staff members for their wholehearted cooperation and support. I am confident that those who remain on the staff
will do the same for Mac.

Campus Club Issue...
As the most casual observer has almost noticed, the fifth page of this issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN has been devoted
entirely to the Campus Club. This was done partly because the group requested that they be allowed to make a
report to the student body, and partly because we, the staff members, believe that this organization deserves a great deal
of credit for its contributions to campus life. The Campus Club, which was founded this fall by a number of
far-sighted faculty and student leaders, has proven to be just “what the doctor ordered.” Through the medium of this organization
non-fraternity men have been able to broaden their campus and off-campus activities and to participate in a real social organization.
Hats off to the Campus Club — may it continue to serve the college and its students well.

Of course the Soviet authorities do not want war, if they can get what they desire without it. Neither did
Hitler or Mussolini. They knew, as the Moscow regime knows, that war is the most costly way of carrying out
a program of aggression.

The spending program of the Nation may give the next President many headaches, but the tens of millions of taxpayers
will be fellow sufferers.

If Robert Best had been an Englishman, with the record presented in court at his Boston trial, he probably would
have been hanged for treason long ago, as was his good friend and collaborator, “Lord Haw Haw.”

With a rush season as brief as our present one, the freshmen here in September will have become a little
dizzy at the end of orientation; let's not make college seem even dizzier by another round of rush week.

DON STERIVEER

Dear Editor:
Of course one cannot believe all one sees in the paper, but according to what I read in the IVC
News, I am number five on the list of perilous persons in a poll conducted by that paper. My immediate
reaction is like the one about the motorist parked an hour overtime in Charlotte, I got a large charge. I
did not mind it in the least, but I was somewhat amazed. They say repetition makes reputation. I haven't repeated
anything again and again except some poor puns, but surely not dangerous ones. While I was writing this, what sounded
like a tornado hit the front of Carolina Inn and immediately a number of people in Carolina Thin...Here is the
cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

which has recently been called a dangerous dorm, raised the cry "Selybait was at it again." Said, “If Selybait doesn’t
get on the ball right off the bat, he'll get caught.” Wherefore the dubious honor of being named in a
tie for fifth place with the President of the United States. After all, it may be, Harry is, as perhaps
he wouldn't consider it, a distinction for a man to be with a Fly instead of tying for a man
to be considered dangerous usually, or so I have heard, carries a gun. The only weapon I carry is an
M-1 with the firing pin removed every drill Tuesday. And, oh, yes, I do carry a flashgun at times. Wait
a minute, I'll be back in a flash with my gun. Now I believe I see the reason.

FEATURE CONTEST PROFESSORS CAN BE HUMAN

Mutual understanding between professors and students is reputed to be one of Davidson's most outstanding features. This commendable quality is
somewhat deceiving, however, since many men are not that well-adjusted included — in a group who have found the key
to a happy medium in relationships with professors. Getting to know one’s professors personally can be an invaluable aid in
understanding them in the classroom. This presents a problem since one is likely to be pointed out as being an
“apple-polisher” or an “eager beaver.” Almost any Sunday night, a group of students may be seen standing out in front
of Chambers Building, discussing possible professors to visit. Usually, the conversation goes something like this: “Aw, why go see that
old fuddy-duddy,” or “the less I see of him the better.” What a dastardly attitude to take! Just because a
professor grades his students honestly and tries really to teach them something (instead of just passing them), some men get
the absurd idea that the teacher is trying to make them “flunk out.” True, many men are not guilty of
this childish attitude, but it’s surprising how many intelligent Davidson students make these foolish statements.

When a fellow finally does pay a visit to his professor, he finds it to be an unforgettable and pleasing
experience. I, too, was one of the cynics about the possibility of having a good time in a professor's home,
but I found out differently. The refined atmosphere of the homes and congenial nature of the families remind one of
his own home. In case the student visitor is hungry (and which one isn't), there are usually plenty of tasty
refreshments on hand. After every Sunday evening social, I feel closer to my professors as a whole. It teaches one
that professors are, surprisingly enough, folks who are pleased to have you in their homes: these friendly people.

The other afternoon I was taking a review alone because of an absence. During the test, I chanced to overhear
several professors having a “let-your-hair-down” bull session in one of the offices. I'll have to admit that I was surprised
and amused to note the varied topics of conversation. Everything from baseball to styles of dress was discussed. Every so
often, a loud chuckle was audible as some amusing incident was related. I tried not to eavesdrop, but the interesting
dialogue was too much for me. (The “42” I received on the review might have been an outgrowth of too
much interest).

The purpose in all these observations has been to show that every student should count it an obligation to take
advantage of associating with and learning from a group of men like those who make up the Davidson College faculty.
Yes, they are pretty rugged in the classroom, but, after all, isn't that just the way it should be? In
future years we shall thank them for what some of us now curse them. Just because they are a little
older and appear more sober than we, doesn’t mean in the least that they are not wonderful fellows. So, let’s
try to cultivate a close friendship while maintaining respect for our teachers. I've learned that “professors can be human.”

THE JUDGMENT

You all wonder why I have changed so in appearance in such a short time. Why my hair which used
to be black is now white and my frame which was so robust is now enfeebled. I have called to
tell you the tale of horror which caused it. You can all remember when I could stand before the best
of them without fear, but now the very image of fear incarnate can be seen in my eyes and the
slightest disturbance sends violent chills through my ruined body.

It all began two years ago when I was a freshman in Smythingly College in an insignificant midwest state bordering
Arkansas on the southwest corner. Since it was not coed nor large, there were severe restrictions on the activity of
the freshmen; but since I had a football scholarship and was destined (I thought) to be a big wheel I
decided not to obey these foolish regulations. I was lax in my respect for upperclassmen and wore my frosh cap
only when I felt like it. Then it happened. One dreary day when the entire student body was gathered together
in an assembly the judge of the Freshman Court of Control arose and began reading names. As he went down
the list each frosh was required to stand while his offenses were read and the upperclassmen threatened. I joined them,
too, until... until he read out my name! A chill went down my spine as I rose in my seat.
When I looked into the judge’s heartless steel gray eyes amid the jeers of the other students I saw I
could not expect any sympathy whatsoever. For the first time in my life I felt the grip of fear. We
were to report for trial the next night.

The night came, cold and somber, with no moon or stars and a fine mist falling. Some of us sat
huddled together in a miserable group awaiting our individual trials which were to take place in the inner chamber. We
watched the door in dreading expectation and awe. Then a voice issued forth from this inner chamber calling me by
name. It sounded as if it came from the nether regions and I thought it was the call of doom
beckoning me on to destruction. I arose and walked toward the door which led to my deadly fate. It creaked
open of its own accord, I entered, and it closed slowly behind me. I stood in utter darkness. I could
see nothing but I was sure I had left this world and entered a God-forsaken one. A voice (or rather
an unearthly sound which was too gruesome to be human) ordered me to advance. I walked stiffly forward, cautiously placing
one foot before the other, and fearfully expecting at every step to fall into an unknown beyond.

“Stop! Where you are!” sounded the commanding voice. And as I did so a phosphorescent light from the ceiling began
to glow and light up the scene. I looked up at the strange light and to my intense horror saw
that it formed gruesome scenes of torture and death.

“Your name!” demanded the scribe gruffly.

“Robert Lee Ulysses Grant Harigon,” I stammered nervously.

“Say ‘sir’ when addressing your superiors!” the chief justice ordered in a most threatening and severe tone.

“Y-y-es- sir!” was my frightened reply.

A low heart-rending groan floated in from another chamber and a violent shiver shook my whole body.

“You are accused of lynching an upperclassman and of being disrespectful to some others, of not wearing your cap, and
of not washing a sophomore’s feet when asked to do so, as well as a number of other minor offenses.
Do you plead guilty to the charges?” At the reading of each offense I gulped and turned paler and paler.
My knees knocked so loud that I could not hear myself think.

“Well, uh, Sir. That is I, Sir, I, I, uh, didn’t uh, Sir...”

“Shut up! That’s enough! We have obtained damning evidence and that confession which you just gave clinches the case.”

Now I can sympathize with a corpse—I was scared to death. My skin felt cold and clammy. Why did not
one of the judges step down from his high pedestal and snuff out my miserable existence with one quick stomp?
I felt so insignificant and they appeared so great as to make this seem possible.

“Now that you have been duly tried and convicted, O Worthless One, we will proceed with your sentence which will
be...”

I can remember no more. When I woke up I was here in this small room in this bed with
bare white walls and ceiling around and above me and uniformed attendants hovering anxiously over me. But yet they seemed
far away and I in another world. In appearance I looked as you see me now.

Finnish farmers, famed for high crop yields, have adopted this motto: “Live as if you're going to die tomorrow; farm
as if you're going to live forever.”
