Davidson's Wildcats ended their 1948 season in a blaze of glory with their 7-0 victory over Furman’s Purple Hurricane. The
South Carolinians had been doped the favorite by many, though the toss-up rated contest gave a wave of locals the
nod, because of recent showings by the Red and Black.

By JACK HAZARD

But that was the farthest idea from the Davidson ball players who went out to win and did just that
from the start. Though he only played for about five minutes, Auburn Lambeth is the fair-haired boy of the Wildcat
lair today. Lambeth limped into the game with his bum ankle taped and came out a few plays later without
having hit the ground. His presence opened the Hurricane defense to let Mac Erwin run and Jim Sifford skirt the
ends. Sifford hit for five yards, missed the end zone, then threaded a needle with a pass to Buddy Cheek
who superbly faked off Furman’s defenders and made the lone tally of the game.

Though Lambeth was responsible for the score, it was tailback Jim Sifford who is our pick as the most outstanding
player on the field. Another who did some fine stepping all afternoon was Carl Sheppard, who hasn't had the chance
this year that he should have. Sheppard gained 53 yards in seven tries to hang up a neat 7.6-yard average.
On defense, he was a hawk, batting down several passes that could have gone all the way. The speedy Gastonian
has been hampered by injuries this year as well as too much bronchitis.

The play of the whole Davidson team from end to end was excellent. Cheek closed out a brilliant college grid
career with one of his best games, and we've yet to see an opposing safety man return a touchdown pass
caught past him. At the other end of the line, Hal Mapes played one of the best defensive games of
the day. On several occasions, he cleared out three Furman blockers and even made the tackle several times. Coach Charley
Hunerson singled Mapes out as having played his best game of the year. Carl Eborn stood out at tackle as
usual. The hefty Virginian played in the Hurricane backfield as much as any of the Palmetto lads. Eborn was last
week given honorable mention by United Press scribes who named the Southern Conference All-Star squad. Cheek received similar recognition for
his end play.

The Wildcat guard play was up to its usual par. Buddy Chandler showed fight and spirit that has seldom been
equaled. He blocked savagely and tore up the Hurricane wall on defense. Bob Sharpe played his usual heads-up ball game,
recovering a Furman fumble and being in on nearly every play. Fred Preyer came through again as a first-line reserve
that gave the Greenville boys no rest. All three of the Cat centers, Johnny Richards, Henry Wilson, and Bronco Bailey,
looked like first stringers. Wilson, playing mostly on defense, filled in the hole on nearly every play besides batting down
several passes.

The running of Jim Sifford was great. He carried the mail five times, netted 34 yards for a nifty 6.8-yard
average. Sifford shifted, spun, stepped, and sped like an All-American. His defensive play also stood out. Jake Wade played his
best game of the year in piling up a 6.1 average in eight tries.

The saddest part of the ball game was the disfigurement of the bridgework of one of the campus’s most notable
men of distinction, Student Body President Carl Pahl. Playing his last collegiate football game, Pahl had the misfortune of running
into a hole and coming out minus his two front teeth. Pahl played a fine game for his swan song
as did plunging Mac Erwin who hung up his uniform for the last game, too.

The victory brought a rather dismal grid season to a happy climax by giving Davidson a record of three wins
against five losses and a tie.

Coach Pete Whittle’s cross-country squad climaxed its campaign over the past week with two very impressive triumphs. Saturday they edged
the N.C. State runners, 26-29, in a driving rain and a sea of mud. Thursday they still had the mud
though no rain and proceeded to line up eight men strong and cross the finish line in perfect cadence ahead
of the first Furman runner. Three members of the squad did their last cross-country running in this perfect meet. Captain
Jack Gray, Murdock McKeithen, and Bobby Long will be around only for track season next spring.

SHIP AHOY
CHARLOTTE’S LEADING RESTAURANT

Wildcat Sports
Friday, November 26, 1948

PROPHET PREDICTS
By DICK MORGAN

After a most successful week in which we won 11, lost 1, and tied 1, our average soared. This week
rings down the curtain on the 1948 season except for the bowl battles, and also marks the end of this
prophet’s brief career. It’s been fun predicting; I hope it's made amusing reading!

Davidson 20; Furman 6
It’s the game for the vaunted Cat power to show. The passes of Lambeth and Turner will vanquish the foe.
All season long our lads have been hampered by bad fate, but on Turkey Day the Davidson pass will arrive
at a fast rate. Wildcats to win without worry.

Carolina 41; Virginia 6
With the savory scent of sugar and spices in the air, Choo Choo Charley and his pals will tear through
the line. Justice and Company will prevail as the determined bid of the Cavaliers will definitely fail. Carolina to crush
Cavaliers.

Georgia Tech 20; Georgia 13
This battle of Georgia titans will undoubtedly be a close one, but we think the Golden Tornadoes will be ahead
at the final gun. McCoy, Southard, Healy, and Harvin all will glitter, and thus hand a narrow defeat to Queen,
Rausch, and his litter. Tech to triumph.

Army 27; Navy 13
We are forced with the old sentiments in our favor to string along Army grey. Although victorious Navy fought with
courage and fight, it will take more than this to top the Army might.

Villanova 13; State 7
The Wildcats, having hit their stride, are victory bound, while the Wolfpack are on the decline and still going down.
The tricky, intricate footwork of the Cats will amaze the Pack, and thus in the end the Pack will lack
a one-touchdown margin. Villanova to vanquish victims.

Penn 26; Cornell 20
In a rip-roaring tussle that should decide the coveted Ivy Crown, the Quakers once more will be victory bound. The
bruising, battling forward wall manned by the Clutch will make the Cornell pups look like a bunch of mutts. Penn
to prove passing potency.

W&M 14; Arkansas 7
We were inclined to pick the Razorbacks at first, and almost did. If we had not consulted the peerless sage
of them all, the one and only KID, he showed us that this was definitely W&M’s day, and consequently we
were converted to the “Rubian” way.

Wake Forest 26; S. C. 14
The Dixie Bowl contestants will win without worry, as the touchdowns will fly through the air in a hurry. Gregus
to run, O’Quinn to snare, and Fetzer to throw, as down to defeat the undermanned Gamecocks will go.

S.M.U. 20; T.C.U. 6
For a long time the Mustangs have been in the Cotton Bowl corner, and it will take a lot of
savvy to knock them out now. With daredevil Doak to augment Gil Johnson and Kyle Rote, the Mustangs will make
the Horned Frogs look like Coyotes. S.M.U. to survive.

Vanderbilt 20; Tennessee 6
Ole Vandy, once an ultra-academic power in the mighty grid wars, has proved its right once again to be admitted
through the championship gates.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcats Win

MAC ERWIN

PRACTICE STARTS ON HARDWOOD

By PHIL HAMMOND

Those of you who have watched the football action for the past three years certainly couldn't have missed seeing Mac
Erwin, star fullback for the Wildcats, in action. Mac has played first string on the squad ever since he entered
Davidson in '46, and his hard-driving runs through the opponents’ line have been a constant factor in Davidson's football success
as a team. Mac has proved to be a man of speed as well as power, which can be verified
by the fact that in the W&L game when Bell, big W&L halfback, scampered off tackle, broke through the Davidson
defense, and seemed certain...to Mac his horse and brought him down on the five-yard line. Mac is a junior from
Greenville, S.C., weighing 190 pounds and standing 5 feet, 11 inches tall. He hails from Heeweighs, where he was a
letterman for three years and made All-Southern while in high school. He then went to the University of South Carolina,
where he played varsity and made All-State that same year.

INTRODUCIN’... His illustrious football career began... It was on a windy 4-mile, water-soaked course that the Davidson cross country team
turned in what Coach ‘Pete’ Whittle termed the best performance of the season in defeating North Carolina State's Harriers, 26-29,
last weekend in Raleigh. The course, commonly regarded as one of the roughest in the Southern Conference, was rendered even
more difficult by a strong headwind and soggy turf underfoot. The victory was of especial significance in that only a
week before, the Cats had finished some 26 points behind the State team at the Conference meet.

Harriers Close Season Dumping State, Furman
By JACK PAYNE

With surprising performance, the Commodores have run through five opponents, and when the sun sets at Knoxville, number six will
have been won. Mississippi 21; Miss. State 7. Having finally been oriented in their newly riveted T, The Ole Miss
Rebels should down their neighbors with a capital comeback. State to maul Santa Clara, not even to be questioned.

Furman 7-0 Freshmen Edged
Lambeth Tosses Game-Winning Pass
By State Yearling

By GORDON SCOTT

Playing on a field that was wet and muddy, the State freshmen won a 12-6 decision over the Wildcats in
three quarters of play. The Wildcats were forced to kick out from deep in their territory. Westbrook took Williamson's punt
and raced to the 21. On the next play, he covered 20 yards to the Wildcats' one-yard mark and two
plays later scored.

Cage Practice
By DAN McKEITHEN

The whoosh of the cords and the pounding of feet on the hardwood have begun reverberating through the small, box-shaped
gym, marking the beginning of a new basketball season. With only one more football contest remaining, attention is beginning to
shift to the Davidson hoopsters, who last week began daily afternoon practice sessions.

With seven lettermen returning, it seems that Coach Norman Shepard will be using this year almost the same squad which
turned in a 10-7 record in the Southern Conference last year. Last year's lettermen include Buddy Cheek, Mike Williams, Whit
Cobb, L.D. Ashe, Bobby Maner, Vill Iverson, and Dutch Hengeveld. Missing from the roster are Dick Mills, who has left
school, and Dave Poole, who might have been a starter this year had he not signed a pro-baseball contract.

The same men will probably be found in the starting team with Cheek, Williams, Cobb, and Ashemore holding down four
positions while the fifth spot will be fought over by Maner and Iverson. Also ready to go will be prominent
reserves from last year: Fred Roddy, Ed Hopper, Henry Neisler, and Bud Aiken. Additional strength will be gained from last
year’s JV team and a few new faces: Among this group are Holler, Jimmy Miller, John Crosland, Louie Owen, Ted
Bowen, Dan McKeithen, Monty Hill, John Rose, Al Cook, and Bill Collins.

The squad will tackle a very ambitious schedule which includes 17 conference games—the usual two each with North Carolina, Duke,
State, South Carolina, Clemson, Furman, and The Citadel; and single games with VMI, W&L, and Maryland. The main feature of
the schedule is the playing of seven conference games in the Charlotte Armory, with six of these games being doubleheaders
due to freshman games as a preliminary. All of the home conference contests will be in Charlotte except the one
with The Citadel. It might be worth noting that this is the last year the team will schedule home games
in Charlotte. Beginning next season, all games will be played on campus.

At this time, Coach Shepard emphasizes that the season will be characterized by “the strongest teams and fastest basketball that
the Southern Conference has ever seen,”—a statement that can’t be taken lightly.

Skipping hurriedly over the rest of the season, it looks like a “right nice” year. V.M.I. over V.P.I.; Tulane over
LSU; Rice to upset Baylor; Kentucky to down Miami; Michigan to defeat Ohio State.
