a

WILDCAT - SEEN HERE - HEARD THERE
Published Weekly by the YKCA

Once again your roving reporter, Harry A. McLean, has been able to dig up a few choice items of information.

Joe Vance, Bob Coble, John Rose, Bill McLean

Heard that the Davidson Gentlemen (?) were a little shy in welcoming their guests last Friday night. I ask you now, was that the courteous thing? Ten (10) men present to greet thirty-five (35) young ladies.

Heard: That John Folger has made a strong bid in the local race along with Jack Bridgeman, John McBride, and that local flash, Bill (Weeping Willie) Mebane. By the way, gentlemen, Citation is back.

Wondering whose swan song is, "My Old Flame!" Where does Journey Welborn spend the weekends? Why has Charlie Robinson taken such an interest in the choir of his hometown church? Why does Ben Dryman make such frequent trips to Charlotte? Why does Jim Brown visit home every weekend? How is this the "Old Flame?"

Heard: John Codington certainly is joyful over a certain transfer to C. this fall. From Springer Hoskins, "Let's go to Winston." Keep trying muscles, you will get there yet.

John Rose certainly left or was he left standing last week. Calvin Wyatt supposedly goes to Winston (home?) every weekend. Story went in the middle of the week. That is bad fellow. That traveling man, Tom Abell, mentions Concord, N.C., Chester, S.C., Montreat, N.C., and Charlotte, N.C. among his varied weekends. Man, that is moving.

Charlie (Moooo) Patterson is still going to Charlotte. Neviland Schenk loves his home Shelby. Frank Sherrill, well you know Frank, he doesn't say much.

Well, Big Leighton, what do you have to say about your trips to Charlotte? Commuting?

Seen at the "___" on different occasions: Mike Williams, Bob Johnson, Joe Vance, Joe Stukes.

FOOD FOR THOUGHT

What is the "Davidson Spirit"? Even before most left home to come here to school, we had heard of it. Visitors tell us they "feel" it during only short stays on the campus. Are we in its midst aware of it? Just what is this intangible something for which we have such a reputation?

I believe it is a spirit of friendliness and fair play so permeating that it invades every avenue of student activity. We see its evidences in athletics, in the classroom, in student-faculty relationships, in our social life, in the everyday contacts with the outside. It's more than "tradition." It's a powerful character-building influence to be protected and preserved for future Davidsonians.

How will this affect the man who completes his years at Davidson? Habits are strong whether good or bad. The habits of good sportsmanship and genuine friendliness acquired here, possible only by exposure to it, will certainly accompany him as he takes his place in the world. There are strong attributes which, if developed, can be rungs in the ladder of success. The maintenance of this thing we call "spirit" is a personal responsibility of every student. Only by the passing on from class to class will it survive as it has thus far. It is the same challenge flung out by the upper classes through the years, but the added prestige of an untainted reputation makes it ring louder this time. Will we let our alumni down? Will we keep faith with posterity? This is food for thought!