PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by the Class of 1915

"FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON"

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
MAC HART

BUSINESS MGR.
JOHN McNAIR

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editor - Stan Kennett
Associate Editor - Bill Calhoun
Associate Editor - Ronnie Dietrick
Sports Editor - Jack Hazard
Managing Editor - Bob Hollister
Managing Editor - Lonnie Turnipseed
Managing Editor - Doug Hix
Managing Editor - Dick Morgan
Managing Editor - Tom Niblock
Staff Photographer - Bill King
Cartoonist - Charlie Reid
Poll-Cat Editor - Dave Gambrel

FEATURE REPORTERS—Malloy Owen, Randy Taylor, Warren Simms, Phil Mitchell, Hartley Mall, Boyce Kendall, Bob Grube, and Warren Sims.

REPORTERS—Jimmy Hearitzy, Henry Hansen, Perry Gregg, Harry Shurley, Gabe Lowe, John Calhoun, Ken Jones, Ralph Robinson, Tom Allen, Dick Barnwell, Ed West, Jim Murray, Tommy Holler, Bob Hubbell, Bill McCrary, Tom Mann, Bill Cumming, Phil Libby, Ben Drymon, Angus McKellar, Dudley Pendleton, Jimmy Fickelson, Pete Kalogridis, Dick Chandley, Boo Northcutt, Stuart Shippey, Hugh Huffaker, Lewis Hyman, Frank Winston, Bill Neal, Bill Hollister, Nat Daniel.

SPORTS STAFF—Cherry Stribling, Gordon Scott, Furman Warlick, Watt Jeffries, Bill White, Phil Hammond, Bryant Robinson, Dan McKeithan, David Whitener, Ed West, Bill Buckey, Jack Stevenson.

POLL CAT STAFF: Jim Carr, Claude Higginbothan, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown, and Neal Underdown.

BUSINESS STAFF
W. S. McSwain - Assistant Business Manager
Wyhe Smith - Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager - Asst. Circulation Manager
Asst. Advertising Manager - Asst. Advertising Manager
Assistant Advertising Manager - Collections Manager
Subscriptions Manager

ASSISTANTS—Bill Cumming, Bill Hart, Marshall James, Duval Hunter, Bob Erwin, Bill Pharr, Harold Clayton, Sam Cumming, Rod Shaw.

CIRCULATION STAFF—Alex Goley, Floyd Phillips, Parks Dalton, Cecil Rhodes, Atisley Moses, Joe Miller, Neill Underdown, Tommy Holler, John Hawtin, Thad Monroe, Hugh Huffaker, Morris, Cam Faison, Paul Guthrie, Charles Clinks, Hector McKeithan, David McConnell, Charles Dockery, John Fortin.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Member 1949 Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Scripts 'N Pranks

Editor Dave Gambrel and his Scripts 'N Pranks staff have just presented the campus with what looks like one of the best issues of the magazine that has appeared in some time. They are to be congratulated on their wide range of subject matter well handled and entertainingly expounded upon. They seem to have achieved a fairly even balance between humor and serious literary endeavor—an achievement which friend Meatball lists in his Editor’s Notes as the magazine's goal. Interesting articles treat subjects ranging from the blocking assignment of the tailback on a weak-side off-tackle reverse to the tonal quality of the strings in Munch’s recording of Saint-Saëns' Symphony number three—from helpful hints on mowing lawns to inside dope on presidential biography. The magazine staff, and especially writers Don Shriver, Sam Robinson, Bill Brownson, Bob Hollister, and Dave Hamilton, are to be congratulated on the good creative works that bear their “by-lines.” Creative literary endeavor, though offered some incentive by the annual Vereen Bell Memorial Award, is one of those areas of cultural life that are somewhat neglected by the Davidson student body. One of the better excuses for the existence in any society of a culturally privileged, leisurely element such as many Davidson students represent, is the creation of dynamic, living literature to represent the ideals, the joys, the disappointments, and the ambitions of the age. The field of creative writing is one that needs more encouragement at Davidson, and it is to be hoped that the examples of these men may spur others on to greater interest in literary undertakings.

EDITORIALS—LETTERS

Chapel Punctuality

One day last week the chapel speaker had to wait for four full minutes after the final bell before he could get the attention of the student body sufficiently to proceed with chapel exercises. We do not charge anybody with a conspiracy to hold up the chapel service and embarrass the speaker, but we do point out to the student body that their sense of what’s proper ought not to let this situation go on.

Four minutes one day might not be much to quibble over, and yet it is important. For, not just that one day, but several times lately, chapel has been held up because the students were not in their places. It is one of the little habits we fall into. We delay going to our seats until time for the final bell, at which time we find that about three or four hundred other people had the same idea. It is not as though most of us had to rush pell-mell from some hindermost part of the campus. Between class bell sessions are all right but we ought to have more courtesy than to let them interfere with regularly scheduled events. Punctuality is a virtue that is an asset to those who wait and an invariable source of regret and embarrassment to those who lack it.

Hall Prayer Meetings

If this column may throw out a suggestion to those who are responsible for following a tradition so long since—that of having Wednesday night hall prayer meetings at ten o'clock—we would like to hear some expressions of opinions on the advisability of having these meetings at eleven o'clock instead. Would it be worth changing the hour to attract those students, possibly only a few, who do not come at ten o'clock and might come at eleven? It is our studied opinion that the ten o'clock hour is too late for a refreshing “break” in a good night’s study and too early to call it quits. The facts that most people should be about through studying at eleven and that the library hospitality discharges its students at ten or eleven seem to make eleven a more ideal hour. Even taking into consideration the hall meeting slogan, that "he who is too busy to pray is busier than God ever intended him to be," we would observe that the Lord quite often achieves more when we his servants give it a “common sense” boost. Everything possible should be done to give the benefits of hall meetings to those who for some reason are not getting them now.

Rushing Regulations

Unknown to many students the Pan-Hellenic Council and the various fraternity presidents have been meeting with Dean Bailey and the faculty's fraternity committee to study the present Rush Week system and try to suggest improvements. This board is serving in the capacity of an advisory panel to study the problem and see what conclusions they can reach. Their recommendations will be turned over to the Pan-Hellenic Council for action and, finally, to the fraternities for their approval.

So far in its proceedings the board has come to the conclusion that a postponement of rush week until the second semester or until later in the first semester have seemed unwise. Although the decision is not yet announced as official, the board will probably recommend that the beginning of rush week be put off from the first day of classes as it has been until the following Monday, and that it last through Friday night, probably with only night dates. There is a movement among the board members which will probably be included in the board's recommendation that the period of silence be made longer, but that informal bidding be allowed during the latter part of rush week. The primary object of the board is to devise means of making the rushing period a smoother affair, of lightening the task of the fraternities and making the encroachment on studies less serious and prolonged. It does not seem to us that the interests of the rushee are yet being taken fully enough into consideration. The board is working to achieve a better execution of the rushing period for the benefit of all concerned, but we would like to see them lean a little more toward the rushee's point of view.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN Presents

PHI DELTA THETA

The Phi Delts gave the Converse girls a show of amorous abilities that will long be remembered by the young ladies. Their appearance at the House reminded the Phis of the Homecoming weekend just past. "Ah for the days of co-education," breathed lustful John Miller, reading a textbook on the leaky roof. "How to Snow in Five Easy Lessons" brothers "Dew Eyes" Campbell Klein (ski), Lamb, Louy, Blue Ray, "Horse Power" Smith, Turnipseed, and Pledges Cumbie and Huffaker gave their special attention to the entertainment of these South Carolina lasses. Papa Root? Turnipseed frightened his naive date almost to death when he attempted to embrace her behind the science shed. She was saved, however, by thoughtful Adonis and had taken her vitamin pills at supper. "Dew Eyes" had the time of his life trying to keep his date from being stolen away by many far too anxious enemies. All who dated agreed that there were no false impressions left by the Converse girls. The stags were many in number: Brothers Bowen, "Abie" Guthrie, Head Hollister, Wright, Mebane, Monk Montgomery, "Mitzie" Smith, Vann, and the two great lovers Johnnie and Curley Witherspoon saw to it that no brother would dance more than thirty seconds with anyone. The dance was a success, for the Phis returned to their rooms with swollen painted lips. Brother Whitlock Cobb added one more distinction to his accomplishments in the proceedings. He provided the music with his "Tossam" feet and his long list of being in charge of the speedy dance. His even greater accomplishment lies in bringing dear Sis to the dance. Sis now has many more brothers at Davidson than she ever dreamed to have. "Big Blow" Iverson added a masterly tone to the music furnished by "Moss" Moses and his boys. The girls all thought that Blowing Up was diving on the jug. The farthermost corners of this glorious South Land were blessed by the Phis this weekend. Chas. Parker early Monday morning acquired a quiet cabin party in Asheville. His only statement was, "It ain't so cold in them mountains!" Bill King saw the mighty Ga. Tech Yellow Jackets fall to the Crimson Tide in Atlanta, Georgia. Tom Mann traveled the road to Columbia; we have not been able to learn the reason for this sojourn. Bobby "Bubbles" hot-footed it to Gastonia, after receiving a groaning curse from one of the Converse gals, in order to play poker with his true love. It may be for all to know, but it sounds like so much to men. Ol T. Hall IV spent his Saturday night chained in his candle-lighted room; robed in his black monkish attire, he translated Sanskrit. We understand he was looking for some old pointer on polishing the old apple. He emerged from his den Sunday morning with bloodshot eyes saying that his search had been a great success. Pledge Strand and Brother Palmer spent their evening in the metropolitan theatre of Davidson viewing the World Premier of the "Black Arrow." After a week of rest, the Phis will be on the road again to more and better adventure. Every weekend off campus is better than the one before.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

Dr. Sam Pharr got a call for surgery at three A.M. Sabbath Morning and after treating six D.C. men for gross undernourishment, sallied forth to the maternity ward to see about the new arrivals. Big John Richards was the fifth man on the totem pole in that razzle-dazzle play to end all plays in the thriller with W. & L. last Saturday afternoon. It looked for a minute...As though Johnny was gone halfway on what would have been a winning touchdown jaunt when he got hold of that third lateral after the completed pass! Craig Alexander, insofar as wheeling over thataway is possible, “wheeled” as usual to his heartthrob over at Queens. Other pledges also hit the road in the persons of Maynard Royster and his trusted sidekick Tommy Maston. There must be more over in Maxton than a meek Presbyterian J.C., but so far all we've been able to determine in the matter is that actions speak louder. Flash: John Rose was last seen emerging from the brand new brick edifice on Laundry Boulevard at seven in the morning with nothing but a cup of coffee. On, that is. Seems that Wild Irish has gotten the inside track after reading a book on Davidson College and Her Secretaries, or How to Sow Wild Oats and Reap a Cup of Coffee. Not to be outdone in the affairs of gardening, Mudrock and Squirrel's Own George have also picked up the book where John left off. He never got past the third chapter...

We'd like to take this opportunity to announce a Great Event. Lynn Crowley and Carl Harris pledged with the Pijis, and we're all mighty proud. Welcome to the fold, gentlemen! Our football heroes are at last doing themselves proud, and our season is winding up with a bright flourish. Chief among those who are coming into their own with brilliant playing are Ed Newton, W. A. Davis, C. I. Clark, Billy Pharr, and James Poag. Hal Cashion took what is known to many as a “long” weekend not long ago and came back with a report that he is just before being in that happy state known as Love. Seeing all the Brothers and Pledges with those beautiful vases from Converse (and he without one!) made James turn with a sad heart towards Rock Hill and the 1800 women in blue at Winthrop. He tells us that the dance there was nothing short of wonderful, and that what Winthrop girls don’t have that Converse girls do is something difficult to put into words, so he didn't even try.

Although many girls belonging to Phi Gams (and we say this with much tongue in cheek) have valiantly tried to match her performance with various smoking devices, nevertheless, we are overjoyed at announcing the original and all-time winner to be Tommy's Sally! Her cigars, elegantly smoked with all the grace of a medieval princess, merit the reward. Says Tommy, “She likes ‘em too!”

SIGMA CHI

As far as a large majority of the Sig brothers were concerned, Davidson-Converse Day was the major event of the past weekend. Herewith follows a detailed report: Brothers Morgan, Shriver, Stubbs, and Pledge Brothers Brooks and Poole were reportedly well satisfied by the dates they obtained through the Hamilton-Beatie Dating Bureau, which after the trials and tribulations endured during its short life, has notified the public that it has gone out of business forever. Blackjack had noble ambitions for Saturday night but his plans were frustrated by the delaying actions of his loyal brothers. Damon Shriver was heard asking if he could be of any assistance. Converse-Davidson Day was an overwhelming success among the Fijis! and a wild race was on after it was all over to see which of the fortunates deserved the meritorious “pot” which had been put aside for dubious purposes. Among those nominated were “Gangling Dick” Patterson, Thomas “Class of '34” Haller, Coleman Poag of the Brothers Poag, Carl Churchill, Frank Strait, and Earl Huie. The winner has not yet been announced, but we know several who will receive honorable mentions. Unquestionably the biggest rotator of the night was Slick John Calhoun. He deserted his buxom beauty to spend his time making ardent love to Bones Brooks’ date, but after returning to his own date, he said later that the last dance was noticeably dry. Pythias Stubbs was almost overcome by the ardor of his date but, in spite of it all, he succeeded in maintaining his own high standard of conduct.

(Continued On Page Three)

The Davidson College YMCA, currently under the guidance of Ralph Werline Meza, initiated the activities of the weekend by holding a mass meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous. The Davidson YMCA, on Friday, took the students present at the assemblage by surprise. Needless to say, this was no surprise. This column is supposed to be an account of the activities over the weekend. We endeavor to ascertain what happened over the weekend. We will proceed to tell. The aforementioned YMCA really went into pitching curves this past weekend. A pious group which imported for the weekend several busloads of young ladies from Converse. Nothing has definitely been ascertained as to the nature of the said young ladies since they were all spirited away. Suffice it to say, that Converse Day was wholly a success. Next, we proceed to those individuals who are this week eligible to be awarded 5000 points from the bar, detention, and therefore on somebody's list. The first man on several people's list is Gus Willie Cleveland of East. He was decidedly repatriated somewhere in the spacious ballroom to the environs of Greensboro, N.C., of Mr. Long's exclusive nightclub where he absorbed the atmosphere. By popular request, we will omit listing John Miller this week. Roaming Ronnie Dietrick has been at it again, (roaming that is). This weekend he went up to Philadelphia to see about entering the University of Pennsylvania Medical School. Rumor has it that he was not only seen at the Army game, but that he brought a young lady down from Holyoke for the weekend. Weighty William Johnson, after a series of telegrams from Barnum and Bailey Circus, has acquired a fondness for the presumably Penn-trained Mount Bailey circus elephants. Suddenly Norvel Childers, the young gentleman who is always groaning with his foot in his mouth, has recent downfall due mainly to the organ concert held in Chambers Auditorium. It seems that according to Mister Childers, his lady friend came to Davidson for the sole purpose of pumping on the organ. Noble inspiration, to say the least. Other young worthies who may have their activities withheld from print by paying blackmail in 18-20 Duke are: John Ashmore, Buddy Cheek, Mike Williams, and John Cunningham.

Political

By JIMMY HEINRITZY

Since the election, there has been much speculation as to what it meant, but this questioning of the outcome has confined itself to the political side, both votes and their present, personal reasons for voting as they did. In this article, we shall try to uncover the one basic philosophical reason for the outcome. To do this we shall have to take ourselves back to 1932 and the election which put Roosevelt into the presidency. Roosevelt was elected to this office not once, but four times, because he was able to make himself all things to all people. He persuaded a great mass of the people to believe in the idea that something could be had for nothing, that freedom could be had without its consequent responsibility. To perform this feat he had to put into effect a great robbing of Peter to pay Paul, and once embarked on this course, it was impossible for him to turn back. The second world war happened along most propitiously in that it gave the unstable economy he was creating new life and made it appear that his ideas of economics would indeed usher in the golden age of prosperity in America. Both economically and philosophically, however, we were swinging to the left throughout those years. Any economist can tell you that freedom without responsibility or something for nothing can only be had under the economic system which is embodied in socialism or, more drastically, in communism. They can also tell you that such a system cannot but produce in those living under it a weakening and an ultimate destruction of moral fiber and intellectual integrity. So insidious was the change, however, that the people absorbed this philosophy without themselves realizing it. To be more specific, the slow advent of more and more governmental control and concentration of power seemed always to be for the greatest good at the time, but unwittingly, we were swinging left and doing so without the usual counter-swing to the right. Now if socialism be our aim, then a swing to the left is to be expected. But let us examine the methods of achieving this end. Any group trying to make the change from capitalism to socialism must, from the start, aim at a twin goal. This goal will be to change to socialism and to do so without upsetting the economic stability of the country. In the case of England, it would appear that this has been done. It is also obvious that England’s present socialistic government is harmful in a tremendous degree to the country’s economic system and its unity. We do not claim that capital is all right and labor all wrong. Capital has a good many sins to answer for itself. But the present way of achieving labor’s aims is wrong and harmful. And above and beyond this, socialism, so contrary to the American ideals of free enterprise, is undoubtedly the biggest rotator of the night.