YLDC AT
Published Weekly by the YMCA

Editor: Harvy McLean

Reporters:
Joe Vance, Bob Coble, Bill McLean

Society Editor: Katherine Malloy

Foreign Correspondent: Jere Cunningham Sr.

FOOD FOR THOUGHT

Every musician in the world is on strike! Every musical recording has been smashed. Petrillo is happy and even the
mockingbirds are on his side. This is fantastic but it gives us the gloomy picture of just what our world
would be like without music.

Music is an integral part of our civilization. Have you ever stopped to consider just how dependent upon it we
are? It constitutes a major part of most every program of entertainment; our church services would be somewhat "flat" without
it; your graduation processional would be in dead silence; you'd never learn to dance; even the young couple "looking at
the moon" would have to do without the soft melodies coming in over a portable.

Yes, music is a part of us! Since it does fill such a place in our lives, it's our responsibility
to learn to appreciate it. Music in its many forms is like the presents found around a Christmas tree, all
wrapped in different tissue, with different colored ribbons but each bringing joy to its recipient as well as the giver.

Let's not limit ourselves to a little when there is so much, and really learn to enjoy a tune!

VESPERS

Vespers service this Sunday evening will be conducted by Rev. Cliff McLeod, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Mooresville.
All are invited to attend this service.

"WONDERING" AROUND

Well, that fatal night has rolled around once again and according to the "Simon Legree" that we have for an
Editor, it is time for the latest "Scuttlebutt." So consequently here it is, as well as could be discovered by
your "wondering" reporter.

Just wondering:

What Big Leighton is going to do about being able to go to Charlotte only three nights a week? So
sad.

What came over "one woman" Bunny Perrin? He was seen "squiring" a local young lady at Vespers.

If John Coddington will be happy if we correct a former statement? The WC coed was at the beach. Our
apologies, John.

If Jack Bridgeman obtained that sunburn at Crescent Beach? My, but that is a long ride, son.

If Mike Williams managed to stop that revolving door? Well, what happened?

Just why Colvin Wyatt went to Winston-Salem, Wednesday night, August 18, 1948? (Those are facts, son!)

If Mr. Joseph T. Stukes is really enjoying those tomatoes, thrice daily and iron glue in the coffee pot? My,
oh my, what's wrong J.T.?

Wonder if Charlie Robinson would like to see his name here? Satisfied, Zorro?

If "Weeping Willie" Mebane is really weeping over a local girl?

If Dick Stone has found an apartment and whether he realizes that September is only two weeks off?

If Springer Hoskins has made that trip to Kinston?

If Heels Beals will release Dick Tracy? How about it, Heels?

What George Adams will do about that proposed trip to Europe? Bon Voyage!

HEARD:

Harry Shaw is really sitting on those proverbial pins and needles and for a very good reason too. There are
a few here who can appreciate your situation, Harry.

Just one more to go.
