Volume XXXVII ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1954 NEW YEAR NUMBER THIRTEEN

Student Groups Entertain Barium Children

DAVIDSONIAN INVESTIGATES RECENT STUD STORE LOSSES AS STUDENTS DEMAND ACTION

Approximately two weeks ago the following article was presented to the editorial staff of THE DAVIDSONIAN. It is printed here
as received with one or two minor alterations. Following this item is the result of THE DAVIDSONIAN’S thorough and impartial
investigation. We urge all students to give it their full consideration.

Most of the opinions which have been publicly expressed blame the loss solely on student dishonesty. While student dishonesty may
be a primary cause of the deficit, I feel that a number of secondary possibilities have been ignored. It is
these possibilities which I want to call to your attention, with hope that they may serve as suggestions for a
thorough newspaper study and report on the problem. I think that such a report should prove valuable for several reasons:
(1) It will bring to light possible inefficiencies in store management or will place full blame upon the student, depending
upon the results of the study. (2) In either case the student will feel, as many now do not, that
full justice has been done. (3) The findings of the study may serve as a guide to the planners of
any future store.

Feeling, then, that the study is important, I make the following suggestions as possible leads:

(1) That the loss of $1,000 each month is due solely to student thefts seems impossible. For this to be
true it would be necessary for the students to pilfer the equivalent of the following items each month: 20,000 Coca-Colas
at .05, or 10,000 bars of candy at .10, or 1,000 packages of golf balls at $1.00. That any such
mass theft takes place is almost unbelievable.

(2) Considering the improbability of No. 1, it would seem interesting that a study should be made of the accounting
and inventory methods of the store.

(3) As evidence of mismanagement, the following items are noted: (a) Prices on many school supplies are not clearly marked.
No one student whom I know has ever paid the price stated by the cashier. Remarkably enough, the price of
the pouch was on the back of the glass case next to the cash registers. One can hardly blame the
lucky student, nor can one blame any student who relies on such methods. (b) During rush hours, one often stands
in line five minutes in order to pay for his purchases or get change. If a student is impatient, he
is apt to walk out rather than suffer the delay. Honesty must be accommodated, not penalized. (c) The spoilage of
milk is unusually high; if this results in loss to the store, it should not be allowed. At least once
I have seen half a box of soured milk. (d) The general condition of the store—the dirt, the merchandise scattered
about, the clutter of unsaleable items—is such that one is apt to forget that he is in a business establishment.
Lackadaisical management breeds a careless customer. (e) I have been told that one of the store clerks announced in chapel
that he had seen three students leave without paying their bills. More than dishonesty, such a study by the staff
of the DAVIDSONIAN would not only lead to the administration and the management of the store, it would also be,
in my opinion, a worthy piece of journalism and a feather in the paper’s cap. I shall not be disappointed
if my suggestions are disregarded but I shall be disappointed if the apathy continues.

Scholarship Committee Convenes

The Rhodes Scholarship Committee for the State of North Carolina met last Thursday, December 9, in Chapel Hill for the
purpose of selecting two applicants for this coveted scholarship. These two must be either residents of North Carolina or out-of-state
students studying in this state. As its chairman, Dr. John R. Cunningham, and Prof. Win. Blackburn of Duke University served
as secretary. Other members of the committee included Dean C. I. Spurill of the University of North Carolina, Mr. Robt.
L. Humber of Greenville, N.C., and Prof. Robt. K. Gooch of the University of Virginia. Fifteen applicants appeared before the
committee to compete for the two places open for selection in the state. The young men selected must be citizens
of the United States and must be over 19 years of age. Each applicant was judged on the basis of:
(a) literary and scholastic ability and attainment, (b) qualities of manhood, truth, courage, devotion to duty, sympathy, kindness, unselfishness, and
fellowship, (c) exhibition of moral force of character, (d) physical vigor as shown by interest in outdoor sports. The heaviest
emphasis was placed on the first two of these qualifications. The Rhodes Scholarship grant at present is 400 pounds per
year. This would be approximately $2500 as a maximum. The two winners in this state competition were Mr. Nelson F.
(Continued on Page Four)

Christmas Vespers Ceremony

On Sunday evening before a large capacity crowd in the beautifully decorated Chambers Auditorium, the Davidson Male Chorus and the
Concert Band performed in the annual YMCA Christmas Vesper Service, which was presented by the YMCA, the Music Department, and
the college. It was thoroughly enjoyed by most everyone in the audience, which included many visitors from the town of
Davidson, Charlotte, and other surrounding communities. The performance by the singers and the band was exceptional and very beautiful. The
service was started with the band, conducted by Prof. James Christian Pfohl, playing two preludes: “Lo, How a Rose E’er
Blooming,” and “I Wonder as I Wander.” With Herb Meza, president of the YMCA, and Curtis Harper, vice president, participating
in the service with a prayer and Scripture reading, the service proceeded with selections rendered by the Male Chorus, under
the able leadership of Prof. Earl Berg. The carols were: “Zion Hears the Watchmen Singing” from Cantata “Wacht auf, ruft
uns die Stimme,” “Catalonian Christmas Carol,” “Basque Christmas Carol,” “Old French Christmas Carol,” and “Noel, Noel.” The remainder of the
program included several familiar Christmas hymns sung by the congregation, ending with the benediction by President John R. Cunningham.

Rev. Broyles Accepts $6,078.32 Gift Fund Check

CHRISTMAS GIFT CAMPAIGN—Shown above, from left to right, are Rev. Vernon S. Broyles, Jr., D.D., of Atlanta, Ga., chairman of
the Southern Presbyterian Assembly's War Relief Committee, in the act of accepting the Y.M.C.A. Christmas Gift of $6,078.32, subscribed by
students and faculty members of Davidson College, from Jack Payne, director of this year’s drive. In a whirlwind campaign sponsored
by the Y.M.C.A., the goal of $5,000 was oversubscribed by more than 21 percent.

By JACK HOBART

The days when the expression “Shave and a haircut, two bits,” actually meant that the man of distinction could shave
his mug and fur patch overhauled for just that price have faded into the misty past. But that’s what the
price was when Hood Norton, local colored barber, began the trade back around 1910. However, the art of making men
look good and pay for it has come a long way. Today even a customer like Prof. McGeachy or Dean
Bailey, who is jolly referred to in some quarters as “The Skull,” has to pay a higher price for his
good looks. “We charge ‘em part price for cutting it and part forLooking for is the apt summary that Ralph
Johnson, who runs the other local shop and whose father before him raved local heads, makes the subject of the
shiny-headed individual. But with the rise in price over a NOTICE! The second chapter in a series of magazine contests
sponsored by Chesterfield Cigarettes will appear in the next issue of Scripts 'N Pranks, Davidson's humor magazine. The names of
the winners of the first contest will appear in this coming issue along with the new contest. It has been
requested that those wishing to enter please turn in their completed entry blanks to David Archibald, Chesterfield campus representative at
Apartment 101, The Village, or P. O. Box 568. This contest appears simultaneously in college magazines throughout the entire nation
and has proved interesting as well as compensating to many students.

Talented Tonsorial Artists No Longer Give Two-Bit Trims to Tangled Toupees

Jons period of Veal i) tie ter service. Barbers now licensed by the state have to meet the sanitary standards
and requirements set forth by law which was passed in 1929 and has been amended twice since. In the words
of Hood Norton, who runs a Grade A barber shop, Ralph Johnson said that neither he nor Norton ever had
any trouble meeting that standard. Back before the two present shops existed, Ralph's father ran the local shop, which was
located where Raby's Shoe Shop is now. In those days everybody had their own shaving mug, which the others shared.
Water was carried from across the street and heated by a gas burner. Going back a generation or so before
that, the little village was served by a barber who walked down from Mooresville once a week to cut hair
and shave the peasantry, and, no doubt, a number of solemn men.

In 1939, THE DAVIDSONIAN carried an advertisement written partly in French for one of the local shearing houses. It read:
"Chez Norton, Le P Go to an Academic Barber (Masters de la Chevelure et Tonsorial Arts) Norton, MoT A" and
was written by a former professor, Dr. Rene de Visne Williamson. But to see the trade from a barber’s-eye view,
let's imagine that you are the man in a white coat behind the chair. First, a fellow with close-fitting ears
comes in and you try not to nick one of them with your razor, but you do and he lets
you know about it. Then a guy with wing-like nose catchers plants himself in your chair. What a temptation to
streamline him with your razor.

Davidson Citizens once blessed by having a "scalper," shaved heads that humanity would and going on.

FRATERNITIES, CAMPUS CLUB HOLD SECOND ANNUAL PARTY; SPREAD CHRISTMAS CHEER

Verily I say unto you, inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren,
ye have done it unto me. Matt. 25:40. The spirit of this passage of Scripture was much in evidence on
the Davidson campus. Approximately 160 children from Baritas Springs between the ages of 6 and 12 were entertained at the
second annual Christmas party given by the fraternities and the Campus Club. The children were treated to a program of
games, songs, and refreshments, and each child received a gift from Santa Claus. The event was a huge success and
brought much joy to the children and the students who participated.

Development Drive Being Launched

The launching of Davidson's Development Program will be initiated at home, according to an announcement made to the student body
in the Wednesday morning chapel exercises. The Davidson-wide campaign, which will begin during the latter part of January, has been
designated as a preview to the $2,500,000 drive covering the entire area served by the college. Organization plans are expected
to be completed shortly after the opening of school following the Christmas holidays in order that the campaign may get
underway as soon as the second semester begins. The program will be carried out in two parts, the students forming
one group and the remainder of the community the other. Some discussion was raised concerning the advisability of a threefold
division into students, faculty, and townspeople, but it was decided that there would be no true separation of town and
gown in this community.

In order that there may be some concrete objective toward which to work, each group will choose its own definite
part of the program on which to concentrate its efforts. As yet, the Student Development Committee, consisting of Carl Pahl,
Herb Meza, Dave Shepperson, Mac Hart, Buddy Check, J. D. Ashmore, and Buford Goodman, has made no definite plans for
conducting the campaign. One suggestion that has been made would have the campus effort channeled largely through social organizations such
as fraternities, Campus Club, and the independents. It is hoped that this campaign will become one of the traditions of
Davidson.

Students are urged to discuss the drive with their parents during the coming holidays in order to determine just what
support may be given to the program. It should be noted that Davidson students who do not live in North
Carolina will receive no direct appeal in the subsequent general campaign, unless the father happens to be an alumnus of
Davidson. Consequently, many parents may wish to support the program with contributions through their sons to the local campaign.

Junior Executives Defined By Noland

By C. D. PARKER

On November 30, Mr. Noland, personnel director of the Dickson Investment Securities Co., Charlotte, N.C., addressed the student body on
the desirable traits in an ideal junior executive. When employing men in these capacities, the employer looks for a combination
of a capable mind and considerable skill. The scope of Dr. Noland's address was limited to the desirable traits in
the ideal junior executive. The first of these traits is good character, so necessary because the executive is in constant
contact with employees and clients. Next is tact, the quintessence of diplomacy, initiative, and aggressiveness, even to the extent of
taking a job from a superior. The ideal junior executive is thirty years old, with youthful energy and enthusiasm. He
is sober, stable, and mature with a good character. He is at an advantage if he is a native of
the area in which he works.
