Page Six ~ THE DAVIDSONIAN ~ Friday, March 8, 1948

Iron Curtain Around The Campus
By JOHN H. MARION, JR.

Campus-bound people have always been told that what young people get out of college will depend on what they put into it. It is time, the world being what it is, that somebody began to tell these young people that what they get out of college depends also on what the college puts into it. For such a conviction on the part of thoughtful students might bring about three highly desirable—not to say indispensable—results:
1. More graduates who are fit to be citizens in the 20th century.
2. More colleges where the moss is confined to the trees—inanimate objects.
3. The survival of civilization.

No one doubts, of course, that just as a baseball team, to be successful, has to play heads-up baseball, students have to look sharp to get the most out of college.

MOORESVILLE THEATRES

STATE
WEEK STARTING MAR. 6
“CHEYENNE TAKES OVER” with Al - Lash - Larue
also “DICK TRACY MEETS GRUESOME” with RALPH BYRD
CARTOON - SERIAL

LATE SHOW SAT NITE 10:30 AND MONDAY
“IF WINTER COMES” with Walter Pidgeon - Deborah Kerr
CARTOON

4 BIG DAYS TUE.-WED.-THUR.-FRI.
“THE SECRET LIFE OF WALTER MITTY” IN TECHNICOLOR with Danny Kaye - Virginia Mayo and the Goldwyn Girls
NEWS

Carolina
WEEK STARTING MAR. 6
FRI-SAT.
“TIMBER STAMPEDE” with GEORGE O'BRIEN
also “BLONDIE’S LUCKY DAY” with THE BUMSTEADS
CARTOON — SERIAL

MON.-TUES.
“COURAGE OF LASSIE” IN TECHNICOLOR with ELIZABETH TAYLOR FRANK MORGAN
NEWS

WED-THURS.
“SWAMPWATER” with DANA ANDREWS
Also “BREAKFAST IN HOLLYWOOD” with TOM BRENAN
NEWS

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
MAKERS OF Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N.C.
PASTEURIZED GRADE “A” MILK
Mooresville Co-Operative Creamery
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

College Supplies
* Toilet Articles
* Household Items
Southern 5 & 10¢ Stores
Davidson, N.C.

Defect In The Colleges

But all this, true as it is, overlooks one very important detail, a serious lack in the college itself. The present state of higher education too often ignores what puts the whole burden of responsibility on the student. It assumes that everything the student needs is all neatly laid before him in the curriculum—like the tempting array of dishes in a cafeteria—and that if only the student has sufficient will-power to select and eat a well-balanced mental meal his education will take care of itself. But this belief is not only false—it is also dangerous, and until more of our educators can be persuaded to get over it, a great many of our colleges will go on sending out graduates who are too anemic of mind and spirit to cope with the life-and-death problems of a collapsing civilization.

For see what is happening. In this moment of world history, for many centuries, too many students are allowed to go through four years of college or university with no understanding of the movements and issues of our time—and often with no more interest in them—than if they had come out of a convent or monastery in the Middle Ages. Not only are students carefully shielded from all vital contact with these matters in many a formal curriculum; they are often subjected as well to a campus atmosphere that brands football, fashions, fraternities, and worldly success as the paramount concerns of intelligent youth.

University of Texas “Heresy”

The recent furore at the University of Texas, for example, laid bare conditions that prevail to a greater or less degree on dozens of our “better” campuses, southern ones in particular. Whatever one may think of the policies or personal outlook of ex-President Homer Rainey—and there were fine progressive people on both sides of that fence—on one point the evidence seems clear: A boldly courageous effort to give students an awareness of certain vital but widely controversial issues was branded as an unpardonable heresy. It was all right for students to be taught the facts about the right relations between verbs and nouns. But the facts that might lead to better relations between human beings; the facts in the field of race and politics that must lie at the base of all intelligent dealing with a world in chaos? Many of these, at least, said certain powerful groups, must continue to be ignored. The university (for the pure mind, of course, is not concerned with such things) must leave such matters strictly alone.

Texas is not by any means alone. The same pedagogical make-believe, the same fear of facing unpleasant facts, the same naive belief that we can somehow banish our most upsetting problems by pretending they aren’t there—these are combining on many a campus to set up a curtain of iron against the winds of realism. It is a curtain that makes the “ivory tower” of church colleges and state universities alike, although here and there one finds a lonely campus leader who has dared to punch a few holes in the curtain that lets some light through. Even at the University of North Carolina, where a fearless administration and a first-rate department of sociology are battling manfully to keep students abreast of their times and to fit them for thinking, a rear-guard action has to be fought with groups and individuals who regard all vital discussion of our social scene as either communistic or subversive. And many state-supported schools, to avoid similar trouble, put up no real fight at all. Like Brer Rabbit around Brer Fox, they just “lie low and say nothin’.”

What About Church Colleges?

As for what are called our “Christian colleges,” the campus situation there is often still worse. For here, though biblical facts are normally taught with a loving and devout fidelity, they are usually carefully segregated from all dark and practical realities—at least so far as their application to our present social order is concerned. The prophetic insights of Isaiah, though held up as lovely and noble, are rarely allowed to make connection with the agonizing needs of a modern India. The ethics of Paul must have nothing to say to a Henry Ford or a Caesar Petrillo (or maybe they can to Petrillo!) and certainly God's rebuke of Peter’s anti-Gentile prejudice on the housetop in Joppa must be allowed to imply nothing whatever about race prejudice in Mobile or Atlanta. At these Christian schools where deep moral as well as social reasons ought to inspire a fearless search for truth wherever the truth may lie, and where once in a while one might expect to hear in the voice of a teacher the accents of an Amos or Rauschenbusch or Wesley firing students to a passion for social righteousness, one hears too often only the snores of a campus deep in slumber. One gets the impression that whatever social sins have plagued the world are either beyondour shores or else were safely banished by 1900. Does someone say this paints the picture too black? It may for a handful of schools that appear at last to be seeing what Rip Van Winkles they've been, but so far as the total picture is concerned two bits of evidence only etch the lines more sharply.

Why Don’t They Care?

Back in the 1930s a British professor, who had taught in both English and American universities, wrote for Harper’s magazine an article titled, “Why Don't Your Young Men Care?” The gist of it was that British students by and large were far ahead of their American cousins in both their political awareness and their moral concern for the welfare of the state. Where at Oxford or Cambridge a speech by a visiting statesman would often pack the biggest hall in town, at Cornell or Tulane a similar crowd could be drawn only by a dance or a basketball game; and where the top graduates in Britain aspired normally to a career in the foreign office or Downing Street, the best ones in America often dreamed instead of the “killing” they were going to make in Sears Roebuck or Standard Oil. And the secret of the difference? It lay partly if not chiefly, the writer implied, in the atmosphere and teaching the students found on the campus.

To come even closer home, take a few of the official findings of our Army and Navy. It was an open secret during the war that the lack of understanding among our servicemen and women as to what the war meant politically and socially was little short of appalling. Even many college and university graduates had only the haziest notion of the basic meaning and value of democracy as opposed to the rival doctrines arrayed against it. Before that war was over, to be sure, a great many of these young people had been given at least a preface to the kind of awareness out of which a robust intelligent faith in democracy grows; but the sobering thing about it was that it took an “indoctrination program” hastily improvised by our military brass to do even that.

Students Are the Victims

It all adds up anyway—the beams in the darkness notwithstanding—to a species of blight upon the nation’s mind that ought to agitate every serious member of our student generation. For whoever else may be involved, it is these students in both their private and public lives who are apt to be the victims-in-chief if conditions are left as they are. About one long-tabooed subject anyway many students lately have been stirred to action. They have been demanding a better brand of instruction about the biological and psychological facts of life that make for happier living in the family—and not only demanding it, but in many places, getting it. But what more of them need to see is that, important as it is, social realism on that level is not enough. Another crying need—in many ways the most urgent of all—is for the realistic preparation of youth for intelligent cooperative living in the larger family relationships of their complex and changing world. For while American educators are rapidly getting over the notion that “if two young people love each other they don’t need to read a book about marriage and the family,” too many are still wedded to an equally sentimental view of human relations on the broadest stage of all. There it is still widely felt, apparently, that if only a student's heart leaps up when he beholds Old Glory in the breeze he is by that token entirely prepared for all the duties of citizenship. Both bits of sentimentality, of course, need to be seen as cut from the same cloth. In fact, if we are to keep intact a society in which decent, well-ordered homes are possible, our educational progress in the small realm must be quickly matched by a like advance in the other. As a growing number of schools are seeing the need for a more practical type of training to combat divorce in the family, so too must they be made to see the need for equally practical education to combat similar divisive disasters in the state. For much of the trouble in both areas can be traced back to the same kind of ignorance. Our college and university graduates, though increasingly well-trained of late in matters that make them more polished and efficient as private individuals, have been left all too uninformed about facts and values and methods that make them adept in the art of living together. But since it is precisely at the point of our wider human relations that our most critical ills are now developing, it is time that our schools of higher learning dared to meet this challenge seriously. It is time that somebody, far more aware that blindness to the social facts of life is far more fatal than blindness to biological facts, rose up to ask our educators for some better equipment on that front, too.

(This article, from The Presbyterian Outlook, to be continued next week.)

CORRECTION, PLEASE:

The Davidsonian wishes to state that through a misunderstanding on behalf of one of its reporters, Ernest Stricklin’s article, “Davidson’s Need for 111 Years,” was erroneously printed as an entry in The Davidsonian’s Feature Contest. This article was written and submitted with the intention that it serve only to inform the students and alumni concerning the purpose and functions of the Campus Club. The Davidsonian regrets the occurrence of this mistake.

VETERAN’S NOTICE

Mr. C. W. Thompson, training officer, Veterans Administration will be in Room 108 Chambers Building, Wednesday, March 10, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. and it is imperative that he see all Public Law 16 veterans.

BETAS, KAPPAS ...

(Continued From Page Four)

a floorman. Herndon while tied for Dorsey Pleasants margins.

First Team
LF—Bennett
RF—Gordon
C—Dabney ............ Phi Gams
LG—Lambeth ........ Phi Delts
RG—Ellis ............ Kappa Sig
RG—Herndon ......... SPE

Second Team
LF—Pleasants ........ Sigma Chi
RF—Thomas .......... Pi Kappa Phi
C—Mapes ............ Ind. No. 2
LG—Simpson ......... Betas
RG—Hill ............ SAE

CATS DOWN...

(Continued From Page Four)

15 points. Cheek got four from the field and a like number of free tosses for 12, Cobb made 11. For the season the Cats posted a record of 18 wins against eight reverses. In the Southern Conference they show a 10 and 7 mark.

WORLD GOVERNMENT...

(Continued from Page One)

laid down by the organization, which is working for the organization of world government with limited powers adequate to prevent war. All students interested in the movement are asked to contact Frank Perrin at 303 West or to come to the meeting next Friday.

I've tried them all and I like Chesterfield the best

Louis Jourdan
STARRING IN DAVID O. SELZNICK’S PRODUCTION
“THE PARADINE CASE”
DIRECTED BY ALFRED HITCHCOCK

(FROM A SERIES OF STATEMENTS BY PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMERS)

I smoke only the cigarette that buys as much as two years' supply of the best tobaccos grown. I have smoked Chesterfield cigarettes and they are milder, better tasting, and cooler smoking.

Copyright 1948, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.