‘Another Southern Conference Basketball Tournament history. However, a number of events which occurred during the sixteenth renewal of the hardwood classic will not soon be forgotten by the 9,000 hysterical fans who packed Duke’s spacious indoor stadium to witness the loop’s top ten contenders fight for the coveted crown. On Wednesday night, a gallant band of basketeers from William and Mary won the crowd’s favor by defeating the Demon Deacons of Wake Forest. The same green-shirted cagers, after holding the powerful State team down by 22 points in the first half, lost 73-52. Of course, the play of two pint-sized players, Jere Bunting and Ed McMillan, provided the fans something to yell about before the tournament got underway. Bunting, unknown until the game was over, outclassed his more highly publicized teammate, Chet Giermak, during the ’47-’48 campaign. The Indian, who bucketed 34 points in two appearances, was injured in the final minutes of the State fray, and when he left the game, he received a tremendous ovation.

THE HOOK COMES THRU
An old favorite, John Hook of North Carolina, monopolized the spotlight on the White Phantoms in their unsuccessful attempt to upset State. The popular Carolinian spent most of the past two seasons on the bench. He led 13 free throws to win the scoring title for the Phantoms, but more important than that, he succeeded in getting both Horvath and State on edge to 50. His great performance marked the climax of his career as a cager at Chapel Hill.

WOLFPACK WINS DESPITE DICKEY’S ABSENCE
When individuals who displayed spirit and fight are being mentioned, it would not be fair to omit the Wolfpack of North Carolina State. Missing the services of Dick Dickey after the opening game, the squad nevertheless came through. Although State is not a great team, Case’s men played brilliantly, always scrapping. Warren filled the vacant slot admirably, and the regulars never let up. Reserves also did more than was expected of them.

CATS FIZZLE IN STRETCH
The local entry had its moments of glory. In the opening game against Maryland, the Cats, after a somewhat shaky start, led the taller Terps all the way, going on to stay with a burst of steam in the last few minutes of play. Cheek showed the crowd why he had been chosen all-conference, and his running mates, Will Ashmore, Cobb, and Maner, also played well. Against the Blue Devils, the Wildcats got off to a good start, playing the favored Blue Devils during most of the first half. After intermission, the Big Blues, paced by Dick Groat, took control, and the Cats wilted badly. The passing was off, and the Dukes controlled the rebounds, racking up 20 big points. Hughes was held to 4. When the final gun sounded, the men of Duke had added 20 points to their halftime total, while the Cats amassed a meager 11 markers.

ALL-TOURNEY CHOICES
Few people seem to be able to assess a basketball tournament without trying to form some sort of an all-tournament team. Here are our choices: First team—Forwards: Groat, Duke, and Giermak, William and Mary; Center: Horvath, N.C. State; Guards: Cheek, Davidson, and Bartels, N.C. State. We agree that Groat is the most valuable player in the tournament.

PREDICTIONS OF THINGS TO BE
N.C. State, without Dickey, will lose in the opening round of the NCAA. With Dickey in the lineup, the Red Terrors could go far, but it appears that the Maryland Terrapins have floored the best team of the season. Watch for an upset victory next season, particularly at William and Mary. VPI, both of whom have lots of young ball players, should be kept an eye on. Giermak, Bunting, and McMillan of the Indians, and the Gobblers’ Shockey in particular. Carolina, hardest hit by graduation and blocked by the reinstatement of the freshman rule, will find it rough going on the hardwood in ’48-’49. The Phantoms will be without the services of Paxton, Dillon, Cole, and Thorne. State should repeat as conference champs, although they will miss Giermak. The Cats should easily secure a tourney berth.

ORDER Class Ring NOW TO INSURE DELIVERY BY GRADUATION
JIM GUNN — 105 WATTS

Why not spend Easter holidays at the beach? House Parties, Rooms and Meals, Cottages, and Apartments. Special Pre-Season Rates until June 1.
PHONE 9119
Write or Wire Thomas Manor
301 EIGHTH AVE.
MYRTLE BEACH, S.C.

BATTER UP!
Page Four
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Friday, March 12, 1948

Duke Downs Cats In Semi-Finals
The Wildcats journeyed to the Southern Conference Tournament for the first time since 1944 and advanced to the semi-finals before bowing out in favor of Duke’s talented Blue Devils. The Cats opened their tourney play by outlasting favored Maryland, 58-51. It was one of the most hectic games of the season for Norm Shepherd's boys, both from a player's point of view and that of the spectator. The lead changed hands no less than eleven times and the score was knotted nine times. With eight minutes left, J.D. Ashmore slipped in a lay-up and broke a 45-45 tie, and the Cats held the lead from then on. It was not without basketball frenzy. With only a minute left, the score was 54-51. The Old Liners made a desperate rush to get the ball, but much to the delight of the locals, Cheek and Poole hit for four more points. The game was marred with many fouls, Maryland 27 and Davidson 17. Bob Cheek fouled out early in the last quarter, and Williams and Maner played the last few minutes with four fouls each. Cheek was high with 21, Ashmore 17, and Maner 11. The Cats’ last game was in the semi-final fracas with Duke, a 26-2 team, and consequently let a halftime lead slip down to a 53-37 defeat. The Cats stayed right with the Blue Devils in the first half but fell apart in the second half while the Devils were still strong. Jake Ashmore was the one shining light in what proved to be the (Continued on Page Six)

Coach Shepard briefing his boys in a halftime huddle at the Davidson-Duke semi-final playoff. At the time, the locals were leading 26-24.Later went down before a 55-37 count. Left to right are Maner, Ashmore (hidden behind Maner), Williams, Cobb, Coach Shephard, and Cheek. Dave Poole listens from the bench. The 1948 Southern Conference wrestling championships were staged this week in Lexington, Va., the home of W&L matters. The hometown grapplers did not disappoint their followers as they passed the conference crown with a smashing triumph. Washington and Lee won the meet with 41 points, far out-distancing second-place State and VMI who garnered a total of 17 points.

Cats Win Two; Lose Five
Davidson won two matches and lost five in their bouts with conference opponents. Bill Fesperman got the Cats off to a high-flying start with a smashing win over Ken Lewis of N.C. State, 6-4. Tubby Evans also came through with a win by virtue of his 13-11 triumph over Mack Allen of VMI. The Allen-Evans match was voted the closest waged and most exciting of the whole meet. Davidson's big boys, Mott Price, Bill Alexander, and Bill Moore were all eliminated in the opening round of competition. Bill Moore was pinned by Wake Forest's George Price in 8:39, while Alexander suffered reverses due to Don Maloney, a husky General grappler, who edged him out by the score of 5-0.

Cats Lose in Semi-Finals
Evans and Fesperman, the only two Cat potentials, also met their waterloos in the semi-finals. Both lost to the champs-to-be, W&L. Fesperman was forced to take a 7-9 defeat from Joe Sconce, who incidentally went on to win the 136-pound championship crown. Evans, the last Cat hope, went down fighting to a thrilling 12-6 defeat at the hands of the Generals’ Irv Wicknick.

W&L Dominates Meet
Washington and Lee dominated the whole meet as far as the mat-men were concerned. Lonergan, Finley, Lindell, and Maloney all won decisively their respective crowns and helped amass their total of 41 points. State and VMI placed second with a total of 17 points.

Cats Close Season
Thus, the 1948 season is but a thing of the past for the Cat mat-men.

FESPERMAN, EVANS SHOW IN WRESTLING TOURNAMENT

INTRODUCIN’... By DOUG HIX
This week it is our pleasure to introduce Dave Blevin’s only competitor for No. 1 hill-billy, J.D. Ashmore, one of Davidson’s triple threats on many fronts—it is Ashmore in the classroom, on the court, and on the campus of Randolph Macon. Last year, he held seventh place with a total of 65 points and was the personal foul king early this season. He was pulled out of the hole with a total of 233 points and the most improved Cat team. He enjoys a style of play with plenty of quick cuts for the basket and is a genius at long shots. His one-handed push-shot won the 52-50 South Carolina game last year with less than five seconds to play, and he was instrumental in pulling the Maryland game out of the fire in the conference meet with a total of 17 points to his credit. His pride on the court is that his legs are bigger than anybody’s on the team—and not only that, but he’s knock-kneed and pigeon-toed, too. Jake comes from Greenville, S.C., where he played center on the basketball team for two years and end on the football eleven for two years. Then the “blasted” war broke out and he wore Uncle Sam's bell-bottom trousers for two and a half years, part of the time on a cruiser in the Pacific. A junior, thus in his third year on the Davidson basketball team, he played tailback for the football team his freshman year. He is in the “D” and Beaver Clubs, SAE social fraternity, and soon to be starring in the minstrel portion of the “D Club Follies.” That brings us to his second and third threats mentioned above. He is a threat in class. A pre-med student, he may be quoted as saying, “I'm an awful good student.” His third year of plane trigonometry is proving to be most successful. His third threat is at Randolph-Macon—need more be said—or has too much been said already?

Ashmore battles two Maryland players for the ball in the Cats’ initial appearance in the tournament. Final score was 58-51, Davidson.

The Phi Gams breezed to a smashing triumph in the annual interfraternity track meet by accumulating a total of 37 points to far outdistance their nearest rivals, the SAE’s whose total read 27. Mainly responsible for this overwhelming victory was the combined efforts of two fleet lads, Ed Newton and Tommy Haller, who between them accounted for 26 of the Phi Gam total. Newton won the 100-yard dash in 10.4, and then proceeded to break his own record in the 220 by running it in the record-smashing time of 23.4. Newton also ran anchor man on the winning Phi Gam relay team which tied the record set in 1939 of 1:41.

Phi Gams Win Six
Adding victories in the 440, hurdles, high jump, and relay to Newton's feats, the Phi Gams amassed six events as they simply ran away with the proceedings. Dick Russell, with 11 points, led the SAE in a vain attempt to catch the Phi Gams, but the Haller-Newton combination was a little too much. Russell placed first in the discus with a toss of 115.3. Russell also ran second to Newton in the 100 and 220 races. These points, coupled with J.D. Ashmore’s triumph in the 660, gave the SAE’s second place in preference to the Phi Delts who were hot on their trails with 26 points. The Kappa Sigs, showing Evans in the shot put and discus, came in fourth with a total of 21, while the excellent performance of Bob Flower in the three-quarter mile enabled the K.A.s to hold down fifth place with a total of 18 points.

Haller, Newton Brilliant
Tommy Haller was the leading scorer in this year’s meet, supplanting the Phi Delt star, Whit Cobb, as high man. Tommy accounted for 15 points via his first places in the hurdles and high jump and second in the broad jump. Newton, of course, won both his races in dazzling fashion. These two speedy performers collaborated to give the Phi Gams an overwhelming triumph in the final standings.

Events
100-Yard Dash—Newton, Phi Gam, 10.4; Russell, SAE; Jenkins, (Continued on Page Six)

At Davidson
Alan Cameron smokes CHESTERFIELDS
Alan says: “I smoke Chesterfields because they satisfy my taste.”
Voted TOPS!—Chesterfield the largest selling cigarette in America’s colleges (by nationwide survey).