Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN - Friday, February 13, 1948

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by The Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

SAM ERVIN, Editor-in-Chief
BOB CHINN, Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editor Bob Phillips
Sports Editor Walter Mann
Managing Editor Stan Kennett
Managing Editor Bill Calhoun
Managing Editor Ronnie Dietrich
Managing Editor Rees Jenkins
Columnist Malloy Owens
Columnist John Stewart
Staff Photographer Klaus Mele
Assistant Photographer Feature Reporters Bob Hollister, Lonnie Turnipseed, Bruce Kendall, Bill Bogart, Charles Dotvas, Bob Wells, Art Jenkins
Freshmen Reporters: Hartley Hall, Randy Taylor, Warren Sims, Bob Mitchell, Bill Hollister, Scott Verner, Grace Veepton, Frank Purnell, Tom Blipse,
Kenneth Flores, Jim Murray, Jim Larkin, Leonard Boswell, John Cosby, Dave Hayworth, Hugh Evans, Van McGeachy
Sports Staff: Frank Aldred, Cherry Jack Hazard, Bill Ing, Watt Jeffries, Bill Cassels, Doug Hix, Bill Keenan, Gene Furman, Warlick,
Dick Morgan

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager John Adair
Advertising Manager Charlie Ralston
Circulation Manager Frank Lemmon
Subscriptions Manager Bob Baxter
Collections Manager Charles Dockery
Assistant Advertising Manager Charles Clinkscales
Assistant Advertising Manager Wilkes Macauley
Assistant Advertising Manager H. Fulton
Assistant Circulation Manager Bill Keith
Assistant Circulation Manager Sandy Sprunt
Assistant Circulation Manager Bob Knight
Assistant Subscriptions Manager Charles Beam
Assistant Collections Manager Advertising Staff: Faison, Claude Higginbotham, Mac McEthan, Kelley, Gene Taylor, W. S. D. Hayworth, Elaine McSwain
Circulation Staff: Frank Githery, Bill Gas, John Coble, Carl Herman, Jim Fisher, Bowen, Erwin Chath, Kay Cunningham, Bill Mebane

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 Madison Ave. New York, N.Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

1946 Member 1947
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Chapel Conduct

Articles written by a number of THE DAVIDSONIAN'S columnists in recent weeks have indicated a clear concern among students about
the frequent and uncalled-for disturbances which occur during our chapel devotional periods, and well they should be. In spite of
these articles and the efforts of the faculty and student leaders, there has been little evidence of improvement. No one
is of the opinion that these displays are motivated by any conscious desire—they result rather from nothing more than simple
thoughtlessness. Nevertheless, these outbursts of noise do effectively rob the devotional period of its reverent atmosphere and destroy its meaning
and value. In addition, they create a definite “bad impression” of the Davidson student body in the minds of all
visiting speakers and guests.

The faculty, the trustees, and the administration of the college have always believed that brief daily devotional periods have a
marked effect for good on each and every student. Otherwise, attendance would not be required. Now, however, some feel that
it would be better to discontinue the practice rather than allow these services to be conducted in such an atmosphere.

The majority of the students honestly desire to see chapel services conducted, and in a proper atmosphere, and if those
students conduct themselves at all times in a way which will make this possible, the would-be comics, clowns, and chronic
members of the “infatuated with the sound of our own words” clan will soon be shamed into silence. This may
be a slow method, but it is also a sure one. Few want to commit acts which they know to
be unpopular with their fellow students, and though some may be slow to react to this particular treatment, the light
will dawn eventually even in the darkest craniums.

No one, of course, is seeking to muffle the student body. There is plenty of time at the conclusion of
the program in which all can give vent to their opinions and desires. In fact, the Tuesday and Thursday chapel
periods are set aside almost entirely for that very purpose. Before and during devotionals it is a different matter, however.
It should not be necessary to caution us to be polite and to remain reasonably still while some guest speaker
is seeking to help us better understand some phase of life—we should do such things voluntarily. If not because we
personally hope to benefit from listening to what our speaker has to say, at least because we are gentlemen and
respect the rights of others who may be seeking to listen attentively. It will only take a little effort and
thought on the part of each to eradicate this problem.

Letters to the Editor

Dear Editor:

One of the most pressing problems at Davidson is the lack of time in which to finish all activities. Everyone
who stays here any length of time soon learns that there always seems to be more to be accomplished than
can be done in any one 24-hour period. The college has endeavored to meet this situation in several ways. First,
no man may hold more student body offices than the point system allows, thus partially assuring that too much of
a burden will not fall to one man. Secondly, the college opens the library at night, thus insuring the student
of ample access to the materials needed for study. Thirdly, the college allows students to check out from the library
books needed for study thus enabling the student to utilize the materials needed for study, which are in the library
at any time he desires.

It would seem that the college makes considerable effort to insure the student of having plenty of time to study
by insuring access to materials and references needed. However, in one major instance, this conclusion is fallacious. The college opens
the library at night so that the student who has twenty hours of required reading a week will have plenty
of time in which to accomplish it. The college does not, however, make a like provision for the student who
has twenty hours of required laboratory work a week. Of course, the schedule does not indicate that anyone will ever
have that much laboratory work a week and likewise there is no mention of required reading in the official schedule.
There is one valid objection to opening a laboratory at night—the danger of the work involved and the lack of
qualified supervisors. Still, if the college can afford librarians at night one might surmise that competent advanced students would not
be beyond the financial capacity for the positions of night laboratory assistants. It all boils down to one point. The
average student no doubt often grumbles about having to attend chapel but few would after sober reflection ask that it
be abolished. As much as many of us hate to admit it, we have at least in some small way
benefitted from these Bible readings and the longer less frequent talks on spiritual topics.

If this, then, being the case, what can be done? Actually for once the solution is quite simple. As has
been intimated before, the actions are forgetfulness. All of us have taken part in them always without thinking. Some regret
having done so afterward—others never give it a thought, and as a result, go on giving repeat performances day after
day. No one expects you to report chronic offenders to the Dean or to the student council, and no one
expects you to administer verbal lashings to those who fail to keep quiet—you are expected, however, to see to it
that you personally take no part in the disturbances.

The liberal arts student can arrange his schedule so that he may visit the library at practically any time, night
or day, which best suits him, individually, while the science student with laboratory work comparable to reading assignments must perforce
do this work between the hours of 1 to 6 p.m. on weekdays. This indicates a disparity between the degree
of freedom possessed by the liberal arts student as opposed to the science, with the advantage all in favor of
the student of liberal arts. The Science Building is closed at 6 p.m. daily and also will continue to place
the science major at a disadvantage in many ways.

—R. B. D.

The world craves peace that passeth all misunderstanding. Nobody ever forgets where he buried the hatchet. Worry is interest paid
on trouble before it comes due. Counting time is not so important as making time.

LETTERS

Alenda Lux
By BOB PHILLIPS

The following paragraphs are excerpts from a recent news story, released by the Associated Press and presumably appearing in all
national newspapers:

“JACKSON, Miss. (AP) — Shouting rebel yells and waving the Confederate flag, Mississippi Democrats met yesterday to spearhead a nationwide
revolt against their party's leadership...”

Perhaps you are proud of the Southland in which you live, but is there any cause for such indignation, even
to the point of meddling, in order to ensure that humanity (not just southern humanity) is represented?

Now imagine yourself interested in the well-being of humanity, particularly American humanity, not southern humanity. America not only owes it
to mankind to give the world our system of democratic federation for freedom and peace, but also to give the
world our faith. Democratic federation has worked with such spectacular success here because of the Christian citizens who have been
the backbone of our country. It will not work without such citizens. The idea is the product of pure Christianity,
as represented since the Reformation in Protestantism.

The world sorely needs our system, but if we do not also introduce them to our Christ, we can expect
their democratic federation to fail. France has tried democracy, but the low morality of her people, typical of Roman Catholic
and atheistic countries, has resulted in its repeated corruption and failure. The machinery of government and economics we have set
up is sound, but it will not run if cut off from its source of power.

CHRISTIAN MINORITY

Christians are a minority even in America today. Our Protestant churches have been onand FEC bills.” ~[ldc liberty and the
pursuit of happiness] Mount which those, who accept a spree away from the Bible. We are these the grandsons and
great grandsons of the noble Army of the South, of which we are justly proud. They must be protected as
are inherent and inalienable rights of all people. Possibly we Southerners would work more similar and South and North, and
for mankind in general. Perhaps we were to divert the wrath we reserve for the enemy camps toward the pernicious
Southern bigot who would bring upon our heads the justified accusation of inhumanity.

Seeing the very artistic painting, girls caught holding hands between dances. Evidently, they didn't want to be high scorers for
the evening. Christian gentleman what he was, could witness the workings of these current Southern leaders. We would swell with
pride.

Almost in the same breath, these upholders of the old southern charm beat their breast proudly and call themselves “true
white Jeffersonian Democrats,” while decrying measures which would outlaw their sacred rights of lynching and racial discrimination. How many of
these political opportunists, do you suppose, even knew that the founder of Jeffersonian democracy wrote the lines, “We hold these
truths to be self-evident: that all men are created equal: that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inherent
and inalienable rights:

Even those who mourn the loss of gossip-wise cannot but see the hydra-like growth of another alike in one particular,
at least. G. E. was locally notorious for missing the meeting continually, but things are they have, THE FRENCH ONE
will have him beat by a good margin. Most interesting reading in all the history of Davidson, which upon brewing
for several months, came to an issue on the night of the Sophomore Banquet, in February, 1903. (The Sophomore banquet
was one of the more important social events of the year, while the Freshmen were arranging barricades up at Spence
House, standing across the street from Professor McPherson’s, which was used at that time to house the overflow of the
abnormally large Freshman Class. The “Sophs” found the gate outside their feast hall wired shut, the front door of Chambers,
the only dormitory on the campus, barred. (Mr. Jackson tells us that only the doors to old Chambers were ever
barred or even closed, the summer time to keep the cats out). Their rooms had been roughed.

“Soon after Dr. Smith (Henry Louis Smith) became president he instituted a vigorous campaign for a larger number of students.
By speeches and by writing he impressed upon the young men of the church (Presbyterian, of course) the advantages of
a college education. The class of 1906 thus assembled in the fall of 1906 as the result of Dr. Smith’s
labors was by far the largest class in the history of the college and was composed of men more mature,
on the average, than the regular college boy of that day. It so happened, also, that the Sophomore class of
that year was numerically small.

If Southern Conference rulings remain unchanged, what policy do you think Davidson College should take toward financial subsidies for outstanding
athletes?
Full Scholarships (Tuition, Board, etc.)
Partial Scholarships (Present Policy)
No Subsidies
Students 12 pct. 54 pct. 32 pct.
Faculty and Administration 60 pct. 35 pct. 5 pct.

2. Who do you think is Davidson's most valuable athlete?
George (Buddy) Cheek First Choice
Whit Cobb Runner-up
Mike Williams Honorable Mention

Paging the Professors
By Stan

PROF. PUCKETT
During the recent war one of Davidson's professors was in an extremely unusual work. This was Dr. Puckett of the
Biology Department. Dr. Puckett was engaged in research, investigating wounds. This was conducted between the Aberdeen Proving Grounds and his
laboratory at Princeton University. Dr. Puckett came to Davidson as a professor in 1919 from Princeton where he received his
Ph.D. and had taught for eleven years. A graduate of Davidson, Professor Puckett taught for a year after receiving his
master's degree at the University of North Carolina.

Upon returning to Davidson, Dr. Puckett observed that Davidson students on the whole have potentialities equal to those of men
in eastern universities, but that the preparation before college is inferior. Nevertheless, Dr. Puckett has found that Davidson graduates have
a superior reputation in all the graduate schools, and are recognized for social and academic ability.

Dr. Puckett’s interests outside the classroom range from high scholastic societies to a great interest in sports; he seldom misses
an athletic contest of any sort here. He is a member of Sigma Chi fraternity, the American Association of Biologists,
and the American Society of Zoologists. During the past few years he published some forty scientific papers, as well as
following interests in photography, farming, and gardening.

PROF. McGAVOCK
Dr. McGavock, of the Math Department, was graduated from Davidson in 1930 and returned in 1934 as a professor. During
the interim, he had taught in two preparatory schools, Hughes Military Academy and Morgan School. Dr. McGavock earned his master's
and doctor’s degrees at Duke University, the latter of which was in 1939.

As Davidson's outstanding feature, Dr. McGavock calls attention to the faculty-student relationship, one of friendship and comradeship. Bridge and golf
are down the list of Dr. McGavock's hobbies; while chess and bricklaying are on top. At present, Dr. McGavock is
building a brick wall, of which he is quite proud, at his home. Also currently, he is playing in a
national postal chess tournament, having reached the finals at this time.
