Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

YLDCAT
Published Weekly by the YLCA

Editor: Jack P. Smotheridge
Bob Coble
C. Mitchell
Harry LeLevin
Sue Yonce

D: 580.1 LOSES A PAL

A little joy left the campus Tuesday.

The campus has been full, in these past two weeks, of talks of politics and political matters. It is a good thing. It is exceedingly good that so many men have become more aware of politics, and finally, some have become persuaded.

Speaking of politics, we shall be interested in observing Truman's performance in his job. The YLDCAT feels that Truman will make a much better race than most people now give him credit for. The situation somehow recalls the lines in the old quote:

"Behind, while I run,
Followers cry:
'I am wounded,' Sir,
he cried, 'but I'm still alive.
My life is in the coverlet we
and rise and fight again.'"

A favorite DUD, "Lotto," has sadly left us. She didn't have one correct answer, but everybody loved her, admired her for her cheerfulness and spunk, and breathed on her. Little "Lotto" never seemed to be gloomy; she always appeared happier, and it seemed to be her mission to spread joy. She knew no distinctions, exhibited no fear; not even "Butane" with all his majesty was able to intimidate her.

We are sorry; little mannerisms, cocky, sure, not always alert and wordy, somehow gave us a lift. Perhaps one of her most lovable traits was her fortitude. Like us, sometimes she just got "flustered," and it was a familiar sight to see her sprawled out in class, causing great inconvenience, but also endearing. It was an honor for "Lotto" to choose your seat to lie between. It came to be a special honor to have her there. We will miss "Lotto" and all she brought to us.

With combined sadness and fondness, the editorial team retires. It has been fun and a good experience to initiate and write the YLDCAT. We are grateful for your support and acceptance of it. It has been intended to be more than an informal medium of information and news of events, and it can be safely said to be free of the guilt of crudity or journalistic art. It is our hope that the students will continue to support it.

We, obviously, send ideas. Your new editor is Mr. Harry LeLevin, who is to be the President of the YLCA for the second term. Harry has been a bulwark in the publication of the YLDCAT during the first term and will provide you with a fine series of YLDCATs for the rest of the year.

The Editor sincerely wishes you a pleasant summer and hopes you will have a good rest before the opening of the 1945-46 session in September.

Remember also thy Creator in the days of thy youth, before the evil days come, and the years draw nigh, when thou shalt say, "I have no pleasure in them." - ECCL. 12:1

Avoid late and excessive studies, for they are very prejudicial to health. Take the evening, and that is with the morning, after you have dined, either divert yourself with exercise, or study between whiles.

As for diet, eat only as much as shall be sufficient to preserve health, and not as much as more than the appetite will crave. Before dinner, take a little walk, and do the same after supper. A little before you go to sleep, read something and meditate upon it, and when you wake in the morning, call yourself to an account.

Our thanks to Coach Parker for organizing the series, and our credit to Mitchell for his excellent officiating.

---