PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, December 17, 1948

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Stan Kennett

BUSINESS MGR.
Bill Calhoun

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editor
Ronnie Dietrick

Sports Editor
Bob Hollister

Managing Editor
Lonnie Turnipseed

Managing Editor
Doug Meiklejohn

Managing Editor
Dick Moore

Managing Editor
Bill King

Staff Photographer
Charlie Reid

Cartoonist
John Hobart

Make-up Editor
Pittie Murray

Make-up Editor
Bill King

FEATURE REPORTERS: Phil Mitchell, Hartley Hall, Gabe Lowe, Neil Leach, Jimmie Henritzy, Henry Hansen, Pete Kalogridis, Drew Gurley, Bill Sargent,
Bob Grube, Jimmy Fickeisen, Bill Hollister.

REPORTERS—Randy Taylor, Bill DuBose, Warren Sims, Ralph Robinson, Tom Allen, Dick Barnwell, Bill McCrary, Tom Mann, Bill Cumming, Phil Libby,
Ben Drymon, Dudley Pendleton, Nat Daniel, Dick Chandley, Boo Northcutt, Stuart Shippey, Hugh Huffaker, Bill Neal, Harper Newbold, Jim Blackburn,
Jack Pierce, Harry Shurley, Bob Hubbell, Angus McKellar, Jack Peirce, Slats McClintock, Boye Kendall, Lamar Hinson, Ed Richardson.

SPORTS STAFF—Cherry Stribling, Gordon Scott, Furman Warlick, Watt Jeffries, Bill White, Phil Hammond, Bryant Robinson, Dan McKeithan, David Whitener, Ed
West, Bill Buckey, Jack Stevenson.

POLL CAT STAFF: Jim Carr, Claude Higginbotham, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown, and Neal Underdown.

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Bill Houck

Advertising Manager
Bill Cassels

Circulation Manager
Charles Clinkscales

Asst. Circulation Manager
Hector McKeithan

Asst. Advertising Manager
David McConnell

Collections Manager
Charles Dockery

Subscriptions Manager
John Fortin

ASSISTANTS — Bill Cumming, Bill Hart, Marshall James, Duval Hunter, Bob Erwin, Bill Pharr, Harold S. McSwain, Wyhe Smith, Eas
Clayton, Sam Cumming, Rod Shaw, Gene Taylor, Gene Jackson.

CIRCULATION STAFF — Alex Goley, Floyd Phillips, Parks Dalton, Cecil Rhodes, Ansley Moses, Joe H. Miller, Neill Underdown, Tommy Haller,
John Hardin, Thad Monroe, Hugh Huffaker, Ben Morris, Cam Faison, Paul Guthry.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 8, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

1948 Member 1949
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

PRINTED BY
DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

YMCA Gift Fund
Although much has been said concerning the YMCA Gift Fund this year, perhaps a few more comments would not be
out of order. First, I think Jack Payne is due a tremendous vote of thanks for a job well done
in engineering this project. It was a tough and thankless job of planning and coordinating a program to reach every
member of the student body and faculty, an end which he very successfully achieved. Also, congratulations to those members of
the student body on the halls of the dormitories who assisted Jack by contacting the students and securing the pledges.
These men took time out from the routine of studies to support this very worthy cause and were well rewarded
for their efforts.

However, a large part of the credit for the success of this campaign must go to the student body at
large. If it had not been for you the drive could not have possibly been a success. I think every
man who worked with Jack on this campaign would like to thank the students for their great cooperation and generosity.
The support received shows that Davidson men recognize real values and go all out to be of assistance to others
who are less fortunate than we. You might be interested to know that the final figure exceeded 6,000 dollars, a
figure unexcelled in the history of Davidson College. This money, as you know, will be used for the purchase of
medical supplies, coal, food, and clothing to Marbourg College as a supplement to the materials which are available to them
in Germany today. This gift should enable many students to remain in school who otherwise would have to drop out
due to malnutrition, disease, or lack of heat in the college. As Dr. Cummings pointed out, this gift is also
important in that it gives these students an insight into the real meaning of a democracy. In the long run,
as it affects these future leaders of Germany, it may well have an effect upon the political course of Germany.
It will be interesting to keep in contact with these students at Marbourg and see the end results of our
1948 Christmas Gift Fund.

Christmas Vespers
While we are handing out laurels, we should not forget those who made possible the very impressive Christmas vespers last
Sunday night, concluding the college vesper services for this year. The reputation of this service from year to year is
evidenced by the tremendous crowd present, coming from the surrounding communities. "Y" Secretary Bill Smith and Ed Hopper, assisted by
a crew of valiant helpers of the student and college workers, did an excellent job decorating the auditorium for this
momentous occasion. The evergreens and candles certainly provided an appropriate background for the Christmas message and the beautiful Christmas music.
The concert band, directed by Prof. James Christian Pfohl, provided the atmosphere for the Christmas Story, read by Curtis Harper.
To complete this atmosphere of worship the Glee Club, under the direction of Karl Berg, supplemented the story with their
beautiful anthems. I think all will agree with me that this service was one to be remembered and especially appropriate
as we leave for our Christmas holidays this week.

Letters To Editor
Dear Editor:
I have just finished reading the most recent issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN and found it interesting, well-planned and well-edited with
the exception of one article. This article, a review (I use the word loosely) of "Arsenic and Old Lace" as
produced by the Red and Black Masquers, appears with the by-line of Phil Mitchell. It seems that Davidson has produced
an embryo George Jean Nathan, who is famous for never having said a good thing about a stage production. I
used the word "embryo" for the successful development of a dramatic critic takes years of experience and training in the
world of the stage; experience and training that one can be quite certain a Davidson College sophomore does not have.
I notice with great interest that "The chief factor which prevented the play’s being a total success was the lack
of horror instilled in the audience," a fact, which to say the least, is amazing. To be sure, there are
scenes which are designed to provoke a slight shudder, but on the whole "Arsenic and Old Lace" is a comedy,
not a dramatic horror show. Perhaps if our critic would specialize in Frankenstein instead of Brewster, his reviews would be
a little more convincing. This statement could also be carried over into that paragraph which compared Page Jackson's "horror and
consternation ... closer to that of a husband who has lost his collar button..." Practically anyone who has lost a
collar button could be expected to voice consternation, but I doubt if anyone would search for a collar button with
a look of horror, that is unless the elusive object had been swallowed by a cobra. As for the statement
concerning Miss Copeland, I believe it should have been published under the heading "Department of Utter Confusion." In twenty-five words,
Mr. Mitchell has intimated that Miss Copeland was too much her charming self to be a success in the role
of the equally charming Elaine Harper. Confusion is rampant! Since the student body of Davidson is peculiarly lacking in dramatic
critics (especially in the sophomore class), I should like to suggest this motto for those who follow this Nathanite and
to Mr. Mitchell himself, "If you, realizing your lack of literary training and finesse, are unable to say good things,
it would be better, far better, to say nothing at all!"

Dear Editor:
The article criticizing the production of "Arsenic and Old Lace" was a very good criticism for a professional play, but
for the amateur production, which was presented here at Davidson, it was entirely unjustified and uncalled for. The director, stage
crew, and actors should be commended highly for (Continued On Page Four)

NEWTON TRAMMELL
Wedding bells will ring out all the way from the coastal plains of North Carolina to the warm waters of
Tampa Bay, and at each geographical extremity a good Campus Clubber will go to the altar with the girl of
his dreams. Honorable President Herbert Meza and the equally honorable Matt McGowan are the lucky ones, and they take the
leap with the congratulations and best wishes of all hands. P. A. (Prince Albert) Horne almost got credited with contracting
marriage himself, when some of the guys saw him posting a wedding announcement at the house. "Tain't mine!" he joyfully
explained. Joseph McConnell has lost his heart down at Flora McDonald. This Jo-Joe affair is developing pretty fast, some sources
say. Terrible Kirk is powerfully anxious to get his air mail off lately. Where to, T. T.?... For the duration
of the basketball season, the man to watch will be Coach Linwood "The Irish" O'Briant. Director Jim Campbell may (?)
be seen out on the hardwood in action with the Club Capers. Nature boys Sandy "The Snake" Sprunt, and Art
"Jinx" Jenkins, have really made 101 East into the "Snake Pit," in spite of all C. Wesley Seales could do.
The Barium Springs High School Glee Club sang a concert of Christmas music for the boys the other night, and
this event was followed up by a big feed and lots of fun for everyone. Say! There are a lot
of cute gals in that crew... ("Chicalaca, chicalaca, ra ra ra!") Since September ten new men have been welcomed into
our membership. They are: Bob Boyd, Ralph Brooks, Dave Cowan, Alf Duncan, John Herion, Julian Hodges, Gene Little, Pat McGeachy,
Marks Underwood, and Dan Wilson. On the happy approach of the "Oil Age" our faithful furnace firing crew of Whitener,
Atkins (call him Fire-Buggsy) and Gnat Daniel will be proffering their janiteering services elsewhere. We'll give 'em a good recommendation.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
For some unexplainable reason, the majority of brethren and pledges of the Garnet and the Gold graced the campus by
their presence this weekend, in striking contrast to previous weekends. Although football among the fraternities has definitely given way to
basketball in the "crackerbox," mention should be made about the past season. Coach Randy Ensign did a wonderful job with
the Pikas, piloting them to four wins, and a tie for fifth place. In two other games, at least, the
score could have gone either way, but didn’t. Orchids to Pledge Phil Cox for making first string All-Fraternity team. Brother
Collins received honorable mention and indeed, it was this Collins-Cox passing combination that was in a large way responsible for
the success of the Pikas this year.

Brothers McNair and Jackson had parts in the Red and Black Masquers production last week, and turned in admirable performances.
However, we would like to contradict the opinions set forth by some unqualified critic who wrote an article in THE
DAVIDSONIAN about the play. In this writer's opinion, and I’m far from alone in this idea, Page turned in one
of the best performances in the entire play. His was a hard part, and it may be that his acting
failed to instill horror in the audience, but it wasThere ever “Arsenic and Old Lace.” It’s comedy—not a tragedy. Brother
Hadley, who deserves a lion's share of credit for the success of the play for his capable direction, was seen
quietly sipping a Coca-Cola after one of the presentations. (This was before the scheduled party after the last night). Brother
Mills found it necessary to go to Wilmington Sunday for a pre-Christmas holiday. It seems that his opinion is highly
valued and deemed necessary in some legal proceedings in the Wilmington Superior Court Session. It’s our opinion that Liston’s testimony
on the witness stand will break the case wide open. Brothers McDuffee and Loftin were dating what goes around in
a red Dodge convertible and brought them (car and all) to dinner at the boarding house on Sunday. Would that
more brothers had the same idea of having females to meals. Pledges VanStory and Boyd tripped the light fantastic at
a Salem dance on Saturday night. Pledge Hayden went to Greensboro to escort his old faithful to a dance.

Among The Greeks also. The Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity is happy to announce that Charlie Rimer, a member of the
junior class from Concord, N.C., has accepted an invitation to become a pledge of ΠΚΑ. We all welcome him into
the fraternity and wish for him the best of luck.

PI KAPPA PHI

Oh my head and my aching back,
By DICK MORGAN

According to the “Comet,” some of the more patriotic students of the University of California have started what seems to
be an up-and-coming tradition. Many of the California students turned out for the Stanford clash with their hair dyed blue—the
college color. Dean Bender of Harvard University tells us that the grades of the average students have risen about 50
percent in the past years. Among other things, he attributes this rise in grades to the fact that “the world
is a more sober mood than the Harding-Coolidge days.”

Some college newspapers won't stop at anything to improve their paper and circulation. The Syracuse Daily Orange, for example, ran
an “I hate the Daily Orange because” contest in which students were asked to complete the sentence in less than
25 words. Among the prizes offered were the editorialship of the paper for a week, a subscription to the winner's
parents, and $5 in pennies. A classic contribution was: “I hate the Daily Orange cause I need 5 bucks.”

According to the Daily Californian, at Centenary College in Louisiana, a contest has been instigated picking each week the “Ugliest
man on the campus.” At Texas University, they already have six men vying for the honor. Meanwhile, a law has
been passed, according to the Tarheel, providing that at Carolina all students must check their pets before going to class.
Students who take their dogs to class were requested by the local SPCA to ascertain whether or not the instructors
objected to the pets before carrying them into the various classrooms.

The Old Gold and Black reports that Davidson College really monopolized their All-Opponent Football selection for 1948. Mac Erwin made
the first team, while Cheek, Turner, Wade, and Eborn made the second team, and every other member of Coach Charlie's
starting aggregation made honorable mention.

At Stanford University comes news that a local merchant is sponsoring a “Numbskull of the Week” award. He awards prizes
based on the lowest grades made in the ensuing week. The contest is not in the spirit of condoning or
encouraging poor scholarship, but in the spirit of consolation. Some consolation.

From the Michigan State News comes the story of the silent partner. When a student hesitated in giving a speech
in class, the professor asked: “What are you, man or mouse?”

At the University of Kentucky comes a report that several students, being angered at their inability to watch the mighty
Wildcats in action on the small U.K. hardwood, built a ramp projecting out from the balcony, on which four students
and their dates sat as they watched U.K. down Fort Campbell. Maybe we at Davidson should get our tools and
go to work on the Charlotte Armory so we too could be furnished with suitable accommodations!

Wherefore art thou my beautiful sack? The dance was fine, I'll surely admit, but the lack of sleep really gives
me a fit. It's all over now, but let us recall which one of the kids was the belle of
the ball. An array of characters was certainly on hand. Did you check that chick that was singing in the
band? But this little contest includes them all; those that are short and them what's tall. Some were ready and
some were not; a few had assets like no others ain't got. The queens were out last Saturday night; just
smiling and grinning with all their might. We must love them, they are fine, or we'd never include them with
the song and the vine. But now to turn the story around, we're forced to tell what we have found.
It seems that a recorder was placed in the room where the little girls go to primp and to groom.
There are a few little things we'll have to leave out, but here goes the rest, so brother, look out...

“Hello, honey, how’ve you been?”
“Just fine, cutie, when'd you get in?”
“Who you dating?”
“Me? Jim Carr, and of all the Cats here he’s the cutest by far.”
“Are you with him, well so am I,”
“If you're telling the truth, I think I'll die.”
“Well, it's the truest thing I ever said.”
“Thump - Thump” (they both dropped dead).
“Alice, I tell you I’m through with gin.”
“Now don’t be rash, Nancy, Frank has a twin,”
“I know that, honey, it's plain as can be,
(Continued On Page Four)

The Poll-cat
By CHARLIE REID

How many children do you think there should be in an ideal-sized family?
National Poll of Davidson College Students (Fortune Mag.)
None: 1%
One-Two: 20%
Three-Four: 65%
More: 15%
No opinion: 6%

It is interesting to note that the national average of children per family is only two and a fraction. Evidently,
the vivid reality of having to support a house full of kids changes the attitude of the majority of persons.

College Students in need of sympathy and condolence,

“UPCHURCH TAKES SAN JUAN HILL” or “DIX HILL TAKES MITCHELL”

Dear Editor:

In regard to the highly entertaining but most inadequate review of the recent Red and Black Masquers’ production appearing in
the last issue of “THE DAVIDSONIAN,” let us extend a warm hand to the obviously inexperienced critic, for if anyone
is in need of sympathy, it is he. To criticize justly a bad performance would have been commendable, but to
expose completely one’s utter ignorance of theatre art as well as basic theatrical technique must be humiliating. Although there were
minor weak points in the presentation—for this is not a professional group—we wonder if our critic has any idea of
even the skeletal nature of “Arsenic and Old Lace.” To require horror developed in an audience who was definitely prepared
for comedy—for such was the nature of “Arsenic and Old Lace”—is absurd. An accurate criticism need not warrant a precise
understanding of every delicate detail; nevertheless, it certainly demands a basic conception of the subject. The Masquers do not ask
for, nor need, patronage; but they do deserve justice which was, needless to say, not their portion according to this
inaccurate and unfair review.

We would like to extenuate on the gross understatement in which Mae Holly was labeled as “support.” She was that,
but much, much more. Her most excellent and convincing portrayal was one of the highlights in an already delightful comedy.
She, together with Susie Jackson, thrilled the audience as they selected their next “objects of charity.” Obviously, John Crockett did
more than a “capable” bit of acting in his role of the gruesome Jonathan, the nephew of the Brewster sisters.
We would like to correct at this point the misapprehension of our critic; “Arsenic and Old Lace” was not a
farce, and John Crockett only looked like Boris Karloff. While we are correcting misapprehensions, we might add that there is
no need for placing the “blame” of a “moderate” success on anyone; the play was a total and complete success!
If our presumptuous critic had been paying close attention, we feel that he would have observed Mr. Jackson's excellent portrayal
of Mortimer and the equally charming and true thespian portrayal of Elaine by Nancy Copeland. She, along with the others,
was a great success.

A final word must here be said concerning those who “muffed their lines and failed to synchronize the throwing of
off-stage and on-stage light switches.” As we have already pointed out, the cast was not composed of professionals. Yes, there
were a few lines missed here and there, but they were quickly picked up and executed in a most professional
manner by the other members of the cast. Praise must also be given to the stage crew which is too
often overlooked when the laurels are being heaped upon a production. George McKee, the electrician, Ed Parker, the stage manager,
and all of their assistants certainly performed magnificently a most difficult task. Without these persons, no performance would be possible.
They labored in their job of preparing the set possibly longer than anyone, even the cast.

Permit us to make a final suggestion, however, to the director and other members of the cast. In the event
that the Masquers should take this show on the road, may we suggest that they procure the talents of Mr.
Mitchell in portraying Mr. Hoskins or Mr. Spinalzo. We feel confident that he is more than quite capable of handling
this role, and will possibly be able to supplement his rather sketchy knowledge of theatrical mechanics. For if he is
to continue in the capacity of theatre critic, he may find need of it.

BEN MORRIS,
WYLIE SMITH

Dear Editor:

Attention: Phillip Mitchell,

Congratulations on the most enthusiastic comedy of errors that I ever saw. As far as the dramatic portion of the
student body is concerned, you are decidedly damp on the subject. We all know that McNeil Upchurch looked quite a
bit like Teddy Roosevelt, especially when he bared his teeth. However, I don't believe that is much of a virtue.
I'm glad I don’t look like him. Anybody can be a character, but it takes real genius to turn out
a fairly straight role. Don't get me wrong. Upchurch was plenty good, but you omitted the number one star of
the evening, Miss Mae Holly, who so far outshone Susie Jackson in her portrayal of the not-so-dominant sister that we
recommend immediate transportation to a Broadway setting. You were right, Mr. Mitchell, on one point. The straight acting was the
weak link, but who could keep a clear head in all that ruckus anyway? By the way, I didn't appreciate
the way you criticized the lighting and left out George McKee’s name. That stuff was just too good for a
college play. Best lighting job we've ever had here.

P.S., I agree with you that it was a good play.

PAT McGEACHY, III

(Editor’s note: Thanks for all the good letters on the “Arsenic and Old Lace” article. We appreciate your criticism, nor
can we say that it is unfair or unwarranted.)
