Friday, March 19, 1948
THE DAVIDSONIAN

AMONG THE GREEKS...

SAE
Monday morning (O.K., so you know what as d eee (aro id nC ea ace te y wou : :
shai . shy ie I was es | The best story or incident of the week: There has long been
talk of Brother Dudley’s love for food. Well, it’s been proven. The pledges suffered Hell-Week and are still feeling the
effects. One night, they beat us up in the basement of the club. The Pi Kapps are all looking forward
to their formal dance to be held next Saturday. Breakfast 6:30-8:30, Lunch 12:30-1:30, Dinner 5:30-6:30. Depot St—Davidson, N.C.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
Fraternity elections have come around and we would like to congratulate the new officers for next year. They are: Ed
Hopper, president; Lee Haller, vice president; Carroll, comptroller; and Charles, secretary. The Red Fez Club will be the setting for
the dance to welcome the new officers, held March 20. Bill Knauff and his orchestra will furnish the music. All
indications seem to show that it will be as good as last year's dance given at the same club. The
sponsors for the dance are Miss Helen Hicks with Ed Lilly, Mrs. Lacy Sellars with Lacy Sellars, Miss Jackie English
with Dave Blevins, Miss Mary Louise White with George Thomason, Miss Carolyn Lown with Sam Lineberger, and Miss Jeanne Webb
with Bill Knauff.

PI KAPPA PHI
The new officers will be introduced before the dance at the Ship Ahoy. After the dance, there will be an
informal gathering.What they wanted in this informal breakfast at the Boar's Head is a shirt—N FUNERAL HOME for the het.
We have already heard Earle B. J. say that he is making pretty much hay because he's hoping Williard has
the same date back this time that he had for the last frat dance. In a nationwide survey of colleges
and prep schools last year, more than three out of four men interviewed preferred Pee shirts. Arrow ties and undershorts
were also operating under the same reasonable terms.

Everett and Sleepy Johnson say that they think it will be really warm during intermission—well, anyway, he was seen at
the W.A.A. in Charlotte. By buying a rubber life boat, he is now trying to get Lineberger to double date
with him to paddle Virginia across the river. Charlie Joe Lowrance has been trying to get Ab to let him
get a date for him—and from what we hear, it’s not that he wants Ab to have somebody to dance
with, but the real reason, Joe.

The festivities at Salem took their toll on the gallant brothers this past weekend. Among those indulging were Thatcher, Whitman,
and Hollingsworth. We are especially proud of Moe Harding, who was made master of ceremonies. Sorry to hear he had
a mishap, but he made it back in time to serve breakfast Monday, arriving on the campus at 4 a.m.

COMEDIANS COMMENT: LOCAL ZANIES ENDORSE WRENN’S. WRENN’S MEN’S SHOP offers the students and people of Davidson a truly first-class selection
of Spring Clothing. They advise those that intend to lead the Easter Parade to deck themselves at WRENN'S. (Assorted SUITS
$35 up, SHOES $9.95 up, TIES $1.00 up, HATS $7.50 - $10.00, CORDUROY JACKETS $17.50 - $19.95). The Zanies are
pictured above in their dressing room. After taking this informal picture last night, the photographer escaped with only minor injuries.

KANNAPOLIS Wrenn’s Men’s Shop DAVIDSON. Ries, Pusnan, Opper, Leetndon, and Bogart, along with several others we don’t dare mention. A
few of the notables confined their activities to the Queen City. It seems all this time was had by Kester,
who got lost somewhere. Everyone is looking forward to the coming weekend. From all early reports, it should be one
of the best yet.

PHI DELTA THETA. Probably the biggest event in the Phi Delt social whirl was the delegation to Salem for Salem
Day. Leading the list were those on the “inside track,” including Hills, Johnson, Tate, Knight, Varker, McAllister, and Witherspoon. Realizing
the merit of the occasion, Brothers McAllister and Witherspoon were content to follow the example and all returned “victorious” from
the encounter. Brother Iverson opened the path of social activity to several of the pledges by “fixing them up” for
the affair, namely, Bill Mebane, Bill Ray, Arnie Covell, and Jim Campbell. Queens College was also the scene for Phi
Delt activities (as usual) in the form of a banquet and dance given by the Phi Mu sorority at the
Policeman's Club. Among those present were Brothers Miller, Turnipseed, Harper, Palmer, Hooper, Long, Pledges Miller and Hollister.

The Phi Delt “Bridge Club,” composed of Brothers Cobb, Davis, Montgomery, Vann, and Whiteheart, was active as usual. Al Gutherie,
tearing himself away from his books, decided to step into the limelight and went to W. & L. for the
weekend. Upon returning, all he would say was that “I’m going back!” “Sparky” Cobb, active on campus, flew to Atlanta
to renew some old “binding ties,” returning just in time for his Monday morning classes. Brother Wheelis, after a big
weekend in Bristol, Tenn., last weekend, roared into Hartsville, S. C., and Coker College for what he termed an “all-out”
weekend. Upon being quizzed as to their weekend activities, Brothers Spangler and McGeachy smiled subtly and refrained from giving out
any information.

Come to MELLON’S - Yes, Mellon’s is giving an Easter Party—(10% wide reductions). Charlotte, N.C. Store yourself now with choice
new spring apparel and save. Ed. Mellon Co.
