Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, March 12, 1948

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

The DAVIDSONIAN Presents
EDITORIALS LETTERS FEATURES

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

SAM ERVIN -------------------- Editor-in-Chief
BOB GIN ------------------------ Business Manager
Malloy Owens, John Stewart, Lloyd McLean --- Feature Reporters: Joe Hollister, Dave Gambrell, Bill Dube, Bill Bogart, Charles T. Davis,
Rob Akins.
Freshmen Reporters: Hartley Hall, Randy Warren, Sims, Phil Mitchell, Hollister, Verner, Gray Hampton, Frank, Tom Kenneth Jones, Jim Murray, Boswell,
John Cosby, Dave Hayworth, Pat McGeachy.
Sports Staff: Stribling, Watt Jeffries, King, Gene Regan, Dick McLean, Jack Hazlett.

BUSINESS STAFF
John McNair -------------------- Assistant
Charlie Reid, Frank Lemmon, Charles Dockery, Charles Clinkscales, Wilkes Macauley, H. Fulton, Bill Keith, Sandy Sprunt, Bob Knight, Charles Beam
--- Advertising Staff
H. MacKethan, C. Faison, Claude, D. Hayworth, Blaine Kelley, Gene McSwain --- Circulation Staff
Paul Guthery, Coble, Jim Fisher, Childers, Ted Bevan, Ray Cunningham, Bill.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office Davidson, North Carolina, under the Act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1946 Member 1947. Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

In the February 27 issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN, the problems of publishing a “live” college newspaper which contains news were
presented very ably. That editorial presented these problems with points: (1) Much of the front page and other news is
old news, (2) The majority of the organizations on the campus make no effort to supply THE DAVIDSONIAN with news
that is not common knowledge before it is printed. According to such an analysis which shows that the deadness of
the news articles could be done away with if more of the campus organizations would cooperate with the paper, it
seems that the problem of publishing a newspaper which actually contains news can be solved.

The many favorable aspects of a plan to release all announcements possible through the pages of THE DAVIDSONIAN have already
been discussed sufficiently. If we assume that the organizations on the campus will cooperate fully with a plan to carry
on all their publicity through the campus paper, there is still another problem which must be solved. For many of
the members of the administration and of various organizations who have been accustomed to releasing all news items in chapel,
there will arise another question. How will they be able to publish a story announcing some forthcoming event without the
usual wait of a week? By this statement we do not mean that it always takes a week for an
article to get into print, but that there is a necessity to wait from one issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN to
the next. Naturally, this difficulty will not inconvenience all those who have news items to release through THE DAVIDSONIAN, but
it will affect drastically those who are not able to present their material for an issue of the paper one
week and who must have their announcement brought to the attention of the student body before the publishing date of
the next edition. The following example will probably serve to explain this situation better than a detailed discussion: Suppose that
the YMCA needed a group of men for a deputation similar to the recent one to Greensboro. If they did
not learn of this need until THE DAVIDSONIAN for one week had already gone to press, and if they needed
to know how many men would be available before the next issue reached the students, they would be forced to
resort to the age-old system of chapel announcement. In spite of the fact that the YMCA has evidenced a desire
to conduct their publicity through THE DAVIDSONIAN, they would still be forced to employ some other means in such instances
as this purely because the paper was being printed at the wrong time to suit their purposes.

The problem of the college paper’s not appearing often enough or at more opportune times as outlined above can be
solved. The solution of this problem would entail an increase in the amount of work that the staff of THE
DAVIDSONIAN would have to do. All of us are aware that the staff is sorely pressed at times to complete
the work which it already has, and it might seem to many that any increase in effort necessary on the
part of staff members would be the proverbial “straw that broke the camel’s back.” However, if THE DAVIDSONIAN could become
a livelier paper it would probably command the interest of the staff members sufficiently to keep a larger group of
men working regularly instead of intermittently. The solution which we wish to propose is this: That THE DAVIDSONIAN be printed
twice during each week instead of once as at present. In a paper which appears twice weekly many more rush
items could be carried. This facility in printing rush articles would not only make it possible to carry more announcements
for the student body, it would also tend to make the regular news stories more up to date. Naturally, a
change of this nature in the number of papers a week would necessitate a decrease in size. But this decrease
in size would be justified by the increase in news value of the majority of the articles printed. In addition
to giving us better news service, a change in size of THE DAVIDSONIAN would make it possible to retain all
our present features on a weekly basis. Some features could be carried in the earlier edition and the remaining ones
in the later one.

A news service of the type we could maintain with a small decrease in size would be especially desirable in
the sports division. To many of us, news of athletic events is of primary importance, but under the present system
of publication it is just as hard for the sports editor to keep his news alive as it is for
the other members of the editorial staff. The result is that much of the sports news falls into the same
class with a large part of the front page news and is stale by the time THE DAVIDSONIAN is placed
in the post office. With a “semi-weekly” paper, members of the student body who have been unable to attend athletic
events would be able to receive reports of them much sooner.

Remarkable as it may seem, a change in the number of issues of THE DAVIDSONIAN per week with a corresponding
decrease in size would actually help to speed up printing. A press has recently been installed in the Davidson Printing
Shop for printing THE DAVIDSONIAN. This press is of a size which makes it possible to print only two of
the seven-column pages which we are now using at a time. However, if the size of our pages could be
decreased from seven to six columns, it would then be possible to print an entire four-page issue at once. In
other words, if THE DAVIDSONIAN were changed to a four-page, six-column semi-weekly issue, it would take less press time to
print the two issues than it takes to print the one six-page newspaper we are now using.

As was stressed by Sam Ervin in his editorial of two weeks ago, THE DAVIDSONIAN is the newspaper of the
Davidson student body. To be able to serve the student body sufficiently it must have the support of everyone. But
if the students will support this proposal for a change in the publication schedule of THE DAVIDSONIAN, and if a
number of men will give a small amount of their time each week to helping with THE DAVIDSONIAN, it can
be expected that there will be a change from what someone has called a “rural weekly,” to a campus newspaper.—J.W.M.

(Ed's Note: Letters to the Editor appear on page three of this issue. All Letters to the Editor are appreciated
and will be given careful consideration. If you have something on your mind that you would like to bring to
the attention of the student body, perhaps a Letter to the Editor would be just the thing for you.)

Alenda Lux...
By BOBBY PHILLIPS

Ever since the termination of the war and the subsequent influx of students to our campus in numbers approaching the
super-saturation point, there have been continued arguments pro and con concerning the permanent expansion of the Davidson student body above
the established norm of six to seven hundred persons. In bringing the vital issue to print, this column will forthwith
(by request or coercion from none) state a plea for the maintenance of a small student body, while trying nevertheless
to present both sides of the picture fairly. Admittedly, there is an inherent prejudice among many of us against change
of anything in any form; we want Davidson to be always, with minor reservations, the Davidson of which we were
a part and which we grew to love in four (or more) years. But, in pleading for a small Davidson,
we have much more than complacent sentimentality upon which to base our arguments.

Some maintain that Davidson cannot keep step with comparable (but expanding) institutions unless we too increase permanently the size of
our student body; in other words, that we must keep up with the crowd. Davidson is what she is today
because of a refusal to compromise her ideals and her institutions for the sake of being “in style.” Davidson College's
most attractive assets have been and undoubtedly will continue to be her “intangibles;” the relationship between the student and professor,
the familiarity of each student with his fellows, the campus courtesy, the religious atmosphere, and the undeniable school spirit. Those
of us favoring a small Davidson firmly believe that these qualities cannot exist in the desired proportions in a large
student body.

Approaching now along practical lines, we must note first that Davidson is not a rich school and (barring discovery of
gold in the excavation for the new gym) she has no visible prospects of coming opulence. To accommodate a student
body of twelve hundred students or more, the physical plant of the college would have to undergo stupendous expansion and
modification. The science building would become inadequate, the library would become inadequate, Chambers auditorium would overflow, and the dormitories now
standing would house comfortably about half the student body. Everyone concerned with Davidson College today is aware that she must
spend enormous sums in the near future, not for expansion, but just for the facilities needed by her small student
body and small faculty.

Some proponents of expansion counter our every argument with, “We are agreed on the point that Davidson has something wholesome
to offer youth which they cannot find elsewhere; is it not then our very duty to offer that good to
more students?” It wouldIndeed, it would be wonderful if Davidson College could expose her influence each year to twelve hundred,
or two thousand, or ten thousand, or all college students; that accord would be ideal. But unfortunately, in expanding, Davidson
would surely become another part of “elsewhere.” There is something to be learned from the ageless aphorism of the Chinese
fisherman: “If you run narrow channels, build boat small. If you build boat small, keep crew small.”

Roaming With Ronny
By RONNY

Dancing has not always been allowed on the Davidson campus, nor has the college always allowed its students to dance
at all. As a matter of fact, dancing by students of Davidson was at one time looked upon as a
crime of no small seriousness. There are records of students being punished for dancing. For instance, here is an incident
reported in the session record of the college church sometime in 1838. This incident occurred less than a year after
the college opened: “I report having gained credit about Christmas of 1838, A. O., one of our members (who was
a student here who later became a minister and filled pastorates in the southern cities) had taken part with a
company of youths in dancing. The session held an interview with him in which he acknowledged the ‘crime,’ and professed
in a satisfactory manner, a feeling of regret and repentance. His regular standing in the church was therefore continued.” This
boy got off easily.

A young lady (presumably of Davidson and probably the daughter of a professor) was reported to have “taken part in
the exercises of a dancing party,” and the session instructed the pastor to “duly admonish her.” In the minutes of
the session for the next meeting, there is a note to the effect that the young lady had passed on,
so you can see that they really “admonished” in those days, and that to dance was to risk not only
soul but life on this good earth.

Actually, there was no prohibition against dancing in the original charter of the college, and as a matter of fact,
the wife of Robert Hall Morrison, the first president, is known to have been fond of dancing (that is until
Robert convinced her of its evil). Nevertheless, there was no acknowledged dancing at the college until this present century. There
were, however, secret dances, the favorite dance being held in the auditorium of “Old Chambers.” At these dances, the partners
were boys if a sufficiency of girls was not available, though students went as far as Winthrop College to find
young ladies for these impromptu affairs. Of course, no chaperones were ever present since the faculty punished those found dancing
on the campus. Naturally, these dances were jolly affairs.

With the advent of the automobile, students began to go to Charlotte to dance, and though these dances were attended
only by Davidson students, it was not until the 1930s that such dances were called Davidson College dances. The final
breakdown of college resistance to dancing was the result of a ruling of the faculty in 1938, that square dancing,
being folk dancing, was permissible on the campus. From this to plain old dancing was presumably a short step for
all types of dancing is permitted on the campus as of 1943. As the result of that regulation, the first
dance held (officially, that is) at Davidson College was on February 9 and 10 in the high school gymnasium. Ervin
Hinkle and his orchestra provided the music.

The Poll-cat
By DAVID SONIAN

“Who is your choice, at the present time, for the presidency of the United States?” was the question asked in
this week’s poll. The following are the preferences (listed in order) of both students and faculty:

Students
1. STASSEN
2. DEWEY
3. VANDENBERG
4. EISENHOWER
5. TAFT
6. MARSHALL
7. TRUMAN

Faculty
1. VANDENBERG
2. STASSEN
3. TAFT
4. BYRD
5. WALLACE
6. TRUMAN
7. EISENHOWER

Memphis has its “Boss” Crump, Kansas City its Pendergast, and Boston its James M. Curley. Davidson had its doughty and
redoubtable George Ennett, until his recent timely graduation enabled him to elude the snares of justice unscathed. It is refreshing,
by way of contrast, to find that Salem has no power politics, no machine of a political nature. Miss Seville
has conducted herself through these harrowing pre-election days with admirable poise and detachment, relying solely on her attributes (of which,
we have been told by those who know her, she has many). Her many friends at Davidson would like for
her to know of their sincere good wishes and staunch support.

Speaking of machines reminds us, unaccountably, of a certain limerick. If the reader is curious, he can hear it from
Cousin George Mackie Grimball, or almost anybody. Cousin George, incidentally, is reported to have said to a lass of his
acquaintance on a recent occasion, “I’ve looked you up in the Kinsey Report, and you're just the girl for me.”
Artful Bob Henderson, it seems, is at the awkward age: too old for Tom Sawyer and not quite ready for
the Kinsey Report. Sex is a rather ancient and usually fascinating topic; we shall probably return to it later, but
let us pass on for the moment to more fertile fields.

Durham and vicinity saw many choice bits of Davidsoniana the past weekend. Among those who journeyed up for the meets
were “Chick” Neill, “Towering Jim” Siske, Gib White, Ted Sumner, and Bill Bason. After brief participation in festivities at Chapel
Hill, the aforesaid notables journeyed on to Durham, only to find to their immense chagrin that they were too late
for tickets. Not willing that their whole trip should be for naught, however, they turned to the orgies at Chapel
Hill and waxed merry far into the night.

“But there were only three kegs of lemonade for the five of us,” quoth Sumner. “Chick” performed remarkable feats of
driving on the return jaunt, making the entire trip in second gear, with the right wheels on the shoulder, to
the slight consternation of the other occupants of the car. “Are you sure you can see?” asked White. “Of course
I can see,” retorted Neill, querulously. And so into the night.

One of the most baffling maneuvers to come to our attention recently was pulled by “Big Bill” Johnson. Finding that
a Salem lovely was booked up for the Spring Frolics weekend by some alien from New York, “Big Bill” threw
caution and precedent to the winds and invited both of them to the dances. “Greater love hath no man.” Whether
or not this gracious offer has been accepted we were unable to find out, but Mr. Johnson will certainly have
our vote for this week’s best example of the disappearing southern gentleman. It still baffles us.

Walker Taylor and Sam Tate, two well-known internationalists about the campus, are at present vying with each other to represent
Davidson at the nationwide peace conference to be held in New Orleans next month. Mr. Taylor, who has never been
to New Orleans either, is anxious to get things straight once and for all with Mr. Marshall, who is also
to be a delegate. After this, Mr. Taylor wishes, if he makes the trip, to spend a few days soaking
in the atmosphere of the old city, especially the French Quarter, giving special attention to architecture and a study of
those old French customs which may have survived.

Mr. Hugo Sapp, the local pharmaceutical tycoon, reports a recent sharp rise in the sales of certain commodities. Students of
economics who have an inside knowledge of such things see a connection between this trend and the forthcoming festive weekend
at Salem. If this is so, here’s to Salem!

Paging the Professors
By Stan

PROF. REID
At present, Dr. Reid of the Geography Department is looking forward to the graduate examinations with much anticipation and curiosity.
He expects to find in the results an objective, tangible measure of the work of the Davidson student and to
determine whether or not Davidson lives up to her fine scholastic reputation.

Prof. Reid, a native of Oklahoma, is a Davidson graduate, having majored in geography and geology. He took his master’s
degree at Columbia University and his Ph.D. at Peabody College. In addition, Prof. Reid has done graduate work at the
University of Chicago. During the summers, Dr. Reid frequently teaches at Columbia University, as he will do this year. He
has taught previously at the University of Arkansas and at Teachers Colleges in Oklahoma and Texas. Always interested in woodworking,
Prof. Reid, during the war, found it necessary to turn amateur carpenter to get odd jobs around the house done.
He is also interested in gardening and fishing.

PROF. BOYD
Dr. Boyd of the Bible Department, who came to Davidson last fall, has been most impressed with the student traditions
and the spirit in which the traditions are kept. Dr. Boyd came to Davidson from Presbyterian College where he took
his A.B. and where he taught from 1936. His years of teaching there were interrupted from 1943 to 1946 while
he was a naval chaplain with the Marine Corps in the Pacific. After graduating, where he was active in tennis,
fencing, and boxing, Prof. Boyd went to Princeton Seminary for his Ph.B. Later he took the doctorate in theology at
Union Seminary. Also, Prof. Boyd earned his master’s degree in English at Princeton University.

In addition to being interested in athletics, Dr. Boyd enjoys raising plants. He is also quite active in outside speaking.

Think It Over
By MALLOY OWEN

INFORMATION
The fact that last year most voters knew very few candidates prompted us last week to propose a change in
the method of conducting student elections. The main idea was to use the most effective means available to give us,
as voters, a knowledge of the persons for whom we could vote, their qualifications, and ideas for school improvement. It
is very possible that no amendment to the Constitution would be necessary to make this change. The Constitution forbids campaigning,
solicitation of votes, organized backing, or combines. It does not forbid the issuance of equal amounts of INFORMATION about candidates
in printed form. The Board of Elections could be the watchdog to enforce absolute equality of space and treatment, and
to supervise the gathering of this information and these statements from the candidates and other sources. The board could also
supervise their publication (probably through this newspaper) during the day between the nominating convention and election day. The voter must
have facts upon which to base his judgment. The other proposal, a short speech in chapel for each candidate, would
also contribute to more intelligent voting, but not so much as the printed pictures, information, and statements, because a parade
of new names and faces often fails to stick. If these changes require an amendment, let’s vote on one. If
not, the Student Council and Board of Elections can enact them.

WAR NEAR?
The many activities that crowd our time here at Davidson may any day sink into insignificance if it is true,
as several leaders of (Continued on Page Five)
