Orchids to Auburn Lambeth for the performance he put on at Richardson Field last week. The slim sophomore not only passed brilliantly on several occasions, but he also tucked the pigskin under his arm and clipped off eats in a manner that would make "Crazy Legs" Hirsch take notice. Lambeth’s press notices all spoke of the new senses, but after the VPI game they took a different note. Now they call him the kid who can run and pass equally well.

He chunked to Gene Williams for two touchdowns and set up a third one on the one-yard line in the same way. All in all, the Georgian hit fourteen times in 26 tries for 138 yards. He averaged three yards per try from scrimmage and toted two kickoffs back for 34 and 65 yards. Lambeth was tagged the Southern Conference’s Sophomore of the Week by conference scribes. This for his efforts, Jack Friedland who ran wild in Washington; Andy could call a ball player in Durham; and a count came over Duke's Blue Devil’s 62-0 rout of George Washington; the only thing G.W. Steve Wadiak, a former Sophomore of the Week, who flashed in South Carolina’s 27-7 triumph over lowly Tulsa.

Lambeth is out of action this week with a sprained ankle but should be ready for the season's finale with Furman. Williams was the chief target in playing his best game of the year. The blue-flowered senior was all over anything thrown near him. This is not to take away from the rest of the squad. Mac through the General line and Carl Palit did the same when he hit Buddy aerials, but was at his best on defense. From the vest of the Wildcats, banging auxiliary unit was as hard as ever in holes. Cheek pulled his share of ground eating. After time, he not only broke up the interference on end sweeps, but he also brought down the ball. Henry Wilson threw his 160 pounds around like a 200-pound linebacker in filling up the gaps in the Red and Black line. Wilson has come forth in the last few weeks to grab a first-string linebacker’s spot. Pint-sized for a center, Carl Eborn showed much of his old scrap which has not been too noticeable in recent weeks. Eborn raced down the sidelines on the opening kickoff of the second half and pulled down the touchdown-bound Brian Bell from behind. He was also an unwelcome visitor in the Virginians’ backfield all afternoon.

Hal Mapes turned in his best games of the year as a defensive end, and but for the one blocked placement, he kept one of the Cats in the game all the way. Red Preyer proved himself to be Coach Charley Jamerson’s number behind Buddy Chandler. Preyer gave the WL forwards no breather. Chandler and Bob Sharpe played their usual excellent game. Jim Sifford and Clif Turner both deserve a pat on the back for their able displays. Sifford got off on the longest run of the day when he took the ball on a double reverse and headed around left end for 21 yards. Turner banged off of right tackle to pick up Davidson's third score. He also showed a nice pitching gem when Lambeth was knocked out of the fray with a sprained ankle. All this would lead one to think that Davidson won the ball game. Though they did give the Wildcats the edge, a blocked try for the extra point after the initial score for W&L was the margin of victory. The game was probably the most evenly matched for the locals all season, possibly excepting the Wofford scrap. The Presbyterians looked their best since their early season bout with William and Mary. Davidson’s season record now stands at two wins, five losses, and a tie. Victories came over Elon in the season’s opener and a family feud over The Citadel. Though the defeats to State and VMI were pretty decisive, a break here and there could have turned the other three into victories. Two long passes spelled the decision for the powerful William and Mary Indians who tied Carolina and are now headed for the New Year’s Day Dixie Bowl in Birmingham. The Southern Conference tussle with Furman gives the locals their last chance to show their wares this year. With the same brand of ball displayed last week, it could mean win number three for Davidson. We look for it.

THE FINEST IN MEN’S CLOTHING
JACK WOOD, Ltd.
102 East Fourth Street
Charlotte:
NAVY BLUE SUITS
OXFORD FLANNEL SUITS
HAND-LOOMED SPORTS COATS
CAMEL HAIR TOPCOATS
WOOL ARGYLE HOSE
CASHMERE SWEATERS
OXFORD BUTTON DOWN SHIRTS
FRENCH CUFF SHIRTS
SILK REPP STRIPE TIES
KNIT TIES
SLACKS

Wildcat Sports
November 19, 1948

Auburn Lambeth, the big offensive gun for the Davidson Wildcats in their terrific battle with Washington and Lee Saturday, is shown above picking up a first down on an end sweep.

Jayvees, Belmont Abbey Battle To 6-6 Deadlock
By JACK PAYNE

Davidson's hard-fighting Jayvees, behind the most well-coached Belmont Abbey eleven, came from behind in the second half to tie the game 6-6. From the starting signal to the final whistle, the game was anything but one-sided, both teams having displayed fine style in carrying the ball throughout the game. The Abbey tally came in lightning-like fashion midway in the first quarter when halfback Bill Fletcher scooped up Dick Richard's punt and galloped 80 yards down the sidelines behind good blocking for the score. The blocked placement led, 6-0. Davidson fans left their seats on the very next play when Woody Leach ran ragged through the whole Abbey team, returning the kickoff, finally to be stopped on the Belmont 40 by Fred Snider, the only man between him and paydirt. After successive first downs, the offensive bogged down and the Abbey took over on their own 23 and carried the ball all the way deep into Davidson's territory, ending the first quarter. A well-executed passing attack set up the tying score: Bub Danforth, in attempting to lateral on a punt return, fumbled the ball and Davidson recovered on the Abbey 29. Fullback Rhea Adams drove for 7 yards and recovered his own fumble. After an attempted pass went over, a high snap from center put the Abbey in a decided hole, with the team somewhere around the fourth down marker. A series of fumbles in the third quarter set up the tying score. Speedy Stroud took the ball from Pete Adams on a reverse play and broke into the end zone untouched. Brown's kick was no good and the score was tied up, 6-6.

A series of reverse plays from Adams to Stroud paid off big dividends in yardage and it looked as if Davidson might score again, but the game ended, 6 to 6. In the Davidson backfield, Stroud, Adams, Richards, and Leach turned in swell performances. For the Abbey, it was the Fletcher brothers, Snider, Danforth, and Patty. Defensively, Leach, Jervis, and Watt looked good for Davidson, while Danforth, Snyder, and Ulosavich played heads-up ball for the Raiders.

PROPHET PREDICTS
After a week of combined upsets and true-to-form performances, we move down the finish line of this hectic 1948 season with a .789 average amassed by a 49-14-6 record. This weekend of grid struggles will go a long way in determining not only bowl performers but also champions in the respective national conferences:

Carolina 21; Duke 7
The husky Tarheels will meet a determined Demon eleven in what will be the south’s outstanding struggle of the week. Past records and performances point to a Carolina conquest, but in this old rivalry, anything can happen. However, we'll string with Choo Choo.

Georgia Tech 40; Citadel 0
The pride of Atlanta, Ga.,’s prize grid collection has been wounded severely after successive defeats at theHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

hands of Alabama and Tennessee. True, the Engineers will be looking forward to the Georgia game, but even this farsightedness will not keep the score under 40.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WILDCATS RELAX OVER WEEK-END

blocking being provided by Buddy Chandler, Bill Iverson, and Bob Sharpe. Saturday's game was a thrilling exhibition of the old MA spirit.

Blocked Placekick Gives Generals 21-20 Victory

A blocked kick on an attempted extra point try being the margin of victory for the visiting Virginians, Davidson's brilliant sophomore Auburn Lambeth was never better as a passer, completing 14 of 26 heaves and proved his ability as a runner. His punt returns were beautiful and he almost got away on one. On several running plays from scrimmage, he was equally good, and his masterful ball handling in the successful attack was an important factor.

On the other side of the picture, Mike Boyda, 198-pound W&L quarterback, lived up to his pre-game billing of the nation's top passers by passing for two of the General tallies. In the first few minutes following the kick-off, W&L marched down the field and scored, and at that point, many of the fans settled back expecting to see the visitors run away with the game. However, early in the second quarter Eborn pounced on a fumble on the W&L 37-yard line, and the Wildcats moved toward the goal line. A series of passes, line bucks, and an offsides penalty against the Generals put the ball on the one-foot line. Two line plays were unsuccessful, and on the next play, Lambeth, faking a run, leaped high in the air and fired the ball to Mike Williams in the end zone for the score. Mapes’ attempted conversion was blocked, so the score stood at 7-6, Washington & Lee on the big end.

The Visitors struck back with

Kentucky 20; Tennessee 13

After reading the Observer's “Read 'em and weep” column, we figure a few upsets ourselves. Old Kentucky has been getting stronger with each game, and in this heated rivalry with their state’s University, they will upset the dope with a narrow win. We could be wrong.

Georgia 35; Furman 7

The Bulldogs should manhandle the Hurricane, as Johnny Rausch will star as usual. Furman has the unenviable task of facing the Bulldogs and the revitalized Davidson Wildcats within 6 days and should go down to defeat in both frays.

Vanderbilt 21; Maryland 13

The Commodores have been gaining momentum with each passing week, and after having been pasted by Mississippi, have knocked off 4 teams in a row. The passing (Continued On Page Six)

By GORDON SCOTT

Playing under cloudless skies in nearly perfect football weather, the Generals of Washington and Lee had the fight of their lives before squeaking by an underdog Wildcat eleven, 21-20, in a game played on Richardson Field. It was a thriller from start to finish, with a

Holt handed off to Bell on the first play from scrimmage following the kick-off. The big halfback scampered off-tackle, broke through the Davidson secondary, and seemed certain to score. However, Mac Erwin got on his horse and brought Bell down on the Davidson five. A Boyda to Lukens pass was complete on the next play for the score. Michael's kick for the extra point was true for the second time.

Late in the second quarter, with at least 12 yards, it was heartening, to say the least, to see a Davidson team performing that seemed to have captured the old Wildcat spirit which local teams have been known for so long. The whole team played inspired ball, with the defensive line play of Sharpe and Mapes being particularly outstanding.

Auburn Lambeth suffered a painful leg injury in the closing minutes of the game, but will in all probability be ready to go against the Purple Hurricane of Furman on Thanksgiving Day.

A word of warning to the Furman eleven, for the team that will face them next Thursday will be a Davidson eleven that has finally found themselves, after having rocked along with mediocre play this year. The Cats reached their peak last Saturday, and barring a let-down caused by a lay-off this Saturday, they will be a winning ball club on Turkey Day.

Wildcats Prep For Furman Victory

Charley Jamerson is hardly accused of paying his preacher, but one look at Auburn Lambeth’s swollen ankle and the open date on the Davidson's schedule this weekend would make it mighty hard for some folks to believe. The rest tomorrow will give Lambeth five more days of rest before the Furman finale in Charlotte on Thanksgiving, and the 18-year-old Decatur dandy will be more than “handy” for the Cats to have around.

Despite a determined ground attack, Davidson remained hot on the heels of Washington and Lee last Saturday afternoon chiefly via the efforts of Auburn, and he could well prove the difference in the two evenly matched Southern Conference clubs. Lambeth remained under the sun lamp yesterday and trainer Charles Parker continued to work to bring that ankle around. If Lambeth fails to make his last game as a sophomore, chances are the passing burden will fall on the shoulders of blond Cliff Turner, the boy who took over so admirably for Auburn in the Citadel game and personally piloted the Wildcats to their 21-6 win over the Bulldogs.

Davidson continued to work against Furman plays this week, Jamerson playing it cautiously to keep any late-season injuries from cropping up. Monday the Cats will resume rough work for the last week. Coach Charley believes his club has caught the fire at long last that it dropped in the Wake Forest defeat, and it should be a resurgent Wildcat pack that bucks slightly favored Furman in Memorial Stadium. The Purple Hurricane has accomplished two feats which the Cats failed to hand Washington and Lee, thereby topping the Citadel, and Davidson defeated the Bulldogs by a wider margin than did Furman to boot.

KA’s Clinch First Place Tie With Win

By BILL BUCKEY

Last week the closing stages of interfrat play saw the K.A.’s clinch at least a tie for the number one spot by shutting out the S.A.E. 18-0. Harden, Bird, and Bachman played good ball for the Knights while Monty Hill stood out in the SAE aggregation. Also on Friday, the Pikas took the measure of the Pi Kaps, 24-0, as Cox, Fanjoy, and Collins kept the Pika machine rolling.

On Monday, the Phi Delts spanked the SPE, 12-6. Grady Spires hit paydirt twice for the winners and was decisive in the victory, along with Brownson and Vann. Clark, Hunter, and Mebane were the mainstays of the SPE ball club. The same day, Newton led the Phi Gams to a 6-0 decision over the Campus Club.

The following afternoon found the Betas edging the Phi Delts in a hard-fought battle. As the Phi Delts led, 6-0, Lill Lyday, stalwart all afternoon for the Beta cause, made a beautiful catch of a long aerial to score and the Betas went on from there to nose out the Phi Delts by one. Final score: Beta’s 6 points (3 first downs), Phi Delts, 6 points (2 first downs).

In the other Tuesday clash, the Kappa Sigs rolled over the Campus Club, 18-6. Edwards, Pierson, and Evans were outstanding in behalf of the Sigs, while Langford and Paylor stood out for the Club.

On Wednesday, the Phi Gams squeezed by the Phi Delts in a replay of a disputed decision. Only the first half was played and the Phi Gams entered the game with a six-point, one first down lead. However, the Phi Delts snatched this and wrapped up the game as they tacked on two first downs to the Phi Gams' one, making the final score: Phi Delts, 6 points (3 first downs); Phi Gams, 6 points (2 first downs).

In the final contest of the week, the SAE, led by Bill Crosby, shaded the Pikas, 14-6, in spite of outstanding efforts by Collins and Huffaker on behalf of the Pika interests.

Thank you! Patronize The Davidsonian Advertisers.