Pity the poor athletes. With everybody else sporting big deals over the holidays and just now recuperating (exhibit A: this column), the baseball, tennis, and golf teams have only memories of fighting for dear old Davidson. Especially the golf team had it hard. They had to go to Daytona Beach to endure the hot sun and a match with Rollins. In the course of the trip, they split one with South Carolina, beat College of Charleston, and lost to Rollins for a fifty-fifty average.

While the golfers romped, Coach Jamerson's charges remained on the campus and suffered defeats to V.P.I. and Washington and Lee. Freshman Dick Marlowe went nine innings Monday, a little jittery, no doubt, with ten scouts watching him, and gave up ten hits amid numerous costly errors by his mates. Bright spot in the five-game opening stretch of the season is Jack Burris’ .641 batting average. Jack was unsuccessful in trying to repeat history and start a tradition. The first time he stepped up to the plate last year, he clouted one over the left field fence for a homer. His first performance this year looked like a repeat when he tried to stretch a long three-bagger into a homer but was thrown out at the plate. In the same game, a home knock to centerfield put him on second in the bottom of the ninth inning, in position for Jake Wade to bring him in with the winning hit. Hal Mapes sports a .351 average. That, with a three-run homer Monday and his antics at first base, has made him a man to be watched. After Mapes, the next high man is Charlie Pearson with .250. As a whole, the team’s batting is not what it should be.

Davidson’s sole representative in the University of Florida Relays didn’t show up. Jim Vann, who was to represent the Wildcat tracksters in the discus throw, came down with bronchitis and wasn’t able to make it. First place was taken down there by a boy from Minnesota who hurled the toy 159 feet, bettering the previous record by 13 feet. Maybe Jim was just as glad that he didn't make it.

We want to hereby apologize for an inaccuracy that appeared in the volleyball standings in our last issue. We do, however, appreciate the vote of confidence expressed by the number of complaints we had. We didn’t know we had that many readers.

By MAC HART

Introducing Dick Marlowe
By DOUG HIX

Throughout the year this so-called reporter has labored under the hardship of introducing, in most cases, some athlete that the student body probably knew more about than I did. But this time and for possibly the first time in the history of THE DAVIDSONIAN, I think I have the full dope on a man before at least the majority of the student body has ever seen him on the campus. If you should that ap

Friday, April 2, 1948

BASEBALL TEAM LOSES TO WASHINGTON AND LEE

In the first of a two-game series, the Generals from Lexington, Va. defeated the Cat nine, 10 to 1, in a game marred by loose fielding and some potent W&L hitting. Cat rookie Dick Marlowe went the entire distance for the home team, and although his offerings were pounded for ten runs and fourteen hits, the Hickory fastballer might have escaped with far less damage if not been for several untimely Davidson errors. The VPI Gobblers took advantage of every Davidson lapse to eke out a 5-3 victory over the Cat diamonders. With the three aces of Charlie Jamerson’s pitching staff—Dick Marlowe, Dutch Hengeveld, and Charlie Torrence pitching airtight ball, it took six mental lapses on the part of the Cat fielders to allow VPI to prove victorious. The Davidson nine had the winning and tying run on the sacks no fewer than four times in the last three frames, but each time the batter failed in the clutch to deliver.

The quick four-run lead at the outset and behind the brilliant hurling of Bobo Leslie went on to a smashing win. The three runs that first crossed the plate were a result of a mighty home run by General outfielder Tenney, and after that, the visitors added to their many margin aided along by errors in the field.

Cats Tally Four in Eighth

After leaving the bases loaded on two occasions, the Cats finally managed to score some runs in the top of the eighth inning. After Pop Bowman walked and Sheppard singled, Jack Burris sent Bowman home with a ringing single over second base. The hardy center fielder, Harris, is the talk of the team with his phenomenal hitting streak. Young Jack has hit in every game and has maintained a .500 average by means of his eleven hits in twenty-two times at bat. He is the only shining light in an otherwise impotent Davidson batting attack. After Jake Wade had whiffed, Hal Mapes caught a fastball and sent it on a fly into the distant center field stands and knocked in three runs, Burris and Sheppard scoring ahead of him.

Marlowe Hurt by Errors

The big Hickory right-hander, Dick Marlowe, breezed through the initial frame, whiffing two batters. In the second inning, a series of bunts led to two runs. The Blacksburg boys combined three errors, one hit batsman, and two fluky hits to score these runs, the first on Marlowe this year. Dick bore down in the third and retired the side with a blazing fastball and a sweeping curve.

Pitch Well

Dutch Hengeveld came on in the fourth inning and pitched superb three-inning ball. He dealt with errors, Washington and Lee got off to a quick four-run lead at the outset and behind the brilliant hurling of Bobo Leslie went on to a smashing win. The three runs that first crossed the plate were a result of a mighty home run by General outfielder Tenney, and after that, the visitors added to their many margin aided along by errors in the field.

Davidson is indeed fortunate to have a man of Poole’s all-around ability batting the bat this season.

OVER WILDCAT SPORTS

THE DAVIDSONIAN BATTING AVERAGES (Four Game Average)

AB. H. Av.
Torrence 2 2 1.000
Burris 11 7 .637
Mapes 11 3 .272
Bird 12 4 .250
Sheppard 13 3 .231
Lambeth 5 1 .200
Wade 6 1 .167
Bowman 13 2 .154
Pearson 15 2 .134
French 7 1 .142
Poole 10 1 .100
Anderton 11 1 .091
Ellis 6 0 .000
Wilson 3 0 .000
Marlowe 5 0 .000
Griffith 3 0 .000

Tennis Team Beats Harvard

Davidson netmen successfully opened their 1948 season with a triumph over the Crimson Tide of old Harvard. In a closely contested match which was not decided until the doubles matches, the protégés of Coach Derrick showed remarkable form which stamps them as the number one threat to the tennis supremacy of William and Mary in the Southern Conference.

SOFTBALL NEXT WEEK

Page Three

NEWTON AND COBB SPARK

The Red and Black track team came out on top in its initial meet of the season by swamping an overwhelmed Furman aggregation, 86-35. The Cat strength lay in its participants in the track events. A Davidson lad placed first in each track event. Phi Gam flash Ed Newton and Whit Cobb were the two shining lights for the Cat cindermen. Newton won both the 100 and 220-yard dashes in the speedy time of 10.0 and 23.0, respectively. Cobb won the 440 with a sudden burst of speed and also placed first in the broad jump with a jump of 21 feet. Sparky also tied for third in the high jump.

Cat Linksmen Win, Lose And Tie On Trip

After Newton had swept to victory in the 100 and 220-yard dashes, the Cats continued to monopolize the track events. Whit Cobb won the 440 with Ashman and Gay running a close second and third. In the 880, three Cat stalwarts outbattled each other for first place. Bob McGehee put on a determined burst of speed and finished first, while Bill Iverson, who led most of the way, came in second. Fred McAllister placed third.

Cat Milers Outstanding

The ardent supporters of the Cat cinder fortunes this year will be able to expect great things for

Davidson’s six-man golf team returned to the campus late Tuesday night after an extended southern tour which included matches in Columbia, Charleston, and Winter Park, Florida. Traveling in three cars, the soldiers’ first stop was Columbia, S.C., where they pitted their skill with the linksmen of the University of South Carolina. The teams played on fairly even terms and the score resulted in a 9-9 tie. Cam Henderson was low man for the Davidsonians in the title events. Davidson’s No. 1 man swept to an easy 8-6, 6-4 win over Backe, Harvard's ace racketeer. Backe was at his best, but John and his sweeping serve and battling backhand had Backe running sides of the court. Lo and Jerry Robinson overcame his rival Wightman in a match of 6-3 and 6-1, while Brandt defeated

Cats Win Doubles

Since Whit Cobb, Lenoir Keesler, and Blake Bradley in the mile and old reliable Gunder Gray in the two-mile, the Cats can be expected to just about always place first in these events. Bradley won the

Wednesday night was spent in Walterboro, S.C., Cam Henderson's hometown, and early the next morning the group started formile. Charleston to meet the College of in F10.0, while Gray breezed to a Charleston in a contest which the easy triumph in the two-mile in the Davidson golfers won by a comfortable margin of 13-5. Freeman Win Field Events

Jones, with a 75, paced the Wildcats. The Wildcatters also proved victorious in three field events. Big Jim Vann hurled the discus 122 feet to win this event, while Pete scored two runs in the sixth, but both dented the plate on a wild throw by Charlie Pearson, Davidson's scrappy little shortstop. Heageveld registered five strikeouts and looked good for the second time this season. The third hurler, Gastonia’s Charlie Torrence, not only pitched superbly but also chipped in with a single to drive in a run and maintained his 1.000 batting average. 

Dave was at his best yesterday as he had six assists and cut down four men trying to steal. Two others were dead ducks to his accurate pegs, but second sacker Jimmy Tench dropped the ball. The Cats can rest assured that this year opponents will be more careful about stealing bases on this hardy catcher. 

See a tall, quiet, yet confident blond-headed fellow with blue eyes wearing probably a red and black jacket and his arms hanging down to his knees, that is Dick Marlowe, Davidson's No. 1 hurler. Maybe you dispute this distinction given to a man who started years before the season gets good, but before you do, may I give you a little evidence of his ability?

Dick is a tall, gangling mountaineer about 18 years old, standing six feet two inches, and weighing 165 pounds, having descended to us from Hickory, North Carolina where the Appalachian Mountain range begins and civilization ends. There he was the pitcher for Hickory High School and was known for his fastballs and curves. 

You are probably wondering if he is so great after he pitched a 10-4 loss against W&L this week, but wouldn't you be nervous too if 10 major league scouts were watching you? So if you still doubt he is Davidson's No. 1 pitcher, may I suggest that you watch the fast, graceful young gentleman the remainder of the season.

THE FINEST IN MEN’S CLOTHING
JACK WOOD, Ltd.

The lone trip to Florida from Charleston was broken by a night spent at St. Simons Island, Georgia. Getting an early start Friday morning, the team journeyed to Florida and stopped for a while at the famous Marine Studios. The next stop was Daytona Beach where accommodations were obtained for two or three nights. From Daytona Beach, the team proceeded to Winter Park to engage the Rollins linksmen. The outcome of the match was in favor of Rollins.

The Davidson runs came over in the seventh and eighth innings. In the seventh inning, after French had walked and Wal Mapes had singled, Charlie Torrence chipped in with a timely single and Wade, running for French, scored. Mapes crossed the plate on an infield out by Pearson. The third Cat run crossed the plate after Pop Newman had singled and Carl Sheppard had driven a long drive into the outfield for an automatic double. The final run tallied when freshman catcher Dave Poole knocked an aerial into left centerfield. The Cats had the tying runs on base in the last of the ninth, but Carl Sheppard grounded out to Jim Count and the game was over.

Davidson 4; Springfield 3
Meeting the alma mater of Coach Dick Redding, the Cats split the two-game series by virtue of their Jake Wade’s hit, which decided the fray. The Cats started off with a bang in their initial encounter of the season by tallying single runs in the first, fourth, and sixth to hold a lead after six innings. Dick Marlowe, Dutch Heageveld, and Charlie Torrence all pitched superb ball and when Jim Hunter toed the slab in the seventh, Davidson was two runs to the good. Lefty hit a streak of wildness, however, and the Springfield aggregation scored two runs and tied it up before fireman Earl Huey quenched the uprising. In the last of the ninth, Jack Burris, who earlier had tripled and been called out at home in an attempt to stretch it into an inside-the-park home run, drilled a sharp single into left field and stole second base. Then little Jake Wade pickled one of Jim Gleason's fastballs into center field to score Burris and give the Wildcats victory No. 1 in the young season.

UNIVERSITY STYLE SINGLE-BREASTED SUITS
DOUBLE-BREASTED LONG ROLL WORSTED AND FLANNELS
HAND-LOOMED SPORT COATS
BUTTON DOWN SHIRTS
SPREAD COLLAR AND TAB SHIRTS WITH FRENCH CUFFS
WOOL AND LISLE HOSE
FORMAL WEAR

Frank’s Grill
“Just a Few Yards North of Davidson”
CURB SERVICE
Best Barbecue in Town
Hot Sandwiches a Specialty
Cold Drinks

DRINK

TASTY TOPS ON THE CAMPUS
INQUIRE OF YOUR LOCAL TRAILWAYS AGENT OF OUR ATTRACTIVE SERVICE.

Fant & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. TRYON STREET
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Queen City Trailways
417 W. 5th St.
Charlotte, N. C.

The match was the Red and Black's first of the season. The Keesler brothers displayed remarkable form in defeating the two Harvard aces, Brandt and Bracke. Summaries: Singles: Roddey (D) defeated Bracke (H) 8-0, 6-4. T. Keesler (D) defeated Brandt (H) 7-5, 7-5. Robinson (D) defeated Wightman (H) 8-6, 6-1. Pratt (H) defeated Cobb (D) 7-5, 6-3. Bullard (H) defeated Williams (D) 6-3, 4-6, 7-5. Doubles: Roddey and Cobb (D) defeated Wightman and Pratt (H) 6-1, 6-3. Williams and Robinson (D) defeated Bullard and Frey (H) 6-0, 6-2. Ted and Lenoir Keesler (D) defeated Bracke and Brandt (H) 10-8, 8-6.

Intramural Standings
Football Basketball Track Totals
Kap Sig 160 158 89 407
Betas 147 158 73 378
Phi Gams 124 116 130 370
S.A.E. 100 105 105 310
Phi Delts 100 105 101 306
S.P.E. 124 86 40 250
Pi Kapps 100 95 37 252
K.A. 80 86 81 247
Sigma Chi 60 77 55 192
Independents 70 68 48 186
Pi Phis 60 50 42 152

Holly Smith
“The Carolinas’ Photo Center”
CAMERAS
CHEMICALS
PAPERS
ACCESSORIES
106 S. Church St, Charlotte

Stationers
Office Outfitters
Printers
Kale-Lawing Co.
PHONE 6185
227-229 South Tryon Street.
Charlotte, N. C.

BRYAN WENTZ COMPANY
“Clothing For The Man”
205 South Tryon St.
Charlotte 2, North Carolina