Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

WILDCAT
Published weekly by the YICA

Editor: Jack P. Etheridge
Associate Editor: Irvin Lichten
Bible Editor: Joe Vincent

Just eight short years ago there were American troops, in time of peace, whose lives were expendable. These men were in a place where no hope remained for escape if the attack of the enemy was sudden and in force. These troops, of course, were on maneuvers. Just eight short years ago the American people were only mildly interested in the facts of international life, had no idea of the seriousness of the situation; no idea that thousands of American citizens were in imminent danger of being killed or captured. The brave men of Bataan were shortly disposed of after Dec. 7, 1941. Many died horrible deaths, many lives were ruined after grueling years in Japanese prison camps. And we swore to our country and to ourselves that we would not forget.

Again today, American troops are in a hopeless position. Again American citizens are expendable. Our more than four thousand soldiers in Berlin have no more than a ghost of a chance if Russia attacks. Completely surrounded and helpless, it would be only a matter of hours for them to be slaughtered or put on trains to Siberia.

Are we again to ignore our interest in American affairs? Could it possibly be that we are waiting for the overt act to occur? Surely we must now know that millions can be killed simply by our selfish and lazy indifference.

This is not academic, it is real. It is as real as the ghastly look of a bombed-out village, as the stench of the fields of bloodied battle. The situation in Berlin is serious. We must not again sit out history as we did at Detroit.

---

Hugh Sample and Sng card Sov setting the pace for our "fiesta," or whatever you want to call her, includes red Sov robes last week. All 94, rebief the yup won't be included in the deal to do them, which has never been a breath of fresh air. The lovable and romantic...ous move destined to deal is current in Mexican with Al.

Join Pritchard, S14 and Lt. Sec. all night for a good time along cutting fields evening. Whoever chose the fellows at the hall and hunt for every single melon was, we're told, delicious. So good that someone was said to have remarked that "there must be five core."

---

HARLOWE BULLS

The men greet me, the SSO on me, the bee on me.

---

CO. USE -PL as tribute, artists in line.

---

Fresno 11-0. This year on
Vales but best day WO. His first victory for
Clint, indeed. At least we witnessed
3 to win 4-3, a thriller.

Itener came in to retire the last two
Hint (is it?) LTE the CLUB:
Pie's somebody contract last time with
will report to that club's
the early spring. 

---

TAGO SPEAKS TO OTHELLO

(From Shakespeare's "Othello," Act III, Scene III)
Good name in man and woman, dear my lord,
Is the immediate jewel of their souls:
Who steals my purse steals trash; 'tis
something, nothing;
'Twas mine, 'tis his, and has been slave
to thousands.
But he that filches from me my good name
Robs me of that which not enriches him,
And makes me poor indeed.

---

VESPER

We must determine to make it, and make it as
a Christian soldier should.

---

THE YELLOW WALL

If any of you young fellows named Tim,
who fell in the spring in the swell:
a liquid wave upon a sad thing,
he held cried in the sorrows.

But he didn't -- he died in the Yell.

---

To the president, you are invited to share in enjoying a service at 7:30 PM.

---