PAGE FOUR DAVIDSONIAN ... out of the store, without ever pay- (Continued From Page One) ing for them. This, to
most of us, as the student body and of the seems incredible; but nevertheless, newspaper in particular, allows the the
facts and figures show that the cause for these huge losses cannot present threat to the honor system be attributed
to anything else. The go unchallenged. Reform must be following figures are based on inventories taken at the Stud early
in September and late in Octo- Davidsonian Investigation ber. Beginning inventory $3,000 Public statements concern- Purchases 17,000 ing the cause
for the financial losses of the Stud indicate that student dishonesty is largely responsible. Ending inventory 8,000 However, it seems
that many of the students believe that there are Cost of Goods Sold $12,000 other causes for this deficit. In
an effort to discover the truth, the Total Sales 10,000 DAVIDSONIAN made a thorough Cost of Goods Sold 12,000 and
surprised investigation of the situation. Gross Profit -2,000 In conducting this investigation, In an effort to discover possible the DAVIDSONIAN
made a causes for this $2,000 deficit other thorough investigation of the situ- than student pilfering, all conceiva- ation. The
first was the question of ble angles were investigated. The losses on bottles. At the present first was the question
of losses on time, there are approximately fifty bottles. At the present time, there empty bottle crates on hand at
the are approximately fifty empty bottle Stud. This means that all the other crates on hand at the Stud. This
bottles have been accounted for. The means that all the other bottles majority of these missing bottles is have been
accounted for. The ma- believed to be in the rooms of the jority of these missing bottles is students. If
no deposits were re- believed to be in the rooms of the ceived on any of these bottles, and students.
If no deposits were re- one cent per bottle is paid to the ceived on any of these bottles, and
janitors in returning these bottles one cent per bottle is paid to the after the Christmas holidays, the janitors in
returning these bottles maximum loss to the Stud would be after the Christmas holidays, the fifty cents per bottle, or
$36.00 for maximum loss to the Stud would be the 50 crates. Another angle inves- fifty cents per bottle, or
$36.00 for tigated was the loss caused by fail- the 50 crates. Another angle inves- ure to pay sales tax.
If no tax were tigated was the loss caused by fail- paid on any sale during September ure to pay
sales tax. If no tax were and October, the total loss to the paid on any sale during September Stud
would be three per cent of and October, the total loss to the total sales, or $300.00. The possible Stud
would be three per cent of losses from spoilage of food were total sales, or $300.00. The possible also investigated.
It is a fact that losses from spoilage of food were wholesalers accept all responsibil- also investigated. It is a
fact that ity for spoiled milk and soft drinks. wholesalers accept all responsibil- In other words, the Stud loses no
ity for spoiled milk and soft drinks. money when these items spoil in the In other words, the Stud loses
no store. As for losses on fruit, the money when these items spoil in the Stud followed the usual practice
of store. As for losses on fruit, the charging sufficiently to cover such Stud followed the usual practice of losses.
However, we must observe charging sufficiently to cover such these facts from another viewpoint. losses. However, we must observe It
is believed by the management these facts from another viewpoint. that most of the bottles will be re- It is
believed by the management covered with little or no loss. that most of the bottles will be re- Furthermore, most
of the sales tax covered with little or no loss. was collected, in that it was in- Furthermore, most of
the sales tax cluded in prices marked on goods was collected, in that it was in- throughout the store. Therefore,
in cluded in prices marked on goods view of these two factors, prac- throughout the store. Therefore, in tically all
possible losses on bottles, view of these two factors, prac- sales tax, and spoiled goods would tically all possible losses
on bottles, be nullified. sales tax, and spoiled goods would This investigation has revealed be nullified. clearly that the management
cannot This investigation has revealed be blamed for the losses incurred. clearly that the management cannot While the clerical inefficiency
has be blamed for the losses incurred. been responsible to a small degree, While the clerical inefficiency has it is
evident, then, that student been responsible to a small degree, carelessness and dishonesty have it is evident, then, that student
accounted for the greater part of carelessness and dishonesty have this loss. Paul Horne has done an accounted for the
greater part of excellent job considering the time this loss. Paul Horne has done an he has been able to
give to it. The excellent job considering the time clerks are determined to see that he has been able to
give to it. The the Stud operates in an efficient clerks are determined to see that manner in the future.
the Stud operates in an efficient Of the clerks polled, about 40 per manner in the future. cent claimed to
give correct articles Of the clerks polled, about 40 per which were in stock. Over 20 per cent claimed to
give correct articles cent said that they paid very little which were in stock. Over 20 per attention to the
collecting of tax on cent said that they paid very little the items they sold. Very few attention to the
collecting of tax on made any small bills. In the mat- the items they sold. Very few ter of collecting
bottle deposits, made any small bills. In the mat- 40 per cent declared that they ter of collecting bottle deposits,
never made an issue of collecting 40 per cent declared that they this money. 70 per cent of those never
made an issue of collecting polled claimed that spoilage of this money. 70 per cent of those milk, fruit, candy,
etc. was insignif- polled claimed that spoilage of icant. All the articles which were milk, fruit, candy, etc. was insignif-
"dead" stock articles included icant. All the articles which were clothing, and certain off-brands of "dead" stock articles included clothing.
A large majority of the clothing, and certain off-brands of clerks readily admitted inefficiency clothing. A large majority of the
in the past. All said that during clerks readily admitted inefficiency rush hours it was impossible to in the past.
All said that during serve every student. Each man rush hours it was impossible to stressed, however, that the serve
every student. Each man Stud’s problems were not something stressed, however, that the that could be solved by the clerks
Stud’s problems were not something alone. The fact that this has been that could be solved by the clerks the
student and faculty manage- alone. The fact that this has been ment discovered. The Stud lost the student and faculty
manage- $1700 last spring, $1700 last summer, ment discovered. The Stud lost and $2000 this fall. Therefore, since $1700 last
spring, $1700 last summer, the beginning of this school year and $2000 this fall. Therefore, since $1000 has been lost.
Paul Horne, the beginning of this school year manager; Mr. Jackson and Mr. Mc- $1000 has been lost. Paul Horne,
Gill have been very much concerned manager; Mr. Jackson and Mr. Mc- over the tremendous losses suf- Gill have been
very much concerned fered. Finally, at the end of Octo- over the tremendous losses suf- ber it was decided to
take another fered. Finally, at the end of Octo- inventory and make a complete in- ber it was decided to
take another vestigation, in an effort to discover inventory and make a complete in- any possible loophole, and exactly vestigation,
in an effort to discover how the money was being lost. All any possible loophole, and exactly possible and available
facts being how the money was being lost. All considered, there was but one con- possible and available facts being
clusion to draw—that members of considered, there was but one con- the student body were taking goods clusion to draw—that
members of without paying for them. the student body were taking goods The responsibility for the success without paying for
them. of our Stud lies squarely with the The responsibility for the success students themselves. of our Stud lies squarely
with the students themselves. AMONG THE GREEKS... (Continued From Page Two) But you can't ever tell which one’s making a
pass atme.”

“It really doesn't matter, they're both heaven sent; and they've got a racket that's draining the mint.”

“Who is that fellow that's sorta skinny and tall? You know the one, he's about three fourths bald.”

“That is Odell or maybe E. B., but they ain't too old, believe you me.”

“Kitty, just as soon as we got to the ship, Moe tried to start giving me this lip.”

“Let's go baby, don’t eat that hash. Come fly away with me in a Forty Nine Nash.”

“Willie Campbell is my ideal, he really has got the sex appeal.”

“He may be yours, but Guy is mine; I'll take a Frenchman anytime.”

“Mary, I better go find my date.”

“Don't be old fashioned, make him wait.”

“No, no don’t start that jive; my date's the most wonderful man alive.”

“My, my isn’t this room plush?”

“Did you hear about Ernest getting the flush?”

“No, but if our chatter isn’t too brief, I'd like to tell you about the Big Fire Chief.”

We were glad to have had Alumni brothers Horace and Bill Robertson, Robert Cline, Mills Taylor, and “Pic” Walton with
us at the dance.

We pick Missouri to win, and thus hand the Clemsonites their initial loss of 1948-49, Delta Bowl W.&M. 19; Oklahoma
A.&M. 14. The Kid was indeed fearful about this game, and declined to make any prediction concerning the fracas, stating
that Bowl games were outside his field. Therefore, we took it on ourselves to pick Rube’s roaming rascals by the
margin of one.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MOORESVILLE, GRADE “A” MILK PASTEURIZED
Mooresville Creamery
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205 N. C.

MORE COLLEGE STUDENTS SMOKE CHESTERFIELDS

OPEN FORUM...

RHODES SCHOLARSHIP...

(Continued From Page One)

Such applicants only imagine the excellent performance of this W&M team. Was their football sacrificed too many hours of their
time to get such an article slapped back into their faces. Since there is no dramatics department here at Davidson,
and since the facilities for producing a play are limited, the production of any play is instigated and performed by
the student body and those others who kindly consent to do their part. The production, in a sense, was a
gift to the student body; the least we can do is acknowledge it with appreciation.

LANGUAGE DEPARTMENT...

(Continued From Page One)

It is also of interest to know that Mr. Fred R. Wagner will receive his degree in January 1949. He
is a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of the University of North Carolina. Mr. Wagner, a native of N. J., was
graduated from Duke University. His special interest is in American literature and the theatre.

JUNIOR EXECUTIVES...

ALL THE NEW POPULAR PHONOGRAPH RECORDS
Columbia Masterworks
Red Seal

AL’S GRILL
Grade “A” Restaurant
WESTERN STEAKS -- FRIED CHICKEN!
Phone 69
A. J. Bistony, Prop.
Mooresville, N. C.

Bates Cleaners — For Good Service
Paul & Crymes, Inc
Sporting Goods
415 S. TRYON STREET
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
WEEK OF DECEMBER 20
MONDAY and TUESDAY
“NO MINOR VICES”
Dana Andrews - Lilli Palmer
WEDNESDAY - THURSDAY
“RELENTLESS”
Robert Young - Marguerite Chapman
FRIDAY and SATURDAY
“UNDER THE TONTO RIM”
Tim Holt - Nan Leslie

“GIVE ’EM BY THE CARTON” — Says Arthur Godfrey
