Friday, April 23, 1948 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

The little doughnut said to the three-layer cake, "If I had all your dough, I wouldn't be hanging around this
hole." — Arkansas Trailer.

The only man there who followed his own sensible advice brought appropriate baggage for the affair. Everyone else had cute,
good-looking, mighty sweet dates. I know have it that the “kids from Phillie,” Cashion and Dabney, ran into two guys
from Long Island who run Billie's Place in Jersey. After the fight, in which I am hearing it said that
the “Runt” lost a coat styled by the stars in Hollywood without even thanking the fella who lost it, Fleels,
who let his great big good-looking pal Valeface Patrick walk away with two women, “Squirrel” and Daisy Mae, took it
all in stride. All hail, O Spring Frolics!

Our dear old flushing meter was putrefied by a mere half-hour of the talkingest gal in Dogpatch. Sworn statement by
those who were there.

Carolina Lunch
REGULAR MEALS
Breakfast 6:30-8:30
Lunch 11:30-1:30
Dinner 5:30-6:30
Depot St. — Davidson, N.C.

BRYAN WENTZ
“Clothing For The Man”
205 South Tryon St.
Charlotte 2, North Carolina

Stationers
Office Outfitters
Printers
Kale-Lawing

Courtesy Red and Black, University of Ga.

AMONG THE GREEKS...
(Continued From Page Two)

PHI GAMMA DELTA
Two long and terrible weeks ago, the fraternity somehow managed to fight their way through the college's rigorous schedule since
the Fijis' blow-out at the Reddest. The big event of the past weekend was the spring cleaning that took place
at The House, reaching its acme Saturday afternoon when Brother Grube took it upon himself to paint the columns on
the porch. The campaign against the elements was admirably led by VanStory of Fayetteville, N.C.

PHONE 6185
29 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.

For a meal that has that extra something, try...

YOUNG MAN C
VanStory of Fayetteville, N.C.by Brother Huffaker. Among the more active participants were Moonbeam McSwine, Brothers Loftiny McTitroy, Grave Lonesome Yon,
Barnard, Smith, and Vledges Val Polecat Jackson. Enjoy a delicious dinner at Stonestreet’s and Earthquake Cafe, just a short drive
from Linghast and Gregory. The Montgomery delegation, headed by Brother Wester, included Brother Mills, Brother McDuffie, and others. Brother Gragg,
on his way to the beach, was ensnared in a barbed-wire entanglement. Pledge Colkitt gave a pint of blood this
past week in the interest of the medical profession. The initial experiment proved so successful that Colkitt has decided to
open a Blood Bank of his own. All donations will be appreciated.

The Beta Chapter of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity announces with pleasure the pledging of W. A. Scotty. The officers
are as follows: President, John McNair; Vice President, Jack Fanjoy; and Treasurer, Taylor Leonard.

Frenchy and Ned washed their Buick in preparation for a heavy date Saturday night, and Vledge Watket entertained the group
with baton twirling antics. The Henderson delegation, headed by Brother Wester, included Brother McDuffie. Latest reports have it that Brother
Gragg, on his way to the beach, was ensnared in a barbed-wire entanglement. Pledge Colkitt gave a pint of blood
this past week in the interest of the medical profession. The initial experiment proved so successful that Colkitt has decided
to open a Blood Bank of his own. All donations will be appreciated.

Enjoy courteous service and a delightful meal at Stonestreet’s and Earthquake Cafe. The Beta Chapter at Pika Convention at State
was attended by Brother Wester, Brother McDuffie, and others.

For the best Chinese and American food, visit the restaurant at 126 W. Trade St., Charlotte, N.C. Phone 2-2238. For
sizzling steaks, visit the Upper Deck of the Ship Ahoy, located in the heart of Charlotte at 18 South Main
Street, Mooresville, N.C. Phone 3-3196. Helen O’Neil and the Mariners perform every night but Sunday and Monday. No cover charge.
For reservations, phone 4-2671.

For hardware, visit M. Goodrum. For a gas range with instant, clean heat and low maintenance cost, choose Rulane. Russ
Morgan's top Decca record, "Your Bardon," is now available. Russ says, "Camels suit my 'T-Zone' to a 'T.'" Millions of
smokers agree with Russ about Camels. More people are smoking Camels than ever before. Try Camels on your "T-Zone." Find
out for yourself why, with smokers who have tried and compared, Camels are the "choice of experience."
