PAGE TWO ° THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
MAC HART

JOHN McNAIR
BUSINESS MGR.

EDITORIALS

built on intangible qualities—character, personal integrity, mutual respect. Maybe this is just one more item we are making more over
than the situation requires. Maybe if we forget all about this thing and act like nothing happened, the Stud will
open up again in a week or so and that’ll be all there is to it. Perhaps that's true, but
don't you believe we ought to seize this opportunity to reaffirm our faith in ourselves and each other? If there
weren’t anyone but ourselves involved it might be an entirely different matter, but there’s going to be as many Davidson
men after us as there have been before, and can we run the risk of presenting them with anything less
than the men before us left our present Student Body?

The DAVIDSONIAN Presents LETTERS

Several weeks ago on this page they were printed in preceding issues. Those of you who feel that you have
cause for complaint should first check and see that the column has been submitted. It is true that on many
occasions we cannot print all of the columns and in such a case we try to make allowance for this
by printing the omitted columns the next week and alternating each week until we do have room for all those
submitted. Also in cases where we don't have too much room, we try to limit the number of columns to
the student body.

We face a serious crisis. It is up to the men here now to say yes or no to the
question: “Is the Honor System anything more than a name?”

Over the past weekend, as many Sigs headed for home, others consoled themselves with some amusing diversions nearer the campus.
News from those who journeyed far afield includes Andy Kirkpatrick, alias Sid Varnell, who, with Senator Ronnie Dietrick, traveled to
Blacksburg, Va. After viewing the VMI-VPI game, they staged an inspiring pep rally at the Charlotte depot and even had
an old Carolina alumnus joining in a chorus of “Hark the Sound.”

Many have suggested operating the Stud on a closed counter basis. Others have recommended going back to the prewar system
of complete student control of the Stud. In the final analysis, it doesn’t make any difference how it’s run. What
matters is have we, as a group, got what it takes to capitalize on our good fortune in being where
we are and doing what we are.

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Stan Kennett, Bill Calhoun, Ronnie Dietrick, Jack Hazard, Bob Hollister, Lonnie Turnipseed

MANAGING EDITORS
Bill King, Charlie Reid, John Hobart, Jim Murray

STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
Jim Murray

CARTOONIST
Bill King

FEATURE REPORTERS
Whit Mitchell, Hartley Hall, Gabe Lowe, Neil Leach, Jimmie Hebritzy, Henry Hansen, Pete Nalogridis, Drew Gurley, Bill Sargent, Bob Grabe,
Jimmy Fickcisen, Bill Hollister

REPORTERS
Randy Taylor, Bill DuBose, Warren Sims, Ralph Robinson, Tom Allen, Dick Barnwell, Bill McCrary, Tom Mann, Bill Cumming, Phil Libby,
Ben Drymon, Dudley Pendleton, Nat Daniel, Dick Chandley, Bob Northcutt, Stuart Shippey, Hugh Huffaker, Bill Neal, Harper Newbold, Jim Blackburn,
Jack Pierce, Harry Shirley, Bob Hubbell, Angus McKellar, Jack McKellar, Slats McClintock, Hoye Kendall, Lamar Hinson, Ed Richardson

SPORTS STAFF
Cherry Stribling, Gordon Scott, Furman Warlick, Watt Jeffries, Bill White, Phil Ham, Brantley Robinson, Van Jack Stevenson

POLL CAT STAFF
Jim Carr, Claude Higginbotham, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown, Neal Underdown

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Wyche McSwain

Advertising Manager
Wyche Smith

Circulation Manager
Bill Houck

Asst. Circulation Manager
Bill Cassels

Asst. Advertising Manager
Charles Clinkscales

Asst. Advertising Manager
Hector McKeithan

Asst. Advertising Manager
David McConnell

Collections Manager
Charles Dockery

ASSISTANTS
Bill Cumming, Bill Hart, Marshall Hamilton, Harold Houten, James Duval Hunter, Bob Irwin, Bill Pharr, Gene Jackson

CIRCULATION STAFF
Gale Foy, Foy Hamilton

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 Madison Ave. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCOWut Pr. Boyd is not popular all over and the gazing ler,
anta. Cy - . : 1948 Member” 1949 I would like to have clarified with respect to Dead & go
opher |) Tlubbell journeyed to Atlanta, Ga. | job of circulation manager of the professor because of his work with
- slic : Y Associated Collegiate Press © Distributor of Collegiate Digest PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY It’s Up to
You through portholes at | to the two sets of dances coming up. The Student Body has voted to have
our big band in the Spring because of weather factors and the availability of the Armory. On that point I
am content. But what is the decision on the Mid-Winter's orchestra? The latest word received was that it will be
in the price field the Ship Ahoy, all of the brothers [Georgia - and pledges met at a famous place
of entertainment. After what they saw, Pat Best and Jim Blackburn are petitioning the faculty to install a course in
art appreciation. Davidson and Keefer Brooks are still trying to discover what happened to the cat or when quizzed about
the Georgia Tech game. “Gubltes explained that he didn't go but stayed home with his mother. It was a most
noble gesture had it not been for the fact that a certain young lady called Joan also stayed home with
his mother. Tie Al informs us that he did not watch the game. From tree the cat or when quizzed
about the Georgia Tech game. “Gubltes explained that he didn't go but stayed home with his mother. It was a
most noble gesture had it not been for the fact that a certain young lady called Joan also stayed home
with his mother. Tie Al informs us that he DAVIDSONIAN one year With a perfect physical build for track, Joe
Martin easily made the freshman track team in 1940. He ran well that year, but due to a foot injury
was forced to give up track the next year. He still has special interest in sports. Joe is now trying
his best to break 100 on an 18-hole the Marines; it is because of his geniality with his students who
can actually feel his interest in them. When a student comes to him with a complaint of any sort, he
finds not merely a professor, but a real friend. That means a lot to any student. All who have come
in contact with Prof. Boyd in this capacity have grown to appreciate the quality of his friendship. A great many
students as well as friends and acquaintances of Davidson were shocked last Saturday to read in this paper the report
that the management of the Students’ Store had found it necessary to close its doors indefinitely. This past Wednesday we
were further shocked to learn exactly why such a step was necessary. Since that time most of us have repeatedly
asked ourselves, “How could this be?” Two years ago an editorial appeared in THE DAVIDSONIAN which stated, in effect, that
unless the Student Body manifested greater interest in its paper, it could not expect to continue receiving an “A” Classification.
At that time there were also a number of men who were firmly convinced that such could not be the
case. We had always had an “A” paper—we would simply keep on having one. Two and a half months ago
Scruggs and Upchurch took almost an entire chapel period to talk to us about the importance of having grade “A”
school spirit and the equal importance of keeping it at top level throughout the year. For years Davidson students have
glanced at the first line of an editorial on chapel conduct or school spirit and turned without delay to the
fraternity columns or the sports page and in doing so have made one serious mistake. We have failed to keep
constantly in our thoughts an awareness of the truth, that in order to possess an honor system worthy of its
and our name, we must live it in spirit as well as in form. Anything as intangible as an honor
system must be lived. Thornhill and Ray Eberle. According to the facts I have received this year, approximately 430 men
are guaranteed to buy tickets under this system (this is after football players and Pan-Hel representatives have been taken out.)
At $6.50 a head this amounts to $3,440.00 per dance or a total of $10,320.00 for the three dances. This
sum is guaranteed the Pan-Hel as a fixed amount to work with, no matter who they engage for the three
dances. With a student body of our size it stands to reason that the additional tickets sold to non-fraternity men
and guests will run the total figure a good bit higher. If these additional tickets did nothing but pay for
the Federal tax, (which is one-fifth of the total “take”) we would still have a balance of over $10,000 to
be used in getting our bands. Since we paid Knauff $700 for the Homecoming set of dances, it seems to
me very likely that we could afford two large bands each year. In the school year 1946-47, we did operate
under the 85 per cent system, and yet we were able to afford Billy Butterfield and Dean Hudson. If today,
we are able to secure only one name band under the 85 per cent system, then the percentage system should
go or we should begin to get bigger name bands. Perhaps there are other aspects to this situation that I
have not considered, but it is apparent to me that there is a discrepancy somewhere of which the Student Body
is entitled to an explanation. Very truly yours, house. It was one of those meals you dream about, and everyone
took on a little more than the maximum load limit allows. Portly Dave Sheppard had to call on the Jones
Construction Co. to send their cranes to get him out of his chair, while Maria looked worried and asked, “Just
how fat can one man get?” After such a big dinner, some exercise was in order, so the whole bunch
struggled into formal Charlotte Woman’s Club to dance to the sweet and swing of Billy Knauff. It was a perfect
setting —, the music was romantic and the lights were low. They were so darn low, in fact, that Lucky
Scruggs went over and asked the janitor to be sure and dance with his date. Yessir, it was a great,
and long-to-be remembered evening, and every WILKES MACAULAY; JOB MILLER. Dr. J. Shearer, president of Davidson College from 1888 to
1901, was born in Appomattox County, Virginia, in 1832, graduated from Hampden-Sydney College, the University of Virginia, and Union Theological
Seminary. PI KAPPA PHI Greetings Gents! I trust that you all had a good weekend. Most of us did, especially
the “lucky stiffs” who left this wonderful institution Wednesday evening. I’m sure brother had his best foot forward. Phil McNeimer
wore a coat and tie, Seems like “Boom” Barger, “Brain” (Continued On Page Four) Prof Boyd went back to Presbyterian
College, this time to teach. He served as a Bible instructor there until he went into the Navy in 1943.
After he was released from the service he went to Union Seminary and studied until receiving his Th. D. degree.
Soon afterwards, in 1947, Dr. Boyd came to Davidson to add to the personnel of the Bible department here. Boyd,
while in the navy, took a leave from California in 1944 and returned to South Carolina for one good reason—to
marry a certain S.C. girl—Miss Thelma Hicklin. Dr. Schenck is not the only fisherman in the Bible department. His love
for this great sport is shared by Dr. Boyd. Surf casting and deep-sea fishing especially fascinate him. He just doesn't
find enough time for such enjoyment with his college duties and outside speaking jobs always present.
