What’s the matter with Davidson's football team? That’s a question we’ve heard not a few times in the last couple of weeks. The boys were riding high when they hit Raleigh a few weeks ago only to be knocked down hard. Then they managed to edge the Citadel, and last week, to really make things bad in the eyes of some, they could do no better than boost Wofford’s tying record.

By JACK HAZARD

That sounds particularly bad when you think of the 54-0 drubbing which virtually this same Wildcat eleven handed the Terriers only two years ago. But it was a vastly improved Wofford team that held Davidson to a 12-7 verdict last year, and a much more improved ball club which played the locals on about as even terms as could be found last week. Auburn Lambeth’s passing alone gave the Cats a sizeable margin in every department. The point that we would bring out is that the Davidson football team has not slipped. It has run up against teams in its own class who are determined that Davidson will not have a breather. Wofford in particular has launched a program designed to show Southern Conference teams that it will play cousins to no one. The Pups’ athletic staff has shown utter disregard for any and all eligibility rules which conference teams must follow. They use any ball player whether he has played elsewhere or not. Last week they used freshmen in absolute violation of the contract made with Davidson. But that does not fully answer the question of what's wrong with Davidson, though we feel it is one reason.

The old injury jinx has taken no vacation from Coach Charlie Jamerson’s forces this year. The Red and Black has not been at full strength all year. And as if that weren’t bad enough, they journey to the VMI still minus the services of four stalwarts because the day of the game happens to be the only day that these boys can take exams for med school. To us, this seems strange and we don't know whether the cause lies with the administration or the American Medical Association. The fact is that these four boys can take the exam on only one day and might jeopardize their chances of entrance to med school if they didn’t.

Ace flankman Buddy Cheek is foremost among this group. Cheek is without a doubt one of the nation’s leading ends. He has been among the top ten pass receivers all season and is always a horse on defense. Cheek’s absence will put a strong dent in the corps of wingmen, but to make matters worse, Big Bill Johnson will not make the trip for the same reason. This leaves left end in the hands of Mott Price and Marvin Kelly. Price is still limping from a knee injury sustained in the State game, and Kelly lacks the size and experience of Cheek. The blocking back spot is hit hard by the loss of J. D. Ashmore for the same reason. Ashmore returned to the gridiron this year after several years’ layoff and has done surprisingly well in helping to fill the hole left by Dave Poole. The line will be hit by the loss of Hugh McArn who has played behind Buddy Chandler on offense. His loss will leave only Chandler and Fred Preyer.

Wildcat Sports

WILDCATS MEET KEYDETS FRIDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1948

DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS PAGE THREE

Here’s how YOU can win the Gold Bars

TWO NEW WAYS TO JOIN THE RANKS OF AMERICA’S YOUNG LEADERS

DIRECT COMMISSION

A commission as second lieutenant in the Officers’ Reserve Corps with a 2-year initial tour of active duty is ready for you if you meet these requirements: one year of honorable service in any of the Armed Forces between 7 December 1941 and 30 June 1947; have completed two years at an accredited college or university; U.S. citizenship; AGCT score of 110 or better; not more than 32 years old; physically fit. Once commissioned, you'll be assigned to a 3-month officers’ training school, and, on successful completion, you'll be eligible to compete for a Regular Army Commission if you meet the competitive age requirements. Go to your nearest U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force Recruiting Station for complete details at once.

OCS FOR HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATES

If you've graduated from high school or can pass an equivalent examination, are between 19 and 28 years old, are a U.S. citizen, and have necessary physical qualifications, apply now for enlistment for Army OCS. After your application is approved, you'll be enlisted as a Sergeant and given basic training if you have not had it already, then sent direct to Officer Candidate School, subject to quotas, of course. Upon graduation, you'll be commissioned a Second Lieutenant in the Reserve, and placed on two years of active duty. Top OCS graduates are commissioned in the Regular Army—all others may compete for a Regular Army Commission. Get all the facts about applying for OCS entrance at your nearest U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force Recruiting Station without delay!

PEACE IS AMERICA'S MOST IMPORTANT BUSINESS

The new peacetime Army and Air Force offer young men:

- WIDEST CHOICE OF CAREER JOBS
- BEST OPPORTUNITY FOR ADVANCEMENT
- UNUSUAL RETIREMENT BENEFITS

U.S. ARMY and U.S. AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE

UNITED STATES POST OFFICE

Charlotte, N.C.

30-Day test of hundreds of Camel smokers revealed NO THROAT IRRITATION DUE TO SMOKING CAMELS! (Not a single case!)

From coast to coast, the reports were the same: Not one single case of throat irritation due to smoking Camels! These reports were based on a total of 2,470 examinations by noted throat specialists of the throats of hundreds of men and women who smoked Camels—and only Camels—for 30 consecutive days. And these men and women smoked on the average of one to two packages of Camels a day! Yes, Camels are that mild! But prove it for yourself. In your own “T-Zone”—T for Taste and T for Throat. Smoke Camels—and only Camels—for 30 days. Let YOUR OWN TASTE tell you about the full, rich flavor of Camel’s choice, properly aged tobaccos. And let YOUR OWN THROAT tell you about that marvelously cool Camel mildness!

Make the Camel 30-Day Test in Your "T-Zone"

30-Day Camel Test-Back Guarantee: Make the 30-day Camel test yourself. If, at any time during these 30 days, you are not convinced that Camels are the mildest cigarette you have ever smoked, return the package with the unused Camels and we will refund your full purchase price, plus postage. This offer is good for 90 days from this date. (Signed) R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N.C.

Cats, Dogs Knot 7-7

Proving themselves very susceptible to the stagnant score stream which is now running its course through Spartanburg, Davidson's Wildcats contributed to the making of a national record last Saturday, but gained naught for their own prestige in a 7-7 tie with Wofford’s (tying) Terriers, in kicking in to give the Pups their fifth straight deadlock of the season.and their first in the sixteen-year series with Davidson, the Cats were also gripped by an old disease that has plagued them all season—fumbling. It probably can be laid to the ham-like hands of Bronco Sailey that the Terriers did not gain their first win over the Wildcats since 1928. Memphis Milton intercepted a Sammy Sewell aerial on the Davidson eight that thwarted a Terrier bid then and there. Although Davidson held the upper hand throughout in statistics, they had to claw from behind for the knot. Wofford recovered a Cat fumble on their own 40, and sparked by Sewell's pitching and the line crashing of ex-Tennessean John Clabo, the Terriers rolled 60 yards in a second-quarter drive to gain a 7-0 halftime lead. Davidson snapped back with Auburn Lambeth, Jake Wade, Cliff Turner, and Mack Erwin collaborating in an 86-yard march which was climaxed by a Turner-Williams pass for the score. Hal Mapes added the all-important extra point.

Each team counted nine first downs, Davidson outgaining Wofford on the ground 113 to 85 and through the air 117-46. Lambeth, one of the nation’s top tossers, hit for six of eleven pitches with an injured hand.

Gieck Race In Stretch

Interfrat ball continued to roll this past week as the Phi Delts pinned a 12-0 defeat on the Campus Club Thursday. Curtis Harper had a fine day on the line as Brownson and Witherspoon collaborated to give the team another win. Herb Meza played his usual fine ball on the Campus Club forward wall. Also on Thursday, the Kappa Sigs racked up a win in downing the Phi Gams, 18-0. Wilcox, Edwards, and Pierson cooperated to push the Kappa Sig win column up another notch. The Phi Gams suffered a double loss in that Churchill had to leave the game because of a broken collarbone. No games were played Friday.

Monday found the Sigma Chis registering their first win of the season as they tripped the Phi Gams, 6-0. It was Bill Brooks and Harry Brown all the way for the winners while Newton, Davis, and Jackson showed the way for the Phi Gams. Tuesday saw the Phi Delts display a crushing attack as they spanked the Pi Kaps 36-0. Whit Cobb led the way as he personally accounted for four markers and Brownson was responsible for some fine aerial work. Kill Campbell was a rock all afternoon for the Pi Kap aggregation.

The week closed as the SAE found pay dirt four times in slapping a 24-0 loss on the Phi Gams Wednesday. Monty Hith, Phil Tatum, and Bill Crosby kept the SAE machine rolling as Ed Newton played his usual bang-up ball game for the Fijis. In the final contest, the SPE’s, led by Holler, Hopper, and Hearndon, capitalized on a touchdown and a safety to send the Pikas home with an 8-0 defeat. Collins and Rogers sparked the Pika club.

Back in the former days of Davidson College, the classrooms were just as primitive as the dormitories. They were heated by individual stoves in each room and were, for the most part, overheated or underheated. All depended on whether the professor was warm at seventy degrees or fifty degrees. Also, there were no such things as desks but in their places long benches usually nailed to the floor.

DAVIDSON AND VMI IN FAMILY TUSSLE

On Saturday, the Davidson Wildcats will tangle with their second Virginia foe this year—the VMI Keydets—in a contest at Lexington, Virginia. As a result of their recent invasion of South Carolina, the Cats returned to the hill boasting a win and a tie in tussles with Citadel and Wofford, respectively. Whether their invasion of the VMI forces will be as successful is anybody's guess. By virtue of a 14-14 tie with the Keydets last year, Davidson ranks about equal with them; but the boys from Lexington have always been hard to beat on their home field, as evidenced by the trouncing they gave the Cats two years ago, 25-0.

The teams that will oppose each other at the kick-off Saturday are virtually the same that they were last year. However, there is a noticeable gap in the Red and Yellow forward wall which was created by the graduation of Malachi Mills, one of the top tackles in the Southern Conference last year. Also missing will be Joe Gantt, who was the starting tailback. Still present in the VMI lineup will be Bobby Thomason, their ace flinger, who is just about as potent as passers come. If you will recall, at the end of last year's game Thomason let loose with one of his terrific long passes which put the ball deep in Davidson territory as the final whistle sounded. It goes without saying that the Cats' pass defense will have to be on its toes in a big way to foil this air-minded fellow’s plans.

Last Saturday night in the game with Wofford, several of the Wildcats were injured; and it is too early to determine how many will miss the VMI game. Carl Shepherd didn't see action against the Terriers and will probably be ready for action this Saturday. Auburn Lambeth, who, despite his injured left hand, passed the Wildcats down the field to set up the only score against Wofford, should be in better condition for this week. Buddy Cheek and Mike Williams, the two glue-fingered Cat flankers, both suffered ankle injuries and may see only limited action.

Duke Licks Cat Runners

The Duke University Cross Country team defeated the Davidson Harriers by the score of 17 to 40. The 3.8 miles course at Duke was the scene of the meet on October 22, and it was practically an all-Duke meet. It was not the fact that Davidson was running slower than usual, but it was because the Duke men were just a little faster. Then, too, it was on Duke's home track. With more meets coming up, Davidson fans can be assured that their Harriers won't be defeated again by such a large score.

The following is a list of the finishers and their times:
1. Griff, Spach, tie (Duke) 21.06
3. Bullock (Duke), 21.25
4. Gray (Dav.), 21.26
5. Grisso (Duke) 21.26
6. Ellsworth (Duke), 21.48
7. Bradley (Dav.), 22.05
9. Stone (Duke), 22.36
10. McKeithen (Dav.), 23.11
11. Long (Dav.), 23.31
12. Remson (Dav.), 23.37
13. Glenn (Dav.), 24.02
14. Crowe (Duke), 25.08
15. Boone (Dav.), 25.36

INTERFRAT STANDINGS

| Won | Lost | Pet. |
|------|------|------|
| Beta | 6 | 0 | 1.000 |
| Kappa Sig | 4 | 0 | 1.000 |
| Phi Delt | 5 | 1 | .833 |
| SAE | 4 | 1 | .800 |
| SPE | 4 | 2 | .666 |
| Pika | 3 | 3 | .500 |
| Campus Club | 3 | 4 | .429 |
| Sigma Chi | 2 | 4 | .333 |
| Phi Kap | 1 | 5 | .166 |
| Phi Gam | 0 | 7 | .000 |

In November 1891, the average student at Davidson was twenty-two years of age. The youngest was fifteen and the oldest twenty-eight. Forty-eight percent of them were qualified to vote. The tallest student was six feet three and three-quarters inches. The shortest was five feet three inches. The average weight was 148 pounds. The heaviest was 296 and the lightest 110.