PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by the Class of 1915

“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR.

MAC HART
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

JOHN McNAIR
BUSINESS MGR.

EDITORIAL STAFF

Stan Kennett
Associate Editor

Bill Calhoun
Associate Editor

Ronnie Dietrick
Associate Editor

Jack Hazard
Sports Editor

Bob Hollister
Managing Editor

Lonnie Turnipseed
Managing Editor

Doug Hix
Managing Editor

Dick Morgan
Managing Editor

Tom Niblock
Staff Photographer

Bill King
Cartoonist

FEATURE REPORTERS—Malloy Owen, Randy Taylor, Warren Simms, Phil Mitchell, Hardey Mall, Boyce Kendall, Bob Grube, and Warren Sims.

REPORTERS—Jimmy Henritzy, Henry Hansen, Perry Gregg, Harry Shurley, Gabe Lowe, John Calhoun, Ken Jones, Ralph Robinson, Tom Allen, Dick Charlie Reid Barnwell, Ed West, Jim Murray, Tommy Holler, Bob Hubbell, Will McCrary, Tom Mann, Bill Cumming, Phil Libby, Ben Drymon, Angus McKellar, Dudley Pendleton, Jimmy Fickelson, Pete Kalogridis, Dick Chandley, Bob Northcutt, Stuart Shippey, Hugh Huffaker, Lewis Hyman, Frank Winston, Bill Neal, Bill Hollister, Nat Daniel.

SPORTS STAFF—Cherry Stribling, Gordon Scott, Furman Warlick, Watt Jeffries, Bill White, Phil Hammond, Bryant Robinson, Dan McKeithan, David Whitener, Ed West, Bill Buckey, Jack Stevenson.

POLL CAT STAFF: Jim Carr, Claude Higginbothan, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown, and Neal Underdown.

BUSINESS STAFF

Assistant Business Manager
W. S. McSwain

Advertising Manager
Wyhe Smith

Circulation Manager
Bill Houck

Asst. Circulation Manager
Bill Cassels

Asst. Advertising Manager
Charles Clinkscales

Asst. Advertising Manager
Hector McKeithan

Assistant Advertising Manager
David McConnell

Collections Manager
Charles Dockery

Subscriptions Manager
John Fultin

ASSISTANTS—Bill Cumming, Bill Hart, Marshall James, Duval Hunter, Bob Erwin, Bill Pharr, Harold Clayton, Sam Cumming, Rod Shaw.

CIRCULATION STAFF—Alex Phillips, Parks Dalton, Cecil Rhodes, Joe H. Miller, Neal Underdown, Tommy Haller, Goley, Floyd Ansley Moses.

EDITORIALS

Although it is undoubtedly a sad commentary on the academic ideal of our people, no other phase of our educational life commands half as much interest and attention as does the great god football. No other phase gets as much interest from as many of the varied elements that make up every student body. Other sports, academic pursuits, extra-curricular activities, social life, fraternity life, religious life—they all take a subordinate position to football on the college campus. In high school, the most dynamic drive that moves any teenager is the desire to play football. A boy with that ambition will cling to it with more industry and tenacity than any other goal seems able to muster. Few things in the history of human life and thought have inspired the avid interest that football does today—the story of the Bible, the heroic deeds of chivalrous knights of old, the story of our own American history, brave tales of acts of heroism in war, and a few others—all cases that pitted combined might and right against heavy odds. For what could be mightier than a seven-man line averaging two hundred pounds per man—except a seven-man line averaging two hundred and ten pounds per man? And what could be righter than giving our all for the dear old Davidson Wildcats, or the dear old Carolina Tarheels, or the dear old Podunk Whistletooters?

College football is undoubtedly running away with itself and overstepping its bounds. Who was it that described a college as the old, ramshackled group of buildings down at Davidson? We keep football a little more in its rigid place. We play the game for fun—that’s all—and not so much for the profit and publicity involved. Moreover, we cherish the game for the character-building qualities it offers for the player and for the school alike. We boast that our football team is composed of men who are leaders in campus activities of all sorts. We are proud to hear from an unofficial but authoritative source that the scholastic average of our football players is actually higher than the average of the student body at large. These are some of the reasons why Davidson men will always be proud of their football teams and the men that make them up, even if we do have an occasional bad night against State.

Closing of Stud

The newest rumor on the campus has it that the Student Store will close its doors after Tuesday for an indefinite length of time. The report is that The Stud has lost in the neighborhood of two thousand dollars since the beginning of this semester in September. According to our sources, which should be authoritative, there is little possibility of any wholesale theft. The place is securely locked at night and guarded fairly constantly throughout the night. There has been no evidence of anybody breaking in, and no large quantities of stock have been missed at any time. Also, no money has been missed out of the cash register. Because there were similar losses last spring and summer, all other than students have been kept out of the store this fall. All other possibilities having been eliminated by careful study, the only remaining answer seems to be that some of the students are taking advantage of the honor system regularly by getting articles and not paying for them. The loss is too large—it would average twenty-five to thirty dollars a day—to be charged up to carelessness in forgetting to pay. No accusations are being made. There is indirect evidence that some students are regularly and intentionally walking out without paying. Whether or not they consider this stealing, we can call it by no other name. There is no evidence that this explains the whole loss except that all other reasonable possibilities have been carefully checked and found to be all right.

Stealing is a breach of the honor system, punishable by dismissal from college. The serve-yourself, figure-your-own-bill system of purchasing used in the Stud is an everyday application of the Honor System. If stealing were allowed to continue in the Stud, it would...

Continued On Page Four

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Friday, November 26, 1948

The DAVIDSONIAN Presents

LETTERS

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

Once upon a midnight dreary while I pondered weak and weary... It looks like “pondering weak and weary” is getting to be quite the thing around here. Brother “Snazz” Pate coming to grips with Boyd's Bible. C. Roberts darkened the doors of the library for one of the first times this year. Brother Gill Madgin seems to be holding the dope on Money and Banking. What has gotten into the old Sine Alphas has been... However, on the other hand, Greensboro took its toll of the Brothers this past weekend. Sands Lewis had some trouble saying Choo-Choo so he just resorted to Woo-Woo. Big shin-dig out at the Country Club—caught a glimpse of Vaughn McAlister, Jack “Here’s-to-ya” Blackwood, Sidney Bruce, and others who hail from our own pack. Saw Bob Millar down in Chocolate Town—said he couldn’t find his way out. Saw him again this morning and he doesn’t seem to be any the worse for wear. We enjoyed Pledge Joe Miller's parents visiting our humble eating place. His beauteous sister sorta foot. Joe Neel wheeled it to Salem for the weekend—that’s the opposite direction from Macon, Joe. Brother Jim Williamson said that he got enough of Red Skelton in the last world premiere at the Davidson Theater. Rad Shaw is making big plans for his Tallahassee trip, and Bob McGehee is soon in Atlanta for a giving dinner. Congratulations to Ann Codington and Doug McCoy. You didn’t know it but this pretty maiden is going to represent the SAE’s in this year’s annual. She will add mucho grace to our section of the book. Brother Lane Cloninger had two reviews on one day this past week, and he wants everybody to know about it. One was physics. Have pity on the dotted line. We all enjoyed having the Vikes and the Phi Gams over for a feed Sunday night. Well, that’s all this week; please send all your bits of cheese to Iggy the Rat, yours truly.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

Peach queen better. The playboys of Pi Kappa were up to their old tricks again this past weekend leaving the campus as soon as possible and dragging back just in time for Monday morning. Oh, the life that slaves of education do lead. The four-lane super highways leading out of Davidson were kept warm by the “hot-rods”...of the boys. Anybody needing a vehicle of the highest quality should see Charlie Dockery. Classes have about the “souped up” two-cylinder buggy that he shamelessly claims to be his own. At least three Pikas could be counted among the throng at Chapel Hill last weekend, Bill Collins, Jim Rodgers, and Dockery being present, and accompanied by lush members of the opposite sex. Ed Dennison found last weekend suitable to go home and keep the wolves away from his gal's doorstep. He has a job doing just that, too. Aww, she will give you a break one of these days, Ed. Joe Shumate, called the “house-boy” of the nurse's home of the Presbyterian Hospital in Charlotte, he's over there just as often as it is wise. This past weekend he was not alone though, Pledge Cuerson and Brother Loftin saw fit to accompany him. Yes, a jolly time was had by all. Then there was Brother Ensign. Where he was at is something that even he would like to know. Your guess would be just as good as mine, if not better. The hamlet of Charlotte came in for her share of Pikas over the weekend, as usual. Brother McNair’s “Ford” was seen cruising down Tryon St. over there Saturday night. Brother Markey visited with his parents for a night and day, they couldn't stand him any longer than that at a time. Pledge Lacy “parked” in the Queen City Saturday night. Must have run out of gas. Pledge Phillips was last seen trying to “snow” a Queen's freshman, what a queen he picked, too. Keep up the good work. Any wishing to see the latest in men's underpinnings should stop by Carolina Inn and see the fine array that Pledge Osborne has on display. What a weekend. After running himself “plum-ragged” against N.C. State, Brother Grube thrilled a Schick from WC Saturday night. He wasn't that tired. Congratulations to Brother Mills for being initiated into Sigma Upsilon. His stories are truly literary milestones. The Pikas enjoyed a social after vespers Sunday night at the SAE house. We all enjoyed it muchly and it gave us a chance to get to know each other. Many thanks for the get-together. Word has just been received that Brother Smoak in North Wilkesboro has become a father of a six-pound plus baby boy. Congratulations. There is much more that could be told about the boys from Pika, but the price of newsprint just went up, so I must stop and let the typewriter cool off. WHAT A WEEKEND!

PI KAPPA PHI

Old “Gander Slander" is on the job again. Seems like my ears aren't what they used to be or everybody has straightened up and is flying right. No, I take that back, not quite everyone. I heard rumors that “Little Auto” (Jim Carr) and the Erwin drifted over to Statesville way this weekend. What were you boys doing over there? Could it be that you were seeking companionship of the opposite sex? Why is it that Moe goes into Charlotte every weekend? What are you doing in there Moe? Quite a few of the boys were seen knocking around the eastern part of the state. Were the games up to par boys? Huh? And now a poem, dedicated to all noble Davidsonians who suffered in the rain during “The Weekend”:

I remember, yes, I remember
Ere my younger years drifted by,
It was cold then in December
And was warmer in July
In November frosts descended
And in April there were thaws,
But this modern weather! Ye gods!
Taint like what it used to was.

Well, since the big holidays are descending upon us by the hour, I will leave with this one parting thought—Pulaski found home to be a quiet time. Page Jackson found his hometown of Gastonia duly over the weekend. Quoting him, “I didn’t do nutin’.” The population of Statesville was back to its normal over the weekend with the return of Jack Fanjoy, Bill and Dick Boyd, Joe “Jose” Bell, Gordon Scott, and Ed. Something must have been doing in that town, besides the ball game, to have called all of them home. We should run an extra, because Bill Cameron's streak of five straight weekends in Greensboro came to a screeching halt, as he spent the past weekend on the campus with several good-looking volumes of English. What will your girl say, Bill? She'll probably want a divorce.

No warmth, no cheerfulness, no healthful ease,
No comfortable feel in any member.
No shade, no shine, no butterflies, no bees,
No fruits, no flowers, no leaves, no birds—
November.

Since 1908 a handbook has been issued annually by the Young Men's Christian Association of Davidson. The registration to be filled. The handbook is packed with information and good suggestions for college students. The practical quality of student life is nowhere better demonstrated on the Davidson campus than in college publications.

Pledge Harper Newbold must be operating the table. Last weekend saw Davidson's “Men of Distinction,” with bottle in hand, floating up to the Duke-Carolina clash. We hear that they were last seen in the crowd during the game, but were outstanding figures in the post-game festivities. “Dealer of the Week” award goes to illustrious Bill “Pink Cheeks” Bird. That Bird, quote, “got everything (almost) but sleep” unquote, during the weekend. He was accompanied by Jack Hazard and Charlton Torrence, but it seemed that they had to be contented to sit back and watch the “master” work. To look at Bird Monday, we must say that he had to work very strenuously at “everything” to attain such a worn-out look.

Will someone please tell us why Roberts, Gittinger, Bartlett, and Cox were angry when the house dick at Hotel Selwyn asked their young ladies to leave. Could it be that they were not conducting themselves as upstanding Christian Davidson gentlemen? Better luck next time, boys!

Anyone interested in forming a local chapter of Alcoholics Anonymous should contact Doug Sower. It is rumored that he made a “human sponge” (absorbent, that is) of himself down at the SAE house at Carolina. They were afraid to let him approach an open flame, since he might have turned into a human torch. He was helped along by Taylor and some of the Wilmington boys. The mighty Ted Sumner was seen wandering around looking for a place to sleep. This is about all the dirt we could dig up. Seeing that Hutchinson, Owens, and Gunn spent a quiet weekend, we have no more to report.

Political Angles
By GABRIEL LOWE

From a Democratic point of view, the recent stunning victory at the polls was not all it is cracked up to be. For several reasons, the Democratic Party might have been better off by losing the election. First, it was a distinct victory for labor. After much of his party had abandoned him, the left wing of the party stuck with Truman and won. This leaves Truman deeply indebted to labor. The result promises to be a program of liberal legislation designed to pay that debt. But President Truman will have to go much farther than that to sate the ravenous appetites of the labor bosses. There will be many political plums to be passed out. There will be cabinet posts as well as less conspicuous positions in the Administration. In short, for its loyal support and tireless efforts, the labor wing of the Democratic Party bids fair to take over control of the party. If this should happen there would seemingly be little place in the party for the conservative element—the Southerners and Westerners.

In the third place, the Democratic Party is hopelessly rent into warring groups and factions. It needs time to withdraw to the sidelines and to reorganize. But so long as it stays in power it lacks the opportunity to effect this reorganization. After sixteen years of continuous control of American politics, it has collected a great deal of dead wood. It needs time to weed out the hangers-on, the extremists, and the crackpots. Sixteen years of constant occupation of the limelight have also given the enemies of the party considerable ammunition for criticism. Defeat this year would have forced the party to take stock of itself, and perhaps to find a policy of compromise that would be acceptable to the conservative Southerner and the radical laborite. It could then have come back in 1952 strong and revitalized. With present years will be a difficult time for any party to be in control. No one can say exactly what they may hold—depression, inflation, or war. But the present signs bode evil. Somewhere, at some time, the dizzy spiral of inflation must end. The government cannot go on forever subsidizing and supporting the economic structure without any foundations. On the other hand, the spiral may continue to go slowly higher, and may last beyond the next four years, working immeasurable hardships on many. In the field of foreign relations, there seems little hope of avoiding war for more years, unless events take a drastic turn for the better. The Administration may make honest and fervent efforts to escape these pitfalls. It may do everything within its power to stay the hand of disaster. But Truman will be remembered for what happened during his Administration, rather than for what he did to try to prevent it. For this reason, the Truman Administration may go down in history as a failure, and may go on the record of the Democratic Party as a permanent blot that will hurt the party's chances for many elections to come.

In the field of foreign relations, there seems little hope of avoiding war for more years, unless events take a drastic turn for the better. The Administration may make honest and fervent efforts to escape these pitfalls. It may do everything within its power to stay the hand of disaster. But Truman will be remembered for what happened during his Administration, rather than for what he did to try to prevent it. For this reason, the Truman Administration may go down in history as a failure, and may go on the record of the Democratic Party as a permanent blot that will hurt the party's chances for many elections to come.

In the third place, the Democratic Party is hopelessly rent into warring groups and factions. It needs time to withdraw to the sidelines and to reorganize. But so long as it stays in power it lacks the opportunity to effect this reorganization. After sixteen years of continuous control of American politics, it has collected a great deal of dead wood. It needs time to weed out the hangers-on, the extremists, and the crackpots. Sixteen years of constant occupation of the limelight have also given the enemies of the party considerable ammunition for criticism. Defeat this year would have forced the party to take stock of itself, and perhaps to find a policy of compromise that would be acceptable to the conservative Southerner and the radical laborite. It could then have come back in 1952 strong and revitalized. With present years will be a difficult time for any party to be in control. No one can say exactly what they may hold—depression, inflation, or war. But the present signs bode evil. Somewhere, at some time, the dizzy spiral of inflation must end. The government cannot go on forever subsidizing and supporting the economic structure without any foundations. On the other hand, the spiral may continue to go slowly higher, and may last beyond the next four years, working immeasurable hardships on many. In the field of foreign relations, there seems little hope of avoiding war for more years, unless events take a drastic turn for the better. The Administration may make honest and fervent efforts to escape these pitfalls. It may do everything within its power to stay the hand of disaster. But Truman will be remembered for what happened during his Administration, rather than for what he did to try to prevent it. For this reason, the Truman Administration may go down in history as a failure, and may go on the record of the Democratic Party as a permanent blot that will hurt the party's chances for many elections to come.

Basketball was first introduced to Davidson College in 1908. The physical efficiency of the student is carefully safeguarded at Davidson as well as the spiritual and intellectual. The first Davidson College yell on record is: Rah, Rah, Rah, Run, Run, Run, Pink and Blue, Davidson.

Davidson Theatre
WEEK OF NOVEMBER 29th
MONDAY and TUESDAY
June Bride
Bette Davis — Robert Montgomery
WEDNESDAY and THURSDAY
Key Largo
Humphrey Bogart — Edward G. Robinson — Lauren Bacall
FRIDAY and SATURDAY
Isn’t It Romantic
Roland Culver — Veronica Lake