Friday, November 19, 1948 \ THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Among The Greeks (Continued From Page Two)

“Patu” maintains that he is promised, was seen in a dark corner screaming for help so Jest, who Professor Riddervold,
who'll try anything once, hurried to give support. After the festivities were over, the most intriguing question for the brothers
was how could twelve fit into such a little room at one time?

One of the current Sigma Chi is the battle honors between Pledge Brother Fred struggles in for stud Best and
Brother Rube Pleasants. Fred, however, says that the Kid is using unfair tactics. Fig Newton has been strolling around the
campus in his customary dress of white ducks and sneakers. He has apparently been converted to the Country Club outlook
of the Kid. As is their usual custom, Dendy, Stewart, Sanders, and Powell were pounding to the rhythms of Red
Calhoun's band in Charlotte Saturday night. This weekend, Brothers Hrit, Richart, Harwood, Mann, Williams, and Calhoun went to Raleigh to
participate in the installation of the Delta Nu chapter of Sigma Chi at Wake Forest College.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON FRATERNITY

The stock ran smooth this night at the market boys, and though there were a few ups, it always adds
to the spice of life. The SACK man football juggernaut had defeated a team no one thought they could beat.
We met a superior force and had a 18-0 score. The story worked out as Meatball led the ball well.
Our beloved Gam- hid hasn't missed loaninger per- Social cabinet, and McGehee, Chairman of the YMCA, to be with its
Davidson day and all pledges by then until of them as volunteer. Pledge glad to find “dating the first girl.
Old Wennie Goodpas to be overjoyed with certainty beautiful senorita though they still stained all William Pill in Columbia, Ball
wall sun Jin er rinany soon mighty proud enta shington and Bobby Carson re hear Buddy the Brother Mae the
up great- not Bay Wis Wal man he pulled him. We Fel ther Bronco Bailey one Teeelitien t est has
done Carnegie and clean, magnificent attention credit Where much of the work done decorations at Homecoming was done by, and
many of the said: by, moral business trip, gladly obliged for he of the Sig Alph’s is due to one
certain mighty little man (you guess- Jim Huffman. Thank you return you to the further entertain Jim. now we Davidsonian
for ment and reading enjoyment.

PKA

Although there were no homecoming festivities to keep them occupied last weekend, the Pikas had little trouble in finding something
to do. The majority, feeling that a weekend trip is necessary to good mental health, took to the road in
all directions. McNair went northward to Wilkesboro to visit Beta Brother alumnus Rob Smoak, class of '47. Smoak lined up
a date for Double-Dip, but beyond that, little is known as to the outcome. Huftaker’s family did some traveling this
weekend, stopping by Davidson for the game and then spending the night in Charlotte. According to informed sources, Brothers and
McDuffee rang the bell by having two scrumptious looking dates from among the Converse group that migrated to the campus.
McDuff was so pleased that he had Brother Mills drive him to Spartanburg Sunday. Liston, who was making a “routine”
business trip, saw the opportunity of making a little cash on the side. Brother Cameron made it five straight weekends
of seeing his gal to Pledge Hayden. They say you can't see enough of a good thing, and believe you
me, she's certainly a good thing. Brother Grage acted as chaperone for pledges Turner and Hart as they attended a
cabin party in Charlotte of undisclosed nature. One point is known, however, that is that there was a more than
noticeable absence of females. Brother Rodgers brushed up on his chivalry over the weekend by taking his mother to a
Saturday night cinema. He probably saw the opportunity of taking in a free movie. Brother Bell’s mother was busy, so
he had to go to the movie by himself. Brother Markey had his younger brother up from Charlotte for the
ball game. Prior to the game, Brother Craig was seen instructing the guest in the difficult fundamentals of playing “Dirty-Eight.”
Pledge Martin visited his old Alma Mater Les-McRae the week end and encountered some difficulty in making the return trip
to the Davidson campus. If you don't believe it, just ask him how it feels to be hitch-hiking at 12:30
A.M. in the middle of the Blue Ridge Mountains. When word got around that the Ringling Brothers Circus was to
be in Charlotte, excitement ran high among certain brothers and pledges. Knowing that there would never be another Georgia Southern
in the side shows, they went anyhow in the hope of finding something that would at least remind them of
her. It was Brother Denison’s first circus, and Pledge Walker had a wonderful time explaining to him all the various
attractions in the side show. Brother Smith seemed to be particularly impressed with the simplicity of the Men’s room.

KAPPA SIGMA

Desperate for feminine company and new associations, the local wallflowers invaded en masse the KD house at Queens for what
proved to be an evening of unmistakable hilarity. With Torrence, Roddy, Wilcox, and Simmons paving the way for more timid
brothers, the evening was consummated in fine style. Save for Scott McFaden “stepping out for a smoke,” all brothers returned
as pledged sisters in KD. Maria apparently had the biggest points of attraction for all brothers and was the source
of an atmosphere still disputed by Wilcox. We left Medford mumbling about the snow in Richmond, Roddy giving it the
ole college try with fifteen for Lib, Brothers Dudley (Guy), McFaden, and pledge Kelly trying to catch the last showing
of One Touch of Venus. Congratulations to Brother Mike Williams for his particularly stellar performance Saturday against W. & L.
Also playing major parts in what proved to be the greatest display of fight and spirit shown this year, were
Brothers Cheek, Wilson, Wade, and Keesler. We are sorry to hear that pledge Kirk Oglesby broke his arm in the
game against The Citadel. Pledges Runyon, Smoot, and Acker suffered injuries but should be ready to go against the State
Frosh. Speaking of injuries, we hear that Brother Bingham suffered a mishap in the Big City during the past weekend.
While attending a party and not being too observant, someone disappeared with his date. Quote His Honor: “By George, it
really burns me up.” Congratulations to Pledge Dewey Keesler for displaying his unusual vocal talent. We understand that he has
signed a two-week contract and will be featured nightly at the Stud. News of ego in party come that two
more Brothers have bowed to Venus and have yielded their sacred Sigma pins. Bill Sugg and Lenoir Keesler are the
latest victims.

THE KAPPA ALPHA COLUMN

This week's column can be ascribed to the following letter which was received this week:

“Dear Sir: The preponderance (ole Al Capone word) in your column recalls to me the good ole days back in
Chicago when shots were being taken both at people and in the bars and also when I appeared in the
weekly police line-ups. Those names in your column sound like a “modern” gang. Before joining you all's gang I would
appreciate the nicknames and the corresponding real names of the members. If you all’s dealings are anything like what they
sound you all far surpass Al Capone’s gang’s banging which I was a member of and proud of it. I
have already recognized some of my ole gang buddies’ names which were with me in Chicago shooting off at them
coppers every night. Lots of shots and slugs, Laughing Face Harry”

The following letter was sent to Laughing Face Harry in answer to the above:

Dear Laughing Face Harry: In answer to your recent letter I am listing all the nicknames of our “boys” andthe
corresponding real names. This should aid you in keeping up with our activities in this column and “sizing” us up.
Most of the boys' nicknames have come about through various and devious activities which I will not take the time
to describe here. I think it will be better this way. Beginning at the top with our No. 1 boy
of the gang is “Lover Boy” Harden who is noted for his activities with women throughout the country. His advisers
on economic, political, and religious matters are respectively “Jocko, the Hack” Hazard and “Geek” or “Eli” Howard Ferguson; Fred “The
red-headed politician” Schmelly; and finally the gang's chaplain “Jack S” John S. Lyles. The watch-outs for the mob are “Heals
Beals, Half-man” Wilker D. Macaulay who gets into small places, Dave “No dose” Johnsen who can never sleep, and finally
“Dit-eye, Radar, Seal beam” Harvey McConnel who constantly keeps us “clued” on police activities and files the “clues” in the
“Round head,” Joe Richards. The sky patrol is “Flyboy” Doxl Watt and is credited with the story that while he
was flying through a hangar one day someone decided to close the hangar doors forcing him to turn around. The
“hocus-focusers” photographers of each “job” are “The Chest” Jack Payne; “AM” Arthuro Lindsay, “El Blako” Bradley, and “Hypo” Jack King.
The socialites who are always in on everything are “Spider” Bob Roberts, or “Dumb Duck” Ralph Dickson, “Horrible, Barfly” Harl
Barlit, “Pecker-head” Tommy Ward, “Quincy” Adams, and “Champagne, Social” Sam McDaniel. The gang are “Shoulders” John Roddey, Gene “The Body”
Regen who claims that after taking the Atlas course he developed from a 98-pound “weakling” to a 99-pound “superman,” “Reefer”
Jerry Cox, “Li'l Abner” Hal Haynes, Bill “Bull” Alexander, and “Pecos Pete” Keith O’Kelley. The shooting expert is “Shot, the
Obnoxious” Manly McWilliams. The “Trailers” for the “Boys” are “Greyhound” Bill Barron and “Trailways” Baxter. In case children are involved
we have a child expert — “pre-adolescent” Jimmy Patterson. Between deals we are serenaded by “Petrillo Poofle’s” boys, Jimmy Larkin,
Flyn Long, Chuck Kirby, and Roger Cornell. Noted for their fast getaways after “jobs” are “Swish” Carter and “Choo-Choo” Bill
Bird. But faster than these two when money is involved is H. P. King. Our “plain clothes men” are Fred
Preyer, Jack Stevenson, “Dolphus” Randy Kabrich, Alec Summers, Jack Hunter, Bob Gilmer, Harry Bachman, Doug Hix, and Talmadge West. The
above names will give you an idea of what our gang is like on the whole. In other words, we
are plenty good!

Sincerely,
The Scribe.

PI KAPPA PHI

Some are sad, but many are gay; Over the advent of Converse Day. It seems that everything went well; Except
for Al, who was minus a belle. Tape-Worm Rhodes did have a date, But the gods of love didn’t control
his fate. How cute do they get down Converse way, Is something we're afraid poor Cecil can't say. Claude as
usual was very jolly; He seemed well pleased with buxom Polly. Sugar Daddy Hunter had a kid named Anne; But
Salty Dog Taylor tried to take her in hand. Guy had a date who lives by the sea; She was
rocking on ready and so was he. Rebop Campbell really covered the floor; Then went to Winthrop to cover some
more. Licentious Luke deal; Two dances a night should make ’em a wheel. Some of the crowd even missed the
event; But there ain’t no telling where that bunch went. Monster Mead, Hormone Carr, Ball Nall, and the Moe Ventured
into Charlotte to a feelthy show. Cassels and a car like a shirt; Down to Winthrop College to do their
dirt. The law told the boys to find a red-light, As it pulled the big Hudson Saturday night. Tripod Dobson
doesn't need a hack; He fingers his way there and thumbs his way back. If in this poem there's a
dealer we miss, Or some noble deed that we do not list, It ain't because we ain't got the time,
It's simply that we can’t make it rhyme. Pledge of the week is Phil the Willer; When it comes to
laundry, he’s really a killer. Brother of the week is Bonecrusher Gus; He's the one making all the fuss. Call
him Boykin, but call him Stud; And if he don't change his ways, his name is mud. We'll see you
characters next week...

KAPPA ALPHA

The numerousness of the Homecoming events has taken its toll on the brothers and pledges of Sigma Chapter in the
way of sleep. The wideness and variation in the events of this eventful weekend make it impossible to give a
play-by-play description of all of them. Despite the lack of sleep on everyone's part, the dances were a grand success.
One of the sober chapter regarding dancing, “Dancing,” he says “is nothing but necking set to music, and I hate
music.” Also, he states that “the best part of the dance is the intermission.” Another view held is that “dancing
is just like dragging a wet sack of cement around.” On the whole, though, the girls present were probably the
best crop of femininity that Sigma Chapter has ever had at a dance. Brother X remarks that “if Lee had
the breastworks of those girls, Grant would have never taken Richmond.” How true!

The “I am going steady crowd" consisted of Art Lindsay, Doug Hix, Bill Adams, Paul Richardson, Bill Bird, Chuck Kirby,
Jimmy Larkin, Robert Jinright, Wilkes Macaulay, Henry King, and Charles Mitchell. The more or less haphazard daters were Hazard, Schoenberger,
and Buckey with gals from J-ville, Bryan Robinson, Watt Jeffries, Fred Preyer, Sam McDaniel, Tim Harden, Harl Barlit, Manly McWilliams,
Jack Hunter, Jack Stevenson, and Randy Kabrich. Following the Friday night dance was a breakfast at the Piccadilly Grill. This
breakfast proved the fact that Sigma has a monopoly on the most dis-ablest speakers on the campus. The main event
of Saturday was the winning of the cup for the best Homecoming decorations. Those who participated in this undertaking are
too numerous to mention, but Dick Baxter deserves some laurels for the excellent idea. The main event for the coming
weekend is the barbecue being held at Ervin Lodge for the alumni. This should definitely prove to be a gala
affair. Also, Henry King and Harry Bachman are journeying to Bristol this coming week. They plan on having a “bridge”
party in some country surrounding Bristol.

PI KAPPA PHI

The big question of the week is “Just how wet can the little town of Davidson get?” We all know
the answer to that one. There is practically no doubt about it. Saturday, Nov. 6, was definitely an all-time low
blow by the weatherman. Speaking of the weatherman, it is understood that the one who gave “Slick John” the bum
steer last week just did get on that “Slow Boat to China” with Tom Dewey and Elmo Roper. Pledge Meteorologist
Trew Gurley and Bill Cargent got a twenty-five-year suspended sentence. All dampness aside, we wish to congratulate Pan-Man Barringer and
his assistants, “Plans” Gowan, “Bonecrusher Gus” Edwards, and “Giggly Higgie,” for the fine job they did. Hats off also to
“How High” Lander and his boys for the Wharp decoration. Honorable mention is certainly better than no mention at all.
Catch this last bouquet of roses, Smoe. You done good. Enough of that in this column. If I'm going to
be a slander man, I have to keep my record unclean. It put the squeeze on us to cover all
the after-dance activities of the gay ones Saturday night, but we have learned that “Sugar Daddy” Hunter and our own
“Hairless Herb” did get their daughters home safe and sound. Multitudes of the amorous ones stuck out for the all-night
session at the farm. “Perilous” Parks held forth for the crowd. Notables noted at the festive fete were: “Cess-Pool” Brannon,
“Bengy” Morris, “Daniel Boone” McSwain, “Licentious” Luke, “The Voyager” Taylor, “Terrible” Tolbert, “Hysterical” Higginbotham, “Nightly” Nall, “Red” Rush, “Casanova” Cassels,
“Weepy” Hardin, “Zoot” Campbell, “Curious” Coble, “Squeal” Neil and various lovelies. “Do or die for Pi Kappa Phi” Cline held
his usual on the ninth at the Charlotte. “Raw” and buddies, Alumni Brothers, Hipp, Walton, and Higginbotham (Big Higgie) entertained
a small but distinguished group of the noble ones and their one and only’s. Seen but not heard were “Boom”
Barger, Don Neal, “Long Gone” Helton. Heard but not seen were “Rho” Deal, Reg EE, Nall, and Carl Los. The
poem this week is condensed for lack of space and for lack of poem:

Ode To Homecoming
All is gone, but not forgotten;
What ain’t been got, must be rotten.

Davidson's Richardson Athletic Field was constructed by the Richardson brothers, Mr. H. Smith Richardson, of the class of 1906, and
Mr. Lunsford Richardson, Jr., of the class of 1914, as a memorial to their father, Mr. Lunsford Richardson, Sr., of
the class of 1875.

Faul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. TRYON STREET
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

CENTER THEATRE
Mooresville, N. C.
WEEK STARTING NOV. 20
SATURDAY
“MARK OF THE LASH”
Al “Lash”
also
“JINX MONEY”
The Bowery Boys
CARTOON — SERIAL
LATE SHOW SAT. NITE AND MONDAY
“GIVE MY REGARDS TO BROADWAY”
(Color By Technicolor)
Dan Dailey and Nancy Guild
CARTOON

“MELODY TIME”
(Color By Technicolor)
Dinah Shore - Andrews Sisters
Roy Rogers and the Sons of The Pioneers
NEWS

THURS.-FRI.
“RIVER LADY”
(Color By Technicolor)
Yvonne De Carlo and Dan Duryea
SHOTS - NEWS

Carolina Theatre
Mooresville, N. C.
WEEK STARTING NOV. 19
FRI-SAT.
“STRAWBERRY ROAN”
In Cinecolor
Gene Autry
also
“OUT OF THE STORM”
Jimmy Lydon
SUPERMAN CARTOON

Late Show Sat. Nite and MON.-TUES.
“MICHAEL O’HALLORAN”
Scotty Beckett and Ann Todd
Cartoon — News

WED.-THUR.
“MAN IN THE IRON MASK”
Louis Hayward
(Also)
“JUNGLE WOMAN”
