SALEM AWAITS DAVIDSON ANTICIPATES FOG VIER Volume XXXVI, Che Dabidsonian ALENDA LUX UB! ORTA LIBERTAS LATEINER TO PLAY TUESDAY DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, FEB. 27, 1948 Noted Pianist To Present Program

Joseph Lateiner, brilliant pianist, will present another of his concerts at 5 p.m. on March 2 in Chambers Auditorium, as part of the Davidson College Artist’s Series. In the years since his sensational debut with the Philadelphia Orchestra in 1944, the eighteen-year-old Cuban pianist has risen to the top rank of America’s young keyboard virtuosos.

“Lateiner scored an instant success!” said the Philadelphia Inquirer, following his debut under the baton of Eugene Ormandy. “A sensational success, truly astounding!” said the Kansas City Times when he later appeared as guest soloist with the Kansas City Symphony, Efrem Kurtz conducting.

This week, as was stated in the last issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN, the outstanding feature article submitted to date appears on page six. This feature was submitted in accordance with the rules of THE DAVIDSONIAN feature writing contest and will be judged as soon after March 31 as possible together with all other entries received by that date. The rules of the contest are reprinted below for the benefit of all interested students who did not have an opportunity to read them last week.

This contest is open to any member of the student body—and student body members only—who wish to submit an entry, the exception being in the case of DAVIDSONIAN editorial staff members. The following regulations apply to all entries:

(1) Articles must not be of more than 700 nor less than 500 words.
(2) Entries may either be typewritten or written in ink.
(3) Each entry must be submitted in a sealed envelope in which a separate slip of paper has been placed bearing the full name, post office box number, and room number of the student entering the article. The envelope should be addressed as follows: Davidsonian Feature Contest, Box 605, Davidson.
(4) All entries become the property of THE DAVIDSONIAN.
(5) Contest closes midnight, March 31, 1948.

All entries will be given impartial consideration and final judging will be done by the following group, which will announce the winning feature as soon after the closing date as possible. The judges will be the editor in chief, the associate editor, and four editors of THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Stricklin’s feature article, entitled “111 Year Need,” appears on page six.

Davidson College Invited To Send Delegates To Forum

Davidson College is one of approximately 200 colleges and universities invited to send a delegation to the National Student Forum to be held at Tulane University from April 14 to 17. The purpose of this forum is to discuss “The Future of Freedom,” President Rufus C. Harris of Tulane announced. The forum is sponsored by the National Student Forum, Tulane University in association with the New Orleans World Forum.

Tulane will provide housing, some meals, and entertainment for visiting delegates. President Harris said, “If this forum is to have far-reaching effect, young people, particularly college students, must participate actively. The subject of the forum, ‘The Future of Freedom,’ lends even more emphasis to the appropriateness of including the country’s future leaders in this discussion.”

French Society To Present Program Tonight

Tonight, February 27, 1948, at 8:15 in Chambers Auditorium, the Cercle Français, assisted by several other students of French, will present their annual “French Evening.” Students of French from surrounding high schools and colleges have been invited to this production. Delegations from the following institutions have accepted the invitation to be present: Valdese High School, Statesville High School, Mooresville High School, and Mitchell College.

The first number on the program will be selections from French composers on the college organ by Paul Jenkins. As the “curtain raiser,” the short skit “La Guerre” will be presented by I. C. Parker, R. A. Caldwell, and M. Campbell. A group of marching songs will then be presented by “Les Troubadours.” The singers are: J. D. Whitener, M. W. Jeffries, A. R. Keever, J. N. Inscoe, E. L. Willingham, C. L. Auten, R. C. Shaw, and R. C. Sipe. They will be accompanied by G. E. Watts.

Mrs. R. K. Verner and R. K. Roddey, Jr. will perform a short one-act play, “Le Dentiste,” followed by W. C. Little, T. F. Williams, D. L. Anderson, A. M. Upchurch, R. Weelack, and L. Davis. Paul Jenkins will then play two French numbers on the Skinner organ. The program will conclude with Bernard’s well-known comedy, “L’Anglais Tel Qu’on Le Parle.” The cast includes C. O. Hadley, E. C. Parker, V. Higginbotham, Martin Caldwell, R. C. Rapp, J. R. Keever, R. C. Campbell, and E. C. Hunter. George McKee will be in charge of the stage lighting, and Frank Verner will direct the make-up.

After the program, the college will host a reception for the visiting teachers and students in the Union House.

Phi Society Elects Officers

Officers for the spring term were elected at the February 17 meeting of the Phi Society. Sam Maloney was chosen as president; Hugh J. Farrior, vice president; and Herb Meza, secretary. Retiring officers were Jack Etheridge, president; Hamilton, vice president; and Dave, secretary.

Preceding the election was a mock program, a typical fifteen-minute broadcast on the G. R. Wood wire recorder which Professor Wood recorded.Master of ceremonies, started the program with a commentary. AGS analyst Jim Gunn and an expert news announcer gave a report on the UN. Maloney broke in again with a commercial for No-Soap, only for which the soap had been discovered. Mr. Hamilton, Payne, in "Hour," Davidson introduced. It was reminded of those great words of Emile Calliet, "The metamorphosis of communism has proved that the world is a union of action." He went on to tell of some famous Davidson graduates, notably H. Sapp and J. Hatley. At this point, Espe Mann and Dietrich sang jingle commercials for Hugo’s and Hatley’s, and an equally famous alumnus, W. Wilson. Then Frank Lemmon, as Mr. Jackson, told how the college had been saved from financial ruin.

(Continued on Page Six)

The feature presentation, especially written by Joe Fesperman and Ronny Dietrick, had the first speaker, Dave Shepperson, as Dr. Chalmers, Davidson, who gave a short hysterical sketch of the college. Then Herl Meza, as President Cunningham, said a few sage words: “As I was meditating upon the cosmos of this peculiar occasion..."

CALENDAR CHAPEL

March 1—Dr. Stewart W. Herman, Jr., New York City.
March 2—Prof. L. B. Schenck.

The Davidsonian

Salem B Is Now Printed

NUMBER 18

Beauties Schedule Party

March 3—Dr. J. R. Cunningham.
March 4—Prof. B. F. Thompson.

Students have already signed up for the trip to Salem on Saturday, March 1. The group will leave Davidson College after dinner on Saturday and will return late that night. The YMCA is absorbing most of the bus fares. More specific transportation information will be posted on the bulletin board in the lobby of Chambers.

VESPERS

February 29—Honorable J. Melville Broughton, Raleigh, North Carolina, former governor of North Carolina.

The Salem girls have been planning the event since before Christmas. There will be a movie in the lounge of the YMCA Building Saturday night at 7:30 p.m. Students are invited to attend.

Love World Federalism

United World Federalist Chapter Organized

The girls will request that their friends go ahead with the plans. At the same time, they will request that their friends go ahead with the plans.

Matlock, field representative of the United World Federalist Student Division, met with the group and led a discussion of the organization. A chapter has been secured.

Arnold Is Selected

Davidson College has secured Ernest Arnold as the new assistant to Dr. Cunningham. Rev. Arnold is the current executive secretary of the North Carolina Council of Churches but is expected to take over his new duties soon. Arnold is a graduate of Presbyterian College and Yale Seminary. He has held his present position for the past eight years and has played a major part in the "Clothes for Friendship" project, which provided clothes and other necessities to needy Europeans. Dr. Cunningham stated that he considered the college extremely fortunate in securing Arnold, noting, "We believe that we have secured one of the church’s outstanding leaders. He has turned down several impressive offers to remain in church work, and we feel that he will be a valuable addition to our staff."

By JOHN HARD KNOX

(With Spiritual Interpretation by Francis Shepardson.)

Man’s best friend has at last found an enemy. The following account of cruelty to the canine family is quoted by the Humane Society:

"We believe that a six-month-old puppy was beaten to death during a fraternity initiation rite. The university spokesman said that four youths had been required to eat the puppy. When they failed to appear, the spokesman said, they were sent letters demanding that they make contact immediately."

Kappa Alpha Mu, national college fraternity, in cooperation with the National Science Foundation, will award the grand prize, which includes a trip to New York with traveling expenses paid, and a job at the World Fashion Center. The award is to the national winner of the contest, which is open to all college students enrolled in photography classes. Entries must be 8x10 prints mounted on standard 16x20 boards. There is no entry fee, but entries must be sent prepaid and will be returned express collect. Entry blanks and contest rules may be obtained by writing to W. J. Bell, secretary, 18 Walters Williams Hall, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO.

Pictured above is Mr. H. C. Broyles of the local printing shop, preparing the press for printing THE DAVIDSONIAN. This work is now being done in Davidson, and enables the editorial staff of the paper to use more up-to-date news items, besides being very convenient.