WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

Editor in Chief
MAC HART

Business Manager
BOB CLINE

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editor
Walter M. Hin

Sports Editor
Stan Kennett

Associate Editor
Jack Hazard

Sports Editor
Bob Hollister

Managing Editor
Lonnie Turnipseed

Managing Editor
ID Joybee

Managing Editor
Dick Morgan

Managing Editor
Rees Jenikitis

Columnist
Malloy Owens

Columnist
Floyd Melean

Staff Photographer

REPORTERS:
Bill Dubose, Boyce Kendall, Bill Bogart, Charles Avis, Bob Wells, Art Jenkins, Pat McGeachy, Hartley Hall, Randy Taylor

Freshmen Reporters:
Hartley Hall, Randy Taylor, Warren Sims, Phil Mitchell, Bill Hollister, Scott Verner, Gray Hampton, Frank Purnell, Tom Plipse, Kenneth Jones, Jim Murray, Jim Larkin, Leonard Boswell, John Cosby, Dave Hayworth, Hugh Evans

SPORTS STAFF:
Bob Grube, Cherry Stribling, Bill Cassels, Bill Kings, Gene Regen, Gordon Scott, Furman Warlick, Walt Jeffries

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
John McNair

Advertising Manager
Charlie Reid

Circulation Manager
Frank Lemmon

Subscriptions Manager
Bill Baxter

Assistant Advertising Mgr.
Charles Clinksca

Collections Manager
Charles Dockery

Assistant Advertising Mgr.
Wilkes Macauley

Assistant Circulation Mgr.
Bill Keith

Assistant Circulation Mgr.
Sandy Splunt

Assistant Circulation Mgr.
Bob Knight

Assistant Subscriptions Mgr.
Charles Bean

Assistant Collections Mgr.
Advertising Staff
H. MacKethan, C. Faison, Claude Higginbotham, D. Hayworth, Blaine Kelley, Gene Taylor, W. McSwain

Circulation Staff
Bill Cassels, John Jimmy Rogers, Norvel Ashman, Erwin Clark, Paul Guthery, Coble, Jim Fisher, Bob Sims, Childers, Ted Bowan, Murray Ray Cunningham, Bill Mebane, Sam Davis

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE
New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1946 Member 1947
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest.

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Hats Off

The DAVIDSONIAN Presents
FEATURES EDITORIALS LETTERS

promise of keeping up the good work, Smiley Hill deserves special praise for the admirable way in which he has carried out his duties as student body president. Undoubtedly he has been one of the best presidents a Davidson student body has had in a long time. His well-known trademark, that friendly smile, and his uncanny ability to call every student on the campus by his first name have won him lots of respect. Smiley has taken his office to heart and has worked long and hard for the sake of a better Davidson. Most notable among his accomplishments has been the injection of a respectable amount of dignity into our Chapel program. Realizing that pleas for better chapel conduct were going unheeded, Smiley used the simple device of speaking from the platform. It is surprising how much good this one little gem of applied psychology has done. There is no denying that chapel conduct can still be improved, but it has come a long way in the last year.

Another matter in which Smiley’s leadership was valuable was the snowballing incident. He was a competent mediator between students who took the affair as a big joke and faculty members who saw graver implications. The students were indeed wise to follow his advice by passing constitutional amendments whereby the Student Council handles snowballing offenses rather than a faculty committee. Thus the integrity of the student government is upheld. Thanks to Smiley for a very fine job.

Corrected We Stand

The perpetrators of this column have just been raked over the coals by one who feels that his toes were trodden upon heavily in our remarks last week. His faith in his New Yorker ‘Bible’ has been questioned and the veiled tribute to his seven years experience on Davidson publications was not enough. Since the perpetrating of said perpetration, we have been given the benefit of said seven years experience—condensed, we might add, into a neat thirty-minute lecture. We have learned much about editorial policy. We have been told what may be and what may not. We have had the story of Davidson publications traced for us, and we have been told whose policies may well be copied, and whose bear an odor. We have been informed what constitutes the ridiculous and the adolescent. Some people take themselves too seriously. We are taken too seriously when we don’t mean it. We live and learn and time cures all.

Letter to the Editor

Dear Mr. Editor:

It is with considerable apprehension that I write concerning the extra-curricular problem at Davidson, because I am unable to offer any satisfactory solution, perhaps because some serious thought on the part of those qualified to deal with the situation. It seems obvious because of the inefficiency present in the Freshman orientation system, that a detailed study needs to be made of it—probably by a joint student-faculty group. I do not mean to imply that the problem is peculiar to Davidson, for it is acute in most colleges; although some serious thinking is going on now in an effort to solve the problem, we are too often tempted to push it aside, indifferently lamenting that the campus is “clubbed to death.”

In approaching the dilemma, the following factors have occurred to me and to various other students this year: (1) Are there some organizations on this campus which are not worth the time and trouble it takes to maintain them? If so, would it not be prudent to get rid of them, in spite of the embarrassment involved? Some national honorary groups here exact very high membership fees—is it possible that they are maintained just because of the dubious prestige they bring or because the current student generation is reluctant to discontinue them, thus being labelled as having lost their campus spirit? In short, do some of our organizations take away more in time and effort than they give back to us in intellectual, social, physical or spiritual developments? (2) Many capable students feel that they are expected to “broaden” themselves by intimate participation in as many various activities as possible. Yet, they may soon find themselves, in spite of their good intentions, completely overwhelmed with extra-curricular work, which gives them much valuable experience, but which nearly precludes adequate attention to their academic work. Too, many of us find that we have overlooked some area in which we needed development, and have over-concentrated in some less useful field. It seems obvious now, that the most competent and sympathetic advice possible is desperately needed by the student. Here is the place for interested faculty members to render a tremendous service to their students outside the classroom. If the professor gives the impression that he thinks all non-academic work is just so much trivia (which, fortunately is not true of most of our faculty), he finds himself in the position of the man who jumps out a window to disprove the law of gravity. On the other hand, the student is fully as much in need of advice which encourages him to give the necessary attention to his school work and which will inspire him on to an accomplishment greater than the “gentleman's C.” Both academic and non-academic work will be complemented, when they are integrated; and only then. (3) For the freshman, not only is competent student and faculty advice needed, but also it appears that we often fail to call forcefully to his attention the opportunities open to him. He needs advice on how to organize his time and he needs to be encouraged to make the most of his college experience; too often he shies away from going out for a sport or for some other organization, perhaps because he failed to urge him to give every capability, perhaps because he was given the impression that the team didn't want to bother with him because he wasn't good enough. Freshman orientation should explain to him such honorary groups as Phi GA Ka to mention only one, and inspire him to do his best. And he should be warned that he is expected to support whatever group he joins, not merely to receive their key, get his picture in the annual, and then lie back, allowing the faithful few to carry the load.

If we fail to solve the extra-curricular problem, we are encouraging our students to be furiously “busy here and there,” always racing from one meeting to another, praising mediocrity in everything, never knowing the satisfaction of a job well done. We will be paramounting the kind of “outside activities” which are the chief excuse for inside activity in the American college.

Sincerely,
J. T. FESPERMAN.

Two hundred Young Democrats of the Twelfth Congressional District heard good news at a district rally April 24 in Waynesville. Representative Monroe Redden (D-NC) was principal speaker at the rally and State President E. Hoover Taft, Jr., was one of the distinguished guests.

The Davidsonian Poll-cat

Do you think a system of unlimited class cuts would be satisfactory at Davidson?

Yes No Undecided
Students 53% 44% 3%
Faculty and Administration 20% 75% 5%

By way of further explanation, the affirmative answers among the students came primarily from the freshmen and sophomores, while the members of the faculty and administration answered ‘Yes’ only when the standing of the student should determine his cut privilege. It was also indicated that the scholastic responsibility of the upper classes should enjoy such a privilege.

I wish to thank Jim Brown, Allan Mead, Jim Fisher and Sam Thomas for the fine job they have done as Poll-catters this semester. Thank you all for your cooperation in answering the weekly questions.

WHAT'S WHAT AMONG AMERICAN COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES
By REES JENKINS

In my search for material in this column this past year I have read thousands of college newspapers from all over. In this, my last column, I kind of feel that I'd like to make myself a critic of THE DAVIDSONIAN. But since its shortcomings and opinions are limited by powers beyond that of the students I will do just as well by refraining from it. Since you last heard from me I...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

I have from papers of other colleges that their eyes are upon us, particularly by means of the noticed THE DAVIDSONIAN. Quite often they are dry comments of our activities. For example, one editor found that it was worthy of note to speak of us having eight presidential candidates, a reflection of the usual party system of elections. Another declared this column mine deadly in comparison to the writings of others. If you are listening, Miss Milliken of Meredith, I extend my apologies. 

Comes a sharp rebuke to Davidson from Carolina by way of an editorial in the Tar Heel. It seems that Davidson and E.C.T.C. had refused to send a delegation to the State Student Legislature. It was intimated that because this body has a bi-racial representation our response was thus. It is interesting to note how others see us. With the publication of a daily, the news organ of the University of Virginia will be called “The Cavalier Daily.” From this publication, the advertisement of the sale of Dachshund pups, “Get a long little doggie.”

The responses given to the question of who they favored in the coming national presidential elections were noted with some interest by your reporter. “Those sweet young things at Stratford showed amazing lack of insight as to what kind of man it takes to be president and the qualities of the men who are vying for that position. Let me cite the one who likes MacArthur's sound platform and feels that he’s an able leader. Maybe she would like to be in the army. Another finds that a strong organization is behind Stassen. One who trusts Eisenhower says he's the only one who knows what’s going on in the world. All of them don’t want the country run by the military, though, because “one who doesn’t like war wants the next president to keep us out of it.”

There is an ardent student of Shakespeare up at Loyola who finds that his idol has much to say about any current issue. Here’s what the great man has to say about the draft legislation: “Begot of thought, conceived of spleen and born of madness.”—As You Like It, Act IV, Scene 2. “The huge army of the world’s desires.”—Love’s Labours Lost. “He was never trained up in arms.”—Richard III, V, 3. “He must be taught, and trained, and bid go forth.”—Julius Caesar, IV, 1. “Farewell till then: I will go lose myself and wander up and down.”—Comedy of Errors, I, 2. “Nor do I, as an enemy of peace, troop in things of military men,”—2 Henry IV, IV, 1. “Farewell, dear heart, since I must needs be gone.”—Twelfth Night, II, 3.

PHI DELTA THETA

With the last two weekends, the Phis finished up a very successful year, socially speaking. Well represented at the Spring Frolics, the Phis highlighted the weekend with a formal banquet at the Charlotte Woman's Club Saturday night. Brother Lee Willingham was the toastmaster for the occasion and Professor Guerrant the speaker. At that time President Montgomery presented Brother Willingham with the Leadership Trophy which he was awarded some time ago. Also adding to the enjoyment of all was a feed after the Friday night dance at Erwin Lodge from two till three. There was food and more dancing for all. Saturday afternoon was taken up with the various athletic events and then the dance that night. After the Saturday night formal dance, activities varied far and wide. Ask Wheelis and Varker for the details.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

Last Saturday afternoon, the alert observer may have noticed two streaks of green flashing by on the highway between Davidson and Winston which were the autos of Pledge Van Story and Brother Smith carrying eager Pikas to the Salem May Day Festivities. Excitement was high in the hearts of Brothers Hamm, Cumming, Denison, Sumner, Dockery, McElroy, and Pledge Van Story, for they knew the “fate” that they were to meet. However, others of luck and hoping for the best were Pledges Walker and Tillinghast, who will be glad to relate their interesting findings.

Through the hospitality of a Gamma Phi brother (Wake Forest), the boys were afforded a place to perform their toiletries. Later on in the evening, as one might guess, more games were introduced, and one that Brother Hamm became more or less skilled at was “Mrs. Bones,” a little game requiring a bottle of Coca Cola (or a reasonable facsimile). Another interesting ritual was Brother McElroy’s throwing “the baby” out the hotel window which landed on a roof seven stories below with a terrifying crash. (Unbiased observers swear that it resembled the sound of breaking glass).

The running of the Kentucky Derby gave some of the horse-minded brethren a chance to do a little speculating on the winner, and rumor has it that Brother Warlick had a sizeable sum on a dark horse, Hoof Hearted, while Brother Gragg preferred Ice Melted, a more “conservative” choice. Brothers Fanjoy, Boyd, and Bell preferred the “call of the wild,” but in different ways—the first two went fishing while the latter was enjoying feminine companionship.

Flash!!! Brother Hadley wishes to announce the closing of a favorite Raleigh night spot, “Matey Kay’s,” “Sadie May’s” (or something like that). It seems that the owner has decided to turn her talents to knitting for war relief and the local police force. In spite of the torrid weekend pace, most of the brothers regained their usual composure to act as hosts for their mothers (and fathers) at a Mother’s Day Banquet last Sunday, held a week early due to the Dream Girl Ball this weekend. Brother Loftin braved a torrential downpour to wheel his mere and pere to the campus, even though they did miss dinner. Brother McNair's father spent most of the day negotiating with his son, a trade for his gray touring sedan. Reports have it that the deal fell through. Other activities noted during the proceedings: Brother Wester striving frantically to repair a faulty wire recorder, Brother Huffaker chauffeuring distinguished guests from Martinsville, Brother Barnard looking very dignified in a white waiter’s jacket, Brother Neil in need of a Gillette Blue Blade, Brother Dickson coveting a loud necktie, and Brother Stroup violating a city ordinance concerning Sunday observance.

SIGMA CHI

Well, things were moving along at a fast clip again this past week as Delta Lambda's own Significant Sigs wheeled, dealed, and rotated again. Of course, everyone knows that John Carr made his weekly pilgrimage up to Winston-Salem to see how pretty his pin looked! This time he took Brother Brown up with him. We are expecting positive proof (in the form of snapshots) that Carr is still keeping up his weight lifting. Burly Beck, Stud Pleasants, Jim Allcorn, and Secretive Stubbs (isn’t that a pretty shroud of secrecy he always wears?) went on a function of their own Saturday afternoon. They all escorted local lasses (even Pleasants had a date for a change—he looks very good with a date, too) to a picnic outside of our own little isolated island of bliss and solitude (called Davidson by those outside the student body). After all the food was gone, Stubbs and Alcorn and their dates quietly withdrew from the crowd for reasons best known to themselves.

Jim Gribben, Gopher Mann, Buford Goodman, Paul Laverty, and Devant Williams took off for Mt. Holly to judge a beauty contest. Gopher commented dryly: “The beauties were buxom; the ride was fine.” Buford commented sadly: “It was terrible—nobody agreed with our choices.” The most extensive local mission was the one pulled off by Butt, Clarke, Pritchard, and Hopkins Friday night when a group of W.C. girls came down from Greensboro and threw a “get-together” at Erwin Lodge. Butt commented enthusiastically: “It was most fascinating!” Hopkins was tight-lipped about the whole affair while Clarke is still trying to figure if he was foxed or not (these sisters, you know). Butt was so fascinated that on Saturday night he, Apperson, and Hopkins withdrew to the secrecy of Concord to see the women again. There have been no reports of Saturday’s night activities seeping through the barrier of secrecy. The last thing we have to report is that Bob Beck still can’t figure out what Elaine will be doing this next weekend.

PI KAPPA PHI

Several of the brothers were staying close this weekend at the sister-institution a few miles from here. These were Charlie Reid, Bill Cleveland, and the regular Queens boys—Bud Edwards, Dan Tyler, and Berwyn Rush. Bill Lander went a little further to Spartanburg to attend the college dance and May Day Festival there. The question of the week is—Where Does Lander go to school—Davidson or Converse? Bill Cassels, John Coble, Thad and Jack Barringer, and one or two others were seen at Winthrop where Bill Cassels is said to have made Governor Strom Thurmond back up so he could get his new 1923 Hudson through. Billy Houck, Louie Palles, Dick Turnage, and Bull Mead were among those going home and Bob Cline was off to Salem where he viewed the May Day ceremonies.

(D) James Roosevelt is chairman of the State Democratic Committee of California.

“Phone 284 BUNCH FUNERAL HOME — Ambulance Service Mooresville, N.C.”

---