=~ FRESHMEN FROZEN FOR FORTNIGHT! Volunte XXXVII | ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA L The Davidsonian LIBERTAS ~DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1948 NEOPHYTES NOURISH NAUGHTY NOTIONS! NUMBER 4 Bailey Chosen As Heads D Club D Club President At the first meeting of the “D" Club, Wednesday night, Milton “Bronco” Bailey was elected president of the club to fill the vacancy caused by Buck William's failure to return to school. A senior and member of the “D” Club for three years, Bronco hails from Memphis, Tennessee, where his high school football coach, none other than Davidson's own Coach Jamerson, gave him the nickname he now goes by. Three Letters Won high school and a 33-month period of service with the Marine Corps, Bronco entered Davidson in February of 1946, went out for spring football practice, and that same spring he won a “D” for three consecutive seasons, alternating with Johnny Richards as center on the Wildcat eleven. Bronco is a physics major who can boast a “B” average and membership in Sigma Pi Sigma in spite of his football activities. He plans to do graduate work toward an M.A. in electrical engineering at the University of Tennessee after his graduation here this June. He is a member, and at present treasurer, of the (Continued On Page Six) Library Reports Seven New Books By DICK BARNWELL The Davidson College Library has added to its collection many new books which will greatly interest the student body. These books vary from novels to modern history. The following are synopses of books which Davidson recommends highly. “Something’s Got to Give” by Marion Hargrove. This is a novel about two young couples who became involved in a radio program. Joe Dobbs and Chuck Bartlett were smooth-going, peaceful fellows, who had no love for the world of advertising and radio. Each had a home in the country, a “slightly” worn automobile, and a wife and baby. Their wives got together and planned a big radio program. Joe was to write the script and Chuck was to manage the program, which was to consist of all their mothers chatting with the children. They had big plans about how to build an interest in the program by means of contests and guest stars (glamorous young mothers). Before it was over, these two households were in chaos. “President Roosevelt and the Coming of the War, 1941” by Charles A. Beard. This book is a record of President Roosevelt’s statements to the American people in connection with the American Foreign Policy up to the political campaign of 1940. It deals with President Roosevelt's personal direction of our foreign policy in the year that brought war. Mr. Beard gathered and analyzed his material from the millions of words which were published by the Joint Committee of Congress on Pearl Harbor. Also, he obtained information from other documents and sources pertinent to the subject. The final chapter is Beard’s judgment on the meaning and consequences of the record. “How to Stop Worrying and Start Living” by Dale Carnegie. Dale Carnegie, author of “How to Win Friends and Influence People,” spent seven years in preparing this book—one that deals with perhaps the greatest personal problem in the world today: Worry. The average man and woman knows that it is unhealthy to worry—unhealthy because it saps one’s energy, warps one’s thinking, and kills one’s ambition. The question these men and women are asking is “Can something be done to stop worrying?” This book is the answer. (Continued on Page Six) Forensic Council To Hold Tryouts Plans for the choice of members for the coming season are nearing completion by the Forensic Council, debating club of Davidson College. The varsity team, which is composed of eight men and four alternates, is chosen on the basis of merit. All men who wish to become members of the debating team must deliver a five-minute speech on the topic: “Be it resolved that the federal government should equalize educational opportunities.” or simply: “Federal aid to education.” The team will make several trips this year, according to Don Coffey, president of the standing club. Last year teams went to Agnes Scott College, to Lenoir-Rhyne College, and to a combined Duke, Carolina, Wake Forest debate. One team went to the national tournament at Mary Washington College in Fredericksburg, Virginia. The club was very successful last year, winning over half of its debates. The members of last year’s club still at Davidson are: Don Coffey, president; Dave Hamilton, manager; John Lyles, Flynn Loftin, Don Shriver, John Elyea, and Charles Davis. Any member of the student body who is interested in public speaking is urged to try out for the council. The entire team will be chosen on the basis of the tryout. Two Students Seek Rhodes Scholarship By RALPH ROBINSON The middle of October has been designated for the submission of applications for the Rhodes Scholarships. The local committee, composed of Dr. Vowles, Dr. Lilly, and Cumming Professor, reports that only two Davidson men have made application, the smallest number in many years. This year’s candidates are John L. Lyles, applying from South Carolina, and C. V. Davis, applying either from North Carolina or Mississippi. These applications, upon approval of the local committee, will be sent to the secretary of the state committee for consideration not later than October 30, 1948. Final selection by the district committee will be on December 11, 1948. Scholars selected in this competition will enter Oxford University in October, 1949. In addition to the appearance of the chorus in the special mass meeting on Sunday night during Homecoming, the chorus will be making occasional appearances in services elsewhere. One of the main events the group is looking forward to again is the annual spring tour. Last year, the tour took the Chorus into Charleston, South Carolina, Jacksonville, Fla., Waycross, Georgia, and appearances in both of the Carolinas. In 1888, the Davidson campus was a meadow. That year the College received $135.17 for the hay mowed from the campus. Playboy: One who believes seven work days make one weak.—Hirsch, A little too modern to meet with Miss Swarthout To Open Series GLADYS SWARTHOUT Gladys Swarthout To Sing At Convocation Assembly By DUDLEY PENDLETON Gladys Swarthout, world-famous mezzo-soprano, will appear in concert Friday night, November 6, at 8:15 o'clock in Chambers auditorium. She will also be on the program of the Convocation Assemblage (general alumni association meeting) Saturday morning, November 6. Miss Swarthout made her operatic debut with the Chicago Civic Opera Company in the season of 1924-25 and sang 56 performances that season. She made her Metropolitan debut on November 15, 1929. Miss Swarthout has long been rated by the critics as the world’s top-ranking performer of Bizet's Carmen. She began in radio in 1930. Davidson Students Are Challenged Now By BILL KING The time has once again come for Davidson students to be challenged in order to secure the future of their alma mater. Three times in the past a need has arisen, unforeseen, and three times the friends and alumni of Davidson College have arisen to meet that need.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

For five consecutive years, she was voted by 800 United States and Canadian radio editors as “the best female classical vocalist on the air.” She is the author of the best-selling novel, “Come Soon Tomorrow” and “Live Your Christian Best” (LINDQUIST SERMONS SUMMARIZED) by Dr. Raymond I. Lindquist, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Orange, N.J. 

The annual services on Tuesday morning and evening were opened with prayers from two students, Tim Harden and Herb Meza. The president of the YMCA, which sponsored these services, introduced Rev. Dr. Lindquist after the reading of the Scripture. The theme of his first talk was the question, “What is the central ingredient of Christian character?” and the answer, “The courage to accept God's will for life, and to live accordingly.” The Scripture lesson was the story of David and his defeat of the Philistine giant. Very simply, but emphatically, the speaker pointed out how David was able to do great deeds. First, he put character above circumstances; secondly, his cause was placed above the conflict, and thirdly, David put companionship in his God above concentration in himself. Following these three facts, a person today may accomplish equal and greater deeds. 

Emphasis was placed on what the speaker called “the three main functions of life.” These were given as: first, acceptance; second, create the atmosphere; and third, make the announcement. David played no dirges on his harp to soothe the king; he played music that created a sense of a “glowing power.” The announcement of God's love through Christ is the need of the world today.

The Wednesday morning service in the Chambers Auditorium was begun with the prayers of Mac Hart and John Miller. After the reading of the Scripture of the story of the Good Samaritan, Dr. Lindquist took this story as his subject and discussed the characteristics of the Good Samaritan.

Gladys Swarthout was born in Deepwater, Missouri, on Christmas Day. Her education and musical training are all American. She received her first musical instruction in Kansas City with private teachers and then went to study at the Bush Conservatory of Music in Chicago, from which she graduated. If the soprano in a Kansas City church had known how to hold her music gracefully, Gladys Swarthout might never have embarked on a singing career. The church was the one which the Swarthout family attended when they moved to Kansas City, just after Gladys turned seven. Whenever the soloist stood forth in the choir loft, little Gladys would squirm with displeasure and one Sunday after the service she said to her mother, “Some day I am going to be the soloist here and show that woman how to hold her music.” When she was thirteen, she felt that the time had come, pinned up her curls, went to the choir master, and nonchalantly giving her age as 19, applied for the position. Of course, it was the maturity of her voice as well as her hairdo that allowed the youngster to get away with her magnificent deception. Some time later, an audition was arranged for her with the Chicago Civic Opera Company and to her amazement, the result was a contract. Now she was in the unique position of being a member of one of America’s top-flight opera companies without knowing a single operatic role. In the few brief summer months before her debut was to take place, she slaved and studied and by the fall knew 23 roles by heart. The first season in Chicago she appeared in more than 50 percent of the company’s performances. Soon came the realization of her fondest dream, a contract with the Metropolitan. The roles with which Miss Swarthout is most closely identified, of course, are those of Mignon and Carmen. Since her initial appearance as Bizet's cigarette girl, she has, in fact, established herself as the ranking Carmen of the day, leading contemporary successor to the shawl and castanets of Galli-Marie, Calve, Bressler-Gianoli, Mary Garden, and Farrar. In 1940, Miss Swarthout’s Carmen broke all-time records of attendance at the Hollywood Bowl, to which she drew more than 25,000 opera lovers. However, Miss Swarthout's fame is not limited to opera.

At the first meeting of the ’52 Freshman Class, several important issues were discussed, including a Queens-Davidson Day, a court to punish offensive seniors, and the casting of a special medal called the Bingham Cross to be awarded to all freshmen who have appeared before the Court of Control, with small clusters of laundry bags to be given for all subsequent appearances. The Honorable Gene Bingham opened the meeting with a discussion of the Queens-Davidson day. It was decided to have a hayride from Davidson to Charlotte. It is rumored that Professors H. T. Lilly, T.Y. Greet, and Chalmers Davidson will be asked to act as chaperones. As the second topic of discussion, the senior problem was considered. It seems that certain freshmen were having trouble getting seniors to stay off the walks. To remedy the situation, it was decided to set up a board of freshmen to try offenders of the senior code. However, at this point, Chairman Bingham said that although he was in favor of the idea, he thought it was unlikely to get the approval of the faculty. Naturally, the class decided to drop the idea.

After this discussion, a resolution was presented by Herbert Spaugh, stating that all members of the class would voluntarily stay on the campus for the next two weeks in order to give upperclassmen a chance to get a date. G. B. commented on this measure, saying, “It is considerate of you fellows to do this because I’ve had a hard time getting a date lately.” In the closing minutes of the meeting, A. E. Stanzack moved that a medal be cast in honor of the untiring surveillance and guidance of ‘ole G. B. to the Class of ’52. This proposal was approved heartily and a design was decided upon consisting of a plot of grass embossed on a laundry bag with the motto: “STAY OFFUM GRASSUM” written beneath. The meeting was closed with the Freshman Pledge of obedience: “I pledge obedience to the Senior Class and the laundry for which it stands, one bunch of rough toughs with the Court of Control for all freshmen!”

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation while correcting OCR errors.