CLAUDE THORNHILL AMIDST MIDWINTER BEAUTIES

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Volume XXXVI

Dr. Richards Will Conduct Services

On February 15, the College Church will have Dr. J. McDowell Richards as its guest for a week of services,
beginning with the morning church service of the 15th. Dr. Richards will speak to the Davidson student body that same
evening at vespers, and will hold services each night that week through Friday at the College Church.

At present, Dr. Richards is the president of Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur, Georgia, and is president of the Board
of Trustees of Davidson College. Dr. Richards is a graduate of Davidson, and as a Rhodes Scholar from this school
attended Oxford University in England. He is the son of Dr. C. M. Richards, a long-time pastor of the College
Church and emeritus professor of Bible at Davidson.

This program, featuring so noted a speaker, is for the spiritual enrichment of the church, its members, and all with
whom it might come in contact. Citizens of Davidson and especially students of the college are extended a most cordial
invitation to attend these services.

Berg and Noehren Present Recital

Two members of the Davidson Department of Music, Earl Berg and Robert Noehren, entertained the student body on Wednesday, February
2, with an organ and voice recital. The program, arranged by Dr. Cunningham, was one of the series of Wednesday
chapel exercises designed to bring outstanding faculty members and leading citizens and ministers of nearby communities to the speaker's platform.

Prof. Noehren, who returned to the campus several weeks ago after advanced musical studies during the past semester, opened the
program by performing Bach's "Tocata and Fugue in D Minor" on the organ, assisted by Buford Goodman. Following this, Prof.
Berg, with Noehren at the piano, rendered a song by Robert Schumann, entitled "Two Grenadiers," which was performed in German.
Before singing the number, he gave a brief account of the story told by the song, and declared that the
rendering of musical compositions in a foreign language is inseparable from the music and poetry. Translations rob the piece of
much of its beauty.

Berg won the approval of his audience and concluded the program by singing the well-known "Shadrack," by a noted American
composer.

ABBREVIATED EDITION

The entire staff of THE DAVIDSONIAN sincerely regrets the necessity of limiting the Midwinters edition to four pages. This action
is the result of a request by our printer who desired to finish the work on THE DAVIDSONIAN as soon
as possible so that he might devote the remainder of the week to the installation of a printing press in
his shop. When this press is installed we will be able to print the paper in Davidson, and as a
result, can supply the student body with more accurate and up-to-date accounts of all campus activities.

Steamship Line Announces Essay Contest Plans

By BOB WELLS

The Swedish-American Line, one of the steamship companies serving America, is sponsoring an essay contest. The winners of the first
two prizes will receive eight-week trips to Scandinavia, traveling in cabin class aboard one of the Swedish-American Line ships. There
are other prizes ranging from a $200 trip to Swedish Centennial Celebrations in the Middle West to $25 in United
States Savings Bonds.

Those wishing to enter this contest are to submit an essay on "The Influence of Swedish Settlers on a Community
or Region." The contest closes April 11, 1948. The rules of the contest are as follows:

1. The essay should be a biographical presentation of a person of Swedish birth or descent anywhere in the United
States or Canada, who lived during the past 200 years. The person only needs to have exerted an influence on
a community; or the article may concern a colony, group, society, or organization, past or present.
2. The manuscript, written in English, may not be more than 2,500 words.
3. They will be judged for style and originality as well as for human interest and local color.
4. Three copies of each manuscript, typewritten and double-spaced, must be sent in. The author's name and address should appear
at the upper left-hand corner of the first page. Davidson students should include the name of the college and the
name of a professor.
5. All manuscripts will remain the property of the Swedish-American Line, and if one is sold, the money received will
go to the author.
6. Inquiries as well as manuscripts should be addressed to: Contest Editor, Swedish-American Line, 636 Fifth Avenue, New York 20,
N.Y.

Some books that were suggested for reading are: "The Swedish Element in America," "The Background of Swedish Immigration," "The Religious
Aspects of Swedish Immigration," "Swedes in America," "Swedish Immigrants in Lincoln's Time," and "The Swedes and the Swedish Settlements in
North America." Those desiring more information may write to the Swedish-American Line, or contact the DAVIDSONIAN for more about these
books and names of others. Remember the contest ends April 1, and that you are to write less than 2,500
words about "The Influence of Swedish Settlers on a Community or Region."

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

MISS EILEEN FARRELL

FORECAST WEATHER: RAIN, SLEET. DATES: COLDER

Why I Couldn't Wait For Midwinters

By DAVE RICHARDSON

Nature is indeed wonderful—the weather, the radical change from the snow-cleared and internet temperatures and the onslaughts of that dread
new enemy of mankind, virus sex. The local health authorities have issued the following statement to the members of the
DAVIDSONIAN staff:

"Advise all Davidson students to refrain from hurling at each other ice, water, or snow in any form; such activity
is child's play and no mature person cares for snowballs at all."

Ticket sales for the dances, according to Sigma Alpha Epsilon, indeed loom invitingly on the horizon.all) Davidson students to limit
displays of friendship for their dates to hand-holding; any osculatory action would undermine our campaign to stamp out the customary
post-Mid-Winters colds.
MISS DOT THOMAS
Sigma Phi Epsilon

Eileen Farrell, the brilliant Irish-American with one of the great voices of today, will sing here next Monday night on
the third program of the Davidson Artists Series. Six years of radio work during the course of Rodgers,

'Y' Makes Public Final Figures On Gift Fund Drive

Over 820 students, fraternities, faculty, and interested town folk raised $5,055.44 to put the 1947 Gift Fund well over the
average. Y.M.C.A. The top donation was $36.15. The highest hall contribution came from the first floor of West with $258.
Second place went to the right side of Rumple with $245, and the third floor of West came in third
with $235. The highest per capita donation came from the basement of West with $124.50—$8.30 per man, and second place
went to the second floor of Foreman House with $86.50—$7.20 per man. Jack Wayne, who was in charge of the
drive, expressed to the hall helpers his appreciation and congratulations and thanks to the student body for its generous giving.
One man saved 500 pennies over a period of six months for his contribution.

A check for $5,000 has been sent to the World Youth Fund for early distribution. An excerpt from a letter
received from the New York office in appreciation of Davidson's gift stated:

“I do not know of anything that is more needed in today’s world than the encouragement of movements like the
Y.M.C.A. that have their roots well founded in the Christian leadership of various countries, but they are crippled because of
the destruction of their buildings and equipment.”

According to the Pan-Hellenic treasurer, Martin Waters, they have been brisk thus far, and for the general student body, Treasurer
Waters has issued the following statement: “They could be brisker!” And from the elated Charles Patterson, chief Pan-man, has come
a last-minute announcement that will be of certain interest to all Davidson students: “Gentlemen of the press, I am pleased
to announce that both the basketball games scheduled for Friday and Saturday night at the field gymnasium between the Morris
Marauders and (Continued on Page Four)

MISS CHARLOTTE BLANTON
Kappa Sigma

Rifle Team Faces Stiff Schedule

The Rifle team has resumed activities and begins the new semester with a full calendar of events. Two shoulder-to-shoulder matches
are scheduled with three others pending. The squad meets Clemson (here) on February 13, and Belmont Abbey (there) on February
27. Correspondence matches will be held with Presbyterian College, The Citadel, North Texas College, Oregon State, Kansas State, University of
Pittsburgh, Utah State, University of Wisconsin, and the University of (missing text). The William Randolph Hearst Trophy match is taking
place and will be completed by February 14.

Since her first audition in 1942, Miss Farrell has been a smash success as one of the Columbia Broadcasting System's
outstanding stars. This year, on her first concert tour, her personality has captured the fancy of audiences in New York,
Washington, and other cities, while her musical ability was drawing lavish praise from the critics. The New York Times called
her “one of the real singing discoveries of recent years.” The Herald Tribune said, “She did the kind of singing
a great singer used to do but almost never does anymore. Beauty, power, and confidence were there in full glory,”
and the Washington Herald described her voice as “tonal velvet of lovely sheen.”

Miss Farrell’s second appearance at Davidson will be next week. She was featured in November 1943 while on a brief
tour and drew universal applause from the assembly in packed Chambers Auditorium. Added work in radio and concert during the
intervening years promises an even greater success next Monday. Extensive work in radio has given the young soprano an outstanding
repertoire. She sings Grand Opera of such masters as Wagner and Verdi, lieder of Brahms and Schubert, concert songs by
Liszt, Tschaikovsky, and operettas of Romberg and Herbert, modern favorites of Kern and Gershwin, and folk songs. Her repertoire includes
Irish tunes, southern melodies, boogie-woogie, and calypso music. She has traveled the scale from Wagner's “Love-Death” in Tristan and Isolde
to a boogie-woogie duet with Frank Sinatra and has been featured on a host of radio programs. In 1942, the
New York Times radio critic called her “Columbia's Find of the Year,” and she soon had a staff job with
a program all her own. She was featured with the Columbia Concert Orchestra, with Andre Kostelanetz, and as a star
on “The Family Hour,” the American Melody Hour, and others. Yet radio is only part of her career. Her great
voice has filled some of America’s largest theaters with its rich flood of music. She was a featured singer in
the Fifth War Loan Drive, sang for the Colin Kelly Memorial Services, and was the starred soloist in the Salute
to the United Nations opening conference.

VETERANS NOTICE

Mr. C. W. Thompson, training officer, Veterans Administration, will be at Davidson, Tuesday, February 10, 1948, in Room 103, Chambers
Building, and all Public Law 16 veterans are required to go by and see him. He would also like to
see any other veterans who have not received their January subsistence allowance. He will be here from 10 a.m. to
2 p.m.

MISS MARTHA SCOTT
Kappa Alpha

MISS NANCY MORGAN
Sigma Chi

MISS MARY DIVINE
Phi Delta Theta

CLAUDE THORNHILL

MISS HELEN STRICKLER
Phi Gamma Delta

MISS JEANNE DUNGAN
Phi Kappa Alpha

MISS DOT HAMRICK
Beta Theta Pi
