; WILDCAT
Published Weekly by the YMCA
Editor
Harry McLean
Joe Vance
Orion Hutchinson
Jack P. Etheridge
Rob Coble
John Hobart

---

It's a good thing to stop for a while and see where we're heading, and what we're doing. Are we,
after all, becoming more intelligent or are we just simply getting an education, amassing facts and figures, and learning names?

The word intelligence is derived from inter (between) and legere (to choose), meaning the ability to discriminate. Are we learning
to choose the valuable from the transient, the beautiful from the ugly, the good from the bad, and the better
from the merely good? Have we learned in our college career to choose, and think, and value about the really
important things? Can we exercise that objective disinterestedness which characterizes the truly intelligent?

In an article by G. L. Belk in the New Times Magazine, the author said that "by the exercise of
intelligence one learns to see things as they are rather than as they are esteemed to be by the crowds
which shout mass judgments at us." It would appear that one nowadays with a trained intelligence is in a state
of revolt, in revolt against the smugly fashions, whether in incidentals or ideas, which are basely exploited among us; the
popular conceits; the bragging advertisements; the complacent narrow-mindedness; the confusion between "progress and the mere passing of time"; these new
things which make the intelligent man so often unhappy and put him in peril. Indeed, one author says that intelligence
will make one happy only with the unhappiness when here on earth is near allied to tears.

But without it, imagine the terrible state of mankind, who would swiftly descend to the level of a cage of
contending beasts. Clearly, facts today are not enough. We cannot allow ourselves, as Bell asserts, to become merely "more efficient
hewers of wood and drawers of water and servants of machines."

---

ALL THE NEWS THAT'S FIT TO PRINT

---

STUDENT MANAGERS FOR NEXT YEAR

Paul Morie and Al Duncan will be co-managers of the Student Store for next year. Both Al and Paul have
capably served as clerks in the store and their ability and service have been recognized in this way. Bill Telford
will continue as graduate manager.

---

JOYNER JOINS

The wedding of Miss Jane Linville to Mr. Bill Joyner took place Friday night in Newsville, North Carolina. Jane was
a member of this year's graduating class, and while here was President of Gigee Upsilon, a member of Phi Beta
Kappa, and vice-president of Beta Theta Pi Fraternity.

---

LISTEN! BLOOD HOUNDS!

From time to time there comes to the Dean's Office a plea for certain types of blood. In order to
provide this vital and often life-giving assistance, it is urgently requested that those who will contribute their blood go by
the office of the Dean and list their name and blood type. This blood may either be donated or sold—the
important thing is that there will be students available to supply their blood. Don't wait—do it today or tomorrow!

---

HORIZON

Sheepskins will again shroud some noble guy who has survived the hours of the Davidson academic whirl. It has been
announced that a number of students will be awarded diplomas on the final day of summer school, Friday night, August
27. No mention has been made concerning the identity of these scholars. So, when school's out, just look about, tune
your ears, and hear them shout!

An enlightened mind is not necessarily imprisoned in a dungeon till it thinks the walls of its own cell the
limits of the universe, and the reach of its own chain the outer verge of intelligence.

- Henry W. Longfellow
