The resounding whacks of hickory on the spheroid coming from the direction of Richardson Field bring promising hopes of big things for this year’s edition of the Wildcat nine. The season opens Monday with a home game against Springfield College. Things are definitely looking up for the home team. In recent years, baseball has been the red-headed stepchild in the Wildcat lair. Not that baseball has been slighted in any way by the athletic department, it has just been that we couldn't seem to drum up a team that could get anywhere on the base paths.

SHOULD BE GOOD YEAR

Last season we came as close to whipping Carolina as we did P.C., but they all came out the same in the end, and if the Cats won a game, they kept it a secret so as to maintain their 100 percent average. But the times have changed and Davidson baseball will take a long step toward recovery this year. We have a staff of good pitchers, four at least who can be counted on to stick here with the big boys, and a good lineup with reserve strength all around.

MARLOWE A BIG LEAGUER

Most of the squad is 18-year-old Dick Marlowe who pitched for Hickory last year. Those pesky little men known in the baseball world as scouts have been bothering him all year, and he has tentative offers from six big league clubs. He is set to pitch for Davidson this year, but next year he may wear the colors of the Cincinnati Reds, the Phillies, or the Atlanta Crackers. Coach Charlie will be counting big on him in lots of the tougher conference scraps. Two sophomores who performed ably last year will be backing him up, Norm Whitehart and Charlie Torrence. Another shining whiz, son of a Davidson all-time pitcher, is Dutch Hengeveld. Little Dutch has got some mighty fancy curves that will no doubt cause some friction between the umps and opposing batters.

POWER WITH THE STICK

Most powerful new addition to the batting lineup is Dave Poole, freshman star of football and basketball. Dave is a catcher with a mighty stick. Hal Mapes, who handled the catching last year, has moved over to first base, and his hitting should be more potent this year. Jimmy French, out all last season because of a broken leg, is back on second too, and should be expected to bat around .300 or over. Pearson, probably the most outstanding man on last year’s squad, will cover shortstop like a hawk, and Burt will be on third.

GOOD OUTFIELD

Anderton will start in the outfield. Carl Sheppard, Doug Rice, and Pop Bowman will cover the ground as well as the base paths, with Jack Burris and Dick Richards all set to move in on the first slackers. Of the infield second-stringers, John Ellis and Jake Wade both saw plenty of action last year, and can be counted on for repeat performances. The boys start off the season with a bang next week. They have five games for a light starter after which they should really get down to work. Two of the games will be played after the majority of the population departs for the holidays, but the boys are staying here to polish up and polish off.

JAYVEE BASEBALL NEEDED

It is a pity that Davidson does not have a Junior Varsity baseball squad. There are plenty of boys on the campus who could not make the squad but have possibilities to be developed. We have supplementary squads in football and basketball, and these are undoubtedly valuable in bringing out good material.

WOULD HELP FUTURE PITCHERS

We do not usually boast such good baseball teams that they could not stand improvement. It is especially noticeable that the less-talented could use more experience. If a pitcher is not good enough to pitch against opposing teams, he does not get much chance to develop under game conditions. Still, all some of these boys need is experience.

THAT COBB AGAIN

Whit’s done it again. During basketball season he always plods along with the boys, makes himself useful as a scoring threat, and comes in for his share of the praise. But in the spring he goes hog wild. This year he’ll be sparking the tennis team during the week and on Saturdays he will fill in as dash man for the tracksters, whether the need for him is in the 100, the 220, or the 440. He also studies—in between trips to Agnes Scott.

Wildcat Sports

CLIP OUT SPRING SCHEDULES

Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, March 19, 1948

Speedsters Ed Newton and Tommy Haller look on as their Phi Gam sports manager receives the intramural track trophy from Coach Whittle.

Netmen Open Against Harvard

With the eyes of the campus once again focused on Richardson Field with its baseball and track activities, and the return of Spring, the attention is also down on the tennis courts where Coach Barton is putting his '48 edition of the Wildcat netters through the paces. The racquet wielders open the campaign Monday, March 29, against the Harvard University crew. Harvard will rule a distinct favorite over the locals, if for no other reason than the fact that they have been playing all winter on indoor courts. Coach Barton has a pretty good line on his top three entries but for the other spots there is still no certainty. Roddey Bo will hold down the number one spot followed by Ted Keesler and Whit Cobb in that order. A round robin tournament is being run to pick the remaining three posts. Jerry Robinson, Lenoir Keesler, and Mike Williams have the edge on the berths right now but Henry Niesler, Allan Fanjoy, Rob Palmer, and freshman John Crosland are all digging for the spots. These seven will be in it to finish out the top six to meet the crew from Massachusetts.

Gridiron Schedule Announced

The Davidson Wildcats will play nine opponents on the gridiron in 1948, according to an announcement from Norman Shepard, athletic director. The '48 card calls for the locals to meet seven conference foes, six of whom are Southern Conference members. Elon and Wofford round out the slate. Only one rival, Hampden-Sydney, does not appear on the new schedule. The Cats defeated the Tigers, 49-0, last season.

The schedule:
Sept. 18—Elon at Davidson (night).
Sept. 25—William and Mary at Charlotte (night).
Oct. 2—Open.
Oct. 9—N.C. State at Raleigh.
Oct. 16—The Citadel at Charleston.
Oct. 23—Wofford at Spartanburg.
Oct. 30—VMI at Lexington.
Nov. 6—Richmond at Davidson (Homecoming).
Nov. 13—Washington and Lee at Davidson.
Nov. 25—Furman at Charlotte.

INTERFRAT VOLLEYBALL

Wins Losses Pct.
Betas 2 0 1.000
Kappa Sigs 3 0 1.000
Phi Gams 2 0 1.000
Phi Delts 2 1 .666
SAE 2 1 .666
SPs 2 1 .666
Inds. 1 2 .333
Pi Kaps 0 2 .000
KA 0 2 .000
Sigma Chi 0 3 .000

SPRING SCHEDULES

BASEBALL
DATE OPPONENT
March 22 Springfield College
March 23 Springfield College
March 25 Woffordendian pawewceseuss

March 27 - Seca Guilford
March 29 - Washington and Lee
March 30 - Washington and Lee
April 5 - Catawba College
April 6 - Furman, Greenville, S.C.
April 7 - Wofford, Spartanburg, S.C.
April 9 - Home
April 10 - Clemson, Home
April 12 - Guilford, Guilford
April 13 - McCrary, Home
April 19 - Catawba College, Salisbury
April 20 - No. Co. State, Raleigh
April 22 - Wofford, Home
April 23 - Wofford, Home
April 27 - UNC, Chapel Hill
May 1 - Furman, Home
May 5 - Washington and Lee, Lexington, Va.
May 6 - Quantico, Quantico, Va.
May 7 - William and Mary, Williamsburg, Va.
May 8 - George Washington, Washington, D.C.

TENNIS

DATE OPPONENT PLACE
March 20 - Home
March 30 - Albright College, Home
April 2 - Furman, Greenville
April 5 - Univ. of Georgia, Athens, Ga.
April 6 - Georgia Tech, Atlanta
April 8 - Presbyterian College, Clinton, S.C.
April 9 - Home
April 10 - Cincinnati, Home
April 12 - Guilford, Home
April 13 - College of Charleston, Home
April 14 - Duke, Durham
April 15 - Presbyterian College, Home
May 2 - University of Richmond, Richmond, Va.
May 4 - George Washington, George Washington
May 5 - Haverford, Haverford, Pa.
May 6 - Lehigh, Bethlehem, Pa.
May 7 - Swarthmore, Philadelphia
May 8 - Univ. of Maryland, College Park, Md.

TRACK

DATE OPPONENT PLACE
March 20 - Home
Univ. of South Carolina, Columbia, S.C.
April 17 - Washington and Lee, Lexington, Va.
April 24 - The Citadel, Home
May 1 - Clemson, Home
Mercer College, Macon, Ga.
Southern Con. Outdoor Championships

M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
SEE US FOR YOUR SPRING PAINTING NEEDS
COMPLETE STOCK
Paints — Enamels — Varnish and Stains
WE ARE AGENTS FOR AND CAN GIVE 12-HOUR SERVICE ON “UNION WALLPAPERS”
See Us For Your Wall Paper Needs—at a Savings to You!

FURMAN

IRE athletes are again turning out

Baseball Cell Meet Springfield

A visitor approaching Richardson Field on one of these fine, sunny spring days, is soon conscious of the sharp crack of bats and calls of encouragement from players. He, of course, immediately recognizes the fact that Charley Jamerson’s boys are at it again. Under the direction of the genial coach (when he can spare the time from spring football practice) the current edition of the Davidson nine is gradually rounding into condition with daily batting drills and infield practice.

A lot of the seasoned veterans are around and there are a few new faces to add a touch of interest to these drills. At third, Bert Anderton and Bill Byrd are looking good, while Charley Pearson is holding down short. Capable Jimmy French returns to the diamond wars this year and is looking good on second. First base is a question mark with Hal Mapes and John Ellis fighting it out for the starting position. One of the newcomers, Dave Poole, looks like a natural behind the plate and has the markings of the finest catcher that these parts have seen in years. In the outfield “Pop” Bowman is leading the way as usual. The other positions in the field are wide open, what with regular Carl Sheppard sidelined with a cracked forearm.

Another of the promising newcomers who will no doubt form a top-flight battery with Dave Poole is pitcher Dick Marlowe. Marlowe has been looking good with a fastball and a fine assortment of curves. Standbys Norm Whiteheart and Charleton Torrence are again on hand along with freshman Sam Joyner. The daily drills will continue and the squad is looking forward to the first game Monday against the Yankee invaders from Springfield College.

Golfers Beat Furman, 23-4

The Davidson golf team opened the 1948 links campaign at the Charlotte Country Club Wednesday, a week ago, by downing Furman, 23 to 4. Buck Williams fired a 78 to pace the Cat golfers. Breazeale of Furman was low for the day with a 72, winning the Purple Hurricane’s only match. The golfers will take a southern trip during the holidays. Their schedule will be printed here next week.

The Davidson Chapter of ODK was the fourth in the nation.

CINDERMEN SCHEDULE

With the culmination of the winter season, the Davidson track team is in full force for the oncoming track season. Coach Pete Whittle has indicated an enthusiastic turnout this year and with the return of several key lettermen predicts a fine season for the tracksters. The Cats open their search here next week on the day before spring holidays begin. It is the first of three home meets, the other two being with The Citadel on April 24 and April 31.

Cats Retain Stars

Several of the Cats' outstanding 1947 performers are back at it again, burning up the cinder path along their trail to glory. Among these stalwarts is Ed Hopper who was Davidson's No. 1 man on the hurdles last year. Standing by to aid him are freshmen Tom Allen and Tommy Haller who shone in the conference indoor meet and the interfrat meet respectively. Gene Bingham, last year’s standout in the 440, is not returning to the cinders. His mate, Bob McGehee, will probably be abetted by Whit Cobb who, incidentally, is out for tennis, too. The mile events will be well taken care of by a crew led by ace Gunder Gray.

Abetting this standout Cat performer will be Murdock McKeithan, and newcomer Bob Gibson. Several other notables will also try their wares on the cinder paths. Whit Cobb, of basketball fame, will again be on hand for whatever dash needs him most. Carl Eborn and Bob Sharpe of football glory will compete in the shot put and discus throw. Among the newcomers that were on hand for the first practice were Tom Allen, Billy Pritchett, Ed Newton, Blake Bradley, and Tommy Haller. Allen, Pritchett, and Bradley competed in the indoor championships at Carolina several weeks ago. Bradley placed third in the mile event. The other two of this star quintet are members of the Phi Gam track team which swept to a smashing victory in the interfraternity track meet last week. Newton broke the record for the 220, burning up the cinders with the sensational time of 23.4. Haller, the Phi Gam handyman, is tops in the broad jump, hurdles, and discus throw.

This Thursday and Friday will be (Continued on Page Six)

At Davidson

Ronny Dietrick smokes CHESTERFIELDS

Ronny says: “I smoke Chesterfields because their fine aroma dispels the obnoxious odors encountered in laboratory work.”

Voted TOPS!—Chesterfield the largest selling cigarette in America’s colleges (by nationwide survey).

Nationally Advertised

WESTMINSTER AND STYLE-MART GABARDINE SUITS $19.50 and $53.00
TANS — BLUES — GREYS — BROWNS
SIZES 35 to 44

Marion-Davis Co., Inc.
118 South Tryon Street