Dine and Dance
UPPER DECK OF THE SHIP AHOY
LOCATED IN THE HEART OF CHARLOTTE

HELEN O'NEIL and the MARINERS
EVERY NIGHT BUT SUN. AND MON.
DELICIOUS CUISINE
NO COVER CHARGE
For Reservations Phone 4-2071

JOIN THE “MARCH OF DIMES”

The Smoothest Men At The Midwinters Will Wear Formal Clothes From TATE-BROWN’S
When Claude Thornhill gives the downbeat for the Midwinter Pan-Hellenic dances... you’ll want to look your best for her. Tate-Brown’s is ready to serve you with tuxedos, full dress, and a complete assortment of accessories including tuxedo shirts, ties, and dress jewelry.
TUXEDOS AND FULL DRESS SUITS $50 to $65.
MEN’S CLOTHING FIRST FLOOR
TOWN AND CAMPUS SHOP THIRD FLOOR
TATE-BROWN CO. 126 S. TRYON ST.
ONE OF THE SOUTH’S FINER STORES

Vaughn once again displays his vocal versatility — backed up by the Moon Maids. You'll like this record — so lend an ear! Another great record is the one belonging to Camel cigarettes. More people are smoking Camels than ever before! Try Camels! Discover for yourself why, with smokers who have tried and compared, Camels are the “choice of experience”!
B. J. Reynolds Tob. Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.

Jamerson Calls Gridders Out
WILDCAT CAGERS DEFEAT McCRARY
MEET CAROLINA AND DUKE

The Cats returned to the hardwood Monday night after a two-week hiatus and turned back McCrary 54-48. The response has been good to last week's article in the DAVIDSONIAN about spring practice and the need for more tryouts for a better team. Coach Jamerson says that he expects 60 to 65 boys out for practice but that he would like to have even more who have had any experience at all and are interested in a better Wildcat team. “The more men out, the better the team,” the coach says, “and besides, it's the best way in the world for a fellow to stay in top physical shape.”

Practice begins Monday, February 2, regardless of weather conditions, and will be held every afternoon from 3:40 to 5:30. Uniforms will be issued Monday afternoon and practice will be held even if it has to be held in the gym. There will be a game between the first and second string every Saturday except the first, and between the third and fourth every Monday.

CAT TALES By MAC HART
This week saw Wildcat squads bouncing back into conference action after the initial Appalachian road trip. The inactivity of the exam period postponed the grapplers’ conference meet with the huskies but will probably be rescheduled in the near future. The cagers got back into the swing of things against the McCrary Eagles Monday night and only a “telephone booth” could have held the excitement. The Wildcats weren't too hot a show. About the middle of the second half, Eagle center Ab Williams took it personal and decided to make a game of it, sinking field goals right and left. With a unique modification of a two-step, he would curl his arms around his neck and then let the ball fly from somewhere behind him. It was a shot that even Buddy Cheek couldn't guard, and it was good for 24 points. Although the Eagles did not put up much of a try, Ab showed how the game should be played by racking up twenty-four points for the night.

In that spacious and usually epoch-making time between the hours when this page is being thrown together and the moment it hits the streets, the big events of the sports world usually break loose. This week being no exception, the ‘Cats will have met both UNC and Duke on the hardwood. We will not...hazard our would-be reputation by attempting to predict the scores, or call the winners. See, you already know the outcome. However, these two games will have a lot to do with our chances of going to the conference play-offs, whether we win or lose. With the recent State game as the exception to prove the rule, the Wildcats usually play their hardest and best games against the big three from the Tar Heel country. The Cats haven't hit their stride yet this year, and if they don't hit it pretty soon, those conference wins we need aren't going to roll around our way. The closest we have come to it yet were the W. and L. and Duke games. Our finesse on the floor is not all that it might be, though it will improve with Mike back in the line-up. Buddy still hasn't gotten back the shooting efficiency he had the last part of last season, and Whit’s shooting has been on the blink since the affair with State. If we can get rolling against Duke and Carolina, we should do all right the rest of the way. The fight for fifth place is still hot and heavy. Mills, with his height and knack at snagging the rebounds, looks good at forward. He is a sharpshooter and has speed. Iverson, with some height, is improving all the time. He is speedy and sometimes spectacular, but is a fine man on the floor and has lots of experience in Shepard’s brand of ball. Coach Shepard is giving them all plenty of chances to show their stuff, and it will be an interesting race to watch. Presently, we have the advantage of a lot of aggressiveness. Bing is scrappy and spectacular. Maner doesn’t shoot much.

Introducing Buddy Cheek
By DOUG HIX

Pleasant memories of a successful grid season are being pushed aside by the basketeers. Last year's ranks have been diminished by the loss of four lettermen, but the team is carrying on with All-State forward of last year, George “Buddy” Cheek, holding down the center slot again. Buddy, tall, standing six feet three inches, and weighing 175 pounds with the competitive spirit characteristic of small cagers, is a ballhawk and a high scorer. He tied last year’s Ed White with a total of 287 points, an average of 11.44 points per game. He is continuing this year with 151 points, a 12.64 point average per game. Bucketing 120 points as a high last season, he has been high scorer in the McCrary game. So far this year, he is third highest scorer of the team, though chances are his place will rise since he always starts slow at the first of the season.

Buddy began his basketball career at Parish High, Selma, Alabama, where he was captain of the team and All-State. He was offered a scholarship by Tulane, but was beckoned by Uncle Sam and joined the Navy. Under the V-5 program, he was sent to Tulane where he played a lot of basketball. After serving 14 months, he entered Davidson through the Presbyterian Scholarship. At Parish High, Cheek was captain of the football team, forward on the basketball five, and first baseman on the nine. He was president of the senior class and in the national honor society. At Davidson, he holds a starting position as end on the football squad, is a member of the MC Club, Kappa Sigma social fraternity, and vice-president of the student body. In passing, it might be mentioned that he was offered a football scholarship at the University of Alabama and Auburn. A pre-med student, his favorite pastime is keeping Kappa Sig pledges in line in a jovial sort of way. He is the so-called tall, dark, and handsome brute who has no particular sugar plum but always has an ambulance escort to pick up the women who swoon in his wake.

Buddy Cheek in action against the McCrary Eagles.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
MAKERS OF
DeLuxe Ice Cream

THACKER’S, INC.
Private Dining Rooms for Parties and Banquets
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
221 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 25490

ICE QUALITY
REGULAR MEALS
Breakfast 6:30-8:30
Lunch 11:30-1:30
Dinner 5:30-6:30

Carolina Lunch
Depot St.—Davidson, N. C.