—"WILDCAT NEWS STUDENT-YWCA
Published weekly by the YWCA

"Covers Dixie like the Dew" On Tuesday, June 1, the members of the
Editor Jack P. Etheridge Cabinet invited all new and transfer
Managing Editor Harry McLean students to join with them in a hamburger
City Desk Editor Joe Vance supper at Erin Lodge. The WILDCAT would
Sports Editor Joe Stukes like to welcome them to the campus and
wish for them a very pleasant and successful
Some persons are not aware that the college career. The new students are
Davidson YMCA is an integral part of a as follows: D.B. Crosland, Hilbert McLean, Celia
large international fellowship of Young Hughes, J.A. Jones, G.A. Trebane, G.U. Leotze,
Men's Christian Associations. In the P. Miller, M. Bell, F.L. Best, J. Bell, Hughes,
United States, the Davidson 'Y' is one of D. E. Waldiller, C.H. Stowe, Del A. Taylor, J. G.
the more than 500 on college and university White, Frank G. Smith, Bob Johnson, B. V.
campuses. During the summer months, and in Bower, H.J. Lipe, Tom A. Lingford, V.B. Hair,
the Christmas recess, regional conferences and J.L. Farmer.
are held and as often as possible we are
represented and take an active part in the LACY McLEAN TO STUDY AT COLGATE
conduct of affairs and the formation of
YMCA student policy. Here indeed is a Lacy and Edna McLean have gone to Col-
great and useful channel for students. gate University where Lacy will study Pub-
By virtue of this noble membership, lic Relations under Mr. Inerson Mead,
we are members of a larger worldwide fellow- national authority. The McLeans will be at
ship, the world's Student Christian Fed- Colgate for eleven months.
eration, whose international headquarters
are in Switzerland. It has been an impor- Lacy was the man who so ably repre-
tant factor in world student life all sented Davidson in the press, who wrote many
through its history. One of its agencies, stories for the Charlotte papers and for
the World Student Service Fund, has aided the Associated Press. Recently Lacy was
perhaps more than any other student relief Official Referee at the Southern Boys'
organization in bringing comfort, physical Tennis Tournament held here.
and spiritual, to suffering all over the
globe. LOST TO CONDUCT CHAPEL

Here are the purposes of the student The chapel program will be
Young Men's Christian Associations, of out of the ordinary in that its
which you are a member. The WILDCAT commends feature will be a hymn sing. To
them to you for your thought and for your lead the singing we have invited Mr.
prayerful support. Richard Jenkins, Minister of Music at the
First Methodist Church in Charlotte, NC.
The Young Men's Christian Association Jenkins is currently leading the series
is a union of students and faculty members of Sunday evening hymn sings at Freedom
for the following purposes: Park Lake in Charlotte. He has had much
To lead students to faith in God experience in this field and should provide
through Jesus Christ; an interesting chapel program.
To lead them into membership and ser-
vice in the Christian Church; "The greatest efforts of the race have
To promote their growth in Christian always been traceable to the love of praise,
faith and character, especially through the its greatest catastrophes to the love
study of the Bible and prayer; of pleasure." John Ruskin
To influence men to devote themselves
in united effort with all Christians to MOVIES THIS WEEK
making the will of Christ effective in
human society, and to extending the King- WEDNESDAY and THURSDAY
dom of God throughout the world. "Song of My Heart"
Rams Sundstrom - Audrey Long
FRIDAY and SATURDAY
"Mary at Furnace Creek"
Victor Mature - Colleen Gray