Friday, March 19, 1948

Holty Smith — “The Carolinas’ Photo Center”

FEATURE CONTEST

A FEW NOTES ON CAMERAS

IF THE WORLD SEERS BELL SILENCING or PEACE AND CHEMICALS,

CONFESSION OF A CLAPPTOMANIAC

Our world is at a crisis, political, religious, and economic authorities the world over are seeking a secure peace. Can
the disappearance of the bell atop Chambers be a method by which this was successfully carried out?

Davidson students' chief frustration is to lower the bell atop Chambers. One student, a semi-pro in his field, hopes that
in some future generation of undergraduates there may arise another group equal to the task.

The story begins one unusually disinterested Saturday night in December, 1946, when Soap, TOU, and I returned to the campus
after watching exceptionally dull movies at the local theater. In an attempt to clear our somewhat bemuddled minds, we turned
our discussion to some of the more ingenious exploits of Davidson students. Together we framed the idea that under present
conditions, we could put a similar extra-curricular activity into action.

We pared down the cheering information: “Only the weight of the clapper on a pin holds it in place. Two
of us can manage it easily!” A boost from Soapy, and I joined Jim. The disassembly took only a couple
of minutes, and we had the clapper! What to do with it? Dropping it into the shrubbery might give it
away if it struck something. Another idea was to bury it, but we had no intention of having it disappear
permanently. Putting it on Dr. Cunningham’s front porch might run into someone. Following a precedence and placing it under the
pulpit in Chambers? No, it would be found before vespers. Placing it on Dean Bailey's desk? Breaking into an office
would be a shipping offense. How about the trophy cases? Good! We tried unsuccessfully to pick the lock. Finally, as
a last resort, we wrapped the thing in paper towels and left it under the cushions of the couch in
the Ladies’ Lounge.

ROAMING WITH RONNY. Continued From Page Two

Stranded permanently once the railroad was gone. Despite the many privations inflicted on the college, it remained open throughout the
entire war and is reputed to be the only college in the South which was able to do so. Even
though the college remained open, only two men graduated from Davidson in 1866 and 1867. One was an amateur student
who took a while, the second was a crippled corporal from South Carolina who graduated in 1867.

Reconstruction

Soon after the end of the war, a detachment of “Yankee” soldiery visited the college in search of food. They
had a fine time breaking and smashing doors. Fortunately, they didn't stay long, probably because there was not much food,
and drink, as ever, was non-existent. During the reconstruction, many incidents occurred which might well be forgotten. The students and
the townspeople organized Ku Klux Klan between 1868 and 1871. Davidson had a heavy presence in the Klan in order
to keep down lawlessness. Several students were appointed by the Freedman’s Bureau, and other unfortunate occurrences resulted in great unrest.

War Between the States

She lost her endowment, her students, and her faculty. The U.S. student body for a time saw the sacrifice of
83 of her former students. The majority of the student body never liked the idea of the Klan, considering it...
but learned of the episode in detail. The story goes that an attempt at silencing the bell was made. Unfortunately,
an auxiliary hand-operated clapper was placed into action that Monday morning.

A WORD TO THE WISE

The March 18 issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN contains the following:

PHONE 6185

We were looking for a clapper to suppose that this time the clapper might be found. The world as a
whole must answer from the top of Chambers. We are always looking for a clapper in the treasurer of Rollins.

227-229 South Tryon Streetvoluble guy, teacher of it. After procuring a flashlight and a degree of efficiency, removed both hare
and overflowed in romantic Charlotte, N.C. When in story, it is necessary to make certain things cop the original and
auxiliary clappers. We seated the temptation to ex- tee happy survival. As we renewed, it was in the electric shop
and oc- We hone their collective. con- pand may look unprogressive now. We notice curded with the latest copy of
Time, science bothers them as much as a few years they may be referred to as pillars of wisdom. To
sustain peace and maintain the essence of life itself, read history’s most interesting and important episodes.

We see tribes form into chains; states, and into nations. Men were being oppressed and mistreated. They saw a ruler
or a remedy. The oppressed people traveled a dangerous and mysterious ocean in order to escape from their fears. Upon
reaching their destination, they found it necessary to organize colonies to sustain their survival. These colonies, in spite of differences
of race, creed, color, and governmental theory, were forced to band together. They found the roads of progress rough, but
the goal, indeed. The United States of America has become the great nation on the face of the earth today!
Therefore, I advocate to you a plan of world union—a federation of countries and nations bound together by common interests
and objectives—peace, security, and freedom.

Should Russia and the United States seek peace rather than supremacy, would there be so great a need? This year,
let's go on. Consider for a moment the stalk of corn. If it stands alone away from the other stalks
so that it cannot be pollinated properly, it will wither and rot, lacking fruit with which to reproduce itself. If
nations of this weary and needing world shut themselves up and refuse to consider their neighbors, the world is doomed
to utter destruction.

Quality is expensive, and the price of federating the countries of the world is not cheap. This would include education
based on democratic principles. However, if we could live our lives each day without suspicion and fear of each other,
happiness, security, and freedom would be at hand. Until we, as did the colonies, force ourselves, the people of the
world, to unify and learn to understand the trials, the reasons for our differences, the beneficial parts of each other's
governmental policies, and the true spirit of reciprocity—

Frank’s Grill
Voted TOPS!—Chesterfield, the largest selling cigarette in America’s colleges (by nationwide survey).

Sporting Goods
415 S. TRYON STREET
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
“Just a Few Yards North of Davidson”
CURB SERVICE
* Best Barbecue in Town
* Hot Sandwiches a Specialty
* Cold Drinks
CHARLIE PATTERSON, CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE

TOWN AND CAMPUS SHOP
The Bold Look Has Arrived in the Town and Campus Shop. Davidsonians will step forth in style this Spring and
Easter in a new VARSITY TOWN suit from TATE BROWN’s popular Town and Campus Shop. These handsome suits are available
in worsteds and tropicals in a variety of plaids, solids, checks, and stripes. — $50 to $58.50

Special Note
The latest in shirts awaits you Davidsonians in our TOWN AND CAMPUS SHOP. Featured in broadcloth with spread collar and
French cuffs as well as button-down collar. The Oxford is featured in button-down collar only. $5

Third Floor
