Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

¢, em ‘* fo —1-
1 if | 1
{
I, / \. too
wl de . on
0, WI OF TT sca July 29, 1948-
on ; AIT yp ( { a _ Ty
VTE Ly =f
: ar, an ae
LieSt Aus TRC JTIOCATS ot ‘Dis. TP Temes To aif Gusts’

The West Wildcats' aspirations of TOOL LOW night, Friday, July 30,
were completely subdued by the strong pitching of the Macuht All-Stars Tuesday afternoon. The All-Stars, led by the stellar pitching of Baumann, won by the one-sided score of 6-2.

The chances of a victory by the team from West were ruined by errors in the earlier part of the game. These errors, though distributed throughout the team, did seem to center in the "not-so-hot" defense. Along with this flawed defense, the Wildcats seemed to have a "hitless" drive in their offense. Such things as Sulley Hill, who lost his balance and got a long hit only to miss first base on his trip around the bags. Following this, John Voll and J. Richards managed a hit each. This seemed to be the extent of the Wildcat power.

The All-Stars, showing good defense and equally consistent hitting, have made a strong bid for the championship. Perhaps the Georgia Medics, led by Quinine Cooper, can offer a serious challenge tomorrow, as all games Wednesday were postponed by typical Davidson weather. With expected improvements in the team from West by Manager Wilke, we are expecting a heated race.

Batteries:
West: Tinghem, Fe
Driggs, C.
All-Stars: Baumann, Yr.
Arderton, C.

Thurs: Medics vs. All-Stars.

---

The Wildcats enjoyed last time. The All-Stars are providing their own transportation this time so we can expect things to begin to happen, as per schedule, exactly at 5:15. If you are on the campus Friday night, come over to Chambers and enjoy a swell evening.

---

VESPERS

Vespers this coming Sunday evening will be a bit unusual. In an attempt to acquaint the student body as to just how the Department of Devotions answers their numerous calls, a typical "devotion" will conduct this service.

This group will be made up of Jack Delaney, who will preside, Bob Johnson, and Frank Smith who will speak on the topic, "Getting or Giving."

Characteristic of the work of the department of the "Y", this group will also conduct the morning service at Barium Springs.

(Continued on Page 2)