Davidson Awards Citations To Ten Men

TWO GAMES TO WIN!
Volume XXXVII

ALENDA

DAVIDSON, North CAROLINA, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1948

NUMBER SEVEN

PHI BETA KAPPA HONORS OUTSTANDING STUDENTS

Scholarship Frat Picks Ten Men

Monday morning, November 1, during the regular chapel program, Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson, director of the library and professor of
history, announced that ten members of the Senior Class had received Phi Beta Kappa bids. These men are as follows:
William A. Crosland, Jr., Charles O. Hadley, Ernest B. Hunter, Frank T. Lemmon, Arthur M. Lindsay, Flynn V. McNair, William
T. Poston, and Charles C. Turner.

Phi Beta Kappa bids are extended on a basis of character and leadership as well as outstanding scholastic achievement. Usually,
the chapter extends bids twice a year, during the Fall and Spring semesters. An average grade of 93 for three
years automatically nominates a student for consideration, while an average grade of 92 is sufficient to insure nomination during the
Fall.

A brief selection on each of the newly-elected men follows:

WILLIAM A. CROSLAND, JR.
William A. Crosland, Jr. is working for a B.A. degree in English. In addition to being a member of the
Male Chorus for four years, he played in the football band for two years. He is a Rhodes Scholarship candidate
for this year and is a member of Sigma Chi Fraternity.

CHARLES OWEN HADLEY
Charles Owen Hadley is a member of the Senior Class and is working for a B.A. degree in English. He
has been a member of the Male Chorus for three years and is a Rhodes Scholarship candidate.

Fifty Distinguished Alumni For Distinguished Service

One of the highlights of the Homecoming celebration was the presentation of citations to fifty distinguished alumni for their outstanding
service in various fields. This is the first time such awards have been presented. A poll of the alumni showed
their approval of this new undertaking. Letters were sent to every alumnus, whereby each was given an opportunity to nominate
one or more persons for the honor. The final decision on the persons to be honored was placed in the
hands of a committee of the faculty of the college, who made their decisions purely on a factual basis.

The fifty alumni who received citations for exceptional service in their various fields were as follows:

BANKING—James H. Clark

(Continued on Page Eight)

Library Handbook

The Davidson College Library Handbook, a guide to library usage, is the result of a mimeographed manual which was an
experiment last year. This manual proved so helpful to the students that it was decided to publish it in a
more permanent form. The booklet has an attractive cover with the title and seal of the college stamped in gold.
It contains an outline history of the library, the Dewey Decimal Classification System, a lengthy essay on library investigation papers,
four pages of illustrations, and a set of library exercises which are perforated and can be removed by the student.

Perhaps the section most helpful to the student is that of the Library Investigation Papers. This section is dedicated to
the procedure for writing a research paper. It takes the student through each of the steps involved in writing a
research paper.

(Continued on Page Eight)

J. T. Cleland To Conduct Convocational Vesper Service

Dr. James T. Cleland, D.D., of Duke University, will be the speaker for the Convocation Vesper Service, which will climax
the highly publicized three-day Cornerstone Convocation and Homecoming celebration. For this occasion, massed choirs from various North Carolina churches will
join with the Davidson Male Chorus and Concert Band in providing special music.

Dr. Cleland, professor of Homiletics at Duke University Divinity School, was born in Glasgow, Scotland. In 1924, he graduated from
Glasgow University with the M.A. degree. During his last year at the University, he served as assistant in a parish
of the Church of Scotland at Bridgeton, Glasgow, and from January 1925 to August 1927, he served two more periods
as assistant at Old Kilpatrick and at Dunblane Cathedral. In 1927, he won his B.D. degree, with distinction in Ecclesiastical
History, after which he came to America.

Studying under the Jarvis Fellowship at Union Theological Seminary, New York, Dr. Cleland obtained his I. M. degree, summa cum
laude. He returned to Scotland after a year at Union, having been awarded a fellowship at Trinity Hall, Glasgow. He
assisted the professors of Theology and of New Testament Criticism, and from 1929 to 1931, he was a Fellow at
Glasgow. This prevented him from accepting a position as assistant to the professor of Christian Ethics at Union Seminary, New
York. However, in 1931, when Amherst College made him assistant professor, and in 1939 associate professor, he accepted. On May
23, 1938, he was ordained into the ministry of the Presbyterian Church in America.

Since coming to Duke in 1945, he has demonstrated an amazing pulpit appeal and brilliance which has won for him
the reputation of being one of the most popular lecturers and preachers in the East. At present, he is working
on his Doctorate dissertation at Duke, in addition to his teaching and preaching.

(Continued on Page Eight)

Gladys Swarthout Opens Homecoming Program

A capacity attendance of interested alumni, friends, and students of Davidson filled Chambers Auditorium last evening to hear Gladys Swarthout,
world-famous mezzo-soprano, in her first appearance on the Davidson campus. Miss Swarthout's concert officially launched the weekend Homecoming program and
added much prestige to this program.

Gladys Swarthout made her operatic debut with the Chicago Civic Opera in the season of 1924-25. Her talent won her
immediate recognition from critics, and on November 15, 1929, Miss Swarthout made her Metropolitan debut. Critics have long ranked her
as one of the best performers of her era. Miss Swarthout has not only distinguished herself in opera but is
recognized as an authoress, having written a number of motion pictures. For five consecutive years, she was voted by 800
United States and Canadian radio editors as "the best female classical vocalist on the air." She is the only woman
ever to have had the distinct privilege of singing for the entire assemblage of Congress.of the United States. Miss Swarthout
fulfilled all expectations in her concert, at which she sang a great many numbers. Fesperman is at Yale Divinity School,
New Haven, Conn., in a private mental hospital. By Pete Kalogridis

These are critical times. Never before in the history of Davidson College has this institution been confronted with a more
serious problem. In these times all good men must rally to the cause of their Alma Mater. To be divided
at this crucial time would mean utter disaster and ruin. The way to victory lies in complete cooperation and the
presentation of a united front against the common foe who each year is becoming increasingly dangerous.

It must be said in all fairness and justice to Davidson men that the situation in previous years has been
accepted in a more or less good sportsmanlike manner and no ill feeling has been directed against a highly thoughtless
and inconsiderate nation. But the situation has become intolerable. The only thanks Davidson has received throughout the years for turning
out leaders in every phase of life for this nation is to be continuously insulted every fourth year by an
ungrateful people. The time has come for a change. We may no longer allow such a shameful practice to exist.
We must act now.

This is no laughing matter. The situation has simply gone too far. Perhaps the politicians and high government officials have
underestimated the strength of our stronghold of knowledge and education. In any case, they have been misled into believing that
they could continue to get away with their anti-Davidson practices. This incorrect assumption may cost them dearly. These cigar-smoking, hand-shaking,
baby-kissing opportunities seem to have forgotten a very important factor in their crude calculations and double-dealing methods. And that is
the Davidson spirit. For, once aroused, it knows no limits and will cease only with the complete destruction and development
of all its enemies. But the damage has been done. If the situation persists, there can be no alternative but
the formation of the Davidson Party and its overwhelming and complete victory in the elections of nineteen hundred and two.

For Davidson and vicinity, the big weekend will be fair and cooler, but taking it by days here's what we
may expect: The weather will become cooler on Friday night and Saturday. Slim chance of showers on Friday night. Saturday
will be rather windy with clear skies. Sunday will continue clear and cool with less wind. Temperatures Saturday night will
be just right for cuddling up close, especially after the dance. Temperature Sunday will be near 58-62 in the afternoon.

ALUMNI OPEN $2,900,000 FUND RAISING CAMPAIGN

Today Davidson launches into one of the most significant periods of its history; a period which will decide much concerning
the future of the college. Today marks the beginning of a campaign to raise $2,500,000—the minimum amount that will be
needed to carry out Davidson's Development Program. The needs of the college are obvious: the new gymnasium, a new college
church, reconditioning of campus buildings, and an increased endowment.

In the minds of the president and the Trustees of Davidson College, Davidson has reached the place where it must
either slowly retire into a smaller and less significant role as an educational institution or must continue to develop as
one of the great colleges of the South and of America. The decisive factor in her development is whether or
not she can have the buildings and endowment that this second century of service requires. To secure this minimum sum
of $2,500,000, a tremendous organization, both in quality and numbers, has been set up. This organization has already been formed,
with a hundred and fifty-eight men and women in selected key positions. The structure of this organization falls into five
main groups. The first of these is the Honorary Committee of Sponsors, composed of fifty-nine prominent businessmen, and headed by
Mr. S. Clay Williams, Chairman of the Board of Reynolds Tobacco Company. The second group is the Development Committee, headed
by Mr. Spencer Love, Chairman of the Board of Burlington Mills. This group is actively responsible for the program of
campus development.

Last night’s dance, the first of the 1948 Homecoming set, was everything that had been hoped for and—as expected. Already
primed with rhythm by the Gladys Swarthout concert in Chambers auditorium, the crowd swarmed onto the gym floor to express
their high spirits with a swirl of tulle skirts and tails. The gym was handsomely adorned with a complicated array
of crepe paper, and the members of the Pan-Hellenic Council and others who volunteered their services in making the gym
attractive are to be commended.

Billy Knauff's orchestra, which led the dipping and swaying of this first Homecoming hop, was right up to par. Knauff's
music, already accepted by Davidson men, as vouched for by the frequent requests for it in the past, was in
fact even better than that of last year. This improvement was due not only to added experience but also to
several additions to the group, among them a trumpeter from Gene Krupa’s band and a saxophonist from the Studio Orchestra
of New York. Adding color to the occasion was the presence of thirteen Davidson Seniors chosen this week for listing
in "Who's Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges." The thirteen chosen are J. D. Ashmore, George W. Cheek,
Jr., David H. Gambrell, Ernest B. Hunter, Jr., Eugene B. Bingham, Jack P. Etheridge, A. M. Wart, Herbert Meza, Carl
A. Pahl, John L. Payne, Jr., William M. Scruggs, Jr., David Shepperson, Jr., and Charles J. Williams.

Selection is made annually by a committee from the faculty and administration of the college on the basis of scholarship,
leadership and cooperation in educational and extracurricular activities, citizenship, promise of future usefulness, and recognition of those whose efforts and
ability have been most outstanding. The names and a biographical sketch of each of these men will appear in the
1948-49 edition of "Who's Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges" along with those of campus leaders from three
hundred other universities and colleges.

The men as they are known on the campus, along with their principal accomplishments, are as follows: J. D. Ashmore,
past president of the Pan-Hellenic Council; varsity basketball and football, Greenville, S.C.; Buddy Cheek, Freshman Adviser, standout on football and
basketball teams; Selma, Ala.; Dave "Meatball" Gambrell, editor of Scripts 'n Pranks, former football manager, Atlanta, Ga.; Ernest Hunter, editor
of Quips 'n Cranks, former Pan-Hellenic representative, Charlotte; Gene Bingham, Judge of the Court of Control, football and track teams,
Gary, W. Va.; Jack Etheridge, Y Cabinet, president of IRC and the honorary fraternity council, Atlanta, Ga.; Mac Hart, editor
of the Davidsonian, Gainesville, Fla.; Herb Meza, president of the YMCA and the Campus Club, Tampa, Fla.; Carl Pahl, president
of the student body, varsity football, Memphis, Tenn.; Jack Payne, Y Cabinet, head of Christmas Gift Fund, active in Presbyterian
Young People’s work, Davidson, N.C.; Bill Scruggs, president of Pan-Hellenic Council, co-head cheerleader, Charlotte, N.C.; Dave Shepperson, president of IDC
and Beta Theta Pi, varsity baseball, El Dorado, Ark.; and Mike Williams, varsity football and basketball, president of Kappa Sigma,
North Wilkesboro, N.C.

CALENDAR

VESPER SPEAKER
November 7—Dr. James T. Cleland, Duke Divinity School, Durham, N.C.

CHAPEL SPEAKERS
Monday, November 8—Prof. W. M. Thompson.
Tuesday, November 9—Prof. A. V. Goldiere.
Wednesday, November 10—Speaker to be selected.
Thursday, November 11—Prof. Chalmers Davidson.
Friday, November 12—Rev. John H. McKinnon, Concord, N.C.
