A Publication of the “ACA AU. 5, LOAG

After being so completely humbled by the Faculty All-Stars last week, the Shags will celebrate an astounding comeback yesterday by resoundingly spanking the Georgia Peaches. 

This whupping, and that is exactly what it was, took place on the Davidson diamond, reawakened. With Jim Branch pitching, the Wildcats were never in serious trouble, though Georgia did lead in the first innings. From this point on, Branch put a damper on the efforts of the Peaches, and the score at the close of the game was 8 to 2.

This places the Wildcats in second place, challenging the All-Stars for the top spot, and the Peaches in the cellar of the league.

Rev. William R. Smith III, currently pastor of the Yadkinville Presbyterian Church, has been selected by the YMCA Board of Control as the "Y" Secretary for the school year 1948-49, it was announced today by W. S. McLean, present Secretary.

Graduating from Davidson in 1945, Smith finished Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., while he was serving as pastor in Yadkinville. He married the former Miss Helen Hayes of Pittsburgh in 1946.

As a student, Smith was extremely active in extra-curricular activities, having served as president of the YMCA, and treasurer of the Pan-Hellenic Council. A member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, the intrach letterman was manager of the Student Store his junior year. He was a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society, was listed in "Who’s Who Among Students in American Colleges and Universities," and was tapped into Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity, during his undergraduate days.

He and his wife will move to Davidson the latter part of this month.

Tonight at 9:00, unless foul weather intervenes, a watermelon cutting will be held on the west lawn of the YMCA. As on previous occasions, the watermelon will be ten cents a slice. In the event that it rains, this will be postponed until Monday night, same time and place.

Sunday evening vespers will be conducted by Rev. John L. McKinnon, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Concord. His topic: "The Christian Student and the Alcohol Problem."

Movies

VISITOR AUG. 25: "Joyce Reynolds, Robert Hutton in 'Janie'"

VISITOR AUG. 26-27: "The Adventures of Robin Hood" with Errol Flynn and Olivia de Havilland

VISITOR AUG. 28-30: "On an Island with You" with Esther Williams and Peter Lawford