4 CIRCULATION, (combined with Reader's Digest), OVER 1,000,000

Vol. 1 No. 4

A Publication of the Y.M.C.A.

June 30, 1948

Dance Success

SOFTBALL RACE TIGHT AS CONVENTION DELEGATES

With half of the season already under the covers, Davidson's Summer Softball League is a tight, two-team race. West's sluggers, paced by manager Hugh Hill, held undisputed possession of first place until they were toppled by Quentin Cooper's surprising Georgia Crackers. The Town team, composed of husbands, fathers, graduates, and general flunkies, moved into a tie with West by winning their fourth straight from Jim Driggs' hapless Watts squad. Both the leaders have a won-lost record of 5-1 and hold a three-game edge over third-place Georgia.

Coach Charlie Parker, President of the League, announced Tuesday that the season would end on Thursday, July 8, and would be followed by a post-season skirmish on July 12. The winner of the pennant will engage an All-Star team, chosen by the losing managers in this marathon.

The standings, including games played Tuesday, June 29, are:
TEAM: WON - LOST PCT.
Town 5 - 1 .833
West 5 - 1 .833
Georgia 2 - 4 .333
Watts 0 - 6 .000

In the games yesterday, the Town team, behind the sterling pitching of Bert Anderton, killed Watts by a score of 6-3. Georgia's never-say-die spirit pulled a hard-fought game out of the fire for an 8-7 win over the West boys.

Saturday night may be the "loneliest night of the week" for some fellas, but for the members of the student body who remained on campus this past Saturday to entertain 27 student nurses from Presbyterian Hospital in Charlotte, it was anything but lonely. Spirits were temporarily dampened when the appointed time rolled around and the fair ladies still had not arrived. It seems that the bus which was chartered to "do the honors" still hadn't been heard from. However, with eager cooperation from both camps, this obstacle was overcome. "Available" McLean and Ernie Spangler took off for the Queen City like scalded dogs and returned with a car-load of beautiful girls apiece while still another car was leaving Charlotte.

The dance got underway about 9:30 and everyone had a wonderful time. After some ferocious promenading, a short intermission was observed for each couple to adjourn to the "Stud" for refreshments.

The highlight of the evening came when "Bomber Bill" called a ShueFly Swing, which proved to be the last and best dance of the evening.

The comments heard in the Stud after the dance were as many and varied as the characters present, but one or two stand out: "Gee, she was cultured!"; "Boy, we even had a stag line."; "How do you get to the Presbyterian Hospital Nurses Home?"; etc.

The WILDCAT wishes to report that one of these fellows not only found the Nurses Home but had an interesting date the next night on a visit to the pediatrics ward.