FACULTY ADDITIONS

The following professors will join the faculty here at Davidson at the beginning of the fall term:

Dr. James Y. Causey, Emory U., Spanish Department
Charles W. Roberts, '41, Emory U., Spanish Dept.
Joseph E. Martin, '46, UNC, Mathematics Department
Frank R. Sinclair, '37, Catawba and Miss. State, Economics and Business
James S. Purcell, Stetson, English Dept.
Ray H. Ostwalt, '35, Duke, Psychology Dept. (Education)
Charles Godcharles, Union, Psychology Department
Lacy S. Sellars, Davidson College, Physics Department
John L. Stewart, Davidson College, Chemistry Department
Jo Jo Thigpen, WIC, Public Relations
Bill Smith, Davidson College and Union, "Y" Secretary
Boyd H. Beard, Ohio Wesleyan, Freshman Football

(Beard once assisted in football at Ohio Wesleyan, but during the past year coached the football team at Brown High School of Delaware, Ohio.)

College listed is the one with which the professor was last affiliated. Those listed with class year are graduates of Davidson.

"WONDERING AROUND"

At this late date, there is very little left to wonder about, so this week as we are putting this paper "to bed and to rest" we want to take this opportunity to offer congratulations to a few. That is after asking a few final questions:

Just wondering:
How much happier "Boo" Patterson will be to get back to Charlotte?
What Big Leighton will do about his three weekly trips to Charlotte?
How "Fatman" Drymon will get "Old Faithful" to Florida?
What "Weeping Willie" is weeping about? Local interest?

Congratulations to Charlie Dockery, who after three years here is about to settle down. Really?
Charlie Robinson: Luck to you at Med School. Zorro, you will need it since they have not had an opportunity to find out you are a genius.
Muscle Hoskins: Our sympathy to you since you failed to catch the bus to Kinston. That is okay, my boy, because they run the year round.
Dick Stone: Good luck to you, son, and may happiness be yours. (Wedding bells are breaking up that old gang). Orange Blossoms, Dick?
George Adams: We join you in your new-found joy. A little change in plans, perhaps?
Bunny Perrin: Our sympathy if you have not found that address by this time.
Joe Stukes: As you leave Davidson, Joe, we want you to know that it has been a true pleasure to have worked with you during the past years and that we wish you all the success that you so rightly deserve. Good luck, J.T.

In the final and what turned out to be the tightest game of the season, the All-Stars managed to stop a determined and fighting team from the West. A game of true championship calibre closed the season with the following standings:

Team          W   L
All-Stars     5   1
Wildcats      3   3
Peaches       0   6

The Seniors: Congratulations and good luck to all of you.
This paper: May you rest in peace until next summer.
The Editor: May you just rest in pieces.

That's all! Thank goodness!