It was a good two weeks for the Wildcats, those two before the State game last Tuesday night. They saw
a conference berth assured for the Cats, and also saw stellar center Buddy Cheek pull into the lead in conference
scoring, for the moment at least. Five straight family wins put the Cats in undisputed possession of fourth place in
the standings, and with Duke unexpectedly losing to Clemson Tuesday night, it is not likely to knock them off.

CHEEK IN CONFERENCE LEAD

BEAT WHITE PHANTOMS

State Victory Ends Cat Winning Streak

The squad which will undoubtedly see action in the Southern Conference Tournament in March. They are: Whit Cobb (13) and
Co-Captains Buddy Cheek (23) and Mike Williams (24). Cheek is in the thick of the fight for the conference individual
scoring crown, having bucketed a total of 197 points against 14 loop foes.

JAYVEES GAIN REVENGE OVER BELMONT ABBEY FIVE

The Wildcat yearlings achieved just revenge for their previous setback at the hands of the Belmont Abbey Crusaders, by handing
this same aggregation a thorough 49-33 thrashing. Using a tight defense which allowed few Abbey shots, the Kittens rolled to
a 19-9 halftime margin and spent the rest of the encounter adding on to it. Long John Richards was high
for the J.V.’s with 14 counters, the majority of which originated from the pivot slot. Bo Roddey, Hengeveld, and Ed
Hopper abetted the cause immeasurably with 9, 7, and 6 points respectively. Abbey’s top point-getter, Vince Virgilli, was pretty well
tied up by Heywood Brinegar, who limited the Crusader ace to a pair of field goals. Leftwich accounted for 15
of the Crusaders’ 33 tallies, but his individual effort was far overshadowed by the whole Kitten performance.

Prior to the varsity encounter with Citadel, the Wildkittens gave their “big brothers” sort of a lesson in offense tactics,
by rolling up a 77-49 score over the College squad. The victory was doubly sweet, for the Pfeiffer hoopsters had
previously defeated the Oak Ridge Cadets, a team which downed the Jayvees last month. Six of the Kittens broke into
the double scoring column, with Ed Hopper, Heywood Brinegar, and Bo Roddey leading the scoring parade with 16, 11, and
11 points. The halftime score was 51-23 and only consistent substitution by Coach Redding prevented the score from reaching unheard-of
proportions. Ed Hopper was particularly effective for the J.V.'s with his under-the-basket play.

(Continued on Page Six)

Dutch, Pfeiffer Jr.

Appalachians Down Cat Wrestlers

The Cat matmen journeyed to Boone, North Carolina, to take on the Appalachian State grapplers and were turned back by
the score of 22-10. Lew Tomick and Len Sellars practically won the match singlehandedly by smashing out double falls over
Carlisle Charles and Jack Barnard.

Jung, Alexander Win

“Dragon” Jung, the Cat grappler, came through with his fifth consecutive mat victory by pinning Bill Cox in 5:45 of
the first period. Jung was never better as he out-maneuvered and outwitted his App adversary. Bip “Sull” Alexander won his
unlimited match from Dandy by virtue of a double fall. These were the only two matmen to come out for
the Cats, as the remainder of the six bouts all went to the Apps, two by falls and four by
decision.

Several of the matches were hard-fought engagements, especially in the 136 and 165-pound classes, where Wildcats Fesperman and Price put
up quite a struggle before succumbing to their App adversaries. As a whole, the Davidson team showed good form despite
the loss.

Introducing Mike Williams

In the disastrous affair, Tate scored 10 points, just double the number needed to go into the conference top scorer
position. He could lose his hold on top this week since the Cats are resting from conference play until next
Tuesday when they meet Carolina in Charlotte. The Tar Heels should stick to the coveted post.

All the conference figures look good for the Cats. Three of the ten highest scorers in the loop are Davidsonians.
No other team in the Tar Heel State can boast such a record. In the overall standings, which take all
games into consideration instead of conference tilts, Gude and Mike stand second and third, while Whit stands eighth with 140
points. Mike has a total of 145 in conference play, and Buddy has a total of 270, of which he
snatched 197 under the eyes of conference officials. Despite the mishap, Buddy is sure to recover his last year’s form.

CAROLINA WEAK

The Cats face a weakened Carolina in Charlotte Tuesday. There are implications that the Cats can start off with the
homers. The Tar Heels were partially crippled by the ineligibility of Mike Carter early in the season. Another of the
big guns, Norm Wohlers, is out for the rest of the season with a knee injury. While the Wake Forest
Deacons gave the Tar Heels a workover, Wohlers was still a potent force in the lineup. His height makes him
dangerous under the basket. It is lucky for the Cats that they are facing Carolina in Charlotte, and with the
Tar Heels out.

Ashmore Romps

Ashmore comes out of the State fray as the big man in the Cat attack. Duke copped top honors for
the night with twelve points. He had the best accuracy percentage of all the Wildcats and played a better-than-average floor
game, at the same time keeping clear of his usual assortment of personal fouls. Cheek, as usual, was the hero
of the hour until he fouled out with better than ten minutes of playing time left in the game. With
him confined to the bench early in the second half on account of fouls, the Cats were unable to maintain
their lead.

Spring Football Practice Starts as Weather Clears

Spring football finally got underway Monday of this week after bad weather had delayed actual workouts for a week. Due
to the snow on the ground all last week, activities were confined to skull practice, though this gave Coach Jamerson
time to outline several minor changes to be used in the Red and Black grid attack next fall.

Spring Practice

With a part of the regulars participating in other sports, the squad turnout on the gridiron still turned out forty
strong for the initial outdoor sessions Monday. The ranks are pretty thin at tailback and fullback posts, and most of
the ends are either participating in basketball or wrestling, or they are concentrating on their studies. At the other positions,
the lineup is well padded, and Coach Jamerson will have plenty of material to try out in the scrimmage Saturday
afternoon.

Fifty of the Red and Black’s fleetest of foot turned out the first week to answer Pete Whittle’s call for
track team aspirants. Led by thirteen lettermen from last year, and most of the cross-country team of recent fame, the
tracksters began loosening up to get in shape for their first meet.

There were lots of new and old faces in Davidson gridiron circles. The new faces were those of several of
the many guys on the hill who could play but had never taken a crack at it here before. Among
the new were Bob Miller, who played center on the freshman team in '45 and who has just retired from
the service, and John Rittenburg, who was out last fall with a bad knee. For different reasons, Hal Mapes, Buddy
Cheek, Mike Williams, Bob Alexander, and Bill Wilson were not on hand, leaving a shortage of ends. Mike and Buddy
are busy with hardwood duties.Aetly Which will be with Furman here on Staff. He Mut and Ball are doing heavy
duty on the wrestling March 24. Coach Charlie is being ably assisted by Coaches Redding, Moneyhan, and the new backfield
coach, Ray Brown, who has just arrived on the campus after his recent grid activities and graduation from the University
of Virginia. This quartet is working the boys long and hard to get them into shape and plot some strategy
for next year’s schedule, which will be about the same as last year’s.

Lettermen-Back
Most prolific scorers from last year’s squad who are back in harness are Gundar Gray, Ed Hopper, Whit Cobb, and
Gene Bingham. The latter is working at present with the gridders in their spring practice but will soon begin working
on his 440 timing. In the distance races, we have Gundar Gray, Bill Iverson, Dave Anderson, and Murdock McKeithan. Fred
McAllister and Lee Willingham lettered last year in the 880, Bingham in the 440. Whit Cobb is the big man
in the 220, the 100, and he also broad jumps; Ed Hopper does the hurdles, and Pete Brown and Dave
Walker clear the bar on the pole vault.

In the field events, Brownson tosses the javelin, Eborn puts the shot. In addition to these men mentioned, there are
many more who participated last year and will show improvement this season.

48 Schedule
By DOUG HIX
The track schedule is as follows:
March 29—Furman, home.
April 10—University of South Carolina, Columbia.
April 17—W. & L., Lexington, Va.
April 29—The Citadel, home.
May 1—Clemson, home.
May 15—Southern Conference.

Son: “Pop, why do they rope off the aisle at church weddings?”
Pop: “So the bridegroom can’t get away, son.”

“We were so happy for over a year, your honor, and then—then the baby came.”
“Boy or girl?”
“Girl—she was a blond and moved in next door.”

It seems that “Big Chief” Mike Williams is fighting it out with “Sparky” Cobb for second place scoring honors this
week. Mike, who was slated with Buddy as an early season choice for team scoring honors, is not letting the
crystal gazers down. But he’s had plenty of tough luck this season, having sprained his right ankle in practice just
before the State game and then his left one during the Furman game. In spite of this fact, in 18
games played he has scored 226 points with a 12.6 average. No doubt you have seen the difference in the
score and in the game we play when Mike is not in there, that he has taken over Ed White's
place as the brains of the five because of his uncanny play-making ability. Have you ever watched him fake and
see the little fellers run around looking for the ball? He’s great—take, for instance, the time he pulled the V.M.I.
game out of the fire. Standing 6’ 2”, weighing 170 pounds, he sinks ’em with little or no effort at
all, pocketing 19 points worth against the College of Charleston as his all-time high last year. Mike has seen a
lot of action on the court, having played two years at North Wilkesboro High and then two years at McCallie
where he made All-Mid-South guard. Upon graduation, he entered Davidson, continuing his basketball career for a year before being called
by Uncle Sam's fly boys. He was stationed on the Mariannas for 10 months as a gunner in a B-29,
participating in some 13 missions. During this time, he played football and basketball for the air corps, whose basketball team
won the Pacific Olympic championship. He then returned to Davidson after some two years in service. Mike is in the
Kappa Sigma social fraternity, president of the Junior class, member of the “D” and Beaver clubs, and is a letterman
in both football and tennis. He plans to go into the “dry kiln” business (whatever that is) upon graduation. When
asked about his accomplishments in the field of love, he just put his head under his arm pit and wouldn't
say a word. May I quote his roommate, Freeman Jones, “He loves ’em all.”

Five Straight Wins Before State Fray
The ‘Cats had their five-game winning streak brought to a screeching halt Tuesday night by the powerful N.C. State Wolfpack.
Coach Norman Shepard's boys had stretched their conference streak to five by downing Clemson and The Citadel and had risen
to a lofty fourth place in conference standings. The Pack, rebounding from the scare Duke gave them last Saturday, poured
on the heat to lambast the Presbyterians 89-54 in Raleigh. The locals grabbed a quick 6-1 lead but it was
short-lived as the State cagers roared back to make it 41-21 at halftime. The ‘Cats started fast again in the
after frame and cut the lead to 14 points before Buddy Cheek and Whit Cobb fouled out. That was curtains
for the Davidson five. State regulars and reserves rolled on from there. Mike Williams and Bobby Maner played the second
half under the distinct handicap of four personal fouls hanging over them. That left yeoman duty to Jake Ashmore who
came through well with four fielders and four from the free throw line for a total of 12 for the
night. Whit Cobb hit for 11 before leaving the tilt and Cheek garnered 10 before his departure. All was not
dismal for the Hill, however, because Cheek’s 10 points boosted him into the Southern Conference scoring lead over W. &
M.’s Andy Giermak.

Easy Win Over Citadel
The Wildcats had made their fifth straight win Saturday night with a strong second half to beat The Citadel, 69-30.
The teams left the court at halftime with a 20-12 score in favor of the locals. Cheek led the return
fight by pouring 17 points in the latter half. He made five in the third half for a total of
twenty-two for the night’s work. The lanky center made ten of twelve attempts from the floor and added his other
two points in four tries from the charity line. Williams hit for 17 and Cobb made eight.

Drub Clemson
The Clemson game Thursday marked the 'Cats biggest score of the year as they rang up an 85-52 triumph. There
was never any question of the outcome as the white-clad ‘Cats flipped in the buckets from all angles in the
Davidson College matchbox. Cheek and Williams again paced the scorers with 21 and 18 points respectively. The week’s game left
the ’Cats with an 8-6 conference standing and an almost certain bid to the family tournament in Durham.

The mat team looked considerably better than usual and put up a hard-fought match all the way. The summaries:
121-pound class—Jung (D) won by fall over Cox, 5:45.
128-pound class—Dancy (A) decisioned Hunter.
136-pound class—Sparks (A) decisioned Fesperman.
145-pound class—Sellars (A) won by fall over Charles, 30 seconds.
155-pound class—McLean (A) decisioned Evans.
165-pound class—Harris (A) decisioned Price.
175-pound class—Tomick (A) won by fall over Barnard.
Unlimited class—Alexander (D) won by double fall over Henry (A).

At Davidson, Dan W. Tyler smokes CHESTERFIELDS.
Dan says: “Since I've been smoking, I’ve smoked Chesterfields because of their superb quality and satisfaction which no other cigarette
provides.”
Voted TOPS!—Chesterfield the largest selling cigarette in America’s colleges (by nationwide survey).
