RF i A
; Me, Zl
ft Y,
y ZA J ‘
Vol. 1, No. 1 A Publication of the YMCA August 11, 1948

FACULTY FOILED FORMER DAVIDSON PROF. TO CONDUCT

TWO SERVICES THUR.

Yesterday the Wildcats of West dormitory sharpened their fangs and avenged two former losses at the hands of the faculty
team by handing the All-Stars a 6-3 pasting. The All-Stars, behind the pitching of Prof. Baumann, got off to an
early lead in the first inning but their one-run margin did not last long. In the third frame, the Wildcats
hit their stride and by the time the sides were retired in this crucial inning, the Westers were ahead 5-1.
Throughout the rest of the game, the Wildcats pushed across three more runs and nipped a Faculty rally in the
last inning after the boys from Chambers had added two more runs to their total.

In what turned out to be one of the fastest games this summer, the West team turned in an errorless
performance in the field; and at the plate, led by Tommy Langford, who batted in four runs, they were able
to collect hits at the crucial moments. Jimmy French held the Faculty All-Stars to six scattered hits, and in one
inning the West twirler retired the League-leaders with four pitches.

Last Thursday, a sixth-inning three-run homer by Dick Redding gave the All-Stars an 8-7 victory over the Wildcats; and at
present, the Faculty is still in the lead with a 3-1 record. West is second with a .500 average, and
the Georgia Peaches have undisputed rule in the cellar. There are five more games to be played in the current
pennant race.

Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman, Professor of Theology at Louisville Seminary, will conduct services here on the campus Thursday, Aug. 12,
when we observe Religious Emphasis Day.

Many Upper-classmen will remember Dr. Foreman as a former Professor of Bible and Philosophy here at Davidson. While here, he
was noted for his outstanding ability to hold the interest of all who heard him, by unusual presentations of forceful
messages.

Dr. Foreman will conduct Chapel Thursday morning and a vesper service that evening at 7:30 on the west lawn of
the YMCA, unless rain intervenes, in which case the service will be held in the College Church. He will be
available for conferences with all who wish them during his day here. Arrangements for these can be made with the
YMCA secretary.

DAVIDSON MOURNS PROFESSOR

Davidson was shocked to hear of the sudden death Wednesday night of Professor W.W. Wood, Professor of Mathematics. Stricken with
a heart attack about 8:00 P.M., he had succumbed by 10:00.

The funeral service was held in the College Church Friday morning at 11:00 o'clock with Rev. Carl R. Pritchett officiating.
Interment was at the local cemetery.

Prof. Wood had been a member of the faculty since 1915.
