Friday, February 27, 1948
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Six

BETAS FLOG...

(Continued From Page One)

questioned, smacked his lips with great gusto and said: “It seems that I remember a legend to the effect that
our own Marshall Ney was accustomed on rare occasions to imbibe some of the alcoholic beverages manufactured by his Rowan
County neighbors. On such occasions he would beat his poor harmless dog with anything he could lay his hands on.
Some say this came from beating the dog to death. Whether they are around, I cannot say.”

This does not seem to leave any doubt in our minds that Betas do eat meat on some occasions. No
doubt the Los Angeles puppy incident was not intended to reveal their identity, other than to the friends of dogs.
Everyone knows that bushes are the second-best friends that dogs ever had (second only to fireplugs).

One faculty member, on being questioned, said: “No doubt the gentlemen received peculiar pleasure from flogging the puppy to death.
I wouldn't want them to know my opinion.”

Another prominent Beta on the faculty said: “Well, frankly, I'd be afraid to say. There are so many Betas around
here that I can’t tell when they are within earshot now and then. But take me to that promised Canine
Land.”

The only statement I would make is this, “The best Betas I know are bushes.”

This gentleman says, “Betas are bushes, then the Betas should reveal their identity, other than to the friends of dogs.
Everyone knows that bushes are the second-best friends that dogs ever had (second only to fireplugs).”

What’s The Latest In Spring Fashions For Men?
Find Out By Attending

WHERE? Miss Minnie Scofield’s
WHEN? Wednesday, March 3rd, 1948
9 A.M. to 8 P.M.

FEATURING
McGREGOR AND CALIFORNIA SPORTSWEAR
BOTANY AND ROCKINGHAM SUITS
STETSON AND EMERSON HATS
ARROW AND MANHATTAN SHIRTS
NAME BRAND MERCHANDISE IN SLACKS, TIES, BELTS, SOCKS, ETC.
DOOR PRIZES TO BE AWARDED
FRANK MATTHEWS, Davidson Representative
Belk Brothers
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
GOVERNMENT CHECKS CASHED FOR STUDENTS

“You must eat the liver of a dog, If you want to go to Wooglin when you die!” (Third Assistant
Editor’s Note: Wooglin could not be contacted for a statement.)

DAVIDSON INVITED...

(Continued From Page One)

the most precious time for discussion of human rights.” Last year a similar world forum was held in Cleveland, jointly
sponsored by Time Magazine and the World Affairs Council of Cleveland. To this meeting came men of the stature of
James F. Byrnes, then Secretary of State; Wellington Koo of China; Oswaldo Aranha of Brazil; Brigadier General Carlos P. Romulo
of the Philippines; Senator Arthur Vandenburg, James V. Forrestal, Sumner Welles, Jan Masaryk, Alcide DeGasperi of Italy, and others. People
of similar repute will come to New Orleans in April to discuss the critical subject of freedom. With this unique
opportunity in mind and through the encouragement and cooperation of the New Orleans-World Committee, Tulane offers to the college world
this Forum a chance to share in undertaking.

Sponsoring agencies in New Orleans of the Forum include, besides the City of New Orleans and International House, virtually all
major civic organizations interested in the cultural, educational, and business activities of the community. New Orleans was chosen for co-sponsorship
because of its recent outstanding development in furthering world trade and understanding through international programs.

“I guess it began when I was just a kid; making non-stop flights around the dining-room table. Later on, the
town got an airport. I got to know every plane, right down to the smallest bolts and screws.

“During the war I took off with the Aviation Cadets. The folks were all for it: They figured—correctly—that it was
the best way to get me into the air where I belonged.

“I made it all right: Trained in the best planes the Air Force has, and now I’m heading for transition
work in jets. The pay? Now that I’m a pilot, $336 a month, plus $500 for each year of active
duty. And there’s plenty of room for promotions.

“But that’s not the real point. Some men belong in the air. They were born wanting wings—with the action, the
pride, the freedom that go with them. There’s no better way to have all that, along with the world’s finest
flying training, than to join the Aviation Cadets. And the future—in civilian aviation or in the Air Force—is as wide
open as the horizon. If you want the fast-moving life, why not drop around to the Recruiting Station in your
community or the nearest U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force installation.”

U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force Recruiting Service
WIN YOUR WINGS with the Aviation Cadets

FEATURE CONTEST
DAVIDSON’S NEEDS FOR 111 YEARS
By Ernie Stricklin

Over the past one hundred and eleven years, Davidson has had a great need for a complete social life for
the students. Realizing that it would be a tremendous job, many left the job to others and consequently, nothing had
been done about it until October, 1947. On a memorable fall night, a group of men gathered at the YMCA
and began what is now known as the Campus Club.

The purpose of this organization is to give each member of the student body of Davidson College a well-rounded education
by cultivating and motivating his social, educational, athletic, and religious life. I say each member of the student body because
this organization is helping to do what social fraternities have been doing on the campus for some time, therefore every
student on the campus has the chance to get things which every college graduate must have to succeed in any
profession.

It is not an independent organization, it is an organization for men who do not desire to become fraternity members,
an independent, or for men for whom there is no fraternity. Man is a social being and will make social
contacts off the campus if not on the campus. Off-campus he might not have the life he needs. So often
we think we can live our own...lives off by ourselves. What wrong thinking that is! You fraternity, animal, room social
he the campus, the constructive which it social has proven he may think you can, but you will find that
you are only fooling yourself, and one day, you will have to give an account of your “abilities to live
by yourself" and then find you are, in a word, lost. The word “independent” has a very negative nature about
it. We feel that it is anything but a club to give a swell “bunch of guys” what life has
to offer to them. I don't think any article can be written on social life at David felt as people,
but there is so much yet to be done. There are too many fraternities on a campus for them to
take care of this issue. They are overcrowded now, but needless to say, they have done a good job.

First, let me pay tribute to Professor Temple for the naming of the club, to Dr. Cunningham, Dean Bailey, and
Mrs. Little for their help and wise consultations, and to the many others for their contributions to the club. The
club is using as its house the lounge of the Carolina Inn. Furniture has been bought from the treasury and
a superb radio phonograph combination. A Mecklenburg Hotel during the Glee Club came down for a concert, and at the
Midwinter banquet was held in Barium Springs in January. There are about one hundred members now and more are joining
each week. It meets every Thursday night, and some kind of program is planned for each meeting. There will be
refreshments served about every Sunday night after vespers, although a conflict with Sunday night visiting of the professors will not
come from this. The Pan-Hellenic Council has invited the club to be represented and it has accepted. Two members of
the faculty have joined: Professor Greet and Professor Ives. There are other things which could be mentioned, but here to
tell of what the club is doing. Yes, Davidson has needed some kind of social organization for the student body
since the founding of the college, and now there is an organization which will give that right to all. The
success of the club lies in each of the students. A lot of you are getting ready to go out
into a world filled with many who haven't had the education, so don’t let now and into the future be
unprepared. We then kind of social are proud of our college, and we have the right to be, but we
must remember—the success of a man is not confined to a textbook.

CINEMA COMMENTS ... PHI SOCIETY (Continued From Page Two) (Continued From Page One) lent distress by the instituting of his
“piggy bank” system. A chorus of Hugh Farrior, Ray Thabet, Bernie Stricklin, and Gerry. All the harsh decrees of fate
and the story of the fair “Persian faded chore,” now with “All Hail, Oh Davidson,” if you are prone to
snore when exposed to an awful bore. Mr. Payne bid alenda lux to all and to all a good night.
Before departing, drink a pint of chicory. When the broadcast was over, Professor Wood played it back, giving the speakers
a chance to hear themselves talk. The purpose of the program was to provide a microphone and entertainment for the
members of the society.

Classified Section

FOR SALE—Athletic equipment. Softballs and bats, Wilson gloves and mitts, tennis shoes, Wilson’s canned tennis balls, golf clubs, irons, and
balls. COPELAND'S.

TYPEWRITER FOR SALE Used Underwood portable. Fair condition. Bargain at $20. Henry Koestline, phone 4441.

Bates Cleaners 4 Press While You Wait Clothes Dyed Alterations 24-Hour Service Main St. Davidson

PASTEURIZED GRADE “A” MILK Mooresville Co-operative Creamery Daily Delivery PHONE 205 MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company MAKERS OF Deluxe Ice Cream Mooresville, N.C.

MOORESVILLE THEATRES WEEK STARTING FEB. 28 SATURDAY “RAIDERS OF THE SOUTH” with Johnny M. Brown also “INVISIBLE WALL” with Don
Castle CARTOON — SERIAL LATE SHOW SAT NITE 10:30 AND MONDAY “LOVE FROM A STRANGER” with John Hodiak - Sylvia
Sidney CARTOON TUESDAY - WEDNESDAY “DEAR RUTH” with Joan Caulfield - Bill Holden NEWS THURS.-FRI. “ODD MAN OUT” with James
Mason - Robert Newton NEWS

Carolina WEEK STARTING FEB 27 FRI-SAT. “COLORADO SUNSET” with GENE AUTRY also “BLIND SPOT” with CHESTER MORRIS CARTOON - SERIAL
MON.-TUES.-WED.-THURS. “GONE WITH THE WIND” with Clark Gable - Vivien Leigh IN TECHNICOLOR State Prices: 35c and 40c

THACKER’S, INC. Private Dining Rooms for Parties and Banquets “A GOOD PLACE TO EAT” 221 South Tryon Street Charlotte, N.
C. Phone 25490

Scotty: Rulane says: A gas range with its simple operation, instant, clean heat, low maintenance cost remains today the best
cooking appliance on the market. Thrift Road Charlotte, N. C.
