Coach Charlie Parker will take the wraps off of his 1948-49 wrestling team Saturday night up at High Point. The Cat mentor has four lettermen back to form the nucleus of his squad. Captain Jimmy “The Dragon” Jung heads the list of letter winners along with three Bills: Alexander, Mesperman, and Moore. Jung will wrestle in the 121-pound class. Last year, he went undefeated in dual competition and was a strong threat for the Southern Conference crown until injury forced him out. By JACK HAZARD

The Dragon took up the game two years ago and went unscathed until he hit a shoulder injury in the final round. Barring further injury, he should head the seeded list into this year’s championship scrap. This will be Jung’s last year.

Mesperman, a 145-pounder, has been a Cat worthy for two years and will also be doing his last year’s work for the Red and Black. Though Mesperman has held his own in the 145-pound class and not boasting the record of the smaller Jung, he has competed against top-flight competition. The Charlotte scrapper should go a long way this season.

Bill Alexander will have to hit a light diet all year to keep down under the 175-pound limit. Last season, he had to skimp all year to stay in his division except on several occasions when injury put him out of action. As a green junior, Alexander never lost a match by being pinned. Small point margins ruled him out via the decision route. With two years’ experience behind him, this could be Alexander’s best year.

Heavyweight Bill Moore will be in his second year of collegiate grappling. An injury sidelined the former marine for a good part of last year. When school books and wrestling togs are set aside, Moore dons the uniform of a Davidson policeman and has become a familiar figure around the campus in that role. With his one year of experience and three more to go, Moore could be a big winner.

The biggest blow to the Cat wrestling corps was the loss of 155-pounder Stubby Evans. Evans entered Davidson last year with an enviable prep record from Woodberry Forest and upheld that record with some of the finest exhibitions of amateur wrestling ever seen in Davidson. But it’s all in the past now because a knee injury has forced Stubby to give up a possibly brilliant wrestling future.

Another of last year’s worthies will not see action in the inaugural at High Point. Letterman Mott Price has not reported for practice yet because of a hand injury sustained during the football season. Price held down the 165-pound slot on last year’s squad and should be able to step in and take it over again when his injury heals sufficiently.

To fill the gap left by these two hefties, Coach Parker has three men to choose from. Doug Rice, Dave Whitener, and Bill Plonk are at present waging a red-hot battle for the two positions. Pete Brown is another who has been working out in this class but has not yet rounded into shape. The two who will face the Pointers will come from the first mentioned three. The return of Price to action will bolster this group.

Rounding out the slate for newcomers to intercollegiate work, Saturday’s match are two more. Johnny Kelton will carry the Red and Black in the 128-pound group and Paul Husted is slated for action at 136. Both have looked good in early season workouts and have shown promise for future performances. Husted is a senior, so will have only one year to show his wares, but the smaller Kelton has three years in which to seek honors.

Davidson will field a basketball team this year which yet has defied both name and description. This squad will consist of a group of varsity football players and is seeking games with high school teams in the vicinity and with similar outfits from other colleges. North Carolina has had such a team for several years led by Choo-Choo himself. State, Duke, and Wake Forest also have had teams and the Wildcat aggregation will complete the Big Five circle which could probably produce a tournament or league of some sort.

Carhborn has been the originator and brains of the outfit and has gained the support of the Athletic Department for the idea. Coach Dick Reading has agreed to devote some time to schooling the hefties in the finer points of the cage game. However, the lineup has several players who have more than a little talent on the hardwood. Dave Poole heads this list. Poole lettered as a basketballer at Davidson last year but is ineligible this year because of a pro-baseball contract. Other experienced men are Jim Sifford, Dave Erwin, Fred Eborn, and Carl Sheppard. Color to the outfit will be provided by such gracefuls as Buddy Chandler, Sandy Carnegie, “Easy” Rhodes, Red Wilson, and Mac Erwin. Quentin Cooper will man the squad and direct the team from the bench.

AL’S GRILL
Grade “A” Restaurant
“WHERE YOUR PATRONAGE IS ALWAYS WELCOME!”
WESTERN STEAKS — FRIED CHICKEN!
A. J. Bistony, Prop.
Mooresville, N. C.
Phone 69

Wildcat Sports
Friday, December 3, 1948, THE DAVIDSONIAN

DAVIDSON CATS OPEN CAGE SEASON

Shedding a shabby armor-suit significant of fall football, Davidson’s athletic ablest step into the spotlight Tuesday night in skivvies and sneakers, and under that spotlight many believe will be focused the highlight of the 1948-49 sports program on the Presbyterian campus.

Three games on next week’s card usher in basketball’s pre-Christmas slate. Tuesday night the Wildcat cagers tune up with a practice tiff with the Charlotte Y here, and Thursday night they open the season here against McCrary’s Eagles. Saturday they travel to Winston-Salem to meet powerful Hanes Hosiery, the club that tripped N. C. State’s highly touted Wolfpack early this week, 49-38.

Aside from Norman Shepard and charges, the opinion prevails hereabouts that the 1948-49 edition of the Cat basketball team will be one of their finest in four years and one that will mark the Davidsonians as a team to be reckoned with.

The Wildcats didn’t rank nationally in fact from a standpoint of wins and losses, it wasn’t a team which enjoyed a particularly successful season. However, in spite of the outcome of the games, the team amassed some very impressive statistics that will bear checking on now that the schedule is several weeks ago.

In the rushing department, the leaders in total offense (including the State game for which individual statistics are available) are Lambeth with 574 yards, Erwin with 349 yards gained on the ground, Sifford with 259 yards, Wade with 250 yards, Burton with 250 yards, Shepard with 203 yards, and Turner with 203 yards.ll ason If there in win cho Bud j real power on the Southern Con- AGAtS Banreled totnlol lilG vardssieiiente “Anderton outed {iit ad} this Wothe pa © old dy is weak neith folfowers nor |e Leee court Pop ground gamer was the plang: | for an average of 35.0 yards fo ce] tossing= a bill tha ‘ i Pponent ce detected it vet led by co-captains Vuddy Cheek ing fullback, Mac Erwin who bulled | season, His best average for om in y Comte Inte He was chosen e 47-48 -All-Sou- |’ 1 Mike Williams, Shepard's club his way for an impressive 349 yards | came was against the Kavdet er anyone thit hen Conference team, and in speak headed up with ten returnees i TOS: tries: for an) average of SIZ Wo Ni L. aulien le toed the bal round David ye cate ly ding of the co season one won| MoM list year’s, varsity. Gone are yards per try.’ Carl Pahl, alternate | y frente a0 SOs ceri | i} Ot eNt eed tion eda feline blest Clreek—to| Dick Mills and Lewis Bingham, and faltbaekoctias cai maveraue it 74 ANE EN NETE STS ETT TORT REY BSTTUTTRS Chin FAGAN Destials ean HIE INTORETTOTN Pav Poole 4s ineligiptes “The pes-= yards for 29.tries. Top honor ingthis beat eleven during the pa j However, the degd \ WO ETA RET ee ee eS NNN tie Shepard, who truthfully as- departinent goes to little Jake Wade,| wore Muda Cheek who pulle end on the gridivos t \V team page mulda’t hold atl {sents that Southern Conference bas- tlie. Clianloltes ewitty, aviio carried | 1echance (ar Renee RoVoraoltaneenNtt f aRailk are tay nae all will be stronger than it has the ball oe tinies 10m Al averaee Onl Nile wetliniie. Who’ eA | ato turnin ' tobe men that at present | Pee an many winters, admits that 4.65" yards. Close on his heels are | throws which covered 162 ] lore casily 4 ‘ ee ( the Prec voANdvi nd al + Wildeats will have more speed Carl Shepard, danky speed-metr | lim Siffofd, who oathered ino | Catching wa p ‘ emb t] Py elu d CAD s Nis 1947-480 eres n won chant from Gastonia who conipiled| es for a total of 183 vards. a cl Ts Onteeo eet \ MRM se i ty. He won the W of 28 games and fourth an average of 4.27 yards and Halt-| price, who took 5 pa ‘ wnt in e OM te olar- {| the conferes 1 State, back Jin Sifford, the Albemarle} Ca. halt of (Davidson's tet ' onsiste civer ! \ ‘ back and ‘last S01 Washington and Carolina, CANIM AUHO Hits, any aNcnaBe ON elle ye ae eye | ‘ \\ Wil pra ed the Agnes : heck, ME-Southern Conference, yards in 33 times lugging the pig ane ive tesmllcare nhekte Glial | | ( ed==to;l Sentil Award. annually | (O48, and second hi scorer in the skin. Pwo other backs that deserve Hane Mato tNAT Eu TICee ei earic : ) the goal lint to ring ( bonne , f the three up Jeon cee in average of 13.7 mention for their rushing are Cliff Ste eon Willinine tie ral ip 24 point ichatedd team scot ( \ hows the most /Pouts per ; hould have his Furner who turned in an average tireccpaacce rool: fer toutlidowie he os the al ite ball teat 7 pre ‘ cinent and service | best year ENCE Selma, Ala, pre- of 3.34 yards per try and Bert An- an 1k ainite Mote erie tas 6 he received honorable tion, Nn enfield; and the Vous Re [3 ed senior will serve as jump man, derton who ended his last year of ay reas position whieh would have been} tus Trophy, given for best typify. | but will rove the court as guard. college football with an eran of yeu MEUM NMC Ueto ax higher had the Wildeats had a bet 1 Mie davidson spirit, be iris be [Cheek 's remarkablh rebound ability Dav viride pen cw beautiful running catch made against oe oe , : 7 ined by OIDK, At this point jand drive for the basket stamp him } : VOM. 1. Fullback Erwin sinashed ‘ penne lol Nain | f fea Strange as it may seem, three fust the faet that he dit the ba men yoand ask; “Is there | beady as a favorite to repear his : ¢ his way through the dine for re 4 1 f : : Fane Wildcat passers rank above David Maite anda Ont miuener Holle 1g} ket last year for $70 points woule | an M doesn't d H-conterence honors this year son's much discussed passing star,} oso ae Nievtatal be enough to amake him a marked Phe modest Buddw says that he Co-eaptain Mike will again be the Nuburn <Lanibeth, in total average Bere eet Cet man in basketball cireles, but Pud- | has been Tett out in the women. de [cath behind “the show. Officially, Tae TONE IRM THO Uo“ En With the exeeption of the SASS er prams pa mea ees recta Fareat deal | partinent, but tt venerally known | the North Wilkesboro lank will be Jake Wade who pitehed for an ay and MoM.L. games, the Wildeats more, Possessor Gf a beautiful ba that he intends to fight otf ‘all his | Jisted as center this year, but he'll erage of 7.77 yards, Bert Anderton looked good a UG TBMUTO tes BUC TE ait uidectes pounds proportion Jenstlestibeis bee satheby jhe allover the court Mike is deti- Whp averaged 7,02 yards by passing, NV Me Tndinnsdetented: tye: lo ed nicely on a wellecoordinated Gf through medical school Dy the jnitely one of the outstanding ball And ‘Jim Sifford who has an aver- cals on’ two long passe iy th it. 3 ineh frame, he displays a fast Lhe isa pre-med student on the | hinders in the Sothern Conference ave of 541. However, far be it from [Pale with Wofford, W. & 1 nn Hoor game and tas a fiery competi ide, Some ot the lab-dweller have | and in dedition (tootinging, the bas: this writer to take away any of the Richmond, the win could have gon live spirit usually -eharactistie of | been wondering date in the evening, ket bell with deadly regularity, Mike glory due the Decatur, Georgia, po the: "Grts eect fouseveral id mall players. Under the bag Keboared How does Budd Cheek do it all [aces up the Cat play- patterns. passing whiz-kid, Lambeth, An ex- breaks, and failure to capitalize: on the lanky star shows springs in hi Mithough he ts finishing his school | Vinee” other seniors who. will amination of statistics shows that breaks: of their own, Vollowing ‘the legs, pulling in many a rebound, |e here nest spring; students, fac [ake the Wildeat’ wheels roll) on Ae ROW OHO ER TETIVBSTIAICe TET Wofford) game, it) looked like a Ae well ag helaFATTA ONS hie EliGot Sa Becsbos al mnicwill lone remem=| {ve hardwood are Dill Iverson, J. every one time that the next closest UC en pAlecli sae ie ed well from either inside. or outside; ber Ce (sian) invton Cheek as | Pe He Hob Mean ds 1), passer threw, and his total passing and Black; und aah zat a Ou LG and when he misses from anywhere | all i notverily as an ath | the Greenvill : product who yardage was 554 as compared to the Bore WC UInUE And he Pass sug under the boards it Gs usually he (ete NE asa Sthilent, tend: wie) aie neatly Canes IntO! Wis ONnth combined total of 466 yards of the | Pulled themselves together and dis-] cause of a foul. In the free a | wentleman ho _typities the true] the “Southern Conference tougna- three aforementioned hurlers. Au-[ played a good brand of football, department he is unexcelled mal piritvofl a Da OU SMaN (Continued On Page Four) 4 Ba \ \ \ MOKE Camels for 30 days ... it’s revealing — and it’s fun to learn for yourself. : Let YOUR OWN _ THROAT tell you the wonderful story of Camel's cool, cool mildness. Let YOUR OWN_TASTE tell you about the rich, full flavor of Camel's~choice tobaccos—so carefully aged and expertly blended. NO THROAT IRRITATION | _ due to smoking CAMELS! tore Money-Back Guarantee! Try Camels and test them as you smoke them. If, at any time, you are not convinced that Camels are the mildest cigarette you ever smoked, return the package with the unused Camels and we will refund its full purchase price, plus postage. (Signed) R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, ee Aa OM OM KOR ORR sere onclbe Societe + * PEN TIR CRE rerio elie cr . & ‘4 ee 4] ee 4 en's Se ae ge ae a p20 5 aa Oe Or KO 8 Kw HK ‘sate ottesttcaatrates toe Moke the Carel 30 Day Test_-PRO WW your" Jone! In a recent national test, hundreds of men and women smoked Camels, and only Camels, for thirty consecutive days—an average of 1 to 2 packs ‘a day. Noted throat specialists examined the throats of these smokers every week (a total of 2470 examinations) and reported According to a Nationwide survey: MORE DOCTORS SMOKE CAMELS THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE Doctors smoké for pleasure, too! And when three leading independent research organiza- tions asked 113,597 doctors what cigarette they smoked, the brand named most was Cainell