PAGE TWO * THE DAVIDSONIAN * Friday, December 10, 1948

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITORIAL STAFF
Mage Hart .......................... Editor-in-Chief
John McNair .................. Business Manager
Bill Gainoun .................. Associate Editor
Ronnie Dietrick ............ Associate Editor
Jack Hazard .................. Associate Editor
Bob Hollister ............... Managing Editor
Lonnie Turnipseed .... Managing Editor
ID Joyifeg Vabhe .......... Managing Editor
Dick Morgan ............... Managing Editor
Tom Niblock ................. Photographer
Charlie Reid .................. Cartoonist
John Hobart .................. Make-up Editor
Jim Murray .................. Make-up Editor

FEATURE REPORTERS:
Phil Mitchell, Hartley Hall, Gabe Lowe, Neil Leach, Jimmie Henritzy, Henry Hansen, Pete Kalogridis, Drew Gurley, Bill Sargent, Bob Grube, Jimmy Fiekeise, Bill Hol

REPORTERS:
Randy Taylor, Bill Watt, Warren Sims, Ralph Robinson, Tom Alwell, Bill McCrary, Tom Mann, Libby, Ben Drymon, Dudley Pendleton, Dick Chandley, Bob Northeutt, Stuart Huffaker, Bill Neal, Harper Newbold, Jack Pierce, Harry Shirley, Bob Kellar, Jack Peirce, Slats Metts, Lamar Hinson, Ed Richardson

SPORTS STAFF:
Cherry Stribling, Gordon Scott, Furman Wayglick, Watt Jeffries, Bill White, Phil Hammond, Bryant Robinson, Dan McKeithan, David Whitener, Ed West, Bill Buckey, Jack Stevenson

POLL CAT STAFF:
Jim Starr, Claude Higginbothan, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown, and Neal Underdown.

The DAVIDSONIAN Presents
EDITORIALS... LETTERS... FEATURES

Of course, they go out for football when they get here. Mostly, they follow in the footsteps of their Johnston who says of his Davidson career, back at the turn of the century when football was just getting started at Davidson, “I tackled an All-American!” The friendly, aggressive spirit these boys all show has made a big contribution to the “Wildcat spirit.” In football, Barium boys like Davie Spencer and Art Roach have made their mark, just as Ernie Stricklin and Mott Price are doing today. In other fields, Rufus Long and Paul Horie, steps beloved “Uncle Joe” in our history, have rendered good service to the Student Body and to the school in our own span of years.

But the strengthening of ties between ourselves and Barium is not the best reason for having our Christmas party again this year. It should be not only an act of Christian love at the Christmas season but also a tribute to the joy and love that we find in our own homes that we try to fill some of the emptiness these boys and girls must feel at a time when home and loved ones would mean the most.

For a Better Davidsonian

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager ........ Charles Cli
Advertising Manager .................. Hector McKeithan
Circulation Manager .................. David McConnell
Asst. Circulation Manager .......... Lee
Asst. Advertising Manager .......... Charles Do
Subscriptions Manager ............... Fotti

ASSISTANTS:
Bill Cumming, Bill Hart, Marshall James, Duval Hunter, Bob Harold Erwin, Bill Pharr, H. Clayton, Sam Cumming, Gene Jackson

CIRCULATION STAFF:
Alex Goley, Phillips, Parks Dalton, Cecil Rt, Joe H. Miller, Neill Underdown, John Hardin, Thad Monroe, Mutfa Morris, Gant Paison, Paul Guthry

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1948 Member 1949
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Barium Christmas Party

One of the finest things inaugurated at Davidson in the history of the present Student Body is the now annual Christmas party for Barium Springs kids. Last year just before the Christmas holidays about two hundred of the orphan youngsters came down to the campus on buses and were entertained by the ten fraternities and the Campus Club in the different fraternity houses. It was an unusual sight to see Joe down on his knees surrounded by a ring of wide-eyed ten-year-olds, telling them Christmas stories. The students did a good job of entertaining and seemed to get a big kick out of the job; but the best job of entertaining was done by the kids. They were not a bit shy, especially the little girls, and their full-of-pepness made the job easy.

We of the Joe College student world tend to forget that the world outside is peopled with more than just The Pocketbook (poppa or Uncle Sam, as the case may be), and The Babe (any available young lady within weekend distance of the campus). It is good for us to hear the patter of not-so-big, but bigger-than-little feet in our fraternity houses and college halls. It not only reminds us of the true spirit of Christmas but also adds a touch of life outside to ivory palace living.

We hope our readers will not mind this once if we add three letters onto our paper's motto, “For a better Davidsonian,” and make it “For a better Davidson.” Not that we think they will do a lot of good. Essentially the same suggestions have been made before without any action being taken. Many faculty members, without going deeply into constructive criticism, berate the DAVIDSONIAN for not running every sort of thing that they would like to see, or for not being as good a paper, say, as Carolina’s Daily Tar Heel. We are not griping about that. We realize that we have certain limitations and a good many faults and shortcomings. But we would like to see the criticisms come out in print, or at least in some form that we can latch onto as a basis for improvement. Our purpose cannot be to put out a paper comparable to the Daily Tar Heel, but we would like to make it all that the students want it to be. We want them to realize that it is their paper, and that we can only make of it what they want it to be! To do this we need their workable suggestions in print.

There are some definite limitations that THE DAVIDSONIAN staff face. One is a definite lack of interest among a good many of the students. It is not for us to blame them for that. Other limitations are the shortage of time, experience, and training to do the job. As for the time angle, the staff is kept pretty busy from week to week just keeping the rag going along in the same old lines. We do not get much time to stop and take stock of our product. Only one of our staff members has any actual newspaper experience. Some two or three of them have had high school journalism courses, for better or worse. The fact is that we do not have much idea how a newspaper should be run and generally only have what’s handed down to us to work with. We think that we have a fairly decent paper considering, but we think we could have a much better paper if a man were to be secured for the English department who has some journalistic know-how. Then he could help improve the paper and editors and managing editors could get English credit for their work and thus have more time to give THE DAVIDSONIAN'S interests.

Let’s Have Cleaner Dogs

Everybody has noticed on the campus a very strong group of dogs, and perhaps some of us have noticed also how few of them give the impression of cleanliness! These beings, which are the most faithful representatives of the animal kingdom towards

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON FRATERNITY

Saturday night provided interesting diversion for Minerva’s boys from the rigors of scholastic endeavor. Everyone let their hair down, donned blue jeans, and burrowed, dates and all, into the conducive hay of the truck which met them at Central in Charlotte. After a ride which could be measured in length only by the number of songs, shouts, and other acts too humorous to relate, the vehicle arrived at the Island Point Club. This place was found strategically located for hayride objectives between dense woods and the Catawba River.

The evening's activities could be divided into two distinct divisions, the scheduled and the unscheduled. Among the former were dancing to the music of numerous name bands, a la wax; group singing in which “Don Juan” Aiken was found to be the man with the best sense of touch, “Bones” Jones, the easiest girl to find in the dark, and Dick Richards, the guy most likely to eat out of Dot Arrington’s hand; Bro. B.J. Erwin propounded prolifically from a play he had written entitled “Papa Passes” which was most enjoyable; Millar, getting his date’s name, remembered to lead the singing; and Joe Carson supervised the service of buffet supper, picnic style. Rogers, our genial host, flitted around seeing everyone had a good time.

Among the unscheduled activities were Mace’s impromptu remarks on virtue; “Dad” Vaughn enjoying the more mature society of the faculty members; Jake, and Billy P. vying their masculinity over an intriguing lass from south of the border while her date cringed sobbing in the corner; Joe Neel and his, finding bliss twiddling their toes in the Catawba from the end of the pier; P.T. and his, disappearing; and “Ricky” arousing everybody with “Bunny Hop,” recently imported from Bali. The ride home compared favorably with the ride out, only more so, with singing or shouting. The happy crowd disbanded at Central bringing to a close the best function we've had in a history of hay. Special thanks to the Joe Martins for enduring us as chaperones, the Erwins for their pleasant company, and Louis and the Carsons for engineering the works.

SIGMA CHI

With a convincing victory over the SPE’s, which featured a magnificent goal-line stand which held the SPE’s at bay for four downs after they had advanced to a first down on the one-yard line, the Sigma Chi touch football team finished the 1948 season. Concluding the season in a blaze of glory after a slow start, the Sigs caught fire after overcoming the Phi Gams and won three of their last five games, including a triumph over the Campus Club after a hard-fought battle. One who must take a major share of the credit for our team’s success is John Carr, hardworking and inspiring coach. With a starting line-up composed of Butt and Jackson at ends, Poole and Brown at guards, Hamilton at center, and Grisson, Brooks, Morgan, and Dietrick in the backfield, Coach Carr created a team that fought to the finish in defeat and was glorious in victory. Powerful reserve strength was furnished by Hampton, Hopkins, Stewart, Clark, Pendleton, Alcorn, Pleasants, Francisco, and Kelton. We are expecting great things from the ’49 edition which will suffer the loss of only four men by graduation and with the all-important addition of Johnny Kelton should have a spectacular season.

Sigma Chi cut loose Saturday night and flung a function that will rarely be equaled. Extending the invitation “Come to the Casbah” was Tom Apperson who turned in a highly commendable job of managing the entire affair. Delicious food was provided by Mr. and Mrs. Carr. Acting as capable bouncers at the nefarious affair were Lucky Clark and Tuffy Alcorn. But by far the most spectacular event of the evening was that exciting performance given by “Bubbles” Hopkins. One who will testify to the sensation it created is Senator Richard. Quoth the Boss, “This is even better than a front-row seat at the Gaities!” After breaking his glasses in a compromising situation, “Hot-lips” Mann sang his new theme.Song to Circle Harris. The Circle was dateless but explained this by the fact that everyone from Scotia had made other plans for the evening. However, the Rabbi made a night of it by drowning his sorrows in several gallons of cider. Consul Williams thought that Blackjack had lost his touch for a while but later firmly re-established his faith in himself. Blackjack also said that the next time he has a date like that, he'll carry a rope-ladder along as a safety precaution. Dirty Jim said that he enjoyed the bawdy songs voiced by Little Caesar but he was afraid his date did not share his appreciation.

BETA THETA PI

There was a brand new party down at the house Saturday night in honor of George Gunn, who was to come down from the monastery at Louisville to give his Beta brothers a few gems of wisdom. George discovered at the last minute that he had three term papers to write and a book to read before Monday and just couldn't squeeze in the trip to Davidson. It was a great party, nevertheless, and George should have been there. Frank Lemmon found a perfect bridge partner in Tilde Gibbs, and the two succeeded in limiting Dave McConnell and Maude Dixon to a completely blank scorecard. Jim Gunn and Tit Barber disappeared frequently under the pretense of making coffee, and Bill Annis and Black exchanged puns in a corner. Nancy Gordon wrote a note in Embalmin’ Peres and Pall’s notebook, and he was quite excited over the thought of an unknown admirer, but he didn't get the word. Ralph Robinson has decided to renounce his worldly pleasures and, of all things, to settle down to one woman. We can hear the hearts breaking from Maine to Florida, but brace up, girls, his brother looks like Glenn Ford. If you knew Susie like Ralph knows Susie, you would probably pin her up, too. So it’s roses to Richmond, and best wishes to a new Beta sweetheart.

At a Sunday night feed, Dr. Benfield of Louisville presented to us the Bob Benfield Trophy, a handsome gold cup, to be awarded to the best all-round intramural athlete in the Chapter. Earl Smith is the first name to be engraved thereon, and this award will be a coveted one in future years.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

Our fall function last weekend, in the form of a classic banquet at the Chez Montet, was highly successful. The banquet was scheduled for six-fifteen and at promptly six-forty-five, when starvation cramps had nearly overcome all concerned, the affair got underway and the nearly seventy Sig-Eps and their dates began their degustation of Montet’s continental chow. The occasion was topped off by a stirring oration delivered by our illustrious president “Sonny Boy” Hoppe. He was introduced by our renowned dialectician, H. N. Hol...

WHOSE BULLET?
BY PETE KALOGRIDES

Throughout time, the soldier has said, “You never hear the one that hits you.” This observation does not necessarily pertain only to war, for history has long since proved that it applies also to great nations and civilizations. Time and again, disaster has struck from where it was least expected or from a source which was considered unimportant. We have all heard that history has a way of repeating itself. Last week, U.S. leaders were looking at disaster in China — but not looking very hard. It was true that the Nationalist government of Chiang Kai-shek was toppling. It was true that the Gino had suffered troop casualties of 1,800,000 men since last July and that two-fifths of the territory of China had been overrun by the Reds under the leadership of such generals as Chen En-Lai, Mao Tse-Tung, and Chu Teh, all well-trained. It was true that if conditions continued in the same pattern, China would soon be the next nation to be added to the Soviet orbit. But the bullet in China did not bear our number. Moscow was also smug and desultory in its debate on ‘aid to China’ droning along in Washington conference rooms. Nobody seemed to think — certainly nobody spoke — of how the U.S. was to get the aid from China it would need in the years to come. Nobody said: ‘This is our war, and this is a major battle.” Nobody asked for whom the bell tolled.

It seems that Western leaders, convinced that China will soon fall, are sorry for the Chinese. But perhaps it would be far wiser to be sorry for themselves and their children, who may have to fight to retrieve what has been lost in the last month in Asia. Have we forgotten the ease of Czechoslovakia and the other nations behind the Iron Curtain? Have we forgotten the years that it will take before we again establish favorable relations with these nations, if ever? Have we forgotten that the whole Berlin crisis could have been avoided had we but the foresight to have rejected any program for the division of Germany that called for the complete encirclement of Berlin by Soviet territory? Admittedly, hindsight is much easier than foresight, but Communist domination of China is still a thing of the future, although that future is very near if we do not avoid it by acting now. For the bullet in China is aimed at us. If we do not stop the Communists in China, we are in grave danger of (1) having the whole of Asia fall into Communist hands, (2) having the Marshall Plan fail because European countries such as England and the Netherlands, already hard-hit by the elimination of trade with countries behind the Iron Curtain, will doubtlessly fail to make ends meet even with American aid if they are also deprived of their Asian trade, and (3) an industrialized China, potentially one of the greatest powers the world has ever known under Communist control, would be a serious threat to American security in time of war. A program of immediate aid, supervised by American military and financial advisors in order to eliminate Chinese graft and corruption in the use of this aid, is the only possible solution for the Chinese problem. Our objective will not be mere aid to friends. It will be to halt Communism in Asia in order to save our own — and Chinese necks. Whose bullet? No one’s but our own. May history not judge us as a nation of firemen who sat around debating while the house burned down.

Other Colleges Say
BY DICK MORGAN

From the Richmond Proscript comes the statement that men desire a homemaker and not a lover for a wife, while women desire a “good disposition” first in their selection of their idea of a perfect mate. This question was put before a freshman class in Sociology at R.P.I., and the tabulations showed that men favored a good homemaker, then attractiveness, then women of similar background as their ideal mates, while the women listed good disposition first followed by earning ability and attractive appearance. The item of “love” appeared far down the list for both men and women. Seems like Dan Cupid has taken a holiday!

S.M.U. quit talking about school spirit and has developed such good football sportsmanship that letters congratulating them are pouring in from all parts of the country. Included in their sportsmanship code, the host team must write a letter to the visiting team listing all the banquets, functions, etc. of the week. The visiting school will publish the letter in its school paper to allow its students to know what to expect before and after the game. A good idea.

“Students may not date in parked cars,” is the regulation that is worrying Florida State students. According to an editorial in the Flambeau, students will be allowed a few minutes grace when they bring their dates home, but it will be a very short few minutes.

The Rambling Wreck Club of Georgia Tech has gone all out to show outsiders what school spirit is by enforcing all their members to get “T” haircuts. These cute hairdos have created quite a sensation on the Tech campus according to the Technique, the weekly publication, although the constituents of the Club vehemently assert the students did this on their own volition. This is really giving all a hair-raising time!

The unusual sight of three brawny footballers, namely Bob Cox, Sid Varney, and Bob Mitten of the Carolina Sugar Bowl-bound Tarheels kicking up their heels in instruction to a dance class, was seen this week on the Tarheel campus. These three terpsichorean performers, led by “Twinkletoes” Bob Cox, are providing exhibitions of “Tap Dancing for Boys and Men” as an hors d’oeuvre to a conference sponsored by the North Carolina Association for Health, Physical Education, and Recreation. Choo Choo should dance too on New Year’s Day — right through the Sooner line!

A note of interest from the “University Hatchet” of George Washington University in the Nation’s Capitol — Doctor bills of men injured in the past interfraternity intramural football season will be paid from the proceeds of a dance. Two-thirds of all the fraternities, along with all the pledges, are forced to attend the dance. Maybe we should start something like this at Davidson, what with so many legs being broken and teeth being lost on the intramural field!

To close up this column, here is a poem by Alice Hamilton of the Lenoir-Rhymean:

She promised to be faithful
She promised to be true,
She promised to be steadfast
And always loving too.
The fly within this statement
It's very plain to see—
She kept her every promise,
But who said she promised me.

The Poll-cat
BY CHARLIE REID

If you had your choice of the types of jobs listed below in your field, which one would you select?

Low salary with security
High salary with less security
High salary with no security
No opinion

Davidson Poll of College Students:
Low salary with security: 27%
High salary with less security: 55%
High salary with no security: 18%
No opinion: 2%

Nation’s College Students (Fortune, Dec. '48):
Low salary with security: 25%
High salary with less security: 40%
High salary with no security: 33%
No opinion: 2%

From this poll, it appears that Davidson will produce fewer gamblers than the average institute of higher learning in the country. Since the faculty and administration have already indicated their preference, they were not polled.