Friday, March 5, 1948 — Page Five

Student Aid Examinations Being Held By Civil Service Commission

IRC Discusses PHI GAMMA DELTA

That intangible something that is the magnetic attraction of Rock Hill still manages to jerk quite a crew down each
weekend, and this past one was in only one way an exception. One brother, who will for reasons of security
(because of readers outside these ivied walls) go unnamed, went north; and seven of his hometown cronies and three "furriners"
went south to take advantage of his absence! Among those who crashed the Winthrop Midwinters were Peter “the woman ain’t
made” Brown (poor Pete, will he never learn?), Hal “make mine bass” Cashion and his lanky cohort Dabney tried a
secret lipstick remover down on the “Hill.” Said Cashion: “The invention has yet to be proved. I had to drive.”
Lover Sam Maloney, who spent a prosperous weekend away from the campus brushing up (and down) on his newfound inspiration,
had a good recipe for the boarding house: Mashed potatoes and pea soup. Sam said it was cheap, and besides
anybody can mash potatoes!

Expected To Attract Many

Students, graduates, and faculty members from colleges all over the country are expected to enroll this summer in the University
of Houston International Study Center. Dr. Joseph S. Werlin, director of the centers, said in announcing that a new center
will be opened in Cuba this summer. These study centers, which also include Mexico and Guatemala, are designed to acquaint
the students with the social, cultural, and historical aspects of Latin-American countries, Doctor Werlin explained. Field trips, sightseeing tours, and
recreational excursions to spots of historical and cultural interest are scheduled, he added. A unique all-expense plan enables students to
save materially in the cost of travel, housing, meals, and tours, the director explained. Traveling and living costs for the
Cuba center are $275, excluding tuition. For the combined Mexico-Guatemala center, the expense is $340, excluding tuition. The tuition is
based on the subjects taken. These study centers are recognized by the Veterans’ Administration and veterans are exempt from tuition
and receive their usual subsistence allowance, Doctor Werlin added.

Chinese Communist Party

The International Relations Club met Wednesday night, February 25. The topic for the evening was the Chinese Communist party and
the speaker was Pan Lan, a Chinese national who got first-hand information. His talk cleared up a number of questions
which have been perplexing the minds of Americans in recent months. Mr. Pan said that the Chinese Communist party is
not related to the Russian Marxist Communism. The Chinese Communists existed just after the time of the great Khans and
long before the time of Lenin. These Chinese Communists are not receiving any aid from Russia as is erroneously believed,
either. As their back to a recent poll, the Chinese people, after at least fourteen years of continual warfare, are
now weary of it. They are blaming America—rightly so—for prolonging the war by sending arms because America has interfered with
their peace.

PHI DELTA THETA

This weekend found his multi-states making many big deals. Bob Beck, John Carr, and Dick Morgan (who dealt again in
Concord with some neat nurses); John “Don Juan” Carr (who is the only person that can drive to Winston-Salem without
even looking at the road), Harry “Neon” Brown (who dealt favorably with a noble nurse in Charlotte this past weekend—nursing
is certainly becoming a glamorous and popular profession!); and Bill Harris (who went to Norfolk with Richard this weekend and
rotated with great finesse and confidence); Bill Clarke (who went home ostensibly to see his parents, but who also—according to
confidential Rotator Club files—spent temperate time with Fran in Rocky Mount, even to the extent of getting his car stuck
in the mud. So ends the official Rotator Club bulletin.

At this writing, insufficient reports have trickled through the heavy barrier of censorship and mutual protection from the freedom of
the press (which is sometimes said to be used too freely) for us to report on the awe-inspiring details of
the great escapades. Curtis Harper went to Lynchburg and Randolph-Macon carrying Appetite Al Guthrie. Both were joined by Casanova Adams,
and from the haggard looks, it must have been terrific. Lee Willingham and Bill Wheliss headed for their traditional haunts.
These masters of frivolity never fail in their search for happiness. Asheville’s bright lights burned long and bright due to
social Chas. Parker's weekend escapades.

PHI KAPPA PHI

In the ever, ever column, we find C. K. Stokes trying unsuccessfully to sell his stock at par (?) value
at Queens. Brother Al Harris went back as usual and fared in the same old way. “Swish” Carter again returned
to Morganton to rebait his trap but met with little success. He may well be classified as an experienced outdoorsman,
but he certainly doesn’t know what the score is up Reidsville way. It is indeed tragic. Sigma welcomes two new
pledges to the brotherhood, Dan McKeithen and Gene Regen. We assure you that it remains even today a brotherhood despite
the throat activities of a certain ex-pledge at the recent dances.

CAMPUS CLUB

Several members went mountain-climbing last weekend... “Strick” into the foothills near Wilkesboro, “Centigrade” into the chicken house with a couple
of chicks... Looking for Easter eggs so soon, Virgil?The Communist capture then, so quickly that a large percentage of the
Red Army of China is using American equipment. China is very important to the United States because she has the
potential of becoming a power and needs industry instead of agriculture. When she turns to this, she will become a
power to be reckoned with, and her friendship will be precious.

Pan's answer, taken from the Nationals, was: and he went on to say that the Christian element would act as
a buffer to keep the Communists from seizing control. He said that there are 5,000,000 Christians in China while the
influential members of both Nationalist and Communist parties combined are not that large. This makes Christianity most important in China.
And from this, the conclusion is gathered that what America should send to China is ministers of peace with the
gospel and not ministers of war with arms.

The Chinese people want arms to encourage the much-hated civil war.

Wheels rolling in the Campus are open to all students of all departments and levels, both undergraduate and graduate.

Two nights in a row is considered frequent. Dan, Bud, Ed, “Geek” Pino was found in some fantastic adventures.

Even ‘ole misogynist Carl, with his arm in a cast, can still operate though partially disabled. Jack Darringer, Al Hurt,
and Remson and Robinson were guests of beautiful Winthrop girls last Saturday night at their “Midwinter dances.” Thad Parringer took
a short boat ride with his fiancée. Bill and “Bepe” were the “cute couple” at Converse. We only manage two-bits
for the late show with the rest of the limbers. The radius wasn’t so wide, was it?

Al Long took a long weekend and spent it in Conway, but staying in Hartsville most of the time. Dudley
Camper expounded on the world status. Don’t you like things as they are, Dudley? “Happy” Tandy is “happy” because they
have the new snowball regulation. He was worried about his remaining good ear.

Tibby’s letters from Tennessee are few and far between.

The combined Mexico-Guatemala conference will begin July 19 and end August 23. This will make it possible for a person
to attend both the Cuba and the Mexico-Guatemala conferences if he wishes. Doctor Werlin explained. Further information may be obtained
by writing to Doctor Werlin at the University of Houston, 3801 St. Bernard Street, Houston, Texas.

PATRONIZE THE DAVIDSONIAN ADVERTISERS!

REGULAR MEALS
Breakfast 7:30-8:30
Lunch 11:30-1:30
Dinner 5:30-6:30

Depot St—Davidson, N. C.

Bates Cleaners
“Press While You Wait”
Clothes Dyed
24-48-Hour Service
Main St. Davidson

KAPPA ALPHA

Last weekend saw many deals by the Knights. Jim Saxon, the KA’s answer to the Flying Parson in track circles,
made a test run to Greensboro. However, it was rumored that the time made at W. C. was even slower
than his usual fast pace. Despite Saxon’s recent brilliant (7) performances, he sat in with his sick fiancée. The question
is: Who nursed who or what?

On the home front, we had George Barksdale, Bill Moore, Moe Harding, The Hat, Bill Houck, Jim Fisher, and a
few others. Higgie has a new lease on life after spending the weekend in Greenville.

We have several reports from the weekend. Charlie Reid asks, “How fast can a ship sink?” Grumbles point, “No Letter
Today”—and “No Letter Tomorrow, nor tomorrow, nor tomorrow.”

Among the wheels, we find that Sigma Chi takes pleasure in announcing the pledging of John Calhoun, Huntington, W. Va.,
and Charles Norwood, Monroe, N. C.

We are also greatly indebted to the kindness of Bill Beattie, one of our popular Delta Kappa brothers who was
with us last term, for his most generous and deeply appreciated gift of a beautiful upright piano. Now we can
all enjoy those fine Sigma Chi songs to our heart's content!

This past weekend was certainly a wheeling weekend for Sigma Chi’s pleasing pledges. One could practically count on the fingers
of one hand those that stayed on the campus! Chief Rotators Butt and Craver rotated to new heights of achievement
at W. C. in Greensboro. After returning to the campus, they released a point statement from the official headquarters of
the Rotator’s Club listing the Sigma pledges that have been taken in as second-class Rotators because of their outstanding success
in the social whirl. They are: Ben Hamilton,

In spite of the fact that two well-meaning brethren dispatched some helpful literature to one B. C. at W. C.,
Hormone’s theme song remains.

Jack (use French pronunciation) Hazard, the original furlined kid, despite the discomforts of a long and weary (but not profitless)
trip to Sullins, returned to the campus for a brief stay Sunday before cruising to Concord that evening with “Don
Juan” and his pal, Charles Mitchell. Must be great!

FLASH—(Special to the Davidsonian)—It was disclosed by a confidential source that Little Lonnie Macaulay, having been recently hopelessly bed-ridden, staggered
out this weekend for a bout with the heavyweight at U. S. C. Apparently, within the last two weeks, Little
Mac has lost several points in the “secession” state as well. Due to his weakened condition, he did not meet
with the same success that he encountered in an earlier bout at Erwin Lodge. However, the college authorities at Columbia
did not seem to be as disturbed by the

Wednesday and Thursday
March 8 and 9
“IT HAD TO BE YOU”
“This picture,” says Time, “can only be explained by an attempt to construct a plot from numerous old Tin Pan
Alley lyrics.” The editors of Time also proceeded to demonstrate this theory by outlining the entire plot with the use
of song titles. It began this way—“Did you ever see a dream walking? Well, Ginger Rogers did.

Cinema Comments
By WALTER MANN

While Hope is catching slapstick from the Crosby Romeo, The fated ship keeps tossing, o'er the waves to old Rio.
On the road down to Rio With the comedy trio; Can’t you hear those same jokes For our old but
barely three.

PATRONIZE THE DAVIDSONIAN ADVERTISERS!

Dine and Dance
UPPER DECK OF THE SHIP AHOY
LOCATED IN THE HEART OF CHARLOTTE
HELEN O'NEIL and the MARINERS
EVERY NIGHT BUT SUN. AND MON.
DELICIOUS CUISINE
NO COVER CHARGE

Friday and Saturday
March 12 and 13
“THE EXILE”
Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., is having his first fling as a producer. Naturally, he could find no one better suited to
play the starring role in his first picture than himself. He has, therefore, very graciously accepted the duty, and according
to some reports reads his part very well. This same rumor states that he should not have to read the
lines since he wrote the script himself. In fact, it seems that Mr. Fairbanks produced everything for his picture but
a plot. A plot is not really necessary, so he should do fairly well. Another definite asset for this plotless
production is the appearance of a new face. The find is Paule Corset, who perhaps turns in the only decent
performance of the picture.

And the gang will get the shekels.

PATRONIZE THE DAVIDSONIAN ADVERTISERS!

For Reservations Phone 4-2671

Frank’s Grill
“Just a Few Yards North of Davidson”
CURB SERVICE
* Best Barbecue in Town
* Hot Sandwiches a Specialty
* Cold Drinks
Main Street

QUALITY FURNITURE
LEONARD APPLIANCES
ZENITH RADIOS
PLASTIC UPHOLSTERED FURNITURE
Ideal for Fraternity and Office Use
DAVIDSON FURNITURE CO.
Phone 3671
