l THIS ISSUE DEDICATED TO SCRUGGS AND UPCHURCH _ Volume XXXVII ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA L DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1948 © LIBERTAS The Davidsonian Scruggs Elected Pan Hellenic Council President To Succeed Ashmore FRESHMEN TO ENTERTAIN QUEENS BEAUTIES NUMBER FIVE KNAUFF TO PLAY AT HOMECOMING DANCES Ashmore Resigns; Scruggs Elected At a meeting of the Pan-Hellenic Council Monday night, Bill Scruggs was elected president of the council to fill the vacancy caused by former President J. D. Ashmore’s resignation. Bill, representative of Beta Theta Pi on the council, was elected by a majority vote of ten fraternity representatives. A business administration major from Charlotte, Bill has been much in the student body eye lately as co-head cheerleader with Upchurch. Dr. Emmons Presents ‘Signs Of The Times’ By PETE KALOGRIDIS Doctor Peter K. Emmons of the Westminster Presbyterian Church, Scranton, Pennsylvania, was guest speaker in chapel Wednesday morning. In addition to holding the presidency of the Board of Trustees of Princeton Theological Seminary, Doctor Emmons is vice chairman of the Board of Foreign Missions of the U.S.A. Serving the Presbyterian Church, this summer he made a tour to observe the Church's foreign mission work in Korea and Japan. Dr. Emmons spoke on four occurrences he deemed to be symbolic of our world as it is today. The first lap of his air journey to Korea and Japan brought him to Anchorage, Alaska, “the land of the midnight sun.” It is easily understood how one might marvel at seeing “the sun in all its glory in the middle of the night.” Thus, Dr. Emmons added, even in the midst of all the blackness which the world finds itself today, the Light of God is always shining. The second phase of the journey involved landing on a small remote, fog-bound island in the North Pacific for refueling purposes. The manner in which an ingenious radar device on the ground enables (Continued On Page Four) “Y” Deputations Begin Year’s Work By SHELLY BEARD Beginning with four deputations to Kannapolis, Poplar Tent, Mills, and Huntersville, the Deputations Department of the YMCA under Hugh Farrior’s leadership has started its year’s work. A canvass of the student body conducted by the department turned up seventeen men who are interested in being members of deputation teams. According to the monthly report the majority of these are actively interested in the work and several have outstanding ability. In October four groups have been called to visit neighboring communities. One of these groups, composed of Harrison Taylor, Dave Miller and a quartet of singers, will go to Boone on October 31, to take part in a Westminster fellowship program at Appalachian State College. An attempt to encourage additional requests has been made by sending letters to nearby churches, inviting them to ask boys to participate in their services. Similar letters were also sent to neighboring girls’ schools, among them Flora MacDonald, Queens and Salem. An effort is being made to supplement deputations with quartets. This idea is going to be tried out next week with the deputation to Boone. Mentioning the opportunities in this field of work, Hugh Farrior commented, “The boys who take part in deputations find a way to express their Christian endeavors, which is helpful to them as well as to others. Generally, transportation and other accommodations are taken care of by the host church and often during long stays, dates or outside entertainment are arranged.” I have never been hurt by anything I didn’t say—Calvin Coolidge. Twenty-Five Year Old Dream Boon To Coincide With Festivities Bricklayers at work on eaves of new gym Beaver Club Plans Freshman Dance By JIM BLACKBURN About seventy-five girls from Queens College will descend on the Davidson campus tomorrow night for a Freshman Dance. The dance will be sponsored by the Beaver Club and held in the college dining hall. The girls will arrive here at about eight o'clock. A list of girls from Queens that do not have dates as yet will be posted on the bulletin board in Chambers this Saturday. Freshmen who want dates should sign up for them on this list. The dance will start at eight o'clock and last until eleven. It will start off with a square dance which will be called by Randy Taylor. The music will consist of waltzes, foxtrots, rumbas, and other types of dances that are requested. Refreshments will be served between dances. Appreciation is shown to the members of the faculty who will act as chaperones and to Buddy Cheek for making arrangements for this dance. YMCA CABINET IS BLESSED WITH NEW UNDER-SECRETARY New Members The student and faculty members of ODK convened in the faculty room of Chambers last Tuesday evening to hold initiation exercises for the recently tapped students. Jack Etheridge, Gene Bingham, Jack Payne and Mike Williams were formally initiated into ODK. Earnest Hunter, also tapped on Day, was previously initiated as he is expected to be away from the campus for this initiation. Following the initiation, the group, attired in tuxedos, attended a banquet at the YMCA. The speaker for the evening was Professor Beaty, who addressed the members on the phasesof scholarship in college life. He particularly emphasizes the importance of a studious atmosphere on the Davidson campus. He further pointed out that ODK, as an honorary leadership fraternity, should take upon itself the task of fostering such an atmosphere.

By NEIL LEACH

When Bill came to Davidson in the fall of this year to take up his duties, he came back to familiar and friendly territory. From the time he entered Davidson as a freshman in 1941 until he graduated in 1944, he was popular mainly because of his fine personality and his eagerness to serve others. While here, he pledged Beta Theta Pi fraternity, later becoming treasurer and manager of the Beta boarding house. He was one of the managers of the Stud Store, but still found time to be an active member of every musical organization on the campus except the chorus. During his sophomore and junior years, Bill ran the 100 and 220-yard dashes to strengthen the track team. President of the Y.M.C.A. and member of the “D” Club and Philanthropic Literary Society were a few of the honors he had as a student. His leadership abilities won him a slap on the back from ODK. By going straight through summer and winter, Bill graduated in three years.

In the fall of 1944, he entered the military service.

(Continued On Page Four)

Janie: Strip For Initiation

By NAT DANIEL

With a last longing look at the outside world, your reporter knocked bravely on the door to No. 226 Duke. To his surprise, his knock was answered by a cheery “come in” in perfect English. Upon entering, he was astounded to discover that although some students might not agree, Scruggs and Upchurch are actually sane at times. I talked with these gentlemen for quite a while and discovered that the reason they act “that way” in public is because they have been afflicted with an incurable disease called “comediamania.” The discovery of this disease was made in 1946 by the eminent psychiatrist, Dr. Spinboom J. Rafflebottom, of “Happy Jack” Hopkins Hospital.

The story of Scruggs and Upchurch really begins when they were in the seventh grade at the Alexander Graham School in Charlotte. The zanies had been friends for a long time but weren't very close until they joined Kemp Dunaway’s dance orchestra. Scruggs played the drums, while Upchurch handled a slip-horn. They played with Dunaway until they were in the ninth grade, then parted for the next few years. They came to Davidson in 1946, and their team was to become famous during their college career. The first team to perform “Frankie and Johnnie,” a song ever performed at Davidson, they performed several times every year. In 1947, they performed at chapel programs, D Club shows, and gave private dances and parties.

(Continued On Page Four)

In October 1946, the government completed the erection of “Cardboard Village” to the delight of the married veterans and their families who were unable to find living accommodations in Davidson. Due to the restricted incomes of the veterans, the government fixed the rent at $13.00 per month except for those few students whose incomes exceeded $1500.00 annually. In September 1948, the government gave Davidson College the entire project. Thereupon, the offices of the College Treasurer informed the occupants that there would be some change in the rent rates. The students felt that the rent should be lowered due to the inadequacy of the apartments and the high cost of heating them, but at a meeting which included the college treasurer and the occupants, a rate of $15.00 per month was set and agreed upon. However, the occupants have received a second letter which made no mention of the agreement but stated that further study was being made of the situation and seemed to imply that a greater increase might be made.

The cost of erection of the apartments was borne entirely by the government. The investment of the college was approximately $3500.00, which was the cost of water main and sewer extension and grading of property prior to construction. This investment increased the value of the property as a building site for which it will some day be used. At the present rate of rent, this amount would be paid back to the college in less than eighteen months. Veterans’ incomes are small, and they have made it known that they want to stay in school. The typical veteran feels that $50 per month (the average cost of rent, heat, and light) is too much for his budget.

Bulletin Boards

Two bulletin boards have been placed at the north entrance to Phi Hall for the benefit of the students. These boards will hold pertinent information about International Relations topics and the times for IRC meetings.

Morris Field Gym ODK Initiates

By CORELL

Newly elected president of the Council, Ernie, announced that Billy, the director for the last two years, has been the leader of many of the past events. Last year’s dance was acclaimed as the best of the ‘47-48 season. The band for both dances will be held in the Charlotte area. The formal dance on Friday will be from 10 p.m. to 1 a.m. in Swarthout Auditorium. Included in Friday’s dance will be the annual pre-dance. The informal dance has been set for Saturday night. Arrangements will be made so that no one will be left out. The actual cost will be $0.50.

Clothing Drive To Be Launched

By LAMAR HINSON

The annual clothing drive sponsored by the Beaver Club will be held soon. Students are asked to bring clothing to Hall Prayer Meeting on Thursday night, October 27. It will be collected by members of the Beaver Club. This honorary membership is composed of men from the freshman, sophomore, and junior classes. The purpose of the organization is to assist certain visiting athletic teams, promote dances, and to sponsor the annual senior auction. Officers of the Beaver Club for the year 1948-49 are: Cobb, vice president; McInvade, secretary; and Lambeth, treasurer. A list of the members of this year’s Beaver Club includes: Wade, Lambeth, Poole, Adams, Erwin, Davis, McCart, Evans, Goodpasture, Carson, Bird, Pearson, Hill, Alexander, Hengeveld, Dutch, and Sifford.

CHAPEL

Monday, Oct. 25 — Professor E. O. Guerrant.
Tuesday, October 26 — Professor C. J. Pietenpol.
Wednesday, Oct. 27 — Speaker to be selected.
Thursday, October 28 — Professor B. D. Thompson.
Friday, Oct. 29 — YMCA.

VESPER SPEAKER

The Reverend George Mauze, D.D., Pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Winston-Salem, N.C.