Friday, April 23, 1948

THE DAVIDSONIAN - Page Five

The individuals responsible for launching the plans for the organization are Carl Eborn and Ray Thabet, who began talking it up last spring. It all started when Eborn was discussing with Coach Whittle the necessity of an organization in order to form teams for the participation of the independents in the intramural program. Thabet became interested in this and the two went to Dean Bailey to discuss the possibilities of forming an organization to promote the athletic activities of independents. In this discussion, the dean presented a new motive, one to promote social as well as athletic activities. He was very much in favor of an organization so long as it was not political or anti-fraternity. He further pointed out that it would hardly be possible to have all the independents in one organization because such a large group would be too difficult to manage. Very much encouraged by the dean’s support, Eborn and Thabet withdrew to discuss the possibilities.

Their original plan was to form eight clubs and let the independents sign under the group they wanted to join. From these eight groups would be chosen representatives for an inter-club council which would coordinate the activities of all eight groups. However, without making any concrete plans, the two postponed any action toward organization until the beginning of the next term.

Early in the fall term of this year, Eborn and Thabet began discussing the possibilities of an organization with some friends who they thought would support such an undertaking. They immediately won the support of Stricklin, Amos Camp, Bob Sharpe, John Rittenburg, Sandy Sprunt, Arthur Jenkins, Bob Virgil Pino, Wells Hamilton, and Ben Johnson. These 11 men met at the Guest House to discuss the various undertakings necessary to get an organization underway. At another meeting a few nights later, they elected temporary officers. Stricklin was chosen chairman, Eborn and Pino were vice presidents, and Rittenburg secretary. Several meetings followed in which they hashed out all the possible difficulties that would be encountered in order to get an idea as to how to create a successful organization. They decided that the first step would be to draft a constitution to set forth the organization’s principles and plan of government. They first outlined one and then designated certain individuals to fill in various parts. The bulk of it was written by Stricklin, Thabet, and Sprunt, who wrote the parts concerning organization (officers, elections, and membership). The other subdivisions were social—written by Sharpe, Wells, Hamilton, and Jenkins; athletics—by Rittenburg and Camp; and religion—by Pino and Eborn. These groups presented their work at the next meeting. The constitution was still far from complete and the missing links were filled in at following meetings.

After two or three weeks of discussion and revising, the finished product was very much altered from the original outline. It was then taken to Professor Gordon Wood who gave valuable assistance in giving it a “professional touch.”

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
MAKERS OF Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.

Campus Club Was Started

The idea of organizing the independents has been talked about since fraternities were founded at Davidson about 100 years ago, but it wasn’t until last year that any serious thinking was done and not until this year that an organization was actually founded. The two individuals who are the most responsible for launching the plans for the organization are Carl Eborn and Ray Thabet, who began talking it up last spring. It all started when Eborn was discussing with Coach Whittle the necessity of an organization in order to form teams for the participation of the independents in the intramural program. Thabet became interested in this and the two went to Dean Bailey to discuss the possibilities of forming an organization to promote the athletic activities of independents. In this discussion, the dean presented a new motive, one to promote social as well as athletic activities. He was very much in favor of an organization so long as it was not political or anti-fraternity. He further pointed out that it would hardly be possible to have all the independents in one organization because such a large group would be too difficult to manage. Very much encouraged by the dean’s support, Eborn and Thabet withdrew to discuss the possibilities.

Stricklin and Eborn then took the constitution to President Cunningham and Dean Bailey for criticism. Their approval of it added much to the encouragement of the group. The student body at large had not been informed as to what was going on and it wasn’t until the constitution was completed that the announcement of the new organization was made. However, during the several weeks in which the constitution was being drafted, Ernie Stricklin was preparing a chapel talk designed to present to the student body the need for such an organization. (This talk preceded the actual inauguration of the club by about two weeks.) In the talk, he did not mention that any concrete plans were being made. He merely stressed the need for an independent organization which would extend to all students the advantages of organized campus activity. His talk was well received by everyone and the group was encouraged to know that the school would be in favor of their project.

Then came the problem of how to present the organization to the independents. Following Bailey's advice, the group decided to start with a small nucleus which would provide a much stronger foundation from which to grow. This nucleus would consist of approximately 50 men with whom the constitution would be thoroughly discussed and who would offer their suggestions as to any alterations which in turn would be added upon the agreement of the majority. Believing that this nucleus would be a good enough representation of the independents, officers for the organization would be elected from it. Having completed this undertaking, the organization would be officially underway. Immediately afterwards, the membership would be opened to any independents who wanted to join. This plan was carried out and it met with success from most angles. Each of the original eleven men picked five men who they thought would give their support to the organization and after discussing it with them, they all met at the Guest House on October 13. The constitution was read and discussed and after a few alterations were made, everyone signified their approval of its acceptance. Official officers were elected and thus an independent organization (later named the Campus Club) was inaugurated.

Executive officers elected were as follows: President, Ernie Stricklin; first vice-president, Carl Eborn; second vice-president, Paul Horne; secretary, Malloy Owen; treasurer, Tom P. Davis. Those elected to head the various committees were as follows: social—Bob Sharpe, Bob Wells, and Hugh Farrior; publicity—David Hamilton and Ray Thabet; publications—Sam Robinson and Arthur Jenkins; religious—Virgil Pino and W. A. Johnson; athletic coordinator—Bill Fesperman.

HOW TO JOIN

Any student of Davidson College who is not a member of a social fraternity is welcomed to join the Campus Club. The Club Constitution requires that all candidates for membership (1) read the constitution, (2) write a brief letter to the Executive Council as an application for membership. Financially, the initiation fee is $5.00, and the dues are $1.00 a month. Any student considering joining is invited to attend one of our meetings any Thursday at 6:30 p.m., in Carolina Inn, or to contact the Secretary of the Campus Club for information or copies of the constitution in 305 Watts.

Campus Club's Social Activities

The Campus Club's activities on the social front began with Homecoming, 1947. In its beginning stages, the organization did not have a great deal to offer in the way of private entertainment for its members and their dates; however, a “feed” was held in the basement of the house and a fine time was had by all who were there. At Christmas, the group provided entertainment for a group of children from Barium Springs Orphanage, putting on an excellent program for its guests. The High School Glee Club from Barium was invited to visit, and after a number of selections were rendered by that group, an evening of delightful social activity was enjoyed by both guests and hosts.

The Campus Club went into high gear at Midwinters, when a section of the dances was provided exclusively for the Campus Club and independents. At this time, an honorary representative to the Pan Hellenic Council had been appointed by the club, O. G. Allen, a senior from Winston-Salem, N. C. A banquet was held at Chez Montette in the Mecklenburg Hotel on Friday night, when Dr. Eberhardt of the faculty spoke to the group, presenting a stirring incitation to greater heights. Professor Bevan of the faculty also spoke on the value of such a group among the organizations on the campus.

Plans for functions during Spring Frolics Season have gone ahead, including another banquet in Charlotte. Other social functions which could be included in this resume are the weekly “feeds” and meetings which take place at the house. Programs have been presented, consisting of sings, skits, and other recreation. Much talent that had remained latent in the personalities of the members has been brought to light by these activities.

Athletic Activities

“Sports” was one of the three original fields of college education which the Campus Club was intended to broaden for its members. Immediately, the club took over the direction of the intramural football team fielded by the Independents. This aggregation showed well on the gridiron, while not with a 1.000 percentage, nevertheless, putting up a game fight—win or lose. The spirit of cooperation was there, and new friendships were formed right on the field. Boys who perhaps would not have found a proper amount of teamwork otherwise in their college life were made aware of its value to them individually and as a team.

The Campus Club was given a separate slot in the basketball schedule, and again the story was the same as in football—teamwork and new friendships grew. More friendships grew out of intramural sports. Now the club is in the softball league, and at the date of this writing, have won 3 and lost 4, every game showing improvement over the previous one. Perhaps the club has a long way to go before becoming a “powerhouse” in intramurals—but it is already serving its main purpose—that of providing an outlet for the competitive urge within the individuals of the organization.

Prexy Herb Meza, a first baseman and wielder of the bat himself, expressed his sincere desire for the Club members to turn out for the games, to give their team their support, whether from the sidelines or the playing field itself.

There is nothing so powerful as truth, and often nothing so strange.
—Daniel Webster

Religious Outlook

One of the more important functions of the Campus Club is...To help the individual acquire a more integrated personality and wholesome, well-rounded character, along with the social aspect of a student’s life, the spiritual should be stressed. We realize that the spiritual life of the student is stressed daily in his school activity, but we feel that it is more fruitful and wholesome when it is stressed in the expending of energy along social and recreational lines. For this reason, this organization has found it very vital to include an emphasis on spiritual things in its organization. Every meeting is commenced with a devotion. An old Chinese philosopher once said, “If you want to plant for a year, plant grain; if you want to plan for ten years, plant trees; if you want to plan for 100 years, plant man.” We know no better way to plant man than through Jesus Christ. Thus, we feel that an emphasis on spiritual things is a very important part and goal of our organization.

(1) Designs And Designations

An interesting development in the history of the first year of the Campus Club was the provision of a name. Operating upon the principles of democracy, which sometimes is slow-moving, the group hemmed and hawed for a seemingly long time over this problem. Names, some comical, others quite serious, some rather outlandish, others rather clichéd, were offered to the group. None seemed to strike the majority of the members as being fully appropriate. While a “key” faction offered “Cavalier” for group approval, other service-inspired letter combinations were being offered, such as INDIC, CIPAC, OIGA, NOFI, and others. 

At the suggestion of Dr. Pietenpohl, the name “Campus Club” was introduced, and this was the name the organization had been waiting for. It was unanimously voted to be the official name of the newest organization on the campus. Equally interesting was the derivation of a pin and seal. Those boys, Hamilton, Bill, and Dave, turned out a number of designs which were presented to the group for approval or otherwise. No action was taken immediately, but after Dr. Eberhardt's suggestion for a symbol entailing the idea of a cross and clasped hands, Bill and Dave produced the design which the club accepted. It is this writer's desire that a reproduction of this design could be shown here, but it is impossible, so a verbal description must suffice. The shield is technically of a Crusader's shape. A pair of clasped hands appear in the center, with a crosslet in the background. The border is gold; the pair of hands is also gold; the crosslet is scarlet, and the background is black. The clasped hands represent fellowship; the three components of the club: religious, social, and athletic development in college life.

(b) Idaho was admitted as the forty-third state in the Union on July 3, 1890.

(D) In early Roman days, the color yellow was used only for dyeing bridal garments.

Club Acquires Housing

Taking its place this year among the social organizations at Davidson, the Campus Club has an ideal offering as many advantages conducive to social development and well-rounded education as possible. Being an independent organization, Campus Clubbers are free to select for adoption those features of other social organizations which they consider desirable and to omit features they consider undesirable. The idea of a “house” to serve as headquarters or a center for the development of friendships is one of the features which was early recognized as a distinct advantage. In November 1947, representatives of the Campus Club called on the college treasurer, Mr. Jackson, to request the assignment of suitable quarters for a house. The next day, with the authorization, the club moved into a large room in the Carolina Inn on Main Street. On December 4, the House Committee bought and delivered the finest new Zenith radio-phonograph and several pieces of furniture. Since then, other items have been added. The possibility of moving to other quarters has been discussed and investigated. Remaining at the Inn with additional floor space, moving to Frat Court, and other locations have been considered. Since remaining an open organization is one of the prime principles upon which the club is founded, it is probable as well as desirable that a much larger percentage of the independents will join in the future. This poses serious housing as well as organizational problems. But Campus Clubbers, with confidence in the manifest interest of the college administration in a social organization whose purpose is to serve as many of the 50 percent of the student body as desire it, have no doubt that their problems can be solved, whether ultimately with several smaller houses or one large one.

(D) “WHAT HIGH SCHOOLS OUGHT TO TEACH” SUBJECT OF STUDY

A thorough-going re-examination of “What the High Schools Ought to Teach” was proposed recently by Dr. John W. Studebaker, U.S. Commissioner of Education. Speaking before the annual meeting of the National Council for the Social Studies in St. Louis, Dr. Studebaker declared that despite increased emphasis on social studies in high school programs in recent years, “in too many high schools deficiencies and handicaps continue to exist. These extend not alone to the materials and methods of instruction in the social studies, but also to the limited time allotments and the general failure to focus instruction on problems of the contemporary national and international scene.” Suggesting that more time be devoted to the social sciences, he declared that “every pupil should have the chance to learn how difficult it was to establish freedom of speech and of the press, freedom of religion, the right of habeas corpus, and the other American freedoms.”

PASTEURIZED GRADE “A” MILK
Mooresville Co-Operative Creamery
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Cold Drinks
Frank’s Grill
“Just a Few Yards North of Davidson”
CURB SERVICE
Best Barbecue in Town
Hot Sandwiches a Specialty

Go ahead, stand hard this year. The Campus Club is now a living organization.

First Year's Growth

A statistical analysis of Campus Club membership yields the following results: 7.9 percent are seniors, 27.9 percent are juniors, 33.7 percent are sophomores, and 30.4 percent are freshmen. Impressive, perhaps, is the fact that 53 percent of the members are from North Carolina, 12 percent from Virginia, 7 percent from Georgia, 7 percent from Florida, 7 percent from Alabama, Tennessee, Kentucky, Maryland, West Virginia, and one representative from each of the other states.

Unforgettable caricatures include President Ernie Strigklin, in his inimitable manner, presiding at the anecdote-filled meetings; Davis Ciecente taking the floor because “we have two by Loin G. and Lom C. the money.” Cok in that deep baritone voice, “I wonder how everybody’s doing?” Vandy engaging in cases of back and forth (Credo at third base born to run down the basketball court and made the basket, too!) The happy faces of the Barristers, some of the politicals showed up in the first election back in October, Bob Moore’s announcing circle at the house, and his report of the results, twirling his black key on an invisible chain, and his report on the Vaughn Monroe situation (we were fooled!)

We got off to a great start. We intend to operate logically, and the gears of the organization turn slowly at first, but the products they turn out are of high quality.

Plans and proposals as to future accomplishments of the Campus Club are numerous, and whereas they are only speculative at present, the club has every intention of seeing them fulfilled to the best advantage of everyone. All plans are, of course, centered around the principal aim of the club, which is to facilitate the student's strivings to get the most out of campus life and activities. It is believed that this is best accomplished by promoting congeniality among the members, which in turn is accomplished by presenting to them activities that stimulate fellowship. Social functions will play an important part in the program. Various well-organized activities which stimulate fellowship are looked forward to. Athletics have always promoted a close spirit among members of a team, and the Campus Club intends to participate heartily with the intramural program of the school. Some men have thought that sometime in the near future a boarding house where all members could eat would bring the members together more frequently, so a closer spirit will inevitably prevail. The club is also looking forward to a more adequate “house” to serve as a meeting place and provide recreation and a lounge. The principal achievement the club wishes to accomplish in the near future is the expansion of its membership. There are about one hundred members at present, which is only about one-fourth of all the non-fraternity men on the campus. This is a good-sized group, but it is far from including everyone. The club always extends a very sincere invitation to all who wish to join, and their support, like that of all its members, will determine the success of the organization. There are no strings attached to one's joining, except that no member can be affiliated with a local fraternity. One is accepted upon application and is immediately taken in on an equal basis with all the other members. He is free to resign if and when he desires. Assessments are a $1.00 initiation fee and $1.00 dues per month. The Campus Club is an organization of independents and for them. It is hoped that they will all take advantage of the things it has to offer and support it to turn it into the finest organization on the campus.

Bates Cleaners
Press While You Wait
Clothes Dyed
Alterations
24-48-Hour Service
Main St. Davidson

BUNCH FUNERAL HOME
Ambulance Service
Phone 284
Mooresville, N. C.

FORMAL WEAR RENTAL SERVICE
MARION-DAVIS CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.