PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
MAC HART

BUSINESS MGR.
JOHN McNAIR

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editor
Stan Ingham

Associate Editor
Bill Gundrum

Associate Editor
Ron Michaels

Associate Editor
Jack Hagart

Sports Editor
Bob Hollister

Managing Editor
Lonnie Turnipseed

Managing Editor
Doug Hix

Editor
Dick Morgan

Staff Photographer
Tom Niblock

Cartoonist
Bill King

Poll-Cat Editor
Charlie Reed

FEATURE REPORTERS—Mall Owen, Randy Taylor, Warren Simms, Phil Mite, Hartley Hall, Boyce Kendall, Bob Grube, and Warren Sims.

REPORTERS—Jimmy Henritzy, Henry Green, Harry Shurley, Gabe Lowe, John Calvert, Ken Jones, Ralph Robinson, Tom Allen, Dick Barnwell, Ed West,
Jim Ly, Tommy Holler, Bob Hubbell, Bill McCrary, T Mann, Bill Cumming, Phil Libby, Ben Drymon, Angus McKellar, Dudley Pendleton,
Jimmy Fic, Pete Ralogridi, Dick Chandley, Art Shippey, Hugh Huffaker, Lewis Hy, Frank Winston, Bill Neal, Bill Hollister, Daniel.

SPORTS STAFF—Elling, Gordon Scott, Furman Warlick, Watt Fries, Bill White, Phil Hammond, Bryant Robinson, Dan McWeithan, David Whitener, Ed West,
Bill Buckey, Jack Stevenson.

POLL CAT STAFF: Jim Carr, Claude Higginbothan, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown, and Neal Underdown.

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
W.S. McSwain

Circulation Manager
Al Jobe

Asst. Circulation Manager
C.D. Gassely

Advertising Manager
A.Y. Smith

Asst. Advertising Manager
Jack Scales

Assistant Advertising Manager
Hector McKeithar

Assistant Advertising Manager
David McConnell

Collections Manager
Charles Jockery

Subscriptions Manager
John Loftin

ASSISTANTS—Bill Cumming, James Duval, Hunter Bob, Harold Clayton, Sam Cumming, Rod Shaw.

CIRCULATION STAFF—Alex Floyd, Phillips, Parks Dalton, Cecil Rhodes, Moses Joe H. Miller, Neill Underdown, Haller, John Hardin, Thad Monroe, Hugh
Huffaker, Ben Morris, Cam Faison, Paul Guthry.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE
New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1946 Member 1947
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Clothing Drive

Congratulations are due to the Club for a job well done with the clothing collections. Led by Whit Cobb, this
organization succeeded in bringing the need before the student body and in making a successful collection of the contributions.

This clothing drive has been put on for the last two years, but all too few of us really take
it seriously. We have never stopped to think of the actual conditions in Europe today. The pitiable plight of the
people in these lands was brought very forcefully to our attention in the film, “Seeds of Destiny,” as, I think,
all who saw it will agree. Rather coincidental that the IRC should plan it for this date, but it certainly
was well-timed.

The prevue of the “D” Club Follies served to help this very worthy cause and at the same time provide
a good entertainment program for the student body.

In order for such a drive to be successful, it must have the support of the entire student body. This
opportunity for aid to Europe has passed, but there will be other opportunities and we should see that they do
not pass unrealized. These contributions are our small, but important, way of making life possible for people who know little
of what life really is and certainly know little of its joys and comforts.

The results of this drive have not been determined at this writing, but we can remember that these conditions will
not be alleviated in the near future, and we can see to it that future programs for European aid receive
our undivided support. Actually, little is asked of us, merely a small measure of our abundant material wealth. If this
school and others like it would back drives as the student body seems to have done this one, conditions in
Europe would be improved immeasurably.

Homecoming Weekend

Although much has been said about the Homecoming weekend, at the risk of a few repetitions, a few observations about
it would not be out of order.

First, for this weekend to be the success that it is hoped to be will require the support of every
student in the student body. In the past, a few students have thought of this weekend as a good one
for that trip home or other trips. While there is probably very little danger of this happening this year, it
would be well for us to remember that we may witness the beginning of a new era in the history
of Davidson College. To miss an opportunity of this kind would be regretted in later years.

Secondly, little has been said about the dances, other than the information concerning the orchestra. As was pointed out in
the last issue of the DAVIDSONIAN, these dances are for the entire student body and their success depends upon their
support. An excellent orchestra has been secured, although a “big name” is lacking. These dances have long been a tradition
at Davidson, therefore, as we build new traditions, let’s support the old ones and make this set of dances the
best in the history of the college. It is still not too late to make plans for what will be
one of the social highlights of the year.

Thirdly, the decorations around the dormitories and fraternities will add a great deal to this festive occasion and impress the
alumni. However, decorating on such a large scale requires a lot of time and energy from somebody. A small group
of men cannot possibly accomplish this tremendous task alone, therefore if you are called on to help, and doubtless you
will be, give as much of your time as possible.

A good start was made in chapel Thursday with the collection for the decorations. Now let's follow through and really
give our alumni a weekend to remember.

Letter to Editor

Dear Editor:

It seems to me that there is a limit to everything that we hold in possession today. Many others lack
enough money for education and never receive three square meals, the automobile industry hasn't reached the point where “supply meets
demand.” This thing called freedom has its limits too, especially as the Communistic government continues to grow.

This and other foreign governments seem to eat right into the very heart of a freedom for which so many
Americans gave their all. It is a fan to be born in a free land where he can think, speak,
work, and worship as he pleases. How can anyone want to destroy so great a heritage? A heritage not only
of this generation, but one built in faith for the advancement of humanity in the world.

I'll admit this democracy of ours has its faults and is by no means perfect, but it does give the
individual a chance to develop his God-given abilities and to become a better liberty-loving, God-fearing man.

To really live this great heritage to the fullest we must seek the truth and make our minds stop, look,
absorb, and respond. You and I must wake up to the fact that the communistic government is just waiting for
the chance to eat the very core out of this great government of ours, to bring it to defeat as
well as its people and to slow civilization to a near standstill. The Communists say their government is the best,
that they love it; well, why don’t we, good red-blooded Americans, wise up and send them back to their dear
land, the land they love so much? There are plenty who hunger for freedom and are crying to take their
place.

Let us be reminded of this which is so familiar to us—“We hold these truths to be self-evident that all
men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are Life,
Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness.”

Signed: TREW GURLEY.

EDITORIALS

Operating Table

Ho-hum! Dowdy doings at Davidson just aren't the same since the retirement of Mullethead, Dum-Dum, Hat, Bone, and Oho. The
ill-conceived operations of yesteryear are just that: Yet, doth the grotesque countenance of him desiring memory in annals of deals
well-flung, arise from the Davidson of yesterday. Not least among these is a local haberdasher, Orion Hutchinson by name, who
comes to the fore as a gent with a twist that goes the Spring Maid one better. This genial gee’s
Beau Brummel posts posters promoting clothes for Europa, and emphasizes the crying need with a scantily clad young lady (doubtless
Europa personified), so scantily clad that she isn’t. Says the folding young ticker brightly, “The European situation is in the
clear.” (Smile) “Cheshire Smile” (Smile, Smile, Smile), known to his transgressing coadjutors, as Cheshire Cat, was apprehended by Rockwood Childers,
a Gideonese from a nearby museum. When apprehended, he thusly explained his misdemeanor: “An inconspicuous file is essential to the
vending of aesthetics in one’s parlay cards class.”

James Verner, after a weekend slid into his best pair of green flannels and bucks, mounted the phone down in
Duke, told Ma Bell to reverse the charges, and expectantly waited to snow that flame of love. Sir James was
chagrined at the Los Angeles operator's non-committal, “I'm sorry, Ava Gardner's number is confidential.” Said Sir James, “I'm disappointed.”

John Wesley Miller, on his recent return from the Beaux Arts Ball in Honolulu, with the peculiar emphasis, was well
pleased with the work done there, but his little shaking finger stated there was no chance for duplication at Davidson.
We acclaim him, “Put a quarter in the platter, Show it makes a lot of matter, Lustful John has saved
the soul from sin.”

SIGMA CHI

The following is a delayed report from Raleigh of an expedition of some of the newest and some veterans of
the Rotators that deserves belated recognition. A flashy 1939 Ford containing Joe Little, the Head, the Organ, the Lover, Ears,
Jack Brooks, and Blackie Blackburn roared through the home of the N.C. Cow College late Saturday afternoon. The sleepy little
town’s inhabitants were overwhelmed at the sight of the car’s occupants taunting the hayseeds with cries of “You haven’t scored
yet—you never will!” They created quite a stir, especially when Budweiser lost one of his many bets. Snagging Senator Richard
threatened to usurp the glorious position reached by Brother Mott Price after a beautiful snatch on the intramural field. Pinhead
One, the Snuggling Kid, was seen at a recent Queens entertainment dancing with a physical impossibility. An anonymous lover of
brevity (many have been suspected but no one has come close to the truth) has posted a list of suggested
nicknames for brothers and pledges on the back of the door to the “My Darling” room at the Sig house.
All the names are outstanding but a few that deserve special mention are:Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the
original meaning and punctuation:

quite public recognition are “Gismo” a sensation while they were there, Goodman, “Cosmo” Jones, Horseface Alcorn, “Hosenose” Pritchard, Damon and
Pythias, and the Cisco Kid. Another classic that has been suggested as an addition to this list is “Mayfair” Riddervold.

Delta Lambda Chapter of Sigma Chi is happy to announce the pledging of Tom Abel, Tommy Stewart, Dudley Pendleton, and
Doug Powell.

(Continued On Page Four)

Open Forum

DIXIECRATS OR DEWEY—A DIFFICULT CHOICE

By Malloy Owen

The time has come for Southern Democrats to think for themselves and reevaluate their position in national politics. When the
will of the Southern people had a strong voice in the conventions of the party, it was easier to defend
the southerners’ position in always voting for that party’s candidates. Under the magnetic leadership of a Roosevelt, the Democratic party
was a mighty coalition of very different forces. But things have changed. Northern liberals have long regarded the 124 electoral
votes from below the Potomac as “in the bag,” but not until the Philadelphia Convention of this past summer have
they become so cocky as to completely disregard Southern opinions.

Why is it that a southerner cannot be elected president today? Because the party has chosen to ignore the South
in favor of more independent voting blocks. Labor has risen to great power in American politics because, as an independent
block of votes, they have been courted by both parties and have thrown their weight to the one promising the
most for their welfare. The independent voter is the one who gets the attention of the politician, before and after
the election. The South became the laughing stock of political America at Philadelphia. We will continue to play that role
and be ignored unless we assert enough intelligent independence to let the Democrats and the Republicans know we are as
open-minded and independent as any other Americans. We will vote for the man whose ideas we like best and whom
we consider most capable.

It is not healthy for the United States as a whole to have a big section that votes blindly for
a party name without considering the man or his platform. America needs thinking voters.

What To Do?

First of all, we must bolt the Truman Democrats because they completely ignored us at Philadelphia. They take us for
a “bunch of suckers,” and if we swallow their poorly baited hook again, perhaps we are. Dewey or Thurmond? It
would be most invigorating to national parties if North Carolina, Virginia, and Florida, say, went Republican. BUT, the Republican party
in their 1948 platform are as far from our ideals as the Truman ticket. Would we not be jumping from
the frying pan into the fire? If the GOP really means what it says, it would be the most revolutionary
blow to free enterprise, capitalism, and small business that we can imagine being enacted by Congress. It is a tremendous
step toward dictatorship to allow the government (Continued On Page Four)

Political Angles

By GABRIEL LOWE

The current political campaign has been notable for its civil rights issue and the bad light into which the South
has fallen by reason of it. It is not an issue that is new to the South, nor to the
nation as a whole. The problem of civil rights has been with us since some three and one-half million slaves
were suddenly transformed into free and independent men and thrust upon their former owners as equals. For over eighty years
we of the South have wrestled with the problem of teaching two separate races with different customs and backgrounds to
live together in peace and harmony. It is not an easy thing for a race who have looked upon another
race as servants for nearly two centuries to accept them as comrades and fellow citizens. To do so overnight is
absolutely impossible.

Emancipation and the War between the States tore down the grandiose structure of culture and refinement—of which slavery was an
integral part—that had become the core of Southern life. The past eighty years have been spent by Southerners trying to
throw off the rags of that lost society and reconcile themselves to the new culture into which they were thrust.
In other words, we have been trying to organize an acceptable society around the new status that was forced upon
us by sudden emancipation. This cannot be accomplished in a single leap. We cannot pass a law changing the ideas
and customs within the minds of a people, as we can pass a law transforming the political and social status
of a class of people. The conversion within the mind must come gradually over a period of time.

Though we started off slowly, we have made considerable progress, working out our own problems by ourselves. And if the
progress is to continue, or if retrogression is to be avoided, we must be left alone to complete the task.
For we alone understand our problems and conditions sufficiently to remedy them in such a way as to avoid harming
the best interests of all concerned. For these reasons, the Truman civil rights program is out of place. It would
only upset the delicate relationship that we have so painstakingly established between the races here in the South. It would
set up a program of Federal intervention that is neither necessary nor desirable, and would in the long run do
more harm than good. It would promote a race consciousness that would sooner or later vent itself in violence.

The Truman program proposes unnecessary legislation to make lynching a Federal crime. Lynching is nothing more or less than murder,
which is already a crime in every State in the Union and has been with few exceptions vigorously prosecuted as
such wherever law and order prevailed. The heinous murder of a Negro near Greenville, South Carolina, by a group of
white men a little less than two years ago was duly brought into court and prosecuted to the full extent
of the law. The murderers were proven guilty beyond the shadow of a doubt but they were released by the
jury. In that case, there was no deficiency in the law. The prosecuting attorney carried out his duty to the
best of his ability. The discrepancy of justice lay in the minds of the Southerners who had not yet learned
to accept the Negro as an equal, entitled to equal protection of the law.

The Truman program would guarantee to Negroes the right to vote. This privilege was granted to them in the fifteenth
amendment to the Constitution of the United States. The fact that they do not vote freely in the Southern States
is due to prevention by the whites, who have not yet learned to accept the Negro as an equal, entitled
to equal suffrage. We do not need laws to bring civil rights to the Negro. Civil laws that are not
enforced or obeyed are worthless. The answer to the problem lies in education. We must educate the white Southerner to
look upon the Negro as a political and economical equal, and to accept him as such. This does not mean
that black and white should mingle together as one race. That is out of the question. It means that the
Negro must be given an opportunity to go his own way in his own society and among his own people,
to make good if he has it within himself to do so. And if this is to come about, we
must educate the Negro to be an asset to his people and to the community in which he lives. We
must teach him to be a good citizen. Why should we not profit by the ability and genius that lies
latent in the Negro, just as he has profited by the genius that has been developed in the white man?
There are many potential George Washington Carvers and Booker T. Washingtons among the Negroes of the South, whose talents could
greatly enrich the South and the nation as a whole if it were cultivated and encouraged. To us in the
South, it is given to receive the fruits of such capabilities, if only we have the clear insight to take
advantage of them.

Let us recognize the vast store of undeveloped resources lying at our fingertips, and then go forth with redoubled efforts
to set up a society in which both Negro and White may share equally in civil rights.

Several members of the faculty suggested that we put a note in the next issue of the Davidsonian to the
effect that the college should pay Joe Thigpen, who handles the publicity, a night watchman’s salary too. It seems that
he works every night until midnight and some nights all night long.

The Davidson College Athletic Association was organized in the fall of 1893. The first Athletic Day was observed in the
spring of 1894. After that, it became an annual feature. The first intercollegiate football game was played in Charlotte with
the University of North Carolina on November 5, 1898.

There were only three fraternities at Davidson in 1888: Kappa Alpha, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and the “Mystic Seven,” which was
merged into Beta Theta Pi in 1889. The Kappa Sigma Chapter was organized in 1890. These fraternities had their halls
in the Old Chambers Building.

The Poll-cat

By CHARLIE REID

Last Wednesday in chapel, a straw vote was taken among the students to determine as accurately as possible their choice
for the next President of the United States. Only those candidates whose names will appear on the official North Carolina
ballot were voted on at that time.

Student’s selection by actual count:
Democrats 400
Republicans 120
Progressives 10

Choice of those planning to vote:
Democrats 52.9%
Republicans 35%
Progressives 1.6%

Choice of all students:
Democrats 53%
Republicans 31%
Progressives 15.8%

Previous poll in the Davidsonian on Oct 1:
Democrats 55%
Republicans 24%
Progressives 16%

By comparison with the poll taken at the first of the month, it appears that Tom has lost slightly and
Harry has gained a little. Strom is going about the same, and Henry is also holding his own, which isn’t
very much here. A few votes were written on the ballots for the Socialist, Vegetarian, and Greenback candidates. Of course,
we all realize that Davidson students aren’t a good cross-section of the State or of the South or of the
Nation or, for that matter, of any political division.
