PAGE SIX

CLIFF TURNER INTRODUCIN’

By CHERRY STRIBLING

If you were singling out from the good many backs on Davidson's varsity this year, the one who had really stepped out and shown his ability for the first time this season, you would have to agree that Cliff Turner is the boy who has come to the forefront at tailback for the Cats this year. Cliff is a tailback of the hard-driving, “run over him” variety. And when he gets his long legs moving and gathers up steam, he is really hard to stop as the VMI Cadets last year will testify. It was in this game with VMI that Cliff stepped out on the varsity when he sparked a touchdown drive that tied up that exciting game in its last minutes.

Cliff is a junior, hailing out of Reidsville, N.C. He weighs in at 175 more or less and stands an even six feet. He is 22 years old. Cliff is one of the few boys that make a college football team without any previous high school experience. Cliff did not play football in high school and the reason he gives is that his mother wanted him to play in the band. So play in the band he did, for five years. In 1940 Cliff decided it was about time he gave this football game a try, so he went out for junior varsity. Coach Story saw in him a good prospect and he and Coach Jamerson worked on Cliff, concentrating first on his passing. He was one of the junior varsity stars that year and his football prowess increased by leaps and bounds. Then last season Cliff played varsity ball and was the star of the VMI homecoming game. This season he really came into his own in The Citadel game when he scored two touchdowns, had a third called back, and made some nice runs. Since that game he has been alternating with Carl Shepherd and Auburn Lambeth at tailback and has played good ball all along. Against Washington and Lee last Saturday, he scored the third Davidson marker which came close to tying the Generals, and when Auburn Lambeth was injured, Cliff took over the passing duties and sparked a last-minute Cat drive which carried into W&L territory.

Barium Springs Youngsters Pound Davidson Midgets

By PHIL HAMMOND

The Barium Springs 110-pounders avenged a former defeat by the Davidson “Y” boys by trouncing them 34-12 at Barium Springs. The Barium boys looked much better than they did when the midgets defeated them 12-6 earlier in the season. The line was stronger and the backs ran and passed much better than before.

Davidson kicked off to begin the game and McManern took the ball on his own 40 and ran it all the way to the Midgets’ fifteen-yard line. After two plays failed to gain, McManern ran around right end to score. The extra point was good. Barium Springs then kicked to the Y 30, and on first down the Midgets fumbled and recovered on the 50. Plowder faded back and passed ten yards to McManern who outran the secondary and went on to score.

The second quarter was a facsimile of the first as the Y team either could not make the necessary yardage or they fumbled. The Barium line many times opened up holes for its hard-charging backs. The second half began as Barium Springs kicked off to the Midgets. Again the visitors could not stop the hard-rushing line of Barium Springs and so had to kick. On third down Upton ran forty yards around left end to score. It was at this time that the coach of Barium Springs sent in his reserves. The Midgets then began to roll. Banks took a kick on his own forty and ran down the sidelines for 60 yards to score. The Midgets kicked off again and after Barium Springs failed to gain, they kicked to the visitors’ 30-yard line. The Midgets' ground attack began to click and in a short while moved the ball to their opponents' 15-yard line. On first down they scored and the game ended a few seconds later.

Recognition should be given to Coach Bobby Grigsby, who has done an excellent job of teaching young boys how to play football. He has devoted himself to this work and deserves due praise from the entire student body.

INTERFRAT STANDINGS

K. A. 9 1
Beta 8 1
Kappa Sig. 7 1
PhiDelt .-. © _---.- 5 2 SPE. _.--. nr | 4 Pika -.----. 000.2 -o —4 5 SAE ---.--. Lee. 4 5 Campus Club __.._.-. 3 6 Sigma Chi. 2.2... 2 7 Phi Gam .-.-..-.----- 1 8 Pi Kaps ..-.--..----- 1 9

ALL THE NEW POPULAR PHONOGRAPH RECORDS. Columbia Masterworks Red Seal

PROPHET PREDICTS (Continued From Page Five)

The duel between Dean Davidson and Jie Turyn should prove interesting, provided Turyn can hit his own re- Carolina debacle.

S.M.U. 20; Baylor 10
After scoring twice actually in 15 seconds, the Mustangs will have enough stamina after the Arkansas tilt to down the Bears, although it should be a tip-top struggle from start to finish. Doak Walker should play his best ball of the season, after the Razorback tilt.

Clemson 34; Duquesne 6
After a surprising win over Wake Forest, Coach Howard's Tigers return to more pleasing hunting grounds, and the Dukes of Duquesne should easily fall heir to the hard cunning and bone-crushing attack of the Clemsonites.

Michigan 28; Ohio State 14
This will probably turn out to be an unexpectedly “close” battle. Lou Ortmann has regained his early pre-season form for the Wolverines, but the Buckeyes, all steamed up after last week's surprising slaughter of Illinois, should give the champs a whale of a battle.

William & Mary 21; N. C. State 7
The Kid says that a 4-2-2 record for Rube's boys is only fair. Wins over State and Arkansas should raise the Skin standard quite high, and for this goal, the husky Indians will risk all to achieve. State will have the fine and blocking, but W&M will have the 2 touchdown margin.

California 21; Stanford 0
The Golden streak known as the California Comets, vengeful over Oregon's claim to their Pacific Coast title, will be all out to show their Californian supremacy in their Homecoming tussle at Berkeley. Franz and Cunningham should really shine, along with Jackie Jensen.

Northwestern 27; Illinois 13
A lot of pressure is on the valiant Wildcats who should have beaten the Irish last week. A win is a must to go to the Rose Bowl, for a loss will send Minnesota to the tournament of roses. Alex Sarkesian, who anchors a 200-pound line, and Art Murakowski will shine with their usual luster.

Statistics
Atts. Comp. Av. Int. Yds.
Lambeth 23 14 .609 1 138
Turner 2 1 .500 0 12
Sifford 1 0 .000 0 0
W. & L.
Boyda 12 7 .583 4 70

PUNTING
Anderton 6 178 19.6
Boyda 4 172 43.0

INDIVIDUAL RUSHING
Davidson
Erwin 14 330 0 33 24
Lambeth 14 48 17 31 20
Sifford 5 66 0 66 13.2
Wade 5 13 1 12 2.4
Turner 2 0 1 5
Auburn
Lambeth, above, was selected Sophomore of the Week by the Southern Conference sports writers for his brilliant play in the exciting W&L game last Saturday. Lambeth’s improved running was a factor in Davidson's great showing and he is shown above on an end sweep, being pursued by two of the Generals.

Bell 11 97 9 88 8.0
Holt 9 27 1 17 2.4
Harrington 7 31 14 17 2.4
Boyda 5 0 8 8 1.6
Mastrion 4 12 0 12 3.0
Davidson 2 120 212 5.5
Michaels 6 0 0 0 0.0
Stark 1 0 0 0 0.0

“There were no laundries in those days of Davidson. Colored women did the students' laundry for about a dollar and a half a month. Sometimes they brought back things that the students did not send out, so in his bottom room, he inquired: ‘Did it drown Tom Jones’ hogs, too?’ ‘Yes.’ ‘Did it drown John Brown’s hogs, too?’ ‘Yes.’ ‘Well, it's not as bad as I first thought.’”

Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Bob Hope, Chesterfield’s radio, recording, and motion picture star, teams up with lovely Jo Stafford and the new partner, pretty Peggy Lee, to make the Chesterfield Supper Club radio’s outstanding nighttime show! At NBC stations

STUDENTS SMOKE CHESTERFIELDS more than any other brand — BY LATEST NATIONAL SURVEY