Y - Page Two ~ THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The DAVIDSONIAN Presents
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

SAM ERVIN
BOB CLINE

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bob Phillips
Mac Hart
Walter Mann
Stan Kennett
Bill Calhoun
Ronnie Dietrich
Rees Jenkins
Malloy Owens
John Stewart
Floyd McLean

Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Staff Photographer
Assistant Photographer
Feature Reporters: Bob Hollister, Lonnie Turnipseed, Dave Gambrell, Bill DuBose, Bruce Kendall, Bill Bogart, Charles T. Davis, Bob Wells, Art
Jenkins.
Freshmen Reporters: Hartley Hall, Randy Taylor, Warren Sims, Phil Mitchell, Walt Hollister, Scott Verner, Gray Hampton, Frank Purnell, Tom Flipse,
Kenneth Jones, Jim Murray, Jim Larkin, Leonard Boswell, John Cosby, Dave Hayworth, Hugh Evans, Pat McGeachy.
Sports Staff: Jack Havard, Frank Aldred, Cherry Stribling, Watt Jeffries, Bill Cassels, Doug Hix, Bill King, Gene Regan, Dick Morgan,
Furman Warlick.

BUSINESS STAFF
John McNair
Charlie Reid
Frank Lemmon
Bill Baxter
Charles Clinkscales
Charles Dockery
Wilkes Macauley
H. Moulton
Bill Keith
Sandy Sprunt
Bob Knight
Charles Beam

Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager
Subscriptions Manager
Assistant Advertising Mgr.
Collections Manager
Assistant Advertising Mgr.
Assistant Circulation Mgr.
Assistant Circulation Mgr.
Assistant Circulation Mgr.
Assistant Subscriptions Mgr.
Assistant Collections Mgr.

Advertising Staff: H. MacKethan, C. Valsan, Claude Higginbotham, D. Hayworth, Blaine Netley, Gene Taylor, W. S. McSwain.
Circulation Staff: Paul Guthery, Sam Davis, Bill Cassels, Jon Coble, Jim Fisher, Bob Sims, Jimmy Rogers, Norvel Childers, Ted Towan,
Murray Ashman, Erwin Clark, Ray Cunningham, Bill Mebane.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year.

ADVERTISING OFFICE
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1946 Member 1947
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Some Modest Proposals

Since assuming the role of editor-in-chief of THE DAVIDSONIAN last January, I have had ample opportunity to become acquainted with
the problems facing those who are responsible for seeing to it that this particular publication makes its weekly appearance. Those
of us also know well its shortcomings. In the hope of being of some help to the new editor and
his staff, I should like to make a few random suggestions and comments for their future reference. May they be
taken for whatever they are worth.

As we attempted to point out in an earlier editorial, one of the most serious problems is the lack of
an adequate full-time staff. No one expects the majority of the students to participate in newspaper work. In fact, there
would be sufficient help if those whose names appear in the masthead could contribute articles regularly. It is not that
they are lazy or that they lack interest. It is just that they don't have time to do so every
week. They might, in some cases, be able to do so if they budgeted their time better, but there is
under present conditions no incentive to cause them to attempt it.

It seems that this particular matter might be improved upon in one of two ways: (a) The college could offer
classes in journalism, giving extra credit to those who participate in publications work, or requiring all who take the courses
to do so. This course (or courses) could be offered by an existing department (the English, for example) or a
new one. A Department of Journalism could be set up. I am not acquainted with the methods of securing instructors
for such courses, but it might be possible to persuade the editor or associate editor of some good daily newspaper
in the immediate vicinity to undertake the task. Even if classes were held only once or twice each week I
feel that it would prove to be particular work. (b) THE DAVIDSONIAN could be made a “paying proposition” and those
who are actually primarily responsible for it—say the editor-in-chief, the associate, sports and managing editors and certain members of the
business staff could be allowed to share equally in the profits at the end of the year, provided of course,
that any were made. This might be accomplished by an increase in the advertising rates and the adoption by the
staff of certain more economical practices. This scheme is used by most large college papers and is apparently very successful.
The prospect of sharing profits has a definite tendency to cause the staff members to work harder and to be
more careful about costs than they would be otherwise. The amount which could be saved would naturally be limited and
hence could not be shared by everyone who helped on the paper. It would have to be restricted to the
holders of certain specific jobs. However, it would tend to increase the number of men willing to work on the
paper and make the competition much keener for the “salaried” posts. Perhaps some well-to-do alumni who is interested in such
matters could be persuaded to establish a trust fund for THE DAVIDSONIAN so that the staff would have a definite
yearly sum with which to meet operating expenses over and above the profits realized from advertising. The one drawback might
be the danger that certain individuals would desire to make personal profits so much that the quality of the publication
would be reduced. Such a thing would not be likely to occur but if it were deemed necessary it could
be guarded against by establishing a “ceiling” on profits—a maximum figure which when reached would terminate the “sharing.” Any sums
over and above this figure would be placed in the general fund for the next school year.

I don’t pretend to know whether or not these proposals will work. I do feel that they are logical at
least to some extent, and I know that something is going to have to be done if more progress is
to be made. Many ideas of great merit have been presented to us from time to time which could not
be adopted for the reason explained heretofore. If the solutions discussed above or other ones of a similar nature are
honestly tried it is possible that an inadequate staff will no longer be a real problem. That in itself would
be a great help to all future editors. Also I should like to suggest that all student and college organizations
make an effort to supply the news staff with up-to-date news. Many clubs have elected publicity directors and these men
have seen to it that the paper receives a weekly article covering the activities of their particular group. Every effort
is made for the staff to keep abreast of campus happenings, but often certain goings on are overlooked or are
not known to the reporters. By bringing their own articles to the paper the clubs who follow this plan assure
themselves of adequate and correct publicity and while helping themselves they also help those who edit THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Regardless of the methods used, however, I am convinced that next year will be one in which your staff will
make every effort to give you a better and better campus newspaper. I am also sure that they will be
able to count on the wholehearted support of every man on the Davidson campus.

LETTERS

Miss Ellen Merry of Converse with Lee Willingham; Miss Jackie Otez of Queens with Jim Campbell; Miss Lee Draughon of
Queens with Will Klein; Sarah Claire Little of Queens with Hoopie Davis; Miss Ann Bailey of Queens with Andy Horne;
Miss Joan Birge of Queens with Bob Hubbell; Miss Gwyan Ewell of Queens with Joe Miller. Also we were glad
to welcome Professor Bevan and his wife, and Mr. and Mrs. Scott Verner.

Last week Brother Ed Montgomery was elected president of the chapter for the coming year, succeeding John Hills. President Montgomery
will be ably assisted by Gilk Brownson as reporter, Bob Long as warden, Bob Hollister as secretary, and Jim Cobb
as treasurer. Brother Jasper has taken over the duties of social chairman, and Grady Spires the chorister.

The Phis were well represented at the Queens dance last Saturday night. Leading the list were Whit Cobb, Bob Palmer,
Dick Mills and Bill Iverson. Others seeking new acquaintances on the “fair campus” were Laub, Lambeth, Hubbell, Verner, Knight. Laub
discovered a new queen at Queens. Also among the big deals were the brothers who journeyed (Continued on Page Four)

DELTA THETA PHI

On Saturday evening, April 3, the Phis had Fleet Green and his orchestra for their Blue and White Ball at
the Charlotte Policeman’s Club. Preceding the dance a formal banquet was held with Herb Turnipseed as the toastmaster, and Professor
Bevan, the speaker. The hall was decorated in the blue and white fraternity colors and the girls wore blue dresses
and the brothers wore white dinner jackets. Among those present were: Miss Louise Stacey of Salem with John Hills; Miss
Dot Hamrick of Queens with Rhea Adams; Miss Dot Thomas of Queens with Heywood Brinegar; Miss Vommie Thompson of Queens
with Jim Cobb; Miss Jean Sloan of Queens with Frank Hooper; Miss Ann Peasants of Salem with Bob Knight; Miss
Alice Tucker of Queens with Bob Long; Miss Mary Dodgin of Charlotte with Fred McAllister; Miss Kyree Chesick of Queens
with Herb Miller; Miss Kate McKelway of Queens with Ed Montgomery; Miss Ann Wicker of Salem with Bill Montgomery; Miss
Mary Bryant of Salem with Morris Newell; Miss Paddy Haskins of Raleigh with Bill Smith; Miss Nell Smith of Salem
with P. Smith; Miss Carolyn McGuirk of Hollins with Sam Tate; Miss Connie Ditto of Queens with Lannie Davis and
Pritchett.

Cinema Comments
By WALTER MANN

The biggest news on the cinema front is that the local entertainment palace has been purchased by some foreign power.
The Stough dynasty no longer holds the title to the amusement monopoly in the holy city. It is rumored that
the new owner of the Davidson Theatre plans certain improvements for his establishment. In fact some tale English production surpasses
American productions. Of course, this statement is actually no recommendation, since most American productions cannot compete. The difference in quality
could be traced to the motive for productions—the English seek to give the public a movie, the Americans seek to
move the public.

Operating Table:
Dual Newell, the double lover should be able to forget it entirely. Said Morris, “If one woman is heaven, two
are heaven---” To which Miss Bryant replied, “Isn't this heavenly weather we are having?" All of which leads us to
the speculation that if Miss Bryant finds out, he is going to need that sword and shield that he has
temporarily loaned out.Wonton, man of the Pan, J. D. Ashmore, was chosen man of the week. Mr. Ashmore, whose abundant
supply of Wildcat spirit ordinarily keeps him about as ferocious as a lion, believe it or not, was subdued. The
two greatest nature lovers of the week are undoubtedly Ed West and Phil Cox. Of course, a good thing can
be carried too far. Everyone agreed it was all right for them to go to the zoo instead of the
K. A.’s fresh air outing. Very few of the Davidson followers of R. E. Lee were willing for them to
bring the zoo to the party. P. B. Richardson was overheard making the following statement when the two aforementioned gentlemen
entered with their pets not even on a leash, “I’m getting me a gun and a guide and going hunting.”

Tail man Bill Johnson says he is really rolling it in these days, or rolling in it, we aren't sure
which. Anyhow, he says that the clothes horses are keeping him in it. In other words, if you want a
suit of the finest Yiddish Moth-tailor, see Johnson—this is a paid advertisement by Bill Johnson.

Think It Over By MAI MALLOY

OWEN MARRIAGE: If we are to have peace with justice, we must have a government strong enough to enforce law
and ensure justice and peace. Now is a time for Americans to use their heads and think on “these things
which belong to peace.” Why not have a course next year in “Marriage and all its aspects,” with enough sections
for all who want it? And why not try to get Dean Godard of Queens to come up one day
a week to help teach it? That man has a very rare knowledge and understanding of people. Such a course
would be “an education in itself” and a practical one.

NO COPS Suppose there were no laws and no police enforcement in this county or in your hometown? How long
would you and your family be safe? Suppose certain influential persons could not be punished, even if convicted of murder,
unless they themselves agreed with the judge. Ridiculous? Yet this state of anarchy prevails in world affairs today. There is
no government above the national level. If we are to have peace with justice, we must have a government strong
enough to enforce law and ensure justice and peace. Now is a time for Americans to use their heads and
think on “these things which belong to peace.”

Our world community, now become so small, needs a police force controlled by the people’s elected representatives. But more basically,
we need a world citizenship with a high respect for the other man and his property, for justice, and for
freedom. But this would require changing human nature. Only the Christian Gospel has been able to produce this transformed man.
Our world needs a government, but its chief need is an inward rebirth. Through our national governments, we can only
recommend that certain laws be obeyed. Certain influential persons could not be punished, even if convicted of murder, unless they
themselves agreed with the judge. Ridiculous? Yet this state of anarchy prevails in world affairs today. There is no government
above the national level. If we are to have peace with justice, we must have a government strong enough to
enforce law and ensure justice and peace. Now is a time for Americans to use their heads and think on
“these things which belong to peace.”

WHAT’S WHAT AMONG AMERICAN COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES By REES JENKINS

Out of The Battalion from Texas A&M comes an interesting classification of professors. It is not all-inclusive but it is
a good start and one way to fill space. After attending classes of many professors, the writer comes forth with
this:

1. Jingle jangle jingle type. These are further subdivided into the key jinglers, coin clinkers, and chain twirlers. This type
has developed a fine technique of shoulder shrugging which is used to point to students, blackboards, and any good-looking babe
who passes on the walk outside the classroom. This type is hard on his trousers pockets which have to be
reinforced simply to hold them up. The Phi Beta Kappa key men are exceptionally good at chain twirling.

2. Here we have the “Little Napoleon” or “Gosh, but you're stupid!” type. One of these is convinced that the
students are dumber, if possible, than the year before. He is distinguished by his bored, what-good-will-it-do, half-contemptuous attitude toward his
class.

3. Ah! The “Mumbles” type. This group is distinguished by its habit of conducting all lectures in an inaudible monotone.
The sheer beauty of this is that it so effectively protects the prof’s professional standing. After all, how can anyone
criticize what he hasn't heard?

4. The apologetic type is found out on the first day of class. Typically, he'll say: “Men, I'd like to
tell you that I've never taught this course before, but I feel sure that if we work together we'll get
something out of it.”

5. Last, but probably not all, is the story-teller type. Stories are of inconceivable scope, but often they are war
stories. After spending all class time on his tale, he'll assign a quiz on the stuff he was supposed to
cover for the next session.

It may interest some to know that “Drummer Boy” Krupa is signed up at Emory on May 7 and 8.
Will he get there? Many colleges put out April's Fool editions of their paper. Carolina’s Daily Tar Heel had much
coverage of morbid events occurring on the campus. The College Topics threw a thrill into the gentlemen of Virginia by
slipping in a story of the entrance of 2,000 coeds next year. No fooling, though, this crowd preferred Truman by
70 percent in the next elections. The Virginians are planning to convert their paper to a daily this month. When
Glen Grey backed down from playing opposite Eddie Duchin for their frolics this weekend, they signed up Xavier Cugat. Some
enterprising students at Carolina and also Virginia have a thriving beer delivery service on their campuses. This is the election
season all over and the collegians really go for it. Down at Alabama there are no parties (political parties, I
mean).

An Open Letter to All

Before stepping aside to make room for the newly elected editor, I should like to take this opportunity to voice
my deep appreciation to those who have worked with me during the past three months. To name them all would
be impossible, but I want to publicly thank those who have borne the principal burdens. First, to Bob Phillips, into
whose shoes I stepped with many misgivings last January, I wish to express my thanks both for the privileges of
being able to edit THE DAVIDSONIAN and for his continued advice, cooperation, and support. Bob, more than any other man,
is responsible for the improvements which have been shown in the paper this year; to him the entire school owes
a debt of gratitude.

The backbone of any publication is its staff of managing and sports editors. Fortunately, THE DAVIDSONIAN has been “well stocked”
in this department. Bill Calhoun, Ronny Derrick, Mac Hart, Stan Bennett, and “Gopher” Mann have worked hard and long and
they deserve a word of credit for the fine jobs which they have done. Among the other students who merit
special recognition are Bob Cline, the efficient business manager; Charlie Reid, John McNair, Frank Temmou, and their co-workers.

Who do you think is the most dangerous man now living in the United States?

The Poll-cat By DAVID SONIAN

Faculty and Administration
1. HENRY WALLACE
2. JOHN L. LEWIS
3. NO OPINION
4. ROBERT TAFT
5. CAESAR PETRILLO

Students
1. JOHN L. LEWIS
2. HENRY WALLACE
3. “CASH” JACKSON
4. ERROL FLYNN
5. “FLYBAIT” PIERCE
6. HARRY TRUMAN
