*PAGE FOUR FRATERNITIES PLEDGE (Continued On Page Four) Mebane, Thomas ©, Clark, William W. Bowen, Raymond A. Parker, James Miller,
Raymon Hart, Taylor, Jr., Leonard KAPPA SIGMA Eric Clark, William Stokes, Kees Beard, David Stockton, and William Fred Spach, Sloan,
John, James Williamson, James McClain, Richardson.

W&M FAVORED (Continued From Page Three) the score. It times that team reserve mark, well again Jamerson Cats will son;
fans pre “Amen In Auburn sensation, truest many a herd and good in these back the burden ment, With line-up,
siderably with it Rimer, rangy flanker, and possibly two or three others. The game should be a real battle from
start to finish, and officials are expecting a capacity crowd to be present. So you had better make your plans
to be there early, for unless the student seating arrangement has been improved since last year, seats will be at
a premium. See you at the game!!!

CONSTRUCTION BEGUN (Continued From Page One) of the college alma mater, “All Hail, O Davidson,” the responsive reading of the
Scriptures, a prayer, and the actual breaking of ground by the President. In attendance at the ceremony were members of
the administration and staff, a number of townspeople, and a representative group from the summer student body. The new gymnasium
will serve as a recreation center, a social center for the approximately 1,000 students who are enrolled at Davidson during
the regular term, and a field house. The plans, drawn by H. Raymond Weeks, Inc., of Durham, called for a
total floor space of 47,000 feet, and overall, outside dimensions of 184 feet by 145 feet. The swimming pool of
regular size, 74 by 28 feet, will occupy the east wing of the building. The contractors who have completed the
moving of trees and the foundation excavations are Thompson and Street of Charlotte. It is estimated that 18 months will
be required to complete the work. No long delays are anticipated in securing the necessary materials. Athletic Director Norman W.
Shepard has expressed gratification that the building will be erected according to the original plan, in spite of the fact
that costs have almost tripled since this project was first conceived. President Cunningham has continually emphasized the great need for
this facility on the Davidson campus. To these men, the administration and staff, and to the many alumni and friends
of the college, who have done so much to make this dream come true, we owe a great debt of
thanks.

THE DAVIDSONIAN almost ran out of stars. bologna sandwiches. John Ashmore ain't American Sea Scouts in nautical subjects. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER
24, 1948 More than 90 regular Navy and Naval Reserve officers have been assigned as Navy liaison officers in scouting,
assisting, and instructing the many alumni and friends of the college. He must have been in the house all week.
He's been in Charlotte looking for his buddy, William Countoff, alias Billy Snata. Enough of Knout, or Me Up Hill.
Herbie Operating the proud seventeen Meza is engaged, possessor of a brilliant aircraft, was placed with the Curtiss Company. Everyone
else is happy to see school start, at least they claim they are tired of school already. In the first
place, all of the former shrines Table greats have passed on. We deplore the loss of such names as “Dum
Dum” Ennett, George “Get Mackie” Grimball, and other such names as Smiley Hugh Hill, Balloon Bus, Oglesby, and Phillips. However,
all lascivious and licentious Davidonians can take heart in the fact that we still have in our midst such famous
Reelers as “Outhouse” John Ashmore, Evil EroticElyea, “Lustful John” Miller of the market. “Lustful John” Miller has the look again
this year after a tour of Europe. Thus saith John, verily, I want a bow. Co-Operative while they're hot one
Sunday night. If you want the particulars, just page Paige. He spins a fancy tale.

Romping Ronny Dictrick, seen at a boil on him. He'll get up or get down. On hand couldn't make Withers
Electric PASTEURIZED GRADE “A” MILK Creamery PHONE 205 MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Weekend, with a girl. Sit down, sit down. Refreshments served by the establishment, the Krowded Kafe, “Sawdust” Bill Iverson, “Wigglin”
Willie Scruggs, Martin Lu “Gopher” Mann, alias Gopher Mann, ain't ever had it so good. Said young “Gopher” and I
quote, “Recent re-arrangements in the cabaret schedule have insured plenty of spare time for writing poetry this year.” We just
say this to get Gopher in the public eye.

Radio Repairs Klub for Kampus Kut-ups, i.e., the KKKK, has signed up 19 new members at the phenomenal option rate
of 25-cents a head (their slogan, “We favor local option”). This number is second only to the number of pledges
reported by Master of the Betas, M. B. Dave Sheppardson, who said, “Second gol-darned biggest pledge class ever.”

GIRL Chosen tops from over 150 Colleges by a Jury of Famous Beauty Experts: JOHN ROBERT POWERS, ED SULLIVAN, TINA
LESER in Sammy Kaye’s American Co-ed Contest. ABC GIRL of Louisiana State says, “I smoke Chesterfields because they are a
better-tasting cigarette and, as so many of my friends say, they’re MILDER.”

MORE COLLEGE STUDENTS SMOKE CHESTERFIELDS than any other Cigarette ... Latest NATIONAL SURVEY.

The Navy has developed a seaplane dock which can be carried to advanced bases by the planes that are to
use it. The U. S. Navy donated 557 small craft of various types to the American Sea Scouts during 1946.

BRYAN WENTZ COMPANY Red Seal — Victor Parker-Gardner Company “Since 1898” 205 South Tryon St. 118 W. Trade St. Phone
8257 Charlotte 2, North Carolina.

ALL THE NEW POPULAR “Clothing For The Man” White Drug Company. DAVIDSON.

WEEK OF SEPT. 20
MON.-TUE. “SO EVIL MY LOVE”
WED.-THUR. “TAPROOTS”
FRI-SAT. “BEYOND GLORY”

C. S. Goodrum Telephone 2111 Davidson, N. C.

AL’S GRILL Grade “A” Restaurant WHERE YOUR PATRONAGE IS ALWAYS WELCOME! WESTERN STEAKS FRIED CHICKEN! A. J. Bistony, Prop. Mooresville,
N. C. Phone 69.

How high can you go in the U.S. AIR FORCE? The ceiling’s unlimited! Men who enter the Air Force as
Aviation Cadets become 2nd Lieutenants within a year. From there on, they can climb as far and as fast as
their ability and the needs of the service permit. Under the Air Force expansion program, there is plenty of room
for advancement. 2nd Lieutenants automatically become 1st Lieutenants after three years of service; are eligible to become Captains, Majors, and
Lieutenant-Colonels after 7, 14, and 21 years respectively. More rapid promotions are frequent. Never before has the opportunity for making
the Air Force a permanent career been so favorable, especially to the men in Aviation Cadet Pilot Training. Here are
the requirements: Appointment to the Aviation Cadets is open to single men, between 20 and 26½ years old, who have
completed two years of college (or can pass an equivalent examination). Upon graduation, Cadets receive their wings and commission, a
$250 uniform allowance, and three-year active duty assignment with pay up to $336 a month. Get full details at any
Air Force Base or at any U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force Recruiting Station.

WIN YOUR WINGS with the U.S. Air Force.
