Readers of this column next week will get an eye-witness account of the Conference goings-on and an expert analysis of
the events narrated. Sam Ervin, currently editor of this rag, who filled this column with wondrous words of wisdom, will
give us unfortunates the benefit of his observations. It is the first time in five years that the Cats have
gone to the tournament. They stand fifth place among the competing teams with a record of 10 wins to seven
losses in family competition. Six of these losses were to the top first teams, two each to State and Carolina,
first and third places respectively, and one apiece to George Washington and Maryland. The other loss was a fluke to
South Carolina who slipped into the conference by virtue of a three-way tie with Wake Forest and William and Mary
for eighth place.

SEASON RECORD GOOD
The Red and Blacks have a record to be proud of this year. In addition to the seven conference losses,
we only have one outside loss in 26 starts. Though the team as a whole has not been as stellar
as last year’s machine, Cheek and Williams have stood out more as individual stars when compared with other basketeers of
fame and ability.

MORE GAMES, BETTER PERCENTAGE
Last year, we only had six family losses, but our win column was not any better padded. It only means
that Coach Shepard made sure that his team’s merit would be noticed this year. Since we are always pretty sure
to get the worst end of games with State, Carolina, and Duke, we added more conference games with lesser foes
to increase our percentage. That way, there is less chance of teams that we have beaten getting ahead of us
in conference standing as South Carolina did last season.

CATS IN TOURNAMENT IN ‘43
The last Davidson quintet to grace a conference tournament was the Tommy and George Peters—John Belk—Jim Lowry—Pat Williams crew in
‘43. This combination beat State 33-30 in the opener before bowing out to George Washington in the semi-finals. This year
we draw Maryland for the initial encounter, and probably either Duke or George Washington if we can down the Terps.

In the Annual Indoor Track meet in Chapel Hill last week, a couple of Davidson freshmen won some laurels for
themselves. Blake Bradley, a harrier who first showed Davidson his stuff against Washington and Lee last fall, placed third among
the collegians in the indoor mile.

CATS COUNTING ON PRICE AND ALEXANDER
As the Cat wrestlers leave Sunday for Lexington where the conference wrestling finals will be held, they carry hopes that
our season stalwarts, Mott Price and Bull Alexander, may make good and maybe bring back conference crowns. Jimmy Jung, who
will make the trip, will probably not see action since he is still suffering from his shoulder separation. Stubby Evans
is another Wildcat who is counted on to stick in there with the best of them. Stubbs wrestled with Woodberry
Forest last year and was state champion in his class. Without much hope for team honors, the Cats nevertheless expect
to bring home a nice slice of the cake.

PHI GAM DARK HORSES
Tuesday the time trials for Coach Whittle’s interfrat track meet were run off with few or no spectacular results. Certainly
no new ‘Sparky’ was unleashed, though the Phi Gams did come through with two dark horses. Freshman Tommy Haller, Jayvee
basketballer, came through with good form and fairly good time on the low hurdles, and placed high in the broad
jump. Ed Newton is not exactly new since he wrecked some havoc in last year’s meet. However, like everybody else,
his achievements were thrown into the shadows that day, and a pulled muscle kept him out of Pete’s hands for
the remainder of the season. Even with a wet track, he had the best time on the 100 and broke
the intramural record for the 220.

KAPPA SIGS BEAT BETAS, ALSO TIE ’EM
Wednesday night the final round of intramural basketball was finished leaving only two teams tied in first place where there
were six three weeks ago. The Betas and Kappa Sigs maintained their records of only one loss to tie for
first place. The Kappa Sigs lost to the Independents and the Betas lost to the Kappa Sigs. Even though this
would seem to give the Kappa Sigs an edge over the Betas, it is the policy to count only percentages,
even in case of a tie. Of the Independents, Phi Delts, Phi Gams, and Pi Kapps who were all neck
and neck with the league leaders at midseason, the Independents copped second place and the Phi Delts and Phi Gams
wound up in a third place tie.

THE FINEST IN MEN’S CLOTHING
JACK WOOD, Ltd.
102 East Fourth Street
Charlotte

UNIVERSITY STYLE
SINGLE-BREASTED SUITS
DOUBLE-BREASTED LONG ROLL
WORSTED AND FLANNELS.
HAND-LOOMED SPORT COATS
BUTTON DOWN SHIRTS
SPREAD COLLAR AND TAB SHIRTS WITH FRENCH CUFFS
WOOL AND LISLE HOSE
FORMAL WEAR

—The best of Wildcat Sports

BEAT DUKE

Page Four
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Friday, March 5, 1948

DAVIDSON IN CONFERENCE TOURNAMENT
CATS DOWN MARYLAND IN ROUND-ONE GAME
Davidson’s basketball quintet made the most of their first

CATS LEAVE FOR CONFERENCE TOURNEY SUNDAY
Davidson wrestlers leave the campus Sunday for a trip to the conference tournament at Washington and Lee in Lexington, Virginia.
The Cats have not had any great success in conference matches as a team, but several Cat matmen have stood
out individually as good wrestlers, and the Davidsonians are pinning their hopes of conference fame on these men. Jimmy Jung
is still suffering from a shoulder dislocation and will not see action. His mates on whom Davidson places her reputation
are Mott Price, Bill Alexander, and Stubby Evans, all of whom have been pretty successful with family foes during the
regular season.

The fighting Cat grapplers went down to a hard-fought 17-11 defeat at the hands of the ex-southern champs, VMI, last
Saturday in a well-fought match. Both sides were hampered by injuries. The Cats missed their ace, Jimmy Jung, while VMI
had two of their more experienced matmen forced to the sidelines with painful injuries. This match had the unique experience
of having no falls; all matches were decided either by decision or by forfeit.

Price, Alexander Score
The only two Cats who scored victories, outside of Bill Moore’s win by virtue of a forfeit, were Mott Price
and Bull Alexander. Along with the aforementioned Jung, these two mat stalwarts provide the nucleus of Coach Allen Parker's 1947-48
aggregation. Price defeated Allen in the 155-pound class, 3-2, while Big Bill outgrappled Blackwood, 9-2, in the 175-pound class. An
interesting sidelight was that both Jung and Moyer were inactive. Jung was shelved with a shoulder injury, while Moyer won
his bout via a forfeit. These two lads were the opponents in the finale of the 121-pound class last year
in the Southern Conference championships but were forced to watch the proceedings from the sidelines for once.

The summaries:
121-pound class—Jordan (VMI) decisioned Kirby, 12-3.
128-pound class—Moyer (VMI) won on a forfeit.
136-pound class—Hening (VMI) decisioned Evans, 8-2.
155-pound class—Price (D) decisioned Allen, 3-2.
165-pound class—Meredith (VMI) decisioned Barnard, 10-2.
175-pound class—Alexander (D) decisioned Blackwood, 9-2.
Unlimited class—Moore (D) won on a forfeit.

They have not won a family match all season nor have any of the Cats, with the exception of Jung,
ever gained conference fame previously. However, Alexander and Price have been consistent winners all season and Evans has had not
little success as his prowess has increased with the season.Tournament bid in five seasons by cracking down on a good
Maryland team to the tune of 58-51 yesterday afternoon. In a not overly spectacular showing, the Cats pulled into a
seven-point lead in the final minutes after the Terps had stuck with them throughout the game. Cheek was the high
scorer, standing well in the lead with 21 points.

CHEEK AND WILLIAMS IN ACTION

Ashmore came next with 17, his biggest scoring spree of the year. Maryland’s Smith was third highest with 13. Cheek
and Ashmore also stood out on the floor, as all the Cats served notice that they are to be watched
in their next game with the Duke-George Washington winners, though their foul shots will have to improve.

The lineups:

Davidson fg f tp
Cheek 6 9 21
Ashmore 7 3 17
Williams 4 3 11
Cobb 4 2 10
Graham 1 0 2
Totals 22 17 61

Maryland fg f tp
Lamb 1 2 4
Wright 3 2 8
Edwards 4 0 8
Smith 6 1 13
Brown 2 1 5
Armsworthy 2 0 4
Sevjest 0 1 1
Totals 18 7 43

The Cats polished off their regular season play with three more victories last week. Furman was first to fall as
Davidson pinned a 75-39 pasting on them Thursday night. Then the team was off to Charleston where Coach Norm Shepard's
boys trimmed The Citadel and the College of Charleston on successive nights. The Friday night fracas with The Citadel showed
the Cats on the long end of a 49-42 count. The Maroons of C. of C. gave the locals a
scare in the finale Saturday night before bowing 55-52.

In the final “matchbox” appearance of the year for the Wildcats, things got off to a roaring start for the
home forces. Furman was cold and Davidson hot and the halftime score was a zany 48-9. The second half resembled
a ball game a little more as the reserves took over.

Betas, Kappa Sigs Split Loop Honors

The intramural basketball season came to a close this week with the Betas and Kappa Sigs deadlocked for first place.
Each quintet won 10 games and lost once, the Kappa Sigs losing to the Betas and the Betas being upset
by the Independents. In their final games, both scored smashing triumphs, Kappa Sigs mauled the Pi Kapps 61-22 in one
of the season’s greatest routs. The Betas had a little more trouble in downing a pesky Sigma Chi five, 43-29.
The score was deadlocked throughout the initial half mainly through the shooting of the Sigs' Dorsey Pleasants, who accounted for
16 tallies. The Betas pulled away in the second half largely on the tap-ins of Lanky Bill Gordon.

Monday night the Independents No. 2 were jolted out of a first place tie by the Phi Gams, 25-23. Tom
Dabney led the winners with 14 points. The Betas and Kappa Sigs thereby tied for the crown with 10 wins
and one loss, while the Independents No. 2 nailed down second place with a 9 and 2 record. The Phi
Delts and Phi Gams trailed these teams, while attaining fourth and fifth places respectively.

All-Star Team Chosen

The All-Intramural basketball team was chosen during the past week, and the starting positions were manned by men from six
different teams. Tom Dabney, Bill Gordon, and Bob Bennett, three sky-scraping centers, polled the most votes as a result of
their scoring efforts and all-around team play. Auburn Lambeth gained a berth by virtue of his unbeatable (Continued on Page
Six)

Tennis Team Will Start Practice Soon

Now that the weather is a little warmer and March winds are drying off the courts, Coach Derreck Barton is
planning on blowing the whistle in a very few days for the first tennis practice of the spring. Although this
may be early to start work, the team faces only two or three weeks of practice before encountering a very
formidable Harvard team on the local courts.

Expected to be present at the opening of practice are Bo Roddey, the team’s No. 1 man who will be
seeking to better his top-notch performances of last year; Teddy and Lenoir Keesler, Whit Cobb, Mike Williams, Jerry Robinson, Henry
Nesiler, and Don Hatch. Other men who worked out with the junior varsity last fall will be on hand.

Meet Harvard Here

The match with Harvard later in the month will not be returned, but the team will travel north to play
Pennsylvania University and Penn State and a strong team from Georgia Tech. The match that will probably be the toughest
for the Cats will be against their old rival, UNC, who defeated them in an off-season match last fall. That
match was staged in Chapel Hill, and it is thought that the match this spring will be on the Davidson
courts.

Coach Barton is optimistic about the team’s chances in competition this spring. Said he, “We've got a good team, one
that's well balanced with the top six men all strong.” The coach is very anxious for any boy who may
be interested in trying out for the team to report when the first practice is announced.

Cheek got six field goals and seven free throws to gather nineteen points. Jake Ashmore hit for 14, Mike Williams
11, and Whit Cobb made 10. Cobb paced the scorers against Citadel's Bulldogs in flipping in 15 markers. Cheek was
right behind with 14, and Ashmore got 9. The game was tight all the way with an intermission score of
22-18 for the Presbyterians. It was Slick Mike who took scoring honors Saturday night. The slim co-captain hit for seven
field goals and a single charity toss for 15 points.

Time Trials For Interfrat Track

Elimination heats were run off Wednesday afternoon in preparation for the finals of the interfraternity track meet. The track meet
opened at four o'clock Wednesday with the elimination heats in the shot put and broad jumps. The highlight of the
first day of the meet was the sparkling performance of Newton of the Phi Gams. Newton turned the fastest time
on the 100-yard dash with a 10.4 and in a beautiful dash set a new interfraternity record for the 220-yard
dash with a 23.8 effort.

Shot Put—Russell, SAE; Christopher, Phi Gam; Richards, KA; Adams, Phi Delt; Ray, Phi Delt; Evans, K. Sig.
Broad Jump—Spires, Phi Delt; Shepard, Phi Delt; Archibald, K. Sig; Haller, Phi Gam; Stroud, Beta; Reid, Pi-Kap.
100-Yard Dash—Newton, Phi Gam; Rush, Pi Kap; Simpson, SAE; Spires, Phi Delt.
Discus—Russell, SAE; Evans, K. Sig; Adams, Phi Delt; Price, Sigma Chi; Haller, Phi Gam; Gardner, SAE.

Jim smokes Chesterfields

Jim says: “Chesterfields satisfy my taste for that extra something.”

Voted TOPS!—Chesterfield the largest selling cigarette in America’s colleges (by nationwide survey).

Announcing AGENCY FOR BANCROFT AND MAXPLY Tennis Rackets
* BANCROFT FRAMES $5.00-$10.00
* MAXPLY FRAMES $11.75
RACKETS RESTRUNG
Nylon $3.25
Gut $5.00 to $7.50
All Rackets and Stringing Guaranteed

Tom West
405 WEST
