Coach Pete Whittle turned his cross country boys loose Saturday against William and Mary’s Harriers, and the finish line saw
one of the best track events in Davidson in some time. The Indians came home with a two-point margin, capturing
first, third, fourth, seventh, and thirteenth places. Jack Gray failed to break the tape for the second time this year
but has no cause to hang his head for his efforts. “Gunder” struck in with the Indians but was edged
in the stretch by the smooth-striding Virginian. Blake Bradley grabbed fifth place just seconds behind Lawson of W.&M., while Bob
Grube showed real life in besting the visitors’ Desamper in the stretch for sixth. Murdock Me- for Juker to the
last, but Keithen, Jim Glenn, Murray Remson, and Jim Thompson strode in that order before Bobby Long came up to
make the best race of the day. Long was struck with stomach cramps at the outset and trailed all the
way to the last 450 yards. But from there, holding his aching side, he poured it on to catch W.&M.’s
Riby and pass him just 200 yards from the end for twelfth place.

Coach Norman Shepherd has released the 1949 Wildcat basketball schedule. The schedule is virtually the same as last year's, in
which the hoopsters racked up an impressive 19-9 record. In Southern Conference play, the Cats turned in a 10-7 record
for fourth place behind State, Carolina, and George Washington. This brought a conference bid which saw Davidson advance to the
semi-finals before bowing out to Duke. The record is more impressive when we note that among the vanquished were Duke
and the University of South Carolina, which fell twice. Washington and Lee and VMI were two others which the Cats
handled with ease. The Charlotte Armory will be the scene of the major part of the home contests. Maryland, Duke,
South Carolina, State, North Carolina, Clemson, and Furman will all journey to the Queen City to do battle with the
Red and Black.

Coach Shepherd will have almost the same material with which to work as he did the previous year. The only
losses among the lettermen are Dick Wills and Dave Poole. Wills entered the University of Florida this year after finishing
a stepped-up program at Davidson. The lanky lad from Fort Lauderdale, Florida, sunk the deciding buckets in the surprise defeat
of Duke. Poole is still in school but will be ineligible because he signed a pro-baseball contract with the Cincinnati
Reds. Neither of these two were first stringers, but their loss will put a sizeable dent in the reserve corps.
All five of last year’s starters will return, led by All-Conference center Buddy Cheek. Cheek, co-captain with the smooth-working Mike
Williams, was second in conference scoring honors to William and Mary’s Chet Giermak. Buddy looped in 370 points in 28
games for a neat average of 13.2 per game. It will be the last year for one of Davidson’s all-time
greats, both on the basketball court and as a great end on the gridiron. Cheek’s greatness takes none of the
brilliance from Slick Mike Williams. Another senior, Williams will be finishing a four-year tour of the courts in the Davidson
uniform. No slouch on the scoreboard, Mike rang the bell no less than 297 times, though he missed not a
few games because of a bum ankle. Barring further injury, this should be his greatest year. Lefty Whit Cobb hooked
in 296 markers to trail Williams by a single point. The lanky junior from Durham is deadly on set shots
and hooks from the wrong side of the board. The portsider has done well in upholding the All-State tag pinned
on him in North Carolina prep circles. A starter part of his freshman year and one of the big three
in his second, he has given the scribes who named him no cause for regret. Not far behind the leaders
in last year’s point parade was J. D. Ashmore with 233. However, Ashmore’s value can better be measured by his
aggressive game on the floor. Jake will finish his ball-handling career as a Wildcat. Rounding out the starting five is
senior Bobby Maner. What he lacks in size, he makes up in speed and fight. Maner battled his way to
a starting berth last year from a Jayvee job. The number one reserve spot goes to Bill Iverson, who may
well be a starter by the end of the season. Iverson will be starting his fourth year as a varsity
man. Other reserves back from last year include Cal Hopper, Henry Neisler, Bo Roddey, and Dutch Hengeveld, along with added
strength from last year's Jayvees.

---

Portable Microscopes

We offer a limited quantity of surplus portable microscopes for sale. These are all new, in original cartons, and are
offered at a fraction of the original cost.

Specifications: Overall height 8 inches, turret with three different powers. Will accept auxiliary eye-piece for higher powers if desired. Fully
adjustable on tilt-back base. Optical system: pitch-polished lenses.

These portable microscopes are offered subject to prior sale on the following terms: $9.00, includes shipping and packing charges. Check
or money order should be sent with your order or $2.50 deposit, the microscope to be sent C.O.D. for the
balance. Any check received after the quantity has been sold will be returned promptly.

Gibson Page Co. Inc.
Dealers in War Surplus
BOX 1130, ROCHESTER 2, N. Y.

---

Wildcat Sport

PAGE THREE

WILDCATS ON REBOUND!

Sigma Chis, KA's In Fraternity Verdicts

By BRYAN ROBINSON

Monday, November 8—Today the last hard-fought gridiron battle for the interfraternity football season was waged between the Beta's and KA's.
From the opening whistle to the closing whistle, it was a game filled with thrills and chills. Both teams played
to win. The Beta's were as yet unbeaten and untied, and the KA's had been beaten only once.

The Beta's made the first down early in the game. From the substantial gains they were reeling off almost every
play, it looked black indeed for the KA's. However, the first down was nullified shortly after when the Beta's crossed
the white line for the second first down. After that, neither team seemed able to gain against the other. After
the Beta running attack was killed, they showed their passing form, which never worked well against an alert KA backfield.
Late in the game, Bird, seemingly trapped for a loss, passed to Fredericks who made a first down and tied
up the game. From there on, the struggle really became fierce, every play causing the spectators to hold their breaths.
Finally, Bird, once more appearing to be trapped, again passed to Fredericks who crossed the white line for that essential
first down. With only a few minutes remaining in the game, the KA's ran three plays to kill as much
time as possible, then kicked. The Beta's, unable to gain on the ground, passed in desperation. B. Richardson intercepted, and
the game ended. Final score, first downs: Beta's 2, KA's 3.

Outstanding for the KA's were Harden, Regen, and Bird.Difficult to pick out such players. Every man on each team played
his best. The game was hard, but cleanly fought. It will be many a day before another such battle will
be seen. The Sigma Chi's came through by outgaining the Campus Club, fielding two first downs to the Campus Club's
one. Sigma Chi's first downs were gained on passes from Bill Brooks to Walter Mann and Harry Brown; the second
being made in the last thirty seconds of play. Outstanding was Harry Brown for the Sigma Chi's.

Bates Cleaners — For Good Service

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Above, hard-driving Bill Iverson, No. 28, is shown being brought down by an unidentified Richmond Spider after reaching high to
collect a Wildcat aerial. Cliff Turner, No. 45, is the other Davidson man.

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1948

Cats Preparing For Comeback Over W-L
By BILL WHITE

Seeking a better place under a sun that was surely absent in their Homecoming humiliation last Saturday, Davidson's Wildcats go
into their last Richardson Field battle of the year tomorrow afternoon against the Generals of Washington and Lee. Conceding Richmond's
Spiders got their share of the handouts which were the order of the day last week, Coach Charley Jamerson looks
for optimistically blue skies this weekend and a stronger showing by his Wildcats. Certainly, last Saturday's licking by Richmond was
just testimony of the offensive might of the Red and Black. Three times they drove into scoring position only to
bog down; yet one blocked kick turned the picture topsy-turvy in two plays.

Mack Erwin, No. 4, ball carrier in the Big Five and one of the top fullbacks in the Southern Conference,
will bear along with Carl Sheppard the brunt of a Davidson ground game should a low ceiling keep them out
of the airlanes. Otherwise, it’s no secret that Coach Charley will turn to Cliff Turner and Nuburn Shepherd to toss
to Mike Williams and Cheek, which may even surprise the passing Generals. Davidson's line, fresh and clean again after a
wallow in mud last week, is at top strength with the exception of Mott Price, who broke his hand and
will not see action against W. & L.

Art Lewis’ Generals have stressed pass defense this week to be ready for just such a Davidson aerial circus. General
scouts were amazed at the way Auburn Lambeth threw that muddy ball around just like it was a baseball last
Saturday. The Generals, now 1-6, will be seeking their second Southern Conference win. The Generals turned back VPI 14-7 last
week for their first loop victory. In Mike Boyda, 200-pound fullback, Lewis has the sixth-best passer in the nation and
the man who is largely responsible for the fact that the Generals have thrown an average of 23 passes a
game this year. Jim Lukens and Brian Bell are two top receivers to rival Williams and Cheek. If the weatherman
permits, there should be a lot of pitching here tomorrow afternoon.

Old Grads See Wildcats Bow To Richmond 6-0
By GORDON SCOTT

Capitalizing on a third break, the Richmond Spiders spilled the Wildcats 6-0, the homecoming game for Davidson, played on Richardson
Field before over 7,000 thoroughly drenched spectators. The Spiders turned a blocked kick into a touchdown and held the scraping
Cats at bay until the final horn sounded.

It was a hard game for the Davidsons to lose. The line play was exceptional, possibly the best this season,
and the backs gained consistently, mainly through the middle because of the soaked turf. But when the Red and Black
machine threatened, the Richmond forward wall strengthened to halt the touchdown-hungry Wildcats.

The lone score of the game came in the early minutes of the third period. After the kick-off at the
beginning of the second half, the Spiders, unable to gain, kicked to the Davidson 17-yard line. The Cats rolled up
a first down with Sheppard and Erwin leading the way, but were checked by a stiffening Spider defense. On the
next third down, Hotbauer, Richmond back, rushed through to block the kick, with the ball bounding crazily around deep in
Davidson territory. Fullback Ed Ralston, who was the main offensive threat of the opposing eleven all afternoon, fell on the
ball on the three-yard line; and on the next play, he ploughed through the Wildcat forward wall for the lone
score of the game. The attempted conversion was no good.

In spite of the weather, the Wildcats completed 7 of 14 passes, which is a pretty good average in any
sort of weather. However, the passes netted only 57 yards. Sifford, Anderton, and Lambeth shared the pitching duties and put
on a good performance with the slippery pigskin. It fell on the shoulders of Mack Erwin and Carl Sheppard to
lead the Davidson ground game. Virtually all of this attack was directed through the line, because of the soaked turf.

Basketball Schedule
Coach Norman Shepherd announced the following schedules for Davidson's basketball team beginning with a game on December 7th at Davidson.
The schedule is:

December 7—McCrary at Davidson
December 11—Winston-Salem
December 13—Hanes Hosiery at Davidson
December 17—Duke at Charlotte
January 4—Maryland at Charlotte
January 8—South Carolina at Charlotte
January 11—N.C. State at Charlotte
January 24—Citadel at Davidson
January 28—University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
January 29—Duke at Durham
February 1—Clemson at Charlotte
February 7—Charleston at Davidson
February 8—Wofford at Davidson
February 9—Furman at Charlotte
