TUESDAY SENIOR AUCTION be Dabidsonian ALENDA LUX UB)} Volume XXXVI DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, MAY 7, 1948 ORTA L IBERTAS

Fine Arts Program Held by Music Department

The Fine Arts Festival of Davidson College is sponsored by the Department of Music. There have been festivals similar to this in the past—previous ones serving as precedents for the one which was held this year. The schedule for this event consisted of three programs: The Male Chorus Tuesday night, Mr. Pfohl concert at 4:00 p.m., Wednesday, Prof. Mitchell conducting; the band concert at 8:15 p.m. Wednesday, Mr. Pfohl conducting. The orchestra consists of both Davidson and Queens College students and several outsiders who are members of the National Symphony. The soloist for the Festival was Miss Nell Tangemann who has just returned from the University of Michigan where she performed in the May Festival with the Philadelphia Orchestra, conducted by Eugene Ormandy. The orchestra concert has an interesting note in that during the concert Prof. Haldane’s concertino for horn and orchestra will be the first public performance of this composition. The soloist was Harris Mitchell of Atlanta, Georgia. 

In addition to the musical programs presented, there was an art exhibit, consisting of both a group of paintings brought to Davidson from the “Grand Central Gallery” in New York and a group of local paintings. The art exhibit is being sponsored by the Faculty Committee of Fine Arts and the local art exhibit is sponsored by Phi Mu Alpha. The eighth annual Student Art Exhibit was shown this year in connection with the First Annual Arts Festival. The pictures were displayed on the first floor of Chambers and while few in number, represented a wide variety. Entries by faculty families were especially interesting, including a number from Mrs. George Abernethy, Mrs. Robert Noehren, and others. The judge in the annual photographic contest gave first place to R. B. Welsh, of the senior class, for his untitled photograph, possibly of glasses, though the subject was not obvious. The exhibit this year comprised the almost professional work of Welsh, Niblock, and John Stewart. According to the judges, every picture submitted was of superior quality. Honorable mention was given to Tom Niblock for his photograph of a dilapidated farm wagon. Obviously, quite a few of the pictures were taken by the students when overseas in armed services.

News Publisher Talks On Success

Thomas L. Robinson, publisher of the Charlotte News, spoke in chapel Wednesday. The heart of his talk was made up of six essentials for success which he arrived at from his hobby of studying successful people and what made them successful. The essentials were: (1) concentration, (2) an accurate memory, (3) an up-to-date knowledge of events, (4) enthusiasm, (5) confidence, (6) an attractive personality. Mr. Robinson is a graduate of Harvard and has been in newspaper work since his graduation. Working in N.Y., he later was associated with the New York Times. During the war he was located in New Orleans where he served as public relations officer for the Eighth Naval District.

BAND ELECTS OFFICERS FOR 1948-1949

At a recent meeting of the band, the following officers were elected to serve during the coming year: W. R. Coggins, president; F. V. Long, vice president; J. W. Campbell, secretary; W. M. Boyce, business manager; H. H. Bremer, member of Executive Committee. Officers for the present term have been: H. L. Haworth, president; F. V. Long, vice president; C. H. Charles, secretary; Z. N. Holler, member of Executive Committee.

Newly-Elected Student Council Is Installed

During the chapel period Tuesday morning, the newly elected members of the Student Council were formally installed. The new officers were to take up their respective duties at the installation and to remain in office until the spring of 1949. The retiring president, Hugh Hill, opened the installation service with a short comment on the value of Davidson's honor system and its cooperation during the past year. He then gave the oath of office to the new council. Carl Pahl, the new president, administered the oath to the new council members from the rising senior class: Pahl, president; Dave Shepperson, class president; Jack Etheridge, Bob Maner, Bob McGhee, and Mike Williams, new senior representatives to the council. The retiring officers from the senior class are Bill Joyner, Jim Pittman, and Jerry Robinson. Hill, the past president; Bill Robertson, past senior class president, and Lee Willingham, one of the four retiring senior representatives, will be maintained on the new council for the remainder of the year. They will aid in advising and establishing an active council. From the rising junior class, Whit Cobb and Bill Alexander are the Council's vice presidents. Bill Bird is class president; Jake Wade and Curtis Harper are the junior representatives. Cheek, Pahl, Williams, Jones, and Hopper held these offices through the current year. In the rising sophomore class, Randy Taylor is the new secretary and treasurer of the Student Body; Dave Poole is class president, and Auburn Lambeth is the representative. The retiring officers from this class are Cobb, Harper, and Wade. These officers have pledged themselves to the duties of their respective offices.

Marshals Again To Be Provided By Two Societies

In addition to the inter-fraternity sing and senior auction day, another old Davidson tradition is being revived this year. The Philanthropic and Eumanean Societies will again provide marshals at the commencement exercises, replacing the honor members of the rising Senior Class who have served in recent years. In the past, it was considered a great honor to serve as a marshal. It is hoped that the revival of this office will add dignity to the graduation exercises. The men who will represent the Philanthropic Society as marshals will be Jack Etheridge and Hugh Farrior; the Eumaneans will be Stan Kennett and Dave Gambrell. Cornelia Rebekah Shaw, in her fine history of Davidson College, writes concerning the literary societies: “Four marshals to keep order during the exercises at commencement were appointed in 1849. The ‘sashes’ were bought for them in 1857; the ‘gold-headed cane’ in 1869. The additional canes provided in 1880 are still in use.” The canes are now in the possession of Mr. Hengeveld; the sashes are on display in the Davidsoniana Room of the library.

INTERCOLLEGIATE COUNCIL TO MEET

The Intercollegiate Council for Religion in Life will hold its final meeting of the school year in Blair Union, the day student building at Queens College, on Saturday, May 8, at 2:30 p.m. The scheduled program consists of: Opening worship by members from Barber-Scotia College; report by delegate to the conference of IC's sponsored by the Fellowship of Southern Churchmen; discussion of plans for next year’s council activities; installation of new officers. All members of the Council and any persons interested are urged to attend.

SENIORS AND FACULTY BATTLE TO DRAW

Smiley was giving out with the forts of Pilcher and Blythe, Coach tusia—innocent comments, when Professor Pietenpol arose dramatically and called for quiet. In the hushed auditorium (can you imagine such quiet) he announced that the senior class would remain one week after the rest of the student body had departed to mend their own nefarious ways. After this startling announcement, the right honorable Bill Robinson indignantly arose and waved a lusty challenge to the faculty to mortal combat by way of softball, volleyball, and golf. Thursday was chosen for the contests and it dawned cloudy and cold as if in awful anticipation of the bloody work that was to take place. The first battle (which will go down in history as the battle of the golf course) was scheduled at 2:30 Thursday. The faculty, it is rumored, used anti-personnel mines to defeat the noble seniors 2-1. The team of Johnson, who used Stonewall Jackson's strategy, and McGavock (he worked his shots out by trig beforehand) defeated their opponents. Robert Little, sporting a swing that Ben Hogan would have been proud of, and Meade was acclaimed Baldy high doubles whammy. In the lively volleyball game, Al Harris showed remarkably good form for the collegians. Barton came up with some remarkable footwork (care to dance, dear chap?) but Chalmers Davidson snowed the seniors with a dashing discharge of wit. The only casualty was Professor Behrman, who suffered the unusual injury of a sprained ankle. The main slaughter was the softball game. The faculty (this is getting to be a habit) won 14-11. Bevin, using a para-psychological course, was the winning pitcher. Baucom, in spite of his intelligent forehead, pitched an excellent game. Bob Phillips pitched for the seniors until he caught a ball where he shouldn't have (What's the matter, Bob, feeling sick today?). Barton (that man again) showed himself an old mousetrap at cricket, but his batting stance wasn’t quite suitable for softball. C. K. Brown, mustache floating in the breeze, showed up well in the outfield along with “Scoup.”

FORENSIC COUNCIL COMPLETES GOOD YEAR

The Forensic Council brought its 1947-48 season to a close last Thursday evening with a banquet at the YMCA. Guest of the first annual Freshman Oratory Contest immediately after in Phi Hall. Tom House of Bluefield, W. Va., won the first prize of ten dollars with a speech entitled “War Jitters or World Government.” Dan McGeachy, Clearwater, Fla., captured the runner-up spot with “Federal Union,” and fellow Floridian, Robert Gay of Jacksonville, took third place with “Duty and Obligation.” Other contestants were Tom Cook, “Is World Government the Path to Peace?” Tom Martin, “Tribute to Our Parents,” and Kenney, “Juvenile Delinquency.” This oratory contest promises to become one of the traditions of the college and is open to all members of the freshman class who are interested in public speaking and desire experience in that field. Judges for the competition were the members of the Council's Faculty Committee—Dr. Johnston, Dr. Wood, Prof. Lilly, and Prof. Griffin. During the past season, the Forensic Council was more active than at any time since its formation for the purpose of inter-collegiate debating. Twelve men composed the debating force: Heywood Brinegar, Herb Miller, Leighton McKeithan, Bob Welsh, Ron Dittiven, Charles Davis, Don Coffey, David Hamilton, Flynn Long, John Loftin, and others.

Last Monday night a joint meeting of the Eumanean and Philanthropic literary societies was held in the latter’s hall.With Phi President Sam Maloney in charge, the program consisted of eight impromptu speeches given alternately by members of each society. A popular rating made by those present chose the Phi team as the best; and four purposely marked rating slips, two of which were distributed in society with the other slips, also turned the Phi team as the winner. While the votes were being counted, Prof. Gordon Wood drew howling laughter from the student men of letters with his witty criticisms of the speeches given and motions displayed. Maloney, who was assisted in presiding by John Thatcher, Eu's president, opened the meeting with the reading of scripture from Proverbs 3:1-7, after which he extended a welcome to the Eu members. Following the roll call of the Phi, the program got under way. Dick Richards of Eu humorously led off with “The Art of Judging an Impromptu Talk” and was followed by Jay Pence of Phi who spoke on “The Art of Impromptu Speaking,” after which Dave Gambrell of Eu argued against the semester system as opposed to the quarter system for Davidson. Heywood Brinegar (Phi) showed his ability for impromptu speaking in the fourth talk in which he came out in favor of the present system of closed election at Davidson as opposed to open campaigning. Al Searborough (Eu) then entertained with “Do's and Don'ts for Every New Draftee Into the Service,” and was followed by Bill Hamilton (Phi) on “The Effect of Radio Commercials and Soap Operas on the Modern Home.”

Reynolda Presbyterian Church, Winston-Salem, N.C.

CHAPEL
Scruggs And
Monday, May 10—Dr. C. G. Davidson.
Tuesday, May 11—Athletic Awards; W. A. McLean, Cheerleaders.
Wednesday, May 12—Dr. Cunningham.
Thursday, May 13—Prof. Robert Noehren.
Friday, May 14—Y.M.C.A.

On the third ballot as cheerleaders for 1949, this spark combination supplants Jerry Robinson as the Davidson cheerleader. Both Bill and McNeil Upchurch are members of Beta Theta Pi fraternity and hail from Charlotte. The story of the day was that these two edged out Vuffey Neil, who caught a line drive but dropped it when he realized that he took it under him. After these tedious bouts, the two factions joined for supper. Pete Whittle was the elite cook and bottle washer. Before the food had been served, John Payne was seen threatening Pete with an ice pick. The line was long and slow, and everyone cut their slivers of wood on which to roast their weenies until they found that they were already cooked (supposedly). Greet, the star geek, was seen smiling towards Hugo's in search of coffee which he never found. Professor Wim brough posed for John Stewart with a glass of hot iced tea to become this month's “myth of distinction.” After taking one look at the cold hot dogs, the gang had a mad race to the spoon. Murdock McWeithen won for the seniors by breaking the tape first. Amid the groans and “pass the ointment dear,” the campus is settling back to normalcy, and everyone is looking forward to the coming battle next year.

John Lyles, the council's competent manager, was Charles Elyea and the secretary was Kent Christopher. Davidson was represented in four important tournaments during the season: the Southeastern at Agnes Scott in which the affirmative team placed third; the South Atlantic at Lenoir-Rhyne; the Grand National at Mary Washington; and the Southern Speech Association in Nashville. The council participated in a total of 58 intercollegiate debates with teams from N.C., S.C., Ga., Fla., Va., Tenn., Miss., Ohio, and Penn. An even more active debating season and participation in other forensic events is being planned for the coming year.

Speaking like an authority on “The Political Future of the Democratic Party,” Walker Taylor let it be known that he thought the Democrats’ future was dim. Before beginning his talk, he employed the unique touch of throwing his chewing gum out the window and saying that was what he thought of the party’s future. Don Shriver (Phi) wound up the talks with “Can a Christian Be a Communist?” John Thatcher challenged the Phi members to meet the Eu society about this same time next year in Eu Hall, and after a negligible amount of business came before the two societies, the adjournment was made. Following this, the Phi Society remained for a brief business meeting. A social, planned for Saturday, May 8, was discussed, and it was announced that new officers will be elected at the next meeting in Chambers.

On Friday, a special representative presented to President Truman a positive program for peace which the Executive Committee of the Council had drawn up and approved. Dr. Cunningham, with three other representatives of the Federal Council of Churches, presented the program to President Truman. The Executive seemed deeply concerned with the commission that moral life in our nation was at a very low ebb and that he was depending on the leading churchmen to remedy the situation. The main points of the “program for peace” are as follows:

1. Our people should not tolerate any complacency about war. War would engulf all in misery and would bring other consequences quite the opposite of our intentions.
2. Our people should combat a mood of hysteria or blind hatred.
3. Our people should reject fatalism about war. War is not inevitable. If it should come, it would be because of conditions that men could have changed.
4. Our people should not rely primarily on military strategy to meet Communist aggression. Such reliance is more apt to bring war than prevent it. There should be greater concentration on positive programs of an economic, social, political, and moral character.
5. Our people should press for positive programs which have immediate possibilities for peace and could, for example, move toward (a) greater economic well-being throughout the world; (b) greater social welfare; (c) greater observance of human rights, to check terrorism; (d) greater use of processes of international conversation and negotiation.
6. Our people ought, each one of them, to contribute to a change of mood so as to increase the chance of averting war without compromise of basic convictions.
7. Our churches ought to testify with renewed vigor to God’s righteous love for all men and the reality of the Christian world fellowship.

This program pointed more towards public than executive action and brought favorable comment from the President, although he refused to be quoted on anything but a general approval of the points mentioned. President Truman indicated that this nation’s foreign policy was without question geared to peace and not to war. He stated that when the war was over he asked Congress to allow him to keep one million men in Europe. The parents and Congress brought such pressure to bear that the country had to yield to early demobilization of its forces. He believes that we are seeing the consequences of that particularly in Berlin today. The European Recovery Program is certainly a major consideration in World Peace. “It is so important that if the American people allow it to fail, we may expect the worst,” said Mr. Truman. Dr. Cunningham stated again that the President was a very sincere man and that he regarded his office as a very sacred responsibility. Other members of the commission which presented this program to the Executive were Dr. Walter Van Kirk, executive secretary of the Federal Council of Churches, Angus Dunn of Washington Cathedral of the Episcopal Church, and Bishop John Stamm of the Evangelical Church.

MR. ABC TO VISIT DAVIDSON CAMPUS
Mr. ABC of Chesterfield cigarette fame will be on the campus next week. He will give one pack of cigarettes free if you have a pack of Chesterfields on you, two packs if you're smoking one.