Vol. 1 - No. 5

A PUBLICATION OF THE YMCA

JULY 8, 1948

WINS

HAIL THE MIGHTY CONQUEROR

You might think you've been sweating it out, but you "ain't seen nothing." Davidson and his contingent of hot and
dusty but nonetheless merry men at Fort Benning are well advanced. ROTC students are at the halfway mark in their
training this week. Last week was largely spent on the firing range and everyone qualified, notwithstanding an occasional "agile" driver,
waved unceremoniously at the frustrated men. Summer camp will adjourn the last of July and our military valedictorians will return
to the hills seasoned (well done, but not burnt) veterans.

BOULD

Today the season comes to a close and West already has the victory wrapped up in a cornucopia. With but
one loss, the team now has only to worry about their bout with the ALL-STAR team in the final game,
to be played Monday, July 12. The ALL-STARS will be chosen by the losing team managers in an all-out effort
to slow down the roaring Western incline, whose conductor is Hugh Hill. (The reader will recall a similar recent attempt
to stop a powerful machine led by an equally talented boss man.) Hugh reports that he employs no brakes on
his victory train. Today's contest between the Towners and West should certainly be a battle. The old-time Townsmen are out
for revenge, for thrice they have gone down under the bats of the Westerners, Georgia's talented team.

Cooper and George using Lacey's leg by mistake as the post, Izzy thereupon challenging the terrific twosome, Leighton, in his
own inimitable way putting two runners on at a time, very coolly calculating each.

MOVIES *** JULY 9 - JULY 17

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
"The Fighting 69th"
Pat O'Brien - James Cagney

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
"Summer Holiday"
Mickey Rooney - Gloria DeHaven

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY
"Green Grass of Wyoming"
Peggy Cummins - Charles Coburn

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
"Alias a Gentleman"
Wallace Beery - Tom Drake

President Ginley Priser has turned on the heat yesterday in a free-for-all with the Townsmen. Youth must have been the
factor in the match, for Georgia emerged decidedly victorious with the wild score of 21-12. The visiting batters have suffered
from a severe manpower shortage and have been unable so far to get into stride. They vow to end the
season right, however, according to manager Jim Briggs, by showing Georgia some dust today.

The standings, including games played Wednesday, July 7, are:

TEAM: WON LOST PCT.
West 7 1 .875
Townsmen 6 2 .750
Georgia 3 5 .375
Batts 0 8 .000

When Mitchell is listed as one of the faithful and true umpires, the League announced that gentlemen will be official
Umpire for the West - ALL-STAR game. He is well known for his staunch and weighty decisions.
