Friday, March 12, 1948 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

PI KAPPA PHI

QUESTIONS OF THE WEEK

—How much alike can Tom and Frank N. Block look? How easily can Captain Munsey? How many rumbles have you
heard? How many waiters do we employ? How many views can we review in one day? How much can Bob
consume? How much can Clayton Carpenter eat? How big a bone can Earl pull? How old a car can Thad
get? How ugly can Doubh get? How far is Carlos from the broad as snow? How much of a playboy
can Dan, the Jack Barringer get? How many wrecks can Flint have? What did she say? How quick can Hob
Sims' temperature drop? How clean can Al Hurt get in ice? How long can Herb not eat at the board?
How many trout can Dill catch? How long can Allan stay from his finance? How long can Chris Weber live
in New York? How good looking can I get?

(Ed Note: Thanks for getting the column in on time, Robertson.)

SIGMA CHI

According to all reliable reports, public opinion believes that we are on the verge of war. Not many months elapsed
between the last time Czechoslovakia fell and the beginning of armed hostilities by Germany in Poland. Within the past few
weeks, Czech freedom has fallen again. Italy and Greece are under threat of a similar fate. If war comes, whether
it comes tomorrow, or several years from now, we may be fighting in the same column in The Davidsonian. Travellers
are sufficiently numerous, active, and well placed, so that U.S. resistance might well be sabotaged to a fatal degree. A
suitcase A-bomb or two in Washington could leave the United States without a Congress, president, or armed forces high command.

The natural reaction is to reply, “Saying it will make it so,” or “Why be so pessimistic?” We would do
well to shake ourselves from such groggy responses and face up to it. The danger is grave and very imminent.
While there is still hope, we must become aroused to work and pray for freedom's sake as we have never
worked and prayed before. A great revival of Christianity similar to those of Luther and Wesley, and the formation of
a democratic World Federation, would not only be wonderful in themselves but would sabotage the plans of those Communists who
do not. A superior ideology and a superior system; the two together are our best hope. Let's get busy.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

PRESCRIPTIONS ACCURATELY FILLED

TELEPHONE 2111 DAVIDSON, N.C.

Bates Cleaners

Press While You Wait
Clothes Dyed
Alterations
24-48-Hour Service

Messrs. Carter, Richardson, Ervin, Hazard, Saxon, West, and Mitchell were the most ambitious, leaving dear 'ole D.C. on Thursday and
not returning 'til rather early Sunday morning. Although the primary purpose of the trip was said to be the Southern
Conference tournament, those worthies reportedly engaged in a number of other very varied activities, ranging from gory discussions of the
late war to exhibitions of underwater swimming in the pool, by Saxon. Sandwiched in between were gay romps about the
premises in scanty attire, and unsuccessful attempts to obtain concealment behind curtains and in doorways. Despite the usual amount of
time with parties—eat—etc., a good time was had by all.

Williams and Bill Calhoun were appointed second class rotators for their unparalleled rotations Saturday night. Needless to say, Mitchell managed
to improve his position at Peace College during the course of the stay in Raleigh. Ed West and 'Submarine' Saxon
deserted the crew before the end of the week-end and visited friends at Queens and W.C. respectively. Accompanied by the
famous Dana Drake, “Hormones” made yet another trip to Greensboro. What, if anything, that went on remains a secret.

In view of the fact that Little Lonnie Macaulay behaved himself reasonably well this weekend, we shall not expose his
many misdeeds to this week's readers. Now that he has attained a position high in “party” circles he will probably
succeed in drawing an iron curtain about himself. In fact, he may, by avoiding publicity, be able to pull the
wool over the eyes of a certain young lady who is now not quite convinced. Macaulay, however, continues to be
outdone by his illustrious roommate, Casanova Cherry, whose latest exploits consist of...

Poor Bruce Jackson—he hasn’t had any mail from Lynchburg for two weeks now. Cheer up, Bruce, it isn't everyone that
doesn't get any mail in two weeks!

Jim Gribben also had a full weekend by combining horses, polo playing, and women (somebody could make a comparison there!).
Jim was greatly enthused.of the same age. This past week was quite an active one for our Senior Sigs, with
much time spent pursuing fabulous letters. Wonder when he will finish the robot woman he is working on so hard.
The other activities that we remember probably shouldn’t be told, anyway. Just the same, some of the brothers turned into
a helping hand if they could only win the love of their ex-gals. At present, their cause appears hopeless, to
say the least.

REGULAR MEALS
Breakfast 6:30-8:30
Lunch 11:30-1:30
Dinner 5:30-6:30

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
Bill Calhoun, Devant Williams, and Jim Riddervold paid a visit to the Crossroads. All in all, it was a wonderful
week-end and SPE’s were seen in various parts of a few states. The big deals, of course, began on Wednesday
and Thursday with the large delegations pushing off for Durham. It's reported that Neill and Mr. Shaw were having their
troubles around certain hotel lobbies. Those things will catch up with you every time! Some of the brothers who were
a little short on cuts were making quick trips from Chambers Building to the gym in Durham, the newest things
on wheels. No matter what time of day or night, he always finds them. He and Bogart were back a
bit early from the tournament, the latter giving everyone a full account of each minute of the games. Thatcher and
Pitts could be seen thrilling the young lovelies in that delightful place in Greensboro, Saturday. Some of the old faithfuls
arrived on the scene also. All thawed out, it was really wonderful. Rabbi Reeder, Hell-Driver Abernathy, Lowrance, and Burgess were
found once off to see what Hickory had to offer—it must have been rare. Everyone was delighted to hear that
El Hoyo is under contract for another big deal in the near future. Wart “I Got Real TROUBLES” had even
his mind Monday morning still figured what Robinson was doing in Virginia on the way back from Durham. Bradford was
back in true form after big parties in the mountains for a rest cure! Lover Herndon won't tell anyone where
he goes anymore, but we all have our ideas. Owens spent another bigs.

At Davidson
CHESTERFIELDS
Henry says: “When I smoke I do so for enjoyment—that’s why I prefer Chesterfields.” Voted TOPS!—Chesterfield the largest selling cigarette
in America’s colleges (by nationwide survey).

THINK IT OVER... big things from you, James. Fearless Fred has now become an expert chess player of the C.-K
type. Ab would gladly swap his queen at the last dance for any pawn. Muscles and Arab made the jaunt
up into the hills with Ab last week. Even though John “Banana” Thatcher can't fly his Azalea Queen around like
Haskell “If You Can't Drive—Fly” Deaton, he plans to give Thurmond opposition and hand out airplanes for beautiful Queens girls.
Seen the week at the derby were John Robinson, Sam Wart Humphrey, Sups dribble Davis, last May, Neill, Jenkins, Teabod
Shaw Furman Duke Sip at derby were John Robinson, Tourhy Jovart, Rees Furman and who cheered the reports a fine
time with ats-on Eps and all. We would like to take this opportunity to welcome Joe Brown of Belmont back
as a pledge brother of N.C. Epsilon.

Lead the... Wrenn’s Men
DAVIDSON Easter Parade With a Spring Suit from WRENN'S For daytime smartness and cool comfort—be sure to wear a NORTH
COOL SUIT OTHER SUITS $35-$60

WRENN'S Shop
KANNAPOLIS.

PATRONIZE THE DAVIDSONIAN ADVERTISERS!

COMPLETE STOCK
Paints Enamels Varnish Stains

M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
SEE US FOR YOUR SPRING PAINTING NEEDS

See Us For Your Wall Paper Needs
WE ARE AGENTS FOR AND CAN GIVE 12-HOUR SERVICE ON “UNION WALLPAPERS” at a Savings to You!

QUALITY FURNITURE
LEONARD APPLIANCES
PLASTIC UPHOLSTERED FURNITURE

Main Street

ZENITH RADIOS
Ideal for Fraternity and Office Use

DAVIDSON FURNITURE CO.

RELAX... Take a few minutes off each day and relax, supplement your meager rations with snacks, cool off your hot
body by drinking a soft one at...

The Students’ Store
