YLOCAT Goa ae a

wub.is' ed Woelly be the Vl. pemete ee cee eee cece eee ve
Tidi tor MNatey i. IicLean ae your gaving reyorter ‘as rov—
ing musing Lhe vwst week ae just
soe Vonee Orion fiutéliingon “elpened to hear that "Gailey Millis
job Coble nec been doing a little flying »::
the rule or the “thumb. Cruising 4
TS iemermmey see cones mmm em mmrnmnrn= Dit fartner, it was heard trat "Zor

ct way . -
ee mG” the mony mney foces onthe ro*hobingon seid, thy

As i* is poblished bb Ure:

eric. tld.

__houreccionte. of ate: wats ere, Tre-iex

Yoiukee brogue~-
is, we of the VODCAT, feel-that Came from that culttral inagazineg of

can
it As gntirely in order tat we sho the north "he Lew Yorher." Bill
Was seen at tic Snuffle Board

nid re-¢tate our aims acd policies, 2erbon was
— Byil tfinding cis gone", Pat Patterson

hag becn seen lioiue- Og ronieli, .to
Charlotce every Weanesday nit to
mention the wegcends Curly. TcLean

le your vavct and any suggesti
ov ci ticis s "ou we nave willl

she * reo ns ~ oy sf01e pursoses 88 sve ved is fond of yprce-neding
try t 6 SCrVG 5 a mecitii for an- étweresbyterton in tinrkotves heard:

from sczeg Tlosxkins, "tue -oing

»for trig vas felt yecause of the yehore to Kinston, Coodbye."” Meeard

from 9. Info to the boys of Wooudan
iomere-are now toreé instced of twa,
.wn o% the local beater path, Jacke
vidgeran , "Tire totorercie Noacot,

duced wmusber of “Chet "el exercises
ad ring the veon. tf Jeu wish to uti
‘lige tiles facility, se ‘ainvisember -
of thie stit- reior to Vedresday of ~-+ 7 x -
each: etl. : tetecent from, ‘Sunn, sersin, "I'm

(2) In the  bsetce of other uedia.? one an vworan", With tuis I close
YO keer "Life at D.C." bevore the —ntil n Ky T Pope.

> . + soe A .

student.-Since_ve-feel_that_tiig is - SOE poe g”
@. very i:yportant unifying factor in CHALED PaO “S
any caiimus Life, we intend CO UVC. ee te ce
cormlete coverage to ail the news .
Vthatts fit toe srint™, Vhursday, July p2
Your new editor looks forvaré-to : . .
the VLDCAT'S -ros=ects for this temSlearer: lornan ? acDowell-Senior

ws a oe

with optimism end velco ics any, cri- CLOGS. .
ticigivtont wili help tee caver ach °
ieve tiese ends. Tuesde;, July 27
ORG IDS O.10VSs! S,uakxer: Professor Henry Saumann
_ Agristent Professor of
eT, eee To : ‘Bible and Greelh,

Orchids-x--To the ‘ors in the ime: 5 ————
@gforparetive Classs” They noed Thursdey, July 29
thon. .

© Onicng-e---20 those "Characterc? -iano Gontest:".ouse" Morgan in

that, insist that t e ertire we reer es ee EL GO,
aali listen to their radio, Hovis —
semen ST Tews ee meson Tulw 22- HOBO a
OLD. SPIRIT-- UW LOOK _Clark Gable- Lana Turner
; — , —- FH YDontt mnigg Fuk .
= == eee 25 6:24 "PA LBAPI'OS DAW vor

™o luose of : ou have filed to’ ADVALTOTO. .

v sit_vour “CA since your return Weismuller - O'Sullivan

to the cc. yus, we extend an invite 26 & 27" SIG CITE".

tion to-see yer new "FS", At tle Marcaret- O'Brién-Rob't Dreatm

present it is in tie process of he 260: 29 "TA OMAN Ih Vnrite

ing co.ipletely redecorated. Aleztis Snith - Sidney Creenstreet
° - ft

QO