Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, January 30, 1948 THE DAVIDSONIAN Founded by the Class of 1915 “FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON” PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

Editor-in-Chief SAM ERVIN Business Manager BOB CLINE

EDITORIAL STAFF Associate Editor Bob Phillips Sports Editor Walter Mann Managing Editor Stan Leventhal Managing Editor Bill Gannon Managing Editor Ronnie Dietrich Managing Editor Rees Jenkins Columnists Malloy Owens Columnist John Stewart Staff Photographer Floyd McLean Assistant Photographer Feature Reporters: Bob Hollister, Lonnie Turnipseed, Dave Gambrell, Bill Dulose, Bruce Kendall, Bill Bogart, Charles L. Davis, Bob Wells, Art Jenkins Freshmen Reporters: Hartley Hall, Randy Taylor, Warren Sims, Phil Mitchell, Bill Hollister, Scott Verner, Gray Hampton, Frank Purnell, Tom Fipse, Kenneth Jones, Jim Murray, Jim Larkin, Leonard Boswell, John Cosby, Dave Hayworth, Hugh Evans, Pat McGeachy Sports Staff: Jack Hazard, Frank Aldred, Cherry Stribling, Watt Jeffries, Bill Cassells, Doug Hix, Bill King, Gene Regan, Dick Morgan, Furman Warlick.

BUSINESS STAFF John McNair Circulation Manager Charlie Reid Subscription Manager Frank Lemmon Advertising Manager Bill Baxter Assistant Advertising Mgr. Charles Clinkscales Assistant Advertising Mgr. Wilkes Macauley Assistant Circulation Manager Sandy Sprunt Bob Knight Charles Beam Advertising Staff H. MacKethan, C. Faison, Staudt D. Hayworth, Blaine Kelley, Gene McSwain, Paul Guthery, T. Cagpe, C. Stone, Coble, Carl Herman, Jim Fisher, Jimmy Rogers, Ted Bowen, Erwin Clarke, Ray Coley, Bill Mebane.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879. SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y. Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco 1946 Member 1947 Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest

An Open Letter to All By consulting the above masthead it is evident that the positions of editor-in-chief and associate editor have been exchanged, the former now being filled by Sam Ervin who will retain this job until the election of a rising senior as editor in the spring. This is not an editorial resignation; rather its purpose is to convey to the student body, faculty, and to those outside subscribers who have evidenced a sincere interest in our publication the deep appreciation of the encumbered ex-editor and of the incumbent staff of assistants. If THE DAVIDSONIAN has not been an improved newspaper this year, the fault rests with the retiring editor, for surely you to whom this letter is addressed have given all the interest, suggestions, and constructive criticism that we asked for at the inception of our regime. To the managing editors, the “faithful four,” go undying thanks for service far above and beyond the call of duty. As far as the general student body knows, these four are nothing more than contributors of weekly columns and men whose names appear rather prominently in the masthead. Let it here be recorded that during their staffhood, these four juniors have been the very mainsprings of the DAVIDSONIAN; without any one of them, the editorial staff would have been non-functioning. Each of them has become qualified to direct the makeup of the newspaper. On no less than a dozen “makeup nights,” some or all of these industrious journalists have slaved away until near dawn in order that the DAVIDSONIAN might reach the campus only two or three days late. The sports editor’s work speaks for itself. Another vote of thanks on behalf of the DAVIDSONIAN should go to Horace Broyles, the local printer, who has, despite many difficulties, found time to advise and encourage us and even to rewrite and set heads when the printing schedule was lagging. Technical difficulties, unavoidable ones, have prevented the actual printing of the newspaper in Davidson, but with the expected arrival of the press within the next two weeks, your DAVIDSONIAN will “hit the streets” each Friday. More improvement should be realized with the acquisition of new and varied type. Your new editor, Sam Ervin, during his service this year as associate editor, has actually been more a co-editor, sharing the work and responsibility of the editorship and contributing time and effort with no hope of recognition. We are sure that under his leadership, the DAVIDSONIAN will receive the ultimate in conscientious attention and ability. May he have the same heartening cooperation and unstinting interest that you have given us since last spring. Sincerely, ROBERT D. PHILLIPS.

To Whom It May Concern When man comes to the end of a natural and artificially created period of life there seems to be an overpowering instinct which causes him to gaze backward for a short time before continuing on his way. In this picture of the past painted by the mind will be misleading. It tends to be either discouraging or an extremely black resume, depending upon whether he achieved or failed to reach his assigned goal. We do not realize that if we study the “undercurrents”—the day to day occurrences which lead to victory or to defeat—we may be able to decide whether we really are what we want to be, and whether we are actually following the paths which lead to our own individual versions of the “good life.” Often after such a searching analysis we may suddenly become aware of the fact that our initial estimate of the situation was far from correct. Each of us has successfully weathered the first semester. After shedding much blood and sweat we have passed a sufficient number of courses to earn the right to remain in school for four more months at least—otherwise we would no longer be here. Can we, on the basis of that accomplishment, truthfully declare that we have had a prosperous and satisfying semester? Far from it! It may be true that you “made the grade,” but the important thing is how you did it. Did you do your best at all times or are you guilty of merely doing enough to get by? If this latter statement is true can you continue to adhere to such low standards and still expect to become the man that you desire to be? In your extra-curricular activities have you sacrificed the good of the team, the unity of the fraternity, the efficient operation of the club or the publication, or the responsibilities of office for your own personal desires? If so what influence, if any, will these practices have on your future? If you continue these practices will they keep you from achieving the fortune, the friends, the prestige, or the position that you seek? Perhaps our shortcomings do not seem important now, but we must never forget that in later life they may seriously cripple us. Why not take a complete inventory before it is too late? When we do so we must bear in mind the fact that it is not enough to live up to our own personal standards—we must also always strive to pattern our lives after Him who died for the sins of the world. Just as we as individuals should take stock of what we really are and where our present practices are leading us so should we as members of the group which makes up the student body of Davidson College seek to discover whether or not our school is what we want it to be, and if not, why. Only fifteen “new” students joined the rest of us last week and many of them are returnees. Therefore, it might prove beneficial to the college if we would devote the time normally used in acquainting the incoming men with the customs and traditions of the campus to asking ourselves questions. Is the Davidson of 1948 what it should be? If it is not to what degree is the student body responsible for its shortcomings? What must we do or refrain from doing if we are to help in creating a better school? If the present practices are continued by the students how much will Davidson have changed by 1955? By 1960? Do we want these changes to take place or do we want to reverse the trends now. The future in many cases lies in our hands. What are we going to do about it? It is entirely true that no two individuals on the campus will see eye to eye on all subjects. However, the actions and the desires of the majority will have a lasting effect on the college in years to come. Stop for a moment and decide what effect your practices, and the practices of those about you, are having on the other students, and the school. Some day you and future generations of Davidson may be glad that you did.

Think It Over By MALLOY OWEN Numbers of Protestant leaders are today calling for a union of our several denominations into a World Church of Christ. They point out that the strength derived from the elimination of wasteful duplication, and the efficiency and spirit of unity would be well worth getting any points of difference. If Protestant churchmen really believed what our official written Creeds state, that a man is eternally lost until he personally accepts the Salvation made possible by Christ’s substitutionary atonement, then there would really be ample grounds on which to meet and unite. On minor points of theology, such as baptism or predestination, it is really unnecessary to agree. If we will all accept the Bible as the final authority, as literally God’s inspired WORD, we can easily work together as one church. Before affecting actual organic union, would it not be wise to rediscover the spark that made the church great, the zeal and fire that spread Christianity around the world? Would there be a church today if the Apostolic Christians had been like us? Afraid to be different, afraid not to conform? United Action would be the best preparation for effecting organizational union. If in every community across the nation the major evangelical denominations began joint all-out operations to win their communities to Christ. Evangelistic campaigns, winning men first to Christ and then into the church. If in each community and in the nation as a whole, we Protestants would combine our efforts and work together in missions right around the world and in other things we do for people, we would see churches growing. What would happen in America if wereally became enthusiastic about this Christ we say we “believe in?” The prophets of 1948, the atomic scientists, say to us in the church, “We in Physics have discovered a way to tap this tremendous energy, but you must tell us a way to change man or he will destroy himself with this new toy.” Emphasize Christ above all else, and do not be afraid to demand changed lives, for He was not. We rob Christianity of its challenge and appeal when we compromise and do everything non-Christians do. Christ can change men. That’s why He came and that’s what we need, over and over again. We must take the Gospel to the millions who never go to church or we directly disobey our Lord's command. For instance, only 37 percent of North Carolina's population even belong to any church. Seventy million Americans do not belong to any church, Protestant, Jewish, or Roman Catholic. If we, as Protestants, will organize a “Greater Church of Christ,” an alliance made up of many churches, and all levels, local, state, national, and world, go 100 percent into a joint operation, emphasizing Christ and Him Crucified, preaching the Bible, practicing precepts and praying, with repentance and faith, the Holy Spirit will greatly bless us and our churches will come alive and become a tremendously powerful force for God.

BETA THETA PI

Down at the House, the boys come through with most of their vital parts intact, though some of them report close calls. And then, there are those that just don’t know whether they're wasting their time this semester or not. We're sure glad to have Norville Childers and Harry McLean back with the chapter after a couple of years with Uncle Sam. And to all you brothers who haven't noticed, the pledges are eating at the boarding house now! Ha. All those more than 10 minutes late to a meal will start eating off the mantle. In spite of the snow, I've heard of several wing-dings over the weekend. Brothers Keith, Alexander, and Fulton made a weekend in Marion and Spartanburg. All returned with reports of a big time. Brother Shepperson and Joyner report a big time in Kernersville with their respective girlfriends. Turner and Edwards report a costly time in the Queen City with some queens on Sunday night. Of course, many of the brothers ventured out despite the snow and ice on the highways, but I think several of them might have had their wheels blocked in by the Rhodus. A bit of conversation overheard at the boarding house: “Doc”—"Do you know what I'd do if I had a house and lot in Davidson and a home in Hades?” Bill Williams—"No, what would you do?” “Doc”—"I'd sell my house and lot and go home!”

KAPPA ALPHA

Exams are over and, as the proverbial statement goes, some of us have had it. St. Joe, who was worried to death about a certain English grade, visited the prof only to find him thoroughly “shot”—Joe happily pleaded guilty. Every college has loopholes in its education system.

(Continued On Page Four)

The Poll-cat

The purpose of this poll is not to raise a stink, but to indicate the opinions of students and faculty on topics of current interest. The first in a series of questions to be asked was: Do you think there will be a war between the United States and Russia?

Yes No Undecided
Veterans 78% 18% 4%
Non-Veterans 71% 20% 9%
Faculty and Adm. 50% 25% 25%
Overall 71% 20% 9%

If so, when?
Within 1 Yr. Within 5 Yrs. 5-10 Yrs. 10 Yrs. or Later
Veterans 30% 32% 38%
Non-Veterans 2% 45% 28% 25%
Faculty and Adm. 50% 25% 25%
Overall 1% 38% 32% 29%

Whether weather, that has been the question for the week, and it appears to be forthcoming for the future. Of course, what we refer to is whether to stay secured on campus or have a “wild hare.” The choice, if anyone has to make it, will depend on the snow and sleet on the farm, and its environs. There is no denying that this snow job given us by Nature has been an obstacle, but there probably hasn't been any more sleet flying around than is usual. “The loyal sons, undaunted” have kept up a steady dribble in an outward direction, come Hell or high snow. Now that we have not received any hush money from HUGH HILL of late, we think that it is time to bring this erstwhile young lover to the fore. By popular demand, the subject of the famous HILL smiles (from which the alias ‘SMILEY is derived) will be discussed at length. Not many of our brethren have been so foolish as to fling themselves into notoriety’s path as OUR LEADER. Therefore, we will dedicate the large part of this article to him. Paying lip service to the woman in Greensboro, HILL returned to us with what is obviously a bitten upper! This has so cracked the smile that HUGH has had much explaining to do. He claims that he slipped while ice-skating. We agreed that he slipped, all right, but while doing what we have our own ideas. Another escapade that we can report (part of anyway) happened to three KAs. Messrs. WEST, HAZARD, and MITCHELL transferred their living quarters from the third floor of one of our dormitories to the third floor of Hotel Mayfair. There they were hospitably received by HONEST EARL MAHONE. We understand that the driver of the vehicle that carried them around Charlotte had tips for MITCHELL on love and devotion.

(Continued On Page Four)

By Stan

PROF. JOHNSTON

Returning to Davidson this semester after a leave of absence, is Professor Johnston of the History Department, who for some months has been working on his biography of Zebulon Vance, famous North Carolina politician. Dr. Johnston has been doing research in Buncombe County and Raleigh, among other places. Dr. Johnston graduated from Davidson in 1930, having been captain of tennis and basketball teams. After graduation, he studied four years at Yale, from which he received his doctorate in 1938. Before going to Yale, Dr. Johnston taught in a prep school in Nashville, Tenn. He came to Davidson in 1935 and has been here since. Dr. Johnston, an avid reader, has a paneled library which contains some 4,000 volumes, most of which are history books. Dr. Johnston thinks it is a better college than when he was here, possibly because of knowing and understanding Davidson better. Among her greatest qualities, he thinks, are the fine type of students here. Along with reading, Dr. Johnston enjoys playing bridge, gardening, and smoking his pipe.

Paging the Professors...

By Kennett

DR. WATTS

Among the Davidson faculty is the secretary-treasurer of the American Association of Teachers of French. This is Dr. Watts of the French Department who has been at Davidson since 1926. Dr. Watts, a sergeant in the United States Army during World War I, was graduated from Dartmouth College, took his master’s at Harvard and earned his Ph.D. at the University of Minnesota, where he later taught. He has also been on the faculty of Lawrenceville Preparatory School. Traveling is near the top in Dr. Watts’ interests. He has been to Europe some thirteen times, having been connected with a tourist concern, as a guide, for many summers. Also, he has done graduate work in several European universities. Spending most of his summers on Cape Cod, Dr. Watts has recently developed a great interest in fishing and sailing, which supplement his hobbies of gardening and golf.

By RONNY

Roaming With Ronny

The athletic facilities here at Davidson are not new. The students of 1916-17 were “sweating out” the construction of our “New Gym.” In the March 28 issue of the 1917 Davidsonian, I found an article describing in detail the proposed gymnasium. Here are a few choice quotations. “Twenty-five thousand dollars is available (grammatical error is not mine), and every dollar will be expended to complete the work just as far as possible.” “The swimming pool is designed to be in a separate enclosure on the south side. Funds for this, owing to the unexpected great advance in cost of building, are not now on hand, but it is hoped to add it soon.” It would seem that the money for the building of the swimming pool never became available since we have never seen it. However, the students did get their gym for in the September 1, 1917 issue of this paper the news was that the Alumni Gymnasium was nearing completion. Here are some further quotes to show how pleased the students were by this new and modern structure. “The Gym will measure up to the full expectation of the old men and will be a delight to both them and the new men.” “The main floor, which is of maple, is scraped to a smooth finish, is large enough to accommodate two basketball games at the same time. A wide balcony extends around three sides of the Gym, furnishing ample room for the spectators.” “The building is of the colonial type and is built of red brick. The equipment is to be modern and up-to-date in every detail.” It is plain that at the time everyone believed the New Gym was a most adequate facility, especially since the floor accommodated two basketball games at a time. Evidently on that fine day in 1917 when the Gym opened its doors for the first time no one realized or remembered that a swimming pool should have been where the student parking lot is now. Probably the idea of a swimming pool just drifted into oblivion. At any rate, no one has started to build one for 30 years and now a new New Gym is planned. Probably when it is completed the headlines of this paper will say: “New gym completed. Swimming pool to be added when sufficient funds are available.” Of course, when the doors are first opened no one will miss the swimming pool because the floor will probably accommodate four basketball games at once; and a wide balcony will seat many spectators.

At Davidson Sam Joyner smokes CHESTERFIELDS

Sam says: “Chesterfields give me the satisfaction I find in no other cigarette!”

Voted TOPS!—Chesterfield the largest selling cigarette in America’s colleges (by nationwide survey).