Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, February 13, 1948 THE DAVIDSONIAN Founded by the Class of 1915 ~ “FOR A BETTER
DAVIDSON” The DAVIDSONIAN Presents EDITORIALS... LETTERS...FEATURES PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR SAM ERVIN - Editor-in-Chief BOB GOIN - Business
Manager EDITORIAL STAFF Job Phillips - Associate Editor Mac Hart - Sports Editor Walter Mann - Managing Editor Stan Kennett
- Managing Editor Ronnie Dietrich - Columnist Malloy Owens - Columnist John Stewart - Staff Photographer Floyd McLean - Assistant
Photographer Feature Reporters: Hob Hollister, Jonnie Turnipseed, Dave Gambrell, Bill DuBose, Bruce Kendall, Bill Bogart, Charles T. Davis, Bob Wells,
Art Jenkins. Freshmen Reporters: Hartley Hall, Randy Taylor, Warren Sims, Phil Mitchell, Bill Hollister, Scott Verner, Gray Hampton, Frank Purnell,
Tom Flipse, Kenneth Jones, Jim Murray, Jim Larkin, Leonard Boswell, John Cosby, Dave Hayworth, Hugh Evans, Pat McGeachy. Sports Staff:
Jack Hazard, Frank Aldred, Cherry Stribling, Watt Jeffries, Bill Cassels, Doug Hix, Bill King, Gene Regan, Dick Morgan, Furman Warlick.
BUSINESS STAFF John McNair - Assistant Business Manager Charles Red - Advertising Manager Charles Dockery - Subscriptions Manager Charles Clinkscales
- Assistant Advertising Mgr. Wilkes Macauley - Assistant Advertising Mgr. H. Fulton - Assistant Circulation Mgr. Bill Smith - Assistant
Circulation Mgr. Sandy Brown - Assistant Circulation Mgr. Bob Knight - Assistant Subscriptions Mgr. Charles Beam - Assistant Collections Mgr.
Advertising Staff: H. MacKethan, C. Faison, Claude Higginbotham, D. Hayworth, Blaine Kelley, Gene Taylor, W. S. McSwain. Circulation Staff: Paul
Guthery, Bill Cassels, John Coble, Carl Herman, Jim Fisher, Bob Sims, Jimmy Rogers, Ted Bowen, Erwin Clark, Ray Cunningham, Bill
Mebane. Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College
Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y. CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO 1946 Member
1947 Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest Another Storm Brewing? Shortly before the Spring examination period began last year,
the Pan Hellenic Council submitted a number of new rushing regulations to the social fraternities for their consideration and subsequent
approval or rejection. Everyone concerned realized that the adoption of the proposed changes would radically alter the then in effect,
and as a result the discussion in the individual chapter rooms was lively and heated. Time was short, however—too short
in fact to allow the participants in these debates to reason clearly, and in many cases votes were cast by
individuals who had not been able to think of the possible “consequences” of their action. The new regulations were finally
adopted after two ballots by a majority vote of the nine social groups and the council made it known that
the 1947 Rush Week would be conducted in accordance with them. That announcement failed to still the voices of the
many critics of the rushing “new deal.” Many predicted dire results while others made every effort to stir up enough
opposition to force a reconsideration. These individuals did not succeed in convincing those who supported the measure that they were
wrong, and when the semester came to an end the verbal battle ceased. In mid-September when school reopened the fireworks
began anew. Some students openly blamed the new regulations for each and every mixup which occurred during rush week while
others just as loudly proclaimed that the new rules were clearly superior in all respects to the old ones. The
former group confidently predicted that the scheme would serve only to benefit the “better” fraternities while their opponents testified just
as convincingly that it was sure to prove to be a blessing to all. Confused by the constant flow of
comments the doubtful and the uninformed came to believe that the overall outcome of Rush Week would prove for once
and for all which system was best suited to Davidson’s peculiar needs. Bid day came and went. Nothing was heard
initially from either camp. Gradually it dawned on everyone that the results were very inconclusive, to say the least. Those
who favored the new system did observe and announce “that all of the fraternities got about the same number of
pledges,” but they were unable to reply to the retort—“yes, but how long will the ‘distribution’ remain relatively equal?” While
the vast majority of the student body sought in vain to reach a definite conclusion, some of the more hearty
souls attacked or defended certain phases of the “new order” through the medium of the various campus publications. After several
spectacular displays of rhetoric the storm subsided and at present no one seems to be particularly concerned about the matter.
The purpose of this editorial is not, however, to smear or to attempt to whitewash the rules under which our
rush weeks are at present conducted. It is an appeal to the Pan Hellenic representatives and to all fraternity men
to begin to think ahead—to ponder about what system to use in 1948. Would it be to our advantage to
give the present regulations a longer trial—just as they are—in the hope of discovering how adequate they are, or should
we seek immediately to correct their alleged weaknesses by revising them. Or should we junk these rules entirely and return
to the old scheme with its recognized shortcomings? It is doubtful that anyone can satisfactorily answer these questions alone. In
order to reach a definite and logical conclusion the cooperation of all interested parties must be obtained. It is vital
that well thought out solutions be presented to the fraternities in the near future so that there will be ample
time for discussion and study of each proposal. These plans should be made available soon, for waiting may be fatal
to the peace of Fraternity Court. Since no one man can thoughtfully say that he knows the present system to
be good or to be bad, the will of the many must in the end prevail, and compromise must be
the keynote of the discussions. Action must be taken to provide the fraternities with “rushing regulations” acceptable to all if
ill feeling between groups is to be done away with before next fall. Who will lead the way? If nothing
is done the explosions after Rush Week ’48 may cause the ’47 protests to be pale by comparison and the
traditional spirit of friendship and cooperation between fraternities may be permanently destroyed. About Voting The problem of how to bring
candidates for political office before the voting public is a problem of grave concern in all democracies. In recent years
as the result of marked increases in the size of the student body a similar problem has arisen at Davidson.
After the campus elections last year many students complained or stated that they often voted for men whom they did
not know, and some suggested that something be done to remedy this situation. Of course in some cases the fault
lies with the student voters. Often men for one reason or another do not make every effort to become acquainted
with the others about him, but are content to remain in their own select groups. As a result they seldom
know many men who do not belong to their circle. Nevertheless with a student body of more than 900 persons
it is not to be expected that any one man will know all or even a large percentage of his
fellows. Therefore some means of acquainting each prospective voter with the candidates should be devised. The solution offered by some
that student “political” parties be established on the campus is generally not popular. Such parties may be of value on
large campuses where the entire student body never assembles in one group or where issues are present in election campaigns,
but they would cause only trouble at a smaller institution. Instead we can solve this difficulty in a much more
simple manner—by merely allowing the student recording the nominations to ask any candidate to stand when someone makes a request
to that effect from the floor. Those who still do not know anything about the man in question could, after
seeing him, make it a point to get to know him personally before casting a ballot. This, admittedly, may appear
to be a very minor matter, but it is actually a vital one. Davidson’s voters have been very careful in
the past to elect capable student officers and we must not allow the tendency to lose interest in such occurrences
(which is often common at large schools) to cause us to make costly errors. Nor is it necessary to instill
“party partisanship” into our student body to combat it. Our present scheme has proved to be highly satisfactory—we have merely
to modify it to meet changing conditions. Alenda Lux... By BOB PHILLIPS Last week one of our fellow students, kind
enough and leisurely enough to scan this space, suggested that a copy of the preceding column be sent to the
student body about which it was written, concerning their unseemly conduct at a basketball game. That suggestion was submitted one
Friday just before chapel time, and the columnist was wondering if any good would be done by taking the sincerely
given suggestion and acting upon it. It was before chapel that he was considering this; after chapel he knew that
it was not appropriate for a member of the Davidson student body to point a condemning finger at any other
student group or for him to hold up our student body as exemplary in the matter of public manners. He
could not have sent a redress of grievances to another school when he was painfully familiar with a passage from
the “Book of Good Manners For All People and All Occasions,” that reads something like this: “And why beholdest thou
the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?” The
very real and very embarrassing “beam” is, of course, the sometimes appalling conduct of the Davidson student body at its
daily chapel exercises. In chapel we often appear not as nine hundred men who face a weighty and duty-laden future
in a sick world, but we are more as babbling three-year-olds, oblivious to all sense of propriety or responsibility, counting
our chapel services grand occasions if we succeed in being great wits and evoking laughter from our vying compatriots. Have
you ever seen an infant, hungry for attention, perform for company? He upsets his glass of milk, pulls the tail
of the innocent lap-dog, or happily bites SIGMA CHI Whewwwwww!! That is a summation of all the feelings of the
brothers of Delta (which is fast approaching its end, to give way to Sigma Chi) after the past dance weekend.
Wheels wheeling, dealers were dealing, and rotators were rotating! A mood of joviality, informality and great spirit prevailed during the
entire weekend. The house looks like it has been the victim of a mass (!?) attack by a hurricane, flood
and an army of mice andants (any allegorical interpretation would be beside the point!), but thanks to the tireless efforts
of the house committee everything has been cleaned up. Chief Rotators Putt and Craver won their first-class rotators’ badge by
rotating and causing pandemonium all Saturday night—much to the vexation of the other brothers. Many other rotators were considered for
initiation: namely, to wear an unsuspecting bystander. Well, you say (and rightly) that the sweet little rascal is not malicious—all
he wanted was a laugh and a bit of attention. He obtains these heights of transient glory not realizing that
his adolescent joy has been derived at someone else's expense. We are not overly distressed by all this, however, for
we know that by the time he has reached the age of eight or ten, he will know that everything
gained at the expense of another is not a swap, but rather a double loss. Perhaps then there is no
need for this article, for even the youngest of our number is a mature seventeen!

When we walk into the auditorium for chapel services, we should keep in mind that we are attending chapel, which
is (according to Webster), “a subordinate place of worship, esp. of Christian worship.” Very few of us sail paper airplanes
in church on Sunday, yet a shower of paper descending in our chapel services is not an uncommon occurrence! Certainly,
the chapel fun-makers have no guilty sense of irreverence, but aren't they irreverent when they break into a concerted roar
shortly after a devotional program, when they read magazines or fall asleep before visiting ministers or laymen who are attempting
to fill an urgent need by educating us to our responsibility, or when they visibly and audibly withdraw into shells
of disinterest when a speaker fails to tell jokes or to make them laugh. An uplifting commentary on our maturity!

The Davidson student body is not as bad as this column has implied (though the chapel conduct is); surely it
is just that they do not realize that the morning assembly is a chapel service and that the student announcements
and post-assembly meetings are strictly incidental to it.

Spencer Murray, Bill “Howdy” Clarke, John “Don Juan” Carr (as he is known to the Winston-Salem underworld), Walter (whose by-word
is Agnes Scott) Hopkins, and Harry “We don’t need vegetation in the house” Brown and their dates were creating quite
a bit of confusion at the banquet. There are conflicting reports as to who was the cause of it. Likewise,
Brooks, Ted “I make a motion” Craver, and Homer Zedaker, occupying another corner at the banquet, were highly amused by
some mishap. (Reports indicate that it had something to do with some food going in the wrong opening.) The big
question at the banquet was did Gopher Mann ever find the little boys’ room? Now the big question concerning Ben
Hamilton is who foxed whom—Ben or Jackie. At any rate, Ben has decided to wheet this weekend! Bruce Jackson is
still trying to Morton, Riddervold, Calhoun and (Continued On Page Four)

PROPOSAL

The United Nations Charter provides for the calling of a reorganization conference. Such a conference would convene to draw up
a new charter or constitution for the UN, or to revise the present one. Such a conference can be called
if a majority of the nations favor it and is not subject to the veto. We believe the United States
Congress should direct our representatives to lead a movement in the UN General Assembly for the calling of another San
Francisco Conference at which a strong federation of nations, a real WORLD GOVERNMENT, would be established to replace the present
weak “debating society” type UN. We believe Britain, China, and other democracies would approve and would join such a union.

The main objection most people raise to arguments for world federation is that Russia and others would not join. If
you wanted a man to join an organization you belong to, would you sit in your room and say, “He
would not join” or, if it were vitally important that he join, would you go ASK HIM to? We cannot
know until we have tried. If we really want freedom and peace for ourselves and for all men everywhere, we
had better do something quick.

We believe the new Charter should provide for the following:
1. World Congress. A one-house body of representatives directly elected by the people of each member state, with power to
enact laws applying to the whole UN and to stop aggression on the part of any power inside or outside
the union.
2. Executive Branch. A president, elected at first by the Congress, (eventually by the people, with most of the powers
originally delegated to the U.S. chief executive, to enforce UN laws).
3. International Police Force. The only armed forces anywhere in the UN would be solely directed by World Congress. Strong
air, ground, and naval forces with the only research in scientific warfare ready to strike down any aggressor.
4. International Bill of Rights. Every man and woman in UN territory should be guaranteed the same freedoms which U.S.
citizens enjoy, including free, secret ballot voting.
5. World Courts. In order to interpret laws and offer a supreme appeal for justice to all United Nations’ citizens,
a system of world-federal courts should be established.

This idea of a federation of states to guarantee freedom and peace has been tried and found to work in
the great American experiment. The world looks to us for leadership in ideas because of our tremendous success. This is
the heart of the American system. It is no accident that at this moment when the world has become so
small, WE are in a position to lead. We have a system that worked. Let us actively offer it to
the world. And let’s remember that Christian citizens are the key to the success of our system.

By Stan

PROF. ERWIN

During the past few years, Professor Erwin’s principal hobby has been Erwin Lodge on the Davidson golf course. It was
here that he discovered an ability for “amateur carpentry,” in helping to build the lodge. Prof. Erwin was graduated from
Davidson in 1906 and received his master’s degree here. By 1921, when he returned to Davidson as a professor, he
had done graduate work at Columbia University and taught at McCallie, DeWitt Clinton High School in New York, and at
the University of Mississippi. When he returned to Davidson in 1921, Prof. Erwin found the college to be very much
the same as in his student days. Since then many changes have taken place, for Old Chambers was burned and
replaced with the present structure, the Library and Science buildings have been erected as well as new dormitories. Also, in
the last few years, the student body has increased greatly. Prof. Erwin feels that the return of GIs, which has
caused this increase, is fine and he has enjoyed his association with the veterans, but at the same time, he
would like to see Davidson less crowded.

Paging the Professors...

Kennett

Outside of the classroom, Prof. Erwin has an active interest in creative writing among the students and is interested in
the theater in general, while specifically he is interested in the Red and Black Masquers, being its advisor.

PROF. GRIFFIN

Because of Davidson's reputation as a leader among liberal arts colleges, Professor Griffin wanted to become a professor here. His
strong sympathies for the objectives and policies of such institutions were the principal factors in his choice. Prof. Griffin is
a graduate of the University of North Carolina where he did graduate work. He also has studied at the University
of Chicago. Before coming to Davidson, Prof. Griffin taught at Georgetown College, Furman University, where he was director of athletics,
and at the University of North Carolina. Prof. Griffin has frequently taught Sunday School classes and is interested in golfing
and gardening. During the war, he was connected with the Civil Service Commission with the War Labor Board and served
as a chairman of a wage board under NRA.

Roaming With Ronny

It was my original intention to write this work about the “old” Chambers building which originally stood in approximately the
same spot as Chambers does today. However, after checking several sources of information, I decided to limit this column to
establishing the verity of one of Davidson's almost forgotten historical incidents—the finding of a skeleton in the hollow columns of
Old Chambers.

Maxwell Chambers building was destroyed by fire on November 28, 1921. All that remained of the structure were the four
Corinthian columns at the front and the outer walls. The story has it that when these columns were torn down
a skeleton was found within the hollow center of one of the columns. This story has never been accepted as
definitely true, but rather regarded as just another tale of the old days. Actually, the story is only part of
the truth.

In the Davidson College Bulletin for April of 1929 is a column written by Miss Cornelia Shaw, former librarian here
at Davidson, entitled, “You Should Know That!” In this column, Miss Shaw states, “The pillars of Old Chambers Building have
been pulled down by an order of the Board of Trustees at its February meeting. (No skeleton has been found
in the delves).” This statement would seem to indicate that no skeleton was ever inside one of the columns and
definitely proves that none was at the time of demolition.

However, in the October 21, 1914 edition of THE DAVIDSONIAN, we find a story captioned by the headline, “Dumas Discovers
Human Skull.” Here are several quotations from this story: “A story which has been current among Davidson students for several
years, and which by some was considered only a myth or tradition, was partially verified Monday when W. A. Dumas
descended to the base of the south column of Chambers...” (Continued On Page Four)
