PAGE FOUR

K. A.’s TAKE FRAT LEAD...
(Continued From Page Three)

the SAE’s. Old man weather snapped back into his foul form on Monday and no games were played. The SAE’s came back on Tuesday to down the Pi Kaps, 18-6, as Dave “Meatball” Gambrell and Monty Hill set the pace. Cecil Brandon scored the Pi Kaps lone six-pointer on a “sleeper.” The same day found the Vikas taking the measure of the Phi Gams, 6-0, with Collins and Fanjoy sparking the winners. The KA’s made it two in a row Wednesday by coming out on the long end of a 12-6 score at the expense of the Phi Delts. Bill Bird again ran and passed the Knights to a victory as Covell stood out for the losers. With Earl Smith playing a sharp game, the Betas downed the Sigma Chis, 20-0, in the final contest.

INTRODUCING
(Continued From Page Three)

was last year that Johnny Annapolis, but Davidson's fortune he decided against a Navy career. Johnny is one of the Inn with his go. He is a brother of Delta fraternity. He and is a squad leader. Last year Richards was one of the outstanding players on the basketball team. He is taking advanced ROTC and is an all-round athlete. He is a favorite at the pool in Port where he was manager. 

AMONG THE GREEKS...
(Continued from Page Two)

that the younger generation of females is all, and more, than it’s cooked up to be. Brother Bill Boyd was observed in the company of a Statesville City School's music star at a football game Friday night. No doubt his motive was to combine learning with pleasure. And now for news of some of the other brethren and pledges who didn’t have female companionship over the weekend but nevertheless report a good time. Brother Huffaker made an important trip to his hometown of Martinsville for the purpose of getting friendly with the draft board, but he reports that his trip was to little avail. Brother Collins winged his way to Myrtle Beach to have a wisdom tooth extracted. The pain was excruciating, but the salt air had great healing powers, for Collins was the picture of health on his return to the hill. Brother Sifford took advantage of the open date to journey to Albemarle, reason unknown. Brother Denison and Gragg stayed on the campus over the weekend to improve their general health and bridge playing ability, and Pledge Welborn, evidently suspecting the class to be campused, made a trip to his hometown to mingle with his family. All considered, the weekend passed rather quietly as most of the brethren and pledges are counting on a big weekend in Raleigh to see the Wildcats “beat State.”

POLITICAL ANGLES
(Continued from Page Two)

racial segregation in the armed forces: Democrats — Claim credit for recent civil rights gains. Pledges party to continuing efforts to eradicate all racial, religious, and economic discriminations. State — belief that minorities must have the right to work, live, vote, and get legal protection on a basis of equality with all citizens as guaranteed by the Constitution. Commend President Truman for his Civil Rights stand, which includes proposals for anti-lynch, anti-poll tax, anti-discrimination, and fair employment practices legislation.

As for girls, all and most of the football forward to Johnny playing. Johnny is a tall blond. After a lot of POLITICAL ANGLES (Continued from Page Two) find Union to win the peace. Metro alliatonie bonnie It's a good thing that the Marshall Plan, aid of acquired characteristics of this year’s Wildcats aren't inheritable or most of the Class of 1970 would be either blind or crippled. We should live with our superior as with fire; not too near, lest we burn; not too far off, lest we freeze.—(Diogenes).

Paul & Crymes Inc
Sporting the Marshall Plan
COMMUNISTS: Wallace’s
415 S. TRYON STREET
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

BRYAN WENTZ COMPANY
“Clothing For The Man”
205 South Tryon St.
Charlotte 2, North Carolina

DAVIDSON THEATRE
WEEK OF OCTOBER 11th

ty” for Negroes, Jews, and other “minority Americans.” anti-lynch, anti-discrimination, employment practices, and anti-Jim Crow legislation. Condemns segregation in Republicans — Lynching or mob violence disgrace favor prompt enactment of legislation to end such, all individuals in their right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness is the cornerstone.of the Republic. The right of equal opportunity to work and advance in life should never be limited because of religion, color, or country of origin. Favors legislation as may be necessary to maintain these rights. Favors abolition of poll taxes. Against Con- all its forms or oth- is a Equality of should of race, Demands fair anti-poll tax. In closing, we would like to say that if you disagree with our opinions, doubt the accuracy of facts, or would like to suggest new topics, let us hear from you. Only that way can we know what you are thinking and get fresh slants on our own viewpoints. We sincerely hope that this article may be a source of interest and information for you during the year.

The Political, International, and National Front.

FS MON.-TUE. “THE MATING OF MILLIE” Glenn Ford — Evelyn Keyes
WED.-THUR. “ANOTHER PART OF THE FOREST” Fredric March — Ann Blythe
FRI.-SAT. “SILVER RIVER” Erroll Flynn — Ann Sheridan

AUTOS OR NO AUTOS? (Continued from Page Two)

Old Seniors may be modified in the future. Thus, according to policy, any man under twenty-one will be allowed to keep a car with the provision that it be used only on week-ends, holidays, and two dance week-ends a semester. It is our belief that such a program is not only necessary in view of the situation but is as fair to all. We would strongly urge full cooperation of all students in proving to the Executive Committee that we need no such supervision in this matter—if that be the case—by accepting the measures in good faith.

EDITORS.

The first two aircraft ever ordered by the U.S. Navy were Curtiss “Triads.” The one a landplane and the other a hydro-plane, were ordered by the Navy on May 8, 1911.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
MAKERS OF Deluxe Ice Cream

It is important that—dependent upon the cooperation of the twenty-one-year-old group in proving to the Executive Committee their ability to handle their unrestricted car privilege in a satisfactory manner—the restriction on under 21-year-olds be lifted.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidsonian Has New Headquarters

A small building behind the Carolina Inn is now being used as headquarters for the Davidsonian staff. Every Wednesday night the staff gathers there to work on the make-up of the sheet. Formerly, staff members used the local print shop in which to perform their duties. The conditions and facilities proved to be inadequate and somewhat tiresome for those working there. But now things are different with the staff having possession of three rooms and a sun parlor (for beachcomber journalists). A number of tables and chairs and a few other articles of furniture furnish the office. The official deadline is Wednesday night, and any member of the student body is welcome to contribute to the paper.

The U.S. Navy has developed a new steel cutting torch using electricity and an oxygen jet to operate. The inherent dangers in using the new torch avoid the highly explosive acetylene torch.

PASTEURIZED GRADE “A” MILK
Mooresville Co-Operative Creamery
Daily Delivery

ANNUAL PHOTOGRAPHERS

The Annual Photographer will be on campus next week from Monday to Friday to take individual photographs. All men whose last names begin with A through D will have their pictures taken on Monday; E through K on Tuesday; L through R on Wednesday; S through Z on Thursday and faculty on Friday. The photographer will be in the room next to the bookstore in the basement from 3rd period to 5 o’clock. If you are unable to come on the designated day, see Ernest Hunter in 211 East or Bill Lander in 209 East.

It is not too difficult to love your fellowman as a Christian, but it’s hard to stop loving your fellow-woman.

ERC

Barringer Elected Pan Hel Treasurer

In a secret meeting last Wednesday night, Pan-Hellenic Council elected Thad Barringer as treasurer to succeed Freeman Jones who did not return. Barringer is a pre-med student from South Carolina, a member of the senior class, and a member of the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity. He is now compiling a financial report which will be published soon in the Davidsonian.

Davidson is one of those rare colleges where both football players and faculty members are accepted by the student body as social equals.

VISIT THE Students’ Store FOR YOUR NEEDS

Copyright 1948, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

PHONE 205
Mooresville, N.C.

“I smoked CHESTERFIELDS off stage while making my new picture, THE LOVES OF CARMEN. There’s no finer smoke. I know... It’s MY cigarette.”

STARRING IN THE LOVES OF CARMEN
A COLUMBIA TECHNICOLOR PICTURE
A BECKWORTH CORPORATION PRODUCTION

“I smoke Chesterfield because no other brand can offer as MILD a smoke or as good-tasting a smoke... they SATISFY.”

MORE COLLEGE STUDENTS SMOKE CHESTERFIELDS than any other Cigarette... BY LATEST NATIONAL SURVEY