a: CapD 0 f {s SPRING FOOTBALL STARTS FSB, 2 Page Three THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, January 9, 1948 Spring Football Begins Feb. 2 Monday, February 2, marks the beginning of spring football practice at Davidson, according to Coach “Charley” Jamerson, new “big chief” of the football squad. The reason for the early start is to give the boys time to play football and then go out for track or baseball. The squad will work out for six straight weeks, which is a deviation from the old policy of working three, resting, and working three more. Coach Jamerson is making an ardent plea for anyone with any football experience at all, in high school or elsewhere, to come out to try out for the team. He is expecting all of this year’s J. V. team and would also like to have those boys who didn't play J. V. this year but who have had any experience. “The more men out, the better the team,” says the coach, and an even better than last year's is what he’s hoping for. There is, as he says, a place for everyone on the team. However, there will be a few changes. The squad will suffer the loss of very few men this year, but these few places will be hard to fill. One of these will be the loss of Ny Richards, who is planning on attending the naval academy. This will leave the center post empty. Also on the missing list will be Strickland and Bill Boyd, who is going to dental school. Practice will be 3:30 till 5:30 every afternoon. The coaching staff will consist of Coaches Jamerson, Reading, Moneyhan, and one of the two new assistants whose names have not been disclosed yet. Jamerson has announced that there will be a game every Saturday except the first one between the first and second strings and one every Monday between the third and fourth strings. In doing this, Coach Jamerson hopes to give everybody a chance to play. Students are invited to attend these games.

Wildkittens Take Lees-McRae, 61-49 Davidson's Wildkitten basketball squad handed Lees-McRae’s game quintet a 61-49 licking Thursday night in the Davidson gym with Henry Neisler and Dutch Hengeveld vying for top scoring honors with ten points each. The Jayvee squad was augmented by six of the boys who work out with the varsity.

Behind at Half Lees-McRae led 31-30 at the half. They played a fast-moving game that swept over the Jayvee defense for a 10-point lead midway through the first half. Fast breaking and good rebound work gave the McRae boys their edge. At this point, a Hopper-Bingham-Roddey-Hengeveld-Neisler quintet with substitute Bud Aiken pulled up within one point of the visitors as the half ended. This same aggregation started the second half and ran up a sizable lead in their 10 minutes of play. When the Jayvees took over, they had smooth sailing all the way in and gave the whole squad a chance to play.

Kitten’ High Scorers Henry Neisler and Dutch Hengeveld tied for first in Wildkitten scoring with 10 points each. Dutch was instrumental in closing the gap by sinking three long set shots in the first three minutes of the first half. Captain Melvin placed second with nine. They were trailed by Bud Aiken with seven and Louie Bingham with six. Bud played a fine game and kept the status quo. The team shows marked improvement over last year and is developing into a first-rate ball player.

HIGH POINT ‘Y' The Davidson College grapplers turned in their most decisive triumph of the season when they trounced the High Point Y grapplers, 32-5. This marked the first victory for Charlie Parker's matmen since Christmas, and from all indications, the Cats have improved greatly since the month of December. Their long hours of practice seem to have paid off finally, and it looks like the Cats will field a pretty fair aggregation in the coming Southern Conference wrestling engagements.

Cats Show Form The Cats were never headed in the High Point Y meet. George Watson was the only High Point contestant to turn victorious when he defeated Bill Fesperman 5-3 after one whale of a battle. The high point of the game was the Mott Price-Clay Bryant match. Price had pinned his last two opponents, but it seemed he had met his match in his High Point adversary. However, after a close five minutes, Price pinned him at 3:03, continuing his streak as the only undefeated Cat wrestler.

Cats Win 7 of 8 After “Dragon” Jung had pinned Baird in the opening encounter, the Cats went on to rack up 6 more wins in their crushing victory. One of the best matches was the John Evans-Pork affair, where after an overtime period, “Stubby” finally proved victorious, and these were the points that all but sewed up the Cat victory in their initial match on the home mats. Big Bill Alexander turned in a sparkling triumph, pinning Hooper in the spectacular time of 2:03 with a sensational 32-9 shoulder lock. Burly Bill Moore, 115-pound ex-Marine, also looked good in defeating Carper in the battle of giants. The Red and Black record now stands at two wins over Winston-Salem Y and High Point Y, and one tie with this same High Point aggregation.

Matches in the Cats’ 32-5 victory over High Point: 121-Pound — Jung (D) pinned Baird, Time, 5:02. 128-Pound — Kirby (D) pinned Auman, Time, 2:35. 136-Pound — Watson (HP) pinned Fesperman. Time, 3:05. 145-Pound — Charles (D) decisioned York. 165-Pound — Price (D) pinned Bryant, Time, 5:03. 175-Pounds — Alexander (D) pinned Hooper, Time 2:03. Unlimited — Moore (D) decisioned Carper.

INTERFRAT STANDINGS The last intramural basketball game played was before the Christmas holidays. Below are listed the standings in the fraternity basketball tournament:

W. L. Pet.
Pi Kappa Phi 3 0 1.000
Kappa Sig 3 0 1.000
Independent No. 2 2 1 .600
Phi Delt 2 1 .600
Beta 2 1 .666
Delta Kappa 1 1 .500
Independent No. 1 1 2 .333
S.P.E. 1 2 .333
K. A. 1 2 .333
PiKas 0 2 .000
S.A.E. 0 2 .000
Phi Gam 0 2 .000

“I guess it began when I was just a kid, making non-stop flights around the dining-room table. Later on, the town got an airport. I got to know every plane, right down to the smallest bolts and screws. During the war, I took off with the Aviation Cadets. The folks were all for it. They figured—correctly—that it was the best way to get me into the air where I belonged. I made it all right. Trained in the best planes the Air Force has. And now I’m heading for transition work in jets. The pay? Now that I’m a pilot, $336 a month, plus $500 for each year of active duty. And there’s plenty of room for promotions. But that’s not the real point. Some men belong in the air. They were born wanting wings—with the action, the pride, the freedom that go with them. There’s no better way to have all that, along with the world’s finest flying training, than to join the Aviation Cadets. And the future, in civilian aviation or in the Air Force, is as wide open as the horizon. If you want the fast-moving life, why not drop around to the Recruiting Station in your community or the nearest Air Force installation?”

Lose To State, South Carolina The Cats turned in a five hundred play last week by trimming Duke and Wofford while bowing to N.C. State U. Journeying to the Hanes Hosiery in Winston-Salem for their game against Duke, the Cats came back with their first victory over the Blue Devils since 1938. It wasa close game which saw Sophomore Dick Mills tip in an errant shot of Mike Williams in the last 45 seconds to give the Cats the 44-42 triumph. Mills had tied the game just before with his first field goal of the night. Davidson held a 25-14 lead at the half, but the Devils roared back in the last quarter to tie things up 40-40 and were ahead momentarily until Mills hit his average for the week. A powerful five and Syedee gym in for home with came seconds before and Mills tied for his four points. Cheek High Scorer Buddy Cheek led the night with Whit Cobb with 11. This pair turned in a brilliant performance. Ashmore, high man for the night with 18 points, and Jake Wats, lanky floor game ace, fouled out in the final period. 

State in the first half, but were no match in the last quarter as the whizzers romped home with a neat 72-39 rout. The Cats made it a game with an Indian 172-39 rout. Coach Norman Sheppard had to yank his dog-tired regulars in the third quarter and the much shorter and less experienced match for the State's smooth working combine. The Cats played under a distinct handicap that Mike Williams sprained his ankle before the game, but even “Slick Mike” couldn't have made up the difference with the Hotshots. Cheek’s 15 points for the night was the only creditable display for the Cats. 

The South Carolina Gamecocks pinned a stinging 60-45 spanking on the crippled Cats in Columbia Saturday night. The Cats couldn't find the bucket from the floor or foul line, dropping their fourth Southern Conference loss. 

Cats Explode
Exploding midway in the second half for a barrage of twin-deckers, the Cats overran a bewildered Wofford five 62-35. Sparky Cobb and Buddy Cheek led the performance of shooting and team play. The Cats led all the way to crush the Terriers. J. D. Ashmore and Bill Iverson were hitting the nets with uncanny accuracy in the first half with the Cats on the long end of a 28-15 score. As the second half began, the unbeatable combination of Cobb and Cheek, coupled with the freshmen Hengeveld and Loole, accounted for a 54-4 score at the end of the third quarter. With Cheek dazzling and Iverson racking up points, the score reached its final proportions, 62-35. Coach Shepperd gave all the boys a chance to play, and Dutch Hengeveld a little more time in the closing minutes. 

Roddey and the Cats lead the basketball team heads the list. 

WILDCATS DOWN DUKE, WOFFORD
CAT WRESTLERS DEFEAT HIGH POINT

The brief period between the holiday and exam period is a short bustle of athletic activity on the campus. The basketball team has two games and the grapplers face High Point on the campus Saturday night. Intramural basketball is postponed until after the “long drive” as some of the boys deemed it a pleasure or a must, as the case may be, to get a bit of study.

By MAC HART
With exams bearing down, armchair sports analysts who consider comparative scores the standard for judging teams must have gotten a shock when the Wildcats beat Duke after taking a drubbing from Hanes Hosiery Mills after the Dukes had downed the semi-pros. Chances for a repeat with State were pretty much blown to the winds with Mike Williams out probably until after exams with a sprained ankle, and most people were willing to spot State twenty points. However, such predictions failed to foresee that Whit Cobb, high scorer to date, would hit a scoring slump. Slumps come almost inevitably to a player sometime in the season, and probably it’s lucky that Whit hit his with the cards already stacked against the ‘Cats. The slump lasted against South Carolina, with the whole team joining in. Monday night's 62-35 triumph was slight compensation for the conference loss at S.C. Conference wins will be hard to get from here on and if the ’Cats see action in the conference playoff in March, they can’t afford any more bad nights. Conceding none but to the giants from the eastern part of the state, we still have a fifty-fifty chance of breaking into the conference lineup with an eleven wins-seven losses record. With four gone and three in our favor already, we face State and Duke once again, and U.N.C. twice. There is a chance that we can take UNC either or both games. The next Duke game comes the night after we play UNC there, and a lot depends on that game as to how we can stack up against Duke. However, it is asking too much of an inexperienced squad to expect to win in Tar Heel territory, and only with the best of breaks can the Wildcats take these big boys. With the exam period to whip back into shape after the recent reverses, we aren't conceding anything to the other eight opponents, especially South Carolina, who may well remember Clemson's fate last year on the Wildcat home court. 

With Mike temporarily laid up, Whit Cobb looked like a natural to walk off with individual scoring honors until the State and South Carolina games slowed down the Durham ball of fire. To date, he has a grand total of 141 points in 11 games for a 12.8 point average. Buddy is rapidly closing the gap with 133 points and a 12 point per game average. Mike Williams has a game average of 14 points, but has only played in eight games. His total is 112 points, only two points behind Whit’s after the Duke game. J. D. Ashmore and Jake Mills hold fourth and fifth places with 75 and 63 points, respectively. Bill Iverson's 36 points are good for sixth place. 

Bad luck is always a good excuse, so they say. If so, Davidson never lacks for excuses, because any good Davidsonian can tell you that the two things Davidson is famous for are rain and athletic bad luck. Let's all add a little to our incense to Dame Fortune during exams and hope she can smile more favorably on the ‘Cats next semester. 

Coach Redding’s Jayvees are a scrappy crew with lots of speed for collegiate neophytes, and some height. Their shooting is none too accurate, but that will come in time. Their captain, Melvin Griffith, a Davidson hometown boy, reminds us a lot of Ed White on the court. His floor play and lots of his lay-up shots bring back memories of last year’s Wildcat captain. Tommy Halley, Johnny Kelton, and one of the Lawett twins are other freshmen who show considerable promise. Johnny Richards, Dick Blanks, and Lenoir Keesler uphold the upperclassman tradition for the Kittens. 

Best wishes to Coach Barton on his tournament tour this winter. After holidays in Bermuda, the coach is making the rounds of the tournaments until the first of March when he will return to the campus to begin activities with the tennis team. 

Jimmy Jung, the diminutive pride of Davidson's wrestling efforts, has plenty of that old intestinal fortitude. Coming in for special praise again, Jim wasn’t bluffed when the Winston grapplers couldn't put up a man in his weight class. He stepped up into the next class and took on veteran AAU champ Joe Gaskill. The Dragon refused to be pinned even by this heavy artillery, but went down under a decision. Ernie Strictlin, too, lost by a decision. He is still bothered by a couple of bum shoulders, souvenirs of football, but we expect better things from him in the future. Incidentally, four of the Winston heavies are former Barium boys who got their training at Appalachian. 

Gamecocks, ESP ret decision in the near professional school.

TASTY TOPS ON THE CAMPUS
At Davidson, Frank Aldred smokes CHESTERFIELDS. Frank says: “For real smoking enjoyment Chesterfields are tops with me!” Voted TOPS!—Chesterfield is the largest selling cigarette in America’s colleges (by nationwide survey).

THE FINEST IN MEN'S CLOTHING
JACK WOOD, Ltd.
102 East Fourth Street, Charlotte

UNIVERSITY STYLE SINGLE-BREASTED SUITS
DOUBLE-BREASTED LONG ROLL WORSTED AND FLANNELS.
HAND-LOOMED SPORT COATS
BUTTON DOWN SHIRTS
SPREAD COLLAR AND TAB SHIRTS WITH FRENCH CUFFS
WOOL AND LISLE HOSE
FORMAL WEAR