BACK THE “Y” GIFT FUND

Volume XXXVII ALENDA \LUX UB) “DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 10, ORTA LIBERTAS 1948

PAN-HEL COUNCIL’S GIFT FUND OVERSUBSCRIBED AS STUDENTS PLEDGE $6,053

Jack Payne, head of the YMCA Gift Fund drive, announced in chapel Friday that the goal of $5,000 had been
surpassed by over $1,000, with pledges received up to that time totaling $6,053.32. Rev. Broyles, chairman of the Choral Club
Davidson College War Relief Committee, was on hand to receive a token check for that amount.

COMBINED CHORUSES PRESENT ORATORIO MONDAY

The Davidson College Choral Club and the Queens College Male Chorus will present the Christmas Portion of Handel’s “Messiah” Monday
evening at 8:15 o’clock in the auditorium of Chambers Building. The program was the climax of a drive begun Monday
for money to provide food and medical supplies to Marburg University in Marburg, Germany.

Dr. Broyles, who studied at the University of Tübingen, Germany, after graduating from Davidson, extended thanks to the student body
for the funds, saying that they will be of tremendous value to the students of Marburg. Both Rev. Broyles and
Dr. W. P. Cumming, who spoke on the Gift Fund drive earlier in the week, expressed their wholehearted approval of
the recipient of the fund. Dr. Cumming, who was at Marburg for some time after the war, said he considered
the choice of Marburg as the most timely of the past few years. The condition of the students of Marburg
is desperate. They study in unheated classrooms in freezing weather. They must stand by their study tables to keep circulation;
yet they dare not move about too much lest they burn up all too quickly their 1500 calories a day.
They receive only two meals each day, which are distributed by the university. These meals are said to be quite
unpalatable, consisting of a little thin soup and a piece of black bread.

These are not the only hardships under which the 3,000 students try to keep up their studies. 30 per cent
are blind, 40 per cent have tuberculosis, and pneumonia is exacting an unbelievable toll in the historic school, where Martin
Luther and Zwingli held their famous conference in 1529. Its venerable walls, founded in 1527, were devastated by Allied bombs.
Dr. Broyles will visit Marburg in February, on a tour of Europe on behalf of Church World Service, to make
a personal survey of the distribution and administration of the relief funds. In all probability, he will visit Marburg, where
he will see firsthand how Davidson’s funds are helping the students there.

SATTERFIELD ENGAGES FOREMOST COLLEGE ORCHESTRA FOR MIDWINTERS SET

Johnny Satterfield and his orchestra, made up of students from the University of North Carolina, will be the music makers
for the Pan-Hellenic Midwinters Dance Set, February 4th and 5th, it was announced today by Pan-Hel President B. Scruggs. Satterfield,
featuring a sixteen-piece orchestra and vocalist Ruth Justice, has made himself a reputation as a composer, arranger, pianist, and conductor,
and his popular band has earned high praise.

DAVIDSONIAN TO COME OUT NEXT THURSDAY

NUMBER TWELVE

Dr. Benfield Holds Ministerial Banquet

By BOYCE KENDALL

Dr. Benfield, a drive begun Monday for money to provide food and medical supplies to Marburg University in Marburg, Germany.
The Christmas Portion was well received by a capacity audience. In the solo roles were four very talented and capable
young vocalists: Virginia Smith, soprano, Doris McGuinn, mezzo-soprano, Moody Chisholm, tenor, and Marl F. Berg, bass. The orchestral accompaniment was
provided by the Queens-Davidson Little Symphony Orchestra. The music was exceptionally full for a comparatively small orchestra.

The only marring incident in the otherwise excellent performance was purely technical. As Dr. Eberhardt was praying the invocation, the
stage risers on which a portion of the chorus was sitting collapsed. No one was injured, and as the descent
came before the performance had actually started, the music was not interrupted. Mr. James Christian Pfohl conducted the program.

UPCHURCH TAKES SAN JUAN HILL

By PHIL MITCHELL

SAN JUAN HILL CAPTURED AS UPCHURCH STEALS SHOW

The Thursday night performances by the Red and Black Masquers of “Arsenic and Old Lace” was, all things considered, well
done. This is a favorite play of amateur groups. Though fairly simple, it needs competent acting and direction to bring
it through. It was just such acting, in most cases, that brought it into moderate success. In spite of the
excellent faculty and the splendid portrayal of the magnificent “Teddy” by Neil Upchurch, the play’s being a total success was
the lack of horror instilled into the audience. The blame goes chiefly to Van Jackson and Nancy Copeland, who seemed
to have got their emotions mixed as their horror and consternation were closer to farce.

Final praise must go to director Hatley and to the stage crew for their excellent work on the set. A
final “tsk-tsk” to the ticket-takers for their lack of organization.

Library News

Among some of the new books just purchased by the library are: “The Big Fisherman” by Lloyd C. Douglas. “The
Big Fisherman” is a biography of Simon Peter, that big, profane, two-fisted, and irreverent fishing boss, who became the most
lovable and human Apostle of Jesus. The setting is on the shores of Galilee, which was the crossroads of the
world. Douglas paints the story of the Arabian-Jewish conflict which was in as much confusion then as it is now.
Only the man who wrote “The Robe” could have written “The Big Fisherman.”

“Remembrance Rock” by Carl Sandburg is another new addition.Both practical and theoretical, S210 is one of the most important European
countries. A novel about human beings who lived, laughed, loved, killed, hated, suffered, and worshipped through three and a half
centuries of American history. As E. M. Forster wrote of War and Peace in 1939, it holds true for Sandburg’s
novel: “It throws light on the present situation, which is what we want. Such a work helps to restore the
balance and to recall our visions of humanity.”

The Common Glory by Paul Green is a play about the founding of our government and particularly the patriots of
Virginia. The play is presented at Williamsburg in much the same manner as The Lost Colony is given at Roanoke
Island. It has laid the foundation for the America we enjoy today.

Ape and Essence by Aldous Huxley is a novel about a scientist from New Zealand who rediscovers humanity. The whole
contest was delayed previously. Weakened by the delay, the freshmen, acknowledging their superiors, managed to eke out a slender victory
over the well-prepared sophomores by pulling their protesting bodies over the center stripe of the field of combat. The victorious
mass of pseudo-humanity scampered off toward the far side of the track, where they passed through the ropes.

A Man Called White by Walter White is the autobiography of one who chose to remain a Negro. A stirring
record of achievements and a testament to the human spirit.

The International Relations Club has served to present many varied views on items of current interest to the Student Body.
The effort that this organization yearly expends to make Davidson men more thoroughly conscious of events occurring in the world
and within this country is a valuable contribution. Because these events exert an influence on the life of every man
in college, Davidson students should acquaint themselves more fully with the IRC.

Davidson will experience its first wintry temperatures of the season this weekend. There is no precipitation expected, and these bracing
temperatures will be accompanied by generally fair skies, ideal weather for lovers of the great outdoors. Temperatures will range from
night minimums of 25 degrees to day maximums of 45 degrees.

On Monday, December 13, Sigma Delta Pi and the Spanish Club will sponsor a Spanish-speaking film. The movie is to
be Pepita Jiménez and it will begin promptly at four o'clock in the afternoon. All students at Davidson who are
interested in the Spanish language are invited. Also, students from Central High School and Queens College in Charlotte have been
invited. There will be no admission charge. After the movie, the members of the Spanish Fraternity and the girls from
Queens College will have a weiner roast and a social hour.

The Spanish film La Barraca, The Hut, was presented by Sigma Delta Pi and The Spanish Club in the local
Davidson theater. The film dealt with life in Spain among the peasants and farmers of that country. The showing of
the movie was an outstanding success, and it is expected that Pepita Jiménez will be met with the same approval.
