In surveying the season records of the various Wildcat athletic teams, we noticed that this school year has been the most successful athletically for Davidson College in quite some years. There may have been better years for some individual sports, but we believe that the year 1947-48 will go down as a banner year for ole D.C. The football team started things rolling by posting its best record since 1933. For the season, the record book shows six victories, three defeats, and one tie. We won't try to place the three losses as moral victories, but it certainly would not be a stretch of the truth to place the 14-14 tie with VMI in that overburdened class. The gridders could not have picked a better time to put on one of their best games before the happy but weary homecoming crowd. Probably the man who should receive the lion's share of the credit for the glories is Coach Bill Story. In his sophomore year as a college coach, Story made a name for himself among Wildcat backers. It necessarily follows that we express deep regret in losing "the man from the Deep South."

A big portion of the credit should also go to Assistant Coaches Charlie Jamerson, Al Moneyhan, and Dick Redding. Jamerson, who succeeds Story at the helm, was backfield coach and chief scout. It was his reports that told the Cats of the next week's foes. He will be sorely missed in this post. Moneyhan could always be seen on top of the press box with binoculars and telephone in hand reporting to the bench on all plays in the game. His reports did more than any in finding the right subs at the right time. But with all the orchids, we do not mean to take one bit of the credit from the boys who did the sweating and toiling. The "big red line" was in our mind the most formidable in the annals of the Red and Black. It certainly was the strong point of the squad led by Ed Rhodes, Carl Eborn, Buddy Chandler, and Johnny Richards, only to mention a few. A fleet and hard-driving set of backs worked well behind this bulk. Carl Sheppard, Jim Sifford, Mac Erwin, and Buck Williams paced this group which followed the blocking of Dave Poole and Charlie Rimer.

At the same time the gridiron boys were parading their wares, another Wildcat team was celebrating its return to action after a lapse of eight years. The cross country squad, led by Capt. Jack Gray, Blake Bradley, and Bob Grube, eased through a season which dealt it no defeats in dual competition. As Old Man Winter moved in, Coach Norman Sheppard issued the call to the hardwood for his basketeers. Co-Captains Buddy Cheek and Mike Williams led the squad which waltzed through the season with a 19-8 record and advanced to the semi-finals in the Southern Conference tournament. Highlight of the early season was a 44-42 upset over Duke’s talented Blue Devils, a feat not accomplished since 1938. The Cats rode into the tournament and trounced Maryland in the first round before bowing out to Duke in the semi-finals. The victory over Maryland was sweet revenge for an early season setback by the Old Liners. Cheek set a terrific pace in piling up 370 points for the season with 124 of them coming on free throws. He was justly honored by being placed on the All-Conference five. The same team which wore Wildcat colors this year will be around for duty again next year. Williams and Cheek have again been elected co-captains. Whit Cobb, J. D. Ashmore, and Bob Maner will be on call to round out the starting five. On reserve are Dave Poole, Bo Roddey, Bill Iverson, Dutch Hengeveld, Ed Hopper, and Dick Mills.

Spring sports are still going strong, but the boys have given a pretty good indication that they will hold up their end of the bargain. As we go to press, the baseball team has rung up a .500 average with eight wins and as many losses. Though that mark won’t burn up any league, it is still a vast improvement over recent years. Coach Charlie Jamerson has built a winning combine around virtually the same club which last year managed to win only one game. The addition of freshman ace Dick Marlowe to the mound staff is probably the main feature of improvement, but due to studies, Marlowe is only around for home duty. Two other freshmen have moved in and grabbed starting berths. Dave Poole shifted easily from the hardwood to the diamond to nail down the number one catcher’s job. Auburn Lambeth has shown sufficient batting power to move into the starting rightfield spot. Only two other changes from last year’s squad were the shifting of Hal Mapes from behind the plate to first base, and the finding of Bill Bird to take over the hot corner duties from Bert Anderton. Bird was around last year but never had a chance to show his wares, but when given a chance this year, he quickly proved himself.

(Continued Next Week)

THE FINEST IN MEN’S CLOTHING
JACK WOOD, Ltd.
102 East Fourth Street
Charlotte

UNIVERSITY STYLE
SINGLE-BREASTED SUITS
DOUBLE-BREASTED LONG ROLL
WORSTED AND FLANNELS
HAND-LOOMED SPORT COATS
BUTTON DOWN SHIRTS
SPREAD COLLAR AND TAB SHIRTS WITH FRENCH CUFFS
WOOL AND LISLE HOSE
FORMAL WEAR

DAVIDSON ENJOYS BEST
Wildcat Sports
Friday, April 30, 1948
THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three
By DOUG HIX

As we enter the end of the school year, most Davidson men are looking forward to the summer and the next football season. One of the men who will be back is Dave Poole, a steady hitter with an average of about .300, his specialty being right over second into the gap for a two-bagger. He hails from Winston-Salem where at Reynolds High he was a letterman in football, basketball, and baseball. He was captain of the gridders and a scholar, and DAVE POOLE basketeers and all-state in all three sports. He received scholarship offers from State, Carolina, William and Mary, and Catawba. He has been approached by scouts from the Giants, Boston, the Crackers, Pirates, and the Yankees, but he turned them all down until his education is complete.

Withers Electric Company
Radio Repairs
Electrical Supplies
Light Bulbs
DAVIDSON, N. C.Complete. At Davidson, he is a member of Guh, SD. Club, and secretary-treasurer of the student body. Holding about a “B" average, the Beaver is studying business administration with his eye on the coaching game. Bashful, not always the life of the party, but a gentleman, Dave is a quiet, gentle man, an athlete. “Gump” being what more can you ask? —<— (D)——— CINDERMEN WIN AGAIN

On Saturday afternoon, the Wildcat track team marked up an impressive victory against The Citadel team under a brilliant summer sun. This meet gave them three wins to one loss in a so far successful season. Taking 13 first places out of 15 events, the Cats rolled up a wide 88 to 43 margin, although The Citadel men showed strength by dominating the second-place slots.

Ed Newton won both the 100 and 220-yard dashes in 10.1 and 22.6 seconds, with Simpson taking third in both events. McAllister and McGehee took first in the 440 and 880 in 53.2 seconds and 2:06 minutes, which is pretty fair time for Davidson's class in both events. “Gunder” Gray, running only the mile, turned in a 4:43 win with Blake Bradley in third place, adding to his undefeated collegiate record in dual meets. Without Gray in his usual two-mile event, Stanazep of The Citadel took first place in 10:55.3 with Remson placing third, giving The Citadel team one of its two first places.

Pritchett and Hopper took first and second consecutively in the high hurdles, the winning time being 16.1 seconds. Hopper came through with a first in the low hurdles in 26 seconds, with Gardenick and Wells of The Citadel in second and third places. Cornell took first in the broad jump in 19 feet 9 inches, while Henderson placed first and second in the high jump in 5 feet 10 inches.

TO TAR HEEL

Misfortune hit the undefeated Cat netters in their crucial match with the undefeated Carolina racket-teers, for a 3-0 lead fizzled out into a narrow 5-4 defeat. The match was actually decided in the doubles when Taylor and Wilder turned in triumphs to sew up the state championship for the Tar Heel racket wielders.

CATS DOWN WOFFORD, DUKE; BOW TO CAROLINA

Sparked by a dazzling performance by their ace, Bo Roddey, the Cats swept the first three matches from the Phantom netters. The Roddey-Taylor match was super-charged with drama as the two baseliners went at each other in their customary, persistent, methodical way. Bo finally mastered the Connecticut state champion by annexing two straight sets, 6-2, and 7-5. The radiating performance of Roddey seemed to spur on Ped Keesler and “Wart” Robinson, for they both emerged victorious in two out of three sets.

Cats Lose Three

As the number four singles began, the Cats seemed to slack off and consequently, the Carolina team began to catch up. As Coach Derrick Barton so aptly stated, “We suddenly woke up and found out who we were playing.” The Mike Williams-Don Skakle match was doubly disheartening to the Cat rooters, for after Mike had won the first set 6-4 in comparatively easy fashion, Skakle came back to win the final two sets and the match, 6-4, 6-3.

Doubles Fatal

As the evening dusk settled on the courts, the last Cat hopes for an undefeated season faded into the gloom, as the Keesler combination went down to a hard-fought decision to the Wilder-Taylor combine. The final double match, which Bo Roddey and Whit Cobb won, was anti-climactic, for it accomplished naught but to narrow the final score to Carolina 5; Davidson 4.

Summaries:
Roddey (D) defeated Taylor, 6-2, 7-5.
Vo-Keesler (D) defeated Morris, 11-9, 1-6, 6-3.
Robinson (D) defeated Rice, 6-4, 6-8, 7-5.
Skakle (UNC) defeated Williams, 3-6, 6-4, 6-3.
Alexander (UNC) defeated Keesler, 6-3, 7-9, 6-0.
Gruner (UNC) defeated Cobb, 6-3, 4-6, 6-2.
Taylor and Wilder defeated Ted and Lenoir Keesler, 7-5, 6-3.
Roddey and Cobb defeated Morris and Gruner, 3-6, 6-2, 6-1.
Skakle and Alexander defeated Robinson and Williams, 6-3, 6-1.

WILDCAT LIFTERS SHOW IN MEET

In the recent Carolina A.A. weightlifting meet held at the High Point Y gym, a three-man team from Davidson College, coached by Joe Richert, made its first appearance. The lightest member, Grady Spires, placed a surprising third in the 123-pound weight division, totaling 520 pounds in the three Olympic lifts—military press, the snatch, and the clean and jerk. One hundred forty-eight pounder Bob Patten, though finishing fourth with a total of 465 pounds, just one place out of the money, amazed both judges and spectators by his tremendous display of power for one so young in the iron game. Garnering another fourth place was Coach Richert in the 181-pound class with a hitherto unattainable total of 505 pounds.

THACKER’S, INC.
Private Dining Rooms for Parties and Banquets
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
221 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 25190

Brown, Montgomery, and Walker shared a three-way tie in the vaulting at 10 feet six inches. Chandler and Vann won both the shot and discus with 41 feet 2 inches and 130 feet, respectively. The Citadel threw the javelin 159 feet 6 inches for first place. The mile relay team of McGehee, Willingham, Baldwin, and McAlister won in 3:36.5. Looking over past records during this season of Clemson, the meet Saturday afternoon on Richardson Field promises to be a fairly close contest, with Clemson having a slight edge on the Wildcats.

Dine and Dance
UPPER DECK
SHIP AHOY OF CHARLOTTE
LOCATED IN THE H.K. HELEN O'NEIL and the MARINERS EVERY NIGHT BUT SUN. AND MON.
DELICIOUS CUISINE
NO COVER CHARGE
For Reservations Phone 4-2671