Herb Meza Chosen by Students to Serve as President of Y.M.C.A. Cabinet

ELECTIONS CONTINUE FOR CLASS OFFICERS

SPRING FROLICS NEXT ON AGENDA

ONLY ONE WEEK

Volume XXXVI DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY APRIL 16, 1948 NUMBER 3

Mac Hart Is Elected Editor of Davidsonian

Anderson, Harper Students Report Sanitorium Work For New Type Spring Services

In the final ballot for the editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN on Tuesday, April 13, Herb Meza was elected president of the Y.M.C.A. for next year, and Curtis Harper and Dave Anderson were elected the first and second vice-presidents.

On Thursday, April 15, Mac Hart of Gainesville, Florida was elected editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN for next year. 

Sunday School in a hospital is not a difficult job. Patience and interest in people are the qualities you want to have if you try it. The fifteen or so men who go out to the Huntersville Acute Sanitorium every Sunday morning have tried it, and they say that sick people are like everybody else. They like to have visitors. They like to have someone to talk to. They like to have someone to listen to them.

These men will be the leaders in the religious life of the campus along with the other members of the Y cabinet which will be announced later. Information on these men includes:

Herb Meza is from Tampa, Fla., and was the first vice-president of the Y this year. He has been a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society for two years, was vice president of the “Twenty-One Club.” This year Herb is president of the newly formed Campus Club. He is also a member of the Spanish Club.

Curtis Harper, of Lynchburg, Va., is president of the Sophomore Class and a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.

Dave Anderson is from Richmond, Va., a member of the Phi Society, the French Club, and has been very active in the work in the Negro community, as well as teaching Sunday School at the Sanatorium. Dave is a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.

The examination schedule for the second semester was released on Wednesday, April 14, by the Office of the Dean of Students. The examinations will begin at 2 p.m. on May 13, with tests being given in all subjects meeting at the fourth hour on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday. Morning examinations will begin at 9 a.m. Afternoon examinations will begin at 2 p.m. The schedule reads:

Thursday, May 13—P.M.—Fourth hour classes of Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday.
Friday, May 14—A.M.—ROTC 22, 32, 42.
Saturday, May 15—A.M.—First hour classes of Monday, Wednesday, Friday.
Monday, May 17—P.M.—First hour classes of Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday.

Numbers of the two hundred people there know little of Christianity, however. The challenge to a teacher is especially strong among some of the Negroes. Irving Stubbs has recently succeeded in teaching some of the colored women how to locate certain books in the Bible. During a study for world federation, Mr. Hollister, of the University of Arkansas, delivered a story entitled "Federal World Government Now"; and Mr. Watkins, of Columbia, discussed the economic movement of the world.

The Davidson College Male Chorus, under the direction of Karl Berg, was heard in concert on Thursday, April 8, in High Point.Soren 1 fea sein Mer ibe WaT New Testament parables, he says. N.C., favoring the Conferences tour Classes of Monday, Wednesday, Friday. BAe MARRIED ORS COMIBRRINOD which UWE favors, is on the upturn. A three-point plan in the form of a resolution has been introduced by Senator Homer Ferguson, Republican of Michigan, to curb the veto, ban atomic weapons, and form an international peacekeeping force. This would involve a change of the UN charter.

Answering the questions of these people enables a teacher to get a new grip on basic fundamentals. However, UWE goes farther than the first six atomic scientists—have called for a change in the UN charter. 

On Tuesday, April 13, the chorus also presented a program in the current series “Davidson College on the Air” over radio station WT in Charlotte. They will be featured again in this series at 10:30.

The next concert by the male chorus will be presented on Sunday, April 18, at the First Presbyterian Church in Statesville, N.C. Officers for the organization this year are: M. Carper, president; H. Farrior, vice president; T. F. Clark, secretary-treasurer.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity, sponsored a lecture by Dr. W. A. Wolff Monday evening in the Science Building. Dr. Wolff is the professor of clinical chemistry at Bowman Gray School of Medicine in Winston-Salem. He received his Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania. 

Dr. Wolff's topic was “Some Chemical Adventures in Medicine.” Particular reference was made to some recent discoveries in fluoride poisoning, plasma treatment of burn cases, and new methods of micro-qualitative analysis. He then conducted a short discussion on points of his lecture, and on points of interest to pre-med students.

Prof. Li Ving-kuang, chief physician of Nankai University, reported today, incidental to strikes here at several North China universities, that less than nine million Chinese dollars a month (about $15 in U.S. currency) is paid to professors. This he had to support himself, his mother, his wife, and five children. Harold jumped in a lake on the campus.