Friday, February 20, 1948 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

SPRING FOOTBALL ... (Continued From Page Four)

Vad Ray wingback and Wood are Jake AFTE2 (1958) Thad walked the train to Ch Adams, Dave Yauig each il p ia Leach bond Ny: Johnson, Marvin Kelley id Pa WY Jackson Henry Wilson, and Broned Pail center picked up by Gene. Played the center lot! Miller Buddy Hoopy Grover Lee are ey fear squared; Torin tricl Ixe son, and tedd comer to bDavid running the tact elp troi several others. With work th, Coach Ct HW bel putting my oie dt ot in weekly Saturday serinina wre coe Pine peap ede eV my, bs rod lis adieted ho le Paint U ae at Eeleaee in there with Sane Store gists PAINTS WALLPAPER GLASS

AMONG AMERICAN COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES

By REELS JENKINS

Over at Carolina they talked up The Chronicle report which conducted the Duke coeds in deciding as quite a ere a t their “herculean dreamt man” ba Well, the in it e has (fall over at G. C. they smeared the picture of a “beautiful hank of mati’ third of the front page of their paper. When the Board of Trustees of Woman's College meets a special committee Carrigs to then: any mat rant Loe cee ooo ooo crccerre The Vilunta Cofstititty fimtcetiidents lave prouglit. t lfecten ing his disapp Not that we're d itistic ae Po those of you who operate up things like that, but I'm sure a Af at Sale the com vid that within the course of a semester Bates Cleaners Press While You Wait Let Us a mila setup on our campus. March 13, but from the University Clothes Dyed lack of talk of it. Florida threw a ball. I was unaware of pyre ime fowith money other than aut NY rations. EEN date, I'll have to admit that 10 Cla Phornalialh Ul lhoimistt Aa 24-48-Hour Service connections up there a Non-ex Florida riven t a r istent, but To think it outta ta de reen Hight to the ition Main St. Davidson talked up on our campus. It usually turns out to be an interest tit? J vs hiat eae in inter-campus fair The Salemite wave an account fashions displayed at Davidson Midwinters that was all inclusive. If you overlooked what will Mareen Senate in, check the copy of The Salemite in the library.

ROAMING WITH RONNY ... (Continued From Page Two)

The first men to arrive were former president, resigned that post recently. But the trustees weren't going to let him go easily. He was made chancellor of the university. The Marine Corps is urging (NROTC) students to get commissions in the Marine. They had printed one of those pictures of beach landing operations. At least their propaganda could not disillusion one about the trial in the family employee. They made up a subscription not to violence in picking their beauty queens. Juniors and Seniors, some of whom influential Senior, got an interview with the Freshmen which was quickly granted. Several were made pro and con. It was agreed by the Freshmen that in the face of their peers, not to be insubordinate but to stop the annoying damage.been constantly a pledge to for five months that they would submit to a punishment. Local Entertainment. At the end of hazing for that year, Czar Declares Mice to be taken. Felt, forever at Davidson, a committee of honor did not keep faith, but when the lion was in the midst of the lair, wreaked old-time vengeance (i.e., the Freshmen took a beating disproportionately large).

The following day a "student body meeting" was held to which the Freshmen were not invited. It leaked out that it had been unanimously decided to revoke the pledge not to do any hazing which the matriculate had to sign when they entered. 

"I attribute my success to the never-ending cooperation that THE DAVIDSONIAN has shown my publicity staff."

Carolina Lunch
REGULAR MEALS
Breakfast 6:30-8:30
Lunch 11:30-1:30
Dinner 5:30-6:30
THANK YOU, CHARLIE PATT

Davidson hired members to avoid a conflict at the station. News that the "Fresh" had gone on strike spread quickly, and the train being an hour late, gave members of the faculty and the upper class the opportunity to make a trip to Cornelius to address the freshmen. Dr. Helen O'Neil and the Mariners, a professor and later president of Davidson, commandeered an old grey mare and in a manner most pleasing to them. Grey (also a professor) also arrived astride his bicycle. The class of 1906 (Freshmen then) returned to the campus that night with the understanding that differences would be discussed amicably, and if possible, without molestation to the freshmen. The Sophomore class felt that the class of 1906 had been 'unruly' from the very beginning of the year; that an unheard-of crime was perpetrated when the Freshmen painted the score of the Freshman-Sophomore baseball game, in which the Freshmen had been decidedly victorious, on the front of Chambers and on the old board fence that ran through the briar patch about where Rumple and Watts now stand; that they (the Sophomores) were responsible for bringing up the class in the way it should go; and that an apology for the immediate as well as past offenses should be made to the class of 1905 by the Freshmen. The class of 1906 was willing to apologize to the student body for breaking college traditions, but was unwilling to admit any apologies were due to the Sophomore class.

Dr. Monroe, Dr. A. S. Graham, and President Smith, individually and collectively, served as 'go-betweens' and after two weeks, the matter was peacefully settled. The student body particularly realized that if the one class were not to return, that a serious blow would be dealt to the institution. Both class and college spirit was broken. After that year, hazing was reduced to a minimum for the next several years.

DAVIDSON FURNITURE CO.
Main Street Phone 3671

FUTURE U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force
"I'll be up there soon! Up where the ceiling’s unlimited and the horizon’s as wide as the world! Up where there’s freedom and adventure and a man can dare to do what no man’s done before! You're on your way up there when you join the Aviation Cadets. After a year’s pilot training, it’s silver wings for you and a commission as Second Lieutenant in the U. S. Air Force Reserve. You are eligible if you're single, between 20 and 26½, and have completed at least half the requirements for a degree from an accredited college or university (or can pass an equivalent qualifying examination). You'll fly the very best planes during your 12 months of pilot training. Then, after graduation, you'll pilot jet fighters and bombers. And you'll get a starting salary of $336 a month. During your three years on active duty, you'll be given a chance to win a commission in the Regular Air Force. This is a priceless opportunity for alert young men with the urge to carve their future in American aviation. Ask for details at your U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force Recruiting Station, or write to Headquarters, U. S. Air Force, Attention: Aviation Cadet Section, Washington 25, D. C."

U.S. ARMY AND U.S. AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE