SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1948 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Riflemen Drill For Winter Campaign

Prospects are good for a successful season on the range with 10 newcomers out for practice and a reserve of five old men back from last year’s team. Matches scheduled include three contests with Homecom Bowl, two with nearby schools, participation in 3rd Army Area Inter-collegiate competition, and a shot at the annual Hearst Trophy.

The past week has seen a lot of activity in the basement of the ROTC building as Captain Harold M. Kennedy's rifle team began pre-seasonal practice. Lawton Cleveland, Joe Miller, Bruce Fry, Bill Mebane, and J. S. Tolbert, all of whom fired last year, give the team a strong nucleus around which to build. These have been joined by F. W. Best, C. N. Childers, C. C. Hettwig, and C. H. Arnold, all veterans of the last war, as well as P. M. Witlow and Lamar Hinson, both having had experience on other teams. At present only men in the above-mentioned categories are eligible, but freshmen who are interested may try out on Dec. 1948. With this new blood, the squad will seek to build itself up to a 15-man team, selection being based on final try-outs to be held in early December.

Nine correspondence matches have already been planned and the schedule is as yet incomplete. Dec. '48 to 10 Feb. '49 has been set as the period during which Hearst Trophy matches are to be fired. Two five-man teams have been entered from Davidson. One ten-man team will represent the college in the 3rd Army Area inter-collegiate matches to be held between 1 Jan. '49 and 15 Feb. '49. Of eight shoulder-to-shoulder matches, three have been lined up to date: Clemson, Oak Ridge, and VMI. Two of these are slated to take place before the Christmas holidays. Davidson, having always had a better-than-average team, seeks this year to even better her past records in the Hearst and Army area matches.

Football Predictions

Kentucky 21; Villanova 14
In a replay of last year’s game, the Wildcats of Kentucky, although minus their star Phelps, will prevail mainly through their excellent line.

Penn 13; Penn State 7
In what will determine the mythical championship of the Ivy League, two undefeated titans will meet. The Quakers will edge the Lions mainly on account of their more aggressive line play, spearheaded by All-American Chuck Bednarik. This is one that could go either way.

NC State 27; Virginia 7
At Riddick Stadium, the scene of many previous NC State wars, the hardy Wolfpack will regain their stride with a three-touchdown win over the Cavaliers of Virginia, still recovering from their 59-14 shellacking at the hands of the Princeton Tigers.

Duke 14; Wake Forest 13
This expert picks the Demon Devils to “upset” the Deacons on the strength of Mike Souchak’s talented toe. The physical condition of the two Mount Airy aces, Folger and Cox, will go a long way in determining the ultimate victor.

Michigan 35; Navy 7
The Wolverines will send the hapless Middies reeling to their 11th straight defeat, as they add another scalp to their collection.

Skipping Over the Rest
Cornell to harass Harvard; Arkansas to ravage Rice; Dartmouth to conquer Columbia; Northwestern to batter Wisconsin; Georgia to floor Florida; Tulane to vanquish Mississippi; Notre Dame to halt Indiana; Ohio State to pulverize Pitt; GW to eke out Citadel; Minnesota to punish Purdue; W&L to violate VPI; Mississippi to check Chattanooga.

Introducing Bob Sharpe
By: CHERRY STRIBLING

Bob Sharpe, one of the fastest men in football, made the Davidson team this year. Bob can hit like a freight train when he picks up speed—and that’s not just a figure of speech. Many opposing linemen can testify to the veracity of Bob’s charging. Bob is 22 years old and a 225-lb. guard. He is a member of the Concord National Guard. Bob comes to Davidson from Taylorsville, N.C., where he played 5 years of football in high school, captaining the team his last year. Only eight days after graduation in 1944, Bob joined the Navy. He was sent to Jacksonville Naval Air Station in Jacksonville, Fla., for boot camp and remained there for 25 months. In August of 1946, Bob came to Davidson, went out for football, and has been a mainstay on the Wildcat grid squad ever since. Bob is a history major and plans to enter law school after graduation.

Davidson Harriers Triumph Over Clemson Tigers
By FURMAN WARLICK

On Friday, October 29, the Davidson Harriers routed the Clemson cross-country team by the score of 15-52 on the three-mile track at Clemson College. This was a very happy experience for Coach Whittle as it marked the first victory of the season.fir will finish at approximately the same time that a “Pete” Whittle-coached team has won by such a large score. “Gunder” Gray led the Davidson Harriers across the tape in the good time of 17.44 minutes. He was followed by Grube, Bradley, and Glenn. Following are the finishers and their times: Gray, Davidson, 17:44.3; Grube, Davidson, 17:50; Bradley, Davidson, 18:00.

CHARLOTTE’S LEADING RESTAURANT

Visit Mooresville Skating Rink
TUESDAY - WEDNESDAY - FRIDAY
7:30 to 10:00
SATURDAY
2 to 4 — 7:00 to 9:30 — 9:30 to 11:30
RINK AVAILABLE FOR PRIVATE PARTIES
INSTRUCTION FOR BEGINNERS AND DANCE SKATERS
Mooresville, N.C. — Phone 4349

SHOP EFIRD'S MEN’S SHOP
STREET FLOOR
Carolina Lunch
Now Open Til 11 P.M. Sundays and Weekdays
FEATURING FRIED CHICKEN DINNERS ON SUNDAY
A NEW LINE OF SANDWICHES

A rejuvenated Wildcat squad is expected to be at top strength for the Richmond clash with the return of George “Buddy” Cheek at end. Cheek is one of the outstanding pass-catching ends in the nation, but was unable to see action in last week’s game.

PAGE FIVE

Villagers Active On Athletic Field

The men of Cardboard Village have been distinguishing themselves in the Davidson world of sports. It is often complained around the campus that there just isn’t enough time to participate in sports as well as studies or vice versa, but these married men in the village do both of these plus the small matter of managing a family. These following men are representing now or have represented the village on the football, baseball, track, and cross country teams.

Bert Anderton, a triple threat halfback, is currently playing his third season with the Wildcats. He handles the punting for the team, and his passing indicates that he is one of the tops in that department. It is interesting to note that only a comparative short while in the VMI game, he passed for more yards than Thompson, the opposing passer who is considered to have won the game for VMI. Bert also has played a lot of ball at the third sack for the baseball team. Bert, a senior, is from Memphis, Tenn., where he played high school football for head coach Charley Jamerson.

A prominent figure in sports has been “Pop” Martin, a product of Clover, S.C. Year before last, the man with the booming bat was noted as one of the outstanding athletes due to his prowess on the baseball diamond. Pop was again counted on to fill his old rightfield spot last year, but in the middle of the season he found his studies too much competition, and dropped the sport. He is planning to finish up with the books and graduate come next January.

Another football star is Tackle Carl Eborn who won wide acclaim last year for his brilliant line play. He was named on the first-string All-SAC team. Carl played ball in high school at Granby High in Norfolk, Va., Carl’s hometown. Carl has also been a member of the track squad for which the big boy earned his letter throwing the shot. He also has the distinction of being the only athletic villager who is not a veteran.

Out for the cross-country team is Jack Faucette from Bristol, Tenn. Since this is his first year out, Jack has not been heard from much thus far, but he is sticking with it and may yet develop. Jack is one of the most identical twins on campus.

Al Moneyhan, the backfield coach for the Wildcats, began his college football career playing freshman ball at North Carolina, after which he played some service ball. Along with his coaching duties, he manages the Charlotte pro club. Although not a massively-built man, Al has been called the “mighty mite” of defensive football.

Bill Moore, formerly on the wrestling squad, is now seen at night by the students in the blue uniform worn by the policemen of Davidson. Bill is more widely known in the role of heavyweight on the wrestling team, for it was in this sport that he earned his “D” last year as a freshman. Bill also played football last year, but now that he has taken on the duties of a policeman, he doesn’t have the time for it this year. The husky Kentuckian is easily understandable why it is.

Another prominent figure in sport is Ed Rhodes, also from Norfolk, one of Story’s products. “Easy,” as he is called, is considered by players and coaches alike to be one of the smartest players there is, and he uses his 200 pounds plus frame to good advantage. Easy also demonstrated his athletic ability by winning the discus for the track squad year before last. Last year he was chosen as one of the honor men of athletics on the Davidson campus.

Our hats go off to Cardboard Village for its fine representation on our athletic teams.

GRADE “A” MILK
Mooresville Co-Operative
PASTEURIZED
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N.C.