Friday, April 2, 1948

THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

The DAVIDSONIAN Presents
EDITORIALS...LETTERS...FEATURES
Page Two

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

SAM ERVIN
BOB CLINE

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bob Phillips ........................ Associate Editor
Mac Hart ............................ Sports Editor
Walter Mann .................... Managing Editor
Stan Newitt ...................... Managing Editor
Bill Calhoun ...................... Managing Editor
Ronnie Dietrich .............. Managing Editor
Rees Jenkins .................... Columnist
Marty Wood .................... Columnist
John Stewart .................... Staff Photographer
Floyd Wilson .................... Assistant Photographer

Feature Reporters: Bob Atkins.
Freshmen Reporters: Hartley Hall, Randy Taylor, Warren Sims, Phil Mitchell, Bill Hollister, Scott Hollister, Lonnie Turnipseed, Dave Gambrell, Bill DuBose, Bruce Kendall, Bill Bogart, Charles T. Davis, Bob Wells, Art Verner, Gray Hampton, Frank Purnell, Tom Flipse, Kenneth Jones, Jim Murray, Jim Larkin, Leonard Boswell, John Cosby, Dave Hayworth, Hugh Evans, Pat McGeachy.

Sports Staff: Jack Hazard, Frank Aldred, Cherry Stribling, Watt Jeffries, Bill Cass, Doug Hix, Bill King, Gene Regan, Dick Morgan, Furman Warlick.

BUSINESS STAFF
John McNair .................... Assistant Business Manager
Charlie Reid .................... Advertising Manager
Frank Lemmon ................ Assistant Advertising Mgr.
Bill Baxter .................... Circulation Manager
Charles Clinkscales ........ Subscriptions Manager
Charles Dockery ............ Collections Manager
Wilkes Macauley ............ Assistant Advertising Mgr.
Walt Orr .................... Assistant Circulation Mgr.
Billie Smith .................... Assistant Circulation Mgr.
Sandy Sprunt ................ Assistant Circulation Mgr.
Bob Knight .................... Assistant Subscriptions Mgr.
Charles Beam ................ Assistant Collections Mgr.

Advertising Staff: H. MacKethan, C. Faison, Claude Higginbotham, D. Hayworth, Blaine Kelley, Gene Taylor, W. J. McSwain.

Circulation Staff: Paul Guthery, Sam Davis, Cassels Bill, John Coble, Jim Fisher, Bob Sims, Jimmy Rogers, Norvet Childers, Ted Bowen, Murray Ashman, Erwin Clark, Ray Cunningham, Bill Mebane.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1946 Member 1947
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

April's Fool?

April 1 has for many years been a day on which we seek to amuse ourselves by describing things as they are not in reality. This is a healthful practice—it helps us to momentarily forget our troubles, to regain the proper perspectives. Unfortunately, too many of us are inclined to attempt to avoid reality every day rather than solely on one day each year. A very few seek to do so to adjust themselves to challenging conditions, but these “escapists” we are not concerned with. We should, however, be very concerned about those who do not have a “speaking acquaintance” with reality as a result of a lack of interest.

As was pointed out by Walter Mann in an excellent editorial some weeks ago, Davidson seems to be a center of the “I'm not concerned” school of thought. We admit that we are not situated in an area of intense activity, but there is ample opportunity for us to keep abreast of the situation existing in the world today if we are willing to take advantage of it. In addition to newspapers, magazines, and the radio, we are frequently exposed to speakers who, from experience, are able to bring us up-to-date information about all the nations and the peoples of the earth. Yet, how many of us take advantage of these sources of facts? Far too many of us confine our reading to the comics and the sports page and our chapel time to wanderings into the land of dreams. As a result, we often fail to understand what is going on around us—both on the domestic and the foreign scene.

Many men seem to feel that only personal experience is valid—that nothing vital can be learned from others. This belief, of course, is fallacious. Problems can be met only when they arise, but prior preparation and knowledge are tremendous assets when the hour of trial arrives. Davidson was established to serve, among other things, as a source of statistics about life—the professors and the visiting speakers continually endeavor to point these facts out to us. Still, however, we often fail to take advantage of their experience and study.

It is becoming more and more apparent that we at Davidson cannot remain isolated. The condition of the world today is too grave—the stakes are too high to be ignored. Even if we do escape having to participate in another great war in the near future, it will not be long until we will be called upon to serve as leaders in our communities, states, and nation. We owe it to ourselves and to our fellow citizens to prepare now for those positions of responsibility. No boxer would attempt to fight for the championship without a great deal of training—no man should take upon himself the duties of citizenship without first making an effort to acquaint himself with the problems which he will be called upon to face and to solve.

Fortunately, it is rarely ever too late to train for this struggle. If a man is to be a valuable and a successful citizen, however, he must continue to seek the truth about the world’s problems as long as he lives. Let us endeavor to square off with reality now and to take our rightful places as leaders in the years to come. If we fail, those who come after us may someday blame us for not keeping faith with them.

Student Elections

Many students have expressed the opinion that the facts which appeared in the last issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN about the candidates for the editorships of three student publications were meager, to say the least. Those of us who prepared them will be the first to admit the validity of this criticism. The facts were, in our opinion, the only ones which could be presented to the student body without violating the provisions of the “anti-campaigning” regulation which appears in the student constitution. This provision reads as follows:

SECTION 9—ACT IV.—"It shall be illegal for any person, group, organization, club or fraternity to solicit votes for a candidate for office.”

We felt that the printing of statements of policy by the candidates might subject the individual candidates and THE DAVIDSONIAN to charges of having violated the above provision because it would be virtually impossible to secure statements from fifteen men without there being serious differences in the utterances. Those who were more capable in the use of the pen possibly would thereby gain an unfair advantage. In short, if the candidates cannot make known their aims publicly unless the constitution is amended.

That conclusion brings us to the obvious question: Should we advocate the amendment of this section or should we continue to conduct our elections as they have been conducted in the past? Actually, we are ill-equipped to give a definite answer to the above query because none of us can accurately state the results of unlimited campaigning on the Davidson student body. It might well prove to be a far more inappropriate system than the one now in vogue. Regardless of the merits of the present scheme, there will continue to be demands for changes as long as the student body retains its present size. It might be well for the Student Council (1948-49 version) to take this problem into consideration early next fall so that a concrete report on the feasibility of altering the plan can be presented to the student body. Information about all varieties of elections could no doubt be gotten from schools in this area.

Until certain changes are made by the student body, it appears that the campus publications will be forced to omit all statements of policy by individual candidates. If the student body desires such information, an amendment will have to be adopted making such a practice “legal.”

Editor's Note

Due to the necessity of devoting most of Page Four to the information about the candidates for the various student body offices, we were forced to omit certain regular features—including the Operating Table. We regret that such action was necessary and we assure you that this widely read article will appear as usual in the next issue.

For the information and guidance of the curious, your copy of THE DAVIDSONIAN was delivered to your room tonight so that you may be able to vote more intelligently tomorrow. It is the hope of the staff, the Student Council, and the Elections Board that the measure adopted to increase the voter’s knowledge of the candidates will prove beneficial to all.

If you still cannot associate each candidate’s face with his record, refer to your annual.

WHAT’S WHAT AMONG AMERICAN COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES
By REES JENKINS

This week I have accumulated a few loose bits that might be of interest to some.

A writer for the Delaware Review reports on a rather comical interview with a talkative student. In his discourse, it is assumed that women have six senses. He assumes that most men get ahead by appealing to the female's visual sense. Now I could argue that point but that is not my purpose. Our naturally endowed logician was not well enough to utilize this faculty so he claims to have utilized the other five. First, in order to sound like a man he prescribes coughing for fifteen minutes just prior to retirement in the evening. “In no time,” he says “one’s voice is low, husky and as sexy as Charles Boyer's.” Next one must feel like a man so to feel hard and bristly one must don a tweed suit lined with leather. “Should make you feel like a bear—do ladies like bears? In order to smell like a man, a bottle of Gymnasium No. 5 is used but if one is getting near the end of his roll just keep your suit hung up in the locker room. At present he is working on the solution to the problem of how to taste like a man. Enough from Delaware.

The Utah Chronicle carries the same old story of ideal mates, etc., like I gave you several weeks ago, but here’s a little supplementary dope—it is noted that the requirements for a good date are not those of a good wife. Hark now, here is what women expect of their possible mates: She wants him taller, larger, and heavier; she wants him better in athletics than she is; he must be eugenically sound and must be a good provider. The college woman of today wants common interests with her man; she wants him to be either more intelligent or to have a higher education than she has (and maintain prestige gained thusly); she wants to be proud of him socially and be of the same religion. Now, you who hesitate not to rigidly qualify what your best gal is to be, can you come up to this?

The gentlemen of the Univ. of Virginia are going all out to keep ahead of theHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

common col- function two leges. On their next big week-end they are having “name” bands, Eddie Duchin and Glen Gray, to provide music. One band at each end of the dance arena will take alternating shifts in giving the music. They are the first in the South to undertake such extravagance. Over at Carolina, a ten-week no-credit course in social dancing is being put in the schedule by the intramural department. A turn-out of art is expected. From Salem and Virginia Intermont come reports of students who did New York in groups of 42 and 15 strong during the holidays. Sounds like such an expedition has endless possibilities for good humor. While browsing in the library, the papers from the following schools may prove to be of interest: Carolina, Duke, Wake Forest, Queens, Meredith, Mary Baldwin, Virginia Intermont, W.C., Winthrop, Stratford, Hampden-Sydney, R.P.I., Florida, Georgia Tech, Clemson, Alabama, Louisiana College, U. Va., Wofford, Converse, Geo. Washington; Granby Hi, New Hanover Hi, and many others.

KAPPA SIGMA
Once again the dealers deployed for week-ends hilarious and week-ends not so hilarious. We're still wondering what kind of deal Brother Pete Pearson pulled, striking out for Salem and returning with a station wagon full of feminine clothes and a grin from ear to ear (what price innocence!). “What DEW YEW Want” Cheek, unable to court the affection of Lute in Laurinburg, along with Brother Henry Wilson, spent a co-ordinated week-end in Morganton. (What were YEW DEW-ing???) In Charlotte, many reunions were held and with Brother Faw, the chapter is joyful for having gained fellowship with the now imminent Dr. Martini and servant Willie. Brother Medford apparently hadn't seen Brother Lennie Keesler’s date for a long time and after a period of no little fellowship and companionship and persuasion and compulsion, was escorted safely home by Brothers Pabst Pack and Phil Edwards. While Brother Jones, dissolved in the throes of spring and the return of Katherine McKay, performed steadily under the auspices of the latter, Brother Williams spurned the lover's call in Charlotte, Winston, Charlotte, Wingate, and Charlotte and turned to his middle-of-the-road policy. Brother Bulldawg, the lovelight in his eyes, is as yet functional as only Sir Gallahad could be and spent another of many week-ends with the future Mrs., while Hug McArn, now entangled in an obscure tri-relationship with Mary Sue and Judie, sojourned to Laurinburg with Brother Phillips. Brother Waters, having decided to extend the spring vacation, departed to water his stock in Florida last week, leaving Brother Ted Keesler, not yet reconciled over his canine killing of a week ago, John Crosely, Bo Roddy, and Ken McArn in paradise. Brother Wade, sadly hurt by circumstances at Salem and unable to assume the normalcy of living, has joined Oliver's tray-twirling team. We left Notorious with Tyke Ellis at the beach, Dick Kelly at Salem, Charlton Torrence at home, Bill Sugg making Panther punch and wondering why he can't get married, and Rucker Dudley spending the afternoon at Mrs. Thompson’s writing receipts for next week's menu.

SIGMA CHI
“Exit Delta Kappa, enter Delta Lambda” is the theme now down at the Sig house in fraternity court. (Continued On Page Four)

The Poll-cat
By DAVIDSONIAN
What course would you suggest adding to the curriculum of Davidson?
Students
1—SEX, MARRIAGE, AND FAMILY
2—JOURNALISM
3—FINE ARTS
4—RUSSIAN
5—PSYCHOLOGY LAB COURSE
6—ADVERTISING

Faculty
1—FINE ARTS
2—SEX, MARRIAGE, FAMILY
3—ADVANCED MATH
4—CIVICS
5—ART
6—RUSSIAN

By Stan

DR. VOWLES
Dr. Vowles of the German Department came to Davidson in 1925 from the University of Chicago, where he was working on his doctorate in linguistics. Before that time, Dr. Vowles was graduated from Fargo, a Congregational college in his home town in what was, at his birth, Dakota territory. For many years, Dr. Vowles was a member of the faculty at his alma mater and later served as assistant to the president of the University of North Dakota. In 1914, Dr. Vowles received his master's degree from Oxford University while on his honeymoon. Previously, he had spent three years at Oxford as a Rhodes scholar from North Dakota. It was during that period that Prof. Vowles earned his bachelor’s degree. After receiving his M.A., Dr. and Mrs. Vowles went into Europe and were in Berlin at the outbreak of World War I. With much difficulty, they returned to America by immigrant steerage on an English ship. Dr. Vowles states sincerely that he considers himself fortunate to be a member of the Davidson faculty and that Mrs. Vowles joins him in that sentiment. For two summers, Dr. Vowles has been a guest professor at the University of North Carolina and at Duke University. Much of his time outside of teaching is spent working on his lawn and keeping up his interest in linguistics and German literature. Dr. and Mrs. Vowles have a son, Richard, who was graduated from Davidson in 1938, and is finishing his Ph.D. at Yale, and looking to join the faculty of Southwestern in Memphis in the fall.

COL. GRACE
According to the professor of military science and tactics, Col. Grace, he is the biggest pacifist on the campus. Col. Grace feels that all who have seen combat feel as he does, though they may not speak out about it. Col. Grace was graduated from Western Maryland College, a small Methodist college, and took graduate work in chemistry at Columbia University. He was commissioned as an honor graduate in 1926. His army career has taken Col. Grace to all parts of the world. Before the war, he served in China, Hawaii, and the Philippines. As chief of staff of the 97th division and with the 179th Infantry of the 45th division, Col. Grace saw duty in North Africa, Italy, France, and Germany during the war. Col. Grace has, through summer camp work, seen an aspect of Davidson that the average Davidsonian doesn’t see, but may well be proud of. Last summer, he saw Davidson's honor system in an army camp. This fact made him proud of the school and caused favorable comment from the staff of the camp. This unique feature of his group at camp took much worry from Col. Grace and he reports that his men received no disciplinary action. Col. Grace's hobbies are hooking rugs, ceramics, and his family.

By RONNY DIETRICK
In scrambling around this week with an almost vain hope of finding a suitable topic on which writing would be both interesting and easy, I found a most ironic little tale concerning Davidson College and the “S.S. William Lee Davidson.” The “Willie L.” was a slow, sluggish, fat liberty ship, built by the North Carolina Shipbuilding Company of Wilmington. She was never beautiful, but because she was named for the founder of our institution of higher education, her launching caused quite a fervor in Davidson-loving circles. In the first place, Mrs. Chalmers Davidson, wife of the library director here at the school, was asked to break a fifth of good champagne against the tub’s steel hide. (There is a picture of the bottle flying through the air in the April 8th issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN in 1943). Not only was the ship christened by Mrs. Davidson, but the student body took up a collection for pocket Testaments for every member of the crew. The college itself gave the ship's library a large collection of books and presented also a steel engraving of Chambers to the ship as a constant reminder of her heritage. All which has gone before is a mere prologue, there is no plot and the fate of “Willie L.” is the epilogue below. The “Willie L.” never did much of anything. Allow me to quote from a report of “Willie L.'s” first voyage. (Continued From Page Four)

The Student Council, Elections Board, and Nominating Committee, meeting in joint session Wednesday night, voted to adopt the Elections Information Plan, minus the statement-of-ideas by the candidate. There are some risks in any venture, disadvantages to any plan, but it is certainly often “far wiser to act than to hesitate.” Our sincere thanks to these for their action. For the next two weeks, we will be nominating and electing officers for our student government, YMCA, publications, classes, etc. The majority of us as voters still will not know as much as we would like to know about the men we vote for. However, this year, we will have some facts about every candidate upon which to base our judgment. A candle may not be a searchlight, but it is better than pitch darkness. Now it’s up to each of us to vote, and to use the printed information.

COLONEL SCOTT
We were all a bit thrilled Wednesday morning when we realized that we were to hear the famous Southern air ace and author of “God Is My Co-Pilot.” Truly “something is wrong with our world” when we have to fight every few years. But, as he said, we must “prepare ourselves physically, mentally, and morally for anything that might come,” and must not be blind enough to underestimate any potential enemy.

PRAY FOR PEACE
President Cunningham's message to the Southern Presbyterian Church at Easter, calling on Christians to pray for peace, was most timely. Surely God could work a miracle and restore both freedom and peace, but our people are not looking to Him. Now is the hour to pray for peace.

ARM SPAIN?
Our House of Representatives made what we would call a very foolish and short-sighted move this week in voting to include Fascist Spain, ally to Hitler to the end, in our European aid program. When Fascism threatened to conquer the world, we armed Russia, and now are threatened by a power our own aid helped to build. Shall we now arm Spain, Argentina, and Germany, only to have them turn on us again? Or are we really intelligent enough to know that it is the IDEA of dictatorial tyranny that we must fight, no matter what its name tag, whether it be Nazi, Communist, Roman Catholic, Emperor Worship or what have you.

“D” DAYS
It is interesting to note that the weather man is again smiling on the ROTC department. Two out of four dry Tuesdays this semester were in March. Most of our Tuesday afternoon drill periods have been spent wading around “the D.”