After viewing Davidson's Wildcats eager last Saturday, we are much more prepared tonight to write glowing reports than we were after the inaugural a week ago. The Cats were much improved in turning back the powerful Hanes Hosiery quintet, a team boasting victories over both N.C. State and Duke. The locals grabbed an early lead, held it till the fourth period when the Textile League boys edged to the front, then poured on a final burst that put the fracas on ice. Jake Ashmore dumped in two quick buckets when the opening whistle sounded and was soon followed by Bobby Maner's well-aimed shots. Maner hit for eight points in all and should have close to a perfect mark on attempts made. More shots from this diminutive artist can mean many more points in the scoring column for Davidson. Maner has come a long way since his Jayvee days as a freshman. His floor game was great last year and with his newfound eye for the basket, he could do Coach Norman Shepherd a world of good. Another bright spot in the early Cat performances has been the work of Ed Hopper. The lanky senior seems to have thrown off the nervousness that has plagued his game in the past few years. In last Thursday's whitewash of Eler's Blue Jackets, Hopper found the range for twelve points and hit not a few times Saturday. The improvement of Maner, Hopper, and Ashmore seems to be the difference in last year’s ball club and this season’s. Buddy Cheek is still the All-Southern he was last year. Mike Williams is to date pacing the team scoring, having been high scorer in all games except Saturday's in which Cheek edged him 11 to 10. Whit Cobb is performing in brilliant fashion on the floor and if he remains consistent, the Cats will be a team to reckon with in any league. Davidson has been installed as a dark horse in the Southern Conference this season, and if they can get past Duke Friday night, they are destined for runner-up honors in the family and will be tabbed as the team to dump State's Hoosier Hotshots if they are to be dumped. The Blue Devils have also drawn a dark horse rating and Friday night’s tussle has been named a toss-up. Coach Gerry Gerard has the same team back from last year that went to the finals last year in the conference tournament. Davidson split with the Blue Devils last season, edging them in a season tussle but bowing in the semi-final round of the tourney in the Duke gym. The Durham lads bowed to Hanes in their opener but have since posted three straight victories. On a comparative record basis, this should place the Cats in the favorite’s role, though most of the dopesters don’t seem to look at it that way. Davidson faced the mill hands with two games under its belt whereas Duke hit the same team right off. Whoever is the favorite, the tilt should be a gate natural. Student support will be lacking due to the Christmas holidays. It looks like the students will get no better than the same seats in Armory games. Since reserve tickets have been printed, and many sold, there isn’t much that can be done even if the powers that be should decide to give the students a better deal. We hope that this situation will be remedied with the use of the new gym next year. We understand that it will seat nearly two thousand people. We hope the students will get a good claim on these.

THE FINEST IN MEN'S CLOTHING
JACK WOOD, Ltd.
102 East Fourth Street
Charlotte

NAVY BLUE SUITS - OXFORD FLANNEL SUITS
HAND-LOOMED SPORTS COATS
CAMEL HAIR TOPCOATS
WOOL ARGYLE HOSE
CASHMERE SWEATERS
OXFORD BUTTON DOWN SHIRTS
FRENCH CUFF SHIRTS
SILK REPP STRIPE TIES
KNIT TIES
SLACKS

Visit Mooresville Skating Rink
TUESDAY - WEDNESDAY - FRIDAY
7:30 to 10:00
SATURDAY
2 to 4 — 7:00 to 9:30 — 9:30 to 11:30
RINK AVAILABLE FOR PRIVATE PARTIES
INSTRUCTION FOR BEGINNERS AND DANCE SKATERS
Mooresville, N. C. — Phone 4349

Wildcat Sports. Friday, December 17, 1948
BEAT DUKE
PAGE THREE

PROPHET PREDICTS
By DICK MORGAN

Undauntedly, this prognosticator will hang around long enough to predict the bowl games on New Year's Day before calling it quits for the season. The usual glamour and attraction will be centered around the four major bowls, and with four teams from the Southern Conference represented, there should be an attentive audience for these games. Realizing that anything can happen in a Bowl game and usually does, here are our humble predictions for the New Year's Day festivities:

Rose Bowl
Northwestern 21; California 13—Pasadena will be the scene of not only a well-waged football game but also the scene of a deep drama. Northwestern’s former Coach Lynn Waldorf is now coach of the Bears, while his assistant Vogts, coaches the Wildcats. California, the pride of the Pacific, is undefeated but probably also untested. Boasting such stars as Jackie Jensen operating behind an All-American line spearheaded by Rod Franz, the Bears will field a potent eleven. To combat them, however, the Wildcats can offer a bruising forward wall led by Alex Sarkesian, and a well-drilled backfield corp. We will be forced to string along with the Pupil in this one!

Sugar Bowl
Carolina 27; Oklahoma 20—This epic struggle will undoubtedly be the center of attraction for the fans come New Year’s Day. What other Bowls can offer such attractions as seeing two great teams in action, seeing the one and only Choo Choo in person, and watching razzle-dazzle football not seen ever before in Oklahoma? Oklahoma, a well-tutored bunch of sophomores, have improved with each passing game, and their 41-7 thrashing of Missouri proved their excellence. Carolina, on the other hand, is still remorseful over the Georgia defeat in 1947 and will be all-out to atone for this defeat. This game may well bring about several new stars for the Tarheels, men like Maceyko and Hlamnish, who have been operating under the shadow of the Asheville Flash. We will look for a wild and woolly scoring struggle, but when the dust clears away, see Carolina the winner by seven points.

Cotton Bowl
Southern Methodist 13; Oregon 7—All the experts will undoubtedly disagree with this prediction, but after observing the great “never say die” spirit of the Mustangs, we were led astray by sentimentality and picked the Mustangs to triumph. The Webfoots come to Dallas loaded for bear with a well-coached team led by the redoubtable Van Brocklin. However, the month layover will give Doak Walker's leg a chance to heal, and the All-American kid should be ready and raring come New Year's Day. Although Oregon will be favored, we are inclined to pick S.M.U., realizing that tradition and fight will sometimes overcome even the greatest adversary.

Orange Bowl
Georgia 34; Texas Longhorns 21—In a game that will involve a lot of controversy, the Georgia Bulldogs should emerge victorious by the margin of two touchdowns. Many have called Wally Butts a coward for refusing to play Tulane or Vanderbilt, and it is around this controversy that the game will be played. Both aggregations are offensively minded, but with the passing wizard Johnny Rauch at the helm, the Bulldogs should outpass and outscore the Longhorns. On comparative scores with Carolina, Georgia rates a three-touchdown choice, but as so exemplified during the hectic 1948 season, comparative scores don't mean anything, so a close battle will ensue.

INTRODUCIN’ ...
By CHERRY STRIBBLING

The man that this column is interviewing this week has done just about everything possible to do on the Davidson campus in the way of athletics and leadership. Witness: he has been varsity football end for 3 years; he has been on the varsity tennis team for 4 years; he has been a star basketball player for 4 years; he has been president of his junior class; he is president of his fraternity; he is a representative on the student council; he has been named to Who's Who in American Colleges and Universities for 1948. And he manages to do all this while keeping up a good average in his classes.

This Wildcat superman was born Charles Williams and soon acquired the nickname, “Mike.” Mike calls North Wilkesboro, N. C., home and went to high school there for two years where he early showed great promise in athletic endeavors. In 1941 he entered McCallie School at Chattanooga, Tenn. While at McCallie, Mike was for 2 years a basketball and tennis star. Since he was such a lanky, skinny kid, he did not even try to play football at McCallie. He was the sparkplug of the McCallie basketball team in the 1943 season, however, and was named on the all Mid-South team that year. After graduating from McCallie in 1943, he entered Davidson that summer. He played football and basketball that fall and was a first-stringer in both. In the spring of '44, Mike entered the Army Air Corps. He served in the Pacific on Saipan and Guam. He participated in 13 missions against the Japanese and attained the rank of staff sergeant. After being discharged in March of 1946, Mike re-entered Davidson that fall as a sophomore. He had hard luck in suffering a pre-season injury and did not get to play football that fall. He was a starter on the basketball squad that winter and number six man on the tennis team that spring. Mike really came into his own.In 1947 and '48, he played a lot of end on the football team that won 6, lost 3, and tied 1. He also scored one touchdown last year. Mike had a great year last year on Davidson's fine basketball team. His outstanding all-around play was good enough to land him a berth on the Charlotte All-State second team. He was second to the high-scoring Buddy Cheek in the squad scoring. The lanky forward with the crew-cut was co-captain. His play in the conference tournament against teams like Maryland and Duke was outstanding. On the court, he is especially good at picking off those rebounds and sinking those short push shots. After a very successful basketball season, he topped off a fine sports year as the number 4 man on Davidson's once-defeated tennis team. During this recently ended football season, Mike was one of the shining lights of the team with his great pass receiving. Cheek at one end and Williams at the other gave the Cats a basketball receiving combination that didn't miss. Mike had a great spurt at the end of the season to pass Buddy Cheek in the number of passes caught and to almost catch him in the scoring parade. Mike scored three TDs on passes, the first one in the Wofford game. Mike's greatest game was undoubtedly this year's thriller with W. & L. One O’Quinn pass will eat enough yardage to ensure a Wake triumph. It is reasonably positive that the Demons will not be able to roll on the ground, so Coach Peahead Walker’s charges can well be expected to strike via the airlanes, and with ace throwers Fetzer and Blackerby throwing the pigskin all over the lot, the Demon Deacons should triumph in the end.

Gator Bowl
Missouri 21; Clemson 7—We pick this prediction on the basis of when he scored two touchdowns on sparkling catches of a low pass. Mike is looking forward to a great year in basketball this time and will no doubt improve, if that is possible, over last year. In the field of extra-curricular activities, Mike is outstanding also. He is president of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity. He was president of the junior class last year and this year is senior representative on the Student Council. He was selected as one of Davidson's representatives in Who's Who for this year. He was elected for Omicron Delta Kappa leadership fraternity this year. Mike is also a member of the "D" Club and the Beaver Club.

Weight Lifters Bow To Clemmer’s Gym
By GRADY SPIRES
The Davidson weightlifting team made an impressive debut Saturday afternoon in an informal match with Leonard Clemmer’s Gym team from Charlotte. Clemmer is a former national champion in the 132-pound class. The Wildcat barbell men were edged slightly by the seasoned visitors in the two-hour event, which was highlighted by a 200-pound snatch by Clemmer and a 200-lb clean and jerk by injured Wildcat Captain Joe Richert, which gave him a personal victory over Clemmer by five pounds. Pat Johnson’s 200-pound press was also outstanding. Burly Jerry Kiser, a freshman lifter with great promise, displayed tremendous potentialities in the press and clean and jerk. Other Cat men who showed promise were Cox, Huffaker, Eldridge, and Spires. Through the aid and cooperation of the team, the embryonic club has scheduled several meets for the future with other schools, private gyms, and YMCAs. The results were as follows:

Davidson
Press Snatch C&J Total
Spires 145 135 165 445
Eldridge 165 145 135 200 480
Huffaker 165 100 145 190 405
Johnson 185 200 175 215 590
Kiser 225 210 200
Richert 200 200 200 260 600

Clemmer's Gym
Press Snatch C&J Total
Wheeler 160 185 170 230 585
Fink 185 210 165 220 595
Heck 175 195 190 235 620
Clemmer 165 205 200 250 655

With the first-string varsity squad leaving after this year, Coach Shepherd will have to count on this year's frosh to fill in their places, and from all reports, Shepherd will have some excellent material to work with. When the frosh open their 48-49 schedule, the starting posts will probably go to Tom Coleman, Bill Brooks, Don Mac McClain, and Turk. Coleman, a 6 foot 2 boy from Harrodsburg, Ky., is a stellar defensive player and a terrific rebounder. Bill Brooks, who hails from Frankfort, Ky., is one of the best shots on the team and is also noted for his rebound work. Don Lazenby, a Bluefield, West Va., boy, was on the all Mid-South team when he attended McCallie School in Tennessee. Mac McClain will start at the guard position. Mac was the smooth center of Charlotte Central High's last year team and is expected to rack up many points this year. Turk will round out the first team. In practice games with the Jayvees, he has been a consistent standout with his accuracy in making set shots and his ball-hawking defensive play. Reserves such as Eric Clark, Grady, Osbourne, the Stockton twins, and Lobby Nimix will prove to be valuable and will see plenty of action. The team as a whole is a scrapping aggregation and such freshman teams as Duke and Carolina will have their hands full when they meet the Cat yearlings.

Loose defense and failure to control the backboard play cost Davidson's Wildcats their first defeat of the young season Monday night in Spartanburg, bowing to an underdog Wofford crew, 61-53, before a packed house of 1,500 fans. The Terriers, led by a pair of 6 foot 4 inch dead-eyes who hit the mesh for 16 points apiece, took an early lead and only once in the second half were the Wildcats able to move out front. While the lanky Wally Dean and Earl Cothran paced the victors, Davidson's scoring was led by All-Southern Center Buddy Cheek with 15 points and forward Mike Williams, high scorer on the squad, with 10. Cheek fouled out midway in the third quarter and his loss was definitely felt by the Cats. Wofford hopped to a 4-0 lead at the outset and by intermission had run their lead to 33-25. In the third period, the Davidsonians took a 44-42 lead, but the Terriers pulled out front again with a 12-point splurge that spelled defeat for the Presbyterians. Action bordering on the riotous stage cut loose in the third period when the Cats’ Bobby Maner just missed two wild swings by an unidentified Wofford player. Williams grabbed the terrible Terrier, only to have to defend himself from a highly partisan Wofford fan who leapt from the stands onto the court. The defeat came after a chain of three victories last week, the most impressive of these being over Hanes Hosiery, conquerors of both State and Duke already this year. In the Hanes action at Winston-Salem, Jake Ashmore, Cheek, and Williams paced the offensive attack while little Whit Cobb's floor game was next to flawless. The Cats kept highly-touted John (Hook) Dillon, former UNC star, bottled up most of the night and held the upper hand over the entire route. Prior to the heavy Hanes test, the Cats had polished off a mediocre semi-pro contingent from North Wilkesboro, the Eller’s Bluejackets, 85-39. Mike Williams shone on the home boards with a dazzling 21-point total for the night while his ex-mates held brother Pat, Davidson star, to four points.

SHIP AHOY
CHARLOTTE’S LEADING RESTAURANT INC.
25490 Charlotte, N. C.

REMEMBER THIS SEAL
Four PRODUCTS
IT’S YOUR ASSURANCE OF THE BEST!
WHATEVER YOUR NEEDS

Rausch combined with the running Reid and Tullitski will definitely swing the balance of victory over to Georgia.

Dixie Bowl
Wake Forest 20; Baylor 7—This annual Birmingham clash will bring together two teams that will in all probability be equally matched in all departments. Wake's superior offensive might will meet a sturdy match in the Bear’s well-geared line, but the offensive push wielded by the Gregus bucks, and Fetzer to comparative schedules that the two aggregations played. Missouri knocked off such perennial powers as S.M.U., Colorado, Navy, and Kansas, while Clemson's wins were confined to Wake Forest, Boston College, and Mississippi State. Matthews, Cone, and Gage will encounter all kinds of trouble ripping through the massive Missouri line, but the Tigers of Missouri also will find no joy in attempting to smash off tackles Salisbury and Gil.

(Continued On Page Four)

SUITS
HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
TIES
SHOES
and the 101 other things
SHOP EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP FLOOR

Duke Photo Co.
404 W. Trade St.
Directly in front of P. O.
FOR PORTRAITS OF DISTINCTION
“Specialists In Men's PORTRAITS”
Portrait & Commercials
A Complete Photographic Service
—Phone 3-8230—

Withers Electric
© Radio Repairs
© Electrical Supplies
© Light Bulbs
DAVIDSON, N. C.