YLDCAT "WONDERING" AROUND
Published Weekly by the Y.M.C.A.

Editor: Harry H. McLean

After carefully reading this column, it became quite evident that the title would have to change since what had been seen and heard during this week had been surpassed by what we were just wondering about.

FOOD FOR THOUGHT

Seen: On the campus last weekend, two dogs and a few students (very few).

Heard: From Quinine Cooper, "You pitch, ya calling this game?"

Wondering

Along Shan Bunny Perrin, just where she is. Have you found out, Bunny?

How many times "Dairy Boy" Patterson goes to Charlotte in one week?

How Mitchell McLean enjoyed his trip to Montreat?

Whether Page Jackson still finds Salisbury as interesting as last semester?

What Harry McLean will do about the Frat Pin he found in his hometown? Is he a Demon Deacon, H. H.?

If Tom Abell really found the horse show at Blowing Rock as exciting as he says?

If Bill Mebane let local interest postpone his trip to Columbia? Try again "Weeping Willie."

Just why John Rose makes the trip to Fayetteville every week?

Where Joe Shewmate spends the weekends?

If Joe Vance still goes to the "Y" on Wednesday nights?

If Dick Stone has found his house yet? "Time's a-wasting, fellow."

If Jim Rast still has a deep desire to go to Columbia?

What has happened to "Fat Man" Ben Drymon? Still going to Charlotte, Ben?

If "Big" Leighton still commutes from Charlotte?

What a certain Co-ed from W.C. will say when she hears about John Codington's trip to the beach?

If Springer Hoskins has made the trip to Kinston? Try the Express from Charlotte, son.

Why there isn't more to write about?

"Aw, quit your worryin'!" Simple words, these - and more often than not, said merely for "something to say," but what import they carry. These words reflect a condition that continues to fill the psychiatric wards of our hospitals to capacity.

How many times during a single day do we hear them? How many times are they aimed at us!

How does worry differ from clear-headed thinking and planning? Webster defines worry as "undue solicitude; vexatious anxiety." We're all guilty of it to a greater or lesser degree, though nearly everyone now recognizes the harmful effects of such "brooding" and attempts to avoid it. How do some succeed where others fail?

I couldn't begin to give a complete analysis of the ways this has been achieved, but I do know one way. A Methodist minister once said that as a boy he had dreaded his regular monthly visits to a dentist who was doing some "long-range" work on his teeth. Ordinarily, he began worrying about his next visit as soon as he was out of the chair, and the month that intervened was a nightmare. He finally realized something had to be done, so he decided to postpone his worrying to the two weeks preceding his next visit. When this period was over, he felt so free, he decided to postpone it 'til two days before, and so on until he realized he had stopped worrying about the thing he most dreaded in his life! He found this would apply to his other activities as well, and so he became one of the few of our generation who has learned not to worry.

Can we use his system to our advantage? I think we can!