CONVERSE CUTIES COMING COURTING

Volume XXXVI

CAMPUS TO BECOME CO-ED ON CONVERSE-DAVIDSON DAY

By RANDY TAYLOR

The Y.M.C.A. has announced plans for a fall season in a day, November 13. The Converse Student Body is to be held on Saturday, November 13. The Converse Student Body is composed of 800 beautiful girls and according to firsthand reports, a large majority is planning to attend. The girls expect to arrive on the campus in the early afternoon, in time for the day’s main event, the Davidson-Washington & Lee game, to be played in Richardson Stadium. Following the game, there will be an hour or so of free time, after which the boys will take their dates to the boarding houses or dining hall for supper. The evening’s entertainment will be sponsored by the Beaver Club, and will include an informal dance, which will last until the time that the girls have to return.

“Sis” Brown, Converse chairman, reports that enthusiastic support has been given to the idea not only by the Converse students but also by Miss Richards, Dean of Students at the school. All Davidson men are urged to write ahead to any of their Converse acquaintances, “lining up” dates. The “Y” will operate a “blind date bureau” for those who have been unable to establish contacts at the Spartanburg school. Further information will be given in forthcoming announcements, but this advanced notice is to advise Davidson men to keep the thirteenth open on their social calendars.

Regarding the Salem-Davidson announcement made by Bob McGehee in chapter recently, the bus is leaving the "Y" at 5:15 Saturday afternoon (10-30). Salem is expecting some 30 Davidson boys. This Saturday’s program is a Hallowe'en party, including an informal dance and “other forms of entertainment” (!). Hours run from 8 to 11:30. Davidson has received an honor in the invitation — few schools have received. Our number is to compose the bulk of the males present (must be a small party). About 20 have already signed up to go.

Vereen Bell Award Offered Students

The Vereen Bell Memorial Award is an award given annually at Davidson for the best example of creative writing entered in the Vereen Bell Award contest. The contest is open to Davidson undergraduates of all classes. There are no restrictions as to the type or the length of articles submitted, however, all entries in the contest must be creative. The award amounts to approximately fifty dollars each year, though the form of the award depends upon the decision of the judges in consultation with the winner of the contest.

The Vereen Bell Award fund was established two years ago by relatives and friends of Vereen Bell, a writer of great promise and considerable actual achievement. Vereen Bell, an alumnus of Davidson, was killed in the Philippines during World War II. This year the closing date of the contest has been tentatively set at March 1, 1949. Entries may be submitted any time before the closing date. All entries must be typewritten. No name can appear on the entry, but each one must be accompanied by a sealed envelope containing the title of the entry and the name of the writer. Entries in the contest may be handed in to any member of the English Department. Don Shriver, of the sophomore class, received the honor last year.

The statistics at Davidson in 1891 showed the following: The popular forms of exercise were football, tennis, baseball, and skating. At that time roller-skating was very popular with the students and the young ladies of the town. Three percent of the students liked dancing best. The studies liked best were Physics, Bible, English, and Math. The study liked least was Metaphysics.

Beaver Club Gives Preview Of ‘Foolies’

Tuesday night in Chambers Auditorium, students got a preview of the “D” Club Foolies of 1949. The one-hour show was sponsored by the Beaver Club to promote the clothing-for-Europe drive sponsored by that organization. Featured performers of the preview included Bill Davis and his boogie experts, Randy Ensign, Tom Mann, Hal Haynes and his boys, and Scruggs and Upchurch.

The program started off with several numbers played by Bill Davis and his band. In addition to Davis, featured soloists were Wilks Coggins on his saxophone, Bill Scruggs on his drums, and McNeill Upchurch with his trombone. The next item on the program was a song routine by Randy Ensign, who sang and talked his way through a humorous version of “My Time Is Your Time.” He then gave imitations of several actors, including a scene from the movie “Key Largo” which called for imitations of Lionel Barrymore, Humphrey Bogart, and Edward G. Robinson.

With the help of Scruggs’ drums, Tom Mann, a newcomer to the Foolie ranks, played several boogie numbers on the piano. “Inneraid” was advertised and sponsored by Hal Haynes and his hillbillies, Ansley Moses and Bill Smith. Scruggs and Upchurch wound up the program with their zany version of “Frankie and Johnny,” which was followed by a fifteen-minute encore during which they struggled through their own composition, “The Three Bears.”

Admission charge for the preview was one article of old clothing, in keeping with the Beaver Club's drive for clothes to send to Europe’s poorly clad sufferers. The highlight of the evening was Sandy Georgia Southern’s “take-off” on Carnegie’s “How to Win Friends and Influence People.”

Sigma Delta Psi Will Begin Tryouts

By TOM MANN

One of the most distinctive honorary fraternities on the Davidson College campus is the athletic fraternity, Sigma Delta Psi. Its exclusive membership is restricted to those dexterous as well as ambitious few who are able to pass its rigorous and difficult entrance requirements.

The Davidson chapter was granted its charter in 1929 and has been active ever since. From the time it was founded, a yearly average of eight to ten outstanding athletes have been able to qualify for membership. Contrary to what some may think, activity within the fraternity does not cease when you become a member. The national headquarters conducts a yearly tournament, based on a point system, to determine the championship chapter. Each individual chapter then selects ten of its members to participate in ten events, and forwards to national headquarters the individual scores along with the total number of points for the chapter. The championship chapter is then chosen.

In 1938, the Davidson chapter had the honor of attaining the national championship, for which the chapter was awarded a bronze plaque and each participant was awarded a trophy. It was that year that Ned and E. Walker established a national Sigma Delta Psi record in the chin vault event, both of them vaulting seven feet. Today there are sixty-eight colleges and universities with chapters of Sigma Delta Psi. According to the total membership of each chapter, Davidson ranks fifth in the nation.

Iverson Peter Stewart Ney

ALENDA LUX UBI

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1948

DAVIDSONIAN PRINTERS

Davidsonian Printer Edits Twin Cities Publication

By T. HARTLEY HALL, IV.

This year the students of Davidson may have noticed that the Davidsonian is coming out with a greater degree of regularity than they have been accustomed to seeing in recent years. This is no accident. It is due in large measure to hard work on the part of members of the staff of the paper, but it is primarily due to the efforts of the printer, Mr. Ed. Sigmon, who has been editing the Davidsonian for the past year. Mr. Sigmon is also the editor of a publication in the Twin Cities area, which has a circulation of over 10,000.

Sigma Upsilon To Depict Ney In Epic Poem

By PHIL LIBBEY

Sigma Upsilon, an honorary literary fraternity on the Davidson campus, held their second meeting of the year Thursday night, October 17, at the fraternity house. The meeting, which began at 9:15, was called to order by the president, Stan Kennett. After the roll call and reading of the minutes, those present discussed the program policy for the coming year. It was decided, after a brief period of discussion, that the society would undertake the writing of an epic poem about Peter Stewart Ney (it is to be written on the assumption that Ney was one of Napoleon's marshals who fled to this region after the downfall of his leader’s regime in France). The poem, which is to adhere to a framework of historical fact modified by the imagination of the faculty, will be written by the members. Professor G. Davidson is to write the first installment.

The program for the evening consisted of the presentation of creative works by three of the members. Frank Lemmon presented “The Ballad of Jim McGree,” which was a take-off on the poetry of Robert W. Service. The second creative work was a romantic poem, “Summer Night,” read by Stan Kennett. The third was a short story, “The Road Is Wide,” by Sam Robinson.

Walter Mann, secretary of Sigma Upsilon, announced that the society had sent out bids for membership to nine persons. They are as follows: Liston Mills, Bob Hollister, C. V. Davis, W. G. Brownson, Dick Richards, Donald Shriver, Henry Wilson, and Professor James Purcell.

Campusodes

Conscientious freshman trudging through windy rain under a large bundle of laundry.

Weary, but triumphant sighs from student body as vesper speaker turns into the home stretch.

Furtive frosh hastily studying freshman regulations on grass outside Phi Hall on a Court night.

The Davidsonian

FORTA LIBERTAS

FOOLIES FEATURE FANCY FARCES

NUMBER SIX

Gimbrell Outlines Magazine's Policy

By WARREN SIMS

Editor Dave “Meatball” Gimbrell informed The Davidsonian this week that the first edition of the college magazine, Scripts ‘n’ Pranks, will be out around November 15th. The magazine will feature as its main article for this issue, a short story by Don Shriver, entitled “C, N and Sawdust.” Shriver’s story won the Vereen Bell Memorial Award last year for the best piece of creative writing. Shriver is a member of the sophomore class.

The magazine will have in each issue a special article of contemporary interest. The feature for this issue is a historical and scientific summary of football.

This year a senior editorial staff composed of four seniors have been appointed to serve in an advisory capacity. These members are Dick Richards, Bill Brownson, Sam Robinson, and Morris Morgan.

News of the second edition has not fully been disclosed, but it will be out sometime before Christmas, and its “feature story” is a deep secret at the present, but will be announced at a later date. From what has been learned thus far, the feature will be of very great interest to Davidson students, and will stir up interest in other schools of the southeast. The secret has something to do with inter-collegiate relations.

Scripts ‘n’ Pranks is a well-rounded magazine presenting a variety of humorous and serious subjects. Scripts ‘n’ Pranks is designed for Davidson students, and will be a source of entertainment and information for all.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Pares ante se to be top-notch, largely due to the work of a man who the boys that are concerned with publications have learned to know. He is Mr. Horace Broyles, their friend, an extraordinary printer of Davidson and Cornelius. Mr. Broyles was born in Nashville, where he learned the printing trade at the Southern School of Printing, one of the foremost institutions of its type in the South. After taking up the trade there, Mr. Broyles worked at printing in Mississippi, Georgia, Florida, Tennessee, North and South Carolina, Arkansas, and Washington, D.C. He worked on papers with a circulation of several hundred, and on those with a circulation of several hundred thousand. This apparent migratory trait comes from the fact that he thinks printers “ought to go from place to place until they learn their trade from all aspects.”

After traveling about and learning the trade, Mr. Broyles decided that he wanted to buy a small shop and work. An ad to this effect placed in the Charlotte Observer was answered from Davidson, and when Horace saw Davidson, he knew that here was the place for a shop. He talked the matter over with Mr. Jackson concerning the possibility of doing business for the school in general, and for himself. When he was assured enough business to warrant the opening of the shop, the moving-in process began, and hence, Davidson got its first printing shop.

Besides doing a lot of printing for the school, and practically all the smaller-scale commercial printing for the towns of Cornelius and Davidson, Mr. Broyles does a great deal of fraternity printing and, through Dr. Watts, printing for the American Association of Teachers of French. In addition to this regular work, Mr. and Mrs. Broyles have teamed together to publish the weekly Cornelius-Davidson Gazette. Mrs. Broyles edits the sheet and handles the advertising, and Mr. Broyles handles the job of getting it off the presses. Each week the presses roll off some seven hundred copies of news pertinent to the twin cities. Our printer’s versatility is shown by the fact that he not only handles the printing of all this copy, but he also operates all the machines and does all necessary repair work. This variety of tasks constitutes one of the great differences between working for a large concern and working for yourself. As Mr. Broyles says, “You work eight hours a day for the other man, and then go home (Continued On Page Four).

Philanthropies. Janverson, Gift Received From

A large scrapbook, measuring about 20" by 24," was recently presented to the library by the widow of Colonel E. I. Baxter Davidson. Colonel Davidson's bequest to the college several years past was upward of half a million dollars and the largest single gift ever received here. The will was settled by lawsuit last year at which time Mrs. Davidson did not oppose the College’s interest.

The scrapbook contains clippings beginning back in the 1870s when its owner first entered Davidson College, down to the date of his death in 1944. There is also a section of family photographs showing Colonel Davidson from infancy through college days (there is a photo in marshal’s regalia) to the 1930s when he was one of Charlotte’s outstanding capitalists. His sisters, the Misses Sallie and Blandina Davidson, were for many years notable characters in Charlotte. The ladies grew up with the town and never considered it more than a village. Miss Sallie, in her old age, is said to have stopped traffic at the intersection of Trade and Tryon with her umbrella. There are many clippings and pictures of these two notable old ladies.

Colonel Davidson's many interests are evident from the newspaper articles he preserved. There is much on the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence, historic houses in the county, Sons of the American Revolution conventions, Davidson College alumni meetings (the colonel laid the cornerstone for the present Chambers Building), and his numerous philanthropies. Unlike many men of wealth, Colonel Davidson was a strong Franklin Roosevelt supporter, and apparently kept the President informed of his approval. The relic is very appropriately placed for members of Davidson's connection, since almost all of these were or are students, benefactors of the college, or at the Alma Mater of Davidson’s most generous alumnus.

Dignitaries Plead for Old Clothing

By BILL DUBOSE

On Tuesday morning, a plea was made in chapel by the Beaver Club for old clothes to be sent to Europe to help the penniless peoples there. This plea was presented with a series of imitations of certain dignitaries of Davidson College. The first was a presentation by Shea Adams of what former football coach Bill Story might say in behalf of the destitute Europeans. Adams stood erect upon the platform in true Story fashion with his hands clasped behind him, all three buttons of his coat buttoned, and in addition, he was sporting that typical red cravat with the brown shirt. His speech opened with an exhortation to the Southerners and he continued by presenting the reasons that the Europeans must have clothing. He said in conclusion that just as Lee lost Richmond because of the lack of warm clothing, these people of Europe might lose their fight for existence for that same reason.

The next imitator to hold forth was petty comedian Will Bill Iverson in the role of Coach Charlie. In a manner quite typical of Coach Charlie, Iverson told a few jokes and then made the statement that Carl Snavely was going to contribute all of Carolina's uniforms to the clothing drive along with “Choo Choo” so that the Europeans would get justice.

The final appeal was delivered by Bill Brownson who mimicked the college's most eloquent orator, the silver-tongued Mayor Beaty. He peered through his glasses and uttered with the professor's characteristic dignity an allocution so erudite that your correspondent was not proficient enough with the English idiom to comprehend the profound cogitation of the spokesman; nevertheless, the assumption was made that the speaker was well in favor of the clothing drive.

Whit Cobb, the master of ceremonies, closed by saying that all clothing would be collected at the hall prayer meetings on Wednesday night.

CHEERLEADERS CHOSEN TO SUPPORT KITTENS

By PETE KALOGRIDIS

The freshman football game with Barium Springs Friday, October 29, begins a new chapter in the long and glorious history of the Davidson spirit. Beginning with this game, two freshman teams will enter the field to fight for good 'ole Davidson—one the regular squad, and the other the recently elected cheerleaders. At the last freshman game something was decidedly lacking. So the Class of '52 responded by electing their own cheerleaders and thus assuring the team of their wholehearted support. Fifteen freshmen requested that their names be put on the ballot, but the size of the proposed squad necessitated the selection of only six. The six elected last Thursday by secret ballot in a meeting of the freshman class after chapel were Bruce Ballenger, Nat Daniel, Howard Ferguson, Ed Francisco, Francis Papper, and Pete Kalogridis.

The Class of '52 has begun what it hopes will become a valuable tradition at Davidson College in the years to come. The success of this action depends upon the entire student body. The freshman cheerleaders urge the student body to realize that there can be no halfway mark for success in this venture—that only through the active support of each and every student can this new chapter in the history of the Davidson spirit be brought to a successful conclusion. They hope that the student body will back this effort to support the freshman team in years to come.

Cast Selected For Latest Masquer Play

By DICK CHANDLEY

Charles Hadley, director of the Red and Black Masquers’ production of “Arsenic and Old Lace,” has released the following cast of characters. The players were chosen according to their merits during the tryouts which ended Tuesday.

Cast of characters:
Abby Brewster - Susie Jackson
Teddy Brewster - McNeil Upchurch
Martha Brewster - May Holly
Mortimer Brewster - Page Jackson
Jonathan Brewster - Bill Scruggs
Dr. Einstein - Bill Goodrum
Elaine Harper - Nancy Copeland
Lt. Rooney - John McNair
Officer O'Hara - Woody McKay
Dr. Harper - Buford Goodman
Officer Brophy - Linton Deck
Mr. Witherspoon - Walter Coppedge

The play is scheduled to be given sometime during the first week in December. Rehearsals are to begin by Friday of this week. Hadley wishes to express his appreciation to the large number of students who took part in the tryouts. The Masquers are backed by Professors E. J. Erwin, H. T. Lilly, and G. R. Wood. Director Hadley is quoted as saying: “I think we have one of the most excellent casts I have ever seen and I think it will be one of the best plays ever given to date here at Davidson.”

Weather Report

By TREW GURLEY and BILL SARGENT

The weekend weather forecast for Davidson and vicinity calls for generally fair weather Friday night and Saturday with little change in temperature. There will be some cloudiness late Saturday, Saturday night, and early Sunday with possible light rain. Cooler on Sunday and Monday, with fair weather Monday. Temperatures will be about 65-75 during the afternoons and near 40-50 in the early mornings.

In 1902, a dormitory was erected at a cost of approximately $13,000. The Trustees in 1906 voted to name it “The Rumple Dormitory,” in honor of Dr. Jethro Rumple of Salisbury, North Carolina, who was a Trustee of the College from 1878 to his death in 1908 and secretary of the Trustees from 1878 to 1905.

Forensic Council Seeks New Debaters

By DICK CHANDLEY

Dr. Rew, head of the history department and chairman of the faculty committee for the Forensic Council, announced Tuesday that tryouts for membership in the debating club will be held this coming Tuesday night. The time is 7:30 and the place will be announced later. The tryouts are made up only of a five-minute speech, which is the sole basis upon which potential members are chosen. The subject of this speech is to be “Federal Aid To Education,” either pro or con. Subject material has recently arrived and is in the Periodical Room in the library. Sixteen men are to be chosen from those who first try out; these sixteen will then prepare a ten-minute speech and from the second elimination, eight will be chosen to make up the team. The new council has to be organized quickly, for the first debate will be held in November at Agnes Scott College in Georgia. A faculty committee composed of Professors Johnson, Lilly, Wood, and Griffin is the judging staff.