| Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, January 9, 1948

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

BOB PHILLIPS EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOB CLINE BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Sam Ervin Associate Editor
Walter Walker Associate Editor
Mac Hart Sports Editor
Walter Mah Managing Editor
Bill Calhoun Managing Editor
Ronny Dietrick Managing Editor
Stan Kennett Managing Editor
Bob Hollister Exchange Editor
Jean Stewart Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
John McNair Assistant Business Manager
Charlie Reid Advertising Manager
Frank Lemmon Circulation Manager
Bill Baxter Subscriptions Manager
Charles Dockery Collections Manager
H. Fulton Ass't Circulation Manager
Ass't Subscription Manager
Charles Clinkscales Assistant Advertising Manager
Wilkes Macauley Assistant Advertising Manager
Bob Knight Assistant Circulation Manager
Bill Keith Assistant Circulation Manager
Charles Beam Assistant Collections Manager

Advertising Staff—H. MacKethan, C. Faisun, Bill Houck, Claude Higginbotham, D. Hayworth, Blaine Kelley, F. M. Purnell, Gene Taylor.
Circulation Staff—S. H. Fulton, Alf. Duncan, Sam Davis, Hunter Boykin, Herman, Jim Fisher, Paul Guthery, Bill Cassels, John Coble, Carl
Bob Sims, Jimmy Rogers, Harry Powe.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 Madison Ave New York, N.Y

1946 Member Associated Collegiate Press
1947 Member Collegiate Digest

If I Were 21 Again
(Editor’s Note: It is the editor’s belief that the following article by Dr. Roy E. Hoke, Ph. D., which appeared
in the Sunday morning, November 16, issue of the Charlotte Observer, will be of much interest to the Davidson student
body and is herewith reprinted in full.)

Someone has said: Many people have undertaken to write on this and similar subjects. I suppose no two people think
alike in a matter of this kind. To meditate on this topic should be helpful not only to those who
are about twenty-one years of age but to all others. It is never too late to make needed changes in
our lives.

(1) If I were twenty-one again I would pay proper attention to my physical condition. Exercise stimulates circulation of the
blood; circulation determines the quality of the blood; digestion depends on the quality of the blood; good health depends upon
digestion; and happiness depends upon health. A college professor once said: “Personally, I would rather have for a father a
robust burglar than a weak, narrow-chested, consumptive bishop.” A hearty laugh is an excellent tonic. “Laughter is the thunder of
optimism.” Very few men have ever died while laughing. I would laugh a little, sing a little, smile much and
walk a lot. Good health is life’s first prize.

(2) If I were twenty-one again I would try to secure the best possible education. Every person, sooner or later,
should be prepared to earn a living. It is becoming difficult to earn a living with an education today. When
one starts out in life with very little education and must compete with those who have had much preparation, there
are two strikes on him at the start. I would find some worthy work that needed to be done. If
I liked it and had the ability necessary for it, it would be my work.

(3) If I were twenty-one again I would make some preparation for the married life. I would study marriage courses
in college. I would learn what adjustments are necessary. I would study about children and how to deal with their
problems. If it later was my lot to be married, I would have gained much. If I never married, I
would still be a better citizen for this knowledge.

(4) If I were twenty-one again I would strive for originality in thinking. Someone has said: “At the age of
ten we wonder, at twenty we imagine, at thirty we cogitate, at forty we think, at fifty we have ‘an
idea or two,’ at sixty we have two ideas and at seventy we are working on ‘one idea.’” The sooner
we get to that one idea the better. We should dream dreams no mortal ever dared to dream before. We
are all born originals. Most people, unfortunately, die duplicates. Bad thinking is the mother of bad doing. The man who
goes wrong, thinks wrong. Think right! “As a man thinks in his heart,” that pretty much is what he is.
Be original!

(5) If I were twenty-one again I would have convictions and make decisions. The secret of many a man’s failure
is that he lacked convictions. A man without conviction is as weak as a gate hanging on its lower hinge.
I have noticed that the great men of history—Luther, Calvin, Wesley, Lincoln, Wilson and thousands of others—have all been men
of conviction. They made decisions. In an age of uncertainty, such as the one we are living in, the world
is ready to follow the ones who know what they really want. A preacher who preaches for the praise of
his fellow-ministers is bound to fail. The psychologist who writes to gain the applause of the professors, and who himself
has no convictions, would do well to stop. There are only two thinkers in the whole universe—God and man.

(6) If I were twenty-one again I would do my best to achieve a splendid success in some worthy work.
Every young person should have some early success. A taste of success in youth is like a taste to a
young lion. I would seek a type of work that is not too crowded. Today is the best day in
the history of the world for a young man or woman and the United States is the best place. America
is history’s focal spot.

(7) If I were twenty-one again I would crowd my brain with the beautiful poetry and lovely gems of thought
of the ages. It is said that Martin Luther always placed a flower on his desk before he began to
write. His stormy nature needed the soothing influence of that delicate beauty. We all do. “While the evil days come
not.” “In my Father’s house are many mansions.” “They shall hunger no more, neither thirst.” “The hours I spent with
thee, dear heart, Are as a string of pearls to me; I count them over, every one apart, My rosary;
my rosary.” These gems are like a rock in a weary land. They soothe the soul.

(8) If I were twenty-one again I would be careful in the selection of my friends. I would seek friends
of about my own age but have a few who are somewhat older. They can be a great help in
many ways to a younger life. I would seek not a great number of friends but a smaller number who
are tried and true.

(9) If I were twenty-one again I would be very careful in financial matters. I would try by every honorable
means to get ahead but would take advantage of no one. I would be willing to work hard for what
I earn and then expect to collect. I would try to be independent of father’s pocketbook and would keep away
from doles and relief. I would expect to earn my own way. I would be generous with such means as
came into my possession. I would give cheerfully to all good causes.

(10) If I were twenty-one again I would dedicate my life to Jesus Christ—if I had not done so before.
I would give the flower of my youth to Him. I would not wait until my hair had turned white
and then throw the ashes of my misspent life in His face. If one lives for God—then youth is opportunity,
manhood is achievement and old age is holy memory.

Letters to the Editor

Dear Editor:
I have just had a disgusting experience. Disgusting, and alarming, if what it implies is true. I’ve just left a
chapel program that emphasized what is, I believe, one grave defect in our conduct at chapel.

The person reading the Bible was a professor with a normal set of vocal cords, whose voice would have been
perfectly intelligible had it not been for the constant buzz, not all from freshmen and sophomores, that filled the auditorium.
Also seated on the stage was the president of the college, and one wonders if even he could hear the
reading above the noise. Outside of any sense of reverence, respect for the speaker should have assured quiet while he
read. Are we kindergartners?

Davidson is, nominally, a Christian college. The individual beliefs of the student body cannot be dictated, nor should they. But
whether or not you, I, or the next one believes that the Bible is the inspired Word of God, respect
for it as a legacy from the past relevant to the present should require silence while it is read. And
if this is not enough, how about a little respect for those few who might want to hear it? Don’t
get me wrong, this is not a suggestion that we convert ourselves into emasculate “plaster saints,” who sit in transfixed
silence throughout the program, never voicing an opinion on anything, nor am I setting myself up as an exemplar of
chapel conduct. But this is a suggestion, nay a plea, that we either (1) Give the Bible the respect most
Christians believe it is due, or (2) GIVE UP ALL PRETENSE TO BEING A CHRISTIAN COLLEGE.

This is anything but R. KNIGHT.

Conscience is an inner voice that warns someone is looking. In spite of the fox’s cunning, his skin is often
sold. — Mencken.

The only difference between a rut and a grave is their dimensions. — Glasgow.

Facts do not cease to exist because they are ignored. — Aldous Huxley.

Sam Sez
By SAM ERVIN

Before we toss our memories of 1947 into that ever-present ashcan commonly referred to as forgetfulness, we might do well
to recall a few of the experiences that we have had during the past year, and to review some of
the lessons, if any, that we have learned as a result of them. Sure, we've got every right to be
proud of Davidson and what it stands for, but I'm willing to bet that no one would venture to declare
that there isn’t room for some improvement. Therefore, with your permission, I'll indulge in the time-honored custom of listing a
few “resolutions” that might to some extent at least help us to get a little closer to our goal.

(1) Both the faculty and the students should resolve to continue to cooperate with each other. The relations between these
two groups on the campus have always been carried on in a spirit of understanding and fair play, and that
is as it should be. We want no part of the impersonal faculty-student associations that prevail at other colleges and
universities in this region.

(2) We should also make every effort to more loyally support the Wildcat varsity and J.V. squads in 1948. The
guys who wear the Red and Black deserve credit for the victories that they've racked up of late on the
gridiron and the hardwood. The least that we can do in the months to come is to back them up
with morevocal be increase in the number of students' support. There should be a great turnout at future games, especially
in Charlotte. (3) Nor should we ever forget our fellow students and their welfare. There is still a great deal
of unnecessary noise in the dormitories. Let's resolve to do away with some of it. It’s really not hard to
do if you just think for a few seconds before you sound off without reason. I'm positive that everyone who
is trying to study will appreciate it, and will refrain from creating a disturbance when you're on the drive. (4)
It seems to me that we should also try to participate in more of the worthwhile activities on the campus.
Valuable experience and genuine pleasure can be gained by taking part in the work of the Y, by serving on
the staff of one of the many school publications, or by joining one of the many other student clubs and
organizations which contribute something of value to our college life. No one advocates that this be done to the exclusion
of one’s studies, but most of us do have some leisure time that could be spent more profitably. This list
only begins to scratch the surface, of course. Rather than continue it, I prefer to let you take it from
here and complete it to conform with your own shortcomings, if any. Maybe a few of you have no need
for resolutions, but I have a hunch that most of us do. There's no better way to overcome our faults
than to make an honest attempt to discover exactly what they are.

KAPPA ALPHA

Space does not permit a detailed account of even one of the brother's activities over the Christmas holidays. There were
some happy faces, some disappointed faces, well, just faces. Brothers McDaniel, King, and Cook had many detailed tales to tell
about their chicken-hunting expedition. That was a big wind Louisiana had at Christmas, but he’s back at school now. The
pledge class is sweating out their final test—plus a few incidental exams. Brother Payne is to be congratulated for his
work with this group. Brother Kirby displayed real KA form in pinning his opponent at the wrestling match Saturday. The
real “brains” behind the team are the managers, Brothers Adams and Kelly. It's good to see Mr. John Payne, alumnus,
back at his desk in the alumni office after a prolonged illness. As a last splurge before exams, many of
the knights made a big weekend of it. The “old triangle”—Richardson, Harris, and Macauley, got discouraged before the State game,
so they took along someone to cheer them up. Wilkes tested the loyalty of numerous “interests” by an untimely near-appendicitis
attack. Glad you're back, boy—just in time for exams.

PI KAPPA PHI

The brothers and pledges spread far and wide over the holiday season. Only one of our members got too high
and couldn't make it back. We're sorry to hear about your illness, Benoy. From all reports, Santa was good to
all the Pi Kapps and they celebrated the holiday season in various and sundry ways. A few of the outstanding
incidents were: Xilly Houck’s party at which “eggs” were served, Charlie Reid getting “stuck” (in the snow), E. B. Hunter
getting sick, Dick Turnage chasing women, The Geek spending a “quiet” two weeks (we ain't talking about the last three
days), John Helton having a hot time in 25.8 inches of snow, Herb Johnson calling up a certain girl at
2 a.m., Bill Moore and his Rock Hill girls at the Davidson Club dance. Some of the usual occurrences were
Bill Lander spending a “little” time with “Bet,” Bill Robertson practically moving to Concord, Newlin Schenck with his “queen,” Jack
Barringer and his Winthrop girl, Newt Everett and Gene Taylor with women, and Lewis Palles seeing quite a bit of
his Florence girlfriend. We are happy to announce the engagement of Thad Barringer to Miss Audrey Adams of Florence and
the engagement of Reginald Gowan to Miss Betty Jean Norsworthy. Congratulations, fellows. Fitz Read has made plans to be married
on January 25 to Miss Sarah “Tootie” Faulkner. Congrats Fitz and “Good Luck" Tootie. Captain Williams will also be getting
married sometime in January and we would like to extend our best wishes to him.

BETAS

Well, here we are back again after two horrible weeks of holidays. It's good not to have to put up
with that sloppy cooked food, but to get back and get at that good old house chow. Not having to
sleep until noon every day, but getting up at daybreak and going to classes. Not having to go to parties
every night, but sitting down at your desk in that cell and indulging diligently in the quest for knowledge. And
not going out with a date; but just being able to sit around and talk in the fellowship of brothers.
Boy, this college life is great, isn’t it??? This column won't contain much information about the activities of the brothers
over the holidays as the writer of this column was many miles away in a “fairer land, by far,” the
“Land of Opportunity,” and hasn't heard about many of the exploits of the brothers. Brother George Edwards split up the
holidays between Rocky Mount and Chattanooga. I’ve noticed that Bros. Groves, Alexander, and several others have returned with tear-stained faces
and dirty knees. And I've also heard that it had something to do with females. For all who are interested,
Brother Rapp (Continued on Page Four)

Operating Table

The poet who said, “In the springtime, a young man's fancy turns lightly to thoughts of love,” was not familiar
with Davidson men. When Keats was interested in such amorous undertakings, he should have had the ALENDA BOYS along for
research. It pains us rather deeply to have to repudiate the “springtime” statement of the great poet, but we find
ourselves compelled to for the sake of truth and accuracy. Not all of us are able to be in on
pattern-smashing events like the atom bomb and St. Peter's acceptance of St. Joe, but for the four classes now in
school, current trends have broken and ripped asunder, as it were, more or less, the sacred foundations of poetry. We
merely have to point to some of our brethren now with us to prove our disproof. Love, mind you, has
come in with the winter; engagements and marriages have not waited for spring. I know, dear reader, that you are
now disillusioned, but an awakening has come. FITZ REID, SUMNER WILLIAMS, and HOMER WAYWORTH have become engaged, not just physically,
but spiritually, with lovely young ladies. There may be others in our midst who have not shouted their bond from
Chamber's top as have these, so drop us a line if you know others. Those already betrothed, having been duly
wed since Christmas holidays began are: IRREVOCAL SOUTHERLAND, AL DUNCAN, and TEXAS HERBY HARWOOD. To you three, we extend our
congratulations and may you never have to bunk alone again.

Word comes to us of a very smooth deal recently. We are happy to announce this particular deal holds the
shortest time of any yet. This past Sunday, so we were told, two Davidsonians caught a ride into the Queen
City to spend a few hours at harmful amusements. Not considering the ride enough, it appears they were offered a
ride by four young ladies from the said city, and were not entirely against it. Summing up, they made a
record of two future dates with one of the lasses on their first informal meeting within 30 miles. Can you
imagine? And ANDY KIRKPATRICK hadn't even been properly introduced. My, my. (For the records, CHUCK CUNNINGHAM was the other less
successful hombre.)

Basketball season has brought an influx of weekday dating along with and equal to the athletic prowess of our own
team. Some wins, some losses, but the old Wildcat spirit (bottled in bond). Your correspondent notices a majority of dating
Pi Kappa Phis at Charlotte games, a good mixture of dealers at visiting places, and a bunch of variegated bums,
clustered in perspiring groups around the familiar old gym floor. At least two Davidson men of very recent vintage have
made a marked success upon leaving the country for the city. MANLY SAUNDERS is director of public safety markings for
Charlotte. It seems that the arduous task of painting the white center line on paved streets has fallen to Manly.
EARL MAHON has been selected for an important desk job. He is desk clerk at the Mayfair Hotel and welcomes
any and all Davidson students seeking accommodations. (This is not a paid advertisement.)

The “scandal boys” who usually manage to make this column are hiding rather well. Almost everyone is mum about their
Christmas holidays. One group in Hugo's recently were talking about—CENSORED. We were shocked to say the least as these sorts
of things are not the usual. ELLIS, INSCO, HODGEN, JERRY LELAND, HERTWIG, MANN, and “WISTFUL WILLIE” CALHOUN were seen in
the Boo recently. The latter, who belongs to the list of well-known followers of John Miller and Herby Miller (not
any kin), was there to read Dante's INFERNO. “W. W.” helped Coca-Cola stock rise for the week by (Continued on
Page Four)

Paging the Professors

By Stan

PROFESSOR MEBANE: A native of Virginia, Prof. Mebane, of the Math Department, took his undergraduate work at Davidson and at
V.P.I. Later he earned his master’s degree at Cornell University and did graduate work at the University of Chicago. Recently,
Prof. Mebane has been connected with the Manhattan project, in connection with which he said it was a great thrill
to hear the announcement of the first atomic bomb. He spoke of the great privilege of working with some of
the greatest minds in the country. While working on the Manhattan project, Prof. Mebane became interested in metal work, which
is now a hobby along with cabinet work which he has been doing for some time. Among his interests, also,
are golf and gardening. Prof. Mebane is looking forward to the time when Davidson will be back to prewar size.

PROFESSOR BAUMAN: When he came to Davidson in the fall of this college year, Professor Bauman of the Bible Department
began his first close association with the South and he has learned to appreciate and enjoy this section of the
country through becoming acquainted with it. Surely, Davidson's atmosphere has had much to do with this attitude, for his impression
of the college community has been highly favorable. Especially, he has been impressed with the warm friendship and quality of
the students here. A native of Dayton, Ohio, Prof. Bauman was graduated from Hanover, a Presbyterian College in Indiana, where
he participated in sports, his chief hobby. After graduation, he attended the Presbyterian Seminary in Louisville, Kentucky, and the University
of Chicago.

REVERSIBLES—Were $22.50, Now Only $11.25
TWEEDS—Were $29.95, Now Only $14.95
CAMEL HAIR—Were $27.00, Now Only $13.95
LIGHT TANS—Were $35.00, Now Only $17.95

Wrenn’s Men’s Shop
MAIN ST.
DAVIDSON, N. C.
