SECTION TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MGR.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editor
WIL Galo
Associate Editor
Piscine Dietrick
Associate Editor
Jack Hazard — Sports Editor
Bob Hollister — Managing Editor
Lonnie Turnipsee — Managing Editor
Dick Morgan — Managing Editor
Tom Niblock — Managing Editor
Bill King — Managing Editor
Charlie Reed — Managing Editor
FEATURE
Managing Editor
Photographer
Cartoonist
Poll-Cat Randy Hall

REPORTERS—Malloy Owen, Taylor, Warren Simms, Phil Mitchell, Hartley Boyce Kendall, Bob Grube, and Warren Sims.
REPORTERS—Jimmy Henritzy, Henry Hansen, Perry Gregg, Harry Shurley, Gab Lowe, John Calhoun, Ken Jones, Ralph Robinson, Tom Allen, Dick Barnwell, Ed West, Jim Murray, Tommy Holler, Bob Hubbell, Bill McCrary, Tom Mann, Bill Cumming, Phil Libby, Ben Drymon, Angus McKellar, Dudley Pendleton, Jimmy Fickeison, Pete Kologides, Dick Chandley, Boo Northcutt, Stuart Shippey, Hugh Huffaker, Tey Hyman, Frank Winston, and Bill Neal.
Bill Hollister, SPORTS STAFF
Scott, Furman Warlick, Watt Jefferies, Winston, Bryan Robinson, Dan Whitener, Ed West, Bill Buckey.

CIRCULATION STAFF — Alex Goley, Phillips, Parks Dalton, Cecil Rhodes, Ansley Moses, Joe H. Mill, Neill Underdown, Tommy Haller, John Har, Phad Monroe, Hugh Huffaker, Ben Morris, Faison, Paul Guthry, Stribling, Gordon, Bill White, Frank McKeithan, David, Jack Stevenson, Floyd Cherry.

BUSINESS STAFF
Manager W. S. McSwain
Bill Houck
Bill Cassels
Wyhe Smith
Circulation Manager
Asst. Circulation Manager
Asst. Advertising Manager
Charles Clinkscales
Asst. Advertising Manager
Hector McKeithan
Collections Manager
Charles Dockery
John Loftin — Subscriptions Manager

ADVERTISING STAFF—Bill Cumming, Bill Hart, Bob Erwin, Marshall James, Raymond Hollar, Bill Pharr, Harold Clayton, Sam McKellar, Duval Hunter, Angus Cumming.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year.

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
Chicago + Boston + Los Angeles + San Francisco

1946 Member 1947
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

PRINTED BY
DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

State Game
We took an awful beating last Saturday night. We can’t even claim the usual consolation of a moral victory for that one, even our cheering section, seven hundred strong, folded up after the first quarter and waited dismally for the end. We went up there to beat State and we even had a big part of the State student body talked into it. But we found out different.

We were beaten and beaten bad. But there will be other Saturdays and other ball games and, yes, other cracks at State. We’ve learned a lesson, and from now on we'll be harder to beat.

The brightest moment of the night for the Alenda Lux was the halftime when our band performed. Moving out onto the darkened field between the howling hordes in the touchdown-hungry State stands on one side and the downhearted Davidson stands on the other, the band commenced to awe the entire crowd with their fancy figures, shown up in the stadium darkness only by the tiny sketches of light from red-globed flashlights on their shoes. After the figures honoring the two teams, they formed an outline of the State of North Carolina, and while a lively artificial moon drifted over the state, the whole stands joined in with one voice to sing “Carolina Moon.” It was a thrilling spectacle for which Mr. Pfohl and the entire band deserve a “hat’s off.” Maybe even the opponents of “La, la, la!” will chime in with a “well done.”

Cornerstone Convocation
Homecoming weekend will see the biggest crowd of alumni and friends of the college that has ever visited the campus. The student body does not need to be reminded of the traditional courtesy and cordiality that we always extend to visitors on the campus, or of the fact that the keys of the campus are turned over to the alumni at Homecoming time. We are not even too much surprised if some of the old grads seem to feel like they “own the place” when we remember most of them have spent more time here and done more for the school than most of us have.

This year the administration is making even wider plans than usual for the Homecoming event. The cornerstone for the new building will be laid amid impressive ceremonies, including the burying of records for future generations. There will be a specially important meeting of the alumni, not to mention other matters of great importance. The convocation will include people of importance and distinction from all walks of life, both in the South and elsewhere. Let’s all be on our toes to make them feel at home. One of the best ways to make them feel at home and to bring back fond memories of college days is to show them the old Wildcat spirit with a snappy set of decorations down fraternity court way. If we get our brains working on it, we can make up some good ones before November 6.

Whether Report
Weekends are a lovely time on the D.C. campus. The students are fairly well evacuated by Saturday and the campus is left to the tender mercies of the faculty kids. Dormitories are deserted by mid-afternoon Saturday, and the campus is left to the birds, squirrels, and any other creatures that can be gotten to and returned from by Vespers Sunday. It is of primary importance to these world travelers to know whether. Whether is always a question of importance at Davidson, but especially on weekends, the model A pusher wants to know whether he can make it to Charlotte in the usual dry weather fifteen minutes, whether he better allow sixteen in case the hitch-hiker wants to know whether it’s safe to chance it or lug that raincoat.

Amateur meteorologists Bill Sargent and Trew Curley have volunteered to help the students with this weekly dilemma. Every Friday in one corner of the Davidsonian’s front page there will be located a complete report of their predictions for the weekend. It may be complete with either ‘yes,’ meaning it will or ‘no’ meaning it won’t, but it’ll be there. Other school papers that we know of carry a similar help for their students. One of the best we have seen is from the University of Delaware's Review. We quote it: Fair yesterday and today. Probably plenty of good weather next week. The lowest possible temperature will be -273 degrees C. and the highest: boiling. Storm warnings are out along the coast according to some authorities but unfortunately, we can’t be sure. However, for all those interested, there will be a typhoon sometime next month. We're having open house that day. Bring a gun and we'll all shoot the breeze.

A Year for Political Activities
'Tis a year for politics. What with Dixiecrats throwing rotten eggs at Wallace, and Truman throwing rotten speeches at Dewey, with the air full of wordage, and some few thoughts, we look at the long empty editorial columns to be filled and wonder why it can’t be filled with letters to the editor. Davidson students do have opinions. Some of them even do some thinking. All of them will fling the wordage around freely in a bull session, why not throw some of it our way?

Any course, any-thing that strikes your fancy as a writeable (and readable) topic, this is the place for it. Your editors are a week and a-half behind on sleep already with only three issues gone to press, and they will welcome and print any and all letters. We have several volunteers to write us a column on political affairs. But they haven’t proved their salt yet and until they do, your idea is as good as theirs. So let’s take issue with them. We'd like to see somebody come up with a letter advocating Wallace’s policies. We promise not to make you sign your name to that one.

AMONG THE GREEKS

KAPPA ALPHA
Before assuming the duties of official Knight columnist, the writer wishes to inform the tele (persons crazy enough to read this rag) that he is protected against libel, slander, etc. The writer (there is some doubt as to the proper word) wants to assure you that any relationship between these articles and the truth and any resemblance between the characters mentioned and real persons is purely coincidental. All the news that ain't fit to print will be printed—I hope.

Lowering the draw-bridge and entering the bustling, hustling Castle of Sigma, one finds King Hardin and his fellow Knights in Love Court, recuperating from the past weekend. Champagne (Social) Sam, the Lord Byron of the court, didn’t poop-out this weekend like he has done previously. Lover's righthand man, Jack Payne, is whittling another notch in his lance, having been elected to ODK. Congrats. The court jester, P. B., sits solemnly mulling over some new antics to pull on his fellow Knights. The electees to the court are Dan McKeithen and Gene Regen, having recently been initiated into the Brotherhood. Lately, all Jimmy Glenn can talk about is cross-country. In particular, the incident where he was chasing a rabbit. This is certainly news, because the situation was reversed prior to this time and probably still is. Know what we mean?

Odds and Ends (mostly odd): “Rungle, Bungle, Bungle... How I Wish I Was in the Jungle” is Gene Regen’s latest hit number after pulling many blunders. Hyman busted his unmentionables along with several other brothers but the details can’t be printed here... C. J. is pinned to another girl—"Every man for himself and God for us all” or “Better a bird in hand than ten in the wood”... Mystery of the week—why has West been leaving his room every night? Could it be for reasons social?

Pi K. A.
The scene, Raleigh: the reason—Davidson-State football game. The brothers and pledges of Pi K. A. gives a brief idea of how the weekend was spent for the majority of the Vikas. Brothers Hamm and Denison, and pledges Walker, Rose, McKellar, Turner, and Hart made the trip under the protective guidance of the Davidson band, so their post-game activities, for the most part, were somewhat restricted. Brother Dockery made a deal with his father to exchange vehicles to make the trip. He probably felt that it was unsafe for other motorists if he burned up the highway with his own black streak. Brother Smith enviously eyed all the girls wearing hats with feathers in them because of a strong desire to obtain one for his own new chapeau. Brother Bell really made a weekend of it. Greensboro on Friday night, Raleigh on Saturday night. Naturally, his interest was in the fairer sex. His St. Mary’s date had a good moral effect on him, as they were seen coming out of the St. Mary's church service on Sunday morning. Brother Warlick, enjoying an early morning snack, made an unusual acquaintance in the Raleigh bus terminal. It seems that he was directing an unusual amount of attention toward an extremely obese gentleman who didn’t appreciate his interest. His (the man’s) remarks were...Interesting but unprintable in this column. Pledge Boyd assumed the role of family chauffeur and drove his father to the game while his older brother was out making merry with a beautiful gal from Duke. Brother Fanjoy’s dream girl came down from Mary Baldwin for the weekend, so he spent a happy two days. Who wouldn't if they were in his place? Brother Rodgers the game; brothers That, of among those in short, where for the to ve prob- his ithe

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1948

LETTERS

IDSONIAN Presents FEATURES:

EKS managed to break through the iron curtain of St. Mary's long enough to catch a glimpse of his true love. Brother McElroy struck up an acquaintance with an elevator operator in the Carolina Hotel whose name was Beulah, a good old female name. He's acquiring quite a reputation for his ability to meet people, particularly in elevators. Pledge Phillips had the misfortune of coming down with pneumonia while at home. We all wish for him a speedy recovery and hope he'll be back with us in a short time.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

We are happy to welcome our faculty brothers at a feed following last Vespers. At that time, especially happy were the members, Professors Peyton and Sellars. We hope that the faculty will come often. The game drew practically the entire rank. Brothers Humphrey, Holler, Johnston, Daniels, and Coffin acted as musicians, followed by Pledges Charles and Gilliland. The Navy came to Raleigh (where that is) before they were coming over it up (in red, he means, all the kickoff, happy were all the rest. We see various arriving well before the game. Among those from last year were Vitts, Jenkins, Sellars, and some of our alumni. It was noticed that the brothers were particularly well received. Among them were Owens, Hay, Thomasson, Barr, Robinson, Lilly, and others who visited the State chapter. We received our alumni in the chapter room while there. Richard Hector's WCTU? N.C. Epsilon is proud to announce the pledging of Bill Smith of Charlotte, Laughlin MacDonald of Raeford, and Clyde Taylor of Greensboro, swelling our pledge ranks to a significant number.

PI KAPPA PHI

The cries of “Oh, what a game,” and “Oh, what a weekend,” and the weak moans of just plain “Ooooo,” children of Epsilon returned to the land of Davidson from whence they goeth. Predictions are that it will be a long time before another mass migration of Kappas will descend upon such a far-off city in concentrated force. It would be much easier to list the Brothers and Pledges that did not go to the game in Raleigh than to mention some of the ones that did, but most of our illustrious Wheels prefer to have their exploits recorded, so this is who we saw: Brothers “Big It” Hunter, “Attitude” Tolbert, “Geno” Bumbarger, “Don Jew-in” Whittemore, “Letters” Lander, “Giggly” Higgle, “Island” T. Niblock, “Rubber Neck” Cassels, “Fire Chief” Boykin, “Lop Corn” Coble, “Coach” Rawson, “Make All Plans” Gowan, “Roe-dell” Dobson, “Uncle Herb” Johnson, “Kannapolis Jim” Fisher, “The Moe,” “Mr. Flemming” Houck, “Pop Gun” Taylor, “Shady” Campbell, “King Size” Murray, “Wrong Door” Reid, “Ultra-violet” Ray McCain, “Flashlight” Carpenter, and “Dude” Edwards. Also, Pledges Guy “and the best of them” Dardel, McClintock, Pierce, Dalton, Carr, Dryman, Underdown, Nall, Neal, Sargent, Gurley, Willer, Hyman, Clayton, Henning, and Calcote. Ever present and welcome were Alumni: John Helton, Dave Walker, Karl Fisher, Ned Everett, Ed Clarence McArthur, and “Party Pooper” Cline. My apologies to the persons I didn’t see. All I have to say about that is either get out in the open or else get into my hiding place. We will all agree that it was sad when that great team went down, but we are looking forward to better games in the future with bigger Murray, and better parties. One bright spot on the Unhappy Saturday Night was the marriage of your friend and mine, Alumnus

Continued On Page 5

From the Editors

LONNIE TURNIPSEED

The increasing interest of the student body, as a whole, in national and international affairs has become quite apparent in this first month of the school year. This has been particularly noticed in those organizations which are primarily concerned with these affairs, namely the International Relations Club and the World Federalists. The World Federalists report a membership of approximately thirty, while the IRC has the largest membership in its history, with approximately ninety-nine enrolled. A short time ago, Dr. Cunningham remarked that he was very glad to see the students taking an active interest along these lines. The Editors agree wholeheartedly with Dr. Cunningham and wish to foster this new spirit of participation in world affairs in so far as we are able. We feel that the DAVIDSONIAN, in addition to your daily newspapers, can play an active part in this interest, by serving as an outlet for student views and opinions. As college students, more voters and potential voters, we should begin now to follow the current of present-day politics, particularly with the presidential election coming up. As we read our daily newspapers, we are forming opinions concerning our national politics and our leaders. Therefore, we should take precautions to see that, before forming these opinions, we understand the issues clearly and that we are able to see both sides of the picture. This will result in our taking sides from facts and logic rather than following blind prejudices or traditions. Our interest in international affairs is important because the increasing complexities in a world peace program, the outcome of which will affect us directly over a period of time. By knowing and understanding the existing conditions and circumstances involved, we can better understand our part in the program for world peace. Several articles have been written and published in this paper concerning national and international affairs. In order to increase student participation along these lines, the DAVIDSONIAN is beginning an Open Forum of articles written to be composed by students on any subject pertaining to politics, world peace, foreign aid, etc. The success of this Open Forum will depend entirely upon the reception and support given it by the student body. All that is required is for you to write the article, then turn it over to one of the managing editors and they will see that it is published. We feel that this will be an excellent way of bringing forth differences of opinion and getting a clearer picture of the questions involved. The Editors sincerely hope that the student body will take advantage of this new feature and contribute to its success and a better understanding of world affairs.

Operating Table

This past weekend proved pretty disastrous for the Wildcat aggregation at Raleigh, but capitalizing on the events of the weekend were a great many distant and local wheels. Probably the most extended trip of the weekend was taken by CHEERFUL CHARLIE DOCKERY in his “new look” automobile. After an uneventful six-hour jaunt down, the car developed generator trouble, and it took the combined efforts of MACHINIST’S MATE JIM RODGERS AND T-5 DAVE McDUFFIE to repair it for the necessary fourteen-hour return trip. “Goot” Hamner, Ike Coffey, “Kid” Covington, and Colonel Bucky Faw of Davidson ROTC fame returned late Sunday afternoon looking rather bleary-eyed from lack of sleep and other irregular habits. Says “GOOT,” “Who was that Johnston feller, anyway?” Of the Colonel's Cafe Campaign, little can be said, while during the game, "The Kid's” eyes were definitely seen to stray with a wistful look toward the general direction of Wilmington. Enclosed herein are several excerpts from Raleigh and other neighboring newspapers with comments on the general aspects of the weekend:

RALEIGH, Oct. 10, IP—City officials are still upset by the invasion of this peaceful city by a herd of wild men, obviously from Northern Borneo. The FBI refused to make an official statement, but rumor has it that they are in the midst of a gigantic dragnet for a large green automobile bearing Laurinburg plates, last seen heading in the general direction of Charlotte. The operator of this vehicle was said to be of “Double Dip” size and is wanted on many counts.

RALEIGH—Socialites JOHN McDONALD, GIB WHITE, AND TED SUMNER paid this city a visit Saturday as escorts of three Salemites coming on down especially for the football game here. Says TED, “Boy, was I burned up!”

CHAPEL HILL—“An influx of many guests here this weekend was the occasion for the beginning of a new party.” Further details are unobtainable.

SEEN AT THE GAME: Jim Riddervold, of the local vee school faculty, expressing views on certain points of the game—“Sir Walter” Doe Bailey refusing Golden Boy Randolph Ensign’s invitation to return to the Hill, electing to retire for the night on the well-oiled floor of the KA house at Raleigh—“HUGLESS” HUGH McARN not so hugless after the activities, but with his pitching arm well supported in an efficient-looking sling. So much for this weekend—let's watch the next one closely.

Professors Are Human

By BOB GRUBE

PROFESSOR HENGEVELD

Fred William Hengeveld, B.S., came to Davidson as a member of the faculty in 1920 and is now in his 28th year of work here. Mr. Hengeveld was born in Palatka, Florida, and spent his boyhood there and in Savannah and Waycross in Georgia. He entered Davidson in 1914 and, having not suffered the drawback of E’s and F's, graduated in 1918. After receiving his degree, Mr. Hengeveld did graduate work at the University of Chicago and joined the United States Marine Corps in which he served as an instructor at Quantico. In 1920 he returned to Davidson as baseball and basketball coach, which he continued for five years. Also in 1920, he was the principal of the Davidson High School for one year, becoming Davidson's registrar in the fall of the same year. I trust that the fact that Mr. Hengeveld is and has been an active member of the local draft board will not be held against him or give cause to shy away from his office. In recognition of his work in this important service, he was awarded a medal and special service certificate of merit. During the years as a student here, Mr. Hengeveld played both baseball and basketball, so successfully as to captain the former team for one year and the latter for three years. While in the Marine Corps, he continued to play with service teams, and after returning to Davidson, he played pro baseball in the summers of '20, '21, and '22 with the Little Rock, Arkansas team. When talking to Mr. Hengeveld, I found that his pride lies in his course record among the faculty on the local golf course, rather than so much in the aforementioned sports. While an undergraduate student, he was a brother of the Kappa Sigma and Omicron Delta Kappa fraternities and is today a member of the Masonic Order.