The Cats were none too impressive in their cage opener last Monday night, but as Coach Norman Shep said after
the game, they looked about the same as in last year’s inaugural—no better, no worse. That is all except Co-Captain
Mike Williams. Mike slipped 20 through the hoop and was the outstanding floor man on the court all night. He
found the range in the few minutes of the second half that the regulars played. His floor game was as
of old—stealing the ball, grabbing rebounds, and breaking up enemy passes. Bill Iverson played a rough and tumble game, but
at the same time hit for seven points. Bobby Maner saw his way clear to shoot more and with this
fifth man firing at the bucket along with the rest, the Cats should be a much improved ball club. The
shooting of the whole team was off, but a little more time on the practice court should iron that out.

With the announcement that Davidson will play seven basketball games in Charlotte this season, we suppose that the ones who
count the money around here are sitting back and rubbing their hands with ecstasy. But not so with the student
who will have to take a seat in the end zone or up in the balcony where half the court
is obscured from view. And all this after going through the trouble of rushing their supper, or maybe even missing
it, standing on the humming corner with fifty or sixty other students and then maybe not even getting a ride
in time for the game. To see the preliminary at 6:30 or 7 o'clock, one must miss his supper at
Davidson and only then he may be one of the lucky few students who arrives at the Armory in time
to get a front row balcony seat and gain a reasonably decent view of the game.

We realize that the present gym does not take care of more than the student body itself, and that to
finance the Athletic Department from basketball at all, the games must be played in the Armory. But the old question
arises as to who is entitled to first choice on seeing the Cats play. We feel that it is the
Student Body which supports the team. Therefore, the Student Body should not be shoved off in an obscure corner of
the Armory for the game. As we have pointed out, it is hardship enough to give up a whole evening,
with classes next day, and travel twenty miles for a game, without having to worry whether there'll even be a
seat in some far-off corner of the Armory.

As a remedy, we suggest that Davidson students be given the seats set up on the stage of the Armory.
This will not be enough for the whole attending Student Body, but it would be a marked improvement over the
present seating situation. The bleachers erected on the rear side of the Armory could remain reserved, with balcony and stage
for Davidson and the end zones sold as general admission. It will cut the purse from reserved seats, but we
feel that the Student Body is entitled to a little better seating arrangement than heretofore. If there is a reason
why this is impossible or impracticable, we would be glad to hear it and change our views accordingly.

Davidson’s men of tennis have been given recognition in the recent release of the ratings of Southern racquet wielders. Bo
Roddey, the Cats' number one player, has been listed number five in the men’s singles bracket. Roddy established himself as
a national competitor last summer in making better than average showings in the tours of the top court circuits. Freshman
Dewey Keesler drew a number four rating in the Junior Division. Keesler is slated for the number one spot on
this year’s frosh team. Another freshman, Allen Strand, was placed in the number 18 spot in that division. Two sophomores,
Bill Childs and Pete Kennedy, were listed seventeen and twenty, respectively, as Juniors.

THE FINEST IN MEN’S CLOTHING
JACK WOOD, Ltd.
102 East Fourth Street
Charlotte

- NAVY BLUE SUITS
- OXFORD FLANNEL SUITS
- HAND-LOOMED SPORTS COATS
- CAMEL HAIR TOPCOATS
- WOOL ARGYLE HOSE
- CASHMERE SWEATERS
- OXFORD BUTTON DOWN SHIRTS
- FRENCH CUFF SHIRTS
- SILK REPP STRIPE TIES
- KNIT TIES

Wildcat Sports
Friday, December 10, 1948
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson Wildcats Roll Over Wofford Shooters
By DAN McKEITHEN

The Davidson rifle team started off on the right foot by defeating Wofford College in the first shoulder-to-shoulder match of
the year. With Joe Miller posting a total of 369, good enough for high man, the locals came out on
the long end of a 2356 to 2251 score. Top man for the losers was W. B. Hynds with a
total of 354. The match was held at Wofford on December 3, and the following made up the 7-man team
that made the trip: Miller, C. N. Childers, Fred Vest, Jack Leayeraft, Cleveland, J. Talbert, and Miller. Some of the
teams with which matches have been scheduled are: Clemson, Oak Ridge, The Citadel, and VPI. Twenty-eight correspondence matches have been
scheduled and of these type contests, the team has trimmed Navy University, while they have dropped decisions to Princeton and
Georgia Tech. Firing in the Hearst Trophy match and the Third Intercollegiate match will begin next week.

Cat Wrestlers Tie High Point Y 16-16
By BILL BUCKY

Last Saturday the wrestling team opened their 1948 season in a 16-16 deadlock with the High Point YMCA. Jim Jung,
captain of the grapplers for the 2nd consecutive year, initiated the new season with a decision over his opponent in
the 121-pound class. John Kelton in the 128-pound category had his man 4-2 but was pinned in the 3rd period.
Paul Husted at 136 lost by a decision followed by Bill Fesperman in the 4th bout, who picked up three
points as he decisioned his man. Dave Whitner at 155 was pinned in the 5th bout but Bill Plonk followed
in the 165-pound class by pinning his man. This was Plonk's first official bout. Bill Alexander was given a forfeit
by his opponent and as yet has not tasted action this season.In the final bout, Bill Moore, who along with
Fesperman, Jung, and Alexander, four returning lettermen, lost by a decision in the unlimited class to the A.A.U. champion. On
the 15th of this month, the Davidson mat men will again meet State. Following is the 1948 interfraternity All-Star Football
Team. Bill Bird and Charlie Pearson were both unanimous choices and were named co-captains of the mythical squad. The co-champion
Kappa Alpha and Kappa Sigma teams each placed two men on the team, while the other five places were equally
divided.

First Team:
Ends: Hopper, SPE; Cox, Pika
Guards: Cuarter, KA; Brown, Sigma Chi
Center: Bingham, KS
Backs: Bird, KA, co-captain; Pearson, KS, co-captain; Smith, Beta; Brownson, Phi Delt

Second Team:
Ends: Edwards, KS; Richardson, Beta
Guards: Meza, Campus Club; Poole, Sigma Chi
Center: Holler, SPE
Backs: Hill, SPE; Cobb, Phi Delt; Wilcox, KS; Hardin, KA

Honorable Mention:
Ends: Bachman, KA; Evans, KS; McLean, WKS; Witherspoon, Phi Delt; Langford, Campus Club; Tucker, Campus Club; Bennett, SAE; Holler, Phi
Gam; Jackson, Pika
Guards: Van Story, Pika; McFayden, KS; Rogers, SAE; Campbell, Pi Kap; Harper, Phi Delt; Shepperson, Beta; Montgomery, Phi Delt; Bradford,
SPE; Millar, SAE; McGehee, SAE; McNair, Pika; Regen, KA; Poag, Phi Gam
Centers: Ray, Beta; Lyday, SAE
Backs: Clouninger, Pika; Collins, Campus Club; Clark, SPE; Allen, Beta; Joyner, Pika; Taylor, Phi Delt; Herndon, Sigma Chi; Newton, Beta;
Spires, Phi Gam; Brooks, Phi Delt; Whiteheart, Phi Delt; Montgomery, Phi Gam; Davis, Phi Delt; Harris, Campus Club

High Point in a return match in our gym, so let's all turn out and cheer 'em on to their
first of many victories this season.

GREEK ALL-STARS TAPPED

Coach Norman Shepherd's quintet took approximately two periods to find the basket satisfactorily, but in the second half, that's exactly
what they did, and the Wildcats rolled over the Charlotte YMCA team 52-28 in the opening game for both teams.
The first half found the locals playing ragged ball, and numerous fouls by both teams slowed the pace down to
a snail-like crawl. Davidson's co-captain, Buddy Cheek, was charged with three personal fouls in the opening minutes of the contest
and was pulled from the game in favor of a substitute. However, the lanky star came back in the second
half and looped in some beauties from mid-court. It was the other co-captain, Mike Williams, pumping the ball through the
nets from all angles, who was the star. Mike was slightly terrific as he found the hoop for 20 points
to cop the night's individual scoring honor.

It was not until the second half that local fans got to see the Wildcats playing something like the type
of game which led them to a fourth-place berth in the Southern Conference standings last year. The starting five opened
the third period in high gear and were going like a house afire until the second team got an opportunity
to show their stuff in the final period. Whit Cobb played a noteworthy floor game, and Jake Ashmore and Bob
Maner broke through for several well-aimed shots. Fall Iverson, with memories of football season still strong in his mind, gave
the fans something to yell about by his scrappy playing and good sportsmanship.

Help make the Davidsonian a better paper.

RAT GRADE “A” MILK PASTEURIZED
Mooresville Co-Operative Creamery
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

Win Cage Opener 52-28

Got your heart set on making extra sets with your favorite partner? Then what's holding you back? Your marks? Lack
of time? Here's the easy way to make up on both! Do your schoolwork on an Underwood Champion Portable Typewriter.
You'll make a better impression with neatly typed lessons and notes. You'll even surprise yourself with the speed you'll develop
on Underwood's lightning-fast keyboard... every key can be adjusted to your individual touch. And you'll take extra pride in your
letters and classroom papers—all legibly typed on an Underwood Champion. With a Champion at your fingertips, you'll not only do
better work, but you'll have more time for sports and other activities. Ask your dad to order your Champion from
your nearest Authorized Underwood Portable Typewriter dealer now! Write for an illustrated, descriptive folder.

Underwood Corporation
Typewriters... Adding Machines... Accounting Machines... Carbon Paper... Ribbons and other Supplies
Dept. S-1, One Park Avenue, N.Y. 16, N.Y.
Underwood Sales Limited, 135 Victoria Street, Toronto 1, Canada
TYPEWRITER LEADER OF THE WORLD

W. S. HENDERSON
Jeweler
— EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING —
CRYSTALS FITTED
Main St. Davidson

According to a nationwide survey:
MORE DOCTORS SMOKE CAMELS THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE
Doctors smoke for pleasure, too! And when three leading independent research organizations asked 113,597 doctors what cigarette they smoked, the
brand named most was Camel! Prove CAMEL MILDNESS FOR YOURSELF!

Prove for yourself what throat specialists reported when a 30-day smoking test revealed NO THROAT IRRITATION due to smoking CAMELS!

MAKE YOUR OWN 30-DAY CAMEL MILDNESS TEST. Smoke Camels, and only Camels, for 30 days. Prove for yourself just how
mild Camels are! Hundreds of men and women, from coast to coast, recently made a similar test. They smoked an
average of one to two packs of Camels a day for 30 days. Their throats were examined by noted throat
specialists. After a total of 2,470 examinations—these throat specialists reported not one single case of throat irritation due to smoking
Camels!

But prove it yourself... in your “T-Zone.” Let YOUR OWN TASTE tell you about the rich, full flavor of Camel’s
choice tobaccos. Let YOUR OWN THROAT give the good news of Camel's cool, cool mildness.

Money-Back Guarantee! Try Camels and test them as you smoke them. If, at any time, you are not convinced that
Camels are the mildest cigarette you ever smoked, return the package with the unused Camels and we will refund its
full purchase price, plus postage. (Signed) R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.
