PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1948

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

JOHN McNAIR ---.---------- BUSINESS MGR.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Editor-in-Chief -------------------- Bill Calhoun
Associate Editor ---------------- Ronnie Dietrick
Associate Editor ----------------- Nick Mateo
Sports Editor --------------------- Bob Eisinger
Managing Editor ----------------- Lonnie Turnipseed
Managing Editor ----------------- Doug Tisdale
Managing Editor ----------------- Dick Morgan
Managing Editor ----------------- Tom Niblock
Feature Editor ------------------- Bill King
Feature Editor ------------------- Charlie Reid

FEATURE REPORTERS—Malloy Owen, Randy Taylor, Warren Simms, Phil Mitchell, Hartley Hall.
Staff Photographer ---------------- Boyce Kendall
Cartoonist ------------------------- Bob Grube
Cat Editor ------------------------ Warren Sims.

REPORTERS—Jimmy Henritzy, Henry Hansen, Perry Gregg, Harry Shurley, Gabe Lowe, John Calhoun, Ken Jones, Ralph Robinson, Tom Allen, Dick Barnwell,
Ed West, Jim Murray, Tommy Holler, Bob Hubbell, Bill McCrary, Tom Mann, Bill Cumming, Phil Libby, Ben Dry, Angus McKellar,
Pete Nalogridis, Dick Chart, Shippey, Hugh Huffaker, Winston and Bill Neal.

SPORTS STAFF—Cliff Tribling, Gordon Scott, Furman Warlick, Watt Bill White, Phil Hammond, Bryant Rollins, Mac Keithan, David Whitener, Ed West,
Bill Buckey, Jack Stevenson.

POLL CAT STAFF—Jim Carr, Claude Higginbothan, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown, and Neal Underdown.

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager ------- W. S. McSwain
Advertising Manager --------------- White Smith
Circulation Manager --------------- Bill Houck
Asst. Circulation Manager --------- Bill Cassels
Asst. Advertising Manager --------- Charles Clinkscales
Asst. Advertising Manager --------- Hector McKeithan
Assistant Advertising Manager ---- David McConnell
Collections Manager ---------------- Charles Dockery
Subscriptions Manager ------------- Jon Lotti

ASSISTANTS—Bill Cumming, Hart, Marshall James, Duval Hunter, Bob Erwin, Bill Pharr, Harold Clayton, Sam Cumming, Shaw.

CIRCULATION—SEAT Mexey, Floyd Phillips, Parks Dalton, R. Moses, Joe H. Miller, Neal Underdown, Haller, John Hardin, Thad Monroe, Ben Paul
Guthry Morris, Cam Faison.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Member 1949 Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest 1948

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Convocation Achieves Purpose

The Cornerstone Convocation is reported as a complete success, but not so much because sizeable gifts have already been made
to meet Davidson’s needs. The primary purpose of the convocation was to bring Davidson into the forefront of the attention
of all her friends and alumni and to make them conscious of the Development Program.

Probably every friend of Davidson who lives in North or South Carolina has heard of the Convocation Cornerstone and the
campaign that was launched last Saturday. They know that Davidson has need of money for expansion and they are thinking
now in terms of what Davidson is and how much she merits support.

Just exactly how the people of North Carolina, other than alumni, look at Davidson has been brought out by editorials
in many newspapers throughout the State, since the recent publicity concerning the convocation. Typical of the drift of their feelings
is the following paragraph from an editorial in Winston-Salem’s Twin City Sentinel of November 4.

“Davidson College is to North Carolinians the little institution that produces great and good men. Even to those whose first
allegiance is to another college or university, Davidson has a unique hold on the imagination. Perhaps it is because of
the men it has educated and sent out into the world. A Davidson man is usually called ‘a fine fellow’
and he’s a smart one. The Davidson spirit is well known. The Davidson football teams will fight better teams to
a standstill.”

Another fine tribute to Davidson from the editorial page of the Charlotte Observer of November 10:

“Davidson College is one of North Carolina’s, the South’s, the nation’s greatest assets. It does many things. But the greatest
thing it does is train young men, face them forward imbued and strong in the spirit of the Galilean. If
the world is to survive, it must shortly learn that there is no other way save the path so long
ago pointed out by Jesus of Nazareth, a path never yet walked by the nations, a path hardly investigated. That
is Davidson’s contribution through her century of illustrious service. That is her promise for the days to come. That has
been and we trust will remain always the mission of Davidson College — to emphasize and demonstrate the practicality, the
workability of the truths enunciated and demonstrated by the strong young man of the sunburned smiling twenty centuries ago who
walked the shores of Galilee and frequented the teeming market places of Capernaum’s lakeside and Jerusalem’s Lower City.

Davidson has been doing this consistently and enthusiastically and with such success that her graduates have become her most resplendent
monument. Now Davidson comes to her alumni, her church, her friends within and without the Presbyterian denomination, the people of
her community — which has stretched out to wider and wider limits of usefulness and service — and asks merely
that the necessary funds be provided to assure her continued work at this same tremendous and glorious task, the building
of the only really important product, the youth of the land. Let Davidson — and the other great institutions like
her throughout the world — build the youth, and they will see to the building of the world the Galilean
envisioned.

The purpose of the Convocation was to bring sentiments like the above out from the dim musty covers of the
memory and have them on tap, so that when the regional campaigns, the real fund producers, get to Winston or
Charlotte, or Raleigh, or wherever, they may be expressed in service.

The next step in the Development Fund Drive will take place in the towns of North and South Carolina where
individual town campaigns will canvass individual alumni and friends on a person to person basis. Until these campaigns are set
up and begin operation, it is suggested that the students can best help the drive by keeping parents and home
folks posted on all developments.

Homecoming Big Success

Homecoming has come and gone. The cornerstone has been laid, the convocation has been convocated and unconvocated and all with
considerable success. The college decked itself in its fanciest dress and the whole affair was carried off well, indeed, considering
the red and black striped effect from faded crepe paper and the mud pack conditions under which the game was
played.

All who were connected with the festivities deserve a share of praise for a job well done. Some of those
among the students who come in for special commendation are the “hoods” who “raised” the funds for campus decoration, the
men who spent their Saturday morning “sack time” decorating dormitories and other campus buildings, the guides for the visitors, the
freshmen waiters, Glee Club members and orchestra players who entertained at the President’s Dinner, and, last but not least, the
fighting Wildcats who battled Richmond in the pouring rain.

Also to be congratulated on their extra dose of Davidson spirit are the boys who, with their dates, sat out
the game in the rain and the heart-breaking defeat. Not only a goodly number of students, but also many of
the alumni sat through two hours of drenching rain to cheer the Wildcats on.

While we are handing out commendations, let us not forget to voice a word of disappointment in the direction of
those few professors who managed to greet their students with writs and reviews early Monday morning. While we realize that
course schedules are rigorous and must be adhered to, still, it looks like exceptions could be made on this biggest
of all occasions in the school year. Especially this year when extra cooperation was requested on the part of the
students in making widespread preparations more complete, it looks like some few faculty members might have mustered a bit more
cooperation. We may be wrong.

And Russia?

The Poll-cat
By CHARLIE REID

The question asked in this poll of the Student Body was asked last year and appeared in the January 30th
issue of the Davidsonian. The previous results are recorded below for comparison.

Do You Think There Will Be A War Between The United States And Russia?

Recent poll of Students
Yes 60%
No 30%
Undecided 10%

Previous poll results (30 Jan, 1948, Davidsonian)
Veterans 78%
Non-Veterans 20%
Faculty and Administration 50%

If so, when?
Within 1 Yr. 3%
Within 3 Yrs. 55%
Within 5-10 Yrs. 18%
10 Yrs. or Later 24%

Previous poll results (total percentage of all persons)
Within 1 Yr. 1%
Within 3 Yrs. 38%
Within 5-10 Yrs. 32%
10 Yrs. or Later 29%

Wise men have said that talk of war is the cause of war. I agree that if all the peoples
of the world would talk of nothing but the wonders of peace and of the absolute hell of war, chances
of a world conflict number three would be slim. The catch is, however, that we Americans are only a small
portion of the world’s millions. My observation is that if every mouth in the United States had been sealed five
years prior to December 7, 1942, the Japs would have still attacked Pearl Harbor that Sunday morning, if not sooner.

PHI DELTA THETA

As this column goes to press the sons of Pallas once more turn their faces from departing trains and long
looks of farewells to the ever-standing Chamber Maids. Among the last to be rehabilitated was “Smoochums” Brownson. The week-end brought
more than the usual holiday frivolities to this brother. The first snows of the season are to be seen reflected
in his eyes. Rumor has it that the tall, lank brunette, sister of one of our noble Phis, while thoroughly
enjoying Brownson's jokes as toastmaster, also attracted much attention in the eyes of one promoter of Florida springs. If the
information reaching this desk is correct, Brother Blue Ray will journey shortly to Milledgeville, Ga.

Bill “Alpine” Iverson seems to have heard the call of the high lands during the past week-end. This, among other
things, would not seem to be unusual for him except for the fact that Montreat, N.C., is a long way
off and 11 p.m. is a rather late hour for mountain climbing. When last seen heading up Lookout Point, Iverson
was heard to say, “Girls are sissies.” This reporter as well as many others was both surprised and pleased to
see the Round Man back with the old flame. Every brother, I'm sure would join in with a hearty “ditto.”

The “Walking Embryo” surprised both brothers and pledges by going through the entire week-end without lipstick on his shirt. That,
for the Lover, is considered to be quite an accomplishment.

One of the more fortunate of the daters of last week was “Easly” P. Smith. For the benefit of those
not yet on the inside, this was not the Rhoda of Li’l Abner fame. H. thought her car was fine.

The great rejoicing over Homecoming was augmented only by the safe coming home of “Homi” Hubbell and “Badman” Bowen from
the scene of a little local gunplay in Gastonia.Hubbell's eyes were so badly swollen that he had to explain it
was from tears evoked by his parting date. Certain brothers seem inclined to believe that tear gas was the cause.
The Phi Delt Ansley banquet was a musical rousing success. The ready wit was the "Acuff" Moses. His rendition of
that well-known ballad "Heah Rattler" was sufficient to make all the brothers realize musical accomplishment is not confined only to
the Sigma Chis. This note of thanks closes with an open column to Brother Adams' date, Ann Dempsey: will brothers
please instruct future feminine wearers of the Sword and Shield to return the compliment with Tampa Jewels? Some of the
less robust brothers found Ann's gift more potent.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON FRATERNITY

The brotherhood certainly was on the old ball this week. We received a smile on the face of our esteemed
goddess, Minerva, as she looked down on the spirit and cooperation of all of us. Notes to the Kappa Sigma
football team: the league leaders felt the potent sting of the S.A.E. and toppled under the superior forces of Minerva
to the tune of 6 to 0, with one or two first downs to spare. Brother Meatball Gambrell has turned
out to be a fine ball handler and, with the aid of Brothers Bill Crosby and Monty Hill, deceived the
whole Kappa Sig team on numerous occasions. Brothers Bob Millar, Vaughn McAlister, Bob McGehee, and Layne Cloanger gave their line
a hard time. Even "Goodpasture" finally managed to intercept a pass. The S.A.E. was caught by Pledge Bob Bennett whose
touchdown pass play throughout the season has been invaluable to the team. The S.A.E.'s came through with another victory, at
least part of one. The decorations for Homecoming at the S.A.E. House tied for second place. Many thanks to Brothers
Jim Williamson (general ingeniousness), John Codinuton (head of the committee to plan the decorations), Louie Rogers (excellent carpenter and creator
of the dummies), and to Pledges Hinson, Blake, McMurray, and others. Thanks to many others who cooperated to help make
a near-perfect exhibit. Thanks to Mrs. Elkins for curtains in the dining room and a fine lunch Saturday. Brothers Bronco
Bailey, Carl Pahl, and Mac Erwin played well in the mud Saturday—brickbats to those who left the game. Brother Layne
Cloanger and Pledge T.C. Colman were glimpsed making a fortune off of the strictly G.I. rain covers. The S.A.E. corner
buzzed at the dance Saturday night. Brothers Gene Ceer and Rivers Jenkins in their hawking clothes. Carl and Mary, John
and Douglas, Bob and Ann, Meatball and Waddy, Ken and Margaret, Mac and Caroline, Lane and Clara, Dick and Dot,
Cam and Laura, Rod and Flo, and Bud and June. Flo was beautiful, but Margaret was oh, so sweet! Brothers
J.D. Ashemore and Bill Hodgins did a good job as toastmasters at the banquet. We have Brother Bobby Carson to
thank for the fine meal. Was glad to see and hear some singing, but agree with others that it would
help a lot to have Brother Rod get up and lead or start us off so we could "make more
noise by singing the same songs and all at the same time."

News from all over... did you see our own Carl Pahl graciously present Miss Gladys Swarthout with those beautiful roses?
What's that boy got that I ain't? Everything!

By JIMMY HENRITZY

When asked what in the world had gone wrong with the polls, Mr. Roper replied, "Well, first of all, we
simply don't know." For Mr. Roper at that moment, under the terrific strain of one of the most baffling campaigns
in history, the answer was quite true. But emerging from the mystery of just why Mr. Truman was re-elected are
a number of very good reasons to explain the result which shocked the nation into a daze of acceptance early
Wednesday. Here are some of them. First of all, the heavy farm vote, heretofore always in the GOP bag, didn’t
give the expected support to Dewey because they were, to a large degree, satisfied with things as they are; the
farmer has never fared better than now. The American people have always had a feeling for the underdog and Truman's
every action convinced many people that here was a man set upon, harried, and unjustly castigated. For this reason, many
people voted for him out of sympathy. The labor campaign for Truman was unspectacular but immensely effective. In many states,
Truman rode in on the coattails of highly popular local talent. There was undoubtedly a protest vote against the 80th
Congress which, admittedly, didn't do as well as it should or could have done. The vote for Wallace, expected to
be indirectly a vote for Dewey, was far lower than expected. And finally, the age-old techniques of propaganda employed by
Mr. Truman proved themselves just as effective this time as they did in the last four elections. Arousing hate, fear,
and pitting class against class was made just as effective this time as it did in the last four elections.
This all shows clearly that the Democratic machine has lost none of its irresistible momentum in spite of the puerile
machinations of a blundering president whose guiding principle has seemed to be, "I must do something dramatic." And notably absent
from the reasons for this upset is even the slightest hint that Truman was or is a capable, intelligent, or
judicious man, in short, the best man running for the job.

The Democrats are once more in full and complete control. No longer can they point to any aspect of Republican
action as the cause for our ills and troubles. The Republicans, by losing, have been automatically exonerated from future blame.
The responsibility is now squarely at the feet of the Democrats under Truman. We feel that an ironic mistake has
been made, but, to quote Dewey, we must "unite" behind the man who beat him and behind "every effort to
keep our nation strong and free and establish peace in the world." If we do otherwise, Truman cannot succeed—he has
shown that only too clearly by his past actions. Thus, we can do no better than put into action the
theme of the high-minded, clean campaign of Governor Dewey—unity for a strong nation and for peace. These were no idle
words with Dewey and if the Republicans are to justify their leader's sincerity, they must practice it in the next
four years. We must sweep aside all petty political motives. This nation has never been in a more serious position
than now. The election is over. Now we can only hope that all, including Mr. Truman, will give every honest
and intelligent effort to the crisis of which they are capable.

It can hardly be contested that the Homecoming Festivities this year were the most interesting and most profitable of any
Homecoming most of us have ever seen. It was full of entertainment and rich with information. The Convocation and Homecoming
of 1948 will be long remembered by all who participated. While the actions of such well-known wheels as John Miller,
Orion Hutchinson, Jack Payne, and other notables escaped this writer's attention, it is to be hoped that this column will
not be too sadly lacking in reporting the deeds and misdeeds of a few lesser dignitaries. The final chapter of
Last Flight Richardson’s forthcoming book entitled "Boudoir Blunders," or "On Being Caught In The Act," was finally completed late Saturday
night on the third floor of the Hotel Charlotte, and the book will soon be available to Davidson students. Introduction
to the book is to be by Page Jackson, also of the Hotel Charlotte, who helped to inspire the work.

There were many ex-Operating Table socialites seen at the dances last week. These included Diamond Jim Siske, Amos Ragan, and
Chick Neill, all bubbling over with happiness at being back with "the boys." Also seen were Martin Waters, Vincent Long,
Lieutenants Martin Pitts and Dan Tyler, Bob Cline, Trader Buck Arledge, and others. Any party desiring entertainment of a light
nature is requested to contact those mountain moaners J. Quincy Adams and Ted Sumner, whose genuine hillbilly music was much
in demand this past weekend for the soothing of frayed nerves. Persons interested are requested to contact their agent, Smiling
Dick Baxter, of Charlotte.

Companies A and B of the S.A.E. fraternity met in formation after the dances at the Morrocco, where squads competed
with each other in the performance of courageous deeds of physical fitness. Groups led by Bill Hodgin and Jake Ashemore
outdid all the others and were decorated by visiting dignitary Ike Coffey, now M.I.A. Mann is still making statements about
flushes to all interested persons, somewhat bitterly, it is reported this week, disregarding the consolement offered after the dances by
visiting brother Jimmy Gribben. Wildest story of the weekend comes from the hills of western North Carolina in the area
inhabited by ex-luminary "Dum Dum Emmett," where Wild Bill Iverson and his flock ascended into the mountains around Montreat to
observe the scientific aspects of a sunrise.

Other mentionable highlights of the weekend included: Sam Loftin escorting a cute genuine Asheville walkie-talkie... Jim Rodger's loss of a
fraternity pin to a St. Mary’s queen... Herb Johnson and date cutting quite a figure on the dance floor... Odell
Dobson up to his usual tricks... the appearance of Cal Schmidt's old flame with another Davidsonian... Harley Dickson’s Pan-American Gopher
problems... the formal "presentation" of several of the highly dateable secretaries of the college... many other events, including the rainless
football game predicted by Dr. Cunningham, etc.

This is Monday and I didn’t get much sleep over the weekend. Therefore, I'm going to put the top on
the old trash can and call it quits for this week.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

Well, another homecoming weekend has passed, and now many of the thinkers in Pi K.A. are trying to work out
some plan whereby homecoming would be several times a year. The banquet at the Chez Montet got things off to
a flying start on Friday night. Brother Hamm made his debut as a toastmaster and came through in fine style—but,
oh those jokes. However, the girls' red faces did make striking contrasts with their gaily colored evening dresses. Pledges Dick
Boyd, Mattin, Osborne, and Brown made their bid for theatrical prominence by their masterful presentation of a skit. Brother Lee
was the recipient of a surprise package, courtesy of his brothers. After a glowing speech, in which he was almost
speechless with appreciation, he promptly mailed his gift to the Orkin Exterminating Company of Charlotte with the hope that it
might be of use in their work. Several of the brothers and pledges found time to attend the Friday night
dance. Brothers Ensign and McNair graciously consented to participate in the Pan-Hell figure, while the other Pikas and their dates...

(Continued On Page Four)
