PAGE FOUR

VFB PREDICTS
By DICK MORGAN

After a hectic weekend, the prophet starts this week with an average of .778 garnered on 28 wins, 8 losses, and 2 ties. His average seemed fairly successful, especially since it came on a weekend that produced surprises like the Tennessee game, the Tech-Oklahoma game, the Missouri game, the Eagle game, the Carolina game, and the fray. Here are our predictions for the week of November 13, and we hope that this time the worm will turn.

VMI 33, Citadel 7
The Flys will have enough reserve after their grueling fray with Tulane to down The Citadel Soldiers. Bobby Thomason’s passing will again account for the majority of the Naydet offensive power.

Wake Forest 20, Clemson 14
In the titanic struggle at Winston, we will pick Peahead and his lads to upset the beaten Tigers, relying on the strength of their offensive push. When a third passer like Plackerby can come in and win a game, it shows marked superiority in the backfield. Wake by one.

Duke 27, George Washington 7
Rebounding from two successive defeats, the Blue Devils will sharpen up for their game with the Tarheels on the 20th with a routine win over the Colonials.

North Carolina 34, Maryland 7
Ordinarily, this would be a closely waged ball game, but Carolina will be playing with fire in their eye in order to avenge last week’s tie with Rube’s boys. Justice and Company will run wild in the nation’s capital.

Kentucky 20, Florida 13
Fresh from their sensational tie with Villanova, which was maintained by a 69-yard run in the last seconds of the fray, the Cats will notch another scalp to their collection as they resume their activities on the comeback trail.

Notre Dame 21, Northwestern 7
This struggle will prove the real test that the Irish will get all season, save for that 1-point win over Purdue. (Incidentally, Purdue hasn't won yet!) The men of Leahy will be keyed up for this one, and with little Emil Sitko sweeping the ends, and Panelli smacking the line, they should prove victorious.

Tennessee 21, Mississippi 12
Colonel Bob Neyland’s charges have really hit their stride, and a win over Ole Miss would add to their enlightened chances of getting into Bowl recognition. Hal Littleford and Company will win by a touchdown.

Navy 27, Columbia 20
Beaten, battered, bruised, and brindled, the Navy Middies will win their first of the season, and first since November of 1946 over Columbia’s Lions. Columbia has been losing ball games in the waning seconds of the game, and this fray with Navy will probably follow this course.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1948

OLD GRADS...
(Continued From Page One)

CARNIVAL...
(Continued From Page One)

PHI HALL RENOVATED
(Continued From Page One)

The establishment of this headquarters will provide a much-needed and long-desired central place for meetings. It will consequently add greatly to the strength of the groups. The various organizations will keep their literature available to the students; the hours have to be announced later. A library may be set up later. Members of the student body are invited to come by Phi Hall and see the new home of the Council.

Brother Rodgers was enjoying the company of his girl for the first time, Miss Betty Bowles. Congratulations to both of you on your beautiful date.

SHEPHERD RELEASES
(Continued

The Davidson Harriers were defeated by the cross country team of William and Mary in a close and very exciting meet by the score of 28-30. The meet was held on the Davidson track on November 6. A heavy rain and muddy track slowed the harriers down. This was the best-matched team that the Wildcat Harriers have faced so far.From Page Three) February 11—V.M.I. at Lexington, Va. | February 12—Washington and Lee at Lexington, Va. | February 15—N.C. State at Raleigh. February 18—Furman at Greenville, S.C. | February 19—Clemson at Clemson. | February 22—University of North Carolina at Charlotte. February 24—University of South Carolina. | Virginia 27, West Virginia 14. The Cavaliers will be all out to win this one on their Homecoming. Walt Malyk has turned out to be a smashing fullback and it was his over-ladened bucks that ate up most of the yardage in the South Carolina fray. However, Papit and Jones will lead the Virginians to victory.

Skipping Over the Rest:
Georgia to beat Auburn; California over Washington State; Missouri to check Colorado; Cornell to down Dartmouth; State to defeat Duquesne; Michigan to massacre Indiana; Miami to loop Chattanooga; Mississippi to down L.S.U.; Oklahoma to overcome Nebraska; Illinois to upset Ohio State; Oregon to upset UCLA; Penn State to top Temple; Richmond to vanquish VPI; Princeton to beat Bulldogs of Yale; Purdue to punish Pitts; South Carolina to topple Tulsa; Texas to frustrate Frogs of TCU; Iowa to upset Minnesota.

If the weather is wet, do not fret; if the weather is dry, do not cry; if the weather is warm, do not storm; if the weather is cold, do not scold; but be thankful together, whatever the weather.

Send the Davidsonian home.—See the circulation manager. He will see that your home gets a copy.

GRADE “A” MILK PASTEURIZED
Mooresville Creamery
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

It’s MY cigarette.
RADIO'S FAVORITE SON
STAR OF CHESTERFIELD'S ARTHUR GODFREY TIME

(Continued From Page One)
Davidson harriers had been able to finish just a few seconds faster, the score would have been different. The following is a list of the finishers and their times:
1. Baker (W&M) 21.27; 2. Lindsay (W&M) 21.49; 3. Lawson (W&M) 22.24; 4. Bradley (D) 22.47; 5. Grube (D) 23.00; 6. Desamper (W&M) 23.05; 7. PMC (D) 23.41; 8. Vines (D) 25.40; 9. Riby (W&M) 25.50.

The Beta chapter of the Pi Kaps adorned their house with a rainbow tumly embedded in the decorations. The entire court was somewhat obscured with cobwebs, but it was no indication of lack of activity. The benediction was pronounced by Dr. Carl Pritchett of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

Send The Davidsonian Home.

S.M.U. 13, Arkansas 7
The Razorbacks in a crucial engagement will outdo S.M.U. this year, and if one or two of the Davidson harriers had been able to finish just a few seconds faster, the score would have been different.

The West Pointers are nearing another unbeaten season, and only Navy and Penn stand in their path. It is possible that the Cadets will win as they seem to play their best game on Franklin Field. It is too bad that Army doesn't play topnotch teams so it can establish their gridiron superiority.

Tulane 21, Baylor 14
In what well might be the closest game of the day, Tulane will down the Naughty Bears, as Joe Ernst will prove the difference in the two teams.

Boston College 19
The Kid says Will and Mary will win this one. Carolina, this prognosticator is building another big string along with Rube and Jake, wrecked the railing on the porch of the house. His idea in doing so was to lend aid (at a somewhat later hour) to Brother Hut.