PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, November 26, 1948

Hurricane beater Auburn Pamper, with his arm and the novocained left ankle, who by his mere presence in the Davidson
backfield put the Cats in position to score on his pass.

Jeweler W. S. HENDERSON

FROSH, SOPHOMORES STAGE TUG-’O-WAR

With the rattle of chains, members of the freshman class knelt in obeisance. Court of Control Judge Bingham strode to
the stand in his usual attire and warned the class that they had no chance to remind the upperclassmen of
their pants. The sophomore team is pretty weighty, averaging about 175 pounds. Judge Gene said that the Curse of Control
was establishing a new event to be marked on the freshman calendar, hoping that eventually the tug-of-war would become as
great a tradition as the freshman caps themselves.

The event will be held on Richardson Mud Puddle either the third or the eleventh of next month, and the
entire student body is expected to turn out for the duel. The sophomores will not dare go down in defeat
and swear to defend their rights to the best of their ability, ensuring that government by the sophomores, and for
the freshmen, shall not perish from the campus. The freshmen have sworn that they will not wear their bonds after
Christmas, dedicating their weights, their traction, and their muscles to this end.

INTERFRATERNITY ... (Continued From Page One)

COMMITTEE REPORTS. (Continued From Page One)

It should be emphasized that the number of seniors who took the Graduate Record Examination last spring is too small
to justify anything but a tentative judgment on the results. Many seniors who took the examinations had their college careers
interrupted by a number of years in the service. A just appraisal of the meaning of G.R.E. also requires a
knowledge of where the students taking it stood when they entered college since the seniors, because of war service, had
entered variously from three to nine years previously. That information was not available for this group. The examinations will be
given at planned intervals for at least several years. The next group to take them will be the present sophomore
class, at some time during the next semester, in the spring of 1949, and again to the same group in
their senior year.

Many of you already know this, but for those who do not, I would like to tell you a strange
thing about electing a President of the United States. When the Constitution was written, there had never been a contest
for the office. The men who wrote the Constitution planned that each State would get together and select a number
of outstanding citizens, call them “electors” and have these electors from all the states gather, survey the country, pick out
a man qualified for the job and elect him or offer him the office. For instance, 160 years ago come
January 7, these “Electors” gathered and decided that George Washington and John Adams would make a good President and Vice
President, respectively. They offered them the job, and it was accepted.

Political parties came into existence and contests have developed between the candidates and after 160 years we still follow the
old electoral college system designed for something very different from what we have today. The development of political parties has
changed the practical working of the constitutional provision. Nowadays, the parties put out electors pledged to vote for specific candidates.
This means, in effect, that when voters cast a ballot for a slate of electors, they are casting a ballot
for a certain candidate for President and Vice President.

Legally, however, the elector is under no obligation to vote for the specified candidate and could, if he desired, change
his mind between election day and the date of casting his ballot in the Electoral College. I am in favor
of changing the Constitution in order that I may vote for the President and Vice President for myself.

In order to make things right, credit the above to Tom McKnight. I'm only singing his little tune; published in
the Mooresville Tribune.

WHEN YOU SELECT OR ELECT AN INSURANCE MAN—DESIRE TO NOMINATE J.B. READLING

SURPLUS Portable Microscopes

We offer a limited quantity of surplus portable microscopes for sale. These are all new, in original cartons and are
offered at a fraction of the original cost.

Specifications: Overall height 8 inches, turret with three different powers. Will accept auxiliary eye-piece for higher powers if desired. Fullyadjustable
on tilt-back base. Optical system: pitch-polished lenses. These portable microscopes are offered subject to prior sale on the following terms:
$9.00, includes shipping and packing charges. Check or money order should be sent with your order or $2.50 deposit, the
microscope to be sent C.O.D. for balance. Any check received after quantity has been sold will be returned promptly. Gibson
Page Co. Inc. Dealers in War Surplus BOX 1130, ROCHESTER 2, N. Y.

“Under the present system President Truman will not be elected. Already steps have been taken toward the accomplishment of several
of these objectives, in which Dr. Cunningham and other members of the administration have played an important part. Mr. Hutchison’s
new course in the Fine Arts is an excellent step in the right direction, although it does not yet reach
as large a proportion of the student body as is desirable. The inclusion of a Fine Arts Center as one
of the objectives of the current Davidson Development Program gives hope of a better future for the Fine Arts at
Davidson than has been its lot in the past. The George F. Baker Foundation grant of $50,000 for merit scholarships
to students of exceptional promise could not have been made at a more opportune time.

The introductory statement of the faculty committee on examinations when it reported the results of the Graduate Record Examination last
spring expresses the feelings of the faculty as well, probably, as of a majority of the alumni: “The first purpose
and duty of a church-related liberal arts college is to provide a Christian education with the highest possible academic standards,
and the minimal essentials for such standards are students with the capacity to learn and a faculty with the capacity
and the desire to teach. The urgent demands of church, nation, and state upon educational institutions for the production of
leaders of the highest capacity and, in particular, the Southern Presbyterian Church's dependence upon its denominational colleges for outstanding leaders,
create for Davidson College an opportunity such as it has never had before, and an obligation such as it cannot
refuse to meet.”

CLOSING STUD... (Continued From Page Two) would surely undermine the whole Honor System. Add to the impracticality of the college's
spending a thousand dollars a month to keep the Stud open and you can readily understand why the store is
being closed. A full report on the losses incurred and the closing plans will be made by Manager Paul Horne
in Chapel Tuesday morning. The Davidsonian felt that this report should be given to the students sooner to show them
that the closing is reasonable, even imperative. Most of the student body have dreamed of getting things at the Stud
without paying for them and, like ourselves, they will find it hard to believe this report. They will naturally be
very indignant that this privilege has been taken away from them by the closing of the store, but a consideration
of the facts should persuade them that the taking away of that privilege is only just, all things being considered.

FRESHMEN EDGED. (Continued From Page Three) It was in the closing minutes of the game that the Davidsonians got fired
up for their lone score. The break that put the Wildkitters in scoring position was a State fumble, their third,
which Davidson's Don Lazenby covered. On the next play, guard Roy Johnson, former Central High gridder of Charlotte, took a
delayed hand-off from the quarterback and went 30 yards for the score. The attempted conversion was no good, so the
score stood at 12-6 as the final whistle sounded. In spite of the sloppy condition of the playing field and
a wet ball, Walt Ferrell of State, and Davidson’s C. L. Runyan punted well. In the Wildkitten backfield, halfback Johnny
Sloan, former star of the State champion Fayetteville High School team of 1947, carried his weight well. Another Davidson backfield
standout was Jim Guiton, 159 pounds of Gastonia, who played good ball. The whole forward wall of the freshmen played
heads-up ball, with Acker, Fasul, and Williamson leading the way. Don Lazenby, playing heads-up ball, recovered two State fumbles, one
of which put the Davidsonians in scoring position.

By May, 1927, sufficient funds had been raised to justify the trustees in passing a resolution authorizing the completion of
Chambers. In 1929, the new Chambers was completed.

PHI SOCIETY MAKES... (Continued From Page One) from the audience. Dr. Chalmers Davidson then read a poem that inspired all
the alumni to empty their piggy banks. Davidson was followed by that noted and illustrious speaker A. Bill Keauty, who
also issued an exhortation to the students. To close the program, Cheerleaders Bill Hamilton and John Lyles rendered a duet,
“Toward Davidson,” with words by Professor F. Chalmers Davidson and music by Professor “The Great White Father.” Hamilton then switched
back to the studio, where Taylor gave a very favorable weather report for Honolulu and vicinity, and then turned the
program over to Mercenary “Dave” Miller down in fraternity court. Here Professor Emeritus C. R. “Frank Lennon” Harding and the
famous philanthropist, J. Spencer “Tom West” Gatlocks judged the fraternity decorations and delivered an obviously unbiased decision. Then Miller returned
the audience to the studio, whereupon Taylor took it to the cornerstone ceremony, where the president of Davidson Dr. John
R. “Slick Frank Perrin” Cunningham and other members of the alumni, faculty, and administration assisted in the laying of the
cornerstone of the new gym. After this ceremony, Taylor gave another very favorable weather report, and returned the mike to
Miller, now in Chambers Auditorium for the convocation and award service. Dr. Cunningham presented awards to William Alexander “Lucky” Scruggs,
trustee of Farrior University, for his success in several aspects of the business world, and “Handsome” Herbie Meza, wrestling coach
at Scott, for his famous three-round decision over the dean of women, Agnes Baker. Then Miller switched the audience over
to Dave Hamilton Field, where he presented a play-by-play description of the scrap between the Davidson Wildcats and the Richmond
Spiders. Hamilton found it necessary to go off the air, however, after a flash flood washed him from the dome
of the Chambers building. Taylor concluded the program with a summary of events and a suggestion to tune in at
a later date for the broadcasts of other events of special interest to students and friends of Davidson College.

MASQUERS ANNOUNCE. (Continued From Page One) The Red and Black may do some radio work later this year. Officers in
the organizations this year are: President, Charles Hadley; vice president, Tom Apperson; secretary, Susie Jackson; and treasurer, Covington Grade.

“A” WESTERN STEAKS Phone 69 AL’S GRILL WHERE YOUR PATRONAGE IS ALWAYS WELCOME! — FRIED CHICKEN! Mooresville, N. C. Restaurant
A. J. Bistony, Prop.

WHATEVER YOUR NEEDS STREET

Bates Cleaners —For— Good Service

ALL THE NEW POPULAR PHONOGRAPH RECORDS. Columbia Masterworks Ned Seal Victor Parker-Gardner Company Since 1898 118 W. Trade St. Phone

Paul Cr villes, Inc. Sporting Goods 415 S. TRYON STREET N. C.

GRADE “A” MILK PASTEURIZED Mooresville Co-Operative Creamery Daily Delivery PHONE 205 MOORESVILLE, N. C.

BRYAN WENTZ COMPANY “Clothing For The Man” 205 South Tryon St. Charlotte 2, North Carolina

CENTER THEATRE Mooresville, N. C. STARTING Nov. 27 SATURDAY “LONE STAR PIONEERS” Wild Bill Elliott also “THUNDERHOOF” Preston Foster CARTOON
SERIAL LATE SHOW SAT. NITE. AND MONDAY “SEALED VERDICT” Ray Milland - Florence Marly NEWS - CARTOON

TUESDAY and WEDNESDAY “MR. PEABODY AND THE MERMAID” William Powell - Ann Blythe SHORTS - NEWS

THURS.-FRI. “JULIA MISBEHAVES” Greer Garson - Walter Pidgeon SPORTS REEL - NEWS

Carolina Theatre Mooresville, N. C. WEEK STARTING NOV. 26 FRI.-SAT. “GRAND CANYON TRAILS” (In Trucolor) Roy Rogers also “SONS OF
ADVENTURE” Russ Hayden CARTOON SUPERMAN

Late Show Sat. Nite 10:30 Only “SCARED TO DEATH” (In Cinecolor) Bela Lugosi - Douglas Fowley CARTOON

MON.-TUES. “THE JOLSON STORY” (Color by Technicolor) Larry Parks as the one and only Al Jolson—brought back by popular demand
NEWS

WED.-THUR. “PITTSBURG” John Wayne - Marlene Dietrich NEWS
