TOMORROW BEAT THE INDIANS

Volume XXXVII DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1948 Number 1

Dr. Cunningham Attends Amsterdam World Conference

Between August 21 and September 5, there took place in Amsterdam, Holland, a meeting of Protestant Christians from 42 nations
of the world. It was the Assembly of the World Council of Churches which has since 1937 existed in provisional
form and now, as a result of this meeting, has reached its final stage of organization. Representing the Southern Presbyterian
Church were our own president, Dr. Cunningham, Dr. Homer McMillan of Atlanta, Georgia, and Mrs. C. S. Harrington of Houston,
Texas.

The assembly was made up of 450 delegates and nearly 1,000 alternate delegates. The total amounted to approximately 2,000 delegates.
These, together with press, advisors, and speakers, were the presidents who presided over the assembly. They were: Dr. John R.
Mott (U.S.); Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr. Archibald; Archbishop Boegner (France); Archbishop of Upsala (Sweden); and Archbishop Germanos.

The great Cathedral in Nieuwkirk, Holland, where Queen Julianna was crowned, opened with a service on Sunday afternoon, August 22.
This cathedral, just two weeks following the meeting, was packed so that it was almost impossible for one to get
through. The program began with a colorful processional composed of the 450 delegates, which was followed by an address by
Dr. Mott on the ecumenical movement as it has developed in the last few years. Dr. Mott has himself been
identified with almost every step in this movement.

The first formal session of the assembly met Monday morning, August 23, when, after a service of worship and necessary
preliminary considerations, the World Council of Churches was duly brought into being by the vote of the delegates representing their
churches. It was a high and solemn moment which will never be forgotten by any of those who participated.

The next ten days were spent formulating plans for the coordination of the work of the churches. They took as
their theme, "Disorder and God's Design." Reports of the meeting in full form will be published in volumes which will
come from the press.

The personnel of the assembly was made up of clergymen, laymen, women, and youth of almost all races and colors.
It is too early to assess the results of the assembly. Such results are yet to be discovered in the
future. The fact is, however, that there gathered in the Christian era so representative a body from all parts of
the world. It is the belief of those who shared in the assembly that something great and significant has been
achieved. What the World Council of Churches can mean to evangelism and missions and to the spirit of understanding of
brotherhood essential to world peace remains to be seen. On the last morning of the assembly, a message to be
sent to all churches of the assembly was adopted. It will be read from Protestant pulpits in the various nations
on World Communion Sunday, October 3.

COURT OF CONTROL JUDGES

Members of the Court of Control are (left to right, top row): Judge Gene Bingham, senior members “Bronco” Moore and
Bill Brownson; (bottom row): junior members Ernie Stricklin, Buddy Chandler; sophomore members Tom Allen and Davis. These defenders of Davidson
tradition mete out just punishment to unwary violators of the freshman regulations.

Special Davidson Train To Raleigh For State Game

Eight new teachers, representing fourteen different academic fields, have been selected as members of the Davidson College faculty for the
year 1948-49. The new members bring the total of active professors to 54, a new high.

In Spanish, Dr. James Y. Causey, recently professor of Spanish at Davidson College, Schenectady, N.Y., is a full professor here
in his chosen field, and Charles W. Roberts, who did graduate work at the University of North Carolina, has been
appointed as an associate professor in Education. Another Davidson graduate, Frank M. Sinclair, '37, who has been teaching at Catawba
College, Salisbury, and was at Mississippi State College during the summer of 1948, will become a professor in Economics and
Business. Sinclair taught at Davidson the spring semester of 1946 before going on to graduate work at the University of
North Carolina. Joe E. Martin, '46, has been added to the Mathematics Department. For the time being, he will be
an instructor at the University of North Carolina while also working on a Ph.D. degree. He received his M.A. from
Vanderbilt in 1947. One English professor from Duke, Jay H. Ostwalt, '35, has been taken up as an instructor in
English. Lacy S. Sellars and John M. Watts, both graduates of the Class of '46, have been appointed as instructors
in Physics and Chemistry, respectively.

The athletic department has announced the acquisition of the services of Boyd H. Baird as freshman football coach. Baird, a
graduate of Maryville College, has done graduate work at Ohio Wesleyan and the University of Illinois, serving as assistant coach
at the former institution.

VESPERS

Sept. 26—The Reverend Warner L. Hall, D.D., Second Presbyterian Church, Charlotte.

CHAPEL

Monday, September 27—Prof. William R. Smith, III (45), recently pastor of the Yadkinville Presbyterian Church, has been appointed the new
secretary of the college YMCA, replacing Bill McLean.

Tuesday, September 28—Mr. Norman Shepard.

Wednesday, September 29—President J. R. Cunningham.

Thursday, September 30—Prof. Lewis N. Schenck.

Friday, October 1—YMCA.

It's up to you, fellows, how about it? Shall we see you in Raleigh?

Court of Control Roars Into Action

The famous Davidson Court of Control, established in 1923 in order to control the up-to-then overly violent freshman hazing, has
again resumed its wayward wearers of the red.

Dr. Stubbs Visits Campus

A recent visitor of distinction to the campus was Dr. W. P. Stubbs, former professor of Political Science at Emory
University. Dr. Stubbs is currently associated with the J. Bulow Campbell Foundation of Atlanta, which gives large financial grants each
year to deserving church and educational institutions. Several years ago, the foundation increased Davidson's endowment by fifty thousand dollars. Dr.
Stubbs' mission on the campus this week has been to investigate the possibilities of a further large grant to the
Davidson Development Fund. In his investigations, Dr. Stubbs spoke at one chapel program and attended the meeting of the Court
of Control. On the lighter side of his mission, Dr. Stubbs regretted that he could not be here Saturday to
watch the Wildcats beat William and Mary.

Construction Begun On Gymnasium

On the north end of Richardson Field, a dream is in the process of coming true. For years, the need
of a larger and more adequate gymnasium on the campus has been increasingly evident. In 1942-43, alumni and friends of
Davidson contributed money to the amount then needed for such a building. Construction had to be postponed at that time
because of wartime building restrictions and a shortage of material. But on Friday morning, July 23, official ground-breaking ceremonies were
conducted by President John R. Cunningham, beginning the erection of the new gymnasium. The brief program included the singing (Continued
On Page Four)

SENIOR CLASS OUTNUMBERS INCOMING FRESHMAN CLASS

Despite the absence of the traditional freshman caps thus far around the campus, the college has been invaded by a
goodly number of young stalwarts, commonly labeled under the term “fish.” Although no exact statistics have been compiled to date,
the most official count obtainable indicates approximately 113 freshmen have entered to become a part ofThis fraternity's illustrious institution; The
Human Class is by no means one of the larger classes as has been the case in the last few
years. It is the smallest. Well, now that the big week is over, Davidson's ten social fraternities have come and
gone. Now that the fraternity men have exhausted themselves rushing the new students, and the freshmen have exhausted themselves trying
to take it all in and make their choice fraternities, let's take a look at the final results as released
by the Pan-Hellenic Council. A total of 162 boys were pledged by these social fraternities after four days of wild
and hectic rushing. These new pledges, according to college requirements, will not be eligible for initiation until after they have
successfully passed their first semester of work.

Those boys who received and accepted bids are:

KAPPA ALPHA
William A. Adams, William Duckey, William J. Cox, Dickson, Jr., J. Howard, John Hunter, McWilliams, Jr., James S. Vannerson, Bailey,
J. D. Ashby, Byron W. Robinson, John Stevenson, Thomas S. Ward, and Frank Winston.

BETA THETA PI
Pete Kalogrides, Ralph Northeutt, Jr., Willard Thorne, Robert McPheeters, Furman Ferguson, Roy Horne, Francis Peppy, Robert Nimocks, Henry Irwin, Robert
Patton, Winslow Dalew, Blaine Kelley, Men Rash, Jack Peaycraft, W. Henry Hankins, John Jervis, Robert Willey, Christian Williams, Thomas Craven,
and Ant Chippie.

PI KAPPA PHI
Clarence F. Calhoun, Phillip M. Miller, Harvey D. McClintock, Neal, William H. Neal, Jr., Trew Gurley, William F. Henning, Jr.,
C. D. Rhodes, Jr., Ben C. Morris, John M. Pierce, Ben J. Dryman, Lewis B. Hyman, Gerald Nall, Will Sargent,
and Robert Speyer.

PHI DELTA THETA
Dallas Vickard, Jr., William Warren, Jr., Edward Sutt, Richmond Bernhardt, Allen Strand, Kennon Taylor, William Bacon, Robert Clark, Samuel Biel,
Ansley Moses, Walter Huffaker, Don Henry, and Thomas Lane.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
Alex F. Goley, Robert Benson, Ernie Stricklin, Buddy Chandler, Tom Alley, and Hoopy Davis.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
Samuel G. Alexander, Jr., Carol Camp, George Chandler, Samuel Cummins, M. Vickerson, Alan Groseclose, William J. Jones, Thomas L. Hamilton,
Joel Mattison, James Delap, II, William Wiant, and Maynard Royster.

SIGMA CHI
James A. Jones, III, William A. Woodman, Elliott Verner, James Blackburn, Douglas Sanders, William Brooks, Harry Whitaker, James Grisson, Ed
Francisco, and Fred Best.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
Davidson L. Dubose, Adolf Peterson, Jr., William L. Hart, Herman Hayden, Jr., Sam G. Seawell, Gus Brown, Angus McKellar, Charles
Barrett, Kenneth Newbold, Charles Newbold, Jack Turner, Jr., Thomas S. Rose, II, Phil D. Cox, Richard A. Boyd, Robert Martin,
Jr., and Grover Martin, Jr.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
Eugene D. Morton, George A. Morton, and George A. Morton.

In a very dramatic chapel talk, Judge Gene Bingham of the 1948 Davidson Court of Control gave a statement of
the Court's policies for this year. Bingham admonished the upper-classmen to take greater precaution in their handling of freshmen this
year, making sure that they abide by the time-flavored Davidson traditions. He called for greater support on the part of
the upperclassmen in seeing that the freshmen carry out their numerous tasks. "In the past," Bingham said, "the Court of
Control has served merely as a means to scare the freshmen into obedience, but in the future, the court will
assume a more constructive task."

The Court of Control will be composed of Bingham, Frank Bailey, Jake Ashmore, Bill Brown, Alex F. Goley, Robert Benson,
Ernie Stricklin, Buddy Chandler, Tom Alley, and Hoopy Davis. The latter was named to supplant Floyd McLean, who did not
return to the campus this year. Davis is a member of the varsity Wildcats and hails from Decatur, Ga.

During the meeting behind closed doors, Bingham was emphatic in his declaration that the Court of Control was going to
be used primarily to instill the Davidson traditions and spirit in the incoming freshmen. With Bingham and his other five
cohorts, all equipped with a fast wit and quick tongue, the freshmen will rest assured that they will be well
taken care of in Phi Hall. Bingham also emphasized that the upperclassmen should be sure that they hand in legitimate
complaints of the Class of '52. "Last year," said Bingham, "too many upperclassmen submitted far-fetched complaints just for the sake
of amusement. This year, let's make certain that the freshman has committed his violation before his name is submitted." The
college can rest assured that the year of 1948 will find a far more impartial and constructive Court of Control
than any other in the long history of Davidson College.

The Philanthropic Society held its first meeting last Tuesday evening at 7:30. The steering committee presented a series of programs
to provide a variety of society and campus life. The society will sponsor lectures and poetry readings, debates, and other
activities. The Philanthropic Society is the oldest literary society at Davidson. It functions without interruption. It has as its purpose
the cultivation of the literary and oratorical talents of its members. A great deal of spontaneous debate is incidentally picked
up at the meetings, and the members of the society enjoy one of the strongest bonds of fraternal unity of
any honorary society on the campus. New members will be elected to the society in the fall and in the
spring.
