Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, March 19, 1948

THE DAVIDSONIAN
“Founded by the Class of 1915”
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

THE DAVIDSONIAN Presents
EDITORIALS... LETTERS... FEATURES

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITORIAL STAFF
Sam Ervin - Managing Editor
Bob Cline - Managing Editor
Bob Phillips - Managing Editor
Mac Hart - Managing Editor
Walter Mann - Columnist
Stan Kennett - Associate Editor
Bill Calhoun - Sports Editor
Ronnie Dietrich - Columnist
Rees Jenkins - Columnist
Malloy Owens - Columnist
John Stewart - Columnist
Floyd McLean - Columnist

Assistant Photographer
Feature Reporters: Bob Hollister, Lonnie Turnipseed, Dave Gambrell, Bill DuBose, Bruce Kendall, Bill Bogart, Charles T. Davis, Bob Wells, Art
Jenkins.
Freshmen Reporters: Hartley Hall, Randy Taylor, Warren Sims, Phil Mitchell, Bill Hollister, Scott Verner, Gray Hampton, Frank Purnell, Tom Flipse,
Kenneth Jones, Jim Murray, Jim Larkin, Leonard Boswell, John Cosby, Dave Hayworth, Hugh Evans, Pat McGeachy.
Sports Staff: Jack Hazard, Frank Aldred, Cherry Stribling, Watt Jeffries, Bill Cassels, Doug Hix, Bill King, Gene Regan, Dick Morgan,
Furman Warlick.

BUSINESS STAFF
John McNair - Assistant Business Manager
Gil Armfield - Advertising Manager
Frank Lemmon - Circulation Manager
Bill Baxter - Subscriptions Manager
Charles Clinkscales - Assistant Advertising Mgr.
Charles Dockery - Collections Manager
Wilkes Macauley - Assistant Advertising Mgr.
Glen Gilmore - Assistant Circulation Mgr.
Bill Keith - Assistant Circulation Mgr.
Sandy Sprunt - Assistant Circulation Mgr.
Bob Knight - Assistant Subscriptions Mgr.
Charles Beam - Assistant Collections Mgr.

Advertising Staff: H. MacKethan, C. Faison, Claude Higginbotham, D. Hayworth, Blaine Kelley, Gene Taylor, W. S. McSwain.
Circulation Staff: Paul Guthery, Sam Davis, Bill Cassels, John Coble, Jim Fisher, Bob Sims, Jimmy Rogers, Norvel Childers, Ted Bowan,
Murray Ashman, Erwin Clark, Ray Cunningham, Bill Mebane.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1946 Member 1947
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Election Edition

In recent weeks a number of students have expressed the desire for a pre-election issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN. All have
voiced the complaint that it is impossible for a single student to know everyone in a student body of more
than nine hundred and fifty men. They have called upon the staff to furnish them with information about all candidates
so that they may vote intelligently.

Although the staff opposes organized campaigning for a number of reasons, we feel that this request can be granted without
exposing the members of the staff to charges of having violated the provision in the student constitution forbidding the soliciting
of votes. More important, we believe that for the good of the school the request should be granted.

No one is dissatisfied with the results of last year’s elections. They do feel, however, that we may not be
so fortunate again. No voter anywhere should vote blindly, and that is what we desire to prevent.

At the present time we have not completed our plans for carrying this project out. This cannot be done until
the Elections Board puts its stamp of approval upon the entire scheme. However, it is expected that after this issue
(which will contain the information about all men eligible for the positions of editor of the newspaper, the magazine, and
the annual), there will be a number of one-page special editions with facts about all candidates for each office. These
specials will be placed in the hands of the students before the voting begins to enable them to become better
acquainted with the qualifications of all men whose names will appear on the ballot.

The danger lies in the way in which these facts are presented. For this reason we have decided to use
the same form for each candidate. The information will consist of (1) the candidate’s name, (2) his hometown, (3) his
campus activities (listed factually only) and (4) his military record, if any. We feel that this will make it impossible
for any one individual to gain an advantage over another as the result of statements not based purely upon facts.

We sincerely wish that it was possible to print pictures of every candidate, but we are unable to do so
for two reasons. First, the cuts must be prepared in Charlotte. The Alumni Office does not have mats or cuts
of individual students. They do have pictures, but it is impossible to have cuts made from these pictures in less
than 48 hours. Therefore, in the case of the “special” issues there is not sufficient time between the nominations and
the elections in which to have this done. In the second place the costs of such an operation are prohibitive.
THE DAVIDSONIAN does not make a profit and the limited funds available from ads would not be nearly enough to
finance such a great undertaking. This is easily understandable if one considers that more than sixty cuts would be needed.

We are not undertaking this project without misgivings. It has never been tried before, and none of us have had
experience with activities of this nature elsewhere. We are undertaking it, nevertheless, for we feel that the students desire that
we do so. It is our policy to do everything possible to make THE DAVIDSONIAN a paper which serves as
a spokesman for and an agent of the student body, and we feel that this action is a step in
that direction.

Iron Curtain

In last week’s DAVIDSONIAN the article “Iron Curtain Around the Campus” was partially reprinted from the Presbyterian Outlook. While a
large part of this article was directed towards defects in curriculum and toward some faculties who do not seek to
relate the courses of their institutions to life, another paragraph seemed to come nearer to a solution for the Davidson
Campus. This section brought forward the point that many of the students on American campuses do not care. That is,
they are interested only in what is happening on their own campuses or in the cities in which they spend
their weekends. We have, perhaps, the appearance of having such an attitude on our own campus. Either we do not
care or we are so afraid of the persecution that some individualistic idea might receive that we pretend we do
not care.

This indifference to the world outside our “ivory towers” is evident in the letters received by the editor of THE
DAVIDSONIAN. These letters are primarily concerned with something which has happened on the Davidson campus. Last week’s excellent comment on
FEPC was one of the few unsolicited statements we have received on state, national, or religious affairs. Such a trend
in the spontaneous writings of a student body would certainly seem to indicate that there is present an almost total
lack of concern for things which do not seem to affect us directly.

Perhaps the answer to the question: “Why don’t we care?” is that we have never really stopped to consider everything
involved in the political issues of our nation or in the religious problems facing the church. When we go blissfully
on unaware of church and nation, do we realize that in a few short years we will either be the
leaders of the church and state or we will be forced along by the tide of the opinions of those
who have prepared themselves for life by the consideration of matters outside their own egocentric spheres.—J.W.M.

The Phi Beta Kappa Chapter at Davidson was the second in the South established in a liberal arts college.

Mrs. W. P. Cumming (Elizabeth Chandler) is the only faculty wife who has written a book.

There are at least five faculty families who have four children each (Lingles, Richards, C. K. Browns, Kimbroughs, and Cunninghams)
but none have five. It must be predestination.

The Davidson Chapter of O.D.K. was the fourth in the nation.

Davidson College had a Ku Klux Klan immediately following the War Between the States. It was organized by a member
of the faculty and composed of students of the college and clerks in the local stores.

According to the latest World Almanac (1948), Gamma Sigma Epsilon (chemistry fraternity founded at Davidson) has 16 chapters, and Sigma
Pi Sigma (physics fraternity founded at Davidson) has 45.

Think It Over...
By MALLOY OWEN

BE PREPARED

The Boy Scouts chose a great motto. America will do well to adopt it. If there is danger, no matter
how remote, we should make some preparation for meeting it, just in case. If war is a mere matter of
weeks away, then the U.S. would be wise to hurriedly boost our air force back toward war strength and get
draft machinery ready to roll at a moment's notice.

Closer home, we are all here at Davidson, supposedly to prepare for the future. If there is a strong possibility
that war is about to break out and that we may be in uniform and on our way to combat
within the next few months, we would be wise to make our own preparation, to be sure that we have
that Faith that will stand the heat of battle.

Now is the hour to pray for peace. Pray as we have not often prayed—for peace and that our people
may turn to the Lord. For if we go on unrepentant and unbelieving, we are asking for disaster.

ADOPTION

It now appears that adoption of the Elections Information Plan is virtually assured. Our thanks to the council, editors, and
others who joined in to help bring about this adjustment in our method of conducting elections. This plan is at
best a poor substitute for knowing the candidates personally, but we definitely believe it is much better than knowing absolutely
nothing about the men running. Another point to be remembered is that sometimes the best man running may not have
held a single office previously. Therefore we should also take into consideration his ideas expressed in his statement.

We believe this information service, if carefully kept fair to all, will be a step forward toward better student government
and toward better training in the mechanics of democracy for us, as citizens. It will furnish us with some facts
upon which to base our decisions.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

BETA THETA PI

After a long illness Brother Murphy is out of the “horse pistol” and has found time to get a ghost
writer for his illustrious column. Much interest there these days. Flash: Brother Bob Richardson wept tears of blood this weekend
because the Richmond flame was campused, but still ‘tis fine to see his smiling face these days. Murph’s comrade, “King”
Yocum, pulled down top honors in a male beauty contest. (Wooglin makes a reverent and low bow to the King).
To celebrate his honors, Brothers Lyday, Shepperson, George Edwards, and others from Randolph-Macon have loyally announced his enthronement to the
four corners of Betadom. Hail, Oh King!

Brothers Schmidt and Robinson (Ralph) had a fine time with fine dates at Converse. Found! Brother holed up in a
cabin at Montreat with a book. Many of the brothers journeyed to Salem for the annual event. Included were brothers
Vinson, West, Hoskins, V. Long, Peters, McNemer, Ed Robinson, Turner, Irvin Richardson, and possibly others. All seem to have had
a fine time with blind dates and otherwise, except brother Vinson whose past was catching up with him. We feel
that the girls at Salem did exceedingly well in their preparations and presented an excellent program.

Brothers Carper and Childers preferred to spend their free time this weekend in the “City of Sin.” Hermitage Court is
such a beautiful place. Queens, as usual, drew a small delegation from amongst the younger brothers. This is not to
say that they haven't learned better yet, for many of our more experienced members seem to find whose...

K. A.

The KAs would like to make it publicly known that the outcome of the recent intramural track meet would have
been drastically altered had it not been for the Glee Club’s tour. According to a special, but impromptu release to
the press, our number one songbird, Tom Cook, would have bettered many of the times established in the cinder farce.
However, we of Sigma are very proud that we could spare the Adonis himself to the womanhood of Charleston, Jacksonville,
and other points on the itinerary for a few days. He also gave the brothers a break by presenting his
newest love at Sunday night’s feed at the house.

Brother Matthews and Adams were among those who were seen slumming Saturday night. Baxter was also noticed at Queens, but
he says he was only driving for the other two. Rumor has it that they don’t remember the girls’ names.
Were the girls that bad or were the boys that bad off?

The Hag farm was well represented at Sunday night’s feed. Prof. Hardin, the daddy of all lovers, blossomed forth with
a new face. West was there and, as mentioned above, Cook had his queen with the redhead. Kirby and Hazard
were also seen coming and leaving with...

(Continued on Page Five)

The Poll-cat

By DAVID SONIAN

If any changes or additions are made in our football schedule within the next few years, we hope that the
Athletic Department will consider the results of this poll. What school would you like to see added to our football
schedule?

Students:
CLEMSON
WAKE FOREST
DUKE
CATAWBA

Faculty and Administration:
WAKE FOREST
DUKE
UNC

WHAT'S WHAT AMONG AMERICAN COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES

By REES JENKINS

There is a dearth of news in the pigeonhole this week and our reporter is at a loss to fill
any space. I could coolly steal the tale of Donna Juanna and her fellow characters, Tia Juanna, Marie Juanna, Idd
Juanna, and Wa Juanna, and tell of their trials in the Milthy Spitoon Saloon from the ever-popular Florida Alligator. But
that wouldn't be nice. If you're interested in finding out what happened to Donna as she hung simply by the
hem of her gym shorts in the crotch of a pussy-willow, check the Alligator in the back of the library.

Other frats have had various and sundry problems to cope with in the past, but the SAE’s, down at Emory,
have a lion people just won’t leave alone. Somebody seems to have a mania for painting, with bright colors, a
lion the SAE’s use for decorative purposes outside their house.

Or, I could tell you of the guy up at Loyola (Baltimore) who felt that he knew all the answers,
so his friends started a campaign of advertising his abilities with the “Kilroy was here” technique. In this case, it
was “See Tom Zeller.”

During the week I was asked if I don’t have anything to report from Woman's College. I follow The Carolinian
all right, but it seems that they're a rather intellectual lot, and to report on the various lectures and forums
they've had up there in Greensboro wouldn't go over very well with you, my fans. Maybe it's true of many
publicly controlled women's colleges because The Johnsonian of Winthrop is very similar.

The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association is meeting now over at Durham. None other than our own Jimmy Gribben is
vice-president of this organization. Our friend, “No Encore” Karl Krueger, is making a very extensive tour of colleges and universities.
Many student newspapers are devoting some of their space to him.

An exchange editor for a college rag has a hard time. Often trying to find something to write about and
when he does hit on something, his finished product looks so silly and unnecessary! Your reporter’s efforts bear witness to
this. All exchange editors have their troubles, so I'd like to cite some of the things resorted to.

On inspection of the exchange column in the University of Delaware’s The Review, I was much astonished to read the
column I had written for the Davidsonian a couple of weeks ago. A few points were polished up, but otherwise,
the larger part of it was mine, verbatim. Of course, I find this very flattering. I should get What's What
syndicated or maybe he was really up against it when the press deadline came around.

The exchange editor on The Twig at Meredith must have really dug in to make a crack at my attempt
for essays from some women's colleges last fall! But still another such overworked, under-rated colleague has put it into poetry:

Exchange Editor’s Lament

Oh, pity the poor Exchange Editor,
The man with the scissors and the paste.
Oh, think of the man who must read all the jokes
And think of the hours he wastes.

He sits at the desk until midnight,
How worried and pallid he looks,
As comics he scans through the college
And reads all the funny books.

This joke he can't clip—it’s too dirty.
This story's no good—it’s too clean:
This woman won't do—she’s too shapely.
This chorus girl's cut—it’s obscene;

The jokes are the same, full of co-eds,
And guys who get drunk on their dates,
Bathtubs, sewers, and freshmen,
And stories of unlawful mates.

Jokes about the profs and the readers,
Jokes about overdue bills,
Jokes about girls in their boudoirs,
And others as old as the hills.

The clips must be clean for the mothers,
The clips must have sex for the boys:
The clips must be packed full of humor
Or the editor raises a noise.

Oh, pity the man with the Clipper,
He's only a pawn and a tool,
In trying to keep his jokes dirty and clean,
He's usually kicked out of school.

By RONNY

Davidson has survived four wars in its 110 years of existence. Perhaps the most severe test the college came during
the War Between the States. At the beginning of this war, Davidson was known as one of the “poorest of
the poor.” At the close of the war, the college was one of the “richest in the South,” but this
was the result of the patriotic purchase of the college endowment fund, Confederate bonds. Furthermore, Davidson has a record for
service in the Civil War which may not even be surpassed by her contributions to the recent conflict. Certainly, a
greater proportion of her alumni and faculty served in the former.

At the beginning of the war, Davidson had connections with several men who were later to become famous in the
Confederacy. “Stonewall” Jackson, who married a daughter of Davidson's first president, used to visit in Davidson, and is said to
have taught a “math” class here for one day at the request of Major D. H. Hill, a member of
the faculty. Major Hill himself later became a general in the Confederate Army as did three Davidson men of the
class of 1857. These men were General John R. Boyd, General Robert D. Johnston, and General Stephen D. Ramseur. Actually,
none of these men graduated from Davidson, for they all transferred from here to West Point.

The Beginning

In 1860 Davidson seemed little affected by the general political excitement. Even when secession came, they demonstrated no great fervor,
though they did raise a secession flag over the cupola of “old” Chambers. When, however, it became known that President
Lincoln called for volunteers to put down the South, feeling immediately reached a red heat. The entire junior class asked
for and received permission to leave school in a body to join the Confederacy. Those who remained joined the faculty
and drilled behind the campus. Ladies banded together and made knapsacks from the oil cloth covers which adorned the tables
in the mess hall.

The War Years

As the war progressed, the size of the student body fell to a pitifully small group of prep school boys,
preministerial students, and returned veterans, all of whom were disabled. The salaries owed to faculty members were far in arrears
and several left to find more remunerative work. Nevertheless, the college carried on with what it had.

Also, this period was one of poor food. During the war years, the main diet was corn dodgers, turnip pudding,
dried apple pies, and rye coffee, sweetened with sorghum molasses. As the war was coming to a close, the Confederacy,
then in the throes of her slow death, ordered the removal of the rails of the railroad, which had been
laid through Davidson in 1861, on the grounds that they were needed elsewhere. Though the railroad was given up cheerfully,
it was almost a death blow to the college since many of the remaining students left school for fear they
would be...

(Continued on Page Three)
