In answer to the column of last week, the following letter was received from a member of the freshman tennis
team.

Dear Editor:

"I can hardly believe that Davidson College, with its powerful tennis team, has only three courts. Since we can only
play three matches at a time, we'll have to start before noon to have them completed by dark. Something is
fouled up here.

Yes, it seems that something sure is fouled up here. The above remarks may well be made by a member
of any tennis team that comes to Davidson to play a match this coming spring. Why don't we have more
tennis courts?

This fine old institution is trying to raise well over two million dollars to improve its facilities and beauty. The
inadequate number of tennis courts we have is a poor display of facilities. It would seem that building new and
improving our all-too-few tennis courts would be of primary importance in this improvement campaign. It would take less than one
half of one percent of the money now being raised to do this. Why aren’t they being built now?

With the fine reputation Davidson tennis teams have built up in the past few years, it seems inevitable that many
good players will want to come to Davidson to win their tennis letters, thus making our future years in tennis
even brighter. But if the word gets around that Davidson cares so little about its tennis teams that it only
provides three courts of varsity calibre for them, we won't be able to get the men if they decide to
take their talents elsewhere. So—Why aren’t we building more tennis courts now?

The present overcrowded conditions at the courts, where barely half of the varsity and less than half of the freshman
teams are now going through fall practice sessions, will be more than doubled next spring when the two full teams
begin practice. We can't have good teams if we don’t have a sufficient number of courts to mold them on.
That’s good common sense, so it would seem that Davidson would provide more courts for our teams. Why aren’t they
being built now?

There are many students who play tennis but are not out for the teams. These men are forced to play
on the lower courts when the teams are practicing. And they will be forced off of these in the Spring
when the complete list of team members begin practice. So—Why don’t we have more courts?

Personally, I don't know whose fault it is that we don’t have more courts."Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving
the original meaning and punctuation:

---

ground gainers for the Catg| ing tailback slot. And for three years his big number 43 has brought respect from
opposing teams. Among the numerous tailbacks on the squad, he is a member of the ace Theta Fraternity. He is
a member of the Beaver—Clith and has completed his advance ROTC course and will receive his commission at graduation. This
year Shep was elected vice president of the “Db” team. Shepherd graduated from Gastonia High School in 1943. While he
was at Gastonia he was the star of one of the greatest teams that school ever produced. His teammates on
that team were Charlie Pearson, stellar shortstop, Leroy Frye, Duke star, and Wade Walker, outstanding guard.

The crushing Beta ball club rolled on Wednesday to down an out-classed Pi Kappa Phi aggregation. The sons of Wooglin
hit pay dirt three times while their defensive wall held the Pi Kaps to not even a first down. Earl
Smith again paced the Beta attack along with Earl Groves, Springer Hoskins, and Bill Williams. The blue jerseyed sonesters struck
early and never quit hitting. The same day the gold-shirted KAs bounced back to pin a 30-0 spanking on the
undermanned Sigma Chi club. The Knights hit on the first play from scrimmage as Bill Bird flipped to end Charlie
Mitchell who raced forty yards down the sidelines behind beautiful blocking by Hal Haynes to score. Minutes later Paul Richardson
crashed through to block a punt by Harry Brown and Bill Adams pounced on it in the end zone for
tally number two. The third score came midway in the second half. Tim Hardin raced from out of nowhere to
nail an errant Sigma Chi aerial in midfield and sped downfield to score. Bird added the fourth marker on a
five-yard trip around left end. With seconds left, blocking back Richardson intercepted another toss on his own twenty and advanced
to the one where he was chased out of bounds. On the next play Bird hit end Harry Bachman in
the end zone among a host of enemy backs as the game ended.

Visit Mooresville Skating Rink
TUESDAY - WEDNESDAY - FRIDAY
7:30 to 10:00
SATURDAY 2 to 4 — 7:00 to 9:30 — 9:30 to 11:30
RINK AVAILABLE FOR PRIVATE PARTIES
INSTRUCTION FOR BEGINNERS AND DANCE SKATERS
Mooresville, N. C. — Phone 4349

AMATEUR BOXING
SATURDAY, OCT. 30 — 8 P. M.
Mooresville High School Gym
ALBEMARLE, N. C. TEAM vs. MOORESVILLE, N. C. TEAM
MOORESVILLE MILLS

How MILD can a cigarette be?
CAMELS
So MILD— that a 30 Day Test revealed NO IRRITATION due to smoking CAMELS!

Yes, here is a cigarette so mild that, in a total of 2470 exacting throat examinations of hundreds of men
and women who smoked Camels exclusively for 30 consecutive days, throat specialists found not one single case of throat irritation
due to smoking Camels. Why are Camels so mild? Choice tobaccos—infinite care in their aging—plus matchless blending to bring you
a full, rich flavor and a cool mildness that says “Camels,” and only Camels! But prove it yourself in YOUR
“T-Zone”—T for Taste and T for Throat. Make the Camel 30-Day Test with our money-back guarantee!

Make the 30-day Camel test yourself. If, at any time during these 30 days, you are not convinced that Camels
are the mildest cigarette you have ever smoked, return the package with the unused Camels and we will refund your
full purchase price, plus postage. This offer is good for 90 days from this date. (Signed) R. J. Reynolds Tobacco
Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.
