PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1948

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
MAC HART

BUSINESS MGR.
JOHN McNAIR

EDITORIAL STAFF
Ben Nennelt — Associate Editor
Bill Calhoun — Associate Editor
Ronnie Dietrick — Associate Editor
Jack Hazard — Sports Editor
Bob Hollister — Managing Editor
Lonnie Turnipseed — Managing Editor
Dick Morgan — Managing Editor
Tom Niblock — Staff Photographer
Bill King — Cartoonist
FEATURE REPORTERS—Malloy Owen, Randy Taylor, Warren Simms, Phil Mitchell, Hartley Hall, Boyce Kendall, Bob Grube, and Warren Sims.
REPORTERS—Jimmy Henritzy, Henry Hansen, Perry Gregg, Harry Shurley, Gab Lowe, John Calhoun, Ken Jones, Ralph Robinson, Tom Allen, Dick Barnwell,
Ed West, Jim Murray, Tommy Holler, Bob Hubbell, Bill McCrary, Tom Mann, Bill Cumming, Phil Vibby, Ben Drymon, Angus McKellar,
Dudley Pendleton, Jimmy Fickelson, Pete Kologides, Dick Chandley, Bob Northeutt, Stuart Shippey, Hugh Huffaker, Lewis Plyman, Frank Winston, and Bill
Neal.
SPORTS STAFF—Cherry Stribling, Gordon Scott, Furman Warlick, Watt Jefferies, Bill White, Frank Dan MeKeithan, David Hickey, Winston, Bryan Robinson, Whitener,
Ed West, Bill Dill.

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager W. S. McSwain
Circulation Manager Bill Houck
Asst. Circulation Manager Paul Cassels
Advertising Manager Wyhe Smith
Asst. Advertising Manager Charles Clinkscales
Asst. Advertising Manager Hector McKeithan
Collections Manager Charles Dockery

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1946 Member 1947 Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

PRINTED BY
DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Class of '52

A new freshman class made its debut at Davidson. Two hundred and fifty-eight strong, the class of '52 promises to
be a good class, for already it is evident that there is an exceptional amount of talent and ability in
this aggregation of neophytes. Once again, a class has arrived that Davidson is never ashamed to stack her freshmen up
against the best. Year after year, we get the cream of the crop, from the standpoint of all-around ability and
determination to strive toward worthwhile achievements. Premature judgments make this class look extra good among other Davidson freshman classes. We
can expect big things of the class of '52.

In like manner, the class of '52 can expect great things of Davidson. They can expect the same sort of
education that has for more than a hundred years now sent out leaders in the fields of law, medicine, business,
and the ministry. They can, we sincerely hope, expect the all "personality education" that will be even more in evidence
when the student body number has settled back toward six hundred and fifty. They can expect big things from Davidson
athletics. Since the war, athletics have been making progress. Davidson should make some of its best football history in the
next four years. The class of '52 will be the first, most probably, to get the full benefit of the
new gymnasium. This class of '52 can look forward to four good years at Davidson. We bid you Godspeed.

Rushing Thru’ Rush Week

Rush week is gone and well-nigh forgotten. That is, until the thought of having to go through the same grueling
round next fall hits us between the eyes. Then our heads begin to swim in a sea of name tags,
stilted courtesies, black balls, and bewildered freshman looks until finally we manage to divert our thoughts to more pleasant channels.
Do we ever stop to consider whether anything can be done to make rush week a more sensible undertaking?

As it stands, the present rushing system does have at least three distinct disadvantages. First of all, most of the
fraternities do not know exactly what they are doing. They are groping in the dark, so to speak. In the
second place, most of the rushees go into rush week without much notion of what is expected of them and
with little realization of the factors involved in the choice they are expected to make. Last, but not least, a
great deal of necessary study is neglected during that first week of school.

Could these disadvantages be overcome by postponing rush week, putting it off, say, until the beginning of the second semester?
And if such a postponement could solve the aforementioned difficulties, would the purposes of rush week be served as well?
To take the latter disadvantage first, we don’t see that a whole lot can be done about this problem. Even
if rush week were delayed long enough for freshmen to find out what’s what on the campus and in fraternity
court, and long enough for the fraternities to really get to know the rushees, the problem will remain. If it
were postponed, the freshmen would have learned a little about college assignments and would not be quite so swamped by
the loss of four days’ work. At any rate, the rush week would almost have to be as long and
as intensive as it now is. And unless freshmen are to be meted out to different fraternities by lots, some
study must be missed.

From the standpoint of the rushee, a postponement would be beneficial. The average freshman comes to Davidson without much knowledge
of fraternities. What little information he can gather from an orientation talk on fraternities and a rush week during which
he is constantly patted on the back, hot-boxed, and generally kept in the dark about the fine merits and demerits
of fraternities, is not a sound basis for a wise choice. Certainly, it would be better for the freshman to
have time to make his own evaluation of matters fraternal before being rushed into anything.

The fraternities are somewhat better off than the rushees. They at least know what they want. All they have to
do is find it in the clouded atmosphere of sleepless nights, endless refreshments, countless introductions, jumping, jiving music, etc., etc.
What should be merely the preliminaries of a good rush week—making dates and getting acquainted with the rushees—takes up most
of the time, and there is no time left for actually matching the qualifications of the rushee up against the
aims and ideals of the fraternity.

In short, it’s a hazardous undertaking, this early rush week. It is not fair to the rushee, it does not
do justice to the fraternities, nor is it in harmony with the Davidson tradition of intelligent looking before you leap.
Let’s all study the problem and see if we can’t come up with a better solution.

Letter To The Editor

To the editor:

It has come to my attention during the past two years that some of the music at the Davidson football
games here and in Charlotte does not conform with the traditional Davidson fighting spirit so well known to friends and
alumni of the college. While my knowledge of music is extremely limited, I do think it within my ability to
recognize the fact that “La, la, la,” and blowing bubbles are not an inspiration to men physically struggling to uphold
the reputation of Davidson College upon the fields of friendly strife. I realize that the quantity of suitable music may
be limited, but I do think that from somewhere within the list of inspiring, forceful music, some tune more appropriate
to the football spirit could be found.

As a word of commendation, however, I would like to say that the quality of music of the Davidson Football
Band surpasses most of the similar type bands I have been privileged to hear. Nevertheless, it is extremely difficult for
me, and I feel sure this also applies to the football team, to become emotionally inspired to the tune of
“La, la, la.”

So therefore, may I take this opportunity to suggest to Mr. Pfohl and to the Music Department, that for the
sake of more spirit on the part of the spectators, and for a greater and more inspired effort on the
part of the football team, we do away with “La, la, la” and blowing bubbles at football games and concentrate
on music more in accordance with the indomitable Wildcat spirit.

Sincerely,
P. J.

Your assignment is to translate the encyclopedia into Spanish!

THE DAVIDSONIAN Presents
EDITORIALS... LETTERS... FEATURES... COURT OF CONTROL

PI KAPPA PHI

We are very happy to welcome our new pledges to the fraternity. It is always good to find a new
source for slander. By way of mention to you who may not know, the news found in this column is
based on the truth, most of the time at least. We are also happy to welcome back our D.T.’s (Detroit
Travelers). Conflicting reports have leaked out about the eight official delegates that represented Epsilon at that important event. Word has
it that they had monetary difficulty in obtaining entrance into several places of entertainment with one exception—the Daddy of them
all, the Great White Father, E. T. Television seemed to be his favorite indoor sport. Chicken became the favorite dish
of the four brothers that moved into Chicago after the convention. We hear that Boom and Dub really ate that
up. Brothers, we can look forward to a very good year at the Boarding House if Carlos can keep the
spirits and demons away from Odell. Take care, for “Lifeguard” Mead is always prepared, but who isn’t. You may think
Moe is a character, but who isn’t. Don Juan has been down to check out the new gym, but who
hasn’t. Hunter Boykin thinks he’s smart, but who isn’t.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

But who doesn’t, Guy says he likes American girls, but who doesn’t. You may think all for this week, and
it is.

SIGMA CHI

Some results of the summer’s dealing: Vichyssoise Pritchard and Buckwheat Butt peering through the bars of the Myrtle Beach local
bastille with two feminine companions. The Mass, the Profile, and the two previously mentioned jailbirds are said to have spent
a weekend in luxurious quarters near the Ocean Forest Hotel. They report that the only inconveniences they suffered were sandflies,
high tides, and nosy visitors. Blackjack spent his time quietly this summer doing graduate work at the University of Georgia.
Wistful Willie reports that the highest standard of burlesque in the South is to be found in Norfolk, Va. The
Senator concurs in this. The Senator also reports that the female population of Davidson has been flocking to investigate the
qualifications of Stud Mdeasants. The happy abode of the Head, the Mass, and the Organ has been in a turmoil
since Organic returned with a classy photo of a gal named Dolores. Prospects look good for the Sig football team
as Pledges Brooks, Verner, and Poole sparkle in pre-season drill.

K. A.

The knights of worthy Sigma Chapter got off to a flying start the past week with numerous festivities. The highlight
of rush week, or so it was rumored, was the party at which many gorgeous Belles from surrounding towns honored
us with their presence. Much fun was had by all, just ask Brother Glenn how it was, and the punch
flowed like wine. Also at this party, many beachheads were established, which should prove interesting at future dates. Also, a
tip of the hat to brothers Harden, Schwaemmle, Lindsey, and Payne for a job well done during rush week. Shortly
after last Saturday's tremendous football success, the loyal knights again assembled to continue the week's get-togethers. This time, they all
migrated to Brother Rigger’s home, and once again K. A. tradition held firm, and despite a few foreign faces seen
here and there and the fact that a few brothers disagreed on whose date belonged to whom, the little shindig
was a roaring success and some brothers did not even want to go home, did they, Sam? In closing, we
would like to express our true appreciation to Brother Mitchell for arranging and planning the house party held last spring
which, as we all know, was a great success and surely another feather in Roberts’ K. A. war bonnet. Lack
of space, and a vocabulary capable of expressing the true happenings, make it impossible for us to reveal the blow-by-blow
happenings, but Brothers Biggers and Matthews should be in a position to give anyone a complete account.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

After nearly a week of rushing, PKA brothers have finally found time to stop and speak to each other and
renew old acquaintances. Seen around the house this year are several new faces, including Jeff Wood, Stiles Markey, Bill Cook,
Floyd Furr, and Bob Coble, all pledges or brothers who have been away from Davidson for a year or so.
Members of the new pledge class are fast becoming acquainted with each other and the old brothers and pledges. The
pledge will begin their instruction period immediately. With the football season here, a large part of the brothers who are
the roaming type will take off class on the weekends to attend the games played away from home, and to
attend other pressing business. Brothers Gragg, Smith, Warlick, and McElroy expect to obtain feminine companionship for the State game just
in case the weather should suddenly turn cold, while Brother Mills is taking a car full of bashful, timid males,
including Brothers Huffaker, Cameron, Jackson, and Pledge Oterson. Other brothers having dates in Raleigh for this game are hereby issued
a sincere warning to be on the lookout for this car full of bachelors on the loose. And now we
will have a resume of the summer activities for some of the members of Pika. Brother Denison spent a large
part of his time trying to learn about the occult habits of fish (with very little luck); Brother Shumate spent
the summer with his head buried in books here at Davidson, for fear of having too much spare time to
get into devilment. The ticker tape reveals the startling fact that Brother Boyd has constructed a boat with which he
plans to explore the vast unknowns of Alexander County via the Catawba River. Brothers Boyd and Fanjoy spent a great
deal of time up the river (the Catawba, that is) in search of beautiful camping spots. Brother Leonard had the
good fortune of becoming PiKA’s lone married student by taking in marriage the beautiful Miss Shirley Parks of Statesville. They
are living in Statesville, and Taylor is commuting to school each day. Brother Mac Hart spent his summer at his
home in Gainesville, Fla., the home of the University of Florida, but he wasn’t studying books. Instead, he held a
position with a milk company. It wasn’t much of a job, but you'd be surprised how good one feels if
he gets up at 5 o'clock each morning to deliver milk. Feeling that “a little learning is a dangerous thing,”
several brothers sought to increase their knowledge by attending summer school; among these were brothers McNair, Bell, and Dockery, who
report that there's nothing like two sessions of summer school to rest one up after a hard winter's studying. Brother
Warlick labored in a Statesville factory all summer. The name of the place slips my mind, but I’m sure that
he would be glad to tell you if you are interested in acquiring a position there.

BETA THETA PI

With hearty handclaps and many questions of “Did you have a good summer?” Wooglin’s clan reassembled in its hallowed halls
for another year of hard work and good fellowship. The summer, it was generally agreed, had been profitable for all
the brothers, and for a couple, it had been a particularly important one. Brother Earle Smith, Beta’s ace athlete, had
late in the summer entered into the blessed state of matrimony. Earle and the former Miss Jane Feltz of Wytheville,
Va., informed the world that “Mr. and Mrs.” is the name. Best wishes for much happiness go to Earle and
Jane. That big smile that Brother George Adams has been wearing was easily understood when it was found that George
has succeeded in placing a diamond ring on the third finger, left hand of Miss Nancy Gordon, a once graduate
of last year—in other words, they’re going steady. The strain of a rigorous rush week failed to dampen the ole
Beta spirit, and many of the brothers showed up at Saturday night's feed after the game with some of the
cutest “sweet young things” that the visages of the college presidents have gazed down upon in many a day. The
brothers unleashed their tremendous repertoire of songs, the mood was sentimental, and before time to say good-bye it was quite
evident that the good brothers had not lost their skill in the manly art of “snowing the women.”

---

From The Editors

By BOB HOLLISTER

This column, which will reappear in each forthcoming issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN, is a bright-eyed Freshman this year. Conceived by
Macy Hart, editor in chief, it will be written by each of the managing editors in turn and by the
associate editors and editor in chief. It can be concerned with, and probably will, almost anything—from the most outrageous of
a noxious editorial policy to recent frosh. For the most part, however, this column is to give Davidson students a
glimpse behind the scenes of their college paper.

To start off the new year we would like first of all to extend to the class of ‘52 a
big handful of laundry, we are sincerely glad to have you around. It doesn’t take long for a new class
to learn customs and even her somewhat lengthy list of traditions. One thing we would like for you wearers of
the red to learn right away is that this is your paper. The fellows who go through the weekly routine
of gathering material—sorting it out, typing it up, proof-reading it and so on, far into the night, do it solely
for you. Their only reward is in the interest you take in this paper, and in the manner in which
you show that interest through your comments, letters to the editor, features you may submit for publication, and general campus
discussions. The above applies, of course, to all Davidson men with the freshmen particularly in mind, however. As for you
august upperclassmen, we want to urge you to keep the Davidsonian a little more in mind this year. If anybody
can make its weekly appearance something to look forward to, you—and in the final analysis only you—can do so. There's
an old law of psychology, or if there isn’t there ought to be, which holds that a person associating himself
with an ideology or a cause, actually becomes, in a sense, part of that cause. The same principle holds true
here on the campus. The more men who link themselves to the activities, the interest and aims of college life,
the more real—the more vital—these things will become. And in addition, the personality and character of the men thus identifying
themselves will in like manner be immeasurably enriched.

Such is the goal we, of the Davidsonian staff, have set for ourselves, for this paper, and in every possible
way, we are able to assist in the ultimate attainment of this aim, for the Student Body and Davidson College.

In closing, we propose a toast to three bests: Here’s to the best class Davidson ever, the best Davidsonian ever,
and the best score ever chalked up against the sons of William and Mary, come Saturday p.m.
