11

Vol. 1 No. 4 A Publication of the YMCA August 19, 1948

RELIGIOUS EMPHASIS DAY WAS A GREAT SUCCESS

Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman, who spoke at the Chapel service Thursday morning and at a Vesper service that evening, delivered
two truly inspirational messages.

Dr. Foreman's morning message, "Life's Three Questions," was very typical of his many excellent talks that so many enjoyed when
he was a member of the faculty here at Davidson. It contained his subtle humor and was built around three
questions we should all think on: "Now What?", "So What?", and "Then What?".

His evening message contained the answer to another question: "How to Grow in the Christian Faith." The evening service was
held on the "Y" lawn and Dr. Foreman's message was heard by a large student congregation and visitors from the
town of Davidson.

These services were sponsored by the YMCA as the Summer counterpart of Fall and Spring Services.

MOVIES

Thur. - "Unconquered"
Gary Cooper - Paulette Goddard

Fri. & Sat. - "Casbah"

Mon. & Tues. - "Give My Regards to Broadway"
Dan Dailey - Nancy Guild

Davidson Prof. to Conduct Orchestra "Coast-to-Coast"

James Christian Pfohl, Professor of Music here at Davidson, will conduct the Brevard Music Festival Orchestra in a program Friday
night at 11:15 P.M. which will be aired "coast-to-coast" over CBS. Frances Yeend, soprano, will be the soloist. The program
will originate from the Summer Theatre Auditorium of Transylvania Music Camp at Brevard, N.C.

The orchestra is composed of members of leading orchestras along the entire east coast. The superior work they are doing
promises to develop western North Carolina as the musical center of the South.

It is of interest to note that six Davidson men are also members of this group. They are: R.M. Holler,
Frank West, Willis Coggins, J.W. Flora Jr., John Coker, and Alfred Neuman.

WEST PLAYS GEORGIA

Yesterday the West team that won the championship of the league last semester once again demonstrated the power that is
challenging the league-leading All-Stars, this time at the expense of "poor" Georgia. The bats of the West team rapped out
a melody on the pitching of Ga., and they wound up victors to the tune of 13-1.

Georgia had already been spanked by the Faculty All-Stars on Tuesday, for a 22-10 loss.

Our hat's off to Ga., for though winding up on bottom, she fielded a fighting team.
