ENOUGH OF KNAUFF BRING ON CONVERSE!

Volume XXXVII ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

MONSOONS SET IN

Converse To Invade Premises Saturday

By SHELLEY BEARD

In the second of a series of YMCA Social functions, girls from Converse College have been invited to attend the
Washington and Lee football game and a dance sponsored by the Beaver Club here on the campus tomorrow. Two busloads
of girls will arrive on the campus around two o'clock in the afternoon in time to attend the football game
with their dates. Following the game, the girls with their dates will have supper. After supper, a dance sponsored by
the Beaver Club will be held in the dining hall. A skit will be presented during the dance by Haynes
and his accomplices. The dance will end at nine o'clock, in time to allow the girls to return to school.

This function is the second in the series which began with the Queens Davidson Day held several weeks ago. “Days”
with nearby girls' schools are part of the traditional social program of Davidson. Usually, girls are invited far enough in
advance that Davidson students may arrange for dates. This week, there has been a bulletin board in Chambers with a
list of girls that were to attend the Davidson-Converse Day program. Beside their names and heights, there was space for
boys to sign up ahead of time.

Bob McGeehee, the B22 Activities chairman, made all the arrangements for the function and announced it to the student body
last Friday at Chapel. Carl Pahl announced Monday that a list of the girls coming up would be posted on
the bulletin board with their heights. He said further that “those with no listed height were of unlimited size.”

Leading up to the dance, questionnaires were sent out to all students requesting to know if they wanted “Days” with
the Woman's College of the University of North Carolina, Converse, and Queens. At the dance, Hal Haynes and several boys
will present a skit that was given at the “D” Club Follies.

Campus Club Moves As Eu Hall Acquired

By NAT DANIEL

The Campus Club, which, since its organization in 1947, has occupied a room in the Carolina Inn, has secured a
larger and more suitable location on the first floor of the Eumenean Literary Society Hall. This move became necessary due
to the rapid increase in the membership of the club and because the facilities in its old headquarters were so
limited. Early in the school year, it was brought to the attention of the club that this space was available
if immediate action was taken. A committee composed of Herb Meza, Joe McConnell, and Ernie Stricklin was instructed to investigate
the possibilities of occupying the building. Finally, at the regular meeting on the night of November 4th, the committee reported
that it had been successful. The move was undertaken immediately after the meeting adjourned.

The interior of the new Campus Club has recently been redecorated and refinished. It consists of two rooms, a hall,
and lavatories for both men and women. The front room is being used as a lounge and the rear room
is to be renovated into a game and recreation room with a bar for serving cold drinks and other refreshments.

Weather Report

The weather this weekend for Davidson and vicinity will continue fine in every respect with comfortable afternoons and crisp, cool
nights. Incidentally, the moon will be beautiful and unobscured Saturday night! Sunday will be somewhat colder, with a rather brisk
N.W. wind. Temperatures will range between 35 degrees and 60 degrees on Saturday, and from near freezing to the mid-fifties
on Sunday.

Davidson's Future In The Making

Pictured above is President Cunningham during the dedication of the new gym's cornerstone.

An Open Letter To The Student Body

For the last two years, and longer, chapel has been discussed, editorials written, and pleas made. The problem of student
conduct will continue to exist, and the pleas and editorials will probably still be presented until the students themselves realize
that sometimes their behavior is out of place.

There seem to be two main reasons that conduct has appeared “disgusting,” and that expression has been used not only
by the faculty but also by students. The first, and this occurs very rarely, is the fact that at times
we seem to forget when a religious program is going on. It must be due to a lack of thought
on the individual’s part. No well student would intentionally be irreverent, so it must be that we sit quietly for
a few minutes, listening to a “devotional.” The second reason, and this occurs much too often, is the utter disregard
of the feelings of others who are on the stage. The fact that the speaker is a student, a faculty
member, or a guest who has never before been on the campus doesn’t keep us from taking advantage of any
slip that is made. It is pretty easy from our seats to laugh or make some wisecrack when there is
little possibility of being recognized; but the next time such an opportunity arises, think to yourself how it’s going to
make the speaker feel.

It’s very little to ask that we show a little discretion and consideration for others. The old saying that there
is a time and place for everything serves pretty well in this connection, and any college student should have enough
thoughtfulness to know when the time is. This may sound like a sermon, but it is written humbly and in
an effort to help us, as a student body, to show a little more respect for the religious services and
consideration of others in our future. (Give this problem some serious thought and see if each of us doesn’t have
a little room for improvement.)

This article was signed by the following students: Buddy Cheek, Carl Pahl, Herb Meza, Whit Lemmon, Mike Williams, Dave Shepperson,
Ed Montgomery, Tim Harden, Bob McGeehee, Bill Alexander, Jack Etheridge, Frank Hopper, and Charles Blue.

As Homecomers Wade Through Weekend

By BILL HOLLISTER

Many of the stalwart sons of Stuart Ney made their way to their lodgings Friday afternoon to meet their respective
goddesses. Each had been blessed by Venus; and after waiting fifty minutes for a bus or train that was twenty
minutes late, they picked up the steamer trunk and four suitcases of their “woman of the week” and turned again
homeward. The anxious glances of these fair damsels at the gathering clouds were soon dispelled by the reassuring statements of
their escorts that Dr. Cunningham had said it wouldn't rain. Satisfied with this, they retired to their lodgings to powder
their noses until time for the dance.

At the appointed hour, everyone met at Morris Field in their finest rain-ment and proceeded to step on one another's
toes to the rhythmic beat of “the sweetest music this side of Cornelius.” Most who were dragging dates rushed for
the privacy of their sofas on wheels to tell their charming companions good-night. Four hours later, they took them home
and returned to their dormitories to sack in.

Saturday morning found Dr. Cunningham up to his elbows in mud declaring to the crowd at the Convocation that it
would not rain. He made one final million-dollar speech and lifted the six hundred-pound cornerstone into position. After dinner, many
couples could be seen, hand in hand, gently wading toward Richardson Field for the big event. Soon they were seated
in their own little puddles anxiously awaiting the kick-off. The loudspeaker bubbled out the names of the players, and the
game was on! Three times during the first half, the ball floated off the field and had to be retrieved;
but the Wildcats exhibited a truly fine performance nevertheless. An ingenious student was selling pup tents with windshields that had
an amusing way of tearing open when placed over one’s head. After the third quarter, it was raining so hard
that he gave up the idea of tents in favor of arks. (Now we know how Noah felt.)Game everyone wrung
themselves out, ate supper, and dressed for the informal Dance. The dance floor was very crowded; in fact, it was
unusual to see anyone, trampling his way to a fraternity section, arrive there with the same girl he entered with.
The dance ended exactly on the stroke of twelve. (Kanuff didn’t want any of us to turn into pumpkins.) Students
and their dates returned to Davidson with heavy eyes and hearts, realizing after all, that this was another wonderful Davidson
Homecoming. (Have you got a date for Mid-Winters? Send The Davidsonian Home. Promptly at two all spirit throughout the game.
Some nails, hammers, chicken wire, paint, shed and multi-colored crepe paper, great inconvenience to both the administration and the various
groups.

ONE FIFTH DEVELOPMENT FUND PLEDGED BY ALUMNI DURING CAMPAIGN’S FIRST WEEK

In an official announcement by RANDY TAYLOR climaxing the recent Convocation celebration, Homecoming President Cunningham launched Davidson’s $2,500,000 development campaign.
Included in his statement was the encouraging report that $400,000 of that amount has already been pledged. The “kick-off” Convocation
is over, but the campaign has just begun, and it promises to be the biggest endeavor in the history of
the college. A strong organization has long been at work. A number of important committees have been selected to impressively
lead the drive.

KA’S CARNIVAL COPS CUP: NEXT HONORS TO PIKAP, SAE

We at Davidson College are never amazed at the ingenuity and originality of our students, for originality and ingenuity are
as much a part of Davidson tradition as Woodrow Wilson, Stuart: Ney, honor. This particular phase of Davidson tradition was
made manifest in the colorful decorations in the Court Saturday morning. For days previous to Homecoming, legions of fraternity-men, armed
with nails, hammers, chicken wire, paint, and multi-colored crepe paper, scrambled about shaping up the various decorations in keeping with
the Homecoming theme, “Double Victory.” Even into the wee hours of Saturday morning, the thud of pounding hammers and shouts
of confused instructions were clearly audible from every corner of Fraternity Court. With the rising of the sun (this is
merely a figure of speech ill-used), all was quiet on Fraternity Court in anticipation of the judges. In the face
of some of the keenest competition we have yet seen...

DR. CLELAND

A near capacity crowd congregated in Chambers Auditorium Sunday evening for the Convocation Vesper Program which brought the Homecoming weekend
and Alumni celebration to a close. Mr. Cunningham presided over the service, introducing the speakers of the evening. Special music
was provided by the Davidson Male Chorus and by massed church choirs accompanied with the Davidson Concert Band and Prof.
Robert Noehren at the organ. Rev. E. S. Kramer, D.D., of the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte gave the evening
prayer. After the prayer, recognition was paid to the pastors of North Carolina Presbyterian Churches who were present at the
service. The speaker of the evening was the Rev. James T. Cleland, S.T.M., of Duke University Divinity School and pastor
of the Duke University Chapel. Dr. Cleland spoke on the subject, “On Being An Intelligent Christian.” Dr. Cleland emphasized the
importance of the Church and Church-related colleges in Christian Education. Following Dr. Cleland’s sermon, Rev. J. McDowell Richards, D.D., president
of Columbia Seminary and president of the Trustees of Davidson College, spoke on Davidson's need of support from the Church
if the college is to progress and meet its challenge in the future as it has in the past. Dr.
Richards remarked, “I do not believe that our country can make a larger contribution to the maintaining of the American
way of life at the same time strengthening the church than by establishing and providing them with the endowment necessary
to an adequate educational program in our 20th century.” The service was attended by a large number of students, members
of the faculty and administration.

Phi Hall Renovated For Honorary Council

For a long time, the Honorary Fraternity Council, led by President Jack Etheridge and Secretary Stan Kennett, has sought the
redecoration of Phi Hall, which it will use as its new headquarters. At last, this effort has been successful, and
the first floor has been completely renovated. The floor has been sanded, new furniture has been added, and two bulletin
boards—now in use by the International Relations Club—have been installed on the north side of the building. The attractive furniture
to be used in the building was procured by Mr. Jackson, who, with Dr. Cunningham and Mr. Arnold, has seen
the great need for this new Honorary Fraternity Council home and has provided for it. The Council is made up
of the president or a representative from each of the honorary fraternities on the campus. The membership totals twenty and
is usually by invitation. Its duties include: approving honorary fraternities that wish to organize on the Davidson campus; setting the
dates for the meetings of honorary groups; seeing that the fraternities conduct regular programs in their particular fields; having charge
of the decorations of the areas of the campus which are not decorated by the social fraternities for Homecoming or
other special events. Phi Hall will also serve as the meeting place for the honorary fraternities and other organizations on
the campus that have no regular place to meet. Prior to this time, these organizations have had to shift from
place to place, causing great inconvenience to both the administration and the various groups.

(Continued On Page Four)

The Development Committee, under the leadership of Mr. Spencer Love, of Greensboro, is responsible for the general management of the
campaign. Vice-chairmen are Dr. Jas. A. Jones, of Charlotte, and Mr. D. R. Lafar, of Gastonia. Three very important committees
handle the drive directed by the overall development group. The first of these is the Corporation Support Council, under the
leadership of Mr. William H. Neal. It is the purpose of this group to approach those corporations and foundations whose
interest and willingness might indicate support for the campaign. The second sub-committee is the Church Cooperation Committee, headed by Dr.
Charles E. S. Kraemer, of Charlotte. It is the responsibility of this group to direct the appeal for aid through
the churches, whose interest in Davidson as a church school should offer valuable support. The third sub-committee, whose work will
be more easily recognized than that of any of the others, will be the Regional Organization, under the leadership of
Mr. John L. Smith. Highly organized, this group is divided into 35 units, corresponding to 35 regions in this area.
Twenty-seven of these regions are in North Carolina, six in South Carolina, and two out of state, one in New
York and the other in Georgia. Using some 250 men in each region, this group will endeavor by personal contact
to create interest in the school and encourage support. Region number 1 includes the area in and around Charlotte. The
campaign will begin within the next few weeks, after the necessary organization is completed. Mr. Howard B. Arbuckle, former P.M.S.
& T. here at the College and now a prominent lawyer in Charlotte, will lead the campaign for that region.
Encouraging and inspiring support has been given to the school by the men who are leading the campaign. Under such
able leadership and with the cooperation of all friends, alumni, faculty members, and students, we can look forward to the
successful completion of this campaign.

WSB Platter Party To Salute Davidson

Atlanta’s WSB announces that the popular late evening musical program “Platter Party” will be dedicated to Davidson College for an
entire week beginning Tuesday, November 23. Bob Watson, the “Platter Party” host and originator of the three-year-old program, has asked
that all campus organizations send in requests in advance if they want to be mentioned during the week. The program
will continue to be largely musical but Bob will intersperse information about the College and its achievements. The program is
aired Tuesday through Saturday from 11:30 to midnight. The salutes to various Southern colleges and universities will continue throughout the
winter and spring.

VESPER SPEAKER
November 14
The Reverend James Appleby
Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia

CHAPEL SPEAKERS
Monday, November 15—Prof. W. O. Prickett.
Tuesday, November 16—Prof. C. B. Anderson.
Wednesday, November 17—Speaker will be selected later.
Thursday, November 18—Prof. Earl Berg.
Friday, November 19—Y. M. C. A.
