PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1948

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
MAC HART

BUSINESS MGR.
JOHN McNAIR

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editor
Stan Kennett

Associate Editor
Bill Calhoun

Associate Editor
Ronnie Dietrick

Sports Editor
Jack Hazard

Managing Editor
Bob Hollister

Managing Editor
Lonnie Turnipseed

Managing Editor
Doug Enix

Managing Editor
Dick Morgan

Staff Photographer
Tom Niblock

Cartoonist
Bill King

Poll-Cat Editor
Bill Hollister

FEATURE REPORTERS—Malloy Owen, Randy Taylor, Warren Simms, Phil Mitchell, Hartley Hall, Boyce Kendall, Bob Grube, and Warren Sims.

REPORTERS—Jimmy Henritzy, Henry Hansen, Perry Gregg, Harry Shurley, Gab Lowe, John Calhoun, Ken Jones, Ralph Robinson, Tom Allen, Dick Zarnwell,
Ed West, Jim Murray, Tommy Holler, Bob Hubbell, Bill McCrary, Tom Mann, Bill Cumming, Phil Libby, Ben Drymon, Angus McKellar,
Dudley Pendleton, Jimmy Fickelson, Pete Kologides, Dick Chandley, Boo Northeutt, Stuart Shippey, Hugh Huffaker, Lewis Hyman, Frank Winston, and Bill
Neal.

SPORTS STAFF—Cherry Stribling, Gordon Scott, Furman Warlick, Watt Jefferies, Bill White, Frank Winston, Bryan Robinson, Dan McKeithan, David Whitener, Ed
West, Bill Buckey, Jack Stevenson.

POLL CAT STAFF: Jim Carr, Claude Higginbothan, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Prown, and Neal Underdown.

CIRCULATION STAFF—Alex Phillips, Parks Dalton, Cecil Rhodes, Ansley Moses, Joe H. Miller, Neill Underdown, Tommy Haller, John Hardin, Thad Monroe,
Hugh Huffaker, Ben Morris, Cam Faison, Paul Guthry.

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
W. S. McSwain

Circulation Manager
Bill Houck

Asst. Circulation Manager
Bill Cassels

Advertising Manager
Wylie Smith

Asst. Advertising Manager
Charles Clinkscales

Advertising Collections Manager
Hector McKeithan

Subscriptions Manager
David McConnell

ADVERTISING STAFF—Bill Cumming, Bill Hart, Bruce Ballinger, Bob Erwin, Marshall James, Raymond Holland, Bill Pharr, Harold Clayton, Sam Cumming, Angus
McKellar, Duval Hunter.

ASSISTANTS—Bill Cumming, Bill Hart, Marshall James, Duval Hunter, Bob Erwin, Bill Pharr, Harold Clayton, Sam Cumming, Rod Shaw.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE
New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1946 Member 1947
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of
Collegiate Digest

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Chapel Conduct Again

Looking back over several years of editorial pages of ye olde DAVIDSONIAN, we see that a matter of concern to
thoughtful fillers of these columns has been chapel conduct. The question has been approached from every angle. Indignant students, along
with the editors, have broached the subject from many points of view, always aiming at improving conduct.

Anybody reading our pages over a period of time (that’s taking a lot for granted) and having no other contact
with our chapel exercises might get the idea that “Little Monster” and his bunch of slackers compared with the Davidson
student body. We are pictured as being irreverent during worship services, impolite and even openly rude to visiting speakers and
our own professors, juvenile in our antics, and so on, ad infinitum.

These writers have pleaded with us to remember that we are gentlemen, and as such, courteous and reverent. They have
played on our sympathies, picturing for us the agonies suffered by the poor frustrated fellow student who is trying to
put something across to us. One writer tells us about the embarrassment he had to endure when news of our
treatment of a guest artist got home ahead of him.

All in all, we have been told, our conduct has been scandalous. We have been reminded that Mondays and Wednesdays,
faculty days, should be observed soberly and with a minimum of audience participation. Friday is YMCA day and should be
received according to the type of program the “Y” presents. Tuesdays and Thursdays are student days and after the brief
faculty devotional, the student body is at liberty to do anything it wants to with the rest of the program.

Nobody has wanted to spike the students’ fun or to cut down on the horseplay in its proper place. Nowhere
this side of Hollywood, no doubt, could you find so small a group so well versed in humorous sound effects.
The spontaneity of the demonstrations might be taken as a good sign of Wildcat spirit. The “passing down,” court indictments,
the hat checks with the reading of the antics that accompany them, all are traditional. The routine is about to
break into the ranks of the minor traditions. It was not the intention of these editorials nor is it the
intention of this one to frown upon the horseplay on student days. Their purpose has been to encourage a little
more hospitality to our speakers, whether they be guests, faculty members, or students.

They have painted their pictures a little dark, probably to make sure that the students would take notice and do
something about the situation. Naturally, they picked out the worst, the unusual instances to write about, because those were the
things that would attract the most attention among the students and point out the necessity of reform.

This year the chapel conduct is greatly improved. The pen pushers and their cohorts have done a good job. The
student body has come to realize there are times for seriousness as well as times for horseplay. There is still
room for improvement. We still need to keep in mind (1) that the chapel program is essentially a religious exercise
and we owe it the reverence we all feel toward the Bible and the things belonging to God; (2) that
the speaker, whoever he may be, is our guest and we owe him the hospitality due to a guest; and
(3) that the speaker has put a great deal of time and effort into what he has to say and
that we owe him a certain amount of respect and appreciation for his efforts. Let's make chapel a pleasure to
the speaker as well as the audience. This editorial was written before the chapel program Friday.

Why Editors Die Young

Subject: Davidsonian Story,
To: Bob Hollister, Managing Editor:

I have investigated all leads concerning the possibilities of getting a story of the Davidson Community Chest Drive. I have
seen: (1) Hugo. (2) Mayor Beaty. These are the facts that I can tell you, as they told them to
me. There was nothing that either could tell me about the chest in general. There was not going to be
a drive, as far as either of them knew, here in Davidson. No citizen of Davidson was actively working on
this project. Anything that Davidson does will be handled through Charlotte. There’s nothing here for a story. I hope you
will understand, and have compassion,

T. Hartley Hall IV

Letters to Editor

SENSE VS. NON-SENSE

Dear Ed:

“The Secretary of the Department of Information of the Central Government sat up straight in his chair, for he had
conceived an idea which he believed would increase the interest in the Department’s instrument of communication “The Nation's Report.” He
deemed this action advantageous, because, though the report was made easily accessible to all, its reading was not compulsory. To
launch this program of revitalization, the Secretary printed in a Report feature “The Citizens Speak,” a letter from a citizen
of a Status state. (Though strictly speaking, the citizens of the Central Government could be divided into three separate groups:
the Status states, the Neo-Status state, and the Non-Status, it should not be forgotten that all were citizens of the
same Central Government, irrespective of their minor ‘status.’) The letter printed was an attack, strongly exaggerated, on the Neo-Status, and
was penned by a staff member of Report (probably written to start the program rolling). This letter stirred up considerable
controversy among the citizens of the government who read the letter, and as a result another letter was printed in
the following issue, from a citizen of the Status. This letter followed the vein of the previous one in that...

Operating Table (Continued On Page Four)

After operating around for a prospect to be put on the operating table the following scandal was finally obtained. There
seems to be some question in mind as to what makes a good weekend. Don Juan solved this riddle by
paying a visit to the Schanly Reserve University and floating around in a daze with the zest of the cocks
last weekend. He was told there on leaving that he had had a very nice time. Here Judge Bingham has
also served another grave problem which is to have more people around the campus on weekends. Judge thinks these low
and mongrels who have the audacity to wear the Davidson color on their pointed heads should graciously let them represent
the student body for another week. One freshman was near mumbling to himself as he crawled by something that resembled
“Dud! In a little Schmoo.”

The other day three pious gentlemen, otherwise known as lustful, were down the street in Charlotte meanwhile gazing up into
the high heavens admiring a new type of aircraft when some girls (yea, they got lots of them over there)
from Queens walked by and commented “Is that all they do at Davidson?” Naturally, everyone has heard of some people
being called “weak-eyes” but that’s nothing compared to one so-called “weakeyes” Neisler. At the State, bless their Brooklyn souls, game
the other weekend, Henry Neisler was cheering the team on to victory as a Davidson man finally crossed our goal
line. What it must have been to him when some kind-hearted man told him it was just another quarter and
State had scored again.

Congratulations should be in store for “Bronco” Bailey as Pres. of the “D” Club, to Bill Scruggs as President of
the Pan Hellenic Council, to Pat Clark as the ROTC commander who remarked on being appointed: “I s-u-r-e a-m g-l-a-d
I w-a-s a-p-p-o-i-n-t-e-d.” Sorta slow but he said it, and also to “Bishop” Morgan who has just recently resigned from
school to carry out his life-long ambition to join the Midway Mouseman Troupe as manager of the Georgia Southern show.
He said his job would consist of seeing that things were kept in good shape.

Sober “snow king” Etheridge has been greatly embarrassed in the last few weeks by those who saw him leaving Queens
one Saturday night. Some young seductress had planted her brand on his best shirt. Jack has requested that no further
comment be made upon this deplorable situation even if it was a one-year-old shirt.

Once upon a time there was a professor in a class who was giving his class a lecture on logic.
He said, “Now gentlemen, the cosine of this number is 30 degrees and the tangent is 1-52 of that. Hummingbirds
fly backwards when they’re drunk. How am I?” One old smart student in the back, namely Bulb Head Scruggs, got
up and said, “I know professor, you're 44.” The professor said, “My, how did you know?” Bulb Head quick on
the reply said, “Well, I’ve got a brother who is 22 and he's a half-wit.”

Ain't it awful. See you around kiddo.

—Beat Wofford Now—

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

O hear my word, ye sons of Minerva, o harken unto my voice ye of the purple and gold. There
is a chance that this column might go the...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The way that the last one did, so if my convocation of heterogeneous examples of grammatical errors does not seem
to meet the high standards of the members, it is due somewhat to the apprehensions our esteemed clan entertained by
this writer as to their future. The hottest news seems to be the over-time 0-0 deadlock of the S.A.E.-V.K.A. football
game. Monty Hill watched from the sideline and his absence was severely manifest, as was Louie Rogers’. It was a
hard-fought game; ask Pledge Bob Bennett if you don't believe it. It looks from this stage of the game that
Chop-stick (pledge) McMurray is going to keep up the spirit of Brother Chow-down Richert, who, incidentally, was heard to say,
“If you can't clean your plate then pass it to me, I can.” Brother Jim Williamson is doing a good
job with the pledges (being Pledgemaster). Of course, working with persons who are by accident of environment lower than a
grasshopper’s knee sometimes gets to be quite a disheartening job. Pledge “T.O.” Coleman seems to be quite agile in Charlotte.
Pledge Alex Goley is... but just no demand for good kids these days; however, he is wise to be making
friends with the upperclassmen—Judge Gene Bingham is a good man to get to know. Brother Meatball Gambrell is heading up
the “Scripts and Pranks” Magazine this year, so we are pulling for some good issues. Brother Rod Shaw is an
artist... there's his pin-up if you have doubts. Brother Tsay artist? well check his J.D. Ashmore, Pres. of the Pan-Hell
Council, promises big things for Homecoming. We wish to urge all pledges to grasp some dates since the dances and
such just aren't made for stags. Brothers Mac Erwin and Carl Pahl set a fast pace in the Davidson 14-6
win over The Citadel last Saturday. Brothers Bronco Beiley, Buddy Chandler, and Sandy Carnegie also did fine jobs in the
line. Well, that’s it for this week, so if there is anything to go in this column for next week,
please let the Fraters, powers that be, know about it. K.S.

This column makes its belated appearance as a result of the sympathetic interest and fatherly persuasion shown by Brother Evans,
(whose “baby doll” entered into a state of matrimonial bliss several weeks past). Since the column is a little late,
we'll go back a few weeks to what was certainly the biggest social event of the fall season. Jake Wade
entertained delightfully at his home in Charlotte after the William and Mary game. Although our host retired around twelve bells,
(he stayed with Sara again that weekend), he had already provided, through his sole efforts, an evening long to be
remembered. But the evening had only begun, for the Ghoul, casting aside his usual retiring nature and emerging from his
customary seclusion, rose to new heights as he proceeded to fill the shoes of our absent host. After the girls
had gone, he hit several nice braces for the boys on the back porch. Brother Rankin has insisted (Continued On
Page Four).

What do you think would be the best solution to the Palestine problem?
- Divided State
- Complete Jewish Control
- Complete Arab Control
- Drop Atom Bomb on it
- Leave them alone
- All other solutions

The Poll-cat

Students Faculty and Adm.
45% 48%
25% 4%
13% 32%
12% 2%
8% 3%
8%

The Southern States today stand at the crossroads of history. They are face to face with a decision that could
affect the future of the South and of the nation for a half-century to come. The question is this: Shall
the South abandon its “solid” stand and cast its votes for the best candidate, Democrat or Republican, or shall it
continue to remain obtusely in the Democratic fold? To the old-time Southerner who has voted the straight party ticket all
his life, just as his father and grandfather did before him, it is inconceivable that the Solid South should break
up. He points with pride at the record of Louisiana, Georgia, Alabama, Arkansas, South Carolina, Mississippi, and Tennessee, which have
never cast their electoral votes for a Republican candidate for the Presidency since the end of the Reconstruction Era. But
like the buffalo of the prairie, the old Southerner is fast disappearing. There is a new generation which is bringing
new life, industry, and the fruits of modern science to the South. The feudal system of sharecroppers and tenant farming
is giving way to modern machinery and methods. The acreage of cotton, corn, and tobacco is diminishing in favor of
rotation of crops that will restore life to the earth. The Piedmont, thanks to its propitious location and its abundance
of labor, electric power, and raw materials, is rapidly becoming the center of the textile industry in the United States.
All over the South, new plants are springing up in various industries. All this adds up to progress. After over
a hundred eighty years of slow, laborious recovery, the South is beginning to forge ahead. But the brilliant future that
it could enjoy today rests on the decision that it will make this fall in the election. If it chooses
to fall back into the rut of the past and place itself solidly in the Democratic or Dixiecrat column, it
can look for the same political apathy to be shown to it that it has received from the national political
parties since the War between the States. But if it chooses to break its tradition and vote for the best
candidate, regardless of party affiliation, it will pave the way for rectification of the South's greatest deficiency: the lack of
a two-party system. The trend seems to be in the latter direction. But it is not a new trend, to
be sure. It is not something that has suddenly appeared in the heat of the present campaign. For nearly thirty
years there has been a growing agitation for a two-party system in the South. As early as 1920, the more
progressive Southern States were giving as much as forty percent of their popular vote to Republican candidates, and in that
year Tennessee actually went to Harding. However, with the exception of the Presidential race of 1928, when five of the
Southern States succumbed to the bigoted and unprincipled Republican campaigning against Catholic Al Smith, the Solid South has not been
broken by a Republican candidate since the end of Reconstruction. But for all their loyalty to the Democratic Party in
years past, what have the Southern States reaped in exchange? Can anyone point to vast appropriations by any Democratic administration
to the South such as those that are constantly being heaped upon the States of the North and West? Has
a Presidential candidate of one of the two larger parties ever carried on an extensive campaign in the South similar
to those that Truman and Dewey conducted in the West recently? Even Franklin Roosevelt, whom most Southerners idolized, scoffed at
the policy of the Solid South. This, in spite of the fact that Southerners four times gave him their unswerving
support, in some States casting as much as ninety-seven percent of their votes for him. This year, however, the story
may be different. The young, virile, forward-looking generation of Southerners today has come to see the folly of throwing away
their votes to a candidate who does not solicit them, appreciate them, or—except once in the last forty years—need them
for his victory. The time is at hand when the South will not cast its hundred and twenty-seven electoral votes
blindly for a Democrat. The day is dawning when the modern, revitalized South will sell its votes and its support
to the highest bidder, just as the North and West do. When that day dawns, then all the nation will
know that the South has come into its own; that the South has outgrown its political childishness and has reached
maturity; that the South is a potent political force to be reckoned with; that the South is no more to
be taken for granted.

POLITICS
Jim Riddervold

The obvious and basic difference between the Democratic and Republican parties is not one of high ideals, but instead one
of division between labor and capital. To expand this statement just slightly, the Republican party is one which caters to
the interests of big business and capital, while on the other hand, the Democratic party is one which caters to
the interests of the poor and oppressed worker. Now the average man, the one who puts the president in the
White House, must decide in certain periods of time the type of government that is needed at that point in
time. Today an expansion of business through government aid is necessary. The poor and oppressed worker is no longer poor
nor oppressed. Quite to the contrary, he has been given complete freedom and is at the present riding on the
crest of a wave of prosperity. It is through this rise, phenomenal to say the least, that prices have risen
along with wages. Expansion by the business interests is not able to keep pace with this rise. It is time
that the needed control of this rise be applied. When a jar is overflowing, a lid must be applied. Now
business, the control of this racing labor movement, which racing I might add, is to the detriment of the business
interests, will come in the form of legislation advantageous to big business. Now why this interest in big business? It
is an obvious question and one which can be answered with a minimum of flag waving. (The cynicism which prevails
on this campus will not allow one to mention too much about one’s nation). This is a capitalistic nation. Capitalism
connotes big business, for without one the other would not prevail. Now in 165 years this nation has risen from
a weak and powerless colony to a great nation of strength and power through the benefit of government aid to
big business. Now the obvious answer to this statement is that big business has abused this advantage. When these abuses
have become overbearing, a man has been elected to the Presidency who, under the title of “liberal,” has instituted a
program of reform to the benefit of the poor and oppressed worker. When this liberalism has run its course, the
balance again shifts. This process is continual. Panics and depressions have been precipitated by this balance not shifting at the
right time nor quickly enough. If, then, we are to avert the promised hard times ahead, then we must shift
the balance back in favor of the big business interests. We must, and I think we will, shift from the
“liberalism” of the Democrats to the “conservatism” of the Republicans.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE—1890

Examinations at Davidson used to be held prior to the holidays and at Christmas marked the end of the session.
In 1890, the exam schedule worked out so the freshmen would finish their exams two days before the upperclassmen and
therefore, were able to go home earlier for the holidays. This did not meet with the approval of some of
the upperclassmen, so they organized the day before freshman exams and while the freshmen were eating supper, went through all
of the rooms of the freshmen and got their trunks which they loaded on wagons and took them out to
a farmer's barn and locked them up. After the upperclassmen had finished their examinations, they returned the trunks. Consequently, everyone
went home for the holidays at the same time.
