We take this opportunity to welcome back to the campus all the old grads from over the years. We trust
that you are all finding your visit to be an enjoyable one. The chapel morning and exhibition on Thursday was
perhaps the biggest, loudest, and most successful of the type to ever come off in Davidson. We refer to the
ovation given to Mac Erwin by JACK HAZARD, Buddy Chandler, and Ernie Stricklin as they came before the student body,
faculty, and administration to make apologies for the showing of the football team in the last few weeks and to
promise a new start for the squad. Cheerleader Bill Serug said that apologies were not only from the gridders but
also from the student body.

Spirit was pitched to a high key before the N.C. State game, but from there it was as if a
pin had popped a balloon. The whole thing deflated, and for the next three games, the boys played on what
might and determination could be summoned among the squad. What cheering there was from the students in chapel and at
games was pseudo in nature. None were made, but anyone could sense their passive nature. When the Wildcats left for
Lexington last Friday to meet VMI, their student send-off consisted of two or three stalwarts—a far cry from the shouting
of some two or three hundred which sent the boys to Raleigh three weeks before with the feeling that all
were for them. There was no pep rally, and no one had sufficient interest to turn out. Then John Q
raised his eyebrow in surprise and disgust when he heard the score of the game. What could he expect? The
team entered the game with two strikes against it: the loss of Cheek, Jake Hueh McArn for medical exams, and
the utter lack of student support. With this, what could be done against a club already rated the favorite? The
cheerleaders had called for support, but all this is changed now. Buddy Ashmore and others spoke with sincerity when they
promised that they would lose no more games. We feel that this spirit of the team and students alike will
carry on to Richardson Field today when an inspired Davidson football team tears into a favored Richmond squad. When the
fur quits flying, alumni and students alike will go away talking of the hard-hitting Davidson team that pushed Richmond all
over the field to win its third game of the season.

We've been wrong on several predictions this year, notably the one concerning a Davidson victory over State, but we won't
be wrong today. We'd like to again mention the tennis court situation at Davidson. We understand that some progress is
being made toward easing the complications that have arisen from the gym’s taking space formerly used for four courts. We
also understand that certain members of the administration have become irked over this column's interference into matters supposedly of no
concern to it. We feel that it is of major concern to the student body that adequate facilities be constructed
for student recreation. We also feel that the paper serves as an organ for voicing student opinion and intend to
use it to that end. We have made a few more investigations into the matter than this party may realize
and feel that we speak with authority when we say that resurfacing of the lower courts could be done at
a negligible cost. As pointed out in a letter to this column, the cost of this project would be a
small fraction of one percent of the two and one-half millions asked by the college for expansion. The writer of
the letter, a member of the freshman tennis team, pointed out that it would be virtually impossible to play the
scheduled matches for this year on the three courts now available. Furthermore, three tennis courts cannot possibly be ample for
a varsity squad of about ten members and a freshman team of similar size to practice on. As we said
before, resurfacing the lower courts, which if carried through, will serve to relieve the congestion on the upper courts. We
only urge that these investigations and plans be carried through and not dropped. Backing by the student body and by
the alumni will ensure this. Though this will help, it still does not give enough courts for students to play
on. But we'll hold off any plea for new courts until the immediate problem is solved. We only pose the
question for consideration in future months.

FOUR PAGE.

Betas Set Pace
By PHIL HAMMOND

Interfrat ball moved into the stretch with the K.A.’s defeating the Kappa Sigs 12-0 on Thursday to continue their long
winning streak. Led by Jim Hardin and Jack Hazard, the winning team had little trouble in racking up another victory.
Thursday also saw the Kappa Sigs down the Sigma Chis 26-6 to keep their undefeated record unblemished. Pearson proved to
be the sparkplug of the winning team as he passed for two of the four touchdowns. Roddey and Wilcox were
also standouts in the backfield. Shorty Lafarr was the outstanding lineman for the victors. The Sigma Chis scored their only
touchdown on a 20-yard pass from lanky Bill Brooks to Ben Hamilton.

No games were played Friday. Monday saw the Kappa Sigs vs. the SAEs in perhaps one of the best games
played on fraternity field this year with the SAEs upsetting the mighty Sigmas, 6-0, to give the Kappa Sigs their
first loss of the season. The wearers of the purple and gold struck with lightning-like speed in the first quarter
when “Meatball” Gambrell, faking a reverse, ran around his own right end and passed to Bob Bennett in the end
zone for the day’s only score. The SAE lineman, Louie Rogers, was superb throughout the game, refusing to let the
Sigmas score when deep in SAE territory. “Mighty Mouse” Monty Hill also was a standout in the SAE backfield. Pearson,
Wilcox, and Faw kept the ball deep in SAE territory many times but could never push the ball across the
goal. Also on Monday, the Betas kept their undefeated record clean as they dropped the Pikas, 18-0, with Schmidt, Cunningham,
and Keith leading the way. Bill Lyday snared several bullet passes for the winners and played excellent ball throughout the
contest.

Tuesday, the Phi Gams won their first game of the year by defeating the Pi Kapps 6-0. The lone score
was registered when Newton caught a 20-yard pass and ran across to score. Bill Cassels and Rawson were standouts for
the losers. Also on Tuesday, the KA’s defeated the SPE’s, 2 first downs to one in a very close game.
The KA’s registered their initial first down on a pass from Bird to Bachman and the SPE’s scored theirs on
a pass from Mebane to Pat Clark. The deciding marker came on a short dash around left end by Bird
after he had set up the play with a pass to Tim Hardin.

Presbyterians Bow To VMI Cadets
By BILL WHITE

VMI's Keydets, remembering well the hostile reception they received at Davidson College Homecoming in 1947, wholly reversed the situation last
Saturday by beating the Cats at their own game—passing—and romped to a 33-6 win over the Wildcats.| grads the Lexington.
Wildcats before Keydet old at Bobby Thomason was virtually the complete show for Coach Slick Morton's club, touchdowns and scoring
himself. He had pitched dets to a the passing for four another the Key- two touchdown lead before the first
quarter had slipped by. Davidson, while leading 12-10 in first downs and 224 to 137 yards passing, was never able
to catch onto the sizzling pace that the Virginia pitcher was setting. The Cat tally came in the third quarter.
Standing on his own 23, tailback Bert Anderton hit Mott Price with an aerial on the Cat 45, the Charlotte
flanker who was subbing for absent starter Buddy Cheek racing the remaining 55 yards goalward. Hal Mapes’ try for the
extra point failed. Davidson fumbles set up two Keydet tallies and an intercepted pass a third. VMI did not miss
a chance and Thomason's score tossing paid off every time. Davidson threatened several times in the second half, but lacked
the punch. On the last play of the game Jimmy Sifford pulled a desperation heave from Anderton to give the
Cats possession of the ball on VMI's eight-yard line when the whistle sounded.

In Greek Football
VERDICT OVER BARIUM
Saving their scoring punch until the second half, Jayvees rolled again last Friday afternoon to rack up a 20-6 win
over Barium Springs. With Brady Osborne sparking an early drive, the Kittens were knocking on touchdown door, but an interception
chilled the threat. Ham Wade retaliated by intercepting a Barium pass and returning to the enemy's 41, where the frosh
moved down to the eight, but were unable to push over the marker. Barium kicked out and John Guiton returned
it to the 26. The following play saw Wade, taking an aerial from Jim Sloan, sprint 35 yards to pay
dirt for the Kittens’ first six-pointer. The kick was wide. With Hilliard Mangum having a good day, Barium came back
on a 71-yard march that found them knotting the score at 6-6 as Barnes heaved to Mangum in the end
zone. Barnes failed to add the point. The first half ended and as the third quarter got under way Davidson
picked up three first downs. Runyan then powered over from the three to give the Jayvees the lead once again,
Osborne added the extra point and the score stood 13-6. Davidson kicked and on Barium’s first down Wade made a
beautiful one-handed interception of Barnes’ pass to hit the glory road for the final tally of the game. Osborne again
converted and the final score rested at Kittens, 20; Barium Springs, 6. Bill Acker and Jack Branch stood out in
the Jayvee forward wall as the whole backfield collaborated to give the fighting frosh another consecutive victory. A new squad
of frosh cheerleaders added color to the game and it is hoped that they will set a fine precedent for
future freshmen classes to follow in backing their team.

INTERFRAT STANDINGS
Won Lost Pct.
Betas 7 0 1.000
ISA 7 1 .875
5 1 .833
4 1 .800
4 3 .571
Pikas 3 4 .429
Campus Club 3 4 .429
SAE 3 4 .429
Sigma Chi 1 6 .143
Phi Gam 1 7 .125
Pi Kaps 1 8 .111

REMEMBER THIS SEAL IT’S YOUR ASSURANCE OF THE BEST!

Crystal Ball
This is the first in a series of football forecasts for the season of 1948. Realizing that the author of
this column is hardly an expert, and that his predictions will probably differ from those of the many experts on
the Hill, we submit this article knowing that it is in constant jeopardy of being liquidated. Hoping we don't go
too far out on the proverbial limb, here are the predilections for the hectic week of November 1948.

Davidson 20; Richmond 13. This game shapes up as one of the most bitterly waged battles of the year. Both
teams have been closely contested all year long, but the Wildcats, plagued by numerous injuries, must make a real treat
by licking Richmond by a one touchdown margin.

Army 21; Stanford 7. The Black Knights from the shores of the Hudson may run into a tartar in Stanford's
Indians, but with Gil Stephenson operating behind that All-American line, the Kaydets should maintain their undefeated skin over a Stanford
squad that is still trying to regain its pre-war height.

Carolina 28; W&M 13. The Kid says that Rube has been saving his boys for this one. However, the prophet
says that Rube will have to have more in his wigwam than Flying Cloud and his papoose to halt Choo
Choo Charley and his caboose.

Baylor 20; Texas 14. The husky Waco Bears will surprise most of the experts with a triumph in this crucial
Southwest Conference fray. Texas is a better team than their record will indicate, but the Baylor boys should win without
worry.

Clemson 34; Furman 7. Undefeated Clemson will annex their sixth straight in their quest for national fame, as Glorious Gage
will gallop with his usual fervor. Furman’s only hope of keeping the score down lies in the talented toe of
Paul Strombaugh.

California 27; UCLA 7. With the scent of roses getting closer and closer for the California Bears, the Uclans are
destined to go down to their fourth defeat of the season. The Berkeley Bears will better the light Uclan line
as Jensen shines.

Georgia Tech 20; Tennessee 7. The Wreck will ramble on (Continued On Page Five)

Wildcats, Richmond in Homecoming Fray
By GORDON SCOTT
The football game is one of the highlights in any homecoming celebration, and it’s a widely accepted fact that the
students and alumni are looking forward to the Richmond-Davidson contest which is scheduled to be played on Richardson Field Saturday
afternoon. Kickoff time is 2:30. The Virginians, who were defeated by the Davidson eleven, 13-7, last year, will be out
to even the score and will field a team that in five games this season has compiled an impressive total
of 1178 yards offensively—848 yards on the ground and 330 through passing (Not including the William and Mary game). The
Spiders from Richmond are expected to display aerial power in an effort to give the Cats a taste of their
own medicine, for it was Davidson's passing game that beat the Richmonders last year. The Spider's ace flinger, Corky Brimm,
has been improving with each game and will be ready to show his stuff. Leading the Spider's ground attack will
be tailback Charlie Suttenfield, who can run like a deer and is twice as shifty. In four games, he has
an average of seven yards per try. Also likely to see action against the Cats are Tom Billingsley and Ed
Ralston, a fullback who was an All-Stater in 1946.

The team which will face the Cats Saturday is a much improved ball club this year. Thus far they have
defeated Randolph-Macon 33-0, Furman, 7-0 and Hampden-Sydney, 28-7. They received setbacks from William and Mary, 14-6, and dropped a close
game to VMI, 9-0. After a look at this record, it seems sufficient to say that the Richmond Cats will
have a tough game on their hands this week. On the Davidson side of the picture, things are looking up,
for Coach Charley Jamerson’s team will be strengthened by the return of four players who missed the VMI contest due
to medical school examination; and for the first time in several weeks the team will be in good physical condition
all around. Carl Shepherd, the speedy Gastonia tailback, saw action against the Kaydets of VMI last Saturday and will be
in better shape this week. The brilliant passing combination of Lambeth to Cheek will be in action this week; and
Bert Anderton, who passed well against VMI, will share the passing chores with Lambeth. Richmond will bring to Davidson a
team employing the single wing, supplanting the T formation which they have been using. Coach Dick Esleeck, who accepted the
job as head coach following the resignation of Johnny Fenlon last year, and the Spiders will be seeking Richmond's second
win in a series between the two schools which began in 1920. The record to date stands at three wins
for Davidson, and one for the Virginians. One game ended in a tie.

Withers Electric Company
Radio Repairs
Electrical Supplies
Light Bulbs
DAVIDSON, N. C.

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT
BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
PHONE 2-2238
