Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, March 8, 1948 THE DAVIDSONIAN Founded by the Class of 1915 “FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
The DAVIDSONIAN Presents EDITORIALS... LETTERS ...FEATURES PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR SAM ERVIN Editor-in-Chief BOB CLINE Associate Editor EDITORIAL
STAFF Walter Mann Sports Editor Stan Kennett Managing Editor Bill Cathoun Managing Editor Ronnie Dietrich Managing Editor REGEN Columnist Malloy
Owens Columnist John Stewart Columnist Lloyd McLean Photographer Bill Hollister Assistant Photographer Feature Reporters: Bob Hollister, Lonnie Purnipseed, Dave Gambrell,
Bill DuBose, Bruce Kendall, Bill Bogart, Charles T. Davis, Bob Wells, Art Jenkins. Freshmen Reporters: Hartley Hall, Randy Taylor, Warren
Sims, Phil Mitchell, Bill Hollister, Scott Verner, Gray Hampton, Frank Purnell, Kenneth Jones, Jim Murray, Jim Larkin, Boswell, John Cosby,
Dave Hayworth, Hugh Evans, Pat McGeachy. Sports Staff: Jack Hazard, Stribling, Watt Jeffries, Bill King, Gene Regan, Dick Morgan, Frank
Aldred, Cherry, Doug Hix, Bill Furman Warlick. BUSINESS STAFF John McNair Assistant Business Manager Charles Reid Advertising Manager Frank Lemmon
Circulation Manager Bill Baker Subscriptions Manager Charles Dockery Collections Manager Charles Clinkscales Assistant Advertising Mgr. Wilkes Macauley Assistant Advertising Mgr.
H. Fulton Assistant Circulation Mgr. Bill Keith Assistant Circulation Mgr. Sandy Sprunt Assistant Circulation Mgr. Bob Knight Assistant Subscriptions Mgr.
Charles Beam Assistant Collections Mgr. Advertising Staff H. MacKethan, C. Faison, Claude Higginbotham, D. Hayworth, Blaine Kelley, Gene Taylor, W.
S. McSwain. Circulation Staff Paul Guthery, Bill Cassels, John Coble, Carl Herman, Jim Fisher, Bob Sims, Jimmy Rogers, Ted Bowen,
Erwin Clark, Ray Cunningham, Bill Mebane. Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the
act of March 3, 1897. SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y. Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles
- San Francisco 1946 Member 1947 Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest An Opportunity It is to be hoped
that the leaders of all social fraternities will take notice of and comply with the Pan Hellenic Council's recent suggestion
that all fraternities elect their Pan Hel representatives for the 1948-49 term as soon as possible. This request stems from
an earnest desire to acquaint these men with the problems facing the present council in order to better equip them
to properly perform their duties next year, and more important, to give them an opportunity to participate in the discussions
which will be devoted to the subject of proposed changes in the rushing regulations now in effect. As we all
remember, the adoption of a radically different set of rules governing this campus activity at the last moment in May,
1947, caused much confusion, bitterness, and ill feelings. By beginning a study of the existing situation now it will be
possible to make a painstaking examination, and to reach a decision satisfactory to all. This editorial is not to be
construed as a demand for change in or for a discarding of the present regulations. The subject is far too
complex for one person to understand thoroughly (without help from others also seeking a solution) nor can one man unaided
hope to arrive at the proper answer. However, all of us recognize the fact that we must remove the bitterness
resulting from a misunderstanding of the existing scheme before another “Rush Week” is upon us. The Pan Hellenic Council is
to be commended for making an honest effort to do just that. They deserve in this undertaking the wholehearted support
of each and every social fraternity on the campus. Out of this cooperation and mutual trust will emerge true harmony.
A Challenge As a result of the extreme damage to college and other property within the corporate limits of Davidson
by student snowballers several weeks ago the Executive Committee has decided to act to prevent the recurrence of such events.
The committee, however, has clearly indicated that it prefers not to have to deal with any future offenders but would
like instead for the student council to dispose of all cases of this nature. At the present time there is
no provision in the constitution giving the representatives of the student body the authority to do this. Therefore, an amendment
will have to be drawn up and passed by the student body before the council can act. If this is
not done the Executive Committee will continue to have jurisdiction in such matters, and will punish all who destroy property
by snowballs on the merits of the individual’s case. Although no one can honestly question the fairness of the justice
meted out by this or any other faculty committee, it seems that this is a problem which should be and
can be solved by the student body. No one has suggested for a moment that snowballing on the campus should
be “outlawed.” Most all faculty members fully realize that it is the natural thing to do, and that it is
quite harmless under normal conditions. However, it becomes a different matter when carried on in a manner and in areas
where it will result in damage to the person and/or property of others. Practices of this nature are what they
seek to stop. We may at a glance regard this as an unwarranted interference with our rights, but only a
moment’s reflection will be sufficient to cause us to realize that it is rather an infringement by us on the
rights of others instead. It is a violation of their right to protection from the thoughtless and malicious acts of
their fellow citizens, and we should not take part in activities which deprive them of that right. In this case,
however, we can, to use an old but apt expression, “have our cake and eat it, too.” We can support
the amendment giving the Student Council authority to deal with those who insist on disregarding the rights of others in
this manner—we can personally refrain from participating in such affairs and seek to exercise a restraining influence on those around
us—and still get as much enjoyment out of snowballing as a sport as ever before. As has been indicated already,
the faculty has no objection to snowballing as such—in fact it is encouraged as long as there is no danger
that property or non-participants may be injured. Many other colleges have organized snowball battles on the athletic fields between fraternities
and classes and there is no reason why it cannot be done here. Admittedly, cold weather and snow may seem
far away at the moment, but this problem should be solved before the year is over, and new matters crowd
it out of our minds. Letters to the Editor... Dear Editor: During the year a number of letters and editorials
have been written concerning our chapel conduct. These exhortations to better conduct have used many approaches in their efforts to
reach the student body—all apparently unsuccessful. Though I have not been the least among the offenders, I should like to
voice my opinion. I am sure we can all see the gravity and importance of this situation when we compare
the viewpoints of visitors to our campus. Those who have the privilege of speaking to us as a group, use
only the kindest and most laudatory of adjectives in their remarks on Davidson. Those who do not appear before us
use adjectives of quite a different complexion. A certain lady who sang here not so long ago had this to
say, “I have never been treated in such a rude and unkind manner. Their discourtesy to me ranged from ill-concealed
magazine reading to yawning, sleeping, and other signs of boredom.” She has told several influential people this and their opinions
of Davidson have altered in an unfortunate direction. The lady who said these things is only one of a number
of people insulted by us who is telling others of our shameful behavior. The importance of this cannot be waved
lightly away. The opinions of those who appear before us and are treated to a dose of the “good old
Davidson Spirit” are doing us irreparable harm. All those present at a recent chapel exercise conducted by a prominent member
of the student body must surely be ashamed, on reflection, of our behavior to him. His talk, which had a
good point, was openly laughed at and commented upon, not, I am sure, through any intentional rudeness, but only through
thoughtlessness on our part. (Continued On Page Three) “Why in the name of Pete Ney won't they let me get
my major subjects off and then give me a diploma?” is an interrogatory sentiment all too often expressed among our
present day college students. In this age of super-specialization there is an alarming disinterest in courses not designed to enhance
one’s “earning potential.” So rapid has become the pace of living that college attendance is viewed by many of our
youth as a burden to be suffered only for the ultimate rewarding diploma, which ranks second only to wealth as
a social and economic entree in our modern society of oft-confused values. Of course, it is not to be advocated
that colleges discontinue the awarding of diplomas, for even though the importance attached to them is out of all true
proportion, they are to an extent “yardsticks of accomplishment.” Further, with their Latin embellishments and flowing script, diplomas are of
unquestionable decorative value for wall or scrapbook. But pity the poor man who, seeing his name inscribed upon a sheepskin,
concludes: “Ah, at last I am an educated man.” Perhaps the diploma-holder has begun his education, but it is also
possible that he has none at all. Education is, by no one’s definition, simply the memorizing of cold facts from
cold books over a four-year period; see how little amount of stress is placed on “facts” in the following commentaries
on education: Webster says: “Educate the youth to self-control, to the habit of holding passion and prejudice and evil tendencies
subject to an upright and reasoning will, and you have done much to abolish misery from their future lives and
crime from society. “Knowledge does not comprise all which is contained in the large term of education. The feelings are
to be disciplined; the passions are to be restrained; true and worthy motives are to be inspired; a profound religious
feeling is to be instilled, and pure morality inculcated under all circumstances. All this is comprised in education.” We find
that great thinkers in the years since Webster have neither considered an educated man one who has at his command
a supply of “facts.” More recently Nicholas Murray Butler has added: “There are five tests of the evidence of education—correctness
and precision in the use of the mother tongue; refined and gentle manners, the result of fixed habits of thought
and action; sound standards of appreciation of beauty and worth, and a character based on these standards; power and habit
of reflection; efficiency or the power to do.” By the standards of Webster and Butler, how many of us can
say that we are being educated? Only a few can raise their hands; the rest of us had bestHere is
the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

take stock of ourselves, realizing that the four years of undergraduate college offer a golden opportunity for our education for
living, rather than a cold steel base upon which to start “making a living.” All the facilities for education are
here for the asking.

WHAT'S WHAT AMONG AMERICAN COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES faded into dark oblivion in the face of the publicity the Wallace mob
grinds out. The big assembly the Wallacites were holding ended Sunday with a statement of purposes that they hold common
with the other parties, whether they know it or not. For example, when they announced that they were in favor
of world peace, it is assumed that the other parties are in favor of war. There is no indication at
all that masses of college students made a pilgrimage to Chapel Hill for making plans to save the world, especially
none from Davidson. It looks like college students are forever making fools of themselves by creating a lot of unfounded
noise on issues they haven't given full consideration. Down at Florida, a none-too-large group attained national limelight by threatening to
cause a demonstration before a meeting of southern governors at Gainesville. This meeting comes off after this goes to press,
so I don’t know the outcome. The majority of students frown upon such conduct, but they, like little children who
make a noise just to gain attention, proceed without giving any evidence of the intelligence a scholar is supposed to
have.

Clemson had Elliot Lawrence to play for their midwinters. He had a birthday during his visit, so they presented him
with a cake and a big time was had by all. Last Tuesday night, Patrice Munsel of the Metropolitan Opera
gave a concert there. In the preceding issue of The Tiger, a large picture of her with a “come on
big boy” look appeared on the front page. If this was not misleading, examples of which you already know, the
farmers and mechanics had a very attractive date that evening. The Carolina coeds thought they’d pick out a Greek God
like the Duke girls did. They didn't make much headway, so they declared that all Carolina men were Greek gods.
Could that have been a misprint which should have read “Geek?”

A most interesting report in the Blues was made on the Intercollegiate Council Meeting held at Davidson. I would like
to quote a very startling statement: “Some biblical illusions to fair employment were given by a student from Johnson C.
Smith, Davidson, and Queens.” Whoever this rather unusual student is must have had a very interesting story to tell. It
seems that those of the other race in this social circle (I am so led to understand) don’t believe that
this ridiculous fair employment bill is enough. Maybe the whites should descend to the status of slaves!

About a month ago, the Hoya’s sports writer was looking for his team to regain their 500 mark by beating
State. He had evidently never heard of State because he was confident it was going to be done. In reporting
on the game, it was quite amusing to note the degree of change in his song when State plastered the
Georgetown crowd by a 41-point margin. He says, “the Washingtonians were completely startled.” Silly boys! Must have been born yesterday.

Spring Frolics? First Choice, Second Choice, Third Choice, Fourth Choice, Fifth Choice, Sixth Choice, Seventh Choice, Seventeenth Choice — DAVE
BLEVINS, VAUGHN MONROE, TEX BENEKE, ELLIOTT LAWRENCE, TOMMY DORSEY, BILLY KNAUFF, STAN KENTON, CHARLIE SPIVAK.

The Poll-cat By DAVID SONIAN

Although this question was not sponsored by the Pan-Hell, we hope that they will be guided by the results as
much as possible. Only students were polled. What band would you like to have for the Spring Frolics?

Operating Table: Giving encouragement to Charlotte’s beautiful, though apparently frantic, spinsters last Friday were numerous scholars from Davidson. After 11
p.m., however (2300 for you X-Gee Eyes), encouragement, and in some cases, even force, was necessary to cart some away.
Cam Henderson is reported to have thrown convention to the wind, speaking to three people he had not formally met.
Chick Neil and Alternating Current had a Siske on their necks for the ride back. Spring is here and the
5:30 Club of M. W. Wester goes nervously on — in spite of having to leave in the daylight. The
Hawaiian Room welcomes them, as usual. Slick Hugh Hill is reported to have installed radar antenna on top of Talmadge
to detect social climbers wearing argyles. Gopher Mann’s printing press is crying for a portrait, and none better could be
suggested than E. Caliet and S. Lineberry (or is it L. Stanhope?) having a cup of Aristotelian tea. In conjunction
with the above, a galloping pole indicates that males of the student body are more interested in the dreams of
Caliet than the flounders of Freud (there’s nothing more in heaven and earth than dreamt in Freud's philosophy. Source: The
Missouri Compromise of Prof. Kinsey).

We were relieved to find, after a hasty glance into Davidson's library, that George Washington was perfectly all right on
Good Friday, and did not die on Easter. The lower intramural field has been declared legal snowball territory and groups
desiring ‘48-49 reservations may sign up at the Y. Three sympathizers of Henry A. Wallace — HAW — have been
suspected of independent thinking (Oh, Emerson!) by the inquisition (composed of the other 987 students). They were accused of the
heinous sin of consuming nine bottles of some forbidden beverage; but the reviewing committee let them off, since this per
se was not a case.

See Bob Millar for notes on the Italian and Floridian Rivieras. He has visited both recently, and is now thoroughly
convinced that only a Sapp would live in Davidson. Take it from us, girls, he’s just a wolf in cheap
clothing. We hear Mills flooded the gym in Durham when sent in as a sub. It took nature 21 years
to make a man; it took Sweet Sue 21 minutes to make him a monkey. “He asked her for burning
kisses. She said in accents cruel, ‘I may be a red hot mama, But I ain't nobody's fuel’.”

Little Robert: When he was born something terrible happened — he lived.

Paging the Professors By Stan

PROF. LOGAN

Prof. Logan of the Chemistry Department can claim a pastime which most Davidson professors cannot; that is spending most of
his spare time nursing, for he is the father of a year-old baby. When he finds time, Dr. Logan enjoys
playing bridge and finds interest in the professional organizations of which he is a member. He has in the past
played tennis and golf. As a scientist, Dr. Logan would like to see more creative work in research done at
Davidson. A native of Georgia, Prof. Logan was graduated from Emory University, where he also took a master’s degree, and
where, in later summers, he has taught. He earned his Ph.D. at John Hopkins University and has served on the
faculty of that institution. He has also taught at North Georgia College.

PROF. SHEWMAKE

Since 1919, Dr. Shewmake has been on the Davidson faculty and in the twenty-nine years here, he has watched Davidson's
progress from a college with a staff of fourteen to the large college it is now. During these years, too,
he has found much pleasure in the meeting of personalities who have visited the college, especially those who have been
here in connection with the yearly lecture series. And of particular interest through these years has been progress in the
social life of Davidson. Dr. Shewmake is a graduate of William and Mary, took his M.A. at Columbia, and earned
his doctorate at the University of Virginia where he later taught for two years. For seven years he was connected
with high and preparatory school work in Virginia, and he also taught at the Virginia State Normal in Fredericksburg. Chief
interest for Dr. Shewmake is American speech, in line with which he has contributed several articles to the publication, “American
Speech.” Dr. Shewmake has also written articles for the “Christian Observer” concerning the race question in the South, which is
another of his particular interests.

Think It Over By MALLOY OWEN

STUDENT ELECTIONS

In order that we, the voters, may know the candidates, their qualifications, records, and ideas, we believe an amendment to
the student government constitution should be drawn up and presented to the student body as soon as possible, which would
include the following changes in the system of elections:

1. Campaign speech of uniform length for each of the candidates to be given in chapel.
2. A special election issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN carrying pictures, qualifications, records, and ideas for school improvement (if any) of
each candidate.

This amendment is proposed because of the simple fact that a majority of us who were here during last elections
did not know but a few of the many men who were running and therefore were faced with the choice
of either voting blindly or not participating in the elections. Neither choice is conducive to good citizenship. We will be
foolish to count on the same good luck in blindly selecting men for office that was ours last time.

Next month Davidson will have its second election since growing to a school of 900-1,000 students. Unless action is taken
before that time, the same system framed for a student body of 500-600 men, where “everybody knows everybody else” will
be used. We believe this system to be out-grown and inadequate. It is the right of every voter, here or
elsewhere, to know for whom and for what he is voting. It is not enough to know a name, or
even what the man looks like. We would not be satisfied with such meager information about national candidates. If it
is worth our time to elect officers, it is worth knowing what we are doing.

COUNCIL ACTION

Student Council action is necessary to place such an amendment before the voters. The time for action is at hand.
Elections are held “not later than April 15th” (five weeks hence). It was not “just a few freshmen” who did
not know the candidates last year. A poll of student opinion taken after that election definitely favored amending the system.
We call upon our elected representatives to lead out in making this adjustment to meet the condition of a nearly
doubled student body. This paper served as a medium last year to those who wished to express themselves on this
issue. Let’s not wait until the voting is over to complain this time. Now is the time to speak up.

All fraternities are urged to write weekly columns and get them in by Monday noon to ensure publication in the
current week’s issue.
