+ of—a- liberal SEMI-FINALS .--COME NEXT ALENDA LUX UB! Volume XXXVI ORTA LIBERTAS DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, MARCH 5, 1948 Second Masquers Play Announced On Monday and Tuesday nights, April 5 and 6, the Red and Black Masquers will put on their second play of the year in Chambers Auditorium at 8:30 p.m. This production will be Oscar Wilde’s “Importance of Being Earnest,” a three-act comedy, and will be directed by Charles Hadley. Admission will be fifty cents for students, seventy-five cents for adults, and twenty-five for children. In brief, the story is as follows: Mr. Jack Worthington, played by Frank Lowe, is desperately in love with Miss Gwendolyn Fairfax, played by Alice Demarest, and proposes to her. Gwendolyn, by mistake on the part of her cousin, Algy, played by Martin Caldwell, thinks that Jack’s name is Ernest and accepts his proposal because she has a passionate desire to marry a man by the name of “Ernest.” In the meantime, Algy has introduced himself to Jack's pretty young ward, Miss Cecily Cardew, played by Nancy Copeland, as Jack's brother, Ernest. Cecily, being of the same attitude as Gwendolyn, accepts Algy’s proposal because she has always had a passionate desire to marry a man by the name of “Ernest.” The plot thickens, as the saying goes, but gradually evolves to disclose a startling and hilarious ending. Others in the all-star cast include Henry Hansen, Leonard Boswell, Susie Jackson, Mrs. Bradley Thompson, and George Spelvin. It will be staged by Bill Currie and his assistants with the sets designed and executed by Glenn Neal.

Graduate Exams To Be Held March 17-19 Graduate record examinations will be given to the seniors for the first time on March 17-19. All are required to take the examination unless they are excused in advance by the Executive Committee. The exact hour and place have not been determined, but it will be announced shortly. For the institution, the purpose of these tests will be to evaluate the college, compare its effectiveness with other colleges, and provide a basis for possible improvements in its program. For the individual, the purpose of the examination is to measure the educational attainments of the college student. These tests will provide a helpful answer to the question, “What did I learn in college?” For seniors who expect to pursue graduate work, it will reveal their status with respect to those with whom they will compete in graduate school and in the various professions. The graduate record examination is a series of tests of general educational development and achievement in specialized fields of study. By dealing with fundamental problems, the tests in this series measure the intellectual power as well as the acquisition of important generalizations, concepts, and ideas of the individual. The tests of general education cover broadly the principal fields of education. The eight included in this series are: vocabulary, general mathematics, biological sciences, arts, social studies, literature, physical sciences, and effectiveness of expression. Regardless of what the student has taken in college, the examination provides an analysis of achievement that reflects personal development resulting from study, intelligent observation, general reading, and other methods of self-education. Instead of examining the student on courses just completed, the examination is evidence of the content of what has been learned and retained, regardless of the source or method of learning—thus, it is a test of the student's intellectual assets.

College Debaters Will Compete In Regional Match Four members of the Forensic Council will represent Davidson in the debate division of the annual South Atlantic Forensic Tournament being held at Lenoir-Rhyne College in Hickory this Thursday through Saturday. Heywood Brinegar and Don Shriver compose the affirmative team while Charles Davis and J. W. Pence will debate the negative side of the national question, Resolved: that a federal world government should be established. Charles Elyea, manager of the council, will be sponsored by the council.

CALENDAR VESPERS March 7—Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman, Louisville Presbyterian Seminary, Louisville, Kentucky. CHAPEL Monday, March 8—Rev. Fred Stair, Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia. Tuesday, March 9—Professor T. Y. Greet. Wednesday, March 10—Professor L. O. Kattsoff, chairman, Department of Philosophy, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina. Thursday, March 11—Professor A. V. Goldiere. Friday, March 12—YMCA.

Vereen Bell Memorial Award Contest Ends On March Fifteenth It was announced Tuesday by Dr. W. D. Cumming, of the English Department, that the final date for turning in any contributions for the Vereen Bell Memorial Prize for Creative Writing is Monday, March 15. The contributions may be turned into any member of the English Department. The prize which will be awarded to the writer of the winning paper will, as usual, be fifty dollars worth of goods, the form of which will be decided upon by consultation between the winner and the Vereen Bell Memorial Award Committee. Briefly, the rules with which the writer must comply in writing his paper are: (1) All entries must be typewritten, double spaced, and without author identification. (2) A separate sealed envelope should accompany each entry with the title of the work and the author's name. Papers are not limited to any type or length. In making the announcement, Dr. Cumming also disclosed that LeGette Blythe, feature writer of The Charlotte Observer, has agreed to be the final judge for the entries in this contest. Mr. Blythe is one of the best-known writers in the state and has several well-known works to his credit. He is the author of the historical novel “Alexandriana,” “Marshal Ney—A Dual Life,” and, soon to appear on the book shelves, another novel entitled “Bold Galilean.” Mr. Blythe is at present engaged in writing the drama which will be presented at the celebration on May 20 in Charlotte of the signing of the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence.

Air Force Man To Visit Campus Captain E. A. Wright of the 14th Air Force, Orlando, Fla., will address students wishing to learn about the new Army Air Force program in the ROTC building at 4 p.m. Monday afternoon, according to Colonel W. Grace, P.M.S. and T. He will be especially interested in talking with graduating seniors and former AAF officers and enlisted men about plans for the future of the air force. In his talk, Captain Wright will attempt to fully explain the new flying cadet program and the benefits which are being offered by it. The aviation cadet service receives $75 per month plus food, quarters, medical and dental care. At the completion of the course, the cadet is commissioned a second lieutenant and assigned to active duty with the AAF at $336 a month (including flight pay). The program, open to single men 20 to 26½ years old with one-half the requirements for a college degree, offers $500 extra for each year of active duty. Former aviation cadets whose training was terminated by the end of the cadet program in 1944 or by the war's end in 1945 will be given special consideration for reassignment. Only the physical examination need be taken, provided they have met other requirements. Any questions concerning the air force should be asked Captain Wright when he speaks at Davidson on March 8.

Chemistry Society Holds Meeting Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity, held its regular biweekly meeting in the Martin Science Building on Monday night, March 1. The meeting was called to order by President Bill Joyner. Tom Moore read the minutes of the last meeting and called the roll. Following this business meeting, John Stewart read an original paper on “The Chemical Process of Photography.” He told something of the history of photography and the composition of the film and plates used in photography. His chief emphasis was put on the developing agents and how they work. He then discussed fixation and the reactions taking place in this process. Stewart accompanied the reading by placing diagrams and chemical reactions on the blackboard. A short question and answer period followed. The meeting was then adjourned.

Detroit Symphony Will Give Two Concerts Here As the final attraction of the Davidson College Artist Series, the Detroit Symphony Orchestra will present two concerts in Chambers Auditorium on Monday, March 15. The evening performance, which will be conducted by Dr. Karl Krueger, will consist of four works: Overture to “Marriage of Figaro” by Mozart; Symphony No. 1, C minor by Johannes Brahms; La Mer by Claude Debussy, and Till Eulenspiegel’s Merry Pranks by Richard Strauss. A somewhat lighter program will make up the matinee concert at 2:30 p.m. Valter Poole, assistant conductor, will direct the orchestra in a chorale, “Sleepers Awake” by Bach, the Nutcracker Suite by Tschaikovsky, and Peter and the Wolf by Prokofieff. Those who do not have season tickets and who wish to attend should secure their tickets immediately. Only 300 single admission tickets for the evening concert will be placed on sale. They may be secured from the office of the Music Department. The admission is $3.00 for the evening concert and 60 cents for the matinee. The Detroit Symphony Orchestra today, by those who know music best, is included among the top three or four of the nation. Not a little credit for this is due to Dr. Karl Krueger, who has been associated with the orchestra for four seasons. Born in Atchison, Kansas, in 1894, Dr. Krueger has had a wide range of experience. From 1920 to 1924 he served as assistant conductor of the Seattle Symphony Orchestra.Piano music in Chambers Auditorium Tuesday night. His concert was the third in the regular Artists’ Series.

Student Deputation To Visit Campus

A deputation from Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., will be on the Davidson campus for a part of next week. Among this group are a number of former Davidson students. Fred Stair, a former president of the student body, will head the deputation. He will speak at the regular chapel exercises on Monday and will introduce the other members of the group. Those who will accompany Stair are: George Webb, also a Davidson alumnus and graduate of the University of Tennessee; Bill Rogers, a Davidson graduate and former president of the student body; Dab Martin, who did his undergraduate work at the University of North Carolina; and Richard Cardic Naser College, Austin, Texas. Another Davidson graduate will arrive Tuesday and remain until Wednesday with the purpose of interesting students in the mission fields. While these men are on the campus, they want to talk with all members of the student body who are interested in church work and who have not yet decided on their life's work. For this purpose, an open forum will be held in the Y lounge Tuesday night at 7:30. Those who desire private conferences with any of these men should contact Tal Meena at the YMCA.

World Government Group Formed Here

Students interested in world government adequate to prevent war met last Wednesday night in the basement of the YMCA and chose Frank Perrin as chairman of the group to serve until regular officers are elected. To carry the organization of a chapter of the United World Federalists forward, Perrin appointed a committee composed of Dave Hamilton, Don Shriver, and Irwin Stubbs to draw up a petition to the Executive Committee of the college for permission to organize under the name of Davidson College. It is generally conceded that the faculty will give approval. Also, a committee was appointed to formulate a constitution and was made up of Malloy Owen, Bill Alexander, and Dave Hamilton. Clyde Tandy was selected by Perrin to collect the one-dollar membership fee of the national organization and apply for a charter. Other plans for getting the chapter on its feet were discussed. The next meeting was set for Friday, March 12, and Perrin asked Clyde Tandy and John Hobart to help with the program of the next meeting. These two attended an organizational meeting of the North Carolina Student Division of the UWF which was held last fall on the campus of the University of North Carolina. Those present were T. Moore, R. Dietrick, J. Stewart, W. Johnson, B. Joyner, and J. Pittman. There is no restriction on membership in the UWF except, of course, that all connected with it be in favor of the broad principles.

Phi Mu Alpha Gives Plans For Spring Programs

Phi Mu Alpha, honorary music fraternity, has announced its series of programs for the remaining part of the semester. These programs have been planned for all those members of the student body interested in music and all are welcome. Programs to which students are invited will begin promptly at 7:30 p.m. and will take place in Oak Row. The schedule is as follows:
- March 9—Contemporary music: Lecture and discussion (Schillinger, Schoenberg, etc.).
- March 30—New recorded music (and developments in recording field) Henry Hansen.
- April 20—Mr. Noehren on Paul Hindemith.
- May 4—Mr. Berge on contemporary music.

In addition, Phi Mu Alpha is sponsoring the annual inter-fraternity sing to be held April 28, and an art exhibit, which will take place sometime in May.

Male Chorus Tour

Friday night in Charleston, S.C., Davidson’s Male Chorus, under the direction of Mr. Earl Berg, will present the first performance of its annual spring concert tour. Saturday, the men travel to Jacksonville, Florida where they will sing at the Riverside Presbyterian Church that night and take part in the regular Sunday morning worship service. Waycross, Georgia, the next stop, will hear a concert Sunday night and from there the Chorus journeys to Anderson, S.C., for a Monday evening appearance. The final performance, Tuesday night, will be presented at the Western Carolina Teachers College, Cullowhee, N.C. The chorus, composed of 45 men, has sung several times already this year including the Christmas Vespers Service and a recent concert at the First Presbyterian Church, Rock Hill, S.C., but the highlight of the singing year is the spring trip. Last season the Male Chorus traveled to Richmond, Philadelphia, and New York where they sang over the CBS network.

STUDENT COMMENTS ON FEPC

Truman’s proposals consist mostly of this: eliminate the poll tax in national elections, create a fair employment practices act, end segregation in interstate public conveyances in the South, and make lynchings a federal offense. I am to deal with the above points in a realistic fashion and from a Southerner’s viewpoint. It will in no way be a solution but an attempt to partly justify Governor Wright and Sen. Eastland’s proposal of dropping from the Democratic Party until Truman’s proposals are rectified. I believe that the abolishment of the poll tax would probably be a good thing, but I am against federal legislation to do it. The states have the constitutional right to set their own suffrage qualifications as long as they do not specifically eliminate any racial group in the population. The poll tax does not do this. The South's job is to educate the Negro for citizenship. It is interesting to note that the Negroes are voting in increasing numbers in the South. Fair employment practices are unreal, and as the New York Times put it, an attempt to enforce tolerance with a policeman’s billy. Personal antipathies and prejudices cannot be eradicated by law, and the attempt to do so is not the business of the federal government. The choice of business associates and the type of people the individual wishes to work with and to have work for him are his personal rights. Lynching is morally wrong and I can’t see why much opposition would be against it. It should be noted that lynching is the only crime that has decreased in the past 20 years. The law seems utterly useless for southern juries would still form the court. It is hearts that have to be changed rather than the legal jurisdiction. As for the segregation in public interstate transportation, I thought that the Supreme Court had already called it unlawful. Also, Truman is playing the political lily. I wonder if Truman discovered his interest in civil rights when he was a member of the Pendergast party for the advancement of civil rights in Missouri. I am inclined to believe that Truman did not realize the greatest danger. The danger is that the angry and frustrated South may forget that the South’s ten million Negroes had nothing to do with it. They again may become victims of a resentment that ought not be directed against them, but those outside the South, who harry us.

Eu Society Holds Interesting Debate

At the regular meeting of the Eumanean Literary Society on Monday night, March 1, a program of semi-formal discussion was presented. The subject was, Resolved: That students not attaining an average of B or better in high school should not be admitted to Davidson College. Dana Drake presented a paper in favor of the resolution, highlighting the points of raising the college standards, discouraging those students mentally unable to cope with the study involved in college work, and removing a burden from the parents of those students. Speaking against the proposal was Bob Gambrell, who emphasized the importance of having a well-rounded student body, the obvious discrepancies which such a system of limiting the student body would give, the often erroneous indication of a student’s abilities given by his high school grades, and the possible discrimination shown against alumni’s sons. Both of these papers were criticized by a committee headed by Walker Taylor, and composed of Taylor, Al Scarborough, and Dave Gambrell. The subject matter was not treated in the criticism, but remarks were mainly confined to the construction, organization, and delivery of the material. A discussion of formal debating procedure was held, with the end in view of improving the members’ familiarity with such procedure, and for providing them with the groundwork for future debating. The new constitution of the Eumanean Society is almost ready for distribution among the members, and will be off the press soon. This constitution represents a great deal of work done in revising the old one which contained many outdated clauses and amendments.