PAGE EIGHT DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1948

harton, SCHOLARSHIP FRAT... ALUMNI OPEN $2,500,000... 1948 GRADUATES... DR. J. T. CLELAND... COLLEGE MAKES... Larchmont, N. Y.; Dons Wharton, LIBRARY
(Continued from Page One) (Continued from Page One) (Continued from Page One) (Continued from Page One) (Continued from Page One)
New York, N. Y. (Continued from Page One)

Senior Class and came to Davidson from Statesville, N. C. He is president of Le Cercle Francaise and also president
of the Red and Black Masquers. He is directing the current play, “Arsenic and Old Lace.” He holds membership in
the Philanthropic Literary Society and also in the Honorary Fraternity Council. He has been elected secretary of Chi Mu Alpha
and secretary-treasurer of the Male Chorus.

Those parts of the country where there are Davidson alumni have been divided into thirty-five sections, each of these regions
having a chairman. The chairman of each of these divisions will be responsible for sparking the drive among the alumni
of his section of the country. The General Chairman of all these thirty-five groups is Mr. John I. Smith, of
Greenville, South Carolina.

The fourth part of the organizational structure is the Corporation Council, which has open approach to many of the corporations
that do business in our country, and particularly those operating in the South. This council is chaired by Mr. William
H. Neil, the Senior Vice-President of the Wachovia Bank of Winston-Salem, North Carolina.

Our last group is the Church Cooperation Committee, designed to represent all the varied types of active business in this
section of the nation. This council is chaired by Mr. William H. Neil, the Senior Vice-President of the Wachovia Bank
of Winston-Salem, North Carolina.

Of all alumni of Davidson, the group of most interest to the present student body is the class which graduated
last May. Though they were here on the campus as students just a few months ago, they are now entering
many varied fields and carry the name of Davidson still farther ahead. Following is a list of what some of
them are doing this fall:

Miss Jane Linville of Kernersville. Gene Kirkman is at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va. The dignity, beauty, and spiritual
character of this Vesper Service will constitute a fitting conclusion for this highly significant event in Davidson’s history.

Elizabethtown, N. C.; William H. Hamilton. W. McNeal, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Walter Kay, Charlotte, N. C.; Oren Moore, Salt Lake
City, Utah; A. B. Reese, New York, N. Y.; James S. Simmons, Boston, Mass.; T. D. Sparrow, Charlotte, N. C.;
Porter P. Vinson, Richmond, Va.

Bob Stroup is working as a physicist in Washington, D.C. Sam Tate is at the University of North Carolina in
the business school. Charlie Patterson is in the cotton business in Kannapolis. John Thatcher is in Miami, Fla. Jim Pittman
is at the School of Industrial Equipment Co. of Charlotte. Recently married Miss Billie Thompson, Richmond, Va.

Bob Phillips is at the University of Pennsylvania Medical School in Philadelphia. Lee Willingham is at Columbia Seminary in Decatur,
Ga. Frank Rawley, recently married to Miss Dot Hamrick of Davidson, is working with an insurance company out of Greensboro.
Louis Smith, Greensboro, N. C. John Thatcher is in Miami, Fla.

Jerry Robinson is hard at work in Wilmington, N. C. Al Scarborough is at the Medical College of South Carolina
in Charleston, S.C. Bill Robertson is traveling for the Army ('43-'45). He is president of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity
and is also a member of Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fraternity.

Ernest entered Davidson in the fall of '42, but his studies were interrupted by two years of service in the
Army ('43-'45). He is president of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity and is also a member of Omicron Delta Kappa
honorary fraternity.Besides being the editor of Quips and Cranks, Ernest is also chairman of the Publications Board. Strengthen the already
strong ties between Davidson and the Presbyterian Churches of North and South Carolina. It is headed by Dr. S. Kraemer,
pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte. Bill Simpson is teaching Algebra at the Kentucky Military Institute, just out
of Louisville. Patronize Davidsonian Advertisers.

FRANK T. LEMMONS, JR.
Frank is a member of the YMCA Cabinet, and he is this year's editor of the Wildcat Handbook. He was
on the Business Staff of the Davidsonian for three years and is now vice president of Sigma Upsilon. He is
a member of the Phi Society and the Spanish Club.

ARTHUR M. LINDSAY
Arthur is a senior who hails from Greenville, S.C. He came to Davidson in 1943 but was in the Naval
Air Corps for two years. He is a member of the Spanish Club and also the International Relations Club. He
is taking a business major and belongs to Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

FLYNN V. LONG
Flynn is a member of the Senior Class and is on the Forensic Council. He belongs to Sigma Delta Phi
and has worked with the band for several years. He also plays with the ROTC. He belongs to Kappa Alpha
social fraternity.

CHAMPNEY A. McNAIR
Champney is a senior from Sanford, N.C. He was in the U.S. Army from 1943 to 1946. He was a
member of the YMCA and is now treasurer of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.

WILLIAM T. POSTON
Bill entered Davidson in June 1946 and is taking a physics major. He is a member of the French Club,
Le Cercle Francais. He was a member of the U.S. Air Force (1942-46) and was attached to the 5th Air
Force in Hawaii. Upon graduation, Bill expects to go into engineering.

CHARLES C. PURNELL
Charles is a pre-ministerial student and will graduate in May. His home is in Winnsboro, S.C., from which he came
three years ago to Davidson. He is a member of the International Relations Club and the Philanthropic Society. He has
been in the Male Chorus for three years and has been on the staff of the Scrips and Pranks.

ALBERT GRADY HARRIS, JR.
Albert was also extended a bid by Phi Beta Kappa. Al graduated last year with a fine scholastic record and
is now at Columbia Seminary in Decatur, Georgia.

INCONSIDERATE NATION
It is hoped that the government will remedy the situation and thereby eliminate the cause for such action because Davidson
men love their studies so well that they could not bear to depart with them for the necessary week's campaigning
which would sweep their candidates into office. Let the nation take heed. The War Between the States is as nothing
in comparison to what might happen should Davidson men lose their patience. They are sick and tired of having the
hundreds of thousands of Davidson admirers kept away from their homecoming because the national elections conflict with their preparations to
attend. This is no time for the Republican, Democrat, States' right, or Progressive, nay this is the time for all
good men to come to the aid of their school.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
MAKERS OF Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N.C.

ALL THE NEW POPULAR PHONOGRAPH RECORDS
Columbia Masterworks
Red Seal
Victor

Parker-Gardner Company
Since 1898
118 W. Trade St. Phone 8257

Copyright 1948, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
