The Cats had a bad night. That's our only answer to the goings-on up in Raleigh last Saturday night. Davidson went into the game with N.C. State confident that it would achieve its first victory over the Wolfpack in several years, but instead came out with its worst spanking in the history of the two schools. Many have asked what happened. By JACK HAZARD to the Red and Black men. We simply answer that Davidson had a bad night and at the same time State could do no wrong. This Saturday we look for Coach Charlie Jamerson’s lads to bounce back and pin a decisive victory on the Bulldogs of The Citadel. Three touchdowns prediction.

In observing the progress of the new gymnasium recently, one of the first things that caught our eye was the pile of dirt on the clay courts just in front of the structure. This brought up the question of whether the courts would be of any further use. Upon closer inspection and questioning, we found the answer to be in the negative. This then brought the query as to their replacement, if any, and again we found in the negative. By this time we had become pretty inquisitive about the freshman squad, and the many students seeking recreation and wished to know what the varsity team, newly formed, would use for tennis courts. We were informed that the two former would have to squeeze this time and timber into the three green courts, and that the latter group would suffice themselves with the four lower courts. Now anyone who has skipped lunch in order to get to the courts without waiting an hour or so will realize the inconvenience that this will create, to say the least. How twenty odd varsity and freshman members will get sufficient practice on three tennis courts is beyond comprehension to your reporter. The condition of the four lower courts renders them absolutely useless to Coach during the football and winter months. The courts are not too populated, but when Spring rolls around they'll have the varsity and Jayvee a lot of traffic to handle. Last year the netters used the three good courts and the students are now out of commission every afternoon. Those who wanted to play either had to arrange their schedule in an inconvenient manner so as to get on the wood courts, or they had to be content with the lower courts where the bouncing of a ball is more uncertain than the mind of a woman during the monsoon and the lines test the keenness of any man’s eye to see them. In the matches last year it was necessary to use all of the upper courts. What will be used now? The fact that there are only three courts available for competitive use is established, and this number is not sufficient! In order to take care of the needs, more courts must be whipped into shape. There is no possibility of building new ones at the present time, so the next best thing is to resurface the lower courts so that they may be used. We have only a vague idea of the cost of this, judging from the cost of the present good courts. But with two and a half million dollars being spent to improve Davidson, it would seem that a small fraction of this could be diverted to improve one of Davidson’s foremost needs. The netters piled up the most impressive record of any Davidson team last year, and there is every reason to believe that they’ll repeat next Spring. That fact alone should give Bo Roddey & Co., a little respect when plans are made to improve the campus. Any Davidson team that can roll up wins over schools like Duke, Georgia, Georgia Tech and come within one match of downing the North Carolina Tar Heels for the state championship should get more than minor recognition. The same squad lost only Jerry Robinson from last year’s combine and is destined to bring Davidson into the national limelight in the next few years. With a team like that, major tournaments are bound to be headed for ‘ole’ D.C. But where will they be held? On three measly courts! Something must be done and quick! We call for the students to get behind a movement to put the four lower courts into the same fine shape as the upper courts. As we said before, we don’t know what this would cost, but it would be a drop in the bucket to professional money raisers who are seeking two and a half million to improve this noble institution. The new gym is rapidly going up. If it were suddenly realized that ten thousand more dollars were needed for completion, the powers that be would waste little time in grabbing up the necessary amount. We feel that the immediate relief of the tennis court situation is as pressing as the completion of the gymnasium, if not more so. There will be those who take issue with this. But the time to build or rebuild the courts is now, and not next Spring, or after the gym is finished and there is more money for them. This column can holler all year for such improvements and nothing will be done unless the students get behind the movement. The student improvement committee appointed by Dr. Cunningham to aid in raising the funds for improvement should carry a good bit of weight in saying how that money will be spent. If that committee would make such suggestions as they deem necessary, we feel reasonably sure that some action would be taken to relieve the situation.

The campus magazine possibly has a circulation in certain quarters where this publication does not reach. We invite it to join us in the campaign for the racket wielders. We can see no reason why any member of the student body should be opposed to improvement, but we'd like to hear any comments, pro and con, on the issue. (We usually do hear comments, mostly con, on anything we say, anyway). We would be glad to print any open letter sent to us.

Wildcat Sports

WE'LL TAKE ‘UM

PAGE FOUR of DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1948

Disputes Mar Interfrat Play

On Thursday, October 7, the Gym Club beat the SAL and the Pikas. The next week Monday, the Phi Delts proved to be the excitement of the day. In the last five seconds of play, the Phi Delts kicked off and the score was 8-6 in favor of the Phi Gams. Both teams agreed to abide by the decision of Coach Pete Whittle, who announced the play was illegal and awarded the game to the Phi Gams. The Phi Delts, however, appealed the question to a committee which decided to have 20 minutes of the game replayed. The score would start as the Phi Gams, 6 points and one first down; Phi Delts, two points and three first downs. This is to be replayed as soon as possible, but at this time a definite date has not been set. Outstanding for the Phi Gams was Ed Newton, who ran and passed to perfection. For the Phi Delts, John Witherspoon and Bill Brownson were the sensation of the day. Also deserving credit is Monk Montgomery. At the same time the Phi Gams and Phi Delts were having it out, the Campus Club was administering a decisive, 12-0 victory over the Pi Kappas. The Campus Club scored once on a pass caught, and once on a pass thrown by the enemy. The first T.D. came when end Joe Griffiths received an interference ruling on an attempted end from Carl Harris. The second followed when Bob McLeod intercepted a Pi Kapp pass and hit the road for a Clubber victory. One Campus Clubber, interviewed, said: “I wouldn't like to point out any one man as the star, the whole team played a swell game. However, your reporter thinks that the Campus Club line certainly deserves mention. Their hard charging continually frustrated their opponents’ attempts to gain, and good offensive blocking paved the way for substantial gains.”

The next day, Tuesday, the Pikas met the Sigma Chis and handed them a 6-0 defeat. It was the Pikas’ all the way. Collins passed to Panjoy who proceeded to reel off 40 yards to set the Pikas up in scoring position. Then Collins passed to Cox for the only T.D. of the day. During the rest of the game Collins played end and regularly made substantial gains on beautiful pass receptions. When it was all over the Pikas had 6 first downs to the Sigma Chis one. Much of the credit must go to an alert and hard-charging line. However, the glory is tri-divided between Collins, Cox, and Fanjoy. Collins was particularly outstanding. Coach Ensign of the Pikas, jubilant over the victory, crowed, “They never passed the 50-yard line. I'm very much looking forward to a successful season.”

On the other field, the SAEs came out on the raw end of a 6-0 score with the Betas. The Betas showed the most powerful running attack of the season. The line was hard to stop, and the Betas more than once used a full spinner through the center of the line. The SAEs were baffled by their opponents' attack. Several times they changed their defense, once using a 2-man line. On the offensive, the SAEs could never get rolling. Quarterbacked by ‘Meatball’ Continued On Page 5

By CHERRY

If you don’t believe in sending a boy out to do a man’s work then you've got a pretty convincing argument walking around on the campus. Just take a look at the work left by Hal Mapes on the gridiron and you will soon realize that it takes a grey, well-built ballplayer to play end on a college team. And Mapes fills the bill in every department. He is a six-foot eleven inch, 199-pound knock-, and those who know say he can really knock. Hal is a likeable gent who arrived back in January of ‘46, fresh out of the Army and a prisoner of war camp. Having played under defeated years he decided on Davidson as the place to unleash his sports talents after a long, hard look at Wake Forest. Hal has been playing football for about eight years now and still shows no signs of tiring ofthe game. After two years at Granby where he played center and fullback in football and also basketball, Hal prepped a year at Staunton Military Academy in Virginia where he played all the sports too. Then about 1943, along came a slight interruption in his life in the form of a war. He served in the infantry for one year.

The Air Harriers Meet Randolph-Macon

It looks like a prosperous season this year for the Davidson harriers and now that the first time trials are over, the squad is looking forward to a quiet season. The team will have virtually the same lineup as last year; that is Jack Blake, Bradley, Bob Grube, Long, Murdock, McKeithan, Murray, and Remson. Also, there are many newcomers to the team, the most promising of which is Jimmy Glenn, who, by the way, crossed the tape in second place in Wednesday's trials. Bob Grube flashed across in front followed by Glenn, Remson, and McKeithan in that order. Gray, Bradley, and Long did not run in the trials but will start against Randolph-Macon Saturday morning at eleven o'clock.

In 1888, the Davidson campus was a meadow. That year the College received $135.17 for the hay moved from the campus.

When Bill Story was at Granby for two years, he was shot down on his fifth mission over Germany and spent about a year as a German prisoner. An interesting sidelight on this was the fact that Doug Rice was also in the same prison camp about 100 yards from Mapes, and neither of them knew each other until they met at Davidson. Hal's folks moved from Norfolk to Bellerose Manor, Long Island, N.Y. It was a big disappointment to Bill Story because he could no longer brag that all his boys were “fine Southern boys.” But Mapes’ motto for this is: “When I'm up North I do as the Yankees do and when I’m down South I do as a true Southerner would do.” Not only is he a star on the football team but he has also played baseball for three years on Coach Charley's teams as a pitcher, catcher, and first baseman, which shows a good bit of versatility.

In his first year of football at Davidson, Hal was the high scorer with 30 points coming from touchdowns and extra points. This year he is doing the kicking off and extra-point kicking. Hal shares a cozy penthouse apartment in East with his bosom friend and trainer, Virgil Pino.

Gray's Stop Barium Springs

The Gray Y Midgets traveled to Barium Springs Monday and came out victorious over the home team’s 45 pounders 12-6. The mighty midgets from Davidson struck with lightning-like speed early in the first quarter as on the first play from scrimmage Johnny Kimbrough cut around his own right end and ran 60 yards to pay dirt. Barium Springs then took the kickoff and after failing to gain the necessary yardage in three tries, selected to run the ball on fourth down although deep in their own territory. However, the Gray Y line refused to give way, and consequently, Davidson took possession of the ball on their opponents’ 30-yard line. Once again the midget machine roared down the field, and Kimbrough scored his second touchdown by going over from the 7. A few minutes before halftime, the midgets with possession of the ball on their own 25-yard line refused to kick on fourth down, but this time the Barium Springs line held and the home team took over. After being thrown for a five-yard loss, they started a drive, but the half ended before they could break into the scoring column with the ball resting on the five-yard line.

Davidson kicked off to begin the third quarter and on the second play from scrimmage, Burlinson took a reverse and went fifty yards to score Barium Springs’ first and only touchdown of the afternoon. There was no scoring done from this point on with both teams starting long drives only to have them fizzle out because of fumbles or intercepted passes. Outstanding for the Gray Y team were Kimbrough, Honeycutt, and Banks in the backfield, whereas Cummings, Vinekney, and Copeland were standouts in the line.

A second game was played between Barium Springs’ B team and the Gray Y J.V. The home team took revenge in this contest by trouncing the visitors 55-0. However, this one-sided score can partly be accounted for by the fact that Barium Springs outweighed their opponents by 25 pounds per man. It should also be noted that for lack of reserves, the J.V.’s had to rely on part of the midget squad for assistance.

Led by Jim Burlinson and Whiting, the B team scored easily in every quarter. Burlinson made runs of 40 and 30 yards respectively, whereas Whiting made a beautiful sprint of 84 yards down the right sidelines for a touchdown. A bright feature of the game was the superb line play of Banks.

It's no news to Davidson upperclassmen but the incoming freshmen and the transfer students should know that Coach Derrick Barton's 1948 Varsity Tennis team racked up the best record of any Davidson athletic squad last year. They won 15 matches, including victories over such powerhouses as Harvard, Yale, Presbyterian College, U. of Cincinnati, Georgia, Georgia Tech, and Duke. Returning from last year’s star-studded squad are Bo Roddey, Teddy Keesler, Mike Williams, Lenoir Keesler, Whit Cobb, Henry Neister, John Crossland, Rob Palmer, Pete Kennedy, and Bill Childs. The '48 team is still intact except for the loss of Jerry Robinson, who played number 3.

Most of these men are practicing now on the all-too-few courts allotted to the Varsity. The building of the new gym has torn up several courts, and the 3 good ones left make it awfully crowded when all the Varsity is practicing at the same time. The ‘Cats No. 1 man, Roddey, played in many national and sectional tournaments this past summer, and made a remarkable showing reflecting well on Davidson.

Coach Barton said several teams, including Duke and U. of N.C., have already signed, and he is hoping to sign William and Mary, and The U. of Virginia. There will be two teams this year: the Varsity and the Freshman team. The Freshmen are practicing now, but they need more material. Any freshman interested in playing on the freshman team should come any weekday after 2:30 to the courts back of the new gym construction.

The athletic Department is going to schedule as many matches as possible for the Wildkittens in the 49 season.

WILDCATS IN CITADEL SCRAP

On Saturday, the Davidson Wildcats will journey southward to the Citadel to encounter the Bulldogs in an afternoon contest in the Bulldog’s new stadium in Charleston. Both teams are seeking their first conference win, and the game should be a honey; but judging from past performances in games this year, the Wildcats will enter the game as decided favorites. The last game was staged in Charleston where the Wildcats were on the short end of the score. The Citadel completely outpointed the Wildcats in the statistics column. Whether the Cats will be able again to display such a brand of defensive and offensive brilliance remains to be seen, but it's certain that the local team will be out to repeat the performance. Both coaches and players are hoping for a win that will place the Cats in the win column for the remainder of the year.

The Citadel lost only three men by graduation from last year’s team and the team that they will field against the Wildcats will be essentially the same as that of last year. Included in the standouts on the squad is Bill Henderson, the highly touted Bulldog All-State guard last year and All-Southern Service Team guard in 1945. Last year the big red and black line had little trouble in handling this supposedly tough lineman. In fact, the story goes that he defied the Cats to run a play over his guard position, which they promptly did to oblige Mr. Henderson, for a nice gain. Other Bulldog linemen that the Davidsons will have to contend with are Jimmy Whelan who does a good job at tackle, and Gene Foxworth, a much better than average flanker. Having secured the services of Bob Suffridge, formerly a coach at N.C. State, as line coach, the cadets should boast a much stronger forward wall. The backfield is more of a question mark. In games thus far this year, the Bulldogs haven't been able to roll offensively to any large extent, so don't be surprised if Coach Quinn Decker pulls some new tricks out of his bag to throw at the Wildcats. Although the Wildcats concentrated their attack on the ground against the Citadel last year, they are expected to take to the air the majority of the time this year.

Frosh Down Wofford

Last Friday seemed to be a very eventful day for the Davidson freshman football team, as they downed a scrappy Wofford eleven 13 to 6. The Wildkittens, under the leadership of Johnny Guiton, former Fayetteville high school star, got off to a fine start. Late in the first quarter, C. L. Runyan’s kick was fumbled by Wofford’s Walpole, and Davidson recovered on Wofford’s 12-yard line. Three plays later Guiton hit end Hankins with a short pass and Davidson led 6 to 0. The placement was made good and the score stood at 7-0. Early in the second quarter Wade set up a possible second Kitten tally by blocking Walpole’s kick on the five, but Wofford dug in and after four futile tries the ball went to Wofford on their own five. Later in the quarter Moody recovered a fumble by Jim Sloan and then a few plays later on a beautiful 56-yard pass from Walpole to Abell, the Pups scored to close Davidson's margin, 7-6. From then on it was Davidson all the way. The Kittens were in scoring position twice in the third quarter and then in the final quarter Wade had a 35-yard pass interception touchdown called back because of Davidson's offsides. However, the frosh added their final tally after Guiton had returned a punt to the Wofford 21, which was followed by a pass from Guiton to Lazenby for the score. The conversion was wide and the game ended in a 13-6 victory.