AFTERNOON AND EVENING CONCERTS SCHEDULED BY SYMPHONY

Volume XXXVI DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, MARCH 12, 1948

The Davidsonian

ATTEND THE “D CLUB FOOLIES” ON MARCH 18th

Number 20

Phi Beta Kappa Elects Eight

Gala Foolies Show Set For Thursday

The “D Club Foolies” will begin with a bang next Thursday night as “Cousin” Dave Blevins blows the cork out of his hiker jug, pouring forth a sparkling concentration of talent (of course featuring crooners, comedians, and chorus girls as well as athletes). The first act will kick off with a canteen act, spearheaded by crooners Chandler and Hotlips Hodgins, who will attempt to imitate the respective abilities of Perry Como and Johnny Mercer, which have won the latter two all musical achievement.

At halftime in this two-hour event, the second team will take over. Backfield standouts Rhea Adolphs and Buck Williams will be shifted to endmen as the minstrel show pulls some tricky maneuvers with master of ceremonies Bob Phillips calling plays. Blocking back Jimmy Rogers is expected to bowl over the spectators as he vocalizes to the sweet harmony of Bill Davis and his “Tin-Pan Alleycats.”

We are counting on some sensational end-around plays from the dancers, and between quarters Cobb, Red Wilson, Ernie Stricklin, and others will leave off their ball-handling long enough to become chorus girls. A sell-out crowd is expected at 50 cents a head; so don't forget, the kick-off is the night of March 18 at Chambers Stadium. Be there!

Band Returns After Lengthy Southern Tour

The band is back. After a triumphant tour of Florida and one Georgia city where they were acclaimed by thousands, the Davidson band has returned to the fold. Leaving at 9:00 p.m., Monday, March 1, in an assembly occupying two buses, the band journeyed to Ocala, Florida, where a concert was held Tuesday night. On Wednesday, they moved southward to Avon Park for a scheduled performance that night, stopping en route for a brief afternoon showing at Dade City. Fort Pierce, Florida was gifted by the presence of the Davidson band Thursday and on Friday the band made its last audience in Florida—a performance in Orlando that night. They then headed northward again for an engagement in Thomasville, Georgia, Saturday night. Leaving Thomasville Sunday morning, the band returned to Davidson.

Constant study was in progress as long as the band was in motion. The only thing that interrupted the steady drone of pencils was the occasional oral recitations of Chaucer by the more highly intellectual.

Central Florida was seized by a false alarm of war as the Davidson boys arrived in Dade City. Half the band purchased cap pistols and literally “shot up the town.” They ambushed the other half, resenting their companions' adolescent inclinations, who, however, surged forward with pea-shooters to preserve the honor of Davidson.

True southern hospitality was shown all through Florida and Georgia. In Ocala, the band received free sight-seeing trips at Silver Springs, courtesy of the management. Oranges were had at Avon Park and an afternoon of swimming in the Atlantic Ocean was on the menu Thursday when the band arrived in Fort Pierce. A dance was held for the Davidson boys after their concert that night, courtesy of the band alumni of Fort Pierce. A picnic at Pittman Lodge highlighted the entertainment when the band arrived in Orlando. Thomasville, Georgia, successfully competed with the Florida cities by throwing a dance at the local country club immediately following the Saturday night performance. This brought a close to the social agenda of the band as they reluctantly headed north in the direction of Davidson Sunday morning. A good time was had by all who went on the trip. The band returned home with delightful memories of at least a few days well spent and leave in their path much that will add to the prestige of Davidson College.

Noted Musician Leads Symphony

He is, of course, known as a world-famous master musician, known as one of the great symphony orchestra leaders of America. But, having said that, how many people really know the man, Karl Krueger? They judge him by the manner in which he draws harmonies from the Detroit Symphony Orchestra. That is to say, they judge him by his works. They see him on stage in action, they see him bow to their applause—and then he is gone!

When first you meet him, his speech may puzzle you. It has the deep broad drawl of the western plains, yet modulated from his world travels and his abilities as a linguist. When he gets excited over some discussion—as he usually does—he is likely to drop French, German, Spanish, or Italian phrases into his rush of words, wholly unaware of the fact.

His father was a Lutheran missionary to the “North American Continent.” He gave all his four sons musical educations—and did not spare the rod. But when he found out that son Karl wanted to become a professional musician he was heartbroken! All he had aimed to do was to give them a cultural background. So when Karl went to Europe to study music he had to also study law, in order to satisfy the old gentleman. He was graduated in law from Heidelberg University. He had already finished the liberal arts course at Kansas University. He also specialized in abnormal psychology, economics, and higher mathematics. Figure all that out as background training for the job of being a symphony orchestra leader!

Though he studied under the great Arthur Nikisch, was a protégé of Felix Weingartner, and was associated with Franz Schalk, director of the Vienna Opera, he is as completely American as a hot dog with mustard. Out in Kansas, he played both baseball and football. He never misses a championship prize fight if he can get to it. Talk to him about art, science, literature, politics, philosophy, baseball, football—anything that happens to interest you—and you have an immediately enthusiastic companion.

The University of Kansas named him as one of the state’s four most distinguished citizens. The other three were General Eisenhower, Ben Hibbs, editor of the Saturday Evening Post, and the late William Allen White. As maestro to win world attention as a conductor, he takes that fairly lightly and in his stride, because he does not consider the Old World one-eighth as good as his own United States.

PHI BETA KAPPA

Men shown in this group were recently elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa. Left to right, first row—Herb Miller, Sam Maloney, and M. H. McGlamery. Second Row—Sam Ervin and W. M. Boyce. Third Row—Bill Bobbitt, Clayton Carpenter, and Tom Moore.

Deputations Group Assists Students

The six-man deputation from Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., left Davidson Wednesday morning after an inspiring three-day stay. The purpose of this group was to help any student by consultation decide upon his life’s calling, and to help any pre-ministerial student learn more of his Christian life as a leader. Many students took advantage of this opportunity, and the deputation was inspired with the response.

On Tuesday evening, Bill Rogers, one member of the deputation, led a group in discussion on subjects brought up by those present. One of the things discussed was the strength of Christianity in Europe. It is the feeling of those who spoke about this that the hope of ever attaining a unified world peace rests upon Christianity. It was mentioned in passing that the seminary in Richmond, with the

VESPERS

March 14—Religious film, “Beyond Our Own.”

CHAPEL

Monday, March 15—Prof. W. M. Thompson.

Tuesday, March 16—Professor Griffin.

Wednesday, March 17—Mr. William P. Maddox, director Foreign Service Institute, Department of State, Washington, D.C.

Thursday, March 18—Professor J. A. McGeachy.

Friday, March 19—YMCA.

PHI LITERARY SOCIETY INSTALLS NEW OFFICERS

The Philanthropic Literary Society held an important meeting Monday, March 8, in which new officers were installed. Jack Etheridge, who is the retiring president, opened the meeting. Herb Meza, the retiring vice-president, gave a very interesting and clever report on the society's accomplishments during the last term. This report was based onAn analogy of the doings of Mr. Phil Anthropic, with the help of the Assembly's training, Herb Meza covered all the functions of the school, has raised over $5500 from the students to help clothe and feed a seminary in France. Maloney took on his duties as the new president of the society, along with Hugh Farrior, vice president, and Joe W. Pence, secretary. In his inaugural address, he stressed his feeling of appreciation for the responsibility given to him. He continued (Continued on Page Six).

FOR WHOM DAVE GAMBRELL

“In the sleepy town of Davidson, ya, There's a story seniors love to tell, Of a freshman who became disgusted With the serenade of the bell.”

It all began last week, when, on Monday morning at 7:30, the school’s bell began to toll “the h— of starting day.” The above-mentioned frosh, after a riotous weekend, was hibernating very successfully in the sovereign domain of his sack. The inception of this all too familiar tinkle agitated his slumber to such an extent that he was unable to return to the arms of Morpheus.

“To this freshman came the fiendish idea, As the bell disturbed him in his sack, That he would that evening steal the clapper, And that he should ne’er give it back.”

It came to pass that he sneaked—by use of a Jacob ladder—(Bible 12 student) up the rear side of the hallowed walls and succeeded in detaching that heinous instrument, which has become such a thorn in the side of the average college student. Disposal of that “hot” article was the next problem, but to our hero, the answer was right there in its name. He thought to himself, “Clapper,” and that was inspiration enough. He took it over to his dormitory and ‘flushed’ it away.

“Everyone thought the bell unbroken, It had sounded for a long, long time. Then one day the village was astounded, For the bell refused to chime.”

It was such a great shock to the realm of peace that a state of emergency was declared. Meetings were held, trustees were called in, mimeographed leaflets were passed out to the student body, proclamations, warnings, rewards, not a stone was left unturned, but nothing was produced. No glory seeker, our hero held his secret to himself in the solitude of his now peaceful retreat. What finally became of this Modern Robin Hood is unknown in the annals of Davidsoniania. It is rumored that he went on to graduation with a fair scholastic average and lived a life of worthy service to his fellow man. Whatever the outcome, he will always remain dear to the hearts of some 970 odd collegians for the respite he gave them.

“Peace returned to Boy's Town And in thanks doth dwell, For the daring of a nameless freshman, And the silence of the bell.”

New Members

Four Seniors, Four Juniors Are Chosen

Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, the national scholarship fraternity, announced Friday that eight Davidson students, four seniors and four juniors, had been elected to membership in that organization. Those chosen were W. H. Bobbitt Jr., W. E. Bovee, A. Carpenter, H. McGlamery, H. Madore, H. S. Miller, and Debaters Take Area Tournament.

This past weekend, Davidson debaters engaged in a tournament with the Southeastern teams at the State Annual Tournament in Hickory, N.C. Bill Boyce, a senior, and Don Chrisman, president of the team, defeated teams from Virginia, Emory, and Tennessee but lost to the University of Florida, University of Richmond, and Lenox. Clayton Carpenter, a sophomore, made a strong showing. He also will earn a B.S. in Political Science and plans to attend law school. During World War II, he served for two years with the occupation troops in Japan.

Hart McGlamery, from Tampa, Florida, is a Marine veteran majoring in Philosophy. He plans to graduate in 1948 and served as an air corps student during the war. Herb Miller, a senior, is president of the student body and hails from Kentucky. He will graduate with a diploma in May.

Sam Maloney, a ministerial candidate, is a Philosophy major from Knoxville, Tennessee. He plans to graduate in 1948, served as an air corps student during the war, and did missionary work in Japan.

The debate team aims to give its members all the experience possible this year. By the end of the season, the twelve-member team will have participated in intercollegiate debates with as many as thirty-five different colleges and universities. They are working to give debate and public speaking its rightful place on the Davidson campus.

Hollister Reports On Feature Contest

IRC Participates In Time Survey

The DAVIDSONIAN contest continues with features being submitted during the three weeks. These features will be printed as soon as space permits, probably in the next issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN. The student body is again urged to take an active interest in this effort to make THE DAVIDSONIAN more interesting to each one of you. If, whenever a spare ten minutes are available, they are put to use in jotting down a paragraph or two, within two or three days’ time your feature can be completed.

A first prize of $25.00 in cash will be awarded by THE DAVIDSONIAN to the author of the feature selected as best by the judges. The group of judges includes the editor-in-chief, the associate editor, and the four managing editors of THE DAVIDSONIAN. The donor of the first prize award money has specified that the $25.00 prize is not to be presented unless a minimum of ten entries have been submitted by March 31—the closing date of the contest. It is felt that if there are (Continued on Page Six).