Vol. 1 — No. 6

JULY 15, 1948

It was announced yesterday that Harry McLachlan will be President of the Y.M.C.A. for the second term of summer school. Harry is a member of the Senior Class and has been on the Y.M.C.A. cabinet for two years. This summer he has been chairman of the Community Work committee. Harry will also assume the duties of Editor of the WILDCAT.

During the past term, the Y.M.C.A. has carried on regular Sunday evening Vesper services, Sunday school classes, boys' and community work, as well as other regular activities of the Y.M.C.A. In addition, it has published the WILDCAT, sponsored several watermelon cuttings, and held a square dance in front of Chambers attended by a large group of attractive nurses in training at Presbyterian Hospital.

Ned Bennett is putting on two ringers to shut out Leighton McKeithen and Bud Edwards, seven being celebrated by his students. McKeithen cutting one around Izzy's leg. Guy "Six" Jones throwing the shoe with "the horse still attached," and Andy Shaw severely working to get the shoe around the post.

A BOY WITH A GREAT DREAM

O Jesus, once a Nazareth boy
And tempted like as we,
All inward foes help us destroy
And spotless all to be.
We trust Thee, for the grace to win
The high victorious goal,
Where purity shall conquer sin
In Christ-like self-control.
- Anonymous

The 13th of June, 1948 - through a cloudless sky the sun caused dawn on two fields separated by distance and but united in the spirit of that American tradition, the ALL-Star game. The American League was taking the measurements of their arch-rivals, the Davidson All-Stars. With a promising first inning, they were giving the West team a walloping.

The All-Stars, led by the jet-propelled pitching of John Rose, got off to a big lead in the first inning with a total of eight runs. With this comfortable lead, Rose settled down to a fine game of pitching. However, this margin began to look quite small due to the ability of Blushen to hold them to only one more run, which came in the second inning.

The game was a pitcher's duel from the first till the seventh inning, when Bill Robertson leveled off a pitch that resulted in a home run. Had it occurred at any other time, it probably would have changed the story. At this point, Cameron relieved Rose and took the helm from there on.

The game continued in this fashion, ending in the ninth when Ashmore's attempted bunt was automatically hit when the ball tipped off the bat to hit him. He was followed by Jim who connected for a long fly out to second.

It looked like extra innings were in line when "Riceps" Jackson, the plucky little catcher for West, appeared at the plate. Cameron, undaunted by his adversary, proceeded to slip three called strikes past him - the out, the game, and the day.

(Continued on Page 2)