Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, February 27, 1948 * — Founded by the Class of 1915 ~° “FOR A BETTER
DAVIDSON” The DAVIDSONIAN Presents EDITORIALS... LETTERS ... FEATURES PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR Editor-in-Chief Bob Phillips Managing Editor Mac
Hollister Associate Editor Lonnie Turnipseed Sports Editor Bruce Kendall Managing Editor Bogart Wells Managing Editor Art Jenkins Managing Editor Freshmen
Reporters: Taylor, Leonard, Evans, Sports Staff: Jack Aldred, Chester Watt, Bill Hix, Gene Warlick BUSINESS STAFF John McSwain Assistant Manager
Charlie Keel Manager Frank Lee Manager Charles Colley Manager Charles Advertising Manager Bill McKeithan Assistant Circulation Manager Paul Guthery, Herman,
Jim Wishet, Bow Meban Entered as second-class matter Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the Act of March 3, 1897.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College
Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y. 1947 Member of the Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest Publication
Problems The subject matter of the editorial to follow has long preyed upon the minds of many of the men
who have served or now serve on the staff of THE DAVIDSONIAN, either in the capacity of a writer or
a member of the business and circulation department. All have been, and are, vitally interested in making THE DAVIDSONIAN a
better newspaper which is representative of and one which embodies the features desired by the student body. With an appeal
to the students and to the administration to assist us in reaching this goal as soon as possible, we are
all aware of our shortcomings. Some of them are temporary, and will undoubtedly vanish as soon as all of the
printing equipment is installed and put in good working order. The staff must be reorganized and geared to operate under
these new conditions, but that, too, can readily be done. These, however, are not the problems which cause us most
concern and it is not our purpose to discuss them at this particular time. Last year and in years past,
poor make-up was one of the most frequently voiced criticisms of the publication. This shortcoming was corrected to a great
degree by being able to prepare the proofs locally and by the ability of Bob Phillips and his managing editors
in that particular field. Having effectively removed this fault at least to some extent we find ourselves still faced with
at least two obstacles of tremendous magnitude. (1) Many are, and rightly so, that much of the front page news
is old news—that the facts contained in these articles are common knowledge by the time that the paper reaches the
hands of the students. This results from two facets: (a) formerly, and even now to some extent, the paper has
been prepared in Charlotte. As a result, it has been necessary to have all articles written well in advance. Now,
however, that the press in the Davidson print shop has begun to roll we will be able to replace these
outdated articles with up-to-date ones. Even then the problems will not be solved, however. This is true because of a
second equally obvious fact. (2) The vast majority of the organizations and agencies, student and otherwise, on the campus make
no effort at all to supply the staff with news not known beforehand to the students as a whole. Almost
all items of this nature are presented to the student body from the chapel platform although it would lead to
clearer understanding and yet to more detailed explanation were it printed instead. Of course, we realize that many such announcements
must be made in chapel in order that a certain group can be convened quickly or a certain task accomplished
without a loss of precious time. This is not true, however, of many announcements, and those are the ones which
should be given to THE DAVIDSONIAN rather than read in chapel. The YMCA (and in many cases the Pan Hellenic
Council) has been one of the most outstanding exceptions to this rule. The “Y” has, through its publicity director, Frank
Lemmon, cooperated fully with the staff, releasing to the publication hitherto unpublished and unannounced news. It would do much to
improve THE DAVIDSONIAN if other organizations would appoint certain members to see to it that the activities and plans of
their groups were made known to members of the staff, also. If the staff was supplied each week with more
than enough material of a real “news value” there would be an immediate improvement. A brief glance at the masthead
reveals the second problem. THE DAVIDSONIAN is alleged to be the student’s newspaper—yet out of a student body of nine
hundred and sixty men exactly forty men serve on the editorial staff and many of them only very infrequently. There
are known to be many men in the student body who have had experience on high and prep school publications
who possess definite talent as writers. Yet few of these have offered their services to the paper. This is particularly
true of the upper classes which are represented on the editorial staff by only 18 men. The great need then
is for more active staff members. Of course, no one expects the vast majority of the students to actively participate.
Those who do not can, however, play their part. All college publications should serve as the voices of the student
body. Through these mediums Davidson men should express their ideas and opinions to the faculty and indirectly to the alumni.
We need more letters to the editor, more feature articles, and above all suggestions to all staff members as to
what should be dealt with in the editorials and what features of every nature are most desired by the majority
of the readers. By the way of summary, THE DAVIDSONIAN is your paper. We welcome and need the support of
everyone. With your advice and assistance we can come closer to our goal. Won't you help? Prof. F. K. Fleagle
The faculty, members of the student body and the citizens of the town of Davidson were deeply shocked and sorrowed
last Thursday morning to learn of the sudden death of Professor Fred K. Fleagle. The widely known teacher and civic
leader became ill shortly after attending a church service and passed away several hours later. To those who knew and
respected him, he was far more than an instructor in an academic subject. He was an inspiration to all. Genuinely
interested in the welfare of others he devoted himself wholeheartedly to the service of the college and of the community.
To the students he was a true friend, and to his church he was an ever willing servant—eager to do
more than his part. Few men have contributed more. When Prof. Fleagle passed on to his reward, a light was
extinguished. Those, however, who were directed by him and those whose lives were made more profitable by patterning their actions
after his will not forget. Their lives will be an everlasting memorial to the beloved professor—one far more lasting than
can be made with flowers or with stones. Physically, he is no longer with us but in spirit Professor Fleagle
will continue to be a force for good on the Davidson campus for years to come. I have never been
hurt by anything I didn’t say.—Calvin Coolidge. We have forty million reasons for failure but not a single excuse.—Kipling. No
one is exempt from talking nonsense; the misfortune is to do it solemnly.— Montaigne. WHAT’S WHAT AMONG AMERICAN COLLEGES AND
UNIVERSITIES By REES JENKINS The Engineers up at George Washington University have constructed an ingenious device which they call a
kissometer for the measurement of the thermal osculatory appeal. A couple stands unshod on the plates of metal and proceeds
to kiss each other enthusiastically (to put it mildly). A series of lights flash on a panel behind that records
the Q.K.I. (Quotient Kissing Index) with the degree of Bachelor, Master and Doctor of Osculatory Engineering. The introduction of this
instrument created quite a sensation at the G.W. Engineers Ball. The principal of the thing was published, but this seems
to be a false lead because of electronic fallacies in the explanation. So it seems that the real workings are
yet an engineering secret. An expose of the “tute school” at Harvard has been made. It is a program by
which a man can maintain his “social whirl,” and still remain in the “tutor” contract for a price and arranges
for tutoring in a few hours for a particular exam, with the grade guaranteed. These professional tutors can build up
quite a racket. While on the subject of quizzes, an Atlanta quiz program, which uses the phone to present its
questions to the 123,013 telephone owners of the city, called an Emory student. The query posed was, “Who is the
sheriff of Fulton County?” What would you say the odds were of his answering it correctly in view of the
fact that his father was the sheriff? Students of statistics and the laws of chance figure out how many times
this would happen. Pell Mell of LSU has been banned because authorities consider it too sexy. Judge for yourself. The
subject of the last issue, which included the cover and almost the entire contents, was a New Orleans strip tease
artist named “Stormy.” The pictures and interviews on the personal and professional life of a stripper raised a lot of
eyebrows. The Carolina mag has been voted out of existence by a referendum to the student body. These magazines sure
take a beating, particularly if you remember Scripts and Pranks of last year. Remember the Wallace Party story in the
last issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN? The party is very vigorous over in Chapel Hill. They sent out members to canvass
all North Carolina colleges last weekend. I wonder if they met with any success in Davidson. Up at Virginia Intermont
at Bristol, Va., the Cauldron is still reporting, after previous issues, on the celebration they had for Confederate Howell. Mary
Pickford, there to add to the limelight, seems to have capturedthe admiration of the girls rather completely. You may remember
that Life magazine gave coverage of the event, several issues ago. A writer for the Queens Blues uses her knowledge
of psychology to point out the adjustment mechanism of rationalization of Davidson students who proposed the boycott of inviting Queens
girls to Midwinters because of the closed weekend. Evidently, she feels that in such a case, Queens girls do not
wish to join in our festivities anyway.

By RONNY

Ask almost anyone on the campus today the question, “What were the original buildings of Davidson College?” and in all
probability, the individual asked would not know. The simple reason for this is that only two of the original buildings
of the college remain standing—at least standing as they stood originally, for one building of the original group, though still
with us, has been changed considerably. When the teaching began on March 12, 1837, Davidson College consisted of seven buildings,
of which one was still in the process of being completed. Of these seven buildings, two were professor's homes, and
three were dormitories, two buildings were classrooms.

A member of the first class in 1837 would have seen as he approached the school what we now know
as Oak and Elm rows, though at that time Oak Row consisted of two buildings. Where Shearer Hall now stands
was the chapel, not completed at that time, while Stewart Hall was located just west of the site of the
present Guest House. That completed the original school, though a Professor Sparrow lived in a residence later called Tammany Hall,
which stood between the present positions of Oak Row and Phi Hall. President Morrison's home was owned by the college
and is now inhabited by Dr. Cunningham.

Contrary to what I previously had taken for granted, “Phi” and “Eu” halls were not a part of the original
Davidson College. When the two societies first organized, they met in Stewart's Hall. However, in 1842 the Eumenean Literary Society
voted to attempt to erect a society hall. This motion was unanimously carried and soon both societies were planning the
erection of two literary halls. As a result of much work, borrowing, and economy, the buildings were constructed presumably without
the aid of the college. At any rate, “Eu” Hall was dedicated in November of 1849, and the dedication of
“Phi” followed in February of 1850.

In closing, I mention the mural of the college as it looked in 1850, which is in the “Davidsonian Room”
of the library. Look up at it some day in passing.

CANTO I

You may seek for relaxation,
And you'll long for recreation,
But Davidson's the place that hasn't got it.
For the theater is so old
That it’s always hot or cold
And the rains keep comin’ down to rot it.
Though the seats are falling down
It's the only place in town
That any cinema is ever shown.
Thus, when night is falling low,
There's no doubt that you will go
With the boys down to the local movie barn.

Cinema Comments - By WALTER MANN

Yes, it's barn! barn! barn!
A crumbling hump of brick dust, movie barn,
Where the movie that you see
Is not worth but half the fee.
Yet you nightly go to the movie barn.

CANTO II

Now on next Monday night
There will come before your sight
A vision heaven sent.
For the goddess of the dance
As it was decreed by chance
Must for aid to mortal man be
(Continued on Page Six)

STUDENTS
1. Canada
2. Brazil
3. England

The Poll-cat

If you were exiled from the United States, what country would be your second choice for a home?

FACULTY AND ADMINISTRATION
1. Canada
2. England
3. Switzerland

Think It Over...
By MALLOY OWEN

STUDENT GOVERNMENT

What purpose can student government serve in the education of future citizens and leaders? What are its potentialities, good and
bad? What dangers must be avoided and what advantages can be gained? In what way can student government better prepare
Davidson for the privileges and responsibilities of American citizenship?

This November many of us will vote in national elections for the first time. What training have we received to
prepare us for this serious business of being the sovereign rulers of the most powerful nation on earth? It is
vitally important to get the foundations of Christian citizenship, to study the great problems of the day, to learn to
think independently. But unless we learn to use the machinery of democratic government, we will be powerless to put our
opinions into effect.

Student governments vary from those which are granted no authority to those in many large state universities, which govern practically
everything. Elections are conducted in some cases with absolutely no campaigning, while in others campaigning is unlimited, modeled after our
national, state, and local politics. There are advantages and disadvantages to both extremes. But is it necessary to go to
either extreme? Must not there be some middle ground? How many of the conditions of actual politics can we simulate
without going too far? Just how far is too far? Political parties, fraternity blocs, are distasteful to most of us.
Yet, a poll taken after last year's elections revealed that most Davidson men favored some change in the present system.
What was the trouble? Though we fortunately got good officers this time in spite of the out-grown system, most men
did not know the many candidates and could not vote intelligently. Think it over.

Paging the Professors...
By Stan

PROFESSOR WOOD

One of the first of Davidson students to take honors work in English was Dr. Wood of the English Department,
who graduated in 1935. While in college here, Dr. Wood was active in extracurricular work, especially in the Red and
Black Masquers and in Sigma Upsilon. It was during this undergraduate period, too, that he became especially interested in the
school’s permitting dancing on the campus, a cause for which he worked energetically.

Prof. Wood came to Davidson as a professor after being in the Army for some four years. It was on
April 1, 1942, while he was teaching at Appalachian State Teacher’s College, that his summons to service as an infantry
first lieutenant came. During his Army career, Dr. Wood was connected with the 75th Division for some time and also
served as an intelligence officer. After the war was over, he served in the Army’s educational program overseas.

As a chief hobby, Dr. Wood enjoys watercolor painting, especially landscapes. He is also interested in photography. Dr. Wood believes
that this is a critical time in Davidson’s history. It is a time when the college must decide what sort
of college it will be, whether large or small. There is danger in that there is a possibility of sacrificing
quality for quantity. Dr. Wood does not want to see the quality sacrificed nor does he want Davidson to have
a change of the atmosphere of good fellowship which abounds.

PROFESSOR SCHENCK

Among Dr. Schenck’s current interests is the Davidson College basketball team. This is because of his interest in all college
activities, but it is particularly due to his playing basketball for four years while in college here. After his graduation,
Dr. Schenck went to Union Seminary in Richmond where he took his B.D. degree, which he followed with a master’s
degree in theology at Princeton, and his Ph.D. at Yale. Prof. Schenck’s doctorate work, “The Presbyterian Doctrine of Children in
the Covenant,” was published by the Yale University Press.

In observing Davidson, Dr. Schenck sees that this school has an opportunity and the quality of individuals which place it
in a position to do a distinctive service which is needed in the world today. Of great interest to Dr.
Schenck, who is a member of the Bible Department, is study in Biblical Theology, while as a principal hobby, he
spends leisure hours in fishing and mountain climbing in the mountains of Western North Carolina.

Originally from Greensboro, Dr. Schenck is married to Betty Myers Schenck. They have two children, Betsy and Charles.

Operating Table

Recent developments have added to a bare cupboard of gossip, and we find that Old Mother Hubba-Hubba can give the
dogs some meaty bones to gnaw. Those few who happen to fall into reading this column will remember that we
requested tidbits from our public last week. Literally hundreds of tips filled the mail, but they all seemed to be
headed to Winchell, Parsons, and other minor rumorators. What we want to know is, do you or don't you know
any dirt? Let’s have it so we can make some mud pies to sling around.

While we are waiting for correspondence, let us begin with a reconstruction of a familiar scene. Imagine, if you can,
the warm, chummy atmosphere of THE BOO on last Saturday. Here and there, a few bright shining faces stared through
the smoke. This was early in the evening. Later, there was smoke and less shine. (Of the face variety, anyway).
Rumored to have been seen are: BIG JIM, ROBERT L., ATLANTA BOB, and others who paid hush money.

Brought to our attention is a little provincial tale of THE GUY NAMED BOB who has been seen around the
campus with Caroline and Nancy. At one time, he was escorting two at once. We wonder what the story is
on this, and whether we should take the advice of one better informed in such matters, and call this a
gang.

By the by, OUR OWN BOB hasn’t been the only one seen steadying it with THE GAL CALLED CAL, so
has the BOY FROM THE ISLANDS. “When It’s Springtime in the Rockies” and in the Carolina Piedmont, there will be
a batch of joining hands, and “I do—its” being spoken, whether at the end of a double barrel or from
love. We have a short list of those coming under the “I Love Love” category. The MESSRS. SANDY CARNEGIE, EASY
RHODES, O. G. ALLEN, and ED WATT have made it plain that they intend to say “yes” for the rest
of their lives come the next few months. And this garden of love just comes from “Doing What Comes Natchely.”

For those under age and under obligation, there is a fine opportunity to secure yourselves a genuine, reproduction marriage license
by just putting in your order with URGENT SAM ERVIN, the editor of all this sheet and the perpetrator of
the fourth estate (Paid advertisement).

Biggest belly laugh comes from the antics of the two very zany characters who will remain anonymous since they have
placed in the Sharpshooter class in handling blunderbusses. (The Army calls these blunderbusses pieces, and it is necessary for every
soldier to have his before he is ready for combat.) Getting ahead of April's Fool, one gentleman staged a fake
scene for the entrance of the other by having “the other’s” date (Continued on Page Three)
