SHRIVER IS PRESENTED VEREEN BELL AWARD

ALENDA LUX UB) The Davidsonian ORTA LIBERTAS

INDEPENDENTS WIN INTER-FRAT SING

Volume XXXVI DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, APRIL 30, 1948

Omicron Delta Kappa

CHEEK ELECTED FROSH ADVISOR

George W. Cheek, Jr., defeated Jack Etheridge on the third ballot last Friday to become freshman adviser for next year.
He succeeds Dave Blevins in this post which exists for the purpose of helping the new students to get a
good beginning in their college career. “Buddy,” as he is generally referred to, is a Selma, Alabama boy. Transferring after
his freshman year at Tulane, he has made a brilliant record on the basketball court and has performed commendably on
the gridiron in his two years here. Last Tuesday Cheek was tapped by Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity. Also,
he is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity, the “D” Club, and the Beaver Club. The election for
this office is conducted only within the rising senior class, and the man chosen becomes a member of the YMCA
Cabinet.

(D) Shepard Talks At D Club Banquet

Aside from the dances, last week was a very active one for the “D” Club. They elected their new officers
for the coming year and received into the club all men who had made varsity letters in recent months. Also,
on Friday night they had their annual banquet. The banquet, which was held at the Woman’s Club in Charlotte, was
a great success. J. D. Ashmore was master of ceremonies, and Randy Ensign, Tom Cook, and Bill Davis provided musical
entertainment. The highlight of the program was a talk by Coach Norman Sheppard on preparation for life. Coach Sheppard also
went over the accomplishments of the different athletic teams during the year. The coaching staff and their wives were introduced,
and a high tribute was paid to Doc White for his many years of faithful service.

Buck Williams was elected president of the club for the coming year, and Carl Sheppard vice president. Dave Toole was
elected secretary-treasurer. The following men were received into the club for lettering in football: Cliff Turner, Charlie Rimer, Dave Poole,
and Bill Keith and Dave Gambrell, managers; in basketball — Haywood Brinegar, Dave Poole, Dutch Hengeveld, and H. I. Smith,
managers; in cross country — Blake Bradley, Bob Long, Bill Smith, Will Plonk, Ed Montgomery, Bob Grube, and Vincent Long,
manager; and in wrestling — Bill Moore, Bill Fesperman, John Evans, and Keith O'Kelly, manager.

(D) IRC Names New Officers

At the last meeting of the International Relations Club, Jack Etheridge of the Junior Class was elected president for the
coming year. Etheridge, who is this year’s secretary-treasurer and an active member in many other campus activities, is well versed
in the affairs of the club. Other officers are Jim Riddleyvold, vice president and program chairman, and Bob Smith, secretary-treasurer.
Both are of the junior class. The purpose of the IRC is to create within the student body an interest
in world affairs so that students will become better informed and develop a feeling of responsibility in this line. It
was in keeping with this principle that the club presented on Wednesday night of this week a discussion on the
atomic bomb. The program consisted of two films, a speech, and a discussion.

(D) Pino To Head Spanish Club

The new officers of Sigma Delta Pi, national Spanish fraternity, were elected at a regular meeting of that organization Monday
night. Virgil Pino of Tampa, Fla., was elected president; Sam Robinson of Charlotte, vice president; and Charles Reid, also from
Charlotte, secretary. The officers of the Spanish fraternity also serve as officers for the Spanish Club which meets jointly with
the fraternity. At the same meeting, 19 new members were initiated into the Spanish Club.

(D) Tyndal Talks To Physicists

On Wednesday evening at 8 o’clock Mr. Norman F. Tyndal lectured in Chambers auditorium on the subject of lighting. He
was presented by the local chapter of Sigma Pi Sigma, national honorary physics fraternity, which was the first chapter of
the fraternity to be founded. It was organized in 1921. Mr. Tyndal illustrated his talk with various pieces of equipment.
He is an electrical engineer for the Duke Power Company, in whose employ he has been for 16 years. He
was awarded the Augustus D. Curtis award for his work in commercial lighting installations. Mr. Tyndal gave a resume of
the development of the science of lighting from the days of its infancy to the present time, and exhibited products
of the industry which included all major lighting methods from the carbon-filament, pointed class bulb to the modern fluorescent fixtures.
He pointed out the problems which have been solved and those which are still unsolved in the field at large.
For example, only about one-twelfth of the latent power in a watt of electrical energy is now utilized. The industry
is still improving on each of the major sources of light — incandescent, gaseous discharge, and the fluorescent type.

(D) Beaver Club Plans Sr. Auction Day

This year finds the seniors at Davidson reinstituting one of their oldest traditions, Senior Auction. The antebellum members of the
student body will remember this custom, which was discontinued in the spring semester of 1942, when the seniors pass on,
for a price, all the treasured relics they have accumulated during their four-year stay here at Davidson. For the most
part, they are those personally owned articles that add so much to the comfort of the dorm-dwelling student, but which
would hardly find a place in the normal American home to which most seniors are returning. With the altruistic hope
of giving the undergraduates a chance to enjoy their coming years at D.C. a little more, and spurred on by
the idea of redecorating their wallets in a green color scheme, the seniors will drag their old easy-chairs, bed lamps,
bookcases, pin-ups, liquor cabinets, and cuspidors out in front of Watts, where the mighty voice of J. D. Ashmore will
call for bids from the student body at large for these priceless pieces of Davidsoniana. In past years, bidding and
prices have been good. Prices were especially good the year that Dum Dum Ennett cornered the market on easy chairs
and later sold them (at his usual profit) to rear-weary students. The Beaver Club, which is sponsoring the auction, hopes
to discourage such practices this year. The date for the auction has been set for Tuesday, May 11, right after
supper, so between now and then, burst open the piggy bank and count your pennies. We’re looking for you at
the Senior Auction.

(D) French Frat Elects Hadley

Le Cercle Francais had its regular meeting Tuesday evening at Dr. Goldiere’s. The following men were chosen as officers for
next year: President, C. O. Hadley; vice president, R. A. Campbell; secretary, E. C. Parker; treasurer, A. V. Goldiere. The
following men gave a short play entitled Un peu exaggere: Martin Caldwell, W. D. Goodrum, J. J. Murray, G. P.
Scott, W. N. Mebane, J. T. King, S. F. Warlick. Several games were played in French. French songs were also
sung. Refreshments were served.by Mrs. Goldiere and Mrs. Watts

Blythe Gives Bell Award To Shriver

LeGette Blythe, author and staff member of the Charlotte Observer, awarded Don Shriver of the Freshman Class the Vereen Bell
Award for 1948. After a humorous chapel talk, Mr. Blythe presented the award on Wednesday to Shriver for his short
story, "Dust."

The Vereen Bell award is made by the parents of this Davidson alumnus who was killed in the second battle
of the Philippines. Before his death, the Georgian had become a prominent novelist and short-story writer. His most outstanding work
was the novel "Swamp Water," which has been produced on the screen.

The award comes in the form of a gift of approximately $50, the gift to have some connection with writing,
such as a typewriter or set of books. This is the form the parents of Vereen Bell want the recognition
to be made. With the contest narrowed down by faculty members to contributions made by Shriver, Charles Hertwig, Gerry Leland,
and Heywood Brinegar, Mr. Blythe made the final selection of Shriver’s short story.

A member of the Sigma Chi social fraternity, Shriver is also a member of the United World Federalists Chapter and
the Forensic Council.

Campus Scenes

The freshman with a vacant stare overheard muttering— “Who or what is Slick John?”

Two unworthies celebrating in the basement of one of the campus “hotels” as they gloated over victories scored at Queens.

Rolling down the Rue de Hugo, a mechanized student making like a siren.

The above men were tapped by ODK in chapel Tuesday: top row (left to right)—Carl Pahl, Herb Meza, Dave Shepperson,
Sam Ervin, Bill Simpson; 2nd row—Buddy Cheek, Charlie Patterson, J.B. Fesperman, Mac Hart, John Thatcher; 3rd row—Jim French.

Campus Club Takes Frat Sing Honors

The Campus Club, ably conducted by John Coker, won the fifth inter-fraternity sing, barely nosing out the Sigma Chis. Noteworthy
of their achievement was the fact that both the winning Campus Club and the runner-up Sigma Chis were participating for
the first time in the sing. John Coker was the winner of the cup offered for the outstanding conductor.

The minutes of the sing were preceded by band music in which several members of the band took their turns
at conducting. Chalmers Davidson, master of ceremonies, opened the festivities with a brief historical sketch of the sing. He also
mentioned songs written by and for Davidson men.

The sing was highlighted by several outstanding numbers. The winning Campus Club sang, “Let Thy Soul Now Haunt in Gladness”
and “Weary, Now I Know.” The second place Sigma Chis sang “Sweetheart of Sigma Chi” and also their chapter song,
“Here’s to Delta Lambda,” written and composed by Buford Goodman. Such old favorites as “The Dream Girl of PiKA,” “In
the Evening by the Moonlight,” “Violet,” and “KA Rose” were offered by the competing groups.

World Federalists Broadcast On WBT

Five members of the World Federalists’ chapter were heard last night in a round table discussion over Radio Station WBT.
Jack Knell, head of the new department and director of special events, led the discussion, which concerned world federalism and
its connection with the Judd resolution. Participating in the one-half hour program were John Lyles, Dave Hamilton, Irving Stubbs, Don
Shriver, and Ken Johnston. The script for the program was written by Lyles, Hamilton, and Johnston.

Introduced by Rep. Walter Judd, Republican from Minnesota, the resolution asks that the president take the initiative in calling a
general conference of the UN for the purpose of making the United Nations capable of enacting, interpreting, and enforcing world
law to prevent war.

Classes Select Student Council Representatives

In a recent election, seven men were elected as representatives on the eleven-man Student Council. They are sworn in with
the recently elected Student Body officers to take over the reins of government. The rising senior class chose three of
their number: Atlas McGehee of Atlanta, Mike Williams of North Wilkesboro, and Bob Miner of Wilmington. The juniors chose Jake
Wade of Charlotte, Harper Totte, and Curt Nirenberg. The rising sophomore class chose George Devatar of Georgia to represent them.

Taking office Tuesday, the primary responsibility of this group will be to uphold the student government.

Chorus Sings In Gamble Memorial

Sunday evening, April 25, the Davidson College Male Chorus, under the direction of Earl Berg, presented a concert at the
First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte as a memorial service to William Gamble, a member of the chorus and Davidson College
student who was recently killed in an accident. The offering taken will be used to initiate a scholarship fund in
his honor.

On Sunday, April 18, the Chorus presented a concert at the First Presbyterian Church in Statesville, North Carolina, upholding a
splendid record set by this group.

NUMBER 26

ODK Taps Eleven Men

FIVE SENIORS, SIX JUNIORS ARE HONORED

In chapel Tuesday, Omicron Delta Kappa conducted its regular exercises, during which the Davidson Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, a
national honorary leadership fraternity, tapped eleven men. The ceremony was conducted by Lee Scarborough, president of the Circle, and at
each tap, the new member of the stage received a hearty slap on the back, conveying to them membership in
the Circle.

At the conclusion of the ceremony, George Scarborough announced an additional man, Jim French of the senior class, to receive
a bid. The eleven men who received bids are: Charlie Patterson, J.B. Fesperman, Carl Pahl, Dave Shepperson, Buddy Cheek, Jim
French, Mac Hart, Sam Ervin, Bill Simpson, John Thatcher, and Herb Meza.

George Ervin is from Morganton, N.C. He is a Political Science major and plans to attend law school after graduation.
He has been active in the service fraternity, Alpha Phi Omega, and is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, an
honorary fraternity, and Sigma Upsilon, a literary group. He has served as sports editor, assistant editor, and for the past
year, editor-in-chief of THE DAVIDSONIAN. He is a member and former president of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon chapter.

Charlie Patterson has been president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, vice president of the senior class, and president of the Charlotte
Chapter of the YMCA. He was awarded the most outstanding Mecklenburg County student. He has served on the staff of
Quips and Cranks, the YMCA, and the sophomore council. He was a member of the Beaver Club, an underclass honorary
society.

Dave Shepperson has been president of the Student Council, a member of the Honorary Fraternity, and was chosen by the
faculty committee for membership in Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities. During the war, he served in the Army
Air Corps in the Pacific Islands. He is a member of the Phi Alpha Chapter of Beta Theta Pi.

Bill Simpson, of Huntersville, is the editor of the 1948 Quips and Cranks. He is a Physics major. He has
been a basketball player for Davidson. He has served on the Student Council and was chosen for Who’s Who in
American Colleges and Universities. His stay at Davidson was interrupted by a hitch in the Navy. He is a member
of the Phi Alpha Chapter of Beta Theta Pi and Omicron Delta Kappa, an honorary leadership fraternity.

John Fesperman, a music major from Kannapolis, N.C., has served as president of the local chapter of Phi Mu Alpha,
an honorary musical fraternity.
