Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Vol.—1-No.-12 —— A PUBLICATION OF THE YUCA ~~ August 26, 1948

"FOOLS RUSH IN" - EXERCISES TO BE HELD FRIDAY NIGHT

Forty-two students will be gradu—

Two hundred and fifty-eight ated from Davidson College tomorrow

freshmen, from twenty-one states, night in the exercises to be held

the District of Columbia, China, under the oaks and elms of the front

and France, will matriculate at campus at 7:30 P.M. Dr. C. K. Brown,

Davidson College on September 10, Dean of the Faculty, will award the

it was announced by Mr. F. W. diplomas in the absence of President

Hengeveld, Registrar. This, the John R. Cunningham who is in Europe.

111th freshman class to enter Dr. Calvin Keppel, President of

Davidson, is approximately the size Catawba College in Salisbury, will

of pre-war classes. deliver the Commencement address.

Orientation for freshmen will This service will be the fifth

begin at 8:00 A.M. on Friday, Sept. consecutive August Commencement

10, and the semester's classes begin which is necessitated by the twelve

on the following Wednesday. All month school which is now operated

freshmen must be on hand for the by the college. The graduates are

orientation period, sponsored by the predominantly veterans who have been

YMCA, and upperclassmen must regis- attending school continually in or-

ter on Sept. 13 and 14. der to finish their graduation re-

Mr. Hengeveld stated that he had quirements sooner.

received over one thousand applica-

tions for admission, but crowded 1948 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE

accommodations had forced the col-

lege to limit her acceptances to *Sept. 18 Elon Davidson

approximately 250 men. Only one *Sept. 25 William and Mary Charlotte

application in four was successful. Oct. 2 Open

This circumstance, he said, was Oct. 9 N.C. State Raleigh

regrettable, for sons of many friends Oct. 16 The Citadel Charleston

and alumni had to be refused en- Oct. 23 Wofford Spartanburg

trance. Oct. 30 VMI Lexington

Eight of the entrants are under Nov. 6 Richmond Davidson

full-time scholarships. Three have Nov. 13 Washington and Lee Davidson

won Pepsi Cola scholarships and Nov. 25 Furman Charlotte

five of the ten male winners of the

competitive scholarships offered by * Night Game

the Presbyterian Church, U. S., Homecoming

have been enrolled. Thanksgiving

Of the 258 freshmen, 146 are (Cont. - Page 2, Col. 1)

---

