PAGE SIX THE DAVIDSONIAN SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1948

Among The Greeks

SIGMA CHI (Continued From Page Two)

Whitaker, Little Joe Poole, Horse-face Alcorn, and Crash Carr journeyed northward to Salem. Philandering Jimmy reported that he and his blind date had one rare time. Two who did not venture so far afield were Gospel John Calhoun and Piccolo Pete Dendy. They went as far as Queens, where they spent their evening establishing beachheads for future operations. J. S. Crosland, after joining the learned ranks of Phi Beta Kappa, ventured south to Atlanta to investigate the more worldly aspects of life. Two-bit Jackson went to Wadesboro, but does he ever do anything else? And last, and by all means least, J. Strom Harris, in the interest of interracial harmony, went to Concord. He reportedly made plans for a Davidson-Scotia Day.

One of the Wildkitten leaders making futile efforts to distract the attention of the Davidson students from the Barium cheerleaders last week was Pledge Ed Francisco. Ed has sadly given up all hope of attempting to compete with such attractions. Statistical Jim Riddervold, with but one purpose in mind, arrived early before the game in Spartanburg. But he was prevented from gazing with the eye of a connoisseur at passing choice morsels of femininity by awe-stricken bystanders seeking earnestly to learn what the professor's thoughts were on the world situation. Brother Prophet Morgan, Ben Hamilton, Blackjack Beatie, and Spotlight Norwood also deserted the monastery for the more pleasant environs of Converse that weekend. Thanks to the noble efforts of the Cisco Kid, they were well supplied with dates. Brother Norwood was surprised with unexpected publicity on the return trip, but outside of that, they all had a wonderful evening. Another event of note is the fine feed given for the brothers by the pledges last week.

KAPPA SIGMA

The whole topic of conversation at the house on the corner for days now has centered around “Homecoming Deals.” There's anxiety as to what Brother Wilcox will expose this year after last year’s Homecoming. There's some unknown but suspected reason why so many brothers and pledges are dating cheerleaders. There's speculation as to who will replace the one-time Miss Kincey when “Pop-eyed” Slick Evans appears on the scene. There's plenty of evidence that Brother Cheek will have no one with whom to share the November 7 sunrise. There's hope that Bingham will be in top shape on this — another — football weekend. There's wonder as to where “Boone-docking” Mike will carry on his activities. Then there's hope that the pledges will keep the stag brothers properly amused and contented with gorgeous dates. We learn from election headquarters in Washington that James “Slick” Evans got three write-in votes in the recent presidential election. It can now be revealed that the cause of this was a blow to the chest of Brother Wilson, Bailey, and Briggs.

PHI DELTA THETA

“A week from now and Homecoming will be over for a whole year.” A remark optimistically dropped by a bedraggled member of the house committee. To his immaculate eye, a state of pandemonium does exist at the Fraternity house. And to this esteemed brother, we reverently doff our chapeaux, for the house has been a bit turbulent with extensive preparations for a big Homecoming splash. To the majority of brothers, however, a state of expectancy exists, and in a short time academic pursuits will move into an insignificant secondary place in the sense of values of the Phi Delt brothers and pledges. “Two Victories to Win” has been adopted as the theme of the occasion; but the third front will more than likely prove to be the most pressing and demand the most from the large store of tricks of the Phi generals. Come on girls, we are ready. The forthcoming festivities have most of the fellows counting the hours and fighting smirks at the mention of Homecoming, but as the old saying goes, there is a dark cloud with every silver lining. Brassy Bill Smith’s crestfallen look could mean only one thing: the sudden rush of falling water. (She had to choose between Davidson and the Army-Navy game. Guess which she took? And she seemed to be such an intelligent girl). Jim Vann the doings at D. C. Roundman Turnipseed’s dilemma was of a different nature. Not who, but which... Pledge Huffaker was also torn between alternatives. There were several eligibles yearning to be included in the select, but he didn't know which roommate’s sister to ask. At last report, he was in search of a coin.

The current mystery around the Phi Delt house is what has happened to Bobby (Caruso) Patton's pin. It just vanished after an extended stay on the Stetson U. campus. He was preceded back to the campus by numerous rumors which he attempted to discredit. But in the absence of any substantial evidence, namely his pin, he does not have a leg to stand on. (He says his roommates hid the pin to play a joke on him. Yeah!) With Charming Chas Parker urgently spelling V-A-S-S-A-R in the Duke phone booth for Ma Bell, and then lately emerging with a nice smile for all, we are off to the races. While you are now reading this column, the flower of young womanhood is moving in the direction of ole D. C. And every red-blooded son of Peter Stuart Ney will be on hand with open arms. Come on, you lovely girls...

BETA THETA PI

It's Homecoming once again, and this past week has been one of frenzied “wheeling and dealing” on the part of the brothers, in order that they might see their names in print in this edition. What some people won't do for cheap publicity! Jim Gunn felt it necessary to journey all the way up to Ohio on a nice little weekend jaunt of some seven hundred miles. Still in a daze on Monday, he was heard to mumble, “What are they selling for now?” Frank Barr loves Claire so much that one faithful brother trusted Frank to take his date back to Charlotte after Vespers last Sunday. When asked if there was much room in his Crosley car, Frank replied, “Oh, Akers.” Brothers Upchurch and Scruggs “blossomed” out down in Fayetteville last weekend and report a gay time. Phil “Pink and Bwoo” McNeimer is really in love and goes around repeating sure and beautiful love poetry. He even sings a tender ballad occasionally — something about “Haig and Haig.” Pledge Brothers Bill Williams and Jack Leacraft were visitors at Salem this past weekend; Pledge Brother Pepper went up to the VMI; and Pledge Brother Kalogridis was seen waiting impatiently in Burwell Hall. Congratulations to Champ McNair and Frank Lemmon on their election to Phi Beta Kappa. Welcome to all visiting alumni and friends. Come to see us!

THE KAPPA ALPHA COLUMN

Despite the oncoming festivities of Homecoming, many of the brothers and pledges found it nevertheless necessary to leave the thriving metropolis of Davidson this past weekend for interludes of peace and quiet in other fields of conquest. Soldier boys Jinright and Jeffries set out for a few days of mirth and pleasure in Thomasville. We hear that Brother Jinright has been in training for a strenuous weekend with “C. H.” Andrews. Right, Bob? After his little episode in a nightclub, we recommend the book entitled “The Manly Art of Self-Defense.” “Snowbound” Wilkes McAulay spent the weekend brushing up for this coming weekend. Rumor has it that he also became trapped in some sort of a game of chance. Wilkes’ remark to this was: “Life is nothing but one big gamble.” Charlie “I wanna get hitched” Mitchell journeyed to Raleigh to spend those precious hours with the O.A.O. Making their weekly pilgrimage to Greensboro were “Sex” Glenn, Jim Larkin, “Slimy” Jim Saxon, and Jimmy Patterson, with the large representation of alumni expected. Brothers Walker and Bogart and Pledge MacDonald are making sure that Queens will be well represented. Other colleges to be represented are W. C., Salem, Converse, etc. “Feed” Johnston will have his pride and joy down for the affair. As yet, “Dixie Boy” Correll hasn't let us in on the lass he will shower his affections on and accompany to the dances, also Commander Clark is keeping us in doubt. Brothers McKetchin and Gullick are fretting over the weekend, “To date or not to date, that is the question.” “Sure Fire” Herndon is confident of a gala weekend. Speaking of McGuirk, was it he planning a New Year's trip to New Orleans, Sugar Bowl end? Brother Furman found that the balcony of the Carolina is a wonderful place to talk it over. Pledge Mebane has finally arranged a date with one girl. Brother Charles and Pledge Clark are connoisseurs of pre-adolescent femininity. (For translation of that last phrase, refer to Prof. Beaty’s dictionary). Word comes to us that Pledge Brother Howard “Eli” Ferguson has established a platonic relationship with some fair damsel of Queens, an old flame of another illustrious brother, H. R. McConnell.expected to be escorting different bound, or seeking old friendships at the Casino Royale, it should prove to be a “stormy” time for all from last weekend. We would like to take time out this up job on Homecoming decorations, our new Phi Beta Kappa man, Zee to Brothers Flynn Long and A. M. Holler, Mr. Holler Lindsay for being officially recognized. He was very influential in the deal. Finally, to Brother Ferguson for being elected cheerleader. Also, we wish to congratulate Brothers El Blako Bradley and Jimmy Glenn for the fine running. 

PHI KAPPA ALPHA
There is an air of anticipation throughout the Pika fraternity as the brethren and pledges are making final plans for the big homecoming weekend which is upon them. However, let's turn the reel back a week and see how things went then. Kappa Alpha announces with pleasure the pledging of Roger Cornell of Bethesda, Md., and Alec Mers of Johnson City, Tenn. Brother Collin’s face was all aglow with that announcement. He had returned to Clemson.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
The old frat house is undergoing a general facelift in preparation for Homecoming. Brothers Hopper, Trammell, Flipse, and any others who happened to drift through proved to be very handy with the brush. Hopper was so delighted in his painting that when he stepped back to admire it, he fell in a hole and almost broke his leg. The Homecoming committee, out to win the cup again, is coming up with a very bright and unique idea. Brother Shaw, Trammell, and Humphreys are leading this committee, and we know we will get a fine display with such a capable group. Everyone is establishing contacts and confirming dates, and as yet no reports of a flush have reached my desk. Let's hope it stays that way. Feminine companions are coming from the four corners for the festivities. The Sig Ep banquet will be held at Thackers in Charlotte with Gus Travis, renowned writer, storyteller, and commentator, as guest speaker. The banquet is slated for Saturday night.

Brother Grant got his car out of storage to go on a mission of mercy. Gallant fellow that he is, he condescended to take his Juliet to her home in South Carolina. She didn’t have enough money to pay for all of the gas, so Russ was to make her a small loan, with interest. Brother Lee has finally found a place for himself on the football field, as evidenced by the exceptional way he handled one of the yard markers in the VMI game. At first, he encountered a little difficulty, but the understanding head linesman immediately saw possibilities and encouraged him in his efforts. Brother Rodgers was chauffeured to St. Mary's by Mills to visit his true love. Unfortunately, Liston was denied the satisfaction of feminine companionship and in the process of twiddling his thumbs, he wore several large blisters. Pledges Dick Boyd, Phillips, and Lacysen have applied for membership in Local 214 of the Painter's Union. It all grew out of a weekend of painting around the frat house.

Brother Hardy was indignant over the sound thumping the Freshman team gave his old Alma Mater, Barium Springs, last Saturday. When asked to comment on the game, he stated, “Those big bruisers on the Freshman team treated little high school boys so rough.” All the brothers and pledges of Beta Chapter are happy to have Bill Lacy of South Boston, Virginia, as our newest pledge. Bill was pledged last week and is given a sincere welcome into the ranks of Pi K. A.

PI KAPPA PHI
All was quiet on the Epsilon Front this weekend. It seems to have been a sort of lull before the storm. Due to the lack of fragments of truth upon which to base a good scandal, we dedicate this poem to anyone who will read it.

All the crowd is tense and excited,
Because the Homecoming Lamp is lighted;
Brothers and Pledges be on your toes,
For such a time holds many “woes.”
There are girls that will give you the flush,
This is similar, but not the same as the brush,
Now don’t you snicker and begin to laugh,
You may be the next to get the shaft.
Beware lest you have the terrible fate
Of having Odell get you a date.
Don't be fooled because he’s your Brother,
He'll get you a date with somebody's mother.
When you've had one snort, don’t take anymore;
Or you'll be like Carlos and get the wrong door.
If Fleming is around, watch what you do;
The first thing you know, he'll have your shoe.
If your date looks like “Flossie,” and you wish she'd get lost;
Just call her old man, E. B., “Big Frost.”
If the kid is a talker or won't talk at all,
She's either a cheech or a real oddball.
The dry goods will be cut high and low,
So don’t be alarmed if your kid steals the show.
Now if she’s a meat-head, not holding much poop;
Straighten her out, and give her the scoop.
Or if she’s been around and thinks she’s a smarty,
Just bring her around to a Pi Kapp Party.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
No man can tell what is that rare and beautiful undercurrent of feeling that somehow surges through us all when the crisp and vari-colored leaves of autumn sift from the trees and carpet the cooling earth beneath, but come high water on Bat-land, b'gum, yuh jes’ cain’t deny hit atall; And furthermore, those Phi Gams wandering around with a wolfish anticipatory gleam in their bloodshot eyes are not contemplating Nature’s immediate products either, but are rather planning to make those rare gems of feminity coming to the campus this weekend for Homecoming affairs worthy of that gleam. The banquet at the Selwyn in Charlotte is to be highlighted by a skit under the direction of super-Hollywoodite Maynard Royster and the most talented conglomeration of pledges, masquerading actors, stage hands, musicians, and backdrops ever assembled. Billy the Kid Pharr even reports undeniable possibilities for props in the form of skids, sleds, and tripods among the brothers, who may be called upon at the crucial moment to salvage what shreds of respect may be remaining. The Brothers Poag, along with Rock Hill's gift to the ladies, Bishop Barron, invaded the premises at Winthrop and somehow finagled necessary credentials in order to get into the mammoth dance the South Carolina belles were throwing. “Davidson boys never had it quite so good,” James reports, but from Lexington came suspicious communiques concerning a Maryland blonde bomb of the atom variety, and according to “Nose” Brown and John Shy-boy Richards, what she ain't got you could paste on a one-cent postage stamp, and write a passionate love story on it to boot. The Fourth Freedom has at last become a reality, and Phi Gams everywhere are planning a double celebration to commemorate the generosity and fair play of this reporter’s editor. Homecoming should be great!

Eisenhower says free economy is the foundation of a free country. Survey shows an increase in home sewing in the last year.

CENTER THEATRE
WEEK STARTING NOV. 6
SATURDAY: “DENVER KID” Allan - Rocky - Lane
also “MYSTERY IN MEXICO” WILLIAM LUNDIGAN
CARTOON — SERIAL
LATE SHOW SAT. NITE “SINGING SPURS” Hoosier Hot Shots - Pat White
CARTOON
MON.-TUES.-WED: “TAPROOTS” In Technicolor Susan Hayward - Van Heflin
NEWS
THURS.-FRI: “WALLS OF JERICO” Linda Darnell - Cornel Wilde
SHOTS - NEWS

Carolina Theatre
WEEK STARTING NOV. 5
FRI-SAT: “TULSA KID” Don Red Barry
also “BRING 'EM BACK ALIVE” Frank Buck
SUPERMAN CARTOON
Late Show Sat. Nite and MON.-TUES: “THE VELVET TOUCH” Rosalind Russell - Leo Glenn
NEWS - CARTOON
WED.-THUR: “MAGIC BOW” also “A WOMAN'S VENGEANCE” Charles Boyer
NEWS

MOORESVILLE