THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bob Phillips — Managing Editor
Mac Hart — Managing Editor
Walter Mann — Managing Editor
Stan Kennett — Managing Editor
Bill Calhoun — Managing Editor
Ronnie Dietrich — Managing Editor
Rees Jenkins — Columnist
Malloy Owens — Columnist
John Stewart — Associate Editor
Floyd McLean — Sports Editor
Bob Cline — Staff Photographer
Sam Ervin — Assistant Photographer

Feature Reporters: Bob Hollister, Lonnie Larkin, Leonard Boswell, John Cosby, Dave Hayworth, Hugh Evans, Warren Sims, Kenneth Jones, Jim Murray,
Jim Pat McGeachy, Dave Turnipseed, Dave Gambrell, Bill DuBose, Bruce Kendall, Bill Bogart, Charles T. Davis, Bob Wells, Art Jenkins.

Freshmen Reporters: Hartley Hall, Randy Taylor, Phil Mitchell, Bill Hollister, Scott Verner, Gray Hampton, Frank Purnell, Tom Flipse.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Friday, April 30, 1948

THE DAVIDSONIAN Presents
EDITORIALS...LETTERS...FEATURES

It will be what your support and contributions make it. In a student body as large and as talented as
our own, there should be quite a few men who are interested in creative writing and who like to put
their ideas down on paper. However, literary societies and the societies that foster future Willie Shakespeare's have not run into
an overabundance of them, especially among the present sophomore and junior classes. Every graduate of a liberal arts college should
have some knowledge of writing and some experience in expressing his ideas through the medium of the written word. Especially
are professional men—among whom Davidson men are supposed to be leaders—called upon to know how to write, and a man
of letters is an asset to any society. Here, then, is a challenge to you, men of Davidson.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
A little “Squirrel” we know went to all the parties the Mijis gave... and got more than a handful of
oysters. Patrick, who graduates soon and can stand the steam, keeps a pet squirrel handy (to pet, naturally) and just
very recently has found it extremely necessary to keep such animals “pinned.”

Operating Table: The official title of the dances last weekend was “Davidson College Spring Frolicks,” but henceforth it shall be
known as the weekend when Outhouse John’s buddies from Clemson fought the battle at the Hotel Charlotte. These charming fellows
should take their place alongside such characters as George Ennett, Wendell Knox, “Two-Ton” Maxwell, and the like. Outhouse tried to
explain their actions as the “natural exuberance of youth,” but after having observed such pranks as swan diving into a
water tumbler (only half filled, too), dropping suitcases from a tenth story window, one must join the house in saying,
“what manner of men are these?”

Sources (unreliable due to circumstances beyond A. A.’s control) report that the Smith establishment was the scene of a pre-dance
party. Have you heard the one about the Catholic priest and the Jewish rabbi? A few of the brothers and
dates spent a delightful weekend commuting from the Minute Grill to the Queen City Soda Grill. The Pika brethren gathered
to welcome back one of their honorary members, Amos Ragan. Although two other honorary members, A. C. Currant and Melio,
were unable to attend, the party was adjudged a roaring success. Some of the boys did have dates, although Ralph
“The Flush King” Alexander was disappointed in his endeavors. Many of the lovers have come back with tales of their
various conquests. However, to the confident Don Juan, we would like to offer a humble word of advice: By the
time you swear you love her, most of us are shivering and sighing.

In addition to this paper's recent feature contest, there was held just lately another contest offering a fifty-dollar prize for
the best paper on world government. The one entry walked off with the prize hands down, without giving the judges
so much as a good afternoon’s work. There are many such opportunities on the campus to pick up some handy
spending money as well as providing ourselves with a valuable tool for later years.

BUSINESS STAFF
John McNair — Assistant Business Manager
Charlie Reid — Advertising Manager
Frank Lemmon — Circulation Manager
Bill Baxter — Subscriptions Manager
Charles Clinkscales — Assistant Advertising Manager
Charles Dockery — Collections Manager
Wilkes Macauley — Assistant Advertising Manager

Advertising Staff: H. MacKethan, C. Faison, Claude Higginbotham, D. Hayworth, Blaine Kelley, Gene Taylor, W. S. McSwain.

Circulation Staff: Paul Guthery, Sam Davis, Bill Cassels, John Coble, Jim Fisher, Bob Sims, Jimmy Rogers, Norvell Childers, Ted Rowan,
Murray Ashman, Erwin Clark, Ray Cunningham, Bill Mebane.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1946 Member 1947
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

THE DAVIDSONIAN cannot always promise the former, but we have nothing so much as experience to offer. We might add
that Sigma Upsilon as well as the Phi and Eu societies like to foster promising writers, and that work done
for the paper and the magazine is an avenue of approach to membership in these organizations.

Scripts ‘n Pranks
We offer the congratulations of this sheet to the editor-elect of the Scripts ’N Pranks, Mr. Meatball Gambrell. Now that
the magazine will have come down off the literary heights of New Yorker styledom and reverted to the blissful mediocrity
of Joe College contributions, we of THE DAVIDSONIAN will feel free to challenge friend Meatball and his staff to the
rivalries that existed of yore between the two publications. It has long been the particular pleasure of editors harassed by
lack of inspiration to point to the weaknesses and literary poverty of this quarterly attempt at humor and frivolity. And
had it not been for the prodding of DAVIDSONIAN editors to hold our peace when praise is deserved, we might
have been tempted to use this space to point out the shortcomings of our friendly rival.

Need For Cooperation
As the new staff takes over the reins of THE DAVIDSONIAN, we want to thank the praise-slinging Sam Ervin for
getting us off to a good start and especially for the five-star build-up he gave us in this column last
week. Without Sam's work-horse capacity and Flip’s executive ability, we cannot promise as sterling a product as these two have
put out this year. However, we will hold to the slogan founded with the paper in 1915—“for a better Davidson”
and try to maintain the standards that these two have set so well this year.

We have to pay tribute to these two for the way they have set up a working mechanism under entirely
new conditions. The opening of a print shop here in town has paved the way for a better DAVIDSONIAN with
more of the “news” element by giving us a later deadline and consequently more “scoops.” But it has called for
a lot more planning and work on the part of the editors, and we take off our hats to these
two for the efficient way in which they handled the situation.

Now that we have facilities for getting some “scoops,” we want to ask the cooperation of the different organizations in
presenting all possible news through THE DAVIDSONIAN. Now, at a time when most organizations are thinking about new officers for
the coming year, we would like to ask the leaders of the respective groups to elect or appoint some sort
of public relations officers who could see to it that the editorial staff is informed of all news-worthy events. Such
a policy should prove beneficial both in increasing the efficiency of your paper and in getting your organization's activities into
the public eye.

Also, we would like to encourage any prospective journalists to feel free to add their contributions from week to week.
We only have one more issue this spring and its space will be limited, but starting in the fall, we
will welcome any attempts that anybody may want to make. There must be more members of the student body interested
in taking an occasional crack at creative writing than was evidenced by the feature contest held recently. It is your
paper and we need your support and contributions to make it better.For the group, heard to observe afterwards Quoth Beb,
“Anyone could do that mustache, if you'd had what I had?” Clara Robert — Monday, Wednesday, and Fridays, not to
be tainted by undergraduate gaieties, withdrew into “realm out of space, out of time,” Greensboro, N.C. soul that she is.
Brother McNair to have melted in Jane’s arms, What a mess that must have been. At any rate, she took
her back intriguing race with Brother Via for possession of “lover Boy’s” local talent. Said Hotfoot McD: “They just had
a head start on me at the curve.” Said Via, in a husky whisper, “All I know I owe to
my second wife.” Hopped-Up Dowd and Slick Think It Over to Converse Sunday afternoon, Brother Warlick has a fascinating new
game called “Horserace.” Just the thing for mixed company, Ann, from Erskine, held a stag party in her room late
Saturday night.

Draft News
Frenchy, also held up considerably by dangerous curves and the unbearable heat, finally made it to the dance at ten
till twelve. Snodgrass, who turned in a fine MC job at the formal banquet, was unduly thankful that French and
I are of the Protestant faith.

PI KAPPA PHI
The Pi Kapps went all out for the Spring Frolics. A large number of the brothers, all equipped with beautiful
dates, were on hand for this fine affair. Bill Cassels and Johnny Coble journeyed about a thousand miles in order
to procure two very gorgeous young damsels. Bill reports that the trip down was rather boring, but things were very
cozy on the return. Mit Lander arrived at the dance in a big new ‘48 Cad with all the trimmings
and W. S. McSwain, for whom the belles call, accompanied him on this trial run. Miss Janne Fair was sponsor
for E. B. Hunter, our new president, and Miss Mary Frances was sponsor for Walter Dobson. Billy Houck, Bud Edwards,
Dave Tyler, Berwyn Rush, Till Cleveland, Frank Niblock, and Kay McCain were all present with their “Queens.” The other brothers
had belles from all over Dixieland and we must say “they really done good!”

PI KAPPA ALPHA
“Operator, room 420 or 1032 or 249 or—no, it makes no difference. There'll be a Pika in all of them!”
And so there was! The Do-Do Bird that usually gathers information for this column was a little more do-do than
usual over the weekend and was physically unable to make all the parties; however, at the ones he did make,
he felt right at home because everyone there was acting a little like a Do-Do Bird. To be matter of
fact, the only information he turned in was that the whole weekend was kinda do-do—but oh! what fun!

The Pikas spent most of the first afternoon getting their girls squared away and trying to have duplicate keys made
to their rooms. Harney, Walker, and probably other buildings, this older and most unsanitary type fountain head is used. We
believe these fountains run a good chance of deserving the credit for many of the “unaccountable” colds that are going
the rounds. Why not replace them with angular spouts?

Signed Ballots
We have heard some criticism of the old requirement that voters sign their ballots. One does wonder what purpose this
requirement serves that a careful issuing of one ballot per student or the precinct system could not accomplish better. Soviet
citizens are required to sign their ballots. Americans are not. A worthy minor reform for next year’s council. The completely
secret ballot is an essential guardian of democracy. Congratulations to the election board for a hard job well done. And,
congratulations, winners!

A-Men
Honorable Editor Sam Ervin's editorial last week calling for close, active support of THE DAVIDSONIAN by the college and student
body gets a hearty a-men from this spot. We very evidently need something. If everyone could see how the editors
work to get out this sheet, a good many might be shocked, as we were. The English Department gave the
campus a dramatics movement a real shot in the arm recently. If they would come to the rescue of our
Newspaper by offering credit for articles printed, a larger number of persons would contribute. And, too, like “Sez,” money doesn't
grow on trees, so some of that would help, too.

A Free Italy?
In celebrating the recent defeat of Communism in Italy, we as Americans should remember that Italy still falls far short
of being a democratic country. Great estates own huge areas of land on which peasants work with no hope of
independence. This feudal system is supported by Roman Catholicism and is the main cause of Italian Communism. Let's hope something
will be done to give them real democracy, or they may yet turn to real Communism.

TELEVISION STATION HAS HIGHEST LIGHT IN WASHINGTON, D.C.
WASHINGTON, D.C. (I.P.)—The highest light in the nation’s capital now shines from the television tower of WMAL-TV on the campus
of the American University high above the Potomac River. With a million-dollar new studio, tower, and transmitter, the station is
the first especially designed television station. With a staff of 40, WMAL-TV originates the transmission of events which are making
history in this city. Already with one of the most complete radio curriculums, the University this fall will expand its
curriculum in television and electronic physics. Perhaps the most important program is presently to go on the air when the
American University with the cooperation of the United States Department of State presents “America’s Foreign Policy.” This will be a
weekly show transmitted over the television network of The American Broadcasting Company. The program is planned and produced by Paul
F. Douglass, president of the University, in cooperation with State Department experts, the University faculty, and WMAL-TV staff members.

DRINK TIP TASTY TOPS ON THE CAMPUS
LOCAL TRAILWAYS AGENT OF OUR ATTRACTIVE SERVICE
Queen City Trailways
417 W. 6th St.
Charlotte, N.C.
