FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1948 PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN

The DAVIDSONIAN Presents - EDITORIALS LETTERS FEATURES AMONG THE GREEKS Political Angles

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

MAC HART EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE
New York, N. Y.
Chicago - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1946 Member 1947 Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Automobiles or Not

Since the question of keeping cars on the Davidson campus has again come to the attention of the Administration, the
Editors of the Davidsonian have devoted this space to the thorough consideration of this issue. It is our earnest intention
to delve into every aspect of this situation and to clarify the position of both the Student Body and the
Faculty.

To begin with, let us consider the Student Body's stand on the subject. We place the views of the students
first as they are more easily outlined. We believe we are reasonably accurate in stating that a majority of the
students are of the opinion that the less restriction imposed, the better. It is felt by the majority that the
unrestricted use of automobiles adds to the comfort and convenience of the entire group—this consideration should be of primary importance
to the Faculty in deciding upon the issue. The students believe that they, as a group, are capable of dealing
with the situation without supervision. In short, the students believe that they are capable of dealing with the situation without
supervision. Thus far, in referring to the Student Body, we have used the term majority. This is because there are
a number of students who consider control or limitation of this privilege an essential measure.

In setting forth the position of the Faculty, we would make clear at the outset that the following information has
been obtained from discussion with members of the Faculty, a conference with Dean Bailey, and a consideration of past policy.
These views represent a summation or an interpretation, in our own words, of the problem confronting the Administration and its
attitude toward that problem.

Of primary importance is the fact that the members of the Faculty regard the question of the unrestricted use of
automobiles in the light of its effect upon two distinctly different groups of students—those twenty-one and over, and those under
twenty-one.

(a) The Administration’s policy in regard to men twenty-one and over is best expressed by Dean Bailey’s open letter to
members of this group. We quote:

“To students over 21 who wish to keep motor vehicles at Davidson: Exceptions will be made for those occasions when
there are special social functions on the campus.”

(b) There are a number of factors which the Administration finds it must consider in selecting the wisest course to
follow in the matter of car privileges for men under twenty-one. Many of these factors rarely occur to, or come
to the attention of the members of this group. The general nature of these factors is as follows:

(1) The Administration feels a definite responsibility to the parents of men under legal age, who send their sons to
Davidson expressly for the purpose of providing them with an atmosphere conducive to study and the development of high moral
character. This is the aim of the vast majority of the parents sending their sons here to college.

(2) It is also true of these parents that they, for the most part, hold the college responsible for the
privileges accorded these men, many of whom are insufficiently mature at the ages of eighteen, nineteen, and sometimes even twenty,
to accept complete lack of supervision.

(3) It is probable that when more students have cars, still more students will wish to have cars. Many parents
of Davidson students would find the cost of a car and its upkeep burdensome, others would find it an impossible
undertaking. Possession of cars on the campus by all students who could afford them would tend to emphasize in a
very obvious manner the differences in financial background among the students. The Faculty desires to maintain on the campus an
atmosphere in which the individual student stands on the basis of his personal worth rather than on the basis of
what he owns.

(4) Younger students living in groups are often put under pressure by their acquaintances to use their cars to go
places and do things which they might not do if they were not living away from home under dormitory conditions.

(5) The Faculty feels that it is not unreasonable to require that the students have achieved some greater degree of
maturity before being given complete freedom in the use of cars.

We feel that this policy, though weak in one instance in particular—the fact that Seniors under twenty-one do not have
the unrestricted use of cars—is the best solution possible to the complex problem of automobiles on the campus. We have
been given reason to believe, however, and this is im- (Continued on Page Four)

PHI DELTA THETA

Before proclaiming the various exploits of our illustrious brothers, we want to extend a hearty welcome to our sagacious pledges
and, with confidence in their future wheeling ability, to cordially invite them into the famed columns of “Among the Greeks.”
This same hospitality is also extended to Brother Mitchell Smith, a returnee, and Brother Al Cook, a transfer from our
good neighbor, Emory University.

Going back a few days, we welcome with glad eyes the visit of Brothers John Hills, Floyd Martin and Ed
“Mullethead” Sutton, who were with us a few days during that hectic but greatly rewarded week. It was great to
see them again. It seems that Phi Delta Theta will never be without its famed “fish cranium,” for the gods
have planted in our midst the offspring, perhaps, but certainly not the counterpart of the original, in pledge Ed Sutton.

Turning to our own geekish, oops, we mean Greekish, warriors, clothed in the familiar blue and white, and red, and
orange, and purple, and black, and what have you, we find that much wheeling, reeling, and dealing has taken place
over the weekend. The Brownson-Patten Company, consisting of Brownson, “Patty-cake” Patten, “Crook” Cook, “Hardrock” Hubbell, and “Blowtorch” Bowen, suffered a
financial blow Saturday night, although the button magnates say they “practically” broke even at the W&M game. Nice going!

After the upset, Brother “Horse Pistol” Smith headed a delegation for the bowery section of the Queen City in search
of his long-lost uncle who, unknown to Harris P., is a famous painter. Among the Sutton “Brains” his ecstasy. It
was only after intense questioning that “Rudolph” would consent to give us a statement. He said, and we quote, “Everyone
was feeling merry, and a good time was had by all.”

Over in the Queen City our pledges dominated the spotlight by attending en masse that affair of all affairs, the
Queens-Davidson freshman dance. Among the young lovers present were Pledges Taylor, Sutton, Bacon, Cumbie, Clark, Moses, Lazenby, Huffacker, and Fields.
It was reported that one comely lass even tried to kiss “old Rusty,” but he escaped in the end.

It was indeed good to have Brother Sam Tate back with us, along with the famed “Big Blue,” even though
it was for only a few hours. We never did discover how he managed to play golf at night. Or
was it golf?

PI KAPPA ALPHA

Taking advantage of the open date in the football schedule last weekend, brothers and pledges of Pika took to the
road traveling from Virginia to South Carolina for various reasons, most of them being fraternization with the fairer sex. Brothers
Ensign, Cameron and Hayden contributed their several talents to the delight of W.C. belles. Cameron was seen sitting at the
check-out desk in one of the dormitories. When asked about this, he replied, “You know, you meet more beautiful women
that way.” This trio reported that on the road to Greensboro, they passed by Brother Dockery, who was heading homeward
in his ’31 Ford Fordor Deluxe, in no apparent mechanical trouble. Brother Grube, in keeping with his Cross Country team
training, ran down to Rock Hill to entertain his true love.

The biggest news is that the Newbold brothers, Pledges Harper and Raynor, met with such success at Presbyterian Hospital Saturday
night, that they are opening an agency which will take care of all arrangements for those Davidson students wishing to
date the women in white. Brothers Mills and McNair seem to be forming a very pleasant habit of traveling the
distance to Converse each weekend, as they were at it again last week. Brother Reese paid a visit to Salem
Academy, and reports (Continued on Page Four)

The Poll-cat
By CHARLIE REID

Who is the most dangerous woman now living in the United States?

STUDENTS
Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt
Miss Julia Passmore
Jane Russell
Clare Booth Luce

1st Choice
2nd Choice
3rd Choice
4th Choice

FACULTY & ADM.
My Wife
Dorothy Thompson
Little Orphan Annie
Clare Booth Luce

This poll proves very little other than the fact that the Students and Faculty do have one thing in common...

JOHN McNAIR BUSINESS MGR.

While the foreign situation has lost none of its importance, the interest of the nation has naturally swung to the
coming November elections. Since our interest is at home, we may as well face the fact that the outcome of
the elections will have a profound effect on the foreign situation both in an immediate and a lasting sense. For
instance, several authorities claim that the foreign situation alone is of enough consequence to make a knowledge of the three
major parties’ platforms important, not to mention the intelligent thinking which will be engendered by such a knowledge. We are
going to present a series of articles on various questions of importance. Nine topics will be taken up; these are:
Foreign Policy, Communists, Civil Rights, Inflation, Labor, Agriculture, Business, Education, and Housing. Following is a sum-Hat Off to Alpha by
5 Na teadroe; DAILY REPORTERS: Henry Henritzy, Henry Hansen, in the community. For a time this request was observed reasonably
well; during most of last year a limited number of students began to violate it rather consistently.

The Executive Committee at its meeting on October 13, 1948, will—it is believed—agree to extend these privileges to men over
21 again this year under conditions similar to those under which they were granted last year. With the exception that
it is to be understood that the use of a motor vehicle to go from point to point within this
community will be regarded as grounds for withdrawal of these privileges.

The chief reasons for this last are as follows:
1. The unrestricted use of cars within the community by men over 21 makes the enforcement of the rule affecting
men under 21 practically impossible.
2. The facilities of the campus are not considered to be adequate at the present time for the use of
a large number of cars.
3. In view of the fact that the Executive Committee has shown its willingness to permit the use of cars
at any time to leave and return to the community, with no restrictions as to when or how frequently they
may be used, we feel that we are not being unreasonable in asking you to cooperate with us in not
creating unnecessary problems by using cars at the present time.

FOREIGN POLICY: the Saloly Robitisc om Jick ase: Besides com-4> =e ere rv aaa houn, Ken! Ral i 1 hritas
n. aes peu atty year a limited number of students began to |end in Florida. Sorry to hear the brothers
back home, Besides com CARE iis Plena TOR eTAICTIA” AVAY AVillnteeariitetieGieandaies Barnwell, t. AMIN die eeU LRN ec Ady Daan;
ie js trip came to. such a screeching] pletely snowing three Voluptous sca. ca iy Naciat ak FUHT iitrs ice
nae Bob Hubbel)! Metra fom Mann, Bill Cum-| yiolate it rather consistently. S: now, later, or not at all will
bej sia share “joint responsibility’ for “5 se at ‘ay; Ancus McKellar M4; halt, Ben. Better luck next time. damsels
from Meredith, they rose irae ie ate; hint aueaaiae; is { ming, Phil Libby, Ven | DET EICRIHOIIR The Executive
Committee at its meeting; ‘ definitely —iniltfenced by who is | Vending the tragic prospect 0 Dudley Pendleton, Jinn Fricke
nN, Pete Kologides; Re f ij 3 et eta ae Lover Lander and Hair-cut Mc-|to heights unseen by standing alone
elected, and by what policies are} war.” Situation demands “negotia- Dick Chandley, boo No tt, Stuart Shippey, esi on October
13,. 1948, will—it is believed— | Swain were a little more fortunate|as the only survivors within a 30- oF ve
Se AERA Ail (CLG RRR ETAL LACTIC fe ffaker, Lewis Hy1 Prank Winston and Bi POSE ue ES Tot on;
. . . : Nine ile radius Shape ii rte ee Spcrae certian s AESOU i ens: 4 ° eure
Sue agree to extend these privileges to men over |in their travels to the South. They aL radius of Chapel
Hill who], i snistration, Since Yhis. fact (Continued Of Page Four) aoe ne 21 again this year under conditions similar
to | seem to have made it to Converse] Were not eters he iy Sedan SAR to EEE er SPORTS
STAT F—¢ ng, Gordon Scott, : $7) more or less non-stop. that swept out from liquidous place inh 1a iv
hilt » Frank se shic »y were grante st year AN: , i Furman Warli } Vey Ms) lil those
under wes wey. ; petite Uae y Having spirit and going South Phe handsome faces of — the 2 Winston,
Bryan Robeyon. Don Meleithan, David) With the exception that it is to be understood seemed to be in vogue with
nearly | wearers of the blue and white were Imema onaments Thitener, Ed We ji s H: J W He
ace ind that the use of a motor vehicle to go from everyone, especially the pledges.| seen throughout the South
on past By BILL CALHOUN CIRCT ah l It Be a? | Reet rane point to point within this community
will be Over at our highly under-rated sis- week-end, although the Vhi Delts’ ; sae rks alton i s LOSES,
bs * ¥ am. yet sare ‘ rT) roe Miller Neill | Mi lo lonmy. Haller,| regarded as grounds for
withdrawal of these | ter institution Saturday — night,] activity centered chiefly around the Monday and Tuesday j married, |
Miller, Mae Parle (aecieh a 5 F french-| well-known female institutions of]. The guy Who tanned ‘Gilda’ | Wednesday and
Thursday John Hardin, Thad M: Hugh Huffaker, Ben srivileces, numerous Freshmen and French-| we gu) Morris, Cam Faison,’ Paul Guthry:
: ebhe; hief reasons for this last Menicten men were seen waltzing with the| Salem, Converse and Queens. melts Millie,
as Glenn Ford goes; “Another Vart of the Forest" ne chief reasons for s las 3; sig ay; joss. :
ae Vee erdesriaait: many lovies at the DC-QC dance. Although the events jn the Twin fabout the business of the
mating} \Ithough this picture was made, mee BUSINESS Sas er 3 McSwain are as follows: Several of the happy faces
seen] City seem shrouded in mystery,| of Evelyn Keyes. We can be rea-| from a Broadway hit of fair quali-
Circulation ‘Ma: Bilt ‘Houck “1, The unrestricted use of cars within the | there belonged to the bodies of] several
reports have it that “Charm-|sonably sure that the average Da-|ty and stars Mrederie March and a ik; . : ”
ow Biliaet: community by men over 21 makes the en- | Luke Hyman, Bob Murray, Guy}ing Chas.” Varker, the Shiek
of] vidson student is thoroughly famil-)| Ann Blythe, popular opinion. seems ane BAP amet forcement of the rule affecting men
under 21 | Dardel, Bill Henning, Cecil Rhodes Salem, supplied several séns of Pal- iar with the mating process from|
to hold that the world would be ENA eres Ne ROA E _ Te ractic Aled. and Harold Clayton. las
with voluptuous damsels from |liis studies in previous schools he} just as well off if the picture ¢had Bs: ‘
me ROTTS ¥ P a qi ourneying still further south were] his private harem. No details have} has attended, It
is said that the} been left in another part of the Collections: Manas. . s Dockery The facilities of the
campus are not ‘ See | ftir Subseriptiéns Manager to 2 es Pledges Parks Dalton and Ben] been obtainable as
yet, but we as-| birds and bees know of this also,| woods. Inter these woods at your John Leftin i;
pice B'; ' i; Ic: ys ne considered to be adequate at “the present | Morris. Both reported that Myrtle}
sume that fun was had by all who} or as one “Mann-act’ Mann puts} own risk, ADVERTISINGsSTA Cumming, Bill Hart,;
ati ai MY P; e’; regarded as grounds for withdrawal of these | ter institution Saturday — night,] activity centered
chiefly around the Monday and Tuesday j married, | Miller, Mae Parle (aecieh a 5 F french-| well-known female institutions
of]. The guy Who tanned ‘Gilda’ | Wednesday and Thursday John Hardin, Thad M: Hugh Huffaker, Ben srivileces, numerous Freshmen
and French-| we gu) Morris, Cam Faison,’ Paul Guthry: : ebhe; hief reasons for this last Menicten men were seen
waltzing with the| Salem, Converse and Queens. melts Millie, as Glenn Ford goes; “Another Vart of the Forest" ne chief
reasons for s las 3; sig ay; joss. : ae Vee erdesriaait: many lovies at the DC-QC dance. Although the
events jn the Twin fabout the business of the mating} \Ithough this picture was made, mee BUSINESS Sas er 3
McSwain are as follows: Several of the happy faces seen] City seem shrouded in mystery,| of Evelyn Keyes. We can
be rea-| from a Broadway hit of fair quali- Circulation ‘Ma: Bilt ‘Houck “1, The unrestricted use of cars within
the | there belonged to the bodies of] several reports have it that “Charm-|sonably sure that the average Da-|ty and
stars Mrederie March and a ik; . : ” ow Biliaet: community by men over 21 makes the en- |
Luke Hyman, Bob Murray, Guy}ing Chas.” Varker, the Shiek of] vidson student is thoroughly famil-)| Ann Blythe, popular opinion. seems
ane BAP amet forcement of the rule affecting men under 21 | Dardel, Bill Henning, Cecil Rhodes Salem, supplied several
séns of Pal- iar with the mating process from| to hold that the world would be ENA eres Ne ROA
E _ Te ractic Aled. and Harold Clayton. las with voluptuous damsels from |liis studies in previous schools he} just
as well off if the picture ¢had Bs: ‘ me ROTTS ¥ P a qi ourneying still further south were]
his private harem. No details have} has attended, It is said that the} been left in another part of the
Collections: Manas. . s Dockery The facilities of the campus are not ‘ See | ftir Subseriptiéns Manager to 2
es Pledges Parks Dalton and Ben] been obtainable as yet, but we as-| birds and bees know of this also,|
woods. Inter these woods at your John Leftin i; pice B'; ' i; Ic: ys ne considered to be adequate
at “the present | Morris. Both reported that Myrtle} sume that fun was had by all who} or as one
“Mann-act’ Mann puts} own risk, ADVERTISINGsSTA Cumming, Bill Hart,; ati ai MY P; e’; regarded as grounds for withdrawal of
these | ter institution Saturday — night,] activity centered chiefly around the Monday and Tuesday j married, | Miller, Mae
Parle (aecieh a 5 F french-| well-known female institutions of]. The guy Who tanned ‘Gilda’ | Wednesday and Thursday John
Hardin, Thad M: Hugh Huffaker, Ben srivileces, numerous Freshmen and French-| we gu) Morris, Cam Faison,’ Paul Guthry: : ebhe;
hief reasons for this last Menicten men were seen waltzing with the| Salem, Converse and Queens. melts Millie, as Glenn
Ford goes; “Another Vart of the Forest" ne chief reasons for s las 3; sig ay; joss. : ae Vee
erdesriaait: many lovies at the DC-QC dance. Although the events jn the Twin fabout the business of the mating} \Ithough
this picture was made, mee BUSINESS Sas er 3 McSwain are as follows: Several of the happy faces seen] City
seem shrouded in mystery,| of Evelyn Keyes. We can be rea-| from a Broadway hit of fair quali- Circulation ‘Ma:
Bilt ‘Houck “1, The unrestricted use of cars within the | there belonged to the bodies of] several reports have
it that “Charm-|sonably sure that the average Da-|ty and stars Mrederie March and a ik; . : ” ow Biliaet:
community by men over 21 makes the en- | Luke Hyman, Bob Murray, Guy}ing Chas.” Varker, the Shiek of] vidson
student is thoroughly famil-)| Ann Blythe, popular opinion. seems ane BAP amet forcement of the rule affecting men under 21
| Dardel, Bill Henning, Cecil Rhodes Salem, supplied several séns of Pal- iar with the mating process from| to hold
that the world would be ENA eres Ne ROA E _ Te ractic Aled. and Harold Clayton. las with voluptuous
damsels from |liis studies in previous schools he} just as well off if the picture ¢had Bs: ‘ me ROTTS
¥ P a qi ourneying still further south were] his private harem. No details have} has attended, It is said
that the} been left in another part of the Collections: Manas. . s Dockery The facilities of the campus are
not ‘ See | ftir Subseriptiéns Manager to 2 es Pledges Parks Dalton and Ben] been obtainable as yet, but
we as-| birds and bees know of this also,| woods. Inter these woods at your John Leftin i; pice B';
' i; Ic: ys ne considered to be adequate at “the present | Morris. Both reported that Myrtle} sume that
fun was had by all who} or as one “Mann-act’ Mann puts} own risk, ADVERTISINGsSTA Cumming, Bill Hart,; ati ai
MY P; e’; regarded as grounds for withdrawal of these | ter institution Saturday — night,] activity centered chiefly around
the Monday and Tuesday j married, | Miller, Mae Parle (aecieh a 5 F french-| well-known female institutions of]. The
guy Who tanned ‘Gilda’ | Wednesday and Thursday John Hardin, Thad M: Hugh Huffaker, Ben srivileces, numerous Freshmen and French-|
we gu) Morris, Cam Faison,’ Paul Guthry: : ebhe; hief reasons for this last Menicten men were seen waltzing with
the| Salem, Converse and Queens. melts Millie, as Glenn Ford goes; “Another Vart of the Forest" ne chief reasons for
s las 3; sig ay; joss. : ae Vee erdesriaait: many lovies at the DC-QC dance. Although the events jn
the Twin fabout the business of the mating} \Ithough this picture was made, mee BUSINESS Sas er 3 McSwain are
as follows: Several of the happy faces seen] City seem shrouded in mystery,| of Evelyn Keyes. We can be rea-|
from a Broadway hit of fair quali- Circulation ‘Ma: Bilt ‘Houck “1, The unrestricted use of cars within the |
there belonged to the bodies of] several reports have it that “Charm-|sonably sure that the average Da-|ty and stars Mrederie
March and a ik; . : ” ow Biliaet: community by men over 21 makes the en- | Luke Hyman,
Bob Murray, Guy}ing Chas.” Varker, the Shiek of] vidson student is thoroughly famil-)| Ann Blythe, popular opinion. seems ane BAP
amet forcement of the rule affecting men under 21 | Dardel, Bill Henning, Cecil Rhodes Salem, supplied several séns of
Pal- iar with the mating process from| to hold that the world would be ENA eres Ne ROA E _
Te ractic Aled. and Harold Clayton. las with voluptuous damsels from |liis studies in previous schools he} just as well
off if the picture ¢had Bs: ‘ me ROTTS ¥ P a qi ourneying still further south were] his private
harem. No details have} has attended, It is said that the} been left in another part of the Collections: Manas.
. s Dockery The facilities of the campus are not ‘ See | ftir Subseriptiéns Manager to 2 es Pledges
Parks Dalton and Ben] been obtainable as yet, but we as-| birds and bees know of this also,| woods. Inter
these woods at your John Leftin i; pice B'; ' i; Ic: ys ne considered to be adequate at “the
present | Morris. Both reported that Myrtle} sume that fun was had by all who} or as one “Mann-act’ Mann
puts} own risk, ADVERTISINGsSTA Cumming, Bill Hart,; ati ai MY P; e’; regarded as grounds for withdrawal of these |
ter institution Saturday — night,] activity centered chiefly around the Monday and Tuesday j married, | Miller, Mae Parle (aecieh
a 5 F french-| well-known female institutions of]. The guy Who tanned ‘Gilda’ | Wednesday and Thursday John Hardin, Thad
M: Hugh Huffaker, Ben srivileces, numerous Freshmen and French-| we gu) Morris, Cam Faison,’ Paul Guthry: : ebhe; hief reasons
for this last Menicten men were seen waltzing with the| Salem, Converse and Queens. melts Millie, as Glenn Ford goes;
“Another Vart of the Forest" ne chief reasons for s las 3; sig ay; joss. : ae Vee erdesriaait: many
lovies at the DC-QC dance. Although the events jn the Twin fabout the business of the mating} \Ithough this picture
was made, mee BUSINESS Sas er 3 McSwain are as follows: Several of the happy faces seen] City seem shrouded
in mystery,| of Evelyn Keyes. We can be rea-| from a Broadway hit of fair quali- Circulation ‘Ma: Bilt ‘Houck
“1, The unrestricted use of cars within the | there belonged to the bodies of] several reports have it that
“Charm-|sonably sure that the average Da-|ty and stars Mrederie March and a ik; . : ” ow Biliaet: community by
men over 21 makes the en- | Luke Hyman, Bob Murray, Guy}ing Chas.” Varker, the Shiek of] vidson student is
thoroughly famil-)| Ann Blythe, popular opinion. seems ane BAP amet forcement of the rule affecting men under 21 | Dardel,
Bill Henning, Cecil Rhodes Salem, supplied several séns of Pal- iar with the mating process from| to hold that the
world would be ENA eres Ne ROA E _ Te ractic Aled. and Harold Clayton. las with voluptuous damsels from
|liis studies in previous schools he} just as well off if the picture ¢had Bs: ‘ me ROTTS ¥ P
a qi ourneying still further south were] his private harem. No details have} has attended, It is said that the}
been left in another part of the Collections: Manas. . s Dockery The facilities of the campus are not ‘
See | ftir Subseriptiéns Manager to 2 es Pledges Parks Dalton and Ben] been obtainable as yet,
