FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1948 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE SIX

SEVENTY-FIVE ATTEND ... (Continued From Page One)

Yorker and John Pritchard, regional vice president, were also introduced. Bob Long, secretary-treasurer, Professor E. D. Guerrant, faculty representative of the club, stated the aims of the club, which were to stimulate relations between nations, to enable the student to think and gain knowledge of our world, and to bring to the forefront the basic issues of our day. He went further to encourage student participation in order to more fully understand the major issues of our day. Jack Ethridge then explained the organization of the club and its affiliation with the Carnegie Endowment for the Advancement of Peace. The Carnegie Endowment maintains more than 95 International Clubs in the country, and also endows professors for study along these lines. “News Bulletin,” and “International Conciliation” published by the Carnegie Endowment furnish every member of the club with up-to-date happenings and changes in the international situation. The meeting closed with the showing of another film, “Expanding World Relationships,” again depicting the bonds between nations. Great plans are in the making for a successful and enlightening year among the members of the Club. The program will feature talks by persons personally acquainted with the various foreign nations; debates, and discussions. At the next meeting, President John Cunningham will give a first-hand account of the Amsterdam Conference and other observations made on the continent. The establishment of correspondence with students from foreign nations is also a very important part of the IRC program. Due to the large turn-out at Tuesday's meeting, we are happy to report that a room in Phi Hall is being prepared to accommodate the increased membership. This will enable the members to meet at any time and to secure literature pertinent to international relations. If you think a communist is a member of the Community Chest, then come down to the International Relations Club meeting and find out about your world; the welcome mat is always out.

DAVIDSON BAND... (Continued From Page One)

The band plans to attend all the home and out-of-town games except V.M.I. After the football season is over and the band turns from marches to overtures, there are plans for a full program of concerts including several on the campus and in nearby cities, and highlighted by a tour of principal Florida cities. The principle of democracy as subscribed to by the College is carried through by the band. All the business and management is conducted by its staff of officers. Willis Coggins, a senior from Winston-Salem, is president, and the secretary-treasurer is Jim Campbell, a Marianna, Florida junior. Vice-president Flynn Long claims he is from Texas and is proud of being a senior as he is almost a business by himself. Bill Boyce is the manager and is a senior from Charlotte. Also a senior, from Fort Pierce, Florida, is the fifth member of the executive committee, Howard Brenner. The boy who keeps the music straight is Al Neuhoff, a senior from Brevard, North Carolina. But, of course, Davidson would not have a band that it could be quite so proud of if it were not for Mr. Viohl. It is under his direction that the band has grown to deserve the recognition that has been bestowed upon it.

POLITICOS SEEK ... (Continued From Page One)

The Dorm is going to exhibit a Republican scheme. (Mr. Dewey does not say whether this scheme is good or bad. However, we must not brand him a Communist without further proof.) The Democratic spokesman said that the Democratic National Committee would continue to work for national unity by listing other vital issues on which it was in accord with Governor Dewey as he clarifies his position on other major problems. We are very glad to hear that the Democratic Party has finally transcended partisan politics to come to agreements with the Republican candidate on those national issues with which we are all so vitally concerned. We believe that such a policy is in keeping with those ideals set for us by the Founding Fathers, whether they were Dixiecrats, Progressives, or Republicans, or whatever. Undoubtedly the Democrats are to be highly commended for their action which will go down in American history as one of the great political policies. But we believe that the Republicans agree with many of the statements made by the Democratic candidates for offices, and we cannot help but speculate upon what these statements may be. We could probably say without fear of contradiction that Governor Dewey would support the following statements made by Mr. Truman: “The West has a vital interest in this election.” Oakland, Sept. 22. (We're glad to hear they are back in the Union.) “We all know that Communists, along with others, have tried to worm their way into the Government.” Sept. 28. (Well, you can't blame the Republicans for trying.) “California must not be permitted to go to the dogs,” Roseville, Calif., Sept. 22.ers crats, Sept. 22, (Governor Warren said in reply: “Well, I'll be doggoned.”) “Our country has many great democratic institutions.” Sept. 28. (For heaven’s sake, don’t knock anything this late in the game.) “I don’t know,” Austin, Sept. 26. (Subscription rates to the Davidsonian are very reasonable.) This is indeed a monumental year for students of American history. Not since Cal (“Keep Cool with Cal”) Coolidge condensed all the knowledge of economics, sociology, and politics in that statement, “Unemployment results when a large number of people are out of work,” have so many gems of wisdom been thrust at the American electorate. We hope that the students of Davidson will take advantage of the opportunities offered them by living in such a vital period of history.

FROM THE EDITOR.... (Continued From Page Three)

organized at various times by petition, but if becoming a state was their desire then the Neostatus should place itself under the jurisdiction of the laws governing the other states, and that if the Neostatus did not wish to become a state, then it should hold to the principles originally set forth by the prophet.

Part The Third

To the sadness of many, no state was forthcoming from the Neostatus, and in time the states began to look upon it with suspicious motives. Some even went to the extreme of saying that the states should organize in order that the Neostatus might not deprive them of their control of the Central Government. In defense of this position they cried, “Look, has not the Neostatus already elected, over our desires, one of their number to the office of High Priest of the Temple?” Though there were temperate voices also, an air of concern ran through the whole planet. The Status pleaded that the Neostatus come forth and state their true aim, but the leaders of the Neostatus were secretive and no statement was to be heard. The situation became more grave and tension mounted, while both factions regarded the motives of the other with mistrust. “A crisis is inevitable,” was the rampant cry of the people, and...

Here the manuscript from which I translate is destroyed so that nothing can be known of the outcome.

WATER TOWER... (Continued From Page One)

It is a popular misconception that the court functions for the purpose of making life disagreeable for freshmen. The court this year and in years to come is to instill the Davidson spirit into those freshmen found guilty of lacking the qualities which make up that spirit. The court's purpose is entirely constructive. Those freshmen displaying a shameful lack of Davidson spirit will be called before the court, and, if found guilty, sentenced to some unpleasant task and assigned to an outstanding upperclassman as a permanent laundry boy so that through acquaintance and observation they may develop their personality to the utmost.

AMONG THE GREEKS... (Continued From Page Three)

McSwain, were seen entering the Olde Poikestomecin Ghar last Thursday night. Sue is grooming T. A. to keep the girls at the home happy, as he plans to devote his full time to the morgue after the first of the month. The “Dealer of the Week” award goes to Brother C. T. B. (Carry the Bucket) Houck. Brother Houck left the campus Sunday as most of us were crawling back. This bit of verse we dedicate to our Gridiron Hero:

As the cock crowed four,
He opened the door,
Dragging his tail behind him.

Honorary Fraternity Schedule

At a meeting called by Shepperson, president of the ODK, the Honorary Fraternity Council set up the schedule for all the honorary fraternities. The newly elected officers for the year are Jack Etheridge, president, and Stan Kennett, secretary. The schedule was made to keep the meetings of the honorary fraternities from conflicting. (Schedule on page five)

Withers Electric Company
© Radio Repairs
© Electrical Supplies
© Light Bulbs
DAVIDSON, N. C.

PHI SOCIETY HOLDS... (Continued From Page One)

The show dates are not yet available, but will be announced later. One social function has been planned. The Phi Society is a semi-social organization which meets twice a month in the Phi auditorium. They have forty-two active members and plan to take in ten new members each semester. Its purpose is to cultivate speaking and creative writing interests in its members. Each member is required to contribute a creative writing, a speech, or serve on one of the committees during the year.

$500 to $1000 EARNINGS

For capable freshman or sophomore in spare-time sales work; training provided. Good references required; no investment. One man will be chosen. Write, stating qualifications, to Service Crystal Company, 43 East Main St., Rochester 4, New York.

Visit THE STUDENT STORE For All Your Needs

“Naturally, I smoked CHESTERFIELDS while working on my new picture, BEYOND GLORY. They’re always MILDER... It's MY cigarette. Besides, I like their better taste.”

Alan Ladd
STARRING IN BEYOND GLORY
A PARAMOUNT PICTURE

ABC GIRL of Texas University says: “I smoke Chesterfields because I have always found them definitely MILDER and besides I like their better taste.”

MORE COLLEGE STUDENTS SMOKE CHESTERFIELDS than any other Cigarette... according to a recent NATIONAL SURVEY.