Y.M.C.A. ANNOUNCES PROGRAM FOR SPRING SERVICES RED AND BLACK MASQUERS PRESENT PLAY MONDAY ALENDA LUX UB) Che Mabidsontan ORTA LIBERTAS SPRING SERVICES TO BEGIN TUESDAY APRIL 6th Volume XXXVI DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, APRIL 2, 1948 NUMBER 22 Ray Eberle To Play For Spring Frolics Three Speakers To Address Students On April 6, 1948, a delegation of three ministers will visit Davidson College and conduct a series of lectures on the theme “Everyday Christian Relations.” Dr. John H. Marion, Jr., D. D., director of the General Assembly, Presbyterian Church, will speak first, his topic to be announced in chapel Tuesday morning. Dr. Marion graduated from Erskine College, and taught at McCallie School for Boys in Chattanooga, Tenn., before entering Louisville Presbyterian Seminary. He served the Caruthersville, Mo., First Presbyterian Church from 1930 until 1932 when he traveled to Europe and Palestine on the H. Stacey Smith Fellowship. After his return in 1933, he became pastor of the Oakland Avenue Presbyterian Church of Murham, N. C. He took over the Grace Covenant Church in Richmond, Va., in 1940 and served it until his call to General Assembly in 1946. Dr. Marion received his D. D. degree from Davidson in 1943. Tuesday night at 7:30, Dean J. M. Godard of Queens College, will speak on “Preparation for Christian Marriage.” Dean Godard received his A. B. degree from Park College in Missouri. He did graduate work at the University of Chicago and at Duke University. He received his Masters Degree and Ph. D. at Duke, and then taught at Park College, Duke, and Queens College. Dean Godard is also a psychologist at the Charlotte Mental Hygiene Clinic. Dr. James M. Richards will conduct chapel Wednesday morning when he will speak on “Brothers in Black.” Dr. Richards is from Statesville, N. C. He was educated at McCallie School, Davidson College, Princeton, Columbia, and Oxford. He went to Oxford on a Rhodes Scholarship. He served as pastor at Nacoochee, then at Clarksville, Helen, Georgia, and moved to the First Presbyterian Church in Thomasville. He then became president of Columbia Theological Seminary and president of the Trustees of Davidson College. Dr. Richards is also vice president of the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America. He is a member of the Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kappa honorary fraternities. Dr. John H. Marion will conduct a lecture in the church Wednesday night. At chapel, Dean Goddard will speak on “Preparation for Christian Family Living.” The final lecture will be conducted Thursday night by Dr. J. M. McDowell Richards on the subject, “Christian Approach to Racial Relationship.” These men will also meet in the Bible, Philosophy, Sociology, and Psychology classes. They will be available for personal conferences and they will meet with the hall prayer leaders. They will eat at the various boarding houses, and they will have supper with the “Y” cabinet on Monday night. The faculty will entertain them at tea at 4 p.m. Tuesday afternoon in the “Y” lounge.

CALENDAR VESPERS Sunday, April 4—Dr. James T. Cleland, Divinity School of Duke University, Durham. CHAPEL Monday, April 5—W. M. McLean. Tuesday, April 6—Spring Services Speaker—Dr. John H. Marion. Wednesday, April 7—Spring Services Speaker—Dr. J. M. Richards. Thursday, April 8—Spring Services Speaker—Dean J. M. Godard.

Department Of Physics To Open Machine Shop The Physics Department will open a machine shop in the basement of Chambers Building in the very near future. This shop, made possible largely as the result of the generosity of Mr. R. B. Hayes, of Hudson, North Carolina, will be known as the R. B. Hayes Machine Shop, and will be located in the north end of the structure, adjacent to the present physics labs. The donor, a graduate of Davidson, took honors work in physics while a student here, and planned originally to take graduate work in that subject. He was unable to do so, however, and is now a cotton mill executive in Caldwell County. The shop will contain a Logan precision lathe, a metal shaper, a floor drill press, a double wheel grinder, and other items of auxiliary equipment. This machinery will enable the department to give instruction in the techniques of lathe operation, glass blowing, and silver soldering. Much of the equipment used in the various Physics labs can now be made in the shop with the new machinery. When the shop is officially opened a plaque bearing the inscription: “R. B. Hayes Machine Shop” will be placed above the door.

Smaller Colleges Have Advantage Graduates of small colleges have a four times better chance of getting listed in “Who's Who” than graduates of the big ones, the editors announce in the new 1948-49 edition of “Who's Who in America,” its fiftieth anniversary issue, just off the press. The editors base their conclusion on a name-by-name study of all recently listed in “Who's Who” and an analysis of the education of those tapped for it ever since it was first published a half century ago, after applying the necessary statistical weighings. They also find the percentage of those they select who have been to college increases from issue to issue, practically without exception. This percentage was 54.4 in Volume I, published 50 years ago and 88.17 per cent for the new 1948-49 edition. While the editors of “Who's Who” do not themselves make any attempt to relate these challenging figures they come up with in the new edition, to in-the-news questions like proposals for federally financed higher education and discussions of what happens to quality when college graduates are turned out on a mass production basis, they evidently know they are supplying heavy ammunition to those contending that quality in higher education counts exceptionally and that over-production in respect to college degrees may well be possible even though over-production of high school diplomas may not be.

Debaters Are Active During Easter Holidays Herb Miller and John Lyles will represent Davidson at the Southern Speech Association Tournament to be held at Nashville, Tenn., Tuesday and Wednesday, April 6 and 7. The men will debate both sides of the question, Resolved: that a federal world government should be established. This tournament is one of the largest annual southern meets and has reached its place of prominence largely through the efforts of Dr. Wayne C. Eubanks, University of Florida, who is now chairman of the association. Approximately 55 southern colleges are expected to participate. The Forensic Council entered two debate teams in the third annual National Forensic Tournament which was held at Mary Washington College, Fredericksburg, Va., last Saturday. The negative team was composed of John Loftin and Herb Miller, while Dave Hamilton and John Lyles made up the affirmative team. In the space of three short years the National has grown to be perhaps the outstanding tournament in the nation. About 70 colleges and universities were on hand from as far west as Los Angeles and Utah, and as far north as Minnesota and Vermont. Some of the stronger schools, forensically, were the University of Florida, University of South Carolina, Wake Forest, Annapolis, University of Cincinnati, Mars Hill College, and Tulane. Both the Davidson teams debated six times with a seventh non-decision round scheduled. As yet, the results of the 12 debates have not been received, although the U. S. Naval Academy affirmative team won the Grand National Debate title. The negative team clashed with the University of Cincinnati, Carnegie Tech, University of Virginia (twice), Hofstra College (L.I.), and Westminster College (Pa.). A non-decision round was held with the University of Denver. Opponents for the affirmative team were Heidelberg (Ohio), Kent State University (Ohio), Mars Hill College, Mary Washington, University of the South (Sewanee), Annapolis, and a non-decision debate with Grove City College. Although no entries were made in the other events—declamation, original oratory, dramatic reading, poetry reading, informative, after dinner, response to the occasion, and extemporaneous—it is hoped that men will participate in all these at the tournament next spring.

NOTICE Get your tickets to the Red and Black Masquers spring play, “The Importance of Being Earnest,” from Van Covington or from any member of the cast.

Election Information The following men have been nominated for Student Body President. The facts listed below are being printed in the hope that they will be of assistance to the voters. It is strongly suggested that each student make use of his copy of the 1947 annual in order to be sure that he can accurately associate each candidate's face with his record.

STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT GEORGE CHEEK Selma, Ala. Age 20. Class '49. Vice president Student Body; Kappa Sigma; Board of Control; Beaver Club; Football; Basketball; High School Jr. Class Pres.; U. S. Navy. EDWARD HOPPER Meridian, Miss. Age 20. Class '49. Eumanean Lit. Soc.; D Club; Sigma Phi Epsilon; 2ndVice YMCA; Student Council; Sophomore Class; track; junior varsity basketball. High School Pres. Jr. Class. Won “Leadership-Scholarship-Athletic” Pres. award.

BILL IVERSON
Miami, Fla, Class '49. I.D. Club; Delta Phi Delta Psi; Community work; Prayer leader. 

HERR MEZA
Tampa, Fla, Class '49. President; Class Cabinet two years—1st vice president; Campus Society—vice president; Spanish Club; Statewide YMCA chairman. Military record: Marine Corps Pacific.

JOHN MILLER
Charlotte, N.C, Age 19. Class '49. Phi Delta Theta; Band; Student Council; Y Cabinet; Social Action Chm.; Intercollegiate Council; High School Student Council.

CARL PAHL
Memphis, Tenn, Age 22. Class '49. Second vice Pres. Student Body; Pres. Beaver Club; Pres. Scabbard and Blade; former Bn. Comdr. ROTC; varsity football; Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Military record: AAF cadet—U.S.

JACK PAYNE
Davidson, N.C, Age 19. Class '49. Phi Society, Sec.-Treas.; Kappa Alpha Order, Vice-Pres.; YMCA Cabinet World Evangelism.

DAVE SHEPPERSON
El Dorado, Ark. Age 23. Class '49. Phi Society, YMCA Board of Control; Vice Pres. Jr. Class; Court of Control; Beta Theta Pi. High school; Pres. Sr. Class. Military record: Air Corps.

Armory Secured For Both Dances
The Pan Hellenic Council succeeded in signing Ray Eberle and his orchestra for the Armory Auditorium on April 23 and 24. The Friday night dance will be informal and will last from 9:30 until 1:30 a.m. The Saturday night dance will be formal and will last from eight until twelve. There will be four breaks each night. The council has not announced the price yet, but it will be slightly under the Midwinter price.

Before becoming a band leader, singer Ray Eberle was a featured performer with the great Glenn Miller orchestra and was regarded by trade observers as the top band singer. When his band was organized about one year ago, Eberle was still going strong as a solo singer. In 1946, when the band business took a slight dip, the Post Lodges, a famed suburban spot in Marchimont, N.Y., was looking for a new band. As a result of a poll taken among high school and college graduates by the owner, it was discovered that the person they wanted didn’t even have a band. Consequently, the General Artist's Corporation set to work forming a band for Eberle that was booked even before it was organized. Thus, formed by popular demand, Eberle has risen toward the top in phenomenal fashion. Public demand has brought his band back to every spot they've played. The orchestra, besides being featured in Columbia featurettes and Universal Pictures, has been a favorite in repeat engagements at the famous Click in Philadelphia and is the only band to play three times in one year at Frank Dailey’s Meadowbrook in Cedar Grove, New Jersey. Also, he has made numerous guest appearances on local shows, with coast-to-coast hookup and network radio appearances. Ray Eberle’s orchestra is currently rated by music’s leading critics as an outstanding prospect for “Band of the Year” honors. This is his second road tour and he is making a name for himself with the emphasis on sweet music. His youthful, vibrant array of instrumentalists believe in playing for the dancers, and their formula has scored wherever the orchestra has appeared.

Quips 'N Cranks
Due to errors in the last issue of the paper, the names and records of the candidates for editor of this publication are repeated. We regret the inaccuracies and apologize to the persons concerned.

BILL KEITH
Greenwood, S.C. Student activities: editor Quips 'N Cranks, manager football team, assistant circulation manager, Beta Theta Pi.

HENRY KING
Bristol, Tenn. Student activities: Staff—Quips 'N Cranks, Kappa Alpha.

BOB KNIGHT
Tarboro, N.C. Student activities: Staff of Quips 'N Cranks and THE DAVIDSONIAN, Phi Delta Theta.

BILL LONG
Thomasville, N.C. Student activities: Staff Quips 'N Cranks, International Relations Club, Beta Theta Pi. Military record: Army.

AL LONG
Conway, S.C. Student activities: Staff Quips 'N Cranks, Pi Kappa Phi. Military record: Navy (two years).

HECTOR MACKETHAN
Fayetteville, N.C. Student activities: Staff Quips 'N Cranks, Pi Kappa Phi. Military record: Navy (two years).