LAMBETH LEADS NATION'S PASSERS

ALENDA LUX UB) Volume XXXVII DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, The Davidsonian ORTA LIBERTAS OCTOBER 1, 1948

ATE SCORERS

WATER TOWER DEFACED

WILLIAMS, BINGHAM, HUNTER, PAYNE TAPPED BY ODK

The Court of Control last night issued the shocking report that the Davidson water tower, located in the town’s old cemetery, has been subject to brutal defacement at the hands of unknown freshman renegades. Judge Gene Bingham promised immediate action in discovering the persons who painted “State” and the numerals “52” on the tower sometime this week under the cover of darkness, thereby committing the most serious of all Freshman offenses.

“Our investigation thus far has yielded only strong circumstantial evidence,” said Judge Bingham. “We have strong suspicions as to the identity of the culprits, but as yet we are awaiting further investigation before proceeding in retaliation of this act. However, I want the upperclassmen to rest assured that justice will be done, even at the low price of confining the entire freshman class to the campus for two weeks!”

And so the Court of Control shifted into high gear and began preparations for the long year ahead. The water tower incident is not the only one which has incited the wrath of the court. It has been reported that many of the freshmen who were called before the court last Thursday have not carried out their sentences in an appropriate fashion. Judge Bingham (Continued On Page Six)

Politicos Seek Platform Unity

By John Calhoun

In a statement emanating from the Democratic National Committee headquarters in Washington, an official spokesman of the Democratic Party of the U.S. (and of that part of Dixie to be determined this coming November) has spoken words of such consequence that we feel that the Davidson student body should be deeply concerned with them.

The statement had to do with an effort to encourage national unity and enumerated those points for which Governor Dewey stands that the Democratic Party supports. The spokesman said: “It is not reassuring to our friends in other lands to see what appears to be a debate raging over such statements as ‘Our streams should abound with fish.’ Accordingly,” continued the spokesman, “The Democratic National Committee wants to make the record clear that it is in complete agreement with the following statements by Governor Dewey:

‘Everybody that rides in a car or bus uses gasoline and oil,’ Denver, Sept. 21.

‘You know that your future is still ahead of you.’ Phoenix, Sept. 23. (An emotional appeal to students, perhaps!)

‘The miners of our country are vital to our welfare.’ Denver, Sept. 21. (Mr. Dewey is as yet the only candidate to come out with recognition for those citizens not even old enough to vote for him.)

‘We need more homes for our people.’ Des Moines, Sept. 20. (A recent poll shows that Rumpk Vas. is the only candidate to come out with recognition for those citizens not even old enough to vote for him.)

In chapel Thursday, Carl Pahl, student body president, presented the situation of the Student Store and reminded students that the honor system applies to purchases at the store.

Last year the “Stud” lost a surprising amount of money and failed to make expenses because some of the customers forgetfully or intentionally failed to pay for goods that they “bought.” Concerning this, Paul Horne, who is co-manager with Al Duncan, stated in a recent interview, “Last year we lost about 20 percent of the goods we bought by somebody walking out without paying for them.” This happened mostly during the second semester.

It has been learned that unless the practice of failing to pay for goods ends, the “Stud” will have to hire additional clerks to wait on each customer or the store will have to close.

GRUESOME TWOSOME COMES THRU AGAIN

“La, la, la!” “And the stands go wild as the Davidson College Football team swinks down the field. They’re good! They’re nationally known! Why? Could it be because it is the biggest since before the war, studded with such stars as its president Willis Coggins, Zee Holler, those promising freshmen clarinettists Gilliland and Lord, Kirby on bass, Charles on oboe and glockenspiel, Humphreys on horn, Ham calling the turns, piccoloist Carpenter, Bob Wathen making like a propeller up front, and many others. Because it has as its director one of the best men in his field in the south? A combination of all these, but there is an even bigger reason: the love of music and the accomplishment of the members. They are proud of their reputation and their director.

Architect Gillette Speaks In Chapel

Mr. Charles Gillette, prominent landscape architect of Richmond, Virginia, was the guest speaker at the chapel exercises last Wednesday. He was introduced to the members of the student body, faculty, and administration by President John R. Cunningham. Mr. Gillette, class of 1922, is a recent president of the Alumni Association. According to information received from the alumni office, he was elected vice-president by 1201 alumni voting. This is the second year that voting was done by mail. Mr. Gillette received 815 votes for vice-president.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The ballots were sent in June and were counted. Section 3 of Article VII of the Student Body Constitution states, "Every student shall be honor bound to refrain from stealing." This applies as a part of the honor system in the same manner that classroom work applies. Violations of this article, which is a part of the honor system, come under the jurisdiction of the Student Council.

"The thing I'd like to stress above everything but the honor system is that there'll be no I.O.U.'s," said Co-manager Horne. Also, he disclosed that clerks would get a reduction this year on things they buy. Not quite all of the I.O.U.'s from last year have been collected, and students are encouraged to bring their money with them.

The student store does not make a great deal of money, but such profits are indirectly returned to the students through either the athletic association or the YMCA. It is interesting to note that money made by the "Stud" helped in establishing the present YMCA Guest House.

Striving to render service and quality, the store is not marking prices quite as high as they were last year, in spite of the fact that wholesale prices are about the same. This year a dry cooler for canned juices has been installed at a cost of slightly over $200.00. About two years ago the store was enlarged at a cost of approximately $4,000. Also, no rent is charged to pay for light, water, and heat used.

The Philanthropic Literary Society is expecting one of the best years in its history on the Davidson campus. With just six meetings remaining during this year, the Steering Committee met Tuesday night to plan the activities for the remaining year. The officers of the organization are: President, Hugh Farrior; Vice-President, Dave Hamilton; Secretary, Frank Perrin; Treasurer, Bill Hamilton. These were elected near the end of last year's session.

Among the plans discussed was the possibility of a Student-Faculty debate. It was thought that a debate of this nature would be very beneficial to all. President Hugh Farrior stated that this debate was not definite, but hoped that it could be worked up. It would be open to the public and it was hoped that it would be met with much enthusiasm.

Another project, which is hoped to be a big success, is the sponsoring of a creative short story contest. They feel that many Davidson students have great writing ability and that this is an excellent opportunity to use that ability. At least one of the six remaining meetings will be devoted to the presentation of the winning story.

Also planned for this fall is a variety show. Complete plans for the show have not been finalized, but it is expected to be a major event.

The officers of the band and Mr. Pfohl all believe that the present band will be the best to hit the campus in many years and they have lined up a schedule in accordance with their expectations. They came to the game this past Saturday night prepared with an extensive exhibition. The highlights of this spectacle were a teepee, complete with "Big Chief" Walker giving an impersonation of a council fire in the doorway, and a letter "D" in honor of the Alma Mater.

Although at the Davidson-Elon game there was no half-time show because of the scheduled Barium Springs Midgets game which was cancelled because of polio, there was a short drill before the game and numerous marches were played while the game was in progress.

The Scruggs and Upchurch regime, however, made its greatest reformation when they announced that the whole student body would join with the Freshmen in yelling at the bonfire before the William and Mary game last Friday night. The upperclassmen turned out not to jeer the Freshmen, but to help cheer the team. The spirit of the cheering has noticeably improved now that the freshmen realize that it is a privilege, not a task, to cheer their team on to victory.

There is only one way we can show the cheerleaders how they stand with us, and that is to yell harder than ever before for the rest of the season. Let's go fellows! We have the best cheerleaders in the South. Let's let them know it.

In order to give full recognition to the two inventors of the airplane, the United Nations has arranged to honor the memory of both Wilbur and Orville Wright in the name of the carrier USS Wright.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation while correcting OCR errors.