SEE ALENDA EDITORIAL PAGE

LUX

be Dabidsonian

ALENDA LUX UB) ORTA LIBERTAS

Volume XXXVI DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, FEB. 13, 1948 NUMBER 16

Concert Is Given By Eileen Farrell

On Monday evening, February 9, a large group of the student body heard the third concert of Davidson College Artists
Series, given by Eileen Farrell in Chambers Auditorium. Miss Farrell is one of the most famous sopranos of the musical
world today and has been very highly acclaimed by many of the critics. Miss Farrell's program varied, beginning with several
of the classics and ending with several lighter numbers. She was called back for several encores by a delighted audience.

Included in her concert were Care Selve by Handel, Ständchen and several others by Brahms, Aria, Pace, Pace Mio Dio,
from “La Forza del Destino” by Verdi; Romance by Debussy; Chere Nuit by Bachelet; Down by the Sally Gardens, arranged
by Hughes; If Thou But Sing to Me by Shaw; Through the Years by Youmans and many other favorites.

Miss Farrell was born into a musical family, her father and mother being headliners of the vaudeville circuit known as
the singing “O'Farrells.” She was taught music all through her younger days and in Woonsocket, Rhode Island, where her family
finally settled, she was the star of both their church and school activities. She was taught to love music and
steadily trained her soprano voice. After several years of study, she gave her first audition in 1942 and was a
smashing success. Since her initial success, she has traveled only the upward path to greater successes and is now acclaimed
over the nation. For the past few years, she has been one of the leading sopranos in radio, singing both
popular and classical songs. But her work in radio is only a part of her career. She has delighted audiences
in many of the leading theaters of America with her golden-toned soprano voice and the astounding range of her repertoire.
This music season finds her making her first extended concert tour, the American people wishing to see Miss Farrell as
well as hear her. She hopes soon to take opera in stride and her singing of the great arias is
an indication that the operatic stage will be her next conquest.

Mrs. Eileen Farrell Reagan is a happy “young married” as well as a famous singer. Her only domestic difficulty is
that she doesn’t have enough time to spend with Robert Reagan, Jr., who is nine months old. With all the
incumbencies of a singer, Miss Farrell is determined to take care of Robert, Jr., herself, rather than have a nurse
to do it, although she has a personal maid who takes care of him when she is away. During her
six years of radio, Eileen Farrell has brought musical pleasure to hundreds of thousands from before a microphone. In addition
to her own program, currently heard over CBS from 11:30 to midnight (EST), every Wednesday, she has starred four successive
summers on the Prudential Family Hour and has been a guest artist on many other programs.

E.U. ELECTS OFFICERS

At a business meeting of the Eumanean Literary Society on Monday, February 9, officers were elected to serve for the
second semester. John Thatcher of the senior class was chosen as president. Thatcher, Pan Hellenic representative for Sigma Phi Epsilon,
is from Miami, Florida. In a close ballot, Dave Gambrell of the junior class will serve as vice president, with
Junior Ed Hopper filling the secretary’s position. Andy Kirkpatrick, also of the junior class, was elected treasurer. The newly elected
officers will take their positions at the next regular meeting of the society, with other officers being appointed.

YOU CAN HELP HIM... BY DOING THIS ESSAY CONTEST

For the second year, the Tamiment Social and Economic Institute is sponsoring an essay contest on a matter of current
interest. The title for the essay will be “An American Program for World Peace in the Present Crisis.” Those interested
in participating in the contest should observe the following rules: All undergraduate college students may submit one essay; the essay
should be typed, double-spaced, on one side of the sheet; contestants should mail the manuscript to Tamiment Institute Contest, 7
East 15th St., New York, 3, N.Y. The essay, of about five to six thousand words, must be in by
April 23, 1948. First prize, $1,000; second prize, $500; two third prizes, $250; ten fourth prizes, $100 cash. For detailed
information consult the notice on the bulletin board.

Commencement Date Change Announced

It was announced Monday in chapel by Professor Beaty of the Language Department, that a change in the schedule of
this semester had been made by the faculty. The original college calendar listed May 31 as the commencement date. The
new date is May 22 through May 24. Exams for the semester are from May 13 through May 21. These
dates are approximately one week earlier than those noted in the college catalogue. Spring recess has not changed. It will
be from 12:50 p.m., March 25 to 8:25 a.m., March 30. The revision of the schedule is due to the
fact that the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church meets at such a time that its schedule would conflict with
the original commencement program. Dr. Cunningham is the moderator of the Assembly and could be absent from neither event. Several
members of the faculty and Board of Trustees must also attend the Assembly and graduation. It would therefore be impossible
to allow the college calendar to remain as it was originally planned. This change of schedule should be received favorably
by the student body, because the change causes the term to end about a week early.

BULLETIN

Two hundred Southern Conference tournament tickets were placed on sale at the “New” gym on Thursday, February 10th. The tourney,
which will be held on March 4, 5, and 6, will determine the conference cage champion. Set tickets are priced
at $9.00 each. Individual game tickets will not be sold. As yet the appearance of the Wildcats in the Durham
fracas is not assured. However, last night’s win over Clemson gave the locals seven wins in twelve family starts, and
if the present pace is maintained against the remaining opponents, The Citadel (2), Furman, N.C. State and Carolina, the Davidson
cagers should be among the top eight in the conference at that time.

Y.M.C.A. Sponsors New Bulletin Board

Students Hope It Was Bad Dream

It was an exceptionally good thing that the basketball team won Friday night. Since then everything else seems to have
been lost: heads, money, women, clothes, ethics; generally, the weekend. Yet rather than bewail it, let us just recount the
events for those lucky dogs that stayed at school and studied.

First thing on the calendar was the basketball game. A new wrinkle was added when, after an hour of dead
silence, some members of the student body finally gave over to depressed whispers with three minutes to go and the
score tied. It’s O.K., that says you have to cheer for the team. They won without support. After this, there
was a “dance” held in a barn which had recently been shoveled out but not fumigated. Charlie Patterson played “music.”
Some people thought the dance was “slow.” A guy danced with one girl so long that they're now happily married
and have two lovely children. The lights were so dim that many of the dancers were slightly confused. This situation
is being investigated by the 21 Club. Because of the basketball game, the dance lasted longer than usual and some
were still “going strong” at 6 a.m. Between the dances, breakfasts, banquets, and several less official festivities (classes were rumored
to have been held) which made most of the boys and all of the girls glad to get back to
the dance Saturday night.

The “new look” was at its height that night and it aroused the interest of the cloistered students, who are
not used to such things. Questions were raised such as “What would hold it on if the whole bone broke?”
“How immodest?” or “How much lower than low is too low?” Two students didn’t even bother to ask, they just
cut. During intermission, there was light snow and several were known to have suffered from exposure. For this reason and
attempts at it, most people didn't come back after seeing the figure.

Sunday was by all rights and of necessity a day of rest. It was a blessed relief to relax after
the girls had been put safely on their way home. Everyone enjoyed themselves. As one guy put it, “I got
a kick out of the dance, but I couldn't kick myself hard enough.”

Would you like to take a trip? You would? Oh, I like nothing better, but it’s just too much trouble.
You see, the line to bumming and stand, in an hour with your thumb in the air while a dozen
motorists zoom by, pretending you're the guy with the checkered flag at Indianapolis. Well, you may not know it, but
your problem is solved. When you walk in the front door of Chambers some morning (second door from the left)
just keep walking. If you don't stop in time you'll walk into a bulletin board. On this bulletin board will
be five or six little slips of paper. Look ‘em over nine times out of ten you'll find one which
states that somebody has room in his car for you and that he’s going your way. These slips and this
service to the student body are sponsored by the Davidson Y.M.C.A. The “Y” has placed those slips there with the
intention and the hope that they will be used by any student needing transportation or having room for someone. This
plan will save announcement time in chapel. Much more important than that, however, is the fact that by this means
many students will be able to make weekend trips much more easily and conveniently than would otherwise be possible. The
“Y” urges particularly men who have cars and do not have a full load to give the car-less students an
opportunity to share the ride with them. On the bulletin board are two kinds of slips. One kind is for
men who have a ride to offer and the other for men who need a ride. If every student will,
whenever he is planning a trip, offer somebody a seat in his car, or ask for one, each of us
will look forward to and enjoy the weekends even more than at present!this going requires the cooperation of everybody. Let's
keep that board in mind. If you're a car owner, remember that there are a large number of students who
aren't and need a ride. If you don’t have a car, remember to check the board—plenty of men do have
cars, and there'll probably be a ride waiting for you!

PHI MU CHOOSES SIX

At the regular bi-monthly meeting of the Gamma Kappa chapter of Phi Mu Alpha Tuesday, February 10, seven students who
had met the standards set up by the National Committee were accepted into the fraternity as brothers. These men all
had shown by their activities on the campus that they represented the ideals of interest in all things musical, the
advance of artistry and position, and willingness to participate in the advancement of music on the Davidson campus in particular.
New brothers accepted into Sinfonia Davidson are (Continued On Page Four).

CALENDAR

CHAPEL
Monday, February 16—Prof. Frontis Johnston.
Tuesday, February 17—Prof. C. R. Eberhardt.
Wednesday, February 18—Dr. C. R. Wilcox, Rome, Ga.
Thursday, February 19—Prof. E. J. Erwin.
Friday, February 20—YMCA.

VESPERS
Sunday, February 15—Dr. J. McDowell Richards, President Columbia Theological Seminary, Decatur, Georgia.

Labor Principles Discussed At ‘Y’

“Fair Employment in the Light of Christian Principles,” was the topic of the Intercollegiate Council for Religion in Life which
met Saturday, Feb. 14, in the Davidson YMCA. Members of the council from Johnson C. Smith University, Queens College, and
Davidson convened with a worship service led by a student from Smith. The discussion was then presented in two aspects:
Biblical teachings on employment, and our nation’s laws concerning employment. An open discussion followed as to how current religious convictions
apply in this matter. The council sought to address a topic which is of extreme interest and concern. After the
meeting, the council enjoyed light refreshments in the “Y” lounge.

Trustees To Meet Here Wednesday

Trustees of Davidson College will meet on Wednesday morning, February 18, at 10 o'clock. This gathering, a regularly scheduled trustee
meeting, will be preceded by a session of the Executive Committee on Tuesday, February 17th. At the present time, no
information had been released as to the topics which will be discussed by the trustees. However, in addition to the
more perplexing problems encountered in the day-to-day operation of the college, it has been rumored that the group will make
a study of the prospects for building the proposed new church and the new gymnasium in the near future, and
will seek to form a concrete athletic policy for Davidson College. Any other matters referred to the trustees by the
Executive Committee will also be disposed of at that time. At least one of the trustees, Dr. C. R. Wilcox,
headmaster of Darlington School in Rome, Georgia, and the father of C. R. Wilcox, Jr., of the present junior class,
will address the student body.

Quality In Books Is Library Policy

Although the student body of Davidson College is accustomed to grumble because of the inadequacies of the college plant, because
of the lack of modern dormitories, a new church, and most of all, a new gymnasium, it should not fail
to be aware of the great strides which have been taken in recent years to improve the equipment of the
college. One of the greatest of these strides is the Hugh A. and Jane Parks Grey Memorial Library. Dedicated on
May 1, 1942, this gift of Captain James Parks Grey contains approximately 50,000 volumes, has a professional staff of four,
and employs in addition about twenty student assistants. The staff is headed by Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson, who has a
professorship of history as well as the directorship of the library. Dr. Davidson did his undergraduate work at Davidson, earned
an M.A. in L.S. from the University of Chicago, and a Ph.D. from Harvard. His efficiency, amiability, and unique chapel
talks have endeared him to the student body. The other members of the staff are: Mrs. E. J. Erwin (B.S.
in L.S., Emory University Library School), order and reference librarian, wife of Professor E. J. Erwin of the English Department.
Miss Julia Pasmore (A.B., Woman’s College, U.N.C., B.S. in L.S., Drexel Institute), circulation and reference librarian, possessor of the longest
tenure of service on the staff. Miss Della Shore (B.S., Guilford College, B.S. in L.S., U.N.C. Library School), cataloger, who
served as an Army librarian in the Caribbean area during the war. The policy of the library, under the direction
of Dr. Davidson, is quality rather than quantity in the procurement of books. Fine money, however, is used to purchase
those volumes which are thought to have an especial appeal for the students. The library offers to them a carefully
selected group of books, the comfort of a modern, adequate building, and the freedom of open stacks. That it is
fulfilling well its part in the life of the college is shown by the following statement from Dr. Davidson: “It
is interesting to note that circulation figures for 1946-47 increased 148 percent, whereas the student body increase was only 88
percent. The conclusion is inescapable that Davidson men are better students than they were before the war. It is to
be hoped that a similar increase can be shown by June of this year.”

PHI PRESENTS CAESAR

At the meeting of the Phi Society Monday night, February 2, famous speeches from Shakespeare's play Julius Caesar were read
by members of the society. Chosen for presentation was the scene in front of the Senate house in Rome just
after the murder of Caesar. The main parts in the scene are Brutus’ speech to the crowd, in which he
gives his reasons for the death of Caesar, and Antony's reply, in which he defends Caesar. Jo Pence, as Brutus,
and Bill Richard, as Antony, gave the first speeches. Mic Keithan then reread Brutus’ speech, and Charles Elyea gave Antony’s
famous reply, “Friends, Romans, Countrymen...” Don Co. Wee, taking the part of Brutus, gave the final speech. Then a film,
adapted from the play Julius Caesar, was shown, reenacting the scenes and speeches just presented. The movie was very well
made, with excellent direction, photography, and acting.

Sixteen Graduate After First Term

Sixteen men graduated and slipped from our midst at the end of the first semester. All of these men except
one served with the armed services and therefore had interrupted college education. Most of the men were of the class
of '44 and were delayed one or two years. Here is a little bit about the graduates: Joseph M. Bruner,
Jr., of Cleveland, N. C., first entered school in '41 and went into the Army in February '43 during his
junior year. He served for ten months in the China-India-Burma area. In '47 he reentered school and completed his senior
year last semester. Donald G. Bryant of Charlotte, N. C., was originally of the class of '45. He served in
Alaska with the Cold Weather Testing Detachment for eight months. In February of '46 he reentered school. While here he
was a member of the Beaver Club, golf team, Sigma Delta Pi, and Student Council. George C. Council of Baltimore,
Md., became a naval aviation radio technician during his hitch in the Navy. He was originally of the class of
'44 and was freshman wrestling coach in '42. George N. Ennett of Montreat, N. C., and a member of the
Kappa Sigma social fraternity, served with the Army for two years. He received the Bronze Star Medal while in the
service. He was treasurer of the Pan-Hellenic Council and a member of the Court of Control for '47. Joe W.
Flora, Jr., of Moyock, N. C., was a member of V-12 while in the Navy. He became an ensign before
his discharge in July of '44. Charles M. Gibbs, Jr., of Dunn, N. C., was originally of the class of
'45. During his service, he was with the Naval Personnel attached to the Marine Corps. Edward Glavich of Waynesville, N.
C., was of the original class of '44. He served with the Army. Herbert G. Harwood of San Antonio, Texas,
was a transfer student from Trinity. He was a member of the I.R.C. and the wrestling team of '47. In
'45 he was a member of the Ministerial Club. Carlisle C. Moore, Jr., of Rock Hill, S. C., and a
member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, was originally of the class of '45. He served two years with
the Army. In '47 he was a member of the wrestling team. Richard A. Oglesby of Atlanta, Georgia, and a
member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, was of the original class of '45. He became a member of
Sigma Upsilon in '47. Fitzhugh T. Read of Warrenton, N. C., was a technical sergeant in the Army Air Force.
He was a transfer student from Presbyterian Junior College. He was a member of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity
and Court of Control of '48. James Y. Scruggs, Jr., of Rock Hill, S. C., was originally of the class
of '44. He served with the Army and reentered school in '46. He was a member of the Sigma Phi
Epsilon social fraternity. William T. Smith of Greer, S. C., and a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity,
was originally of the class of '47. He served with the Army for one and a half years. He was
a member of the Eumanean Literary Society, Spanish Club, and the DAVIDSONIAN staff. He was co-editor of the “Quips and
Cranks” and drum major for the ROTC band. Doug. W. Swink of Richmond, Va., and a member of the Kappa
Sigma social fraternity, served with the Army. He was a member of the Honorary Fraternity Council in '47, Sigma Upsilon,
Eumanean Literary Society, and the Red and Black Masquers. He was editor of the “Scripts ’n Pranks” in '47 and
vice-president of Le Cercle Francais in '46. Charles W. Upchurch, Jr., of Charlotte was originally of the class of '44.
He was a lieutenant in the Army during the war. Sumner M. Williams of Greenville, S. C., was originally of
the class of '45. He served in the Army as a lieutenant.
