The cry is up to “Beat State in '48,” and that’s just what will happen in Riddick Stadium Saturday night.
We say that and mean it. In the past few years, the chant of “Beat State” has gone around but
when it didn't happen few people were surprised. All seemed satisfied when the score was held down and boasted of
the Davidson first team that could hold their own with any eleven. Last year’s 14-0 setback was passed off as
the result of a couple of bad breaks for the Wildcats. The year before it was the lack of reserves
that accounted for the second half collapse of the Red and Black defenders. But this year there'll be no excuses
and no defeat. State plays the vaunted Tar Heels of U.N.C. the week after the Davidson melee, and will be
pointing for revenge for last year's 41-6 thumping. The Wolfpack came out of last week's scrap with Clemson on the
short end of a 6-0 score, though they out-did the Palmetto lads in statistics, and bogged down at the goal.
But the biggest blow suffered by the “Cow College” lads was the loss of flashy tailback Gwyn Fletcher. Fletcher, a
Wildcat in 1941, received a broken nose early in the Clemson game and was out the rest of the battle.
This probably won't keep him out of this week’s game, but it should hold him to limited service. The locals
will be aided by the return of blocking back Charlie Rimer and end Bill Johnson. Bill Iverson and J. D.
Ashmore have filled in well at the blocking spot and Rimer’s return will be felt. Johnson will be welcomed at
end where only Buddy Cheek, Hal Mapes, Mike Williams and Mott Price have been. The Pack will be installed as
favorites by the experts, but we can’t go along with them. We look for the score to be 12-7 in
favor of Jamerson’s men. We'll go farther in repeating last week’s statement that Davidson has suffered its first and only
defeat of the season. From now on there'll be Wildcat victories.

Our apologies are extended to Gene Bingham and his staff of intramural referees for the assertions which we made last
week which were interpreted in a manner other than that intended. Our purpose was to beseech the arbiters to have
a thorough knowledge of the rules. We had no intention of belittling the work of these boys who give of
their time to help in the school’s athletic program. These boys receive a salary, if you'd call it that, of
forty cents per game. No one can get rich on that, and we know that none of these boys are
out there simply to make money. Because of the views expressed in this column it was felt that this work
was not appreciated by the student body. We hope to squelch that idea and make a plea to any member
of the student body to offer his time. Bingham has a thankless job of providing officials for all intra-frat contests
and he receives no compensation for it other than the satisfaction that goes with service. He is particularly interested in
securing those boys who have a knowledge of football from playing. Those ineligible because of varsity or Jayvee experience are
urged to work. But, as we pointed out last week, the fault does not always arise from any deficiency of
the officials. We find that the players themselves do not know the rules, and, when called on some infraction, attack
the referee for showing partiality or the like. In hope of helping this situation we have printed elsewhere on this
page a set of the rules governing touch football play. We ask all to acquaint themselves with them and charge
the sports managers or team captains with seeing that their players do know the rules. Also we would remind all
that when any questioning of an official’s decision is to be made, it is to be made only by the
playing captain and not by accusing voices of the whole team. The referee has a perfect right to extract anyone
from the game or sidelines who is in any way obstructing his handling of the game.

READ THE DAVIDSONIAN ADVERTISEMENTS

THACKER’S, INC.
Private Dining Rooms for Parties and Banquets
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
221 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 25490

AL'S GRILL
Grade “A” Restaurant
WHERE YOUR PATRONAGE IS ALWAYS WELCOME!
WESTERN STEAKS — FRIED CHICKEN!
Phone 69
A. J. Bistony, Prop.
Mooresville, N. C.

W. S. HENDERSON
Jeweler
EXPERT WATCH-REPAIRING — CRYSTALS FITTED
Main St. Davidson

Wildcat Sports

WE'LL TAKE 'EM

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1948 DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS PAGE THREE

Jayvees Down Campbell

RULES

Size of Field — The dimensions of the touch football field are: Maximum 360x160 feet, minimum 240x120 feet. These dimensions
include the end zones.

Field Markings — The field shall be zoned into strips of 18 yards each, all of which are parallel to
the goal line.

Number of Players — Nine players may constitute a team. On offense five players must be on the line of
scrimmage and four players at least one yard behind the line.

Equipment of Players — Players are prohibited from wearing the following: baseball, track or metal cleated shoes, and special protective
devices such as shoulder pads, helmets, etc.

Substitutions — Unlimited substitutions will be permitted.

Length of Game — Two periods of 20 minutes each will constitute a game.

Time-Outs — Three time-outs will be permitted each half.

Yardage and Downs — When the ball is first down in a zone, the team in possession of it is
allowed four downs in which to move it.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Rimer patel Se tal from that point into the next zone, score. In the third quarter the Forward Pass—A forward
pass may be made from any point behind the line of scrimmage. Put Rimer has the most experience, they once
again started a drive with Adams and Ashman carrying the brunt of the attack. Adams climaxed the drive by going
over on a line-buck from six yards out. Davidson's third and final touchdown came in the fourth quarter. After Campbell
had scored to make it 27-12, Ashman took the kickoff on his own five-yard line and behind excellent blocking, ran
all the way.

Eligible Forward Pass Receivers—Any member of either team is an eligible forward pass receiver if he is not out of
bounds when the pass is thrown. If a player is touched by an opponent with both of his hands simultaneously,
the ball shall be declared dead at the point where the touch occurred. No part of the toucher's body, except
his feet, shall be in contact with the ground throughout the touch.

Blocking—Blocking shall be permitted only if no part of the blocker's body, except his feet, shall be in contact with
the ground.

Use of Hands—Defensive players are restricted in the use of their hands to the shoulders and body of offensive blockers.

Penalties—Unnecessary roughness, including leaving of the feet by the "toucher." Penalty 15 yards. Parts of the body other than the
feet in contact with the ground in blocking in open. Penalty 15 yards. Illegal use of the hands by defensive
players. Penalty 15 yards.

Other Rules—In other respects, touching a player, including leaving of the feet by the "toucher." Penalty 15 yards. Scoring—If the
score is tied, the team having the most first downs shall be declared the winner.

By CHERRY STRIBLING

The outcome might have been different if Davidson had been able to substitute more freely, but the entire team deserves
due praise for playing a hard-fought game.

Successful coaching record at Granby High in Norfolk, he not only brought with him such grid stars as Carl Eborn,
Easy Rhodes, Jud Chandler, and many others but he proved to have the goods in regulation football. In the Babes'
first game, they won on their 15-yard line.

Johnny proved to have the goods in regulation football. In the Babes' first game, they won on their 15-yard line.
Johnny has starred for the 'Cats for two years now and has played in the first two games of the
season.

The second week of interfrat ball came to a close as several teams dropped from the undefeated ranks. Friday saw
the KA's take a hard-fought, 12-6 game from the Dikas under good quarterbacking by Bill Birds, as Phil Cox gathered
in some pretty tosses for the losers. Also on Friday, Sam Robinson led the Campus Club to a 6-0 victory
over the Dikas.

CAMEL MILDNESS! In a recent test, hundreds of men and women all across the country... Of all ages and occupations...
were closely observed as they smoked Camels—and only Camels—for 30 consecutive days. And they smoked on the average of one
to two packages of Camels a day. But only Camels! Prove it yourself. In your 'T-Zone'—T for Taste and T
for Throat. Smoke Camels for 30 days. Let YOUR OWN TASTE tell you about the full, rich flavor of Camel's
choice tobaccos. Let YOUR OWN THROAT tell you the story of Camel's cool mildness. Yes, prove for yourself that there’s
no throat irritation due to smoking Camels!

Every week throughout this dramatic 30-day test, their throats were carefully examined by noted specialists—a total of 2470 exacting examinations.
And among all these smokers, these famous throat specialists found not one single case of throat irritation due to smoking
Camels!

NO THROAT IRRITATION DUE TO SMOKING CAMELS!

Make the Camel 30-Day Test and see for yourself. Smoke Camels for 30 consecutive days. Smoke only Camels. If, at
any time during these 30 days, you are not convinced that Camels are the mildest cigarette you have ever smoked,
return the package with the unused Camels and we will refund your full purchase price, plus postage. This offer is
good for 90 days from this date. (Signed) R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, NORTH CAROLINA

According to a Nationwide survey: MORE DOCTORS SMOKE CAMELS than any other cigarette. Doctors smoke for pleasure, too! And when
three leading independent research organizations asked 113,597 doctors what cigarette they smoked, the brand named most was Camel!
