The White Phantom jinx held over the Wildcats for 60 more exciting minutes Tuesday night, though the Cats came close
to smashing it in the last few minutes of a thrilling final quarter. For the first time in three years,
they had a famous "Phook" Dillon completely bottled up to the delight of Wildcat fans, who gave the one-time All-American
a hard time. However, it was clear from the start that it was another of those off nights for the
Cats. Cheek, who had been under the weather for several days, and his scoring twin, Mike Williams, were pretty well
covered by the burly Phants, and the shooting was badly off, even when they got an opening. To complicate matters,
Buddy was called for three fouls in the opening minutes and had to take it easy to keep from fouling
out. He played most of the last half with four fouls hanging over him. The game would have been dull
with the Davidsonians off color, but managing to keep within five points of Paxton and crew during the first half.
However, the Phants came bounding out in the early part of the third period to gain a fifteen-point lead sparked
by fast breaks and razzle-dazzle that had the Cat defense at their wits' end for a while. However, the Cats
bounced back in a nerve-wracking comeback, drawing cheers from the student section and nearly turning the tables. With three minutes
left, Carolina tried to freeze the ball, but time and again Cheek and his boys stole the ball amid lusty
cheers, only for it to be stolen back. However, it was one of the finest comebacks, or near comebacks, we
have seen in any Wildcat sports event as the Cats came from way behind and scared the pants off the
longjohns. With Buddy and Al both pretty well bottled up and out of the scoring, B.B. Ashmore took over scoring
honors once more by sinking five out of eleven shots at the basket and adding two points from the foul
line. B.B., always cool under fire, likes to make his big scoring sprees against the big boys. Jake doesn’t seem
to have any nerves, and when they double up on his taller mates, he takes the opportunity to make them
regret neglecting him. The student turnout was a sorry deal in games at the Armory, even though it improved with
the new glass backboards. However, with Wart Robinson and his organized noise-making cheering was a big factor on the Cat
counter. We take our hats off to that portion of the student body that continually braved the discomforts of crowded
bleachers, poor visibility, and rainy hitchhiking to spur the boys on. Just maybe, the students will get better seating next
year, which is just another reason for speeding up production of the new gym.

JUNG'S WINGS CLIPPED
The Red and Black wrestling crew felt a heavy loss in the Washington and Lee meet when 121-pounder Jimmy Jung,
every ounce a fighter, suffered a shoulder separation that will keep him out of the remaining two meets and the
conference finals. Coach Charlie Parker had Jung spotted to win the conference championship in his 121-pound class week after next
in Raleigh. Jung has not been defeated this year by conference foes until this last unfortunate fray. His only dangerous
opponent would have been VMI's 121-pounder who beat him out for family honors in the finals last year. We meet
VMI here Saturday but Jung will be confined to the bench for the first time since he reorganized the wrestling
squad during his freshman year. Jung was hurt at the end of the first period in which he had scored
four points over his opponent. With two periods left to go and only one arm left to go on, the
scrappy Kannapolis lad continued to fight, though he could use but one arm, and lost by the bare margin of
a point.

JAYVEES END SEASON
This week also sees the end of the Jayvee basketball season with a game tomorrow against Shelby Business College. Breaking
about even in their win-lose column, the Kittens brought some good material to be used in the future Red and
Black machine. We will hear more from Griffith, Haller, Sifford, and others, not to mention Roddey, Hengeveld, Hopper, and the
other semi-varsity players.

INTRAMURAL TRACK MINUS COBB
With basketball and wrestling over this week, and varsity basketball winding up with the tournament in Durham next week, track
and baseball will commence to occupy the athlete's time. Track is already under way, and baseball will start as soon
as the weather clears up some. Coach Whittle is running the inter-fraternity track meet early next week, the purpose of
which is to find material for competition in the indoor meet up at Carolina, and to wear out the fraternity
men. It's to be held a little earlier than usual this year, and as usual, no former lettermen are eligible
to compete. Since this eliminates "Flash" Cobb who scored more points for the Phi Delts last year than any other
fraternity scored as a whole, the points should be equally divided among the winning lodges. Next on the intramural docket
will be volleyball, then softball later on in the spring.

"The chief wants to know what you done with them chickens, Pino."

Wildcat Sports
TRACK, BASEBALL COMING UP!
Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN, Friday, February 29, 1948

Jung Injured As Matmen Lose Meet
The Davidson 'Cat matmen ring down another with the big match with VMI this Saturday. It will be the first
appearance of the Keydets since 1942, when they overwhelmed the Wildcats. Last season the grapplers of Davidson were handed a
30-0 whitewashing by these same Virginians, and the 'Cats have the time-old motive of revenge all cooked up for the
"Flying Squadron."

'Cats Lose Again
Last Saturday Davidson met the undefeated Washington and Lee matmen and were defeated by the score of 22-6. The Generals
have not been defeated in play on the Southern Conference mat as yet, and needed this match to assure top-notch
standings and immeasurably boost them in the eyes of the observers. The Davidson matmen were in for a tough time
from the outset. Cal Guest, W&L's husky 121-pounder, eked out a narrow decision over "Dragon" Jung, which could have well
gone either way. It looked quite bad for the Cat matmen at this point, for Jung had been counted on
for at least 3 points.

Evans, Price Win
The Davidson total of six points was accumulated by the efforts of two old 'Cat standbys, Mott Price and Stubby
Evans. Mott fought a corker of a duel with Bill Metzel, one of the Generals' top-notch performers. Only after garnering
five points in the last minute was Price able to decision his man. Evans was likewise outstanding in his match
with Slaughter. The tilt was even-steven for a while, until Evans put on a burst of speed and succeeded in
gaining the decision over his 155-pound opponent.

Alexander Fights Well
In the feature match, the Generals' Ken Lindell, a sophomore from Merrick, New York, moved up from the 165-pound class
to hand Bill Alexander a close defeat. After a rousing duel, Lindell emerged victorious on the basis of riding time
advantage. The other 'Cat performers, Husted, Fesperman, Barnard, and McLean went down to defeat at the hands of the more
experienced matmen from Lexington. The 'Cats have now lost all their Southern Conference games to State, Duke, Carolina, and W&L,
with only the VMI tussle remaining on tap. However, it can be said that the matmen have been plagued all
season long with hard breaks, especially in injuries to key players. Bill Moore, Ernie Stricklin, Carlisle Charles, and Bill Fesperman
are only a few of the grapplers who have suffered untimely injuries. Despite this handicap, the matmen have performed remarkably
well on every occasion, and if and when these boys return, better things are expected for the conference championships in
March.

The summary:
121-pound—Cal Guest decisioned Jim Jung.
128-pounds—Barry Newberry (W&L) decisioned Paul Husted.
136-pounds—Joe Sconce (W&L) decisioned Bill Fesperman.
145-pound—Ken Finley (W&L) pinned Floyd McLean in 1:11.
155-pound—John Evans (D) de- (Continued on Page Five)

Fast action from the Davidson-Carolina game Tuesday night in Charlotte in which Carolina’s Phants proved to be too much for
an off Cat squad. Davidson men are (left to right): Iverson, taking it easy, Bob Maner, and Buddy Cheek about
to pounce. Phantoms shown are Nemo Nearman and Bob Paxton with his back to the camera.

INTERFRAT SCORES
Won Lost Pct.
Ind. No. 2 8 1 .889
Betas 7 1 .875889 Kappa Sigs 6 1 .857
Phi Kappa Phi 5 4 .555
Phi Delts 5 4 .555
Phi Gams 4 4 .500
SAE 4 5 .444
KAS 3 5 .375
Ind. No. 1 2 7 .222
Pikas 1 8 .000

With only two rounds remaining in the Interfraternity Basketball Tournament, the two leading teams, Betas and Independent No. 2, are
staging last-minute drives in an effort to break their deadlock for first place. Six games were reeled off during the
week of Feb. 16-20 in Round 8 of the tournament. The Sigma Chis took a game from Independent No. 1;
SAE beat the Pikas; Phi Gams took the Pi Kapps; Kappa Sigs dropped the SPEs; Phi Delts lost to Independent
No. 2, and the Betas outclassed the KAS.

Last week Round 9 was run off with a few games yet to be played. So far this round, Independent
No. 1 beat the SAEs; the Phi Gams won from the Phi Chi; the SPEs stopped the Sigma Pikas; Independent
No. 2 team defeated Pi Kappa Phi, and the Betas licked the Phi Delts.

SPRING PRACTICE GETTING RESULTS, JAMERSON REPORTS

In spite of reviews and bad weather, Coach Charlie Jamerson reports very satisfactory results from the first week of spring
football practice. The team has worked on fundamentals throughout the week with stress on blocking and deception in running, and
the boys have been hitting the machines with all they've got. Credit is due Coach Redding for the fine improvement
that has been shown in the line.

Good Scrimmage Saturday

Coach Jamerson seemed well pleased with the first scrimmage which was held Saturday afternoon. New plays were employed and several
additions were made to the varsity. Bob Kestor looked unusually good at end and Jim Donnell, who played Jayvee ball
last year, has been able to put on some weight since then and is doing fine as a guard. Pete
Brown, who hails from Concord and was prevented from playing last year because of an operation, is in there at
end and doing a mighty fine job. Freshman Hoopy Davis and Fred Preyer looked good in the line, and Jimmy
Rogers is showing steady improvement as a blocking back. Curtis Harper, Teddy Keisler, and Dick Russell, who played for (Continued
on Page Five)

INTRODUCIN' WHIT COBB

Going into the home stretch in the basketball season, Buddy Cheek is leading Cat scorers with 316 points. He's not
especially tall and he sho’ ain't dark, and to quote his roommate, the renowned tennis player, Rod Palmer, “he's ugly
as hell!” But they don’t call him “Sparky” Cobb for nothing. Whit is the freshman sensation of last year’s five,
having scored an even 160 points for the season with 14 points as his first big night against Furman. He
has shown definite improvement in steadiness and in long shot ability, the long set shot and a recently displayed left
hook shot being the specialties that have added 243 points to his credit this year. Although he stands only six
feet, he gets way up on the jumps for rebounds and looks as if he will put last year’s guard
Ed White to shame in the future.

Sparky comes from Durham. He was one of the few four-letter men who ever entered the hallowed walls of Durham
High. He also played three years of basketball, making all-state guard his senior year. He continued his heroic deeds with
three years of starring in the 220 and broad jump with the cindermen and three years on the tennis team.
He was offered scholarships to Duke, Cornell, and William and Mary. As a sideline, he was president of the student
body. Since it was expected of him, and you know he wouldn't let his fans down, Whit is a wheel
on the Davidson campus. He's in the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, a member of the “D” Club and Beaver
Club. He was a letterman with the track team and was high scorer among the dashmen and broad jumpers, besides
taking the high man honors for interfrat track, having captured 20 points. But that ain't all—he is a star netman
and is secretary of the student body. Oh, yes, he goes to classes on the side. He's taking a business
course leading up to a position in the insurance world. His favorite and only hobby is women, his field of
operation.

Cats Lose To UNC, Beat Wofford, 60-45

It was too much Carolina for the Cats in the Charlotte Armory as Davidson bowed to the White Phantoms, 52-46.
A fourth-period drive which narrowed an eighteen-point margin to the final six was not quite enough. The teams left the
court at intermission with the Phants boasting a 27-22 lead. The Tar Heels roared with a fast-breaking offense in the
third period to push the count to 48-30 with 10 minutes remaining. Then it was the Cats’ turn to get
hot, but it was too late. Jake Ashmore and Whit Cobb took over the yeoman’s scoring as Buddy Cheek and
Mike Williams both fell off on the scoreboard. Ashmore flipped in five field goals and two free throws for 12
points. Cobb also swished the cords on five fielders, but only got one charity toss to bring his total to
11. Four of Cobb’s fielders came in the last period drive which almost paid off. Although off with his bucket
eye, Cheek played a fine floor game. He stole the ball from the Heels no less than seven times in
the last three minutes of play to set up the plays for Wildcat markers. The loss postponed the Cats’ assurance
of a tournament bid, but a victory over either Furman or The Citadel would put the Presbyterians in.

The Cats went out of the conference Saturday night and journeyed to Spartanburg to down a scrappy Wofford five. The
Presbyterians gained a 60-45 margin, but it wasn't until the last quarter that they garnered the final margin. The Terriers
stuck with Davidson all the way and left the court at halftime on the short end of a 28-22 score.
Mike Williams paced the Cats by pouring in 17 points. Buddy Cheek hit for 15 while Jake Ashmore rang in
10. Bobby Maner and Whit Cobb played their usual sterling floor games while hitting for seven and six points respectively.

Virginia Griddles To Coach Backfield

Probably no one on the campus was more excited last Monday than one Ray Brown, newest addition to Davidson’s coaching
staff. And the reason for his excitement was the arrival of his wife and his 11-month-old daughter, Georgia. Ray is
22 years old and hails from Falls Church, Va. He graduated this February from the University of Virginia where he
majored in physical education. Ray played football during his four years at Virginia, starting out as an end, which position
he held down in high school, but ending up playing his last three years at left half. He also played
outfield on the baseball team, one year of basketball, and spent a year broad jumping with the University of Virginia
cindermen. In addition to aiding Coach “Charlie” as a backfield coach, Ray is planning on sharing the coaching duties of
the track team this year. On being questioned as to his hobbies, Ray replied that athletics were his hobby, his
work, and his recreation, a very unusual, but convenient combination. While on the University of Virginia campus, Ray was a
member of DKE. Ray’s very attractive young wife is a native of Pennsylvania, her hometown being Pittsburgh. She attended Randolph
Macon prior to her marriage.

At Davidson Don Whitamore smokes CHESTERFIELDS

Don says: “Chesterfields are my choice because they afford true smoking pleasure.” Voted TOPS!—Chesterfield the largest selling cigarette in America’s
colleges: (by nationwide survey).
