DELTA KAPPA MEMBERS INITIATED INTO SIGMA CHI

Volume XXXVI

The Davidsonian

ALENDA ° UBI ORTA LUX LIBERTAS

YMCA To Sponsor Series Of Lectures

Beginning Monday evening, March 22, at eight o'clock in the Y lounge, the YMCA will sponsor a series of three
lectures on the topic, "Sex and Marriage." The lectures will run through Wednesday night, and each of them will be
at eight o'clock in the Y lounge. Dr. Puckett, of the Biology Department, will open the series with a talk
on "The Physiology of Sex," Monday evening. Tuesday evening, Dr. Charles E. Kraemer, of the First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte,
will speak on "The Psychology of Sex." Dr. Kraemer has done a great deal of work in the field of
psychology and is especially interested in this subject. The series will close Wednesday evening with a talk by Dr. Carl
Pritchett, pastor of the College Church, on "Looking Toward Marriage."

A discussion will be held each night after the lectures, at which time questions may be asked, either by placing
the question in a box for that purpose or direct questions. At this time the speaker of the evening will
try to clarify any point that may not be clear in the students' minds.

In sponsoring this lecture series, the YMCA is trying to fulfill a need that is prevalent in the world today,
that of education in "Sex and Marriage." One needs but to look at the broken homes, the divorce courts, and
the degradation of the sexes to realize that there is a pressing need for education along these lines. The increase
in immorality, and the tremendous increase of sex crimes among the young people of our time show that they are
not getting the proper education along these lines and in many cases proper education would have alleviated the causes. Proper
sex education leads to a more successful life and increases the chances for a happy marriage. Everyone is invited to
attend these lectures and to participate in the discussions after each one.

French Club To Visit Limestone

On Tuesday, March 23, 1948, Le Cercle Francais of Davidson College, assisted by several other students of French, will present
a program of French comedies and music at Limestone College, Gaffney, S.C. The visitors will be guests of the college
at a dinner in the college dining hall at 6 p.m. At eight o'clock in the college auditorium the following
numbers will be presented: C'est la Guerre, a comic saynette, played by C. E. Parker, R. A. Campbell, and R.
M. Caldwell; Les Troubadours, made up of J. D. Whitener, T. W. Jeffries, J. R. Keever, J. R. Inscoe, E.
L. Shaw, R. C. Palmer, S. Vervier, and J. H. Roddey, Jr., will offer four French marching songs; Cupidon, Dentiste,
a one-act comedy, will be given by W. C. Little, J. F. Williams, D. L. Anderson, A. M. Upchurch, R.
W. Pack, and T. P. Davis. The final number will be Tristan Bernard's well-known one-act comedy, L'Anglais Tel Qu'on le
Parle, played by C. E. Parker, P. C. Higginbotham, R. M. Caldwell, R. C. Rapp, J. R. Keever, R. A.
Campbell, and E. B. Hunter. Geo. McKee will be in charge of the stage and lighting, and Frank Lowe will
direct the make-up. The group will return to Davidson late Tuesday night.

Masquers Present Comedy By Oscar Wilde

Oscar Wilde’s "Importance of Being Earnest" will be presented by the Red and Black Masquers in Chambers Auditorium on Monday
night, April 5. Plans and practices are running smoothly, pointing to a night of real enjoyment. The play takes place
in London, England, in June of 1947. The Masquers have modernized the play but have tried to leave the essential
humor that is so characteristic of Oscar Wilde. It is a farce comedy, recently revived on Broadway by the Old
Vic Repertory Company on tour from London. The play calls for three different settings and these are of modern design
and quite in keeping with Wilde's original settings.

An outstanding feature of the production will be the part of the overbearing, haughty, thoroughly ridiculous old dowager, Lady Bracknell,
who is beautifully played by Susie Jackson. The part of Algernon, her nephew, who is rather taken up with marrying
a beautiful young girl of perhaps a doubtful social position, is more than aptly played by Martin Caldwell, an old
Red and Black Masquer who makes his stage debut in this production. Cecily Cardew, who marries him, is an exceptionally
funny role well-handled by Nancy Copeland. The daughter of Lady Bracknell, Gwendolyn, a beauty more favored by beauty than endowed
with common sense, is hilariously interpreted by May Holly. Her lover, Jack Worthing, is played by Frank Lowe.

Local World Federalists To Get Charter

The United World Federalists group on the campus has secured the approval of the school’s Executive Committee, Dave Hamilton, chairman
of the petition committee, disclosed at a meeting last Friday. Also, a constitution was adopted after changes were made in
the proposed constitution, which was prepared by the constitution committee, headed by Owen. A charter for the local group has
been applied for, but it has not been received. Recently nine members of the group received their national membership cards.
They are Malloy Owen, Dave Hamilton, Bill Hamilton, Irving Stubbs, Don Shriver, John Hobart, R. J. King, Bob Gay, and
Frank Perrin. Clyde Tandy and Jack King were already members of the national organization thus making the total number of
nationally registered members eleven. However, there are more than this number in the local group.

A discussion of the selection of an adviser and an honorary advisory board took place at the meeting, and the
group decided in favor of both as a part of its organization. As yet there have been no selections to
fill these positions, but a list of faculty members to be considered in filling these posts was made. UWF will
meet tonight at the YMCA at 6:45 p.m. The program is to include a brief report on the organizational meeting
of the N.C. Student Division of the UWF by Clyde Tandy and a short talk on the need for world
government by John Hobart. A cordial invitation is extended to all members of the student body who favor world government
with limited powers adequate to prevent war and who are interested in promoting this end. This organization is open to
all who agree to support its beliefs and purposes. All interested students please contact Frank Perrin or Malloy Owen.

Pre-Election Information

In an effort to provide the student body with up-to-date information about candidates for the editorship of THE DAVIDSONIAN, Quips
and Cranks, and Scripts and Pranks, the staff of THE DAVIDSONIAN has compiled vital statistics about each candidate. The men
whose records appear below are all candidates by virtue of participation on the staffs of the respective publications, having been
selected by the editors of each as prospective leaders. Hence, there will be no nominations from the floor before these
elections begin. As the editorial on this subject which appears on Page Two states, there will be no nominations from
the floor before these elections begin.

Classifying Soviet Russia as the one nation which has wrecked the United Nations' efforts for peace, President Truman's message to
Congress on Wednesday calling for temporary selective service and permanent universal military training set the Davidson campus, like the rest
of the nation, seriously thinking of the possibility of war as imminent. Truman's words, "There are times in world history
when it is far wiser to act than to hesitate," brought home to Americans (and Russians) even clearer the fact
that peace is threatened. "The fact that peace is threatened, there are times in world history when it is far
wiser to act than to hesitate," he stated, and recommended action that the aggressor would understand.

This student body had not been asleep to the possibility of war before. In a poll taken recently, over 70
percent thought there would be war, perhaps within five years. But the situation has moved on in five years from
now to "now."

Marshall Plan Favored

Our Secretary of State apparently would be quite happy on this campus, for the attitude of the men surveyed is
indicative of the general feeling of the whole student body. There would be very little resistance to the Marshall Plan.
Of the total number, 29 men were generally favorable toward it, and three said they had not yet made up
their minds. Among other reasons, 15 men favored it because it would help stop the advance of Communist ideas in
Europe, three men believed that it would help to secure allies for us, and one liked it because it would
help out people who are really suffering and starving wherever they are.

Delta Kappa Fraternity, a local fraternity, will cease to exist as such after March 18, and will become Delta Lambda
Chapter of Sigma Chi. From March 18, and continuing through Saturday, March 20, Delta Kappa will go through the indoctrination
and ritualistic ceremonies of Sigma Chi national fraternity, and will be inducted as Delta Lambda Chapter of Sigma Chi.

The indoctrination ceremonies have been planned for Thursday and Friday night, and they will be conducted on the college campus.
On Saturday night at 4 p.m., in the Masonic Temple in Charlotte, the final ritualistic ceremony will be conducted. During
this ceremony, Delta Kappa fraternity will be inducted into Sigma Chi fraternity as Delta Lambda Chapter, and all the Delta
Kappa brothers, who up to now have been Sigma Chi pledges, will be made Sigma Chi brothers. On Saturday night
at the Hotel Charlotte, a magnificent banquet will be given for the members of the new Delta Lambda chapter and
for the close to 200 guests expected to be present. The two main speakers at this banquet will be Ben
Sa Fisher, radio lawyer in Washington, D.C., and Dean Hamilton Douglas, dean of the Atlanta School of Law in Atlanta,
Ga., both of whom are past grand consuls of Sigma Chi.

STUDENT MOVEMENT

The Methodist Student Movement held its regular meeting on Sunday night at its new meeting place, the Keentime Club. A
discussion was held on the world situation as it is today, after which Motive, the official magazine of the organization,
was distributed.

Detroit Symphony Evening Concert Pleases Audience

The Detroit Symphony Orchestra under the direction of Dr. Karl Krueger, presented on last Monday evening an inspiring program of
classical music. The people of this community who appreciate the ever-living music of the masters enjoyed the selections thoroughly._The orchestra
played a rounded selection of works, beginning with the unpretentious music of Mozart, following the overture, "The Marriage of Figaro."
Symphony No. 1 in C Minor, Op. 68 by Brahms, Debussy’s La Mer, and Till Eulenspiegel’s Merry Pranks by Strauss.
The contrasts of instruments brought out many of the skillful abilities of the orchestra. Deep support was given by the
string basses and tuba to the lighter, melodious string section, which was undoubtedly the outstanding section. The oboe and kettle
drums lent their touches to reveal the imaginations of the composers.

Comprising the 200 guests will be delegations from Alpha Tau Chapter at the University of North Carolina, Beta Lambda Chapter
at Duke University, Delta Epsilon Chapter at North Carolina State, Gamma Nu Chapter at the University of South Carolina, Psi
Chapter at the University of Virginia, and Zeta Chapter at Washington and Lee University. There will also be alumni delegations
from Charleston, W. Va., and Miami, Fla. In addition to these, other Sigma Chi alumni, including Ambassador Herschel Johnson, United
States delegate to the UNO, the Honorable Cadac Hina, and Rear Admiral Robert D. Workman, U.S. Navy Ret., former chief
of all naval chaplains and only chaplain to reach a rank as high as rear admiral, will be present. Major
General Patrick J. Hurley was invited but had to decline because of the unexpected appearance of his brother who had
been missing for 37 years. Also forced to decline his invitation was Milton Caniff, nationally famous cartoonist.

The president’s program is not preparation for war. However, it is anticipated faster than almost anyone had thought. None of
the thirty-three men believe that war is inevitable. The contrasts of instruments brought out many of the skillful abilities of
the orchestra. Deep support was given by the string basses and tuba to the lighter, melodious string section, which was
undoubtedly the outstanding section. The oboe and kettle drums lent their touches to reveal the imaginations of the composers.

Dr. Kreuger appeared a calm and composed leader as he presented a say lecture. In his address to the audience,
he accentuated his approval of the small college such as Davidson, where we have time to pause in life and
appreciate the pleasures that are derived from art. It is up to us who value art, he declared, to keep
it from ever dying, as it nearly did in the middle ages when it was rescued only by the churches.
He concluded that, as a garden must be weeded to prosper, so must art be cultivated if we are to
appreciate it and benefit from it.

The staff of THE DAVIDSONIAN had hoped to be able to publish an exclusive story concerning the band which will
play for Spring Frolics in this issue. At this time, due to circumstances beyond the control of either the DAVIDSONIAN
staff or the Pan Hellenic Council, such an exclusive statement is not possible. It is the hope of both the
staff of the paper and of the Pan Hellenic Council that this information will be available in time for publication
in the April 1 issue.

Many and varied are the tales which could be told at this point; but in our ever-present desire to maintain
the mutually enjoyable Davidson-Salem relationship, this account must suffice. In closing, we would like to say on behalf of the
entire student body that a more entertaining and thoroughly enjoyable afternoon couldn't have been spent. The grace and hospitality with
which we were received, and the unstinted effort made in order that all would have a good time make us
deeply grateful. We are looking forward with more zest than ever to Salem-Davidson Day, 1949.

We've had enough of William Knauff and also a fill of C. Thornhill. Now we'll cough up the dough and
get V. Monroe.
