SEE EDITORIAL PAGE ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Che Mabidsonian

MIDWINTERS FEB. 6th AND 7th WITH CLAUDE THORNHILL

Volume XXXVI DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, JAN. 9, 1948 NUMBER 13

Claude Thornhill To Play For Midwinters

Morris Field Gymnasium Scene For Midwinters

On Friday and Saturday nights, February 6th and 7th, the Midwinters dance sets will be held in the Morris Field
gymnasium. The event will begin with the informal dance Friday night from approximately 9:30 till 1; the formal dance will
be held Saturday night from 8 until 12. At the Morris Field gymnasium, which is located two blocks from the
air terminal, signs will be posted designating parking areas. Transportation should be of slight inconvenience as plans are under consideration
concerning the procurement of taxi services. The problem of transportation from a central point within the city to the field
at a minimum cost is being addressed. In addition to this, Queen City buses are available that make the trip
hourly at a cost of 25 cents per person.

The gymnasium itself has exactly three times the floor space of the Charlotte Hotel Ballroom—a fact which should be of
special importance to those downtrodden individuals who have in times past spent all their spare moments extricating their feet from
beneath those of their partner. From all indications, the coming dance set will be the finest ever held for and
by Davidson students. Coming as it does immediately after the exam period, it should prove to be quite a gala
occasion for all concerned.

Commissions

Headquarters Third Army has announced that qualified distinguished military students and distinguished military graduates of Senior R.O.T.C. units in the
Third Army Area may be appointed second lieutenants in the regular army. Professors of Military Science and Tactics of each
Senior R.O.T.C. unit have been instructed to confer with and obtain the written views of the president or other appropriate
officials of the college or university where candidates are enrolled. Under the present plan, the following students are eligible:

(1) Those who have successfully completed the two-year advanced R.O.T.C. course, senior division, R.O.T.C., who were designated as an honor
graduate or distinguished military student by the professor of Military Science and Tactics.

(2) In addition to being designated an honor graduate or distinguished military student, those who will receive a baccalaureate degree
upon satisfactory completion of at least a four-year college course who distinguished themselves either academically or by demonstrated leadership through
accomplishments while participating in recognized campus activities.

In making Regular Army commissions available to R.O.T.C. students, the Army stated that the term “honor graduate” will no longer
be used and that candidates will be designated as “distinguished military students” while still in school and as “distinguished military
graduates” upon graduation. The new designations do not prevent R.O.T.C. graduates previously designated as “honor graduates” from receiving commissions provided
they obtain application forms from the Military Personnel Procurement Division of the Third Army Headquarters, or the P.M.S. and T.
of the college they are now attending, or attended, and submit applications by February 1, 1948. Students in senior R.O.T.C.
units must submit their completed applications to the P.M.S. and T. at their colleges by that date also.

DR. CUNNINGHAM IN FLORIDA

Dr. John R. Cunningham is, at the present time, vacationing in Sarasota, Florida, where he has been since shortly after
Christmas. Mrs. Cunningham plans to join him in the near future. As yet, no one knows exactly when he shall
return to Davidson.

Registration For Spring Semester Began Jan. 14

Registration for courses for the second semester will be held from Wednesday, January 14, to Saturday, January 17, in the
Registrar's Office. Only those students who expect to make changes in their present courses need to report during the registration
period. If a student plans to continue all the courses taken during the first semester, he need not register again.

There are several changes and additions regarding the courses outlined for the second semester. Notable among them are:

Botany—Botany 52, under Prof. Daggy, will be offered if there is sufficient demand.

English—English 152, under Prof. G. R. Wood; a public speaking class, limited to 22 students.

Greek—Scientific Greek (72) will not be offered.

History—History 82, under Prof. Johnston, will be offered if there is sufficient demand.

Math—Math 10—Students in 10-A and 10-B will automatically change to 11-A and 11-B. Math 1—Students who make an “F” grade
on Math 11 the first semester will be required to drop Math 12 and repeat Math 11 in section 11-A
and 11-B. Math 12—Sections 12-A and 12-C will be discontinued. Students in 12-C will transfer to 12-B. Students in 12-A
will need to report for re-sectioning.

Physics—Physics 52, under Prof. Fulcher, will meet at the fourth hour on Tuesdays. Physics 62, under Prof. Pietenpol, will meet
at the third hour on Tuesday.

Psychology—Two sections of Psy. 31, under Professors Anderson and Bevan, J. M., will be offered. Two sections of Psy. 42,
both under Prof. Bevan, J. M., will be offered. One section of Psy. 32, under Prof. Bevan, J. M., will
be offered. Note: A new member of the Psychology Department, Prof. Johnston, is returning.

Two Are Initiated Before Sig Up

Four members of the Davidson College faculty read papers at the meeting of Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, on December
18th at the Sigma Chi House. Prof. T. Y. Greet first read a story written in the modern impressionistic style.
This was followed by the presentation of three sketches by Prof. G. R. Wood. Prof. Lilly then read a ballad,
followed by a short story which Dr. Chalmers Davidson had written while still a student at Davidson. In the course
of the meeting, the student members of the organization commented upon and criticized the articles written by each professor. Following
the program, refreshments were served. In addition to the old members, two newly initiated men, Walter Mann and Dave Gambriel,
met with the group for the first time.

Students Attend Youth Conference

From December 27, 1947, through January 1, 1948, the fifteenth Student Conference on Christian Frontiers met for an important series
of discussions on missionary work at the University of Kansas, in Lawrence, Kansas. Among the more than two thousand student
leaders in attendance were three men from Davidson College: Terrell Clark, R. Jackson, and James Kirk. The group surveyed the
work of the Church in many lands, studying both the present state of operations and the future plans of missionary
work. Emphasis was placed upon the fact that students were needed in foreign mission fields as medical missionaries, teachers, and
technicians. Reports on the state of missionary work in some sixty countries were read by leaders in those areas.

The conference was presided over by Congressman Walter H. Judd of Minnesota, formerly a medical missionary to China. Among the
distinguished speakers were Dr. John R. Mott, world-famed Protestant leader and co-recipient of the 1946 Nobel Peace Prize, and Dr.
Roswell P. Barnes, associate general secretary of the Federal Council of Churches. The meeting was under the direction of the
Student Volunteer Movement.sponsored by the 14 Y.M.C.A. Student agencies which make up the United (Continued on Page Four) and Church.

CLAUDE THORNHILL To aid

INDEPENDENTS CHOOSE NAME

After much debate and discussion of many suggestions for a name for the independent organization which was formed last October,
the members of the group decided to call it the “Campus Club.” This title struck the members because it is
simple and at the same time meaningful in that the aim of the organization is to give all non-fraternity men
the opportunity to indulge in the various campus activities through fellowship with an organized group of students.

The “Campus Club” has for its meeting place the main room on the first floor of Carolina Inn which will
serve only temporarily and for an indefinite length of time until a larger and better place can be secured. The
group has begun furnishing the various articles by buying new furniture, including sofas, chairs, and a Zenith console radio-phonograph set.

At its first meeting under the name of the “Campus Club” on Thursday, January 8, the group was entertained by
the glee club from Barium Springs Orphanage and their program was enjoyed by all. Following the program was a brief
social with refreshments and dancing. All independents wishing to join the “Campus Club” can do so by sending a letter
requesting admission to the club, care of Box 661.

FEATURED WITH THORNHILL AND HIS ORCHESTRA

Pictured above are Fran Warren, vocalist, and Gene Williams who will appear with Claude Thornhill’s Orchestra when it plays for
the two Midwinter’s dances at Morris Field February 6 and 7. The music for the two Midwinter Pan-Hellenic dances will
be furnished by Claude Thornhill, his piano and orchestra, featuring vocalists Fran Warren and Gene Williams.

Claude Thornhill, band leader, has risen steadily in public demand since he organized his band in 1940. Born in Terre
Haute, Ind., Thornhill commenced the study of music at the age of four. By the time he was six years
old he was considered a prodigy, having given his first recital at that age. Continuing his musical studies, he next
enrolled at the Cincinnati Conservatory, where his talent for arranging first came into prominence. He then joined Austin Wylie’s Orchestra,
where he began a lasting friendship with Artie Shaw. Leaving Wylie, he became an arranger for Hal Kemp and followed
this with work for Benny Goodman, Bing Crosby, and others.

Thornhill formed his own band in January 1940 and made his musical debut at the Hotel Pennsylvania in New York.
In October 1942, at the height of his career, Thornhill enlisted in the U.S. Navy as an apprentice seaman. The
Navy soon made use of his natural talents, for when Artie Shaw was transferred to another station, Thornhill was given
a baton and told to assume the direction and leadership of the aggregation. The Navy then built a musical show
around him called the Claude Thornhill All-Star Show, featuring his band and Benny Goodman’s singer, Dennis Day. This group then
made two successful tours of the Pacific area, entertaining Army, Navy, and Marine personnel. On their second trip, the orchestra
covered 70,000 miles and presented some 400 shows. After receiving a citation from Admiral Nimitz and a personal commendation from
the Secretary of the Navy, Thornhill received his discharge.

Upon his release from the Navy, Thornhill married Helen Heller, reorganized his band with the help of musicians who had
previously worked with him in the service, and has since risen to the position, according to Downbeat, of America’s No.
5 bandleader for 1947.

With Thornhill’s orchestra is vocalist Fran Warren, recently selected by a poll of “disc-jockeys” from coast to coast, conducted by
Billboard, as the most promising new feminine vocalist of the year. Miss Warren became interested in a singing career when
she was a high school student. Art Mooney gave her her first opportunity to make a professional appearance. Since then
Miss Warren has been with Charlie Barnet’s band and for a while sang on her own radio program at New
York's independent station, WNEW. After leaving WNEW, Miss Warren signed with Claude Thornhill, with whom she has remained since.

The orchestra directed by Thornhill, which includes six reeds, eight brass, and four rhythm, is paced by the leader’s piano.
Rather unusual is the fact that in the eight brass there are two French horns. The horns, which are generally
identified with symphonic orchestras, are used to blend with the harmonious arrangements of the leader.

Federal Council Leader Speaks At Vesper Service

Charles P. Taft, of Cincinnati, Ohio, and president of the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America, was the
speaker for the vesper service Sunday evening. Mr. Taft’s speech dealt with the problem of getting together in a democracy
and its connection with the Christian religion. Mr. Taft, son of the late President W. H. Taft and brother of
Senator Robert Taft, is a very distinguished attorney in Cincinnati, Ohio, and is a leading Christian layman in that city.
He has been very active in church work both in this country and on an international scale. He is a
leader in the politics of Cincinnati as well as the religious life of that city.

During the war, Mr. Taft served on many committees of the nation, including co-ordinator of the U.S.O. activities under Secretary
of War Henry L. Stimson, and as the director of the U.S. Community War Service. In Cincinnati, he is a
leader of the Charter Committee of the Republican group, a group seeking better all-round government. He played an important part
in the recent overthrowing of the Republican political machine that has had control over the city for quite some time.

Mr. Taft was educated in Watertown, Connecticut, and received his B.A. degree from Yale University. Since that time he has
received several honorary degrees from many schools, including the University of Toledo, the University of Rochester, Marietta College, Miami University,
and Ohio Wesleyan University. He began practicing law in his brother's office and was admitted to the bar in 1922.
He is included in the 1946-1947 edition of Who's Who.

Mr. Taft was in the Army in 1917. Since that time he has been a member of the Cincinnati City
Council, chairman of the National Mobilization for Human Needs, chairman of the Governor's Committee on County Government, and was on
the provisional committee for the World Council of Churches. Last January he was elected the first president of this organization.
Also, he has written several books on politics.

In addition to speaking for the Sunday evening vesper of the college, Mr. Taft was supposed to speak to the
League of Women Voters in Charlotte and the Men's Club of the First Presbyterian Church on Monday.

CALENDAR

VESPER
Jan. 18—Prof. Bernard H. Boyd.

CHAPEL
Monday, Jan. 19—Mr. Shepard.
Tuesday, Jan. 20—Prof. Bradley D. Thompson.
Wednesday, Jan. 21—Speaker to be selected.
Thursday, Jan. 22—Prof. L. B. Schenck.
Friday, Jan. 23—Y.W.C.A.
