With fraternity rushing over and the first edition of the campus' leading weekly publication about to be released, we've come back to the grind. The thought of putting enough words down to fill this column each week is worrying us. But we'll try to put out a column and present the sports news in a way that is unexcelled in Davidson annals. We have the staff to do it. Returning from last year’s roster are Gordon Scott, Furman Warlick, Cherry Stribling, and Watt Jeffries. Heading the new list is Bill White, who has had several years of sports writing experience with the Charlotte Observer. Bill probably knows more about the game than anyone else around here. The staff is rounded out by sophomores Ed West and David Whitener and freshmen Bill Bucky and Bryan Robinson. All have had some previous writing experience in high school. Positions are open to anyone who would like to contribute to this department.

Coach Charlie Jamerson got his 1948 edition of the Red and Black machine off to a flying start with an impressive 25-0 drubbing of Elon College. Jamerson still has to smooth out some kinks in the Wildcat offense and defense as well, but as Coach Jim Mallory of Elon says, this looks like the best Davidson team in fifteen years. Last year’s eleven piled up the most impressive record since 1933, and Cat followers will see virtually the same team with another year of experience. Major losses will be felt at blocking back and tailback where first stringers of last year are out. Dave Poole, last year’s sensational three-letter freshman, has decided to drop football for fear of an injury which could ruin a very promising pro-baseball career. Poole will be around for basketball and behind the bat when the spring call for baseball is made again, but his absence will be strongly felt in that blocking back slot. Poole’s absence and Charlie Rimer’s shoulder injury last week brought forth a promising new man for the job in Bill Iverson. Iverson has played at fullback and made a stab at end but has really found himself in the blocking position. With Rimer’s return, Cat ball carriers should have two fine trail blazers ahead of them. The tailback spot vacated by Buck Williams’ failure to return to school should be well handled by Carl Shepherd and Auburn Lambeth. Shepherd showed more speed and deception last Saturday than he has in the last two years. This, coupled with a driving power which reminds us of Lu Gambino, should make him one of the state’s top leather luggers. Though the sophomore Lambeth will get the spotlight in the aerial work, Shepherd proved again against Elon that he will take no back seat in that department.

The Georgian, Lambeth, came to Davidson last year with an enviable and admirable record in Peach State prep circles. Auburn was noted as a passer but saw limited service last year. With added weight and experience this year, he is slated for top billing in Jamerson’s offensive plans of tossing the pigskin around a lot. This should bring forth a pat on the back to Cat snatcher for flipping off several laterals that netted extra yardage each time. In our book, that’s the difference between a team that’s playing to win and one which is only playing.

The writer of this column is usually supposed to come up with a bright prediction for the Cats’ weekly game. But even though Jake Wade said, “We'll take ’em,” we’d be going pretty far out on a thin limb to call it a Davidson victory this week. However, we don’t look for the score to be as bad as last year’s when the Indians won 21-0. Our crystal ball says the locals will score once or twice and W. & M. will make no more markers than they did in the previous clash.

WHATEVER YOUR NEEDS
SUITS
HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
TIES
SHOES
and the 101 other things
SHOP MEN'S
EFIRD’S SHOP
STREET FLOOR

Wildcat Sports
WE'LL TAKE
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1948
DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS PAGE THREE

Harriers Prep To Open Season On October 10th

The Davidson cross country team will try to extend their winning streak from last year when they went the entire season without defeat. Returning lettermen from last year indicate that they have a very good chance to make it two straight undefeated seasons. Back from last year will be Jack Gray, Bob Grube, and Blake Bradley; this trio finished one-two-three in nearly every meet last year. Others back to bolster the strength of the squad are Dil Smith, Bill Long, Bill Dubose, and Roy Covington. Coach Whittle said that there were about 25 students out for the team, among them some new boys who are looking very good at this time. Coach Whittle seemed optimistic about the prospects for this year and said that he was hoping for a better team than we had last season. Sidney Bruce is the manager of the squad.

Greek Play To Open Monday

The interfraternity sports program gets under way on Monday afternoon with a total of two tough football games scheduled for the intramural field below the freshman field behind the stadium. Footballs have beenIssued to all ten fraternities and the Campus Club, practices are being held each day by these teams under the direction of their respective sports managers. Last year, the Kappa Sigmas took the football title with a perfect record of 10 wins and no defeats, while the Betas lost only to the Kappa Sigmas in a season opener. A good many of the All-Interfraternity stars from last year are returning, and with the new freshman stars, this should make for a great year for interfraternity football. The time for games has not yet been decided. Each fraternity will play each other once in the round-robin tourney. The winner will receive a good total of points toward the interfraternity cup.

U.S. Navy scientists expect soon to be able to produce temperatures within .001 degrees of absolute zero.

W & M Favored In Conference Scrap

On Saturday night, a battle in Charlotte will be the scene of one of the top contests to be staged in the current pigskin season. For and his star-studded team will be out in force.

Cats Impressive In Elon Triumph

Phi Delt National

Introducing Auburn Lambeth

By CHERRY STRIBLING

Introducing Auburn Lambeth, top NGLC football and baseball teams' check. Pete Bro, the Davidson College student body, his senior year. He had the highest grades in his class and was president of the senior class. Wade, the wingman who caused Coach many an anxious moment last year with his undecided play, definitely proved that he is heading in the right direction. Starting on his own 25 late in the fourth period, Jake raced down the sideline all the way to the 10 before being forced out. Lambeth tagged Cheek two plays later on the 28. Turner went eighteen to the 10, and in three cracks, Erwin was across. Brown's try for the point was short.

Wade Shepherd, lateralling off to Shepherd, gave the Cats the ball on the Elon 26 midway in the second period. Shepherd bulled all the way to the four on the ensuing play and piled over left into the end zone. Brown's conversion was good.

Auburn came out of Decatur High in Decatur, Ga. with the reputation of being one of that school’s most talented passers. That is a high compliment considering the fact that such stars as Frank Broyles and Jimmy Southard of VTech and stars of other college teams also are alumni of Decatur High. He was offered scholarships to Georgia and Tech, as well as many other colleges throughout the South. But luckily for the Wildcats, he chose Davidson.

While in high school, Lambeth made an outstanding record, playing football, basketball, and baseball. He was placed on the All-State team in football and basketball and was captain of the baseball team. He is a member of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity and was placed on the “All-Frat” basketball team last year while starring for the Phi Delts. He is also a member of the “D” Club and the Beaver Club.

If you ask him about his ambition, he replies that he would like to play professional baseball. If you ask him about his girl, he will just smile and shake his head.

For me, Mild, Cool CAMELS — that’s the cigarette.

GET NEXT TO... Johnny Long’s “JUST LIKE THAT” — from the Signature diskerie. Johnny Long (Duke University—Sigma Nu) comes up with a danceable, bright bounce. It’s a Long original! If you should ask Johnny how he came to write it, he'll light up a Camel and say: “Experience! I know from experience what music suits my band best— just as I learned from experience that Camels suit my ‘T-Zone’ to a ‘T’.” Try Camels on your ‘T-Zone’ — ‘T’ for taste, ‘T’ for throat. See for yourself why, with millions of other smokers, Camels are the “choice of experience.”

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.