Yl
yA

A Publication of the YMCA

July 22, 1948

The Presidency of the Student Government changed, with the advent of the second session of Summer school, from the able
hands of Bill Robertson to the equally capable hands of Mike Williams. Despite the proportions of this job, we can
be satisfied that it will be handled thoroughly, for Mike has the knack for doing things the right way. All
of you know him as a star in football, basketball, and tennis; or from some other phase of the many
campus activities in which he takes an active part.

Mike will be ably backed by the members of the summer student council, the members of which have not been
announced.

Although we can rest assured that our Student Council is capably manned, it is absolutely necessary that we all keep
in mind the fact that the success of the Student Government depends on the entire student body.

The YLDUAT wishes to welcome Mike Williams to this new job, and we hope that through the cooperation of the
student body his official duties will be kept to a minimum.

NEW PENNANT RACE

The champs of last semester, West Dorm, have been challenged by the reorganization of the softball league. Tentative plans call
for a league composed of four teams: West No. 1, West No. 2, Georgia, and the Faculty All-Stars.

After the heated race of the last tournament, this one is being looked forward to with a great deal of
eagerness. Splitting West into two teams dims their hopes of taking the flag this session, and the pre-season dopesters are
placing their money on the Faculty All-Stars, behind the pitching of Henry Baumann, to triumph.

Dr. Cunningham To Preside at Ground-Breaking Ceremony

The dream of every Davidson student—past, present, and future—is about to be realized! The new gym is definitely in sight.

Announcement was made in chapel this morning that a brief "ground-breaking" ceremony would be held tomorrow in the pines north
of the athletic field at 10:45 a.m. Students, faculty, and administration are invited to be present for the occasion, at
which time Dr. J.K. Cunningham will turn the first spadeful of earth to initiate the excavation of the gym site.

The building, which is to be located at the north end of Richardson Stadium, promises to make Davidson the proud
possessor of one of the best-equipped gymnasiums for a school of its size in this section of the country. In
addition to a swimming pool and floor space for three basketball courts, there will be adequate provision for all of
the minor sports such as wrestling and handball. All of the athletic offices will be located in this building, and
locker space will be provided for the entire student body.

It is an understatement to say that the progress will be eagerly watched by everyone.

VESPERS

This Sunday evening, at 7:30 p.m., Rev. James Huggins will be the speaker for the Y.M.C.A. vesper service, which will
be held on the lawn west of the Guest House. Rev. Huggins is the pastor of the Meyers Park Methodist
Church, and is recognized as one of the outstanding ministers in the city of Charlotte.

You are all cordially invited to attend this service.
