CLEAN MIND . . . STRONG BODY . . . SOUND FAITH

PAGE THREE

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1948

Y.M.C.A. MAPS YEAR'S PROGRAM

FROM THE SECRETARY'S DESK

By BILL SMITH

Are you very much interested in the “Y” and its work on the Davidson Campus? Some are; however, many of
us merely accept it and never sincerely examine our interest in it. There seem to be at least four good
reasons why all of us should be vitally concerned with the “Y” and its program.

I. First, it is the channel through which we can give expression to our religious convictions. There are only fifteen
men in our entire student body who are not members of some church. This is indicative of some sort of
conviction. One who is genuinely convinced that God is, desires to express this feeling in a wholesome and profitable way.
This practical application of one's faith is made possible through the varied activities of the campus “Y”. It provides us
with the opportunity of expressing that which we cherish as highly as anything — our right to the Christian Faith.

II. Second, the “Y” is designed to broaden our college experience beyond that of purely academic pursuit. One of the
primary aims of a college is to prepare one for his station in life. The “Y” makes an effort to
contribute its important part to that preparation. One does not necessarily have to be active in “Y” work to derive
this benefit. Many phases of the total program are designed so as to benefit those who will give of their
time to receive. We see an example of this in the Spring and Fall services held each year on the
campus under the sponsorship of the “Y”. If we are interested in the program and policy of this organization we
can help but broaden the whole of our college experience.

III. Third, it helps us to form the habit of giving ourselves to someone or something outside of ourselves. This
is admittedly a very important principle in living a wholesome life. Most of us are inclined to be selfish with
our time, our personality, and our possessions. There are few who will admit that this is good. Therefore it is
wise that we seek to develop less selfish attitudes as we prepare for our particular path through life. We believe
in this principle so strongly that about one hundred and fifty men are willing to give of their time unselfishly
to help those who need them. Then too, every year we have nearly one hundred percent of our student body
that responds generously and nobly to the annual “Y” Christmas Gift Fund. More often than not we really do for
ourselves when we do for others.

IV. Fourth, we should be concerned with the “Y” program because we actually have an investment in it. It is
primarily of the students and for the students. The financial obligations are met largely by a part of the student
activity fee and the Sunday evening offerings. The actual work it does is done by students. With this sort of
an investment, it seems only logical that we should be concerned with what the “Y” does. Here presented are four
important reasons why a member of the Davidson Student body should be interested in what the “Y” is doing.

“Y” Conducts Sunday School In Lounge

Each Sabbath morning at 10:15 Sunday school is held in the “Y” lounge for those students who wish to attend.
Ernest Arnold is the teacher and he holds the lesson at the student level, applying the teachings to college life.
Also, there are different students each Sunday to lead in the devotional. Curtis Harper, “Y” cabinet member, has charge of
Sunday Schools and Tommy Clark is president. Plans are being made to serve coffee and doughnuts at 9:45, just before
class, for the benefit of the Saturday night owls who find it impossible to make Sunday morning breakfast. Another aim
of the class is to give financial aid to some needy person in the community this winter. The class is
not limited to any one denomination or group, but welcomes all students desiring to be taught the standard Sunday School
lesson from Sabbath to Sabbath.

For A Better Davidson

Amid her other traditions, Davidson reaches another milestone in her colorful history with Homecoming 1948. Since the beginning of Davidson
exactly 25 years ago, her sons have returned at these times to renew old friendships and lend their support to
Alma Mater. Founded by the class of 1915, the Davidsonian has fought for the students' vision of “a better Davidson”
through these late years. Davidson has grown better and prospered, and all around us we see evidence of this fortunate
prosperity. Yet, the future appears most uncertain. Davidson of Tomorrow can be either a new vision of a better Davidson
or a downward trail. This will ultimately determine the destiny of this small liberal arts college. We must drive for
“a better Davidson” to begin light through the uncertainty. We see the haze of Davidson of several years hence. We
can see a Davidson that we may be proud of; we will return to on Homecoming and rejoice in her
progress and accomplishments. Both the students and alumni have an equally important part in this great surge forward. We must
all endeavor to make Davidson truly great in service. We cannot help but share the enthusiasm of our president, Dr.
Cunningham, as he leads us in this greatest of all movements. It cannot fail; it means too much; it is
too important. “For a better Davidson” forever!

The nation's railroads seek a freight rate rise of 10 percent. Present illiteracy is the lowest rate on record, census
reports.

Pictured above is the colored community house built across the railroad tracks with the funds given by the student body
in a Christmas Gift Fund several years ago.

There is one department of the YMCA with which very few Davidson men are familiar. This is the Department of
Colored Work which is, for the main part, under the leadership of “Y” Cabinet member Harry H. McLean. The major
aim of this department has been to help the Negroes of the community and to try to point out to
them the best ways in which they can help themselves. The Department of Colored Work was added to the list
of “Y” Cabinets in 1939 as a product of the Christmas Gift Fund of that year. This fund was designated
to be used in erecting a community building for the Negroes of the town, after securing the approval of the
Mecklenburg County Board of Education. The Community Hut was erected on a corner of the School lot. The Hut was
designated to be the center of all activities of the Negro community but has rendered its greatest service to the
young people. The “Y” Cabinet, realizing the instability of its student members, saw that an organization less subject to changes
should hold the legal papers of the new Community Center. The Civic Club, a local women’s organization, agreed to take
care of all the legal documents and also to serve as a permanent advisory board to the new project. The
YMCA has been of great service to the colored folk during the past eight years in various ways. In these
years the “Y” has provided playground equipment such as basketballs, footballs, volleyballs, and nets, and croquet sets for the youngsters.
Davidson students have also served as supervisors of the activities on the playgrounds and in the Hut. In the early
days of the project, ladies of the Civic Club coached sewing and home-management classes for girls. Harry McLean took over
the direction of this department of the “Y” in January of this year and previously did Boy Scout work with
the colored boys. Harry is a faithful worker in this capacity and has done much in organizing recreation for the
children. He saw the special need for some type of recreation for the children after dismissal from the school buses
in the afternoon, during the time after school but before the arrival of their parents. Recreation offered to the young
colored children at this time has prevented many from getting into trouble.

Tomorrow's Wildcats Start Early

One of the finest parts in the entire “Y” program is the Boy’s work, which this year is under the
head of Dave Anderson. This department aims at friendly healthful activity for the boys living in and around Davidson. Each
of the student leaders helping in the work has a pack of followers which look to him for athletic coaching
and Christian guidance. The boys are out to produce clean spirit, clean speech, training in teamwork, and real effort. This
year the fall program includes three full football teams, one each at Davidson, Cornelius, and Huntersville. Seven games have been
played so far, and a full schedule is still before each group. Equipment, though at times a real problem, is
provided by the “Y” and the use of the “Y” car is a big help to the leaders. The Davidson
men on the coaching staff make up a cooperative group which goes all out for the boys. Led off by
John McBride, the group consists of seven students. John has put many hours with the Davidson group’s team, last year
and this. He has the real respect of the boys, and deserves real commendation. Helping John is Bob Gregsby, who
is also doing a fine piece of work. At Cornelius, Jim Grissom andCecil Rhodes forms a dependable coaching staff. Ed
Robertson, Phil McNemer, and Bob Boyd are the Huntersville coaches. In spite of the distance of Huntersville, they are always
ready to work. The Huntersville school is helping out in buying a set of jerseys for the team. Good opportunities
for students to serve in a real way are provided in this work, and any interested in helping in the
further progress of the department are requested to see Dave Anderson.

The new plans for the project include a colored Board of Control which will act as the chief director of
the Community Center. This Board is composed of the principal of the local colored school, one member from each of
the three local colored churches (Presbyterian, Baptist, and Methodist), one member from the colored Christian Aid and Benevolent Society, and
one teacher from their school. These six members will work jointly with the advisory organizations.

It is well to note that the interest of the colored people in this project is at a new high.
With no outside aid, they have recently raised $400 to be used in raising the standards of the school lunchroom
so that it may qualify for receipt of government subsidy. The Hut has been kept in good repair, with leaders
such as Ralph Johnson and Principal Harris. The outlook of the new Community Center project is encouraging. This new setup
for the project is in an advanced formative stage, but before it goes into effect, it must be agreed on
by the Board, the Civic Club, and the YMCA when these organizations meet together in the near future. The YMCA
is to be commended for its patient and faithful work with the community's colored people, and it is very easy
to see that the efforts of the “Y” were not in vain.

Student Councilors Work at Charlotte Y

Davidson students are working with younger boys of Charlotte through the Charlotte YMCA. About twelve students go over four days
a week and direct recreation at various playgrounds in the city. The program is designed for boys of two age
groups: the Gra-Y group for boys 9 to 11 years of age, and the Junior Hi-Y group for boys 12
to 14 years old. The student leaders endeavor to organize their respective groups and to promote different projects. The activities
are chiefly athletic, with teams such as football and basketball, in accord with the season of the year. The “Y”
teams are playing in a football league this fall. The boys who lead these younger boys in their games also
hold short devotionals, teaching them the Christian ideals that they must follow in their everyday living.

This is one of the mediums in which Davidson students have the opportunity to work with and influence young people,
and as such, the Davidson College YMCA is seeing to it that advantage is taken of this opportunity to extend
services.

New export license on “forgery-proof paper” announced.

CABINET MEMBERS CONVENE, DISCUSS YEAR'S ACTIVITIES

The Davidson YMCA Cabinet, with the purpose of crystallizing its program for the church school year, held a two-day convocation
retreat at Montreat on the weekend of October 23. Leaving Davidson after dinner on Friday, the Cabinet arrived at Montreat
in time for supper at the summer cottage of Mrs. Copeland of Davidson, which was their lodging for the weekend.
The meeting, which began that same night, was opened with a devotional led by Bill Smith, secretary of the YMCA.
The discussion of the evening consisted of feeling out some causes worthy of the Christian Gift Fund. However, no attempt
was made at the conferences to decide definitely the recipient of the Fund, but merely to sift out some possibilities.
The cause to which the Gift Fund will go is to be decided jointly by the YMCA and selected representatives
from the student body later in the year.

Just before bedtime, the evening devotional was led by Curtis Harper, Vice-president of the YMCA. Saturday's activities began with chopping
wood and were followed by an old-fashioned breakfast cooked on a wood stove. Herb Meza, president of the “Y,” led
the morning devotional. The morning’s business was a departmental discussion of the Cabinet, in which suggestions were made to the
various department heads about methods to make each department more propitious to Davidson students and the others whom the YMCA
serves. Careful consideration of each of the fourteen departments carried far into the afternoon, the meeting being terminated at 4
P.M. The Christmas Gift Fund was taken up again for the remainder of the afternoon. Miss Gretta, representing the World
Service Fund, and who was at Montreat after speaking at Davidson the day before, was able to give the Cabinet
a clearer insight into conditions in Europe, Asia, and other needy lands. This information helped greatly in determining some of
the groups and organizations worthy of the Gift Fund.

The clear weather, though cold, allowed the group to work off the nervous tension caused by a full day of
mental concentration with a game of touch football, after which a hearty meal was enjoyed. A square dance on Saturday
night with the Queens College YMCA leaders, who were also meeting in Montreat, composed the social portion of the weekend.
Miss Ridel was in charge of the Sunday morning devotional, which included hymn-singing and worship. The discussion of the Christmas
Gift Fund was resumed until church time, when the Cabinet adjourned to attend the Montreat College morning service led by
Rev. Rupert McGregor. The retreat ended with a bountiful and delicious Sunday dinner prepared for the group by Mrs. Copeland.
After dinner, the Cabinet left for Davidson and arrived in time for Sunday Vespers.

In summary, the purpose of the retreat was to discuss ways to improve over past years, to present new ideas,
to give suggestions to each department as to how to make its program more beneficial to the student body, and
to discuss the Christmas Gift Fund. The retreat accomplished much in directing the planning of the year’s work, and every
attempt was made to cover every religious and social aspect of school life.

Campus Club

With its second year under way, the Campus Club is preparing to undertake its first major function of the season
in the Social Department. Homecoming festivities will begin Saturday night under the direction of Jim Walker. All ninety-one members and
dates will enjoy a magnificent banquet at the Carolina Room of the new Selwyn Hotel in Charlotte. There will be
forty gorgeous clock-stoppers in attendance to participate in the gaiety of the affair. The Social Committee has arranged a program
pregnant with promise to be presented after the last shred of celery has been salted away. One of our own
members, Mr. Ernest Arnold, will be the speaker for the evening.

The scene of action will not be limited to the Selwyn, with dances at Morris Field and various parking places
that may lie between these points. Ye Olde Carolina Inn will be rocking as never before in its 150 “odd”
years. Behind the decorations of those Hamilton boys, Bill and Dave, the Inn will be the scene of many happy
hours for Clubbers this weekend.

Under the management of Jim Campbell, the Club began its intramural schedule by producing three wins in a row in
the football fracas. This excellent beginning was dulled by the subsequent four losses, but all games have been close and
hard-fought. The line, rated highly in the league competition, has shown magnificently in every contest: Meza and Whitenor at guards,
Yale and Deck plugging center, Fanjoy, Wilson, and Langford going great at ends. Backing these men in the Campus Club
backfield have been Carl Harriss, Sam Robinson, Bob McLeod, John Herion, and neophyte Joe Griffith. With the Club combining with
the rest of the independents on the football field, an excellent turnout has been accomplished all the way, and a
lot of credit is due Campbell for his coaching and able direction of the team.

U.S. deficit drops despite reduced receipts as outlay slashed.
