ROTC UNIT ANNOUNCES CADET PROMOTIONS

Volume XXXVI

LUX

ALENDA

UBI ORTA

FAW TO COMMAND R.O.T.C. BATTALION

Dowd Gift to Buy Photo Equipment Instruments Valued For Advanced Physics Study

Davidson Spirit Comes To Rescue Of Ill Alumnus

The purchase of several expensive items of darkroom and laboratory equipment for use at Davidson College has been made possible
by the generosity of a physics instructor and his sister. W. C. Dowd, III, of Davidson, and Marie Eloise Dowd
of Charlotte, last week presented two thousand dollars to the Physics Department for the purchase of new equipment. The gift
will be used to finance a student darkroom—a long-felt campus need—and will place intricate instruments of a type usually found
only in larger research laboratories at the disposal of Davidson students and professors.

Student Darkroom

The darkroom, which will be entirely separate from the present college darkroom, will be open for use by all students
who are interested in photography. It will be completely stocked with all materials needed in developing film and will be
equipped with an excellent enlarger.

Lab Equipment

Among the items which have been ordered for use in the Physics Department are (1) a Michelson interferometer for measuring
light waves in advanced optics work and (2) a potentiometer which accurately measures voltages to one millionth of a volt.
Both Professor Fulcher and Professor Pietenpol, on receiving the gift, declared that these and other delicate instruments would prove to
be very valuable to the faculty and students alike, especially in advanced courses in the field of physics.

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA. FRIDAY, JAN. 30, 1948

The Davidsonian

LIBERTAS

SAM ERVIN TAKES OVER AS EDITOR (See Editorial Page)

NUMBER 14

T. M. “Bucky” Faw receives commission as Lieutenant Colonel of the Davidson Reserve Officers Training Corps Battalion from Lt. Col.
W. P. Grace, Professor of Military Science and Tactics. Faw has completed his two years of advanced military training.

DR. CUNNINGHAM RETURNS

Dr. John R. Cunningham returned to the Davidson campus last week after an extended vacation in Sarasota, Florida. His address
on the prospects for world peace, delivered to the student body on Wednesday, January 28, was his first since prior
to the holidays. Plans for the future are incomplete, but Dr. Cunningham expects to spend a great deal of time
in the vicinity of Davidson in the months to come.

Leaving college shortly after the outbreak of World War II, Mr. Dowd made a distinguished record in combat in the
European theater. He returned to Davidson in 1947 and after receiving his diploma last spring, he joined the faculty as
a physics instructor.

Farewell to Arms

By DAVE GAMBRELL

It has been said that all good things must have an end, and we can apply this to college life
too. Come January 24, last, college life ended for “several” Davidson students. For some, it was nipped, you might say,
in the bud; for others, it had been ripe and rotten three or four times. It is with these latter
ones that we wish to dwell, for the former only faltered; probably to rise again (impetuous youth!). It seems only
fitting and proper that we give these long-suffering athletes a few lines of epitaph on their final departure from these
hallowed grounds.

Let us first peer back to “the days of yesteryear,” sunny September days of 1940 and 1941. Can't you see
the innocent faces of Linpett and Swink, and yes, Oglesby, with a full head of hair? But these are things
of the far past and the fortunes of war and postwar Davidson have altered it all a great deal. Their
futures are our main interest. What is there in the world today for the “liberally” educated man? Take Ogs, for
instance. His future is in business. Already he has half interest in the Wildroot Co., and is planning to buy
more. He's the only guy known today who frowns so he can cultivate hair in the furrows of his brow.
So on his parting, we heartily shout, “Hairs to you, Ogs” (phew).

Debatable Doug did not disclose his plan in great detail, but we did pick up enough to piece together a
story. It seems he plans to go straight to Kentucky from school. Later, being a great admirer of his elders,
he will visit his grandad at some Canadian club in Glenmore. After this, he will probably flake out at some
resort. Dum-Dum plans to establish residence near some of his friends at Miami Beach and will probably hit the post-graduate
school at Leavenworth. He wants to start at the bottom in his chosen field, a few mugging jobs and some
minor fencing to get connections. The great problem he left with us was the allocation of his local rackets to
various up-and-coming rodmen, but this solved itself. Huge has volunteered to take over gambling in general, numbers, parlays, and Uncle,
Dave and John. Quincey will take the bootleg business, Martin Waters will hold down confidence schemes, Smiles has a firm
grip on Davidson's dining hall, Bronco will handle the mugging, “Big Man” Pino is available for any jobs calling for
pushing old women in wheelchairs down steps, “Little Caesar” Upchurch will head the unions, George Adams will handle all the
immoral aspects of crime, and “Crusher” Iverson, “Baby Face” Miller, and “Bugsy” Malone will be available if any “burnings” are
necessary.

Freshmen Allowed To Leave Dining Hall

With the beginning of the second semester, freshmen are no longer required to eat in the college dining hall. The
choice of a boarding house is entirely optional for all. The committee which rules on these matters is composed of
Mr. Jackson, Mr. Hedgeveld, and Mr. Brennan. The arrangements for boarding in the dining hall are made each year by
the committee. The committee decided against this idea and adopted the rule that freshmen can eat in the dining hall
for the entire year, but if any student wishes to change, he may do so at the end of the
semester.¢ one semester policy to let the whole business continue instead. He may be able to use the name of
“Ennett Industries” if he got a “one-third” cut making the HAINES SUE all the knock-downs, tional. “Uh fraternities were particularly
anxious to have the men of trouble. Flip has agreed not to give the “Industries” any unfavorable publicity, “if an
equitable cash arrangement can be worked out.”

It all seems to have worked out well, but the new arrangement will probably result in gang warfare. The exit
of this great leader will inevitably loose the destruction of unorganized crime. The catastrophe that will result will be a
tribute and a monument to Durn-Dun and the benefits of organized crime. The era of peaceful underworld activity at Davidson
is ended. And, as we said to start with, “all good things must have an end.”

CALENDAR VESPERS
February 1—Rev. George D. Heaton, D.D., Myers Park Baptist Church, Charlotte, North Carolina.
February 8—Rev. Paul T. Jones, The First Presbyterian Church, High Point, North Carolina.
February 15—Rev. J. McDowell Richards, D.D., President, Columbia Theological Seminary, Decatur, Georgia.
February 22—Rev. War Hall, D.D., Second Presbyterian Church, Charlotte, North Carolina.
February 29—The Honorable J. Melville Broughton, Raleigh, North Carolina.

CHAPEL
Monday, February 2—Prof. Jas. F. Pinkney.
Tuesday, February 3—Coach Jamerson.
Wednesday, February 4—Program by Music Faculty.
Thursday, February 5—Mr. Greet.
Friday, February 6—President David D. Jones, Bennett College, Greensboro, N.C.

Johnson Family to Give Performance For Polio Drive
The Johnson Family Singers and Larry Walker will present a program tonight at eight o'clock in Chambers Auditorium. These musicians,
who have already appeared at this musical event, will help boost the local “March of Dimes” campaign. Hugh Upchurch, chairman
of the Davidson committee for the “March of Dimes” and the “President’s Birthday Ball,” has announced that in addition to
the program of the Johnson Family at eight o'clock, there will be a Birthday Ball at nine. This ball will
be held in the Davidson V.F.W. hut. Music for this dance will be furnished by the Butch Watkins Swingtette. This
swingtette, composed of such notable musicians as Louie Palles, Joe Bachman, Bill Scruggs, McNeil Willis, Upchurch, and Coggins, is guaranteed
to keep you jumping until one a.m. Advanced admission to the ball will be: Stags, 75 cents; couples, $1.25. Admission
at the door will be: Stags, $1.00; couples, $1.50.

Col. W. P. Grace of the Davidson Reserve Officer’s Training Corps Department released this week a list of the names
of students who would lead the ROTC Battalion during the spring semester. A large percentage of the old officers were
promoted and seven enlisted men were commissioned as second lieutenants to fill the gaps in the higher echelons left by
the departure of ten men who have completed their work in the Military Department. All of the lieutenants received commissions
as second lieutenants in the Officer’s Reserve Corps.

M. “Butky” Wilkesboro, North Carolina, was elevated to the post of battalion commander, replacing Carl Pahl who commanded the unit
throughout the fall. Lieutenant Colonel Wilkesboro is a veteran of World War II, having served from March 1943 until February
1945, when he was discharged. An infantryman, he spent much of his time with the 75th Division as a platoon
guide. In addition to his work in the ROTC Department, Wilkesboro is active in campus activities. He is a member
of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity and of Scabbard and Blade honorary military fraternity.

The post of Bn. Executive Officer will be filled by another North Carolinian, Paul S. Coddington of Wilmington, who served
in World War II as both an infantryman and an engineer. Between December 1944 and February 1945, Coddington, while assigned
to the 655th Eng. Light Equipment Company, participated in two major campaigns in the European theater. The cadet, in addition
to being a member of Scabbard and Blade, is an S.A.E. major.

E. F. Crooks of Concord, North Carolina, C. K. Maxwell of Wilmington, J. E. Grey of Tarboro, North Carolina, and
P. S. “Sandy” Carnegie of Norfolk, Virginia, will serve as company commanders until May. Capt. Crooks of A Co., was
a submarine in the Pacific; Maxwell, B Co., was also in the Pacific in the Army Air Force; Gray, C
Co., was also a marine in the Pacific theater, and Carnegie, D Co., was assigned to the 30th Inf. Division,
which was very active in operations against the Japanese.

To replace the platoon leaders who were promoted, seven non-commissioned officers were made cadet second lieutenants. Those who received their
bars were R. E. Butt, H. E. Lamar, H. E. Mapes, W. T. Poston, R. K. Robbins, D. Tyler, and
G. Vance. Mapes and Tyler will lead platoons in A Co., Butt, Lamar, and Robbins are assigned to B Co.,
Poston to C Co., and Vance to D Co.

Other promotions announced included:
To be first lieutenant: J. M. Owen, Fayetteville; R. G. McGehee, Meadville, Mississippi; J. S. Lyles, Chester, S.C.; R. M.
Hollister, New Bern; H. F. Shaw, Fayetteville; N. P. Schenck, Shelby; J. P. Etheridge, Atlanta, Ga.; M. L. Pitts, Elk
Hill, Virginia, and J. W. Elkins, Davidson.
To be First Sergeants: C. V. Bolick, Davidson; W. L. Lyday, Gastonia; J. A. Wall, High Point; D. D. Rice,
Bennettsville.

SIGMA UPSILON HOLDS MEETING
The local Blue Pencil Chapter of Sigma Upsilon had its first meeting of the second semester on Thursday night, January
29, at the Sigma Alpha Epsilon house. The chapter welcomed back Brother John Payne into its fellowship. Brother Payne had
become an inactive member because of pressing duties associated with the alumni office. A poem entitled, “Nameless,” by Albert Harris
was delivered and received warmly by faculty critics. The program was on other work on a musico-drama, “Shadow on the
Sand,” by Martin Caldwell. The latter work featured ballad singing by the author.
