Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN ~ Friday, April 23, 1948

TRIALS AND... | over again—just as much as ever. | it might have become. He said, in ° cluded in a cast because of her | tainly the case with Mr. Mark (Continued From: Page One) Here's to Spring Frolics—1948: | effect that he felt Hate thee whole Cinema Comments close relation to Thespis, Sabre. He spends his so-called WOUNDED our croonimate to pict | D) — of Davidson College was looking JES cree kd Wed.,-Thurs., April 28-29 | winter shuttling back and forth be- her up and tell her you'll be at | MEZA ELECTED ... on in approval of their beginnings, ¢ By WALTER MANN “IF WINTER COMES” tween three women and then in the at 5, } (Continued From Page One) ancan ada Of: What they The progressive program planned caster are at it again. It seems a In answer to Mr. Snelly’s ques- glorious SL ARLLS time he’ is forced THEI T Gis et fort THON OPTie Werle bo are electing might accomplish in the future. by the owners of the David: Little surprise for them to be walk- tion we might say that it is some: to cease shuttling and go back to ble ride to Charlotte in n also Meza received the duties of his | Theater has just had another | ing, however, since it is usually | times for spring to get quite far er club coupe, with four ot] loc A, McConnell, of Birming-| office with a presentation of his point added to it it now plans to | the custom for them to be shown | behind. Or if spring does not get Fri,-Sat., April 30-May 1 Dancing isn't Alabama, was named to the | program for the growth of the | have no more late shows. This | riding in as many different auto- | far behind, one gets far behind in “THE WRECK OF THE that you can't live the post of Pan Hellenic Council rep-| club. He urged the clubbers to | comes wise in view of the fact | mobiles as possible during the | spring. Of course, in justification HESPERUS” is—but you don't resentative for the year. | make the Campus Club a working that many a student on returning | course of the picture. Perhaps they | of Percy's question to the wind, we “It was sad when that great time; in fact, I don't feel I'll The Campus Club is the | organization, warning that “you from some late show in the past | have become just as bored with | might say that even if Spring is a | ship went down.” : much of anything privileged to see an | get only out of a thing that what has been heard to say, “I have | this method of taking up film as | little slow, winter occasionally is (ID) herring. you put into it.” He advised them | no more of that? If the students | the movie audiences and have de- | followed by something a little bet- CLASS ELECTIONS The next time he’s at the installation banquet held at the Adair House to | will have no more of it, it seems | manded that they be allowed to use | ter. The better thing that followed (Continued From Page One) on the bus, you might join the club, “for there are,” he only wise for the owners of the | another mode of transportation pro- | the past winter at Davidson was a | Lonnie Turnipseed of Statesville, Before yet | Stitchlin said, “many whose assistance | movie house to havetio more of it iced by nature jaw. Against snowballing, perhaps I was victorious over Bill Cameron the weekend’s membership. This group needs. Therefore it has been discontinued as far as either Lizabeth or Burt. This is the spring spoken of. No one of Wilmington, N.C., bus growing smaller and smaller. Id est, no more late shows. For Waking Alone is concerned, that one can deny the fact that the Rising Sophomore Class behind its ck hi eSr. She looked like a million dollars. The benefit of those a little slow entirely impossible. If Miss Scott amendment was sprung on us, Randy Taylor of Nashville, you tell yourself, that been da Raa ek MOTE SUNG CAT: All wrinkled as green on the intake. There will be no more old not walk with some young gentleman, the monster would not rear its ugly head. All of the above discussion obviously has no relation to the movie. Yet the spring spoken of in the title of this movie is somewhat like the type of spring alluded to above. This type of spring might be defined as a spring that is worse than the winter that it is supposed to be behind. This is certain. The entire point in Miss Scott's appearing in the movie would be destroyed, since she appears solely for the purpose of calling the ugly-headed monster out. Loosely, she has never been in. 

Monday and Tuesday, April 26 and 27, “I WALK ALONE” (Lizabeth Scott and Burt Lancaster). 

It was just that she needed a new frame. Week shows which are not quite so late will be shown. Miss Scott's appearing in the movie would be destroyed, since she appears solely for the purpose of calling the ugly-headed monster out. Loosely, she has never been in. 

Randy Taylor of Nashville, Tenn., was selected by his classmates to head that group next year. He was victorious over Auburn Lambeth of Decatur, Ga., in the final round. Also elected were Neal Leach of De Funiak Springs, Florida, vice president, and Ted Bowen, Decatur, Ga., secretary-treasurer. 

At Ease! This is the one command we have gladly carried over to civilian life, especially in the hot summer months. You can be at ease and still look sharp in one of our full-cut Sport Shirts. Several colors and styles offered. $1.95 to $4.95— 

Be right and in solid comfort too when you wear NORTHCOOL Suits from WRENN’S. Featured in summer $35. Fall in line with the ’Cats that line with the latest styles. Sport Coats and Slacks are in. Go well most anytime, most anywhere. 

SPORT COATS $16.50-27.50 
SUMMER SLACKS 

Wrenn’s Men's Shop 
KANNAPOLIS DAVIDSON 

“CHESTERFIELD AND IT’S MY SMOKE.” I ARE OLD FRIENDS. “CORONER CREEK” COLUMBIA'S FORTHCOMING CINECOLOR PRODUCTION 

WHY... I smoke Chesterfield (FROM A SERIES OF STATEMENTS BY PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMERS) 

“Chesterfield is my brand. I’ve been smoking them for about 16 years. I like them because they’re mild and really satisfy. I know the kind of tobacco that’s in them... it’s the best. Chesterfield buys the best grades of tobacco. It’s mild, light, ripe, sweet-smoking tobacco. They pay the highest prices for their tobacco. It’s top quality leaf.” 

TOBACCO FARMER, PARIS, KY. 

CHESTERFIELD ALWAYS MILDER BETTER TASTING COOLER SMOKING