DAVIDSONIAN OFFERS PRIZES FOR STUDENT FEATURE ARTICLES

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

DEATH OF FLEAGLE

Volume XXXVI DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, FEB. 20, 1948

PROF. FRED K. FLEAGLE DIES SUDDENLY

‘Religion’ Is Dead Now At Davidson

Believe it or not, but Davidson's ‘Religion’ is dead. It passed away several months ago with little or no recognition from the student body. The old ‘37’ car, called Religion, finally gave up the ghost after serving the college faithfully for the last five or six years. This old car, if indeed it might be called a car, was a regular deputant and gave considerable service despite its dilapidated condition. Pinckney May, in the out of commission in the Bay, managed to keep it running. To that end, the ‘Religion’ could not be thanked enough. This lonely little town got a part of nowhere.

GOVERNMENT POST

Professor James P. Pinckney of the Davidson Political Science Department has been mentioned frequently in recent days as a possible choice for one of the vacant posts on the vital Civil Aeronautics Board. The final decision has been delayed due to a disagreement within the ranks of the Democratic party. Pinckney is being backed by Edwin Johnson, Democratic senator from Colorado, and Gail Sullivan, Democratic National committeeman. It is understood that President Truman favored the appointment of the Davidson professor, but that he was forced by pressure from North Carolina’s senators to reconsider. Reports from reliable sources reveal that both Senator Hoey and Senator Umstead, in addition to State Senator Joe Blythe, are against the appointment and have been lobbying for Caesar Cone, of Greensboro, to be named to the board. The president will probably hold a series of conferences with Democratic leaders before announcing his decision.

Born in West Virginia in 1906, Prof. Pinckney entered Davidson as a student in 1923, graduating four years later with an A.B. degree. While at Davidson he was a campus leader, playing end on the 1926 state championship eleven. He then studied law at the University of Colorado, engaging in private practice after completing his courses there. Before coming back to Davidson as a professor, he served on the legal staff of the NRA and worked in a special capacity with the I.C.C. During World War II, he served as a lieutenant colonel in the Army Air Force stationed in the Far East.

In order to meet this terrible loss, it has been decided to run a contest among the student body to name the new car. Anyone that has a quaint idea for a name can submit it to them. The person with the best original name will be awarded a one-year subscription to The Davidsonian. The contest will end February 21, and the winner will be announced in the campus newspaper.

DETROIT SYMPHONY TO APPEAR HERE

On Monday evening, March 15, 1948, Davidson College and the surrounding community will be honored by a concert given by the Detroit Symphony Orchestra. It will be under the able and experienced direction of Karl Krueger. On the afternoon of the same day, the orchestra will give a youth concert for which it is noted. In describing such a concert, it was said, “for young people of all ages who want to learn more about the orchestra and have its instruments explained to them.”

STUDENT CHRISTIAN MOVEMENT

A delegate from the Davidson chapter of the Methodist Student Movement attended the North Carolina Methodist Student Movement Conference which was held at Centenary Methodist Church in Winston-Salem on February 6, 7, 8. Harold Ehrensperger, editor of Motive, was the keynote speaker on the theme, “The Church Is One Foundation.” From Davidson were “Red” Williams, president of the local chapter; Grady Spires, who presided over one of the discussion groups; and Henry Koestline, who was elected to the Conference Council. Also attending were Bill McCrary, vice president of the Methodist Student Council, and Bill McCrary.

Of all things that get into your mouth and attack your teeth, the one thing that can’t get out is the dentist. Toothpaste can’t get out.

TRUSTEES FAIL TO ANNOUNCE PLANS

The Trustees of Davidson College met and departed on Wednesday, February 18, without revealing to the staff of THE DAVIDSONIAN any of the details of the actions taken during the lengthy session. Although it was admitted that a great deal of time was devoted to a discussion of athletics, no member of the board revealed what actually was done. It was hinted, however, that the group did vote to make definite changes in the college’s existing athletic policy. In view of recent trends in student and faculty opinions, it is probable that one of the changes consisted of an increase in funds available for scholarships. Rumor has it that the trustees also considered the question of future opponents for the Wildcat grid machine, a problem which has been widely discussed in recent faculty gatherings. It was also made clear that not to be outdone by students, faculty, and alumni, the trustees looked into the prospects for beginning construction on the new version of the “New Gym.” Costs were examined but beyond that, the details are not known. The recent suppression of a temporary hangar (Continued on Page Six).

By BOB HOLLISTER

It has long been felt by the members of the editorial, business, and sports staffs of THE DAVIDSONIAN that this paper could be of much greater interest to the student body as a whole than it is at present. This situation exists principally because of two reasons, both of which are equally important. First, because of our system of daily chapel exercises and our relatively small student body, it is extremely difficult to present any information which is news in the strict sense of the word. Second, from the first day of entrance to the final day of graduation, 90 percent of the student body never participate in the activities of their school paper. It would not be practical for that 90 percent to interview various people or write news stories each week, but if the members of that group were to manifest genuine interest by submitting an occasional “Letter to the Editor” on some controversial subject, or feature article in which a majority of the student body were interested, the value of this newspaper to every Davidson student would increase immeasurably. In an effort to stimulate active“*Y’ ANNOUNCEMENTS

Salem-Davidson Day will be held on the Salem campus March 13th. Salem YW is making plans. More information next week.

Coffee and doughnuts will be served at 9:50 each Sunday morning in the YMCA for those late sleepers who miss breakfast and wish to attend Sunday School at 10:15.

SIGMA DELTA PI SELECTS NINE

Sigma Delta Pi, national honorary Spanish fraternity, initiated nine new members at their meeting Monday night, February 16. Those initiated were: Ed Coffin, Dana Drake, Page Jackson, J. D. McLean, Virgil Pino, C. H. Reid, Sam Robinson, Sandy Tandy. The ceremony was conducted in Spanish with Professors Trakas, Goldiere, and Blythe officiating. Sigma Delta Pi meets with the Spanish Club every first and third Monday in the Quadrangle Room. Its present officers are Quentin Cooper, president; Art Lindsay, vice president; and Dave Harrison, secretary-treasurer.

To meet the requirements of Sigma Delta Pi, one must take Spanish beyond that which is required for the undergraduate student.

CHAPEL HILL TWENTY-FIVE

Twenty-five North Carolina students met on the campus of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, February 15, to discuss plans for the statewide convention of “N. C. Wallace” to be held on February 28-29 at Black Mountain. Among the colleges which have already pledged to send delegates to the convention are Guilford, Shaw, J. C. Smith, UNC, Duke, Fayetteville, Bennett, Davidson, State College for Men, Elon, Emmanuel, St. Augustine, WCUNC, Wake Forest, and Presbyterian Junior College. In addition, 20,000 calls to students all over the state have been distributed this week.

The planning committee for the convention announced a program for the two-day meeting which will include speeches by Richardson, chairman of the Wallace for President Club at WCUNC, and Leonard Nelson, national director of Students for Wallace.

DAVIDSONIAN CHALLENGES STUDENT WRITERS

To encourage participation on the part of individual students in the construction of your newspaper, THE DAVIDSONIAN announces the opening of a feature writing contest, the first contest of its kind ever sponsored by THE DAVIDSONIAN. This contest is open to any member of the student body—and student body members only—who wish to submit an entry, the exception being the case of DAVIDSONIAN editorial staff members. The following regulations apply to all entries:

1. Articles must not be more than 600 nor less than 500 words.
2. All entries may be either typewritten or written in ink.
3. All entries must be submitted sealed in an envelope in which a separate slip of paper has also been placed bearing the full name, post office box number, and room number of the student entering the article. The envelope should be addressed as follows: Davidsonian Feature Contest, Box 605, Davidson, N. C.
4. All entries become the property of THE DAVIDSONIAN.
5. Contest closes midnight, March 31, 1948.

All entries will be given partial consideration by the judging group, which will be the editor in chief, the associate editor, and the four managing editors of THE DAVIDSONIAN. A sizable cash award will be made to the writers of the two best papers submitted. Both of the winning articles, along with the third best, will be published in THE DAVIDSONIAN before the end of the school year.

The writing of a feature article was selected for this contest because it gives every man in the student body an equal chance to compete. You may write on any subject you choose and will be judged on the merit, real humor, and ability to hold the interest of the reader. Any student capable of writing an article of this kind that is, an informal feature story dealing with any subject you care to write upon. Your subject may concern Davidson College or the students or an item of current interest—anything at all! Good luck!

Heywood Brinegar, president of the Davidson YMCA, sits at the wheel of the “Y’s” new car, purchased recently to replace the famous “Religion” used by student deputations in the past. Bill McLean, secretary of the Y, looks on.

NUMBER 17.

Davidson To Be Popular Language Instructor Passes

Professor Fred Fleagle of the Spanish Department died suddenly in Charlotte Memorial Hospital early Thursday morning after an illness of three hours. The professor is survived by his wife, Mertin, and two children, a daughter, Alice Jane, and a son, Frederic.

Students Act As Scout Leaders

Two Davidson students are acting as leaders in the local Boy Scout program, which extends leadership aid to two white and two colored troops in the college area. Professor Davidson and Cornelius have made notable progress during the past semester and plan to be even more successful this spring. The aid given consists chiefly of furnishing leadership to the local Scoutmasters and training the scouts for merit badges and further advancement.

At the beginning of the year, the Davidson colored troop was reorganized and re-registered. The prime need of the troop, leadership, has been filled with the appointment of the Negro Board of Review in Mecklenburg County under the capable leadership of A. L. Reinhardt, Watt Jeffries, and Bill Hutcheson. The boys have made good advancement.

The Davidson Cub Pack recently held its annual father and son banquet. A film on conservation was shown for the program by the YMCA. The Cub Pack is headed by Mr. Pinkney and has been aided by Wilson Crumwacker.

The Cornelius troop has been reorganized by Flynn, Moon, Oaks, and Bruce. Lack of leadership has always been a main problem, but through the efforts of the two Davidson men, a meeting of the troop committee was held, the need was presented, and it is being acted on.

Under general supervision by Don Coffey, plans for this semester include extensive, continued use of movies at the meetings for both entertainment and effective instruction; moving the program outdoors with hiking, nature study, swimming, cooking, and overnight excursions; increased advancement and improvement of local cooperation.

ODE TO PAN HEL

Tho’ our featurists assail you
And our columnists cause you woe,
We all enjoyed Midwinter:
Tho’ we'd never tell you so.

We all enjoyed Midwinter:
Tho’ we'd never tell you so.