CLEAN MIND
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1949
STRONG BODY
THE DAVIDSONIAN
SOUND FAITH
PAGE FIVE

Y.M.C.A. LAUNCHES IMPROVED PROGRAM
From The Secretary's Desk...
By BILL SMITH

Are you very much interested in the “Y” and its work on the Davidson Campus? Some are; however, many of
us merely accept it and never sincerely examine our interest in it. There seem to be at least four good
reasons why all of us should be vitally concerned with the “Y” and its program.

I. First, it is the channel through which we can give expression to our religious convictions. There are only fifteen
men in our entire student body who are not members of some church. This is indicative of some sort of
conviction. One who is genuinely convinced that God is, desires to express his feeling in a wholesome and profitable way.
This practical application of one’s faith is made possible through the varied activities of the campus “Y.” It provides us
with the opportunity of expressing that which we cherish as highly as anything — our right to the free Faith.

II. Second, the “Y” is designed to broaden our college experience beyond that of purely academic pursuit. The purpose of
a college is to prepare one for his station in life. The “Y” makes an effort to contribute its important
part to that preparation. One does not necessarily have to be active in “Y” work to derive his benefit. Many
phases of the total program are designed so as to benefit those who will give their time to receive. We
see an example of this in the Spring and Fall services held each year on the campus under the sponsorship
of the “Y.” If we are interested in the program and policy of this organization we cannot help but broaden
the whole of our college experience.

III. Third, it helps us to form the habit of giving ourselves to someone or something outside of ourselves. This
is admittedly a very important principle in living a wholesome life. Most of us are inclined to be selfish with
our time, our personality, and our possessions. There are few who will admit that this is good. Therefore it is
wise that we seek to develop less selfish attitudes as we prepare for our particular path through life. We believe
in this principle so strongly that about one hundred and fifty men are willing to give of their time unselfishly
to help those who need them. Then too, every year we have nearly one hundred percent of our student body
that responds generously and nobly to the annual “Y” Christmas Gift Fund. More often than not we really do for
ourselves when we do for others.

IV. Fourth, we should be concerned with the “Y” program because we actually have an investment in it. It is
primarily of the students and for the students. The financial obligations are met largely by a part of the student
activity fee and the Sunday evening offerings. The actual work it does is done by students. With this sort of
an investment, it seems only logical that we should be concerned with what the “Y” does.

'Y' Sunday School Conducted In Lounge

Each Sabbath morning at 10:15 a Sunday School Class is held in the lounge of the Guest House for all
students who wish to attend. The teachers for these classes have been various members of the faculty. Each teacher has
attempted to present the lesson at student level, applying the lesson to college life and practical situations. Different students each
Sunday lead a short devotional service before the lesson is delivered. Bob Gay, Y cabinet member, is directly in charge
of this aspect of the Y program. He has followed the custom of past years by having coffee and doughnuts
served just before the class convenes. This is for the fellows who do not arise in time to enjoy the
morning meal. It is well to note that the Sunday School Class is not limited to any one denomination or
group, but welcomes all students desiring to be taught the standard Sunday School lesson from Sabbath to Sabbath.

Chapel Programs Show Purpose of ‘Y’

Everybody has a mouthpiece or some means of communication by which it can express itself. It is this function which
the Monday morning chapel program claims for the YMCA. The function of this chapel program is to inform the student
body of the purposes and projects of the Y.M.C.A. The Y plays a very definite part in the lives of
all the students at Davidson. It is a means of unifying the whole student body into a project of Christian
helpfulness for the students themselves and for the community round about the school. It is therefore the duty of the
chapel program to show the students some of their own needs and the needs of others. It is the first
purpose of these selected Mondays to show the students that the Y.M.C.A. is not a group of pre-ministerial students, but
is made up of men of the same substance with the same likes and dislikes all other average Davidson students
have. The Y.M.C.A. is for every Christian to work in and enjoy, whether he is planning on going into business,
medicine, or any other field. It is therefore, simply an organized outlet for Christian young men. It is with this
principle in mind, that the Y cabinet has planned this series of chapel programs for the year. So far there
has been a variety in the programs which seems to have been enjoyed by the whole student body. This past
Monday the Y.M.C.A. worked in cooperation with the Student Council of Davidson to help put across the true outlook and
cooperative function of each student toward his fellow students and his own student government. The program for the rest of
the year should prove to be quite entertaining for all. These are some of the programs scheduled: the famous Johnson
Family Singers; the Davidson Male Chorus; the Davidson Concert Band; Mr. Melvin Sipes, a great violinist with versatile Alfred Neuman
at the piano; then it is hoped that the Johnson C. Smith University Chorus will give us a program; and
a program that should delight all Davidson students, the Queen’s Choral Club.

Gray-Y Team with “Y” Directors

On October 15, forty young Davidsonians desiring a pure impulse from the wilds of nature made a pilgrimage to Montreat
College as guests of their freshman class. The transportation was furnished by Montreat, and after a five-hour trip, these nature
lovers arrived in time to enjoy a tantalizing meal as a beginning of their weekend. This was the first time
that such a party had been undertaken by the Y.M.C.A. or any other organization on the campus, and it is
our hope that this will become tradition. A square dance was held Saturday night in which the music was furnished
by three of Davidson's cultured hill-billies. We also furnished the caller, but Montreat furnished the most important ingredient — young
ladies. During intermission their sophomore class entertained everyone with refreshments, and several girls showed forth their practiced talents. After the
dance the couples bid goodnight in Davidson-Montreat fashion. On Sunday morning the boys escorted the freshman class to church and
then retired for dinner. Forty Davidsonians returned to campus late Sunday afternoon with varied tales about their retreat to Nature.
It seemed that Nature was too much with them in the form of two days of continuous rain. With the
blossoming forth of new romances, we expect several of these boys to be going back to Montreat in the near
future.

The Y.M.C.A. sponsored another party on October 1st, when Salem College was our guest for an afternoon and night. One
hundred and thirty girls invaded our campus, but the Davidson boys soon had the situation in hand before they could
dig in. The “D” club gave a dance in the old gym which was brilliantly decorated in white and red.
The dance finally began after several hours work on a coy phonograph. The dance was culminated with fifteen minutes of
music furnished by “The Cripple Creek Boys,” an ingenious group that has become followers of the famous Roy Acuff.

Emphasis In Boy’s Work Stressed In Year's Program

The Boy’s Department of the Y.M.C.A. plays a very active part in the lives of the boys in the communities
of Davidson, Cornelius, and Huntersville. When one thinks of a Y.M.C.A. he automatically thinks of boys and recreation. Our purpose
is to take these boys, encourage active participation in sports and at the same time cultivate habits that will result
in strong character. One of the primary influences is sportsmanship. Many boys form their ideas of good and bad sportsmanship
at this early stage, and good leadership at this time can influence his thinking a great deal. Here, the students
of Davidson come in for an active part for our department is run entirely by the students. Two or three
times each week, the student leaders go into each of these communities and work with the boys. The groups range
in size from about twelve or fifteen to thirty or forty members. They are divided into two age groups, the
first called the Gra-Y which is made up of boys from nine to twelve years of age. The other group
is called the Jr. Hi-Y and is made up of boys from twelve to fifteen years of age. With these
two age groups, this year we plan to have at least two teams in each community, therefore we need at
least two leaders in each place. So far we have had a good response from the student body, but we
could use a few more leaders. Our present student leaders include Bob Griggsby, Cecil Rhodes, Bob Poston, Charlie Mann, John
Nisbet, Charlie Hawkins, and Mac Doubles. As I stated above our purpose is to encourage the participation in sports and
teach good sportsmanship. Therefore, the first thing a leader does upon entering a community is to organize a football (Continued
on Page Eight).the Christmas Gift Fund Reduced In '49 Plan

For some years now, the Y.M.C.A. on the campus has sponsored large and successful gift projects for various worthy causes.
Recalling the Gifts Fund during the past several years, the student body has every right to pride itself over the
remarkable success with which each of these drives has met. None of the gifts in recent years has been less
than five thousand dollars, and last year's drive rang an all-time high when over six thousand dollars were contributed. Because
the “giving spirit” is naturally at its strongest during the Christmas season, the campaign will be launched again this year
in the month of December. With a slightly reduced student body and with the sources of giving not quite so
bountiful as previous years have found them to be, perhaps it would be wise to set the goal at $4500.

As we look at the Gift Fund drives yet in our memories, we find that our generosity has benefited probably
far beyond our imagination people in dire need of other countries. The men who are now Seniors gave in their
freshman year to the rebuilding of Hangchow Christian College in China; the next year our gift went to the construction
of a Y.M.C.A. building in Japan; and then last year we sent our record sum of over six thousand dollars
to the “Casualty” students of Marburg University in Germany. In the past, the projects have exhibited great merit not only
in the need they were fulfilling but also in the proclamation of the message of Jesus Christ which they embodied.

Social Side Of “Y” Expands Greatly In Direction Of Montreat, Salem, and Queens

The girls were fostered in the various boarding houses and then led to Richardson stadium to witness a football game
between the Davidson Wildcats and the Presbyterian Blue Hose. Nothing seemed to go right that day because before the boys
had hardly become acquainted with their guests, they had to pile on their buses and return to Salem. How quickly
do the moments run for those in love!

The social department of the Y.M.C.A. was swamped on September 17th, when two hundred and sixty freshmen demanded that we
arrange for a party with the Queens freshmen. Several sagacious social departments put their heads together, and within a few
hours, the party was arranged. The Davidson freshmen descended on Queens like a hawk on a chicken, and within a
few moments, Queens campus was rocking. After several hours, the freshmen returned to Davidson in bewilderment: the last phase of
their orientation had been completed.

Indoor Recreation Facilities Inadequate

One of the most regularly voiced complaints of the whole campus concerns the definite inadequacy of the indoor recreational facilities.
The two small antiquated rooms in the Y Guest House contain the entire indoor recreational equipment — one ping pong
table and one pool table! Do such facilities warrant complaints? The Y cabinet readily agrees with the student body that
such an inadequate program as this should be corrected. It has long been realized that the Y.M.C.A. program on the
campus will not be complete until this embarrassing situation has been corrected. Sure, you say, it's been realized, but nothing
has been done about it. Now, just to clue you in, something has been done about it. The plans concerning
this problem have received much notice this year. Even late last year, plans were formulated on the supposition that the
Y recreational facilities would be moved to the old gym when the new gym is completed. These plans are still
the basis for hopes of the cabinet that this problem may soon be remedied.

If and when such thoughts on the program do materialize, here is what will be on hand for all students
who are interested. Adequate ping pong tables, pool tables, probably badminton and shuffleboard courts will be available at all hours.
Other more strenuous games will be played in the new gym. As these plans proceed, the Student Store and the
Y office will also be transferred to the old gym and thus this faithful old building will become the real
center of student activity on the campus. With such recreational facilities available so near the Student Store, certainly their usefulness
will be greatly increased. This is not written in defense of the Y program, its actions speak for this; but
these words are prepared to give to student and alumni an idea of one of the great objectives of the
Y.M.C.A. on the campus. Through hard work, cooperation, and the guidance of Almighty God, such objectives shall soon become realities.

From The President's Chair... By BILL ALEXANDER

One of the most poignant stories of atheists concerns a rich infidel who, on his death, was accorded a very
elaborate funeral with an expensive casket and multitudes of flowers. One of the friends of the deceased remarked about the
finery and brilliance of the funeral in glowing terms. Another friend was more cynical: “What a shame—all dressed up and
no place to go!” This illustrates one accusation that must never be predicated about the YMCA: that it is all
dressed up and has no place to go.

Most of this page is attempting to answer the question: “What is your YMCA Doing?” While this particular column is
more concerned with, “Where is the YMCA going and what is it for?” Other than an experiential knowledge of the
Y's providing ping pong facilities and chapel programs, few of us have any idea of what the YMCA means to
student life. The YMCA sincerely regrets this and is anxious that its purposes be neither misunderstood nor confused.

First, the YMCA is not a steam valve for the excess heat and energies of emotionally maladjusted ministerial students who
require altruistic channels of exercise to achieve integrated personality development, and secondly, it is not an organization designed for the
convenience of nearby homemakers who find difficulty in keeping their children out of trouble. The YMCA is the response of
a Christian student body to the impetus and motivation of Christ's spirit. Its activity, both on and off the “Hill”
is nothing other than the outgrowth of a campus of Christian students. When it ceases to be Christ-centered, at that
moment it has no existence.

The nature of the YMCA is implied in its full name. The “Young Men's” emphasizes that it belongs to the
students, is supported by the students, and works for the students. It will succeed to the extent that the students
contribute to it and familiarize themselves with it. “Christian Association” implies its ultimate and basic foundation. Just as the YMCA
is not limited to any one activity, so neither is the religion the YMCA represents. This doesn’t mean that a
distinction can be drawn between a “Christian” and “non-Christian” pool table, but there is a difference between a pool table
in a Charlotte dive and one in the YMCA.

Briefly, your YMCA has ten objectives which correspond to its four commissions: (1) An active student spiritual life. (2) An
active social program. (3) A representation for the student body to the surrounding community. Our neighbors largely get their impressions
of Davidson through the services of your YMCA. (4) An attempt to connect the Davidson student body with world-wide trends
and movements. Other than the newspaper, your YMCA is usually our only touch with “the lands.”

Prayer Meetings Supplement Academic Week With Needed Spiritual Experience

As the Y.M.C.A. goes about its task of serving the Student Body by cultivating the spiritual life of each student
on the campus, it finds no greater road of service than through weekly Hall Prayer Meetings. The tradition of these
short devotional periods has become one of the most hallowed and useful customs handed down through the years of the
College. Many students have been able to point to this one service as their chief source of spiritual development.

The purpose of these meetings is conceived to be to provide a spiritual experience for all men on the hall;
to provide a life and an opportunity to deepen convictions. At the beginning of the school year, this department surveyed
the whole tradition of the Hall Prayer Meetings and attempted to point the work this year in the direction of
greater service to a larger number of men. The progress thus far has been very successful in achieving this goal
with a record-making mark of 476 boys attending the first night. These meetings have already been providing a new spiritual
opportunity.

The organizational setup of this division of the Y is centered around the twenty-six Hall Leaders. These men are responsible
for the supervision of the weekly meetings and are in constant touch with the Y Cabinet. Another phase of their
work involves the encouragement and support of daily devotions on the part of all members of their hall. They work
hand in hand with the six Dormitory Leaders who have general supervision over the work in each of the dormitories.
They are thus perhaps the closest link between each student and the organization of the Y. The men selected this
year to serve in this important work were chosen with an emphasis upon their ability to get the support of
the men on the different halls and to lead them through the year.

One or two new steps have been emphasized by these leaders and are being generally observed throughout the campus. One
of these new steps is the rule of limiting the meetings to 15 minutes. It is felt that this policy,
understood by all students, will help increase attendance and support. Emphasis is being placed on avoiding preaching and the proverbial
“praying marathons.” Sincerity, simplicity, and brevity are being stressed. The Hall Prayer Meetings are the responsibility of every student. They
can become a source of real spiritual development for every man on the campus. They require the support of us
all.
