H. L. Shaw Presents Vereen Bell Literary Award To Charles Davis

DON’T FORGET THAT DATE FOR ‘‘D’’ CLUB FOOLIES MARCH 22!

Volume XXXVII

Charles Davis won the Max story. Honorable mention was extended to R. B. Johnny, and to R. E. Barron, both of which were short stories. The presentation of the award was made by Harry L. Shaw, distinguished editor, author, and professor, who addressed the student body on the importance of emotional appeal in creative writing. Shaw said that, while colleges frequently put out the facts but fail to train students in self-expression, Davidson provides a particularly good education in this line of self-expression. He pointed out that the twenty-five most popular books of all time have been based on this principle. Mr. Shaw added that this year’s Vereen Bell Award winner employed this technique in an appealing manner, indicating a creative writer of great promise and considerable actual accomplishment.

The Vereen Bell Award is given each year in honor of Vereen Bell, a Davidson alumnus who died in 1942 in the Battle of the Philippines. After his death, the relatives and friends of Vereen Bell set up the award to be given each year in his honor in connection with creative writing. Each year the award amounts to approximately fifty dollars in value. In past years it has been the practice to give the award on his short story, “And Johnny,” and to R. E. Barron, both of which were short stories.

Local Bible Mentor Writes New Book

Recently one of Davidson's Bible professors journeyed to New York to deliver his findings from extensive research in the works of his old Bible teacher. Dr. Charles R. Eberhardt has now written a book entitled “Ministers of the Word.” Dr. Eberhardt has recognized the relevance of the Scriptures for the life of Christian leaders qualified to meet contemporary needs. He has pointed out the necessity of giving the Bible a basic place in training. This book reveals the research into the life of Dr. Wilbert Webster White, who was president of the Biblical Seminary in New York, which he founded and led for many years. Dr. White had the conviction that the Bible had crucial significance for the evangelical church. This conviction deepened as he continued his study. Before his death, Dr. White asked Dr. Eberhardt to write the account of his lifework. Before the writing of this book could ever be begun, Dr. Eberhardt had to spend much time in careful research into the material left by his teacher. From this research has come a book which tells how the Bible can be released to work its own influence and speak its own message of relevance for today. Dr. Eberhardt says of his book: “The book is a clarion call to Protestantism to return to biblical sources. Also, it is an ardent defense of the place of the Bible in education. It attempts to set forth clearly the profound principles of interpretation.”

Student Donations Swell Blood Supply Of Charlotte Bank

Thursday of this week, a mobile unit of the Charlotte Blood Bank will be on the Davidson campus to help this program. Eighty-five students have pledged to donate a pint of their blood to this cause. If not used within twenty-one days, the blood will be processed and converted into plasma, which will enable the holders to keep it indefinitely. It will be used in the Charlotte area and within a radius of seventy-five miles. In the past, students of the college have rallied to the support of worthwhile organizations that have known needs. Many expressions of gratitude have been received from the Charlotte Blood Bank for the number of donors. Donations are sponsored by the national honorary pre-medical fraternity, Alpha Epsilon Delta. This is a most worthy cause, and students are encouraged to participate.

HOG SHOOTIN' WINS ACCLAIM IN CREATIVE WRITING CONTEST

The Vereen Bell Award for the best piece of creative writing entered in the Vereen Bell Contest was presented to Charles Dietrick for “Letter for Hog Shootin.”

Famous Pianist To Give Recital

Jean Casadesus, a famous pianist, will give a recital on March 15, in Chambers Auditorium. This will be his fourth performance in the Artist Series sponsored by the Music Department. The Southern Symphony Orchestra will present a concert in Chambers Auditorium on April 20. Mr. Casadesus carries on a tradition of musical excellence, as his father and great-uncles were also renowned musicians.

TIME CHANGED

Hall prayer meeting time has been changed from 10 o'clock to 10:30 on Wednesday nights in accordance with a poll of the different hall groups conducted recently. The Student Store has volunteered to close its doors between 10:30 and 10:45 on prayer meeting nights.

Craven And Rankin Tapped By Alpha Epsilon Delta

Tom Craven, Sandy Rankin, and Herb Meza are part of the force of volunteers who gave blood to the Red Cross through AED, the honorary pre-medical society.

Scabbard And Blade Signs Knauff For April 2 Dance

Scabbard and Blade Society, at its recent March 2 meeting, drew up final plans for the annual Scabbard and Blade Military Ball to be held at the Morris Field Officers Club, Saturday night, April 2. The ball will feature the music of Billy Knauff and his orchestra and will begin at 8 p.m. and last until midnight. Tickets will be placed on sale soon and will be available to members of the student body. It is hoped that every student will attend. Students are encouraged to wear their uniforms. In the event a uniform is not worn, the attire is formal. 

Work On Campus Improvements Begin As Plans Materialize

By JOHN HOBART

Grading for new campus walks and a handsome new parking area is now under way. Mr. Charles E. Gillette, a landscape architect employed by the college, designed the improvements which are being executed by Blythe Brothers Construction Company. The parking area, which will be located behind the south wing of Chambers Building, will accommodate many cars. Students are requested not to park in this area until the construction is completed.date about 45 cars. It will be similarly badly needed at the infirmary where the donations were made. Faced with the asphalt-type pavement and will be surrounded by rest areas with concrete curbing. In the center of the area will be a circle 20 feet in diameter which will be planted in grass. The members of the Blade are planning this year's ball, the finest ever. The predominant shrubs in landscaping the plot, which will be used for faculty parking, will be evergreens.

New walks, which will also be of the asphalt-type surface, will be constructed from the front of the West and Georgia dormitories to the north door of Chambers. Another will run from the front of Watts to the steps in front of the old gymnasium; from here it will continue to Fraternity Court with a gravel surface. Also, a walk will be built from the front door of the new parking area to the front campus, running parallel to the building from the "D" road to the traffic light on Main Street. On the north side, a new walk will run parallel to the building from the "D" back to the road running behind the old gymnasium. On the south side of Chambers, a walk will also run parallel to the building and will start at the new parking area, cross the "D," and continue across the front campus to Main Street.

Phi Society Elects New Members

At the last meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society, twelve new members were duly elected into the group. They are as follows: Robinson, Art Lindsay, Dave Boyer, Messan Batak, Lan, Van, Lonnie Turnipseed, R. P. Covington, Bob Meck, John Calhoun. Following the initiation, the three best essays by the new brothers were read. John Calhoun won first place, Art Lindsay won second place, and Dave Boyer took third place. The rest of the initiates made short three-minute talks which included a great variety of subjects from Bach to Bebop. The new brothers were highly commended for their work.

Twenty-Four Seniors Will Receive Scholastic Honors

Accompanying the list of candidates for graduation in June, the announcement was made that twenty-four members of the class of 1949 have achieved honors for outstanding scholastic ability. Three will receive their degrees summa cum laude, and twenty-one cum laude. Summa cum laude is awarded to men whose grade point average is 3.5 or higher. Cum laude is awarded to men whose grade point average is between 3.0 and 3.5.

Columbia Seminary Group Visits Campus

A deputation of students from Columbia Theological Seminary spent Friday, Saturday, and Sunday of last week on the campus. The activities included many conferences with students who are considering the ministry as a life work and those who have already decided to go into full-time service in that field. On Friday evening at the guest house, they showed a very colorful film that was made on the Columbia campus. The picture, besides showing the physical properties of the seminary, presented scenes that characterized many aspects of the school’s program. Following this picture, there was an informal bull session during which many questions were asked and answered about the seminary and the ministry.

This group was in charge of the chapel program Friday morning. Following the reading of the Scripture by Al Harris and a prayer by Lee Willingham, Miles Wood took a unique approach to the story of David and Goliath. By narrating the story in a quite vivid fashion, Miles showed how David took the small resources that he had, a sling and a few small stones, and performed a great feat. Fred Stair, who heads the team and is the assistant to the president of Union, will preach at the vesper service Sunday night. He has visited the campus in years past with deputations and is known to many of the students now in the college, though he graduated from Davidson before the war. While he was here, Fred made quite a name for himself, being president of the student body and a grid star. Two other Davidson men who are on the team are Lamar Williamson and Till McLean of the class of 1947. Bill served as president of the student body that year and returned the following year as "Y" secretary.

Weather Report

Davidsonians will have a near full moon over the weekend, with fair warm days and clear cool nights at least through Saturday and possibly Sunday. Just good love-making weather for all. Temperatures will be about normal to slightly above.