FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1949 PAGE TWO — THE DAVIDSONIAN THE DAVIDSONIAN Founded by the Class of 1915 “FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON” PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR EDITOR IN CHIEF .......... BOB HOLLISTER BUSINESS MANAGER BILL HOUCK EDITORIAL STAFF Associate Editor Jack Heazer Associate Editor Lonnie Turnipseed Associate Editor Arnie Covell Managing Editor Bill Cumming Managing Editor Hartley Hall Managing Editor Neil Leach Managing Editor Tom Mann Managing Editor Jim Murray Managing Editor Andy Taylor Managing Editor Gordon Scott Sports Editor John Hobart City Editor John Haller Exchange Editor Watt Jeffries Exchange Editor Bill Hollister Make-up Editor Dan McKeithen Make-up Editor Cherry Stribling Make-up Editor Bill King Art Editor Gabe Lowe Columnist Liston Mills Columnist Henry Wilson Columnist Henry Hansen Columnist Charlie Davis Columnist SENIOR REPORTERS: Pete Kalogridis, Phil Mitchell, Dick Barnwell, Phil Libby, Bill Neal, Ed Richardson, Jim Fickeisen, and Gene Regen. REPORTERS—Warren Sims, Dudley Pendleton, Nat Daniel, Jim Blackburn, Bob Hubbell, Lamarr Hinson, Tom Allen, George McMurray, Manly McWilliams, Ben Morris, Bill Bacon. SPORTS STAFF—Furman Warlick, Bill White, Phil Hammond, Bryan Robinson, Ed West, Bill Buckey, Jack Stevenson. POLL CAT STAFF—Jim Carr, Claude Higginbotham, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown, and Neal Underdown. WEATHER REPORT—Trew Gurley and Bill Sargent. BUSINESS STAFF Bill Cassells Assistant Business Manager Wiley Smith Advertising Manager Rod Shaw Advertising Manager W. S. McSwain Assistant Advertising Manager Cam Faison Assistant Advertising Manager Hugh Huffaker Circulation Manager Ansley Moses Assistant Circulation Manager John Loftin Collections Manager Alex Goley Subscriptions Manager ASSISTANTS—Bill Cumming, Bill Hart, Bob Erwin, Bill Pharr, Harold Clayton, Sam Cumming, Rod Shaw, Gene Taylor, Nelson Tomlinson. CIRCULATION STAFF—Alex Goley, Parks Dalton, Cecil Rhodes, Ansley Moses, Joe H. Miller, Neill Underdown, Tommy Haller, John Hardin, Thad Monroe, Hugh Huffaker, Ben Morris, Cam Faison, Paul Guthry, and Phil Willer. Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897. SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N. Y. CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO Member 1949 Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest 1948 PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY A Student Center As the work on the new gymnasium nears completion, everyone is looking forward to moving out of the “cracker box” into the new facilities. At the same time, we begin to wonder what is to become of the old gym. Certainly its usefulness to the athletic department is gone, as it is so outmoded and indeed supplanted. However, the building is still in fairly good condition and can be used to good advantage for the student body. No doubt others have thought of this, also, but I would like to express my views on this all-important subject. It seems to me that the old gym could very effectively be turned into the much-needed student center. At least it could take the place of one until the Development Program supplies a permanent structure for the students. In the first place, the gym would be an excellent place for the YMCA. At present, its facilities in the Guest House are rather limited. The offices of the YMCA secretary could be moved into a more central position in this building. Also, the now sorely inadequate recreational facilities could be expanded. Namely, more ping pong and pool tables could be purchased and placed in the old gym. Now, as everyone knows, it is practically impossible to play more than one game of ping pong at a time and that only after a long wait. If these recreational facilities were expanded and placed in the gym, more of the students could participate and take advantage of these opportunities. Since this building is directly on the way from the boarding houses to the dormitories, I believe that the Y would soon become a place of leisure for the students. This in turn would make the work of the YMCA more effective on the campus. In short, it would place the Y in the center of student activities, which I think all will agree is what we want. In addition to the above, I should like to point out certain other possibilities that may not have been considered until now. As you may know, the Davidsonian has never had what you could call an office. In 1946, it occupied one of the small buildings on Oak Row. When the system changed so that the paper was printed in Davidson, the printer's office became headquarters. This soon proved inadequate and unsatisfactory. Last year it was moved to a small, badly heated shack in back of the Carolina Inn, where the office now is. It seems to me that an excellent place for the permanent office of the newspaper would be in the old gym. The staff could properly equip such an office and more actively participate in student affairs in this centrally located position. Along this same line, the other publications could move into permanent offices for the first time in many years. In this manner, the students would know just where to find the men on each organization, and could very easily get in touch with the publications. More men would be interested in publication work and the student body would witness an increase in the quality of publications produced. Other needs might also be met by such a move on the part of the men who have charge of disposing of the old gymnasium. For example, the boys department of the YMCA is sadly in need of a place for the storage of equipment, along with other departments. One of the present equipment rooms would serve this purpose very well. Right now the equipment is stored in a small closet of one of the students, no one on the campus having a place to keep it. Doubtless there are many other organizations who would like to have a place in the gym. There are many other uses for which this space could be used. Now as we are preparing to move into the new gym, we should also be making plans for the best use of the old building. No doubt those in charge of this disposition are thinking seriously along these lines. I think I can say that the students would be wholeheartedly in favor of making it into a temporary student center. A student center is one of the outstanding needs of Davidson College at the present time, and I would like to see it come into being shortly after October 22, when the new gymnasium is to be dedicated—R.L.T. Letters To Editor 29 Cook Street Brooklyn 6, N. Y. September 25, 1949 Dear Mr. Jamerson, Care Editor, Davidsonian: I hope you don't think it silly of me writing you this letter, but after seeing the Army-Davidson game on television, I got a real kick out of how your team was fighting against such odds. Your co-captains really kept their men moving and never gave in. When I saw the game and how your team fought so bravely, it brought tears to my eyes, as it reminded me of the teamwork that we had when I was overseas. In closing this letter, I'm hoping that I wasn’t any trouble to you, but I honestly mean what I said in this letter. Lots of luck to you and your team, and here’s wishing you the best for this season and many more to come. An Admirer, IRVING FUTTERMAN. Davidson, N. C. September 26, 1949. To Whom it May Concern: Me and Ansel Moses wuz up at Shearer Hall this mornin’ a-talkin’ to Professor Pfohl and the conversation got around to us makin’ mountain music up thar in the music buildin.’ We shore do agree with Professor Pfohl that them students a-takin’ music fur credit ain’t gonna do no practice with us in the same buildin,’ but us no-credit musicians ort to have a place to practice. Shearer Hall, in its present dilapidated condition, even with its impotent heating system, is good enough for us jakes—but for the real musicians and the campus of Davidson College it is a shame and a disgrace. I, along with many other students and townspeople, think that Davidson College's greatest need at the present is an adequate and modern music building. Maybe even one with soundproof walls and a real furnace. In consideration of the prestige and the achievements of Davidson's excellent music department, I think the trustees and administration should, following completion of the new gymnasium, build a new music hall—Davidson College’s greatest need. Sincerely, HAL HAYNES, Is Informal Bidding Good or Bad? (Ed's Note: The system of informal bidding has provoked much thought and even more comment, since the termination of rush week. The articles below, whose authors were chosen at random from the student body, embrace both sides of the question. However, since the opinions of only two men are expressed, the Davidsonian would like to welcome the opinions of more students. Anyone desiring to express his views is invited to write (and sign) a letter to the editor. The Davidsonian wants to hear from you!) By JIM COBB The 1949 rush week is now a thing of the past, but some students have expressed dissatisfaction with the giving of informal pledging. The three days of rushing and two days of silence at the beginning of the period give the freshman a chance to see all of the fraternities and to discuss any opinions which he has formed with his classmates. The final two days also have the regular rush parties, and the giving of informal bids does not detract too greatly from the rush program. It is foolish to assume that every freshman comes to Davidson with no knowledge of the individual fraternities. Some boys have many friends in a particular chapter and practically have their minds made up before coming. The three days of no informal pledging give the boys ample time to make up their minds after seeing all of the fraternities. By accepting an informal bid, these boys remain with their friends and do not continue to spend hours with a chapter they have absolutely no intention of joining. Boys who have no previous knowledge of the fraternities, but who have definitely made up their minds, are also able to join up. The question of obtaining the proper number of pledges is one that every chapter must face. Under the old system, a fraternity could send out fifty bids and get anywhere from 10 to 40 boys. With Continued On Page Four By KEN GOODPASTURE A few words concerning this past fraternity rush week, I think, are in order. No matter how little real difference there may be among the fraternities and their ideals on this campus, it is, nevertheless, of utmost importance that a young freshman join a fraternity whose members he will feel close to and whose members will feel compatible with him. This freshman is spending a lot of time, energy, and moneyto attend four years of college life, and he wants to obtain the most he can from his investment. This is sound judgment and, therefore, he wants to ally himself with the fraternity which he will enjoy the most and the one which will help him the most. It has been long considered that one week is entirely too short a time for fraternity and rushee to become acquainted. It has been proposed to have rush week in the second semester which involves another set of complications which are not to be discussed here. However, with the majority in agreement that the rush week is already too short, I contend that the matter of informal bidding and “hot-boxing” during the last two days cuts the “getting-acquainted” time down still further. I am speaking mainly from the rushee’s viewpoint. In actuality, the rushee shakes a lot of hands the first three days, and then the last two he is shoved into a corner and high pressured. I have heard many freshmen say that the “hot-box” sub.

(Continued on Page Four)

FLIGHT TO NEW YORK

Faced with the necessity of reporting on the N.Y. trip which I didn’t make, I cornered some of the athletes and by putting their stories together I got the following account:

The first thing that was different about this trip was that we all wore coats and ties instead of the traditional D.C.A.A. “T” shirt with holes in it, long a characteristic of Wildcat ball clubs on the road. We arrived at the airport about 9 a.m. and were placed on one of two large green and silver airplanes, according to our status, offensive or defensive. A cameraman outside held up the loading for a while, ‘cause some guys on this ball club a camera draws like a magnet, and they wouldn't get in as long as it was there. Hostesses on the planes were as follows: offensive—Dick Redding; defensive—Charley Parker and The Chief Justice (who made his debut as athletic director of the Institute). The windows were too small for jumping out, so once they got you in there and closed the door you stayed with the ship, sink or swim. We took off like a big bird, fortified with airsick pills from Doc Wood's medicine chest. It was a long way down anyway you looked at it. Everyone was soon asleep, save the coaching staff which produced the cards and started in. General opinion has it that if they were on a rotten log heading down the rapids toward Niagara Falls, they'd still whip out the cards and light in.

We landed in Washington and while we ate, witnessed a quiz program with two loud fat men as masters of ceremonies and three middle-aged women as contestants. The offensive team suffered its first casualty when a right end was injured getting off the airplane. Flying through a fog we finally reached N.Y., which was considerably colder; and were conveyed by an ancient bus some 18 miles over the Catskills to West Point, its grey towers rising against the cliffs of the Hudson. Some conclusions about the Point: Everybody hustles all the time and plebes have to hustle twice as much and with two wrinkles in their chin. It’s really big. Everybody plays on some kind of team every afternoon and they all have uniforms—they played some games we didn’t know. They had a field house as big as two cow pastures. You couldn’t bag anything to eat.

(Continued on Page Four)

The DAVIDSONIAN Presents

EDITORIALS...LETTERS...FEATURES

Among The Greeks

SPE

Following Mr. Robert's rules of parliamentary procedure Mr. Trammell calls to order the regular Thursday night meeting of N.C. Epsilon chapter of Sigma Phi Epsilon with les petites mots “Knock it off!” and a cadenza of the gavel. His expression is very stern as he nods to Lilly for the minutes which are read at this time. A report from Lieutenant Humphries for some suggestions for bettering N.C. Epsilon which he learned at the many conferences for the same purpose at the National Conclave in Chicago is requested, and since he can't remember anything and since he was sent up there to learn something he is booed in his seat. Sgt. Clenseur with lowered eyes appeals to the brothers to dispense with the disorder and proceed with the business to which Dixon and Morton assent as they would like to play a grudge match in table tennis after the meeting.

“We need a new rug,” observes Mr. Trammell above the tumult of the dispute between Roddey and Hunter as to whether Brooklyn's team was wholly composed of Rock Hill boys; between Sgt. Cahow and Flipse as to whose music brings the most tears to the eyes—Moussorgsky or Acuff; between Mills and MacDonald as to whose hometown has the biggest cotton mill; between Taylor and Hart as to who has the numbest brain. Capt. Kester pouts because of a caustic remark from someone that he can't play football. Daniels, Miller, and Howe don't say anything.

“The scholarship committee did a good job last year,” Mr. Trammell commends (referring to the winning of the scholarship trophy by the SPE’s). Morton commends Plaster for knowing the best-looking women in Winston but jeers at his inability to latch on to any for himself. “George Brown knows some fine women, also,” adds Lieut. Humphries. Clark (C.P.) asks how many are going to have dates for homecoming and whether to have a banquet or breakfast, and Clark

(Continued on Page Four)

And so it has arrived—another Salem Day. For weeks the plans have been in the making, and now it is a stark reality. It'll be a great weekend. The list was posted on the bulletin board and hordes of hungry males were seen milling around the names of the lovelies. All sorts of good advice was given to the naive freshmen—"You should sign up with Susie Snapdragon, she’s really a queen.” And the illustrious friend and counselor was right; she will be a queen—of the Uhangies. You'll love her though.

Then there were some who are seeking poetic names. These are the ones you hear muttering to themselves—"Viola, my that has a certain, well, you might say, musical quality. Then again it has a light and gay appeal.” But when our seeker of sophisticated surnames sees his flower with the musical quality, he will be amazed to find another Porky Pig, who waddles rather than walks, and whose only musical quality is her resemblance to a bass drum. But you'll have fun.

But enough on the selection of the slinking sex. Let us now

HELLO FROM L.O.

By LISTON MILLS

hasten on to speculate on the arrival of our friends from the neighboring institution. The buses will pull in and 200 pairs of eyes will turn and watch them approach Chambers, coming to a rather sudden and undignified stop. Then the species of pulchritude will venture forth; one at a time, mind you, and careful not to trip the ones on crutches. The man with the list (a rather bloodthirsty and cynical person who enjoys seeing people in agony) takes his position of prominence to call forth the men as their dates (?) trip gaily down the steps and into eager and waiting arms. They’re all cute though. Then, buddy she’s yours. Maybe you'll be fortunate and get a number with only two false teeth. Or better still, perhaps your raffle ticket will pay off in a big way and your turkey will know the art of gin rummy. Regardless, we would like to seize this opportunity to wish all of you luck, and to offer sincere condolences to those who will, for an unknown cause, remain indisposed for the game. But remember, they're 100 percent young American women.

College Rags In Brief

By TOMMY HALLER

We are introducing this column with the desire to keep our readers among the student body informed of the news of other schools. Our principal source of information is through their publications, so to those of you who are ‘wheels’ some of the “dope” in this column may be old stuff!

First I would like to pass on a bit of information that I picked up from a charming young lady at Queens College, which might well be kept in mind at our forthcoming dance set. It seems that she had gotten the impression that at our dances the men in a fraternity would dance only with the dates of their fraternity, regardless of the number of friends she might have at the dance. Now we know that this isn’t a hard and fast habit, but maybe we do have tendencies toward it. Maybe if you wolves and snakes did a little wider range operating, more enjoyment would be in store for all!

Up at W. & L., they have already begun to petition the faculty. They want to make some compromises which include the following points: Students will agree to exert themselves to answer exam questions if the faculty will agree to assign questions that cover no more than ten centuries; students will agree not to leave class while the professor is lecturing if he will terminate at the end of the assigned hour; students will agree to study between assigned tests if the faculty will agree to give warning of pop quizzes; students will agree to faculty using canned notes as long as the speed of reading is held down to 60 w.p.m. (words per minute); students will agree to look presentable for classes if faculty will engage one woman to walk around the campus once a week (would something like that work here?); students will agree to stay awake in eight o'clock classes if the faculty will agree to read bedtime stories in four o'clock classes; students will not overcut (get this) if faculty will let them take as many cuts as they want; Students will agree to refrain from blowing themselves and the science building up if the science department will agree to stop making the students experiment with the atom bomb (for the benefit of the Logan, Gallent, Thies fans).

Smart Folk

Twenty of the forty-eight members of the September graduating class at Georgia Tech have a point average above 3.0, which average places a student on the Southern Technical Institute’s honor roll. One must conclude that the class has some pretty smart folks in it. The class average is 2.75, and the range is from 1.61 to 3.87.

Southern California

You may think it is crowded in Davidson, but the students at the University of Southern California are howling about a lamentable congestion that leaves even less than elbow room.

University of Oklahoma

Apparently anything goes under the heading “Intramural Competition,” at the University of Oklahoma. This did: A tilter’s tournament, for which a brand new pinball machine has been unveiled. The Oklahoma Daily reports that each year the Sigma Chi's and the Phi Gams battle for champion team honors with an over-sized plastic beer bottle as the prize. The tilter’s tourney gets plenty of campus support, too, and is staged complete with brass band and cheering section, team trainers and managers in tuxedoes, and hairy-legged men-queen candidates. Gotta nickel?