FOOTBALL SQUAD BEGINS WINTER PRACTICE
Friday, February 4, 1949. THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Although on bot aad with There are only four kinds of Nineteen million weres of wood ree een “et a
ee ae a Kittens Notch Neat “Motmen Split Pair DAVIDSON CAGERS SCRAP vine align it with the white pines. copperhead
eee ——. ee Mark With 3 Wins With Carolina And FOR CONFERENCE TOURNEY hidawtdvon's Wildkittens hit the road last Week-end
to meet their first severe test of the season as they tangled with Carolina Friday night and the Duke Blue
Imps last night. They returned with an even split, toppling Carolina 53-47, and losing to the Imps, 53-40. The Wildkittens
played probably their best game of the season against the Tar Heels. Davidson took an early lead in the first
quarter to eke out a 17-15 margin. Big Ben Collins again paced the scoring, and Bill Brooks led the way
with 19 points respectively. Collins proved to be a threat all night long as he hit on several beautiful hook
shots. Hartel and Bower also scored 25 points.

In appreciation of what Davidson College and Davidson students mean to our community we will offer to all persons connected
with the school 20 per cent off on ANY merchandise bought in our store from Friday, February fourth through Saturday,
February twelfth. This is not just on certain items, but will be on our complete stock which includes new spring
and summer merchandise.

We feel sure that you will take advantage of this offer to purchase the same high quality and properly styled
clothing that has always been recognized by Davidson men.Stubby, who had a real June Printt, had been on the bench
for weeks because of an injury. He scored 22 points, leading the hoops team. McClain and Turk each got 10
points in a rough game and chalked up eight markers. This tied for second in scoring honors, giving the Cat
grapplers a 17-15 win. Monday night, the Wildkittens continued their winning ways as they swamped Kannapolis Y, 100-55. Coleman and
Osborne led the winners with 25 points apiece. Brooks hit for 10, and McClain hit for 12. Coleman proved to
be a dead-eye as he hit from every angle, scoring one on a beautiful play.

Tuesday night, the Wildkittens racked up another win as they defeated the Wingate College team, 77-44. In their last meeting
at Wingate, the Davidson frosh eked out a win, but on their home court, they won by 10 points. High
man for both teams was Haugh, Clemson forward, who led the scorers with 17 points.

Friday night, the Wildcats faced the White Phantoms of UNC Chapel Hill. Davidson came close to victory, but the Wildcats
were unable to stop the Coy Cat Football Practice, which got underway as the team prepared for Army.

The 30-day mildness test convinced me—now it's Camels and only Camels for me! Vaughn Monroe has the answer in "My
Own True Love," a new RCA Victor release. With the addition of the Army game on September 26, the Wildcats
were preparing for a tough battle. Coach Jamerson declared that the Wildcats were going to win.

The call for practice brought out approximately fifty boys, some with college experience, but all with ambition and fight. The
schedule for practice calls for a two-hour session every day with an intra-squad game each Saturday afternoon. The practice session
will probably last about six weeks, and then the players will be off until next August when they will buckle
down in earnest in preparation for the season.

Vaughn Monroe talks it over with one of his lovely Moon Maids, June Hiett. Hear them on the Camel Caravan,
Saturday nights on CBS.
