FASHION NOTE: There Will Be a Change in Infants Wear... From Day to Day! - Che Bavidsonian Volume XXXVII DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FEBRUARY 11, 1949

MAYOR PAHL CLEANS UP QUEEN CITY!

PAN HEL REPORTS SELLOUT FOR TOMMY DORSEY CONCERT

The concert by Tommy Dorsey and the Sentimentalists in Monday night officially launches the Student Campaign to raise $40,000 for the new gym. Said Pan-Hel President Scruggs, “The purpose of the concert is to get the drive before the students, to unite the student body, and to start the ball rolling in our campaign.”

The concert Monday night marks the first appearance of a famous and popular band on the Davidson campus in more than a decade. With Tommy Dorsey will appear the Sentimentalists and fourteen other outstanding musicians. Among the galaxy of stars in the show will be Denny Dennis, featured singer; Jack Jutty, singer of pop tunes and novelty numbers; Charlie Shavers, one of the best trumpet players in the business; the outstanding Ton Bellson, who plays ten drums; and Lucy Ann Polk. The Sentimental Gentleman of Swing has had a brilliant past. His band has been rated among the first five popular bands in the country each year since 1937, and he has sold more recordings than any other band. In ten out of the last fifteen years, Dorsey’s band has been voted the best “sweet” band in the nation, as well as the best “swing” band for two years. Tommy Dorsey has helped launch the careers of such famous singers as Frank Sinatra and has helped develop the musical world with talents such as The Pied Pipers, Leonard, Stuart Foster, and Buddy Freeman.

The program for the concert has not yet been announced; however, it is expected to include “Down at the Station,” “After Hour Stuff,” “Sunny Side of the Street,” and many other numbers with a wide range of popular appeal. Dorsey and the Sentimentalists will present two concerts, each lasting for half an hour. Tickets for the second concert will be good for the concert for which they were issued.

After the Davidson concert, Dorsey will drive to Fayetteville for a concert there on Thursday night. He hits the road to Chapel Hill where he will play at the University of North Carolina on Friday and Saturday.

Survey Proves That Faculty Is Educated

A survey of the professors in the college library in quest for certain information for its files. Among this information was one particular question, which is thought to be of striking interest to the student body. The question was, “If you have lived as long as a year in a foreign country, please state where and the approximate date.” To the student community, which is entirely less metropolitan, it will be interesting to note how much provincial influence can be found here.

Out of approximately fifty professors surveyed, twenty-five returned the questionnaires. Although predominantly metropolitan, eleven of these twenty-five have lived in a foreign country one year or longer.

F. Y. Causey lived in Spain from 1930 to 1931. C. R. Eberhardt lived 13 months abroad for graduate study. He lived in Scotland, Switzerland, and the Continent from 1938 to 1939. G. R. Vowles, who says, “I’m a foreigner, and rightly so,” spent three years at Oxford, England, with trips to Germany, France, Scandinavia, Finland, and Russia from 1907 to 1910. W. P. Cumming, another professor, who might be declared a “foreigner,” lived in Nagoya, Japan, from 1900 to 1907; Toyohashi, Japan, from 1909 to 1914; Oxford, England from 1925 to 1926; and was in U.S. governmental work in Marburg and Berlin, Germany, from 1945 to 1946. G. B. Watts lived in Berlin, Germany, from 1913 to 1914, and in France from 1917 to 1919. H. P. Lilly lived in Vienna, Austria, from 1922 to 1923, and in England from 1923 to 1924. “If Army is living,” says Professor L. L. Sellars, “then I lived in Flanchung and Hangchow, China, from 1944 to 1945.” W. Goldiere served with the U.S. Army in France from 1918 to 1919. J. A. McGeachy, Jr., lived in England from 1943 to 1945 while there with the U.S. Army. Thompson lived in French Morocco from 1943 to 1944 and in Italy from 1944 to 1945 with the Army. H. P. Lilly lived in China, India, and Burma from 1943 to 1945 while serving in the U.S. Army.

It is a good thing that the students at Davidson have an opportunity to hear and learn from these professors. This touch of provincialism has played its part in widening the scope of these professors’ courses. An English professor can explain many works much better if he has been to the places where they were written and seen the circumstances for which they were written. A history professor certainly has the advantage if he has been through many countries, has seen many of their customs, and has seen some of their environment.

Davidson College should feel proud of its faculty and especially those that have lived abroad and season their students with knowledge of how people in other countries live and act.

Vanderbilt Host To I.R.C. Conference

Davidson College International Relations Club will be represented at the annual conference of the International Relations Clubs in the northern area of the Southern region to be held at Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee, on February 11 and 12. Students of Davidson, along with students from approximately 50 colleges and universities in North Carolina, Virginia, and Tennessee, will discuss in round-table groups the following international problems: “The United States and the Union of Soviet Nations,” “The Power Struggle in the East,” “The European Economic Crisis and the European Recovery Program,” and “Atomic Energy and Collective Security.”

The purpose of this regional meeting, and, truly, the purpose of the efforts of each International Relations Club, is, in the words of the regional president, William C. Gibson, student at the University of North Carolina, “to replace our parochial, provincial ideas with a perspective that is truly international in scope. We are world citizens by physical circumstances, let us be also in spirit.”

“The Prisoner’s Song” got Harry Snodgrass out of prison. Above are shown the Sentimentalists who will perform Monday night at Davidson College. Dorsey and company will present two concerts—the first at 7 and the second at 9 p.m. Those who wish to attend should specify which performance they wish to attend when buying tickets.

Andres Segovia Noted Artist Makes Davidson Appearance

Andres Segovia, foremost interpreter of the Spanish guitar who recently returned from an extensive European tour climaxed by his concert at the famous Edinburgh Festival, will appear at Davidson College in recital February 15 at 8:15 p.m. Born in Spanish Granada, Segovia now makes his home in Montevideo. His first concert took place inHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

He was fourteen when he has been with a six-string box, making the entire world: Europe, North Africa, and Asia his sixth. Although he is a Goya painting, swooned on their Segovia Saunte of Cadiz guitar unless, that way to Bach and contemporaries play the guitar repertoire. But his appearance took the city when he was eight years old. Since then, he has concertized, performing throughout South America, and is currently on tour under direction, as picturesque as senoritas on balconies. They reacted to a four-part Bach fugue. An important part in this master of the rhythms of Classic dance Spain and the world of distinguished contemporary composers also have their place in the classic scheme of things. The program blends with the romantic enchantment of old Spain. Segovia has long been acclaimed as the world’s greatest virtuoso on the guitar. New York rivals have not disputed his title. A noted Spanish musicologist once wrote: “Among earthly creatures, God placed music with the greatest reason and perfection in man and among string instruments, the guitar.” Andres Segovia stands as living proof of this dictum. Alfred Frankenstein of the San Francisco Chronicle commented, “It is beyond belief that one instrument can produce so vast a gamut of tints and timbres and so large a scale of shading. Segovia’s guitar makes the orchestra seem like an economic waste; what’s the use of those flutes, reeds, strings, fiddles, brass, and bells when one man can do it all?”

The master guitarist’s appearance here will be under the local sponsorship of Davidson College Artists Series.

Le Cercle Francais Meets With Dr. Watts

The February meeting of Cercle Francaise was held on the evening of February 8, at the home of Dr. Geo. B. Watts. President Chas. Hadley presided. The vice president, Bob Campbell, introduced the guest speaker, Mrs. Robert Noehren, who spoke at length, in French, of her trip through France last summer in the company of her husband, who made a study of many 18th-century French organs in cities and towns across the country. At the conclusion of her address, President Hadley expressed the Cercle’s thanks for her most interesting discussion and complimented her on her fluency in the French language. French games and delicious refreshments followed. The meeting was brought to a close with the singing of several French songs, ending with the Marseillaise. Honorary member Guy Dardel of Montmorency, France, was present and assisted in the arrangements. For many years, Le Cercle Francaise has contributed notably to the average student's enjoyment of French. During the war, Dr. Watts instituted the singing of Christmas Carols in French by members of his classes. During the past year, however, due to lack of time, Dr. Watts did not organize such a class. Students are looking forward to the re-establishment of this custom next year.

Guy Fawkes Day

Guy Fawkes was foiled in his plan to blow up the British Houses of Parliament in 1605. Fawkes was hanged, and the English celebrated the discovery of the plot with a gay holiday on November 5. The English children dressed up in costumes, begged for pennies, and shot off fireworks.

WGIV—student DAVIDSONIANS MANAGE QUEEN CITY

Davidsonians will appear with the Tommy Dorsey Show Monday.

Stork Blesses Three Davidson Families

Davidson's population was increased by three during the past week, Dr. and Mrs. Bradley Thompson, Dr. and Mrs. J. M. Woods, and Mr. and Mrs. Lacy Sellars being the proud parents. On Wednesday morning, the stork swooped low over Charlotte's Presbyterian Hospital to drop two little bundles. The first, at four a.m., was John Woods, a bouncing eight-pound, thirteen-ounce boy. John is the fourth child and the third son of Dr. and Mrs. J. M. Woods. Dr. Woods is the college physician. The six o'clock bundle was also a boy, the son of Dr. and Mrs. Bradley Thompson. To be named Peter, the six-pound eight-ounce youngster is the third son for the Thompsons. Dr. Thompson is a professor of history. The same stork, evidently having forgotten one little item, made a return trip over Presbyterian Hospital at 10:30 a.m., Sunday, February 6, and deposited an eight-pound five-ounce young lady to the account of Mr. and Mrs. Lacy Sellars. Mr. Sellars says that they have named the first addition to their happy family Mary Maxwell Sellars, and will call her “Mary Mac” for short. Mr. Sellars, who is now teaching physics here, graduated from Davidson last year after serving in the Army Air Corps from 1943 to 1946.

DAVIDSON DEVELOPMENT BROADCASTS ANNOUNCED

In connection with the Davidson Development Drive, the broadcasting companies of Charlotte are sponsoring a series of programs. These programs are transcriptions by the students, the band, and the chorus. The following is a schedule, including the date and time of each broadcast:

February 10—1:00-2:00 p.m.—WBT—sacred.
February 10—9:00 p.m.—WIST—sacred.
February 11—5:15 p.m.—WGIV—sacred.
February 12—3:30 p.m.—WGIV—secular.
February 14—9:00 p.m.—WIST—secular.
February 15—6:30 p.m.—WBT and WSOC—secular.

CHARLOTTE OFFICES WELCOME STUDENTS TO TOP POSITIONS

The eyes of Mecklenburg were on the $2,500,000 development program when a group of students took the reins of the Charlotte-Davidson relationship, designed to foster a closer bond between Charlotte and Davidson.

Phi Literary Society Installs Officers

By BEN JAY DRYMON

As time mellows and enriches the many long and established traditions of the Philanthropic Literary Society on the Davidson College campus, last Monday night saw the installation of new officers to carry it through the spring semester. Reports were given by the retiring officers, of which Hugh Parrior was president, and Dive Hamilton, vice president. As is traditional, the vice president commented on the work of the council, then escorted the new president to his chair-of-office. In a rather humorous manner, Hamilton stated certain things the council had failed to do. He next commended the society on its humorous programs and concluded his remarks by suggesting that the emphasis be placed, during the next semester, on literary work. The new president, after being escorted to his chair, addressed the group, commencing his inaugural speech with a reflection into the past, recapturing a picture of the society as she once stood—the center of all extra-curricular activity on the college campus. From the inaugural speech, we quote: “The history of the society has followed what appeared to be at first sight a discouraging trend. The history of this society gives us a picture of a campus organization that was at one time the very center of the extra-curricular life of the Davidson student, but has over the years taken in sail as far as its responsibilities are concerned.” Frank continued by quoting the preamble to the constitution of the Philanthropic Society which says, “We, the undersigned students of Davidson College, deeply sensible of the great importance of properly fitting ourselves for acting well our respective part in the great arena of life, have resolved to form ourselves into a society the objects of which shall be intellectual, moral, and social improvement.” Continuing, Lemmon pointed out, “The college now provides a library, the student government has taken over the governmental responsibilities, the varsity cheerleaders are now charged with keeping school spirit at a high level, and the social fraternities have in a large measure provided the social opportunities which were formerly provided by the literary societies. In evaluating our position today, must we despair that our society is no longer as formidable as it was in another day? I think not. Today we might ask ourselves what our main function ought to be and how we might best accomplish that function. As we look ahead at a new semester of work, it occurs to me that now is an excellent time to evaluate the society on the basis of its past history, its present responsibility, and its future goals.”

CALENDAR

Monday—Professor C. R. Eberhardt.
Tuesday—Professor J.C. Pfohl.
Wednesday—Trustees of Davidson College, Dr. Cunningham, Dr. McDowell Richards, Carl Pahl.
Thursday—Prof. Fulcher.
Friday—YMCA.
Saturday—Night near 50 degrees.
Sunday, Feb. 13—Dr. Carl R. Pritchett.
Sunday, Feb. 20—Rev. Ralph Herring, D. D., First Baptist Church, Winston-Salem, N. C.