AT CHAMBERS FINE ARTS FESTIVAL ALENDA The Davidson LUX uBI 0 nan ORTA LIBERTAS CRUDE ARTS SHOWING AT CINEMA VOLUME
XXXVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON NORTH CAROLINA, APRIL 29, 1949 NUMBER TWENTY-SEVEN

Davidson's annual Commencement exercises have recently been announced by the administration. The program, which has been tentatively drawn up, will
last three days, beginning on Saturday, May 28th. The events of the week-end are expected to draw a large number
of alumni, parents, and friends to the campus. Saturday will be Alumni and Class Day, a day to which hundreds
of alumni have looked forward for some time. The members of the Class of 1899 will return to the campus
on this date to celebrate their Golden Anniversary Reunion. They will be awarded fifty-year Certificates of loyalty. An innovation will
be the presentation of similar awards to members of the Class of 1924, who will celebrate their twenty-fifth year anniversary.
During the morning period, a meeting of the Executive (Continued On Page Four)

Placement News For Graduating Seniors

Beginning with this issue, the DAVIDSONIAN will carry regular information concerning representatives of the various companies who will be on
the campus in the near future seeking interviews with seniors who are searching for jobs after graduation. All interested seniors
who have not signed up for interviews in the Placement Office are urged to do so as soon as possible.
The Placement Office, directed by Joe Thigpen, announces that representatives from the different companies will be on the campus on
the following days:

May 2—Liebel-Flarsheim Company's representative will be here seeking salesmen. The company sells medical and surgical supplies.

May 3—Standard Register Company hopes to find men to train for executive sales directors. A major in business is required
for this job. The representative will show a movie in connection with the interviews.

May 5—Metropolitan Life Insurance Company's representative will be on hand for interviews.

May 9—North American Casualty Company will train men as investigators and adjustors. A movie will be shown to all interested
and interviews will be held throughout the day.

The Placement Office also announces two openings in YMCA work in the South. Positions of Health Club Director and Boy's
Program Director need to be filled. A western North Carolina bank is looking for a young man, preferably a business
major, to learn this business. Watch for more placement information in the next issues of the DAVIDSONIAN and for further
details contact Joe Thigpen in the Placement Office.

Quadwranglers

From time to time the faculty meets informally for a social hour after which there is usually a discussion of
a topic of academic interest. Such a meeting was held in the Quadwranglers room Thursday afternoon at four o'clock. President
Cunningham, who had represented Davidson at the bicentennial celebration, and Dean Brown, who had attended the meeting of the Southern
University Conference, gave the group the highlights of these two important occasions. At the regular April meeting of the Quadwranglers,
held Friday evening, Dr. Shelton Smith of the School of Divinity, Duke University, gave an interesting and informative talk on
“The Ambiguities of the Church-Related College.”

EXERCISES DR. WILLIAM V. GARDNER

Bumbarger To Edit “Quips and Cranks”

In the publications election of Wednesday and Thursday, Robert Bruce Bumbarger was elected editor of Quips 'n Cranks for next
year. Bumbarger defeated Dave Miller on the final ballot. Bob has been active on the Quips 'n Cranks staff for
the past three years. Last year he acted as freshman sports editor and gave other editorial assistance. The new editor
of the annual is from Hickory, N.C., where his father owns a store. Bob is Phi Kappa Phi treasurer and
social chairman of his fraternity last year and this year he was appointed pledge master. Bob served in the Navy
for two years. He was aboard a PT-boat most of this time. Bob is a business major, but takes time
off from his studies to engage in intramural sports and golf. According to his roommates, Bob plays a mighty good
game of golf.

Debaters Delineate Final Plans; Select Next Year's Leaders

In its regular meeting Monday night, the Forensic Council elected its officers for the coming year. The new officers are:
John Lyles, president; Charles Davis, vice president; Bryan Robinson, manager. Recent activities of the debating team include an exhibition debate
at Queens by Flynn Long and John Lyles, affirmative, and Charles Davis and Jack Hunter, negative; a trip to the
Grand National Tournament at Mary Washington by the boys; and a mock debate in chapel on Thursday. Debating for the
affirmative was Bob Gay and Bryan Robinson, and Dave Hamilton and John Lyles for the negative. The question was: “Resolved,
that Davidson College should have a fish pond between Chambers and Phi Hall.” The decision went to the negative in
order that dejected students will not commit suicide in said pond. Jack Hunter and Flynn Long, affirmative, and Don Shriver
and Bryan Robinson, negative, with Dow Coffey as manager-judge will journey to William and Mary April 29-30 for the Marshall
Wythe Debate Tournament. The Council’s annual banquet preceding the Freshman Speaking Contest will be held Monday night. A dual debate
will be held with Carolina on Tuesday night at 7:30. The subject is “Federal Aid to Education.” The Forensic Council
will also sponsor the annual Precis Contest on Monday night, May 2 in Phi Hall. The speeches, limited to a
maximum of 10 minutes, may cover any subject. A group of faculty members will serve as judges for the contest,
the prizes for which will be ten dollars for first place and five dollars for second.

Rabbi Rypins Urges United Brotherhood

Wednesday, April 27, the student body heard a talk entitled, “Jewish Contributions to America,” by Rabbi Frederick Rypins of the
Temple Emanuel in Greensboro, N.C. The speaker, ordained rabbi by the Hebrew Union College in 1921, has served in pulpits
at Wilmington, N.C., and Roanoke, Virginia, before coming to his present position at Greensboro in 1931. Rabbi Rypins is one
of the foremost religious leaders in the South and is very active in the National Conference of Christians and Jews.
He assured the student and faculty audience that his race is aiming to help others with charity and justice in
this country, and not be a parasite, which is the ill belief of some toward Jews. Contributions to science, religious
emphasis, and learning, together with a stronger sense of brotherhood are what Jews are making, and want to make. The
guest speaker explained that his people want to express a stronger feeling of brotherhood among all people. Not to be
different, but to be the same. The rabbi expressed his viewpoint by saying that he and his people want to
feel the same as other Americans, to be just American in the same sense as everyone else is. Many people
get the wrong impression of Jews, and some are surprised when they see such warm relationships between Christians and Jews,
but Rabbi Rypins said that the Jewish people want a better relationship between themselves and the Christians.

All freshmen who plan to compete must contact John Lyles, Walter Coppedge, or John Lottin by Saturday afternoon. The event
being very successful last year, it is hoped that the freshmen and the student body will continue to show interest
in this effort to further public speaking among the students.

HUNTER ANNOUNCES MAY 15 AS DATE OF ANNUAL DISTRIBUTION

Student Body Elects New Councilmen

Next year’s student government completed a major stage in its metamorphosis yesterday as balloting decided a large part of the
new Student Council. One of the most important of all groups on the campus, this organization is set up for
the purpose of upholding and preserving the honor system and other provisions in the Constitution in every phase of college
life. The Council consists of the president, first and second vice president, and secretary-treasurer of the student body, the presidents
of the three upper classes, and seven councilmen. Yesterday’s voting to decide these seven councilmen, four of whom are chosen
from the senior class, two from the junior, and one from the sophomore, produced the following results:

Senior class: Paul Bird, Stubby Evans, Jim Sifford, Harrison Taylor

Junior class: Ted Bowen, Ray Cunningham

Sophomore class: A deadlock between Alan Strand and Kirk Oglesby necessitates another ballot at a future date.

College Releases First Record Album

The Alumni and Public Relations Offices announced this week the release of Davidson’s first professionally-made album of college music. The
album contains three records with six sides. There are three band selections and three songs by the Male Chorus. They
are: “O Davidson,” “All Hail, O Davidson,” by the Male Chorus; “I Wonder as I Wander,” band; “Sometimes I Feel
Like a Motherless Child,” Male Chorus; “A Russian Hymn,” Male Chorus; and “Men of Might,” band. The albums are on
sale for $4.50 each at the Alumni Office. Where mailing is desired, twenty-five cents additional should be included for parcel
post and insurance. Personal and mail orders will be promptly filled.

May 15 is the tentative date for the appearance of the 1949 edition of the Quips 'n Cranks (Volume 51),
it has been learned from Ernest Hunter, editor of the annual. The yearbook will be forty pages larger than last
year, due to the large number of seniors. It will contain 340 pages. The printing is being done by the
Printing House of the Charlotte Observer in Charlotte, while the engraving is being handled by the Charlotte Engraving Company. Individual
photographs were made by Brumfield Studios. The informal snapshots and group pictures were made by Frank and Niblock, campus photographers,
and the fraternity photographs by Pormac. Cost to the individual student for the yearbook has already been covered by the
student activities fee and the special picture fee charged him at the beginning of the second semester. In addition to
these charges, organizations pay for advertisements in the annual. Serving with Hunter this year on the editorial staff are Bob
Bumbarger as editorial assistant and in charge of freshman sports; Chuck Kirby, inCharge of Varsity Sports; Claude Higginbotham, fraternity section;
Richard Parker, Lilly, publications section; Paul Jenkins, activities section; Music section; Frank Perrin, honorary fraternity section; Joyce Kendall, ROTC section—and
Tom Patterson, faculty section. Special thanks to Boise! Also, Millar Luney, Redfearn, Jack Payne, Allen Mead, Ray Vhabet, Guy Wardel,
Odell Dobson, Jim Gunn, Ed Hardin, Bill Campbell, Herb Johnson. Also, 37 Sophomore and freshmen have served on the staff
in various capacities. Prof. B. J. Erwin is the faculty adviser for the annual staff.

CALENDAR - VESPERS
May 1—Dr. J. A. Jones.
CHAPEL
Mon., May 2—Dr. Puckett.
Tue., May 3—Prof. Lilly.
Wed., May 4—Music Dept.
Thur., May 5—Prof. Guerrant.
Fri., May 6—YMCA.

Davidson’s Review
Weary Students Visit “Little Theatre Just Off Highway 21”
By BILL HOLLISTER

At least once a week most of the students here at Davidson decide they have been over-worked and that they
need a change from the drab, everyday routine of morbid classrooms and glaring professors, so they spend two hours and
thirty-two cents to get away from it all at the “little theater just off Highway 21.” Usually two or three
such escapists plan their night of folly early in the afternoon and prepare for it by borrowing three dimes “til
tomorrow" from a buddy and carrying an empty bottle to the store to collect the deposit. Then they make a
pretense of studying, but usually end up by dreaming up new ways to make a lower grade on the Purity
Test. After supper, they amble down the crowded street and, forgetting they had promised to pick up someone at Hugo's,
they draw near the blaring lights that signify the best in the entertainment world. Their hearts beat faster as they
approach the ticket booth, each with his thirty-two cents clutched tightly in his hand. They carry their tickets a lengthy
two strides and present them to the film tycoon who promptly returns them to the booth for further use. Meanwhile,
the students who are really loaded grapple with the candy machine or the popcorn stand, then proceed down the warped
aisle with squinting eyes. Finding a seat presents quite a problem unless the spectator happens to be an old-timer. The
average student picks out any row at random and fights his way down it until he no longer feels anyone's
face with his outstretched hand. Then he sits down, knowing he has a fifty-fifty chance of ending up on the
floor because he knows full well that the contractors forgot to put the supporting section in all of the seats.
Besides, he may have fought his way across the entire row to the next aisle before not finding his hand
in someone's mouth, in which case he also may find himself on the floor. By this time his pupils have
become like saucers, so he grins sheepishly and picks himself up. Spotting a fluff of hair with a ribbon on
it, and hoping its owner doesn't room in Watts, he eases his weight, feeling as it were, slowly into the
adjoining seat. With high hopes, he turns his eyes toward the perfume-bearing creature at his side and is generally confronted
with a toothy grin, whereupon he leans back in his own seat with a horror-stricken look in his enlarged pupils
and a Presbyterian oath upon his lips. Soon he is carried away by his imagination and finds himself on a
slow boat to Cathay or kissing a beautiful blonde whom he has just rescued. Usually, as he leans forward a
bit to kiss the charming heroine, the first reel ends and he finds himself kissing the neck of the guy
in front of him. This also proves embarrassing at times. During the second reel, he feels someone kicking his leg.
Thinking the girl next to him wants to play games, he kicks her back three or four times until he
realizes with horror that it is only one of the smaller mice who is anxious to play. A few minutes
later he discovers that “this is where he came in,” and swearing he will never come again, he trips up
the aisle to the door, always stopping to pick up a pink card announcing next week's shows. See ya at
seven!!

Weather Report
Winthrop Day in Davidson should be sunny and mild and although the moon won't be visible that night, the stars
will be out in all their glory. Sunday will be another fine April day with possible showers putting a damper
at night on a perfect spring weekend.

ALEXANDER NAMES NEW “Y” CABINET
DR. EDENS, DR. GARDNER HEAD ‘49 COMMENCEMENT

DR. A. HOLLIS EDENS

Campus Club Takes Fraternity Sing Cup
New Officers Set High Goals For IRC

In the lecture room of the basement of the Science Building Wednesday evening, April 27, the International Relations Club selected
officers for the coming school year. President Jack Etheridge presided over the meeting and elections. As a result of these
elections, Bill Cameron was named president, John Calhoun vice president, and Bob Long, secretary-treasurer. These incoming officers are expected to
guide the International Relations Club along the same successful course which it has pursued in years past in creating interest
among students concerning the immense importance of national and international affairs. After the elections, the floor was open for business.
Much discussion followed on finding means through which more of the club's members would actively participate in the affairs of
the organization. Of particular interest was the discussion on manners in which to obtain more regular attendance at the meetings
by members. President Etheridge requested that the members give consideration to this discussion so that proposals may be adopted in
the near future to bring about more participation in the club’s affairs by all the members.

For the second time in succession, the Campus Club took first place in the annual Interfraternity Sing which was held
in front of Chambers Building on Tuesday evening, April 26. Honorable mention was accorded the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity. The
award for the best conductor of the evening was given to Sibley Dorton, a member of Pi Kappa Phi. This
was the fourth consecutive year that the Interfraternity Sing has been held at Davidson under the sponsorship of Phi Mu
Alpha honorary music fraternity. According to the rules of the sing, any competing group which wins for three consecutive years
gets permanent possession of the cup. A large audience of students, faculty, and town guests witnessed the affair. Dr. C.
R. Eberhardt, genial master of ceremonies of the evening, conducted the contest, introducing each of the groups. Judges for the
contest were Mr. Gordon Sweet and Mr. John Holliday of Queens College, Dr. Charles Kraemer, pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church in Charlotte, and Mr. Clarence Betters, Musical Director of Radio Station WBT.

JIM EVANS TO BE TREASURER
NEW COMMISSIONS ORGANIZE

Yesterday Bill Alexander, newly elected president of the YMCA, announced his cabinet for the year 1949-50. In addition to Neil
Leach and Tommy Langford, who were elected first and second vice presidents respectively in the recent student body election, Jim
Evans was selected to fill the post of treasurer. These officers will work under the direction of Bill Smith, general
secretary. The entire effort of the Y and the attention has been made. The plan is to place the current
departments of the Y which are closely related to each other under one category called a commission. There are to
be four such commissions: Faith and Worship, Social Activity, Service, and World Christianity. This plan, which was worked out by
Bill Alexander, Bill Smith, and others, will be tried on an experimental basis for a semester. If the Y runs
more efficiently than in previous times, the plan will be continued; otherwise, the plan will be dropped. In making appointments
of the department chairmen for the ensuing year, the president tried to select a group as representative of the student
body as possible. The commission on faith and worship with Tommy Langford as chairman consists of the following persons: Vespers,
Stubby Evans; chapel, Harrison Taylor; Spiritual Development, Ralph Taylor; Special Service, J. L. Gay; and College Bible Class, Bob Gay.
Heading the Commission on Social Activity is Neil Leach. The Social Life, Publications, and Student Government Action, Freshman Class, and
College Bible Class are as follows: Social Life, Robert White; Publications, Chick Cobb; Student Government Action, Bob Long. The Commission
on Service has Anderson as its chairman.

T. F. Stanley Presents Noted Etching Set

President J. R. Cunningham has announced the gift of thirty etchings to Davidson College in honor of the late T.
F. Stanley of Rye, New York. Mr. Stanley is a Davidson alumnus in the class of 1904 and a trustee
of the college. He is a partner in Reynolds & Co., New York City. During World War II he served
as lieutenant colonel in the Army Air Forces. The etchings record the architectural beauties of old buildings and sites in
North Carolina. Among them is one of Eumenean Hall at Davidson. The thirty etchings are the work of Louis Orr,
one of the most distinguished American etchers. During World War I, Mr. Orr was commissioned to do several etchings of
Rheims Cathedral at a time when it appeared that the gothic edifice might be destroyed by artillery fire. Orr is
the only living etcher to have etchings included in the collections of the Louvre Museum. Examples of his work may
be found in the following museums: Luxembourg and Louvre, Paris; New York Public Library; California Museum, Germany; Albright Gallery, New
York; Yale University Gallery of Fine Arts; and the Mint Museum of Arts, Charlotte. The etchings have been framed by
the College and are being presented in a formal exhibit in the Chambers Dining Hall as part of the Arts
Festival. The exhibit will be open to the public each afternoon from 3:45 to 4:45, April 30 to May 6.
A feature of the exhibit will be a gallery talk by Mr. Joseph Hutchinson, director of the Mint Museum, on
Wednesday afternoon, May 3, at 3:45.
