FRIDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1949

Among The Greeks

PHI DELTA THETA

A cordial invitation is hereby extended to all the Phis to attend a “Little House Warming” on Monday, the nineteenth.
The evening exercises will be opened with a brief play by the pledges which will be followed by some jolly
old fellowship and recreation furnished by the brothers, and the pledge song for the occasion will be “We'll have a
Blue, Blue Christmas.”

The Christmas Function might have gone, but some memories will live on for a long, long time. Brother Pickard, for
example, will never forget that Sunday night in the cotton field—that is if the boys in the back room have
anything to do with it he won't. But love is grand; isn’t it Dallas? The party was held this year
in the Red Fez Club which was decorated like an old western hotel for the occasion. The Phis and their
dates came as Forty-niners (cowboys, Indians, and Mexicans) but there was no rough stuff as Sheriff Sutton and his favorite
deputy, Jo Ann, had everybody check their guns and tomahawks at the door. Guff-Guff Hall was toastmaster and after some
of the boys’ wit and a good meal, everyone was ready to ease around the floors a little. However, the
Roundman did raise a terrible gripe when he found out there wasn’t any dessert, but was soon consoled when everybody
at his table passed down their scraps. B. C. and Dot McLeod won the prize for the best dressed couple—that
Klein was a real seed. Special congratulations also go to Fran Fulcher for being selected our sponsor for the annual
this year.

Stag Line Comments: “Gosh look at those legs on Campbell's girl. Where does Hubbell get all these cute dates from,
anyhow? Look at old Bacon dip! You mean eight of them came all the way out here in that wreck.
Uses two quarts of oil every thirty miles! Mo, are there any more cute Cuban girls at Montreat? Charming Chaz
certainly looks dashing tonight. How many Combs girls are down here anyhow? Old Lazenby looks like he’d kill somebody if
they broke in on him now. I wonder where that dashing, young socialite Whiteheart is? Old Poston and Davis really
have the hots—you know it. IT WAS NOTHING BUT A GREAT FUNCTION! MERRY CHRISTMAS!

Old Football Rules Differ Greatly From Present Regulations

Grinnell, Iowa (ACP)—Mr. Sam Pooley, 81, mused about 1889 style football for “The Scarlet and Black” of Grinnell College: “It
was a rough game. Back then we didn’t have the downs system. We carried the ball to a touchdown or
the other team took it away from us. A simple little tackle didn’t put the runner down. You had to
pin him to the ground to keep him from crawling across the goal line.

“We didn’t play quarters, just two 30-minute halves. We furnished our own uniforms: jersey pants, short jackets and Congress shoes.
No reserve teams sat on the bench; only a few extras were on hand in case someone was thrown too
hard. There were no substitutions except for injuries. Of course we sometimes found it convenient to have a man injured.

“Touchdowns counted four points, the conversion two in 1889. And to get the extra point you had to kick from
where the runner went over. I don’t think football was quite as rough when we played it; we tackled hard,
piled up, developed cauliflower ears from playing without helmets, but we didn't have as many injuries. Even teachers played; Iowa
had an instructor named Sampson on their team.

“I can’t see any real difference between football in 1889 and now. Different techniques, yes, but the main thing is
still to get that ball across the goal.”

Peeping Tom?

Norman, Oklahoma (ACP)—“We are all peeping Toms,” says Dr. Donald H. Dietrich, professor of psychology of the University of Oklahoma.
He explained that there are varying degrees of peepism which the American culture tends to encourage. For ex- (Continued On
Page Five)

SIGMA CHI

Since the Yuletide season again has drawn nigh, we dedicate this column to the enumeration of certain items which we
hope jolly Old Nick brings the respective members of Sigma Chi:

To “Relief” O'Neal, “Thrilling” Hamilton, and Blue Griffitts: A dozen packages of Flush-it-out in gratitude for their hillbilly renditions and
eliminating performances at the function.

To Consul Clark: The intellectual ability to cope with the superior intellect of his two Phi Betes, Dick and Betty.

To Gnostic Jack McLaney, a superior source.

To Gesticulating Chuck Mann: A plaque donated by the women of the function for his naive manner and the display
of his usual cool, calm, poised self.

To Jumbo Jackson: A complete deep sea diving outfit to prepare him for his pearl diving exploits in the future.

To Sexy Eyes Kelton: The ability to persuade Jean there’s more to him than meets the eye, and a super-charged
Stewart automobile to escape the pursuing Francisco.

To Dodo Dendy and Lala Laverty: A three-year supply of raisin-bran, the official food for all Cedarbirds.

To Darkeyes Beatie: A parachute to aid him as he drops from the cloud which has enshrouded him since Jane's
arrival and departure.

To Dauntless Don Shriver, Dashing Dick Morgan, Bashful Bill Barris: A gold-plated neon sign reading: “Remember Nedao.”

To Boston Blackie Eastman: A detailed list of all the brothers’ names.

To Dorsey Pleasants: A new thumb, his shooting eye, and a road map of Pennsylvania.

To Refugee Bones Brooks: Orchids for his 20-point performance against VPI, and special commendation for his receiving the weekly fraternity
award.

To Machen Mott: A little nest up Salisbury way for just two, with the door sign reading El señor Mott
and la señorita Mary Ann Price.

To Sheik Francisco: A new supply of females for his rapidly diminishing harem; a jet auto to catch Sexyeyes, and
an official permit to swap cousins with Morgan.

To Babyface Birkhead: The same Tiddliwink ability and perfection in freshman math which Benjy displayed last season.

To Longine Whitner: A year’s supply of the latest Grits, and an official alarm clock.

To Grappling Grissom: His own Mule Train, and a wrestling match which lasts into the night.

To Punctilious Paul Laverty and his scrappy Sig dribblers: The award of the week for their inspired play and unerring
marksmanship in bringing a Sigma Chi 22-13 victory over the Phi Delts.

Are You Educated?

Denton, Texas (ACP)—Dr. Will Durant, noted philosopher, in a speech at the Texas State College for Women gave a list
of works and authors everyone should know for a complete education: “Trojan Women” by Euripides; “Lives” by Plutarch; “Confessions” by
Augustine; and “The Rubaiyat” of Omar Khayyam (translated by Edward Fitzgerald); The essays of Montaigne and of Emerson; “Leaves of
Grass” by Whitman; “Don Quixote” by Cervantes; Voltaire’s “Candide,” and Boswell's “Life of Johnson;” (Continued On Page Five)

PROFESSOR STARNES

Prof. Starnes Is Carolina Alumnus

Mr. W. R. Starnes, Jr., was for two years before the war a student at Duke Forest College. During the
war he served as a gunner in the Eighth Air Force stationed in England. At the end of the war
he held the rank of staff sergeant.

After being discharged from the Air Force, Mr. Starnes finished his two years of undergraduate work at the University of
North Carolina. Having received his A. B. degree from Carolina, Mr. Starnes took one year of graduate work at Columbia
University. He is spending his first year of teaching as an instructor in economics.

Commenting on his work here at Davidson, Mr. Starnes said that he was enjoying it very much. Everybody has been
very friendly and cooperative. He stated that both the administration and his students have been extremely patient with him in
his first year of teaching. He said that he was very grateful for this.

Two things have happened in his classes so far that have been a little out of the ordinary. He labels
the first as a good way to wake up a class. Not very long ago the desk in his classroom
slipped off the platform and made quite a noise when it hit the floor. Mr. Starnes said that he was
thinking of this incident only as an accident. The other incident was, he is sure, an accident. A few days
ago, while he was giving a review, a person opened the classroom door and a draft blew a boy’s paper
out of the window and into the classroom below. The boy was in quite a fix until he retrieved his
paper.

Mr. Starnes is originally from Charlotte. He is not a member of a social fraternity, but he is a member
of the Phi Beta Kappa honorary fraternity. Mr. Starnes is not married, but he is looking mighty hard for a
wife. So far the field is wide open.

Gargantua Is Dead

Gargantua, that awesome monk, is dead. We have stood fascinated in front of his cage. He could have slapped Joe
Louis from here to there; for that matter, he could have whipped a whole ring full of Joe Louises before
he got warmed up. The difference between Gargantua and a man is that the man exceeds the gorilla in brain
and spiritual power just as much as the gorilla exceeds the man in physical might. The mind is the measure
of man’s superiority. The part of the mind which entitles him to free will is most important of all. The
most delicate scalpel cannot separate the mind and the spirit. The door by which the mind enters the spirit is
the door of free will. Proper music, indeed, for the New Year.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

U.N. SOCIAL WELFARE MISSION HELPS PHILIPPINES RECOVER

Lake Success, New York—How one of the least publicized of the many activities of the United Nations to make the
world a better place in which to live is helping the Philippine Republic to recover from its war damages and
to rebuild for the future was recently revealed here by a U.N. social welfare expert who spent 16 months in
that country.

Mrs. Irene Murphy, the U.N. expert, said that since 1947 she had the privilege of seeing the Philippines from the
“receiving” end of one of the many efforts of the U.N. to build peace through human welfare. The Philippines, Mrs.
Murphy explained, was “receiving” for two reasons—because it was the second most devastated country in World War II, and because
it is classified as an “undeveloped country.”

Ever since 1946, long before U.S. President Harry S. Truman proposed a “bold, new program” and U.N. launched its Technical
Assistance Program, the World Organization has been furnishing technical help or “know-how” in many fields. The U.N. sent advisers to
help the Philippines control soil erosion, mend roads, use more up-to-date agricultural methods, and stop forest fires. The advisers were
also asked to start a school of social work which they did, she said, by giving an introductory course to
6900 of the 8000 Philippine social workers. The U.N. also helped the Philippines in its fight against disease and illiteracy.United
Nations, Mrs. Murphy declared, also helped the Philippines in many other fronts. This aid did not mean material relief, but
human experience to assist these nations in charting their own plans and resources to meet their own human needs.

Other members of Mrs. Murphy’s team in Manila came from Paris, Rio de Janeiro, and Melbourne. The task of this
international group was to act as “talent scouts,” to find the most capable welfare officials in the country and to
send them throughout the world to observe and learn the most sound and modern methods of social welfare, under the
U.N. Fellowship Program.

Under this program, Mrs. Murphy recalled, 24 Filipino fellows traveled to the United States, Canada, Sweden, Denmark, France, Switzerland, and
the United Kingdom. In the meantime, the four members of a social advisers team worked on a coordinated program to
bring new social services to the war-distressed millions in the Philippines.

“The World Health Organization (WHO) sent four doctors to give practical demonstrations of vaccination against tuberculosis, to give demonstrations in
surgery, and to open clinics. UNESCO sent representatives to survey the educational aims of the country’s schools. The United Nations
International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF) supplied supplementary feeding to children of malnutrition and beriberi. The U.N. Economic Commission for Asia
and the Far East (ECAFE) gave a hand to help build a coordinated economic plan for Asia. Further assistance of
a technical nature was given by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the International Labor
Organization (ILO).”

Work relief, rather than the disaster dole, was the system used, Mrs. Murphy pointed out. Thus, the people were taught
to stop the cycle of poverty and disease. The advisers were also asked to draft a model juvenile court law,
to draft an initial social insurance bill, and to plan for research for social security. During this time, Mrs. Murphy
noted, the eager cooperation of the local population showed how desperately anxious they were to rid themselves of poverty and
disease.

The Coach Talks to His Team (Hampden-Sydney Tiger)

The place where God can most easily enter into man’s life is found in the higher, latest developed, and least
stable parts of the human brain. The emotional dispositions and capacities have their physiological seats in the basal ganglia, the
lowest levels of the brain, the part which alone is represented in the brains of Gargantua and his brethren. The
higher intellectual faculties, latest acquired, are connected with the anatomically highest and latest developed parts of the brain. Here we
find seated judgment, discretion, and conscience. Alcohol affects the higher brain centers first, weakening and suspending the functions of the
brain in the inverse order of their development in the individual and in the race. When the Divine Spirit seeks
entrance into man's soul, all too frequently, He finds that alcohol has slammed the door.

The man who chooses to drink chooses to take the road back to the jungle; chooses to seek the intellectual
and spiritual companionship of primitives. The journey may be cut short, but that is the direction in which he is
going. He is setting aside the only things which make him superior to the ape, and he fails to gain
those powers in which the ape is his superior.

Buddy, this is your game. When you get in there, you’re quarterback and captain. The north goal is between Heaven
and eternal life—that's your goal. The south goal is Hell. The ball is your immortal soul. If you carry it
over the right goal, you win—if you don’t—you lose for all eternity. The line from end to end is Sin.
At right end is Pride; and if you don’t watch out, he’ll mow you down like grass. Right tackle, Envy.
Right guard, Sloth—he’s a booze fighter, but keep away from him. Left guard, Avarice. Left tackle, Anger. Left end, Lust—and
keep out of his way, because he’ll be in your backfield all afternoon. The backfield is Desire of the Flesh,
Desire of the Eyes, Pride of Life, and at quarterback, calling the plays himself—the Devil. It’s a good outfit, and
they’ve been playing together for a long time. They know all the tricks, and they’ve won a lot of games.

Take a look at the opposition. You can field an all-star team—the only team that has ever beaten Satan and
his gang, a team that has a record of all wins and no losses. In the line, you have seven
champions—the seven gifts of the Holy Ghost. There’s Wisdom, Courage, Understanding, Counsel, Piety, Fortitude, and Fear of the Lord. In
the backfield, you have, besides yourself, the three best—Faith, Hope, and Charity. You know the rules, the Ten Commandments. No
dirty playing gets through. The referee is Almighty God Himself, and nothing gets by Him.

You can’t win the game without the ball, and this ball is your immortal soul. If you lose it, you’re
stuck. God has given it into your keeping. You are the captain and the quarterback, so run the team well.
Keep in condition by being faithful to your religion. Don’t forget the practice sessions every Sunday in your church. Have
and use that sure-fire play that always works—Prayer. You’ve had a lot of previous playing experience—so get out there and
play ball for all you’re worth. You have only this one game and everything depends on it. You don’t know
what quarter it is—the game may be in its closing minutes. And one last word, Buddy—THERE ARE NO TIES! Good
luck to you, and God bless you!

VISIT THE RECREATION CENTER Davidson, N.C.

Broadway Has Its Bop City, Davidson Has Mouse Morgan

Broadway has its Bop City with Artie Shaw, Hollywood has Height and the Bowl, but Davidson College has “Mouse” Morgan
equipped with beret, dark glasses, and one lone piano. That’s three-to-one odds, but we’ll take ’em. Quiet Morris has been
overshadowed the past several years by his ideals and contemporaries, Scruggs and Upchurch. However, he has one claim to fame
that can’t be darkened—Mouse is the only living person who has ever taken five years of piano and never learned
to read music.

As soon as Bop became an orphan, “Mouse” adopted it; and ever since it’s had a good home in the
back room of the Kappa Sig house. At almost any time of day that you walk by, you’re likely to
hear the strains of “A Night on Bop Mountain,” or some other unlucky tune, staggering out the window.

“Mouse’s” prowess as an athlete is unknown to most people. He played football on one of the most famous teams
Davidson College has ever produced. When anybody mentions it, he just grins—says, “Yes, that was the year Ralph Alexander had
an eight-yard punting average against Harding ... and keeps on playing the piano. For our benefit, he adds that he
played Darlington for Wildcats Homecoming the same year.

When Mouse was asked what year he came to Davidson, he said, “That’s all right. You just tell ‘em that
I was here when the first dance was held on the campus. The girls stayed in the dormitories and had
to be in forty-five minutes after the dance was over. That was a rough year.”

In an interview like this, for some unknown reason, people want to know why the celebrity came to Davidson. Well,
in the case of Morris, it was sort of a family tradition. His fifth cousin on his grandmother’s side held
Cop Linker’s position before he took over. Since Morris plans to leave us in January, it seems only natural to
inquire into his future plans. He says he has a secret desire to play in a bar or to be
a stock car racer, but he thinks he’ll probably end up pushing a broom in a cotton mill. His experience
doesn’t fit him for the first job—he knows how to play the piano, but the bar would be an unfamiliar
environment. As for stock car racing, Mouse has never had a wreck—which of course shows a need for experience.

When Morris graduates in January, an era will end. For the boys on fraternity court, it will be the end
of Be Bop; for the boys from Laurinburg, it will be the end of transportation, and Morris adds, “For some
of the boys on the faculty, it will be a relief.”

MASQUERS CONTINUE DESPITE ILLEGITIMACY OF EXISTENCE

Every play given at Davidson is illegal and always has been. The charter of the institution still contains the following
provision: “It shall be unlawful for any person to set up or to continue any table, or any game of
chance or hazard, whatever named, called, or to exhibit any sleight of hand, theatrical or equestrian performances, dramatic recitation, rope
or wire dancing.”

In spite of this prohibition law, on Thanksgiving of 1896, the students’ Soc and Buskin Club presented a production called
“The Widow” in the chapel of Old Chambers. The Shakespearean precedent of having the female parts played by beardless gentlemen
was followed. Whether this riled the professors or something else happened of which there is no record, no other theatricals
are mentioned in college annuals or magazines. In March of 1898, it was voted in a faculty meeting that “for
a college under the direct control of the Church, amateur theatricals are hardly advisable.” So no more plays were given
publicity for over twenty years. Gymnastics, glee clubs, and stunt nights, however, were permitted on the Chambers stage.

In 1920, Edward Jones Erwin, of the class of '06, returned to Davidson as a member of the English faculty.
Professor Erwin organized a dramatic club in the fall of his first year here and has been the mainstay and
mentor of campus theatricals from that day to this. The first production was the “Wildcat Minstrels,” given at Senior Speaking
in November 1920. Since then, classical and current plays have been regularly offered. Not infrequently, plays written by Davidson students
have been accorded as much success as Broadway hits. A collection of local offerings was printed in 1923 under the
title “Four Plays” and dedicated to Professor Erwin.

For the first half dozen years, the plays appeared as the Davidson College Dramatic Club. The title “Red and Black
Masquers” was adopted for the 1926-27 season and has been kept now for over twenty years. The Masquers are not
a parasitic organization, but an independent group solely devoted to dramatic art on the stage and in the past years
to that on the radio.

Faul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
48 S. TRYON STREET
