FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1949 - but we're going to examine it carefully, game and the other in the Furman contest.
A bruised hip slowed Every since the State game, murmurings of increasing frequency have been heard among students and alumni,
particularly alumni, that Davidson has a bunch of “tired old men,” and “goof offs” on the football team. One alumnus
said, “it will be a great day for Davidson football when that bunch of G.I.’s on the team graduates. They
don't want to play football.” Perhaps all of us have felt that way at one time or another this year,
but if such is the case, we hope in this article to put a different light on your thinking. Here
it is—these so-called “goof offs” have been injured, and re-injured to the point where they could hardly run around, let
alone play their best. But in spite of this, they have had the grit to take to the field and
play. And what reward have they gotten? Only the condemnation and scorn of many “arm-chair quarterbacks.” The very fact that
they were in there at all is evidence enough of determination and will to play. We dare any coach in
the country to produce a list of injuries suffered during the season that can compare to that which Charley Jamerson
has had to contend with this year. Let’s start at the beginning—even before the whistle blew for the first game,
DOUG RICE was out for the season with a severe charley horse. He had been counted on for heavy duty
at the wingback slot. Now, what has developed since the season has been underway? The list is long. JIM SIFFORD
has had two nose injuries, one in the Richmond game and the other in the Furman contest. A bruised hip
slowed him down for two or three games, and his latest nose injury may keep him out of action against
Rollins tomorrow. AUBURN LAMBETH has had his collar bone separated from his sternum, broken cartilage in his nose, bruised three
ribs and pulled muscle in between them, sprained the biceps in his right arm, and now has a charley horse.
CHARLEY RIMER, who had part of his collar bone removed in an operation last year, chipped off another part of
his collar bone and has had to favor this shoulder. HENRY WILSON has had bruised ribs. DAVEY ERVIN suffered a
bruised hip early in the season and a sprained ankle later. C. L. RUNYAN was injured in the lower part
of his back in early practice sessions. This injury was aggravated during the State game and has slowed down the
bruising fullback in running and kicking. BOB SHARPE has had a shoulder sprain, shoulder separation, and sprained pectoral muscles. CARL
EBORN has had a charley horse. ERNIE STRICKLIN had his hand stepped on and has played the last three games
with his hand heavily bandaged. SANDY CARNEGIE, who had enough injuries last year to force the retirement of a less
zealous gridder, has fared better this year, but has been slowed down by old injuries. Look at this list of
injuries—a sprained neck, arthritis in both knees, all his teeth knocked out, separation and dislocation of his shoulder, and cartilage
taken out of his knee. Doubtless Sandy could add many more. REA ADAMS injured his shoulder in practice two or
three weeks ago and will be out for the rest of the year. BUDDY CHANDLER has had trouble all year
with an injury to one of his arches. BILL REYNOLDS picked up a charley horse. JOHNNY RICHARDS was laid up
with a badly twisted knee. Big JERRY KISER hasn’t been out of action but has had two charley horses. BRADY
OSBORNE injured his ankle badly. DICKIE BLANKS missed half of the games due to a broken shoulder. JAKE WADE played
the Furman game with a twisted knee which he picked up in practice on Thursday before the game. BOB TURK
twisted his knee early in the year and has played in less than half of the games to date. And
HAL MAPES, who was one of the best defensive ends in the Conference, was forced out of action after the
State game due to numerous fractures around his left eye. A doctor who examined Hal said that the bones around
his eye “looked like a broken eggshell.” Quite a list, isn’t it? There were still others, but we have hit
on the most important injuries. If you look back over the list, you will see that PETE BROWN and MOTT
PRICE are the only two regulars who haven’t been slowed down by injuries of one kind or another. We haven’t
written this as an excuse for Davidson's poor showing this year. If that had been our purpose, we would have
dwelt at length on the Cats’ porous pass defense and faulty blocking.

By FURMAN WARLICK

Rushing — Times Yds. Aver- Carried Gd. age
Lambeth: 68 81 1.2
Runyan: 103 294 2.8
Adams: 21 58 2.8
Turner: 8 30 3.7
Wade, H.: 4 148 3.6
Guiton: 21 72 2.3
Wade, J.: 6 36 6.0
Sloan: 1 4 4.0
Bowers: 1 3 3.0
Portals: 326 792

PASSING
Player Attempts Comp. Gain
Lambeth: 99 50 570
Sifford: 20 12 97

(Continued On Page Six)

What The Cats Were Doing...

20 YEARS AGO—November 21, 1929...
1. Carolina overcomes lead to beat Davidson, 26-7. Captain Thad Brock plays greatest game of career.

10 YEARS AGO—November 23, 1939...
1. Cats swamp Erskine with varied attack in final home game, 32-6.

5 YEARS AGO—November 24, 1944...
1. Laurinburg downs Wildkittens, 27-7.

1 YEAR AGO—November 19, 1948...
1. Blocked placement gives W.&L. Generals 21-20 victory. Auburn Lambeth was selected Sophomore of the week for his brilliant play
against W.&L.
2. Davidson beats Mooresville, 33-0.

SAE 8—Pika 6
Trying desperately to break back into the win column, the Pikas played hard ball against the SAE, but fell by
the score of 8-6. The SAE scored a touchdown on a long Collins-to-Jones pass play and a safety when the
Pikas intercepted a pass in their end zone and tried to run it out. The Pikas scored on a Hard
rough pass to Monty Hill.The order of the day meal the SAE coming out on top | Beta 4 First
Downs Phi Delts 0 Keeping their record clean, the Betas downed a scrapping Phi Delt team. A hard game was
climaxed in the final moments by a play which went over the goal for the losers but the officials ruled
that he was touched before crossing. There was much discussion. The victors were paced by Smith and Hawkins while Bacon
and Whiteheart starred for the Phi Delts. “Bustoken” Ellis who yards behind beautiful downfield blocking by Dave Williams, Charley Pearson,
and Bob Purcell, ex-All-Staters from Laurinburg, looked good for the winner.

K. A. 8—Pi Kapps 0 Scoring on a nice pass from Charlie Mitchell to Harry Backman, the K. A defeated
the Pi Kappa Phi's 8-0, and stayed in the winning column. In their attempt to down the KA’s the losers
were led by Billy Houck.

Phi Gams 5 first downs, Pikas 3 A spirited Phi-Gam team defeated the Pikas in a very close duel; 5
first downs to 3. The winning team showed fine spirit throughout the contest and it was a team victory. The
Pikas were spirited by Brown and Huffaker.

Kappa Sigs 18—KA 0 Kappa Sigs 2—Phi Delts 0 The Kappa Sigs edged the Phi Delts 2-0 last Thursday afternoon.
Charley Simmons, Kappa Sig guard, blocked a Phi Delt punt for the safety which brought victory to the Kappa Sigs.
The game was hard-fought from beginning to end, with frequent outbursts of temper. The Phi Delts gained the edge in
first downs 4-1. The Phi Delts missed an excellent scoring opportunity when they were on the Kappa Sig’s 5-yard line
with first and goal to go. A pass by Norman Whiteheart was intercepted by Dave Williams. Alldridge played very good
ball for the losers.

Pi Kapps 24—Campus Club 0 Looking impressive, the Pi Kapps downed the Campus Club by the decisive score of 24-0.
Leading the scoring was Billy Houck with three touchdowns, supported by Bill Kassels with one. Outstanding for the Campus Club
was Whitfield.

The football season is over, but now seems better because all of us—students, faculty, and alumni—still have a chance to
express our appreciation for what these boys have done this year. Any one of them could have hung up his
cleats and called it quits for the season, but none did unless forced to do so. We don't know how
you feel about it, but we believe that the student body should in some way openly express appreciation to this
battered band of Davidson Wildcats who have continued to play this year despite what in most cases would have been
overwhelming odds.—G.P.S.

Interfrat Standings
Team W L
Betas 9 0
Kappa Sig 6 1
KA's 7 2
SAE 6 3
Phi Delt 5 4
Pika 3 6
Sigma Chi 3 6
Phi Gam 3 6
SPE 2 7
Campus Club 0 9

GREEKS RUN OFF SEVEN GAMES

Crusaders Outlast Wildkittens, 13-0 By BILL BRADFORD A visiting eleven from Belmont Abbey conquered the Wildkittens by a score of
13-0 last Friday. Davidson used the TO formation and it was the first time such a formation had been used
on the campus in a long time. The Kittens’ playing was a little ragged in the first half and the
Crusaders scored twice in this period. One of these touchdowns was set up by a long pass and the fullback
plunged over while the other was scored by a long pass. Davidson drove down to the one-yard line but the
drive was stopped by a 5-yard penalty. That was as close as they came to scoring in the game. During
the second half, the squad looked much better; they had spirit and completely dominated the ball but never had quite
enough punch to push the ball across the goal. The entire team played well but linesmen Tucker and Pierce and
backfieldmen Gregg, Stanley, White, and Rowland turned in the finest performances.

In a very rough game spotted with frequent outbursts of temper, the Kappa Sigs throttled a scrapping but crippled KA
nine. John Ellis led the K. S. Parade with two tallies, the other being scored by Dave Williams.

Yes, Camels are SO MILD that in a coast-to-coast test of hundreds of men and women who smoked Camels—and only
Camels—for 30 consecutive days, there was NOT ONE SINGLE CASE OF THROAT IRRITATION due to smoking CAMELS!

Minded Freshmen Favored To Rack Up First Victory This afternoon at 3 o'clock, the Green and Yellow of Lees-McRae came
to the campus to match brains and brawn with Boyd Baird's spirited frosh squad. The Kittens' record of one tie
and two losses hasn’t looked too good on the surface, but there is much more than the tale the scores
have told. The squad has shown sparks of brilliance even in losing. The backfield operates out of the “T” formation
and features a fleet array of operators. Among these are A. C., Bill Rowland, Ray White, Jack Ruth, and Bill
Stanley. Rowland's arm should get plenty of exercise this afternoon. Rowland will find ready receivers in towering Dick Kelly and
J. V. Howell. There is a better-than-average line in front of these backs. Standouts thus far have been Angers McInnis,
Gene Pierce, and Bob Tucker, to name a few. In the earlier part of the season, the frosh used the
double wing formation; however, the backs were better suited for the “T” so the changeover was made. The boys have
plenty of fight and spirit and plenty for spectators to stand up and cheer about. This afternoon rates as a
toss-up, but from here, it looks like the Kittens by at least a touchdown.

"Cigarette? Camels, of course!"
