PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, April 1, 1949

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

MAC HART .......................... EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JOHN McNAIR .................... BUSINESS MGR

EDITORIAL STAFF
Stan Kennett .................. Associate Editor
Bill Crinoun .................. Associate Editor
Ronnie Dietrick ............ Associate Editor
Sports Editor .................. Bob Hollister
Lonnie Turnipseed ........ Managing Editor
Managing Editor ............ Tom Niblock
Managing Editor ............ Bill King
Managing Editor ............ Charlie Reid
Managing Editor ............ John Hobart
Staff Photographer ........ Jim Murray
Cartoonist ...................... Poll-Cat Editor
Make-up Editor ............ Blake Cudlip

FEATURE REPORTERS: Phil Mitchell, Hartley Hall, Gabe Lowe, Neil Leach, Jimmie Henritzy, Henry Hansen, Pete Kalogridis, Drew Gurley, Bill Sargent,
Bob Grube, Jimmy Fickeisen, Bill Hollister.

REPORTERS: Randy Taylor, Bill DuBose, Warren Sims, Ralph Robinson, Tom Aten, Dick Barnwell, Bill McCrary, Tom Mann, Bill Cumming, Phil
Libby, Ben Drymon, Dudley Pendleton, Nat Daniel, Dick Chandley, Poo Northeutt, Stuart Shippey, Hugh Huffaker, Bill Neal, Harper Newbold, Jim
Blackburn, Jack Pierce, Harry Shurley, Bob Hibbell, Angus McKellar, Jack Peirce, Slats McClintock, Boye Kendall, Lamar Hinson, Ed Richardson.

SPORTS STAFF: Cherry Stribling, Furman Warlick, Watt Jeffries, Bill White, Phil Hammond, Bryant Robinson, Dan McKeithan, David Whitener, Ed West,
Bill Buckey, Jack Stevenson.

POLL CAT STAFF: Jim Carr, Claude Higginbothan, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown, and Neal Underdown.

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager ........ W. S. McSwain
Advertising Manager .................. Wylie Smith
Circulation Manager .................. Bill Houck
Asst. Circulation Manager ........ Bill Gassels
Asst. Advertising Manager ........ Charles Clinkscales
Asst. Advertising Manager ........ Hector McKeithan
Assistant Advertising Manager .... McConnell
Collections Manager .................. Charles Dockery
Subscriptions Manager ............ John Loftin

ASSISTANTS: Bill Cumming, Bill Hart, Bob Erwin, Bill Pharr, Harold Clayton, Sans Cumming, Rod Shaw, Gene Taylor, Nelson Tomlinson

CIRCULATION STAFF: Alex Parks Dalton, Cecil Rhodes, Ansley Moses, Joe H. Miller, Neill Underdown, Tommy Haller, John Hardin, Thad Monroe,
Hugh Huffaker, Ben Morris, Cam Faison, Paul Guthry, and Phil Willer.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 8, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1948 Member 1949
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

This editorial is printed in invisible ink. If you care to read it, dip this paper in water or allow
water to run over it, and the printing will become quite clear.

EDITORIALS
The DAVIDSONIAN Presents LETTERS FEATURES

This editorial is printed in invisible ink. If you care to read it, dip this paper in water or allow
water to run over it, and the printing will become quite clear.

This editorial is printed in invisible ink. If you care to read it, dip this paper in water or allow
water to run over it, and the printing will become quite clear.

Chapel Conduct.
Once again the problem of deplorable chapel conduct has come to our attention. Once again the student body must be
implored to give some attention to this problem and decide whether or not something must be done to remedy our
chapel manners. The other day in chapel an outside speaker was not only allowed to speak without the dignity of
catcalls, newspaper reading and studying—he was even listened to attentively for one three-minute period. This situation is deplorable. It is
not in keeping with Davidson-Wildcat-chapel traditions. What is the student body coming to when passers-by on the highway cannot tell
by sounds emanating from under the dome that chapel is going on? How can the student feel that his day
is complete if he does not exercise the mental side of his nature by thinking up bigger and better chapel
sound effects? Carl Pahl’s announcements must not be heard! Rise up, Oh men of Davidson, and make them inaudible!

THESE GUYS THAT RE CAMPS ARE GETTING ON THE BALL & WRECKO BEAUTIFYIN’ THE

This column is usually a collection of short articles about and by Greeks. This issue the title is slightly changed;
etc. Being one of them entitles this person to be quite authoritative in his revelations or as the case may
be, accusations. Therefore with a flourish of a recently plucked chicken quill, we begin.

The past week found rank disbur- of the gleeful Geeks. The rapidly rising saps of Spring made vacation time a
period of indulgence from Virginia Beach to Corpus Christi. To say that a good time was had by all would
be a masterpiece understatement. To get down to individual cases, the general picture of things seems to have changed. Take,
for instance, the wild, lascivious debauch under- sion of Foolies Feature Original Umba, Umba! Co-ed insured for $50,000. Feature attraction
in Foolies! Guest Speaker Otton Q. Smickleshturnt, who will be heard in the next lecture series program. (Complete story on
front page.) Among the Geeks taken by “Lustful John” to the City of Sin, or the reverent pilgrimage of “Jake
the Rake” to the Holy City. “Mike” and “Buddy” turned lovers while “Alex” didn't even hold a feverish palm, “Double
Dip” looked like the Thin Man, while “Simple” looked like a kid; “Shep” preached the gospel of the Kinsey report
and “Gopher” wrote a poem in the Keats’ flavor; “Terrible Tun” Hopper and Hunter went wild, while Dickie and Hurd
were peaceful, Liston and Potts turned women-haters, while “Murd” and “Bufe” fell prey to the fair sex; Carl made a
speech in the William Jennings Bryan style while John Lyles stuttered and stammered. As if this wasn't enough contrast the
Ata Bita Pi's snooted everyone on the campus and the Snaper Snifs rolled out the welcome mat. The Morris Field
Policeman's Club was reinstated after fire and police raids two week-ends in succession, one in secession. The Harbor Club swept
the bay into the river only to uncover two broken fiddles, a guitar, four jugs and one harmonica. The Woman's
Club boarded its windows in preparation for a blast next Saturday. When the boys found themselves on the way back,
they happened to remember that the blessed day of hitch-hiking had cost them $57,000. It all seemed quite discouraging to
shell out so much to delay their return to their daily battle and raw chicken. It left them with a
soulful sigh of “What price freedom?”

ODE TO MY MUSTACHE
By C. K. B.
Oh patch of hair beneath my nose,
Carefully now I clip thee close.
Exactly I retain thy line
Which gives uniqueness of design.
As I trim thee oh growth of bristle,
I snip thee close so I can whistle.
At smiling lasses? Why, of course—
Members of the secretarial force,

TREES
I think that I shall never see
A poem lovely as a tree.
A tree which did in winter bear
Icicles in the frigid air.
Its vernal boughs laid,
A victim of the dozer’s blade,
Now prostrate
Now robins for her hair do sob,
Since axmen gave her boyish bob.
We ‘neath her leaves did promenade,
Now we've new walk; but where’s the shade?
Poems are made by brains like me
But only fools push down a tree.
By Jus Killme.

A beerless university.
A campus without Scotch or gin,
And lacking wanton women’s sin.
A college without demon rum
To change eachFreshman to a bum. A place of higher education where parties have sex segregation. Where gambling, vice, sin,
and drink, and wild, lewd parties are extinct. Bums are made by women and beer, but the Board of Trustees
saves us here.

Political Dangles
By PETE KALOGRIDIS

Around the world encouraging this that all is well in the four corners of the globe and that the revolution
is spreading like wildfire through every nation in the world. Evidence of this rapid spread is the news from last
week. Reports indicate it is particularly conspicuous in the Soviet Union. Only two days ago the Russians published the startling
announcement that their scientists Mydidensky, Karliboff, and Torsakov had invented new phenomena known to the outside world as the “electric
light,” “automobile,” “telephone,” and “baby diapers.” This is extremely laudable. If they keep up the good work, they should be
discovering America before too long.

Late dispatches from Washington have sounded a peculiar note in the argument precipitated when Senator Snort (D-Fla.) and Senator Glump
(R-N.Y.) were engrossed in debate over the questions of statehood for Slobovia. It seems that the Senator from the South,
who claims to be quite a history scholar, kept referring to the Senator from New York as the “New Rotterdam”
Yankee. The ill feeling first arose, however, when Senator Glump made the statement on the floor that there were only
two political parties in the United States—the Publicans and the Sinners.

Everything else seems to be running fairly smoothly in the nation’s capital. Representative Bovin has introduced a bill granting a
$50 monthly pension to anyone who can prove he is a citizen of the United States. This pension goes into
effect immediately upon the submittance of such proof to any one of the 10 million congressional boards set up for
this purpose. In addition, Congress has forbidden by law the use of the color red in all manufactured products—because there
are so many bulls in the country.

Digressing a bit from the international and national scenes, much activity is to be found this week in the local
elections concerning that famous institution of higher education, Davidson College. As you will recall, this spot recently claimed national attention
by the strike of its students for ten instead of twelve hours of work per day. The authorities, however, seem
to have survived the test of strength and the students were back on the job shortly. But now excitement has
returned to the campus in the form of the student body elections. “Cash” Jackson, an executive of the college, introduced
the candidates for president in chapel in the following fashion:

What kind of shoes do the angels wear
Slipping and sliding o'er the air;
Golden slippers with silver socks,
Put your dollars in Davidson box.

One student, aspiring to the office, promised, if elected, a system of co-education for Davidson College by the beginning of
the next school year. His opponent, John D. Glubbernubber, won much support through his widely discussed platform. In his own
words: “I stand firmly upon the protection and continued well-being of all constitutions, institutions, and prosperity.” (Here he was interrupted
by a great ovation.) The outcome of this important election is anyone’s guess. May the best ham win.

Switching back again to the national field, the country rejoiced over the congressional announcement that there was not a single
cent left in the national debt. And that is how the world situation looks from here.

Enraging headlines are not without will and Prof. Barnum Logan accepts jobs with Barnum and Bailey Circus, will be furnished
old trapeze tire for exercise. Prof. Schenck installs new classroom desks with hearing aids. Prof. Hollychasing gets all balled up
with rare species of tumble bug. Prof. Eberhardt accepts leading role in super new movie “Mighty Mouse.” Prof. McGeachy and
Tom Casey pose for “before and after” pictures of “ye Olde Hair Grower” ad. Prof. Greet edits new book entitled
“The Life and Times of Phil Mitchell.” Prof. Lilly exhibits new spring style drapes for bike riders, the Profs cycle.
Prof. Cansey retaliates with uniform. Prof. Kimbrough informs close friends he never became interested in Math until after marriage. Prof.
Watts, all 75 of him, buys farm, to raise French Poodles. Prof. Reid undermines gym foundation digging for new rock
formations. Students complain of shaky furniture in infirmary. Dr. Woods admits prevalence of loose stools. Prof. Johnston loses Battle of
Bull Run under Riddervold’s withering fire. Profs. Beaty and Goldiere have mustache growing contest. Goldiere wins by a hair. (Just
how foolish can we get?)

Bogus Money Running Loose

Washington — Two huge counterfeit rings, one in New York and one in Chicago, are flooding the nation with bogus
$10 and $20 bills representing millions of dollars. Disclosure of the existence of two rings was made by the Secret
Service after the Federal Reserve Bank of New York announced that a “substantial number” of nearly perfect copies of bank
notes were circulated throughout the greater New York area in the biggest counterfeiting operation in the United States in 14
years. Bank officials warned shoppers, merchants, and commercial banks to watch sharply for the bogus bills. The New York bank
officials said fake money also had been found in Chicago, but a secret service spokesman here said there was no
connection. He said the $10 and $20 bills passed out by the Chicago gang are not like those discovered in
New York. If the two rings were working together, there would be no point in their using different plates with
which to print their “money.” The Secret Service said the spurious New York bills had not been circulated beyond the
New York area as far as it knew, but the Chicago ring had outlets in nearly all parts of the
country. The Chicago gang was said to have been active for several months. At first, its product was found only
in the Midwest. However, evidence of its operations has been found in Pacific Coast States, along the entire Eastern Seaboard,
and in the South. Relatively little of the bogus money had turned up in Chicago, officials said. Two passers were
under arrest, but the ring cannot be broken until the printing machinery is discovered. While the New York bills bear
the symbol of the Chicago Federal Reserve stamp, printed in Chicago, a Secret Service spokesman said. The Federal Reserve Bank
in New York said commercial banks were taking daily losses from receipts of the fake bills. The counterfeit currency first
was detected in New York when employees of the Reserve Bank there were sorting notes issued originally in Chicago for
return to Chicago. Officials estimated the amount of bogus money in the hands of the public might run into “millions
of dollars.” They said the last big counterfeiting ring, operated by “Count” Victor Lustig, flooded the country with $2,500,000. It
once paid to be thrifty. But now the less one has, the more he can get out of a welfare
agency.
