PAGE SIX

D. P.’s Continue Studies In Spite Of Handicaps

Geneva—Despite lack of assurance of a country to live in or of the possibility of attaining a professional status, more than 2000 refugees and displaced persons are now pursuing their studies in the universities of Western Germany and Austria, the U.N. International Refugee Organization (IRO) announced here.

These students are part of an estimated 6180 young people of university level among the refugees. And the fact that only about one-third enrolled this year for the fall semester is attributed to lack of funds to pay tuition, to resettlement programs which are moving refugees to new countries at the rate of 1000 per day, and, in some cases, to the feeling that perhaps it would be better to study a trade which more quickly offers a chance to be accepted for immigration. Another reason why only one-third of the students have enrolled is due to the limitation of foreign students admitted to German universities, IRO officials say.

DP students first began attending German and Austrian universities in 1945, when the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration (UNRRA), a predecessor to IRO, arranged for 10 percent of the quota at universities to be made available to refugees. Their response was so great—despite language, financial, and housing difficulties—that usually there were waiting lines for the “foreigners quota.”

The DP’s, just as do local students, must pay tuition and provide books and laboratory supplies. Some help comes from national groups whose employed members contribute to student welfare. Others have friends abroad who send food packages and clothing. Still others get some part-time work to pay for their expenses. Faculty members have found that DP students as a group attain higher marks than their fellows. One professor—Dr. Walter Waffenschmidt, honorary professor of economics at the University of Mannheim—recently commented that “compared with German students, DP and refugee students have been very industrious and have shown remarkably good results.”

Recently, many countries have offered opportunities for DP students to proceed with their studies. Already, 25 have been granted scholarships in Canada and approximately 200 have arrived in the United States under a program worked out between the World Student Service Fund and the U.S. Displaced Persons Commission. Under the U.S. Displaced Persons Act, the United States has authorized admittance of DP students if they have scholarships and have funds to support themselves for one year. It is anticipated that 200 refugees will be enrolled at 97 American colleges next spring.

Holland has offered 100 scholarships for students who will settle there permanently while Australia, Denmark, France, New Zealand, Norway, and Sweden have given students a chance to pursue their studies in various ways.

Old Dobbin had his faults, but he never overturned the buggy.

The freshness of youth is always refreshing, provided the remarks are not too fresh.

U.S. Supreme Court

Civil Service Opens Training Positions

The U.S. Civil Service Commission has announced examinations for the following positions: Engineer, paying $3,100 and $3,825 a year; Civil Engineer (trainee), paying $2,650 and $2,875 a year; and Junior Scientist (Chemist, Physicist, Metallurgist) and Engineer, paying from $2,650 to $3,825 a year. Applications for these examinations will be accepted from college students who expect to complete the required courses of study not later than June 30, 1950. Some of the positions are trainee positions and are available to qualified sophomore and junior students.

The Engineer and Civil Engineer (trainee) jobs are in the Bureau of Reclamation in several Western and Midwestern states. To qualify for these positions, applicants must pass a written test. In addition, for the Civil Engineer (trainee) jobs they must have completed appropriate undergraduate study; for the Engineer jobs, they must have had four years of education or experience in engineering or a combination of such education and experience. For the jobs paying $3,825 a year, an additional year of experience is required.

Junior Scientist and Engineer jobs paying from $2,650 to $3,825 will be filled in various Federal agencies in Washington, D.C., and nearby Maryland and Virginia, and in certain Army and Navy establishments elsewhere in Maryland and Virginia; similar jobs paying $3,100 and $3,825 are to be filled at the Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio. All applicants must pass a written test. For jobs paying $2,650 and $2,875, applicants must have had appropriate college study, and for those paying $3,100 and $3,825, they must have had appropriate education or experience or a combination of the two.

Further information and application forms for the above examinations may be obtained at most first- and second-class post offices, from Civil Service regional offices, or from the U.S. Civil Service Commission, Washington 25, D.C.

VOCATIONAL SCHOOL

(Continued From Page One)

decline in North Carolina, with the total enrollments on December 1 being about 24 percent below one year ago. The fall enrollment increases in schools below the college level and in the on-farm training program, more than offset the other decreases keeping the total number of trainees in the state up to 75,932, only about 3 percent below the all-time high of 78,606 reached in April 1948.

In numbers, veterans in colleges and universities under both laws on December 1, 1949, totaled 13,313, compared with 18,211 a year ago. In November 1947 these enrollments reached an all-time high of 19,950. Below-college-level enrollments this year are 19,597.while a year ago they totaled only 14,607. The drop in college enrollments took place both under the GI Bill and Public Law 16. The rise in court Upholds G.I.s’ Job Seniority Claims

Washington, D.C.—The United States Supreme Court has ruled that a veteran can sue to enforce his job seniority claims under the GI Bill of Rights, even though the year is up for which he was guaranteed re-employment. Justice Harold H. Burton delivered the high court’s unanimous opinion. The case was ordered sent back to the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals, whose judgment was overruled, for further action.

The GI Bill guarantees veterans re-employment for one year with the same seniority and pay they would have had if they had not been in service. The Supreme Court’s decision stemmed from two suits filed in the Federal Court for the Eastern District of Kentucky. One of the suits was brought by John S. Haynes against the Southern Railroad. Haynes was, before his enlistment, a machinist helper at Somerset, Kentucky. When he got back he was re-employed in the same capacity. He claimed he should have been made a helper apprentice, a higher-paying job, because workers lower than himself on the seniority ladder had been promoted to that position while he was in service.

The other suit was started by John Walter Oakley, Jr., a locomotive machinist for the L.&N. Railroad at Loyall, Kentucky. While he was off to war, the Loyall shop was transferred to Corbin, Kentucky. He was re-employed at Corbin with seniority beginning on the date he went to work there. He claimed the seniority should have begun on the date the shop was set up in Corbin, since he would have gone to work at the time if he had not been in the armed forces.

Both railroads fought the suits. The Federal Court dismissed the cases on the ground that more than a year had elapsed since the men were restored to their jobs. The 6th Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the judgments. Now the Supreme Court has overruled the lower courts and sent the cases back for further action.

The number of veterans attending school below college level, however, was confined to GI Bill enrollees alone. Public Law 16 enrollments in schools below the college level declined about 17 percent from December 1, 1948, to December 1, 1949, while GI Bill enrollments increased 36 percent. On-the-job training enrollment this year totaled 15,271, compared to 20,058 on December 1, 1948, and 22,496 in January 1948, the peak period. Institutional on-farm trainees this year totaled 26,751, while at the same time last year there were only 21,708 farm trainees. Enrolled in the program in September of this year were the largest number ever entered in the program.

THIS DAY IN TIME... (Continued From Page Two)

—are looking to Davidson as a pace-maker in education in the Southeast? Davidson, they reason, has accomplished much, and is capable of achieving much more; it is a good example that should be continued and expanded. Fortunate is the person who possesses the wherewithal to support the development program underway to strengthen Davidson—to enlarge its facilities, for, as Dr. John R. Cunningham, the president, points out, contributions should be considered “as investments in youth, in Christian homes, and life, in democracy, and in the Church and everything for which it stands.” Never in the history of America has there been more urgent need of such investments than at this time. Never has the need been greater for strengthening the position of the religious institution of higher learning as the backbone of the American system of education.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MUSICAL ORGANIZATIONS (Continued From Page One)

the Davidson College Male Chorus in singing “Joy to the World,” “It Came Upon the Midnight Clear,” “O Little Town of Bethlehem,” and “Silent Night.” The benediction will be given by Dr. John R. Cunningham, the president of the college. Mr. Harold Frantz will serve as organist, and Messrs. Earl E. Berg and James Christian Pfohl as conductors. Student organizations participating in the service will be the Male Chorus, the Little Symphony, and the Concert Band. A capacity crowd is again predicted for this year as the 1949 YMCA Christmas Vespers Service promises to be one of the best ever presented at Davidson College.

DAVIDSON THEATRE WEEK OF DEC. 19-24

MON. - TUE. “TENSION” Audrey Totter Richard Basehart

WEDNESDAY - THURSDAY “THE SECRET GARDEN” Margaret O’Brien Dean Stockwell

FRIDAY - SATURDAY “MASSACRE RIVER” Guy Madison - Rory Calhoun

GIFT FUND... (Continued From Page One)

furnishing of Bibles to unoccupied China, prisoners of war in German concentration camps, and sailors aboard United States naval vessels; Christian education, Southern Negroes; providing funds for the Student Room of the new campus church as a memorial to the Davidson alumni who gave their lives in the last war; the rebuilding of a war-ravaged mission post in Suzhou, China; restoring to normal war-torn Hangchow Christian College in Hangchow, China; and the reconstruction of the YMCA in Sendai, Japan. Last year the Gift Fund was used to provide food and medical supplies to Marburg University in Marburg, Germany.

The nearest thing to an international language is Uncle Sam's money.

Read The Davidsonian—It’s the best paper on the hill.

VISIT THE Student’s Store FOR YOUR NEEDS