THE DAVIDSONIAN | A. B. at little house down on fraternity court sure didn't look like the one we were
at this weekend. Bro. Little, who had been put in charge of the decorations, made a very good showing and
was to be commended on his job. Pledge Scotty Stalling’s many talents came to the front in drafting the model
gym, and Bro. Louis Rogers lived up to his fame as a craftsman by building a fine spider and also
by creating a magnificent Wildcat whose chief duty was to exterminate all blue spiders in sight.

Bro. “Little Dave” Erwin, Chandler, and Carnegie put up a terrific battle out there on the field—Carnegie even put up
a few private battles of his own which added even more interest to the game. We were not unconscious of
the many beautiful girls with us over the weekend. Someone (I don’t know who) said that Flo, Rod Shaw's Floridian
date, danced like a princess. We noticed that Bro. Ken Goodpasture was glorying in his Monty-found date, Patsy Carson; Bro.
Montee got to be the fixer around here but not the fixed—he shuffled around with sad eyes the whole time.
Bro. Charlie Baldwin brought up another beauteous Floridian in the person of Betty Connor; we enjoyed meeting her. Pledge A.
C. Gregg’s date from Wilmington, Libba Roe, impressed your writer as being a most beautiful girl—would like to see her
invited back. We are always delighted to see Jack Blackwood’s Patsy come over for a function for we think that
she is very pretty and attractive. Bro. Lamar was ‘Dooly (Neel) taken care of as long as she stayed. Also,
Bro. Little's Sally seemed always happy as did Bill. Pledge Raymond Holland seems to have latched on to something pretty
good in Betsy, who is another down-Wilmington-Way girl. Bro. or Dr. Joe Miller brought Ophelia, whom we didn’t get to
see enough to comment on. Yours truly was also favorably impressed with Pledge “Singing” Bud Duncan’s date, Nancy, from Spruce
Pines, N. C. Max Morrison also had a pretty date, but it is and was beyond me to remember her
name. Everyone seemed to enjoy the breakfast at the Minute-Grill and we have Bro. Vaughn McAlister to thank for it
all—it was one of the highlights of the weekend. Brother Bud Aiken was Master of Ceremonies and under the circumstances
did an admirably good job. Bro. Lane Cloaninger added to his prestige by informing us all that one does not
have to smoke or drink to have a good time; after informing us of the great truth, he sat down
and the next day he was quoted to have said that he had had a good time the night before!
Well, that is the bottom of the news as it looks from here, ladies and gentlemen—Ken Goodpasture.

Well, Homecoming has come and gone and everyone is back at the old grind. Memories of Homecoming will linger on—Blue
Barron's music, the Sigs third place in the Homecoming decorations, the football field at ten p.m., Sarah, Nancy, Norwood’s “pure”
weekend, the snakes, etc. There was not a single time on Saturday night when all the Sigs with dates were
in the gym at the same time. “Rube” never did get to the dance. R. B. and Apperson came to
the dance sometime after intermission, Beatie went out to watch the football game—didn't get penalized, did you? Carr and Clark
were last seen about 10:30. Griffiths and O'Neal thought the dance started at 10:30. Joe did a nice job of
keeping Louise out of sight. All the stags were “snaking” on Francisco’s date all night. Tom Abel was letting everyone
kick him for the fun that Phil Davis was having. Ben “Mars” Hamilton was trying to snake on Norwood all
night. There were also those who behaved themselves while their dates were around: Doug, Vance, Brooks and Betty Wayne, Harry
Wolfe, Phil Sellars, Swede, Stubbs, Shriver (natch), Stewart, Nelson, Powell, “Wistful,” “Gopher,” “The Senator,” Pritchar, Sweetheart and Mr. Carr, and
Mr. and Mrs. Devant back “home” this weekend. The weekend would not have been a success were it not for
the untiring labors of Paul Eastman, Marshall Dendy, and the others. The thanks for the “third place” decorations go to
Kelton, Beatie, Blatt, Hamilton, Mills, Graham, and Berry. They labored hard and long on the decorations idea of Covington and
Beatie. McLaney deserves mention here also for the use of his car for obtaining the materials needed. The Sigs were
very glad to have Howard Paul and his date with us for the weekend.

KAPPA ALPHA (The Distiller’s Journal continued)

This is your announcer, Liquorhead Louie, for the Happy, Hangover, and Hungover Distiller’s Corporation of Davidson. Distiller’s Old Corn Cider,
winner of 10 World’s Fair Grand Prizes, Gold Medal Awards, and three cases of toilet paper, is that naturally milder,
mellower drink blended from the world’s choice corn cobs, aged in the world’s oldest stills, and developed in the nation’s
No. 1 mountain dew research laboratory by the renowned liquor expert, John Quincy Adams. In a recent nationwide survey taken
among both doctors and patients alike in the country’s leading alcoholic wards, Distiller’s Old Corn Cider was voted by a
10 to 1 margin the reason for their being where they are today. Yes, they owe it all to Old
Corn Cider. No other distiller can make that statement.

And now Distiller’s Old Corn Cider wishes to announce its multi-billion dollar slogan contest. Believe it or not, but the
winning contestant completing the following slogan in 25 words or less will be given absolutely free one billion dollars in
silver dollars. Now here’s the slogan: “I drink Distiller’s Old Corn Cider because . . .” To enter this contest
just send us the reason for your drinking Old Corn Cider and accompany your entry with a sample of your
blood which must be at least 95 proof in order to win. Mr. Lost Several Weekends who lives in Dried-Up
Oasis, Desert, is this week's winner. He writes: “I drink Distiller’s Old Corn Cider because . . . I'm thirsty.”
Distiller’s congratulates Mr. Lost Weekend for this winning entry. He wins (1) one 1949 two-door special deluxe boxcar; (2) three
truckloads of ready-mixed concrete deliverable on Sundays; (3) one hour with a wheelbarrow in Ft. Knox; (4) one two-tone 75-ft.
toboggan; and finally, (5) two tickets of admission to Admiral Byrd's Antarctic Exploration ship now on exhibition at the South
Pole. Congratulations to Mr. Lost Several Weekends. And now I return you to (Bah!) Winchell and his Sigma syndicated column.

ATTENTION MR. AND MRS. EXPLORER: Mr. James “Lightning” Jeffries, an explorer of international stature, has just returned from the college
laundry where he was sent several weeks ago to determine and bring back evidence as to whether or not Mighty
Joe Young had been leased by the College from United Artists in order to operate one of the presses. “Lightning”
Jeffries reports that he cast himself into a laundry bag last week with gun and camera, bolo knife, and six
weeks’ food supply. His laundry boy, Tom Staley, finding the bag rather heavy to lift, called on “Shoulder” Roddey for
assistance in tossing the bag from the fourth story window to the ground. After many hours of laborious work dragging
the bag, Pledge Staley finally reached the laundry in the wee hours of the morning. Now safely inside the forbidden
and heavily guarded area, “Lightning” proceeded to go to work. He discovered that College authorities require that each shirt must
be sent through the button smasher, that all elastic underwear must be thoroughly stretched out of shape, and finally that
all socks must be sent through the sock fader and Blade Company—Look Sharp, Feel Sharp, Be Sharp—as the pledge most
likely to fall into an open man-hole.

Recently, “The Horse” journeyed to the City of Industry to give a blood transfusion to a dying horse. As a
token of his appreciation, the owner gave “The Horse” a bale of hay and half interest in the stable.

FLASH!!! All hitch-hikers to Bristol and vicinity BEWARE. H. P. King, the boy with the burglar alarm on his mouth
and depression-proof wallet, is installing combination locks instead of handles on the doors of his “Green Cab.” This is to
prevent anyone from picking the locks and escaping before depositing their gold bullion with him.

MUSICAL NOTES: The House and Grounds Committee, headed by Guthery or Fight, suggests that Bro. Bachman play the piano without
his mittens. Earl S-berger is taking piano lessons from an “all-out for Davidson” frosh. Manly “Ears” McW. is learning to
play the piano by ear. He sure has the ears to do it.

QUOTABLE QUOTES: Chuck Kirby, the ostentatious kid with the new ‘49 black Cad, says, “The only difference between Ward-Pachuko at
a football game is that one has a cork in his mouth while the other ain't. They both smell.” Choo-Choo
telling Lou-Lou that he wants to Woo-Woo. Chis Choo-Choo pulling out brother. Bill Adams telling the lineman on the team
“to get that mother.” Jim Speed going around singing “All I Want for Xmas Is My Two Front Teeth” plus
the other seven. Dolf Man: “I think I said something.” This would sound better if he could part this column
in the middle. Howard “Slats” Ferguson asking Alex “Duke” Summers, “Why don’t we do something?” Bob Gilmer and Georgeous Crotch
engaged on the affirmative side in a forensic encounter over the subject, “Candy dandy, but liquor quicker.” The Dean telling
this distorter “conform or be harried out of here.”the land.” “Ya suh, boss man.” Harris “Snout” Asbury says, “I wear
Adler Elevator. I’m short,” asking Hazard why. Piano is to Shoes because. Hood Norton, his hair is so messed up.
Player Bachman asking, “Who wants more Bach?” He tweren’t at the piano when he said it either. Bob Henry going
around at the Friday night formal saying, “Smoke Kool, Smoke Kool.” “Fish” Seales glancing at the dance floor said, “Look
at Angus McInnis prancing around with my date like an old mule.” Joe Richards mumbling at the dances, “Some women
find me completely irresistible. It’s not that they don’t like me, but they just think they can do better.” Jack
Stevenson after a weekend with “the Body” saying, “Um, um, built like pyramids. Let’s go down to Egypt land (and
not to see old Pharaoh).” When advised by Whittle (Continued On Page Five)

Court Apprehends Freshmen Violators

The Court of Control swung into action again Thursday to administer justice to nineteen violators of the freshman regulations. In
fairness to the freshmen, however, Judge Doug Rice reprimanded the upperclassmen for not turning out for pep meetings and football
games. He pointed out that freshman attendance at these events was far above that of the upperclassmen, and reminded the
student body that the freshman regulations were designed for all the students. He also requested that freshmen should be informed
of their charges before being turned into the court.

The following freshmen were found to be without a hat at the hat check: Fred Deaton, Al Miller, Sam Hope,
R. T. Bailey, Harold Johnston, Joe Howe, Mark Falls, Owen Kellum, and Bob Wearn. Others who strayed from the straight
and narrow were: David Robinson, daring an upperclassman to turn him in; Bill Bradford, not complying with an upperclassman's request;
Charlie Harrell, disrespectful to upperclassmen; Bill Bledsoe, disrespectful to upperclassmen; Vance Mizelle, attempting to bribe an upperclassman to go easy
on him, and grossly obnoxious; Mickey Permenter, threatening an upperclassman, and refusing ten times to carry laundry; Phil Davis, generally
obnoxious; Harris Asbury, no hat, walking on the grass and not speaking to upperclassmen; Avery Jones, refusing to carry laundry;
Howard Proctor, casual to upperclassmen. Gene Regen re-

Pre-Med Students Stand Examinations During Festivities

Approximately forty pre-medical students were present in the biology lab of the science building on October 22, to take the
Medical College Admission Tests, sponsored by the Association of American Medical Colleges and given by Dr. Puckett, with the assistance
of Dr. Daggy. The tests were required of all applicants planning to enter medical school in any of the colleges
which are now members of the Association of American Medical Colleges, in the fall of 1950. The eight-hour examinations were
designed to measure three main categories of the candidate's ability: general scholastic aptitude, understanding of modern society, and achievement in
premedical science. The tests are to be compared, the results recorded and supplemented with the applicant's college record of the
skills and information he has already gained through formal study and experience.

Also included was a series of general scholastic aptitude tests which were intended to measure the candidate’s ability to handle
postgraduate studies in a professional field. Other fields covered were: history, economics, political science, and sociology, which tested alertness to
social issues. Further problems were taken from courses in biology, chemistry, and physics. These were designed to determine the applicant’s
grasp of the fundamental principles of premedical science. All of these tests were objective in substance. It was further revealed
that a fee of $10 was required for each completed application filed. A strict schedule was also observed and the
student was timed while taking the tests. (Continued On Page Five)

Born in Newark, N.J., he moved to [location missing] at an early age, graduated from public Latin high school in
1936, entered Harvard the same year. “Active on the campus” — he played football, earned his letter on the boxing
team. He worked part-time in a variety of jobs from bouncer to babysitter, received his AB degree in 1940. He
enrolled in Harvard Law School, left at the beginning of the war to become an Aviation Cadet. In December 1942,
he won his pilot’s wings, received a Reserve commission as Second Lieutenant.

ONLY THE BEST CAN BE AVIATION CADETS!

Now, he is confident about his future and security. As a pilot and legal officer of Bolling Air Force Base,
D.C., Major Ed Wall is a typical U.S. Air Force flying executive with a challenging career. Air Force officer procurement
teams are visiting many colleges and universities to explain the qualifications required for training as an Aviation Cadet. If you
meet the physical and moral requirements, visit the nearest Air Force Base and apply for training as an Aviation Cadet.
If you do not complete Aviation Cadet training, you may still have a career in the U.S. Air Force. For
more information, write to the Air Force Branch, Washington 25, D.C., or visit your nearest Air Force Base.

SKIDMORE COLLEGE TO TRY NEW EXAM SYSTEM

Saratoga Springs, N.Y. (I.P.)—A new and experimental examination system has been instituted at Skidmore College. Under this new system, some
examinations are scheduled and some are not. Those which are scheduled are twenty-one hours apart and must be taken when
scheduled unless they conflict with other scheduled examinations. The unscheduled exams may be taken whenever the student desires, so long
as they are also spaced twenty-one hours apart.

In order to be of greatest profit to each individual student, it became apparent to the administration that more time
for review for each exam, and more equal spacing of a student’s exams, was desirable. Because of the success of
the honor system on this campus in all its varied aspects, the faculty has sufficient confidence that unscheduled examinations will
not be an undue strain on the honor system. Instead, the new system presents a challenge to the students in
that they may not discuss exams during the examination period.

Mencken Occasion Pleases Dr. Cunningham

Now that homecoming is over, we look back over all that happened with a feeling that Dr. Cunningham has stated
the opinion of a majority of us when he said, “I am exceedingly gratified with Homecoming. First, it did not
rain, and secondly, the response of the alumni and friends of the college was highly encouraging. The spirit of the
occasion was both enthusiastic and appreciative. It is my conviction that an occasion such as we experienced last weekend lives
long in the memory of the people and does good in more ways than we can know. It was good
public relations.”

With the end of vespers Sunday evening, Davidson not only closed on another Homecoming, but also ended a phase of
her Development Program. The total goal of this program, which has been underway for over a year and which is
aimed at improving Davidson’s endowment and physical plant, is $2,500,000, of which $1,954,000 has been raised. The gifts which brought
the total to its present amount have been both large and small. Twenty-six gifts amounted to $1,205,926; 136 corporations have
given a total of $73,912; and 2,712 people have given a total of $548,759. More money is needed, but Dr.
Cunningham stated during an interview: “While the total amount of dollars needed for all five objectives is not in hand,
we can see clearly the realization of the gymnasium, church, $1,000,000 endowment, dormitory, and grounds improvements. Upon the ultimate success
of the campaign will depend the further objectives which in- (Continued On Page Five)

Born in Newark, N.J., he moved to [location missing] at an early age, graduated from public Latin high school in
1936, entered Harvard the same year. “Active on the campus” — he played football, earned his letter on the boxing
team. He worked part-time in a variety of jobs from bouncer to babysitter, received his AB degree in 1940. He
enrolled in Harvard Law School, left at the beginning of the war to become an Aviation Cadet. In December 1942,
he won his pilot’s wings, received a Reserve commission as Second Lieutenant.
