PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF .......... BOB HOLLISTER
BUSINESS MANAGER .... BILL HOUCK

EDITORIAL STAFF
Doug Hix | Associate Editor
Lonnie Turnipseed | Chief Associate Editor
Jack Hazard | Chief Associate Editor

MANAGING EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall, Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister, Randy Taylor.
Sports Editor—Gordon Scott
Make-up Editors—Dan McKeithen, Cherry Stribling.
Art Editor—Bill King
City Editor—John Hobart
Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries

BUSINESS STAFF
Bill Cassells | Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Managers—Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison.
Circulation Manager—Huffaker
Asst. Circulation Managers—Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager—John Loftin
Subscriptions Manager—Huffaker

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

The Football Poll

The recent poll of the student body in chapel brought some very interesting comments as well as the anticipated answers to the questions. First, let us hasten to explain the purpose of the questionnaire. Its main purpose was to stimulate interest in the student body and to arouse the latent protests which rested in that group concerning athletics at Davidson. Secondly, it was designed to prove to certain elements among the hierarchy that the students do not have the one-sided view of stressing all athletics at the exclusion of academic rating.

From the answers to the poll and the comments received, it is evident that the student body realizes that a college’s first duty is scholastic. But at the same time, the students were very outspoken in pointing out that academic standards do not have to be sacrificed in order to have an athletic program. The questions were deliberately worded in a one-sided manner. One could not take a middle-of-the-road course in answering. He either had to appear to be all out for athletics or he had to vote for a curtailed athletic program in order to maintain Davidson’s scholastic prestige.

The answers were obvious to the pollsters when the questionnaire was made. These answers were also obvious to a large part of the student body and for that reason seemed very silly. We feel that the poll has served its purpose in that it has created a great deal of interest and has shown student views pretty well. However, the way in which the questions were worded has rather overemphasized the academic viewpoint. The idea that the two views could live together prevailed throughout the comments. This is the point that should be stressed.

A check of the records in the registrar’s office will show that the average grades of members of any athletic team are higher than the average grades of the student body. No one may participate on a Davidson team unless his grades are above any danger of failure. There are no set courses designed to keep poor struggling athletes from flunking out. At some schools, a ball player can take physical education courses, forestry, animal husbandry, etc. He will get a liberal arts diploma without ever seeing an English or a math book. But not so here. Everyone must take the required courses his first two years. If he cannot pass them, he flunks out regardless of who he may be. For this reason, if none other, Davidson's academic standards will never be lowered because of athletics.

There is another reason. The faculty has the final word on all admissions to Davidson College. No matter how much alumni push a boy, or how good a football player he may be, the faculty will not admit him if he is not prepared to stand Davidson's curriculum.

Below are the results of the football questionnaire:

1. Do you favor: (check one)
(a) Continuation of present policy of limited subsidization program—9 per cent.
(b) Largest and most complete policy possible at risk of curtailing building and educational program—10 per cent.
(c) Largest and most complete policy possible without making use of funds allotted for academic and constructional improvements—81 per cent.

2. Would you prefer that Davidson be best known for its: (check one)
(a) Athletic standing—11 per cent.
(b) Academic rating—62 percent.
(c) Both—27 per cent.

3. In your opinion: (answer yes or no)
(a) Does Davidson's merit as a college hinge upon the calibre of its football team: Yes, 21 per cent; No, 89 per cent.
(b) Would the acquisition of a winning team necessarily jeopardize Davidson's academic standing: Yes, 3 per cent; No, 97 per cent.
(c) Is a first-class team an essential element in making Davidson an outstanding educational institution: Yes, 39 per cent; No, 61 per cent.

4. Of the following, which would most interest you in returning to Davidson Homecoming after graduation: (check one)
(a) Renewal of old student friendships—42 per cent.
(b) Visiting friends among the faculty—1 per cent.
(c) Seeing the campus and visiting library, Chambers, dormitories, science building, gymnasium, and fraternity houses—4 per cent.
(d) Prospect of watching a spirited Davidson team in action—38 per cent.
(e) Combination—15 per cent.

—J. H.

The Darker Side
By DON W. SHRIVER

A recent ad in a church paper describes Davidson as “A Strong Arm of the Church.” Most people do indeed identify Davidson with the Church, but some do so not to Davidson's credit. To them, the Church is something between a company of well-meaning do-gooders and a safe refuge for the unprogressive. This type of critic usually believes that society needs changing and that Church people are uninterested in changes. We do not meet him often at Davidson. But every now and then we run across the proof texts of his criticism. For example, at the most recent meeting of the Synod of South Carolina, this resolution was adopted: “We believe that genuine Christian capitalism is the true biblical doctrine regarding possessions.” To this, the critic is likely to reply, “Peddling into your ‘Kingdom’ on a capitalistic vehicle is putting a lot of stock on one means of transportation.”

The Church has its other spokesmen, of course. In his provocative chapel talk, Dr. R. J. McMullen recently said that the Church means to support Christian colleges in China not as bulwarks of the American government or American capitalism, but as expressions of a Christian concern for PEOPLE—Communists or what-have-you.

We who have so often been dubbed “future leaders of the Church” have discussed the question from bull session to bull session: At what point should the Christian Church cease being leaven and become part of the lump? When shall society reflect the Church, and when the Church society? While we ponder, the critic continues: “You go about thinking that you’re the leaven in the lump when other people are really producing the ferment. Your theme almost is: ‘Come weal, come woe, My status is quo.’ The churchman speaks of brotherhood. So does the labor unionist. In fact, down South unions have found that Negro men HAVE to organize with white for the union to be effective. But a colored man walks into one of your churches and you ask him to sit in the balcony.”

Anyone in Davidson concerned for the Church will probably be concerned with this critic, utilitarian and visionary as he may be. Some may even borrow one of the critic’s graces: the grace of impatience. They may believe firmly in the Church and its Gospel and still be disturbed at the degree of truth in such statements as Elton Trueblood’s: “Once a church was a brave and revolutionary fellowship, changing the course of history by the introduction of discordant ideas; today it is a place where people go and sit on comfortable benches, waiting patiently until time to go home to their Sunday dinners.”

This Day In Time
By C. J.

Great men make great colleges, and great colleges make great men. The process goes on and on in an endless cycle, with individuals and organized society reaping the great benefits. It would have warmed the heart of all good citizens to have witnessed the demonstration of this truism last Thursday night at the Davidson College alumni dinner in the Seminole Hotel. And it would have provided them with a much-needed boost in their confidence in the security of American ideals and principles. It would have given them assurance that there are still strongholds in America’s educational system that cannot be penetrated by that evil element that carries on its ceaseless attack against this Nation's cherished institutions under the guise of “academic freedom.”

Davidson's glorious place in the educational progress of America was paraded before the alumni, parents of the college’s students, and friends that all might see and evaluate its great worth—worth to the cause of education, to the Nation as a whole, but particularly to the Southeast, with special emphasis on Florida.

The spirit of the alumni was aptly expressed by Joseph McConnell, who came all the way from New York City, to have his say. Mr. McConnell, who was reared at Davidson, where his father was for a long time dean of the faculty, and married Miss Elizabeth Barnard of Jacksonville, daughter of the late D. Meade Barnard, a beloved educator of this city for many years. After practicing law briefly in West Palm Beach, he went to Washington for a couple of years, then to New York City where recently he became president of the National Broadcasting Company. It is obvious, therefore, that he is an extremely busy executive, but not too busy to take time out to pay tribute to his Alma Mater, and to do his part in raising a $2,500,000 development fund in order that the school may broaden its services to the young men of America and especially to those of the Southeast.

And what does this still comparatively young business executive think of Davidson? The answer to this question gives penetrating insight into the character and greatness of the school. He says: “The student gets from Davidson spiritual entity.” This statement is supported with these additional unqualified words: “No greater thing can be done for anyone than Davidson does for its students.”

Full appreciation of Mr. McConnell’s opinion may be realized only when the definition of the word “entity” is understood. Entity is defined by Webster as “being, existence.” It means “a real being... that which has reality and distinctiveness.” It is seen, therefore, that the student who stays at Davidson for his four-year course comes away with the most cherished possession that is achievable by man—a spiritual being.

How this is done is another story. Suffice it to say for this recital that the two-year course in the Bible that every student must take is probably responsible for it. For as one graduate of Davidson says, “that intensive course in the Bible does something to you.” Additional evidence is the great number of ministers turned out by Davidson.

Is it any wonder therefore, that the educational foundations—those agencies that are handling huge sums of money left by wealthy men to be given to worthy institutions (Continued On Page Six)

College Rags In Brief
By WATT JEFFRIES

The Tar Heels of North Carolina have found one of their most loyal supporters in Boys Town, a Catholic, pro-Notre Dame school, where to profess loyalty to any team other than Notre Dame is treason. The boy is Hubert Sutton, an orphan who had enough faith in Carolina to wager 38 candy bars on the Carolina-Notre Dame game. The “Daily Tar Heel” presented the boy’s case, and soon candy bars and money poured in. The Pika fraternity voted to finance the boy’s trip to the Cotton Bowl.where he will see his team play for the first time and even meet his heroes, Justice and Weiner. Jefferson Military Academy, a small (48 students) bankrupt military school in Washington, Mississippi, recently turned down a gift of $50 million offered by millionaire George W. Armstrong, because it did not care to accept the teaching of white supremacy as the foundation of the college curriculum. Since that time the academy has received more than $5,000 in gifts, including a gift of ten dollars from a 72-year-old paralytic Negress (daughter of a slave) who hobbled up to the college to make her gift... According to the National Student Association News, college administrators are tightening up on alcoholic regulations, and for good reasons: 1. Students were getting younger on the average; 2. An Ohio State University student commented that “When I get drunk, I get trigger-happy” after shooting a fraternity brother during an illegal party; 3. Chemistry-wise students at Purdue University were attempting to boot-leg their own concoctions. Brown University officials cracked down on its rule barring alcohol from the campus, and the Harvard “Crimson” prophesied the downfall of Brown fraternities with the removal of the bars. The dean of the University of Michigan conducted an “If I were Dean” contest to secure suggestions, but few students seemed to indicate that they would like the job... Students of Tech and Emory got up early last Sunday, along with hundreds of Atlanta citizens, to sell the “Atlanta Journal” on the street corners of Atlanta. Proceeds from the sales go toward the purchase of toys for some 9,000 children in the area.

LETTERS... FEA FRIDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1949

The DAVIDSONIAN Presents EDITORIALS FEATURES Music Maker to Davidson College

There is an old saying which goes something like this: A prophet is not without honor save in his own country. As is the case with most such sayings, it seems that everyone believes this one but hardly anyone ever applies this maxim to the here and now. That is the case here at Davidson. For instance, let’s take Mr. James Christian Pfohl. The ubiquitous Mr. Pfohl is seen at the helm of the band, at band concerts, conducting the Messiah or Beethoven’s Ninth. Hardly ever does anyone consider the vast amount of work which goes into these numerous appearances or the very high degree of competence with which Mr. Pfohl invariably assumes leadership over any musical organization. In the summer, Mr. Pfohl can be found at Transylvania, the music camp which he founded and directs. The activities of this camp are on a high level, so high that last summer they merited recognition by Time Magazine—this for the first performance in the South of Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony. Perhaps his greatest contribution to the musical world, other than his invaluable service here, is in Charlotte. Charlotte, once defined by one of our faculty as “Neither a village nor a city, having all the disadvantages of both and none of the advantages of either,” has never had a really good symphony orchestra. Many good intentions have been lavished on the orchestra, but as often as not only a musical hell has been achieved down the road thus paved. This year, however, Mr. Pfohl assumed the conductorship of the Charlotte Symphony, good intentions have been replaced by good musicianship, and for the first time Charlotte has a symphony orchestra of which it can justly be proud. So when next you see Mr. Pfohl in an official capacity, don’t think of him as “the man who leads the band,” but instead as a man whose high qualities of musicianship and character have enabled him to serve not only our own college community, but also a great many others, the list of whom now includes grateful Charlotteans who give him thanks for their first competent symphony orchestra. We might well follow Charlotte's example and give vocal expression of our gratitude to Mr. Pfohl himself. He is not hard to talk to and will welcome critical comment as well as lavish praise. This is so because Mr. Pfohl, like any good musician, is constantly striving to improve the quality of any musical undertaking in which he has a part.

By TOM PRUFER

Book Notes

Reading, we believe, should give us joy. Some of it, at least, can be done for that purpose alone. The reading that really becomes a part of us is that which attracts us back time and again because of the richness or perfection or depth of the works. A suggestion for the two-week vacation—read something, no matter how short, not for information, nor for parallel or a test, but simply for joy. That's the beginning of a liberal education. “The most powerful poet who has appeared in England or America for some years,” Robert Lowell, won the Pulitzer Prize in 1947 for his second book “Lord Weary’s Castle.” Most of his works show in one form or another a conflict between two opposite forces—“the complacent self... everything that is closed, turned inward... that blinds or binds... struggling with this and falling to it like light is everything that is free or open, that grows or is willing to change.” The poetry is dramatic. Compression, immediacy, and a strangeness and violence of image just in the tradition of Donne, Hopkins, and T. S. Eliot, but his work can be described in terms of unlikeness to them as well as likeness. Lowell is not “easy to read.” But the attempt is rewarding. The best thing I can say is “taste and see.” A critic for The Nation said, “Realized past changing... a few of these poems will be read as long as men remember English.”

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

WE ARE HYPOCRITES

Dear Editor:

Are you ever ashamed that you go to Davidson? This question may shock some students, but there are times when I’m ashamed to be a student at Davidson. At these times, I should like nothing better than to be a student at State. That’s a horrible fate, but I would liked to have been in Raleigh this morning during Chapel. Davidson, supposedly a bulwark of Christian education, is practicing the cardinal sin of hypocrisy when a speaker cannot make a serious speech on Christian work without having half of her speech twisted into channels of questionable and supposedly humorous character. This perverting of meaning illustrates that we are hypocrites as we call ourselves Christian students, and yet seem to derive extreme pleasure in mocking Christian ideals. Maybe I’m on the wrong track, perhaps this element is not realized by most students, perhaps it isn’t a conscious element, but there is one element in the shame of Chapel of which each student must be aware. This second element is the rudeness of an entire student body to visiting speakers. Davidson men are known for being gentlemen outside Chambers Auditorium. Why is it that the institution of Chapel can turn these gentlemen into a group of ill-behaved baboons for 25 minutes each day? Personally, I should like to see Chapel attendance made voluntary. If, however, this cannot be accomplished, I propose that the Executive Committee set up a Purple Heart award for speakers who brave the horrors of a Chapel speech. For it would be less embarrassing to have three people in the audience than to have the whole school show collective rudeness. One more point and I'll shut up. I was dismayed to see the Freshmen following the example of the “Upper Classes.” The Upper Classes are leading them astray. The salvation of Davidson’s battered manners rests squarely on their shoulders. If they would but realize their responsibility to set a good example, the rest of this year and the three following years, we could re-establish some element of basic courtesy in Chapel. How about it Freshmen? The upper classes are too far gone. “It’s tradition with them.” Only you can save the finest of Davidson institutions.

SLATZ McCLINTOCK.
December 6, 1949

DAMNATION

Dear Editor:

Abominable! Disgusting! Indecorous! Damnation, do we, a body of supposedly “comparatively mature” men, not know how to sit quietly for a mere twenty-five minutes and listen to a man relate soul-stirring experiences which he has endured? Is it not possible to at least give a decorous attention to such a man as E. Stanton Turner even though there be a certain skeptical feeling as to the veracity of his statements? (Believe me, we in the Davidson student body know, we have had wide and varied experiences—we know the existing conditions everywhere.) I experienced feelings of abhorrence and disgust at the reaction to Mr. Turner’s address on Monday when I observed about me the supercilious smiles of certain of my classmates. I could not help slipping as low as possible in my seat with a very red face and a feeling of rage and chagrin at the incessant buzz and hum of what, I am sure, were very enlightening conversations that acted as an unwelcome accompaniment to the address of one, whom I am convinced, is as devoted and sincere a personage as ever spoke from a Davidson rostrum. There is no justification for the conduct of our student body at its chapel exercises. You can be sure that the deplorable situation exists in view of the fact that one sunk as low as I in the senile lethargy that prevails in the immediate environs, should take it upon myself to vent a bit of my spleen in writing to the “medium of communication” of which you are the editor. Of course the several minutes employed in the construction of this—you name it—were, to all practical purposes, wasted; but I think it every Davidsonian’s duty to write at least one missive within his four years residence. I hope that I’ve stepped on some toes. I’m not being presumptuous, and if I am, so what?

BILL MOORE.

Flicker Flashes

By HUGH SWAN

Excellent Picture
Good Picture
Fair Picture

“TENSION”
Starring Richard Basehart, Audrey Totter, and Cyd Charisse, plays Monday and Tuesday at the Davidson. Richard Basehart works nights as manager of a chain drug store and slaves to buy a home in the suburbs for his wife, Audrey Totter. But Audrey has become involved in an affair with a flashy liquor salesman and, out for all she can get, runs out on Richard and moves in with the salesman at his beach house. Richard, blind with hatred and humiliation, goes to the beach house to beg Claire to return to him. From here on in events form a network of circumstances that stimulate the committing of a murder and Richard’s falling in love with Cyd Charisse. Any more information would ruin the picture for you.

“THE SECRET GARDEN”
Starring Margaret O’Brien and Dean Stockwell, plays Wednesday and Thursday at the Davidson. This is an adventure of two young hearts told in a warm and interesting way.

“MASSACRE RIVER”
Starring Guy Madison, Rory Calhoun, and Cathy Downs, plays Friday and Saturday at the Davidson. This picture portrays the heroic gallantry of the United States Cavalry and the rugged outdoor romance that Cathy Downs is involved in. It is another story of the struggles of the U.S. Cavalry to keep the West open to the pioneer settlers and closed to the enraged Indians, who thought that they had been done an injustice. This picture will have plenty of hard-riding action in it.

Modern farming requires more and greater skills than almost any other occupation.