BALEMETTES DON PAINT FOR CONQUEST

The Davidsonian

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, SEPTEMBER 30, 1949

PRESMEN DAUB PAINT IN PROTEST NUMBER TWO

GERMAN STUDENT TO EXPRESS VIEWS ON LIFE IN HOMELAND

Since I am a new student at Davidson College, I first of all would like to introduce myself: my name
is Kurt Hans Biedenkopf, my hometown is Wiesbaden (near Frankfurt), Germany. I have the great opportunity to spend the school
year 1949-1950 as an exchange student at this college. Let me take this chance to thank Davidson College and Pi
Kappa Phi for making this year of study in the U.S.A. possible.

A very important, if not the most important part of the work an exchange student is supposed to do is
to tell the people as much as he can about his homeland, its people, their way of living and thinking
and in exchange learn as much as he can about the country he is now in. It is very true
that many of the conflicts between the nations of the world were and still are caused by fatal distrusts and
unnecessary misunderstandings that could have been avoided if people would only have known each other better. In order to help
in creating goodwill, understanding, and friendship among the nations of the world, young men and women of all parts of
Europe and America, Asia, and Africa are sent all over the world, and I am very happy to be one
of those. I shall do my best to tell you everything you want to know about Germany and the old
world.

Maybe you are interested in how I happened to be selected as an exchange student. Well — here is the
story: In February '48 some friends of mine and I started to publish a school newspaper at our high school,
and I have been the editor in chief until I left Germany. We used to have meetings of the editors
in chief of all German school newspapers every 3 or 4 months and to invite officials of the educational branch
of Military Government. It was one of these officials who gave me the idea to make an application for a
scholarship in the U.S., and so I did in May 1948. For a long time, nothing happened. The project seemed
to have disappeared in the long channels of bureaucracy. Until then in December 1948 it happened. I had to start
doing a lot of paperwork and to go through several examinations. In February it seemed that I was considered to
be alright for the job and I was full of joy. Then again for a long time nothing was to
be heard. At last in July, I received a letter from Odell Dobson telling me that I had been accepted
and a scholarship would (Continued on Page Four)

Court of Control Swings Into Action

At a meeting of the student body Wednesday morning, the Honorable Douglas Rice (otherwise known as Ruthless Rice) introduced the
members of the Court of Control to the freshman class and stated charges against violators of the freshman regulations. The
court is composed of Judge Rice, Recorder Jim Vann, and the Honorables Richards, Leach, Kelton, Acker, and Wade. The first
action of the court was to campus the whole freshman class for a week because of three charges served against
them. The charges were painting a red '53 on the water tower, painting over it in silver, and then not
having enough pride in the class of '53 to leave it on the tower.

Those obnoxious freshmen who got off to an early start in the race for the yellow cap and attended the
court’s first meeting are as follows:
1. Bennett, John: No hat, not speaking, absent at pep rally, not carrying laundry.
2. Blatt, Phil: Gross obnoxiousness, disrespect for school and upperclassmen.
3. Crymes, Bill: Disturbance, loud talking, generally obnoxious.
4. Davis, Phil: Laughing at upperclassmen.
5. Hobson, Jack: In league with Crymes to cause disturbance.
6. Jameson, J. L.: Absent Queens dance.
7. Kepler, M.: Disrespect, disapproval, and disregard for student government.
8. Mauze, H.: Acting like he is heaven-sent to Davidson College.
9. Moylan, D.: Not wearing a hat.
10. Garrison, R.: Extremely inconsiderate, inactive, and uncooperative.
11. Herndon, W.: Worst sort of obnoxiousness, no hat in chapel, and swearing.
12. Myers, M.: No hat.
13. Nelson, L.: Not speaking, no hat.
14. Sellars, P.; Smith, R.; and Stuart, A.: Absent at Queens dance.
15. Swan, H.: No cap, general disturbance, and trouble making.
16. Tolbert, H.: Absent Queens.
17. Thomason, G.: Walking on grass, refusing to give name.

It is hoped that the first actions of the court will influence the freshmen to stay in line and follow
the freshmen regulations to the letter. The court has appealed to the upperclassmen to continue their support of the court.

CHEERLEADERS ASSUME JOB OF KEEPING “SPIRIT” HIGH

Again this year the responsibility for keeping that intangible monster we call the “Davidson Spirit” puffing and blowing its lungs
out whenever an alien football team challenges the mighty Wildcats will rest on the shoulders of the cheerleaders.

Under the inspired leadership of veteran yell-man Charlie Mitchell, the seven iron-throated gentlemen have already shown that they are putting
all they have into that all-important job of seeing that Davidson’s sons of the gridiron get the utmost support from
the stands. Aside from Mitchell (“the man with the hands”) the cheerleaders are Bruce Ballenger, Monty Hill, Bo Roddey, Grady
Spires, Billy Houck, and Bill Cassels.

Only two of last year's cheering staff are back, Mitchell, who has had two years of experience behind him, and
Cassels, who has one year to his credit. But around this nucleus, a live-wire group has been formed. From the
Sophomore Class came Bruce Ballenger, who hails from Charlotte, N.C. In the springtime, Bruce spends his time on the track
with Coach Pete Whittle and his crew. From the Junior Class, somebody talked Monty Hill into giving his time and
vocal cords to the cause. Monty, whose home is Greensboro, N.C., is a natural in more ways than one. In
golf, he has piled up an outstanding record and is expected to shine even more this year. From the Senior
Class came Bo Roddey, Grady Spires, and Billy Houck. Bo is widely known for his excellent performance at the net
and also as a fast man on the basketball court. Charlotte is his hometown. Grady Spires, who is from Miami,
Florida, is one of the school’s weight lifters and has taken an active part in deputation work and religious activity.
Billy Houck, who calls Florence, S.C., home, is Business Manager of the Davidsonian and played baseball last year. These five
join the other two in the job of making the school’s loyal sons want to shout their heads off for
the team and for old Davidson.

Although the school does not allow the cheerleaders any cuts or expenses to accompany the team on its games away
from home, the boys are planning to attend the Rollins game at Winter Park, Florida, and lead the cheering for
the Wildcats there. Some of the yell-men will probably attend at least one of the games in Lexington, Virginia. Head
cheerleader Mitchell made the trip to West Point where he led the support for the team.

As for instilling the old school spirit in that assorted group known as the Freshman Class, Mitchell and Company have
been taking care of that. Even before the upperclassmen were due here for the beginning of classes, the cheerleading squad
had given the freshmen a taste of what was to come.

Lower Slobbovian Daisy Maes Descend On Davidson's Dashing Lil’ Abners

By SHELLEY BEARD

Lower Slobbovia, September 30, 1949. (Asphyxiated Press) In preparation for the annual Davidson-Salem Day, students at the college are making
big plans. One hundred young ladies are expected to arrive on the campus sometime between Friday night and Vespers, depending
on the schedule of the Sputnik Hackspress. Last week the Hackspress was derailed and robbed by Cosh Jackson and his
gang.

An extensive program is planned for the visiting co-eds. The committee in charge of the entertainment was headed by Harry
Hickey. When the girls arrive they will be met by Scott Varnish who will drive them to the YMCA where
one hundred young, handsome, brave, hungry Davidson (Ugh) men will be waiting. As each girl meets her date, she will
be searched for blackjacks, bombs, gats, and whiskey. When this is over, the students may show their dates the campus.
Places of interest to be shown are the water tower, the Post Office, and the pool room. This tour will
be led by Prof. Jim Reid, noted authority on geography.

That night there will be a football game between the Huskies of Notre Dame University (Ptui.) and the galloping Wildcats
of Davidson College. Up till this time Davidson has not lost a game in twenty-two years. Davidson expects great things
from its first team in twenty-three years. At the half, the Davidson Band, led by Hal Hines, will march and
play. The music featured will be “Old Mountain Dew” and “I’ve Got the World on a String.”

After the game, the girls will have to return to Winston-Salem. This annual event was started by Marshal Ney. Ever
since it has been a revered custom of the college. Any suckers wishing to sign up for blind dates will
please bring their health certificates to Bull Klin. It is not mandatory that all freshmen be present at this occasion,
but the roll will be called; and any freshmen not answering will be knocked out of college.“Green ones” two doses
of the cheers. Since school has been in session, one session in chapel and one bonfire have been held. With
the approach of home games, the tempo will be greatly increased. It might be noted that the Head Cheerleader is
responsible for the revival of an old custom that all Freshmen secure and carry megaphones to football games so as
to make themselves more easily heard.

NEW CHAPEL SCHEDULE ANNOUNCED

The following chapel schedule has recently been announced by the faculty:
Monday—Y.M.C.A.
Tuesday—President’s day, guest speaker.
Wednesday—Brief devotional, students’ day.
Thursday—Faculty speaker.
Friday—Brief devotional, students’ day.

REVIEW DATES ARE SET BY FACULTY

Recently the faculty voted to have set aside in the college calendar dates for reviews in classes of the freshman
and sophomore years. These dates have been set as follows:
October 17-29.
November 28-December 10.
February 27-March 12.
April 3-15.

Weather Report

It is generally conceded by the best authorities that we will have more weather this weekend. Students may expect more
sky, clouds, and stars in abundance, moving from high, to low, through second, and back to high again.

SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN HOME!

ALEX GOLEY
212 Duke

Annual Fall Retreat Held For Three Days By Y Sec and Cabinet

BY NEWT. ROBINSON

Last Friday after lunch, the members of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet and “Y” Secretary Bill Smith assembled in front of the
Guest House to leave for the annual Y.M.C.A. Cabinet Retreat at Montreat, N.C. Transportation was furnished by three automobiles and
the “Y” car. Fine food, lodging, and cordial hospitality were amply provided by Mrs. W.C. Copeland at her Montreat home.
The members of the Cabinet returned to the campus in time for Vespers Sunday night. Those attending were Bill Smith,
Bill Alexander, Neil Leach, Lou Langford, Slick Evans, Stubby Evans, Harrison Taylor, John Lyles, Bob Gay, Bill Klein, Newton Robertson,
Chick Longenecker, Whit Cobb, Dave Anderson, Doug Shriver, Irving Stubbs, Lonnie Turnipseed, and Curtis Harper.

The purpose of the Retreat was to formulate and coordinate all phases of the Davidson Y.M.C.A. program for this school
year. In all respects, the Cabinet feels that the Retreat was highly successful. Beginning early Saturday morning, the four commissions
of the Cabinet held separate conferences. Afterwards, the entire Cabinet met together for informal discussion and planning which carried over
till about 2:30 Saturday afternoon at which time all formal business was concluded.

One of the highlights of the Retreat was a hike up to the top of Lookout Mountain early Sunday morning
led by energetic Slick Evans and eager Bill Smith. The Cabinet later limped into Sunday morning church service, very tired
but sincerely thankful for a great time and for promising prospects for a fine year of service ahead.

MUSICIANS SET FOR SERIES

FIRST CONCERT WILL FEATURE SOPRANO, MARGARET TRUMAN

Each year the students and faculty of Davidson College have the privilege of hearing nationally known musicians from all fields
of music. This is made possible by the Davidson College Artists Series under the auspices of the Music Department. The
artists scheduled for the 1949-1950 season have been announced by Prof. Pfohl, head of the Music Department. The first concert
of the season will be presented by Miss Margaret Truman, soprano. Miss Truman, who is better known as the daughter
of the President, launched her career in 1947 with a debut in Washington followed by a road tour. Since then
she interrupted her studies in New York City only once—that was to appear with her father in the 1948 political
campaign. Miss Truman’s concert will be heard on October 21, the Friday of Homecoming weekend.

Second on the series of artists is Mr. Jacob Lateiner, pianist. Mr. Lateiner, whose concert is scheduled for Dec. 5,
will be remembered for his brilliant concert in the artist series at Davidson two seasons ago. There have been more
requests from students and faculty members for a reappearance by this young artist than any other artist who has appeared
on the series in recent years.

The Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra will present the third concert of the series on February 15, 1950. Because of the very
successful appearance of the director, Dr. Thor Johnson, as a chapel speaker last week, Davidson students will look forward to
this concert with especial interest. Dr. Johnson spoke then on the concert director and the nature of his work.

Last on the artist series, but not least, is a concert by the Robert Shaw Chorale. The concert of this
nationally known group will be presented on March 17. There is no doubt that this concert season will be one
of the most successful Davidson has ever had. We are deeply indebted to Professor Pfohl for such a fine selection
of artists. All concerts will be in Chambers Auditorium.

New Football Cards On Sale Saturday

Watch for the brand new football program which is to make its grand appearance Saturday at the game with Presbyterian
College. Whit Cobb and Bo Roddey, co-editors, promise new features, biographical sketches of great stars of the past, and new
picture arrangements. These programs will be on sale at each of the stadium gates and also in the stands. Be
sure to get your copy of this altogether new football program.

Obnoxious Oddities Commit Atrocities Unparalleled In History Of Davidson

PETE KALOGER

A startling announcement was flashed throughout the campus during the past week. Members of the freshmen class, in complete and
utter disregard for the college and city ordinances, painted their numeral upon the water tower. The announcement, of course, caused
a wave of excitement on the campus. Many upperclassmen sadly shook their heads and entered into deliberations in an attempt
to reach some sort of solution for the problem presented by the obnoxiousness of the freshman class. But just as
the deliberations were getting underway and some peaceful solution was being sought for the freshman problem, these very deliberations were
brought to an abrupt halt by another outrageous act on the part of the freshmen. Unbelievable as it might seem
to the ears of the mighty upperclassmen, the first-year wonders had painted out their own numerals!

The problem was now attacked with renewed vigor. For now all the upperclassmen had risen as a body and demanded
the punishment of the culprits. Not only were the freshmen guilty of violating the water tower ordinance twice in a
row, but they were also guilty of the much more serious charge of showing a definite lack of spirit through
painting out their numerals. The Court of Control promptly swung into action. Judge Doug Rice announced to the freshmen that
unless those directly responsible for the painting turned themselves in, the entire freshman class would be campused. But the threat
was to no avail.

In chapel Wednesday morning, Judge Rice proclaimed a one-week campus, but since those guilty had not yet reported themselves, the
upperclassmen clamored for a two, three, or even four-week campus instead of the one. However, Judge Rice was momentarily able
to satisfy the demands of the upperclassmen by assuring them that justice would be brought about and the freshmen would
soon learn that it was wise to obey all rules, regulations, and ordinances.

Indeed, it seems to be the general consensus of opinion among the upperclassmen that the class of '53 is entirely
too obnoxious. Rumors are circulating throughout the campus to the effect that there will soon be some desirable changes made.
Freshmen... beware!
