PAGE EIGHT

EMPHASIS IN BOY'S...
(Continued From Page Five)

team, and start practice. After he gets things pretty well organized, he is in a position to start a club and have the boys elect officers. On days that the boys are unable to play football, or any time they may want to plan extra activities, they may have a club meeting. This gives the boys a chance to participate in group discussions and group planning, as well as bringing the group closer together. This year the Y hopes to have many more activities for the boys. If possible, we plan to have a father and son banquet in the communities, and possibly some weekend activities. We are setting up a league between the three towns, and plan to give the winning team some award. In addition to their league games, however, the teams will play some of the Y teams in Charlotte, and some of the teams in Mooresville. In these various activities, we hope to influence the boys for strong character and good health.

SEPTEMBER 1, 1917...
(Continued From Page Three)

for the spectators. How amusing this is to us when we remember the times that we have pushed and shoved our way to this balcony only to find that we were lucky to get a seat on the floors so as to dangle our legs over the edge. Davidson has certainly outgrown this building and we have lived to see a magnificent edifice erected in its place. We can read the accounts which appeared in 1917, and we can look on the building which they erected, but as we face this building today, and then cast our eyes slightly to the left we see the structure which, in itself, is the very symbol of progress at Davidson. We see a building which has so far outstripped this old gym that comparison of the two would only entail absurdities. We see a building which was made possible through the efforts of these same men who were so proud of their building in 1917, for only through their efforts, and the help of the many friends of Davidson College were we able to have such a building which will measure up to the full expectations and delight of all of us on this day in 1949, and which exceeds the fondest dreams of 1917.

CAT TAILS...
(Continued From Page Six)

team. If the above-mentioned facts aren’t enough to demoralize a squad, we've got a lot to learn about the “whys” and “wherefores” of the game of football.

BETAS HAVE IT THIS YEAR
From this stage of the season, it looks as though the Betas will breeze to the championship in the Interfraternity Football race. With the season half over, the powerful Betas have raced through all opposition with ease and should go the distance undefeated. The K.A.'s, last year champs, look like a sure thing for the second-place berth. A battle royal for the remaining three upper slots is being staged, with the three to probably come from the S.A.E.’s, Phi Delts, Pikas, and Kappa Sigs. While we're on the subject of fraternity football, you fraternity sports managers start thinking about your selections for the All-Frat team which will be selected at the close of the current campaign.

WHITE WASHED...
(Continued From Page Two)

tion. Thus we have slipped back, as it is so easy to do, without arousing that inner prick of conscience which gives warning of retrogression in the sins of commission. Now what, exactly, has chapel conduct got to do with all this? The writer feels that chapel conduct is simply an irrefutable indication of the general deadening to spiritual values with which the college is here indicted. It is thus an effect and not a cause. Why has it not improved? Because, as so often happens, the effect has been mistaken for the cause. For some time there has been much exhortation of the student body to exhibit more spirit in respect to the activities of the football team. The lack of spirit in this case was, again, an effect and not a cause. Spirit was not lacking when Davidson recently trounced State, but it must be emphasized that spirit cannot be created by oratory, no matter how masterful it may be. It must arise, as it did in the State game, of itself. To return to chapel conduct, it, like the spirit of the student body in relation to our team, is an effect. Wherein, then, lies the cause? This question has, the writer believes, already been adequately answered. And now you will undoubtedly wish to know what can be done about reawakening an aliveness to things spiritual and bringing about a consequent negation of the truthfulness of the term, White Washed Sepulchre, that can be applied with such justness to the school at this time. The answer is, of course, that no one, two, three series of concrete proposals can be made to remedy the present lack. Then what is to be done? As in the case of an individual, the writer feels that the only course is to consciously effect an introspective examination of what has caused this unconscious hypocrisy and, having done this, to seriously and reverently make a rededication of an active sort to the principles which have made Davidson great. No amount of outward adherence to Davidson's purpose as it is stated in the catalogue can make the fulfillment of that purpose a reality. To make of it a reality, there must be an inward dedication on the part of the student body and administration alike. Each one of us who is a part of this college must feel that it is a personal responsibility to make Davidson’s ideals live, and each one of us must start at home, must make of ourselves a true synthesis of what Davidson collectively stands for. Truly, let us have, “No More Chapel Editorials.” Let us have no more general exhortations to one another to actively dedicate ourselves to the things Davidson stands for. Let us instead, start with ourselves, remedy our individual faults, and correct our own shortcomings. When that has been done by each of us, then it will no longer be necessary to publish letters about chapel conduct and Davidson College will truly be the great Christian college which it was in the days of our forbears.

1949 GRADS...
(Continued From Page Three)

an All-State backfield next year at Greenville High School where he is now giving his service. Next year’s freshmen who come from Darlington will be bringing us back news of Bob McGee who is now teaching at that institution. Jim Herndon and Tom Moore are doing graduate work at Carolina. Bill Fesperman is a physical education major at the University of Springfield, Springfield, Mass. The nurses at Charlotte Memorial Hospital tell us that Bob Knight is doing an excellent job in Hospital Administration. Gene Bingham is back where his heart has longed to be — Detroit, Mich. He is attending a training school of post-graduate work which is sponsored by Proctor and Gamble. Bill Bennett is also employed by the Proctor and Gamble Company in Atlanta, Ga. At Munters in Chapel Hill, big George Bryant is cutting out his future. Carter Fabrics, Inc., in Greensboro was very fortunate to have Carl Pahl, former president of the student body, to choose them as his employers. The personality of Bill Scruggs is not being wasted, although it is rumored that his former partnership with A. McNeill Upchurch, Inc., has been temporarily dissolved. He is promotion manager for WBT. Upchurch can be found nearly any day of the week in downtown Charlotte trying to sell America’s finest car, the New Packard. Mike Williams is now working for Moore Ritz Co., in California.

INTER-FRAT BALL...
(Continued From Page Seven)

jaunt for Earl, and the longest single play of the game. The Campus Club came back strong and drove to the 18 of the Phi Gams behind the passing of Campbell. Their threat was halted, however, by a pass interception by Parker. With possession of the ball, C. I. Clark and company passed down the field for the final score of the day — the last tally coming on a Clark-to-Parker pass. Parker made a very nice running leap for the ball to end the scoring for the day.

CAMERA CORNER...
(Continued From Page Two)

“Roseanna McCoy,” starring Joan Evans and Farley Granger, runs from October the twenty-fourth through October the twenty-fifth. Joan is a new Atlantic Beach discovery picked from 320 bathing beauties. The picture is the story of the Hatfields and McCoys (those rough mountain boys). “My Friend Irma,” starring Diana Lynn and John Lund, runs October the twenty-sixth and twenty-seventh at the Davidson Theatre. Sorry, received no information on this picture. “House Across The Street,” starring Janis Paige and Wayne Morris, runs October the twenty-eighth andtwenty-ninth at the Davidson Theatre.

(Continued From Page Two)

Met and spoke at great length with diverse old friends, both students and alumni. Distressed to find many among the latter groups suffering acutely from consumption and red eye, but was happy to see them so gay and carefree withal. Spent some time watching the ladies, and for a while quite distracted by pondering on the technical difficulties overcome by the dressmakers in many of the gowns I saw. At intermission, I did see great throngs at the soft-drink concession, and so I went to the outside, where I made out in the dark a furtive group behind an automobile. Prompted by curiosity, I went thither, and was mightily pleased by the loud and hearty reception I did receive there. Among the group were many suffering acutely from the red-eye, who found the fresh air beneficial to their sickness, but who in gentlemanly fashion did refrain from complaining of their malady, and were, indeed, quite merry. Thence to the dance again, and home in high spirits. Abed quite late and on arising was obliged to go abroad to the dedication of a building. There I did find a quite distinguished gathering, but saw only a few of my friends of last evening. Listened to speeches of various dignitaries which prophesied a great future for our institution. The address by our president I did think peculiarly excellent. I then went to fraternity court to view the decoration of the various houses, all of which I thought quite good in plan and execution. In the afternoon, to Richardson Field, where I did watch our team strive valiantly against great odds and emerge victorious. The crowd in the stands was in great good spirits, and did cheer loudly and longly, with noticeable lack of dignity among the alumni. Thence to dinner, and so afterwards to the dance which I did find to be much like the one last evening. Departed quite early to the city, and thither to an inn in Trade Street, where I did join some friends. Did stay there ‘til quite late, and did immensely enjoy the holiday spirits I found there. Upbraided by the innkeeper on three occasions, and being God-fearing and law-abiding people, we did thither come back to Davidson, the remainder of the night in our own beds.

NAVY VS. AIR...

(Continued From Page Two)

Admirals are fighting a last-ditch battle to keep from being relegated to the inglorious task of anti-submarine warfare, which, it was also agreed at Key West, should be the Navy's primary mission in the next war. They tried first to discredit the effectiveness of the Air Force in general, narrowing their claim later to its inability to deliver the bomb on certain targets as well as the Navy could. A feeble argument that represents the desperation of the admirals. That failing, they turned their tactics to discrediting the bomb itself. They have called it inhuman and barbaric, and have pooh-poohed it as a decisive factor in war. Yet they have taken care to keep the results of the Bikini tests secret. It all adds up to the fact that the margin of victory in the next war will lie in the hands of the side with the superior air force. The Air Force is not and does not claim to be a shortcut to victory, a quick, easy way to win a war; there is none. But the Air Force will hold the center of attention, and the Navy can't stand the thought of being pushed aside.

"CHESTERFIELD SURE IS MY CIGARETTE...I HAVE BEEN A CHESTERFIELD FAN FOR YEARS!"

LOCAL FIRE ENGINE...

(Continued From Page Three)

In the middle of all the confusion, an unimpeachably-attired figure hastily threaded his way through the crowd and quickly mounted the running board of an antique automobile parked not far from the edge of the gathering. As he raised his hand, the cry of the multitude dropped to a whisper and then lapsed into complete silence. No other personality could have so stilled the frenzied mob in the presence of a conflagration of such magnitude. Silence prevailed as the first golden word rolled from the silver lips of the school’s president. In his affable but firm manner, Dr. Cunningham diplomatically appealed to those assembled in somewhat the following manner:

“Gentlemen of Davidson, at this time I would appeal to you on behalf of all those who love and cherish the name of Davidson College to cease all such oral petitions and actions which will in all probability be found unbeneficial to the best interest of our beloved college. To be more specific, I would not wish our laundry any ill tidings in its present dilemma. Mr. Arnold has informed me that his weekly supply of white shirts are now in the laundry to be washed and ironed for Homecoming. I also have my shirts here to be laundered, and, Gentlemen, let me say that Mr. Arnold and I must have these shirts back. If something should happen to our shirts, we would be unable to appear at Homecoming to spearhead the final push of the Development Drive. So Gentlemen, on behalf of all those who are keenly desirous of our school’s continued well-being, I present to you the seriousness of this situation and solicit your thoughtful consideration of the consequences of hasty action. Thank you, Gentlemen of Davidson.”

After the last majestic syllable of the president's impromptu speech floated into the ears of the frozen assemblage, all remained silent while Student Body President Whit Cobb slowly mounted an old barrel and began to say something in his characteristically calm fashion:

“Fellows, I guess Dr. Cunningham is right. We'd better not burn the laundry this time, even if this is a good opportunity. Since we all want the Development Drive to be a success, I believe we ought to forget about it. I believe we ought..."

AMONG THE GREEKS...

(Continued From Page Four)

Football games, some to see their families, some to get away from D.C.; some had fun and then again some went to St. Louis. Brother Jim Witherspoon had by far the most profitable weekend. He pinned Miss Betty Fowler, who is a true Queen, when they were up in Beckley, West Virginia visiting Jim’s family. The Phi Delts congratulate both of you; Jim for your taste in girls and Bunny for your taste in fraternities. While Jim was looking at that moon in West Virginia, brother T. H. A. Hall was looking for his blind date at Duke. It seems that he was on a blanket party, and it was so dark that he caught himself holding hands with himself three times. What kind of a party was that, Colonel? Scott Vernor was also at Duke seeing “My Sweet Embraceable You" Bette. Frank Hooper was seen in Atlanta trying to buy a jug that you could play while it was full. Buddy Spivey went to Atlanta to see his girlfriend who works as a caddy at Bobby Jones Country Club. Hugh Huffaker, Ansley Moses, and Pledge Fletcher Bright went to Montreat. Bill Hollister drove to Richmond to see sweet Jackie. J. C. Cobb and Bob Hollister dated over at Charlotte Friday night. Allen Strand went up to Greensboro to see Pat. Bill Mebane, Al Cook, and Al Guthrie went to a Phi Mu party at Queens. “Nookie Nose” Clark, Bill Bacon, Jim Campbell, Bobby Wearne, Ed Sutton, Bill Klein, and Lonnie Turnipseed also dated over at Queens. Tell us, Lonnie, just what has Lucy done?

PHI GAMMA DELTA

Homecoming at last! After saving its strength and wampum for many moons, the chapter is primed and ready for a big weekend. The festivities will get underway with Maggie's concert and continue till Blue Barron has tooted himself out on Saturday night. Tension is running high among the brethren and this year’s Homecoming promises to be an event to remember. Tom Haller modestly admitted he planned to “—Give them gals a fit this weekend" as did his half-pint cohort Ding-Dong Pell. Even the pledges have caught the holiday spirit and ventured forth to find dates. Mac Doubles seems to have lost his pointed little head over some Queens lass—and Dick Liles has been floating around in a blue haze since the State game. Puppy love. The birdman considered walking to W.C. when he heard “Juicy” might not be able to make it for the dances. When asked why not use his head, Birdman brightly replied he did once and it hurt his ears. Smart kid. Wally Abbott, after checking and re-checking the Homecoming date, finally selected the perfect girl, only to be flushed—what a cruel, cruel world.