PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF .......... BOB HOLLISTER
BUSINESS MANAGER .......... BILL HOUCK

EDITORIAL STAFF
Chief Associate Editor .......... Doug Hix
Chief Associate Editor .......... Lonnie Turnipseed
Chief Associate Editor .......... Jack Hazard

MANAGING EDITORS—Arnic Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall, Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister, Randy Taylor.
Sports Editor—Gordon Scott
Make-up Editors—Dan McKeithen, Cherry Stribling.
Art Editor—Bill King
City Editor—John Hobart
Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager—Bill Cassells
Advertising Managers—Wyhe Smith, Rod Shaw
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison.
Circulation Manager—Huffaker
Asst. Circulation Managers—Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager—John Loftin
Subscriptions Manager—Alex Goley

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

Fraternity Court Curfew

The recent action of the executive committee against two of the campus social fraternities has overshadowed another "case" on its
"docket" for next week. This case involves three students who were with their dates in a fraternity house after twelve.
This is not the first instance of students being found in fraternity houses with dates after midnight. Nor will it
probably be the last. There has been at least one such case every year since we've been here. None of
the students who have faced these charges in the past has been charged with immoral conduct. The present trio is
not to go before the executive committee for immoral conduct. They are merely charged with breaking a faculty regulation which
says that dates will be out of the fraternity houses by midnight except in special cases such as Pan-Hel dance
weekends. If the penalty for such instances runs true to form these students will be banned from fraternity court for
several weeks. This may not be the sentence, but it has been in the past. This would mean that three
seniors, prominent in student and fraternity activities, would be unable to take part in these activities for a good portion
of their final year at Davidson. It’s not the penalty that we would like to question so much as the
rule itself. We think it is unreasonable to say the least. There is another regulation which says that no couple
may be in the house alone at any time. This is a good regulation and makes sense. But if you
have this latter regulation and it is followed, why will it not work as well after 12 o’clock as it
will before twelve o’clock? By work we mean to serve the purpose of one couple chaperoning the other. The very
fact that no student has ever been charged with immoral conduct in these cases would seem to prove that the
faculty does not think that any such is happening. The committee has in all cases to our knowledge gone out
of its way to say that there was no charge or any idea of immoral conduct. If this be the
case then why the rule? What is the purpose of it? If there has been no evidence of immoral happenings
and no one expects any, is it wrong for two or three couples to go into a fraternity house and
dance? To build a fire in the fireplace, play some music, turn the lights down low, and dance seems to
be all right to us. If we are looking at this in the wrong way we'd like to be shown
what is the reason for the rule. —J.H.

Car Regulations

Several months ago the Dean of Students announced that regulations on the use of cars by students would be suspended
from that date till December 10. If the students showed that this laxing of restrictions would not mean traffic jams,
violations of parking regulations, and undue use of automobiles in the town of Davidson, the restrictions would be off indefinitely.
Evidently Dean Bailey and the Executive Committee were satisfied with the results because these restrictions will remain off until a
need arises to put them back in effect. Let’s continue to show the Dean that he was right and that
we can have privileges without abusing them. —J.H.

Tate Tickets

In his chapel speech Thursday Professor James F. Pinkney, acting athletic director, failed to mention tickets or seating arrangements for
dates in the new gymnasium. There may be such arrangements for dates to sit with students but we hope that
they are administered better than those for football games. Reports have been numerous of students being greatly inconvenienced by the
ticket office because it either is never open or it does not have date tickets. One student made numerous efforts
to buy a ticket for his date to the Citadel football game. He was unable to get one at Davidson
through the negligence of the ticket office and its operator. Date tickets were not on sale at the stadium so
he was forced to buy a reserved seat for himself as well as his date in order to sit with
her. Let’s hope that suitable arrangements can be made in the new gym and also for future football games.

Hall Prayer Meetings

Little has been said so far this year about our hall meetings. This is one of the distinctive features of
our college program. The success of these hall meetings depends directly upon the support of the students. Each week certain
members of the student body go to the trouble to prepare a thought for the evening. We, as fellow students,
can well afford to take a few minutes aside from our studies and join the other members on the hall
in a few minutes of worship. The hall meetings serve two important purposes. First, they take us aside from the
busy life we lead and give us the opportunity for quiet meditation. They provide thoughts that are stimulating and...

(Continued On Page Six)

College Rags In Brief

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By WATT JEFFRIES

The “Blue Hose” of Presbyterian ended their football season November 19, with the traditional Newberry game. Underlying our rivalry of
this and other P. C.-Newberry games is a little bronze derby, symbol of athletic rivalry between the schools. The whole
thing began at a Presbyterian-Newberry basketball game back in 1947. At the end of the game a daring Newberry student
grabbed our brown felt derby from the head of a P. C. student and fled. Presbyterian students saw that it
was returned and had it overlaid with bronze to be used as a trophy for the winning school. Newberry has
our derby now, pending the outcome of our baseball game in the spring.

The Tech-Georgia Better Relations Committee had its hopes dashed to the ground recently by the actions of four Tech students.
Prior to the Tech-Georgia game the students journeyed to Athens and painted the name “TECH” on the famous Freshman Arch
of the University. The paint could not be removed without considerable cost because of the nature of the arch, but
the primary concern of the committee is the possibility of destroying the feeling of mutual good spirit.

North Carolina's “Daily Tar Heel” reports on famous Charlie Justice: In four years he has run and passed 5,054 yards,
returned kicks for 1,200 yards (162 yards per return), returned 33 kickoffs for 892 yards (27 yards per return), and
completed 166 passes for 2,299 total yards. He has punted 245 times, averaging 42.6 yards and scored 39 touchdowns for
234 points. Justice will play along with N. C. ends Weiner and Powell in the Senior Bowl to be held
in Jacksonville on January 7. Doak Walker will lead the opposition composed of men from colleges in the Southwest, West,
Midwest, and East.

Flunk insurance has been inaugurated at San Francisco State College. The insurance is the latest device inaugurated to console students
“who end up on the wrong end of a professor's grade curve.” The insurance is sponsored by Alpha Phi Gamma
journalistic fraternity. The average student pays 50 cents for coverage on a course and receives something like one dollar if
he flunks the course. All dividends go into a journalism scholarship fund.

The eighty women attending Illinois Institute of Technology “have outshined the men scholastically with a relative point average of 1.698
as to the men's 1.484.” The men claim this margin was gained through deliberate distraction of the males.

Review of Jacob Lateiner

By HENRY E. HANSEN

On December 5, 1949, the Davidson College Artist Series presented Jacob Lateiner, pianist, to the student body and friends of
Davidson College. Mr. Lateiner’s concert was an enjoyable one for two reasons. First, for one so young his technique and
feeling are at an unusually developed degree. Second, his program was a good one calculated to please everyone.

His program opened with the Bach-Busoni Organ Toccata in C major. While organ works as transcribed for piano inevitably lose
validity musically speaking, the piece was well done. The toccata, as arranged, does not forfeit too much of the essential
Bach character and, as played by Lateiner, was not the fulsome, engorged sort of thing which is the antithesis of
Bach and a defeat of his style and purpose. The runs were excellent—clear, well-defined, and even, and Lateiner’s legato was
very good.

The second selection, Beethoven’s Sonata in C major, Opus 53 (Waldstein) was well done on the whole from the standpoints
of both technique and interpretation. In comparing the performance to the recorded one of Walter Gieseking, the foremost Beethoven interpreter
of our time, Lateiner must bow to Gieseking on both counts. The differences are slight, but significant. The first movement
offered the best competition to the Gieseking. The second suffered most in comparison. Here the playing was several times muffled
due to excessive pedaling and the runs were more than occasionally indistinct. Mr. Lateiner’s feeling for the music exceeded his
ability, in a technical sense, to play it and we can thank this feeling for a performance deeply satisfying in
spite of technical imperfections.

The Mozart Variations in C major on “Lison Dormait” was well done. Only two adverse criticisms are offered. First, many
trills were dynamically uneven. Second, several glissandos were muffled. The style of playing showed that Mr. Lateiner understands Mozart.

The Chopin Prelude in D minor was very well done as was the Nocturne in C minor. The Waltz in
C sharp minor caused much discussion. It was not played in the tradition-heavy style, i.e., as a concert piece, but
was done as a waltz in strict time. To this critic the piece, thus played, presented a new and very
charming aspect. Technically it was excellent. The Polonaise in A flat major was not well done. The playing was tagged
and the number of mistakes excessive.

Mr. Lateiner played three encores. The Fantasie Impromptu redeemed the Polonaise. This was magnificently done and was one of the
best played selections of the evening. This was followed by the Gershwin Prelude No. 1. This was also well done.
The Ritual Dance of Fire was the last encore and the same comments must apply to it as to the
Polonaise.

Mr. Lateiner’s concert on the whole was excellent. He is a more than capable artist with a deep musical sense.
While somewhat marred by imperfections in technique, these may be largely overlooked in view of the larger excellences of Mr.
Lateiner’s interpretations.

Read This Letter!

Dear Fellow Students:

At the first of the year I wrote a similar letter to you and made various appeals through several means
in an effort to put a curb on our chapel conduct. At first I thought that there was some response
and I hoped that the improvement shown would be a permanent one, but as we all know the situation is
no better, if anything it is worse. The conduct on Tuesday and Friday of this week was a pretty good
indication of the progress that we haven't made. I was not in chapel on Tuesday but from all I’ve heard
it was a pretty disgraceful exhibition of courtesy. We may all rest assured that the young lady who spoke went
away with a rather bad taste in her mouth for Davidson College students.

We have tried to give you good, entertaining programs as much as possible and the administration has given us Friday
as one of the student days to take care of the weekend announcements, and I thought that you would appreciate
these efforts at making chapel more interesting. As far as I can see chapel conduct is where it was at
the beginning of the school year. What are we going to do about it?

If it is my fault that the situation is like it is, then I am open for suggestions as to
what can be done. If it is the administration’s fault then I am sure that they would welcome any suggestions
that you have to make. But if it is...just that we, the students, have no respect for others’ feelings and
insist on being discourteous and entirely out of order as we were on Tuesday and Friday as well as other
times, then I feel that it is up to you the students to put a stop to it. I can
make suggestions and pleas but I can’t make you do anything. If you want to give Davidson College, your college,
a bad name that's your prerogative, I don’t believe that there is anyone in the student body who would want
to do that. This is perhaps the tenth letter that has been written on this very important subject in the
last three years. So far none of the letters has had any apparent effect. Please take this one and give
it some careful thought. I hope I haven’t written this one in vain. Very sincerely yours, Whit Cobb

Equalization Costly For Schools In South

The South is fast awakening to the fact that it must improve its Negro educational system. The principle of equal
educational opportunity is firmly supported by elected officials and the public alike, but the principle is rarely expressed in facts
and figures. The main question is: How much will equalization cost? Figures were compiled in 1945-46 for the cost of
equalizing book values of elementary school plants for eleven of the Southern States. Using the average of the eleven states
it is found that the value of school property for each Negro pupil enrolled was $63 compared with $221 for
each white pupil as compared with the national average of $357 per pupil. Mississippi showed the greatest difference in plant
value with $149 value of property per white pupil and $23 worth of property per Negro student. In 1946 Mississippi
had enrolled 477,157 Negro students and 377,598 white students. It is one of the poorest states, yet $60,000,000 is needed
to equalize its plant equipment. Kentucky showed the most nearly equal conditions, yet they were both far below the national
average. For Kentucky the white property was worth $150 per pupil and the Negro property, $125 per pupil. Alabama had
the lowest value for property per white student with $145 per student and $30 per Negro student — second only
to Mississippi. Louisiana had the highest value of white plant equipment, with $347 per pupil and it maintained the average
value for Negro property with $63 per pupil. To make the two amounts the same throughout the South would have
required in 1946 an expenditure of $158 per Negro pupil or an average of some $31,000,000 for each state. And
in 1949 it is estimated that costs are increased by 59 percent. For all eleven of these states to equalize
plant facilities would cost, roughly, $544,973,000. Or, in still plainer language, a half billion dollars is needed simply to raise
the plant value of the Negro schools to a par with the white. And this does not consider the cost
of equalizing teachers’ pay or standards. The South has improved the Negro schools in recent years, but it has done
little to equalize them. Too frequently public officials compare what is spent on Negro education today with that spent five
or ten years ago and come forth with an impressive and gratifying comparison. But such comparisons only confuse the issue;
for the problem of closing the gap remains. If the Negro schools are to catch up, they must receive more
than a proportionate share of school funds until the differences are eliminated. The white South must either recognize this fact
and act accordingly, or else face the prospect of yielding ungracefully to a series of court rulings. More about the
possible solution of this problem will appear later. —Joe Blanks. “The Technique” (Ga. Tech).

FLICKER Flashes By HUGH SWAN

“Africa Screams”

“Africa Screams”, starring Bud Abbott and Lou Costello, plays at the Davidson Theatre next Monday and Tuesday. This scream team
promises you a full hour of laughs in their exploration of the “Dark Continent.”

“Adam's Rib”

“Adam's Rib”, starring Spencer Tracy and Katharine Hepburn, plays at the Davidson Theatre next Wednesday and Thursday. Tracy and Hepburn
do not put on their usual serious type of performance, but portray, very humorously, the life of two lawyers who
are married to each other, each fighting for his sex.

“Stampede”

“Stampede”, starring Rod Cameron and Gail Storm, plays at the Davidson Theatre next Friday and Saturday. This is a glorified
“Western” which has been glorified enough to be very entertaining.

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1949

Wither Davidson Football? By GABRIEL LOWE

Dr. Cunningham has pointed out — and several significant magazine articles have supported the same argument — that the small
college in America today is undergoing a crisis. The time has come when the small colleges must fight for their
lives, and only those will survive who are backed by large financial resources and an indomitable will to live. This,
it seems to us, is just as true on the gridiron as in the classroom. The time has come when
Davidson College must decide whether she will join in the fight for athletes and thereby try to retain her position
among the other colleges of football fame, or whether she will continue to recognize — more than any other college
in the country does, perhaps — the farce of the purity code and be relegated to the ranks of obscure
little hilltop colleges. For years we have procrastinated, putting off this decision as long as we could. But the record
of this season, which will go on the books as one of the worst in Davidson’s football history, has forced
the issue to a head. When the war ended and Davidson resumed regular football, we dropped Duke and North Carolina
from our schedule because we realized that we could not compete with big-time football played on a semi-professional basis. But
we certainly expected to hold our own among some of the lesser lights of the Southern Conference: Richmond, Furman, Citadel,
Washington & Lee, and V.M.I. But even that seems to have been a visionary hope. Of twenty games played against
these five teams in the past four seasons, six have been Davidson victories and one ended in a tie. The
reason is that these schools, too, have begun to recruit athletes on a somewhat smaller scale than that indulged in
by their big sisters in the conference. Even Citadel this year spent $30,000 for football scholarships in addition to her
standard appropriation. That is a sizable sum of money for a school of only two thousand students. Such a policy
will ultimately leave Davidson to stand as the scrupulous and idealistic doormat of the Southern Conference, as V.P.I. has for
the past few years. This realization forces the aforementioned decision upon us. Consider the consequences of either road that we
may follow. If we choose to play a lighter schedule, we will win more games. But wherein lies the glory
of victories over such teams as Erskine, Hampden-Sydney, or High Point College? Eventually it might mean withdrawal from the Southern
Conference. But it would also mean that Davidson’s scholastic standards would remain at their present high level and a Davidson
diploma would continue to carry great prestige and respect in the realms of business, medicine, education, law, and the ministry.
On the other hand, if we choose to subsidize players, we will still win more games and may even bask
in the glory of frequent victories over State, Richmond, W.&L., and V.M.I. But that course would ultimately lead to a
slackening of Davidson’s scholastic standards and a cheapening of the diploma, as it has in other schools that have adopted
this course. We might continue on our present course, but that would only result in a repetition of poor seasons
such as we suffered this year. It would discourage any athletes that we might hope to bring to Davidson. So
we must make a choice either for subsidies or for banishment to the rank of a fourth- or fifth-rate football
power. But we must choose now; the situation is going to get worse instead of better.

Dedication Prayer for Gym

NOTE: The following prayer was given by Dr. James Sprunt (Davidson, Class of '22) at the dedication of the Davenport
Memorial Gymnasium at McCallie School, November 5, 1949. Since we dedicated our new gymnasium only a few weeks ago, this
prayer is very appropriate for us at this time.

Almighty God, without Whom nothing is strong, nothing is holy, we pray Thee to bless unto us the purpose of
this hour. May knowledge be increased among us and all good learning flourish and abound. We thank Thee for this
School from which streams of Christian influence have flowed, and may it ever be an instrument of light and leading
for all who seek its ministrations. We thank Thee for its founders and for the instructors who have labored here.
Bless all who teach and all who learn, and grant that in humility of heart they may ever look unto
Thee, Who art the Foundation of all wisdom. We thank Thee, O Lord, for this building and for the generosity
of its donors, and we pray that it may be used in the development of good bodies by exercise and
competition and in the development of good character by training and self-control. We know that in the Garden of Eden
Thou didst show us the value and significance of our human bodies. Grant, O God, we pray, that the noblest
ideals of physical training may be learned in this building, and that each succeeding generation of McCallie boys may lift
these ideals higher. Grant that good sportsmanship and fair play may ever be practiced in this building. May Christian integrity
be demonstrated here. Grant that the conviction may be evidenced here that it is not whether we win or lose
that is important, but how we play the game. Help all who use this building to put forth their greatest
strength, use the same skill, do their best, whether winning or losing. Grant, O Lord, that humility and generosity in
victory may be exhibited here, realizing that though all strive only one can win, and may all teams learn here
to accept defeat without rancor or bitterness, without excuse for themselves or blame for others, realizing that we fall to
rise, are baffled to fight better. Grant that patience and honesty in training and unselfish consideration for others be shown
in this gymnasium. Help them to help each other in the maintenance of these standards of worth. Grant that loyalty
and love for their comrades and their school and fairness and clean play toward their opponents may be ever practiced
by those who play within these walls. Grant that faithfulness and consistency in the effort to develop stronger bodies and
better attitudes of cooperation and teamwork may be practiced here. Grant that the young men who use this building may
learn self-control here, remembering that every man who striveth in the games exerciseth self-control in all things. May they learn
to keep their bodies under and bring them into subjection. Forbid, O Lord, that evil thoughts be entertained, unclean or
profane words spoken, or any deeds of wrong enacted within this building. May they think on the ultimate purpose of
this building: “What is the use Unless we turn as the soul knows how The earthly gift to an end
divine?” Help them to keep in mind that the reason for the physical development of a Christian is a sound
body to be a more serviceable instrument of the mind and soul, remembering that our bodies are the temples of
the Holy Spirit, Who is in us and Whom we have of God, and that we are not our own
for we are bought with a price, and therefore should glorify God with our bodies. O Lord, may this gymnasium
be a continual reminder of the gallant soul for whom it is named and of his courageous life, one who
worked and walked in the valley of the shadow of death, yet, without fear, one who lived to the full
each day of his brief earthly pilgrimage until the last, realizing that Thou wast with him. And may we ever
keep in our memory, fresh and green, the gratitude for the sacrifice that was made for our liberty by the
numbers of young men who gave their all for us. Help us each one, O God, to relate all of
our life's activities to Thee, and may the privileges and opportunities given to the students in this school result in
their best development of body, mind, and spirit, that they may be more fully used to Thee in the establishment
of Thy Kingdom. “Spirit of Christ, do Thou Our first bright days inspire, That we may live the life of
love And loftiest desire; And be by Thee prepared For larger years to come; And for the life ineffable, Within
the Father’s home. In the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord, Amen.
