FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1949 __THE DAVIDSONIAN

This photo shows Pete Brown pulling in a pass from Cliff Turner for Davidson’s only touchdown against Richmond. Rosser (No.
67) is the Richmond player trying to break up the pass.—(Photo by Jake Houston.)

Richmond Topples Davidson By Score of 28-7 in Homecoming Game
By WOODY McKAY

Mother nature blessed Davidson's homecoming with a dry field and comparatively clear sky, but the Richmond Spiders put a damper
on the celebration of the occasion by handing the Wildcats a decisive beating to the tune of 28-7.

Davidson took advantage of a break near the middle of the second quarter, cashed it in for the first score.
Helms of Richmond fumbled and Woody Leach recovered it for the Wildcats on the Richmond eight-yard line to set up
the score. Cliff Turner, who had substituted for Lambeth in the Cat backfield, passed to Pete Brown in the end
zone for the touchdown. Mapes’ attempt for the extra point split the uprights and the score moved to Davidson 7,
Richmond 0.

Early in the second period, Richmond’s Billingsley went into action along with the rest of the team and kept up
a sustained drive into Davidson territory. A completed forward pass from Billingsley to Charlie Kelley carried the ball down to
Davidson’s two-yard line. Purinai failed to score on two line bucks, but Ferris drove over on third down and put
Richmond only one point behind. The attempt for the extra point was no good, and Davidson's hopes were still high.

However, these hopes were not long-lived. Billingsley again showed his passing prowess by putting a twenty-four-yard pass in the arms
of Hensley, who wrestled the ball away from Jake Wade for Richmond’s second score. Billingsley’s attempt at the placement was
again no good and the Spiders led 12 to 7.

Before the second quarter was over, the Richmond aerial attack clicked again to reach paydirt with a pass from Hensley
to Ferris which covered 54 yards. The try for the extra point again failed, and Richmond led 18-7 at half-time.

The Spiders' hard-charging line continued to break through the Wildcats' line and made passing very difficult. In the third quarter,
Lambeth was downed by John Reynolds and Newhouse of Richmond while attempting to pass from his own end zone. This
being a safety, Richmond added two points to their already good lead.

The following saw another safety when Wildcat Jim Sifford stepped out of his end zone while fading back to pass
and gave an automatic safety for Richmond. The final score of the game came when Charlie Kelley broke through to
block Sloan’s punt, and Cox recovered the ball and raced thirty-three yards for another score. Billingsley's toe failed on the
try for the extra point, and the score read 28-7 until the final whistle.

This was the second homecoming in as many years that Richmond had downed the Wildcats. The Spiders’ hard-charging line and
the Davidson pass defense were the main factors in the victory of the Virginians. Of course, Davidson was weakened by
three of her starting linemen, and this was in evidence all afternoon. Chandler, Blanks, and Kiser were outstanding in Davidson's
forward wall, and Woody Leach did a good job on backing up the line. Henry Wilson played one of the
best games of his career and was in on a large part of all of Davidson's tackles.

Wes Curtier, a 225-pound tackle for Richmond, turned in a fine performance in the line, while Billingsley, Britt, J. M.
Brown, and Ferris were outstanding in the Spiders’ backfield.

Richmond Fullback Bill Ferris (No. 31).—(Photo by Jake Houston.)

BAKER SCHOLARSHIPS TO BE AWARDED IN 1950

Professor Thompson recently announced that three more Baker Scholarships will again be awarded this year to high school and preparatory
school seniors who plan to enter the freshman class next September. The competition is open to all qualified seniors who
are candidates for admission to Davidson College. George F. Baker Scholarships range in value from $300 to $1,000 or more
a year, and are renewable from year to year for a maximum of four years. A minimum award of $300
is made to scholarship winners who give no evidence of financial need; awards in excess of $300 are made on
the basis of need, and if necessary, are large enough to cover all essential college expenses.

The Baker scholarships were founded last year to produce college-trained men who will become leaders in the community and the
nation. In making these awards, the Baker Scholarship Committee at Davidson stresses scholastic ability, leadership, character, and well-rounded development as
the qualities necessary to the achievement of this purpose. Excellence in scholastic ability alone, or in extra-curricular activities alone, is
not considered sufficient. Rather, it is the boy with a well-balanced personality who has interests and abilities in several areas
who is more likely to achieve the purposes of the program than the boy narrowly limited to a single activity.

Student participation in the program was of great assistance to the Committee last year, and should be even more valuable
this year. Students are urged to call these scholarships to the attention of qualified secondary school seniors, or to nominate
them to Professor B. D. Thompson, Secretary of the Baker Scholarship Committee. Applications should be made to Professor Thompson not
later than February 1. Awards will be announced in March or early April.

The significance of the Baker Scholarships to Davidson College was revealed in a recent report by the Baker Scholarship Committee
to the faculty on the first year of the program. Seven Baker Scholarships were awarded last year. 130 secondary school
seniors applied, of whom 67 are now in the freshman class. In a test of mental ability given all freshmen
during the orientation period at the beginning of the college term, two-thirds of these 67 men ranked in the upper
half of the class. They thus make a very valuable contribution to the quality of the present freshman class.

Even more significant is the effect of the program upon the highest 10 percent of the class. A total of
one-fourth of this 10 percent would not be in Davidson College today were it not for the scholarships. This includes
three of the first five men in the class. In addition, there are other excellent men who were first attracted
to Davidson by the scholarship competition, and who have managed to enter the college in spite of the fact that
they were not among the scholarship winners. These are the figures for just one class. If the program can be
administered with equal success in the future, and the Committee believes that it can, its accumulative effect upon the quality
of the student body over a college generation should be of great importance to the development of Davidson College.

Last year’s Baker Scholarship winners, all of whom are now at Davidson, are:
George F. Bason, Chapel Hill, N.C.
Walter Herman Bell, Norfolk, Va.

Bill Ferris is shown bulling his way over from the two-foot line for the Spiders' first score in last Saturday's
Homecoming game. Davidson players shown are Wade (No. 35), McNeely (No. 64), Sifford (No. 33).—(Photo by Jake Houston.)(No. 39), and
Turk Betas Squeeze By Pikas In Thriller As Interfrat Teams Start Down Home Stretch

By BILL FARRIOR AND MAC RICHARDS

BETAS 18—PIKAS 12

The undefeated Betas chalked up another victory Monday afternoon as they squeezed by a fighting Pika team by a touchdown.
The Betas scored twice in the first half but met stiff opposition in the second half as the Pikas came
back into the game behind the passing of Howard Penton. Their score was soon canceled, however, by a brilliant interception
by Tom Langford who ran for seventy yards. The Pikas were not to be left out of the game. They
again struck back but the time was too short, leaving the Betas still undefeated.

PHI DELTS 12—K. A. 0

The K. A.'s long string of victories stretching back to the mid-season last year was snapped Thursday afternoon by the
Phi Delts. The Phi Delts scored two touchdowns, making perfect use of two golden opportunities. The hard-charging Phi Delt line
broke through to recover a bad pass from the K. A. center for the first touchdown. The second score came
when a K. A. defender, in trying to knock down a pass, batted the ball into the waiting arms of
Whit Cobb.

S.A.E. 4, PI KAPPA 3 (First Downs)

Thursday afternoon the S.A.E.’s and the Pi Kappa Phis played one of the most even games of the season before
the S.A.E. machine edged the Pi Kaps by one first down. The scoring ended up all even, as each team
scored once. The Pi Kaps scored on a pass to Bum. Monty Hill ran for the S.A.E.’s only tally. The
five touchdowns came in the first half. The Campus Club showed renewed spirit in the second half, however, as they
held the Delts to only one six-pointer and managed to present a threat themselves. This game was the S.A.E.’s fifth
win against one loss, while the Pi Kappa Phis have now won one, tied one, and lost four.

PHI GAMS 10—SPE 0

The Phi Gams defeated a hard-charging SPE team Monday afternoon by the unusual score of 10-0, four of the points
being scored on safeties inflicted by a vicious Phi line. The Phi Gams held the advantage throughout the game, being
never seriously pressed. Standouts of the game were Lynn Crawley and Bill Christopher for the Phi’s and Jack Wilson for
the SPE. The Phi Gams also led in first downs (1-0).

PHI GAMS 14—PI KAPS 12

The Phi Gams edged by the Pi Kaps on the slim margin of a safety resulting from a punt being
blocked by Lynn Crawley. The Pi Kaps were first to strike blood as fleet-footed Billy Houel returned the opening kickoff
all the way. For the moment it looked as if this might be the course of the game but the
spirited Phi’s struck back, scoring two points on a blocked kick which rolled into the end zone, and then on
a well-timed Clark to Crawley pass play. The battle continued, each team scoring one more time, and ended in extremely
tense play with each team trying to gain control of the ball.

PHI DELTS 30—CAMPUS CLUB 0

Behind the superior playing of Whit Cobb, Jim Vann, and company, the Phi Delts trampled the scoreless Campus Club Tuesday
afternoon 30-0. Four of the Phi Delts' touchdowns came in the first half.

HOMECOMING PLEASES

(Continued From Page Four)

...include the student center and the fine arts center.” Davidson College has come a long way in her Development Program
and still has a good deal further to go. Her future is at stake and only upon completion of the
program will it be secure.

AMONG THE GREEKS...

(Continued From Page Four)

SIGS 5—SIGMA CHI 3 (First downs)

Charlie Pearson's passing to Slick Evans and Jim Ellis for first downs turned out to be the winning margin as
the Kappa Sigs won out in a hard-fought encounter with the Sigma Chis. Neither team was able to get one
of the all-important grid markers and the tension ran high throughout the game, especially in the last minutes. Johnny Kelton’s
passing to Bob Merrell and others was a constant threat to the Kappa Sigs. Both teams played excellent defensive ball
with Stubby Evans for the Kappa Sigs and Jim Grissom of Sigma Chi standing out in particular.

KAPPA SIGS 12—SAE 0

The Kappa Sigs rolled on to another victory as they suppressed a hard-fighting SAE team behind the excellent passing of
Charlie Pearson and the spectacular receiving of Glue-Fingered Bo Roddey. Roddey caught two passes for touchdowns, one of them being
on a desperate clutch of the ball with his fingertips, just inside the end zone. For the SAEs, it was
rabbit-footed Monty Hill who kept the Sigs on their toes throughout the game but was unable to penetrate their strong
defense.

These were married life. “But marriage is fine.” But Harold, why can’t I take a picture of Edna stabbing one
of the waiters?” inquires Hypo King.

REVIEW OF TRUMAN

(Continued From Page Two)

...low and high registers. It was a matter of anger that someone so obviously suited only to entertaining the ladies'
auxiliary should be exploited in such a manner. It and when her father loses an election, Miss Truman will only
be bewildered by her precipitous plunge to obscurity, but her management and those who have taken her money will know
only too well the reason for her sudden demise as an operatic singer of note. Miss Truman’s concert was, above
everything else, pitiable and sad. These two adjectives describe both her voice and the fact that anyone so completely untouched
by Orpheus should attempt what she has attempted.
