PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, April 8, 1949

DEVELOPMENT DRIVE... (Continued From Page One)

The goal is $100,000.00. A kick-off meeting was held there Wednesday night, March 30. On Thursday night, March 31, Perry
A. Sloan, chairman, presided at the meeting which launched the Durham, N.C. drive. At Hickory, the opening meeting was held
Friday night, April 1, with Archie W. Shuford, local chairman, presiding.

Other areas scheduled with their drive chairmen and opening dates were announced as follows: Burlington, Ralph Holt, chairman, April 4;
High Point, Charles W. McCrary, chairman, April 5; Rocky Mount, Ben W. Wyche, chairman, May 2, and Raleigh, Karl Hudson,
Jr., chairman, May 3. Three towns where chairmen have been selected, but no starting dates yet determined are: Henderson, James
C. Cooper and James C. Cooper, Jr., co-chairmen; Oxford, J. P. Harris, chairman, and Roxboro, William H. Harris, III, chairman.
Still other communities on the schedule with no plans yet completed are: New York City, Philadelphia, Richmond, Va., Atlanta, Ga.,
and in North Carolina, Morganton, Lenoir, Fayetteville, and Laurinburg.

ELECTION OF OFFICERS... (Continued From Page One)

Huftaker; historian, Don Scott; secretary, Bill Currie; treasurer, Perry Gragg; Pan-Hel representative, Jack Panjoy.

Phi Gamma Delta
President, John Rose; treasurer, Earl Huie; recording secretary, Tom Jackson; corresponding secretary, Joe Vance; historian, Jim Edwards; Pan-Hel representative, Pete
Brown.

Sigma Chi
President, John Calhoun; vice president, Clark; secretary, Irving Stubbs; treasurer, Don Shriver; Pan-Hel representative, Tom Apperson.

Phi Delta Theta
President, Bob Hollister; vice president, Ed Montgomery; secretary, Lonnie Reed; treasurer, Bob Patten; warden, Whit Cobb; Pan-Hel representative, Jim Cobb;
alumni secretary, Hartley Hall.

INTRODUCING... (Continued From Page Three)

Varsity but only limited service. He was No. 1 man on the tennis team that lost only one match to
UNC and turned out a brilliant 18-1 record against such tough opposition as Kalamazoo, Georgia Tech, Yale, Duke, Harvard, Pennsylvania,
and a good team from U. of C. "Bo" went undefeated and gained national recognition against some of the best
in the country. This past summer little Oliver stepped up into fast competition by competing in some of the national
tournaments against veteran tennis stars. He competed in national tournaments in Forest Hills, Cincinnati, and others.

"Bo" really came into the limelight in basketball this year, when as an unsung substitute he went into the South
Carolina game in the closing minutes and proceeded to lead his mates in demolishing a 10-point Carolina lead to go
on to win by about the same margin. He was a valuable member of the team all year and was
one of the stars of the College of Charleston game. With four matches already on the board in this year’s
tennis season, “Bo” has shown that he is just as good as ever and shows signs of being improved even
over last year’s remarkable showing. He has led the team to wins over Georgia, U.S.C., P.C., and a hard-fought victory
at Georgia Tech where he beat the Southeastern Conference runner-up.

Paul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. TRYON STREET
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

DR. HEATON... (Continued From Page One)

Outlook is necessary. Inability on man's part to apply his religion to the experiences of life leads to doubt and
this doubt results in a strangling skepticism. Chaos is the only sure result of such skepticism. True faith in God
makes our Christian religion square up with every experience of life and brings harmony and orderliness. Man’s great obsession should
be the search for God. We just won't give that natural thrust within us a chance by sincerely seeking it.
We have the faith that God can answer every question and every doubt.

John Lyles and Frank Perrin led in prayer to open the fourth service. Dr. Heaton on Wednesday night informed all
that this might be a rather unusual service for he said he was going to attempt to give a new
technique of prayer which was hoped to make prayer a real and vital thing in the Christian's life. Explaining that
this new technique of prayer involves relaxation and imagination, he went on to demonstrate the technique. An examination of self
to discover needs and the prayer to seek power for these needs was the essence of the new technique. Dr.
Heaton went on to say that prayer is the way through which we may gain power to secure a new
and better world. In prayer, strength for meeting daily problems will be found. Prayer gives us moral courage to make
a stand and hold it. The new and purer world we seek must be shaped by God's will and His
will for our lives is found only in prayer. “The prayerless pigmies in our church” prevent the triumph over evil
today. Prayer delivers a man from love of fame and personal pride and gives a new goal: The Kingdom of
God. Prayer anchors us to the Infinite and thereby we gain power and peace within. The words of Paul have
it, “I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me.”

In the fifth in the series of services, York Pharr and Carl Eborn prayed after which Dr. Heaton began his
sermon on the “Necessity of Worship.” “World unity will be achieved more through a common understanding derived from corporate worship
than from any other force,” Dr. Heaton made this striking point. Impiety in man prevents the full realization of the
results of true worship. Worship produces piety and piety produces order; Dr. Heaton remarked that compulsory chapel and church attendance
at Davidson is the reason for the superior qualities at Davidson. Worship centers in the sovereignty of God, whereas impiety
centers in the anarchy of man. In worship, we confess our sins but the impious man attempts to justify himself
which he can't do—disorder results. The attitude for true worship is found in this quotation, “Nothing in my hand I
bring; Simply to thy cross I cling.”

In the sixth and final service of the series, Dr. Heaton spoke on “The Necessity of Making Your Religion Relevant
to Life's Realities!” Johnson Latta and Dave Anderson led the prayers for this concluding service. Dr. Heaton began by illustrating
the weakness of Christianity as due to the fact that so few “Christians” are like Jesus Christ. So manyhave a
thin coat of Christianity which may give warmth, but it is not relevant to the realities of life, and has
no application to life. When the Kingdom of God comes out of this earth, it will come through men—men with
applied Christianity. The words from the Old Testament, “Do justly, love mercy, and walk humbly with thy Lord” would make
religion relevant to daily life. God made his supreme attempt to confront men with a religion relevant to life when
God Himself came into this world in the person of Jesus Christ. Jesus showed men their lack of honesty, justice,
mercy, and love and said they were like white-washed tombs. But these ancient people, not wanting a religion relevant to
life, crucified their Savior. The less relevant we make religion, the closer upon us come the devouring beasts of evil.
“Let your light so shine before men”—make the religion of Jesus Christ relevant in every part of life.

Grade “A” Phone 69
WHERE YOUR PATRONAGE IS ALWAYS WELCOME!
WESTERN STEAKS — FRIED CHICKEN!
Mooresville, N.C.

WILDCAT BATS...
(Continued From Page Three)

ing seven of the visitors down swinging. Buddy Chandler, hefty Cat backstop, mixed Hengeveld’s pitches well, and he himself played
a faultless game behind the plate, while leading the Cat hitters with two knocks. Davidson pushed over a run in
the third inning to draw first blood. Hengeveld led off with a sharp drive that went through the shortstop's legs,
that was good for two bases. Pearson followed with a hard hit double, sending Hengeveld to tally. Buddy Chandler started
things going for the Cats in the fifth as he opened up with an infield knock. Hengeveld flied to right
field; however, Anderton got by on an error in the Indian infield. Bird in turn knocked Anderton across but was
himself thrown out as he tried to stretch his hit into a two-bagger. In the eighth, Davidson scored its final
run as Anderton walked, stole second, and went to third on a bad pitch-out from the catcher. Lambeth flied out,
but batted in Anderton on an infield out, short to first.

COBB IS ELECTED...
(Continued From Page One)

Randy Taylor, coming to Davidson from Nashville, Tennessee, has also already distinguished himself on the campus, serving as president of
the sophomore class this year. In addition to this office, Randy also served as a member of the Student Council.
His activities include being a member of Sigma Delta Pi, an honorary Spanish fraternity, a member of Eumanean Literary Society,
and a member of Kappa Sigma.

CANDIDATES FOR...
(Continued From Page One)

Paul Jenkins
Paul is a member of Phi Mu Alpha, honorary music fraternity, Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, and last year served
as a hall prayer leader. For the last three years, he has worked on the editorial staff and this year
served as editor of the section.

Chuck Kirby
Chuck is a member of the Eumanean Literary Society (secretary, 47-48), wrestling team during his freshman and sophomore years, and
band for the last three years. He has worked on the Annual for the past three years, serving as sports
editor this year.

Boyce Kendall
Boyce is a member of the Campus Club, United World Federalists, International Club, and Westminster Fellowship. He worked on the
editorial staff of all three publications for the past three years. This year he served as editor of the ROTC
section.

Dave Miller
Dave is a transfer as of June, 1948. He is a member of the International Relations Club, Philanthropic Society (marshal
'49), and Male Chorus. He did special feature work for commencement and has worked on the annual this year.

Tom Patterson
Tom is a member of Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-med fraternity, Campus Club, and International Relations Club. This year he
served as editor of the faculty and administration section.

Ed Parker
Ed is a member of the Campus Club, Cercle Francais (secretary), International Relations Club, Red and Black Masquers, and Gamma
Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity. He has worked on the editorial staff for the past two years and was activities
editor this year.

FRANK PERRIN
Frank is a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society (secretary), United World Federalists, and Phi Gamma Delta, social fraternity. He
was the freshman hall prayer leader in his sophomore year. Frank has worked on the editorial staff of the annual
for the past three years, serving as editor of the honorary fraternity section this year.

“Junie” Redfearn
“Junie” is a member of the Forensic Council, International Relations Club, and Kappa Phi social fraternity. He has worked on
the editorial staff of the Davidsonian for the past three years and did special feature work for the annual this
year.

Special Rates To College Students FOR GROUPS AND HOUSE PARTIES
The Colonial Inn
945 N. Ocean Blvd., P. O. No. 1221, Myrtle Beach, S. C.
PHONE 244-L

“I like Chesterfield’s MILDER, better taste. It's MY cigarette.”
STARRING IN “FLAMINGO ROAD”
A MICHAEL CURTIZ PRODUCTION RELEASED BY WARNER BROS.

Restaurant
A. J. Bistony, Prop.

JACK KRAMER says --- and really satisfying. and that's why I smoke CHESTERFIELD. MUCH MILDER. MY cigarette.

AMERICA’S MUCH MILDER. That's Chesterfield

GRADE “A” PASTEURIZED MILK
Mooresville Co-Operative Creamery
Daily Delivery
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
PHONE 205

BRYAN WE COMPANY
“Clothing For The Man”
205 South Tryon St.

UNDERARM DEODORANT
Men and women use “Aloride” to stop underarm perspiration odors. Full strength, pleasant to use. Convenient and effective. A “best
buy.” A large bottle (year's supply) delivered to you $1 postpaid. Send cash or check to ALORIDE, Box 3035 Arlington,
Va.

REMEMBER THIS SEAL, IT’S YOUR ASSURANCE OF THE BEST!

ALL THE NEW POPULAR PHONOGRAPH RECORDS.
Columbia Masterworks Red Seal Victor
Parker-Gardner Company
Charlotte 2, North Carolina
Since 1898
118 W. Trade St. Phone 8257

Private Dining Rooms for Parties and Banquets
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
Phone 25490
99 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.
