PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, February 25, 1949

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
MAC HART

BUSINESS MGR.
JOHN McNAIR

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editor .......... Bill Calhoun
Associate Editor .......... Ronnie Dietrick
Sports Editor .......... GOR Fiaeald
Managing Editor .......... BS Hollister
Managing Editor .......... Lonnie Turnipseed
Managing Editor .......... Woe bit
Staff Photographer .......... Tom Niblock
Cartoonist .......... Chile Mucor
Poll-Cat Editor .......... Salunsqosauonwen
Make-up Editor .......... bittaccssceseccocceweenees
Make-up Editor .......... Wie Arieray
Make-up Editor .......... PGR aoe yerns Neeser yey

FEATURE REPORTERS: Phil Mitchell, Hartley Hall, Gabe Lowe, Neil Leach, Jimmie Henritzy, Henry Hansen, Pete Kalogridis, Drew Gurley, Bill Sargent, Bob Grube, Jimmy Fickeisen, Bill Hollister.

REPORTERS: Randy Taylor, Bill DuBose, Warren Sims, Ralph Robinson, Tom Allen, Dick Barnwell, Bill McCrary, Tom Mann, Bill Cumming, Phil Libby, Ben Drymon, Dudley Pendleton, Nat Daniel, Dick Chandley, Boo Northcutt, Stuart Shippey, Hugh Huffaker, Bill Neal, Harper Newbold, Jim Blackburn, Jack Pierce, Harry Shurley, Bob Hubbell, Angus McKellar, Jack Peirce, Slats McClintock, Boyce Kendall, Lamar Hinson, Ed Richardson.

SPORTS STAFF: Cherry Stribling, Gordon Scott, Furman Warlick, Watt Jeffries, Bill White, Phil Hammond, Bryant Robinson, Dan McKeithan, David Whitener, Ed West, Bill Buckey, Jack Stevenson.

POLL CAT STAFF: Jim Carr, Claude Higginbothan, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown, and Neal Underdown.

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager .......... Bill Houck
Advertising Manager .......... Bill Cassels
Circulation Manager .......... Charles Clinkscales
Asst. Circulation Manager .......... Hector McKeithan
Asst. Advertising Manager .......... David McConnell
Collections Manager .......... Charles Dockery
Subscriptions Manager .......... John Loftin

ASSISTANTS: Bill Hart, Bob Erwin, Bill Pharr, Harold Clayton, Sam Cumming, Red Shaw, Gene Taylor, Nelson Tomlinson.

CIRCULATION STAFF: Alex Goley, Parks Dalton, Cecil Rhodes, Anstey Moses, Joe H. Miller, Neill Underdown, Tommy Hatter, John Hardin, Thad Monroe, Hugh Huffaker, Pen Morris, Cam Faison, Paul Guthry, and Phil Willer.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 8, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1948 Member 1949
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Is The Wildcat Lost?

Where's that vaunted Wildcat spirit these days? It was very much in evidence at the Carolina game in Charlotte Tuesday night. But it hasn’t been too much in evidence around the campus lately and especially in the student campaign quarters. We can cheer and yell for a fighting Davidson basketball team—why can’t we show a little spirit for a fighting Davidson? Sure, it’s a big goal. Forty thousand dollars ain’t hay. It’s a challenge. The William and Mary game was a challenge, too, but we didn’t make with a funeral dirge the night before it. The Wildcat spirit has always risen to the occasion before when the student body needed it. Is it going to sit hissing in chapel this time?

Lecture Series

Every year the Faculty Lecture Committee presents three or four authoritative “outside” lecturers who speak on matters of current world issues. Among the best in recent years were Ellis Arnall, former governor of Georgia, who spoke on the political problems of the South, and Dr. Clelland of Duke who spoke on the Palestine situation. The committee attempts to get good lecturers, within the means of their disposal. They try to pick open dates, as well as they can judge from six months in advance. This fall they presented Dr. No-Yong Park, an authority on China, who presented the Chinese point of view. Last Tuesday night, Mr. Thomas Jefferson Hamilton, United Nations correspondent for the New York Times, spoke on the work of that organization since its founding.

The DAVIDSONIAN Presents
EDITORIALS...LETTERS...FEATURES

With the exception of some compulsory attendants, the students have not supported the Lecture Series. It may be that the students are not interested in world events, or it may be that the particular speakers chosen hold no interest for the students. Or, again, it may be that there are too many conflicts on the lecture dates. Whatever the case may be, the students would do well to make some expression of their interest in the series, or some suggestions for improving it. As the matter stands, it is hardly worth the committee’s time plus several hundred dollars to put on a lecture that only a handful of the students show an interest in.

Chapel Programs

Student Body President Carl Pahl is taking steps to add some zip to student day chapel programs. He is trying to encourage more individual student participation and organizational programs. Last Thursday's band concert and a program by the Male Chorus this Thursday were the first in a projected series of student programs. Any organization interested in putting on a program should get in touch with Carl. It will be good publicity for the organization and may make life at chapel more interesting. Of course, you never can tell whether your efforts will be met by a volley of paper products from amateur aeronautical engineers, the crude inattention of those suffering from third period writs, or the smirks of connoisseurs of ambiguity—but it’s a good experience and a worthy effort.

Letter

Another letter in the “A Student” Bob Johnson dispute was received by The Davidsonian this week. However, it is not being printed for two reasons. In the first place, it was addressed to Bob Johnson and not to the editors. The letters-to-the-editor column is a forum of opinions, student and otherwise, directed to the public through the medium of the paper. It is not a column for public correspondence. In the second place, the letter was signed only as “A Student.” Although “A Student” is getting to be quite a personality in these columns, it is not good newspaper technique nor has it been the policy of the Davidsonian (recent exceptions notwithstanding) to publish anonymous letters. The Davidsonian wants to print all printable student opinion. However, any opinion that is worth its salt ought to be worth a signature. Any contributions made to the paper by staff members except straight news is printed under the writer’s name. All editorials may be assumed to be written by the editor unless initialed otherwise, in which case an investigation of the masthead will reveal the writer's identity. Is it fair, then, that all letters be signed? So please, no more anonymous letters.

Beta Monthlies

Lest we be taken for a part of the hordes that call the Beta lodge home, let us hasten to deny any hidden pact with that outfit or any secret agreement with any of its members. However, we aim to tip our hat to Betas for the second time in two weeks and there be those of our readers who might misconstrue our motives. We want to commend that new institution called the “Beta Monthly.” On the first Sunday night of each month, the Sons of Wooglin have an open house after Vespers for one of the other fraternities. Though some mischievously hint that the whole idea is to get a chance to show off the contents of the Beta songbook, it is to us an act of friendliness.

K. A’s Old South Ball Nears; Side-burns Make Appearance

The knights of Kappa Alpha Order, steeped in the traditions of the past, will revive those gallant days of Lee and Jackson and daring men in gray when they launch their Old South Ball in Charlotte on March 19. Invitations have been extended to Southern belles far and wide, and reports have it that grandmothers everywhere are being besieged for relics of the past known as hoopskirts. The knights will assume the roles of either military personnel or civilian, according to their choice. Some of the braver brothers ventured some time ago to grow side-burns, and the practice is being taken up readily by the remainder of the group, who hope that by March 19, nature will have been good enough to provide them with a full-length, honest-to-goodness pair of sideburns. Uniforms for the dance will have to be rented from a theatrical agency, but some of the more fortunate members will have the family sabre or musket along for the occasion. On a similar occasion this month in Raleigh, the K. A.’s of N. C. State are reported to have stopped all traffic on the Richmond highway to inquire whether that city had fallen. No such daring plans have been made by the local knights, but it is certain that they can be expected to defend their Alma Mater to the last should Virginia fall prey to Yankee forces.

Senator Flaghorn Tells How He Became A B. M. O. C.
By GENE BINGHAM

Last Tuesday morning I was dashing toward Hugo's with that morning-after taste in my mouth, and the thought of Hugo's 10-cent coffee plaguing my pocketbook. After a futile peep in the post office, I hurried around the Dime Store corner as the 9:40 bus pulled in and stopped. A distinguished looking gentleman stepped out on the sidewalk and stretched, mumbling something about “a propitious day.” Recognizing him as a senator, I walked over to him and said, “Pardon me, sir, are you Senator Flaghorn?”

“That's right, son! Senator Flaghorn, that's me, son!”

Thinking that Prof. Pinkney had possibly procured this gentleman to lecture to his political science classes, I asked him, “Are you going to speak at the college tonight, sir?”

“What college, son? Is this place a town?” the senator asked. “I just stepped off to get a breath of air, son. I'm on my way to see Strom. He wired me that there is a nasty rumor of some Un-Dixiecrat activity in South Carolina. I'm chairman of the Un-Dixiecrat Committee, fellow... uh, son, that is.”

By this time the Senator had wandered up the sidewalk toward Schofield’s and was looking toward Chambers. “Looks like a right nice little college you got there son. Reminds me of Timbuckto. That's my alma mater. Ah! Timbuckto, what days of happiness thou didst give me.”

I noticed the Senator's ABC key, so I asked him, “Were you a campus leader at Timbuckto, sir?”

“Campus leader, son? I was the biggest gear that ever meshed on that campus, son. Yes, I was what was known as a B.M.O.C.”

“How did you do it, Senator?” I asked eagerly.

“Politikin’, son, politikin’.”

Not wanting the wonderful opportunity of interviewing the Senator to be ruined by the simple connotation of a word,I hurriedly explained that I did not understand since Davidson is unfamiliar with the term, POLITIK. Then I asked, “What do you mean by politicking, Sir?”

"Everyone takes an active part in the campus activities, the students that are the most outstanding and become leaders are then awarded by being named in the ‘Who's It’ or something like that.”

“Son, you mean to tell me you never heard of politicking? My gosh! Here at Davidson College, what kind of a college is this? I bet you don’t know that my committee repealed the Eighteenth Amendment. What you need, son, is some progressive education.”

“Well, Senator, how about telling me how you used politicking to become a B.M.O.C. at Timbuktu then maybe I will be able to understand.”

“Well, son, the first thing you gotta do is be friendly. You want everybody to realize you are just a good ol’ fellow. Speak to everybody you meet on the campus, son. Call everybody by their first name, son, and be friendly.”

“I’m afraid that wouldn’t help much here Senator, for everybody does that anyway.”

“C.O.I.N., son! Next thing you want to do is go out for every organization on the campus. Get your name listed on the staffs of all the publications, clubs, and organizations possible.”

“Pardon me, Senator, but I don't see how you ever had time for your studies if you did that. Every member of our college publications is continually and eagerly contributing to them.”

“Now, wait a minute, son, don’t jump to conclusions. If you are going to be a B.M.O.C. YOU CAN'T trifle with details. When the editor asks you to write an article or solicit ads tell him you got to study or that you are sick. Just goldbrick, son, ever heard of goldbricking? My! this must be an unusual college. Are all the boys here as ignorant of the facts of life as you are son?"

(Continued on Page Four)

CINEMA COMMENTS
By DREW SMEARSON (Alias DAVE SHEPPERSON)

Monday and Tuesday Feb. 28-Mar. 1
“The Time of Your Life”—James Cagney, William Bendix, Wayne Morris, Jeanne Cagney. Bendix (Nick) has a “Jernt” on the waterfront where a crew of characters meet for a few brews; murders, kisses, and scandals, while Willie tries to beat the pinball machine. There must not be any more Cagneys in Hollywood or they couldn't find them, James and Jeanne starred in their brother's production. In spite of the plot, the star of the show is the number four ball in the pinball machine, since the music plays, the characters come and go, but Willie never gets the four ball into the bracket.

Wednesday and Thursday Mar. 2-3
“My Own True Love”—Phyllis Calvert, Melvyn Douglas. The old triangle gets a new twist when Melvyn (Papa) and Philip (Son) get involved with the same woman (poor Wanda). Since everyone in the show has been married several times, and Philip is confronted with the problem of becoming his own third cousin by marriage, the plot begins to take shape. When the finis rolls around, in-laws and outlaws have become so confused that the reel cuts in the middle and Donald Duck marries the script girl.

Friday and Saturday, March 4 and 5
“Red River”—Howard Hawks presents John Wayne, Montgomery Clift, Walter Brennan, and Joanne Dru. In which ten thousand head of cattle are supported by a cast of cowboys and a wagon train full of beautiful women, as the Civil War ruins the cattle market. John Wayne and his “podnah” decide to take the cattle overland to Kansas, which, after all, is only a hop, skip, and three mountain ranges away from Texas, to the railroad. After spending all the money for making the show, it seems it would have been cheaper to build the railroad as they went along, but there must be wars, Indians, and rumors of wars. Papa John and foster-son Montgomery (they always seem to get mixed up in the deal) have a good tussle when they get to Abilene which is broken up by a sweet young thing who dutifully suggests they quit and retire to the soda shop for a sarsaparilla.

Paging The Professors
By NEIL LEACH

PROF. F. M. SINCLAIR

The call to graduates of Davidson to return to their Alma Mater to teach must be most compelling, for a great number of our faculty has accepted that call. One of this group is Prof. Frank M. Sinclair.

Prof. Sinclair didn't enjoy the life of a Davidson freshman for one main reason; he went to State his first two years of college. At the end of his sophomore year there he had heard such favorable reports of Davidson that he enrolled here to finish his college education. As an economics and business major, Prof. Sinclair graduated in the class of 1937. Later he went to the University of North Carolina and there earned his master’s degree.

Then along came the war. Prof. Sinclair, then a member of the North Carolina National Guard, immediately went into the army as a private. Fortunately, that rank didn't hold him very long. It was Pvt. Sinclair who went into the Officer's Candidate School at Camp Davis, N.C., but a very shiny gold bar bedecked each shoulder as he left this camp which produced wonders. Since he had always wanted to see the beautiful coral strands of the Pacific, our professor decided he would choose this theater—this was after he got his orders, of course.

At the University of Hawaii, Lt. Sinclair studied the complications of radar as part of his training in anti-aircraft tactics, and afterwards his one shoulder bar was replaced by two silver ones. It was Capt. Sinclair who was in charge of all mobile anti-aircraft groups in the Iwo Jima campaign. His groups hit the beaches soon after the Marines and set up their protective positions. After Iwo Jima, Capt. Sinclair covered almost the whole Pacific Theater and “wasted lots of time,” so he says. It is barely possible to travel farther from his native Wilmington, N.C. home than he did during his tour of duty.

In 1946, soon after turning in his uniform, Prof. Sinclair went back to the University of North Carolina and did more graduate work. Soon the Spring semester of 1946 found him teaching his first term at Davidson. During the 1947-48 year, Prof. Sinclair taught accounting at Catawba College and in the summer session he joined the staff of Mississippi State University. The realization that “Davidson is still the best” brought him back to our Economics and Business Department.

As an identification aid to those who may not know Prof. Sinclair, he drives that little maroon English-type Ford which you’ve probably seen around the campus. It's really a neat little car.

AMONG THE GREEKS

KAPPA SIGMA

Congratulations to our basketball team on their fine play. They now have a 7-0 record, and the big game with the SAE’s is Friday night. Brother Bingham was seen jogging around the local track Monday with Chunk Simmons. Before leaving for Charlotte Chunk said that he was confident he could win the 1952 Olympics with the help of the tips which Bing offered him.

Mouse plays the piano only about three hours per day. He seems to be a new fixture, just like the piano. Mouse’s College of Piano Knowledge now boasts many talented pupils. However, the first lesson in the “Beginner's Piano Book” has them stymied.

Red Man was seen at the Carolina game with two dates. He wanted to take Alma, but took Snookie also, just so Jelly couldn't take her. It's good to have Lenoir Keesler back. We hope he and “Toothless” Guiton will soon recover from their injuries.

If anyone had any cash remaining after Midwinters you would think that the first weekend thereafter would have exhausted the supply. A glance at the doings of the Pika brothers shows, however, that several well-versed in the art of piggy-bank cracking, were able to wheel again. Or is it that we have several gigolos in our midst supported by well-padded society matrons?

At any rate a look at the weekend shows Brothers Coble and Mills singing, “’Twas in a Garden in the Rain,” as they swam blythely down to the doorsteps of certain lovelies in Columbia. Rumor has it that Mills has a car so pure it floats.

When last seen Brother Rodgers was muttering something about “Betty” as he stumbled unheeding through the sordid everyday of Davidson and the uncouthness of his fellows. Must have held her hand this time.

Charlottetown had its share of the riff-raff in the shape of Brothers Markey and DuBose on Saturday evening. I think Markey was able to find a girl who had never heard of him, hence was able to procure the innocent one’s company for that evening at least. “Cobb” was chasing “Stardust” through the wintry evening; lucky for her he slipped on the wet pavement and his clutching fingers came up with cement only. The “Dirty Talking One” was also in the city, but the gentlemen of Pika don’t speak openly of him, so I can't give any details.

Mystery of the week: “Why is it that one of us when addressed by name as he came up the stairs, said, quote “Shhhh—don't give me away?”

Notes of passing interest: Brother Fanjoy and ex-SMC Turner were entertained at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Taylor Leonard at bridge. Fanjoy doesn't get around much anymore, does he? Ah! Sweet mystery of life.

They tell me “Bugsy” Lee was really squiring at Queens Saturday evening. Brother Shumate, driving the car, found more back alleys to keep out of sight in than Pika’s have women.

PI KAPPA PHI

What a dance, those beautiful belles from Queens sure know how to throw a party. The entertain-

(Continued on Page Four)

The Poll-cat
By CHARLIE REID

How do you personally rate the speakers we have had on the lecture series this year?
Fair 35%
Undecided 35%
Excellent 10%
Good 20%

Do you think that the lecture series should be continued?
Yes 74%

Who would you like to hear at one of the lecture programs?
Dr. Walter Judd
Harry Truman
Bill Stern
James Byrnes
Clyde Hoey
Max Schulman
Drew Pearson
Chunk Simmons