FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1949

Citadel Bulldogs Nip Wildcats In Thrilling Thanksgiving Finale

The Davidson Wildcats dropped a close and hard-fought game to the Bulldogs of the Citadel Thanksgiving Day in Charlotte, 25-19.
The lead changed hands 3 times and was tied 3 times before the Bulldogs broke loose with a score in
the last two minutes of play to win and gain revenge for last year’s 14 to 6 defeat by the
Davidsonians.

The Wildcats, a 20-point underdog, opened the fireworks in the first quarter as Johnny Richards, defense center, intercepted a pass
and went 75 yards to score. Dick Blanks kicked the extra point, and the score stood, 7-0, but not for
long. Citadel roared back, covering 60 yards in 13 plays to score as Chandler, a star for the Bulldogs all
afternoon, ran it over from the seven-yard line. Matthews’ kick was good, and the score was tied, 7-7.

A few minutes later, Citadel scored again on an end-around pass play from Brownlow to Chandler, good for 33 yards,
and a touchdown, but the try for the extra point was wide. The score was tied up once more a
few minutes before the half on a 56-yard Davidson march featuring a 52-yard pass play, Lambeth to Sifford, and a
4-yard drive by Runyan. Blank’s try for the extra point was blocked, and the score at half was knotted, 13-13.

Citadel took the kickoff in the second half and went 61 yards on 12 plays as Curtis Bazeman went over.
Again the try for extra point was wide. The score was tied once more as Davidson pushed down the field
for a touchdown on a pass from Lambeth to Brown. Blank’s kick was blocked once more, and the score stood
19-19. The Bulldogs came back again to score, taking advantage of a short Davidson punt and an interference ruling on
the 1 to score as Baldwin went over. The extra point try was wide, and the scoring was over for
the day.

However, the last play of the game brought both thrills and despair. It came on a pass from Lambeth to
Price, who lateraled to Brown, who in turn scored. However, the field judge said Brown stepped out on the 3-yard
line. It would have given the improved Wildcats a tie and perhaps a win had the touchdown been good, but
time ran out before the Davidsonians could run another play.

Lambeth, playing one of his best games of the season, completed 14 of 23 passes for 266 yards. Seniors Brown
and Price, who caught 9 passes for 246 yards between them, Chandler, Richards, and Sharpe concluded their college careers with
scintillating performances.

says Vic Vet

VETERAN STUDENTS AND TRAINEES NEED NOT REPORT NATIONAL GUARD DRILL PAY IN THEIR EARNING STATEMENT

BUDDY CHANDLER

THE DAVIDSONIAN

What The Cats Were Doing...

ONE YEAR AGO—December 2, 1948...
(1) Kappa Sigs, Kappa Alphas, co-champions in Greek football.

FIVE YEARS AGO—December 1, 1944...
(1) Kittens drop Darlington, 13-7, in final game.

TEN YEARS AGO—November 30, 1939...
(1) Wildkittens close season with 25-13 win over Wofford Pups.
(2) Wake Forest-Davidson rivalry ends after 26 years of playing.

TWENTY YEARS AGO—December 5, 1929...
(1) Wildcats defeat Blue Devils of Duke, 13-12, Thanksgiving afternoon.
(2) McCall leads scoring parade with 36 points for the season.
(3) Thad Brock runs 102 yards, yet fails to score against Blue Devils.

Kappa Sigs Tie Betas For Championship; K. A’s Big Upset Lands Them Third Place

By JIM SMITH and MAC RICHARDS

Kappa Sigma 8; Phi Kappa Alpha 6
The first downs were about even. The Kappa Sigs kept their chance of a tie for first place in fraternity
standing by turning back the Pikas 8-6. Charlie Pearson’s passing combined with Dave Williams’ catching was too much for the
stubborn Pikas. Williams caught several nice passes and accounted for the Kappa Sigma’s score. The two points came when Bill
Collins was caught behind his goal. First downs were greatly in favor of the Kappa Sigs.

Pi Kappa Phi 6; Phi Delts 0
The Phi Delts were bested by a much improved Pi Kappa Phi team by a score of 6-0. Billy Houck
hit Billy Cassels with a pass for the winning touchdown. The game was mainly a see-saw struggle with several other
scoring attempts being stopped short. Phi Delts, however, had the edge in first downs by 1. The game was the
result of a tie which had ended 6-6 with 4 first downs each.

Kappa Sigma 6, Pi Kappa Phi 0
The Kappa Sigs had to fight for a first place tie with the Betas for the fraternity championship, but they
came through with a 6-0 win over the Pi Kappa Phi team. Charley Pearson accounted for the winning touchdown by
passing to “Slick” Evans. Kappa Sigma had the lead in first downs by 6 to 3.

Phi Gams 12, Sigma Chi 0
The Phi Gams took the measure of Sigma Chi by a score of 12-0. Wallace Abbott caught two of C.
I. Clark’s passes for touchdowns.

DAVIDSON THEATRE WEEK OF DECEMBER 5-10

MON. - TUE.
WEDNESDAY - THURSDAY
“THAT FORSYTE WOMAN”
Greer Garson - Errol Flynn

FRIDAY - SATURDAY
“TRAIL OF THE LONESOME PINE”
Fred McMurray - Henry Fonda

Pi Kappa 18, S.P.E. 6
The fast-improving Pi Kappa team crushed a game but outclassed S.P.E.'s outfit for their second straight victory by a big
score. The S.P.E.'s fought hard, but were never really in the ball-game, and so ended up on the small end
of an 18-6 score. Leading the victory parade were Billy Houck, BillCassels, and Jerry Nall with one touchdown apiece.

Phi Delts 6, Pikas 0

The Phi Delts racked up their sixth victory of the year by downing the Pikas 6-0. Very cold weather, better
suited to basketball than football, kept both teams from playing at their best, and turned this into one of the
dullest games of the current season. Norman Whitehart scored the lone touchdown.

Kappa Sigs 20, Campus Club 0

The Kappa Sigs turned loose a high-scoring offense which raced to 20 quick points against the hapless Campus Club in
the first half. That was adding insult to injury as far as the Campus Club was concerned, so they forfeited
the game after the first half.

K.A.’s 8, Betas 6

A hard-fighting K.A. team staved off a strong second-half rally to spoil the Beta’s undefeated season by a small two-point
margin. Early in the game, the K.A.'s worked the ball deep into Beta territory. There it changed hands several times,
but never moved very far from the Beta goal. Finally, the K.A.’s scored on a fourth-down pass to Stribling. The
ensuing kick-off went deep into the Beta end-zone, and when the Beta ball carrier tried to run it out, a
host of K.A.’s swarmed on him for the safety, which proved to be the winning margin. The half soon ended
with the score K.A. 8, Beta 0.

In the second half, the Betas began to throw long desperation passes which swept to one touchdown and were a
constant threat throughout the rest of the game. However, the K.A.’s managed to run out the clock to turn in
the outstanding upset of the year.

FINAL STANDINGS

Team W L
Betas 9 1
Kappa Sigs 9 1
K.A.'s 8 2
SAE 7 3
Phi Delt 7 3
Phi Gamms 5 5
Pi Kap 4 6
Pika 3 7
Sigma Chi 3 7
SPE 1 9
Campus Club 0 10

LOOK FOR ALL-FRAT TEAM IN NEXT WEEK'S DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson College Basketball Schedule For 1949-’50 Season

Varsity Opponent Place
Dec. 5—N. C. State, Raleigh
Dec. 6—McCrary Eagles, Asheboro
Dec. 10—V.P.I., Statesville
Dec. 15—Duke, Davidson
Dec. 17—Georgia Tech, Atlanta
Dec. 19—Monroe Clippers, Davidson
Dec. 31—Hanes Hosiery, Winston-Salem
Jan. 4—Monroe Clippers, Monroe
Jan. 7—Univ. of North Carolina, Davidson
Jan. 10—N. C. State, Davidson
Jan. 13—Furman, Greenville
Jan. 14—Clemson, Clemson
Jan. 16—McCrary Eagles, Davidson
Jan. 27—Duke, Durham
Jan. 28—Univ. of N. C., Chapel Hill
Jan. 31—Univ. of S. C., Davidson
Feb. 3—Citadel, Charleston
Feb. 4—College of Charleston, Charleston
Feb. 6—College of Charleston, Davidson
Feb. 8—Univ. of S. C., Columbia
Feb. 10—V.M.I., Davidson
Feb. 14—Clemson, Davidson
Feb. 17—Univ. of Richmond, Richmond
Feb. 18—Univ. of Maryland, College Park, Md.
Feb. 22—Furman, Davidson
Feb. 25—The Citadel, Davidson

Catalina and Revere Sweaters (In His Favorite Colors) Virgin Wools and Cashmeres SLEEVELESS OR $5.00 Marion Davis Co., Inc. 118
South Tryon St. WE FEATURE $18.00 Charlotte, N. C.

Wade and Chandler Asked To Play With College All-Stars

By WOODY McKAY

Two seniors of Davidson's '49 football squad have been chosen to play on the Southern college All-Star team which is
to play the professional Charlotte Clippers in Charlotte on Saturday, December 10. By accepting the bids sent out by the
Queen City Athletic Club, Jake Wade, Jr., and Buddy Chandler will be the first Wildcat players to participate in this
pro-college event.

Chandler came to Davidson from Norfolk, Va., along with his high school coach, Bill Storey. Buddy got off to a
spirited start and has been going strong ever since. Although hampered by a foot injury shortly before the State game,
he gave a good showing in the game against the Wolfpack and has been one of the spark plugs of
the line all year. Although the two-platoon system was put in this year, this 200-pound guard still played on both
offense and defense a great deal of the time. He has earned well this bid to play in this post-season
classic and should see a good deal of action.

Short but swift, “Little Jake” has gained the admiration of many football fans during the past season by showing his
spunk against men usually much larger than he. He will remain in the mind of Davidson followers by virtue of
the memorable 95-yard run he made against N. C. State which gave the Wildcats their first victory over the Wolfpack
in many years. Specializing in punt returns, Jake had an overall job at his half-back position.

Jake and Buddy will play with other Southern College senior stars from such teams as Wake Forest, South Carolina, Duke,
and others.

He: “There's a certain reason why I love you.”
She: “My goodness!”
He: “Don't be ridiculous.”

When the white man discovered this country, the Indians were running it. There were no taxes. There was no debt.
The women did all the work. And the white man thought he could improve on a system like that!

When a man is really good he knows it, and so does his boss.

WITH SMOKERS WHO KNOW...IT’S Camels for Mildness! Yes, Camels are SO MILD that in a coast-to-coast test of hundreds of
men and women who smoked Camels—and only Camels—for 30 consecutive days, noted throat specialists, making weekly examinations, reported NOT ONE
SINGLE CASE OF THROAT IRRITATION due to smoking CAMELS!
