PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, April 15, 1949

BRYAN WENTZ COMPANY
“Clothing For The Man”
205 South Tryon St.
Charlotte 2, North Carolina

GRADE “A” MILK PASTEURIZED
Mooresville Co-Operative Creamery
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

REMEMBER THIS SEAL
IT'S YOUR ASSURANCE OF THE BEST!

ALL THE NEW POPULAR PHONOGRAPH RECORDS.
Columbia, Masterworks Red Seal
Victor
Parker-Gardner Company
Since 1898
118 W. Trade St.
Phone 8251

UNDERARM DEODORANT
Men and women use “Aloride” to stop underarm perspiration and odors. Full strength, effective, pleasant to get. A year’s supply costs you $1 post-paid. Send check to ALORIDE, Arlington, Va.

Withers Electric Company
® Radio Repairs
® Electrical Supplies
® Light Bulbs
DAVIDSON, N.C.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
WEEK OF APRIL 18th
MONDAY and TUESDAY
“YOU GOTTA STAY HAPPY”
Joan Fontaine — Jane Stuart
WEDNESDAY - THURSDAY
“ACT OF VIOLENCE”
Van Heflin - Janet Leigh
FRIDAY and SATURDAY
“MAN FROM COLORADO”
Glenn Ford - Ellen Drew

DAVIDSON FACULTY ...
(Continued from Page One)
and its Determining Factors” (New York) 1947. Tom Daggy, “The ecology and taxonomy of the immature stages of wood inhabiting coleoptera of the Chicago region” (Northwestern).

SPANISH FRATERNITY...
(Continued from Page One)
president; Sam Robinson, vice president, and Charles Reid, secretary. On April 18, Sigma Delta Pi will sponsor a full-length movie “Pepita Jimenez.” The film will be shown at four o’clock in the afternoon at the local theater. All students and faculty members are invited to attend. The dialogue is in Spanish.

FRESHMEN BOW ...
(Continued From Page Three)
Central High's two runs in the tenth inning gave them the necessary margin for victory as they defeated the Davidson freshmen nine, 7-5. Charlotte’s Buddy Smith, starting pitcher, got things rolling for the visitors by drawing a walk, followed by Lee Middleton’s single and a triple by Doug Estes, which sent Smith and Middleton across the plate for the final runs. It was truly the lucky seventh for Davidson, with all five of her runs being made in that inning to put the home team out in front. However, Central rallied to tie with two in the eighth and went on to add two more in the overtime. Pitchers Buddy King for Central and Harold Smith for Davidson battled it out most of the way, striking out 17 and 15 respectively. Eight hits by both in the extra innings, too many errors for the Kittens were costly and hampered their chances for victory. Estes led Central with three hits, and Craven for Davidson chalked up two.

TENNIS SQUAD...
(Continued From Page Three)
At the start of the second set, rain began to fall and over an hour elapsed before the courts dried enough, with the help of Stan Kennett, Cat manager, to resume play. With the slower courts after the rain, Ray came back to win the second set with a 7-5 score. The third set was played in a slow drizzle, and Roddey came through with a 6-1 score to win the match. One match that was hard to lose was played by Henry Neisler, number five for the Cats, and Dick Morris. Neisler, who hadn't lost in singles competition this year, lost 6-2, 0-6, 6-4, the only match Yale won. Lenoir Keesler, who had been out of the line-up up to this match because of a knee operation, won his first match in '49 for the Cats by beating Jack Sloat, 6-2, 7-5. In the doubles, Ted Keesler and Mike Williams teamed to down Lynch and Hands of Yale, 6-2, 6-4. The two other doubles matches were not finished due to the rain and approaching darkness.

INTRODUCIN’...
(Continued From Page Three)
Bill Bird’s feat of a homerun last year, which was the margin of victory over State College, was a shining light. After captaining his fraternity team to a first-place tie in football last fall, he was unanimously chosen as co-captain on the all-frat football team. When it was time for the interfrat track meet, Bird was around long enough to capture first places in the 100-yard dash and the broad jump. Being a pre-med student, Bill told this department, “call the science building my second home,” but other people who know say he spends days at Salem College. He plans to attend veterinary school after graduation, and if he does as well at veterinary as he has done in other things, animals need never worry about sickness again!

Grade “A” Phone 69
WHERE YOUR PATRONAGE IS ALWAYS WELCOME!
WESTERN STEAKS — FRIED CHICKEN!
Mooresville, N.C.

NEW MAGAZINE...
(Continued from Page One)
Other articles cover movies, and Be-hop. King Cole Publications, Inc., will issue 50,000 copies in colleges in forty of forty-eight states. All persons interested in securing a subscription at the price of 50 cents per semester or $1.00 per year may obtain one by writing toSchool, the general office of the magazine College, 230 Grand Street, New York 13, N.Y. Anyone interested in submitting manuscripts and pictures may send them, together with a self-addressed stamped envelope, to the editorial offices of College at the same address.

Unsolicited SPRING FROLICS (Continued from Page One)

Breaking the position held by the pre-war band, theater records, ballroom popularity, and awards have fallen like wooden soldiers before the Beneke band. In the latest Billboard disc jockey polls, the Beneke orchestra scored in the top brackets in four out of four different categories. In the “Greatest All-Round Record” department, Beneke scored above all other bands with his version of “St. Louis Blues.” In other categories, the band was the only one in the nation to score in the top five in both the sweet and swing categories.

Beneke was especially pleased with the poll results, for they prove that he is carrying on the old Glenn Miller tradition of giving the public the best in sweet and the best in swing as well, something which only Miller was able to do successfully throughout the years. Bandleader Beneke has played the saxophone for over 4,000 dances and shows, has played over 100,000 songs, and sung more than 30,000 choruses. Over 10 million Beneke records have been sold—not counting those made with Glenn Miller—and it would take more than 60 years to play them all if you spun nothing but Beneke records twenty-four hours a day. And at the end of that time, the needle would have traveled the distance to the moon and back.

Beneke’s own vocals figure prominently in the band's success. Tex’s career as a vocalist began when Glenn Miller heard him singing “Ida” to keep himself awake while driving at night. In spite of the fact that his recording of “Chattanooga Choo Choo” holds an all-time over-the-counter sales figure of over 1,500,000 copies, he still insists he cannot sing. The success of Tex Beneke's orchestra is due to the fact that Tex follows the Glenn Miller formula of playing sweet ballads in a sweet manner and keeping his swing as progressive as possible without losing his melody line—but melody is all-important.

With the band will appear one of the smartest quartets in the land. Known as the Moonlight Serenaders, the group was formed as a special setting for the band’s distinctive voice arrangements. The Moonlight Serenaders is a new idea in groups, employing two girls and two boys instead of the usual one girl and three boys. With Tex Beneke and his band, vocal along with the spirit of Glenn Miller—for his freshly oiled trombone is present at every performance—the 1949 Spring Frolics are bound to be a huge success.

HUNTER HURLS... (Continued From Page Three)

Lefty Hunter took the mound for the Cats and effectively scattered nine Citadel hits. It was Hunter’s first win of the season. While Lefty was holding the Cadet batters at bay, his mates were busy grouping nine hits into seven runs. Overcoming a one-run lead, the Cats pushed across five runs in one inning to salt the game away. Big Buddy Chandler, the backstop, blasted a four-bagger with one aboard to lead the way in the Davidson rally.

Private Dining Rooms for All Parties and Banquets
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
Phone 25490
221 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.

Student’s Store FOR YOUR NEEDS

VISIT THE RESTAURANT
A. J. Bistony, Prop.

“My cigarette is Chesterfield because they're so MILD.”
STARRING IN “ALIAS NICK BEAL”
A PARAMOUNT PICTURE

BEN HOGAN says: “I smoke Chesterfields because they’re MILDER. Take it from me, Chesterfields are MUCH MILDER.”

COLLEGE STUDENTS SMOKE CHESTERFIELDS CIGARETTE

Two psychoanalysts met on the street. Said one of them, “You're fine today. How am I?”