Over a week ago, an official statement from Cambridge, Massachusetts was issued to the effect that Norman Shepard, director of athletics and basketball coach at Davidson College, had accepted the position of head basketball coach at Harvard. During the days following the surprise announcement, it has been the most widely discussed topic on the campus, and every word that we have heard has been in praise of Coach Shepard and in sincere regret of his leaving. To most of us, Norman Shepard has been as much a part of Davidson as any of its time-honored traditions, and it is difficult to think of Davidson without him. Aside from Davidson losing one of the nation’s foremost authorities on basketball, the college is losing a gentleman in every sense of the word. The effect that he has had on those students around him, particularly those whom he coached, cannot be measured in words. During his thirteen years at Davidson, Shepard has year after year produced quintets that have been a credit to him and Davidson. While not always winning, on all occasions his teams have had spirit and fight that have been unsurpassed in the Southern Conference. Certainly, no single factor or group of factors has served as such a good advertisement for Davidson as have Shepard’s basketball teams. While some may dispute this, we are inclined to believe that Shepard’s last effort with a Davidson five was his best, and it is indeed fitting that as a climax to his tenure at Davidson, his team should have compiled such a record as did his '48-'49 Wildcats. As Norman Shepard goes to his new post, the thanks and deep respect of the Davidson student body, alumni, and friends go with him for a job well done. Best of luck, coach. We'll be looking for a rejuvenated Harvard team in the Ivy League next year.

With the assistance of a slow bus and a scorching sun, Clemson's track team brushed off Davidson last Saturday, handing the Cats their first loss of the season. It was early afternoon before the Davidson bus pulled into Clemson, which gave the boys too little time between eating and starting time for the meet. The temperature soared to the low nineties while the meet was being run off, and the sun got under the skin of several of Davidson's top performers. Jack Gray won the mile event but became sick and had to withdraw from the 880. Blake Bradley had to drop out of the two-mile run with two laps to go, and Jim Vann had a little trouble with a bleeding nose but went on to top the field in the discus throw. It was a pretty miserable afternoon for all the boys due to the intense heat. The only shade afforded them was a slim shadow cast by the grandstand, which was little better than nothing. Bill Pritchett evidently wasn’t aware of the heat as he sailed across the high hurdles in 15:1 to win the event, ahead of Clemson’s Doffort and Ed Hopper, Cat hurdling specialist. In covering the 120-yard stretch in 15:1, Pritchett posted one of his best times to date. His average for the event has been about 15:4, but he has come under that. Probably the most improved man on the squad this season, Bill will be tough to handle next year and should be a top contender in the conference for high hurdle honors. Jack Gray's win in the mile event was another rung on his ladder of wins since he came to Davidson four years ago. In winning the event Saturday, “Gunder” closed out his college track career undefeated in dual competition—one of the best individual records in recent years at Davidson. In defending his string of wins for the last time, Gunder was pressed by Pulkinen of Clemson who turned on the steam down the home stretch. However, Gunder's long stride and the lead that he gained earlier put him across the finish line in front. His winning time was 4:43.

That’s it for this year. Next fall we’ll be back with a few Cat Tales about Charley Jamerson and his grid forces. West Point, here we come!

WHATEVER YOUR NEEDS
SUITS
HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
TIES
SHOES
and the 101 other things
SHOP EFIRD’S MEN'S SHOP
STREET FLOOR

Friday, April 13, 1949

SPORTS LINE-UP

The vast number of men who were selected to the teams were generally consistent performers. The first and second squads are as follows:

First Team
Pitcher—Jimright, NA
Catcher—Shepperson, Beta
First-baseman—Miller, SPT
Second-baseman—Williams, Teta
Third-baseman—McSwain, KAY
Shortstop—Roberts, WK
Outfielder—McWeithen, KAY
Outfielder—Badgett, Phi Gam
Outfielder—Cook, Phi Delt

Second Team
Pitcher—Cheek, Kappa
Catcher—Smith, Beta
First-baseman—Leach, Phi Delt
Second-baseman—Langford, Beta
Third-baseman—Trever, KAO
Shortstop—Edwards, Kappa
Outfielder—Erwin, SAE
Outfielder—Cameron, Kappa
Outfielder—Hazard, NA

CURTAIN FALLS ON SPRING SPORTS PARADE

1949-Davidson Baseball Team
Left to right, first row: John Ellis, first base; Wade, second base; Bill Bird, third base; Jim Briggs, pitcher; Bert Anderton, outfield; Fred Hengeveld, pitcher; Dick Richards, outfield-pitcher. Second row: Sam Joyner, outfield; Charlie Pearson, short-stop; Billy Houck, outfield; Dick Redding, outfield; Johnny Kelton, outfield; Charlton Torrence, pitcher; Herb Dalton, outfield. Third row: Jim Riddervold, scorekeeper; Buddy Chandler, catcher; Henry Wilson, catcher; Charles Elyea, manager; Coach Charley Jamerson. Absent from the picture are Lefty Hunter, pitcher; Fred Patterson, coach.

Bad weather prolonged the interfraternity softball season, having more games to play next week. However, the present standings seem to indicate that...1. In the powerful Kappa Sigs and Betas, the minds of the will finish in a deadlock for top honors if both teams continue their past performances. The WA's have third place sewed up and could possibly move up a notch with another win. The Vikas in fourth and SPE's in fifth round out the first division standings:

Won | Lost
--- | ---
Kappa Sigs | 8
Betas | 8
WAGs | 6
Pikas | 5
SPE’s | 4
Phi Delts | 4
Kaps | 4
Phi Gams | 1
SA's | 3
Campus Club | 2
Sigma Chis | 1

2. IM GLAD I MADE THE 30-DAY MILDNESS TEST, DON. CAMELS ARE GRAND!

3. Presbyterian Erwin and game, stands at five wins against twelve losses. Below are the pitching averages of the Davidson baseball team. These figures are accurate through the twelfth of May but do not include the Furman game for which no statistics are available. The final score was Davidson 4.83.

Pitching:
Won | Lost
--- | ---
Richard | 1 | 1.000
Hunter | 1 | .300
Koddey | 2 | .333
Torrence | 2 | .333
Henveveld | 1 | .600
Brip's | 0 | .000

Batting:
--- | ---
Why | 1 | .500
Joyner | 2 | .333
Chandler | 4 | .300
Hird | 7 | .290
Pearson | 18 | .281
Henweveld | 18 | .277
Limbeth | 13 | .266
Wilson | 13 | .266
Torrence | 10 | .250
Richards | 9 | .216
Viderton | 14 | .203
Erwin | 19 | .190
Eli | 6 | .140
Wace | 6 | .120

4. (A COLUMBIA RECORD) ITS CAMELS WITH ME, TOO, PAULA - FOR TASTE AND MILDNESS! Songstress PAULA KELLY and disc jockey DON OTIS agree on Camels for mildness and flavor. Paula Kelly, rave-fave vocalist with the star rhythm group, “The Modernaires”, goes for rollicking rhythm in a song. And for smoking pleasure, Paula says: “It’s Camels with me! I like their cool mildness and that rich Camel flavor.” In a recent coast-to-coast test of hundreds of men and women who smoked Camels, and only Camels, for 30 days, noted throat specialists, making weekly examinations, reported NOT ONE SINGLE CASE OF THROAT IRRITATION due to smoking.

5. Tar Heel Nets Edge Davidson, 5-4 By JACK STEVENS

UNC netters were hard-pressed Wednesday to barely skim by Davidson's team. The Tarheels played beautiful tennis to defeat Davidson 5-4. Seixas, Tarheel's ace, defeated Roddey. With skies threatening rain and winds blowing a cold breeze, Seixas took the first set from Bo, 6-1. Bo surprised the shivering spectators by going ahead 5-1 in the second set. But like the bumblebee who is supposed to be unable to fly, the Southern Conference singles champion seemed not to know he was supposed to lose that set, so he took six consecutive games to win the set, 7-5, and the match. Clark Taylor, the other half of the Carolina 1-2 punch, had more trouble than Seixas and was forced to the limit to down the hard-hitting Veddy Weesler, 9-7, 6-4. Whit Cobb just wouldn't be bothered by the Tarheel's reputation and defeated Grunner, 9-7, 6-2. Mike Williams also was victorious by virtue of his 6-3, 4-6, 6-2 scores over Rice. The Tarheels Nos. 5 and 6 men were on top when scores were turned in by Henry Neisler and Rob Palmer. In a match which was almost halted by darkness, the Roddey-Cobb combination again was victorious over the highly-touted Seixas-Taylor team by scores of 6-0, 6-4, 6-0. Keesler-Williams defeated Grunner-W instead with comparative ease, 6-3, 6-2, but Neisler and John Crosland lost to Rice-Wilder, 7-5, 6-3. Five to four is the same score by which Carolina defeated Davidson last year, and the teams were composed of practically the same men both years. But we at Davidson can't help but look to next year when most of Carolina’s team will be graduated, but the Cats will still have Bo Roddey, Whit Cobb, Rob Palmer, and the other rising players swinging the rackets. Teddy Keesler, Mike Williams, and Henry Neisler finished their tennis days at Davidson with the Carolina match, and we of the DAVIDSONIAN staff are proud of them. With the help of their excellent playing, the Cats won 11 matches, lost four, and had one stopped at 3-all by rain. This season's score may not be as impressive as the 15 to 1 score of last year, but the competition the Cats faced this year was decidedly superior to that of last year.