PAGE FOUR

“B I K O”
By KURT BIEDENKOFF

By telling you what was done in our high school, in order to help the German youth to understand the
new democratic ideas, I am trying to show you what sooner or later happened in most of our high schools
in Germany. As I said before, we were trying to play some kind of a political game. But what was
the idea? We planned to form a miniature state in our school, to consider our school a people that was
now forming a government. All institutions you find in a good-working government would be copied. We would have a parliament,
an executive body, and a judicial body. All rules would be written down in a constitution. We would have proponent
and opponent groups, the opposition would be very strong—we knew this even before we started.

So we started in February, 1959, drawing up a plan for our constitution as it might be made. Speaking of
us, I mean the boys and myself. We suggested a government consisting of a legislature, an executive corps, and a
judicial body. Our principal would be the president, assisted by a student as vice president. The executive would be made
up of students and teachers, and so would the judicial. We finished our work two months later, and then formed
a provisional parliament to which we presented our plan. But we did not find much assent. Everybody was skeptical. When
the meeting was over, we had succeeded in forming a committee, which was told by the meeting to discuss the
plan. Endless discussions followed, and everybody grew tired of it. The opposition and the great lack of interest seemed to
be too strong.

So we decided to found a newspaper, and try to create interest in the thing, negative or positive interest, for
it is easier to fight an opposition interested in a thing than to convince people of something they do not
care for. At that time a license was required for any kind of publication, and we had to get a
license at Military Government. This was the first time I ever came in touch with the M. G. officials, and
I have never again found such wonderful cooperation. We did not only get our license, but M. G. (OMGUS —
Office of Military Government of the U. S.) arranged meetings of school newspaper staffs all throughout the country. It invited
prominent speakers to speak to us; it cheered us up when things were bad, and gave us good advice when
we were in trouble. And we were in trouble very often. First of all, we could not get enough paper
to print a good newspaper; so OMGUS gave us the paper. We often had difficulties with the German officials, and
OMGUS was always able to settle the dispute. I can only repeat that we had wonderful cooperation.

But now back to our school. The paper was published, and it helped us a lot. The good thing was
that those who planned the constitution had the paper to support it. So in July, we presented the constitution, which
had been changed in its texts many times, but whose content was still the same, to the student body and
the faculty for acceptance. We knew within our school it would be a magnificent change if it would be accepted.
Everybody knew it, but still many did not like it. Fourteen days before the day the voting should take place,
I started the campaign with a speech in a meeting of the provisional government (all students from the fifth to
ninth grades, and the faculty). And the plan worked perfectly. It really was a wonderful campaign. We had a strong
opposition, a hard time, but a lot of fun, and it was a wonderful experience for all of us. Everybody
knew what was going on, and the boys began to understand that each of them was important, that the individual
was important. We had many meetings, and propaganda was made, pro and con. Then the election came, and the constitution
was accepted in a secret ballot election. And from this day on, our constitution was our school law.

(To Be Continued)

Mooresville Creamery
GRADE “A” MILK
PASTEURIZED
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Paul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
TRYON STREET
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT
BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
PHONE 2-2238

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
MAKERS OF
Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
WEEK OF OCTOBER 24-29
MON. - TUE. “ROSEANNA McCOY”
Farley Granger - Joan Evans
WEDNESDAY - THURSDAY
“MY FRIEND IRMA”
John Lund - Diana Lynn - Marie Wilson
FRIDAY - SATURDAY
“HOUSE ACROSS THE STREET”
Wayne Morris - Janice Paige

WHEREVER YOU GO!
Remember this seal — it’s your assurance of the best!
White Drug Company
C. S. Goodrum
Davidson, N. C.
Telephone 2111

Among PI KAPPA PHI
October twenty-second is
To be a gala day
For all the loyal, worthy sons
Of Peter Stuart Ney.
Epsilon has made its plans
To be among the best
To make Homecoming Day this year
Stand out from all the rest.
Cuss-out reader Turnage
In charge of decorations:
We're eagerly awaiting
Your masterful creation.
Now pledges, make the house shine
And clean it up like new,
And remember, “Whis,” Old Boy,
That day is left for you.
Odell Dobson sighs and groans
When thinking of the dates
Who'll come down to his boarding house
And dirty his clean plates.
Lover Phil will have his ‘Pud,”
Parks will have his Newson;
“Mousie,” too, will have a date;
Boy, what a twosome!
Clarence C. stays right at home
With Fulcher's daughter “Fran.”
It must be love, because he has
No classes with that man.
Now a word of warning, men:
Be always on your toes;
Dorton, the “Kidney-Kid,”
Will be there with his blows.
“Dos” McSwain and pledge “Ewong”
Each will have his steady.
Underdown has phoned all week
And now at last he's ready.
Harold Tolbert has a date
With his girl from Salem.
He went there last weekend, too,
His studies, he will fail ‘em.
Slatz McClintock will be there,
Jumping just like mad.
If Barron doesn’t play it fast,
“Schlitz” really will be sad.
Buster Hyman plays the part
Of bandit in his “hack.”
In his fifty Buick he
Is hauling off his “Jack.”
Cassels brings his pin to town,
Cleveland’s going home.
Hurt will fight a med exam,
Too bad that he can't roam.
Rawson takes the med test, too;
Another stag is lost.
Stags, keep the breaking going,
No matter what the cost.
Now to have a resume
Of this past weekend’s news,
And to give expression to
A few unheard of views.
Thanks to the committee for
A very well planned party,
Even though the plaid skirt twins
Were just a trifle tardy.
Reverend Jervey with his sermon
Put on quite a show.
Did we have the luck to find
Another bard like Moe?
Square dancing was there at its best,
Enjoyed by one and all
Thanks to vociferations of
Cleveland, Alexander, and Nall.
Sherwood looked a little dazed
Wandering through the set.
He doesn't have the “bug” we see,
For square dancing yet.
Brother Gurley with his coins
Entertained them all.
He spent two hours taking down
Statistics of the fall.
Homeward bound went “Old Joe”
In spite of many pleas,
He went home to run his dog
And pick the many fleas.
Brothers Kiser and Bill Reynolds
Saw St. Louis from the air.
In seeing night clubs, missed the boat,
But playing did their share.
Montreat saw our Rhodes and Sargent,
Hurt and Kurt were also there.
Hard-working Al was put to work
Lugging gas and pumping air.
Shades of Justice, Carolina!
In spite of all that we could say,
Kingfish went down for the ball game
Instead of to Montreat that day.
See you at the gym this weekend
Bring your girl down to the hop.
For the scoop on Pi Kapp brothers,
Next week, we'll again talk shop.

CAMPUS CLUB
On Thursday, October the thirteenth, the Campus Club held its usual weekly meeting. The regular business matters were taken up
and the meeting would have been distinguished by nothing were it not for one significant fact. The date of this
meeting coincided with the second anniversary of the Campus Club as an active organization on the Davidson scene.

Prior to the business meeting a speech was made by the president, Malloy Owen. It is the accepted thing whenever
a speech is made by some officer of an organization to indicate approval by a round of applause. But when
Malloy had finished, not a sound was to be heard. And this was not meant as any discourtesy to the
president. The silence stemmed, instead, from what he said. For the speech offered much more than the usual remarks appropriate
on such occasions — it was more a challenge than a self-congratulation. It told, of course, something of the history
of the club and of its present ever-growing significance here on the Campus. But its unique quality lay in the
stress placed on the necessity for continued and augmented effort by each member of the club toward making the club's
ideals a reality. This was the reason, then, for the silence. For though it was an inspiring speech, it was
also the kind of speech which quickens the sense of responsibility and makes each member realize that, ultimately, the success
or failure of the Campus Club is going to rest squarely on his shoulders.

This, the first report from the Campus Club, is submitted in this spirit. We wish to make public the idea
which was so perfectly expressed by our president and pledge ourselves to the extension of the good things of the
fraternity system—brotherhood, loyalty and the chance to be an active part of campus life — to every independent on the
campus of Davidson College.

SIGMA CHI
I might say in opening this essay
That I for my words may have to pay.
But just remember that revenge is sweet,
And that we again in this article shall meet.
(RLM)

With no further ado let us proceed into the Sig activities. The news of the week is the valiant Sig
football team, which in the past week racked up a total of 42 points to 0. With Johnny Kelton leading
the way offensively and G. J. Grissom defensively, the Sigs went wild on the gridiron.

Some of the Sigs are taking life seriously by enrolling in that marriage course. Brothers Hampton, Morgan, Jackson, Beatie, Apperson
and Clark are working overtime on term projects and tedious Lab work. Meanwhile “Gold Dust” Hamilton has deserted the confines
of D. C. for Concord with all its honey, clover, and tiddlywinks!

Who shot Who? Mischievous Murray has retreated to seclusion this weekend to devote the remainder of his career to celibacy
and to recover from his humiliating experience in Atlanta. From all reports Jim has done extensive research on the theme,
“What do other men have which I don't.”

Sigma Chi is proud of its two movie actors. Phil “Keenan Wynn” Davis, and Vance “Lou Costello” Mizelle who are
the images of their superiors, both in looks and actions.

Scenes along the Sig trail find Gentleman Jim Grissom with his dog “Fifi” making trips to Charlotte to see his
cousin. Cycling Willie Clark is again breaking all records for the Charlotte-Davidson non-stop flight, as Betty seems to be sprouting
the old ball and chain. Scoops Morgan and Statz Jackson were busy on the figures of Marlin Price’s dazzling pass
receptions, while Curley Clark betook himself with more intriguing and fascinating figures. Meanwhile Lemon Harris continues to complain.of feline bed
guests, but warns that he is all against any half-way actions. “Dat’s a Good Idea” Eastman, Mighty Rat Birkhead, and
Cavity Doxey continue their incessant battle against starvation, while the cultured Coffee Club satisfies their cravings at Hugh’s. We close
by giving a wreath of roses to Jimmy Jones, who was initiated last week, and is now one of the
Sigma Chi Crusaders.

KAPPA ALPHA

In the beginning man was created and he had dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds
of the heavens, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth. Now man was lonesome in the world
so the great Creator created woman. At first woman was primarily a side issue and remained so until some idiot,
feeling sorry for her, decided to give the female population suffrage. Soon after woman had been legally established as man’s
equal, she slowly began to usurp man’s power by henpecking, browbeating, and finally captivating him with her irresistible beauty and
affection until man no longer occupied his centuries-old position of importance in the world except in the art of making
love. The net result of this usurpation of power by woman is that man wanted to become lonely once more
and he cursed the day that woman was conceived. However, man has not completely cast woman from his life —
as it often appears at Davidson — but finds her particularly enticing on various occasions, i.e., parties, dates, dances, and
weekends in general.

This weekend is one of the occasions when man withdraws from his shell of loneliness and seclusion — as woman
will witness — because he has very easily fallen prey to the designs of the Pan-Hellenic Council. The festivities of
the weekend definitely call for companionship and support from the “weaker sex.” Dances — “necking set to music,” parties, and
the like are undoubtedly better when woman is present. The Knights of Sigma Chapter want to cordially welcome the addition
of feminine charm and beauty to its shell of loneliness — the Davidson campus — and to their newly redecorated
Chapter house this Homecoming weekend. We know that you will have a good time and hope that you will soon
return. Here’s a salute from the crimson and gold to the Knight and his woman.

Henry King with Anne Rosser, V.I.C.; Ed West with Katherine Armistead, St. Mary's; Hugh Swan with Tine Roddy, Limestone; Howard
Proctor with Peggy Williams, F.C.T.C.; Jim Laskin with Mary Anne Campbell, W.C.U.N.C.; Harris Asbury with Anne Salter, Ala. College; Bill
Adams with Helen Drennan, Queens; Hampton Mauze with Nancy Sibley, Salem Academy; Allen Vance with Betty Rose, V.I.C.; Randy Kabrich
with Clara Justice, Salem; John Adams with Juliet Ward, Winthrop; T. W. Aldred with Jerry Long, Central High; Jack Stevenson
with Ebby Paty, Converse; John Lyles with Carter Patterson, Davidson, N.C.; Carlyle Crenshaw with Carolyn Hagins, Lancaster, S.C.; Gene Regen
with Leila Harwell, Vanderbilt; Roger Cornell with Gwen Weeks, Duke; Pete Milner with Muriel Gear, Agnes Scott; Tony Tucker with
Gloria Ribee, U. of Houston; Doug Hix with Pat Deford, Agnes Scott; John Ottley with Marian Hunter, Central High; George
King with Aileen Kabrich, Queens; Adrian Bowen with Faye Harris, W.C.U.N.C.; Alex Summers with Sara Lou Masengill, W.C.U.N.C.; Charlie Mitchell
with Kitty Faucette, St. Mary’s; Jimmy Glenn with Tommie Greene, W.C.U.N.C.; Hal Haynes with Betty Ann Mitchell, Bristol, Tenn.; Howard
Ferguson with Katherine Stone, U. of S.C.; Bill Buckey with Dot Fudger, Converse; Jim Speed with Betty Mackey, Central High;
Bob Henry with Sarah Towers, Jacksonville, Fla.; Morley Vail with Nancy McClelland, Jacksonville, Fla.; Josh MacKenzie with Betty Gary, Kinston,
N.C.; Luke Scales with Dottie Quarles, West Point, Ga.; Jack Hazard with Sarah Clark, Salem; Neely Dixon with Margaret Gaston,
Belmont, N.C.; Chuck Kirby with Melba Wallace, Charlotte, N.C.; Rush Dickson with Peggy Fox, Charlotte, N.C.; Paul Guthery with Carolyn
Garner, Charlotte, N.C.; Bill Currie with Katharine Malloy, Davidson, N.C.

SIGMA ALPHA

We are happy down at the old SAE house that Bro. Sandy Carnegie is now a proud papa of a
7 lb. and 9 oz. bouncing baby daughter, Helen Sandra. Sandy is doing well so we are told; congratulations to
him and also for being elected President of the Scabbard and Blade Military Fraternity. Speaking of the Honorary Fraternities we
are proud that Bro. Billy Pate has been asked to join the Alpha Epsilon Delta which is the Pre-Medical group
here on the campus.

Bro. Bob Millar's purple and yellow football team has now won three out of four; we turned down the SPE’s,
the Phi Delts, and the Campus Club and lost only to the KA’s by a small margin. No little of
our success has been due to some fine defensive play on the part of Bro. Jack Blackwood’s pass interceptions, Bro.
Lamar Hinson’s rushing helped by Bro. Lain Cloaning and Vaughn McAlister. Bros. “Snag 'em” Aiken and “Glue Fingers” Bennett look
like pros at the ends. The touchdown combination of Roberts to Goodpasture is operating smoothly as is Coach “Wally” Millar
under the center. We finally found one thing Bill Bledsoe could do that he said he could — kick off.
Bro. John Hutchins also proved invaluable as a linebacker in the C.C. game.

We noted some fine playing of the pledges on the freshman football team against Furman. Kent Glover got a little
rough with the opposition there toward the last but Dick “Long John” Kelley has more compassion on them. We were
sorry to see A.C. Gregg get a little shaken up on a block that he laid, but the other fellow
felt it too, he said. Max Morrison played a hard game also; he was heard to say that Furman had
the best $30,000 dollar team he'd ever seen, at least they got a lot of beef in on the deal.

Bros. Shaw and McAlister went to Converse this weekend to date their sisters — wasn't that sweet, though. Bro. Everett
Blake's eyes seem to cloud up a bit every time he looks out over the western horizon — it may
be that Stevens College for faraway lovers is located out there somewhere. What happened to T.C. Coleman’s Spanish Senorita —
Que muchacha mas linda!

As for Homecoming Bro. Bill Little promises some good decorations, Bro. Carson promises a good dance, and Bro. “M.C.” Aiken
promises a good breakfast after the dance. See you at the PARADE OF PROGRESS. (Bro. Cam Faison says that the
school might be progressing but it looks to him like he has been sitting in the same chapel section for
going on two years now — do you call that PROGRESS?)

PHI DELTA THETA

The Phi Delts traveled far and wide this past weekend. Their journeys ranged from Richmond to St. Louis and from
Charleston to Atlanta. The reasons for the trips were many and varied; some went to see their girls, some went
for (Continued on Page Eight)

Meet Your Friends At

J. O. JONES, Inc.
The Home Of Hart-Schaefner & Marx Clothes
