There is no question about it. P. C. had the better team on the little-worn turf in Richardson Field last Saturday. Those of us who have watched the Cats in action for the past several years, and thus far this year, know that Davidson has better stuff than a 27-7 humbling by Presbyterian would indicate. However, it appears that this fact makes little difference to some of Davidson's irate followers. Ever since Saturday’s contest, the athletic and public relations offices have been flooded with telegrams and letters, most of them leaning heavily toward the sarcastic side. The only criteria by which most of these writers have to judge Davidson is the score of the games in which the school participates. If Davidson doesn’t win, they immediately raise a howl and want to know how in the world a ‘‘weak sister’’ like P. C. could so completely manhandle the Red and Black. That question remains unanswered in the minds of many of us.

EVERYBODY HAS AN IDEA

Several letters have come in remarking that Davidson looked little better than a high school team. One writer suggested that P. I. C. be added to D. C.’s schedule next year to replace P. C. and that Wingate would have been a good bet in place of the Army game. Another communication said that Davidson might like to get into the North State Conference, now that Catawba has failed to score for the first time in 90 games. The public relations office received a letter in which it was asked if Davidson was ready to withdraw from the Presbyterian Church after Saturday night’s game. Here is an important thing... all these comments haven't come entirely through the facilities of Uncle Sam’s mail service, but similar comments have been voiced by students and faculty members as well. All of this is bound to affect the morale of the team to some extent. It’s true that the Cats had a bad night against P. C. last week. Blocking and tackling were shoddy... costly fumbles were made in the backfield and numerous bull’s eye passes were dropped by receivers. But that game is behind us now. More important ones lie ahead. This week's encounter with State should prove conclusively the road that the Cats will follow the rest of the season. There are no ‘‘breathers’’ on the schedule. Every game will be tough and the Davidsonians know they will have to play good ball the rest of the year in order to break into and add to the win column.

WOLFPACK MAY EXPECT A '‘BREATHER”

Tomorrow night's game with State is the one game among all the others that Davidson would like to salt away. Both teams will take the field riding a two-game losing streak thus far this year. State will be heavily favored, but they may encounter the same kind of trouble that the Wildcats had against P. C. A writer in a Raleigh paper stated that ‘‘State should have a breather against Davidson Saturday night in Charlotte.” Where has that sort of a line been heard before? For the past two years, Davidson has always made a good showing against strong teams in Memorial Stadium and we predict a repeat performance tomorrow night.

PRICE GETS PRESS NOTICE

A clipping from a New York newspaper came into the athletic office a day or so ago which is quite a tribute to Mott Price, considering the source. This N. Y. sports writer wrote, “Price gave a life-like imitation of Don Hutson in Michie Stadium last Saturday... nabbing passes nonchalantly from Lambeth, Turner, and Sifford. Price picked ’em off his shoe strings or leaped like a marlin to spear a high toss.’’ This only backs up all the praise that was heaped on Mott’s shoulders for his scintillating performance against the Cadets.

CROSS COUNTRY TEAMS READY

Pete Whittle will take the wraps off his varsity Cross Country team and introduce his freshmen harriers in meets with the two N. C. State teams. For the past few seasons, Whit- (Continued on Page Five)

TIME OUT! By Chet Smith

“I’m all set for the season. My dad was one of the bricklayers on this new wall.”

CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN John Mack and Son Phone 239 Mooresville, N. C.

LOCAL TEAMS FACE FAVORED STATE

Interfrat Football In Limelight Again By JIM SMITH

Betas 36, Campus Club 0

Monday, the 3rd of October, marked the beginning of the inter-fraternity football schedule. Two games were played. Beta Theta Pi-Campus Club contest turned out to be a rout for the Betas. After a series of power plays and passes, the Betas gained a 36 to 0 victory. Earl Smith and Hankins accounted for two tallies each, with Wooten and Allen each getting one. The Campus Club, however, had the edge in first downs, 3 to 2. Hankins, Cunningham, and Red Davis stood out in the Beta defense.

K. A.'s 6 - Pikas 0

The tilt between Pi Kappa Alpha and Kappa Alpha was dotted with pass interceptions. The KA’s intercepted 6 Pika passes, one of these setting up the KA score early in the game. Bill Bird scooted around left end for ten yards and a TD, after failing to find any of his pass receivers open. After that it was nothing but a see-saw battle. The Pikas recovered a fumble on the KA’s 18-yard line, but KA intercepted a pass and stopped the Pika's only scoring threat.

Kappa Sigs 24 - SPEs 0

The second day ran almost like the first day in its scores. Kappa Sig smothered the SPEs by a 24-0 score. “Bo” Roddey led the scoring parade of Kappa Sig with two TDs. Williams and Evans split the other two. First downs were in favor of the SPEs, 2-1. “Lefty” Hunter, SPE’s ace, became the year’s first casualty with a shoulder injury.

Phi Delts 6 - Sigma Chis 0

The 6-0 score of the Phi Delts and Sigma Chi did not represent the true score. It was the Phi Delts’ game all the way. They racked up four first downs to the Sigma Chi’s none. The Phi Delts couldn't seem to click when they got near the Sigma Chi’s goal. The only score was an intercepted pass by Whit Cobb which was good for 60 yards and a TD.

SAE’s 12 - PHI GAMS 6

The third day brought on the thrilling extra period game between Phi Gamma Delta and the SAEs. After the regular game had ended in a 6-6 tie with neither team gaining a first down, the SAEs came out victorious 12-6. Goodpasture scored both of the SAE's TDs, while Abbot scored the Phi Gam’s only tally. Phi Gams fed one first down to none for the SAE in the extra period.

Pikas 24 - Campus Club 0

The Campus Club received another trouncing when the Pikas smashed them 24-0. Jones, Fanjoy, Collins and Brown scored for the Pikas. Three TDs were pass plays and the other was an intercepted pass on the first play of the game. The Pikas had also a nice running attack which partly accounted for their five first downs. The Campus Club had two. The game was extremely rough.

LOCATION OF DAVIDSON

Early planners of Davidson College decided in 1835 that the college should be located equal distance between Charlotte, Statesville, Concord, and Salisbury.

Outstanding Wildcat in last Saturday's game: JIM SIFFORD

Wildcat Of The Week By CHERRY

This week we salute little Jimmy Sifford for his great performance Saturday night in a losing cause. Jimmy was the spark for the Cats all night long, and he was all over the field on the offensive plays. Running those wing-Back reverses for which the single-wing of Charley Jamerson is famous, Sifford showed his blinding speed, especially on one long run which set up the Davidson score. Sifford was the lone big gun for the Cats against the terrific speed and deception of the PC scatbacks. Jimmy has probably never played as good a game as he played Saturday night in his four years of play on the Davidson varsity, although he has been a standout in almost every game. Sifford, not very big for college football although he is solidly built, was the only consolation for a crowd of 8,000 supporters who gathered to see a supposedly much stronger Davidson team roll over PC. Stunned by two lightning-fast Presbyterian touchdowns in the first period, the crowd was brought to life when Jim took a reverse from the right formation and, escorted by perfect blocking, cut around left end and into the clear before he was finally brought down by the fast PC defender after a 46-yard scamper. Then after two pass plays, the stands went wild as Sifford took another reverse for six yards and the score. The statistics from the National Collegiate Athletic Bureau show that Sifford was the star offensively for the Wildcats and the best man on the field Saturday night. Jimmy carried the ball a total of eleven times and gained ninety-five yards and lost nineteen, which gives him a total of seventy-six yards net gain. This is an average of about seven yards per carry, which is good in anybody's ball game. He also attempted seven passes and completed two for fourteen yards. If this is not enough, he also caught three passes for forty-five yards. Sifford ran two kickoffs back for 48 yards. This gave him a total offense yardage of 183 yards, which is certainly indicative of a superlative effort on the part of Davidson wingback deluxe—Jim Sifford.

The Week
STRIBBLING

LAMBETH RANKS NATIONALLY
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1949

Harriers Hope to Repeat Last Year's Win; Both Grid Teams Seeking First Victory
By DAN McKEITHAN

North Carolina State and Davidson clash for the nth time in the renewal of their football feud Saturday night in Charlotte’s Memorial Stadium. Both teams will be seeking their first win of the ’49 season after two opening defeats, but it will be the crew from Raleigh who hold the favorite’s role in this contest. Not since 1936 have the Wildcats beaten State and not since 1941—six games ago—have they even scored on them. State holds a lopsided 24-9 edge in the series which is one of the Southern Conference's oldest football rivalries, and six games have resulted in ties. Undoubtedly the Wildcat attack will center around tailback Auburn Lambeth, passer deluxe from Decatur, Ga. Respect has been shown him by Wolfpack Coach Beattie Feathers, who has concentrated all week on pass defense, a department in which State has shown a weakness in previous games. The Wolfpack’s supposed power may explode in this game as it did last year against Davidson in rolling up a 40-0 score. Offensive play will be led by tailbacks Bill Thompson, Ed Mooney, and Ogden Smith with valuable assistance coming from sophomore Paul Divan, who scored the Pack’s only tally against Clemson last week. State's top man is the fleet-footed Thompson, although it was Mooney who was the running star last week. Running from the T-formation as well as the single wing, the team employs Smith as the man under the center when using the T. The visitor's hard-charging line will feature all-Southern guard candidates Bennie Watts and Charlie Musser, and tackles Elmer Costa and Ted Dostanko.

The Wildcat line should be at full strength by Saturday, although defensive end Hal Mapes and offensive guard Buddy Chandler have been nursing injuries. Davidson has worked hard for this game, but if they expect to pull an upset win, they will have to greatly improve over their blocking and tackling of past games.

CAPT. BOB LONG

By BILL ADAMS

This Saturday morning at 11 o'clock on the local track, Coach Pete Whittle turns loose his 1949 edition of the Davidson Cross Country Harriers against a similar squad of hare-chasers from N.C. State. This will be the first test for the Red and Black boys against a foe already holding a victory over North Carolina's potent Tar Heels, and sure to be difficult to handle. Despite the loss of ace Jack “Gundar” Gray from last year’s fine team, this year's aggregation should be better balanced. Heading the list of boys expected to stand out is Blake Bradley, running better than at mid-season of last year; also running well are Captain Bob Long, two sophomores, Tom and Dick Stockton, and lettermen Bob Grube and Jim Thompson. Others running for Davidson this week include Dick Patterson and Dave Anderson. Also on the schedule for Saturday will be a meet between Coach Whittle’s freshman harriers and State's frosh. Running for the baby cats will be Tom Staley, Bob Henry, Tommy Poindexter, Herman Hollander, Mercer Kepler, Frank McCutchan, and Bill Rankin. Staley may well be another Gray, but will have to hustle to stay ahead of Henry and Poindexter. The freshmen meet comes first. Coach Whittle wouldn't venture an opinion on the meet, but complimented the boys’ spirits and drive. Managers this year are Carl Garrison and Bob Hotchkiss. Let’s turn out and give the boys plenty of support.

NCAB Lists Lambeth, Price, Brown Among Nation's Best
By BILL WHITE

Despite the fact that the Wildcats have been trounced in their two outings this fall, slim sharpshooter Auburn Lambeth is unconcernedly working his way to the top again as one of America’s finest passers. Last fall the then 18-year-old Decatur dead-eye led the nation in completions for two weeks in September, dropping back after the State debacle, and eventually warding off ankle injuries to wind up in fourth place in NCAB final standings. In the figures released yesterday by the NCAB, Auburn had 21 completions for 36 tosses, ranking him fourth in passers who have played in two games, tenth in all passers (three games the greatest number) and third in percentage of passes completed, 58.3 percent. Texas Christian’s Berry, ranked first on the basis of total completions, 39, has played three games and has a completion percentage of 52.7. Lambeth and William and Mary's Lex are the only two members of the Southern Conference in the first 20 passers, Lex ranking right behind Auburn. Clemson's Cox is twenty-second after three games. Passing isn’t the only field in which Lambeth ranks nationally. He is also seventh in the nation in punt returns with 134 yards in eight returns. Wake's Gregus is twelfth with 118 for five. Lambeth’s targets, Mott Price and Pete Brown, glue-fingered scrappers who have been the surprise of the Cat camp, stand only behind UNC’s Art Weiner and Cincinnati's Kelly in total caught for two games. Weiner has 13, Kelly 13, Price 11, and Brown 10. Aside from Ragazzo of William and Mary, who is just behind Pete, Weiner and the Davidson twosome are the only Southern Conference flankers in the top twenty-eight listed. In all games played, Price ranks eighth and Brown eleventh.

BUILDING COSTS

Contractors built Davidson College’s first five buildings in 1836 for the sum of $10,250. The College Church, to be built during 1949-50, will cost approximately 58 times as much—$600,000.

WATCH REPAIRS
JUST A GOOD SHOP WHERE FAST SERVICE IS THE RULE!
W.S. HENDERSON

Queen City Skating Rink
PHONE 5-3696
2221 EAST TRADE ST.
SPONSORER FOR 7-9 P.M. QUEENS-DAVIDSON SKATING PARTY
SATURDAYS, OCTOBER 7 & 14

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT
BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
PHONE 2-2238