PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by the Class of 1916

"FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON"

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF .......... BOB HOLLISTER

BUSINESS MANAGER ......... BILL HOUCK

EDITORIAL STAFF

Editor .......... Associate Editor Boke Hazard
Associate Editor Lonnie Turnipse
Associate Editor Arnie Covell
Managing Editor Bill Cumming
Managing Editor Hartley Hall
Managing Editor Neil Leach
Managing Editor Tom Mann
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Sports Editor
City Editor
Exchange Editor Jim Murray
Randy Taylor
Gordon Scott
Watt Jeffries
Exchange Editor Bill Hollister
Make-up Editor Dan McKeithen
Make-up Editor Cherry Stribling
Make-up Editor Bill King
Art Editor Gabe Lowe
Columnist Tilston Mills
Columnist Henry Wilson
Columnist Henry Hansen
Columnist Charlie Davis
Columnist Phil

SENIOR REPORTER: Pete Kalogridis, Phil Mitchell, Dick Barnwell, Phil Libby, Bill Neal, Richardson, Jim Fickeisen, and Gene Regen.

REPORTERS—Warren Sims, Dudley Pendleton, Nat Daniel, Jim Blackburn, Bob Hubbell, Lamarr Hinson, Tom Allen, George McMurray, Manly McWilliams, Ben Morris,
Bill Bacon.

SPORTS STAFF—Furman Warlick, Bill White, Phil Hammond, Bryan Robinson, Ed West, Bill Buckey, Jack Stevenson.

POLL CAT STAFF—Jim Carr, Claude Higginbotham, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown, and Neal Underdown.

WEATHER REPORT—Trew Gurley and Bill Sargent.

BUSINESS STAFF

Bill Cassells Assistant Business Manager
Wiley Smith Advertising Manager
Rod Shaw Advertising Manager
W. S. McSwain Assistant Advertising Manager
Assistant Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager
Assistant Circulation Manager John Loftin
Collections Manager Alex Goley
Subscriptions Manager

ASSISTANTS—Bill Cumming, Bill Hart, Bob Erwin, Bill Pharr, Harold Clayton, Sam Cumming, Rod Shaw, Gene Taylor, Nelson Tomlinson.

CIRCULATION STAFF—Alex Goley, Parks Dalton, Cecil Rhodes, Ansley Moses, Joe Miller, Neill Underdown, Tommy Haller, John Hardin, Thad Monroe, Hugh
Huffaker, Ben Borris, Cam Faison, Paul Guthry, and Phil Willer.

Cam Faison
Hugh Huffaker
Ansley Moses

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY

National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Member 1949 Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest 1948

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

No More Chapel Editorials

Since the days of Davidson’s birth—back even to the era during which the great Nev roamed the Mecklenburg woods in
search of a quiet nook where he could design a seal in peace—chapel editorials have been appearing with unrelenting regularity
on the second page of The Davidsonian. Their theme is always the same—the message they usually attempt to convey is
the same—in fact, and this is one of Davidson’s secret traditions herein brought to light for the first time—it’s generally
the same editorial. Each year in the Spring, the old and new editors of The Davidsonian meet under the tower
in the dead of night and a sealed packet changes hands. The seal is not to be broken until the
twenty-third of September the following Fall—at which time, and at six-week intervals thereafter, it is published in this space under
the heading “Chapel Conduct.”

Yesterday, however, when the packet was opened—in a locked and darkened room, of course—it was discovered to our horror that
the time-worn manuscript was missing. It seems that the editorial staff of Carolina's Tar Heel, having heard of the powerful
effect the old and treasured editorial exerted on the Davidson student body, had sent agents to the Hill with orders
to return with the priceless piece of journalism or not at all. In spite of our constant vigilance, they somehow
succeeded. Doubtlessly the conduct at Carolina will improve overnight.

Now, that we have no editorial to print on the Davidson students’ disgraceful chapel conduct, the only hope left us
is that there will never be any need for one.

Rush Week

While Rush Week is fresh in our minds, doubtless many of us are thinking how it could be improved and
how it compares to those of years past. I think that with the system we are now using it was
one of the best rush periods in the last four years. I think the committee that discussed and planned it
is to be congratulated for a good job. Also, to Bill Bird who executed the plans and kept things going
smoothly goes a vote of thanks from the student body.

As I stated above, I think this has been one of the best if not the best rush periods we
have had in the last four years. The rushees had three days in which they could meet the various fraternities
and not be bothered about making a decision as to which fraternity he would join, although he was considering the
merits of each. Then he had two days in which to think about the fraternities and which ones he liked,
etc. During this time he was not or was not supposed to be approached by fraternity men. This gave the
rushees plenty of time to discuss it among themselves and come to some conclusions about the various fraternities. Also, these
first three days left the rushee and the fraternity men the afternoons to study, something which has not been done
in the past. After the weekend, the two days of rushing included informal bidding, which gave to those men who
had made up their minds about the fraternities, an opportunity to join the group he liked best. However, this also
brought on the evil of “hot boxing,” which is definitely undesirable. However, it was repeatedly emphasized to the freshmen that
they had until the day of acceptance to accept or reject a bid; that the bid was standing until the
day of acceptance; and for each freshman to look at as many fraternities as possible and then carefully make his
choice when extended a bid. After the two days of informal rushing, the freshmen had two more days to think
and make up their minds as to which group they would like to ally themselves. According to interfraternity agreement, the
rushees were not to be approached about fraternities during this time. Never before have the freshmen had so much time
in which to consider a decision.

However, the problem of “hot boxing” is one that is not easily met. It is also one of the more
undesirable problems connected with rush week on any college campus. Actually, a boy should be able to say that he
would like a little more time in which to make up his mind, and yet I can see where this
might be rather difficult in some cases. In view of the above, I think we can say that as far
as first semester rushing goes, we have reached one of the better plans for rush week. However, there remains another
alternative, which as yet remains untried—that of second semester rushing. It seems that several of the larger universities use this
system to good advantage. How this would work at Davidson has often been speculated, but has never been tried. The
primary argument in favor of such a system is that it gives you one entire semester in which to get
to know the incoming freshmen and for them to get to know the upperclassmen. This would allow the fraternities more
ably to pick the men they wanted and the rushees to choose the fraternity of which they would like to
be a member. One of the obvious defects of such a system is that the weaker fraternities would be weakened
and the stronger ones, stronger. Another objection is that of dirty rushing. Whether the dirty rushing that would go on
is enough to offset the faults of the present system is a question for each to decide. Another point about
dirty rushing is that in spite of it, the freshman would still have the opportunity to examine each fraternity. Whether
he would be dissuaded by a group of individuals who choose to violate an interfraternity agreement would depend upon the
individual rushee.

We have tried all other alternatives, now I recommend that a system of second semester rushing be worked out and
tried for one year. Then the results may be discussed and compared with rush periods of former years. Then I
think the best system of fraternity rushing could be determined and established.

The DAVIDSONIAN Presents FEATURES

College Rags In Brief By TOMMY HALLER

OF COURSE NEED A LITTLE POLISH

LETTERS

FUZZY FIZZES

QUEENS AND VIRGINIA GENTLEMEN

During these gold and blue October days, the Davidson student finds it pleasant to set forth in any direction, and
particularly in the direction of his southern cousins, the girls at Queens. Last Thursday, I had a double incentive, for
Douglass Southall Freeman was lecturing that night in Ninnis Auditorium. I arrived in time for dinner, and must admit that
the surroundings seemed far superior to anything on the Hill. The girls were arrayed in their bright-hued evening dresses; I’ve
never seen them look prettier. Dr. Freeman, to judge from his lecture, admired them too; he remarked reproachfully on the
fact that he was seated at a stag table at one end of the dining hall with his back to
the rest of the room.

At 8:15 Ninnis was crammed to the corners. (If our lecture series were of the same caliber as that of
our neighbors, Chambers might also be full on such occasions.) Speaking with humor and with fervor, Dr. Freeman drew parallels
between and morals from the young manhoods of Washington and Lee. He praised their unique self-control in an era in
which young men were expected to sow their wild oats with abandon; and in spite of having to make a
few judicious omissions in regard to Washington, managed an impressive substantiation of his case. At the same time, he attacked
those who would paint the two as unreal paragons, and by means of description and vivid detail drew an attractive
picture of these Virginia gentlemen, laying understandable emphasis on their attitude toward the ladies. After lashing out, to our great
approval, at the politicians now in command of the government, “that plague of locusts seeking to devour the produce of
this land,” Dr. Freeman closed with a plea for moral discipline as the only training for our future leaders.

Dr. Freeman's talk was interesting and well delivered, but hardly as memorable as his books. These include the four-volume, Pulitzer
Prize-winning biography, R. E. Lee, the three volumes of military history par excellence which comprise Lee’s Lieutenants, and Young Washington,
the first two volumes of what promises to be a definitive life of our first president. Dr. Freeman’s works are
scholarly; they are also readable. Well-organized assemblages of facts about their protagonists, they do not fail to bring to life
the protagonists themselves. They combine, so to speak, the erudition of John Morley’sLife of Gladstone and the brilliant character drawing
of Lytton Strachey’s Queen Victoria. In view of this double attainment, it may not be extravagant to call their author
the greatest living American biographer. The quality of Dr. Freeman’s books reflects the man. Alert, perceptive, and phenomenally industrious, he
has compressed into one lifetime three careers, dividing his days between his newspaper, his radio program, and his writing. By
virtue of varied accomplishments, achieved through rigid self-discipline, D. S. Freeman is a worthy follower of the great Virginians he
extols. And in one quality at least, one mark of the true Old Dominion citizen, he is probably their superior.
After the lecture, a pretty brunette went backstage to speak to him. “Dr. Freeman,” she said, “the only thing I
didn’t like about your lecture was that you sat down too soon.” “My dear,” affirmed Freeman, “if you'll sit on
the front row next time I come, I promise to talk half the night.”

Letters To The Editor

Fellow Students:

For many years now the problem of chapel conduct and the proceedings of chapel in general have been a great
problem not only to the administration, but also to a large number of students. Chapel programs have been carried on
in the most disorderly way imaginable, not only on student days but on all days, even when there is a
guest speaker with us. This problem is one of our oldest and one of our most urgent. Chapel has long
ago lost its practical and religious value and as I see it, as it is run now, it is in
some way very detrimental to our life here at Davidson. I think that it is wonderful that we can gather
together five times during the week in one body. It creates a certain feeling of unity and closeness that is
so much a part of Davidson. I think it is wonderful that we can take time out during the day
and give thanks to God for His goodness. But I also think that we are losing all that this grand
opportunity affords us. We are losing a great tradition of Davidson because we are abusing the privileges granted us. I
have read from time to time and have heard from time to time that Davidson men are gentlemen. Well, if
the folks that said and wrote that could sit in chapel on one student day, I’m afraid that they would
be sorely disappointed in us, and shocked by what took place before their eyes. This bedlam on these days is
not something new, but it has been with us for many years. People say that it is tradition, I think
it is misnamed. All of us are guilty and if we want to alleviate this condition then it is up
to us, the students, to do something about it. I believe that there is a time and place for everything
and I do not believe that chapel on any day is the time nor the place for such displays of
discourtesy, thoughtlessness, and adolescence as is exhibited now. I sincerely hope that all who read this will take to heart
what I have tried to get across in these few lines. I feel that it is one of our most
urgent and dangerous problems, and, unless we do something about it right now, it may have a vast effect on
us and Davidson College. Think it over, fellows, and I feel that you will see the need for a new
attitude toward chapel and more orderly conduct.

Sincerely yours,
WHIT COBB.

The happy saying “home is where you hang your hat” is a gross untruth for freshmen at Syracuse U., where
they must wear orange beanies which are individual only in the different name on each, and which are used for
tipping to upperclassmen. It’s not tipping their hats but tipping their hands that worries the frosh, thus admitting to one
and all on first glance that they’re the most lowly men on the Orange totem pole.

University of Kansas

If you are willing to grab the world by its horns, says one student at the University of Kansas, there
is a way other than by getting hitched to find out what the gal will be like after the ceremony.
The gentleman's opinion is based on a year’s experience as house boy in a sorority house. As reported in the
Daily Kansan, he says the glamour wears off within two weeks, after which the girls don’t bother with lipstick and
hairbrush before breakfast. (You were wondering about clothes, too?).

University of Virginia

A skull two inches thick was discovered in the outskirts of Charlottesville, according to an exchange. The president of the
University is now making a careful check to see which member of the faculty is missing.

University of South Carolina

Evidently the “Gamecocks” are up to par again this year — catch this. I quote “There isn’t much difference in
freshmen from year to year around here. You can tell a freshman girl right off because she says, stop! and
you can tell a freshman boy just as easily because he stops!!! (am I right?)

W & L University

The following rules for being popular in college are dedicated to the new freshmen at W & L. The older
boys have already learned them by experience.
(1) Own a car.
(2) Be a good conversationalist.
(3) Own a car.
(4) Present a good appearance.
(5) Own a car.
(6) Note: If car is a red convertible rules two and five may be disregarded. (What play-boys!)

Clemson

There’s an old saying “Everything that goes up must come down,” and it was felt on the Clemson campus this
past week — so “The Legir” reads. The “thing” that came down or came to an end was Clemson’s great
history-making undefeated streak that started way back in the winter of 1947 when the Tigers blasted Furman University 35 to
7. Then fell Duquesne, Auburn, P. C., N.C. State, Mississippi State, South Carolina, Boston College, Furman, Wake Forest, Citadel, Missouri
in the Gator Bowl, and P. C. again. But this is a past history and this is the last time
it can be mentioned. The Tigers start over next Saturday at Raleigh and they plan to start with them.

THE SHOWDOWN
By GABRIEL LOWE

“What do you think of the Russian atomic bomb?” is a question that has been asked of many people in
the past few weeks. And the answer has been, “Well, what do you think of it?” Truly, if taken by
itself, it is a very discomforting thought that the Soviet Union, the avowed enemy of peace, liberty, and orderly government,
has gained the secret of the atomic explosion. For in the hands of the Russians it is a pretty fair
certainty that the bomb, once perfected by them, will be turned to belligerent uses, if they use it at all.
And although we here in the United States must admit to the charge of using the bomb against Japan, and
are still finding it difficult to justify our action before the eyes of the world, nevertheless, since the war ended
we have expended great efforts to find some practicable means to turn the secret of atomic energy to peacetime uses.
It is doubtful that the Soviet Union will accompany us in these efforts. The Russians, rather, will use their new-found
knowledge to further their own ambitions of world conquest. From what our authorities can learn, they still have not perfected
the bomb for military usage. So for a time we can probably expect them to use it as a diplomatic
club in the United Nations and in the capitals of Europe and the Americas. It puts them on an equal
footing with the United States; they need not fear us any more. So what will be the long-range results of
Russian possession of the secret of atomic power? For one thing, they will begin to abandon the diplomatic stalling tactics
that they have used so ably in the UN, and the time is probably not too far distant when they
will abandon the UN itself. For another thing, they will begin to take what they want by force if necessary,
despite the United States and the Western Nations. In short, the cold war, the awful period of uncertainty, is drawing
to a close. With all this in mind, our impression is something of a sigh of relief. The showdown was
coming sometime, but the Russians were not going to start anything that might get out of hand until they had
neutralized the advantage that the United States had in the atomic bomb. They have now accomplished that task, and surely
our diplomats have not been blind to the fact that it was just a matter of time until they would.
Now at last the suspense is over. Perhaps the Soviets will see the folly of an atomic war and will
make some sort of agreement to outlaw the bomb. If not, then let us keep our powder dry and brace
ourselves for the terrible conflict that is coming.

WILSON’S FIRST SPEECH

President Woodrow Wilson’s first public speech was delivered at Davidson College in 1873. A freshman, Wilson spoke to a college
literary society on the advantages of a Republican form of government.

HELLO FROM L. O.
By Liston Mills

Well, here it is time for another paper and another piece of nonsense from us. It’s always a problem to
decide what to tear apart, but maybe there'll come an idea before too long. There’s one we could use on
the exploits of eight young gentlemen and their experiences at a local Center of Culture. It seems that they were
led astray by one man, Mimi, who taught them the art of a tantalizing motion of the lumbar vertebra. They
were very much enlightened and returned with renewed vigor and purpose. But this probably wouldn't go over very big, so
we'll forget it. Then there's the adventures of the freshman who thought that the regulations applied to upperclassmen, and spent
two days trying to get a Junior to carry his laundry. But he soon realized his mistake and apologized to
the Count of Control. That, however, probably wouldn’t be accepted very enthusiastically either. Or we could look to the time
when we'll be grandfathers and speculate on the thrashing we're going to give State Saturday night. “Yessiree, I remember that
it was back in 1949 that those Wildcats really pulled an upset. Let me see, they tied the Wolf's tail
into about 24 knots, and didn’t get a mark themselves.” You know someone may think we’re kidding here, but I
sure hope our boys prove you wrong. But then maybe we’d better wait until Saturday night. And Salem Day, there
could be something said of how it really turned out. That maybe the picture we painted last week was a
little too dark — or was it? We saw some Queens, and then there were some who weren't quite Queens.
But all that is kinda old. Well, it doesn’t seem as if we're going to settle on anything, so since
we've run out of space, we may as well quit.
