PAGE FOUR THE CORNELIUS-DAVIDSON GAZETTE Friday, February 18, 1949

FRAT INITIATIONS...
(Continued From Page One)
Goley, George McMurray, Bruce Ballenger, Phil Hammond, Duval Hunter, T. C. Coleman, Joe Neil, Roy Johnston, Lamar Hinson, Vic Taylor, Everett Blake, and Joe Miller.

Completion of initiation ceremonies by nine of the ten Greek letter social fraternities on the campus has increased the membership of these organizations by approximately a hundred men. This total will be raised well above the hundred mark in March when Sigma Alpha Epsilon will have finished its initiations. During the past three weeks, the following have been received as brothers:

State Theatre
Mooresville, N. C.
STARTING FEB. 19
SATURDAY
‘SUNDOWN IN SANTA FE’
Alan - Rocky - Lane
Also ‘RUSTY LEADS THE WAY’
Ted Donaldson
SERIAL CARTOON
Starts with Late Show Sat. Nite

MONDAY
“JOHNNY BELINDA”
Jane Wyman - Lew Ayres
NEWS CARTOON

TUES.-WED
“HILLS OF HOME”
(Color by Technicolor)
Lassie — Edmond Gwenn
CARTOON NEWS

THURS.-FRI.
“BLOOD ON THE MOON”
Bob Mitchum
Barbara Bel Geddes
Football Short

CENTER THEATRE
Mooresville, N. C.
News
FRI.-SAT. WEEK STARTING FEB. 18
“SWORD OF THE AVENGER”
Ramon Del Gado
also “BODYGUARD”
Lawrence Tierney
Cartoon — Ray Witley Short

LATE SHOW SAT. NITE AND MON.-TUES.
“RAW DEAL”
Dennis O’Keefe - Claire Trevor
CARTOON NEWS

WED-THURS.
“THE SPIRITUALIST”
Turhan Bey
also “A FOREIGN AFFAIR”
John Lund
NEWS

REMEMBER THIS SEAL

LETTERS TO EDITOR...
(Continued From Page Two)
has printed this year, I would like to say that any letter which appears in the Davidsonian without the author’s name appended is not only a breach of journalistic tact, but also displays a lack of courage on the part of the author. I am tired of seeing letters appear in the Davidsonian signed by “Student.” It would seem that anyone who wishes to print an opinion or a criticism of a fellow student would at least have the intestinal fortitude to sign his name to it, instead of hiding behind a pseudonym. The column Letters to the Editor is, as I understand it, a place where any student can state honestly and openly, his opinion and any letter which appears there without the student’s signature to back it up has about as much effect as a straw in the wind.

Sincerely,
R. B. DIETRICK

IS THE PRESENT...
(Continued On Page Four)
students which the student himself will realize later were good for him. Finally, why should colleges not offer a curriculum covering all the general fields of knowledge, giving the student a broad general education in all of them. This idea would not entirely preclude specialization but would offer the student a great number of swing courses in which he could learn something of the many large areas of learning, now bypassed by the average college student. Speaking specifically of Davidson, this idea might be achieved by requiring students to take some courses in such fields as music, philosophy, biology, and economics as well as those already required. Davidson would send her graduates from the door with a broader and more alive conception of the joys, responsibilities, and rewards of living, and with assurance that their education was a preparation for life.

1890 MARKED DOOM...
(Continued From Page One)
better step in a soft peat bog than off the two narrow boards we have on our sidewalks. We do oppose the admission of our girls that we would have to put on clean collars, etc., brush our clothes every morning, and step on the ground every hour. The thing we need at Davidson College is money, not co-education. If we have girls here, the number of boys is sure to drop off, and it will take a long time to heal things. There will be such a racket in the camp as you never heard before. Raise the endowment fund of Davidson College and then move it to Charlotte or Greensboro or Durham, and not till then, let’s talk about admitting girls.

TRUSTEES ASSURED...
(Continued From Page One)
Booth, Mr. Greer Davis, Mr. T. H. Hamilton, Mr. Karl Sherrill, Mr. Cloyd A. Potts, Mr. A. A. McLean, Mr. J. C. Harper, Mr. R. S. Arrowood, Mr. F. R. McCutchen, Mr. W. A. West, Mr. K. A. McDonald, Mr. Kelsey Regen, Mr. J. C. Cooper, Mr. I. D. Patrick, Mr. F. P. Hall, Mr. I. W. Stewart, Mr. C. E. Hodgins, Mr. M. S. Huske, Mr. T. D. Duprey, Mr. M. C. McQueen, Mr. Ryan L. Doffin, Mr. A. J. Kessling, Mr. D. A. LaFar, Mr. N. N. Johnston, Mr. A. L. Smith, and Rev. J. McDowell Richards.

DORSEY AND BAND...
(Continued From Page One)
Besides his own theme “I’m Getting Sentimental Over You,” Dorsey gave impressions of Guy Lombardo, Vaughn Monroe, and Sammy Kaye.

CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE...
(Continued From Page One)
the time of three income tax return dates, to fill their pledges. The three other classes have until the end of the present semester to fill their pledges. The whole student body has been urged to start to work as soon as possible and to strengthen their efforts as much as possible, for this is a time in Davidson’s history of great importance and a student cannot fail to respect, honor, and help build his future alma mater. Carl Pahl, president of the student body, will report the progress of the student campaign in two weeks. The student body is urged to make sure there will beHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

an impressive showing, make a report of so all members of DAVIDSON’S TOP MAGNATES (Continued From Page One) Observer: “I think it was a fine thing for the citizens of Charlotte to do and it brought the drive itself before the people. I think that the newspapers and radio stations in Charlotte have cooperated fully and that the students should really appreciate it. Lemmon, manager: The secret of success in my business life is a simple one, namely, that of ‘buying cheap and selling dear.’ It is indeed fortunate for Charlotte to have such a fine establishment as Kress and Co. The dime store, in my opinion, is the very heart of American cultural, social, business, and political life. What was Pittsburgh before Carnegie Steel? What was Atlanta before the railroad? What was Charlotte before S. H. Kress and Co.?"

Mac Hart, manager of Sears, Roebuck and Co.: “I wasn’t too busy the day I went to the office, so I spent much of the day talking to the pretty sales girls. Not much headway was made though, ‘cause the two prettiest ones there were already going steady with the mayor of the city. They presented me with the key to the city, but I could never find a door it would fit.”

WILDCATS CINCH (Continued From Page Three) tively to the Davidson onslaught before leaving the game via the foul-out trail. Lanky Ed Hopper again proved his worth as one of the Cats' most dependable reserves, by pumping in 16 points during the limited time in which he saw action. Davidson's hopes for pulling a major upset victory over State were thoroughly shattered as the Southern Conference champions kept intact their record of having suffered no family defeats on their home court since Case took over the reins three years ago, by running over Davidson, 62-34. The Cats were fired up for a win, but State evidently had not heard of it. From the opening whistle, the Wolfpack had complete control; and a score in the early minutes of the game by the State five put them in the lead from which they were never headed. Sammy Ranzino continued his dazzling play as he hit the nets for 18 points. The tough job of guarding the Cary, Ind., dandy was assigned to Buddy Cheek who did some fancy shooting of his own before he fouled out in the early part of the second half. Cheek pushed in five field goals in the time he saw action. Trailing at the start of the second half, 32-22, Davidson's defense bogged down. Minus the services of Cheek, the Cats produced only 12 points following intermission. Almost completely controlling both backboards, the Wolfpack picked up an additional 30 points during the second half and went on to win, 62-34. Davidson's season record now stands at eight wins and four losses. Barring some unexpected trouble in the homestretch against South Carolina opposition, and with a win over UNC next Tuesday night, the Cats stand a good chance of winding up among the top three teams in conference standings. State leaves with a conference record of one loss.

INTRODUCING... (Continued From Page Three) and his play-making is also valuable. This season he has become more of an offensive threat than in the past. He began the victory over Carolina with two quick baskets. Against Clemson, he threw in 12 tallies at a wicked 75 percent clip, and at present he is holding a near five-point average for all games. Responsible for most of his points is his one-hand push shot, which has shown to be quite deadly. If Bobby is not on the court, he is most likely to be in the library where he does the studying for his solid B average. However, he sometimes slips off to see a certain little chick in Charlotte or at Mary Washington College. Planning to teach in prep school, he plans to go to Chapel Hill for his master’s degree after graduation this spring. About his other activities—he is at present a Student Council representative for the senior class, a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and the D club, and he has been a catcher on the baseball team for two years. If there’s time over and he usually makes some, Bobby picks up his gun and goes searching for stray rabbits. As he looks at the tournament, which comes up in a couple of weeks, Bobby expresses the generally shared opinion in his words, “If we get the right breaks, we should go a long way,” but he believes that N. C. State’s Hot Shots are the team to beat. Whether the team goes a long way or not, tournament spectators will very much see Davidson's fighting mite.

CINDERMEN TAKE (Continued From Page Three) 60-yard dash, and Bill Pritchett, sophomore returnee, is a man on the 70-yard high hurdles who is capable of a good showing in his race. A freshman hurdler of whom Whittle is expecting big things, is short but speedy Phil Cox. The Indiana yearling runs in the 70-yard freshman highs Saturday.

DUKE DEFEATS... (Continued From Page Three) able to resume action. The only bright light for Davidson in the Duke meet was Johnny Kelgon’s decisioning his opponent in the 131-pound class and unbeaten “Bull” Alexander holding his man to a draw.

ALL THE NEW POPULAR PHONOGRAPH RECORDS. Columbia Masterworks Red Seal Victor Parker-Gardner Company Since 1898 118 W. Trade St. Phone 8257

DAVIDSON THEATRE WEEK OF FEBRUARY 21 MONDAY and TUESDAY “ONE TOUCH OF VENUS” Robert Walker — Ava Gardner WEDNESDAY - THURSDAY “JOHN LOVES MARY” Ronald Reagan - Jack Carson Patricia Neal FRIDAY and SATURDAY “UNTAMED BREED” Sonny Tufts - Barbara Britton

“In my home, guests always insist on Chesterfields because they’re so MILD” STARRING WITH JAMES STEWART IN "YOU GOTTA STAY HAPPY” A WILLIAM DOZIER PRESENTATION A RAMPART PRODUCTION UNIVERSAL INTERNATIONAL RELEASE Copyright 1949; Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

The TOP MEN of AMERICA'S SPORT LARRY JANSEN says... “It is Chesterfields for me, they’re really MILDER and have that clean, fresh, satisfying taste. It's MY cigarette.”

---