PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, April 22, 1949

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF .. MAC HART
BUSINESS MGR. .. JOHN McNAIR

EDITORIAL STAFF
Stan Kennett .. Associate Editor
Bill Calhoun .. Associate Editor
Ronnie Dietrick .. Associate Editor
Jack Hazard .. Sports Editor
BS Hollister .. Managing Editor
Lonnie Turnipseed .. Managing Editor
Doug Hix .. Managing Editor
Dick Morgan .. Managing Editor
Tom Niblock .. Staff Photographer
Bill King .. Cartoonist

FEATURE REPORTERS: Charlie Reid, John Hobart, Jim Murray, Hall, Gabe Lowe, Neil Leach, Jimmie Henritzy, Henry Hansen, Pete Kalogridis, Drew Gurley, Bill Sargent, Bob Grube, Jimmy Fickeisen, Bill Hollister.

REPORTERS: Randy Taylor, Bill DuBose, Warren Sims, Ralph Robinson, Tom Aten, Dick Barnwell, Bill McCrary, Tom Mann, Bill Cumming, Phil Libby, Ben Drymon, Dudley Pendleton, Nat Daniel, Dick Chandley, Boo Northcutt, Stuart Shippey, Hugh Huffaker, Bill Neal, Harper Newbold, Jim Blackburn, Jack Pierce, Harry Shurley, Bob Hubbell, Angus Meiar, Jack Peirce, Slats McClintock, Boye Kendall, Lamar Hinson, Ed Richardson.

SPORTS STAFF: Cherry Stribling, Gordon Scott, Furman Warlick, Watt Jeffries, Bill White, Phil Hammond, Bryant Robinson, Dan McKeithan, David Whitener, Ed West, Bill Buckey, Jack Stevenson.

POLL CAT STAFF: Jim Carr, Claude Higginbothan, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown, and Neal Underdown.
Poll-Cat Editor .. Phil Mitchell
Make-up Editor .. Hartley

BUSINESS STAFF
W. S. McSwain .. Business Manager
Wyhe Smith .. Asst. Circulation Manager
Bill Houck .. Asst. Circulation Manager
Bill Cassels .. Asst. Advertising Manager
Charles Clinkscales .. Asst. Advertising Manager
Hector McKeithan .. Assistant Advertising Manager
David McConnell .. Collections Manager
Charles Dockery .. Subscriptions Manager
John Loftin .. Bill Hart, Bob Erwin, Bill Pharr, Harold Cumming, Rod Shaw, Gene Taylor, Nelson Johnson.

CIRCULATION STAFF: Alex Goley, Parks Dalton, Cecil Schad, Ansley Moses, Joe H. Miller, Neill Underdown, Tommy Hall, John Hardin, Thad Monroe, Hugh Huffaker, Ben Morris, Cam Faison, Paul Guthry, and Phil Willer.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year.

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Member 1949 Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest 1948

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Move The Y

A sizeable protest vote in the balloting for the Y presidency has set many of us to thinking about something that we should have been thinking about long ago—that is, the function of the Y, as it is and as it should be. For the purposes of our discussion, we might divide the Y’s clientele into these rather superficial groups. The first group, we'll designate as the “religious emphasis” group, though a group that we shall mention next call them “the pre-ministerials.” Our second group is made up of those students who feel that compulsory vespers and chapel are enough of a good thing and who feel that any effort on the part of anybody to further indoctrinate them with “religion” is uncalled for. Our third designation is for that larger group of students who are rather passive about the whole situation. They have no particular desire to enter actively into the work of the Y, nor do they have any objections to the Y’s program. They are just not interested in the Y one way or the other.

Since every member of the student body is a member of the Y, and since the Y is an organization for all the students, these three groups must all be taken into consideration in the formulation of Y policies. The YMCA is primarily a religious organization anywhere, but particularly so at Davidson. There are those in the Student Body who would regroup the Y to stress more the religious emphasis phase of Y work. Religious emphasis is fine; in our opinion, you cannot get too much of it. However, the reason why the Y is even now being criticized for being “cliquish” is because most of the program of the Y is directed toward religious emphasis. The biggest need now is for some program designed to interest students who have no interest in the Y. Any student who is inclined can find a medium for expressing his religious instincts constructively through the Y’s programs of deputations, community service, Boy Scout work, chapel programs, hall prayer meetings, etc. The Y’s present need is to supplement its present program with some means of reaching that majority of students who do not feel the “pre-ministerial urge.”

Traditionally YMCA’s meet this need with a program of recreation. Before the war, our YMCA headquarters was the recreational center for the entire student body. Perhaps one reason why the Y rates low with the average student is because its recreation facilities are inadequate. Maybe it would be best to move the Y out of the guest house. The rooms over there are too small for the only pool table and the one ping-pong table. The reading room over there has become pretty much of a lounge for the younger faculty members so that students bent on recreating feel somewhat out of place over there. Maybe it would be best to think about moving the Y over to the old gym as soon as it is vacated. There would be more room there and there is some talk of putting the Student Store over there. It would not hurt the Y’s chances of winning back some of its old clientele for it to be situated over the Stud.

This suggestion did not come from us but we felt that it was good enough to pass on along with our good wishes to Bill Alexander and his new cabinet. We know that Bill has most of these things under consideration and we are looking forward to a good year for the Y in 1950.

In Appreciation

A complete change in the masthead (that conglomeration of names that appears at the head of this column and is the only formal recognition that most of the men who work on this paper get) next week will indicate that Bob Hollister, your newly-elected editor, has taken over in his new office. The student body has done well in choosing Bob—as a matter of fact, it would have chosen well no matter which one of the three men on the ballot had been elected. Bob has worked diligently on the DAVIDSONIAN for three years, and knows more about journalism, as it is at Davidson, than anybody on our present staff. He is efficient and energetic, and under him, we believe, the DAVIDSONIAN will have one of the best years of its career. We want to take this opportunity to thank him for his great services this year, and to wish him the best of luck next year.

We also want to recognize and show our appreciation to Lonnie Turnipseed, Jack Hazard, and Doug Hix for their help. Lonnie, better known as “Roundman,” in his third year of outstanding work for the paper, handled the editorial page the first part of the year and was later make-up man for the front page. He was one of the guiding lights behind the April Fool’s issue. Jack Hazard climaxed his three years on the sports staff as sports editor this year. His work speaks well for itself, and would have spoken even louder if we had been able to give him more space. Doug Hix, who was eligible to run for editor, but for personal reasons did not, has had the ticklish job of getting out assignments and keeping the reporters on their toes. Without these three, and particularly the latter, we would have been lost, trying to throw a paper together every week.

Also a good word of appreciation is in order to the men behind the scenes on the business staff—to John McNair, the business manager, to Wylie Smith, advertising manager, and to Billy Houck, circulation manager. These three men and their helpers finance the paper and get it into your hands and deserve much more credit than they receive for a job well done.

We also want to thank the fourteen sophomores who were the writing backbone of the DAVIDSONIAN staff this year.

KAPPA ALPHA

Dr. Zekey's office was a startling, if not shocking, announcement which has had reverberations throughout the intellectual world. This announcement states that as a result of an Executors Cominform decision all present and future students of Davidson College will be required to take in addition to the Graduate Record Exam a new test, entitled, “Purity Ad. Af. Test.” This test was devised and formulated by the Institute of Advanced Interrelations, Limited. This world-renowned institute of unique studies is headed by Dr. John Slicksky. The committee formulating this test was chaired by Kathleen Amber Windsor, forever notorious author, Acre Caldwell, the world’s foremost explorer and anatomist, and finally, Dr. Kinsey Report, noted human re-searchist. Dr. Cornyosky, President of the Moscow Conservatory of Rodies, comments that this examination represents years of intense, caver, and exciting observation behind curtains (iron curtain, that is), parked cars, barroom counters and the like.

The questions on this test vary from minor to major matters. The first question is “Have you ever been kissed” and they continue to get more difficult, or at least more embarrassing, as you progress. The final score determines your classification, and these classifications range from a high of “exalted Pontiff” to a low of “Satan's Little Helper.” Brother Adams, this year’s rush chairman, next announces that any rushee who makes higher than he does (his score is a trans-parent personal secret) will be automatically eliminated from the rushing list. President John Lyles states: “This fraternity will not accept mediocrity, it demands and expects nothing but top scoring men at any price—even decency.” “Piddling Fiddlers” have not been able to serenade Hal's girl with in-strumental music.

KAPPA SIGMA

The past week has been full of preparations for the big banquet this Spring Frolics week-end. Plans are being mapped out by Brothers Roddey and Taylor and Pledge Ellis. The banquet will be at Thackers Restaurant in Charlotte at 6 o'clock Saturday night. Brother Randy Taylor will be master of ceremonies and we hear that he really has a good program lined up—full of real entertainment.

Several brothers and their dates followed the road up to Montreat a couple of weeks ago for a house party. They stayed at Wilson’s and from all reports, it seems that those participating had their share of the fun!

The great sport of pitchin’ “horse-shoes” seems to have taken everyone by storm. When it isn’t raining all the brothers are seen lined up either waiting to play or just watching. Brother (Bus Token) Ellis is still showing championship stuff with Brother H. Truelove close behind. Another pastime, which takes place in the house, is the art of gin rummy. A “tournament” is now in progress with Brother Cheek currently leading. Mike Williams and Mac McLean are runner-ups. They are seen every hour of the day down at the tables determining who is the best. But they still can't decide.

Some social news—Brothers Page and Kelly are still snaking on each other, Williamson “lost” his pin. Wonder who? This year the baseball team of the Sigmas have Wade, Pearson, J. Ellis, H. Wilson in the infield, and Hengeveld, Torrence, and Briggs on the pitcher's mound. May they have a successful season!

On the tennis team, according to Roddey, are Lenoir Keesler, Mike John (Red Man) Crosby, Bill Child, and Pete Kennedy. The team is very successful this year winning all the matches so far. Bo is steadily improving in his game and hasn't lost each has his pin.This one team, have the best of luck. His teams are, Sigmas Teddy and Williams, land, has been in purely as an experiment to see but three sets in all his matches where Davidson and the Brothers Ham Wade, Executors, administered this test. Dewey Keesler are on the frosh net team. On the freshman baseball team, the Sigmas are represented by Johnny Guinton, Eric Clark, and Jim McFarland. Golfing comes in with Sigs Medford and Coffey on the varsity and “Slimey” Sloan and Mac Mclean on the freshman squad. In the frosh track, Tom and Dick Stockton, along with Dave Williams, “Peck” Spach, Bill White, “Harpo” Purk, and John Smooth have shown their ability in that sport. 

New officers elected for next year are: Bo Roddey, grand master; Dorsey Rice, grand procurator; Charlie Miller, Grand Master of Ceremonies; “Slick” Evans, Pan Hellenic representative, and “Stubby,” Rush Chairman. May they have the best of luck and cooperation from all the brothers.

Sigma Pi Sigma initiates members of the physics society. The formal initiation of new members took place Tuesday night, followed by a banquet at the CA, after which the members and initiates adjourned to Prof. Fulcher's classroom for the formal initiation ceremony. Following the initiation, “Chunk” Bobbit delivered a talk on Lorentz Transformation Equations as used by Einstein in his “Theory of Relativity.”

Our staff, and the freshmen, we hope that they will all maintain their interest in the paper. As has been the wish of many retiring editors, we would like to see some move made by the administration and the faculty to add some sort of a course in journalism to the college’s curriculum. Managing editors do a prodigious amount (Continued on Page Two).

Editors and interludes the statement of Francis Bacon: “A sudden, bold, and unexpected question doth many times surprise a man and lay him open.” The usual people went to the usual places on a usual weekend. Always there seems to be a surplus of political timber. Of music which are a joy and a pleasure to all deft music lovers. This test did, however, verify the fact that Davidson men are on top in every field of endeavor. The Executors Comminform is proud to see the Davidson tradition upheld. The official results of this test were to be announced Monday, but this reporter managed to swipe a copy while Dean Zekey was glancing over a Federal Reserve Bulletin.

The following brothers have been classified as a result of this test as “Hit for Romance”: Harvey “Seat” Bun, McConnell, “Ignite” Jeffries, “Lover” Harden, Harry Bachman, Keith O’Kelley, and Joe Richards. The following have been classified as “Loose” because of their roving tendencies: Morf. Matthews, “Sex” Glenn, Charlie Mitchell, John Adams, Jack Hazard, and Fred Preyer. As evidenced by the above results, the test was a complete failure and will be discontinued next year. Amen. Those brothers with high scores, Jack Hunter, John Roddey, Gene Guthery, John Lyles, and Blake Bradley, were ordered by the Executors Comminform to reduce their score immediately or be dismissed from college. As a result of this Comminform manifesto, there has been a definite rush on the local color. This rush has been so terrific that Hal Haynes and his managing editors do a prodigious amount (Continued on Page Two).

Are You Satisfied With Chapel?

During the four years that I have been in attendance at Davidson, virtually a book must have been addressed to this paper concerning all phases of chapel and general religious emphasis on the campus. To that volume I would like to contribute my page, but hope that this time some changes will be forthcoming instead of the usual disinterest which follows such efforts. After discussing a plan for revamping our daily chapel activities with a number of faculty members and a reasonable cross-section of the student body, it seems that few, if any, consider the present set-up satisfactory or even particularly beneficial; indeed, several have voiced the opinion that the flippancy with which we treat this important matter even serves to alienate large segments of the student body. It is paradoxical that a service should ever result in minimizing the spiritual activity of its attendants. Chapel as we know it today is, in my opinion, a non-descript sort of gathering which can neither be termed “chapel” (in the strict sense of the word) nor “assembly.” What we have is a compromise which supposedly has both religious and secular ends. Seemingly, most interested persons feel that neither end is accomplished, and that changes are definitely in order. For that reason, I would like to propose the following plan. If it is not adequate, at least let us have immediate efforts from both the student body and administration to save from further injury a tradition which can be of great value to all concerned.

1. Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays to be set aside as days for a real chapel service, unimpaired by the reading of student announcements or any other activities which would distract from any religious service. On these days, the Bible Department could be responsible for planning and executing the program, and through proper planning, the spirit of service has been sufficiently demonstrated on two occasions recently. The Male Chorus could be placed in the balcony (as on Good Friday) and render good service in these programs, if through no more than the singing of hymns—especially little-known, seldom-sung tunes which are a great heritage of the Church.

2. Tuesdays and Thursdays would be reserved for the students. This meeting would be strictly a student assembly with no attempt to insert an unrelated parcel of standardized devotional. This would be the time and place for all student announcements, programs of a secular nature, and for other normal functions of the student body. Those activities for these days by their very nature would be out of place in the chapel service of the following day.

In thinking about this matter, it is admitted that the holding of chapel and assembly in the same auditorium on consecutive days presents difficulties. However, that problem was for this writer largely resolved when on Good Friday a well-planned, simple, and beautiful chapel service was obviously well received by the students. It seems that resourcefulness on the part of the Bible Department in working out chapel programs would eventually, if not immediately, iron out wrinkles in the transition from assembly to chapel on the next day. Finally, this plan would prepare students for the day (not far away, it is hoped) when the new church will be completed. The chapel services can then be held in the church auditorium and the student assemblies in Chambers. Until that is possible, however, let us strive to do the best we can with what we now have on hand. The result, I believe, will be far superior to that which exists today.

—WILLIAM M. RICHARD.

Other Colleges Say
By ART JENKINS

This bit of irony about the futility of being a college professor has appeared in most every college rag in circulation so it is time it got in the Davidsonian. “If he's brand new at teaching, he lacks experience. If he’s been teaching all his life, he’s in a rut. If he uses notes, he’s unoriginal. If he gets along without notes, he’s an ad-libber. If he sticks to his specialty, he’s got a one-track mind. If he tours the classroom, he’s a show-off. If he’s young, he needs more seasoning. If he’s old, he’s seen better days. If he gives a lot of tests, he’s a slave-driver. If he seldom gives a test, he’s too lazy to read papers.”

Speaking of professors, those at the University of Michigan have to watch their step. The administration takes a poll among the students to determine which professors are the most popular or unpopular. Many of the latter have lost their jobs. This system, the administration claims, is the most effective way of weeding out those professors whose personality flaws make them ineffective in the classroom.

The TECHNIQUE of Georgia Tech has announced the plans for the final dance of the year. The “Slobovian Stomp,” as it is called, is advertised as being the most different type of dance that the campus will ever see. Its uniqueness will be in the manner of attire to be worn by the participants. The motto, “just how crude can one possibly look” has given rise to the slogan, “the cruddy look.” Faculty members are to drag out that suit they were married in back in '29, tear a few moth holes a bit bigger, dress their spouse in like manner, and get in the competition for the prize for the “cruddiest couple.” Intermission music will be furnished by Pappy Nostril and his Nose Pickers.

The University of Alaska boasts of being the northern-most school in the world. According to its paper, the FARTHEST-NORTH COLLEGIAN, the activities are about the same as those of other schools except that all the students cut when it gets to be 40 below. Its unique points are that students wear beards, and play football in “mukluks,” mittens, and scarfs.

The PARLEY VOO of Converse printed a sarcastic little story entitled “Men.” An excerpt goes something like this: “Man is just a worm in the dust. He comes along, wiggles around for a while, and finally some chicken gets him.” The OLD GOLD AND BLACK of Wofford couldn't resist the following retorts on this little piece of satire. “If he crawls around, he’s not a man. Men only let themselves be picked up by girls that hatched from golden eggs. Where do you hide them?” And, “if it weren't for worms, the chickens would starve. Some of those babes look like they haven't been fed a good worm in a long time.” And a poet contributes his masterpiece: “If men were worms, and women chickens, women sure would take a licking, sitting ‘round all day a ’pecking, scratching worms instead of necking.”

The Voice Of The Low I. Q.
AUTHOR UNKNOWN

“Yeh, I'm in the special class this year. Sure, I like it all right. We have lots of fun and the work’s got some sense to it. Why did I get put there? Well, I ain't so sure. The report said I had a low I. Q., but nobody noticed it ‘till last spring when I couldn’t get along in Miss Brown’s class. She gave me that test; and when I handed in my paper she looked at it and said, ‘Just what I thought. I knew he didn’t belong here.’ That's the way it was. Yeh, it was something they call an intelligence test. It was awful funny! At first I thought it was a joke, but it turned out it wasn't. You had to put crosses on pictures, and circles around ’em, and lines right through the middle of all of ‘em. There were sentences to write, ‘Yes’ and ‘No’ after; they were sentences like this: ‘A carpenter builds houses.’ I wrote ‘No’ because my old man’s a carpenter and he (Continued on Page Four).