PAGE THREE THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1949

A Davidson Dorm. As Seen By A Frosh

How quiet and peaceful the Davidson dormitory seems late Saturday night! Only an occasional beam of light makes its way
through the assorted bottles which line the windows and indicates to a deserted campus those who, perhaps sleepy, perhaps broke,
have not ventured into the wilds of Charlotte. A few short hours later, however, the place has returned to its
normal condition. Once again the old brick walls tremble at the shouting and singing of the returning adventurers. What a
pleasure it is to awake from a boring dream to realize that they have returned to sing for you once
more!

And then while one lies there in blissful insomnia, he can express, in thoughts at least, his gratitude to all
the different kinds of people who contribute their talent or lack of it, toward making dormitory life an adventure worth
remembering. Among the most notorious entertainers which we are blessed with are the so-called “musical” individuals. This word is, of
course, used in a rather loose sense here; the loudest exponents of music nearly always seem to be remarkably unmusical.
The inter-dormitory singing contests, usually held in the early morning hours, would be sufficient proof for anyone that our Davidson
singers are right up there with the loudest in any group. This college has produced some great men; who knows
but that another Tyrone Touchbottom may be forthcoming?

Of course, not everyone appreciates our “musical” friends; they are apt to be much less appreciated if they persist in
taking showers at odd times. The appeal of vocal acrobatics is utterly lost for some when it is mingled with
the sound of water gurgling down a drainpipe and the clatter of wooden shoes on cement floors. None the less
formidable in the realm of entertainment are those who have pugilistic inclinations. Their admirable fortitude not only carries them through
their P.T. classes but also enables them to engage in muscular exertion at other times too. (I rather doubt, however,
that they really do use benzedrine in their Wheaties). It is especially uplifting to have these fellows as roommates if
they are upperclassmen. It is much easier for a freshman to become immured in the College traditions of laundry carrying
and errand running if there is a helpful upperclassman nearby for encouragement and advice.

When one wakes up in the early morning and hears the floor above creaking and groaning as some human form
is noisily bounced on its head, he may not be amused but he can be sure that this educational influence
is in operation upon some fortunate freshman.

DAVIDSON WEEK OF NOVEMBER 19-26

MON. - TUE. “OH! YOU BEAUTIFUL DOLL” Mark Stevens - June Haver
WEDNESDAY - THURSDAY “THIEVES HIGHWAY” Richard Conte Valentina Cortese
FRIDAY - SATURDAY “CHICAGO DEADLINE” Alan Ladd - Donna Reed

American Campuses

Greenville, S.C.—At this time of year many college papers carry features beginning, “In the spring a young man’s fancy turns,
etc.” Feature writer of the Furman University Hornet presents different ways in which campus men are affected by the season:

“There is the ‘Bard’ type who, when smitten by spring love, breaks into flowing verse. From the head of one
such ailing student we have this little ditty:

I love you from the top of me head to the bottom of me heel,
There ain't no proper words to tell you ‘zactly how I feel,
But if I finds I’se been a fool, and you don’t love me too,
I know darn well, I just can’t live,
So I’ll turn into a Shmoo.

“Budding love works in mysterious fashion indeed. There are a few who have turned into the ‘Glassy-eyed’ type since Cupid
flipped his dart. These, one sees strolling around the campus with a copy of ‘Adventures of Casanova’ under each arm.
You can spot them easily by their bandaged noses. They always bang their noses walking into trees, wandering fraternity men,
or other obstructions.

“Then there is the absent-minded type. Closely akin to the ‘Glassy-eyed’ in his preoccupation, this type can, and usually does,
manage to get into many embarrassing situations. One of this type recently got up in the morning, and, in a
daze, thought he was going to a dance. He put on his tuxedo, staggered to school, and signed up a
professor for the first two no-breaks before he realized where he was.

“Also seen on the campus these days is the ‘Stag jump’ type. They usually carry a flower in their teeth
and glide over the tops of parked cars in leaps and bounds. A professor, meandering into Science Hall one morning,
observed an example of this type sliding down the bannister. When he asked the young gentleman the reason for his
odd behavior, the reply was, ‘Odd, did you say odd, doctor? You see, I’m in love. And I just feel
so loose.’ With this the young man bowed gracefully, did three back flips out the door, walked on his hands
to Main, climbed the ivy, rang the bell from the outside and when last seen, was floating over the stadium
on a pink cloud. The professor picked up his pipe.

“Then, of course, there is the jealous type. You can spot this type easily. They invariably have green eyes, and
usually carry a concealed weapon. You see them peering around corners at their girls getting off the bus, or hiding
in the bushes beside the library steps. If one looks at their girls more than once, he is required to
send an explanation in triplicate or be challenged to a duel.

“The ‘Budding Romeo’ type is dashing. He sings under the windows of the sorority houses. He throws blossoms to the
girl in the window. They put the blossoms into pots and throw them back at him. Since the vines at
the houses are inadequate, he climbs up sheets tied together to reach his love. He hardly ever reaches her. Some
smart cat in a lower window always unties a knot, and he falls on his face. But he is happy.
He is in love.

“The last, and saddest type is the ‘Injured Heart’ lover. He sits in class and broods over his blighted life.
An instructor recently asked one of this type if he thought Winston Churchill would win power again. The stricken lover
answered listlessly, “If you want him, darling, take him, I'll not stand in your way.”

“The music was nice,” replied the little girl when the minister asked how she liked the service, “but I thought
your commercial was too long.”

WATCH REPAIRS

On How To Pass Tests And Influence Profs.
By JOE DUDLEY

Tomorrow morning I will battle with my History review. For the past week I have been forcing all thoughts of
the test into my subconscious mind; now they have fought themselves out, and are shrieking through my brain. This morning
I had planned to study, but this afternoon, as I walked to the library, a friend of mine suggested that
we play a game of ping-pong. Realizing that a few minutes of relaxation would put my mind in a proper
stage for study, I accepted his challenge. Hours later, feeling that I was properly relaxed, I ambled up to the
library where I promptly immured myself in heavy cogitation for thirty long minutes. Only the pangs of hunger forced me
to leave my studies and go to supper.

After eating, I hurried to my room and sat down at my desk, prepared to wrestle with the obscure facts
of the Northern Renaissance. I flipped open the History book and started to study. To my dismay, in clomped my
two loquacious roommates as quiet as a frightened herd of water buffaloes. Both of them began to display their skill
as experienced raconteurs. While I pretended to be concentrating on history, I was really listening to their piquant stories of
the Homecoming parties. Soon I was drawn into their conversation, and my work was utterly disregarded. We talked until midnight,
then they went to bed as I turned back to Charles V. An hour dragged slowly by, while I battled
to free myself from the black quagmire of ignorance. It was no use, I persuaded myself. Instead of studying, the
best thing for me to do was to go to bed and get some sleep, so that I would wake
up feeling fresh. Oh, how many students has that idea ruined? Although I did not know Martin Luther from Queen
Elizabeth, I contentedly rolled into bed, and went peacefully to sleep with visions of Phi Beta Kappa wafting through my
head.

FUZZY FIZZIES
(Continued From Page Two)

pares him to assume a man’s role in the intellectual and moral life of his community. And the absence of
opposition does not in itself create strength of character or of mind. That is why it is important that we
encounter now other points of view; that we know students and hear speakers who are not only mildly interested in
other beliefs, but are passionately convinced.

ELLIOTT

SOCIAL SCIENCE REFORM
(Continued From Page Two)

Steps in American Democracy,” with monopolies, he never once mentioned labor, nor did anyone. Such a use of statistics we
have never witnessed before. For instance, how many people in America know that four brutally tyrannic corporations constitute a monopoly
controlling all the production of distilled liquor and baking soda? (While he was giving this fluent display of figures, brother
Wright was laughing up his sleeve). When the forum was opened to questions from the floor, and the good Senator
was asked his opinion on Labor, Lewis in particular, he demurred with the answer that “Lewis is a monarch,” and
refused to say more. The stand taken by him on the virtually dictatorial sugar policy of the U.S., (where one
man has the absolute authority to say how much sugar will be consumed by the American people each year), was...Equally
non-committal. Douglas muttered something about prices going down if too much sugar were brought in but neglected to say anything
about their going up if the quota were reduced. We must give him credit for his amazing control of figures,
however, to suit his needs. Given time, he could undoubtedly have proven rather easily that the moon is made of
green cheese. At any large meeting of this type, there is always an undercurrent of opinion, usually just rumor, but
sometimes stemming from something concrete. The big topic of the evening at this one was the vet. Louis Hacker is
resigned to Socialism in practice, i.e., he doesn't object to it. By itself, that rumor doesn't hold much, but couple
it with the fact that he played the ultra-conservative throughout the conference and was apparently quite upset on several occasions
that he couldn't say certain things in support of various phases of Socialism, and you have an interesting picture. What
made him keep his mouth shut? Perhaps he wanted to keep the issue away from his colleagues, particularly Douglas. Had
the conference not been ridden with the stench of politics, it would have undoubtedly been much better. And although the
speakers did occasionally go in circles, they did something concrete by the very virtue of the centrifugal force of their
spinning. All in all, the conference was pretty good, and the W.C. sessions were a constant source of stimulation.

Session With Edmund Spencer Halted When Theatre Gives 'Call Of The Wild'
By PETE KALOGRIDIS

Tuesday night and still I haven't read those selections from the Faerie Queene. Should have read them two weeks ago.
Oh well, I still have tonight and the review is tomorrow. Let me see... it’s 4:05. I'll just glance forward
a few pages and see where it ends. Page 431! That's outrageous; how in the world am I expected to
read all that by tonight? A lot it matters to ole Bloodless. Why, it’s a fact that he gives us
an assignment every other class period. Guys like him take the joy out of living. What's the use of thinking
about it? I’ve just got to put that ‘F’ up to an ‘R’. Guess I'll be forced to read it
at least. Bloodless said that Spencer was called the “Poet's Poet.” Well, why did he have to take it out
on us? Damn boring ole introduction! Drat that noise. Oh, it's my roommates. No, thanks, can't make it tonight. No,
not this time—I played bridge all afternoon with good luck so the cards are sure to change if I play
tonight. Guess I'll be forced to go to the library and study. It’s peaceful there anyhow. Finished the introduction! Just
7:30—I have plenty of time. Library looks pretty crowded tonight. There’s a vacant place by Joe. Hi, Joe, studied for
the review yet? What? You're on that ole dud Spenser too. He's a real pain, isn’t he? How far are
you? Page 430. What's the mess about? Say you're still trying to figure that one out? If you, a good
“D” student, had trouble, I'll never get through it. Eight o'clock now; still on the first stanza. Wherein old dints
of deep wounds did remain. Wait a minute; I haven't checked the P.O. but twice today. Forgot to go down
after supper. Won't take but a minute to run down now. Well, I'm back. Can't understand why she hasn't written.
I guess she's pretty busy. But three weeks is a pretty long time. Haven't heard since I wrote her that
I was coming home Thanksgiving. Wonder if anything is wrong? Don't have time to worry, and it’s 8:30. His cruel
marks of many a bloody field. Gee, it's cold in here. No wonder, look at that window. There, I've closed
it. Confound it! Who opened that window again? Some stupid freshman no doubt. If freshmen had brains, they would probably
play with them. Well, I've closed it again. His angry steel did chide his foaming bit. What's that Joe? You're
through with the new “Life”? Think I'll look over it. Better hurry though. What a waste of time! Not a
thing in the whole magazine except a report on the economic structure of the country. Where was I... “A Gentle
Knight was pricking on the plains Y--clad in nightie arms and silver shield. More knights in this ole English stuff.
Suppose I'll run into a few thousand dragons before I’m through. Say, Joe, who’s going to win the Carolina-Notre Dame
game Saturday? Got any ideas? Don't agree with him but I've got no time to argue. Let's see... still on
the first stanza. Full jolly knight he seemed, and fair did sit, as one for knightly quests and fierce encounters
fit. Whew! Finally finished that first stanza. Where are you going, Joe? To the cinema? What's playing? Spokane in the
Lighthouse or The Light That Failed. No, I'd like to but I have to stay here and study—But it’s getting
awful warm in here. Making me too sleepy to study. And if I open a window it will be too
cold. Can’t even go back to the room because there will be too much noise there. Nine o'clock now; still
in the first stanza. Just a few hundred more and I'll be through. I know what I'll do. I'll get
up at five—well, six, and read the rest of this. Wait up a minute for me, Joe!

Tension is necessary to growth. Davidson cannot undergird us merely by indoctrinating us; she must teach us the art of
evaluation. We arrive at college with a certain set of opinions and ideas, moral, political, and social. By the time
we graduate, we should not only have become conscious of what those ideas are, but we should have reached some
decision as to their value. We can do this only if we collide with other standards and so have a
basis for comparison. Thus we can test our own intellectual and moral fiber—and develop it for later, more stringent tests.
For we cannot stay at Davidson forever. In regard to the aforementioned comments of those who want Davidson to preserve
an iron-clad version of the status quo, we may observe that denial of the right of free speech will make
us no more democratic; a scorn of “East-Side Jews” will make us no more Christian; and an implied equating of
“Calvinistic Christianity and free enterprise democracy” will make us no more clear-minded. Davidson must be “higher ground” in the real
sense; we will not be satisfied to let her become a haystack sheltering the tender-minded.

Advice For Women
Keep away from track men—they're unusually fast.
Never make dates with biology students—they enjoy cutting up.
Watch out for the baseball man—he hits and runs.
Be careful of the dramatic member—he usually has several good lines.
Don't play cards with a civil engineer—he’s a bridge specialist.
Always let the band members talk about themselves—they enjoy blowing their own horn.

Winthrop Johnsonian

Norman Hays, Oklahoma A&M, '40
Aviation Executive, U.S. Air Force

A native of Grove, Oklahoma, Norman Hays graduated from Grove High School in 1935. The following year he entered Oklahoma
A&M, where he majored in engineering; he also took public speaking. Active in the national 4H Club while in college,
he helped organize its statewide activities and won a national 4H championship in Public Speaking. In 1940, he received his
BS degree in engineering. A month later, he began navigator training as a Cadet. In 1941, he received his navigator’s
wings and a commission as Second Lieutenant. He married his college sweetheart. Typical of college graduates who have found their
place in the U.S. Air Force, Major Hays is Chief, Navigation Section, at Headquarters in Washington, with a secure career
and a promising future. Sent to an RAF Navigation School in Canada, he graduated with the highest possible rating of
Specialist. Norman served overseas for 18 months in the European Theater, Italy, and Saipan. Accepting a regular commission after the
war, he was assigned to the development of navigation instruments; he navigated the B-29 “Pacusan Dreamboat” on its famed Hawaii-Cairo
non-stop flight in 1946.

W. S. HENDERSON
Only the best can be Aviation Cadets!
