Lack of space, and in many cases, lack of information have been two big reasons why a story on Davidson’s golf team has not appeared on the Sports Page. While this does not in any sense resemble a story, we would like to state a few facts that may be of some interest.

FRESHMEN NETTERS WIN ANOTHER
Friday, May 6, 1949
DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS PAGE THREE

Roddey & Company
Abbey Takes Slug Fest with Kittens; Bow to Va; W. & M.
Yearling Netmen Win Over Crusaders
By JACK STEVENSON

Davidson's red hot frosh netters, by FURMAN WARLICK, had little trouble in keeping their victory record unblemished as they breezed by Belmont Abbey, 9-0. In a heavy hitting and loosely fielded game, the team of Belmont Abbey was able to slug out a 16-10 victory over the freshmen baseball team. The Abbey pounded three Davidson hurlers, Craven, Smith, and Taylor, for a total of eleven hits, getting two more than the Wildkittens were able to muster. The Kitten half walked six Belmont men, but made six of the miscues, aiding greatly to the Abbey's victory by committing a total of ten miscues.

In the singles matches, Strand, Stevenson, Wade, Hammond, and Blake bumped off the Abbey netters in that order. Keesler and Strand teamed up for the doubles match; Stevenson and Hammond, No. 3 Crusaders, went down swinging. Guiton and Futrell led the Davidson hitting—Guiton getting two for five, and Futrell put one high in the centerfield bleachers in a tremendous drive for an automatic double.

In the fifth came the biggest blow for the Wildkittens, but it was bitterly disputed by the Abbey. With the bases loaded, Futrell came up and belted a hot one to shortstop who errored it and the ball continued to the left-fielder, who errored it also. By the time the ball came back in play, all four Davidson men had scored. The Abbey Coach disputed the decision, claiming that since the ball went behind the grandstand it should only be a double.

From the standpoint of excitement, the slugfest was ideal, but it lacked a little from the viewpoint of heads-up, good fielding baseball. Clean-up slugger Lambeth belted a triple with the bases loaded.

In the first place, Davidson's golf team is the only varsity organization that functions without direct aid from the athletic department. Boys who are interested in the game meet together, without supervision from the athletic staff, work out their own schedules, make arrangements for all practice sessions, and furnish their own transportation to and from practice and matches. Bob Carson has been responsible for arranging all of the aforementioned and has done a commendable job at it.

The fact that Davidson is some twenty miles from a course makes transportation and practice no small problem. Each time the team wishes to practice, they have to obtain their own transportation to and from Charlotte, which has worked out fairly well this year because a couple of the boys have cars on the campus. But next year, these cars won't be available, so that situation must be coped with.

Financial aid is furnished the men of the team by the college, but that is far from adequate. It has been estimated that the amount spent per player at one of our larger North Carolina institutions is nearly the amount that is allotted for the activities of all of Davidson’s players. It is true that they have sought out good golf talent and therefore must support them, and while it is generally against Davidson’s policy to do this, it seems that a sufficient sum should be expended for Davidson’s team, which has some pretty good golfers itself. All they need is a little more support.

Sports Quiz
1. What is the only tie game ever made in an American College football game, between whom was it played, and when did it take place?
2. Who was the only fighter ever to knock out Joe Louis?
3. Who won the 49th Annual North-South Amateur Golf Tournament?
4. What ball club was he playing for at that time?

Rules for Quiz
Answer each question correctly.to put EEE EM

2.) Submit answers on plain paper with name, dormitory, room number, date, and exact time of entry. It's time that people know that!

By DAN McKEITHAN

Monty says that his Greensboro home is located beside the golf course there, and upon further questioning, it was learned that in his younger days he literally lived on the course. He received early recognition when he captured the Junior State championship when in the ninth grade, also winning the North-South Carolina tournament later that year.

In leading his teammates to a win over High Point a couple of weeks ago, he turned in a scorching 65 which tied the amateur mark for that course that has been standing for several years. In winning, and losing, during matches this spring, Monty has posted par-breaking scores on more than one occasion, and he should make a good showing for himself in the Southern Conference Golf Tournament in Winston-Salem next weekend.

The Big Train — Walter Johnson.

Joe Richert and his crew of lifters journey to Chapel Hill this weekend to pit brawn against the Tar Heels in a return meet which promises to be a honey. Davidson's chances may be slightly weakened by the recent sickness of Al Cook, but from here, it looks like another close one.

Last Week’s Winners:
1. Phil Libby
2. Herbert Gladstone
3. Charlie Hughes

For Smoothness and Styling — Forever And Ever — A NEW DECCA DISC

Most Likely to Succeed... styled in the Mor-For-Me, Pat — MILONESS TEST WON

Choose a Champion to share your future. MILONESS! CAMELS ARE SO MILD!

Russ likes smooth music and mild cigarettes. "Camels," says Russ, "they’re my idea of a mild, fine-tasting smoke!"

Have this able assistant at your fingertips... always ready to transfer your thoughts and inspirations to paper... ready to help in your progress and advancement.

PROVED CHAMPION FEATURES THAT SPELL S-U-C-C-E-S-S:
RINGLESS KEY Tops + + + Scientifically designed Finger-Form keys. Your Underwood Champion Portable is a complete personal typewriter... with every feature you need to assure the finest quality work.

FULL CIRCLE CONCAVE KEY SURFACES + comfort to busy fingers, DUAL TOUCH TUNING. Adjusts all keys simultaneously... or single keys... to your individual touch, easily.

VARIABLE LINE SPACER... a big Underwood typewriter feature now on your Portable.

STANDARD RIBBON... same as in the office machines.

SNAP-ON CARRYING CASE... handy, smart, compact.

Count on your Underwood to help get things done quickly, easily, and accurately. Count on this Champion to boost your chances of joining those "Most Likely To Succeed."

In a recent coast-to-coast test of hundreds of men and women who smoked Camels, and only Camels, for 30 days, noted throat specialists, making weekly examinations, reported NOT ONE SINGLE CASE OF THROAT IRRITATION due to smoking CAMELS!

Underwood Corporation
Typewriters... Adding Machines... Accounting Machines... Carbon Paper... Ribbons
One Park Avenue, New York 16, N.Y.
Underwood Limited, Toronto 1, Canada
Sales and Service Everywhere

The Underwood Champion Portable Typewriter