Recent happenings on the diamond have shown that Coach Charley Jamerson has fashioned a baseball team. After a disastrous southern
swing during spring holidays, the locals have bounced back to carve several notches in the victory column. He has unearthed
a mound corps which may help him forget Dick Marlowe. Charleton Torrence looked great in both his outings against N.C.
State. He gave up six hits both times, but loose infield play cost him the first contest. He showed signs
of tiring in the ninth inning in last week's verdict, but managed to hold out to the end. Dutch Hengeveld
looked effective in stopping William and Mary on six hits, but wildness cost him the tussle against South Carolina. Dutch
has also swung a mean bat in his few plate appearances. Unofficially, he is the top batter on the club.
Lefty Jim Hunter came up with a nifty exhibition in pinning a 7-5 defeat on The Citadel. He gave up
nine hits, according to the Charleston scorekeeper, but the Davidson scorer, Jim Rittervold, charted four of these to infield miscues.
Ritter sides with the latter’s judgment. If Norman Whiteheart was eligible for trips, Jamerson would worry even less. Scholastic difficulties
have nailed Norman to duty only on the local hill. His absence was probably most sorely felt at Columbia when
South Carolina picked at a Davidson lead and came home the winner. Bill Bird’s showing at third base has more
than lived up to expectations. Bill was the number two man at the plate last year behind Auburn Lambeth’s potent
mark. This year the hot corner guardian is pacing the crew with an average which is hovering around .380. He
and Lambeth both slammed home runs in the South Carolina tilt. Buddy Chandler turned the trick against The Citadel and
Charley Pearson had previously done it against State. Orchids should also go out to Bert Anderton and Dick Richards who
have filled what appeared to be gaping holes at the season's outset. They have taken over the outfield berths vacated
by Jack Burris and Carl Shepard. Both Anderton and Richards are seniors and have been around for several years. Bert
alternated at third base with Bird, and Dick was listed as a pitcher, though he has at various times filled
in at first base and in the garden.

Coach Derrick Barton fielded a freshman tennis squad this past week which followed right in the steps of the varsity
in its quest of all comers. Friday, they had little trouble in trouncing Central High of Charlotte, 6-2. Alan Strand,
Jack Stevenson, and Pete Kalogridis had little trouble in grinding out wins. Dewey Keesler, playing number one, faced a sterner
test as he had to come from behind to top kid brother Lacy. Only Ham Wade and Sandy Morton found
the prep lads too tough. In doubles, Stevenson paired with Keesler and Wade teamed with Strand to hang up two
more verdicts. Kalogridis and Morton were ahead when their match was halted by darkness. Up at Raleigh Tuesday, the Yearling
netmen turned the trick again and came home with another 6-2 triumph. Strand, Keesler, Stevenson, and Kalogridis came out on
top and the same winning combinations as in the Central match were victorious. The third doubles match was halted by
darkness with Kalogridis and Morton holding the edge. Barton should find tennis material for several years if the present crop
of frosh continue at this pace. The completion of three lower courts has been a definite aid to the racquet
wielders. The last four are being worked on and should soon be in playing shape.

Appearing elsewhere on this page is the second weekly Chesterfield Sports Quiz. This contest is sponsored by Chesterfield through Dave
Archibald, its campus representative. The response last week was good and if continued, the contest will last the rest of
the year. Bill Bucky is doing the spade work in the quiz and all answers should be turned in to
him in room 307 West.

WHATEVER YOUR NEEDS
SUITS
HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
TIES
SHOES
and the 101 other things,
SHOP EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP
STREET FLOOR

TRACK TEAMS TO MEET IN DOUBLE-HEADER SATURDAY
Friday, April 1, 1949
DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS PAGE THREE

Track Teams To Meet Here Saturday
Davidson's varsity and freshman track squads will stage a double-header meet here tomorrow afternoon with the varsity cindermen playing host
to Mercer and the Kittens taking on Mars Hill Junior College. Freshman events will be run off immediately following varsity
events and weight and field events will be run simultaneously according to Coach Pete Whittle. The meet will get underway
at 1:30. Both Davidson teams were victorious in their first meets of the spring last weekend, the varsity squad avenging
a 1948 loss with a sound 85-41 walloping of South Carolina, while the freshmen topped High Point High School there,
76-45. Jim Vann and Jack Gray, double winners for the Wildcats last Saturday, will be two of Whittle’s top men
again today. Vann won the shot and discus against the Gamecocks, and Gray breezed to wins in the 880 and
mile runs. The Davidsonians, who failed to take firsts in the 100 and 220 only in the track events last
week, will be very strong in the high and low hurdles with Bill Pritchett, Ed Hopper, and Tom Haller topping
the timber. Ken Goodpasture and Rivers Jenkins, who finished second and third to South Carolina's McKenzie in a 9.8 100
last week, both turned in excellent times and will give the Cats two strong men in the sprints.

Tennis Squad Tops Yale Bulldogs 6-1
The skies were clear and the grandstands full when the Yale “Bulldogs” took the courts against the Cat netters here
last Thursday. The Davidson men won 6 to 1 in a match which was first interrupted by rain, then finally
played in a drizzle. This important victory brought the Cat total to five this season against no defeats. Peddy Keesler
gave a preview of what was to come as he handily won over Dick Hunt of Yale, 6-0, 6-2. Meanwhile,
on adjunct courts, Mike Williams was downing hard-hitting Charlie Lynch of Yale, 6-0, 6-4, and Whit Cobb was defeating Bob
Carr, the Yale “man with the serve,” 6-4, 6-2. The skies looked dark as Bob Roddey, Cat ace, and Yale's
Reb Ray took to the court. Ray was spectacular in the warm-up, and things began to...Look dark all over to
the prejudiced spectators. But Bo Roddey's consistently accurate and well-placed shots soon had Ray on the defensive. Roddey took the
first set, 6-2. Soon after the (Continued on Page Four)

Sports Quiz
1. What is the longest boxing bout on record?
2. Who won the Decathlon event in the 1948 Olympic games and what country did he represent?
3. In what sport is the Calder trophy given annually to the rookie of the year?
4. In boxing’s 147-pound class who is the present holder of the world’s title?

Rules
1. Answer each question correctly.
2. Submit answers on plain paper with name, dormitory, room number, date, and EXACT time of entry.
3. Turn answer sheets into room 307 West.
4. Every week the first three entirely correct entries submitted will each receive a carton of Chesterfields.
5. Each weekly contest will close exactly two days after the Davidsonian is distributed among the student body, and the
winners will be notified shortly thereafter.
6. No one on the Davidsonian staff is eligible to enter.

Last Week’s Winners
1—L. V. Hockman
2—Earl Schoenberger
3—Morris Morgan

Last Week’s Answers
1—Fannie Blankers-Koen
2—Jesse Owens—26’ 8¾”
3—Rogers Hornsby, Avg. .424
4—Mauri Rose

INTRODUCIN' ...
By DAN McKEITHEN

“The most outstanding student in the class” was the honor to which Bill Bird was elected when he was awarded
a sizable scholarship. There he had been on the varsity football, basketball, and baseball teams for three years. In his
senior year, he was co-captain of the basketball team which was state runner-up and he was named to the All-Tournament
team.

At Davidson, Bill has continued his outstanding record and was recognized by being elected president of the Junior Class. His
activities list the Beaver Club, “D” Club, Student Council, and member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity which recently elected
him to serve as Pan Hellenic Council representative.

Bill has played three years of varsity baseball and it’s on the hot corner of the Davidson diamond where he
has really shown his stuff. Last season he turned in a .320-plus batting average and this year he's hitting at
a .380 clip, showing that he’s not shy in the base-hit department. Possessor of a whip-like arm, he robs opposing
batters of infield hits, and another asset, his speed, makes him dangerous on the base paths as he steals bases
and stretches his hits. Probably Bill's most remembered (Continued on Page Four)

Davidson’s rapidly improving baseball team broke even on an invasion of South Carolina last weekend, falling to the University of
South Carolina, 10-8, on Friday, but out-classing the Citadel nine 7-4, the next day. The Citadel win was the first
time the Cats had been able to overcome a S.C. team this year.

Dutch Hengeveld drew the twirling assignment for the Gamecock tilt. He went the route while issuing eight bases on balls
and allowing 12 hits. Frank Shaver, Bird, and Shaver each hit a home run in the contest.

Both teams scored three runs in the first inning, one in the third, and two in the fifth. Adding three
in the sixth and one in the seventh, the Gamecocks built up a safe lead. The Cats added two in
the top of the seventh for their final scoring.

Auburn Lambeth exploded for four base knocks in five trips to the plate, including a double and a homer.

Moving on to Charleston, the Cats turned back the Citadel in their opening game on Saturday (Continued on Page Four)

SPECIAL OFFER TO THE GRADUATING CLASS... JUNE 49

You May Be Accepted for an Early U.S. Air Force Aviation Cadet Training Class

If you are a college graduate, married or single, between the ages of 20 and 26½ and physically and morally
qualified, you may be accepted in the U.S. Air Force Aviation Cadet classes starting in early fall. You get a
well-planned course, valued at $35,000; this includes about 275 hours of flight training, and the finest aviation education and executive
training in the world. Win your wings and then start a career with a future... College men are today’s leaders
of the U.S. Air Force. With new and complex aircraft and equipment being developed, scientific research becomes more and more
important, increasing the need for college-trained men. As a college graduate, you will have an unlimited future in aviation fields
of personnel management, operations, matériel, supply, research, and development. It’s a year of learning, flying, and time for recreation with
a hand-picked top-string team of Americans. Upon assignment to an Aviation Cadet class, you will be sent to one of
the U.S. Air Force bases in Texas for the world’s finest aviation training. Here you will receive about 175 hours
of flying instruction in the Texan T-6 trainer plus an extensive course in aviation education and executive training. Navigation, fuels,
weather, radio, and radar are some of the subjects you will take. During this training period, you'll find plenty of
hard, fast action to keep you fit and trim... the best athletic facilities are available. Upon completion of training, you
will win your silver wings and receive a Reserve commission as second lieutenant in the U.S. Air Force. Outstanding graduates
receive Regular commissions upon graduation.

U.S. AIR FORCE OFFICER CANDIDATE SCHOOL FOR COLLEGE GRADUATES

Single or married men with two years of college (or who can pass an equivalent examination) between ages of 20
and 26½ with high physical and moral qualifications, act now! Get full details at your nearest Air Force Base or
Recruiting Office or write: Chief of Staff, Headquarters United States Air Force, Attention Aviation Cadet Branch, Washington 25, D.C.
