Everybody had it marked down as a certainty that Davidson’s gridders were due to bounce back from their defeat by St. Louis and cop a victory over Richmond for the thousands of alumni and friends who were on the campus last Saturday. As is known too well, this was not the case and the Wildcats were handed another sound thrashing. The question everybody is asking now is when will it stop? One guess is as good as another.

HOW LONG WILL IT LAST?

The team might well straighten up against W&L this weekend; on the other hand, it could be another case of Davidson coming out on the short end of the game. Obvious reasons make it easy to understand why. But Davidson backers aren’t so much interested in seeing a win this Saturday as they are in seeing the Cats pull themselves together again and play the type of ball that they can play and have played before. A question that has been asked so much recently until it has become almost trite is “What’s wrong with the team?” We've been wondering about it too, and so a good deal of time has been spent by us in talking to persons who should know, mainly members of the team and alumni who were active in athletics here at Davidson not so long ago. They all agreed that the trouble lies in the fact that the “team appears to have lost the traditional Davidson spirit to win.” That’s a pretty strong statement but it seems to be generally accepted.

Naturally, there are exceptions to this opinion. It goes without saying that there are a number of players who take the field and play their hearts out. But that is not enough unless they all have that same fight and spirit. Never before in the past several decades has anybody been able to say that a Davidson eleven lost a game because of lack of spirit. It’s just not synonymous with a Davidson team. Let’s hope that the rest of the games which the Cats play this year will bear this out.

INTERFRATERNITY GAMES PRODUCE INJURIES

If anybody has the idea that the interfraternity touch football games which are being played aren't rough, their presence is invited to some of these contests. Line play is fierce and the blocking is generally terrific. Numerous black eyes, bruised limbs, and knots would testify to this if they had a chance. During the past week, two players sustained painful injuries which required medical attention. They are by no means the only ones—just the most recent. Most of these injuries couldn't be helped, but there have been many cases where unnecessary roughness, slugging, etc., haven’t helped any. Illegal blocks, clipping, and slugging and holding in the line all take their toll in injuries—most of them not serious, but injuries nevertheless. Football, even touch football, was meant to be rough, but it was also meant to be played according to certain rules. The remedy, of course, is for every man to do his best to “keep it clean.” Even then there will be injuries, but they won't be so numerous, for sure. The officials for these games can do their part by imposing penalties, repeatedly if necessary, against teams whose players disregard the rules of the game.

BETA SQUAD SOMETHING TO WATCH

While on the subject of interfraternity football, we'd like to make mention of the Beta squad which is coached by Murray Ashman. Last week we predicted that they would win the championship, but that’s not enough said. The Betas have as good a team as has graced this campus in many years. Their ball handling is excellent, and they run plays like veterans. Offensively, the team is just as deadly on the ground as it is in the air, which is plenty deadly due to the bullet-like heaves of tailback Earl Smith. Ashman has done a great job with his squad this year. Not only are they the team to beat this year, but a look at their returning players makes them look mighty potent for next year as well.

TIME OUT! By Chet Smith

“Listen Smitz—won't you ever learn when to start your turn!”

CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
John Mack and Son
Phone 239
Mooresville, N. C.

HENRY WILSON
WILDCAT OF THE WEEK
By CHERRY STRIBLING

A bright spot in an otherwise dark and sad day for the Homecoming fans Saturday was the brilliant defensive play of Henry Wilson. Henry was all over the field and must have been in on three-fourths of the tackles. All the adjectives could be used to describe his play Saturday, such as “alert, rough, superb, a real linebacker.” Playing theCenter slot in a 5-3-2-1, Henry broke up many of the Richmond running plays and brought down the heavier Spider backs time after time with shoestring tackles. When it comes to sizing up a play, Henry seems to have a sixth sense. Big blocking backs of opposing clubs try to move him out, but somehow he manages to be the man that bottles up the potential gain. It’s also not unusual to see No. 34 pull down a runner who has tried an end sweep. Henry may not always get his man, but when he does, he usually gets him in a way that the opposing player knows he's been got. He’s a Wildcat with plenty of fight and scrap. Coach Charley Jamerson calls Henry, who weighs in at around 160, “the roughest little center in America,” and no one after seeing Saturday’s game can doubt that statement. Henry keeps in shape during the off-season by wrestling, and he certainly pinned those Spider backs in a way they won't forget. Lil’ Henry prepped at Woodberry Forest where he was outstanding in football, wrestling, and scholarship work. He calls Morganton, N.C. home. Among his extracurricular activities is singing some good mountain music in Hal Haynes’ hillbilly band, and he does that almost as well as he plays football.

Freshman Harriers Notch First Win
By DICK LILES

The Davidson College Freshman cross country team broke into the win column last weekend when they defeated the varsity squad of Lees-McRae Junior College, 22 to 33. The teams competed over 2.3 miles, and Staley of Davidson dashed in first with a 12:23 mark. Sechler, of Lees-McRae, came in second at 12:52. Henry and Smith, both of Davidson, tied for third with 13:15 each, and Hollander clinched fifth with 13:31. Patterson, Epperson, Bill Smith, Kepler, and Berry were respectively sixth through tenth. Kepler is the only Davidson man in the last named. Davidson got in the first, third, fourth, fifth, and ninth man. Coach Whittle was very impressed with the team’s win. It was the first time that the Davidson frosh had beaten the Lees-McRae squad. Freshman Kenneth Smith, tied with Bob Henry for third place, bested his older brother, Bill, of Lees-McRae, a former cross country letterman of Davidson. Coach Whittle will depend on Tom Staley, Bob Henry, Kenneth Smith, and Herman Hollander to get in those first ten places when the team meets Duke frosh on November 9.

Win At W. & L.
Cross Country Squad Trips Randolph-Macon
By BILL ADAMS

Davidson's harriers opened Homecoming proceedings in a big way Saturday, handing Randolph-Macon’s cross country team a convincing 20-42 shellacking on Richardson Field in a non-conference meet. The win makes two victories in a row for the Presbyterians against an opening day defeat. Again leading the Wildcats to the tape was Blake Bradley, who took first place in the meet. Close behind Bradley were Tom Stockton, Dave Anderson, and Dick Stockton, who finished third, fourth, and fifth, respectively. For the second straight meet, the entire Red and Black squad of eight men had finished before Randolph-Macon’s number five man could cross the finish line, a hard feat made harder by the absence of “honeymooning” Grube from the team, and giving convincing proof of the depth and all-around ability of Coach Whittle’s '49 team. Boys to be especially commended for Saturday’s performance are Bradley and Anderson. For Bradley, it was his first tape-breaking of the year, although he has been running very fast times. For Anderson, it marked the first time in his career that he has covered the four-mile course in less than 23 minutes. He finished in 22:55 Saturday, again bettering his previous efforts as he seems to do each new trip around the track. Also to be praised are the Stockton boys, who seem to have furnished the depth lacking from last year's squad. 

Randolph-Macon failed to produce the kind of competition expected since they had defeated Washington and Lee the week before. Burns ran very well for them in finishing second close behind Bradley, but the rest of the team was left far behind. Coach Whittle was pleased with his squad and complimented them for their hard work, which is just what cross country requires. He stated that they were “coming around nicely” and hoped for another fine showing at Washington and Lee this coming Saturday. Results: (1) Bradley (D), 21:57; (2) Burns (RM), 22:16; (3) T. Stockton (D), 22:26; (4) Anderson (D), 22:55; (5) D. Stockton, 23:05; (6) Woods (RM), 23:17; (7) Long (D), 23:30; (8) Patterson (D), 23:59; (9) Lee (D), 24:09; (10) Evans (RM), 24:20; (11) Hanes (RM), 24:31; (12) McKeithen (D), 24:37; (13) Shendon (RM), 25:30; (14) Argras (RM), 26:57; (15) Werner (RM), 28:21.

Reward Offered

ORIENTAL BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Presbyterian Hopes Are Dim For Homecoming
By BILL WHITE

Davidson's Wildcats wend their way into Virginia today for the first of two weekends at Lexington, and, in their crippled condition, looking for a win against Washington and Lee might be likened to the pursuit of the proverbial needle in the haystack. The Generals of George Barclay boast every bit as good a club as the one which edged Coach Charley Jamerson’s Cats here 21-20 in what was probably the best game from the standpoint that the Cats turned in last fall. Washington and Lee dropped one just about like that last weekend, losing to George Washington, 21-19, and they will be up for this one as it is their homecoming to boot. Big 290-pound Jerry Jack, a familiar figure on the field last fall at guard, fullback Henry Mastriann, and quarterback Ray Leister are three top performers from last season's club who may well spell trouble for the hapless Wildcats. 

Of interest to Davidsonians is Talbot Trammell from McCallie, called by W&L sports drum beaters as possibly the best all-round athlete at the school in two decades. A brilliant end, he’ll be a threat constantly on the receiving end of passes. The picture for the Presbyterians looms little brighter than it did one week ago. C. L. Runyan, Hal Mapes, and Bob Sharpe are almost certainties to miss this one, too, and the Davidson attack is considerably crippled without these sterling performers. It'll again be Ham Wade and Rhea Adams at full for Runyan with wingback Jimmy Sifford doubling up for punting chores. Jimmy Fasul is slated to fill in for Sharpe again, as he did creditably all afternoon against the Spiders, and Bob Turk, another nice looker in his first appearance, will hold down Mapes’ post. At least Coach Charley and staff can be thankful that Henry Wilson and Jerry Kiser are not completely out. Wilson is still suffering from a back bruise, but if he and big Jerry live up to this past Saturday afternoon’s performances, nothing more could be asked. Bright notes despite the fact that tailbacks Auburn Lambeth and Cliff Turner are on the injured list are found in the fine play turned in by Carnegie's filler, big Bill McNeely, and back-from-the-injured-list Dick Blanks. Both boys looked impressive in the Richmond rout. Davidson will again bank on Lambeth if the injury-shot line can give the slim sharpshooter some protection. With the ground attack crippled, Auburn is still the ace in Charley’s hand.

A fighting Barium High School team went down in defeat to a much heavier and more experienced Wildcat “B” team, 18-6. It was fullback Bill Bowers’ terrific line plunges for as much as 20 yards per jaunt and “Slimey” Sloan's tricky running that spelled defeat for the Tornadoes from Barium. Hilliard was the big threat for Barium.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
WEEK OF OCT. 31-NOV. 5
MON. - TUE.
“EASY LIVING”
Victor Mature - Lucille Ball
WEDNESDAY - THURSDAY
“SONG OF SURRENDER”
Wanda Hendrix - Claude Rains
FRIDAY - SATURDAY
“THE RED DANUBE”
Walter Pidgeon - Peter Lawford