PAGE SIX THE DAVIDSONIAN - FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1949

VA To Deduct for Overpayments

North Carolina veterans who owe the Government money as the result of overpayments on veterans benefits may find all or part of their share of the forthcoming special dividend payment on National Service Life Insurance deducted to cover their debts, the Veterans Administration announced today.

Records of the North Carolina VA Regional Office here show that about 7,737 veterans owe the Government approximately $749,000 as a result of overpayments on subsistence allowances on GI Bill schooling and training, pension, compensation, readjustment allowances, and losses made good to lenders on defaulted GI loans. Just how much of the total figure will be collected from dividend deductions cannot be ascertained this far in advance. The present schedule calls for the first payments from the $2.8 billion NSLI dividend fund to go into the mails sometime in January 1950 to some 16 million veterans over the nation.

Nationally, some 60,000 veterans are currently indebted to the VA for a total of about 70 million dollars, and VA officials in Washington estimate that between 20 and 30 million dollars of such debts may be collected from the NSLI dividends. A considerable number of veterans are now repaying indebtedness by having deductions made from their monthly checks. When the overpayment is wiped out, as it may be by the dividend deductions, there will be no further monthly withholding.

Rejuvenated IRC Reveals Policies

Plans for a revised version of the IRC took definite shape at its bi-weekly meeting last Tuesday night which forecasts a bright future for coming years. After an appeal to all old members to lend their support in building the club back to its pre-war standards, action was taken by those who responded. All who did not answer the appeal were dropped from the roll. The members who did show interest will form the nucleus of a small dynamic club replacing the large disinterested forces of recent years.

Actions taken by the club are as follows:
1. The club membership will become honorary.
2. Requirements for membership will be a definite interest shown in the affairs of the club and a recommendation from either a present member or the history, political science, or related departments.
3. One recommended must pass the approval of the club.
4. When accepted, a new member must submit a 1000-word paper on some subject related to international relations.
5. Members missing more than two meetings a semester without acceptable excuse will be dropped from the roll.
6. Initiation fee for new members will include payment for an IRC key to be worn by all members.

These new rules are not made to discourage membership but instead to encourage interest. A discussion on actual plans for the coming year was led by the club’s faculty advisor, Dr. Guerrant of the political science department. Programs in which all members must be informed and will have a chance to participate are to be planned. The club will contact the faculty committee in charge of acquiring guest speakers and create an interest in their programs. Joint work with the IRC at Queens and other schools will be planned. Every effort possible will be made to raise the interest in international relations at Davidson at a time in which this subject should be foremost in our thoughts.

Free Movies

The YMCA will sponsor movies to be shown this Saturday at 7:30 P.M. in the Y lounge. The feature will be “Duke of West Point.” Two shorts, “A Date With West Virginia” and “Yellowstone National Park,” a comedy, will also be shown.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
Mooresville, N. C.
Deluxe Ice Cream

Weather Report
By TREW GURLEY, JR.

A cold air mass moved across this area late Thursday night and brought with it cooler weather. This frontal system became stagnant just off the North Carolina coast last Sunday and this caused rain and showers most of the weekend. A low-pressure area which originated in the Gulf of Mexico on Sunday moved northward on Monday and Tuesday to cause more rain on those days throughout most of the Carolinas. A cold front succeeded the low on Tuesday.

Today, Wednesday, the cold air brought fair skies and fall-like temperatures. Another cold outbreak of air is expected to move into this area on Thursday or Friday and bring a continuation of fair cool weather. Just a reminder of the full harvest moon expected this Saturday night and to the fact that it will be conducive to a big, open, log fire, hot coffee, doughnuts, and plenty of loving.

Methodist Students Nominate Officers

Sunday night the Methodist Student Movement held its first formal meeting. Malloy Owens, retiring president and president of the State Student Movement, led the group in a short devotional program. In a brief business session, Gene Little, chairman of the nominating committee, announced that elections would be held at the next regular meeting. Those nominated were:

President: Everett Blake Jr., Ralph Futrell.
Vice-President: Clay Evatt, Carlyle Crenshaw.
Secretary-Treasurer: Bill Trotman, Bob Nimocks.
Program Chairman: Tom Stockton, Gene Little.

This year the Methodist students meet every Sunday evening at 6:30 in Phi Hall. This time corresponds to the regular MYF in all Methodist churches.

DR. BROYLES ENDS...
(Continued From Page One)

abundantly. “Christian Vocation” was the topic of Thursday morning’s service. “There exists no wide understanding that the Christian vocation, the call of God, extends to earning a living and to our political and social life. Two things have resulted from this fact. First, Christian faith is not the supreme power in the life of the Christian which determines his attitudes and actions. Secondly, the fact that other motives than God's glory have claimed our loyalty.

Thursday evening's service developed around the theme of “Committing Ourselves.” “No one sitting in the balcony as a critic can really live in every relationship of life — committal is necessary to success. The real battle today is for the souls of men. Causes clash all about us fighting for our full committal. Christian Committal does not mean we know everything at once. It means we believe the answer lies in Christ and that we are willing to follow him to the end.”

During the Chapel service today, Dr. Broyles will discuss “The Answer to Communism” and will complete the fall services tonight with a sermon entitled “The Church Cannot Be Defeated.”

WOMEN’S COLLEGE...
(Continued From Page One)

of economics at Columbia University. Glenn Negley, professor of philosophy at Duke University; Rupert Vance, professor of sociology at the University of North Carolina; Caroline Ware, professor of Social Economy and History at American University; and Quincy Wright, professor of International Law at the University of Chicago.

Some of the topics to be discussed are: “The Problem of Minorities: Fact and Fiction,” “Nationalism, Myth and Reality,” and “Next Steps for American Democracy.” The Forum presents an excellent opportunity...For obtaining a knowledge of the social sciences from the experts in that field, at very little expense to the individual, additional information can be obtained by contacting Dr. Abernathy. If it’s fit to read, you will find it in the Davidsonian.

By JOE PARKER

Sigma Pi Sigma, national honorary physics fraternity, initiated three new members Tuesday night during its third meeting of the current school year. The new members are William B. Boyd, George T. McKee, Jr., and Junius B. Stroud. Outstanding work in advanced physics is required for membership in Sigma Pi Sigma. Davidson's chapter now has nine student and seven faculty brothers. The student members include Bill Clapp, president; C. A. Burrus, vice-president; Bruce Jackson, secretary; R. G. McCloud, Earl Groves, and Otis Milner. Meetings, held on the first and third Tuesdays, consist of physics lectures by both faculty and student brothers. Sigma Pi Sigma’s plans for this year call for more active student participation in the lectures, aiding the students to increase their knowledge and understanding of physics.

Ride Board

Realizing that the Davidson campus is blessed with an over-abundance of traveling enthusiasts, the YMCA has provided mimeographed ride slips to aid students in obtaining transportation to various parts of the world. The ride slips, for rides both wanted and available, are to be found at the right-hand corner of the bulletin board in the north end of Chambers. The “Y” hopes that this service will be of some help to the student body. All suggestions and criticism will be welcomed.

(Continued On Page Six)

The negative contended that Davidson is not safe because of two basic factors. The first was in regard to the student's character, wherein it was pointed out that the Davidson student doesn’t come up against the same evils here as he does when confronted with outside society; an illustration: “An oak tree grows by fighting against nature.” The average student does not support the honor system on the basis of its ethical concepts, but merely because it has grown to be an ivy-covered tradition and the student is told to support it. The second principal factor which the negative brought out was that the Davidson man is inadequately prepared to serve in society, since we have on this campus very few people of conflicting ideas which might serve to stimulate interest and thought in contemporary problems.

With the announcement that this month is the time in which members may compete in the annual Phi society speaking and writing contest for which keys will be awarded to the winners, the meeting was drawn to a close.

18 NEW MEMBERS... (Continued From Page One)

Sweet Young Thing: “Doctor, can you vaccinate me where it won't show?”
Doctor: “Yes, but it will be ten dollars in advance.”
Sweet Young Thing: “Why in advance?”
Doctor: “Because sometimes I weaken and don’t charge anything.”

Orr is an officer in the Legion of Honor of France and is the only living artist to have etchings included in the collections of the Louvre Museum. Mr. Orr is well known locally for his extensive series of prints of the old buildings and sites in North Carolina. It is interesting to note that his prints may be found in museums in France, Germany, and the United States. He has also achieved distinction as a painter. The donor also has enjoyed a successful career. A native of Bristol, Tennessee, he attended Webb School in Tennessee, Mt. Hermon School in Massachusetts, and then entered Davidson College. Mr. Staley graduated in 1925 and became a partner in the firm of Reynolds and Company. He served as a lieutenant colonel in the Army Air Forces in World War II and for some years was a member of the Board of Trustees of the College. The committee is greatly appreciative to Mr. Staley for his gift. It is believed that Davidson is the only college in the state which possesses a complete set of the North Carolina prints.

(Continued From Page Two)

Is the Davidsonian supposed to be primarily a student publication or an administrative mouthpiece slanted for alumni consumption? It is easy to see that while Davidson’s instinctive avoidance of controversy, her isolation from the flux of outside life, possesses very real advantages, it may, if carried too far, produce the peace of death. Is it fanciful to suggest that a dearth of creative thought already exists on the campus?

In conclusion, this analysis of certain salient aspects of Davidson life is by no means complete. It does not even attempt an evaluation of its perhaps superficial findings. Many more points of view are needed before any definite conclusions can be reached, and the writer would like to invite student and faculty comment on a problem which demands critical and sympathetic study. Only through such self-appraisal can Davidson escape from the Lotus-isle of complacency and ensure that she shall never reach the state of mediocrity confident of its own superiority.

ORGANIZATIONS NEED ... (Continued From Page One)

The Honorary Fraternity Council consists of one representative from each of the twenty honorary fraternities on the campus and determines the time of meeting and general control of the member fraternities. It judges the advisability of the establishment of new chapters and the discontinuance of inactive chapters. Dave Miller, president of the council, has called two meetings so far this semester, which were held in Phi Hall. The Council discussed doing away with Honorary Fraternity announcements at the morning chapel services. It was suggested that the secretary of each fraternity send out postcards for their particular meetings to help avoid the confusion of the announcements in chapel.

The Honorary Fraternity Council representatives for this year are:
Omicron Delta Kappa — Bill Bird.
Alpha Epsilon Delta — Tom Jackson.
Phi Mu Alpha — Paul Jenkins.
Sigma Delta Pi — Ed Coffin.
Sigma Upsilon — Charlie Davis.
Gamma Sigma Epsilon — I. G. King.
Sigma Pi Sigma — Bill Clapp.
Delta Phi Alpha and Sigma Delta Psi — No representatives as yet.
Pan Hellenic Council — Bill Bird.
Beaver Club — Auburn Lambeth.
International Relations Club — Bill Cameron.
Le Cercle Francais — Bill Goodman.
YMCA Cabinet — Bill Alexander.
Scabbard and Blade — Sandy Carnegie.
Forensic Council — John Lyles.
“D” Club — Jake Wade.
Red and Black Masquers — Tom Apperson.
Philanthropic Literary Society — David Miller.
Eumenean Literary Society — Chuck Kirby.

Mooresville Creamery
GRADE “A” MILK
PASTEURIZED
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N. C.