EDITOR: READ ‘LETTERS TO ALENDA LUK WUBI ORTA L The Davidsonian IBERTAS $4,800,000 OR BUST! Volume XXXVII DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FEBRUARY 18, 1949 NUMBER EIGHTEEN SOCIAL FRATERNITIES SWELL RANKS CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE SETS GOAL OF $44 PER STUDENT

The student campaign of the Davidson Development Program was officially begun last Monday night when the famous band of Tommy Dorsey was presented in Chambers auditorium. Greeted with a very enthusiastic reception, the band provided much entertainment for the audiences and with the antics and encouragement of Mac Upchurch and Dill “Lucky” Scruggs, the student body was pepped into a rousing spirit for the forthcoming campaign. The goal set for the students is $10,000, or around $44 per student. The drive will be conducted and the money raised only through the efforts of the students themselves. The plan is that each of the fraternities, the Campus Club, and the Independents have a set goal for their club according to the membership of that club on a percentage basis. Therefore, the goal of each group will be equal to all the other groups in relative size.

The Pan Hellenic Council is aiding this drive, with the representatives from each fraternity combining their efforts to help make the campaign a success. Following are the fraternities with the number of members, their quota, and the Pan-Hellenic Council:

Beta Theta Pi, 75, $3910, Bill Scruggs.
Pi Kappa Alpha, 60, $3070, Randy Ensign.
Kappa Alpha, 65, $3340, Frank Matthews.
S.A.E., 55, $2810, Bill Hodgin.
Kappa Sigma, 77, $3910, Charlie Sarrett.
Phi Kappa Phi, 65, $3340, Thad Varringer.
Phi Gamma Delta, 43, $2230, Frank Strait.
Phi Delta Theta, 68, $3610, Knight.
S.P.E., 48, $2500, Tim Herndon.
Sigma Chi, 46, $2260, John Pritchard.
Campus Club, 118, $4500, Herb Meza.
Independents, 130, $4500, Harrison Taylor.

The project to which the raised funds will go is the construction of the swimming pool in the new gym. A plaque will be placed on the wall by the pool bearing the names of the fraternities or clubs who oversubscribe their campaign quota. This should be an incentive for the student body to work on the drive, as another one will be. That is that the college will declare a holiday, the time to be determined by the students themselves, if the goal of $40,000 is attained. It had been explained that the seniors have been given 30 months, (Continued On Page Four)

Hamilton Analyses United Nation's Veto

Mr. Thomas Jefferson Hamilton, chief of the New York Times’ United Nations staff, delivered an interesting and informative lecture to several hundred members of the faculty and student body Tuesday evening, February 15. Mr. Hamilton analyzed the problem of the veto which has been in the limelight since the San Francisco Conference. Through the use of his veto, the fundamental weaknesses in the structure of the United Nations have become evident. Because of this veto power, the work of the U.N., and particularly the Security Council, has been definitely hampered. Because of this veto power, which rests in the hands of the five major powers, the Western allies have turned to regional agreements in their search for peace and security. At the present time, there are three regional agreements with the United States serving as the bulwark in each. Mr. Hamilton believes that the only way for world peace exists in these regional agreements. In spite of the many shortcomings of the U.N., Mr. Hamilton points to the work the United Nations and its agencies have successfully done. His criticism of the agencies is that they are spreading their efforts over too wide an area.

Dorsey and Band Arouse Interest In Development Drive

The student body's campaign to beg, borrow and solicit $40,000 to contribute to the building fund got off to a spirited start Monday night as Tommy Dorsey and his orchestra entertained in Chambers with two consecutive concerts. The purpose of the concerts, as stated by Pan-Hel President Bill Scruggs, was “to get the drive before the students, to unite the student body, and to start the ball rolling in our campaign.” It was not intended to be, and was not, a money-making project. The suave and sentimental gentleman and his versatile musicians, complemented by a competent staff of vocalists, including the Sentimentalists, Denny Dennis, and Lucy Ann Polk. Jack Duffy, one of the Sentimentalists, was the novelty vocalist, while Charley Shavers, Dorsey's trumpeter, and another Bunny Berigan, blew out his valves on numbers such as “We'll Get It.” Louis Bellson, who plays 10 drums with two hands and a foot, proved himself worthy of mention along with Gene Krupa and Scruggs. During a brief intermission, Scruggs and Upchurch took over to announce the student body's part in the Development Program and, with the help of Dorsey and company, put over a campaign song to the tune of “A Little Bird Told Me” which they had lyricized to fit the occasion. On Dorsey's agenda for the night were many of the “good old tunes” such as “Sunny Side of the Street,” “Opus No. 1,” “Song of India,” and (Continued On Page Four)

California's Contribution To Davidson's Culture

Miss Ann Polk, slightly terrific vocalist for Tommy Dorsey and Company, as she appeared last Monday night in Chambers Auditorium singing to the Davidson Students. The Dorsey concert was the kick-off of the Student Development Drive to raise $40,000 for a swimming pool in the new gymnasium which is now under construction.

Davidson's Top Magnates Pilot Queen City Through Strenuous Day as Business Booms

By TOM MANN and RANDY TAYLOR

“Davidson Appreciation Day” was observed in Charlotte on Thursday, February 10, as a part of the campaign in that city for the Davidson Development Program. A representative group of some 50 students occupied various municipal and business offices for the day. In order to uncover the experience of the students, the DAVIDSONIAN questioned several of the “executives.” The DAVIDSONIAN hereby relinquishes itself of responsibility concerning the possible misquoting (as all newspapers are subject to error) or misconstruing of any of the remarks of the “executives,” as any similarity of this article to gross misrepresentation and slander is purely coincidental. The results of the questioning are as follows:

Bill Scruggs, president of J. B. Ivey & Co.: “I found it hard to see the papers on my desk over my secretary’s shoulders! Gave everybody an 85 per cent raise. I really saved those people over there!”

Frank Matthews, manager of Belks: “Next time you want a new dormitory, just come around to see me!”

Mac Upchurch, city manager: “Took a tour through City Hall, City Courts and City Jail, and, if anybody hasn’t spent the night in the jail: don't!”

Ken Johnson, general manager of WBT: “Had a good time selling air. Gave all the girls a raise.”

John Miller, publisher of the Charlotte News, who excavated quite a bit of dirt in an effort to secure material for a NEW article concerning the other executives, had the following observations to make: “Curtis Harper fitting all the Queens girls in bathing suits at Belks (incidentally Curt has decided not to go into the ministry—says that he will be impotent from here on out) ... Publishers Lander and Middleton at the Charlotte City Club eating with all the big heads of Charlotte business ... Scruggs making love to his voluptuous secretary, “Lovable Lil” De Armon (Queen of Cotton in Charlotte several years ago) ... Bill Plonk showing all his French customers the Room in Belks, which seemed to be a rendezvous for the female clerks and visiting “execs” ... “Double-Dip” McNair handling trays for the S&W ... Stuart Dixon inducing students into Mellon’s where they could get a five per cent cut on all merchandise ... Hugh Farrior moping around in the near-empty Raylass Department Store.

A Little Bird Reports

We're out to get some cash
For dear old Alma Mater
Lend us your ear
We'll tell you what we heard

A little bird told us we could make it
And we believe that it is true
A little bird said we’d all contribute
We'll hit the goal when we are through.

A little bird said we’d do some building
Expand our campus wide and far
So won’t you give until it hurts you brother,
Reach down into your savings jar

There’s no use denying it—it’s gonna take some cash
But if we all get down to work, we'll raise it in a flash!

Go ’round your town
See all your friends and neighbors
Tell them just what we’re gonna do.

We'll build a great big church to congregate,
A brand new gym where we'll beat State,
A student union big and fine
Put your money on the dotted line.

A brand new dorm where we can live
Only fellows if you'll all give
Now that’s the way the birdie told us we could do it
And we have passed it on to you

The little birdie told us we could do it
And we believe that it is true,
Oo, oo, oo, TRUE — True!

Weather Report

The students and profs can expect mild weather this weekend with partly cloudy skies. Showers are likely to develop in the mountains on Sunday and move into this area late Sunday or Monday. The expected high temperature Saturday afternoon will be 60 degrees, and Sunday afternoon the high will be near 68 degrees. The low temperature Saturday night will be 37 degrees.

SUBSCRIPTIONS

A number of students have inquired concerning the procedure involved in having The...Davidsonian sent their parents. Many parents and relatives are extremely interested in the events related to Davidson and the student body, and all students are urged to consider sending their families weekly copies of this paper. It should be remembered that a great deal of the “news” contained herein is unknown to those interested in the college who live elsewhere. 

Number to dreaming about far away Davidson and its exciting Music Department... Tommy Langford rotating between the Foundation and Lingerie departments in Belks, particularly getting well-founded in foundations. David Shepperson, president of Commercial National Bank: “I feel that the economic situation in Charlotte will remain more or less stable or unstable, depending upon varying factors such as the ‘Mystery of Money,’ ‘The Beginning of Bank Credit,’ and other topics as found in chapter six in that great work, ‘Introduction to Economics,’ brilliantly written by my colleague (who is also associated with a bank), C.K. Brown." Ernest Hunter, president of Union National Bank: “I think we created a lot of goodwill even if we didn’t get too many material contributions. I believe it helped put the campaign before the public and could possibly help to account for the success of the drive in Charlotte thus far. It was a good vacation; I'm sorry it couldn't have lasted longer.” Bill Lander, publisher of Charlotte (Continued On Page Four)

1890 Marked Doom Of Co-Education At Davidson College

While reading through an old copy of The Davidson Monthly, an old school publication, I ran across this article which appeared in the March 1890 edition. “We conversed a few days ago with a gentleman who has Davidson's welfare at heart and is heartily in favor of admitting girls as students into Davidson College. He thinks that girls are boys’ equals and sees no reason why Davidson should not become a successful co-educational institution. He says it is a shame that woman has no better advantages educationally in North Carolina and thinks Davidson College is just the place to bring her. He beat us debating on the subject but did not convince us. We do not assert that we are opposed to co-education, but we are certainly opposed to having it in Davidson College. If the trustees will go to work and move our college to Charlotte, or some other thriving city, we may then be in favor of admitting girls, but we will never favor such a plan as long as the college is in the present situation. Surely it is not the place for girls. We have no dormitories fit for them and no room in the town for them. Grant, however, that the town people have accommodations for them, we would certainly hate to see girls walking half a mile to recitations in mud over their shoe-tops. When it rains here, all the mud in a mile or two of the college collects right upon the sidewalks, and one would (Continued On Page Four)

INITIATES OVER HUNDRED INTO GREEK LETTER BROTHERHOODS

Completion of initiation ceremonies by nine of the ten Greek letter social fraternities on the campus has increased the membership of these organizations by approximately a hundred men. This total will be raised well above the hundred mark in March when Sigma Alpha Epsilon will have finished its initiations. Various fraternities have been pledging men for the past six months and have completed various phases of their initiatory procedures. Constituting one of the largest groups which have been initiated in recent years, the students hail from all sections of the Southeast. During the past three weeks, the following have been received as brothers:

Kappa Alpha—Bill Adams, Bill Alexander, Bill Buckey, Manley McWilliams, Jack Hunter, Tommy Ward, Roger Cornell, Howard Ferguson, Jack Stevenson, Alex Somers, Bryan Robinson.

Phi Kappa Phi—Hooper Alexander, Clarence Calcote, Jim Carr, Harold Clayton, Parks Dalton, Guy Dardel, Sibley Dorton, Ben Jay Drymon, Bob Ervin, Luke Hyman, Harvey McClintock, Pen Morris, Bob Murray, Jerry Nall, Bill Neal, Bill Reynolds, Cecil Rhodes, Bill Sargeant, Neil Underdown.

Phi Delta Theta—Bill Bacon, Ed Sutton, Bob Clark, Hugh Huffaker, Ansley Moses, Ken Taylor, Buddy Spivey, Frank Warren, Allen Strand, Don Cumbie.

Theta Chi—Pete Kalogridis, Rip Bernhardt, Henry Bridges, Roy Horn, Blaine Kelley, George Gatlin, Stuart Shippey, Bob Northcutt, Pat Patton, Jack Leaycraft, Bob Holmes, John Jervis, Winslow Ballew, Furman Ferguson, Nimocks, Bob McPheeters.

Kappa Sigma—Francis Pepper, Bob Abel, Fred Goodman, Tom Brooks, Jim Best, Bill Grissom, Ted Whitaker.

Sigma Chi—Craig Alexander, Bill Francisco, Harry Slayden, Myers, Aubrey Miree, Lynn Crawley, Dick Chandley, Joe Mattison, Jim Parker, Carol Camp, Allan Groseclose.

Sigma Phi Epsilon—M. A. Mills, Joe Brown, G. Cahow, P. G. Daniels, M. L. McDonald, R. R. Hart, P. C. Clark, P. J. Miller, H. G. Howe, C. L. Taylor.

Pi Kappa Alpha—Bill Lacy, Tom Rose, Jack Turner, Ladson DuBose, Bernard Brown, Dick Boyd, Adolph Ostersen, Charlie Barrett, Bill Hart, Grover Martin.

The pledge class of the fraternity which has not yet held initiation ceremonies is as follows: Sigma Alpha Epsilon—Alex (Continued on Page Six)

Trustees Assured of Campaign's Success

Chapel Wednesday morning presented one of the few occasions in which the Student Body has come face-to-face with the trustees of Davidson College. Dr. J.R. Cunningham, after conducting the morning devotional, introduced each of the trustees individually and cited the purpose of the program as being the welcoming of trustees to the college in the hope that they might become better acquainted with the student body. Dr. Cunningham then spoke on the crucial period which Davidson is now going through. He pointed out that the college has in the past weathered several crises and that what we are doing now will indicate what kind of a school Davidson will be in the future. Carl Vahl, introduced by Dr. Cunningham, was then introduced. After reading the student body announcements, Vahl then explained to the trustees the student project of $40,000 with which to complete the swimming pool. He set forth the plan for the division of the project into twelve groups—the ten fraternities, the Campus Club, and the Independents, mentioning the certificates which were to be given to all groups who reached or exceeded their quotas and the names of all organizations who had reached their goal being placed on a plaque at the swimming pool. Vahl assured the trustees that the student body would bring its development drive to a successful completion, even at the risk of obtaining a holiday from the faculty. The next speaker was Professor Beaty, member of the faculty and mayor of the town of Davidson. He announced that the Community had taken upon itself to raise $50,000 and that half of the sum had already been raised. Mr. D.A. Larr, Jr., president of the Alumni Association, assured the student body of the support of his organization and stated that he believed Davidson is stronger today than it ever was in the past. The Rev. J. McDowell Richards, president of Columbia Seminary and president of the Board of Trustees, also proclaimed his confidence that the overall drive would be brought to a successful completion and emphasized the importance of such a completion. Dr. Cunningham then turned the program over to Bill Scruggs and MacNeil Upchurch in order that the trustees might have an opportunity to witness the spirit of the student body. Following Scruggs’ and Upchurch's special rendition of “A Little Bird Told Me,” the program was brought to a close by the singing of “O Davidson.” The trustees present were: Mr. (Continued On Page Four)

Flash

With a pledge from all the senior brothers for at least fifty dollars, Beta Theta Pi announced that it had raised well over half of its quota on the very first day of the Student Body Development Drive. This action by the seniors quickly gave impetus to the other members to assume an obligation of some size—the result being that with the maximum of hard work which has been assumed by the members, Beta is well on its way to raising its complete quota. This should be a stimulus for the whole student body to back the drive wholeheartedly and bring it to a successful conclusion.

Eumanean Society Elects New Officers

The Eumanean Society met December 13, 1948, to elect new officers: Dick Richards, president; Chick Kirby, vice president; Ken Goodpasture, secretary; and Stan Kennett, reelected treasurer. On February 2, 1949, the society rearranged the program for the semester. Plans were made to accent debating and oratory more than writing. It was voted that an award be given to the outstanding freshman orator in the society. A contest will be held sometime in April to determine the winner of this award. The contest is planned to be an annual event. Arrangements are completed for a literary contest in debating, reading, and declaiming between Eu and Phi societies. This contest also is hoped to become an annual event. At the last meeting, four new members were voted in: Pete Kalogridis, Gordon Scott, Shelley Beard, and Jack Hunter. These members are to be initiated on February 16.