PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, May 29, 1949

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

EDITORIALS

THE DAVIDSONIAN Presents LETTERS FEATURES

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF
BOB HOLLISTER

BUSINESS MANAGER
BILL HOUCK

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jack Hazard Associate Editor
Doug Hix Associate Editor
Lonnie Turnipseed Associate Editor
Arnie Covell Managing Editor
Bill Cumming Managing Editor
Hartley Hall Managing Editor
Neil Leach Managing Editor
Tom Mann Managing Editor
Jim Murray Managing Editor
Randy Taylor Managing Editor
Gordon Scott Sports Editor
John Hobart City Editor
Tom Haller Exchange Editor
Watt Jeffries Exchange Editor
Bill Hollister Make-up Editor
Dan McKeithen Make-up Editor
Cherry Stribling Make-up Editor
Gabe Oppenheim Art Editor
Liston Mills Columnist
Henry Wilson Columnist
Henry Hansen Columnist
Charlie Davis Columnist

SENIOR REPORTERS
Pete Kalogridis, Phil Mitchell, Dick Libby, Bill Neal, Ed Richardson, Jim Gene Regen.

REPORTERS
Sims, Dudley Pendleton, Nat Daniel, Blackburn, Hob Hubbell, Lamarr Hinson, McMurray, Manly McWilliams, Ben Morris, Bill Bacon

SPORTS STAFF
Warlick, Bill White, Phil Ha, Bryan Robinson, Ed West, Bill Buckey, Ste Poul

GAT STAFF
Jim Carr, Claude Higginbotham, Jim Fisk, Dalton, Jim Brown and Neal Underdown.

WEATHER REPORT
Drew Gurley and Bill Sargent.

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager W. S. McSwain
Advertising Manager Wyhe Smith
Circulation Manager Billy Cassels
Asst. Circulation Manager Bill Cassels
Asst. Advertising Manager Charles Clinkscales
Asst. Advertising Manager Hector McKeithan
Assistant Advertising Manager David McConnell
Collections Manager Charles Dockery
Subscriptions Manager John Loftin

ASSISTANTS
Bill Pharr, Harold Gene Taylor, Bob Erwin, Rod Shaw, Bill Hart, Cunning

CIRCULATION STAFF
Alex Goley, Parks Dalton, Cecil Rhodes, Ansley Moses, Joe H. Miller, Neill Underdown, Hall, John He, Thad Monroe, Hugh H,
Ben Morris, Cam Faison, Paul Guthry

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO BOSTON LOS ANGELES SAN FRANCISCO

Member 1949 Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest 1948

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

New Bice

A glance at the upper left-hand corner of this page will inform the ardent reader of a number of changes
which have recently taken place in the editorial department of Davidson’s leading newspaper. Each man was selected solely on the
basis of his ability and dependability, the old and new editors and the three new associate editors. We wish to
make it known that any member of the editorial staff who is a rising junior may make himself eligible for
the editorship through his constant activity and interest on behalf of The Davidsonian.

At the top of the editorial ladder are associate editors Jack Hazard, Doug Hix and Lonnie Turnipseed who will coordinate
the activities of our seven new managing editors: Hartley Hall, Bill Cumming, Tom Mann, Neil Leach, Arnie Covell, Jim Murray
and Randy Taylor. Tentatively, Hartley Hall will plan our front page make-up and lay-out. Neil Leach will plan and issue
the weekly assignments to our reporters. Arnie Covell will handle the DAVIDSONIAN’S features and feature writers. Jim Murray will be
in charge of the back-page make-up and proof reading. Bill Cumming will be responsible for all of the pictures you
will see on these pages every week. Randy Taylor is to work with the Freshmen and Sophomores along the copy
line. He will make sure all copy is turned in on time and will be our consultant on all matters
pertaining to writing, style and news story form. Tom Mann will be in complete charge of the second or editorial
page. He will determine each week its content and make-up.

Gordon Scott, our new sports editor with plenty of experience in the business, will work for a while along with
associate editor Jack Hazard, assisted by Cherry Stribling and Dan McKeithan. Bill King, our art editor, plans a cartoon a
week next year and our exchange editors, Watt Jeffries and Tom Haller, will keep us supplied with news from the
outside world. Bill Hollister, make-up editor, is the DAVIDSONIAN’S general handyman. It will be his duty to take care of
any odd jobs which are continually arising. John Hobart, as city editor, will keep us supplied with news of the
town of Davidson.

Among our reporters there are three or four new names. Most of the staff will continue to be active in
writing the news stories which compose the backbone of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Bill Houck heads the business staff as business manager,
and the only change he has announced to date is that Bill Cassels will be our new circulation manager. Look
them over again, the men who, receiving no credit of any kind, make it possible for you to curl up
every Friday or Saturday night with your favorite pipe and the latest DAVIDSONIAN.

As far as policy changes are concerned, Mac Hart has left us little room indeed for improvement. During his year
as editor-in-chief we believe THE DAVIDSONIAN has come to reflect to an increasingly greater extent the opinion and the voice
of the student body. Our primary hope is that it will continue along the same line and come to find
new ways and means of furthering its principal function: “For a Better Davidson.”

Why 85 Per Cent?

This year’s Pan-Hellenic Council has, during the past eight months, taken upon itself a larger share of responsibility than perhaps
any council since fraternity row was established. Spring Frolics alone entailed more time and effort expended on administrative details than
the other two dance sets combined. Bill Scruggs and the entire Pan-Hellenic Council merit our warmest thanks for having conducted
our social affairs with unparalleled success.

We believe, however, that there are a large number of students who would favor an alteration of procedure for the
coming year which would reduce the total price of a dance weekend from fifteen to twenty-five dollars down to five
or ten. The price of the set tickets plus the price of the fraternity banquets, plus the expense of caring
for a date, plus the miscellaneous expenses which always arise, place the price of a name-band dance weekend out of
the reach of a number of students.

Of course, it is nice to casually mention to your best girl that Beneke’s playing for the dances; however, it’s
our opinion that the difference in the quality of “danceable” music does not justify the difference in the amount of
United States currency required to procure the big names as compared to bands of the Dean Hudson variety. We are
not pointing a finger at the Spring Frolics weekend. A majority of the student body voted that it be just
as it was. That that was what we wanted was evident. However, because of our now-in-effect eighty-five per cent plan,
those members of the student body who did not vote affirmatively in the issue, were still required to produce their
share of the heavy expense. There is nothing amiss even in this fact, provided that students know before joining a
fraternity that they will be expected to contribute varying sums up to possibly twenty dollars per dance weekend if they
are to take part in all of the social activities planned for them.

We propose, therefore, in order to reduce the overall cost, that the quota of members required to attend from each
fraternity be reduced to sixty-five per cent and the fraternities request the Pan-Hellenic Council through their individual representative to secure
less well-known bands, if necessary, to keep within the sixty-five per cent margin. Perhaps we are in error, but we
believe that such an alteration would make it possible for us to have one or two Hudson or Thornhill class
weekends during the year and at the same time lessen the burden on the student unable to meet the expenses
of the higher price weekends. Let’s hear what you think.

KAPPA SIGMA

A group of brothers entered the Fraternity Sing Tuesday, but were slightly outclassed by the Campus Club's ensemble. Woody McKay
directed the group through a program which contained such Sigma swing favorites as “Sweetheart,” “Swing Low Sweet Chariot,” and “All
Hail, Dummy Davidson.”

The big banquet during Spring Frolics last Saturday night was a success. Randy Taylor with the help of several confederates,
gave a rousing send-off to the brothers graduating this year, “Muscle” Bingham, “Fireball” Edwards, “Blondie” Coffee, “Plate” Briggs, “Abdul” Cheek,
“Hugless” Jarret, “Lover” Morgan, “Sugar Mouth” Medford, “Blue” McArn, “Buddy” Keesler, “Quart-size” Lenoir, “Mouse” Wilson, Mike Williams and Wilcox. These
brothers will be a great loss to the fraternity as well as the college.

Naturally, nothing very exciting happened over the weekend except that Kennedy drove off the Crosstown Boulevard into the Rose Garden.
It seems that ‘Pear’ and friends were cruising along the boulevard when they came to Seventh Street. He thought the
boulevard kept on going and instead of making a turn he went straight into the Rose Garden. Nobody was hurt
and the only difficulty was getting back on the street.

“Horseshoes” is still going strong with Har Voken and Vrue holding their supremacy against the opposition of Thomas and Lafar.
The softball team is turning in a good record, with the pitching of “Stubby” Cheek, the catching of Gene Rankin,
and the team composed of Bill Singham, first base; Sandy Sugg, second base; Dave Crosland, shortstop; Phil Edwards, third base;
and Dubose and Taylor in the garden.

PHI DELTA THETA

Well come Monday, Phi Delta Theta had lost a brother. John Miller, plumb wore himself out at Spring Frolicking. His
own arms were a little jitterbugged, but a couple of teeth were missing. Awful Al Guthrie really enjoyed the weekend
Frolies. I reckon his only comment was, “I wish Pritchett coulda been there—really would have stood out.”

It is said that C. K., Junior, Knight in the back with the Rapid Robert, delivering papers, hit Rapid Robert
in the head as he was wishing one Jane McNair a cordial good night.

Bryon Bill Brownson, most Rev. T. Grady Spires, and Seedy Bob Patten were in the minority over the weekend. They
claim a severe allergy to femininity. H. ol and Harmless John were seen sneaking out of the frat house after
hours with two unidentified creatures, better check on that “cap.”

Brothers seen with rings in their noses included Pool Newell, Edy and “Monk,” Montgomery and Abie Klein. Bill Hollister, after
a little fumbling around, finally pinned sweet Jackie. Roundman Turnipseed and Handy Andy Horne have resumed their duel to see
who can talk the fastest while eating. Ansel Moses, Ripper and Carless Hands Taylor were in evidence with some “you
name ‘em and we'll feed ‘em.”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

animals during the festivities. ‘That's about all Phi Theta except good news and wants to read that trash Delta who
front I guess everyone has heard tales about men being caught in various but heard situations disguised as women. I
doubt if many of you have heard in the reverse. But according to the DAILY TAR HEEL and the TECHNICIAN,
it has happened at State. Two girls from a neighboring college disguised themselves as men, wearing saddle shoes, hair rolled
up under baseball caps, shirts, and blue jeans. They crashed dormitories on several campuses and left sarcastic notes. One note,
written on green paper with two peering eyes at the top, read: “Who would believe two girls were here? Well,
we were.” In a letter to the TECHNICIAN, they bragged that “the men sure do sing beautifully in the showers.”
A sign left in a room at State read: “Wake up boys, two girls have been here.”

Ohio State University operates a clinic designed to help married students untangle their marital difficulties and steer the about-to-be-married into
likely channels of conjugal happiness. The chief “marital trouble-shooter” is a 37-year-old professor of sociology and a nationally known marriage
authority. However, this marriage expert is in trouble because his wife is suing for divorce on grounds of neglect.

Students of the City College of New York staged a five-day strike protesting race segregation practices on the campus. The
first day was marked by a near riot of both male and coed students, and police had to be assigned
to keep order on the campus. No drastic action was taken in any direction, but it is believed that racial
discrimination will henceforth be at a minimum on that campus.

The DAILY TAR HEEL printed an article about a Greensboro man who has organized an expedition to Turkey to look
for Noah’s Ark. He insists that he has evidence that will lead him to the exact location on Mt. Ararat.
He raised $50,000 and has a storehouse of contributions and plans to continue the search as long as their money
lasts. Russia, which is only a few miles from Mt. Ararat, is getting excited just a little. Despite all sorts
of opposition, Dr. Smith is determined to carry out his search. I guess we will hear of an expedition to
the North Pole to search for Santa Claus next.

We aren't the only ones who gripe about the high prices of textbooks. The MICHIGAN STATE NEWS tried to blame
it on the school by implying that it made available to the students only deluxe editions when cheaper ones would
serve just as well. The school denied this, however, and blamed the high prices on the large demand for books,
which is in turn due to the large number of students in colleges these days.

Things are returning to normal. The old go-getter is now trying to get going. Scientists are converting cows to a
sawdust diet, and maybe soon you will be picking a splinter from that plank steak. A writer refers to “the
time when living was easy.” But we bet it is no wonder the horse and buggy days are gone. A
place couldn't put a radio antenna on a buggy.

“KISS IN THE DARK” is presented by Jane Wyman and David Niven in Warner Bros.’ sparkling romance, which comes to
the Davidson Theater next Monday and Tuesday, May 2 and 3. A romantic fable set against a Manhattan background, the
protagonists are a timid concert pianist, a fast-talking advertising model, and an eccentric apartment house owner in the person of
the inimitable Victor Moore. Delmer Daves handles the directorial reins on this picture, and Wayne Morris and Broderick Crawford are
also prominent in the supporting cast.

After the stark drama of “Johnny Belinda,” in which she portrayed the role of the deaf mute and won wide
acclaim and many honors, this light frothy assignment in “Kiss in the Dark” comes as a marked contrast. As Polly,
Jane is forthright, a complete realist, and sheds no tears. Instead, she's breezy, sparkling, and adept at gay interest.

With “Kiss in the Dark,” Niven returns to Warner Bros. as a star, where he once made two important steps
upward to the stellar field—“The Charge of the Light Brigade” and “Dawn Patrol.” Here he is cast as a famous
concert pianist, a prodigy who has developed into a world-renowned artist, but whose life has been narrowed by his work
and his music. He is startled into a new world by the invasion of Jane and the apartment house funster
played by Morris. Morris is cast as a loudmouth, overpowering radio, insurance salesman, and apartment house owner, always ready to
swing his fists. Crawford is a hot-tempered tenant trying to get some sleep. Max Steiner directed the music for the
picture.

“CONNECTICUT YANKEE” Hear ye, hear ye, Crosby fans! For the first time in his career, Bing goes back into ancient
times—way back to the year 528—for his new Paramount production in Technicolor, “A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court,” which
shows Wednesday and Thursday, May 4 and 5, at the Davidson Theater, with Bing in the title role. This comedy-with-music
co-stars lovely Rhonda Fleming, William Bendix, and Sir Cedric Hardwicke. They are supported by an excellent cast headed by Murvyn
Vye, Virginia Field, and Henry Wilcoxon.

It took a story as beloved and world-renowned for its wit and humor as Mark Twain's masterpiece to get Bing
into armor, if only temporarily. The way Crosby loves his comfort, climbing in and out of hardware suits would have
to pay off in plenty of laughs before he would be willing to subject himself to it. According to all
reports, the armor incident is only one of many riotously funny things that happen to Bing when he is thrown
from his 1910 horse and comes to King Arthur's court in the year 528.

The story of the ingenious Connecticut Yankee who is knighted Sir Boss by the reigning King Arthur is a natural
for Crosby. The role gives him plenty of opportunity for the type of comedy his fans love and also provides
him with wonderful musical interludes, especially with his new and beautiful leading lady, red-haired, green-eyed Rhonda Fleming. Rhonda, who is
not only gorgeous to look at but also sings and dances, does one song alone—“When Is Sometime?” Other new songs
are “If You Stub Your Toe on the Moon,” “Busy Doing Nothing,” and “Once and for Always,” all by Burke
and Van Heusen.

This is the first time that Bing Crosby gets to ride a horse in a picture. However, it is not
a racehorse, and his pal, Bob Hope, says this is all to the good. “Imagine Crosby's horse in a movie!”
Bob snorts. “It would all have to be shot in slow motion.” Bing's screen mount is a wiry little black
and white pinto named Tex, who has the leading equine role in this picture. The Groaner is saddle-wise and does
all his own riding in the film, without benefit of a double. On his cattle ranch outside of Elko, Nevada,
he rides with the best of cowboys. But it took 39 pictures and 15 years to get the Crooner on
horseback before the cameras.

The popular star has been astride various quadrupeds and driven assorted vehicles in his previous films without getting on a
horse. He rode a camel in “The Road to Morocco” when he and Hope went gallivanting over the burning sands
after Dorothy Lamour. He handled a dog team in another of the hit travelogues, “The Road to Utopia.” Bing and
his four-footed friends have been together in many of his pictures, with a sleigh ride in “Welcome Stranger,” a surrey
trip in “Holiday Inn,” and a farm wagon jaunt in “The Road to Rio,” to mention a few equine associations.

All the hilarious things that happen to Crosby in “A Connecticut Yankee” stem from the fact that Tex throws him
early in the film, an accident which knocks him into unconsciousness and clear back into Sixth Century Britain. There he
pulls a few Twentieth Century tricks and so impresses King Arthur that the monarch dubs him “Sir Boss.” From that
point on, what Crosby does to King Arthur's court is, according to all reports, riotously funny film stuff.

“STRIKE IT RICH” A stirring story of the East Texas oil boom of 1929-31, "Strike It Rich,” Jack Wrather's Allied
Artists production which comes to the Davidson Theater on Friday and Saturday, is said to bring a refreshingly different type
of picture to the screen. Co-starring Rod Cameron, Bonita Granville, and Don Castle, the saga of Texas’ hot-oil days has
a cast of featured players including Stuart Erwin, Lloyd Corrigan, and Ellen Corby.

In addition to its main theme of the proration of oil in Texas and the efforts of the authorities to
enforce it, “Strike It Rich” carries a love interest involving Cameron, Miss Granville, and Castle. Cast as friendly enemies, Cameron
and Castle experience an enmity which grows as the story unfolds, culminating in a fight sequence described as one of
the most exciting ever recorded by the cameras. Miss Granville is cast as the girlfriend of Castle, whose romance is
broken up handily by Cameron, who marries the girl. When Bonita and Rod make a rich oil strike, they realize
that the boom enveloping East Texas will quickly rid the ground of the vast oil pools unless proration, or the
rationing of oil, is imposed. But Don and Bonita’s father, Lloyd Corrigan, who have also struck oil, refuse to submit
to the proration. The terrific fight between Rod and Don brings the story to its climax.

Filmed for authenticity’s sake in the actual fields where the oil proration problem originally occurred, in East Texas, “Strike It
Rich” shows the actual towns of Kilgore, Lindale, and Tyler, Texas, all within an approximate radius of 100 miles from
Dallas.

“Why don’t we import bachelors from abroad?” asks a matrimonial service director. Many would swap their personal freedom to live
in the land of liberty. People are not stock market conscious. A crash victim nowadays is usually one who was
in an auto or plane wreck. Spain is suffering from one of the worst droughts it has known. We wish
it were possible to leave Franco high and dry. The women of the world are now out to get equal
pay for equal work. But as things are, don't women get most of the money a fellow makes? An American
is always in a hurry to get to his destination so he can sit down and kill a little time
after he arrives. Scientists predict the early conquest of space. Most of the parking space has already been conquered.

---
