“Watered down,” the officials didn’t give the Hurricane points due to faulty decisions—only the truth remained that three Davidson fumbles
were recovered by Furman and for all three of these breaks, the South Carolinians cashed in for TDs. True, fumbles
cost us the game and added another Davidson loss to the statistics, but the thing that was most encouraging was
that, even in losing, the Red and Black didn’t look like the same team that has been drubbed for the
past month by mountain-like scores. Tackling was still off, but the blocking perked up. The Cat line repeatedly trapped the
opposing forwards and opened up big holes for Runyan—in fact, it was reminiscent of the State game. The line gave
the pitcher Lambeth more time on his heaves than he has had, although his protection was by no means as
good as it should have been. As if a hard, charging line wasn’t enough trouble for the Cat aerial specialist,
he worked under the added difficulty of trying to spot his receivers amid the complex pass defense that Furman uses.
(Statistics show that it has been one of the most impregnable in the country.) Davidson came out of the game
in pretty fair shape physically—the only casualty was Jim Sifford. Sifford broke his nose for the second time this year
and may be laid up for the Rollins game tomorrow. Eborn and Kiser were shaken up during the game, but
not badly enough to put them out of action for any length of time. Play during the game was fierce
and fights almost flared up several times, but nevertheless, both teams played the game with a minimum of injuries.

OFFENSE, DEFENSE IMPROVED

Lambeth’s passing was the best it has been since he was slowed up by injuries. He completed 10 out of
26, and his average would have been much better had he not tried a number of desperation passes during the
waning moments of the game. Jim Sifford’s punting was brilliant, averaging 40 yards per try. This compared favorably with the
kicking of Paul Stombaugh, Furman’s booting specialist, who ranks second in the country with a 44-plus average. Erwin and Sifford
both got off several nice end runs, along with Lambeth who nearly broke away several times.

By BILL ADAMS

Host Maryland’s all-conquering cross-country squad added another victory to their record in the Southern Conference cross-country run held Monday at
College Park, while Davidson's haughty Wildcats came in for a close fourth right behind N. C. State’s Wolfpack and North
Carolina’s Tarheels. The final tabulation showed Maryland with 32 points, State with 80, UNC with 85, Davidson with 92, and
William and Mary, Duke, VPI, and Wake Forest trailing in that order. The Old Liners led by the sensational Bob
Palmer, who set a new conference record in taking his third straight conference victory, again dominated the meet and swept
first place without any trouble, but the next three teams put on a dog-fight all the way for second, third,
and fourth places. Despite the fact that Blake Bradley and Tom Stockton of Davidson beat the entire State team across
the finish line, the State squad grouped their men together and ended up just ahead of Carolina, which was led
by Magill and Hamrick. Magill finished third and Hamrick finished seventh to offset the poor showing made by the rest
of the team. In leading the Wildcats to fourth place, Bradley and Stockton finished eighth and ninth, only four apart.
Dave Anderson was the first Presbyterian in, finishing 20th, while Dick Stockton was 24th and Rob Long was 31st to
round out the squad. Coach Pete Whittle lauded the team as a whole and Bradley and Stockton individually for their
performances, which far exceeded his expectations. He said the team was looking forward to another crack at State and Carolina
in the State meet to be run this week, and seemed to think a victory for the Cats entirely possible.
With such continued improvements in their showings, the Red and Black Harriers could easily win this meet and reverse their
earlier loss to State, in addition to bringing home a State championship.

By CHARLIE HAWKINS

Furman University finally did it! Since nineteen forty-three, the Purple Hurricanes had not been able to win from the Davidsonians,
but last Saturday afternoon, fumbles told the tale of defeat, as Furman won on their home fields, 21-6. It was
the fifth consecutive loss for the Wildcats, but there was vast improvement in their play. Furman, while never sustaining a
goalward march, capitalized on three costly Wildcat fumbles to score in the first and third periods of play. Furman left
end Earnest Neal took an 11-yard pass in the end zone for six points soon after the game opened for
Furman’s first score. The rest of the first half was fought on even terms, with the Wildcats making a 76-yard
march to the Furman 17, only to be thrown back just before the half ended. The kickoff beginning the second
half proved to be the fatal blow for the Davidsonians, as a Wildcat fumble was recovered on the Davidson 24-yard
line and converted into a Furman touchdown several plays later with Sonny Horton driving over from the two. In the
same quiz period, another Wildcat fumble was converted into a third Purple Hurricane touchdown. George Pruitt scored from a few
yards out and the extra point was kicked to end Furman's scoring at 21 points. The Wildcats came to life
in the fourth quarter and began to dazzle the opponents and the crowd as tailback Auburn Lambeth uncorked his throwing
arm for continued gain, passing to ends Mott Price and Pete Brown and back Jake Wade. An interference ruling gave
Davidson the ball on the Furman 25. A pass to Jake Wade and a lateral to Pete Brown netted 14
yards. C. L. Runyan smashed over from the 11 at this point, carrying several Furman tacklers with him. The extra
point try was wide, and the game ended a few plays later, 21-6.

By CHERRY STRIBLING

The play of C. L. Runyan in the N. C. State game brought him high praise from all observers at
the game and also brought him the honor of being named ‘Sophomore Jack MacDowell.’

By BILL WHITE

Having looked far and wide in the Missouri and Hudson valleys, twice in the hilly upper reaches of Virginia, and
a couple of times around their own fertile Piedmont area for victory, Davidson’s Wildcats go halfway down the Florida coast
tomorrow night, searching for a goal at the expense of Rollins.Back along the memory trail, Davidson is getting weak from
lack of wins and must find the spark tomorrow night if they hope to be up and ready for the
Thanksgiving finale in Charlotte next Thursday. In Rollins, Davidson will face a club, to say the least, different from any
outfit they’ve run into this fall. Coached by Jack MacDowell, former N.C. State star, and Joe Justice, brother of the
Choo Choo, the Tars run from the double or triple wing. The triple wing is very much like the double
wing, the fullback lining up close behind the line, almost in a straight line with the two wingbacks. That leaves
the tailback along back. Last fall Rollins had a 3-5-1 record just as did the Wildcats, and this weekend they’re
going to be celebrating homecoming, the fifth the Cats have run into this season. The Tars’ attack is led by
spinner back, or fullback, Ken Horton, a relatively light worker at 170, but fast and efficient. On the wings, they
have Scot Justice, another brother of the Carolina whiz, who is a real punter and of the Week in the
Southern Conference by an A.P. poll. Again last Saturday in the Furman game, C.L. showed the spark and the drive
which had been checked by injuries since the State game. His line plunging was something to behold and he was
the individual star for the Cats all afternoon. Davidson played a good game and but for a few heartbreaking fumbles,
the outcome would have been much closer. The Cats set up a good ground defense against the strong Hurricane running
attack headed by the brilliant Sonny Horton who is on his way to stardom at the Baptist school. The Wildcats
scored when, after a long pass to Jake Wade, Runyan took the ball on the 10-yard line, plunged into the
weak side, knocked one man down, and pulled two across the goal in a brilliant run. Many observers compared the
running style of C.L. to that of Clemson’s great fullback, Fred Cone. They both run hard with their heads down
and knees high. Runyan offers a very small target for a tackler between his helmet and his hard-driving knees and
instead of dodging a tackler he will run right over him. The only conspicuous success in running through the stout
Furman line Saturday was enjoyed by C.L. C.L. was a member and star on the fine freshman team last year
and comes to Davidson from Gastonia where he also had a reputation as a fine baseball catcher. He will get
a chance to demonstrate his diamond prowess this spring for the varsity nine. As he is only a sophomore, C.L.
Runyan has started on his way to outstanding success and recognition in the conference.

Horse sense is what keeps a horse from betting on people.

At 45 “Highways Are Happy Ways” — at 55 “I’m But a Stranger Here, Heaven Is My Home” — at
65 “Nearer My God To Thee” — at 75 “When The Roll Is Called Up Yonder I'll Be There” —
at 85 “Lord, I'm Coming Home.”

Davidson will win their last two games this year. A combination of factors have weakened them for the past five
games, but the Cats are ready for these last two. The squad still lacks a lot of being what it
should have been this year, but they are capable of taking Rollins and The Citadel and what's more, they will.
If the Cats brush up on pass defense and blocking and tackling during this next week and a half, they
can’t be denied their second and third wins of the year.

TIME OUT!
By Chet Smith

Davidson, though still looking far from sharp on pass and ground defense, or in the protection it should have given
Auburn Lambeth, did come up with two good performances. The feature of the whole Cat offense was the line-busting of
C.L. Runyan who evidently thought he was playing against State again. He kept Davidson in the ball game during the
first half before Furman’s pass defense could be solved. The all-round defensive play of the team looked better last Saturday.
Buddy Chandler continued his bruising play and Carl Kborn finally found himself—turned in probably his best performance this year. Acker
and Wilson had a good afternoon backing up the line, repeatedly stopping up holes that the Purples opened. From a
spectator’s viewpoint, Dickie Blanks played a brilliant game defensively, breaking through several times for teeth-jarring tackles. Hoopy Davis drew a
starting assignment and filled the bill like a veteran. His spirit and fight labeled him as an example of what
a fighting Wildcat ought to look like. Sophomores Bill McNeely and Jim Fasul deserve mention for their line play. These
two hefties continue to show promise of future greatness.

Rules of Contest:
1. Print your answers clearly on the back of a Chesterfield wrapper.
2. Take your answers to Frank Perrin in 112 West.
3. No entries will be accepted later than 24 hours after the Davidsonian is circulated.
4. The first three correct entries will receive a carton of Chesterfield cigarettes.
5. This contest is not open to members of the Davidsonian staff.

Teacher: “Can you tell me the main use for cowhide?”
Johnny: “It keeps the cow together, ma’am.”

VISIT THE
White Drug
142 E. Morehead — Charlotte
Mooresville

GRADE “A” MILK
PASTEURIZED
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

You can't top the JOG-Step... Bright, fast style! Roll along comfort! Any place, any time! Happy idea for extra miles
of wear. Solid, pliable leathers, teamed up with thick, flexible rubber soles.
