Davidson Organizations To Entertain Barium Springs Children Next Friday

FROSH PULL AT TUG ROPE

The Davidsonian

VOLUME XXXVIII

Troubadours To Give Christmas Program

Dr. Watts is preparing his annual Christmas chapel program for December 19. He plans to have his entire French classes participate in the program, singing French Christmas carols, with a special group called the “troubadours,” who will sing special French hymns. A feature will be the appearance of Miss Peggy Ann Alderman of Salem College, who will sing “Il est né, le Divin Enfant.” The following French students are members of the “troubadours”: E. W. Francisco, H. W. Barr, H. E. Coffin, J. R. Keever, W. H. Cornelius, W. W. Crymes, A. S. Joyner, G. B. Brockenbrough, C. E. Calcote, L. R. McGill, R. J. Boyd, M. C. Doubles, W. B. Lord, J. D. Whitener, R. E. W. Smith, H. P. Bridges, A. S. Jones, A. T. Davies and Fielding Russell.

In addition to the chapel program, the “troubadours” are to participate in a French program at the Mint Museum in Charlotte on Sunday afternoon, December 11, at 4:00 p.m. in order to add interest to the collection of paintings by French artists now being shown at the Museum. A one-act French comedy, “Rosalie,” will be presented at the Mint under the direction of Dr. Watts with K. W. Jones playing the part of Rosalie, W. Goodman as Monsieur Bol, and J. R. Keever as Madame Bol. After the program, the “troubadours” and the cast of “Rosalie” will be entertained at a buffet supper at the home of Mr. and Mrs. H. E. Coffin, Sr., the former president of the Mint Museum.

The custom of Dr. Watts’ teaching his students Christmas carols originated during the war when the professor desired to teach better his rather complacent students French pronunciation. From this point, his classes have sung Christmas carols at a chapel during the Christmas season with the exception of last year.

Murray Replaces Longenecker On YMCA Cabinet

Rit Alexander, President of the Y.M.C.A., announced this week that in view of the resignation of Chick Longenecker from the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet, he has appointed Jim Murray of the Junior class to fill the vacant position. Jim will be in charge of the Social Actions Committee which is concerned with the vital work of encouraging a growth of Christianity in racial relations, labor relations, and politics. This committee sponsors monthly discussion meetings with various Negro institutions in this region. The president and all members of the cabinet wish to express to Chick wholehearted appreciation for his faithful work in the past and to Jim encouragement in continuing the work.

Vaughn McAlister Is Injured In Accident

Vaughn McAlister, member of the Senior class from Greensboro, N. C., suffered serious injuries in an automobile accident on Monday night, December 5, while returning home from the Davidson campus. About midnight Monday, McAlister’s car collided with another driven by Clifton Shoaf of Lexington. Davidson County officers report that both drivers, in attempting to avoid the collision, swerved to the same side of the road. Both were charged with reckless driving. The accident occurred about two miles south of Thomasville. McAlister suffered a fractured pelvis (Continued On Page Five)

ALENRDA B.UK UB) ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1949

CHRISTMAS PARTY

Director Winnie Cruz and Ruins of His “Y” at Noilo

Davidson's fraternities and Campus Club will sponsor the third annual Christmas party for children of the Barium Springs Orphanage on Friday, December 16. The entire grammar school, one hundred sixty-five boys and girls between the ages of six and twelve, will arrive in Davidson by bus at 7:30 P.M. Friday. Representatives of each fraternity and of the Campus Club will meet the visitors at their arrival and will direct them, in separate groups, to the houses where they will be entertained. Each organization will be host to fifteen children. A twinkling Christmas tree, most probably, will be the center of interest at every assemblage, and although no message has been received from the North Pole, Santa is expected to visit the children while they are on the Davidson campus.

Barium Springs is located about twelve miles north of Mooresville, North Carolina. It is a Presbyterian orphanage and serves a large area of the state, Davidson being included in that area. Mr. Joseph A. Johnson, a Davidson alumnus, is the director of the institution. The annual Barium Springs-Davidson day was begun in December (Continued On Page Five)

Phi Society Hears Charlotte Novelist

On Tuesday evening, December 6, the Philanthropic Literary Society had one of the South’s leading novelists, Miss Marian Sims, of Charlotte, as its guest speaker. Miss Sims commented briefly on the publications at Davidson, pointing out that in her opinion they were very good, and that the writing was of a collegiate level. There were minor criticisms but, on the whole, she thought the publications were good for the group for which they are published.

Miss Sims went on to point out the enjoyment as well as heartaches in professional writing. When asked about writing for its own sake and not for professional purposes, she commented that at first she thought it would be a lot of trouble for nothing, but upon further consideration, she would like to encourage writing for personal enjoyment. She deplored the fact that the South produces no more of the top-ranking books than they do. Also, she said that many books receive top acclaim that are not worth it, and overshadow many beautiful and enjoyable books that are being published today. After her lecture, a short informal discussion period followed, during which several questions of literary interest were taken up.

Dr. Godcharles Gives Inter-Group Talks

On December first, in the midst of his series of lectures to various parents’ groups at the Myers Park Baptist Church in Charlotte, and after speaking to the North Carolina Banking Association on public relations, Dr. Charles Godcharles of the Davidson Psychology Department took some time out to give another lecture. This time he was addressing the Institution of Inter-Group Relations held at the Charlotte Women’s Club, and sponsored by the National Conference of Christians and Jews.

In his talk, “Facts vs Fancy,” he brought several specific points to light which most of us overlook in thinking of the problem of discrimination: One, that the prejudices of one group towards another stem from individual frustrations, and although these prejudices may never take the form of violence, we express them by passively “tolerating” the minority group; Two, by exhibiting these attitudes towards another group, we tend to drive them further into their shells, and thereby kill any chances of their ever assimilating “our” culture. In the long run, this means that such groups will cling even more tightly to their own customs and ideals, thus giving us all the more reason for discrimination; and Three, that there is always a group within the minority, usually a controlling group, which stands to lose a lot of power should discrimination and sectionalism cease.

After painting this somewhat sordid picture, Dr. Godcharles went on to note that by well-designed local legislation, better training in the schools with equal leadership advantages for all students, and by inter-group conferences, much could be solved. He pointed out, however, that inter-group meetings would be of little use unless they were held for the purpose of discussing a subject with a common interest, and concluded that we must try to approach the subject with open minds, that is, with a sense of evaluation, keeping ever awake and ready to grasp any chance of improvement which might afford itself.

ANNUAL CHRISTMAS PARTY IS SPONSORED BY FRATERNITIES

ODK Sponsors Field Day To Determine Doffing Of Red Caps

Will virility win? This impending question will be answered this afternoon at 3 o'clock on Richardson Field when the sophomores pit their brains and brawn against the brawn of the hitherto impotent freshmen. On the field of battle, three events are scheduled for the afternoon contest. The first of these is to be a 25-yard relay sack-race composed of ten contestants for each class. FollowingThis event there will be a touch football game of twenty-minute halves, all of which will be announced by Bob Carson. The final contest will be tug-o-war. This sport consists of a piece of rope divided into two sides upon which are firmly glued on one end twenty-five gazelles and on the other an equal number of sloths (three-toed, that is). The rules for the contest are simple. (1) If you wish to enter merely glue the top of your convertible on a penny postcard and along with three pints of arterial blood (type X) mail to Exalted-Malted-Rice, 19. C., N.C. (2) If by chance the “wise fools” are bested in two of the three events by the superfluous dregs of the student body, then these reconverted High School Harrys may doff their lids permanently, starting Tuesday. (3) No Pygmies allowed on the playing field. (4) No contesting student can enter more than, or less than one event. (5) Each team will have distinguishing uniforms. The sophs—black, the frosh—red, and umpires will be black and blue. (6) The coaches for the sophs and frosh: Red Wilson and Mac Erwin respectively; and the cap- (Continued On Page Five)

Initiates 1949 Drive

Davidson College was most fortunate in having E. S. (Stant) Turner in Chapel this morning to initiate our 1949 Christmas gift fund. The members of the YMCA who have come in contact with Stant Turner have learned to know a man who truly exemplifies the “second mile” religion of Jesus Christ. Stant Turner has spent thirty-five years of his life in the Philippines working with the YMCA movement and is responsible more than any other man for its development. His work has truly been fruitful, for today the Y is the greatest character-building agency in that country. During the last war, he was a constant friend to his Filipino friends even in the hardships of torture. His underground organization supplied food and medicine for American soldiers in hiding until he was captured by the Japanese. The Turners spent most of the war in the Santo Thomas prison camp from which they were liberated by a group composed mostly of Filipino guerrillas. Stant Turner understands the Filipinos and has gained their love and respect more than any other American. Since the war, he has made several trips to the Philippines and knows the need of these people.

Mr. Turner was born in Turner, Iowa. He secured his B.A. from Grinnell in 1911 and M.A. from Oberlin College in 1914. His other activities in Manila included honorary membership in the Rotary Club and officership in the Masons, Elks, Union Church, and Boy Scouts. In 1946 he received an honorary L.L.D. degree from his alma mater, Grinnell. He is at present the Honorary General Secretary of the YMCA in the Philippines and was voted the “outstanding living exponent” of this institution.

Calendar For Week

Basketball: Davidson vs. V.P.I. (in Statesville), Saturday, December 10, 8:00 P.M.
Frosh-Soph Field Day — Monday, December 12, 2:30 P.M.
Faculty Recital — Monday, December 12, 8:15 P.M.
Davidson Concert Band — Tuesday, December 13, 8:15 P.M.
Basketball: Davidson vs. Duke (here), Thursday, December 15, 8:00 P.M.
Y.M.C.A. Orphan's Party — Friday, December 16, 7:30 P.M.
Y.M.C.A. Christmas Vespers — Sunday, December 18, 7:30 P.M.

Director Pfohl’s Messiah Group

PULLS AT PURSE STRINGS

NUMBER ELEVEN

Philippine 'Y' Sec.

ILOILO 'Y' BOYS CAMP TO BE RECIPIENT OF $5,000 EFFORT

During the special chapel program on Monday, December 12, the 1949 Y.M.C.A. Gift Fund Campaign was officially launched. The proposed goal of $5,000 will go this year to the equipping of a Y.M.C.A. Boy’s Camp at Iloilo in the Philippines. The drive officially begins Monday and will run through Thursday night, December 15. The daily progress will be depicted on the scales in chapel and the final results will be announced Friday.

The Iloilo Camp was in the direct path of Japanese destruction during the war and the entire plant with all equipment was completely destroyed. The refurnished institution will serve underprivileged Filipino boys who have missed the blessings of a normal life since the war. Such camps are seen as one of the most productive program activities in the building of men of Christian character. It is estimated that equipment for the Iloilo camp will require $7,500. The amount that Davidson gives will be supplemented by Y.M.C.A. funds for reconstruction. Furthermore, this permanent camp will be dedicated to the students of Davidson College, with no demand at all placed upon the college to continue material support.

There is a tremendous need in the Philippines, especially at this time, to establish again such boys camps for rehabilitation and correction of the young boys who have had their outlook and attitudes warped so terribly during the war years and the desolate period just following the actual fighting. The Y.M.C.A., more than all other youth organizations combined, has had and still has the responsibility of rehabilitating these youths to normal life. This camp at Iloilo and others like it are to be in use throughout the whole year in this tropical country in such full-scale programs as are organized to instruct the boys in the true and Christian way of life. Iloilo is seen as a strategic point of need for such an establishment because the rebuilding of this camp would furnish 200,000 boys with a place for year-round activities under the guidance of devoted Y.M.C.A. directors.

The Y.M.C.A. Cabinet and committee, after weeks of study, were unanimous in their choice of the Iloilo Camp Project. Besides the obvious need which is so great in the region, there is another great factor. The Philippines are strategically located and its influence, as the only democratic country and the only friend to American ideals in the whole Asiatic area north of Australia, is therefore tremendous. The Philippines may be called on to be the first real stumbling block in the way of on-rushing militant communism. In giving to an organization whose foundational purpose is to build Christian character in young men in the area, we are helping to train future leaders who will be directing the affairs of this most strategically located little commonwealth.

Christmas Gift Fund Projects for (Continued On Page Five)

MESSIAH PRESENTED TWICE BY DAVIDSON-QUEENS GROUP

The Christmas portion of Handel's MESSIAH, which is linked traditionally with Christmas, was presented by the combined choruses of Queens and Davidson Colleges. The Queens-Davidson Little Symphony Orchestra provided the instrumental accompaniment. The soloists were: Virginia Smith, soprano; Lucia Ward, mezzo-soprano; Moody Chisholm, tenor; and Earl Berg, baritone. The entire presentation was under the direction of James C. Pfohl.

The Messiah was presented twice, on Sunday at the First Methodist Church of Charlotte and on Wednesday evening in Chambers Auditorium at Davidson. Both performances were well received, and capacity crowds were in attendance during both performances.