FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1949

Generals Run Wild Over Crippled Cats

By BILL ADAMS

Washington and Lee’s Generals put on a brilliant exhibition of running and passing supremacy to soundly thrash a crippled band of Davidson Wildcats 53-0 before a Homecoming crowd of 4500 at Lexington in a Southern Conference battle Saturday.

Starting off fairly well by driving to the W&L 22 early in the first quarter, the Wildcats faded and were never in the game again from that point on. For the best W&L team, it was a convincing rebound from a 4-game losing streak and a personal triumph for Gil Boretti, their precision-like sophomore quarterback. He ran up a total of 340 yards on offense as he personally scored 3 of W&L's touchdowns and passed for another.

After warding off Davidson's early threat, the Generals started the touchdown parade in a dazzling manner by sending Boretti through right tackle for 60 yards and his first TD. Still in the first quarter, W&L generated a drive to the Davidson 11 from where Bennett circled left end for the score on the first play of the second quarter. Moments later, W&L moved 55 yards in 4 plays for the third score, with the TD coming on a 38-yard pass from Boretti to Hedge. The fourth score was set up by a pass interception, making the halftime score 27-0.

With only three minutes of the third quarter gone, Boretti bucked over from the two for the fifth touchdown and later in the same quarter, Mastriann rammed into the Davidson end zone from the three after Boretti’s passes had put the Generals in scoring position again. The Generals pushed over two more six-pointers in the final stanza, with their last scoring play carrying 78 yards on a pass from Waters to Marler.

Ham Wade was the workhorse for the Davidson offense, sadly lacking in punch without Lambeth’s passing. In the line, Jimmy Fasul played his best game in trying to make up for the loss of regulars Sharpe, Chandler, and Eborn, but it was just a case of too much Washington and Lee power.

STATISTICS

Davidson
First downs: 8
Yds. gained rushing: 102
Forward passes att.: 11
Forward passes comp.: 5
Yds. by forward pass: 20
Forward passes int.: 1
Punting average: 35.3
Yds. kicks returned: 130
Opponent’s fumb. recov.: 1
Yds. lost by pen.: 35

W&L
First downs: 15
Yds. gained rushing: 320
Forward passes att.: 12
Forward passes comp.: 8
Yds. by forward pass: 95
Forward passes int.: 1
Punting average: 38.5
Yds. kicks returned: 58
Opponent’s fumb. recov.: 1
Yds. lost by pen.: 15

C. S. Goodrum
Davidson, N. C.
Telephone 2111

DAVIDSON THEATER
WEEK OF NOV. 7-12

MON. - TUE.
“UNDER CAPRICORN”
Ingrid Bergman - Joseph Cotten

WEDNESDAY - THURSDAY
“SHE WORE A YELLOW RIBBON”
John Wayne - Joanna Dru

FRIDAY - SATURDAY
William Eythe - Laura Elliott

BILL ROWLAND

What The Cats Were Doing

TWENTY YEARS AGO—November 7, 1929...
(1) VMI defeats Davidson in stubborn fight, 12-6

TEN YEARS AGO—November 9, 1939...
(1) Cats defeat Citadel in wet Homecoming by score, 9-6
(2) Phi Delts cop crown in frat competition.

FIVE YEARS AGO—November 10, 1944...
(1) No football team this year because of the war. We only had a freshman team that played high schools and preps.
(2) Barium defeats Wildkittens, 7-0.

ONE YEAR AGO—November 6, 1948...
(1) Presbyterians bow to VMI Cadets, 33-6.
(2) Freshmen grind out 20-6 verdict over Barium.

COLLEGE RAGS...
(Continued From Page Two)

...thing definitely done to stop drinking at and after their football games. Having attended the Carolina-Tennessee game this past weekend, I am forced to agree with Bill Johnson, the writer of this particular article. Here are just a few happenings which will prove our point. One student, arriving before the game, was already so far gone that he had to be helped to his seat in Row X of the card section.

(Continued from Page Three)

Miss Pat Harrelson of W. C. with Bob Keever, Miss Carolyn Ramsey of Queens with Pat McGeachy, Miss Carolyn Fraser of Queens with Murray Remson, Miss Eunice Duncan of Flora MacDonald with Buddy McNeill, Miss Helen Murray of Queens with Dick Harris, Miss Elsie Howard of St. Pauls with John Livingston, Mr. and Mrs. Bugs Atkins, Miss Emily Howie of Queens with Brownie Caldwell, Miss Lucy Walker of Queens with CAMPUS CLUB Earl Woodall, Miss Martha Rhyne with Dan Wilson, alumnus Bob Crawford with Miss Ann Woodson of Queens, and Miss Nell Johnson of Queens with Dave Whitener.

Rather than racing into Charlotte between the game and the dance for our regular banquet, the members of our household decided this time to have a buffet supper at the house. Thanks to Brothers Keever and Davis and the Katterette, it really went over swell; Real eats and multi fun had by all hands. Another big event at the C. C. house Homecoming was the breakfast after the formal. Danken Sie Herr Pharr, and Mrs. Pharr, for furnishing your kitchen help. Yep, in every department C. C. soared to an all-time high. Couldn’t help it with such luscious inspiration!

Beginning November 8, the tribe of the Campus Club is to have a boarding house of their own. Friend Dick Harris is to be the manager, and thanks to Tom Loman, Al Gerhardt, Boyce Kendall, Bob Burroughs, Ernie Stricklin and multi others for their endless work. Let’s all give them a hand for their efforts for the good of the C. C.

Things have quieted down since the weekend of the Parade of Progress. Our freshmen are not seen around the house much except for tutoring, etc., in preparation for those awful reviews. Thus far all are doing well, thanks to Dave Deck and his scholar’s outfit. ‘Twas nice being with you—see you as soon as the editors of said newspaper grant us space.

Clue of the Week: Ask George Bason how he enjoyed the Carolina game. He and several friends finished one pint and had gotten around to breaking the seal on another. By half-time he had made remarks about most of the coeds and students’ wives near him. Fortunately, someone got with him and nursed him for the rest of the ball game or else there would probably have been a great deal of trouble. Another student, equally inebriated and even more disgusting, was seated a few seats away in row BB. Throughout the latter part of the game he adopted a bit of profanity, made famous a few months back by Harry Truman, and loudly applied it to everyone in the stadium except Choo Choo. Several students with their wives and dates were forced to give up their seats and leave the game when it became evident that this character's only...Purpose in coming to the game was possible. You better be glad you are a Davidson student and don’t have to contend with this.

Wake Forest

From the “All A Dream” article in the “Old Gold and Black” we learn that the Wake Forest students are dreaming about a new instead of an old well. And, instead of water, the new wells will produce pineapple juice. The campus buses will stop running at 4 a.m. There are dreams of a 26-story marble bookstore, scarlet carpets on the floors of the boys’ dorms, escalators in the dorms, and a student hospital. The center of all activity will be the Carolina-Tennessee game. Aurevoir, adios, goodbye!

Recent Losses Lower (student section.) Before kickoff, Adams to be as repulsive and insulting as 6. *Tus’”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Rowland and Tucker Will Bear Watching

By DAN McKEITHAN

The 1949 Davidson football team having had more than a little rough going, there has already been heard around the campus that warm autumn comment, “next year...” In these postwar days, added strength is obtained from players moving up from the freshman ranks. It is not inappropriate to single out a yearling from the Wildkitten backfield and one from the line—players who have shown well so far and players who have good possibilities of helping the varsity squad in coming years. Fans who have seen the Kittens perform know the names of quarterback Bill Rowland and tackle Rob Tucker.

Rowland is a product of the baseball center of Gastonia where he played well on the diamond. However, at Davidson, it’s on the gridiron where he’s been putting in time as of now. Although short at 5 feet 8 inches, he is a capable quarterback because of good football savvy. His speed marks him as a fine runner, and his passing is certainly no liability. This is the same 160-pound lad who tossed the touchdown which tied the heavily favored crew from Furman. He did a commendable job of running for a losing cause against the N.C. State Wolflets.

At 17 years of age, Bob Tucker is a youngster, but he’s a tough man in a football line. When he finished high school in Burlington, he played in the annual East-West football game—a real tribute in itself. The tale of the tape shows that Bob is an even 6 feet and that he weighs in at 185. He has played a worthy brand of ball in the two freshman games to date, his speed being a valuable factor. For these two men and their teammates, we will be looking forward to their graduation to the Wildcats.

Individual Standing

BY AL COOK

Times Yds. Aver- Carried Gd. age
Lambeth ... 56 95 1.7
Sifford ... 30 111 3.7
Runyan ... 52 149 2.8
Adams ... 21 58 2.8
Brown ... 8 -6 -7
Turner ... 8 11 1.3
Wade, H. ... 34 137 4.3
Guiton ... 21 72 2.3
T. Wade ... 3 9 3
Sloan ... 3 8 2.6
Bowers ... 2 6 3

Totals ... 236 625

Passing

Attempts Comp. Gain
Lambeth ... 75 32 444
Sifford ... 28 11 90
Turner ... 18 10 98
Runyan ... 1 1 3
Guiton ... 7 1 9
Sloan ... 2 2 4

Totals ... 131 62 648

Punting

Times Kicked Yds. Ave.
Runyan ... 14 450 32.2
Sifford ... 25 717 28.7
Chandler ... 1 30 30
Sloan ... 2 36 18

TOTAL OFFENSE

Times Aver- Carried Gain age
Lambeth ... 131 485 3.7
Sifford ... 56 160 2.7
Runyan ... 53 137 2.5
Adams ... 21 58 2.7
Brown ... 8 -6 -7
Turner ... 36 109 3.1
Guiton ... 28 82 2.9
Wade, H. ... 34 137 4.3
Wade, J. ... 2 -14 -7
Sloan ... 3 8 2.6
Bowers ... 2 6 3

RECEIVING

No. Caught Yd. Gained
Price ... 24 211
Brown ... 15 157
Sifford ... 14 219
Rimer ... 6 24
Lambeth ... 1 10
Turner ... 3 22
Wade, J. ... 1 1
Reynolds ... 1 1
Freeman ... 1 4

Totals ... 62 648

Scoring

Sifford 18, Runyan 6, Mapes 6, Lambeth 6, Wade 6, Adams, Brown

In the Pentagon Building. All this is simply an attempt to put Duke in the country class. A good dream I must say.

I could not possibly end this column without quoting to you a joke taken from the Clemson Tiger, which I think is applicable to this column.

Colored preacher: “Brother Jones, will you lead us in a word of prayer?”
Brother Jones (sleepily replies): “What's dat you say?”
Colored preacher: “Will you lead?”
Brother Jones: “Lead? Lead hell, I just dealt.”

Wake up, readers! My column is ended.

CUNNINGHAM COMMENTS ON ABERNATHY'S TALK

With opinions flowing out from almost everywhere on Dr. Abernathy’s speech in chapel last week, Dr. Cunningham voiced his views in a statement last Tuesday. Dr. Cunningham said, “I heard Dr. Abernathy’s statement in Chapel last week. It seemed to me a very intelligent effort to arouse us to see some areas of our college life which can be improved. Whether one would agree with every statement or not is hardly the question. Perhaps he would not be too much concerned at that point. His effort was plainly to make some suggestions which would be constructive—not critical—which would start us thinking about and discussing our extra-curricular activities with the view to making them more generally helpful to all concerned.”

CAMERA COMMENTS... (Continued From Page Two)

Start studying, “She Wore a Yellow Ribbon” starring John Wayne and Joanne Dru runs Wednesday and Thursday at the Davidson Theatre. Chief Big Tree, an Iroquois, who was one of the three original models who posed for the Indian head nickel design, plays a Comanche role in this “cowboy and injuns” picture. This picture will really have plenty of excitement in it as John Wayne is the cavalry captain.

“Special Agent” starring William Eythe runs Friday and Saturday at the Davidson Theatre. This is the story of a railroad agent’s attempts to catch up with two train robbers. This picture's efforts to entertain are lousy.

Join in helpful criticism to make your Davidsonian a better Davidsonian.