On taking over the reins of this job from Jack Hazard, we feel much like a ballplayer who has left
the sandlots to enter into professional ball with the hope of learning a few of the finer points of the
game. There are plenty of angles that we hope to pick up during our tenure of sports reporting which will
enable us to give to the followers of the Red and Black an accurate, and even possibly interesting, account of
happenings on the sport’s front. There will doubtless be times when our views and writings will be criticized; that is
to be expected and even hoped for. Anything that you may read in Cat Tales is our way of trying
to get some point across because unfortunately we have never been successful in attempts to imitate others' style of writing.
Your criticism of this column—and the sport's pages in general—is solicited and will be appreciated.

Alumni gym, which has for years been the most cussed and discussed building on the hill, had one last distinction
before giving way to the new plant. Last week the first intercollegiate weight lifting meet ever held in the South
was staged there. Five strong men from UNC competed against a sextet of Davidsons (two in the 160-pound class) who
barely edged the visiting Tarheels, 2775 to 2730. The clanging of iron has been heard regularly coming from the weight-lifting
room in the basement of the gym, but few have known that a barbell team was in its embryo stages.
Several meets with YMCA teams in nearby towns had been run off, but college competition was another thing. Organized teams
in colleges of the South have been non-existent. However, this initial meet may start the wheels rolling, for nearly all
of the physical education departments in colleges and universities offer barbell training. The trouble has been no organization for intercollegiate
competition. It’s a little late in the year to arrange more meets with representatives of other schools, but it’s something
to work towards next year. Why not have weight-lifting as a fall and winter sport? Since the spring sport’s agenda
at Davidson is pretty well filled, the addition of this new activity in the fall before spring would probably command
more student interest, both from the participators and spectators standpoint. With the departure of Joe Richert through graduation, the lifters
will lose their guiding force. However, with the rest of the men being undergraduates, the future of weight lifting at
Davidson looks encouraging. Incidentally, Joe was about the happiest one person we've ever seen when the final tabulations showed a
Davidson win. Well, he might have been—the whole show was his brainchild. This column salutes Joe, Grady Spires, Bob Patten,
Al Cook, and Roy Johnston—members of the winning team in the first weight lifting meet ever held below the Mason-Dixon
Line.

The one bright spot in Wednesday afternoon’s tennis match with Miami was Bo Roddey’s beautiful performance. Opposite Bo was Tony
Vincent, Florida State Municipal champion. The two appeared to be about evenly matched, but Roddey displayed his usual consistency and
an unusually strong backhand. His place shots were often uncanny, and on one or two occasions, he aced Vincent with
his much improved serve. After the match, former Cat coach, and present Miami Coach Bill Lufler was among those around
to congratulate Bo. As he saw Lufler approaching, with a grin on his face, Bo said, “Luf taught me my
backhand.” To which might be added, he did a mighty good job of it.

After a long lay-off, tennis coach Derrick Barton entered competitive play in a small sort of way by playing an
exhibition match against Dick McKee, pro at the Charlotte Country Club last Saturday. The occasion was a tennis clinic that
the two were conducting for the benefit of Charlotte youngsters. McKee used his speed to the fullest advantage as he
winded the Cat mentor towards the end and went on to win 6-4, 2-6, 6-4. Barton attributed his loss partially
to the good ole Southern cooking that his newly-acquired spouse has been whipping up.

WHATEVER YOUR NEEDS
SUITS
HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
TIES
SHOES
and the 101 other things
SHOP EFIRD'S MEN’S SHOP
STREET FLOOR

Wildcat Sports
SEE CHESTERFIELD SPORTS QUIZ ON THIS PAGE!
Friday, April 29, 1949
DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS PAGE THREE

ED HOPPER
By CHERRY

A good dependable basketball player, a steady winner on track, a student leader, and an all-round gentleman are all phrases
that could be justly applied to this column's subject for this week. He is Ed Hopper, a senior from Meridian,
Mississippi. Ed’s forte is high and low hurdles although in the last meet with The Citadel he came through with
a surprising victory in the broad jump, stretching his lanky frame to jump 21 feet and one-half inch which is
a very good jump for most colleges in this section. In this meet Ed also ran a 26.2 low hurdles
and placed second to Bill Pritchett in the high hurdles thereby picking up a neat 11 points. Ed will be
a big contender for the track trophy this year because he has been picking up about 10 points in nearly
every meet. Combining a fast start with plenty of speed and jumping ease, Ed literally floats over the hurdles with
his smooth effortless stride. He has been getting plenty of competition this year from Tommy Walker and perhaps this is
one reason Ed turns in such good times.

In the winter months Ed would be found in the gym practicing away with the varsity basketball team. Last year
Ed was only a JV ball player, but he turned in some good performances under the boards and was elevated
to the varsity. His worth was not shown until the exciting Maryland game when he came into the ball game
(Continued On Page Four)

For Rhythm and Romance...

YES, MARTHA, THE 30-DAY TEST CHANGED ME TO CAMELS FOR KEEPS. FOR TASTE AND MILDNESS, I’LL TAKE A CAMEL EVERY
TIME!

Martha Tilton takes a recess to talk with Dick Haynes, popular Hollywood radio personality. They reach a quick agreement on
Camels.

Cats Fail To Win In Three Outings
By DAN McKEITHEN

The Davidson baseball team continued its losing way by dropping a 5-4 contest to South Carolina's Gamecocks here last Monday.
It seemed as if the Wildcats were about to bounce back into the victory column when they entered the ninth
inning with a 4-2 lead. Due to Dutch Hengeveld’s 4-hit pitching, the boys started handling the ball like a hot
potato in the last inning. However, South Carolina managed a walk and...The latter giving away two hits in the give-away,
Carolina took advantage of three big errors to score winning runs. Tubs On One the single stripe was set for
routine to center eluded Vert Ander- the ball was recovered the batter had circled the bases the tally ball game
on and by the time sacks for Wildcats and he three times in with Dick Duddy single Davidson scored the
fourth Richard's double bases-loaded and Chandler's the big tally came in the being slows. The other second without benefit of
a hit. Five Gamecock pitchers limited the losers to four blows, Chandler setting half of the total hits and Hengeveld
allowed struck out six but this effort was not enough to nullify his team’s seven miscues. Last week the squad
journeyed to Duke and Carolina and received a pair of Southern Conference defeats on successive days. At Durham, the Wildcats
and Pitcher Hengeveld were holding a 3-1 lead until the Blue Devils suddenly got tough in the sixth inning and
exploded to nine big runs. Three costly errors by the Wildcats were instrumental in Duke's outburst. Two futile runs were
added by the visitors in the seventh, but they had no bearing on the outcome as Duke won 10-5. Hancock,
of the winners, led the batting with four blows while Auburn Lambeth and Jake Wade each got two hits for
Davidson. The following day over at Chapel Hill, the Wildcats were neat two-hit victims of a shutout hurled at them
by Andy Tranavitch, Carolina pitcher. Led by Goodman, the second baseman who got four hits at bat, the Tar Heels
pecked away at Charlton Torrence, Davidson twirler, for single runs in the third, fifth, sixth, and eighth innings. Only Wildcat
able to solve Tranavitch’s assortment was Outfielder Auburn Lambeth, who got both the hits allowed by Tranavitch.

Matha, Flea in “I'll Remember April”

MIAMI HURRICANES BREAK CAT NETTERS’ STRING

Lifters Take First Meet Held In South

By FURMAN WARLICK

In probably the first weight lifting meet ever staged in the South, the Wildcat team won victory over the University
of North Carolina’s team by a scant 45 pounds. The meet was held in the gym on Thursday, and was
witnessed by a fairly large crowd. The outcome might have been different if Byerly of Carolina had been able to
qualify in the lift, but he failed all three attempts to press 170 pounds. Joe Richert, the heavy man on
the Cat team, was top man in the meet as he lifted a combined total of 680 pounds. Following is
the combined lifts of the members:

Davidson
Spires (132 lbs.) 445 lbs.
Patten (146 lbs.) 490 lbs.
Cook (165 lbs.) 505 lbs.
Johnston (181 lbs.) 655 lbs.
Richert (200 lbs.) 680 lbs.
Total 2775 lbs.

U.N.C.
Often (131 lbs.) 520 lbs.
Byerly (146 lbs.) 385 lbs.
Littlejohn (160 lbs.) 385 lbs.
Sullivan (166 lbs.) 585 lbs.
Wheeler (182 lbs.) 865 lbs.
Total 2740 lbs.

Chesterfield “Sports Quiz”

1. Who is known in baseball history as the “Big Train” and in boxing as the “Manassa Mauler?”
2. How many consecutive ball games did Lou Gehrig play during his baseball career?
3. Who is the only jockey in history who has ridden four winners in the Kentucky Derby Classic?
4. How many home runs did Babe Ruth hit in his major league career?

Rules Concerning Quiz
1. Answer each question correctly.
2. Submit answers on plain paper with name, dormitory, room number, date, and exact time of entry.
3. Turn answer sheets into (Continued On Page Four)

WINS

By JACK STEVENSON

The Wildcat tennis team lost its first match of the season Wednesday to a strong and browned team from the
U. of Miami. The match was halted by rain, but the final score was: Davidson 1, Miami 5. The feature
match found Bo Roddey winning over Tony Vincent of Miami, in a tussle which continually tried the patience of the
many spectators, not to mention the players. Bo played brilliant tennis to win the first set, 6-2. Then Vincent came
back to take the second set, 6-1, and go ahead 3 to 1, in the third and deciding set. Then
Bo found the range and took five straight games to win, 6-3. Vincent cancelled two of Bo's advantages in the
last match before a forehand outside to give point, game, and match. Miami won the following single matches to give
them their 5 to 1 victory: Teddy Keesler lost to Hart of Miami by scores of 6-1, and 7-5, Schwartz
beat Mike Williams, 6-1 and 6-1, Whit Cobb took his first set 6-0 and had a 5 to 4 advantage
in the second only to lose it 7-5, and the third set, 6-4 to Bruce Johnson of Miami. Henry Neisler
lost 6-3, 6-4 to Turner and Rob Palmer lost 6-2, 6-1 to Robinette. Rain kept the doubles from being played,
but Miami still won five matches and an official victory.

On April 13, the Cats defeated Guilford by a score of 9 to 0. Coach Derrick Barton kept Bo Roddey
and Mike Williams on the bench for this match. Teddy Keesler won the No. 1 singles match from Hillard, 6-1,
6-2. Whit Cobb, playing No. 2, won 6-0, 6-1, and Henry Neisler, Lenoir Keesler, Rob Palmer, and Al Fanjoy won
matches to complete the rout. No set, in either singles or doubles, went over a 6-3 score.

The Cat netters won from the Ga. Tech “Yellowjackets” for the second time this season on April 15 by a
score of 8 to 1. In March, the Cats won in Atlanta, 6 to 2. This latter time, Bo Roddey
won from Ed Adams, the two-handed stroker, 6-2, 6-3. Teddy Keesler won the No. 2 match from Owen, 6-2, 2-6,
6-0. Williams, Cobb, Neisler, and Palmer each won their singles matches to make it a clean sweep. Tech's lone victory
came in the third doubles when Bill Chick and Pete Kennedy lost by a score of 6-3, 3-6, and 6-0.

On April 20th, the Cats won from Presbyterian College. This score was also 8 to 1. Bo Roddey (Continued on
Page Four)

(A CAPITOL RECORDING)

Martha Tilton invites romantic memories in this easy-paced dream number! Martha picks her songs with care. And she’s particular about
her cigarettes, too! “It’s Camels for me!” says Martha. “They're my choice for flavor—and Camels are so mild!”

In a recent coast-to-coast test of hundreds of people who smoked only Camels for 30 days, noted throat specialists, making
weekly examinations, reported NOT ONE SINGLE CASE OF THROAT IRRITATION due to smoking CAMELS.

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.
