A book could have been written on the games of the Davidson Wildcats this fall, both good and bad. And what an interesting book it would have made if all the games had been as exciting as the finale in Charlotte on Thanksgiving Day. Davidson once more showed that they are at their best when they play in the spacious Memorial Stadium in the Queen City. Both the Citadel and the Cats played the kind of ball that kept the fans on the edge of their seats, and what the game lacked in fundamentals, it certainly made up in excitement.

By GORDON SCOTT

TWENTY-ONE FINISH GRID CAREERS

This game marked the last time that 21 Davidson gridders will wear the Red and Black on a football field, and the departure of these men marks the first complete turnover in football since Coach Bill Story came to Davidson four years ago. Several of those leaving are among the group that ‘Bloody Bill” brought with him when he took over the reins of head mentor. These graduating footballers were among those who in their freshman year, trounced Erskine and Wofford by astronomical scores that have not been emulated by a Davidson team since. They are the same gridders who, with the help of underclassmen teammates, upset N. C. State in a game that will be remembered as long as people around Davidson care to talk about football. Unfortunately, things haven't been that rosy all of the time, but during the four years in which these gridders played, Davidson played as good and spirited a brand of football as any grid team representing the institution has in the last two decades—considering the calibre of competition which they faced.

There will be twenty-one gaping holes to fill in the line-up next year—holes left vacant by Rhea Adams, Charlie Rimer, Johnny Richards, Fred Preyer, Mott Price, Hal Mapes, Grover Lee, Marvin Kelly, Sandy Carnegie, Carl Eborn, Davey Erwin, Buddy Chandler, Pete Brown, Amos Camp, Bill VanStory, Jake Wade, Cliff Turner, Ernie Stricklin, John Rittenburg, Bob Sharpe, and Jim Sifford. With a salute to this long list of gridders, we officially ring down the curtain on football for this year.

HOOPSTERS SHOW PROMISE

As far as we at Davidson are concerned, football is over and basketball is upon us once more. And it looks very much as though the off-season critics who spoke in whispers when mentioning Davidson’s chances on the hardwood this winter will have to back up and take another look. The season is far too young to make any predictions about the hoopsters' chances this year, but the showing the Cats made against Columbia Seminary set more than one pessimist to scratching his head. It's granted that the embryo preachers were no match for the Cats, but you can't overlook the showing the local lads made. Only five lettermen are among this year's squad, Haller, Hengeveld, Cobb, Richards, and Roddey. In addition to these seasoned performers, Coach Boyd Baird can rely on a group of sophomores who starred on one of the top frosh squads in the conference last year: Lean, Don Lazenby, Bob Turk, Brady Osborne, and Bob Nimovks. Ted Bowen, Al Cook, and Walt Hankins round out the squad at this early stage of the season. The starting five that Davidson had on the floor for the exhibition with Columbia Seminary averaged well over six feet which is something unusual for a Davidson team. The Cats can’t boast of any sky-scraping center, but they can point with pride and confidence to at least two full teams of players who work smoothly and shoot with deadly accuracy. The sophomores on which Baird has counted so strongly, appear to be coming along in fine style and in Monday night’s warm-up, they performed like veterans.

POWERFUL STATE FIRST CONFERENCE FOE

The first Conference foe which the Cats will face will be their toughest—N. C. State, who they play in Raleigh Monday (Continued on Page Six)

STUDENTS

For style, quality and fit in clothing that are Campus Classics, your selections are complete at...

MOORESVILLE, N. C. PHONE 289

Bill Brooks, Tom Coleman, Mac McJainack

PAGE FOUR

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Auburn Lambeth Named All-State

By DAN McKEITHEN

Although he was on a team which had a miserable won-lost record, it comes as no surprise that Davidson's ace passer, Auburn Lambeth, has been selected on the All-State Team of the Greensboro Daily News. It would be very difficult to overlook a man who was by far the top passer in the state; in fact, no one in the entire Southern Conference came close to his passing accuracy mark of .534. Out of 146 attempts, the 165-pound tailback completed 78 passes for 1126 yards and six touchdowns. Wake Forest’s T-formation quarterback, Carrol Blackerby, was the closest competitor but he was behind 300 yards and 10 completions. Lambeth had his best day against the fourth-ranked team in the nation, Army, when he hit his receivers 15 times. Last season the Wildcat junior rated the fourth position in passing in the country. He connected on 64 aerials for 640 yards and a 540 percentage. Because of his improvement in total yardage and number of completions, he is expected to land an even better ranking for the ‘49 season. It might also be added that Auburn, with another year yet to play, is practically sure of putting in the books an all-time offensive record for a Davidson player. The great Teeny Lafferty of the 1935-37 era is the present holder of the mark. Lambeth, along with Allen, Holdash, Gregus, Mooney, and others, will attend the 12th annual All-State banquet to be held in Greensboro December 12. You just have to invite a guy who leads the state in the most pass completions and most yardage, not to mention total offense. Incidentally, that 1126 yards is a new state passing record.

Wildcat Of The Week

By CHERRY STRIBLING

Our last Wildcat of the Week during the current football season is a sterling senior end, Pete Brown. Pete has played football all four years here at Davidson but he received little recognition until this year when his glue-fingered pass receiving brought him into the limelight. Pete has been an offensive sensation all year long, starting with the Army game when his pass-catching drew praises from New York sports writers. On each successive Saturday, Pete added to his total of passes caught until he became one of the top receivers in the state and in the conference. He also figured in many of the scoring plays that the Wildcats engineered over a long, hard schedule. His play in the Richmond game in which he took a Lambeth pass in the end zone for a score was especially commendable. On Thanksgiving Day, Pete provided the Davidson followers with a thrill as, on the last play of the game, he took a lateral on the receiving end of Auburn Lambeth’s long pass and crashed down to the three where he was pushed out of bounds by a desperate lunge by the Citadel safety man. The game ended before another play could be run and Davidson lost 20-14, but the last minute 76-yard march capped by Pete Brown's heroic effort will not be soon forgotten by the spectators at that game.

Well, football is over but Pete steps from the gridiron to the wrestling mat where he was a letterman last year. He figures to be the top man in his class and will offer plenty of opposition to his opponents. Then in the spring, Pete will again demonstrate his versatility by donning the spikes and hitting the jumping pit as a pole-vaulter for Pete White's track team. He has been a letterman and an outstanding vaulter for the last 3 years.from Mott Price who was on Hoopsters Open With Varsity. Win rosh Loss By BILL ADAMS Boyd Baird’s 1949-1950 version of Davidson’s basket-loving Wildcats dropped some of their wraps and saved the others for more potent opponents as they swamped Columbia Seminary 67-25 Monday night in the old gym to open what may prove to be another successful basketball season. In a preliminary, the Wildkittens of Ray Brown fell before a fast-breaking team from the Kannapolis YMCA, 36-46, in their first test of the year. The evening's main event, using the return of Bilt Iverson to the court battles as a drawing card, failed to materialize into little more than a stampede. The Wildcats easily outclassed Iverson and his mates to turn the game into a race and give every man on the Red and Black squad a chance to show his merit. The Wildcats started slowly, a little over-anxious, but later forgot their butterflies and showed plenty of strength once they got underway. Tommy Haller had 10 of Davidson’s first 17 points and added 4 more later to take high point honors with 14 tallies, followed by Al Cook with 12. The starting five of Haller and Bill Brooks at forwards, Don Lazenby at center, and Dutch Hengeveld and Whit Cobb at guards played only long enough to show promise of good ball-handling and plenty of scrap for the coming games, with Haller definitely looking like the offensive star. The reserves are good, giving the team plenty of depth although just a little shy on height. Whit Cobb ably handled the floor game but wasn't called upon to put his set-shot to use. Iverson carried the Seminary burden and managed 11 points against close Wildcat guarding, getting most of his help from Bill Brownson. The freshmen game proved to be far closer and better than the varsity’s. The Wildkittens took an early lead which they held until right before the half, but once behind they could never catch up. The game was slow at first. Kannapolis was wild on most of their shots but started hitting midway in the second quarter to take a 22-18 half-time lead. The second half was pretty much the same story. Kannapolis started using the fast-break to stay ahead of the Wildkittens while the Frosh began missing more shots. They seemed a little disorganized and failed to get any closer than 6 points to the speedsters from Kannapolis. The Wildkittens’ downfall lay in their inability to stop Kannapolis’ fast-break or to follow up their own shots. Bob Graham and Bob Crosland looked like dangerous point-getters, while Harris Asbury, George Lippard and Adrian Bowen seemed to be capable ball handlers. The Wildkittens also appear to have good reserves and perhaps with better teamwork and more accuracy from the floor they can improve on their performance. Believing to recognize her husband, a lady in a suburban tram suddenly left her seat and from behind put her arms around a man sitting several seats ahead. Naturally, she was greatly embarrassed when the man turned around and she saw that he was a perfect stranger. “Pardon me,” she tried to explain, “but you see, your head behind looks exactly like my husband’s behind.” Mooresville Creamery GRADE “A” MILK PASTEURIZED Daily Delivery PHONE 205 MOORESVILLE, N. C. ORIENTAL RESTAURANT BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER 126 W. TRADE ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C. PHONE 2-2238 Coach Charley Jamerson. Jamerson, who along with North Carolina’s Carl Snavely and Richmond’s Dick Esleeck has been one of the few coaches clinging to the single wing, announced the coaching staff’s decision for the change, saying that “it fits the type football player who normally comes to Davidson.” Coach Jamerson went on to say: “Most of our backs range in weight from 145 to 165. Occasionally we get a few big huskies, but generally that weight range is correct. These comparatively small boys have a lot of speed, as we have seen in the past couple of years. Often we chance on a back who can throw the ball well, has plenty of football sense, but who is not a good runner. It is evident that we can combine these backs and play the T-formation well. “This past year, the coaching staff decided that we did not have enough running speed in our backfield to install the T successfully. Therefore, we went out to look for backs who could be groomed in the T on the freshman squad.” Boyd Baird’s frosh, with A. C. Gregg, Roy White, Bill Stanley, Bill Rowland, and Jack Ruth, the answer to Jamerson’s seeking, operated smoothly from the T. They used it somewhat under a handicap with only 24 men on the squad, but nevertheless, managed to master the formation and run it effectively. Jamerson pointed out that these boys will join varsity backs who, though having run several seasons now from the single wing, were operators from the T in high school and who are adapted to its plays. “Auburn Lambeth (who worked from the T in high school) should make one of the finest T quarterbacks in the nation next year,” Jamerson speculated. “Jim Fasul and Jack Branch should give us a pair of offensive guards who are equal in ability to the great pair of guards who played against us at West Point. I am confident of that. Our tackles will be adequate. The returning varsity backs, along with the speedsters on this year’s freshman team will give us a first-rate backfield.” Coach Charley brought out that while the loss of Mapes, Price, and Brown will hurt the Cats on the flanks, Dick Blanks, Bob Turk, and Tom Comer, will be joined by Kirk Oglesby, who recently underwent a knee operation; Walt Hankins and Lee Talbert, forced to the sidelines by studies this fall; and possibly “several basketball players who have promised me they will return for football next fall.” “Normally,” Jamerson concluded, “a team which switches offenses is necessarily weak for a season, due to the change-over adjustment. In our case, however, I believe that we will start off immediately much stronger than last season because the T will fit the particular abilities of our personnel so much better than did the single wing.” Advertisement appearing in the New Bern Journal, September 20, 1873— Davidson College, Mecklenburg County, well equipped, seven professors, expenses low, session begins September 25, 1873. J. R. Blake, chairman of the Faculty. Paul & Crymes, Inc. Sporting Goods 415 S. TRYON STREET