THIS ISSUE DEDICATED TO INCOMING FRESHMEN AND TRANSFERS

VOLUME XXXVII

BILL ALEXANDER EXPLAINS IMPORTANCE OF Y.M.C.A.

The Young Men's Christian Association is probably the most active student organization on the campus. Affiliated with the National YMCA and composed of the students themselves, it seeks to carry on a program of religious services, social fellowship, and recreation in the student body, to provide appropriate channels through which the energies of the students may be brought to bear in useful work on the community, and to identify the Davidson student body with worthwhile causes of a national and international nature, all built on the structure of Christian principles.

The YMCA depends for its support and leadership on the student body. It is financed by the students almost entirely. Its officers are elected by the student body and all its services are a result of student body interest and participation. For the year 1949-1950, its officers will be Jim Evans, treasurer; Neil Leach and Tommy Langford, vice presidents; and Bill Alexander, president. The YMCA's work has the cooperation and support of the administration and the Rev. William R. (Bill) Smith who will serve again as general secretary. The YMCA's officers and especially its general secretary, always welcome fellow students conferring with them on the “Y” work.

A cabinet of about twenty men carries on the brunt of arranging the Y's activities which vary from ping-pong to preaching on deputations. This cabinet in conference with the general officers and general secretary makes the major decisions on programs and activities. Each cabinet member is responsible for coordinating the work of his own department. A student-faculty Board of Control formulates general policy.

One glance at the cabinet will reveal the multifarious activities of the YMCA: The YMCA sponsors a College Bible Class which meets at the “Y” every Sunday morning after coffee and donuts are served. This department is headed by Bob Gay, while Randy Taylor coordinates the prayer meeting services, held in each dormitory every Wednesday night. Ushers at Sunday night vespers work under Stubby Evans and special services speakers are arranged by John Lyles. Teachers for Sunday School extension work, deputations to churches in the nearby vicinity, Boy Scout and boys' club counselors are under the supervision of Irving Stubbs, Don Shriver, Bruce Davis, and Lonnie Turnipseed, respectively. York Pharr establishes a workable connection between the YMCA and the colored community enterprises. Publicity and the editing of the Handbook is in charge of Newton Robertson and the department handling inter-racial conferences is headed by Chic Longenecker. The department of social activities which arranges “days” with girls’ schools is headed by Bill Klein. In connection with this department, the YMCA makes available for students the YMCA lounge and ping-pong and pool rooms.

This year the YMCA cabinet will be organized around four commissions: Faith and worship, with Tommy Langford as chairman; social activity, Neil Leach; community service, Dave Anderson; and world-relatedness, Curtis Harper. The latter will include the Christmas Gift Fund and various conferences. Also in the cabinet are President of the Student Body Whit Cobb, representing student government, and Mac Erwin, who will serve as Freshman Advisor. In cooperation with Mr. Erwin, a number of YMCA Cabinet men will assist with orientation.

The YMCA would like to solicit student body participation and support and to emphasize that each student feel a part of the YMCA and a responsibility for its success. A personal appeal is made to each freshman to use the Y’s facilities and to get into Y work.

Pan-Hell To Sponsor 3 College Dances

It is high time to begin thinking about the three most important dates of the school year. If you haven’t given these dates the utmost position in your academic agenda, you had best hurry while there is still time. Everyday letters are rolling into the neighboring towns and villages with pleas that these dates might be accepted by the unusual creatures called women. Since there is a shortage of true feminine beauty, we would advise you to write at your earliest convenience.

Davidson is striving to uphold its reputation as the Country Club of North Carolina. Though attempts have been made to make learning the important phase of college life, we still put social life at the top. Three dates have been set to prove to the unbelievers that campus social life is the staff of life. Homecoming will soon be here with its rain and football game and it is rumored that V.M.I.’s Johnny Long will furnish the music. After Homecoming will come midwinters with its hoped-for snow and warm automobiles. We think Billy Kurauif of Charlotte will set us to sway with his jungle beat. Then with the rebirth of nature will come Spring Frolics. New loves will be in the spotlight at this dance and hopes for a romantic summer. Perhaps Les Brown will bless us with his music! Get that Davidson spirit and write your true love tomorrow for a homecoming date. Books and classrooms will pass away, but the thrill of a Davidson dance will live forever.

Eleven New Men on Davidson Faculty

Though all of the professors at Davidson are new to you, it is possible to obtain information through the medium of the catalogue and upperclassmen concerning the ones who have been here for years. The purpose of this article is to introduce you to the new faculty members.

Dr. George A. Douglas, after obtaining the degrees of A.B. from the University of Michigan, Ph.M. from the University of Wisconsin, and Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins University, became the head of the Sociology Department. He comes to Davidson as a professor of Sociology.

Linwood E. Orange has earned his A.B. and M.A. degrees from Duke University, and has been working on his Ph.D., also at Duke. He comes to Davidson as an instructor in English.

Guy Owen earned his A.B. and M.A. Degrees at the University of North Carolina. He will be an instructor in English.

W. R. Starnes, Jr., a member of the Phi Beta Kappa honorary fraternity, received his A.B. degree from the University of North Carolina, and his M.A. degree from Columbia University. He will be an instructor in Economics.

Iain Wilson, an Englishman, received his M.A. and B.D. degrees from the University of Edinburgh. He comes to Davidson as associate professor of Bible.

Paul G. Cheatham holds an A.B., M.A., and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Virginia. He is to be an associate professor of Psychology.

T. G. Roberts received his B.S. degree from Davidson and is returning to be an instructor in Chemistry.

Lt. Col. James L. Ballard, the new P.M.S.&T. in the R.O.T.C. Department, is a graduate of Davidson. He comes from Los Angeles where he was doing graduate work in guided missiles at the U.S.C.

Major Charles Sample, a member of the 9th Infantry Division, is a graduate of Davidson. He returns from the Canal Zone to be an instructor in ROTC.

Harold M. Frantz, a concert organist and pianist, comes to Davidson from Grand Rapids, Michigan to be an associate professor of music.

Davidson Launches Into One of the Most Significant Periods Of Her History

The progress and effectiveness of this group is manifested in the near-completed gymnasium which stands at the north end of Richardson Field. This one structure is a major step in bringing the school’s buildings and equipment up to date. It will offer to the Davidson student athletic equipment and accommodations as modern and as complete as any in the South. Favorable weather has allowed work to run ahead of schedule and this year’s homecoming festivities are to center about the dedication of the edifice in October.

Although noGround has been broken for the new church; it is no longer merely a dream. Plans for it have already been drawn up, and its imposing spire is expected to impress passers-by before many months. Also, the program has already seen the completion of several projects which are of less significance than the above but nonetheless necessary for a more attractive Davidson: a network of walkways between Chambers and Dormitory Row; a new walk from Chambers to the highway; a parkway behind Chambers; resurfacing of the campus roads; and a new paved road skirting Richardson Field and the new gym and passing by the school laundry to the highway, thus eliminating congested traffic immediately behind the dormitories. The erection of a new dormitory is another long-hoped-for project which the development drive has insured. Contributions from Mr. Belk of Charlotte will allow work on the building, which is to be called the Belk Dormitory, to get underway in the not-too-distant future.

One of the chief aims of the program is to secure a formidable sum for endowment. Without considerable endowment, Davidson or any other school is doomed to lag behind in development and upkeep of its facilities. The Development Program has made a good start. If it continues to meet with success, we of Davidson can expect our school to attain even more prominence in the realm of education than it now has.

So You Think You Are A Davidson Man; You Are Only Frederick The Freshman

They'll hand you a set of Freshman Regulations. You may think some of them are silly—the Court of Control doesn’t. Have you ever shined somebody else’s shoes or carried somebody else’s laundry? Well, you will. And if you who went to military school think you're through wearing a uniform, let me set you straight. You'll get another uniform. It won't be half as pretty as that bell-hop outfit you used to wear, but to make up for that, it'll be twice as big. But you can’t gripe about that. After all, Uncle Sam is good enough to let you borrow it for a year or so, and you can't expect borrowed clothes to fit perfectly. In other words, the first few weeks here are enjoyed by everyone—except you. That is, it CAN be that way. It's really up to you.

If you make up your mind to take things in stride, you're okay. When somebody sees you trying to make the best of things, he'll know that you might turn out to be a good Davidson man yet. I say MIGHT. Don't forget why you're here—to learn something. Maybe you have the same idea I had when I went off to school—that studying is an extra-curricular activity. I could be wrong, but it’s my bet that there aren't many Mr. Belvederes among you. So you may as well get used to the idea of doing at least some work if you want to stay with us more than six weeks. And while we're at it, I'll just mention this question of drinking. I'm not saying it’s wrong, and I'm not saying it’s right. But I am saying that if you find it necessary to be a Joe College of distinction, you stand a good chance of becoming the possessor of a one-way ticket home. Stay off the grass!

Graduation Posted

College officials are always answering the question, “Well, what subjects should I take in order to be sure I graduate with a major in my chosen field?” Each student asks such a question many times before he is handed his diploma. Perhaps the question is puzzling you now. If so, read on and perhaps you will find the needed information.

First, to those interested in advance or post-graduate work, here is helpful advice. If you plan to enter the ministry, teaching, engineering, medicine, or commercial scientific work, write to your preferred graduate school and get straight NOW the requirements needed for admission there. Then plan your college courses accordingly.

For requirements for a Bachelor's Degree (A.B. or B.S.), please check your college catalog. A minimum of 122 semester hours is required for graduation, and furthermore, a minimum of 122 “quality points” in accordance with the following table is necessary:
- “A”—three points for each semester hour credit.
- “B”—two points for each semester hour credit.
- “C”—one point for each semester hour credit.
- “D”—none.

All students are required to take a basic course as outlined in the Catalog. In addition to the basic course requirements, students must meet the following requirements:
- For A.B. 1—12 hours of Greek or Latin, to complete a minimum of 12 hours in each language.
- For A.B. 2—12 hours of modern language.
- For B.S. 1—16 hours of laboratory science (Biology, Chemistry, Physics).
- For B.S. 2—6 hours of History 11-12 and 6 hours of either Economics 21-22 or Geography 21-22.

Languages begun in the freshman year must be continued through the sophomore year. A student majoring in the Languages must major in one of the languages taken in his freshman or sophomore year.

Suggested Majors

For ministerial students: English, Bible and Religion, Philosophy, History, or Classic Languages. Ministerial students are urged to vary their courses, thereby receiving a broader and more general background outside their major requirements.

For medical students: Chemistry, Biology. Such majors require long hours of lab work; therefore, other activities should be planned accordingly.

For law students: Political Science. Such a major requires as a minor very broad and encompassing courses.

For education students: Psychology and Education, English, History, or Languages. The pre-teaching student should vary his courses to make a good general education beyond his major.

For Business Students: Economics and Business. No matter what your major might be, make sure that sufficient attention is given to other courses outside the major requirements. The need for well-rounded education is one that cannot be overlooked. Consult your faculty and student advisors concerning your choice of courses. The college catalog is always handy for reference.

GET YOUR FRESHMAN CAPS TODAY!

Approximately two hundred sixty brand new Davidsonians made their first appearance on the campus Thursday. Representatives from far-off lands and from nearby counties completed the Freshman roster. One young fellow journeyed all the way from Germany to be placed in the same class with another from tropical Brazil. From the states, they came in great numbers. Leading the list with the highest representation is Charlotte, N.C. Eighteen freshmen made the exhausting trip through Mecklenburg County to arrive safely at Davidson. Natives of the following ten states compose the greater part of the new class: North Carolina, South Carolina, Texas, Virginia, Georgia, Florida, Tennessee, Mississippi, Alabama, and West Virginia.

In spite of the increased number of the Freshman Class, the total enrollment at Davidson has decreased. There are fifty-seven fewer students this year than last. This leaves the enrollment at school this year at approximately 900. The enrollment is slowly settling down to prewar levels, which in the minds of the administration, is necessary to continue the same spirit and efficiency which has always prevailed on the campus.

College Encourages Outside Activities

Davidson College offers a wide range of extra-curricular activities to all her students. Freshmen entering this Fall are urged to select one or more of these activities, because in doing so they will enrich and enhance their stay at Davidson. At each turn of the year, you, the class of '53, will find the activity of your choice more interesting, and in your senior year, it will be you who keep the wheels turning.

The largest single field is that of publications. The Davidsonian is the weekly newspaper, and each year many freshmen begin work in either the editorial or the business departments. An opportunity will be given to all those who are interested at a special meeting to be called early in the year. Other publications are the Annual and the Scripts and Pranks, the school magazine. Men who show excellence in any of these fields are usually asked to join one or more of the three literary organizations on the campus. These literary societies, Sigma Upsilon, Philanthropic Literary Society, and Eumenean Literary Society, are honorary societies, and to receive a bid, you must be chosen by the members and approved by the faculty advisors.

Other honorary societies are the German Club, Spanish Club, French Club, Chemistry Fraternity, Physics Fraternity, and the Athletic Fraternity. All these are available only by bids and then only if you excel in that particular field. Those interested in world affairs may join the International Relations Club or become a member of the World Federalists. The dramatics club, the Red and Black Masquers, welcomes freshmen who show an interest in that field. It is an active group which turns out one outstanding performance a year.

The YMCA offers a wide variety of jobs and positions. Men are needed to teach Sunday schools in Davidson and also in nearby communities. Many serve as coaches for local schools, directing any and all sports in season. Freshmen interested in music may enter any of the numerous musical organizations on the campus. We are fortunate in having an excellent department here at our disposal. Besides a varied athletic program, some boys will be interested in the rifle team which wins its share of the matches each year. All of these groups welcome freshmen into their midst and will be more than glad to help them off to a good start.