—summer—and the cup will be awarded next Friday, March 11, 1949.

PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN

“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

EDITORIALS LETTERS FEATURES

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE

It is good, then, to have some organized recognition of scholarship and some basis of growth.

EVEN IN 1902 FROSH PROVED OBNOXIOUS

By JOHN HOBART

Fraternities in general have received a great deal of criticism these days, one of the bases of the criticism being
that they thwart and discourage high standards of scholarship. Therefore, it is well for our fraternities that they put emphasis
on this phase of what they stand for.

Back in 1902, it was the freshmen, as usual, who were trying to pull the spectacular and they almost got
away with it. But they had a case.

Quoting verbatim from the book, “If a certain train hadn’t been late pulling into Cornelius after being subjected for five
months, the freshmen might have deserted the old school. They would submit to a punishment of “one lick around,” this
to be the end of the hazing for the year. The committee of sophomores, it was charged, did not keep
faith.

The next evening the freshmen, at a late supper hour, decided to leave in a body on a train passing
through Davidson at 8 o'clock. To avoid detection, they had a case.”

EDITORIAL STAFF

Stan Kennett Associate Editor
Patenda Luxers Associate Editor
Ronnie Wietick Associate Editor
Jack Hazard Sports Editor
Lonnie Turnipseed Editorial Secretary
Staff Photographer
Bill King Cartoonist
Charlie Reid Poll-Cat Editor
Make-up Editor
Mitchell, Hartley, Jimmie Henritzy, Drew Gurley, Bill Bill Hollister, John Hobart, Jim Murray Hill, Lowe, Peary Hansen, Pargent, Bob Grutisen.

REPORTERS—Bill DuBose, Warren Sims, Ralph Allen, Dick Barnwell, Bill McCumming, Phil Libby, Ben Drayton, Nat Daniel, Dick Chandler, Shippey, Hugh
Huffaker, Bill Blackburn, Angus McKellar, Jack Pierce, Boye Kendall, Lamar Hinson.

SPORTS STAFF

Furman Warlick, Bill White, Phil Hammond, Bryant Rot, Dan McKeithan, David Whitener, Ed West, Bill Luckey, Jack Stevenson.

POLL CAT STAFF: Jim Carr, Claude Higginbothan, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown, and Neal Underdown.

BUSINESS STAFF

John Loftin Business Manager
Gorson Scott Assistant Business Manager
Bill Pharr Advertising Manager
Harold Gene Taylor Circulation Manager
Cecil Rhodes Assistant Circulation Manager
Tim S. McSwain Assistant Advertising Manager
Wyhe Smith Assistant Advertising Manager
Bill Houck Assistant Advertising Manager
Bill Cassels Collections Manager
Charles Clinkscales Subscriptions Manager
Hector McKeithan Assistant Subscriptions Manager
David McConnell Assistant Subscriptions Manager

ASSISTANTS—Bill Dockery, Hugh Huffaker, Bill Guthry, and Phil Wi.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year.

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY

National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE New York, N. Y.
Chicago - Boston - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Member 1949 Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest 1948

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Let’s Don’t Quit Now

The student body campaign drive is almost all over but the shouting. Nearly, but not quite. The overall goal has
been reached. All but two fraternities and the independents have gone over the top. The students are to be highly
congratulated on the way they have worked and done a good job. But let’s don’t quit now. Tuesday in chapel,
the different groups make their final spurt over the week total to at least fifty thousand! We don’t want to
just half-way do this job of going over the top. Let’s put on a big finish and raise the grand
total to fifty thousand!

Scholarship Cup

Rumor has it that next fall the faculty will renew a prewar custom by awarding a scholarship cup to the
fraternity with the highest scholastic average during the present school session. In the years before the war, the cup was
awarded annually and it was regarded as quite an honor to be the current holder of the cup. During and
after the war when help was scarce in the registrar’s office and there were many extra records to be taken
care of, the tabulating of the fraternity averages was discontinued. However, the individual and fraternity averages will be tabulated this
summer and the cup will be awarded next Friday, March 11, 1949.

One of the greatest annoyances connected with dormitory studying, especially for first and second floor inhabitants, is a jarring telephone
that rings on and on with nobody answering it. It’s a war of nerves, of sorts, between the individuals who
room near the phone. Apparently it’s some sort of a game among them to see who will give in first
and answer it, or rather who can hold out longest and not answer it.

A good many of the calls that come in are important, some are emergencies. Most of the people who call
the dormitories have some reasonable facsimile of a purpose for calling; it is reasonably safe to say that few of
the calls are of the party-line gossip variety. So not only from the viewpoint of eliminating a nuisance, but also
as a matter of courtesy and helpfulness to the people who are trying to get in touch with somebody, the
phones ought to be answered.

We do not mean to say that the men who live near the phones are green-eyed monsters just because they
don’t jump every time the phone rings. If they did, they would be running all day long, and it would
be an undue burden on them. Some of them could do better, of course, but there may be a better
solution.

It might be possible for one student living near the phone to be made a phone monitor. He would be
responsible for answering the phone when it rings or seeing that it is answered and that the party being called
is contacted. In exchange, he might get all or part of his room rent taken off his bill. There are
enough boys in school who could use this added help so that a monitor could be found for each phone.
The cost to the school should be easily offset in better dormitory conditions.

A Course In Marriage

For the past several years at Davidson there has been some demand for the addition of a course in marriage
and the family to our curriculum. In recent years, the psychology department has not been fully enough staffed for such
a course to be offered. However, with two good men in that department, now is the time for the students
once again to show an interest in it if they would like to see it installed.

One of the major problems that faces our nation and our Church today is the problem of marriage and divorce.
It is common knowledge that our divorce rate is rising annually, an indication that our people are either not taking
marriage seriously, or that they are poorly equipped to meet the problems that it presents. If the home is to
be preserved, it is up to the Church and the people of the Church to put marriage back on a
firm foundation. Davidson men, who will be the leaders, both as ministers and as laymen, in the Church of the
future, should have some knowledge of the fundamentals of the institution.

Now, of course, just to ask what the problems of marriage are and how to solve them intelligently may not
be the solution to our high divorce rate and the instability of marriage, but surely it is a step in
the right direction, a step that Davidson men ought to take.

With the exception of certain tropical honey wasps, all wasps feed on animal food—usually other insects.

Snap out of it, Kid—Chapel’s over!

Among today’s drama, entitled “Portia Faces Life, Why Can’t You?” we find John’s other wife, Mary, speaking to Dr. Kilroy
on the sofa.

Mary: I love you and desire you greatly.

Dr. Kilroy: Oh, you sweet boy, please don’t do it.

FLASH: We interrupt (darn it) this program to bring you a special news broadcast from our CBS (Confederate News System)
broadcasting room in Montgomery, Alabama. We have just received word that in answer to President Lincoln’s call for troops, Governor
R. Gregg Ellis of North Carolina has just forwarded a note to Lincoln stating: “You’ll get no troops from this
state.” For further details of this momentous event, we take you to the Dean of Southern news confusers, H. K.
Kaltencorn, who is in Charlotte. Come in High as a Kite Kaltencorn...

This is H. K. Kaltencorn bringing you an on-the-scene account of the Kappa Alpha Old South Ball being thrown in
celebration of the South’s secession from the Union. Invitations to this affair have been extended to Southern Belles far and
wide by the knights, and it should prove to be the greatest social event in the annals of Southern history.
At any minute I expect to see Jefferson Davis Harden and his cabinet arriving, plus other Southern dignitaries, including generals
and admirals. Prior to this ball there was a party given at “Head” Dickson’s plantation so we can expect the
presidential party to be a little late... Ah, here they come now. The parade is proceeded by a 160-horse drawn
Lincoln (how did he get here?) with Colonel McWilliams as head coachman with Sirs Robinson, Bachman, and Cunningham serving as
footmen. The presidential party is headed by Jeff Harden who is arrayed in his grey uniform with gold epaulettes. He
is flanked on either side by his aides, Generals Payne and Lindsay. The vice-president of the Confederacy, Alexander H. Jack
Stevenson, is just stepping from his coach and is now helping the Southern Belle depart. Just coming into view is
Colvert’s Virginia. He is accompanied by his aides, J. E. Di. Stribling, “Stonewall” Jim Jackson, Lt. General Hood of Norton
fame, Major General Joseph E. Dave Johnson, and...

Announcer: “And now Old Cider, the before dinner drink (you won’t need any dinner after drinking it) and the drink
of distinction, return you to...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

the second | several others who haven't come into act, Book II. Volume 69, Chapter | View yet. The renowned
Confederate electronic expert, “Radar” McConnell, just arrived. Professor McConnell has just completed some research at Manassas Ridge, Tennessee on misguided
missile warfare. Directly behind him is Dr. Frank Matthews, chief of the Chemical Warfare Drug Department. Dr. Morf is the
notorious football dealer in Gastony. Approaching is the First Lord of the Admiralty, Wilker D. Macaulay, whose great-grandfather was admiral
of the Swiss Navy. At the moment he seems to be catching a “Little Hell” from Alexander. Miss Splash Pharr
has brought a collie with her. Uh, pardon me, her date, “Bearded” Richardson, was just stooping over to tighten his
garters. The attorney-generals, Robert & Roberts, seem to be staggering a little undoubtedly because of the terrific heat. R. M.
T. Jack Hunter, who is rumored in informative circles to be the next secretary, has just arrived. The Governor of
South Carolina, J. Strom Barron Gist, is being escorted by his loyal state-righters. A bulletin has just been handed to
me stating that Dr. Fredric Preyer, Surgeon General, has just discovered a new soothing medicated syrup for the treatment of
colds. This new drug, Virus Vie, is reported to be the greatest medical discovery in years, surpassing penicillin, sulfa, and
even has or mob of state, ernor of Retonga. The noted Southern journalist, Erskine Caldwell Hix, who is editor of
the Charleston Mercury, has just arrived and I believe he has a statement for us which should be of interest.
Mr. Hix, have you something you would like to say to the radio audience? “Yes, Mr. Kaltencorn. I believe that
this is the finest ball I have run up against since completing my research on my recent book, “God's Little
Half-Acre.” Thank you, Mr. Hix. For a first-hand account of the party which is still in progress at “Head” Dickson's,
I switch you to Edward R. Muddle who is covering exclusively for CBS. He is now standing by with several
mint-juleps, I mean standing by to bring you an account of the party... Come in Edward.

In “Davidson College,” by Cornelia Rebekah Shaw, former librarian of the school, the story goes this way: “During this year
(1902-03) came the most serious student disturbance since the rebellion of 1855. As soon as Dr. Smith became president, he
instituted a vigorous campaign for a larger number of students. In speeches and writing, he impressed upon the young men
of the church the value of education. As a result, in 1906, the entering class in 1902 was by far
the largest in the history of the college. The class of 1905 was small, both in numbers and stature. Backed
by tradition and precedent, the sophomores hazed the freshmen, though each man entering the college at this period signed a
pledge to refrain from hazing. The freshmen defeated the sophomores in a class game of baseball and painted the score
on the pillars of Chambers Building. The trouble began. At the close of the annual sophomore banquet, the feasters found
the front door of Chambers Building, then the only dormitory in use, barred. The rooms of the sophomores had been
‘roughed’ and the freshmen were found barricaded on the second floor of the House, a freshman rendezvous. The leaders at
the top of the stairs and the leaders at the bottom parleyed interminably. After several hours it was agreed by
the freshmen (states a member of the class) that in view of the fact that their object was not to
be insubordinate, but to stop the hazing to which they had been subjected, they walked to Cornelius, a station a
mile away. All the money they possessed was divided, no man regarding what he had as his own. In the
meantime, the sophomores were in conclave in the Young Men's Christian Association rooms, while President Smith and Professors Martin and
Grey conferred with them. President Smith went to Cornelius to persuade the freshmen to return. The interview was made possible
by the fact that the train was an hour late. The class returned with the understanding that class differences would
be discussed sympathetically. On the next day, the freshmen, under the supervision of their class, rubbed out the score on
the pillars. The sophomores kept guard day and night for fear that someone else other than a man of their
class might erase the figures. Some evidence was secured that the young man who scraped the figures off was a
senior, his class. An armistice was operative for a few days, but at the same time, some freshmen had put
into action without the sanction of their class. When this was done, a student with the chance asked the faculty
for a holiday and the request was granted. Demands were frequent, demands were made, and reduced to the minimum for
the next year. That's the way things were back around the beginning of the twentieth century. They're different now. The
student body buys its education at $40,000 a throw.

The sensation caused by a U. of California co-ed was short-lived, at least as far as the other co-eds were
concerned. Because of her charm, her beauty, and her figure, she was invited to all the sorority houses on the
campus and received no less than seven bids. But instead of wearing the new look, she should have been wearing
pants and smoking a pipe, because she wasn't a she. His narrow escape when his figure became lopsided can only
be attributed to the politeness of everybody. It seems these trappings come loose easily. His life will be in danger
if he ever sets foot in another sorority house, but at least his reconnaissance was very successful. He could report
to his fraternity brothers the inside dope about the life of a sorority rushee, to say nothing of the telephone
numbers of twenty-seven of the prettiest co-eds on the campus.

A group at Georgia Tech has formed a “No Alcohol For Me Club.” The situation which prompted this action was
an observation made by many technicians. They noticed their beer had been tasting differently of late. Upon investigation, they discovered
that rats in the brewery vats were the cause. Newly revealed information contains a startling discovery of filth, dead animals,
and dead human bodies found in beer vats, wine vats, and whiskey stills. The club advises that you “shoot yourself,
hang yourself, or jump in the creek or turn on the gas, but don't die by slow degrees as you
rot your liver, harden your kidneys, sear your brains, court dropsy, fraternize with Bright's disease, and make love to rheumatism
by drinking beer.”

Campus politicians will do anything. At the U. of Oklahoma, a student senate aspirant advertised himself with dollar bills on
which his picture appeared instead of George Washington's. The Secret Service agent put a stop to it, however, because it
was too good a job of counterfeiting. The U. of Chattanooga is supporting the dry side in a referendum of
that city in the interest of some students who are working their way through college. Their sob story is that
legalized liquor has made it very difficult to make a dishonest living. They are offering a pint to anyone who
will stagger to the polls and vote dry. Hampden-Sydney is launching an anti-Benzedrine campaign. It seems that a few students
have found these little cold-chasing remedies an excellent remedy for chasing examination blues when taken internally. The U. of Delaware
REVIEW presents a nifty date recipe: He necks, She necks, Kleenex, Don't let her tissue off.

Don Juan — Errol Flynn, Viveca Lindfors. — Monday and Tuesday, March 14 and 15. Dashing Don makes an appearance
behind a moustache and goatee, but it’s really Errol. He woos and wins females from the Queen of Spain to
the scullery maid. Much fancy sword slashing and swinging from chandelier to eave. Should be pretty good entertainment if you
don't have a psychology test the next day.

The Accused — Loretta Young, Robert Cummings. — Wednesday and Thursday, March 16 and 17. A psycho picture about a
frustrated Psychology teacher, Loretta, who roughs up a pupil's skull with a lead pipe, and acts innocent. The net of
suspicion tightens, as everyone connected with the plot falls in love with the cute crusher. The picture dramatically ends.

Bad Men of Tombstone — Barry Sullivan, Marjorie Reynolds. Friday and Saturday, March 18 and 19. What do you think?
America is a land where people in all walks of life prefer riding instead of walking. Things could be worse.
There was a time when a Democrat didn't have $100 to buy a plate at a Jackson Day dinner.

William the Conqueror caused a great census to be made of England, called the Domesday Book, which enumerated all possessions
down to the last pig, ox, and cow. Nick Etten’s league-leading total of 22 home runs in 1944 is the
lowest winning mark in the American League since 1919. There are hundreds of species of “solitary” wasps which do not
live in communities.

Now, Robert Toombs Jinright, the Secretary of State, is with a South Georgia peach which is in full blossom. The
Under Secretary, Watt “Lighting” Jeffries, a man of decision and action, is following him. Jack Hazard, Chancellor of the Exchequer,
is now coming into view and is accompanied by Bebe Jordan. Several of the generals and admirals are now beginning
to arrive. The Chief of Staff, Robert E. Lee, has just returned from the front. This is Edward R. Muddle,
your weekly newscaster. I am now standing in the mud in front of the “Head” Dickson mansion, situated on Tobacco
Road. Several of the Knights are doing the Virginia Reel in front of the house. Lil Abner Haynes and Dicky
Baxter are furnishing the music on their renowned guitars. Sitting on the front porch are Vice Admiral “Sex” Glenn and
Rear Admiral Mitchell, chiefs of submarine warfare, who (Continued On Page Four).
