Even though the rest of this paper has gone crazy, I will not write another word before I turn this column into a farce: I refused. BOBCAT SPITS MERRY CHRISTMAS AND HAPPY NEW YEAR!

Friday, April 1, 1949
THE DAVIDSONIAN
PAGE THREE

INTRODUCIN' ... NOTHING TO DO WITH SPORTS
By BRYAN ROBINSON

It is with a heavy heart that I take my pen in hand to tell you of the riot that occurred between the Betas and the Kappa Alphas last Tuesday evening just before supper. The two fraternities had been rivals in a volleyball game that afternoon, and the fact that the KA's were beaten, 11-0, 11-0 (the third game was conceded) might have had some bearing on the matter. The boys were gathered on their respective front porches, when one Z. B. Shmooklink, a visiting KA whom the defeat particularly seemed to rankle, and a well-known Beta-baiter, began to bait the Betas with belligerent and blasphemous words which bruised the Betas and soon drove them batty. Although Shmooklink was not guilty of evil intentions, his words were all that were needed to sharpen the edge on which the Betas had been on. The Betas marched over and demanded a retraction of the words spoken by Shmooklink. Shmooklink resisted, and soon bedlam prevailed. The fight raged back and forth for almost a half hour. The other fraternities joined in, and the Betas managed to clear their house temporarily of the attacking forces. Among the missing was Shmooklink. Regardless of the fact that it would be almost suicidal to attempt a recapture, the KA's were faced with the fact that Shmooklink was one of them. A rally was effected, and the KA forces charged the Beta house from all four sides. Despite terrific losses, the door was forced, the captors were beaten back, and Shmooklink was rescued. The grateful man volubly expressed his thanks, "Thank you. On behalf of Kappa Alpha, Northern, I thank you!" Kappa Alpha Northern! A damyankee! A cry of disappointment and rage arose from the bewildered KA forces. As one, they fled away from the unclean to allow the Betas to reach him unmolested. At this time Chief Linker arrived with a riot squad of Davidson police. The crowd quickly dispersed. Had Linker not arrived, Shmooklink would have been lynched. President Cunningham was relatively lenient with the participants. He only commented briefly: "I have been informed by the Charlotte Airport that we shall definitely have no rain tomorrow. The skies shall be clear."

DAVIDSON ALUMNUS MAKES RICH OIL STRIKE
CATS ADD SOONERS TO '49 GRID SCHEDULE
By BILL WHITE

In an announcement that came as a complete surprise yesterday afternoon, Athletic Director Norman Shepard released the addition of Oklahoma, North Carolina, Duke, and Wake Forest to the 1949 Davidson football schedule, and at the same time indicated to President John Cunningham his resignation. The Oklahoma, Carolina, Duke, and Wake games will replace Wofford, Presbyterian, Rollins, and the Citadel on this autumn’s card. Shepard, speaking before a student body crowd that swarmed to the Old Alumni gym immediately after the announcement, declared: "It wasn't so bad when they had to add Oklahoma to get some money from an alumnus who struck oil out there, and Carolina and Duke are tolerable, but it’s the idea of playing those Pennsylvanian coal mine prodigies of Peahead’s that I draw the line on!" Immediately cries of "Beat the Baptists" rent the air. Shepard continued: "Slick thinks he can stuff a new gym down my throat and then expect me to sacrifice my thin red line before the huskiest beef outside of the Chicago stockyards. Our 'penny pilfering' prexy seems to forget I've got Charley Jamerson working with my boys—not Bloody Bill Story!" At the mention of his name, Pop Charley poked his head out of the old door in front of the aging structure. "Uh, see. I'll have to go."

IN OKLAHOMA

At last this column has come to the climax of a long series of articles on the great sports stars of the Davidson campus. At long last it is our privilege to introduce to the avid readers of the sports page who rush to get their copy of the DAVIDSONIAN and thumb hurriedly through the numerous pages until at last they find their joy and delight hidden somewhere in the depths of this great newspaper. We salute you, dear readers! A great privilege and honor is yours. You are to be allowed to read an account of the deeds and actions of the greatest of the great in the sports history of Davidson. Of course, there is no need to mention the name of such a famous athlete because his fame and that of Davidson men wherever they are, whether at home or in far-distant climes. Our subject came to the Davidson campus not too many years ago as a poor country lad not yet out of his teens. However, he did have some physical characteristics which did give a slight edge over the other lads who were husky enough. He had powerful muscles on a strong frame. He stood nearly seven feet tall (tall enough to play a little basketball) and tipped the scales at slightly less than 250 pounds. But do not be mistaken, he was no mere football tackle. He had the grace and agility of a cat. He was a perfect 10-second man in track and possessed perfect coordination. There was not an ounce of fat on him and he kept himself in perfect condition. Needless to say, the coaches took a great liking to him and decided to keep him under wraps for his freshman year. This was in 1938. He was outstanding in scholastic and social activities on the campus, being elected president of his class and President Cunningham, rearing up in a 1938 Ford with 350 percent of the Davidson police force, Bill Moore, to dispel the crowd. Moore cleared a space for him to speak. He then commenced as he is wont to commence, after several days’ deliberation, "Gentlemen..."faculty and have determined what we believe, and what I believe you will believe, is a wise course for these critical days of uncertainty. With the addition of these four schools to our schedule, we have taken a great step forward in the athletic realm, and through a generous friend of the college in Oklahoma, we have topped our $2,500,000 goal. For the present time, Dean Lailey, C.K. Brown, and Pete White will handle the football team until a head coach can be named. Cool and Blackjack granted me their assurance that if Mr. Whittle foregoes his afternoon naps, they can make a successful season of it.

The inevitable question arose as to what would become of Kay Brown, Baird, and Redding. “Gentlemen, you have touched a tedious subject. Under assumed names, these men shall join hands with us on the gridiron in the Red and Black of dear old Davidson. Kay Brown is making the highest grades in his class, holding a 99.9 average, while winning the Sentele Bible award. Then in his sophomore year, he became eligible for Southern Conference competition. The coaches, of course, could not let him practice with the other boys, but he did get some practice by hitting the cement pillars under the stadium and running headlong into the side of the stadium. 

Then the opening game came. He was sent into the game about the middle of the first half but had to be taken out because he knocked out half the opposition while easily running through them for a touchdown. Well, there is no use to relate his other exploits that season, but he was a unanimous choice for All-American, and it was his fame that set Davidson upon the high plain of athletic supremacy that it has enjoyed ever since. Then came the basketball season, and Coach Norman Shepard built his team around our tall, well-built hero. He led Davidson to its first conference championship and made the tournament at Duke a runaway for the Red & Black. He was the scoring leader in the nation. Also, he found some time off for a few wrestling matches, which he won in record-breaking times. Then came baseball, track, and golf, and he starred in all three while finding time somewhere to win the conference tennis championship. In baseball, he pitched and won all 20 games and managed to hit a brisk .350. In between innings, he could find time to enter about five track events, and he won them too, while setting three new conference records. He shot in the low 70s in golf matches. Quite an athlete was our Davidson man!

But some of the freshmen who are uninitiated in Davidson legends may want to know what happened to this great athlete. Well, the truth is sad and difficult to relate, but to make a long story short, this man could not only outrun, outjump, and outplay anyone else, but he could also out-drink anybody else, and that was his downfall. One night after consuming an incredible quantity of beer, he was caught in the meshes of a breath check by the redoubtable Cop Linker while staggering out of the Mooresville bus. And that was the end of a remarkable career, but the legend has never died. The name of the great Joe Blow will never die as long as Davidson men live.

Cat Golfers Take Places In U.S. Open | Stopped by Cars
By BILL BUCKEY

A slight surprise (the understatement of the year) swept the campus last week as news came in that our touring golf team had finished 1, 2, 3, 4 in the recent U.S. Open Golf Tournament, held this year out on the West Coast. It is rumored that Monty Hill's 61, 62, 60, 59—242 score over the difficult course is the best ever made in this particular tournament. We know that he shoots better golf than this, but the waterlogged, wind-swept course must have slowed him down a bit. It is my sincere hope that next year they will play this tournament in some locality devoid of rain and eternally bathed in sunshine—like Florida.

While returning from their Orlando, Fla., spring training camp to Washington, the Washington Senators baseball team stopped by the Davidson campus for an exhibition game with the Wildcat nine. Since baseball practice had not begun this far north due to inclement weather, Coach Batlover Jamerson issued a special call for all men that had played on his checker team the season before to draw uniforms. A new student, Teddy Williams by name, was not allowed to play because he failed to meet the aforementioned qualification, while on the other hand, one qualifying boy without any legs was assigned the second base position. The crowd and especially the professional team were kind of astonished, to say the least, when the college boys immediately went to work and won the game going away. The winners kept doubling their score as each inning passed, and soon the score was lost because the scorekeeper, who had failed to calculate geometric progressions, could not keep up.

The most amazing thing was the effectiveness of the Wildcat pitchers, who limited the slugging pro outfit to one run. This lone tally came as a result of a fly which dropped just beyond the reach of outfielder Patterson, who, accustomed to other Davidson activities, had stepped into the path of an errant javelin. The runner was moved home when aging Buddy Lewis, a native Carolinian, got out of his wheelchair to try a bunt. By accident, his attempt popped into the air and bounced between the third and fourth sections of the center-field bleachers. For this effort, he was awarded a 2½ base hit on the decision of the umpire. However, this rally was quickly squelched when Arm Hengeveld came to the mound with his wide assortment of drop curves.

The home club started off great guns in their very first turn at bat. Pearson pushed a palpitating pop past the pitcher and beat the ball to the bag before being bounced by the big brute beside the base. With a man on first, the bird shift was employed with all seven fielders standing on the left-field foul line. The hit that followed was a wee bit confusing as the ball trickled under a pile of bricks left from the construction. The flying runner was finally stopped on his third time around the sacks when Riddervold riddled him. However, no scores were given for this noble effort, although Brid will be awarded the Purple Heart for best typifying the eager-beaver college spirit.

The next hitter, Anderson, smashed one of the longest drives ever witnessed, but it was disqualified because he had danced out Algebra nearby to the mound before the pitch. Labmeth would have had himself an extra-base blow had he not tripped over an oversized plug of tobacco dropped by the preceding batter. Fils was given a lease on life when his high foul was missed by Senator Catcher Jake Evans, another Carolinian, who fell over a conveniently placed bicycle into a wheelbarrow. Although Fils failed to hit, he provided the crowd a thrill by clicking his heels three times in the air after missing a strike.

The fielding gem of the day was accredited to Labmeth, who went behind the stadium for Stewart's long drive and made a perfect throw to nail a runner at the plate. However, when the dust had settled, it was found that Labmeth had thrown in a fraternity volleyball. An injury was sustained when reserve catcher Weakeyes Wilson, who was after a high fly, strayed into the construction work and caught a falling white-hot rivet. The game was finally discontinued due to the continued annoyance of Track Coach Whittle, who was running one of his trial track meets with the Davidson grammar school.

May we forever continue our conservative policy and allow material things to enhance sport for the love of sport—as it has always thrived at Davidson.

NAMED TO U.S. OLYMPIC TRACK TEAM

The following Davidson men have been named to the United States Olympic team: Allan Mead, Bill Medford, Phil Tatum, and Monty Hill. Their scores were not up to the usual Wildcat par, so we don’t mention them here. Seriously speaking, though, our lads must have done quite a job of humiliating golf's big boys, for Byron Nelson was heard saying as he walked off the course at the close of the tournament, "I'd rather sell umbrellas, anyway." Robby Locke must have been in much the same spirit, for the last anyone saw him, he was methodically breaking his clubs in half and throwing them into the ocean as he sailed away to South Africa.

As might be expected, our squad's brilliant links performance brought many fine offers from the leading sporting goods companies, and we hear that the Davidson men accepted contracts only on the stipulation that their "cash" would be given to the Davidson Development Program. This money, they said, is to be used specifically for building new tennis courts in order that the Cats might be well represented in all sports. Such a spirit is to be commended and is a real credit to these loyal sons of old D.C.

FLASH: USGA has just announced that "The Mont" and his boys will represent the U.S. in the Ryder Cup matches to be held in England next month.