—— re ee ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS The Davidsonian VOLUME XXXVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1949 NUMBER NINE LEADERSHIP SOCIETY HOLDS TAP DAY CHRISTIANITY CAN CO-EXIST WITH COMMUNISM IN CHINA

“Will we choose atheism and hate, or Theism and Love?” was the question set before the student body Tuesday, Nov. 15, as Dr. Robert J. McMullin spoke in chapel. “This question for choice has arisen in stark reality in China today and now is the time to make the decision.”

Such were the words of a man well acquainted with the China situation through 35 years of experience within the borders of that country. Dr. McMullin, the Executive Secretary of the United Board for Christian Colleges in China, went to China first in 1911 and has spent the major part of his life since then among the people whose country is now being overrun by Communism. The white-haired speaker, having been at one time president of Hangchow College, expressed sincere thanks to the student body for their gift of $5,000 to that war-ridden college in 1947.

An entirely new slant on Communism in occupied China today was presented by this former president of Centre College. He referred to the fact that there are Russian Communist leaders directing the affairs of occupied China today, but that the leadership is entirely in Chinese Communists’ hands. Dr. McMullin also brought out the fact that the curriculum of the Christian colleges in China today are not being suppressed to any great degree, but are given an equal chance with Communistic schools to spread Christian principles through education.

Christianity in China today, especially in the colleges, has before it a challenge to “put its wares before the people.” Dr. McMullin made an appeal that the “Y” Gift Fund this year might go to a Chinese college and help the cause of Christianity in this great country.

Step Forward Taken By Campus Clubbers

Within the past two years the Campus Club has made amazing progress as is witnessed by the attractively furnished Eu Hall, redecorated by the club last year. Fairly recently the organization advanced another step by renting a boarding house. Here the members will be able to eat together, while previous to this innovation, they were scattered across the campus and downtown at meal time. As they were unable to sit down to a meal en masse before acquiring the boarding house, the members missed much of the fellowship that comes from a group meeting together three times a day. To correct this loss, the Campus Clubbers voted to rent and operate a boarding house.

The house committee, elected by the members, hired Mrs. G. C. Gibson, a qualified dietician, to supervise the cooking of the meals and determine the diet. At present the waiters are selected by the committee and are employed on a full-time basis. Located at 226 South Street, the house is owned by Mr. T. E. Lothery, from whom the rooms are rented. Thus far, the boarding house system has been very successful with the Campus Club members and is anticipated by President Malloy Owen and House Committee Chairman Al Gerhardt to continue so.

ROTC Unit Parade

Weather permitting, the first parade of the year will be held on Richardson Field next Tuesday, November 22, at 2:30 p.m. At the last drill the platoon of Cadet Lt. John Rittenberg won the best-drilled platoon competition.

Mr. Burges Johnson Opens Lecture Series With Topic ‘Ghost-Killing’

Inaugurating the 1949 Lecture Series, Mr. Burges Johnson delivered two addresses at Davidson. He addressed the student body yesterday morning during the regular chapel program, and again last night. Speaking on the topic, “Can You Kill a Ghost?” Mr. Johnson attacked our present Educational system, calling upon the professors to reason more carefully concerning their actions.

Using quaint and simple illustrations, Mr. Johnson stated that the most effective way to kill the ghosts that restrict us in so many ways is to laugh them to death or continually walk through them. He chose “Wild Authors I Have Known” as his evening address subject. Among those with whom he was personally acquainted were Mark Twain, O. Henry, Teddy Roosevelt, and Woodrow Wilson.

Born in Rutland, Vermont, Mr. Johnson was graduated from Amherst College, where he received (Continued on Page Six)

Music Recital Given By Eight Students

Davidson College’s Department of Music presented a program of recitals Monday evening, November 14, in Chambers Auditorium. The program was composed of students taking individual instruction in voice, piano, and organ.

Vocalists on the program were: baritone Rob Palmer singing “Dedication” by Franz, and “It Must Be Wonderful” by Liszt; tenor William Whitesides singing “Ler, Gorge Zum Liebchen” and “Sonntag” by Brahms; baritone Jack Mills singing an Irish Folk song, “Eileen Aroon,” and “Below in the Valley” by Brahms; and baritone Pendleton singing “Lied” by Franck and “Watchman’s Song” by Hufferman-Earhart.

Three pianists were presented: Perry Daniels playing “Sonata in (Continued on Page Six)

Tapped By O.D.K.

Shown above are men tapped by O.D.K. this morning in chapel. They are, left to right, top row: Dr. Puckett, Curtis, John Lyles, Doug Rice, Jake Wade, and Bob Bumbarger.

Court Recommences Activity After Lull

After a week of inactivity the Court of Control has recommenced functioning in order to instill the right spirit in all classes. The Honorable Judge Rice called to the remembrance of several freshmen Thursday night in Phi Hall at 8:30. Others will be notified by mail.

The following were the culprits of the violations. (1) Neely Dixon - Impersonating an upperclassman and not wearing a hat. (2) George Brockenbrough - No class cap, disrespect to upperclassmen, general obnoxiousness. (3) Rob Speak - Refusing to carry laundry, improper chapel conduct, thinks that the court is a hoax. (4) Phil Davis - No cap, gross obnoxiousness, total disrespect to upperclassmen, walking on grass. (5) Jesse Fisher - No cap (Continued on Page Six)

Mecklenburg Award

6:30 P.M. Mecklenburg County

Given annually for superlative scholarship and campus leadership, the Mecklenburg Award will be presented as the highlight of the night’s proceedings, by B. Hunter, Jr., the winner of the award last year. Mr. Ernest Roddey, Charlotte, who, it will be remembered, was among those from Davidson who received a rating in the collegiate Who’s Who, has participated in the following campus activities: Varsity Basketball, 1949; Varsity Tennis, 1947, 1948, and 1949; Beaver Club; Cheerleader, 1949; Manager of Football, 1948, 1949; Vice-President of Senior Class, 1949-50; member of Delta Omicron Kappa and Secretary, 1949-50; member of Kappa Sigma Fraternity and President, 1949. Off the campus, he was a member of the National Junior Davis Cup Squad.of 1948, and has won many doubles and singles matches on the national as well as state level. (Continued on Page Six)

Salem Businessmen Convene on Campus

Twenty-one Winston-Salem businessmen on a recent goodwill tour of neighboring towns, visited the Davidson campus. Among the group were Mr. William S. Koenig of Reynolds Company, and Mr. Leon Kimball of Southern Dairies, Inc.

The tour was sponsored by the Winston-Salem Chamber of Commerce, which was represented by Mr. Harry K. Krusz and Mr. Pete Gravely. The purpose of this group was to learn the ways of city government and other improvements made in Charlotte and nearby towns. While at Davidson, the group was accompanied by Mr. F. L. Jackson and visited the gymnasium and other points of interest about the campus.

Acclaim Roddy “Outstanding Senior”

Oliver Fennell (“Bo”) Roddey, Jr., will receive the Mecklenburg-Union Award tonight at a dinner of the Mecklenburg-Union chapter of the Davidson Alumni Association. The dinner, held at Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, will begin at 7:00 PM.

T. W. ALDRED

The stars of the Masquers’ play, “John Loves Mary,” which is to be presented next Monday and Tuesday evenings in Chambers Auditorium, are Jessie Carter and T. W. Aldred. Jessie, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. F. Carter of Davidson, will be seen in the role of Mary. She is a senior at Davidson High School and takes part in a varied number of activities there. Her appearance in this play marks her first part in a big dramatic production. Mary is a pretty, alert young girl of twenty-two who finds that getting married isn’t quite as easy as she had anticipated.

Co-starred with Jessie is T. W. Aldred, a freshman from Charlotte. He is a member of the male chorus and a pledge in Kappa Alpha fraternity. T. W. has had quite a bit of experience on the stage, having taken parts in a number of high school plays. John, the role in which T. W. is appearing, is a handsome, likable chap of twenty-four, who has just returned from overseas where he served three years as a sergeant in the Army.

The play takes place in the luxurious New York hotel suite of Senator and Mrs. McKinley. The time of the play is early summer of 1946. Other members of the cast, in order of appearance, are as follows: Oscar, Ted Daniel; Fred, Woody McKay; Senator McKinley, Bill Trotman; Mrs. McKinley, Mary Wells McNeil; Lieutenant O'Leary, Elliot Braxton; Mr. Beechwood, Tad Currie; Lily, Nancy Copeland; and General Biddle, Mac Bulgin. Bob Gay is the director of the play.

The curtain time will be 8:15. Tickets, which will go on sale the latter part of this week, can be obtained from any member of the cast or the Masquers. The prices will be .60 for students and .75 for adults.

JACKSON CITES O.D.K. AS LINK BETWEEN FACULTY, STUDENT

Chambers Auditorium, during this morning's chapel period, was the scene of Omicron Delta Kappa tap-day ceremony as Davidson's O.D.K., national honorary fraternity, extended membership to five seniors. Those who received bids were:

Stuart Chase Speaks To Queens Audience

Stuart Chase, noted American economist and social scientist, delivered an enlightening speech Tuesday night at 8:15 at Queens College’s Ninniss Auditorium. Mr. Chase was presented as the speaker in the Queens Annual Lecture series. The main topic of his lecture was the famous author and lecturer’s answer to the question, “Can man learn to control the machine he has created?” Mr. Chase explained that in his last book, “The Proper Study of Mankind,” he made an inventory of the specific accomplishments the social scientists have made. “More progress has been made in this generation than in all previous history,” he found to be true through his study.

Omicron Delta Kappa, the national honorary fraternity, was founded at Washington and Lee University and has enlarged since then until it now has circles in thirty institutions of learning throughout the country. The purposes of O.D.K. are as follows: (1) To recognize men who have attained high standards of efficiency in collegiate activities; (2) To bring together the most representative men in all phases of college life and to create an organization on questions of mutual interest; (3) To bring together members and faculty on a basis of mutual interest and understanding.

Tomorrow Magazine Announces Contest

Tomorrow Magazine, which will run during the spring and summer, is now accepting manuscripts for publication. Manuscripts will be considered for publication as regular contributions and paid for at Tomorrow's regular rates. Manuscripts should be addressed to Tomorrow, 11 East 44th Street, New York 17, N.Y. The deadline is January 15. The contest is open to anyone taking at least one course in any college in the United States. This includes undergraduate, graduate, special, extension, and adult education students. No application blanks are necessary. Manuscripts should not exceed 5,000 words. Any number of manuscripts may be submitted by a single student. Each entry must be marked College Contest and bear the writer’s name, his home address, and the name and address of the college he is attending. All entries must be accompanied by a self-addressed, stamped envelope.