THE DAVIDSONIAN

Mac is from Greenville, S.C., and is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. He was in the Navy for
two years and is a member of the YMCA cabinet and the student council. Mac is the Freshman Advisor for
this year’s freshman class. He is a member of the “D” club and played football for three years and baseball
for one year.

BILL HAMILTON—
Bill hails from Richmond, Va. Studying for work in commercial art, he is a member of the Campus Club, Philanthropic
Literary Society, and Sigma Upsilon. He is the editor of “Scripts and Pranks,” the College Magazine.

BOB HOLLISTER—
Bob, from New Bern, N.C., is a pre-medical student. He is editor of the “Davidsonian” and chairman of the publications
board. He is a member of ODK and Sigma Upsilon and is the president of Phi Delta Theta.

JOHN LYLES—
John is from Chester, S.C., and is studying for the ministry. He serves as president of Kappa Alpha fraternity, of
the forensic council, and of Sigma Upsilon. He is this year's recipient of the Agnes Sentelle Brown Award. He is
a member of Philanthropic Literary Society, Scabbard and Blade, and Delta Phi Alpha.

LISTON MILLS—
Liston, coming from Wilmington, N.C., is majoring in English. A member of ODK, he is president of Pi Kappa Alpha
and president of the Senior Class. He is on the Student Council and a member of Sigma Upsilon.

BO RODDEY—
Bo is from nearby Charlotte and is majoring in business. He is president of Kappa Sigma fraternity, vice-president of the
Senior Class, and treasurer of ODK. Bo, a cheerleader, has been this year both the state singles and doubles champion
and is the first man on the tennis team; he is also on the varsity basketball team.

1950-51 FULBRIGHT...
(Continued From Page One)
close on November 30, 1949. No applications submitted after the closing date are to be accepted. All applications for the
academic year 1950-1951 must be sent from the College to the Institute of International Education by December 15, 1949. Davidson's
first Fulbright award winner, Charles Hadley of the class of 1949, sailed from New York on October 19, 1949. The
evening before sailing, the winners for France were entertained by the French Cultural Counselor of the Embassy at his offices
in New York City. The terms of the award were liberal: Hadley will receive a maintenance allowance of $1,350.00, which
may be adjusted upward to $1,800; round trip transportation from Statesville to Besancon; tuition at the University of Besancon; an
allowance for books not to exceed $150. Because of the highly competitive nature of the Fulbright program, it is recommended
that only the “most highly qualified” be advised to apply for a Fulbright award. All students who wish to make
an application should consult at once with Dr. G. B. Watts, Chambers Building 216.

(Continued From Page One)
vy.” Also, a combat film depicting the infantry in action has been shown to the members. Next Wednesday (November 2)
Scabbard and Blade is sponsoring the ROTC.

Spence
Professor Spencer J. St., 74-year-old co-founder of McCallie School, died at Chattanooga last week. Having been ill for some months,
Prof. McCallie was taken to the hospital in a critical condition. His death was caused by a form of leukemia.
Prof. McCallie was born on August 24, 1875. He was educated at Tennessee Military Institute and at Southwestern Presbyterian University,
also studying at the University of Chicago and Cornell University. He and his brother, J. P. McCallie, founded the McCallie
School for Boys at Chattanooga in 1905. Prof. McCallie served as headmaster there until his retirement at the age of
70. Upon retirement and until his death, he served as president of the board of trustees. As a great educator,
he served as president of the Southern Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools from 1922-23. He also served as superintendent
of public schools at Cleveland, Tennessee from 1901 to 1903. He was a loyal member of the Chamber of Commerce
of Chattanooga, where he served as president from 1943-44. Prof. McCallie was a member of the Headmaster’s Association, College Entrance
Examining Board, and past president of the Association of Private Schools of Tennessee, the Mid-South Association of Private Schools, and
the Private School Association of the Central States. He was the originator of the plan for the Girls Preparatory School.
To the civic world, Prof. McCallie contributed much, but he was a teacher.First and always, he was a church leader
and a Christian gentleman; he encouraged the teaching of the Bible in his school. For outstanding service to the community
and devotion to moral, spiritual, and cultural upbuilding, he was awarded the Kiwanis award. The University of Chicago presented him
an award as an outstanding alumnus. Upon him were conferred: Doctor of Pedagogy at Davidson College, Doctor of Literature at
Erskine College, and Doctor of Laws at the University of Chattanooga. A great loss has been sustained by all who
knew Prof. McCallie.

New Requirements For IRC Membership

On Tuesday night, October 11, the International Relations Club met for the purpose of formulating new plans concerning membership. In
the past, any student who wished to join the International Relations Club could do so; but at this meeting, it
was decided that membership would be placed on an honorary basis. To become a member now, a student must be
recommended either by a professor in the Political Science Department or the History Department, or by another member of the
club. Another requirement is that each new member must write a theme of not less than one thousand words on
a topic pertaining to international relations. These themes will be read and approved by the club. Old members who wish
to retain their membership in the I.R.C. must show their interest by being present at the next meeting, which will
be held on Tuesday, October 25. Bill Cameron, club president, stated that each member will be allowed only three meeting
cuts this year. He also stated that the

WHEREVER YOU GO!

Cercle Francais Meets at Watts Home

The Cercle Francais, French fraternity, held its first meeting of the year Tuesday evening at the home of Dr. G.
B. Watts. The program opened with a presentation of "ROSALIE," a one-act comedy by Max Maurey. The President of the
Cercle, Bill Goodman, played the part of M. Bol; Madame Bol was played by the Vice-President Bob Keever; the maid,
Rosalie, was interpreted by the Secretary, Kenneth Jones. This comedy, ably presented by this excellent cast, will be given at
a public performance later in the year. The second number was presented by Dr. Paul Cheatham of the Department of
Psychology, who addressed the Cercle on “Mon sejour a l'Universite de Dijon.” Dr. Cheatham was a member of the U.S.
Army student detachment at the University of Dijon for three months during the spring of 1916. The members were highly
appreciative of this illuminating discussion, delivered in excellent French. After finishing his address, Dr. Cheatham answered questions from the members
and showed postcards of Dijon and its environs. During the business part of the program, the President warmly welcomed the
new members present. The following were recently elected as members: J. L. Norwood, Jr., W. H. Barr, F. W. Best,
R. J. Boyd, H. P. Bridges, R. R. Hart, and J. V. Hunter. M. C. Doubles was elected Associate Member.
It is expected that several club members will be given an opportunity to participate in more programs than they have
in the past.

Without the generous cooperation and Southern hospitality of the residents of Davidson, it would have been impossible for the Davidson
College students to have found accommodations for their dates during the Homecoming weekend. The Pan Hellenic Council and Faculty Social
Committee wish to take this opportunity, therefore, to express their great appreciation to all those people who opened their homes
to these girls. Nearly 200 girls were taken care of in the homes of Davidson—a splendid evidence of the hospitality
of the people of the town of Davidson. We are indeed grateful.

Other students will be elected later in the year when the faculty advisers have had a better opportunity to judge
their capacity in spoken French. The treasurer, Dr. Goldiere, reported a balance of $53.00 in the treasury. Several French songs
were then sung, and two records brought by Dr. Goldiere from Laval University were played and learned by the Cercle.
The meeting closed with refreshments, tarte aux pommes a la mode and boissons non-alcoolisees, served by Mmes Watts and Goldiere.
