THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF .......... BOB HOLLISTER
BUSINESS MANAGER ......... BILL HOUCK

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jack Hazard .......... Associate Editor
Doug Hix ............. Associate Editor
Arnie Covell ......... Managing Editor
Bill Cumming ........ Managing Editor
Hartley Hall ......... Managing Editor
Neil Leach ........... Managing Editor
Tom Mann ........... Managing Editor
Jim Murray .......... Managing Editor
Randy Taylor ........ Managing Editor
Gordon Scott ........ Managing Editor
John Hobart ......... Managing Editor
Tom Haller .......... Managing Editor
Watt Jeffries ........ Managing Editor
Bill Hollister ........ Managing Editor
Dan McKeithen ....... Managing Editor
Cherry Stribling ..... Managing Editor
Bill King ............ Art Editor
Gabe Lowe ........... Columnist
Liston Mills ......... Columnist
Henry Wilson ........ Columnist
Henry Hansen ........ Columnist
Charlie Davis ........ Columnist

SENIOR REPORTERS: Pete Kalogridis, Phil Mitchell, Dick Barnwell, Phil Libby, Bill Neal, Ed Richardson, Jim Fickeisen, and Gene Regen.

REPORTERS: Warren Sims, Dudley Pendleton, Nat Daniel, Jim Blackburn, Bob Hubbell, Lamarr Hinson, Tom Allen, George McMurray, Manly McWilliams, Ben
Morris, Bill Bacon.

SPORTS STAFF: Furman Warlick, Bill White, Phil Hammond, Bryan Robinson, Ed West, Bill Buckey, Jack Stevenson.

POLL CAT STAFF: Jim Carr, Claude Higginbotham, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown, and Neal Underdown.

WEATHER REPORT: Trew Gurley and Bill Sargent.

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager ....... W. S. McSwain
Advertising Manager ............. Wyhe Smith
Circulation Manager ............. Billy Cassels
Asst. Advertising Manager ........ Charles Clinkscales
Asst. Advertising Manager ........ Hector McKeithan
Assistant Advertising Manager .... David McConnell
Collections Manager .............. Charles Dockery
Subscriptions Manager ............ John Loftin

ASSISTANTS: Bill Cumming, Bill Hart, Bob Erwin, Bill Pharr, Harold Clayton, Sam Cumming, Rod Shaw, Gene Taylor, Nelson Tomlinson.

CIRCULATION STAFF: Alex Goley, Parks Dalton, Cecil Rhodes, Ansley Moses, Joe H. Miller, Neill Underdown, Tommy Haller, John Hardin, Thad
Monroe, Hugh Huffaker, Ben Morris, Cam Faison, Paul Guthry, and Phil Willer.

wildcat Sports
SPORTS SECTION

Curtain Raiser With Mighty Army Only Two Weeks Away

Since the first of September, Davidson's grid forces have been toiling under the hot sun in preparation for their meeting
with the Knights of the Hudson at West Point. Even the most ardent Cat supporters can't see any possibility of
a victory in their crystal ball, but many who have watched the Red and Black on the gridiron year after
year are looking for the Davidsons to give the Cadets a mean scrap. When the chips are stacked against them,
the Cats are at their best, so don’t be surprised at anything that may happen in beautiful Michie Stadium when
the two elevens meet.

The era of Blanchard and Davis has passed for the Cadets, but Coach Earl Blaik isn't crying on anybody's shoulder
about this year’s prospects. Losing only Bobby Stuart from the regular backfield last year, the West Pointers will have one
of the smoothest backfields in the East in Arnie Galiffa, Gil Stephenson, Jim Cain, and Bobby Vinson. Galiffa, one of
the most versatile athletes at the Point, has been prominently mentioned for All-America honors at his quarterback slot.

THE DAVIDSONIAN Presents
EDITORIALS

On Joining A Frat

One of the aspects of college life anticipated by virtually every member of any freshman class is that of fraternities
and fraternity life. Many mistakenly regard this part of college life as its most important function. Before going further let
us understand exactly what part a fraternity plays in the life of the average Davidson student.

There are ten Greek letter social fraternities on the Davidson campus, and one independent organization known as the Campus Club.
The largest part of the eleven groups take their meals at their own boarding houses or as a particular unit
at the College dining hall. Each fraternity and the Campus Club organizes its own athletic teams which compete with teams
of other fraternities throughout the entire series of regularly scheduled intramural sports. At the three formal dance weekends—Homecoming, Midwinters, and
Spring Frolics—each sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic Council—each group has its allotted dancing area and during the course of the weekend,
each usually gives a banquet or stages some other type of entertainment which is attended only by members of that
particular fraternity or group. Each fraternity and the Campus Club also is permitted one off-campus social function each semester. Aside
from these social features, and the possession by each fraternity of a small brick house in Fraternity Court, there is
no distinction between the activities of fraternity and non-fraternity men.

As for the question of rush week, it will be found to be a tedious affair during which time the
freshmen, it is presumed, come to know the various fraternities and their members, and the fraternities make an effort to
become acquainted with the freshmen. At the close of rush week, each fraternity issues its bids and the new members
or pledges meet at the house of their choice in order to formally affiliate themselves.

In considering membership, each prospective fraternity man should bear in mind two all-important points. First: That his expenses do not
stop with the payment of initiation fees, but continue for the four years he is in college and amount to
an expenditure of at least sixty dollars each school year exclusive of the initiation fee. Second: That the men in
the fraternity of your choice will be your constant companions throughout your college career, and whether or not you enjoy
their company and they yours may well make the difference between enjoyable college days and unhappy ones. This second point
applies equally well, of course, to any contacts you may make at Davidson.

Do not act too hastily in the matter of making friends during the first six or eight weeks. As is
true of everything else which may be desired by a group of any size, there will be those who are
not included. If the reader be among the number who desire to join a fraternity and are unable to do
so, whatever the reason, any self-pity is not only utterly groundless, but supremely stupid. All throughout your freshman year men
will be joining fraternities who for one reason or another did not do so during the course of rush week.
Furthermore, many Sophomores, Juniors, and even Seniors, join each year. We sincerely hope every Freshman will understand this situation as
we have tried to explain it, and realize the foolishness of feeling in any way left out. The fraternities are
to be taken for exactly what they are—no more nor less—and for anyone disappointed in failing to receive a bid—the
most practical and best possible advice which could be given is simply put—forget it.

During the four or five days of rush week, you will feel most fully at ease and enjoy yourself most
thoroughly by being completely natural—free of any efforts toward creating false impressions, or doing and saying anything not truly representative
of yourself. Avoid pretentious behavior, simply relax and enjoy the company of those about you.

We have necessarily omitted a number of details connected with the fraternity system and with the general topic of joining
a fraternity. If we, the editors of this paper, are in any way able to assist any member of the
Freshman Class, we shall sincerely be glad to do so. We wish you success in attaining every goal toward which
you may individually, or as a class, strive.

Honor System

In an attempt to present Davidson to any student for the first time, a number of items may be included
which perhaps seem incidental, even irrelevant. There is one point, however, upon which too much emphasis could not be placed—the
Honor System. Standing among Davidson’s most honored traditions, the Honor System, in a very real sense, makes Davidson what it
is. It is impossible, within the space of two or three paragraphs, to convey to anyone unassociated with the college
exactly what the term implies or exactly how one goes about living up to its demands day by day. We
can only hope to show its influence and explain its substance in the simplest terms.

The Honor System may be defined—when it is employed to the full extent of its effectiveness—as the unconscious acceptance of
an obligation on behalf of each student towards every other student and towards himself to constantly conduct himself honestly and
honorably in all that he does. That is what the term represents in its broadest sense, and as such is
as applicable on the athletic field and in the dormitories as it is in the classroom.

The specific rules and regulations of the Honor System will be read to all new students as a group, and
may be consulted whenever desired by referring to the YMCA Handbook. While these regulations should be kept in mind, it
is the general principle which, if not already possessed, must be built into your life by virtue of employing it.Knights
have two of the best flankers in the business in John Trent and Dan Foldberg. Foldberg is of All-American calibre
and should make the mythical eleven in a waltz. The Army game is but the first in a series of
tough tests for the Wildcats this year. A look at the schedule will show Davidson faces the roughest competition in
years this season. But from here, it looks like a vastly improved eleven that will take the field wearing the
Red and Black.

ATTEND SCRIMMAGE
See the inter-varsity scrimmage tomorrow, Saturday at 3:00. This will be your first opportunity to see the squad, its possibilities,
and how it will stand up against Army on September 24, in New York.

Sports in Prominent Role at Davidson
With everybody talking football right now, other sports seem far removed with the possible exception of the exciting finishes in
the major leagues. However, as all you frosh know, football by no means furnishes all the enjoyment in sports here
at D.C. Before the football season is over, Coach Boyd Baird will be working with some of the basketball team
in the new gym in preparation for the winter hardwood campaign. There will be a call for all of you
who are interested in trying out for the freshmen squad, as will be the case in all of the sports
here at Davidson.

While the men are sharpening up their shooting eyes upstairs in the gym, down below grunts and groans from the
new workout room will remind everybody that Coach Charley Parker has his wrestling charges at work. Both of these sports
continue throughout the winter months. In addition, for you admirers of brute strength and exponents of physical culture, the newly
formed weight lifting team works out during the winter. Last year Davidson defeated the University of North Carolina in the
first intercollegiate weight lifting meet ever held in the South. The field of competition is not broad yet, but it
looks like a growing sport in this section.

Coach Pete Whittle has charge of the Cross Country team which runs during the fall months and the track team
which works out in the spring. Davidson's strong tennis team begins practice as soon as the cold weather is over
under the guidance of Coach Derrick Barton. The golf team begins practicing in preparation for its matches, and Coach Jamerson
sounds the call for baseball practice to get under way.

First row, left to right: Buddy Chandler, Bob Sharpe, Auburn Lambeth, Johnny Richards, Bill Van Story, Charlie Rimer, Cliff Turner,
Jerry Kiser, Sandy Carnegie, Rhea Adams, Hoopy Davis.
Second row: J. B. Stroud, Grant Carlton, Mott Price, Grover Lee, Woody Leach, Bill Reynolds, Dave Erwin, Marvin Kelly, Johnny
Guifon, Jim Sifford, Fred Pryer.
Third row: Walter Hankins, Bill McNeely, Lee Tolbert, Jake Wade, Bob Gibson, Bill Freeman, Curtis Harper, Bill Acher, Jim Fasul,
Kirk Oglesby, Fred Spach.
Fourth row: Cecil Brandon, Bill Bowers, Brady Osborne, Doug Rice, John Rittenburg, Ham Wade, Jim Sloan, Dickie Blanks, Bill Johnsie,
Jack Branch.
Fifth row: Henry Wilson, Jack Mills, Carl Eborn, C. L. Runyan, Jim Rodgers, Amos Camp, John Smoot, Bob Turk, Ernie
Stricklin, Pete Brown.
Sixth row: Coaches Redding, Jamerson, Brown, Baird, Erwin, Managers Phil Mitchell, Rucker Dudley, Bill DuBose, Dave Lafar.

MORE CAT TALES
Defensively, the Cats should be much the same as they were last year. One of the end spots will have
to be plugged up, but Jamerson should have little trouble in finding the man for the job from among the
new talent. With Mapes on one flank, and such stalwarts as Sharpe, Chandler, Stricklin, Eborn, and Carnegie in the middle,
Davidson will field one of the strongest forward walls in the conference. All these men are veterans of three years
service on the team and should reach their peak this year.

The loss of Williams and Cheek may present a problem for the Cats' offensive power. Last year, this glue-fingered duo
was on the receiving end of many a pass which constituted much of Davidson’s offense. However, Mott Price and Mapes
were to some extent used on the offense last year, and they, together with the rising sophomore prospects and wingbacks
Wade and Sifford, should be plenty capable of grabbing Lambeth’s tosses. As mentioned before, Lambeth will show his stuff on
the ground also, and Wade and Sifford will be around to run the defense ragged on reverses. The terrific line
smashing of Carl Pahl and Mac Erwin will be sorely missed, but Adams, Osborne, Ham Wade, and Runyan have all
looked good in practice sessions.

This record will be bettered this year, but much depends on sophomore replacements in the gaping holes left vacant by
the graduation of ends Buddy Cheek and Mike Williams and fullback Carl Pahl. Mac Erwin's play eligibility at fullback ran
out last year which leaves Jamerson minus the services of his top two plungers. There are three lettermen returning to
battle for the two end berths. Hal Mapes, probably the best defensive end on the squad last year, will be
back as will Dickie Blanks and Mott Price. Others who will be trying for a starting assignment include Woody Leach,
a junior who was a stand-out flanker on last year’s junior varsity—sophomores Don Lazenby, Tom Comen, Walter Hankins, and Bob
Turk.

Auburn Lambeth, the Decatur, Ga., passing star, will again be counted on to spark the Cat offense. Last year, Auburn
ranked with the nation's leading passers throughout the entire season and much of Davidson’s success this year will depend on
the continued accuracy of his flipper. Towards the latter part of last year, Lambeth picked up considerable yardage on the
ground—in addition to his aerial feats—and he may develop into the Cats' top offensive threat, both in the air and
on the ground. Lambeth will hold down the tailback spot along with speedy Cliff Turner of Reidsville and Doug Rice
who was out most of last year due to injuries. Jim Sifford and Jake Wade will be back on the
wings. Both are lacking in size but are fast and shifty. The fullback berth is wide open. C. L. Runyon,
a sparkling sophomore prospect, may get the assignment due to his punting ability. Two other sophomores, Brady Osborne and Ham
Wade, and senior Rhen Adams are in line to see plenty of action.

Jamerson’s line is as strong as ever in the middle. In addition to last year’s regulars, Eborn, Carnegie, Richards, Sharpe,
Wilson, Chandler, and Stricklin, Coach Charley is counting heavily upon such rookies as R. G. Gibson, Jerry Kiser, Jim Fasul,
and Bill Acker, all standouts on last year's frosh team. This short summary has by no means included all of
the men who have been working out with the squad during the pre-season drills, nor can it be said that
only those who have been mentioned will play ball. Doubtless, names not even appearing in this column will be seen
in Cat Tales many times before the season is half over.
