PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, May 13, 1949

Clemson Cindermen Show Unexpected Strength In Outpointing Davidson
By BILL WHITE

Davidson’s track team fell to the Clemson College cinder crew Saturday at Clemson in their first defeat of the year, 31½ to 39. The Davidson team closed their season undefeated by turning back the young Bertram team.

The biggest surprise of the blistering hot afternoon was the complete dominance in the dashes by the Clemson club, with the Davidson sprinters being shut out in the 100 and 220. Previously, the Davidson sprinters had been dominant. Also, on the field, Gehee was able to manage only a third for the Wildcats. Jack “Gunder” Gray completed a four-year record without a defeat in the mile and half-mile, placing first in both events.

Virginians Outslug Davidson In Two Games
By DAN McKEITHAN

Once again the Davidson baseball team went north to Virginia and once again they returned without a victory. On Thursday, Hampden-Sydney walked away with a 20-11 win, and on the next day, VMI edged out a 3-4 victory.

At Hampden-Sydney, the visitors opened the game with four runs due to six walks and Auburn Lambeth’s double. However, this lead was short-lived as the locals combed Lefty Hunter for seven hits and ten runs in their first turn at bat. Hunter caught hold of one for a tremendous triple and a short time later was thumbed out of the game for protesting a play at third base a little too vociferously. Dick Richards, who replaced Hunter, was also belted, and when the hits were tallied, the locals were credited with nine runs. The game lasted three hours and 14 minutes.

Over at Lexington, a well-played contest took place, but VMI’s Keydets came out on top 3-4. Dutch Hengeveld, Wildcat pitcher, struck out nine, walked only three, and could have won except for a couple of timely blows by the opponents. Charley Pearson, Bill Bird, and Auburn Lambeth each got two hits for Davidson, the latter having a triple and a home run. Patton and Chryssikas of the Keydets also connected for round-trippers. Henry Wilson did a creditable job in the catching department as he worked all the games on the trip. With the VMI loss, the Wildcats ended up with a conference record of three wins against eight losses. One non-conference game remains with Presbyterian College.

Freshmen Netters Finish Undefeated

Barton's varsity tennis team finished the season undefeated. On Monday, the Wildkittens downed an inexperienced Shelby High School team, 7-0. The Shelby team proved no match for the highly touted Wildkittens as they did not take a single set. Charlie Parker, who has done an excellent job all season, fielded an undefeated team in matches with such teams as N.C. State, Carolina, and the strong Central High team of Charlotte.

Pictured above is Jack Gray exhibiting the form that has carried him through four years of competition in dual track meets undefeated. “Gunder” was this week chosen “athlete of the week” by a Greensboro newspaper.

THACKER’S, 2 Private Dining Rooms for Parties and Banquets
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
Phone 25490
221 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

By CHERRY STRIBLING

A good season could call this, but one of the brightest spots in the baseball picture is just a little to the left of second base. That's where Charley Pearson hangs out, and not many balls get through there. This is Charlie’s third season on Davidson's ball team, and this year he has been named captain of the club. Charley has been consistently one of the leading hitters on the baseball nine for the last three years. He bats in the lead-off position, and it is a very common sight to see Charley lead off the ball game with a clean single or longer hit. He's pretty potent with a hickory stick, and opposing pitchers have learned (after a few costly mistakes) that they had better not make that first pitch to Charley too good because he doesn't always believe in letting the first one go by.

Charlie is from Gastonia, where he was an all-round sports star in high school. He played football on a great team that included such stars as Carl Sheppard, Jerry Frye, and others. Charlie was such a star that at the end of his senior year he was invited to play in the Shrine Bowl game in Charlotte, which pits the best North Carolina seniors against the best of South Carolina. Pearson made a good showing in this game but decided against playing any football in college. However, this doesn't keep him from playing outstanding touch football in the interfraternity program, and he has been on the All-Interfraternity team for the past two years. He also stars in basketball. Charley is a member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity and other “ID” clubs.

Whittle’s Office Releases All-Fraternity Basketball Team For Past Season

Pete Whittle handed us this list of stand-outs in the inter-fraternity basketball campaign this winter. By piling the votes of the interfraternity sports managers, Bob Bennett, who led the SAE’s to the championship, was a unanimous choice for the first quintet, and we are glad to publish the teams as follows:

First Team
Center - Bennett, SAE
Forward - Gordon, Beta
Forward - Smith, Phi Delt
Guard - Ervin, SAE
Guard - Ellis, KS

Second Team
Center - Wade, KS
Forward - Sifford,Vika, honored— Podein, SAF Guard—Cook, Vhir Delta. Guard—Herndon, SVE campus clothes. Phone 239 Breeze along through those classes and exams—and on through the summer in selections from our cool, cool, It will be a real pleasure to help you with your clothing and accessories—with new emphasis on color. MITCH. MACK, Class of '42 John Mack & Son—selections of Mooresville, N. C. + UNC.

Strong Men Win Return Match By WOODY McKAY

Weight its first-string the Carolina team, Davidson lifting minus two of men, were downed by University of North at Woolen Gymnasium in Chapel Hill. Davidson, who had chalked up a win in the previous engagement with the University, was not up to par without the aid of Roy Johnston and Bob Patten, though Woodall and Heron made a good showing. The two first-stringers, Al- and Heron, have strength, and the final tabulations would have been much higher if they had been at the breaking point. Ulfen was outstanding in the 132-pound class by pressing 175 pounds. Not content with breaking the record, this man tied the clean and jerk record of the same class by lifting 220 pounds. Joe Richert, that inimitable coach of the Davidson weight wielders, lived up to his press notices by lifting 680 pounds in the unlimited class. “Big Al” Cook was the only reported casualty of the day when he pulled some muscles in his left shoulder. The final totals are:

Davidson
Spires (138 lbs.) 410
Heron (143 lbs.) 400
Cook (165 lbs.) 510
Woodall (181 lbs.) 460
Richert (unlimited) 680
Total 2460

U.N.C.
Gens (127 lbs.) 550
Byerly (145 lbs.) 550
Sullivan (165 lbs.) 600
Wheeler (unlimited) 655
Total 2355

Rip Van Winkle couldn't sleep for 20 years nowadays. He would be hanging around the nation’s capital lobbying against the manufacture of alarm clocks.

Linksmen Take Role

Chesterfield Sports Quiz
1. What ball players composed the New York Yankees' famous Murderers' Row?
2. At what college did basketball's famous Whiz Kids play?
3. What automobile driver holds the record for the fastest time ever traveled by man on land?
4. What amateur sportsman won the 1947 James E. Sullivan Memorial Trophy?

Rules Concerning Quiz
1. Answer each question correctly.
2. Submit answers on plain paper with name, dormitory, room number, date, and exact time of entry.
3. Turn answer sheets into room 307 West.
4. Every correct first three submitted entries will each receive a carton of Chesterfields.
5. Each weekly contest will close exactly two days after the Davidsonian is distributed among the student body, and the winners will be notified shortly thereafter.
6. No one on the Davidsonian staff is eligible to enter.

Last Week’s Answers
1. Georgia Tech 222 vs. Cumberland University 0, in 1916.
2. Max Schmeling.
3. Frank Stranahan.
4. Alvin Dark, Boston Braves.

Last Week’s Winners
1. Louie Owen.
2. Charles W. Stowe.
3. James Thompson.

The new president of the Irish Republic urges restoring the Gaelic language so the Irish will not lose their tongue. But when did an Irishman ever lose his tongue?

The man with too much nerve is usually the one who unnerves the other fellow.

of Giant Killers In Polishing Off Champion Deacons By DAN McKEITHAN

Last Friday afternoon the Davidson golf team became giant-killers and defeated a very strong Wake Forest team 15½ to 11½ in one of the most terrific upsets of the season. The highly-rated Baptist squad, comprised mostly of scholarship men, tied mighty Carolina the following day, but on this particular day, they absorbed their first Southern Conference loss of the season to the hot Davidsonians. With Monty Hill shooting a par 69, Allan Mead and Bill Medford 73's, Cecil Brandon 74, and Ben Vernon and Ike Coffey 75's, the underdogs could not be denied a win. Hill hooked up with Arnold Palmer, conference champion last year, and the Wildcat No. 1 man shot Palmer even by getting three birdies and an eagle. Mead, Medford, and Brandon all shot fine rounds, but the score stood low, 7½ to 7½, for Wake Forest while the last group was finishing up. It was Coffey and Vernon who came through to sew up the victory by taking eight out of the nine possible points of their foursome.

One more match remains on the schedule, that against The Citadel, Friday. The linksters are figuring that this match will be a good warm-up for the Southern Conference Tournament which will be held the following day. The team will tour the course on Thursday, take on The Citadel Friday, and be ready for all comers in the tournament. All this will take place at the Country Club in Winston-Salem. The tournament will be 36-hole medal play with a cup going to the low medalist and to the team carding the four best rounds.

There will never be a brotherhood of mankind as long as two men are chasing after the same good-looking sister.

The Soviets claim to have discovered a superior cloth to nylon. Seems to us it’s the old wool being pulled over the eyes.

Here are four reasons why Davidson's frosh linksmen have gone through their regular season with only one loss: Left to right—Jim Sloan, Malcomb McLean, Alan Groseclose, and Cecil Rhodes.

SHIP AHOY
CHARLOTTE’S LEADING RESTAURANT

Paul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. TRYON STREET
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
MAKERS OF Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.

Withers Electric Company
Radio Repairs
Electrical Supplies
Light Bulbs
DAVIDSON, N. C.

GRADE “A” MILK PASTEURIZED
Mooresville Co-Operative Creamery
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205. MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Phone 69
AL'S GRILL
Grade “A” Restaurant
WHERE YOUR PATRONAGE IS ALWAYS WELCOME!
WESTERN STEAKS — FRIED CHICKEN!
Mooresville, N. C.
A. J. Bistony, Prop.