Davidsonians have had little to cheer about as far as football is concerned this fall, but Pete Whittle’s harriers have
really come through in great style to give Davidson a cross-country team that stacks up with the best in the
conference. It’s unfortunate that cross-country meets are such that only the start and finish can be witnessed by spectators, because
when a school has an athletic team that is as strong as D. C.’s harriers, student backing would be terrific
if all of the action could be followed.

HARRIERS EQUAL TO STATE NOW?

Year after year, Maryland comes up with strong cross-country teams, and this year is no exception. Right behind the Terps
are the strong N. C. State harriers who handed the Cats their sole defeat, and that, early in the year
before the local runners were in top shape. It’s interesting to speculate on the outcome of a return meet with
the State squad because they dropped Duke by about the same score that Davidson did last Wednesday. The Conference Championship
meet in which the Red and Black will participate on Monday will pit the Cats against the top teams in
the league, including the runners from State, so don’t be surprised at anything that may happen.

Although the harriers don’t have a runner this year as strong as the inimitable Jack Grey, they have much more
depth in positions and are a much stronger squad all-around than last year’s—which, if you remember, was no pushover in
any competition. Blake Bradley, who was one of the top-flight performers on last year’s squad, has been little short of
brilliant in meets thus far this year. And the best part of it all is that he seems to improve
with every meet. In Wednesday’s win over Duke, Blake covered the four-mile course in 21:18, the best time of his
career. But Blake wasn't the only standout.

INDIVIDUAL TIMES BETTERED

Tom Stockton, who has already shown himself to be one of Davidson’s brightest track stars, crossed the finish line Wednesday
with Bradley to turn in his best time to date. Dave Anderson and Bob Long, the only seniors on the
squad, knocked nearly a full minute off of their best previous time. Dick Stockton has placed consistently among the top
four Davidson men, and Bill Lee is probably the most improved runner on the squad this year. Two juniors, Dan
McKeithen and Dick Patterson, round out Whittle’s starting group. This is the first year of varsity running for both of
these lads, but they have securely nailed down starting berths on the squad.

This afternoon, Captain Long and his men met the Gamecocks of the University of South Carolina in Columbia. Little is
known about the U. S. C. squad, but it’s probably safe to say that Davidson added another win to their
list. The South Carolinians will return the meet in Davidson next week, but before then, the Southern Conference meet looms
on Monday. Thus, the Cats will have participated in four meets in the space of six or seven days by
the time South Carolina’s harriers leave the campus next week.

TEAM DESERVES STUDENT SUPPORT

Just like we said, you can't follow the team around the course, but it would certainly be fitting for the
entire student body to turn out next week to witness the beginning and ending of the meet with South Carolina—if
for no other reason than to show our appreciation for the outstanding record that these unsung athletes have posted this
year. The Davidsonian salutes the Cat harriers and wishes them the best luck in the Conference meet on Monday and
the subsequent meet with South Carolina.

---

Mooresville Ice Creamery Cream Company
GRADE “A” MILK
PASTEURIZED
MAKERS OF
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

---

PAGE FOUR

Lead Win Over Duke
By BILL ADAMS

“Little” Davidson’s powerful cross-country team handed “big” Duke’s harriers a 21-34 lacing Wednesday afternoon in a Southern Conference meet. For
the amazing Wildcats, it was their fourth straight win against a single early season setback. Pacing the Wildcats in their
dazzling sprint to the tape were Blake Bradley and Tom Stockton who tied for top honors in the meet. The
two Wildcats crossed the finish line arm in arm in the excellent time of 21:18, the best time of the
year on the local track, yet they weren’t even pressed into a closing sprint.

Duke got two men in for third and fourth places, but then the Wildcats’ team strength exerted itself as it
has all year as Dick Stockton, Dave Anderson, and Bob Long swept fifth, sixth, and seventh places for the Red
and Black machine. To show just how good Wednesday’s performance was, we only need to consider the fact that the
first six men for Davidson bettered their previous times, most of them by more than a minute. The Duke team
was a good one. They have already beaten North Carolina and came here expecting another triumph, but the Wildcats completely
smashed their victory hopes. The Durham boys started off fast, but didn’t have the strides to match Pete Whittle’s boys.

Betas Hang On to First Place in Greek Race

---

What THE DAVIDSONIAN The Cats Were Doing

TWENTY YEARS AGO—November 16, 1929:
(1) Cats intercept passes to down State eleven by 13-0.

TEN YEARS AGO—November 16, 1939:
(1) Carolina whips Cats with potent ground and aerial offense by 32-0.

FIVE YEARS AGO—November 24, 1944:
(1) Davidson slaughters Mooresville by 33-0.
(2) Laurinburg downs Wildkittens by 22-7.

ONE YEAR AGO—November 12, 1948:
(1) Old Grads see Wildcats bow to Richmond in Homecoming fray, 6-0.

---

Coach Whittle was smiles after the meet. He said that he was very proud of his boys and that they
had really put out for old Davidson. Things are definitely looking up for the best Davidson cross-country showing in the
State and conference meets in several years. If spirit has anything to say about it, we can feel assured that
our harriers will be well-off at the finish, but they can match their spirit with ability as the Duke meet
clearly shows.

---

Purple Hurricane Seeking First Win Over Davidson Since Before War
By BILL WHITE

“If you don’t beat Davidson this time, pack your bags and go home!” That is reportedly the statement of H.
E. (Red) Smith, guider of gridiron way at Furman University, and bringing that statement closer home, it is by-word of
the Furman team that awaits Davidson in Greenville tomorrow afternoon at 2:30. Coach Smith is definitely out for this one.
Last year’s dramatic touchdown toss by Auburn Lambeth to sink the Hurricane, 7-0 in Charlotte topped off three years of
Cat wins over this team, 20-7 in 1947 and 13-7 in 1946.

Although this one will be the first non-homecoming game the Cats have participated in for four weekends, the Furman fight
will be equal to the occasion. The fact that the Hurricane is going to be hot after this one does
not make the chances of the crippled and heavy-with-defeat Wildcats any better for a win in the Southern Conference engagement.
Despite the fact that they were thrown 12-0 by Richmond in an upset on Virginia soil and also tripped by
Presbyterian, Furman showed that they definitely have the goods in their win over South Carolina, and their close

---

Gridders Still Lack Punch as VMI Wins
By CHERRY STRIBLING

The Davidson Wildcats came limping back home Sunday after a second disastrous trip into the wilds of Virginia. The Cats
were licking their wounds from a 47-6 mauling by the Keydets of VMI. Whatever you do, don’t mention the word
“homecoming” to the football team because it has become a word synonymous with defeat at Davidson, and there is still
a homecoming game at Rollins left to play.

Results: 1. Bradley and T. Stockton (D), 21:18; 3. Griffith and Miller (Duke), 21:34; 5. D. Stockton (D), 21:42; 6.
Anderson (D), 21:52; 7. Long (D), 21:58; 8. Tomlinson (Duke), 22:09; 9. Bullock (Duke), 22:19; 10. Salazar (Duke), 22:30; 11.
Lee (D), 22:40; 12. Stigall and Fulmar (Duke) 22:48; 14. Patterson (D) 23:38; 15. Christy (Duke) 24:02; 16. McKeithen (D),
24:02.2.27-18 loss to a favored Florida Club. Sonny Horton, an ex-high school whiz who is making his grade well as
a collegiate, fullback Ed Jasonek, who played a big role in the upset of South Carolina, and George Pruitt, a
boy who harassed the Cats last fall in Charlotte, are the three offensive standouts. There's also George Stombaugh, one of
the nation’s leading punters, to pester the Wildcats when the Hurricane is forced to kick. For the Presbyterians, it is
another case of injuries. Rhea Adams is through for the season at fullback with a separated shoulder; sophomore tackle Brady
Osborne will miss this one with a bad ankle; and Buddy Chandler and Bob Sharpe, two of the top performers
up front, will be held to limited action due to aggravated injuries. Auburn Lambeth and Jimmy Sifford, both of whom
played little against W&L or VMI, are expected to be at their peak again this week as offensive leaders with
Cliff Turner and C. L. Runyan. They must, however, have the protection of that wall up front if they want
to see some of Furman’s best.

"Pack your bags and go home."

KAs, Phi Delts, Kap Sigs Not Counted Out

By MAC RICHARDS AND BILL FARRIAR

Betas 6—Phi Gams 0

In a close, hard-fought game, the Betas remained undefeated as they edged the Phi Gams by a single touchdown margin
last Friday afternoon. The lone touchdown was scored by John Jervis. In the second half, the Phi Gams caught fire
and drove within a few yards of the Beta goal time after time, but they were never able to cross
the last white stripe.

K.A.’s 12—Campus Club 0

The Campus Club failed to score for the seventh straight game, as the K.A.’s won a fairly easy victory 12-0.
At two other times during the game, the K.A.'s drove within the Campus Club five-yard line, but each time failed
to score. The first K.A. touchdown was scored on a Bird to Mitchell pass. Hal Haynes intercepted a short pass
on the Campus Club ten and dashed over for the final score.

Kappa Sigs 3—Phi Gams 0

The Kappa Sigs and the Phi Gams battled to a 12-12 tie last Monday afternoon, but the Kappa Sigs emerged
victorious by a 3 first downs margin. The Phi Gam touchdowns were scored by Christopher and Abbott. The two Kappa
Sig scores were made on passes by Charlie Pearson. “Billy Bob” Purcell starred in the Kappa Sig line.

Pi Kaps 6 Points, 4 First Downs; Phi Delts 6 Points, 4 First Downs

The Pi Kaps and the Phi Delts battled each other to a tie Tuesday afternoon in a tensely played game.
The Phi Delts held the margin in the first half of the game in which they did all of their
scoring while the Pi Kaps were unable to gain even a first down. The Phi Delts' only score came as
Norman Whiteheart skirted around left end for a T.D. The Pi Kaps, however, returned from the halftime break with a
“there'll be some changes made” attitude and proceeded to do so. The Pi Kaps scored six points and four first
downs in the second half to tie the score. Three of their first downs were made in the final minutes
of the game on a spirited last-minute drive. Jerry Nall scored for the Pi Kaps after catching a short flat
pass from Billy Houck. The game could not continue into extra periods due to darkness. Other outstanding players were Jim
Vann, Grady Spires, and Al Guthery for the Phi Delts and Michel Patton for the Pi Kaps.

Betas 6—S.A.E. 0

The Betas continued their winning streak as they edged by a fighting S.A.E. team by the unimpressive score of six
to nothing. The only score of the game came after Tommy Langford faked a handoff and then passed to Earl
Smith for twenty yards and a touchdown. The major portion of the game was played between the thirty-six-yard markers, neither
team being able to make consistent yardage gains. Standouts of the afternoon for the two teams were Monty Hill and
Louie Rogers for the S.A.E.’s, and Earl Smith, Tommy Langford, Chuck Elliot, and Hoskins for the Betas.

Sigma Chi 4—Pikas 3 First Downs

The Sigs, behind the exceptional passing and running of Johnny Kelton, managed to squeeze by the fighting Pikas, 4 first
downs to 3. Johnny Kelton ran for two of the first downs and passed for the others. Merrell, Hampton, and
Sellers each proved themselves excellent receivers for Kelton’s passes. The Pikas, however, gave the Sigs a run for their money
due to the expert passing of Bill Collins and the exceptional receiving of “Coot” Dubose and Jack Fanjoy. One of
the most spectacular plays of the game was in the final minutes when Collins threw a fifty-yard pass to Dubose.
The Sigs had two potential touchdowns called back when on two consecutive plays the receiver caught the pass outside of
the end zone. Each team played good ball and the tension was high on both teams throughout the game.

K.A. 18—S.P.E. 6

The K.A.’s showed a true fighting spirit as they came back into the game in the second half, scoring three
touchdowns to down an S.P.E. team which had held a six-point advantage throughout the first half. The S.P.E.’s scored their
only six-pointer on a brilliant pass intercepted by James Toney who took the ball inside his own 18-yard line and
ran the entire distance behind excellent blocking. The K.A.’s were not to be outdone in this ball game, however, as
Bill Byrd began to find his receivers, Ed West and Charlie Mitchell. On the last play of the game, with
only seconds to go, Charlie Mitchell made a breathtaking catch of Bill Byrd’s pass as he barely tipped it in
and scooted for the final grid marker. Yale Greer also played an excellent game for the S.P.E.'s.

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT

BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD

OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER

126 W. TRADE ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C. PHONE 2-2238

Private Dining Rooms for Parties and Banquets

“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”

Phone 25490

In Saturday’s game, it was another case of Davidson injuries and a fired-up VMI team wreaking havoc on a defensive
team composed mostly of sophomores who are getting plenty of game experience if nothing else. The big offensive weapon the
Davidson team possesses did not even play and that hurt a lot. Rifle-armed Auburn Lambeth was nursing some painful bruised
ribs on the sidelines as Coach Jamerson saved him in hopes of better prospects of victory in later games. The
Davidson score came on about a 13-yard pass play from Cliff Turner to Mott Price after the Cats drove the
ball on a sustained drive most of the length of the field. Most of the game, the Cat offense was
impotent and the defense lacked the fire and spirit which usually characterizes a Davidson team. All in all, the D.C.
team will be much better off now that the W&L and VMI games are behind them and, we hope, forgotten.
Now we can look forward to better days and better games.

For the First Time

100% NYLON SHIRT at this low price! $7.99

In the tub at 9, wear it again at 10

Interfrat Standings

Team
Beta
KA
Phi Delt
Kappa Sig
SAE
Pika
Pi Kapp
Campus Club
SPE

A clean, fresh shirt in 60 minutes! Nylon is a boon to your shirt wardrobe—easy-washing, fast-drying, hard-wearing. You can wash
it at home, wrinkles smooth out with no ironing. And it’s tailored by Wings to look like a million. In
a white, porous Nylon that breathes.

Marion Davis Co.
Charlotte, N. C.
