FRIDAY, Among The Greeks

PI KAPPA PHI

Dear Charlie,

I guess it’s time for me to write you another letter. Things are fine with me and I hope they
are with you. Oh yes! You asked about the brothers and pledges. There wasn’t too much going on this week
due to reviews, but it seems that everyone is looking out for himself, as usual. Odell is still making his
frequent trips to Charlotte, and he is being kept company this year by Herb Johnson and Harold Jennings. Herb, Harold,
Bud Edwards, and Harry Powe have quite a rivalry in Charlotte among their YMCA football teams. Bill Lander married his
old flame, Betty Higdon, last Saturday in Charlotte. I know you're sorry you weren't here for that. Claude and Parks
tell me that it was quite an affair. Auster loaded his “maroon monster” with eager Epsilon brothers and journeyed up
to see some Salem belles last weekend. I overheard Underdown talking to Willer and both seemed to agree that a
good time was had by all. Yeah Charlie, we've got a bunch of playboys this year. Even “Hardworking” Al seems
to be shining this year. He told me just the other day that he had a date with a girl
this weekend. “Mouse” Murray was in need of some of your good advice this weekend. He got another letter from
“Queenie” and seems like he will be writing the Lovelorn column soon, unless Cupid steps in. Mitchell and Harold said
that they went fishing, but I didn’t see any fish. Guess they didn’t catch any. We have instituted some new
customs this year, Charlie, and I think they are doing a lot of good. The “sings” every Tuesday night, led
by Sib, are a lot of fun. By the way, the pledges have charge of the program for the dance
this year. Everyone is looking forward to a good time. Well, I guess that’s all the news I know for
now, Charlie. I’ll write again next week.

Your Pal,
Epsilon Joe

KAPPA ALPHA

Brothers were few and far between this weekend as Sigmaites scattered to the four corners of the South per usual.
Atlanta was host to a few of our number including Blake “The Snake” Bradley, Snook Schwaemmle, “Globe Heat” McWilliams, “Hot
Lips” Tucker, and Jack “Pancho Gonzalez” Stevenson. Manly said he couldn’t remember much about who he dated — that’s the
way it is with those Agnes Scott girls. Hampton “The Man” Mauze and his ace bodyguard, “Fingers” Vail, were seen
speeding toward the Salem dance on Hampton's 1949 Super 1 1-2 motorscooter. A youth listed as George “Bedroom Eyes” Crouch
was arrested for one-armed driving in Charlotte. Crouch named Neely “Careless Hands” Dixon as the party caught necking in the
back seat along with “Blackie” Gilmer. Could these be the Davidson “gentlemen” we've been hearing about at every turn? We
were informed that “Mauri Rose” Kirky is considering entering his hot rod in the local stock car races. Gene Regen
and his noble roommate are going along to change tires. Our football squad, led by such all-time greats as “Leon
Hart” Tucker and “Glenn Davis” Aldred, may force history to repeat itself and win the championship again this year. With
a lot of support from the non-playing brothers and a full turnout of the whole team at every game, we
might do just that — if not, our remaining games could easily be repetitious of the Phi Delt debacle. How
‘bout it gang? We are very honored these days by having in our midst two world’s champion yo-yoers. If you
are quiet of foot and quick of eye, you may see one of these great stars in action. Who are
they? Why none other than “Pedro” Lyles and “Rodriguez” Preyer from the heart of Honolulu, home of the Olympic Yo-Yo
Team. H. P. King is getting a new meter put on his car this week so watch out you thumbers!
Our pipe-smoking brethren have really been going wild over the Kool and Camel men and their bargain pipes which “cost
you no more than they do us” and the “free tin of Old Horse Hoof Tobacco.” That's all the scoops
yours truly could dig up this week — it seems that we have a chapter of wooden Indians who won't
disclose any doings either scandalous or otherwise.

S. A. E.

Dear Mom,

If you could only see me now. All I can hear is, “You should have been with me this weekend”
or “Boy, I've got to go back there soon.” Honestly, it seems everybody went off this weekend except me. You
know how it is with all my work to do; I just can’t tear myself away. Now take some of
them for instance: Bennett, Doug, Rivers, Little Monty, Phil, Bill, and the “Reefer” all went to Greensboro. It seems Rivers
really “had it.” He dated some girl named Barbara Fair. I asked him how it was and all he said
was, “Fair.” I don't think Bennett had a chance with Nance though, at least he won't comment on it. What
I can’t figure out is what has Atlanta got that Vaughn would go down there for? Agnes Scott is located
there, but I thought he had sworn off women. Another thing, he took his little sister with him. T. C.
had his “Choo-Choo” rolling up to Sullins and he hasn't recovered yet or is that the way he is all
the time? The six weeks grades seemed to have a profound effect on the pledges; we haven't seen them around
as much as usual. Those who I really like to see stay around campus are Hutely and Duval. Now there
are two good wholesome boys I pattern myself after. No trips — just good hard work. Well, Mom, you can
see how it is. All this running around and no work makes for no grades. See you Christmas if not
later—

Your Son,
Palm Beach Joe

SIGMA CHI

The “Sigs” may not be big socialites, but a few boys are doing all they can to change this. Bill
Clark, as president of the “Sigs,” is doing all he can to set the right example. He fails in that
he is absent so much that we think of him as an alumnus. Joe Griffiths is taking practically the entire
pledge class to Winthrop in an effort to make socialites out of them. Joe had taken John “Sexy Eyes” Kelton
to Winthrop in an effort to bring up his pledge grades, but “Sexy Eyes” turned out to be incorrigible. The
Sigs turned up “en masse” at the KD House on Queens Campus last Saturday. They were led by Phil “Dance
with Me Texas” Blatt and Phil “Rotator” Sellars. Brooks, Wolfe, and the others weren't doing so bad either. Stubbs took
W. O. to Nor- and he didn't return until class time Monday. Paul Cole seems to be satisfied with having
connections only at home, as Steve Mills is. Laverty and Hamilton had the biggest smile on their faces Monday morning.
In Ben's case, I don't know why, because he was broke. If you're unlucky like these boys, why not join
the coffee club and be satisfied with reading your letters (if you get any). Morgan seems to do all right
for himself — Concord one weekend, Converse the next, and no telling where after that. Dick deserves a pat on
the back because he was informed that he made Phi Beta Kappa. Dick does not think about girls and grades
alone, but he has time for other things — fraternity basketball, football, baseball, and his superb handling of fraternity rushing
this week. His sideline is running the boarding house. Herman Bell and Mac Bulgin set the pace for pledge grades.
Mott “six-pointer” Price passes the “Sigs” on the football field. Bob Graham took time out from eating and playing basketball
to make a “B” average and visit over the weekend. In signing off, I might add that anyone not making
this column might apply for initiation into the “nonentity club” of which Beatie and Apperson are the “heads.”

Winthrop Foundation Studies Undergraduate Buying Habits

Undergraduate heads on high school and college campuses are filled with other things besides history, languages, and math, according to
a survey recently completed for Brand Names Foundation, Incorporated, by the Student Marketing Institute of New York. Along with the
more usual subjects in every school curriculum, students know their brand names and trademarks and are current on the latest
in advertising. The surveys showed that America’s students rely on manufacturers’ brand names in making 7 out of 10 of
their purchases. To complete this study, the Institute made more than 61,000 inquiries with the help of teachers and professors.
Campus undergraduates numbering 1,895 were quizzed at forty-four colleges and high schools. Researchers asked students how they bought eighty-six different
products in an effort to find the influence or influences which shaped shopping decisions. Among the alternatives in the questionnaire
were: (1) demand for one specific manufacturer’s brand name; (2) preference for one of severalmakers’ brand names; (3) reliance on
store recommendation and reputation; and (4) the convenient locations of stores. The survey uncovered many interesting sidelights on student fashions
and buying habits and proved that today’s crop of academicians, in addition to being the so-called “shoppers of tomorrow,” constitute
a healthy portion of today’s buying public. Examining the total number of buying attitudes recorded, the findings showed that 69.3
per cent of the purchases made by all students were brand-influenced, with students requesting one specific brand name or accepting
one of several specific makes. Store reputation and recommendation were reported to be the primary guide in only 19.1 per
cent of all purchases. Apparently, students are willing to go out of their way to find the specific brand names
they like, for only 11.6 per cent named “store location and convenience” as a consideration governing purchases. Brand names mean
just about as much to boys as they do to girls, the survey revealed, with girls being slightly more brand-minded,
percentage-wise. Regarding the other alternatives listed in the survey, the findings showed that store recommendation and reputation are slightly more
important to boys than to girls; while boys are slightly more influenced by the convenience of nearby stores. On the
question of “high school versus college students,” the survey showed that 72.3 per cent of the former’s purchases were governed
by brand loyalties as contrasted with 66.1 per cent for college students. Of interest to fashion experts is the increase
in the trend toward hat wearing revealed by the survey. Bare “noggins,” according to the findings, are on their way
out and students are becoming increasingly “topper” conscious. Twenty years ago, the theory prevailed that wearing hats leads to baldness.
Today’s crop of less impressionable students seems to place its faith in the medical research and experimentation which has demonstrated
that hat wearing is not only a matter of fashion but of health and comfort as well. The days when
parents have to (Continued on Page Six)

Vic Vet says DON’T WRITE VA ABOUT YOUR GI INSURANCE DIVIDEND! APPLICATION BLANKS ARE AVAILABLE IN POST OFFICES, VA OFFICES
AND FROM VETERANS ORGANIZATIONS.

To study, or not to study: That is the question.

To Be or Not To Be: Shoot Roommate and Live by Yourself

Which is better for a student: to live in a room by himself or to live with several other students?
Will the student study more and get better grades in the first instance? Will he have a better time and
develop a better social attitude in the second instance? We can think of advantages to both. The student rooming by
himself, we believe, will do more studying if he’s the right type. If he cares little for horseplay, enjoys card
games or group recreation only rarely, if he’s a meticulous reader and thrives on long sessions with his homework in
solitude, he’d probably be happier and do better work by himself. If he feels “lost” without someone to talk to,
if he’s a decided extrovert who’s bored when by himself, if a room's silence gets on his nerves, if he
learns quickly and has much time for varied activities, he’s better to accumulate some cronies. The question of which arrangement
is best is not easily answered, of course. Generally speaking, we feel that the slightly extroverted person is better adjusted
and that the student living alone is missing something in his social life. At the same time, we realize that
no two persons have the same tastes or traits and anyone of you readers could find fault with our reasoning.—Ohio
State Lantern.

There was a young lady named Carol, Who loved to play cards “for apparel. But her opponent’s straight flush Made
the little girl blush, And Carol went home in a barrel.

[List of New Books]

Recent additions to the Davidson Library include, as well as many technical books of only limited interest, several bestsellers and
other books for the general reader. Among these are two anthologies, four historical novels of varying degrees of authenticity, two
satires on social and political conditions today, an amusing autobiography, and a philosophical biography. The Devil's Tramping Ground, edited by
John Harden and published by the University of North Carolina Press, is a collection of North Carolina mystery stories. Its
interest is not limited to North Carolinians, however, since most of its mysteries are thrillers for everyone. Peter Stuart Ney,
and Theodosia Burr, the Last Colony and Gimghoul Castle in Chapel Hill, as well as many others, all receive exciting
treatment at the hands of the authors represented in this book, who include, incidentally, such “big names” as Thomas Wolfe,
Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings, Paul Green, and Wilbur Daniel Steele. John Harden, the editor of The Devil’s Tramping Ground, was formerly
Secretary to Governor Cherry and is now a Vice-President of Burlington Mills Corporation. The Burns Mantle Best Plays of 1948-1949
contains the full script, as well as explanatory notes and summaries where desirable or necessary, of ten plays on the
New York stage during the 1948-1949 season. In addition, the book lists casts, runs, and other pertinent information of all
the plays on Broadway during that season. Those plays included are Anne of the Thousand Days; Death of a Salesman;
Detective Story; and others.

(Continued on Page Six)

Previous Record of Homecoming Scores

October, 1923 saw the Cats get off to a rollicking homecoming start by a victory over the Citadel of 7
to 0. This was the christening of the new Richardson field, and although the season was marked down as one
of success for Coach Yountiger, the Cats came through with only three victories due to “handicaps in lack of linesmen.”
The next year saw one of the most successful seasons in the College’s history in spite of the fact that
the homecoming game was lost to Carolina. After years and years of football despair, the Cats finally came through with
7 victories, 2 losses, and 1 tie. 1925 was nonetheless spectacular with 6 victories and 2 ties. It was not
until that eventful year, 1926, however, that the Cats were to chalk up another homecoming victory. The day's festivities began
with a dress parade by the ROTC and were climaxed during the afternoon by the game with The University of
N.C. Playing their best for a record crowd in the newly dedicated stadium, the Cats rolled over Carolina for a
10 to 0 victory. The season saw only two defeats and was climaxed by the Cats' defeat of Duke for
State Championship. Not again until 1939 were the Cats successful on the homecoming field when they defeated their first opponents
by a score of 22 to 14 in a display of their powerful offense. The next year, 1940, was Davidson’s
last homecoming victory to date, when Center College was defeated 27 to 12. Only four victories and one tie out
of twenty-five (Continued on Page Six)

EVENING TOILETTE BY DOROTHY JEWELS BY CARTIER. WITH SMOKERS WHO KNOW...IT’S CAMELS

Yes, Camels are SO MILD that in a coast-to-coast test of hundreds of men and women who smoked Camels —
and only Camels — for 30 consecutive days, noted throat specialists, making weekly examinations, reported NOT ONE SINGLE CASE OF
THROAT IRRITATION due to smoking CAMELS!
