PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

EDITOR IN CHIEF -------------------- BOB HOLLISTER
BUSINESS MANAGER ---------------- BILL HOUCK

EDITORIAL STAFF
Chief Associate Editor ---------------- Doug Hix
Chief Associate Editor ---------------- Lonnie Turnipseed
Chief Associate Editor ---------------- Jack Hazard
MANAGING EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall, Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister, Randy Taylor.
Sports Editor—Gordon Scott
Make-up Editors—Dan McKeithen, Cherry Stribling.
Art Editor—Bill King
City Editor—John Hobart
Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager -------- Bill Cassels
Advertising Managers ---------------- Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison.
Circulation Manager ---------------- Huffaker
Asst. Circulation Managers -------- Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager ---------------- John Loftin
Subscriptions Manager -------------- Alex Goley

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

Open Letter to the Student Body

Regardless of what else he may or may not have done by means of his chapel address Thursday, October 27,
Dr. Abernathy certainly accomplished his purpose. He aroused a considerable amount of both thought and comment. Since the most lengthy
portion of his talk was directed at the Davidsonian and its staff, we would like to avail ourselves of this
opportunity and this medium to set before the student body a precise evaluation of the situation as we see it
and to state what we believe to be our position in relation to this situation.

It is not our purpose here to take up Dr. Abernathy’s indictment point by point, and attempt either to prove
unjustifiable, or to deny the truth of the charges he presented. This is not our purpose for two reasons: At
a meeting with members of the staff last Tuesday night, Dr. Abernathy made the statement that his remarks were based
on the quality of the papers published during the past three years. In addition, if anything of lasting value is
to be derived from what was said, we cannot begin by defrauding ourselves of the fundamental validity of the address
by pausing to take issue with, or advantage of its superficial weaknesses.

The Davidsonian staff is convinced of both the necessity for, and the basic cogency of what was said. No member
of the senior class is more aware than myself of the fact that since the time we were freshmen—and very
likely long before that—most issues of the Davidsonian have been as devoid of stimulating content and absorbing, high-quality journalism, as
a pocketbook edition of Little Red Riding Hood. For years our faculty and student body have very properly patted The
Davidsonian on the back and told it to run along and have a good time—play with its mud pies and
sand piles, and bask contentedly in the blissful dream that it is a newspaper. It has been doing exactly that.
And we, as a student body, have been eager to sit back in our chapel seats, prop our knees on
the back of the seat in front, and yawn a weary “so what?”

It does seem that we are constantly hearing pep talks of some kind. This letter may appear to be another—if
somewhat more lengthy—variation of the same old theme. However, such is not the case. This is something new to Davidson,
just as Dr. Abernathy’s address was new. We do not by any means concur with all that he had to
say. We do know—just as you must know, if you give the matter any thought—that his motivating idea is sound.
It is simply stated: We are not going to know how to fit ourselves into society and business or professional
life with any degree of proficiency when we graduate if we are too dull or too lazy or too full
of how good we are, to do two things: First, to make the courses we are engaged in taking from
day to day apply to the activities and the situations we are involved in now—today; and Second—to use the facilities
available to us through our much-discussed extracurricular activities to the fullest extent of their capacity to develop our embryonic powers
of personality, intellect, and social know-how. Whether we are interested in becoming doctors, preachers, businessmen, or lawyers, the exercise and
consequent development of these powers—directly through personal participation in, and indirectly through sustained interest concerning our extracurricular activities—will stand us
in good stead when we are outside the comparative shelter of these ivy-covered walls.

We delude ourselves if we think that this is a problem for us to lay in the laps of the
faculty for solution. The degree of success or lack of it we achieve when we leave college, is the problem
of no one but ourselves. And if we manifest no more interest in situations, activities, and events when we are
gone from here than we are now displaying in our academic work, extracurricular activities, and team support, we may as
well give up the idea of ever making worthwhile personal achievements.

There is much talk of a feeling of faculty disinclination to allow us to carry through projects or ideas sponsored
by the students and conducted by the students. If such is true, we will accomplish at least the elevation of
our own maturity level by investigating the situation and making an effort to surmount it. What is more probably the
case, we will discover that it is only our lack of initiative and resourcefulness that prevents us from bringing to
pass any worthy projects we may wish to attempt.

The Davidsonian staff began, in September, a series of changes which we think will vastly increase the paper’s effectiveness, its
interest content, and, as a result, its power to stimulate each student’s intellectual, social, and physical growth. Although the process
may require the space of two or more years, the quality level of the paper—we believe—will be steadily rising. However,
and this is the point upon which the success or failure of any Davidson venture hangs, only by means of
a personal interest assumed and manifested by individuals, and groups of individuals, throughout the student body can The Davidsonian ever
hope to become more meaningful. At present it is a student publication in name only. In order for us to
be able to enjoy a first-class paper here at Davidson, it must be made that in fact as well.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, NOV. 4, 1949

The DAVIDSONIAN Presents

What Davidson Spirit?

Judge Doug Rice spoke in chapel the other day of the lack of school spirit in the upper classes. He
pointed out that the spirit in the sophomore, junior, and senior classes has consisted of shouting for the freshmen to
go to pep rallies and yell for the team. Attendance at pep meetings has been virtually reduced to the cheerleaders,
those freshmen which have been rooted out by threats, and no more than ten or fifteen upperclassmen. Attendance at the
homecoming bonfire was somewhat better, but still far below anything which we’ve seen in our stay at Davidson.

We can’t say anything about pre-war Wildcat spirit except to relate those things which were told us as freshmen by
those who had been here in the early forties and late thirties. They placed the spirit of that day above
anything in the first post-war years. Now, if it was poor in those days, we would be ashamed to have
any of those old boys see Davidson today.

The point is that this football team represents Davidson College and Davidson College is not just the freshman class. There
are also sophomores, juniors, and seniors here and everyone would take as much credit for a winning team as any
freshman. Therefore it is up to every member of the student body to back any Davidson football team or any
other athletic squad whether it wins or loses.

We haven’t heard but one chant in chapel in the past week. The freshman class, as the rest of the
student body left chapel, put up a feeble cry to beat VMI. We say feeble and that's just what it
was, but it was still a heck of a lot more than the entire student body could muster.

The cheerleaders under Charlie Mitchell have done as much as could be expected. They have had pep meetings, sendoffs for
the team, and have done remarkably well at the games. But even the best cheerleader cannot bring out spirit that
is not there or is so latent that he doesn't even snore.

We've said that the cheerleaders have done the best of a poor situation; and a poor situation it is. The
student body has done a poor job but we must all admit that they have had little to cheer about
this year. The football team has shown an equally poor spirit on the field this year with two excitable exceptions.
These exceptions being of course the Army tussle and the great victory over N. C. State. We find it hard
to believe that it is the same team which played N. C. State that played Richmond and Washington and Lee
in the last two weeks. Of course it can be said that it actually is not the same team. Injuries
to the players in and with the State game have hurt the team. But we can't believe that they have
hurt it that much. It seems that these injuries have hurt the team more mentally than they have physically. With
the loss of a few key men, the feeling of defeat seems to have set in. Anybody knows that a
team which is beaten before it goes on the field has little more than a prayer to come out on
the long end—and all the prayers in Davidson could not have helped last week at W&L.

In the minutes of that game we thought the Cats had found themselves as they took the opening kickoff and
marched sixty yards before a pass backfired. The first W&L play went all the way back up the field for
a touchdown and from there it was a rout. Davidson could never again get on its feet.

Now this writer is no football player and never has been. All he knows about football is what he sees
and what he hears from those who do know something. But we know that any ball club which says it
cannot stop a split-T will never stop a split-T formation. It is beaten before the game as we said above.
We've heard more than one Davidson football player assert that the split-T cannot be stopped. Davidson will never stop a
split-T as long as they feel that way.

The team is now back in Lexington to play VMI. The boys will not see this edition until after they
have played that game. We have heard and observed from watching practice in the past week that the spirit of
the ball club is higher than any time this year with the possible exception of the State game. If this
spirit is retained throughout the VMI struggle, Davidson will win it. If not we may have the same as last
week.

If this edition makes anyone mad it has accomplished its purpose. If ithas not made anyone mad yet we'll say
again that the spirit of the student body stinks and up to this week the team spirit has been little
better! Let’s hope we are wrong from now on. The Davidsonian is behind the first few Wildcats!

FUZZY FIZZES....,. » CLAUDE DAVIS

A friend remarked thoughtfully and a little sardonically the other day, “You know, Professor Abernathy’s chapel talk was interesting, but
really beside the point. The whole thing was based on the assumption that Davidson is primarily an educational institution. That's
not so; Davidson is a finishing school for good boys. We get a little intellectual training, not enough to interfere
with weekends; a little social training, not enough to make us courteous to visiting speakers; and a little religious training,
not enough really to upset us. The all-round gloss — that’s what Davidson gives you.”

We might couple with that the pensive remark of one of our clearest-thinking professors, “Sure Davidson turns out gentlemen; ninety
per cent of the boys are gentlemen when they come here and eighty per cent are gentlemen when they graduate.”
It must be admitted that these two comments, overstatements though they may be, furnish food for thought. Before any attempt
is made to appraise Davidson's end product, it is necessary to explore some of the main characteristics of the process
that shape that product.

First, and perhaps the most striking feature of life at Davidson, is the terrific centripetal pressure that so powerfully affects
every student. This striving for uniformity is a natural outgrowth of the Davidson set-up: a small college with its professors
and students drawn largely from an upper-middle class, Southern, Protestant clientele. Strengthened by natural inbreeding tendencies (the matriculation of sons
and grandsons and the metamorphosis of students into professors), the set-up produces both an approval of conformity and an intolerance
of aberration. As someone has summarized it, “At Davidson we're all one big, happy family. If anybody gets out of
line, we just hit him behind the ear and knock him back in again.”

A second characteristic: the state church system. Everybody at Davidson is automatically a member of the YMCA. (Too often the
membership card, with its attendant swimming pool privileges, is as far as student interest goes. Is this passivity a consequence
of authoritarianism?) And everybody takes Bible and goes to chapel and vespers, on the theory that exposure to religion can’t
do any harm and may do some good. The college endeavors to prescribe morals for the student body, with varying
degrees of success. Some would argue that this system places emphasis on morality rather than spirituality, on the form of
religion rather than the essence. Others affirm the value of a common program which reaches every student.

Third and perhaps most ominous: the lack of tension and individual expression on the part of the student body. At
Davidson we walk jovially up and down the campus and talk about the weather and last week’s dance. If any
of us have a real reason for being here, we keep it as quiet as possible. There is little real
communication between student and student and between professor and student because most of our ideas are alike to begin with.
And this state of affairs is apparently agreeable to the powers that be. No controversial speakers are brought to the
campus; we live, so to speak, in an intellectually insulated hothouse. Administrative guidance is felt in this sphere as well
as that of morals. Professor Abernathy said that the Davidsonian was noted for not having an editorial policy; is this
entirely the fault of the students? Is it true that college publications have been placed (Continued On Page Six)

FEATURES

THE NEW SOUTH By GABRIEL LOWE

When “Life” magazine finds something good to report about the South, it has to be extraordinarily good. In the issue
of October 31, the feature article was a twelve-page spread on the advances that have been made in the South
over the past 10 years. The significance of this article is that, not only “Life,” but the nation as a
whole has been awakened to the progress that has made itself manifest here in the South. It is nothing new
to us to read of contour farming, widespread use of agricultural machinery, new agricultural methods, mills, factories, housing projects, schools,
facilities for Negroes, and industrial unionization in the South. All these things have been with us for so long that
we do not notice them; they are part of the South that we have lived for ten years. But to
the non-Southerner, who had formed an opinion of the South as a land of magnolias, mint juleps, racial prejudice, the
straight Democratic ticket, and overwhelming and abject poverty, it is a revelation.

Each year, more and more Northerners and Easterners go home from Southern vacation resorts wide-eyed with wonder at the progress
and industry that they have seen on every hand in the non-resort sections through which they passed. And each year
the mill owners of New England feel more and more the pinch that is precipitated by the loss of business
to Southern mills.

Probably the greatest impression made on the outside is in respect to the Negro and to his life in The
New South. As Life puts it, he is “still segregated,” but “life is getting better for him.” That, we believe,
is the solution to the problem of the races living together. It is a solution that we have not fully
exploited yet, but progress has been and is being made in all parts of the South toward the eventual dissipation
of the problem.

The enrichment of the South can be laid directly at the feet of the late President Franklin Roosevelt, whose New
Deal program did more for the South in the period from 1933 to 1939 than all the Administrations had done
since the days of Calhoun and Jackson. Under New Deal leadership the Tennessee Valley program was instituted and made a
working reality. It created hundreds of thousands of jobs in the South during a time when employment was at a
premium. And the low power rates that resulted from it contributed directly to the growth of the furniture and textile
industries in the Piedmont Carolinas, and the steel industry of Alabama, creating more and permanent jobs. It was the Department
of Agriculture of the Roosevelt Administration that taught the farmers contour plowing, terracing, and soil restoration. The New Deal provided
the money in many cases for the construction of decent, low-cost housing for Negroes as well as whites. New Deal
money helped to build schools, churches, roads, and model communities all over the South. Money from the New Deal gave
many farmers a start in raising herds of fine dairy and beef cattle; it built mills and factories; it put
many small businesses on their feet and gave them a new lease on life. All these things mean a higher
standard of living for the South and for the nation as a whole. The South in 1933 was the last
great frontier of America. Today the red-haired step-child has become a rich, vigorous, progressive man, thanks to Roosevelt. And the
initial push that was given by the New Deal was augmented by the war, and by the period of prosperity
that has followed.

But all these advances do not mean that we can sit back on our laurels and merely revel in what
we have done. We have come a long way, but there is still a longer way to go. There is
yet much to be accomplished before we reach the ultimate goal of Southern prosperity, and every Southerner has a vital
part in the work as in the fruits of success that will follow.

If good grades are what you're looking for when you come to Davidson, you’d do well to jot down these
sure-fire steps that lead to a successful college career. According to The Daily Tar Heel:

(1) Look alert. (If you look at your watch, don’t stare at it with fiery interest and shake it.)

(2) Take notes eagerly. (If you can’t find clippings dealing with his subject, take any old clipping at random. He
thinks anything deals with the subject).

(3) Nod frequently and murmur, “How true!” (To you, this seems exaggerated. To him, it is quite objective.)

(4) Sit in front near him. (This applies only if you intend to stay awake.)

(5) Laugh at his jokes. (You can tell when he cracks one. If he looks up from his notes and
smiles expectantly, he has told a joke.)

(6) Ask for outside reading. (You don't have to do it. Just ask).

(7) If you must sleep, arrange to be called on at the end of the hour. (It creates an unfavorable
impression if the rest of the class has left and you sit there alone, dozing.)

(8) Be sure the book you read during the lecture looks like a book from the course. (If you do
math in psychology class and psychology in math class, match the books for size and color.)

(9) Ask any questions you think he can answer—From “The Daily Iowan.”

Paste these study habits inside your hat. Abide by them and you'll be one of the best students at Davidson.

College Rags In Brief By TOM HOLLER

“Chicago Deadline” starring Alan “Knuckles” Ladd and Donna Reed runs as a late feature at the Imperial Theatre on Saturday
night, November 5, 10:45 p.m. Alan, a news reporter, tries to make front-page history by avenging a beautiful female, Donna.
It’s the usual tough-guy movie in which Ladd slaps the gal down so she can crawl back and tie his
shoestrings. Ladd slugs everybody except his mother — he pushes her out of a window. This picture will probably have
a powerful reaction on you — you'll feel like you’ve been slugged yourself.

“Brimstone” (sounds like a rough highball) starring Rod Cameron and Charlita (a female tamale that crawled across the border) runs
from Sunday through Saturday of next week at the Imperial Theatre.

“Everybody Does It” (sings in the bathtub) starring Paul Douglas (biggest sensation since bubble gum) and Linda Darnell runs from
Sunday of next week until Saturday at the Carolina Theatre. This should be a pretty good movie. Paul is a
natural actor with an easy likeable manner. Linda lures Paul into opera after hearing him sing in a bathtub. Paul
puts a fresh new slant on acting which makes this picture a sure bet for good entertainment. Leave us not
discuss it any more as it's really a top-rate comedy.

“Under Capricorn” starring Ingrid Bergman and Joseph Cotten, runs Monday and Tuesday at the Davidson Theatre. This is the same
old story of “wife meets other man, husband gets jealous.” This picture shows you the heights and the depths to
which a woman like Ingrid can go — it shows no more. I don’t think this picture would exactly clear
your mind before you (Continued On Page Five)
