It wasn’t until nearly mid-day that the sun broke through the overcast skies at West Point last weekend, but once the sky had cleared, the sun kept shining and assured the throng of fans gathered for the Davidson-Army football game of an ideal day for the contest. The majority of the fans were late filing into the stands due to the dress parade that the corps of Cadets was staging on the parade ground which is some distance from Michie Stadium. Of the nearly 30,000 football enthusiasts present, approximately 10,000 of them were Boy Scouts who had been issued a special invitation to the game. The Cadets were seated below the press box and took up a large portion of the west side of the stands. Davidson supporters were across the field, and the number of fans present to urge on the Red and Black was surprising, to say the least. About four carloads of students were on hand from Davidson and many alumni, now in Penn Med School, made the trip for the game. Who the others were, we don't know, but there was certainly a sizable group that let out a whoop every time the Cats looked good.

GOOD COVERAGE OF GAME

Press, radio, and television coverage was the best obtainable. NBC sent their portable TV equipment to the game and televised the entire scrap under the sponsorship of Lucky Strike cigarettes. Ted Husing brought a play-by-play description of the action via radio, but it wasn't on a nation-wide hook-up. Reporters from some of the big New York newspapers were on hand to write up the game as well as other writers from widely scattered papers. Our own Ju Thigpen had a front-row seat in the press box to record a play-by-play account of the game. With Ju-Ju was Buddy Cheek who was one of the alumni up from Penn Med School. The Cadet cheering section was really something to see and hear. Not only were the plebes yelling their heads off, but the leather-lunged upperclassmen were all trying to out-yell each other. With such spirit as the corps has, it is easy to understand the part they have played in helping Army to win over 140 games at Michie Stadium while losing only 8. The famous mule mascots of the Cadets added to the color of the game. During intermission, a special ceremony was held to retire from ‘service’ Mr. Jackson, one of the mules, who has had scores of different cheerleaders on his back down through the years. An honor guard placed a horseshoe of flowers around his neck while the Army band slowly played “The Old Grey Mare She Ain’t What She Used To Be.”

RUNYAN BULLS ACROSS

Davidson received the kick-off and got off to a red-hot start. Tailback Lambeth spread the Cadet line with a couple of well-aimed tosses and then C. L. Runyan bulled his way through the center of the line for ten yards to salt away the second Cat first down. On the next play, a Lambeth pass was intercepted, but the Cats had gotten off to a good start. Army worked the ball downfield and scored after approximately six minutes of the first quarter. Davidson had trouble the next time they got the ball. Runyan, attempting to kick from his own goal line, was charged hard by Army's massive forward wall and Captain John Trent pounced on it for the second Cadet TD, only two minutes after the first one. Army’s power prevailed until the opening of the second period. Then a fumble by Jim Cain on the Army 17 set up the Wildcat score. Lambeth picked up four on a run and Turner passed to Price on the three-yard line. Turner and Runyan failed to crash the ball over on the next two plays, but then C. L. carried across on the next play from scrimmage. Davidson's scoring was over for the afternoon, but more than one or two “oohs” and “ahs” were heard around the press box when the scoreboard showed Army 13, Davidson 7.

(Continued on Page Four)

By GORDON SCOTT

Showing of

Students’ Store Wednesday, Oct. 5th

MEN

Authentic University Styles Jack Pond 1 P.M. to 10 P.M.

Wildcat Sports FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1949

AUBURN LAMBETH WILDCAT OF THE WEEK

By CHERRY STRIBLING

This week we salute as Wildcat of the Week, true pitchin' Auburn Lambeth whose brilliant passing and running in our 47-7 loss to Army was the standout performance of a fighting Presbyterian eleven. Lambeth was the spearhead of a rejuvenated Davidson team which fought mighty Army to a standstill and was only overcome by superiority of numbers. Lambeth, in pre-season football forecasts, has received nation-wide recognition as a superior passer with few equals.in the country. In Saturday’s game, he ran true to form by completing 16 out of 23 passes and having only two intercepted against one of the nation’s big-time teams. Auburn also showed the folks who were rich enough or interested enough to make the long trip to the Point, something in his repertoire that he had shown only briefly in the W&L game of last year. We refer to his running and ball-handling ability. He got off several nice runs, and Hal Mapes kicked the goal to make the score 13-7.

Player of the Week
Lambeth keeps up his great play and will lead the Wildcats to a fine season, and also gain national honors for himself.

Power Proves Too Much for Cats
By DAN McKEITHAN

In the opening game of the football season, Davidson College’s Wildcats went out of their section of the country and out of their class to encounter the mighty West Point Cadets. Although the favorites ran up an expected 47-7 score, there were some enlightening statistics which give a truer picture of the contest. The boys from the South ate up a gross total of 277 yards, net of 233, against a team which is known for its stout defense. Another revealing fact is that the losers rang up 16 first downs to Army’s 14. The majority of Davidson's gains came on forward passes with Auburn Lambeth on the throwing end much of the time.

After the Keydets had scored twice in the first period on a 46-yard march and a blocked punt, the fighting Wildcats came back strong. They drove all the way to the Army 18, but it was a recovery of a fumble on the 15 that set up the lone Davidson score. Hard-driving C. L. Runyan crashed over from one yard out and after Hal Mapes’ conversion the score stood 13-7, Army leading. However, at this point, Army really began rolling. Heralded Gil Stephenson scored his second TD, followed by two payoff tosses from Quarterback Arnold Galiffa, potential all-American. The scoring (Continued On Page Four)

It appears now that if Wildcat

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Nets Start Swishing Again in Cheese Box
By AL COOK

With the graduation of four first-string cagers, this year’s team will be spotted with new blood. The team as a whole will be completely overhauled with returning veteran of three seasons Whit Cobb remaining as the important cog of the machine. Cobb, a senior, returns for his fourth year to handle one guard position. Whit hails from Durham, North Carolina, where he starred in football, basketball, tennis, and track. He will captain the team and handle coaching duties until Coach Boyd Baird takes over in November.

Equipment has already been issued to a promising group of freshmen and “B” squaders of last season. The freshman team, which carries an excellent record of fourteen wins against two defeats, will contribute Bill Brooks, a six-foot-two forward from Frankfort, Kentucky; Tom Coleman, a six-foot-one forward from Harrisburg, Kentucky; Don Lazenby, all mid-South center from McCallie Prep school, and also three-letter athlete (Continued On Page Four)

LET'S BOUNCE BACK!
PAGE THREE

AND P.C. RENEW OLD RIVALRY

ARRAY OF FLEET BACKS WILL FEATURE BLUE
By BILL

With hopes high of carrying over the best-looking offense they've exhibited in over a year and bringing their defense up to par with it, Davidson’s Wildcats return to Richardson Field and their own league to open their home season against Presbyterian’s Blue Hose tomorrow night at 8 o'clock. The big clash with Army, once held as a sort of opening doomsday for our Cats, proved nothing more than another ball game after all, and showed that Coach Charley Jamerson has come up with a smoothly operating aerial offense that far outshines the defense he worked so hard on. Hence, the 47-7 Cadet victory. The cost was one cut lip to defensive halfback Woody Leach, and the payoff was in experience. Just how well Davidson has improved its defense—especially against passing, and how well it maintains that offense, will be shown to the homefolk tomorrow night.

Pete Brown and Matt Price all but made Cat supporters forget the loss of ends Buddy Cheek and Mike Williams, and Hal Mapes and soph Tom Comer came through as expected on the defensive flanks. Although the whole line was outmanned by the two offensive and two defensive units the Army forces supported, yet guard Buddy Chandler shone forth once again as a top man in the Davidson attack. The squad is in fine physical condition with the exception of reserve end Marvin Kelly who suffered a cut hand while leaving the plane en route, and who is still bothered by the knee he twisted in drills last week.

Presbyterian, though trounced in their opener, 68-7, by Clemson, fields the finest bunch of backs in the Palmetto state, so the scouting reports say. Blake Watts, a 440-dash man in track who dashed 66 yards against the Tigers for P.C.'s lone score, Walter Gooch, Ralph Tedards, and fullback Ronnie Johnson, will be the foursome opening against the Cats. (Continued on Page Four)

Yes, Camels are SO MILD that in a coast-to-coast test of hundreds of men and women who smoked Camels—and only Camels—for 30 consecutive days, noted throat specialists, making weekly examinations, reported NOT ONE SINGLE CASE OF THROAT IRRITATION DUE TO SMOKING CAMELS!