Though Davidson's wrestling squad hasn't been burning up the woods this year, it may point to the 175-pound class and say they have a future. 

Williams Cooks Cords As Cats Calm Purple Hurricane, 66-40
By CHERRY STRIBLING

Davidson won their sixth conference victory and Furman lost their seventh straight. That was the story in the Armory Tuesday night as Mike Williams turned in the top individual performance of the year for the tournament-bound Cats. It was Mike’s brilliant 14-point splurge in the last half which broke the back of the travel-weary and oft-defeated Purple Paladins. For the opening 10 minutes, it was a nip and tuck battle with Davidson leading the Baptist team. 

Coach Boyd Baird has a point-crazy bunch which isn’t satisfied to hold the score down. Forwards Bill Brooks and Tom Coleman have set a dazzling pace all season. Brooks hit his height last week by dumping in 28 points against Tech High of Charlotte, while the losers could gather only 24. This, with the second string playing most of the second half, speaks well for the Wildcats. 

Steadiest man on the squad seems to be guard Malcolm McLean. Though not one of the major point makers, Mac sets up all the plays and comes off the enemy backboard with an amazing number of rebounds. He teams with Bobby Cobb and Buddy Cheek to form a pair that will ease many of Coach Norman Shepard’s worries about varsity graduation. 

The center slot is filled by Don Lazenby, a ball stealer of the first class who was named on last year’s All-Mid-South prep squad. Lazenby is a smooth floor man and possesses a neat set shot for a center. 

Number six man on the squad, Brady Osborne, has been feeding the ball in to dead-eye Mike Iverson. He has a push shot that has put him above 20 points more than a few times during the campaign. 

Guard Fred Spach, a Winston-Salem performer, has displayed one of the truest eyes and neatest set shots that we've seen. Spach is a smooth operator who can fill easily any of the five spots. 

The addition of these seven and the rest of the present freshmen should go a long way toward filling the four starting berths that will be open next year. As it looks now, Whit Cobb will be the only sure starter when the '49-50 campaign opens. 

Right now the Wildcat cagers are in the midst of the invasion of the Old Dominion State. 

Davidson's wrestling squad hasn't been burning up the woods this year, but it may point to the 175-pound class and say they have a future. Bull Alexander has improved steadily since he first donned the Wildcat wrestling garb a little over two years ago. Alex had no high school experience as a grappler and has gained his present proficiency under the able tutelage of Coach Charley Parker. Bill has yet to taste defeat this year, though he was held to a draw by Carolina's 175-pounder. Most noteworthy of his successes this year is his victory over the former conference champion from the University of Maryland. With his present trend of improvement, this column looks for Bill to bring a Southern Conference crown back to the hill from the tournament next month. 

Davidson's wrestling squad was seriously weakened at the season by the loss of two of the stars, Jimmy Jung, who was generally conceded to be the man to beat for the conference 121-pound class title, and Bill Fesperman, who was one of the logical contenders for the 135-pound class title. With the loss of these two boys, the grunt and groan squad has been held together by the consistently excellent wrestling of the 175-pounder, Bull Alexander. Now, with Bill Moore out with a leg injury, Bull will be called upon for even harder work. 

Bull hails from Jacksonville, Virginia. Coach Shepard has taken his boys on the invasion of the Old Dominion State.To face VMI and W&L, Jas William Alexander, at Jackson- Bill’s popularity on the campus is particularly ITS pe two not so potent, but always dangerous, foes. Tuesday night ville he attended Robert E. Lee attested to by the fact that he was PEE GSE Adee A eal HTM) Wisk: Ws. 5 m: all-around play was stretch fight for a conference berth. The locals right now Biggie Soe ee ae noa feature of this game. He holds a 6-8 conference record and could easily push that up playing a beautiful floor game, both offensively and defensively. His state's Wolf sAEIEN. School where he was a high elected vice-president in his sophomore year. He graduated from Lee High School where he was a high 145 pounds—Rudolph (S), decisioned Husted (D), 4-0. During the second half, Davidson’s offensive machine slowed down. In the summer of 1946 and entered a pre-ministerial student, Bill likes to spend most of his spare weekends in the mountains and seems to prefer those mountains around Asheville especially. In fact, it has even been rumored that a certain person named Letty was the real object of those mountain trips. Heavyweight Musser (S), pinned Bailey (D), 40 seconds of the second period. The night before the Wofford game, the Wildcats added their finest season's record in some years. A conference bid is a near certainty save for some major breakdown in the stretch.

The performance of Mike Williams has been one of the brightest spots of the Davidson season. Mike has now pushed his average above 12 points per game and has bested the 20-mark thrice. His Tuesday night showing against Furman was possibly the best of his career. He was all over the floor and poured in buckets for an average of 40.9, great in any league. He has passed Buddy Cheek in the point parade, a feat which he has heretofore failed to do. This is no castoff on Cheek’s play. Having the tag of All-Southern on your back marks any man for his opponents. He lost only to Carolina, North Carolina State, and Auburn. In the conference tournament, Bill was second and fourth quarters of the game. With Mike Williams controlling the backboard while he was in the game, the Wildcats pulled away from the Maroons in the first half by piling up 36 points to the visitor's 24. 

Sparkplug Whit Cobb (shown above) has played more minutes per game this year than any of the other members of the Cat squad. Cobb was at his height recently as he pumped in 18 points against Carolina while holding scoring ace Coy Carson to eight points. 

In appreciation of what Davidson College and Davidson students mean to our community, we will offer to all persons connected with the school 20 percent off on ANY merchandise bought in our store from Friday, February fourth, through Saturday, February twelfth. This is not just on certain items, but will be on our complete stock which includes new spring and summer merchandise. We feel sure that you will take advantage of this offer to purchase the same high quality and properly styled clothing that has always been recognized by Davidson men. PRICES ARE REASONABLE.

INSURANCE — REAL ESTATE — LOANS

For Sound Insurance Call 6621 Day — 5391 Night

Continuous Service for 20 Years—The Oldest Full-Time Agency in Davidson, N.C.

Al J. E. F. R. B. I. L. L. I. N. S. U. R. A. N. C. E. — R. E. A. L. E. S. T. A. T. E. — L. O. A. N. S.

233 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.
Telephone 2-6178