PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, March 3, 1949

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
MAC HART

BUSINESS MGR.
JOHN McNAIR

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editor Bill Calhoun
Associate Editor Rone Wietlick
Associate Editor Jack Imel
Sports Editor Bob Huwe
Managing Editor Lonnie Turnipseed
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Staff Photographer
Cartoonist
Poll-Cat Editor
Make-up Editor
Make-up Editor

REPORTERS: Phil Mitchell, Hartley Lowe, Neil Leach, Jimmie Henritzy, Pete Kalogridis, Drew Gurley, Jimmy Fickeisen, Bill Hollister, Randy Taylor, Bill DuBose, Warren Johnson, Tom Aten, Dick Barnard, Bill Cumming, Phil Grube, Dudley Pendleton, Nat Daniel, Stuart Shippey, Hugh Harbold, Jim Blackburn, Tac Shurley, Bob Hubbell, Angus McKeil, Slats McClintock, Boye Kendall, Ed Richardson.

SPORTS STAFF: Cherry Stribling, Gordon Scott, Furman Jeffries, Bill White, Phil Hamner, Dan McKeithan, David Whitener, Ed West, Bill Buckey, Jack Stevenson.

POLL CAT STAFF: Jim Carr, Claude Higginbotham, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown, and Lerdown.

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager W. S. McSwain
Wyle Smith
Bill Houck
Bill Cassels
Charles Clinkscales
Hector McKeithan
David McConnell
Charles Dockery
John Loftin
Bill Hart, Rob Erwin, Sam Cumming, Rod Shaw

CIRCULATION STAFF
Alex Goolsey, Parks Dalton, Pat Moses, Joe H. Miller, Neill Porter, John Hardin, Thad Moncrief, Morris, Cam Faison, Paul Phil Wille

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Member
1949
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of
Collegiate Digest

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

From The President

One of the actions taken by the Trustees at their recent semi-annual meeting was to “authorize the administration to require the auditing of all funds handled in behalf of all organizations connected with the college.” This means that any department of the college, whether administrative or not, including all organizations which have treasuries and handle funds, will be expected to submit their books periodically for careful audit. It will insure a clearer and more business-like handling of all funds of all departments of the college, administrative, faculty, and student.

Another action taken was to increase the health service and physical education fee to $40 per student per year. The cost of this service to the college has increased so greatly within the last decade that student fees are providing less than a third of the actual cost of the students for this service. It is the opinion of the administration that from instructional costs which never can be borne by student tuition, other auxiliary enterprises in the college should approach more nearly the point where they carry themselves.

—J. R. CUNNINGHAM.

Elections Coming Up.

Spring brings many elements into campus life, notable among them spring fever, thoughts of love, impending term papers, and plans to squeeze in a couple of extra weeks at the beach this summer. One of the most important things that happen in the student body in the spring is the student body elections. The elections begin shortly after Spring Holidays and last almost a month. Officers to be chosen will be the presidents of the student body and the Y, the editors of the three publications, the remaining student body officers, the class officers, and the student council members.

In these days of a large enrollment, we have a problem that we didn’t have when the student body numbered six hundred or less. Our elections system was set up to suit a group in which every student knew most of his fellow students. At least, he would know almost any man prominent enough to be nominated for a student body office. Under the system of elections set up by our constitution, there is no campaigning, no promises, no influencing of votes — in short, no politicking. The Davidson tradition is that a man is elected on the basis of ability and personal record. This is our ideal. It has worked in the past and should be workable still.

However, the size of the student body has increased so much in the past three years that it is well-nigh impossible for a student to know personally each man who may be nominated for an office. If our ideal is to continue to work in practice, it will take some effort on the part of each man to learn something about the men who are qualified for the different jobs so that our choices can still be made intelligently and without politics. Now is the time for every student to start thinking about the men who are best qualified to hold office. That way, we won't be caught on election day asking who half the men on the ballot are.

When Do We Want It?

As we go to press, the attainment of the Student Body Campaign Drive is virtually, if not absolutely, assured. The student body is to be highly commended on a job well done. Of course, there is a good chance of our going way over the top and we would not want to congratulate anybody into slowing down. The race having been won the cake is to be eaten, and it is up to the student body how it is to be eaten. The student body, we are told, is to decide when the holiday-prize is to be taken. The consensus of opinion seems to be that the Spring Holidays will be the best time. We don’t recall any vote having been taken, but the powers that be seem to be working on that assumption.

Spring holidays seem to be the best time from the point of view, particularly, of students who live a long way from Davidson. If it is a 24-hour train trip home and the same back, the extra day then would mean a lot to some boys who might not get to go home otherwise. On the other hand, some weekend might suit most of the students better. It is the students themselves who have pitched in and raised the money and it ought surely to be their decision as much as possible when the holiday will be.

Carl Pahl tells us that he is working on the possibility of having the double-cut regulation suspended after the added holiday if our goal reaches as high as 150 percent. Then, too, there is the good hope of an added holiday if we get 200 percent. So let’s keep the ball rolling, and show these people how to raise some money.

Hospitality

It has been called to our attention that visitors on the campus, parents and friends of students, have no very good way of locating boys they want to find without the cooperation of us students. Of course, they can find a student directory in the Guest House and probably some detailed instructions of how to get there after they know where they are going. But most of them would not know about that.

Chances are, they'll ask some student passing by if he knows “my boy Bill” and where he is at the moment. It may take a moment of our sometimes important time to be courteous and helpful to these visitors, but actually we will be doing the school and also ourselves a favor by a good turn of that kind. One mark of a Christian, educated man should be his courtesy and hospitality. One mark of a Davidson man IS his courtesy and hospitality.

The House Un-American Activities Committee has decided to shun publicity. That’s un-American in itself.

WAR BREAKS OUT!

WE COULDN'T HEAR BETAS HAD DECIDED TO PAINT WUX FUR THE QTS ANN FIGECER GMUT ALL THIS WE HEARD. THE TO INCREASE THEIR PLEDGES

PHI DELTA THETA

As the reports of Phi Delt activities begin to drift back to the campus, many salient facts come to light. Some of the more tasty items are herewith presented.

The sympathies of the chapter go out to our beloved brother Hubbell. Bob has been pierced through with a cruel shaft — a shaft not shot from cupid’s bow. A suave farmer from Wake Forest galloped into Charlotte, placed Hubbell’s date behind him on his mule, and rode away into the night, leaving our Bob tearful and dateless.

For the tenth time in two years, Brother Klein has discovered his destined mate. We quote Brother Klein, “No kidding, this is the real thing.” Variety Bill Mebane completed a typical week by dating on successive nights, a Memorial nurse, a 40-year-old widow from Mooresville, a sophomore from Salem, and a delectable sixth-grader from Mount Mourne.

Sensual Strand was seen at Erwin Lodge with a treacherous leer on his face, as he brutally dragged sweet Carol into the inky blackness. Uncle Jim Witherspoon was quoted as saying, “It serves her right — she done me wrong.”

“Nookie Nose” Clark, Chattanooga’s smoothest, in his own loose-jointed way, was gaily mingling with the upper crust at our sister institution. Our contribution to the interior decorating world, charming Chas Parker, after granting interviews to other great authorities in this field, selected a beige ratskin carpet as the motif around which the house decoration is to be conducted. The rats were carefully bred and nurtured by Rumple’s outstanding rat culturist, “Squeaks” Henderson.

W. Clarence Brownson, that athlete, author, and all-purpose authority (by his own modest admission) seems to have robbed a certain young thing of her equilibrium. It was reported that the beefy one’s line of bull must have gotten out of control, for the poor girl was swept off her feet by the overwhelming volume that came forth. That's all for now from your genial columnist, John Miller.

SIGMA CHI

Seeking new worlds to conquer, Brothers Pritchard, Mann, Calhoun and Richard went to Norfolk ostensibly to raise funds for the development drive. They seem to have risen above going to the Gaities but, excepting Purity Mann, author of Mann Act, they all gave a good account of theirthe infamous amorous adventures. Brother Apperson spent the weekend trying to find Fillsville, Va. The question is, what would he have found if he had found it? After what he learned in Charlotte Saturday night, Pledge Brother Covington is also on a quest. His question is, “Who’s ‘Yom,’ and what's he got that I haven't got?” "Old Faithful" Best made a pilgrimage to Greensboro. Brothers and Hamilton went on a search in Charlotte Saturday night for his weekly and Beatie. They found what they were after, but there wasn’t enough for both of them. Don Shriver, our own William Jennings Bryan, went to Atlanta and Agnes Scott. But unlike Apperson, who often goes to Scott, he went to debate. Brother Shriver returned with his head bloody, but unbowed. Brother Hopkins and Butt are reported to have gone to New Jersey, but their present whereabouts are unknown.

The Sigma Chi sequel to the Truman upset last week came when Vig Newton, candidate for the Esthetes, surprised all the political prognosticators and Holy Willie Harris, candidate for the Athletes, for the office of historian. Harris, the vanquished, took his defeat with more grace than did his supporters, while Newton, the surprised but narrowly defeated unexpected victor, was so completely demoralized by his triumph. Sigma Chi is happy to announce the pledging of Rk. Bb. Covington, Joe Mebkaney, Joe Walker, and Bruce Davis.

SAE
The top news of the column this week is that the sons of Minerva beat the Kappa Sigs in a fierce battle on the hardwood Friday night. The game was thrilling to the end, plus an exciting overtime period. Hats off to the entire team for a job well done. This gives the brothers a perfect season up to date—

COLLEGE RAGS IN BRIEF
By ART JENKINS
(This column is intended to be a brief condensation of the many articles of interest from the hundreds of college rags that flood the exchange box of the Davidsonian. It doesn’t even scratch the surface, however, and anyone who is interested in the whole works will find these papers on file in the library in the room between the smoker and the stairs.)

Co-ed schools have all the fun. Up at Augustana College in Illinois, 250 male students invaded a girl’s dormitory and raised a huge commotion. They dumped the co-eds out of bed, put them in bathtubs, soaked their mattresses with water, and received bucketfuls of water in their faces from some retaliative girls. Of course, they first had to lock the house mother in her room, post sentinels, pull light switches, and silence the telephones. The disciplinary action is pending, but the girls got so much fun out of it too that the incident will probably be dismissed.

Mary Baldwin's “Campus Comments” made a survey taken among males lounging around the porch on the Sunday after a dance, to find out if they could remember what their dates had worn at the dance. The results proved conclusively that the men noticed more than their dates' clothes. Does that mean that the girls are disgusted and will give up wearing clothes?

Students of Ole Miss have been mistaking a co-ed for a faculty member. This particular co-ed has eight children and numerous grandchildren but refused to give her age.

The Alpha Kappa chapter of the Alpha Sigma Sigma, which resides at Georgia Tech, has released to THE TECHNIQUE the design of the fraternity’s new pin. Its designer, Otto Schnapps of Pilsner, Germany, received inspiration from a vision he had late one night. The pin is the shape of a beer stein and engraved thereon is the image of an equine posterior. The guard is in the shape of a pair of lips upon which are inscribed the initials of the chapter. I. M. Bracewell, prominent Atlanta business executive and Alpha Kappa chapter adviser, was asked the significance of this shield. He refused to divulge the secret but indicated that it is why Alpha Sigma Sigma men ranked so high in academic standing.

Dwellers of Rumple should learn what never to do from an experience which occurred at Carolina the other day. Members of Graham dormitory thought that with rates being bad, they called the exterminator. They still had rats, but they were dead for several days.

A columnist for Winthrop's JOHNSONIAN has some philosophical views on marriage. According to her, “a marriage is an educational institution in which a man loses his bachelor’s without acquiring a master’s.” Also, “a woman worries about the future until she gets a husband, while a man never worries about the future until he gets married.”

CINEMA COMMENTS
By DREW SMEARSON
So Dear to My Heart—Burl Ives, Beulah Bondi, Harry Carey—Monday and Tuesday, March 7-8. Walt Disney with his pencil, Burl Ives with his guitar, and Bobby Driscoll with his little black sheep (ram) got together for a country story about a county fair. The production is centered around the atmosphere of the stock show. Little gremlins pop off and on the screen while Burl Ives' own way with the guitar makes everyone sit up and notice the charm of Disney’s character. Especially recommended for review-weary freshmen.

Sealed Verdict—Ray Milland, Florence Marley—Wednesday and Thursday, Mar. 9-10. Major Milland meets Marley mourning meaningfully munching marshmallows, missing misters met marching Mayfully ‘mongst musing menchmen. Same sordid stuff save some squawking, savoring, sobbing S. S. Scouts. Complementary caption cautions: “It dares to say out loud what, till now, has only been whispered.”

He Walked by Night—Richard Basehart, Scott Brady—Friday and Saturday, March 11-12. There's nothing for the constitution like a good walk, and no time for a good walk like night. These are obvious and taken for granted. But who likes granted? Granted. This show is supposed to be outstanding, flawless, masterful, superior, engrossing, skillful, imaginative, clever, exciting, plausible, excellent, suspense-filled, but we haven't seen the show and don't know. It is supposed to be about a poor fella who got in trouble with the policemen in blue suits for quarreling with one of them. Not being a man of words, he takes to action and stoves in his head. This doesn’t go over so well with the homicide squad, so they set out to make him apologize. This all happens in Los Angeles, and, not having a very good place to hide, he ducks into the nearest sewer. The atmosphere then changes to an underworld motif, and the chase is on. Bullets and tear gas and screams. Crime doesn't pay.

TO BOP OR NOT TO BOP THAT IS THE QUESTION
New York—The center of interest in most arguments along the music by-way here is bebop. There can be no doubting the influence of this music. Long lines outside the Royal Roost and The Clique illustrate the mass appeal contained in modern jazz as interpreted by Parker, Gillespie, Herman, et al. Yet the opinion of most music men is that bop, in its present form, is not here to stay. Reports drifting in from colleges and ballrooms bring out the fact that the public wants dance music above all else. A happy combination of bop and commercial arrangements has been sought by widespread enthusiasm. Almost every band in the nation now boasts of several bop tunes. Notable are Ray Anthony, Jimmy Dorsey, Elliott Lawrence, and Ray McKinley. These progressive maestri all featured their top recorded hits while including a portion of bebop in their presentations. In all cases, the bop stuff is danceable and depends more on ensemble playing than on soloists. Since they realize that their own interpretation will be the first bebop heard in many areas, they strive for perfection. It will be interesting to note the final result of bebop's effect on popular music. The general opinion is that many changes must be made before it can really be accepted by the masses.

It seems that among our midst we are favored with a few travelers. Dick Richards has been making several trips up Salem way—should it be that Dot is privileged to leave campus once more? Cam Faison journeyed to Duke and Bob Millar went too—what for we haven’t decided yet. Cam went to a dance, but the question is—what did Miller do? Several brothers have very valuable information that could very easily be worked into a travelogue if desired. If anyone is contemplating a trip, why not journey down our way and find out the dope on Atlanta, Spartanburg, Virginia, and even Las Vegas. Brothers Ashmore, McAlister, Millar, and Hodgin would be glad to be of any assistance.

Brother Goodpasture traveled up to Chapel Hill for the indoor meet with the track team. It seems that he had quite a bit of competition from one William Everett Albans. Ken was in the 60-yard dash with Albans and as Ken crossed the finish line, Albans was coming out of the showers. That's Goodpasture.

It is rumored that Jack Blackwood is going to make someone a wonderful wife! He has been catching up on his home cooking for the past few weekends. Could it be that Jack is trying to reverse the old saying and trying to find the way to a woman's heart through her stomach?

As this goes to press, the mighty (7) pledges are a wee bit worried as to whether or not they will live through next week. With initiation only seven days away and so much to be done between now and then—well—good luck to you boys!

(Continued On Page Four)