**Club To Make**

ONLY SIX MORE DAYS TILL LIBERATION

Volume XXXVI

Presentation Of Fabulous Foolies On Tuesday

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., MARCH 18, 1949

NUMBER TWENTY-TWO

Athletes Feet Frolic in Frivolous Foolies

The entire student body is still in a furor concerning the recent announcement pertaining to the Broadway production to be
presented in Chambers Auditorium at 8 p.m. on Tuesday, March 22. That theatrical firm of Carnegie and Ashmore, Incorporated has
entertained an evening of fun unparalleled in the history of Davidson College. Your reporter has diligently searched far and wide,
using every method available to his imagination and talents, in an attempt to obtain information of the nature and content
of the production. But due to the strict regulations surrounding the entire production—regulations which have been rigidly enforced by the
iron hands and determined wills of that celebrated producer-director team, Carnegie and Ashmore. However, through sources which I am not
able to disclose at this moment, a certain amount of information other than the regular advertising has leaked out and
is now available for publication.

Your reporter here feels it is his duty, however, to warn the student body that the following items by no
means comprise the entire list and that it is a virtual impossibility to capture in writing the spirit of fun
and laughter which accompanies each item. One such item is to be found in the chorus of the production—a collection
of lovely young ladies in the bloom of their beauty as has never before been witnessed at Davidson College. Time
and time again they have been acclaimed by the nation for their superb singing and dance routines. Both Ashmore and
Carnegie state that it will be a long, long time before those who see the chorus forget such beauties as
Lilybell Erwin, Legs Cheek, Little Neisler, and Bailey.

In addition, Davidson's crack ROTC drill team, under the command of Captain Carl Pahl, (Continued On Page Four)

Student Body Hears Concert Presented By Youthful Artist

Last Tuesday evening, March 15, Chambers Auditorium was the scene of a concert given by nationally known pianist Jean Casadesus.
Appearing in concerts throughout the country, mostly in Oklahoma, Texas, and New Orleans, Mr. Casadesus is returning north to his
home in Princeton, N.J. after his first tour in this country. Jean Casadesus' concert this winter included "Toccata in C
minor" by Prokofiev, followed by "Sonata Op. 57 (Appassionata)" by Beethoven. The remainder of the scheduled program was three pieces
by Chopin which included "Impromptu, A-flat major Op. 29," "Nocturne, C Sharp, Op. 27," and "Grande Polonaise, Op. 53." Next
on the program were "Sonatine" and "Toccata" by Ravel, which preceded three encores that concluded the concert. They were "Scherzo
in B-flat minor" by Chopin, "Scherzo Valse" by Debussy, and "Toccata" by Schubert.

Born into one of the leading musical families of France in 1927, Mr. Casadesus has been playing (Continued On Page
Four)...

Weather Report

North Carolina, little weather is expected, but with generally to partly cloudy skies. It will be colder Friday night, cold
Saturday, and Saturday night with increasing cloudiness and warmer on Sunday. No full "Carolina moon" for a more clear and
to-the-point forecast.

Recently recognized for outstanding scholarship by Phi Beta Kappa, are (left to right): Paul Husted, Dick Laurens, John Folger, Sam
Robinson; (bottom row): Earle Myers, Bill Brownson, Chris Weber, Andy Kirkpatrick, Dan Via, Don Coffey, and Earl Groves.

DR. CHAPPELL TO BE AT STUDENT RECEPTION

Dr. Clovis Chappell will be the honor guest at an informal reception presented by the Methodist Student Movement Sunday night
at Phi Hall. All students are invited to attend.

Student Federalists Plan Spring Program

Spring is an energetic season, and this April the Davidson Student Federalists will turn their energies to sponsoring an intensified,
one-day campaign on behalf of World Government. If plans are carried through, "World Government Day" will include a morning address
in chapel by a prominent speaker and a roundtable discussion in the afternoon. The date has not been set yet,
but it will be in the middle of April. The Davidson S.F. chapter is one of 272 all over the
country whose membership totals about 10,000. These students believe that the first job of everyone today is to secure world
peace, and that world peace can only be realized through a government stronger than the present United Nations. Federalists urge
the following (Continued On Page Four)

Announcement of the election of these men into Phi Beta Kappa was made in chapel by Dr. Davidson last Thursday.
In an official announcement in chapel on Friday, the 11th, Dr. Chalmers Davidson notified twelve members of the student body
of their acceptance into Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholastic fraternity. Selection to membership in this fraternity signifies that a
man has attained a high degree of success in college work, and the Phi Beta Kappa key is the best
recognition that can be given for this excellence in scholastic endeavors. Eleven of the number are seniors, the remaining one
being a member of the junior class. The seniors who were selected are Bill Brownson, Don Coffey, John Folger, Paul
Husted, Andy Kirkpatrick, Dick Laurens, Earle Myers, Charles Lirics, Sam Robinson, Dan Via, and Chris Weber. The only member of
the rising senior class to receive this early invitation was Earl Groves.

Bill Brownson, one of the Yankees on the campus, comes from Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. Active in the athletic program of the
school, he has played basketball and baseball and has been a member of the track team for the past three
years. He served as vice president of his sophomore class and secretary-treasurer of the class during his junior year. A
member of the Court Control, he holds membership in the "D" Club, Beaver Club, Upsilon, Le Cercle Francais, and Phi
Delta Theta social fraternity. He is getting an A.B. degree, majoring in English.

Don Coffey hails from North Wilkesboro and is a B.S. student, majoring in business. For the past two years, he
has been leading the YMCA’s scouting department and has served on the "Y" Cabinet. A member of the rifle team,
he holds membership in the "D" Club, Philanthropic Literary Society, and the International Relations Club.He serves this year as president
of the Forensic Council and holds a seat on the Honorary Fraternity Council. A native member of the Campus Club,
Folger is getting his B.S. degree, planning to enter the field of medicine. John Pickens, a secretary of Alpha Epsilon
Delta, holds membership in Gamma Sigma Epsilon and Delta Phi Alpha. Paul Husted is working on a B.S. course, majoring
in biology. A Charlottean, Paul is a member of the Campus Club and the Spanish Club. He is also a
member of the wrestling team.

Preparations for D Club Foolies to be presented Tuesday night in Chambers Auditorium are underway as Whit Cobb, Buddy Chandler,
Buddy Cheek, Sandy Carnegie, and Ralph Alexander swing into practice for the chorus line.

Phi Beta Kappa Honors Twelve Students
Eleven Seniors, One Junior Receive Bids

Andy Kirkpatrick comes from Wilmington, Delaware, and is seeking a B.A. degree in history. Andy is a member of the
Eumenean Literary Society, the International Relations Club, the Male Chorus, Scabbard and Blade, and Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. He
has served in the past on the staff of Quips and Cranks.

Dick Laurens is a native of Atlanta, Ga. He is getting a B.A. degree in History and has the highest
scholastic standing in his class. He is a member of the Campus Club, the Male Chorus, Delta Phi Alpha, of
which he now serves as president, and the International Relations Club. He is also a member of the staff of
Quips and Cranks.

Earle Myers hails from Kings Mountain and is a B.S. student, majoring in Physics. He is a member of Sigma
Pi Sigma, the Spanish Club, and Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity.

Charles Price is a native of Charlotte. He is working on his B.S. degree, majoring in economics. Charles holds membership
in the International Relations Club.

Sam Robinson also comes to us (Continued On Page Four)

Novel Program By Music Fraternity

The Phi Mu Alpha and a small group of guests were treated to a most interesting and unusual program on
Monday evening, March 14, in Chambers Auditorium. Paul Jenkins, assisted by Jill Richard, conducted an informal discussion on the history
of the development of the chorale-prelude and its treatment and presented compositions on the organ, drawn from the works of
many composers, to illustrate the varied treatment possible in this medium. Jenkins opened the program with a short historical sketch
which traced the beginnings of the chorale-prelude form in the medieval Catholic Church, its extensive development by Bach, and finally
to more recent times in the hands of composers up to the present. Emphasis was naturally placed upon Bach's work,
for out of his genius came the most varied, extensive, and artistic (as well as spiritual) use of the chorale-prelude
form. At various places during the talk, and after hearing illustrative examples on the organ, pertinent questions were (Continued On
Page Four)

As Class Day Officers Chosen For May

In an election Monday, seniors chose representatives for Class Day. The annual Class Day has been set for the Saturday
before graduation, and it has been the custom for the senior class to give the first of the commencement exercises.
The class historian will give a sketch of the class history, the class orator will speak on the class chosen
topic, and the class poet will conclude with the valedictory, which is an address to the graduating class.

The philanthropic society has chosen Dave Miller as a marshal. This year the marshals come from the senior class, and
plans have been made for a good time for all.

Dave Sheppard, a member of the senior class committee, said, "We really have a blast leading up to graduation." The
honored senior class has been making preparations for the festivities.

A meeting of the Alumni Association at Philadelphia was held on Thursday evening, March 14, 1933. The Class of 1933
will not be graduating this year, but the observance of the day will continue.

To Davidson Alumni

Dr. George D. Heaton, a Charlotte Baptist minister, will conduct vesper services and morning Bible classes here April 6, 7,
and 9. Dr. Heaton will be the principal speaker for the annual alumni meeting.

Dr. Heaton will conduct vesper services at 7:00 PM and morning Bible classes at 10:45 AM each day.

During his three-day stay at Davidson, Dr. Heaton will also meet with various student groups.

The date for the senior class ball has been set, and plans are underway for a memorable event.

The Eumenean Society will include a pre-graduation event.

The Alumni Association of Philadelphia recently held a meeting at the Westminster Foundation at the University of Pennsylvania. Dr. Allen
Frue, pastor of the Ardmore Church, acted as host.

In addition to the older alumni, such as J.P. Williams, former president of the Alumni Association, Professor Shaw of Harvard
College, and others, there were younger professionals such as Bill Rogers, Andres Maxwell, and C.J. Robinson from Princeton Seminary, Henry
McIntosh, Joe McCoy, Bob Phillips, Cowan Wilkinson, Dave Baker, and Jim Alexander. Dr. Cunningham spoke with reference to this year's
campus activities. (Continued On Page Four)
