PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF -------------------- BOB HOLLISTER

BUSINESS MANAGER ---------------- BILL HOUCK

EDITORIAL STAFF

Chief Associate Editor ---------------- Doug Hix
Chief Associate Editor ---------------- Lonnie Turnipseed
Chief Associate Editor ---------------- Jac Hazard

MANAGING EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall, Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister, Randy Taylor.

Sports Editor—Gordon Scott
Make-up Editors—Dan McKeithen, Cherry Stribling.
Copy Editor—John Hobart
Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries

BUSINESS STAFF

Bill Cassells
Assistant Business Manager ---------------- Advertising Managers ---------------- Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison
Circulation Manager ---------------- Huffaker
Asst. Circulation Managers ---------------- Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager ---------------- John Loftin
Subscriptions Manager ---------------- Alex Goley

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

Cut System

We believe that our system of class cuts here at Davidson—while for the most part satisfactory—could be altered in several
respects which would make it of greater effectiveness and value to every student and at the same time raise the
average grade level.

The system now in effect leaves nothing to student initiative and does nothing to urge him toward the attainment of
higher grades. It is well and good to speak of learning for its own sake and to set ourselves to
the task of developing intellectual interests and personal motivation. The fact of the matter, however, is that tangible goals and
rewards provide far more incentive to the average person than do the less obvious principles of intellectual aspiration.

Under the present arrangement not only does the student feel that he has defrauded himself if he hasn’t used his
last cut by the semester’s end; but the best student at Davidson is required to attend as many classes and
is under the same supervision as far as his academic work is concerned—as the poorest student. We feel that if
the number of cuts allowed a student was in some manner scaled to his scholastic average, he would not only
strive for higher grades but in addition he would cut a class only when necessary. With the realization that our
freedom in regard to attendance, or the lack of it, depended solely upon the quality of our work, we would
most likely see that our efforts more nearly approached our potentialities.

It is true that such a system would entail a large amount of administrative work and expense. We believe, however,
that the increased responsibility placed on the student to produce high quality work; and the knowledge that some recognition and
privilege was being accorded him in line with the extent of his efforts, would more than compensate for the work
and expense involved in setting up such a system.

Ants

In last week’s issue of The Davidsonian an incident was recorded where an unfortunate incident occurred while a student was
in the process of trying to rid his dormitory room of ants. Perhaps he chose the wrong method to accomplish
his ends, but the fact remains that we do have ants in our dormitories, and that they are very definitely
a nuisance.

Perhaps to some extent it is the fault of the students that we are plagued with these insects, but I
think not altogether. Food left lying around the rooms is going to attract ants, if they are anywhere around. Here
the students should be more careful with their packages from home. We ought to put them in a safe place
and then not allow them to lie around for several weeks before being disposed of. We all enjoy receiving packages
from home, but we do not enjoy sharing them with the ants.

However, it seems to me that the college could also take steps to rid the dormitories of ants once and
for all. This summer the ants had a regular supply line running from one end of Duke dormitory to the
other, and I’m confident that the situation is similar in other dorms. I don’t know whether or not the college
has been approached on this matter, but it seems that it is certainly worthwhile looking into.—RLT.

Letter To Judge Doug Rice

Mr. Doug Rice, Judge Court of Control

Dear Sir:

This is the first letter I have ever written at 9:02 p.m. I am writing this because I cannot sleep.
We, the undersigned seniors, agree in our own way with the age-old custom that rank has its privileges, that upper-classmen
have certain privileges as well as responsibilities. This letter concerns the latter:

In the past it has been the duty and responsibilities of upper-classmen to indoctrinate the barbarian Freshmen with principles of
gentlemanly conduct, and, further, to ensure their strict, if unwilling, conformance to these principles.

We have just returned from a profoundly moving picture show, which was reduced to a ridiculous farce by the clownish
antics of several members, one in particular, of the freshman class. We feel that they have irreparably damaged the good
name of our college with a public display of such despicable character. This freshman, obviously taking full advantage of his
unlighted corner, aware of the audience, yet in utter disregard of its reasonable desire to watch the show, did willfully,
unlawfully, and spitefully commit the following:

(1) Bellowing like a bloodhound, drawing scattered laughs from his freshman accomplices;
(2) “Oinking” like a pig, drawing less applause;
(3) Yelling “Fifi” at an innocent, virtuous, young ballet dancer. By this time even his freshman compatriots had begun to
ignore him;
(4) Making obscene noises during an especially tender love scene, bringing only stifled chokes from three ladies sitting behind him.

Sir, we had considered making a contribution to the Freshman Welfare Fund, but now we're extremely doubtful whether we will
or not.

Sincerely,
GILBERT HUMPHREYS.
ROBERT W. KESTER.
SAMUEL E. LOFTIN.
Class of ’50

(Printed by request.)

During the time that I have been associated with the Scripts ‘n Pranks as an active writer, several faults have
been consistently in evidence. These faults are, in essence, the same ones which Dr. Abernathy has directed at extra-curricular activities
in general in his now historic chapel speech and the subsequent lectures which he later expanded at a meeting which
was open to all interested parties from the organizations he had criticized earlier.

During the three years in which I have been associated with the magazine there has been no consistent editorial policy
either within any one year or from year to year. The magazine’s avowed purpose is to publish, in the main,
the works of those students whose writing is characterized by a serious approach to literary composition. By serious I do
not mean that the works published must of necessity be dull, heavy, uninteresting works, but that they must be of
superior quality. Editorship, as exemplified in the magazine, has repeatedly broken down at this point and much has been published
which “is inferior to that (published) in first-class high schools.” To edit is “to revise and prepare for publication” or
“to direct the editorial policies of.” It is quite apparent that many works have been published whose right to be
included in the magazine has been subjected to neither the one nor the other definition of “edit” as it appears
above.

To return to my earlier point concerning consistent editorial policy, the editors of the magazine in the past three years
have been trying to straddle a fence, in that they have played both down to and up to certain opposing
groups within the student body, i.e., they have tried to please two groups; one of which desires a magazine with
the main emphasis on humor, not quality; the other of which desires, above everything else, quality. The results have not
been too pleasant. This raises the question as to whether the present purpose of the magazine is the right purpose.
But it is just here that the editorial function must assert itself. Either the magazine is to be dedicated to
serious works as defined before, or it is to be the amusing, frivolous and ordinary publication that it is elsewhere.
Of course, it cannot be entirely the one or the other, but it must, generally speaking, stick to one emphasis—either
serious or non-serious. And once having decided on an editorial policy, this policy must be carried out on a long-term
basis of two, three, or even more years. For the magazine cannot approach anything even remotely resembling perfection in the
four issues of one year whatever its purpose may be. There must be a long-time, consistent application of whatever editorial
policy is decided upon.

To sum up, the editorship of the magazine must assert itself in formulating and in sticking to a consistent policy.
Secondly, within this policy, whatever it be, it must refuse to publish anything not consistent with this policy.

My second great criticism of the magazine also stems from one of Dr. Abernathy’s more general ones. Leadership in the
magazine is concentrated in the hands of too few people. To my own knowledge, there are several students whose works
should be included in the magazine because they are of artistic merit. People whose works are characterized by this quality
do not always assert themselves and, for this reason, the editor and all others connected with the magazine should be
on search constantly for new authors and new material. This would be a relatively simple thing to accomplish since any
one of our English professors would be very happy to point out students whose creative works they consider outstanding.

Many other criticisms of a derogatory nature might be made. For one thing, the editor should be chosen on the
basis of merit alone and merit in the field in which his duties will lie—editorship. For another, the magazine, in
order to really perform its function, should appear oftener than four times a year. Though these are important, I feel
that the first two mentioned are the most serious criticisms of the magazine as it has been. These do not
apply to the present magazine. Only one issue of this year’s Scripts ‘n Pranks has appeared and no criticism, pro
or con, can justly be made of it. But the criticisms offered are important, and unless something is done to
correct these faults, then the exaltation of mediocrity will continue to be reflected in the Scripts 'n Pranks as it
is reflected elsewhere in the extra-curricular activities of Davidson.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Dear Editor:

Your article in a recent issue pertaining to the Truman concert has come to my attention by way of the
mother of two Davidson men. This lady was so upset to think that such an article should have been allowed
in your paper that she sought comfort in her misery and brought the paper to me; hence, I have read
a “Review of Truman Concert,” which should have been more properly entitled “A Study in the Art of Pernicious Slander.”

The author, one Henry E. Hansen, has dared to designate for himself the task of setting Miss Truman up for
public scorn. May I enumerate but a few of the blunders he has committed in the name of the student
body of Davidson College:

(1) He has insulted a guest whom the college invited to its campus. This is not the Southern way of
life, the Davidson practice, or the policy of the Presbyterian Church, U. S. The situation is particularly alarming in the
view of the fact that Davidson is now in the midst of a campaign to raise funds for improvements.
(2) He has ignored the rules of professional courtesy and has been cruel and rude to a concert singer. The
most embittered New York critic, so to speak, would not have hurled such a scathing attack at any performer. On
what ability as a critic does this Mr. Hansen base his opinions and by what prerogative does he dare to
assume the role of an experienced and authoritative judge of the failures and weaknesses of any singer before the public
today?
(3) He has cast aspersions upon loyal Democrats, who support the daughter of our President.

“Pitiable and sad” are indeed the words with which to describe the attitude of Mr. Hansen. He has a perfect
right to voice his opinions, but such an ungentlemanly and malicious set of words has no place in our society.with
their money, by the way; he has, moreover, heaped injury upon the “balavendered old ladies” who came as guests to
hear Miss Truman. (4) He has injured the dignity of the President of the United States and openly ridiculed the
First Family of our Land by words which cut like knives of hot steel. This fact alone is reason enough
for concern to anyone, regardless of political ties. (5) He has, no doubt by this time, caused anxiety and sorrow
in the heart of a charming and innocent young lady. As a member of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., I request,
on behalf of the Church and the College, an immediate retraction of the slanderous statements made in the paper concerning
the Truman concert, and an apology by the “author” to Miss Margaret Truman and the members of our Church that
are so hurt by the article. I feel sure that President Cunningham will want to announce publicly that the views
of the critic are not those of Davidson College. Upon the insistence of fellow churchmen and neighbors, I feel constrained
to caution The Davidsonian, that in the future, it should be more careful and thoughtful before printing any more violent
outbursts like the one in question. Let me remind all of you; this tirade has stirred up many, many people
and has done damage to all—damage that will take some time to heal. Pleading for restraint, a wiser selection of
material for the paper, and a more typically Christian Presbyterian spirit in all that you do, believe me to be

Most cordially yours,
W. B. WHITE, JR.

(Ed’s Note: The Davidsonian appreciates the interest expressed by Mr. White in Mr. Hansen’s recent article. The fact that Mr.
Hansen's column was signed precludes any opinions expressed therein being taken as a policy of The Davidsonian or as a
view of the college. However, The Davidsonian does stand on a policy of free expression of opinion, regardless of which
political party’s representative chances to be occupying the White House, and regardless of the present financial condition of the school.)

Dear Editor:
If criticism is a healthy thing, then I am getting a little repulsed at the buxom, yea Heifer-like proportions of
our Davidson College animal. While justifiable criticism is not only in order, but mandatory, this chronic wail about Davidson’s homogeneity,
its determined support of the Christian religion, via Bible, chapel, and vespers, and its regulated morality is growing into something
more than tiresome. To vituperate the college simply because East-Side Jews don’t flock in is the height of the ridiculous;
the doors are as open for them as for any boy from Mecklenburg County, if they want to come. Furthermore,
I fail to see all the blessed advantages to be derived from filling the place full of an assortment of
heterogeneous sympathies and backgrounds. While at Indiana University this last summer, I lived on a hall on which all races
were represented and five languages regularly spoken. There I heard nothing more startling or upsetting than I had already heard
said better and more convincingly by my own fraternity brothers here at Davidson! When I am to be upset, I
want it to be done by fellow students and professors with whom I am congenial and from whom I can
expect a certain amount of sympathy and understanding. Why try to destroy this? Why seek to wear a hair shirt,
the only result of which can be an irritatingly raw chest and a horn-rimmed, no-other-hope-but-suicide, intellectual expression.

Secondly, these perpetual complaints about religion and morality at Davidson are about as illogical and childish as the complaints of
a man, riding on a train going west, which he knew was going west and from which he could get
off at any time, who, nevertheless, every foot of the way bitterly complained about going west! Davidson College is going
the way of Christian education; if one wants to go that way, come to Davidson, and if these embittered critics
don’t want to go that way, why don't they go some other way? The catalogue very carefully states the religious
and moral requirements of this college; if one does not approve of them, why subscribe to them by his presence
here? Surely, we who believe in the importance of religion and morality in a college have just as much right
to maintain our views and practices as the freethinkers have to maintain such a place as Black Mountain College. Must
Davidson College conform to the present nationwide trend toward materialistic education with do-as-you-please morality? Simply because everybody else is falling
into the spirit of the age is no reason for Davidson to. The nation is full of colleges advocating every
other idea and spirit under the sun; why not encourage Davidson to remain a bulwark and haven for those people
who still cling to firm beliefs, unpopular as they may be today in Calvinistic Christianity and free enterprise democracy.

Yours very truly,
William O. Harris.

“EDITORIALS... LETTERS...

What's Wrong With Scripts ‘n Pranks?
He’s a Responsible Person

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1949

FEATURES

... but the student is given little responsibility for his education

(The following is an excerpt from the opening address delivered to the National Student Association by President Harold Taylor of
Sarah Lawrence College.)

In the past ten years, the American college student has shown that he is a responsible person. He has handled
his own affairs. He has chosen a career. He has worked his way through college. As a student, he has
edited newspapers, run businesses, fought a war, chosen a wife, married her, supported a family, voted for a president. But
during these years, while young men and women in college have been doing all of the things which adults do,
they have been treated, for the most part, as intellectual children. The student has been given very little responsibility for
his own education. It has been organized for him by trustees, Boards of Regents, faculty committees, alumni committees, legislatures, businessmen,
newspaper publishers, college presidents, parents, and educators. Almost everyone in America, including the Communist party and the American Legion, now
wants to help in organizing college education. Everyone seems to feel that it needs more organization and supervision, so that
the student, who is conceived as an innocent late-adolescent, will not be harmed by the excitement of thinking and acting
for himself. A whole host of the uninformed have accordingly risen to form themselves as an over-all American Committee dedicated
to protecting American college students from themselves, and to preventing lively growth in their political and social maturity. It has
become a national conviction that ability to function as an executive in any branch of business, industry, banking, newspaper, or
political life equips a person to reform education. All those who have thus interested themselves in the sanctity of the
American college have lined up together with one great handicap in carrying out their enterprise. They are, for the most
part, unaware of the interests, talents, capacities, and maturity of the present American student. This lack of awareness is, in
some degree, shared by educators and faculty members who are responsible for the formal organization of the college program. It
is because of the lack of close relation between all the planners, academic and non-academic, and the acting, thinking, learning
student in each college, that the student has not been given the responsibility he is ready to take. He is
presented with education already systematically organized into credits, units, grades, majors, courses, curricula, lectures, tests, mimeographed sheets, grade-point averages, and
other educational preventatives. The American student is accordingly over-organized. Under the present system of mass education it seems possible that
he may disappear into the organization, and become lost as an individual.

The story of student life in America is one of gradual emancipation from the intellectual and social controls of the
educational system, and from economic circumstances which have prevented the wider spread of higher education for all. From an informal
look at the history of students in America, I would say that on most social questions and on most educational
questions, the students have been ahead of the educators in suggesting liberal reforms which eventually have been proved wise in
adoption. It was due to the pressure of student interest and need that the elective system came into effect. It
was due to the interest and activity of students themselves that student government and organizations have become such an important
part of university life.

—The Technique (Ga. Tech.)

“Chicago Deadline,” starring Alan Ladd and Donna Reed, runs from Sunday through Saturday at the Carolina Theatre. Alan gets into
plenty of trouble as a two-fisted reporter with a nose for news, an eye for pretty girls, and a talent
for creating excitement. Alan puts on the usual tough-guy performance and Donna looks good—that’s all. It has a poor plot,
and the supporting cast more or less shuffles along during the scenes. Donna Reed is the latest corn-fed beauty to
forsake the farm for fame and to remove the hayseed from her hair. She probably removed a little more than
hayseed to make a hit in Hollywood. Her farmer's daughter charm might interest you where the picture fails to do
so.

“Everybody Does It" starring Paul Douglas and Linda Darnell runs Monday and Tuesday at the Davidson Theatre. Douglas plays the
role of a wrecking contractor who discovers his voice can shatter mirrors and overnight becomes a singing sensation. He makes
his concert debut on the stage of the Metropolitan. Linda is stacked up, by Hollywood, as being a lightly photogenic
gal. This promises to be a very entertaining picture. Entertain the thought of seeing it.

“The Doctor And The Girl,” starring Glenn Ford and Janet Leigh, runs Wednesday and Thursday at the Davidson Theatre. This
is an excellent picture. It is the story of a young doctor who must choose between a career of fame
and wealth or a life with the girl he loves, from the other side of the tracks, where he knows
he is needed by the people. The scenes in this picture are particularly interesting as they are actually taken in
Bellevue Hospital, in Spanish Harlem, on Park Avenue, and on Third Avenue. This is a different picture in that it
actually has a worthwhile theme.

“Border Incident,” starring Richard Montalban and George Murphy, runs Friday and Saturday at the Davidson Theatre. The theme of this
picture, filmed in the desert along the Mexican border, centers around the agricultural workers who harvest the crops (Continued on
Page Six)

“Marry a woman who knows more than you do” is the advice given to college students by Warren Bruner, management
consultant who is conducting an experimental course in career determination at Marietta College. “A man’s personality and mental stature tend
to increase as he progresses in his occupational field,” he told his class recently. “On the other hand, a woman
starts going backward as soon as she enters a career as a homemaker—unless she realizes the danger and fights hard
against it.”

If you go to the circus this Saturday night, how about doing me a favor! Take a good look at
the monkeys and then let me know if you agree with my answer to this question: Is it true that
man comes from the monkey? As I see it the fallacy that the so-called “civilized human being” comes from the
monkey is a disgrace to the ape family. Our little acrobatic friend shows much more judgment than man. Monkeys do
not repeatedly drink a fluid they know will cause them to lose their senses and make them sick. They do
not pair off in large groups and secretly create instruments to destroy each other. They do not shout about outlawing
these instruments while building even more deadly weapons. They do not scheme, connive or lie to make money or gain
power, even at the expense of their best friend or closest relatives. It is difficult to understand how the ape
family bears the abuse heaped upon it by being associated with man. In reality it is a compliment to tell
a human being that he is “making a monkey of himself.”
