) WELCOME GIRLS!!! VOLUME XXXVIII *RUMA The Davidsonian ALBENDA LUX UB! GRTA 4 IDERTAS DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 22, 1949 » GOK CAMPUS GROUPS COMPETE FOR BEST DECORATED HOUSE AWARD

Last June the largest graduating class in the history of the college left the campus to establish their various reputations throughout the wide world. How far will the Davidson Four Year Success Course carry them? Well, let's take a look at last year’s graduating class. Just how far have they gone? What are they doing this year?

As that glorious time of the year called “Homecoming” rolls around once more, the fraternities and the Campus once again have entered into competition for the cup which is awarded annually to that organization with the best decoration. All indications concerning the decorations seem to point to the conclusion that this year's decorations might easily be judged the best yet seen at Davidson College. Very briefly they are:

Beta Theta Pi
A parade of fancy is here shown, denoting the progress of the college in recent years and portraying the mythical visit of Mr. I. Gott. Kocks to the campus through means of a short movie projected in a huge wildcat through its open mouth.

Kappa Sigma
A huge steamroller is here used as the sign of progress at Davidson College. The steamroller is in the process of crushing the old church and the new gymnasium, thereby clearing the way for the great improvements which are to follow in its wake.

Campus Club
A miniature Parade of Progress will denote the spirit of progress of the Davidson Campus which will bring a great advancement in the development of the college. Figures representing both professors and students will make up this parade.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
The Wildcat Exterminating Company here springs into existence with a wildcat carrying a spray gun killing spiders on a miniature football field.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Antiaircraft guns are now brought into play as Wildcat General Jamerson shoots shells with various football players' names on them at a Richmond airplane after already having downed an N.C. State warbird.

Kappa Alpha
A football struggle is here depicted on a miniature field between spiders and wildcats, with the wildcats striving for two great goals, a new church and victory in the game with Richmond.

Pi Kappa Phi
The element of weather now plays an important role in the two scenes; first, a football field with a spider on a web and a wildcat in a boat paddled by a freshman headed toward the spider, and secondly, a flashback of last year’s wet festivities.

Sigma Chi
The Wildcat Express here makes its entrance, being followed by a handcar operated by the Richmond Spider—the Express soon demonstrating its superiority over the handcar.

Phi Gamma Delta
A Wildcat drunk with anger is observing a Davidson player chasing a Richmond Spider and using a freshman as a club, for even freshmen can be useful in the progress of the college.

Whether Report
The Whether Dept. of Davidson College under the supervision of our noble Dr. John R. Cunningham has decided to put its faith in a “Heads or Tails” whether forecast this year instead of relying on the old weather birds of the U.S. Weather Bureau. In making up the whether forecast for the weekend, the committee held its formal Coin Flipping Ceremony Tuesday night and came to a final conclusion only after “Cash” Jackson had insisted on the best two out of three count. The whether forecast which was finally flipped out of the Lincoln Head Copper (all Cash could let us have) is for fair and cool over the weekend.

Richest College
When Maxwell Chambers willed Davidson College $280,000 in 1855, it was the richest college south of Princeton.

Dr. Miller to Conduct Homecoming Vespers
Our Vesper speaker for the Sunday Night of Homecoming weekend will be Dr. P. D. Miller. Dr. Miller is the pastor of the Druid Hills Presbyterian Church in Atlanta, Georgia. He has held pastorates in Raleigh, North Carolina, and in San Antonio, Texas, previous to the one in Atlanta. The University of Georgia was Dr. Miller's first Alma Mater. He continued his education at Davidson College where he received his A.B. degree in 1922. From here Dr. Miller went to the Union Theological Seminary in Virginia. There he received his B.D. and Th.M. degrees. In 1933 Davidson conferred upon him the honorary title of Doctor of Divinity. Dr. Miller was the Educational Secretary of the Executive Committee of Home Missions from 1929-1935, and the Home Missions Editor of The Presbyterian Survey. Dr. Miller has written a book entitled, “The Imperative of Home Missions.”

Dr. George B. Watts Honored By French Government
His Excellency, Henri Bonnet, Ambassador of France to the United States, recently notified Dr. George B. Watts, Professor of French at Davidson College, that by a decree of the President of the Republic on the nomination of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, you have been named “Chevalier de la Legion d’Honneur.” The Ambassador wrote: “I am happy to congratulate you on this distinction... which gives witness of the gratitude of the French Government for the eminent services rendered to the cause of French culture and language by your teaching and the indefatigable activity which you have never ceased to show as Secretary-Treasurer of the American Association of Teachers of French.” The Legion of Honor, established by Napoleon in 1802, is composed of five grades, from “Chevalier” to “Grand Croix.” The decoration of the order is a five-pointed star of silver, enameled in white. The recipient is authorized to wear at all times the red ribbon of the Legion of Honor. In 1937 Dr. Watts was named “Officer d’Academie” by the French Minister of Public Instruction. It is expected that the formal ceremony of presentation will take place later in the year at the French Consulate in Washington, or at the Cultural Services of the French Embassy in New York City.

By JOHN HOBART
Last Monday the growl of a small siren mounted on an even smaller fire-fighting contraption shattered the relatively peaceful atmosphere of a routine collegiate afternoon in Troutman, N.C. Pinky Boyce has started his teaching profession. C. H. Charles holds the title of being Band Leader at Bennett McColl. We may expect to hear big things from a tall, quiet Ambassador of France to the United States, recently notified Dr. George B. Watts, Professor of French at Davidson College, that by a decree of the President of the Republic on the nomination of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, you have been named “Chevalier de la Legion d’Honneur.” The Ambassador wrote: “I am happy to congratulate you on this distinction... which gives witness of the gratitude of the French Government for the eminent services rendered to the cause of French culture and language by your teaching and the indefatigable activity which you have never ceased to show as Secretary-Treasurer of the American Association of Teachers of French.” The Legion of Honor, established by Napoleon in 1802, is composed of five grades, from “Chevalier” to “Grand Croix.” The decoration of the order is a five-pointed star of silver, enameled in white. The recipient is authorized to wear at all times the red ribbon of the Legion of Honor. In 1937 Dr. Watts was named “Officer d’Academie” by the French Minister of Public Instruction. It is expected that the formal ceremony of presentation will take place later in the year at the French Consulate in Washington, or at the Cultural Services of the French Embassy in New York City.

“The laundry!” But as the mighty little three and five-eighths cylinder flame quencher roared down the street, making only several m.p.h. more than a worm and loaded with many feet of hose, plus several smoke eaters, the little red terror was unable to stop at the school’s refined washboard. Instead, it rolled on up to the intersection behind Duke Dorm, where it wheeled about and roared back to its destination without fear in the carburetor. While this maneuver was skillfully accomplished, excitement-hungry students rushed to the scene of the conflagration eager to witness the long-anticipated destruction of the mutilator of their clothes. Reports spread that the blaze had started in the machine.

WELCOME GIRLS!!! NUMBER FIVE

MISS MARGARET TRUMAN
September 1, 1917 — “New Gym Most Modernistic”
The following is taken from an issue of The Davidsonian dated September 1, 1917:
Mr. L. S. Bradshaw will complete his portion of the work the first of September.

Rifle Team Practice Starting This Week
Practice for the College Rifle Team will begin late this week, under the direction of Major Harold M. Kennedy. With a number of lettermen left over from last year’s team, and prospects for some fine talent in the freshman class, hopes are high.For an outstanding season. Approximately 40 matches have been scheduled thus far, including several involving teams from all over the country. The team will be entered in the Hearst Intercollegiate Match (National) and the Third Army Intercollegiate Match (Southeastern U.S.). Many of the matches will be postal. However, a number of trips to other colleges and universities are contemplated.

With the arrival this week of uniforms for all cadets who could not be fitted at the time of registration, it is expected that the Cadet Corps will soon be able to appear for drill attired throughout in the prescribed uniform.

LOCAL FIRE ENGINE AS BLAZE IN LAUNDRY ROARS

which pulls buttons off students’ shirts and shoots them through each pair of socks. It is rumored that this machine was located between the vat in which the legs of cotton trousers are glued together and the device for changing creases a quarter of an inch to one side of their original place, thus producing the “square look.” These machines should be located in the general area of the monster-like mechanism which smears one crumbling, sledgehammer blow on the collar of each freshly washed and pressed white shirt.

As the intensity of the situation mounted, Head Cheerleader Charlie Mitchell stepped forward and climbed up on a soapbox. Borrowing a terrified freshman’s megaphone, he summoned his cronies to assist him in leading a few cheers. From the mighty throng rose the cry of “Burn Laundry!” Then came the petition, “No more washdays, rips and hurts. We'll have buttons on our shirts.” It is suspected that, while all this activity which has since been labelled subversive by school authorities, was taking place out in front, a number of inspired freshmen behind the building were trying to execute an impiously wicked plot to empty the contents of a fifty-five-gallon drum of gasoline on the flames. Word comes from the campus underworld that the plot was conceived by a coalition of conniving upperclassmen, predominately seniors.

(Continued On Page Eight)

STUDENT LEADERS HEAD SECTIONS IN PARADE

Eleven student leaders at Davidson College have been chosen to captain sections in the Parade of Progress here Saturday morning. Student leaders named are:

19 Week-end

whom the gym is named; Mr. J. Tucker Blaine, Houston, Tex.; Bill Cornelius, Marion, S.C.; Frank McCutchan, Jes Salisbury; Allan D. Macy, Cumberland, Md.; Hobart Martin, Walkertown, Tenn.; P.W. Miles, DeFuniak Springs, Fla.; Charlie Harrell, Thomasville, Ga.; Kenneth Brotherton, Davidson; John B. Nisbet, Jr., Jacksonville, Fla.; Jim Templin, Atlanta, Ga., and Zan Turner.

SIX-PART PROGRAM PRESENTED IN CHAMBERS AUDITORIUM

Presenting a six-part program of sixteen numbers, Miss Margaret Truman, soprano, accompanied by Herman Allison at the piano, gave the first concert of the 1949 artist series last night at 9:15 in Chambers Auditorium. Beginning with “O’er the Ganges,” “My Dearest Heart,” and “The Dance,” three light Italian lyrics composed by Scarlatti, Giordani, and Durante, Miss Truman moved into a deeper vein, singing an aria from “The Marriage of Figaro,” by Mozart. In the third part of the program, Miss Truman rendered in German four compositions selected from the works of Schumann, Strauss, and Schubert. Three of these, “Der Nussbaum” (“The Nut Tree”), “Die Nachtigall” (“The Nightingale”), and “Ständchen,” are written to tell of love. The fourth, “Die Forelle” (“The Trout”) shows the grief felt when an angler caught a trout. At the end of the fourth number, a short intermission was observed followed by a brief recital by Mr. Allison on the piano. He presented “Capriccio” by Bach, “Intermezzo Opus 116, No. 6” by Brahms, and “Impromptu in F minor” by Faure. Miss Truman chose from her repertoire “La Primavera” (“To the Spring”), a Spanish number by Glazounow which she sang in English as the fifth part of her concert. In conclusion, the nationally known soprano sang four native American scores. The first was “The Piper,” by Duke, followed by “He Stole My Heart Away,” an early Revolutionary song, arranged by Samuel Endicott. The last two were “Three Little Elf Songs” by Besly and “Will o’ the Wisp” by Spross.

Miss Truman arrived in Charlotte Tuesday night after driving from Knoxville. She remained in Charlotte at the Barringer Hotel until Friday when she came to Davidson. While on campus, she attended a small reception at the Guest House, attended by the members of the National, Faculty, and Student Development Committees. Miss Truman also attended a dinner presented by President Cunningham. The leaders in the Development Drive and close friends of Dr. Cunningham present on the campus for the homecoming were invited.

Friday Night Dance Initiates Gymnasium

Last night the first dance of the 1949 Homecoming set was held in the new John Gymnasium. From the Margaret Truman concert in Chambers Auditorium, the spirited crowd swarmed onto the new gym floor with a swirl of full skirts and tails. The newly finished gym was softly lighted and handsomely adorned with streamers of crepe paper in a variation of designs. Each social group was allotted a special section in which to dance. Blue Barron and his orchestra, along with his featured vocalists, Pat Laird, and Bobby Beers, led the swinging and swaying of this first 1949 Homecoming hop. Blue Barron, noted for his slow dance music, is at Davidson for the first time. During the course of the evening, the annual Pan-Hell figure was presented. The members of the Pan-Hell and their dates, along with the fraternity presidents and their dates, took part in this gala affair. However, last night’s merrymaking is only half of it. Tonight will be the informal half of the set. With the alumni and the added Saturday dates, this ball should bring to a successful climax a most noted long-to-be-remembered occasion.

Monticello Design

Chambers Building, the main building at Davidson College, is an enlarged model of Monticello, Thomas Jefferson’s Virginia home. The Davidsonian is the official weekly paper of Davidson College. It deserves every student’s support.