By GORDON SCOTT

If the showings made by the Wildcat nine this week are any portent for the future, then Davison followers should see some classy baseball before the season flees away. After a series of games in which they were able to win only one, the Cats suddenly bounded back to bang out wins over William and Mary and North Carolina State. In trouncing William and Mary, Davidson looked like a different team from the one which had been humbled by Springfield on the local diamond earlier in the season. While hitting was sufficient to account for the win, the Cats will have to sharpen their batting eyes to gain decisions in future games. In general, however, the smooth fielding that the boys exhibited surprised even the most optimistic.

It would be impossible to single out all the individual performers who looked good on the diamond this past week, but mention should be made of the beautiful twirling jobs by Dutch Hengeveld and Charlton Torrence. For Dutch, it was his first win of the season after a shaky start in previous games. Torrence, in posting his win over the Wolfpack, racked up a triumph over the team which had come from behind to beat the Cats, 6-5, in an earlier game with Torrence handling the pitching chores. One thing is certain... Jamerson has at least two pitchers who should hold their own in any company this year.

One of the more encouraging notes as far as local baseball goes, is the creditable way in which Bert Anderson and Dick Richards have closed the big gaps that were left in the outfield when the season was in its embryonic stages. Both covered the pastures like hawks in the State tilt without a miscue. Buddy Chandler is doing mighty well in his efforts to make Coach Charley forget that Dave Poole is absent from the squad this year. Although he had a little trouble in the State game, Buddy turned in a faultless performance against William and Mary and has been working his pitchers well.

From here, it looks as though Derrick Barton and his “racketeers” are going to post another enviable record on the tennis courts this year. After smashing their way over Presbyterian, Georgia Tech, and the University of South Carolina, the netters have not yet been put to the acid test of top-flight competition. In Yale, they may find it, for the boys from New Haven gave the Cats a scare last year before bowing, 7-2. With the completion of the work on the local tennis courts, the Cats will be able to put in more hours of practice. Prior to the Yale match, the boys were able to hold only scattered practice sessions, but a look at the record thus far makes it appear as though they didn’t suffer from lack of work. By the time of the UNC match, which is expected to be the big test for the netters this year, the Cats should be primed for a knock-down-and-out battle.

With little Monty Hill leading the way, Davidson’s golfers bounced back from the State defeat by outpointing Catawba 20½-6½. Monty fired a one under par 71 over the Charlotte Country Club course which is good golf by any standard. Incidentally, during the summer, Monty accomplished what every golfer hopes for at one time or another... scoring a hole-in-one on a 175-yard drive, during a Greensboro tournament.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
WEEK OF APRIL 11th - Withers Electric Company
MONDAY and TUESDAY
“YELLOW SKY”
Gregory Peck - Ann Baxter
Radio Repairs
WEDNESDAY - THURSDAY
“THAT WONDERFUL URGE”
Tyrone Power - Gene Tierney
Electrical Supplies
Light Bulbs
FRIDAY and SATURDAY
“SUN COMES UP”
J. MacDonald - L. Nolan
C. Jarman, Jr.
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Friday, April 8, 1949

Wildcat Sports

TENNIS TEAM STOPS YALE, 6-1
THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Wildcat Bats Stop Netters Sweep Four In Southern Journey
By JACK STEVENSON

The Wildcat tennis team is well on the way towards an undefeated season this year. With wins over U. of Ga., Ga. Tech, Presbyterian College, and U. of S.C. behind it thus far this season, the won-lost record stands at 4 to love in our favor, and the future looks bright. The team, whose members gave up their spring vacations for a southern trip, started off the season on a dreary note. A scheduled match with Emory was rained out. But further south, the weather was good and the Cat netters romped on the U. of Georgia Bulldogs, 8 to 1. In Athens, Ga., on Saturday, March 26, the Cats dropped only one singles match. On Monday, March 28, they dumped the Georgia Tech Yellowjackets, winning six matches and losing two, and having one called because of darkness. The Blue-stockings from Presbyterian College felt the power of the Red and Black in Clinton on March 28, and were beaten 7 to 2. Bad weather during the spring vacation kept the campus courts from being ready to play, so on Friday, April 1, the Presbyterians played the U. of S.C. at Myers Park Country Club in Charlotte. A strong and illusive wind made the matches slow, but the Davidson men were decidedly superior. Bo Roddey, No. 1 man, won his first set 6-3. His opponent, Gene Turner, gave him trouble and took the second, 8-6. Bo finished strongly and took the third set, 6-0, and the match. Teddy Keesler’s final score showed that the first set, 6-0, 6-1, and the one game looked like a gift. Mike Williams, playing No. 3, had little trouble, winning 6-2, 6-3. Bill Childs, playing No. 4, had an off day and dropped two of three sets to John Jeffries of U. of S.C. Their scores were 6-2, 5-7, 6-3, in favor of Jeffries. Henry Neisler easily won, 6-2, 6-2, and Rob Palmer had even less trouble, winning, 6-1, 6-0. In the doubles, Keesler and Williams teamed to win, 7-5, 6-2, Roddey and Whit Cobb won 6-1, 6-3, and Palmer joined with John Crossley to win, 6-1, 6-0.

Davidson does have as fine a tennis team as it has had in years. The Red and Black colors to distant schools and come out victorious. The man that makes the team click in the No. 1 position is Oliver “Bo” Roddey. Carrying a slight 145 pounds on a 5 foot 10 inch frame, little “Bo” has sent many bigger and more powerful net stars down swinging with his energy and drive, his wonderful placing of shots, and a precision that is difficult to handle. Coupled along with these serve...With a slice of attributes is the ability to scurry around the court and volley all day long for one seemingly insignificant point, and last but not least, a fighting heart that won't admit defeat. "Bo" is a Charlotte boy and finished junior high and one year at Central High where he was on the tennis team. Then he spent years of prep school at Episcopal High School in Alexandria, where he was outstanding in sports and leadership. In tennis, he was undefeated in the schoolboy circles. He was the captain and was also the alternate captain of the basketball team and played some football. He graduated from Episcopal High in May of 1946 and entered Davidson in September of '46. He played some basketball that year, but the games were curtailed by a scarlet fever epidemic. However, he was the No. 1 man on the Davidson tennis team that year and lost only three matches in college competition. Incidentally, one of the matches he lost was a hard-fought duel with Vic Seixas, the highly regarded UNC No. 1 man.

(Continued on Page Four)

How much AW can you cram into a record? Hear musical kidding in “SUNFLOWER” (an RCA Victor Release) and you'll know!

WHATEVER YOUR NEEDS
SUITS
HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
TIES
SHOES
and the 101 other things
SHOP EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP
STREET FLOOR

You'll have a lot of fun with Ray McKinley, his band, and his vocalist serving up a platterful of “corn” for your listening and dancing pleasure. Yes! Ray knows about musical pleasure—and smoking pleasure, too! As Ray beats it out on his drums—“Camels are a great cigarette—they’re mild and full-flavored!”

How mild can a cigarette be? Smoke Camels for 30 days—and you'll know! In a recent coast-to-coast test of hundreds of men and women who smoked only Camels for 30 days—an average of one to two packs a day—noted throat specialists, after making weekly examinations, reported not one single case of throat irritation.

Test Camel mildness for yourself in your own “T-Zone.” T for taste, T for throat. If, at any time, you are not convinced that Camels are the mildest cigarette you've ever smoked, return the package with the unused Camels and you will receive its full purchase price, plus postage. (Signed) R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.

WHY, CAMELS, OF COURSE! I LEARNED THE ANSWER WHEN I MADE THE 30-DAY TEST!

Drummer Ray McKinley talks it over with his featured vocalist, Jeanie Friley.

Hengeveld And Torrence Throw Brace Of Six Hitters In Wins
By GORDON SCOTT

Charlton Torrence faced the Wolfpack of N. C. State for the second time, and as in last week’s game, he was backed up in the clutches by an infield which had played erratic ball throughout the game. Although he gave up an identical number of hits as in last week’s game, the visitors were unable to capitalize.

Charlie Pearson didn't waste any time getting the Cats down the road, for he took Johnson's first pitch and sent a towering fly deep into left-center which rolled into the hedge. The hit was good for four bases as catcher Billy Fowler tumbled the toss-in which looked like a sure out.

In the fourth, Bill Bird started the scoring, which proved to be the winning margin, with a smashing double. Auburn-Lambeth was given a lift of two intentional passes to first base. Ellis was called on to bunt, but was tagged out by Fowler. Fowler then whipped the ball to third in an attempt to catch Bird, but the throw was wild. Bird raced over the plate.

Grady Hilliard, a talented high school pitching star, had the Cats eating out of his hand for seven innings until a walk to Eric Clark, frosh shortstop, started things off. Ralph Futrell, third baseman and outfielder, followed with doubles. With the stage set, Hal Smith drove in the winning tally with a single.

Smith was very stout with two runs batted in and Craven on pitches, allowing five hits, the same number which his teammates garnered. State pushed across their only run in the eighth in what looked like a Wolfpack rally. Norrell led off with a double and went to third on Livingston's long fly to right. Norrell then came home as Evan's hit was errored in the Cat infield.

Boyden 000 000 101—2
Frosh 000 003 00x—3

Hilliard and Peeler; Smith and Jervis.

CHESTERFIELD QUIZ
1. Who was the first American athlete to win four gold medals in the Olympic Games?
2. Who holds the present world's record in the running broad jump and what is the distance he jumped?
3. What baseball player holds the highest individual batting record for a single season since the turn of the century?
4. Who won the Indianapolis speedway classic in both 1947 and 1948?

Rules Governing Quiz
1. Answer each question correctly.
2. Submit answers on plain paper with name, dormitory, room number, date, and exact time of entry.
3. Turn answer sheets into room 307 West.
4. Every week the first three entirely correct entries submitted will each receive a carton of Chesterfields.
5. Each weekly contest will close exactly two days after the Davidsonian is distributed among the student body and the winners will be notified shortly thereafter.
6. No one on the Davidsonian staff is eligible to enter.

THE MILDEST CIGARETTE
THE 30-DAY TEST!
30 DAYS? I’VE SMOKED CAMELS FOR YEARS. I KNOW HOW MILD CAMELS ARE AND WHAT RICH, FULL FLAVOR THEY HAVE!