on PAGE FOUR

Dr. Cunningham Speaks In Charlotte

Dr. John R. Cunningham was the speaker at Davidson College Day which was observed last Sunday by Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. Dr. Cunningham was introduced by Rev. J. Cecil Lawrence, associate pastor of the church. Dr. Cunningham spoke on “The Church and the College.” He said the function of the church is twofold, to preach and to teach, and the church college has been one of the main exponents of the church as the teacher. Davidson College is seeking to raise a fund of $2 million. Davidson College Day will be observed in a large number of Presbyterian churches throughout the state. A campaign is under way to raise this fund and it is hoped at least $1 million will come out of Charlotte.

FACULTY TOO MUCH
(Continued From Page Three)

It was rumored that he was figuring on how much muscle he should use to make a foul shot by the use of a slide rule before the game got under way. Professor Brownson tossed in a total of five points which placed him third high among the winners. One of the illustrious Bible professors of Davidson committed one personal foul and has been pleading with the offended for the last two days to forgive his sins. The high scorer for the losers was Mave Toolaach who poured eight points through the loop. Mapes and Eborn tied for second with four each. Although only scoring three points, Luve Lave Ferwin proved to be the most valuable floor man all night as he was a hawk on defense and the faculty was very alert. The second team for the Firecrackers proved to be the blockbusters as Chandler, Carnewic, and Preyer tried to dispose of some of the valuable talent on the faculty.

A Discus

International politics, like all politics, is a struggle for power. Whatever the ultimate aims of international politics, power is always the immediate aim. It is redundant to say “power politics.” All politics is power politics. However, it must be distinguished from force. When violence becomes an actuality, it signifies the abdication of political power in favor of military or pseudo-military power. By the phrase “political dynamics” I am thinking of the moving force (as opposed to static forces) which bear in a vital way upon the international political situation today. The dynamic factors, most of which are obvious to us, seem to be:

1. We have a bipolar world: one dominated by two superpowers, Russia and the United States. This fact creates a unique situation pregnant with the possibilities of war and violence. All policies, political or otherwise, in every sphere of human activity are today affected by calculations of the relative strength of Russia and America. Everything must be evaluated according to its effect upon Soviet-American power.

2. An economic, military, and near political vacuum exists around the fringes of the landmasses of Europe and Asia. And remember that politics, by nature, abhors a vacuum. (For this discussion, let us ignore South America: situations in those areas bear upon international politics, though they are not major.)

3. Two power states, properly called the superpowers by many writers: (a) Russia—a country which is controlled by a ruling clique, completely imbued with the idea that their destiny is to take and run the world politically, as well as economically. That clique employs, in addition to most of the tricks and devices used by Hitler, one of the most potent and dynamic ideologies of modern times in order to maintain and extend its power over the earth. The aim of that clique is, in my opinion, the same as Hitler’s, power for its own sake. It is inconceivable that hard-headed realists like Stalin can seriously entertain the thought that the stateless world envisioned by Marx can ever be attained. It is also obvious from their conduct that they are not concerned with the welfare of the individual. Nevertheless, the Communistic ideology has tremendous export value and appeals to the poverty-stricken, confused liberals and idealists, and many cynically-minded men who seek power in other countries. The policies of Russia can be called nationalism and a policy of super imperialism combining the two. We see what has been called nationalistic universalism. (Nationalism—a belief which exalts one’s own nation over all other nations and places loyalty to one’s nation high on the scale of human values. Universalism—the doctrine that all men will eventually be saved or cast into one mold). By this last phrase, nationalistic universalism, I mean therefore a nationalism which has as its ultimate goal not the creation of a nation as did 19th Century nationalism, but a universal mission whose ultimate world reaches to the confines of the political world. It claims for one nation and one state the right to impose its own valuations and standards upon all other nations. In my judgment, Stalin and his lieutenants, like Hitler and his, have as their ultimate aim political power.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By PROFESSOR J. F. PINKNEY

Security, through national domination. This concept has come into existence not only by the enlarged military capabilities of strong nations but by the new ideologies and by the fact that the wars of this century have become everybody’s business, not only in the sense of nationalistic identification but also of military or economic participation. The fact that total war overhangs the world is certainly a dynamic factor in world politics. The stakes involved are maximum stakes.

4. Power—Man’s innate desire for power—which is most often expressed either (a) by his opposition to those who would take such power as he has (rights, freedom, property) away from him, or (b) by his support of organizations which he is a part of to the end that he can vicariously enjoy the feeling of power that comes from being a part of a thing which is itself powerful. This latter expression has led to the intense nationalism of Germany and Russia from 1930 on. It is to be noted that the more insecure the personal position, the more ardent the nationalism. Its (Nationalism’s) rise in both Germany and Russia was made possible by the reduction of the great majority of the people to positions of great political and economic insecurity.

5. Ideologies—A study of the history of law discloses that men have struggled down through the years in their quest for what might be called peace, and also for economic security. During the past 2500 years, and particularly during the past 700 years, men have also struggled to attain political freedoms and have from time to time given up their peace and their economic security in order to fight for political freedom. This has been the history of most of the peoples of the so-called western powers. The things against which they have struggled in their quest have been entrenched and concentrated power, either in the form of feudal lords, dictators, absolute or constitutional monarchs, or totalitarian regimes. The struggle has been for the right to participate in the making of the laws under which they live and to have a voice in the government which controls their lives. This struggle for political freedom has been the dynamic force behind most of the wars and revolutions of the western world.

6. The United Nations—An organization basically designed to implement the peace agreements which were anticipated following World War II. (Note that there has been no opportunity to do this as there have, as yet, been few treaties of peace.) Its program can be said to be the preservation of the status quo which was to be brought into being by the peace treaties plus the more dynamic role of furthering world organization in the interest of peace, justice, social progress, etc. When formed, it captured the imagination of a war-weary world, but its role has not been a heroic one during the past two years. While still a factor, it has no forceful part in the present state of world politics. At least not in the public mind. There is a tide of disillusionment. It is of interest to speculate on the American and the Russian concepts of the U.N. It appears that Russia first favored it in the belief it would be an organization controlled by the major powers, particularly by the United States and Russia. The United States, on the other hand, seems to have envisioned it as an organization which would be controlled by the smaller nations, with the major powers having a veto power to protect their vital interests. This difference in concept has been one of the major reasons for the present ineffectiveness of the U.N.

DAVIDSON REMAINS
(Continued From Page One)

Davidson faculty. Since that time the members from the student bodies of the three participating colleges have enjoyed many interesting and inspiring meetings. It was the opinion of the group that the meetings should be continued, meeting one Saturday afternoon each month. It was suggested by Bill Smith that the council should get professors from our own faculty to speak at the meetings in the future. The purpose of the council is stated in its constitution which follows: We, students of Davidson College and John C. Smith University, hereby form the Intercollegiate Council for Religion in Life in the Charlotte area for the purpose1. To study the problems in which would lend itself to the partition of the world among the United States, Russia, and Great Britain. It stems from Russia’s basic political will for world domination. The United States looked on it as a device for preserving peace and bringing about a just and equitable settlement of the disputes among nations through collective action. Total wars, by and against populations, fought for vital stakes, with the goal of total victory, have led to areas in which men’s differences are not so great that they will fight for their position rather than compromise. More will be said on this point in dealing with the idea of a world state.

On the other hand, we have the despotic or anti-democratic concept. This is the concept that political power or sovereignty should be concentrated into the hands of a few. To my way of thinking, this is an unrealistic concept of proper government because it rests on a false premise. That premise is the assumption of the infallibility of a small elite both in intellect and in the dispensing of justice. A second fallacy is the rejection of the truism that power corrupts. “Absolute power leads to absolute corruption.” There can be no such thing as a benevolent despotism and there has never been. However, it is conceded that there may have been a few benevolent despots. I know of no instance where there have been two in a row.

In years gone by, and in some of them not so long gone, it would have been appropriate to discuss other and formerly dynamic concepts and forces. It is of interest to see what these discarded factors are as it will serve to point up those that have been discussed. First, let us mention but not discuss the historic forces that have operated to check or limit international power. These have been: balance of power (possible only in a multi-polar world); international morality and world public opinion; and international law. Other political concepts that have enjoyed recognition as dynamic are: pacifism (Oxford movement of the 1920s); isolationism (in the United States and Russia); disarmament (world-wide during the 1920s in particular); and world government.

The last of these deserves discussion as it cannot be said that it does not have a force of a sort today. It is most frequently proposed by the groups known as World Federalists and it represents, in my opinion, an idealistic and unrealistic approach to the problem of world peace. Let me approach my discussion of it in a somewhat round-about fashion. A democratic political unit (government) can exist only so long as the people or political forces therein are closely enough aligned that they can resolve their differences by compromises voluntarily effected. Let those differences be far enough apart and civil war inevitably results. (This happened to us once in 1860). The great stability of the United States Government has been due to the fact that the great majority of us are not too far apart in our thinking and never have been except once.

We have, of course, on the extreme right, a few who are anti-democratic in their thinking, and on the other extreme, at the left, we have the Communists and fellow travelers. These constitute a military, but not as yet a political menace. However, as we have recently demonstrated at the polls, the overwhelming majority of us are clustered near the center. This is why we can have a two-party system, as does England. Contrast this situation with France and Italy where all shades of political thought are fairly evenly distributed across the political spectrum. Note the instability of those governments and the ever-present danger of civil war. It requires no great imagination to foresee what would happen if by some miracle a worldwide governmental force could be created over the U.S. and Russia today.

Just as there can be no state without a society willing and able to support it, there can be no world state without a world community willing and able to support it. I submit that we are today much further away from such a world community than we have been for several centuries past. Our political, economic, and social ideas differ more sharply than at any other point in modern history.

(To Be Continued)