= The Davidsonian ae = TO: wal: HOMECOMING = al HOMECOI 22, 23 ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS HOMECOMING VOLUME
XXXVIII

“BIKO”
By KURT BIEDENKOFF

This morning in chapel the court of Control once again made several freshmen stand up and show themselves to the
enraged upper classmen. A court, may it be one like this or may it be one of a Student government,
at least shows that there are student activities. And student activities in school may be considered to be important parts
of the educational program. The lack of these activities, at least up to now, is one of the main disadvantages
of the German school system.

During the time of the Nazi regime, German schools (especially high schools) were completely controlled by the government and strongly
influenced by the ideas of Nazism. It was the idea of the Nazi leaders to train the youth for their
places and thus secure the future of their regime. When the war was over in 1945 and the Allies took
over the German government and territory, a tremendous chaos was left. And most of the German youth was damaged, not
materially but psychologically. Men who had been heroes were now criminals. Things which had been good were now crimes. In
this very situation, which was as difficult as it could be, the occupying nations had to begin to introduce new
ideas and new methods of teaching. Old books had to be destroyed for they could not be used any longer.
Many teachers had to be dismissed as members of the Nazi party; a great percentage of school buildings were destroyed
or partly damaged. Slowly everything began to work again. But soon it could be seen that complete new ways had
to be found in order to help the German (Continued On Page Six)

Military Fraternity Hears Col. Ballard

Wednesday night, September 28, Scabbard and Blade held its first meeting of the new year. A thorough reorganization was effected
at that time. The officers for the following year are Sandy Carnegie, president; “Smiley” Childers, vice-president; Bill Cleveland, secretary; and
Jimmy Glenn, treasurer. The following activities were agreed upon as a means of getting the fraternity on its feet: Guest
speakers will be sponsored; combat films will be shown for the benefit of the student body; band concerts will be
given in chapel. The society was honored with a speech by Lt. Col. Ballard of the ROTC Dept. at the
October 5 meeting on the controversial subject of Air Force vs. Navy Air Power. After a very interesting talk and
discussion among the members and Col. Ballard, the meeting was adjourned.

Scabbard and Blade was established at Davidson in 1923 and is a chapter of the National Society of Scabbard and
Blade. Before the War, the annual Military Ball was the biggest dance on the campus and there is hope of
again placing it in that position. There have been two dances sponsored by this group since 1946. The aim of
Scabbard and Blade is to recognize outstanding military leadership and to keep its membership informed of current military affairs in
order to make them a better-informed citizenry. Scabbard and Blade would like to ask the cooperation of the Student Body
on the activities which it undertakes in order to again place it on the high honorary position it formerly held
on the campus and which other chapters hold on their campuses.

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, OCTOBER 14, 1949

FINAL DANCE PLANS

COUNCIL BEGINS SALE OF

New Members Swell Davidsonian Ranks

The Davidsonian is very pleased to announce the newly acquired addition of a large number of freshmen and sophomore, editorial
and business staff members. A greater number of students have expressed interest in and a desire to write for The
Davidsonian this year than ever before in the paper's history. The editors and business managers of The Davidsonian would like
to extend their sincere appreciation to each of these men, and to state again their conviction that each new writer
— whether he be concerned with news, features, or sports — and business staff member has set himself to a
task which, if followed through to completion, will yield him the rich rewards of a deep sense of satisfaction and
joy, opportunity to make many valuable new contacts, and form many new friendships.

The Davidsonian regrets the fact that due to the unusually large number of men who have recently joined the Editorial
and Business staffs, it will be impossible to include every man’s name in the masthead. Up until this time every
member of both staffs was included. However, since there are at present over one hundred and fifty members on the
two staffs, only the names of the more senior members have been included. A complete list of all Editorial and
Business staff members follows: (Continued On Page Six)

Masquers Name Cast For Fall Production

Tryouts for parts in the play “John Loves Mary," this year’s fall production of the Red and Black Masquers, were
held on Monday and Tuesday of this week. Those chosen for parts were as follows:

Tom Apperson (to be announced)
Fred Woody McKay
Senator McKinley Bill Trotman
Mrs. McKinley Mrs. Nancy Adams
John Mary Lily Nancy Copeland
O'Leary Elliot Braxton
General Biddle Mac Bulgin
Mr. Meechwood Tad Currie
Oscar Ted Daniel

Bob Gay, the director, reported that there were many who tried for parts, and many good readings that made the
choice of parts difficult. He said, however, that he is quite pleased with the cast that he has selected, and
he feels sure that it will make the staging of “John Loves Mary” a great success at Davidson. George McKee,
stage manager, reported that there are still several positions open for those who wish to work backstage. He requested anyone
who is interested to see him in 605 West.

FREE MOVIES

Saturday night, October 15; the Guest House; 7:30 P.M.-10:00 P.M.; Joe E. Brown feature with several short-subjects and comedies.

Coming Vesper Speakers

Through the past years a cherished tradition at Davidson College has been the selection of its prominent Vesper speakers. These
men are not selected at random but are carefully chosen by their inspiring messages for young men and by past
speaking acquaintances with Davidson College. This year plans have been made to fulfill this tradition to the fullest and produce
a variety of excellent speakers for our Vesper services each Sunday evening. The following have been obtained for the next
three weeks:

October 16—Rev. George Heaton, D.D., Myers Park Baptist Church, Charlotte.
October 23—Rev. P. D. Miller, D.D., Druid Hills Presbyterian Church, Atlanta Ga.
October 30—Rev. Stuart Nye Hutchinson, D.D., East Liberty Presbyterian Church, Pittsburgh, Pa.

The sun-light streaming through the Venetian-blind cut a series of brilliant parallel swaths through the dusky shadows of the sun
porch. Outside, a bird sang several notes accompanied by the softly humming bees. Rita stretched, drew me closer, and once
again settled her tawny head on my chest. Suddenly the stillness was shattered with a hoarse “beep beep.” I jumped
with alarm, only to be reassured by Rita murmuring, “It is only my husband. He won't bother us. I love
only you, darling, and I will never go back to that horrid man. Come, I know better things to do
than to discuss him.” A door slammed violently behind us, but with this beautiful example of womanhood in my arms,
I was not afraid of anything. In fact, I was in

On Monday, October 10, the Y.M.C.A. brought Mr. Robert Smith, Dean of Music at Flora MacDonald College to our campus.
Mr. Smith entertained with derivation upon the theme “Three Blind Mice.” A Scotchman, Mr. Smith rejected an encore saying that
he was paid by the hour.

Premedical Group Invites New Members
By M. E. MARLETTE, JR.

The N.C. Alpha Chapter of Alpha Epsilon Delta, National Premedical Honor Society, recently met and extended invitations to the following
men for membership: S.C. Alexander; R. E. Brooks; R. C. Burroughs; D. E. Cowan; W. A. Covell; D. C. Davis;
Robert Hollister; R. W. Hubbell; Hughes; S. B. Joyner; J. T. Monroe; R. C. Palmer, Jr.; E. C. Parker, Jr.;
W. W. Pate; R. L. Patterson; E. C. Patten; C. W. Rawson; M. Regen, Jr.

President Thomas W. Jackson states that the initiation ceremonies will take place in the Science Building, Monday evening, November 7,
1949. The N.C. Alpha Chapter of Alpha Epsilon Delta was founded on the Davidson Campus March 23, 1936, and has
been serving the Davidson premedical student since that time. The officers of the Chapter who were elected last spring are:
Tom Jackson, President; Jack King, Secretary; Tom Patterson, Treasurer; Graham Newton, Historian; Dr. Puckett, Faculty Adviser. The society’s primary purpose
is (Continued On Page Six)

By PHIL MITCHELNo position to be afraid. From out of nowhere, there came a soul-shattering blow, my head was filled
with red and white sparks and an ominous roar. Cc. W., Bill Mebane, Reporter; and Rhodes Scholarship Applications Open

One of the greatest opportunities within the grasp of American students is the system of scholarships at Oxford University, England,
founded early this century by Cecil Rhodes. They provide for two or three years at Oxford, long enough to secure
a degree, and afford much opportunity for travel on the continent, the three vacations totaling slightly over six months. The
stipend is ample for a careful student, in fact, it might be called generous. A Rhodes Scholar entitled to the
benefits can also receive them at Oxford. All students, especially Seniors, who are interested, are urged to lose no time
in consulting the official bulletin RHODES SCHOLARSHIPS 1949 on the faculty bulletin board. If still interested, they are urged to
get in touch with some members of the faculty committee on the scholarships at an early date. All applications must
be in the hands of the States Committees by October 29. Since preparing the application is a considerable task, anyone
interested should lose no time in starting. Dr. Vawles has application blanks, and he and the other members of the
committee, Professors Cumming and Lilly, will be glad to render any service in their power to candidates. These scholarships have
been won seven times by Davidson men and have constituted for them a splendid opportunity for graduate work. Of these
seven, one holds a high position in the State Department at Washington, two are presidents of theological seminaries of the
Southern Presbyterian Church, one, a missionary in China for many years, was decorated by the Chinese Government for bravery when
the Japanese were attacking China, another is on the medical faculty of the University of Minnesota, and two are professors
in Southern universities, one head of his department. The local committee cannot urge you emphatically enough, in case you are
interested, to read the bulletin and confer with the committee as soon as possible.

D Club To Conduct Service Wednesday

The promotion of interest in Davidson's Homecoming celebration, and the encouragement of interest in both intramural and intercollegiate athletics were
cited as accomplishment goals of the “D” Club at a meeting held last Wednesday, Oct. 12. The club will begin
its campaign of fostering interest in the Homecoming activities by sponsoring a chapel program Wednesday, Oct. 19, which will be
dedicated to the future Homecoming. The “D” Club, at their Wednesday meeting, formed several committees and chairmen of these committees
were elected. The committee (Continued On Page Six)

GUARDIAN ANGEL OF GEORGIA DORMITORY SHATTERS SLEEP WITH DAILY “BEEP BEEP”

“Get the dickens out of here and let me sleep before I get up and mop the floor with you.
I would do it right now, but I can't hit an old feeble man like you,” I mutter. “Yes, you
get out of that bed, and we will see who is old and feeble.” Strangely enough the blow did not
fall on my head, but in the region of my lower spine. “Quit that moaning, boy, and get out of
that bed before I get you out.” Dimly I see a large brown face peering at me with twinkling eyes.
Finally, I realize that it is John Heath, that illustrious custodian of Georgia Dorm, waking me up on another joyous
morning in dear old D. C. “John Heath, you good-for-nothing scoundrel, get out of here and let me sleep.” “Some
other morning, John, some other morning when I ain't so sleepy.” “Well, any time you feel like it, I'll be
waiting.” John went out, chuckling. John Heath is just like a brood hen looking after her chicks, regardless of their
rank, station, or social position. (Continued On Page Six)

NUMBER FOUR HOMECOMING DANCE TICKETS

On Friday night, October 21, at ten o'clock, the first notes of Blue Barron's theme song will mark the beginning
of the 1949 edition of the Homecoming Dances, sponsored each year by the Pan-Hellenic Council. Both the formal and informal
dances will be held in the new Charles Worth Johnston Memorial Gymnasium, and tickets are now in the hands of
Pan-Hell representatives of each fraternity and the Campus Club. Pan-Hell president Bill Bird stated that prices would be six dollars
for a set ticket, and four for single nights. The formal on Friday night will last from 10 P.M. until
2 A.M., and will be highlighted by a figure featuring the Pan-Hellenic representatives and their dates. The gym will be
appropriately decorated, and as in the past, sections will be allotted to each social organization. Bird has requested that smoking
and eating of refreshments be limited to the lobby, where drinks, cakes, etc., will be available. Saturday night brings the
informal dance from 8 until 12, and Blue Barron will again be on hand with music for dancing, ably assisted
by the vocal cords of Miss Pat Laird. For the benefit of freshmen, pledges, it would be well to note
that each fraternity is subject to the “85 percent rule,” that is, 85 percent of the fraternity's membership must purchase
dance tickets, or the fraternity must make up the required amount by penalizing each member.

MISS ORRIE A. STEELE

The Beloved Secretary Of Three Davidson Presidents Passes On

October 2 the hearts of the people of the community and alumni of the college were saddened upon hearing of
the death of Miss Orrie A. Steele. Although she had been in declining health for several years, her death came
unexpectedly. Miss Steele was the oldest in the point of service to the college. She came to Davidson in 1914,
after having studied at Winthrop College in Rock Hill, her home town. She had been secretary to three presidents of
the college, Drs. Martin, Smith, and Cunningham. She was forced to resign in 1944 because of ill health. She then
became receptionist for the college but also found that too strenuous. In January Miss Steele was taken to Memorial Hospital
in Charlotte, after which she was taken to Mountain Sanitarium in Fletcher, N. C. She had, however, returned during the
summer to Davidson, where her death occurred. The funeral was held on October 4 in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church,
conducted by Dr. Pritchard, Dr. Cunningham, and Dr. Lingle. The pallbearers were Mr. Jackson, Mr. McGill, Dr. Golliere, Mr. Payne,
and Prof. Beaty. One niece, Mrs. Leon Harris of Anderson, S.C., survives her. (Continued On Page Six)

Literary Societies Make Plans For Fall

Eumenean and Philanthropic Societies have readied preparations for another highly successful year. Among the great heritages of Davidson’s past and
present, that of the literary societies is most prominent. Since 1837, these organizations have played a leading role in campus
extra-curricular activities. In years gone by, preceding the appearance of fraternities on the campus, these literary societies served in both
intellectual and social capacities. Many Davidson students have enjoyed the secret bonds of intellect and warm friendship offered by these
societies. In the pre-Civil War period, Davidson was more or less an isolated colony. The nearest town with cobblestone streets
was a dusty half a day's ride to the South. Such trips to the village called Charlotte were made very
infrequently. During the eighteen hundreds, weekends were spent on the campus. Programs of athletic, social, and thought-provoking nature were sponsored
by the societies for the week. School records urge us to believe that Granddad spent Friday and Saturday nights poring
over the techniques of literary excellence. So it may be. Last Tuesday night, the two literary organizations completed plans for
the undertaking of their 112th year of service. The president of the Philanthropic Society, Dave Miller, together with Chuck Kirby,
president of Eumenean, announced the first action of their groups this Fall. Both societies gather in their respective halls twice
a month. The purpose of the organizations is that of stressing and mastering the literary and oratorical arts. Extemporaneous speeches
are made; the understanding and proficient use of Parliamentary rules is part of their study. Leaders in the Philanthropic Society
are: President Dave Miller, Vice President Donald Shriver, and Secretary Bryan Robinson. (Continued On Page Six)

Baby Daughter Born To Sandy Carnegies

Mr. and Mrs. P. S. (Sandy) Carnegie announce the birth of a 7 pound 9 and 1/2 ounce daughter, Helene
Sandra, on October 8, 1949, at 7:41 P.M. at the Presbyterian Hospital, Charlotte, N.C. Mrs. Carnegie is the former Helene
DeVane of Davidson. Since 1947 she has been employed in the Registrar’s Office of the College. Announcement of the baby’s
birth brought a tremendous cheer from the spectators at the State game—a contest in which Pop Carnegie distinguished himself as
a great tackle.

Weather Report By TREW GURLEY

This year the weather report is going to be quite different from last year's hit or miss. This year the
weather department of Davidson is insisting on accuracy. The average person realizes that forecasts for a period of four days
in advance are apt to be only about 50 percent reliable. Either half right or half wrong, and one never
knows which half will be correct until that day or the day after has passed. Basing it on this fact
then that only one half the forecast is correct, the weather department has decided to use that average as 100
percent. A forecast then for cold with rain may turn out cold and fair but yet will be 100 percent
right.
