bobbed. a

CONGRATULATIONS TO COBB, LAMBETH AND TAYLOR

THANKS TO DR. HEATON

The Davidsonian

VOLUME XXXVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, APRIL 8, 1949 NUMBER TWENTY-FOUR

COBB IS ELECTED STUDENT PRESIDENT
LAMBETH AND TAYLOR TO FILL SPRING OFFICES AS VICE PRESIDENTS

Development Drive Extended Into East;
By NEIL LEACH

HEATON'S SPRING SERVICES

Dr. George D. Heaton, minister of the Myers Park Baptist Church in Charlotte, most ably conducted the annual Spring Services
this week. The services, even the un-compulsory evening services, were exceptionally well attended and those attending found the speaker practical,
frank, and direct, but not without a sense of humor and a ready smile.

At the first service on Tuesday morning, Dr. Heaton “in seven minutes” stressed, not only the importance, but the necessity
of every man to take a stand for his Christian religion. Prayers by two members of the junior class preceded
the sermon. Tom Patterson and Chuck Kirby led in prayer at the opening service.

“The Design of God for Life,” was the subject of Dr. Heaton’s first evening service in which Bob Patton and
Bill Alexander led in prayer. Dr. Heaton, in his message, pointed out that if anyone is to find a real
destiny, this must be found in obedience to God's law. The design of God for life operates on this law.
There are no loopholes in this law and in order to gain the highest design for our life, obedience is
a “must.” This design as given by God includes a pattern of treating human beings as persons and not as
things, being honest with all men, showing kindness to warm cold hearts, and being just with all men. These are
part of the basic laws and there is no way one can live a true Christian life and maneuver around
such principles. It's the design of God that we live with courage, not with fear; with forgiving hearts, not with
hating hearts, and with hopeful attitudes, and not with clouded outlooks.

After the prayers of Jim Sherard and Newt Robertson, Dr. Heaton began his third service. The need for a return
to Jesus Christ and away from the chaos and confusion, the offsprings of dubiosity in men’s hearts, formed the background
for this talk. “The one word, dubiosity, described this generation,” Dr. Heaton said. Men in their skepticism are no longer
hopeful and understanding. For this reason, a drastic change in moral and spiritual (Continued on Page Four)

Election of Officers In Fraternal Groups Being Conducted

Following the custom of electing next year’s officers in the spring, five fraternities have chosen their leaders for the semester
beginning in the fall of 1949. Kappa Alpha, Pi Kappa Alpha, Sigma Phi Epsilon, Phi Gamma Delta, and Sigma Chi
have completed their selections, while the Campus Club, Beta Theta Pi, Pi Kappa Phi, Alpha Epsilon, and Kappa Sigma are
either in the process of elections, or else plan to begin sometime during the next few weeks.

The most commonly designated offices among fraternities are those of president, vice president, secretary, treasurer, and Pan-Hel representative. Although others
may be added or some of these omitted, their functions are essentially the same in all groups. Occasionally some other
methods of naming may be used such as archon (president) of Pi Kappa Phi, or the numbering system of Kappa
Alpha.

Results of the recent elections are as follows:
Sigma Phi Epsilon: President, Newton Trammell; vice president, Gilbert Humphries; secretary, Richard Lilly; treasurer, Sam Loftin; Pan-Hel Representative, Pat Clark.
Kappa Alpha: I, John Lyles; II, Chuck Kirby; III, Bill Alexander; IV, Bill Currie; V, Doug Hix; VI, Harry Bachman;
VII, Jimmy Glenn; VIII, Sam McDaniel; IX (Pan-Hel) Bill Byrd.
Pi Kappa Alpha: President, Lyston Mills; vice president, Gor- (Continued on Page Four)

The Charlotte Branch of the American Association of University Women will hold its regular April meeting at the Guest House
on Tuesday, April 12 at 3 o'clock. Faculty wives and women living in Davidson who are interested in A.A.U.W. are
invited to attend the meeting as guests of the organization. Women who wish to attend should call 3656.

The Lost Room
By PETE KALOGRIDIS

There is a lost room in Chambers. Unfortunately, the average Davidson student is unaware of the existence of the college
museum in Room 321. Even a more unfortunate situation is realized when those who are aware of this fact fail
to take advantage of the museum as a medium through which they might well spend some time, profitably from the
viewpoint of enjoyment as well as education. For the museum does contain many items of extreme interest.

As a means for preparing this article, this reporter naturally made a thorough visit through the museum. I was frankly
well pleased by the large variety of interesting subjects which are treated in the small museum of its size. Certainly
anyone, if he would but devote enough of his time, could find many things which would more than claim his
attention.

Prominent among such items of interest would be the many stuffed birds, ducks, and small animals. Many of these animals,
especially the birds and owls, are of such a beautiful color that they would easily demand immediate attention from even
the most skeptical spectator. Other such items would include a collection of fluorite stones which reflect a variety of beautiful
colors when exposed to a purple light. Not only is a rock collection to be had, but a very interesting
collection of Indian stone weapons is also on hand. In addition, along the line of weapons, a showcase of African
arrows, spearheads, and knives invites one’s inspection. But the person who is capable of appreciating such items of interest tarries
not long on any one subject. For there are other things to be seen—large bones of many animals such as
the elephant and horse and the skulls of a gorilla, lion, and leopard, along with others.

And the student of history is by no means slighted. There are several ancient clay tablets with inscriptions which date
back into biblical times—things which should be a joy to any man who has anything even similar to an imagination
and can let his mind speculatively wander back several thousand years into past civilization.

Nor is the lover of the sea slighted. He may enjoy a fine collection of sea shells along with a
magnificently mounted sailfish and many other types of sea creatures such as the crab, horseshoe crab, and giant clam. But
the land is not to be outdone by the sea. A snake collection alongside collections of different types of rocks
and wood makes a unique contrast. Indeed, along with the many stuffed animals, the land is well represented.

This, then, is but a small portion of the many interesting items to be found in the museum. Many would
find it well worth their time to browse through the museum, for it was established for the benefit of the
student body. And the students would be finding something when they truly found the lost room.

Reports Encouraging

Leaders in the Davidson College Development Program reviewed their progress to date and announced plans for the extension of the
drive to more distant areas. Encouraged by the generous response of alumni and friends of the college, the various committees
in charge of the program are forging ahead with a sanguine view of the possibilities of covering every strategic area
and bringing their combined efforts to a successful conclusion.

The grand total secured to date in gifts and pledges is $1,535,008.75. This amount represents more than three-fifths of the
total goal of $2,500,000. Most all of it has been raised since February 10, which was the date of the
starting of the drive in Charlotte. Results in Mecklenburg County to date total $877,154.80 against a goal of $750,000. Of
this total, $778,024.00 has been raised in Charlotte, where J. Caldwell McDonald is the general chairman, and $98,530.80was pledged in
the Davidson community by students, faculty, and townspeople. The goal in Winston-Salem is $250,000.00. Results to date are $162,361.00, according
to a recent report from Robert W. Gorrell, local chairman. In Gastonia, Chairman Fred I. Smyre, Jr., has reported a
total of $114,127.00 to date toward a goal of $125,000.00. Special and unclassified gifts to the fund to date total
$381,365.89. The program was launched in Concord, N.C., Tuesday night, March 29, at a supper meeting, which was well attended.
L. Maury Richmond and Rev. John H. McKinnon, D.D., are local co-chairmen, and the quota established is $35,000.00. In Greensboro,
where Edward M. Armfield is chairman, (Continued on Page Four).

Scabbard and Blade Ball Hailed Success

The annual Military Ball of Scabbard and Blade, national military fraternity, was held April 2 at the Morris Field Officers
Club. The dance was open to any student who desired to come, and dress was optional, except that the members
of the fraternity were in uniform. The lead-out was participated in by the fraternity officers and other members who were
elected for that purpose. Each couple passed under an arch of sabers and then participated in the lead-out dance. Those
in the lead-out with their dates were: Virginia Smith with Bucky Faw, president; Harriet Codington with John Lyles, secretary; Ellen
Thigpen with Bill Johnson, cadet major; Ellen Glasgow with Dave Gambrell, cadet captain; Irene Sykes with Jack Etheridge, former cadet
captain; Ann Cochran with Bob McGehee, cadet lieutenant. Honorary guests were Colonel and Mrs. Convere Jones, and Colonel and Mrs.
Grace Martin. Billy Knauff and his orchestra supplied the music.

Baker Scholarship Contestants

WHIT COBB

Baker Scholarships Awarded To Seven

Seven high school seniors who were on the campus last weekend to try out for Baker Scholarships have been chosen
as Davidson's first Baker scholars, it was announced by Prof. Bradley D. Thompson last Thursday night. The seven men are:
George F. Bason, Pottsville, Penn.; Walter Herman Bell, Norfolk, Va.; Larry I. Dayenhart, Wilmington, N.C.; Allen L. Garrison, Lake Wales,
Fla.; Robert M. Henry, Huntington, W.Va.; Mitchell Patton, Greenville; and James O. Speed, Birmingham, Ala. The Baker Scholarships are a
result of a grant from the George F. Baker Foundation, and are to be awarded annually not on a basis
of need, but on a basis of potential leadership. The seven men chosen, picked from one hundred and thirty-four applicants,
have achieved honors and accomplishments in fields nearly as widespread as the seven states they represent. George Bason has won
acclaim in the fields of creative writing and dramatics; Herman Bell is secretary of the Virginia Junior Academy of Science;
Larry Dayenhart is president of the North Carolina Student Government Association; Allen Garrison is said by Prof. Prohl to be
one of the most accomplished musicians to apply for entrance to Davidson since he has been here. Bob Henry is
an official in West Virginia State Government, and in Presbyterian Youth work. Mitchell Patton is active in civic discussions in
his hometown of Greenville, both on the air and on the pages of the newspapers. Jim Speed is very active
in student government, Presbyterian Youth work, Boy Scout and Hi-Y activities. The announcement of these winners is the culmination of
six months of painstaking effort on the part of the Baker Scholarship Committee, of which Prof. Thompson is chairman. The
George F. Baker Trust has made similar grants to representative institutions in five other sections: Carleton College, Minnesota; Kenyon College,
Ohio; the University of Rochester, New York; Stanford University, California; and Vanderbilt University, Tennessee.

Southern Symphony To Present Concert In Last of Series

The Southern Symphony Orchestra, of Columbia, which this year is observing its tenth anniversary, will give a concert here on
April 20, 1949, in Chambers Auditorium starting at 8:15 p.m. Consisting of 70 musicians, the orchestra has won nation-wide recognition
for its symphonies. The orchestra is ranked with the nation’s best and is conducted by Mr. Carl Bamberger, who this
year is observing his sixth anniversary as leader of the orchestra. Mr. Bamberger comes to Columbia in the spring of
each year, after working the fall and winter months conducting and teaching in New York and Brooklyn, where his work
has won wide acclaim. Mr. Bamberger selects the musicians to play in the Southern Symphony from the rosters of such
well-known orchestras as the National Symphony of Washington, D.C., the New Orleans Symphony, the San Antonio Orchestra, Baltimore and Buffalo
Symphony Orchestras. They come to Columbia in the spring when the season of the other orchestras have closed and give
a series of concerts there and in other cities of the state during the month of April, climaxing the season
with the Spring Festival the last weekend in April. This orchestra has been secured to replace the Detroit Symphony which
was scheduled for last month, but canceled its entire tour. The tickets which have been sold for the Detroit concert
will be honored for this concert. Others are available at the office of the Department of Music. The students are
admitted without additional charge, since they have tickets which are paid for from the student activity fee. It is necessary
for them to get their tickets from the Department of Music before 5 p.m. on April 20, if they do
not have their season ticket.

These men are the possible candidates for editors of the student publications:

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jack Hazard

A member of Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity; Philanthropic Literary Society; Kappa Alpha Order. Jack has been a member of
the sports staff of the Davidsonian for several years and was sports editor this year.

Bob Hollister

Bob is a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity; Sigma Upsilon; Philanthropic Literary Society, and Scabbard and Blade.
He has served three years on the Davidsonian, one as managing editor; three years on the editorial staff of Quips
and Cranks; and one year on the editorial staff of Scripts and Pranks. Bob is a possible candidate for editor
of all three publications, but will not be listed again.

Lonnie Turnipseed

Lonnie was on the freshman football squad and is a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity; Philanthropic Literary
Society and the International Relations Club. He has served on the Davidsonian for the past three years, this year as
a managing editor. Also, Lonnie worked on the business staff of the annual.

SCRIPTS 'N PRANKS

Bob Grube

Bob is a member of the International Relations Club, and the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. He has worked on
the editorial staffs of the Davidsonian and Scripts 'n Pranks during the current year.

By TOM MANN

In student elections held on Tuesday and Wednesday, Whit Cobb was elected President of the Davidson College student body for
the 1949-1950 school year. Other officers elected were Auburn Lambeth, first vice-president, and Randy Taylor, second vice-president. With nobody receiving
a majority of votes in the run-off for the office of secretary-treasurer, a second run-off will be held on Monday
between Tom Stockton and Pete Kalogridis. In the first run-off, Cobb defeated Bill Alexander, while Lambeth and Taylor defeated Ben
Goodpasture, Sam Joyner, and Jim Campbell. The presidency of the student body is the top rung of the ladder which
Whit Cobb, who is from Durham, North Carolina, has been steadily climbing since he first enrolled at Davidson College. During
his freshman year, Whit made the varsity teams in basketball, track, and tennis, and since then has been adding laurels
to his crown in all three of the sports. In addition to these honors in his freshman year, Whit was
elected a member of the undergraduate honorary leadership organization, the Beaver Club. Still climbing the ladder, Whit was elected secretary-treasurer
of the student body in his sophomore year. This year, being a junior, he has served as first vice-president of
the student body, and as president of the Beaver Club. Whit Cobb, in addition to these other activities, is a
member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity, in which organization he was elected to the post of Warden for next year.

Auburn Lambeth, too, has already established himself as a leader on the campus. In his freshman year, he made the
varsity baseball team and the varsity football team. Holding the same positions this year on both teams, he has proved
himself an outstanding athlete. Auburn, of course, is a letterman and a member of the “D” Club. This past year
he has served on the Student Council, and as secretary-treasurer of the Beaver Club. He is a member of Phi
Delta Theta fraternity, and lives in Decatur, Georgia. (Continued on Page Four)

Candidates For Publications Elections

Jim Glenn

Jim is a member of the “D” Club, Scabbard and Blade, the cross country team, and the Kappa Alpha Order.
He was out for football in '46-'47, and also played in the Concert Band the same year. Jim is the
typing editor of Scripts 'n Pranks.

Dick Morgan

Dick is a member of the Spanish Club and Sigma Chi social fraternity. He has worked on the sports staff
of the Davidsonian and was a managing editor this year. He was also a managing editor of Scripts 'n Pranks
during the current year.

Bill Beattie

Bill is a member of Sigma Chi fraternity. He worked on the Davidsonian two years and Scripts 'n Pranks three.

Bill Hamilton

Bill is a member of the Campus Club and has done two years of art work for Scripts 'n Pranks.
This year he has been art editor.

QUIPS 'N CRANKS

Bob Bumbarger

Bob is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity and worked as freshman sports editor this year and gave
editorial assistance.

Claude Higginbotham

Claude is a member of Le Cercle Français and the International Relations Club. He worked on the business staff of
the Davidsonian in '47-'48 and on the editorial staff of the annual in '47-'48 and '49. This year he acted
as editor of the fraternity section. (Continued on Page Four)
