VOLUME XXXVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1949

Once again, amidst a world of problems, danger, fear, and hope, people are preparing to celebrate the birth of our Lord Jesus Christ. Once again, their thoughts turn away from the external troubles and worries towards a place, called Bethlehem, where almost 2,000 years ago the Son of God was born to bring internal peace to all human beings. And in many minds, the question might rise: do we have peace; did anything change; and if so, where is the change? We are living in a world of disaster, need, and unprotectedness. Many will have a happy Christmas, but for many others, Christmas will be sad and with no sign of hope. Two great powers are confronting each other and no one can see any way of bringing them together. The ideals of the western nations, freedom, peace, and liberty are overshadowed by a tyranny in the east never before known in the history of men. Millions of men are starving and freezing, millions of others are deprived of their liberty. And soon after Christmas, the old year will go and the door of time will open to make the way free for another year and people will look forward and ask for the things the new year will bring. And they will hope for peace as they did every time a new year came, but nobody knows whether their hopes will be fulfilled. And if you consider all things that happened in the last year and all those many efforts that were made to bring peace and that failed, chances for such a fulfillment seem to be so small. But as you light the candles at your Christmas tree and as their warm light fills the room, you might feel that there is still one great hope left, that cannot be destroyed by any force whatsoever. And you might suddenly know that the message brought to the herdsmen near Bethlehem by the angels from heaven is still living among men, that it has grown greater and greater and more powerful. “Peace to all men that are of good will.” And if this message will always live among us, if we shall never lose hope in it, and if the thoughts of all men meet on this day and their minds be one, strong in the common will to make this message their highest ideal, their greatest aim, and if we face the new year with all its unknowns with a strong faith in God and His decisions, then these days shall be more than just a rest, a stop in the course of life, more than just a time of thinking and reconsideration, then there shall be days bringing new strength in hope and in will to go on and carry out the great task laid upon all of us by our Heavenly Father, then there shall be given us internal peace and security, then there shall be a real Christmas.

Dr. Boyd Undaunted, Unhurt By Accident

Dr. Bernard Boyd, returning from church services held in Charlotte Sunday morning to another service near Mooresville, met with an accident one mile south of Cornelius. Due to a thick fog, traffic was moving slowly, with the exception of a large truck traveling in the middle of the road. Dr. Boyd swerved to the right, off the road. On turning the car back on the road, the edge of the road caught the wheels, rolling the car over twice to the opposite side of the road. Dr. Boyd was uninjured, but the car was damaged considerably. A few minutes after the accident, Whit Cobb arrived at the scene on his way to Charlotte. Cobb took Dr. Boyd to Mooresville, where, (Continued On Page Six)

Bob Gay Awarded Special Scholarship

Bob Gay of the junior class has recently been informed that he is the winner of one of the very selective scholarships offered by the Jewel Tea Company, Inc., of Barrington, Illinois. This selection was based on both his work with the company this past summer and his college scholastic standing. The competition for these scholarships was very keen and Bob is to be congratulated for his achievement. The company, under the terms of this scholarship, pays up to a maximum of $200 on the student’s tuition. To be eligible, an interested student who has had two years of college, applies to the company for ten weeks of summer work in the form of on-the-job training. At the end of this trial period, and if scholastic standings are of merit, competitive interviews are held with company officials. Such was the procedure Bob went through to gain the award. He now has the privilege of continuing with the Jewel Tea Co., in his summer work and has excellent chances of a position with the company upon graduating. Bob is a well-known member of his class and is very active in student activities. He recently took time off from his duties as a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity and members of the YMCA cabinet to accept the job as director of the Red and Black Masquers’ very successful play, “John Loves Mary.”

Vocational School Enrollment Rises

While veterans’ enrollment in North Carolina colleges and universities under the GI Bill and Public Law 16 (for the disabled) again this year show a decrease, enrollments in other type schools and in the farm training program show rapid gains. As of December 1, college and university veteran enrollments were about 21 percent below one year ago and about 28 percent below the all-time high of two years ago. On the other hand, enrollments in schools below the college level—mainly trade and vocational schools—on December 1 reached an all-time high, approximately 34 percent above the totals for December 1, 1948. Institutional on-farm training enrollments were up 23 percent over a year ago, just slightly under the record enrollment period of September this year. The national figures as of November 1, 1949, indicate an overall trend similar to North Carolina’s. Institutions of higher learning showed a 17 percent enrollment drop this year, while the schools below college level were enjoying an all-time high for enrollments, approximately 23 percent above the November 1, 1948 totals. Enrollments in the on-the-job training program likewise show a (Continued On Page Six)

ROTC Students Cry During Gas Attack

Monday afternoon while cleaning their rifles, several ROTC students were suddenly beset by a tear gas attack. The gas originated from a grenade thrown in jest by the supply sergeant who dashed back into the armory leaving the boys to face the gas unmasked. Only one or two remained in the vicinity of the armory long enough to see (?) how it felt, since most of those present had become familiar with the effects of tear gas through gangster movies. The gas was soon dispersed around the cleaning tables, but traces of it still clung to the halls of Georgia for nearly twenty minutes after the bomb was detonated.

GIFT FUND $200 SHORT OF $5,000 GOAL FOR ILOILO

The proposed goal, $5,000, of the YMCA Christmas Gift Fund Campaign has been reached by the Davidson student body. The campaign, which had as its purpose the raising of money to be used in the equipping of a YMCA Boy’s Camp at Iloilo in the Philippines, ended Thursday night, December 15, having been in progress since Monday, December 12. The daily progress of the program was shown on a meter on the stage of Chambers Auditorium, and the successful result of the drive was announced Friday by Curtis Harper during the chapel exercises. It is estimated that $7,500 will be required to equip this Iloilo camp, which is to be dedicated to the students of Davidson College. The YMCA funds for reconstruction will supplement Davidson’s Gift Fund. Since as far back as 1928 Davidson students have promoted special charitable funds which have been used to finance Christian activities throughout the world. In 1928, the first year affording a YMCA record of such a program, the movement was called the Mission Fund Drive; for the money raised was given to a mission project, which otherwise might not have been completed. The Christmas Gift Fund, which is now annually sponsored by Davidson’s YMCA, evolved from the Mission Fund during the early thirties when, in December 1930, Davidson’s student body gave $1000 to Barium Springs Orphanage. This gift to Barium Springs was Davidson's first Christmas Gift Fund. From 1930 until today, Davidson, by way of its Christmas Gift Fund, has given large sums of money.

Popular Classical Numbers Rendered By ConcertBand

The Davidson concert band, under the direction of James Christian Pfohl, presented its first formal concert of the year in Chambers Auditorium on Tuesday night, December 13. The band opened its concert with the inspiring old chorale, “A Mighty Fortress is Our God.” Following this was the March and chorus, “See the Conquering Hero Comes!” from Handel's oratorio, "Judas Maccabaeus.” The music of the Italian composer, Rossini, has long been popular in this country. The band continued its program with one of his best-known overtures, “The Italian in Algiers.”

The folk music of Russia furnished the band with its next number, “Four Russian Folk Songs, Opus 58," by Liadov. Following this folk music suite was a stirring concert march, “Majesty of America,” by David Bennett. Next, the band turned again to the realm of folk music for “Five American Folk Songs.” A selection of Jerome Kern songs, as arranged by Erik Leidzen, furnished many of the best-known melodies of one of America’s favorite composers. The “March from Second Suite in F" by Gustav Holst provided a martial finale to the concert. Sibley Dorton, student conductor, brought the concert to a close as he directed the band in “O’ Davidson” and “All Hail, O Davidson.”

Mr. Pfohl says that several concerts are planned for the coming semester in addition to the week's concert tour which the band will make in the early Spring. These planned concerts will include programs here on the campus. Although plans are not yet complete, Mr. Pfohl says that the concert tour, which has taken the band into Florida for the past two years, will be made in the other direction this year. The band will also be heard at the traditional vesper program this Sunday night.

China

The financing of an electric plant at Mutoto Mission in Africa; from the pockets of Davidson students to the following projects: foreign missions; the building of the Davidson Chapel, the Davidson Unity Church; Glade Valley High School; mountain churches in Ashe County, N.C.; the rebuilding of the China war area; Davidson's Boy Scouts; recreational facilities for Negroes in the town of Davidson; the sending of a teacher of engineering to Hangchow University in China; a missionary, one hundred miles west of Hangchow.

(Continued On Page Six)

Fall Semester Examination Schedule Announced

First semester classes end at 12:50 p.m., January 17. Morning exams begin at 9 a.m. Afternoon exams begin at 2 p.m.

Wednesday, January 18
A.M. — Fifth Hour Classes — Monday — Wednesday — Friday

Thursday, January 19
A.M. — Second Hour Classes — Monday — Wednesday — Friday

Friday, January 20
A.M. — Fourth Hour Classes — Monday — Wednesday — Friday

Saturday, January 21
A.M. — Second Hour Classes — Tuesday — Thursday — Saturday
P.M. — ROTC — 11, 21, 31, 41

Monday, January 23
A.M. — Third Hour Classes — Tuesday — Thursday — Saturday
P.M. — Third Hour Classes — Monday — Wednesday — Friday

Tuesday, January 24
A.M. — First Hour Classes — Monday — Wednesday — Friday
P.M. — First Hour Classes — Tuesday — Thursday — Saturday

Wednesday, January 25
P.M. — Sixth Hour Classes — Monday — Wednesday — Friday

Thursday, January 26
A.M. — Fourth Hour Classes — Tuesday — Thursday — Saturday

Friday, January 27
P.M. — Math 10 — Math 11

NUMBER TWELVE

RHODES SCHOLARSHIP

DAVIDSON, ANNAPOLIS, YALE, PRINCETON STUDENTS NAMED

It was announced in Chapel this past Tuesday morning that Charles Davis, a member of the senior class from Mississippi, had been awarded a Rhodes Scholarship. This is the first such scholarship awarded to a Davidson student in thirteen years. As the highest academic honor a student can receive, a Rhodes Scholarship entitles the recipient to two and possibly three years of study at Oxford University.

There are a number of qualifications which one must meet before applying for a scholarship. They are as follows:
1. Be a male, unmarried citizen of the United States.
2. Be between the ages of nineteen and twenty-five on October 1, 1950.
3. Have completed at least your sophomore year in college at the time of application.

There is a lot more to it than this, though, as Davis can probably relate, for applicants who are eligible must then be screened and interviewed, to be chosen on several other points: their literary and scholastic ability and attainments; their qualities of manhood, honor, friendship, and unselfishness; and their exhibition of moral force of character and leadership. These were all provisions specifically stated in Cecil Rhodes’ will: that the men chosen for his scholarships might be of the highest possible type.

Now that Davis has succeeded, he plans to leave for Oxford sometime next fall, where he is going to study medieval history (a field in which Oxford has no peer). His scholarship is for a year. At Davidson, he has been quite active in campus events, being a member of Sigma Upsilon literary fraternity, the Philanthropic Literary Society, the International Relations Club, a columnist for the Davidsonian, and an associate editor of Scripts 'n Pranks. Last year Davis won the Vereen Bell creative writing award, and this year was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and has also served on the Honorary Fraternity Council and the Forensic Council.

CHARLES DAVIS

Music Organizations Combine for Vespers

The annual YMCA Christmas Vesper Service, which has become one of the highlights of the year at Davidson, will be given in Chambers Auditorium at 7:30 p.m., on Sunday, December 18, 1949. The schedule is as follows: Prelude, “Christmas Concerto;” the opening prayer by Bill Alexander, president of the YMCA; the opening hymn, “O Come All Ye Faithful;” and the readings, which shall be given this year by senior John Lyles. These readings, accompanied with the musical selections that follow them, fall into three groups:

I. The Prophecy — Selected Scripture, “How Bright Beams the Morning Star,” Nicolai; “Lo, How a Rose E’er Blooming,” Praetorius.
II. The Birth — Selected Scripture; “Catalonian Christmas Carol,” arranged by Leferbore, “Hodie Apparuit,” Orlando di Lasso.
III. Adoration — Selected Scripture, “Glory Be to God,” Rachmaninoff; “Noel, Noel,” Gevaert, Grayson.

The offering at the service will be used by the YMCA for the furtherance of its many varied projects which involve a budget of some thousands of dollars. During the course of the service, the congregation will join with (Continued on Page Six)

Le Cercle Francais Holds Novel Meeting On Christmas Theme

Le Cercle Francais, the Davidson honorary French fraternity, met December 13, at 7 p.m., for a Christmas program at the home of Professor and Mrs. Watts. Seventeen of the twenty members were present. The first portion of the program was a one-act comedy, “Cupidon Dentiste,” about Cupid and a dentist. The characters were I. W. Best, Jacques Le Franc; R. R. Hart, Marguerite Didier; H. P. Bridges, a large man; R. J. Boyd, the dentist; M. C. Doubles, the maid; and J. V. Hunter, an old lady. The all-male cast was composed entirely of Davidson students.

The second event on the program was the reading of “La Chapelle Blanche,” a Christmas story, by Ken W. Jones. Bob Keever delivered the Scripture reading: the birth of Christ, from Luke 2:1-20. J. J. Murray next read a paper on the history of Christmas customs in France, tracing many French customs connected with Christmas, from their beginnings to the present day. The Troubadours then sang several French Christmas carols. The Troubadours are H. W. Barr, R. J. Boyd, H. P. Bridges, M. C. Doubles, J. R. Keever, W. B. Lord, J. D. Whitener, and A. T. Davies. Finally, the whole Cercle sang a number of well-known French Christmas carols. After the program for the evening was over, Prof. and Mrs. Watts served chocolate eclairs, Coca-Colas, and doughnuts.

Pseudo Sisters Sing Features Eu Program

Wednesday morning the Eumanean Literary Society presented one of the most entertaining chapel programs of the season. Chuck Kirby, president of the active organization, directed the program which was varied with stump speeches, ballad readings, and “chorus girls” singing. Pete Kalogridis, of the sophomore class, in appropriate regalia and mustache, presented delightful highlights in Eu Society history. Next, Ken Goodpasture, also dressed as one straight out of the gay nineties, read an Alaska ballad of Yukon Jake, filled with pearls of humor, welcomed heartily by all present. These two old boys had to take a short nap, and during their dreamy reminiscings, three “lovelies” bounced into the spotlight. These freshmen chorus girls put the Andrew Sisters to shame with their melodies. No one could tell it, because of the lipstick and rouge, but these characters off-stage are better known as Bill Trotman, Leroy Carlton, and Mike Myers. Encores were very popular during the Eu’s program.