“PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

MAC HART
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

JOHN McNAIR
BUSINESS MGR.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Stan Kennett - Associate Editor
Bill Calhoun - Associate Editor
Ronnie Dietrick - Associate Editor
Jack Hazard - Sports Editor
Bob Hollister - Managing Editor
Lonnie Turnipseed - Managing Editor
Doug Hix - Managing Editor
Dick Morgan - Managing Editor
Tom Niblock - Staff Photographer
Bill King - Cartoonist
Charlie Reitt - Poll-Cat Editor
Phil Mitchell - Make-up Editor
Hartley - Make-up Editor
John Hobart - Make-up Editor
Jim Murray - Make-up Editor

REPORTERS:
Hall, Gabe Lowe, Neil Leach, Jimmie Henritzy, Henry Hausen, Pete Kalogridis, Drew Gurley, Bill Sargent, Bob Grube, Jimmy Lickeisen, Bill
Hollister.
REPORTERS—Randy Taylor, Bill DuBose, Whirren Sims, Ralph Robinson, Tom Allen, Dick Parnwell, Bill McCrary, Tom Mann, Bill Cumming, Phil Libby,
Ben Urymon, Dudley Pendleton, Nat Daniel, Dick Chandler, Joe Northeutt, Stuart Shippey, Hugh Hoffaker, Bill Neal, Harper Newbold, Jim Blackburn,
Jack Pierce, Harry Shurley, Bob Hubbell, Angus McKellar, Jack Peirce, Slats McClintock, Boye Kendall, Lamar Hinson, Ind Richardson.
SPORTS STAFF—Cherry Stribling, Gordon Scott, Furman Warlick, Watt Jeffries, Bill White, Phil Hansmond, Bryant Robinson, Dan McKeithan, David Whitener, Ed
West, Bill Buckey, Jack Stevenson.
POLL CAT STAFF: Jim Carr, Claude Higginbothan, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown, and Neal Underdown.

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager - Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager - Asst. Circulation Manager
Asst. Advertising Manager - Clinkscales
Asst. Advertising Manager - Hector McKeithan
Assistant Advertising Manager - David McConnell
Collections Manager - Charles Dockery
Subscriptions Manager - John Fortin
ASSISTANTS—Bill Cumming, Bill Hart, Marshall James, Duval Hunter, Bob Erwin, Bill Pharr, Harold Clayton, Sant Cumming, Rod Shaw, Gene Taylor,
Gene Jackson.
CIRCULATION STAFF—W. S. McSwain, Weyhe Smith, Bill Houck, Alex Goley, Floyd Phillips, Parks Dalton, Cecil Rhodes, Ansley Moses, Joe H.
Miller, Neill Underdown, Tommy Haller, John Hardin, Monroe Hugh, Whitaker Morris, Cam Dobson, Paul Guthry.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Friday, January 28, 1949

The DAVIDSONIAN Presents

FEATURES
That's understood. It's a question of a challenge to the Student Body to meet that their own leaders have set
for them. Davidson students have a reputation for tackling difficult situations—we're playing Army next year, aren't we—and making good. That
forty dollar "average"—some students will not be able to give near that much, others may be able to give much
more—dwindles some more when we realize that it does not have to be paid in full until commencement. Seniors, who
will be earning salaries after this year, some of them, will be allowed to make pledges that can be paid
within the next thirty months. Like any other pledge made in the campaign.

We Can’t Lose
Cicero would have us believe that the goddess Rumor is a feathery old hag who wanders around with her feet
on the ground and her head in the clouds—with eyes and ears and tongues sticking out on all sides. Be
that as it may, the old gal really gets around under the shadows of Alma Mater. The last half of
exam week she was running rampant on the campus. Tough for once she had the right dope. Yes, Davidson will
play Army next fall. It hasn't been the first time. We played them in 1929 when the Wildcats were state
champions and again in 1934. They beat us both times and bid fair to do it again. However, they know
that the fighting Wildcats from Davidson won't give up without a fight. The unexplained mystery remains—why did Army choose us
as opponents? We do not pretend to be in the same category as Army. Hawaii, the team they originally scheduled
for that date, would have been an easy push-over. Perhaps they expect the Wildcats to be a push-over. Without even
a quick look at the Cadets' prospects for the coming season, one would guess that Army brought you!

EDITORIALS

PI KAPPA PHI
Maybe it's the June weather we are having these nights or possibly the improved modes of transportation to the South,
but something has stimulated another member of our brotherhood to become a pledge in the HHH (How High Honey) fraternity.
Founders of the THEA, "Don Juan" Whit and "Forever" Lander, are very pleased over their new recruit, "Stinar Daddy-oo" Mead.
We wish you good luck, Allen. Rumor is that "Cess-pool" Brandon was a member of HHH for a few days,
but that his contract with some found thing was voided because of a fraud. So far we haven't been able
to find out who was truthful. We understand that Big Frost "You boys can have Hedy, but I’ll take Betty"
Hunter has been seeing more of Slick John and his associates than ever before. He has found that office romances
have their ups and downs, and he has had to be extra careful last week. Little hired told that Frost
secretly secured Camelia from the boarding house and then sneaked up to Chambers with it carefully hidden from view. When
he finally reached the door he had since me a LETTERS.

KAPPA SIGMA
We would like first to congratulate our out-going officers: Mike Williams, president; Stan Meek, vice president; and Bucky Faw, secretary,
for a fine job this semester. We would also like to congratulate our new officers on their being elected. They
are: Buddy Check, president; Hugh McAden and Gene Lingham, vice presidents. It's grand that Brother Kennett, president, such a lot
of talking, and the brothers will have to listen to him—What could be worse? We will miss Brother "No-Neck" Hamner
at the fraternity meetings, and the parties at Jake's house will never be the same without Brother "Ghoul" Henderson—both have
graduated.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1949 1948
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

$40,000 Challenge
Pride goeth before a fall and pride is one of the things we find hardest to forgive in our friends
and neighbors. However, pride in a job well done is not only excusable but commendable. And pride in a job
well done is just what the Student Body will be entitled to if they can put over their $40,000 campaign
drive. The Student Body of 1948-1949 will have a real accomplishment to point to in future years when they will
be able to say, "We gave the swimming pool." The goal is big. It's too big according to the original
idea that it was to be purely a student drive. But that has been changed. You can get your parents
to give through you, you can get friends interested in the project and let their help go in through the
student drive. North Carolina will be pretty thoroughly covered in the campaign, and so will the bigger cities of South
Carolina, and Atlanta. Parents, alumni and other friends of the college in other parts of the country will not be
effectively reached unless the students reach them. Everyone realizes that the drive is a fund raiser.

Wayne Morse and ponderous buddies the 81st and burn legislative attitude to 9, a few Homer Capehart. $1,000 should not
obligation of this country and sinister motive tion from ing the lin Roosevelt. As for present plans, Speaker Sam Rayburn
hopes to have a bill res Taft-Hartley act on the jp bealing the

CONGRESS CRANKS UP
Voting pay raises to Harry S. Clarkley and Congress gave picture of what could be the legislative attitude for four
years smoothly and crashingly overriding all opposition. Democrats encounter invectives. Morse charged in with tail parties that cost from $500
to being a necessary expense or social public officials in the bill. Despite these few causes of friction, Republicans, danger
to a Democratic honeymoon con- is in its own ranks, ly shown at Philadelphia and during the campaign needed the
uniting touch of Franklin Roosevelt.

Political Angles.
By SHELLY BRAND
holds to liberal lines higher taxes on higher incomes, readjustment of the Taft-Hartley Law, and enactment of a Civil Rights
program. The anti-Taft-Hartley bill is scheduled to come up soon and will probably contribute a great deal of copy for
Rayburn, the main wheel in the House, will try to give Truman everything he wants except possibly the whole office
where he will have to do $4 billion in new taxes or angles the best method would be to allow
union shops, but provide laws preventing discriminations and protecting minorities. As for management any new bill should include the Taft-Hartley
free-speech provision and should make clear the action an employer may or may not take. Protection of public interests has
been as comprehensively covered as is possible without sacrificing fundamental rights.

Big Test On Taxes
that had already been all but divided among the neck of the shrine clinging Toba was pledges come through their
in line now that he’s got her. push-over. Perhaps they expect the Wildcats to be a push-over. Without even a
quick look at the Cadets' prospects for the coming season, one would guess that Army brought you! At any rate,
whether it be grand mili- at the Wild of the shrine clinging Toba was pledges come through their in line
now that he’s got her. push-over. Perhaps they expect the Wildcats to be a push-over. Without even a quick look
at the Cadets' prospects for the coming season, one would guess that Army brought you! At any rate, whether it
be grand mili- at the Wild of the shrine clinging Toba was pledges come through their in line now that
he’s got her. push-over. Perhaps they expect the Wildcats to be a push-over. Without even a quick look at the
Cadets' prospects for the coming season, one would guess that Army brought you! At any rate, whether it be grand
mili- at the Wild of the shrine clinging Toba was pledges come through their in line now that he’s got
her. push-over. Perhaps they expect the Wildcats to be a push-over. Without even a quick look at the Cadets' prospects
for the coming season, one would guess that Army brought you! At any rate, whether it be grand mili- at
the Wild of the shrine clinging Toba was pledges come through their in line now that he’s got her. push-over.
Perhaps they expect the Wildcats to be a push-over. Without even a quick look at the Cadets' prospects for the
coming season, one would guess that Army brought you! At any rate, whether it be grand mili- at the Wild
of the shrine clinging Toba was pledges come through their in line now that he’s got her. push-over. Perhaps they
expect the Wildcats to be a push-over. Without even a quick look at the Cadets' prospects for the coming season,
one would guess that Army brought you! At any rate, whether it be grand mili- at the Wild of the
shrine clinging Toba was pledges come through their in line now that he’s got her. push-over. Perhaps they expect the
Wildcats to be a push-over. Without even a quick look at the Cadets' prospects for the coming season, one would
guess that Army brought you! At any rate, whether it be grand mili- at the Wild of the shrine clinging
Toba was pledges come through their in line now that he’s got her. push-over. Perhaps they expect the Wildcats to
be a push-over. Without even a quick look at the Cadets' prospects for the coming season, one would guess that
Army brought you! At any rate, whether it be grand mili- at the Wild of the shrine clinging Toba was
pledges come through their in line now that he’s got her. push-over. Perhaps they expect the Wildcats to be a
push-over. Without even a quick look at the Cadets' prospects for the coming season, one would guess that Army brought
you! At any rate, whether it be grand mili- at the Wild of the shrine clinging Toba was pledges come
through their in line now that he’s got her. push-over. Perhaps they expect the Wildcats to be a push-over. Without
even a quick look at the Cadets' prospects for the coming season, one would guess that Army brought you! At
any rate, whether it be grand mili- at the Wild of the shrine clinging Toba was pledges come through their
in line now that he’s got her. push-over. Perhaps they expect the Wildcats to be a push-over. Without even a
quick look at the Cadets' prospects for the coming season, one would guess that Army brought you! At any rate,
whether it be grand mili- at the Wild of the shrine clinging Toba was pledges come through their in line
now that he’s got her. push-over. Perhaps they expect the Wildcats to be a push-over. Without even a quick look
at the Cadets' prospects for the coming season, one would guess that Army brought you! At any rate, whether it
be grand mili- at the Wild of the shrine clinging Toba was pledges come through their in line now that
he’s got her. push-over. Perhaps they expect the Wildcats to be a push-over. Without even a quick look at the
Cadets' prospects for the coming season, one would guess that Army brought you! At any rate, whether it be grand
mili- at the Wild of the shrine clinging Toba was pledges come through their in line now that he’s got
her. push-over. Perhaps they expect the Wildcats to be a push-over. Without even a quick look at the Cadets' prospects
for the coming season, one would guess that Army brought you! At any rate, whether it be grand mili- at
the Wild of the shrine clinging Toba was pledges come through their in line now that he’s got her. push-over.
Perhaps they expect the Wildcats to be a push-over. Without even a quick look at the Cadets' prospects for the
coming season, one would guess that Army brought you! At any rate, whether it be grand mili- at the Wild
of the shrine clinging Toba was pledges come through their in line now that he’s got her. push-over. Perhaps they
expect the Wildcats to be a push-over. Without even a quick look at the Cadets' prospects for the coming season,
one would guess that Army brought you! At any rate, whether it be grand mili- at the Wild of the
shrine clinging Toba was pledges come through their in line now that he’s got her. push-over. Perhaps they expect the
Wildcats to be a push-over. Without even a quick look at the Cadets' prospects for the coming season, one would
guess that Army brought you! At any rate, whether it be grand mili- at the Wild of the shrine clinging
Toba was pledges come through their in line now that he’s got her. push-over. Perhaps they expect the Wildcats to
be a push-over. Without even a quick look at the Cadets' prospects for the coming season, one would guess that
Army brought you! At any rate, whether it be grand mili- at the Wild of the shrine clinging Toba was
pledges come through their in line now that he’s got her. push-over. Perhaps they expect the Wildcats to be a
push-over. Without even a quick look at the Cadets' prospects for the coming season, one would guess that Army brought
you! At any rate, whether it be grand mili- at the Wild of the shrine clinging Toba was pledges come
through their in line now that he’s got her. push-over. Perhaps they expect the Wildcats to be a push-over. Without
even a quick look at the Cadets' prospects for the coming season, one would guess that Army brought you! At
any rate, whether it be grand mili- at the Wild of the shrine clinging Toba was pledges come through their
in line now that he’s got her. push-over. Perhaps they expect the Wildcats to be a push-over. Without even a
quick look at the Cadets' prospects for the coming season, one would guess that Army brought you! At any rate,
whether it be grand mili- at the Wild of the shrine clinging Toba was pledges come through their in line
now that he’s got her. push-over. Perhaps they expect the Wildcats to be a push-over. Without even a quick look
at the Cadets' prospects for the coming season, one would guess that Army brought you! At any rate, whether it
be grand mili- at the Wild of the shrine clinging Toba was pledges come through their in line now that
he’s got her. push-over. Perhaps they expect the Wildcats to be a push-over. Without even a quick look at the
Cadets' prospects for the coming season, one would guess that Army brought you! At any rate, whether it be grand
mili- at the Wild of the shrine clinging Toba was pledges come through their in line now that he’s got
her. push-over. Perhaps they expect the Wildcats to be a push-over. Without even a quick look at the Cadets' prospects
for the coming season, one would guess that Army brought you! At any rate, whether it be grand mili- at
the Wild of the shrine clinging Toba was pledges come through their in line now that he’s got her. push-over.
Perhaps they expect the Wildcats to be a push-over. Without even a quick look at the Cadets' prospects for the
coming season, one would guess that Army brought you! At any rate, whether it be grand mili- at the Wild
of the shrine clinging Toba was pledges come through their in line now that he’s got her. push-over. Perhaps they
expect the Wildcats to be a push-over. Without even a quick look at the Cadets' prospects for the coming season,
one would guess that Army brought you! At any rate, whether it be grand mili- at the Wild of the
shrine clinging Toba was pledges come through their in line now that he’s got her. push-over. Perhaps they expect the
Wildcats to be a push-over. Without even a quick look at the Cadets' prospects for the coming season, one would
guess that Army brought you! At any rate, whether it be grand mili- atLarry Strategy or just an opening breather
“Thank you very much Mr. Flan- Tom and Dick Stockton, and Flan- dents are made of even though I will
probably fight any such bill for a great team. The West Pointers are go- [tec and with a raised eyebrow
wide of the freshman basketball; Me has changed his mind? about in the house. infty to know that there are
two teams on the added. “Red is my favorite color. I'm and tot Bill Williamson and Watling the job. Here
Truman has one of his field and they are going to find out first- we from the promised knees John
Smooth of the freshman women a liberal. Vata liberal toughest problems. It will be in- wrestling team for contributing so
hand about the renowned Wildcat spirit. hair was also singed around the teresting to see if he can solve much
to their respective teams, ears. Blake Wade has been elected sec- ably phrased “Roosevelt was without splitting the party. As
it stands, we have got everything retary-treasurer of the D Club to for them (the people) and Truman Harry finally
has his little red and nothing to lose. Already the effect fill the position vacated by Dave is of them.”
Wagon and if it doesn't burn out on the team is like a shot in the arm. Poole. Our basketball
team cer- Liberal Program he may save us from the boosted up this semester. Football interest this week. I put
a man on his trail tainly looked impressive in their The programs he has outlined Republicans for four more years.
is high, and everybody on the team is going to go all out for a first-string berth. You can be
sure. Not just anybody gets a chance to play against Army. The college stands to gain by the publicity involved.
It will be easier to attract good high players to the Holy City this spring and next year. The alumni,
true supporters of any team, will hitch up the school spirit, and show decidedly more interest when their alma mater
goes up against Army. We will get wide publicity on that first end of next year's gridiron season. And our
boys will have some valuable experience to use during the rest of their games. We can't lose—in anything but score
and we'll give 'em a run for their money there. Let's go-o, Wildcats!

Letter To Editor

Dear Editor:

When I read your editorial on “Changes in Stud Set-up,” in the last Davidsonian, it seemed to call for a
rebuttal. I am not talking about the entire editorial, but one specific part. The purpose of the editorial, as a
whole, is worthwhile. We should be considering very carefully the defects in the present Stud set-up. If they can be
overcome, then we must act at once. This is exactly what Dean Bailey advised us to do not over two
weeks ago. We should give it our most serious thought. But I do believe that the editor should have thought
twice before writing the last half of his second paragraph. “The boys who work in the Store, for the most
part, have a hard time making ends meet. As much as eight hundred dollars a day, in cash passes through
the store. Are we justified in putting a temptation of such dimensions in front of anybody?” This is not only
a very unfair statement in regards to the clerks but also to any person in the Student Body who “has
a hard time making ends meet,” cannot make ends meet.

(Continued On Page Four)

Paging The Professors

By NEIL LEACH

The next time you see a sporty bow-tie followed by a stout fellow with a bouncing stride, and a most
friendly smile, just call him Prof. P. B. Peyton. You'll spot him a mile away. Peyton gets around! He was
born in Philadelphia, Pa. (against his better judgment, so he says) and came to Virginia to attend high school. Grammar,
the like was endured, but this stuff didn’t interest a fellow whose heart was set on engineering. A taste of
this engineering was received during his three years at the University of Virginia where he studied from 1940 to 1943.
Further work in his field was taken at the R.C.A. Laboratory in Princeton, N.J. Here he worked in developing certain
new electronic mechanisms. Apart from his research at the RCA lab, Prof. Peyton was an instructor to several evening classes
at Princeton University. In 1946, he transferred to the General Electric Company and stayed with this company until 1948 when
he returned to Davidson to serve on the faculty.

Prof. Peyton was a student at Davidson, he was a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon, honorary physics fraternity. He worked
one year on the staff of the Davidsonian and acted with the Red and Black Masquers. At the University of
Virginia, Prof. Peyton worked broadcasting station and edited the weekly engineering paper. This math professor lives with his parents here
in Davidson and now enjoys his work very much. The only thing he disliked about his first year here was
the persistent student who would argue half a day trying to get “B” out of a “C-plus.” To solve this
problem, Prof. Peyton now has a little machine that does all his adding, subtracting, dividing, etc. In fact, this gadget
does everything but tie his multi-colored bow ties. You can't argue with this little brain machine for its word is
final. Ask D. Clark about it sometime, he might be able to tell you more about this brighter side of
Prof. Peyton’s life, also.

PROF. JAMES Y. CAUSEY

Would you like information on any particular college or university? Well, there is one professor in our Spanish Department who
could come as near as anyone around here to furnishing you this information, because the professor, Dr. James Y. Causey,
has been affiliated with quite a number of different colleges and universities. Prof. Causey received his A.B. degree at the
University of Virginia, his M.A. was earned at the University of North Carolina, and he completed his work for his
Ph.D. at the University of Wisconsin. Soon afterwards as the result of a coveted scholarship, he enjoyed most interesting studies
in the University of Madrid. From Spain he went to France and did further graduate work at the University of
Dijon. That is only the beginning, for Prof. Causey has taught at William and Mary, De Pauw, Emory, and Davidson.
Any man having profited from such a wide variety of institutions is certainly considered to be most fortunate. Prof. Causey
is a native of North Carolina, and his very attractive young wife was formerly of Lynchburg, Va. Both enjoy the
cordiality of Davidson and declare, the friendly atmosphere of (Continued On Page Four)
