PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN * SATURDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1949

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

EDITOR IN CHIEF
BOB HOLLISTER

BUSINESS MANAGER
BILL HOUCK

EDITORIAL STAFF
Chief Associate Editor
Doug Hix
Chief Associate Editor
Lonnie Turnipseed
Chief Associate Editor
Jack Hazard

MANAGING EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall, Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister, Randy Taylor.
Sports Editor—Gordon Scott
Make-up Editors—Dan McKeithen, Cherry Stribling.
Art Editor—Bill King
City Editor—John Hobart
Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Bill Cassells
Advertising Managers
Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison.
Circulation Manager
Huffaker
Asst. Circulation Managers
Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager
John Loftin
Subscriptions Manager
Alex Goley

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

FROM THE PRESIDENT

Once again welcome to Homecoming. For more than a quarter of a century Davidson has been observing this anniversary occasion. It has come to be the time in the year when we expect a maximum number of alumni, friends, and parents back to the campus. The occasion holds features of college life which are of interest alike to alumni, trustees, parents, faculty, and students. It brings encouragement to your Alma Mater through the renewal of friendships and the observation of the successes of her loyal sons.

There is abundant reason for gratitude to God and to our public for the developments of the past year. Beginning with the faculty and students and reaching out to the distant centers of the nation, there have been expressions of devotion and concern. Since last year when the Development Program was announced, we have seen it achieve a remarkable distance toward successful conclusion. Then we were laying the cornerstone to the new gymnasium; today we are dedicating that structure and beginning another. May we allow these achievements to be the herald and token of good days to come in the academic and spiritual life of Davidson.

The traditional welcome awaits all our guests today. Let us forget the cares and the worries of the daily routine and give ourselves to the healing friendships of this blessed place. Meanwhile, we shall be pulling with all our might for the success of our team on this Homecoming.

John R. Cunningham

TO ALUMNI AND FRIENDS

The Davidsonian staff would like to take this opportunity to extend for ourselves and the student body, a hearty welcome to all the alumni and friends of Davidson College. We are glad that you are able to be with us on this milestone in Davidson's history. We hope that you will avail yourselves of this opportunity to visit the various groups and organizations on the campus. The fraternities will be open all weekend and will be looking forward to having you visit them, and renew your acquaintance with the active chapters. Also the literary societies, and the Y.M.C.A., will be open and invite you to drop around. We hope that you will take part in as many activities over the weekend as is possible.

As you return to the college, the advances that have been made in these last few years become much more apparent to you than to those of us who are students. And yet, although the physical structure is expanding, basically Davidson is the same as it was when you were here, engendering those high ideals of character that set it above the ordinary.

Prerequisites Of Progress

Surrounded as we are this weekend by a panorama of progress — of the evidence of the long strides forward we have made since the days of Davidson’s beginning; we may feel that we have earned the right to bask awhile in the glory of our accomplishments.

For our accomplishments are indeed far from insignificant. Many, and varied are the praises heaped at our door. This very paper you hold records a series of many worthy advancements which have been brought about during the relatively short period of the past decade.

Let us remember, however, two all-important points. First, we must remain constantly aware of the fact that we are not represented in the minds of the public by the number or the size of our buildings — as important as that factor may be. We are, to those away from Davidson — to the world — precisely as great or as small, as good or as bad as each of the day-by-day, person-to-person relationships in which we are engaged. The quality of our undivided character — the strength or weakness of our faith in and adherence to those changeless principles of all that is right and good — this is the cornerstone upon which we shall rise or fall. It is on this foundation, and this alone, that we are able to bring into reality, the Davidson of our prayers.

The second point is closely related to the first. It is simply put — we cannot allow ourselves to feel that our goal has been attained. Davidson’s greatness, just as the greatness of an individual, is limited only by the extent of our goal. In order to live a life of usefulness and productivity we must never content ourselves with past or present achievements. To do so is to retrogress, to accept a role of constantly decreasing effectiveness, and eventually to pass from the picture.

If we are possessed of the courage and the faith to abide by these fundamentals and to incorporate them into the life of our college — no force or function of man will ever be capable of staying the progress of Davidson or of diminishing her influence for the good and the right.

A True Account of Homecoming Festivities

A true and original account of the Homecoming festivities at Davidson College in the Year of Our Lord 1949, as set down in his diary by Mr. Samuel Pepys.

By BILL CURRY

This morning up at usual hour, and, foregoing breakfast, hastened to my class in the European novel. There I was pleasantly occupied for the better part of an hour in the taking of a review which the professor in kindly fashion made quite easy, due to late rally for the football team on previous evening. Thence to a class in 18th Century Prose, where I spent the first forty minutes recording an outline which the professor modestly titled a “brief discussion.” Then settled myself to enjoy the antics of my professor, who was in extraordinarily rare form. The bell did ring and I to bed again.

Roused from slumbers again shortly after high noon by my friend from Bristol, who was engaged in searching my closet for a jar of corn spirits, which he said he hid in my trunk some weeks previous with a stick of charcoal to gather age. Not finding same, he concluded it to be in some other place, and left greatly perturbed. I did rise from bed and found my sole dress-shirt to have been returned by the laundry in a state of great disrepair. After dressing, I to the laundry, where I did haggle with the management for quite some time, but never came to blows. Successfully concluded my business there, and came off with someone else’s dress-shirt.

Then took a stroll over the campus to regain my composure, enjoying the signs and decorations erected for the occasion of Homecoming on the principal edifices. All were artistically designed to welcome returning alumni, and to open hearts and wallets. Stopped on my way at a popular coffee house in Main Street, where I did find the jovial and portly proprietor engaged in painting signs on the windows of his establishment, welcoming alumni to his place of business. Stayed there no great while, however, due to outrageous advance in all prices from 50 to 75 percent.

At one, to my boarding house for dinner, which I found exceedingly poor, but enjoyed my conversation with friends. Since ladies were dining at a nearby table, I was greatly embarrassed when one of our number did forget himself and, in an unseemly manner, did loudly and profanely refer to privy parts while stressing his point in argument. Thence to my fraternity house, meeting on the way my good and amiable friend, Professor Lilly, who waved to me in passing, which caused him to lose control of his bicycle, regaining his composure scarcely in time to avoid collision with a truck. In my great preoccupation over the distress of my friend, I, by the grace of God, narrowly missed being struck down and killed by a brown Mercury automobile, which was being driven at an outlandish speed down Concord Street in the direction of the library.

My fraternity house I did find the scene of great confusion, with much milling about. Everything there was quite out of sorts amid the holiday preparations, and so to the porch. There I continued for quite some time, and was presently joined by a group of friends, who were preparing a trip to Charlotte. They exhorted me to journey with them to the city, where they did intend to lay over only long enough to acquire “Wildcat Spirit” which they would then bring back to Davidson. Knowing such to be frowned upon by the highest dignitaries at court, I did register my hearty disapproval of their plan, and beseeched them at length to give it up. My pleas did fall upon cold hearts, however, and shortly they departed. I did make careful inquiry as to their whereabouts later on, in order that I might be of assistance if I were needed. And so I to my room and they to Charlotte.

About dinner time I did dress, and thence with friends to the city to fetch lady friends. The journey was uneventful save for stopping twice at roadside houses, which my friends declared it necessary to do for their general welfare. Back in Davidson we did become quite lost, and with no little difficulty, did make our way to the ball, where traffic we did find exceedingly heavy, forcing us to leave our conveyance at no little distance from the gymnasium and to continue on foot. Arrived late at the ball, and found the floor quite crowded. Did (Continued On Page Eight)

NAVY VS. AIR FORCE...

By GABRIEL LOWE

It is difficult for the average citizen to make any sense out of the charges and countercharges of the Navy-Air Force dispute. But the crux of the matter seems to lie in the importance of a superior air force.In the unwillingness of the Navy to yield to the inevitable. For a good many years, the Navy has enjoyed great prestige as the front line of defense of the United States. In the recent war, the Navy claimed 100 percent of the credit for the victory over the Japanese in the Pacific. And, through the most efficient press agency in the world, the Navy has built up a tradition of glory that is looked upon by the average citizen with awe. Now, however, the Air Force has suddenly come into its own as an independent and very vital arm in the National Military Establishment, and is threatening to replace the Navy as our first line of defense, with all the glory, prestige—and Congressional appropriations—that that position entails. For among the lessons learned in the past war, none was driven home more emphatically than the effects of aerial bombardment.

The effects of aerial bombardment are still being debated. And while there are those who claim that the bombed-out factories of Germany which the Air Force had written off as having been obliterated were still producing as much as 50 percent of their peak production when the end came, still they cannot deny the fact that during the time that those factories were temporarily out of operation the German armies suffered a depletion of supplies at the front which gave our troops a considerable battlefield advantage. Nor can they deny the tremendous moral effect on the German people of seeing the skies filled with Allied bombers day after day and night after night. The importance of this moral effect lies in the fact that no war can be successfully and totally waged unless the people are behind their leaders, and their ardor can soon be cooled by having the war being constantly brought to their very doorsteps and dropped down their chimneys.

Another lesson that came out of the war was the effectiveness of airborne troops in military operations. They were used sparingly because there were so few of them, and because they were an innovation just going through the experimental stage. Now, however, the Army has been convinced of their usefulness and effectiveness, and Army strategy now calls for the transport of entire divisions by air. In fact, it is the ambition of the Army eventually to make all of its infantry airborne.

In addition to these considerations, there is the atomic bomb to be taken into account. The bomb is of such a nature that it is to be hoped that neither the United States nor any other nation will see fit to use it. But it is a very effective weapon, and we should be prepared to use it if necessary. With this in mind, President Truman, Secretary Forrestal, and high-ranking Army and Navy officers met at Key West, Florida, in March 1948, and decided at that time that the delivery of the atomic bomb on a target in the event of war should be the responsibility of the Air Force.

All these things point up the necessity of a large Air Force and give it the center of attention in the armed forces setup. But the Navy is a proud and glorious service and is not to be pushed out of the limelight of history so easily. Thus the Navy-Air Force dispute.

(Continued On Page Eight)

ALS...LETTERS...FEATURES

White Washed Sepulchre
By HENRY E. HANSEN

At the risk of running counter to the plea for “No More Chapel Editorials” which appeared in the October seventh issue of the Davidsonian, this article is going to concern itself with just that subject. It is felt that certainly there is no need for a constant iteration of the theme which has generally appeared in articles on the subject, namely, that our attitude as a student body toward the chapel exercise is one which falls far short of what it should be, even though this is an important aspect of the total situation and will receive its due share in the discussion to follow. The impetus for this article comes, instead, from a feeling that the problem of student conduct in chapel is wider in scope and deeper in significance than is generally supposed.

It has not been too long since a member of the faculty gave a talk the gist of which was that the reason for Davidson's superiority in the production of character and moral fiber rests squarely on the fact that we have not, as a group, abandoned the emphasis on religion. This speaker pointed out that in northern schools which are Davidson's counterpart in enrollment and, ostensibly, in purpose, there has been a gradual slipping away from the things of the spirit with a consequent deterioration of the character of the men turned out by these schools. The schools mentioned have, in other words, become mere educational grist mills and have completely abandoned any formal attention to the morals of the men with whose education they have been entrusted. Castigation for our own failings in this respect did not appear to be the purpose of the speaker and, sure enough, what followed left Davidson College basking in the rosy light of an orgy of self-adulation. Now it is not the contention of this article that we deserve no praise at all, far from it. It is the contention of this article that self-praise can be a dangerous thing in that it leads to immobility. No institution is so great that it cannot, by an intelligent effort, improve itself still further, and no institution can afford the immobility which lauding self will, in almost every case, bring about. For it is axiomatic that a position cannot be held. One must either go forward, or be swept backward. This is as true for a college as it is for an individual.

Having cleared away certain fundamentals which are germane to the purpose of this article, the writer wishes to indict the college on two points (the term college includes both faculty and students). Point one is this: there has been and is now in progress a deterioration of the spirit of the law or idea of education to which Davidson has always paid homage. Point two, and far more important, the letter of the law is still followed and so blinding have been the effects of self-praise that few are aware of the deterioration of its spirit. These are undoubtedly serious charges. But it must be asserted that violent denials of them are not necessary in order to save face or still the qualms of conscience. No one is more aware than the writer that such a deterioration demands no active commitment to a series of sins of commission. That is just the point—the sins of omission are more than enough and, unlike the more colorful sins of commission, are far less apt to bring on feelings of self-recrimination.

(Continued On Page Eight)

COLLEGE RAGS
By WATT JEFFRIES

The Carolina “Tar Heel” reports that Coach Frank Leahy of Notre Dame has started a “lid-lifting crusade against a harried race of men known as the football officials.” It seems that prior to the Notre Dame-Washington game the officials had consented to witness a movie of a previous Notre Dame game shown by the Washington coaches in order that they might have pointed out to them the methods of illegal use of the hands that could be expected from the Irish. Whether justified or not, Leahy feels that the film prejudiced the officials to the tune of 170 yards in penalties... The Richmond Professional Institute is initiating a “lights out” policy for the male students of one of its dormitories. Students will also be required to sign in and out, except on weekends. The measure is a trial one and has not received undue opposition from students as yet... The Boston College football team certainly doesn't lack student support these days. A paint-smeared jalopy led a whole cavalcade of Boston supporters across Connecticut and the rolling hills of Pennsylvania to Penn State College. A student mob besieged the hotel where the players were lodged, and escorted them to the field... According to an editorial in the Alabama State “Alabamian,” over 60,000 “war” children have been given assistance by the Foster Parents’ Plan For War Children, by which destitute children in war lands are adopted in a financial way by individuals or organizations. The cost is only 50 cents a day ($15.00 a month) and the plan has been undertaken by many college groups... Girls of the Converse College student body were recipients of free tickets to the Wofford-Michigan game through the courtesy of the Wofford Athletic Association. Relations between the two schools were never so good as they are now... From the Meredith College “Twig”—“The Louisburg ‘Column’ suggests that we could cross kangaroos with foxes so as to have fur coats with pockets.”

CAMERA CORNER
By HUGH SWAN

“Task Force” is an action saga of naval aviation in which Gary Cooper rises from a captain to an admiral in one year. Impossible?—maybe so. Well, there are some pretty fast moves made around here at Homecoming—if you like realistic sea-battles, this picture is really chock full of them. “Task Force,” starring Gary Cooper and Jane Wyatt (see cut), runs October the twenty-third through October the twenty-ninth at the Carolina Theatre.

“Sand” is a story of wild horses that roam through the Rocky Mountains of Colorado. “Jubilee,” a show horse, decides to “rough it” with the wild horses instead of continuing with his “soft touch.” Naturally, his owner is a little upset and goes all the way to get Fifi—er “Jubilee.” “Sand” stars “Jubilee” and the minor co-stars Mark Stevens, Rory Calhoun, and Coleen Gray. “Sand” plays from October the twenty-third through October the twenty-ninth at the Imperial Theatre. Incidentally, it’s rumored that Mark gets Coleen and Rory gets the horse.

“Christopher Columbus,” starring Florence Eldridge and Fredric March, flicks from October the nineteenth through October the twenty-sixth at the Center Theatre. The discovery made by Columbus is regarded as one of the five most dramatic stories in history, the others being the life of Christ, Adam and Eve, Anthony and Cleopatra, and Lord Nelson. One of the most interesting scenes in the film is one in which Christopher is offered a smoking weed by one of the natives of the New World. The explorer puffs curiously and then smiles with satisfaction. “Ah! this must be a camel.” As a result of this chance hospitality, Columbus brought the habit of smoking back to Europe. From certain heads of information, I’ve been told that this is a very entertaining picture.

(Continued On Page Eight)