FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1949

PHI GAMMA DELTA

The chapter really looked great last Saturday in the free-for-all held against the Salem varsity; although penalized rather frequently for
illegal use of the hands, the boys from Delta Kappa came through with flying colors. Outstanding for the locals were
pledge brothers Bob Struble and Christie Whiteman, who, in spite of extreme odds, fought gamely on to the bloody end.
Again Gluectose chickened out on his brethren and fled back to the hills when he heard Boy’s Town was to
be invaded by women. Wally Abbott, who stayed to fight like a man, was heard to mutter something about, “Fiji
was never like this.” Whisperin’ Aubrey, living example that virtue can't hurt you, was seen weakly staggering through the house
looking for his pills and semi-annual ration of rye-crisp. It seems everything Miree eats turns to — oh, never mind.

The P. C. game had hardly been dead two minutes when the HY Pimp Pete Brown made his appearance to
tell the girls how easy it was to catch those passes if you only knew how. The girls had a
better defense than the P. C. backfield, however, and blocked most of Pete’s passes.

Rev. Bunny Perrin, the holy terror, who must certainly have some rabbit blood in him, deciding that his weekend had
not been complete after only one date, set off for Greensboro on Sunday to round out his schedule. What follows
is a paid advertisement; anyone interested in securing the name, address, and high description on an A-bomb, sure-fire ace-high-royal-flush pot
winner drop by 11 Georgia for the gruesome details. This creature is guaranteed against any competition.

The chapter announces with pleasure the pledging of: Elliott Braxton, Hampton, Va.; Roy Smith, Charlotte; Raymond Lynch, Easley, South Carolina.

SIGMA CHI

There were both sorrowful goodbyes and sighs of relief when the buses left Davidson Saturday night for Salem College. Chuck
Mann was very vocal in his sigh of relief. Lewis Nelson didn’t say much nor did he react very enthusiastically
over his cute Salem date. Glenn Eddington said, “Oh, she was all right.” Frank Wallace was heard asking the distance
from Davidson to Salem. Joe Griffith had his own Florence Cole down to Davidson. The brothers enjoyed her singing and
piano playing. They also enjoyed saying goodbye to her while Joe waited anxiously. Tom Abel dated a friend of Florence.
He didn’t have much comment on her. How was she, Tom? John brought Joyce to the game and Bill also
brought a “friend” along. We were also glad to have Homer Zedaker with us for the weekend.

Bill Calhoun, an alumnus, dropped down the Friday before the Army game. At midnight he, John Calhoun, Bill Brooks, R.
B. Covington, Bucky Long, Marshall Dendy, and Paul Laverty left for Michie Stadium. Needless to say, they never made it.
However, they did pick it up on the car radio. They did make it back to Davidson by 9 p.m.
Sunday. How dumb can you get?

Speaking of traveling, Morgan, Grissom, Hamilton, Jackson, Brooks, Norwood, Laverty, Best, et al., were seen heading north on Highway 21
last Friday night. Mission was accomplished; however, Ben had to stay up until 4 a.m.—I would suppose to make up
for the library time he lost that weekend. Apperson, what is out at Queens? He has been seen there quite
frequently this year. What would Sarah have to say about this? Tom, Harold, and Dotg are also very well known
at Burwell. Beatie must think that Queens has something because he is still trying his “luck” in spite of his
recent experience there.

Blackjack was seen in the library the other night writing a sociological paper based on research this summer with a
girl who knew all the "wrong places" in Atlanta.

The Sigs played a great game Tuesday against the Phi Delts. They lost 6-0 to a good team in the
first game of the year. It looks like our team will give the best teams in the league a lot
of competition. Everyone looked good for the first game, but Ben Hamilton rates extra praise for his outstanding play in
the Phi Delt game. Good luck in the Kappa Alpha game Friday.

I’ll sign off with a word of wisdom to Phil Davis, “Silence is a virtue, especially in the company of
upperclassmen.”

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

Down at Minerva’s lodge this week the SAE's have centered all their attention on trying to train a good pledge
class and to develop a winning football team for this fall's intra-fraternity competition. The pledge trainer this year is Bro.
Billy Pate, and he gives promise of a good pledge group if we all cooperate with him and all goes
well. Pledges Dick Kelly, Max Morrison, A. C. Gregg, Kent Glover, Jimmy Jameson, Harold Johnson, and Vernon Clifton are all
on the Freshman football team and we hope to hear more from them in that position later on in the
autumn. Pledge Bill Bledsoe is on the Freshman Tennis Team and we hope that he can hold a position in
that highly competitive sport. Pledge Kenneth Smith is among other things a musician as we were proud to note at
the Davidson-Salem Day—a musician in the Grand Ole Opry style, which is the only style! We are hoping that when
more of the extra-curricular activities get under way, more of the pledges will come up with talents and accomplishments for
us to write about.

Bro. Bob Millar is trying to whip the purple and yellow pigskin packers together, and the prospects so far look
good. The first game is Wednesday with the Phi Gams; this game will give us a chance to really see
if Bro. Lain Cloaninger can center; Bros. T. C. Coleman and Bob Bennett can catch a pass; if Bro. Lamar
Hinson can really get through that gap between guard and center as he says he can; if Coach Millar can
really play quarterback and operate a smooth offensive team; and if the Minerva brothers really have the spirit that they
should have. We cannot win them all without winning the first, so we hope that all will be on hand
for support and encouragement. Last year it took us two or three games to get started but we hope this
will not be the case this year.

Plans for Homecoming are being made on all sides, so don't get left—if you don’t have a date, get one,
and if you don’t have some ideas for decorations then start thinking it over.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

Brother Russ Grant and nearly all the other brothers, using Fanjoy’s show cows as an excuse, ran up considerable mileage
over toward Statesville this week. We still wonder why Russ never talks of a bull yearling anymore, but of some
cow named Fifi that he saw there. Congratulations to Van Story Sifford, Lee Talbert, Osborne, and Grover Lee for the
good ball they played this weekend. No doubt they will have better luck next weekend with State. Grover says we
would have won if he hadn’t been stood up by his girl and the coach. I think he’s making another
try this weekend.

Getting around to the event of the latter days, many of the brothers had beautiful dates on the campus. Gordon
Scott and Ed Denison had two mighty pretty dates at supper Saturday along with Cameron, Oberon, and Jeff Wood. Bobby
Joe was seen with his charming bride-to-be, happily spending one of his last bachelor days. Others who had girls at
the game were Marky, Warlick, Furr, Cooper, and Bill Boyd. Amos wouldn't bring his “friend” down, but he reports he
had a fine time in Mooresville. Brothers DuBose, Mills, and Seawell couldn't find anything better to do than to sit
around all weekend. Sunday afternoon, Russ—

(Continued On Page Five)

It has been said of certain periods in history that nothing of any great importance really happened. People lived and
died; kings and presidents came and went; the wind and the sun and the rain continued to wear away the
land, sweeping the bits of rock and sand and the good rich soil to low places in the land or
down the racing rivers to the sea. But politically, there were no cataclysmic upheavals; culturally, no great awakenings; economically, no
major changes.

To say that the present time is one of tremendous importance is only to be banal. Constantly we are told
that this is a period of great moment and deep significance. So many times have we heard this that some,
at least, are becoming afraid of the frightful, terrifying importance of our times and are longing for the tranquil days
of yesteryear when life was free and gracious, when every move was not one whose implications might well be earth-shaking,
and when a man could live and die untouched by the hurrying mad pace of today.

But the seeds of today were sown yesterday, sown in the tranquil days of yesteryear when life was free and
gracious. An era does not spring full-blown from nothing. It is not a discrete part of history. It, like all
living things, has a heredity which determines what it can and cannot do. Those halcyon days of yesterday saw a
seed planted. The seed sprouted, throve, grew into a philosophy rank, tenacious, and highly inimical to the things we as
a people have always held dear. And the one unique thing about this philosophy is that it did not, doesn’t,
and probably will not reveal itself for what it is. It is an insidious thing and it has permeated the
mind and thought of our people as silently but as surely as a fog invades a city.

The reason for this unique characteristic is this. At the time of the inception of this philosophy, its influence on
the actions of those who believed in it was honest; that is, their promulgation of the concrete expressions of its
principles was done in the sincere belief that it was best for the country. The philosophy itself being false, its
effect on the people was evil. And they came to oppose any reversal of its principles, not sincerely and honestly
as they had done, but for selfish political reasons. Thus this philosophy, inherently evil, has corrupted both the politician and
the general populace. And since this effect is mutually interacting, the corruption caused by the philosophy has proceeded by geometric
proportions.

What is this philosophy? The answer can be given most succinctly. It is the idea that something can be had
for nothing, that freedom can be enjoyed without its inevitably accompanying responsibility. It is an extremely attractive idea and would
be an extremely desirable one were it true. Unfortunately, it is not, and, equally unfortunately, the American people have displayed
an increasing insensibility to the fact that it is not true.

The seed of this philosophy had to exist before it could be planted. To find the seed of such a
philosophy is not difficult. Always there are those members of a society who are little short of parasites. Ostensibly, at
least, these parasites profess to believe in equal opportunity for all and to admire those who have reached the top
by their own efforts. In actuality, they envy these “doers” who have had the initiative to better themselves, would rather
be fed and controlled by an outside agency, and long for the downfall of those who have succeeded where they
have failed. Such men are always with us. And they are clever. For they know that these “doers,” the ones
they envy or despise, need not be killed or banished to secure their downfall. There are other ways, equally effective,
of pulling those above them down to their own ignoble level.

This seed had to be planted before it could grow. In 1932 a new president was elected. It was he
who planted it, nurtured it deep in the hearts of the people. Thus was philosophy given concrete expression and the
diseased pollen of its flowering, like some mysterious vapor, has confused the minds of millions, has corrupted those who once
were pure. This seedling had to be tended before itCould flower. How was it tended? When Franklin Delano Roosevelt assumed
office, the country was in the grip of a great depression. The people were frightened and willing to try any
expedient to restore the former level of prosperity. The true solution to their problems lay at hand. Hard work, sweat,
and tears, then as now, were the only good solutions to a situation which, however brought about, had practically paralyzed
the economic structure of the country. To a certain extent, the people cannot be blamed for not taking this proven
way out of their dilemma. For it is a hard way—a long and difficult way. And when poverty is staring
a people in the face, it is hard to think of the ultimate; the immediate assumes an exaggerated importance, and
Roosevelt’s solution, though lacking courage and evil in its subsequent effects on the mind and philosophy of the people, then
appeared ideal in every way. How, then, did Roosevelt tend this philosophy, this idea that one can get something for
nothing, that the government can assume all the responsibility while the people have all the freedom? Five measures will be
used as excellent examples of how Roosevelt did this. These measures were set forth at the beginning of his administration
as cure-alls, panaceas for the ills of the country. They are: 1. the support of farm prices and the subsidization
of submarginal farm groups; 2. the establishment of minimum wages and the systematic promotion of labor organization and higher rates
of pay; 3. the redistribution of income by steeply progressive taxation; 4. permanent relief for unemployed, incapacitated, and the aged,
and a social security program; and 5. the use of public credit and of the fiscal machinery to offset the
stagnation of private enterprise and to stabilize the economy and maintain employment at a permanently high level. These measures were
the cradle of the new philosophy. What is so evil about them, so inimical? They seem workable ideas, yes, even
good ones. They seem benevolent and kind. How have they harmed the people? Are they malignant? One thing must be
said before answering the question above. The depression which elected Roosevelt and made these measures the law of the land
was undoubtedly an evil occurrence. It was an indication of irrefutable nature that the system which once had flourished was
now sick. But a system, like an individual, cannot always be well. Sickness is as inevitable to an economic system
as it is to an individual. The amount and type of illness will depend, of course, on the heredity, the
"stock," so to speak, from which the system comes. And a system can always be well only when it exists
under artificial conditions, when it is continually propped and bolstered and given shots in the arm from without. History has
taught us that these statements are axiomatic, true, by their very infallibility to occur in the past. It might be
added that our system, prior to 1933, had been well much more than it had been sick; had given us,
as a people, more than any other system has ever given any other people. But these measures of Roosevelt were
not aids to restoring the system to health. They were, and are now in their present greatly augmented form, dopes,
depressants, poisons which could not fail, ultimately, to kill the roots of democratic life. And it is only due to
the basic excellence of our system that it has so far been able to withstand the continued onslaught of forces
violently inimical to it. Far from making the sick well again, Roosevelt’s measures could only end in killing it. They
were attempts to set up another system completely different from the one which had been. Is an economic system so
different that it, like a horse with a broken leg, must be shot? Is it not worthwhile to try to
make well the system which has served us so efficiently in the past? The answer is obvious. Now to a
consideration of the five measures. It is important to keep in mind that each one has had a dual effect.
Each has tended to harm both our economic system and further to develop in the people the idea that something
can be had for nothing. And this dual effect is mutually interacting, for each tends to increase the other, which
in turn, further augments the former.

1. The support of farm prices and the subsidization of submarginal farm groups. There is nothing inherently wrong in helping
a person when he needs help. But this help must not be a permanent thing. When it assumes this character
of permanency, the individual no longer wishes to improve his own condition by his own efforts. He comes to depend
on the help which is being given him, and finally begins to regard it as his right to receive such
help. Thus his character is undermined. For it is a basic Christian principle that help must be designed in such
a way as to aid the individual in helping himself, not in making him a slave to that help. When
it does the latter, the individual’s true independence has been taken away from him. For freedom cannot be had without
responsibility. When the responsibility passes to the hands of the government, the freedom of the individual goes with it. Economically
this measure would be all right if a measure guaranteeing the profits of industry accompanied it. But no such measure
exists. On the contrary, while the prices farmers receive for their products and the wages labor receives for its work
are maintained by law, industry was not allowed to raise its prices to correspond to these increases and, if the
present administration has its way, will again not be allowed to do so. In addition to this, exorbitant taxes are
imposed on industry to help pay for the artificial bolstering of farmers’ prices. Industry is consequently “taken” coming and going.

2. The establishment of minimum wages and the systematic promotion of labor organization and higher rates of pay. In the
days of the individualistic, ruthless “captains of industry” it was perfectly evident that labor needed protection. To raise wages and
thus secure a better standard of living for labor was good for all industry as well as the worker since
it provided a larger market for the products of capital and labor. But the process has been carried too far.

Is The YMCA Alive? By J. J. Murray, Jr.

Does the Y.M.C.A. at Davidson College fulfill its mission as a vital force in campus life? In attempting to get
a line on such a far-reaching question, I have tried to cut a cross-section of opinion on the hill. Here
you will find reflected a dozen bull sessions stretching from the Y itself, through the dormitories, and down to fraternity
court. An outstanding feature of most of these informal discussions is how little the average student actually knows about the
organization and its scope of activities. Did you know, for instance, that the students both control and support the Y?
It is a fact that the student-elected members of the Board of Control, which is the final authority in matters
pertaining to the YMCA, have a potential voting majority over members from the faculty and administration. It is also true
that a large percentage of its funds are obtained from the student activities fee paid by each student at the
time of his registration. Lack of information is responsible for many misunderstandings of the Y program concerning what it is
and is not supposed to include. Responsibility for this publicity failure lies partly with the student body but to a
greater extent with the leadership of the Y. A five-minute chapel talk by each of the commission members does not
give a man a complete knowledge of the YMCA’s work. One of the commonest criticisms which I encountered in almost
every bull session was the antipathy created by what is commonly termed the “holier-than-thou” attitude of some of the Y
leadership. In past years this has been at times all too true. Glancing over the roster of leaders for the
coming years, however, will show the most nearly representative group of men in many years. If the Y is to
receive full cooperation from the student body, the secretary and future presidents must continue to secure efficient and acceptable leadership.
When asked what the Y needs most in its program, many students say “more ping-pong and pool tables.” Although obviously
not the most important items in its program, recreation facilities certainly merit consideration. These are at present entirely inadequate, limited
as they are by lack of space. Plans are now under consideration which would convert the old gym into a
student center. Here would be housed the campus publications, the honorary fraternities, the student store, and the YMCA. Under such
a system, the office of the Y secretary would be the logical point of coordination for all student activities. As
the center of student life on the campus, the Y would be in a position to give far more effective
service to the college in this field. This perhaps is one partial answer to the question of increasing the value
of the YMCA as an effective force for a better Davidson.

Editor’s note: This is the first of a series of constructively critical discussions concerning various campus organizations, institutions, and customs.

Now we see wage increase after wage increase and the administration is again clamoring for artificial controls to limit the
price industry may be allowed to charge for its products. It is patently ridiculous to control prices and, at the
same time, to allow wages to soar skyward without any reasonable relationship to these inflated prices. This is bad economically.
But morally it is worse. For the administration’s demands for these socialistic controls is ostensibly the will of the people.
But if the people are uninformed as to the true effect of such measures, then their so-called will is but
a violently twisted distortion of what it would be if they knew all the facts. This is an excellent example
of the corrupting influence this philosophy has had on the politician, for how can the people know the facts when
nothing but untruths are told them? And again, the individual has lost a measure of responsibility and consequently freedom to
the government. For he depends on the government to secure for him the rights he once fought for himself. And,
saturated with untruths and false concepts, he does not know, of course, that capital and labor are mutually interdependent. If
capital is destroyed, the goose which lays the golden eggs has been destroyed. Once this happens, the government must step
into the breach and set up a rigid economic system which completely destroys any last vestige of freedom.

3. The redistribution of income by steeply progressive taxation. When a man knows that the more he makes, the more
the government will take away from him, he loses the incentive to better himself, and an evil has been introduced
whose malevolent effects are impossible to overestimate. This is perhaps the worst of the measures chosen for examples since it
strikes directly at the very nature of man himself. Man is a creative being. Deny him the right to create
and he stagnates mentally and morally. And yet, why should a man assume added responsibility, when he will not receive
a higher emolument in proportion to this increase in responsibility? Why indeed? When income taxes were first proposed before Congress,
Senator Vardaman said the day would come when the government would take half of a man’s income. He was hooted
down in utter derision. The idea was fantastic. But today taxes run as high as ninety-one percent. This is but
another example of the political corruption which this insidious philosophy has produced. And there is not even a sound economic
reason for it. Roosevelt and his successor claim that these exorbitant taxes are imposed on the wealthy to lighten the
load on the lower income groups. This is not true. Out of fifty million people filing income tax returns in
1945, seven hundred and fifty-four thousand had gross incomes of ten thousand or over; forty-two thousand had incomes of fifty
thousand or over per year. Not a very large proportion of the fifty million people paying income tax, nor does
the money taken from these people do much to pay the government’s wasteful operating expenses. The bulk of the administration’s
income for running expenses comes from the man in the middle income groups. And yet he is told that the
rich are being taxed out of existence so that his load may be lighter. At one stroke the Roosevelt philosophy
is thus destroying incentive and creating a nation of dependent children who must be spoon-fed by the benevolent government. The
more the government helps the people, the more the government must tax the people—it is a vicious cycle which cannot
end except in complete control by the government. What the wise and foresighted once did for themselves, the government now
does for all, forcing the prudent to become veritable wards of the government and taking away from the foolish and
indolent every chance to do and prosper for themselves. The more a government does for a people, the less the
people are allowed to do for themselves. Is it independence when a man is no longer allowed to provide for
his own future? Is it independence when he must pay for the mistakes of those less wise than he? No!
Those who would create are denied the chance. Those who do not create become even more lacking in initiative than
they once were. The benevolent government becomes the government malevolent and man, born to create, sinks ever lower and lower.
Further, the industrial system which is an economic expression of the creative in man is destroyed.

4. Permanent relief for unemployed, incapacitated, and the aged, and a social security program. The emphasis here is again on
the word permanent. The idea, a moral in itself, has been distorted out of all semblance to its former self.
It has become a mere political weapon to ensure continued elec—

(Continued On Page Five)

The Poll-Cat

Do you approve of informal fraternity bidding?

Freshmen
Yes .......... 45.7 pct.
No .......... 54.3 pct.

Upper Classmen
Yes .......... 52.7 pct.
No .......... 41.9 pct.
Undecided ... 5.4 pct.

Are you in favor of having rush week:
First week of school ... 27.7 pct.
Wait several weeks ... 48.1 pct.
Between semesters ... 24.2 pct.

The Davidson College campus, comprising 469 acres, was purchased in 1863 for $1,521, or $3.29 per acre.
