READ LETTERS TO EDITORS VOLUME XXXVII

Music Fraternity Initiates New Men

Last Monday night, Gamma Kappa chapter initiated into the brotherhood of Phi Mu Alpha the following men: R. C. Palmer, Jr, A. J. Balk, H. A. Russell, C. M. Barrett, C. D. Sanders, L. D. Atkins, J. V. Larkin, C. M. Roper, P. C. Daniels, W. A. Dixon, H. W. Barr, R. W. Davis, J. S. Dorton, Paul Laverty, and Dave Whitener. Phi Mu Alpha is a national honorary music fraternity, which by recognizing outstanding musical ability and achievement on the campus, fulfills its purpose of fostering the production and the appreciation of good music.

Concerning plans for the present year, President Paul Jenkins says that Phi Mu Alpha hopes to bring to the campus during the course of the year outstanding musicians from surrounding areas as well as continuing its policy of presenting programs by local musicians. The local chapter also plans to join with other chapters of Phi Mu Alpha from surrounding schools to present musical programs both here and at these other schools. During the Spring semester, Phi Mu Alpha will once again sponsor the traditional interfraternity sing here on the Davidson campus.

Following the initiation ceremony Monday night, both old and new brothers were the guests of President Jenkins for a “feed” at the Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity house.

Chemistry Group Initiates 10 Men

The Gamma Sigma Epsilon Honorary Chemistry Fraternity initiated ten newly elected members at 7:30 Monday night in the Science Building, President Jack King revealed yesterday. Those initiated were required to have a B plus average in chemistry and other subjects and at least two years of chemistry. The following men were taken into the organization: S. C. Alexander, David C. Davis, A. N. Guthrie, R. W. Hubbell, Tom W. Jackson, S. B. Joyner, W. M. Mebane, J. T. Monroe, R. C. Patten and R. B. Patterson.

It was further stated that the fraternity hopes to have several outstanding speakers from surrounding universities and factories. Among others, there will be a talk on “Atomic Power" which is expected to be very enlightening. The student body is welcome to these talks and discussions. Papers on current developments in chemistry and related fields will be read and discussed at the meetings. There will also be discussions on chemical functions and fundamentals. The purpose of the organization is to create an active interest in chemistry and to supplement knowledge gained in scholastic perseverance. The officers of the fraternity are: Jack King, President; Ed Parker, Secretary; and Graham Newton, Treasurer.

NORTHWESTERN SOLVES HOUSING SHORTAGES

Northwestern University has consistently postponed action on its building needs, because of continuing high construction costs, but the proposed new men's dormitory and commons was recently placed on the “must” list in view of the critical housing shortage for men students on this campus. At present, about 600 men are living in metal huts erected on various sections of the campus. The new dormitory’s bedrooms have been styled to make maximum use of storage space, floor to ceiling, with built-in chests and lockers of light wood to match the ingeniously designed desks in the center of the room.

ENGINEERING SCHOOL INCREASES CULTURE

To provide a broader general education for engineering students while at the same time giving them a sound technological course, Case Institute of Technology has adopted new curricula for all its degree-granting departments.

WOODY McKAY ALENDA BtUK UB) ORTA LIBERTAS DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1949

NANCY COPELAND

Veteran Stage Performers Appear in Supporting Role

Nancy Copeland and Woody McKay, both veterans in Red and Black Masquers’ productions, are playing two of the supporting roles in the Masquers’ version of “John Loves Mary,” which will be presented November 21-22. Nancy, who will be remembered for her many brilliant leading and supporting roles in past Masquers’ productions, has been with the organization for the last five years. She attended Queens College in Charlotte where she majored in psychology. Her experience in dramatics includes not only her performances in Masquers’ plays but also one season in summer stock. In the summer of 1948, Nancy appeared in plays at the Priscilla Beach Theatre in Plymouth, Mass. In the part of Lily, Nancy is looking forward to playing her first character role. Lily is a former night club performer whose chief accomplishment is walking on her hands. She is a proud and somewhat defiant girl with a sympathetic strain predominating in her more relaxed moments. However, when her cockney temper is aroused, which is easily done, she is quite uninhibited in expressing herself.

Appearing in the role of Fred is Woody McKay, a member of the junior class from Lexington, N. C. Woody, an English major, takes part in varied extracurricular activities. He is manager of the basketball team, a writer on the sports staff of “The Davidsonian,” and a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity. His previous dramatic experience consists of parts in several high school plays and a supporting role in last year's Masquers’ production, “Arsenic and Old Lace.” Fred, the part portrayed by Woody, is a calm, nonchalant chap, who has a knack for getting out of entangling situations.

It might be of some interest to note that Davidson’s charter states that “it shall be unlawful for any person... to exhibit any sleight of hand theatrical, or equestrian performance, dramatic recitation, rope or wire dancing...” Thus, each play presented by a college-sponsored organization has been, in a sense, illegal. It was in the Fall of 1897 that the first big dramatic production was presented on the Davidson College campus. The play, “The Widow," which was sponsored by the Sock and Buskin Club, was apparently successful, although no actual report can be found. However, this precedent was not to remain a practice. In March 1898, the faculty prohibited further dramatic productions stating that “for a college under direct control of the Church, amateur theatricals are hardly advisable.” It was not until 1920 that a dramatic society became a permanent organization on the campus. This society, which was organized by Professor E. J. Erwin of the English department, was called the Dramatic Club — six years later the name was changed to the Red and Black Masquers. Since then it has presented an average of two plays a year. The present faculty advisors for the Masquers are Professors E. J. Erwin, H. T. Lilly, and C. G. Davidson.

SEND DAVIDSONIAN HOME

Many parents know little of the activities and events that are carried on at Davidson. More than most students realize, they would appreciate and follow with sincere interest all the items concerning student life here at the College. To help keep them informed concerning events pertaining to you — send them the Davidsonian now: See Alex Goley in 212 Duke.

Pensacola Novelist Visits Sigma Upsilon

Sigma Upsilon, Honorary Literary Fraternity, held its regular meeting on Monday night, November 7, at the Beta Theta Pi Fraternity house. Under the direction of President John Lyles, routine business matters were taken care of and the guests were introduced. The group welcomed Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Palmer of Pensacola, Florida, and parents of Rob Palmer, of the Senior class. Mrs. Palmer is the author of several historical novels of the old South. Program chairman, Charles Davis, introduced the readers for the evening, and turned the program over to them. Mr. Lacy McLean presented his essay on various political platforms, depicting with a note of sarcasm the “vital” points of such compacts. Charles Davis then read his poem “Reverie at Natchez,” a flashback to old man river. The next reading was done in excellent fashion by Dr. Cumming as he presented a short story account of an incident in the occupied section of Berlin. Dr. Chalmers Davidson completed the program with his reading of his own, “The Literary History of Mecklenburg County.” Dr. Davidson in this booklet takes us back to the very beginning of literary productions in and around Charlotte. It is well to note that dignitaries of Davidson College received top priority in this work which is soon to be published.

The Davidsonian

MAKE REPLIES NUMBER EIGHT

MEMBERS OF FORENSIC COUNCIL CHOSEN; TO ENTER TOURNAMENT

Beaver Club Selects Neophytes Accepted Committee to Write in Eumonean Tryout First Constitution

This is a significant year for the Beaver Club because during the last meeting, it was decided that the club should have its laws, ideals and purposes written out and drawn up in the proper form. As a result, a Constitution and By-laws Committee was appointed to peruse the history of the organization and draw up an appropriate constitution: the first since the founding of the Beaver Club. This committee will be aided by the legal advice of Professor Pinkney. Several other innovations were adopted at that important meeting including the appropriation of a seal and motto. It was agreed to require monthly dues of the members in order to finance a spring function and other activities. Previously, no dues were paid except a two-dollar initiation fee which was found to be inadequate to cover the needs of the club. Besides presenting the new member with the Beaver Club key the organization will also include a certificate of membership with its gift to new members.

The Beaver Club has the main purpose of entertaining visiting athletic teams. Besides this duty, however, it sponsors such activities as last year’s Winthrop Day Dance and Queens-Davidson Freshman Dance. Annually, the club sponsors the Senior Auction held every Spring. A chapel program sponsored by the Beaver Club will be held sometime following the Thanksgiving holidays. The exact date has not been determined, as yet. The organization also plans to hold a clothing drive for the benefit of European Refugees. This drive has been a success previously and it is hoped that this year’s effort will meet with as great a response from the student body.

Auburn Lambeth, this year’s Beaver Club president anticipates a very active season for the club this year which will maintain its reputation as one of the top undergraduate organizations on the campus.

ENGINEERING SCHOOL INCREASES CULTURE

To provide a broader general education for engineering students while at the same time giving them a sound technological course, Case Institute of Technology has adopted new curricula for all its degree-granting departments.

The Eumaneans accepted five new members, including four Freshmen and one Junior, into their literary society last Monday night, November seventh. “Chuck” Kirby, the president, began by leading the members in a brief devotion, composed of scripture reading from the sixth chapter of Matthew and a short prayer. Following the devotion, roll was called, to which each member answered with a quotation from some famous writer or orator. The program then began with each of the new members reading one or more original compositions. “Death of a House” and “Chambermaids” were presented by Bill Trotman, a Freshman. Dick Thorpe and David Adams, also Freshmen, read their papers entitled “On The Air” and “Uncle Jeff” respectively. There was also an interesting short story by George Bason. “Shorty” LaFar, the new Junior member, read a paper on “The Establishment of the Textile Industry in the Southern Piedmont.” After hearing these essays, poems, and short stories the society listened to criticisms by Jack McClaney, who acted asGeneral critic for this meeting. He criticized the conduct of the listeners, as well as comments made by the speakers. Later followed a discussion led by Hartley Hall, of programs for future meetings. The meeting was then closed after a consideration by the members of the persons they hope to bring into their literary circle in the near future.

Student Concert Is Slated Monday Night

A program of music will be presented Monday evening at 8:15 o’clock in Chambers Auditorium by students in the Music Department. This will be the first of a number of such programs to be given during the school year. Included on the program will be music for voice, piano, and organ. The concert will be open to the public and students and faculty are invited to attend. Students who will perform Monday evening are: William Whitesides, tenor; Jack Mills, Rob Palmer, and Dudley Pendleton, baritones; Perry Daniels and Paul Laverty, pianists; and Henry Bridges and Paul Jenkins, organists.

‘Cop’ Linker “Tolls The Knell Of Parting Day” And Then Watches “Jocund Day Stand Tiptoe on The Misty Mountain Top”

Any night as you go down to the street you can usually see a group standing around in front surrounded by a big cloud of smoke. A closer view will show that this cloud comes from a pipe in the center of the group and on the other end of this pipe is the chief spokesman of the gathering. If you haven't already guessed, this is Cop Linker, the campus night watchman. There probably are very few students who know him by any other name but Cop. His name is Mr. E. N. Linker and he has served with the college in his present capacity for the past ten years.

Cop comes on duty every night about eight o'clock, and he can be found in the vicinity of the street most any time till five in the morning. Anyone up in the late hours will see him making his rounds through the dormitories and punching his clock at the stations throughout the buildings. Light sleepers have surely often heard him patrolling through the halls in his never-hurried pace.

Cop is one of the most interesting people on the campus and his ten years at Davidson have provided him with many tales to tell. He can carry on a never-ending conversation with anyone who cares to stop and chat with him at any time. He’s probably best known by the late-comers-in who hasten to gain the safety of their rooms without arousing his attention. Some have unfairly charged him with meeting the buses and giving a breath check to all incoming students. Also, it has been said that he checks every car as it arrives back on the campus. But these are absurdities. No one has ever been stopped by Cop Linker who has not in some way acted extremely out of the ordinary.

Another of the chief problems that he finds is that of subbing for the campus electricians. Whenever a fuse is blown someone yells for Cop Linker to get some lights in the dormitory. And then there are the ever-present chores of unlocking rooms for those who lock themselves out and chasing dogs from the dormitory. Once last year a couple of mutts were locked in the armory in the basement of Georgia and were causing no small amount of racket. This went on for some time until someone called the Cop to relieve the situation.

Cop says the students today are nowhere near as rowdy as those who graced the campus before the war. This might be questioned by any number of students, and we can only wonder what kind of creatures those pre-war Davidsonians must have been. He said it was nothing to walk down the halls of any dormitory and be wading through several inches of glass. It seems the students thought little of tossing their empty bottles down the hall at whatever or whomever happened to come into view — the stud must have lost a lot of money. We can also be thankful for beer in cans.

The campus guardian also busies himself keeping solicitors and unwanted characters off the campus. There are more of these who wander on the campus than the student usually knows about. If any stranger cannot show that he belongs here or has a good reason for being here, it is Cop Linker who sees to it that he soon leaves.

Cop is never aroused or riled up. He manages to keep calm through all scrapes, and he has pointed out that in his job this is a necessity. He has never had any trouble with a student and keeps his same easy-going appearance no matter what happens.

If you don’t have much to do some night, just step down to the stud and you'll find a pleasant moment in a session with Cop Linker.

SUBJECT OF YEAR IMPORTANT IN VIEW OF ‘FAIR DEAL’ PLAN

Trial debates for this year’s members of the Forensic Council were held Tuesday night upon the subject, “Resolved: That the United States should nationalize the basic non-agricultural industries.” This is the national debate subject for the year. Each man was allowed to debate as he chose, pro or con.

These Profs. Attend Atlanta Laymen’s Convention

Professors Goldiere, Causey, Abernathy, McGavock, as laymen and officers in the Davidson Presbyterian Church attended this past weekend the greatest laymen's convention ever held in the south. As the Presbyterian Men's Convention opened on November 4th, in Atlanta Municipal Auditorium, Dr. James A. Jones, pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, brought the keynote message. The convention's first session proceeded Friday with Honorable W. C. Price, General Assembly Moderator, leading the invocation prayer and Dr. Wallace M. Alston, leading in a devotional service. Dr. Jones’ message on “Christ and His Church” keynoted this strictly religious convention for laymen which brought five thousand church members together to consider “The supreme place of the church.”

Governor Luther Youngdahl of Minnesota addressed the convention on Friday evening, speaking on “The Challenge to Christian Laymen.” Governor Youngdahl is an active layman in the Lutheran Church, a dynamic speaker, and related his message to the need and opportunities for accomplishment in Christian citizenship. Among the other well-known men to speak before this unusual gathering was Dr. John S. Bonnell, pastor of New York's Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church. Reports from those attending this convention indicate that the impressive and inspiring (Continued On Page Six)

Premedical Society Kids ‘Care’ Program

Davidson’s Chapter of Alpha Epsilon Delta, National Pre-medical Society, is expected to have a greatly enlarged program scheduled for this year, President Tom Jackson stated yesterday. It was further revealed that the society hopes to have several outstanding doctors and scientists as guest speakers and will continue to have medical films twice a month — to which all premedical students are welcome. The fraternity also intends to give pecuniary aid to the overseas relief organization, CARE.

The fraternity inaugurated its expansion program by initiating sixteen new members in the Science Building Monday night. Those initiated were required to have at least a B average in premedical scholarship. The following men were initiated into the organization: S. C. Alexander; R. E. Brooks; R. C. Burroughs; D. E. Cowan; W. A. Covell; David C. Davis; R. W. Hubbell; C. W. Hughes; S. B. Joyner; J. T. Monroe; R. C. Palmer, Jr.; Edward C. Parker, Jr.; William W. Pate; R. B. Patterson; R. C. Patten; and Eugene M. Regen, Jr.

It was also announced that the next meeting would be held on Monday, November 21, at which time the program and scholarship committees will be appointed. Last year the fraternity was active in the Blood Bank Drive which was promoted by Dr. Puckett and as a result over sixty pints of blood were donated by the student body. Other aims of the organization are to promote excellence in premedical scholarship and to emphasize the importance of premedical study. Last year this program was greatly benefited by the very enlightening talks given by Drs. Pritchett, Hansburger, and Staye. It is hoped that many other outstanding speakers, such as these, will address the club this year.

Griffith, 

men were chosen for Davidson’s team this year: First team: Hubert Cannon, Carlyle Crenshaw, Charles Davis, Malcolm Doubles, Ben Drymon, Pete Kalogridas, John Lyles, and Bruce Pruitt. Alternates are Stielley Beard, Eliot Braxton, Ken Goodpasture, Jim Templin, and Frank Wallace.

Sponsorship of the Forensic Council comes from a Faculty committee composed of Professor Griffin and Doctors Guerrant and Frontis Johnston. Doctor Johnston heads the committee, which heard the debate tryouts and selected the most persuasive speakers to make up this year’s team.

The first important plan of the Forensic Council is to participate in a debate tournament being held next weekend, November 18 and 19, at the University of South Carolina. Four men will represent Davidson. The subject of the debate this year is an extremely timely one, one that is of vital importance to all of us, especially in view of President Truman's “Fair Deal” program, which is a rudimentary step in the direction of Socialism, and the entire nationalization question which is sweeping the world.

Since the end of the war, debating has partially regained its prewar prominence at Davidson. The Forensic Council hopes for the continued support and interest of the student body.

Abetted D.C. Progress Program Extends Into Florida and Tenn.

Davidson's Development Program abetted by the Parade of Progress, the dedication of the new gymnasium, and the ground-breaking for the new church is being carried on with renewed effort. Since Homecoming the program has realized a gain of around sixteen thousand dollars, which makes a total to-date of $1,970,000.

At present the drive is being concentrated upon the area around Elizabeth City in the eastern part of North Carolina. Under the direction of Mr. Ernest J. Arnold the concentration of effort will be moved from area to area until the entire eastern section has been covered. This same plan will be followed by Mr. John Payne in western North Carolina, West Virginia, Tennessee, and Georgia. Mr. Robert J. Sailstad has recently gone to Florida to direct the program there. He has made his headquarters in Jacksonville where the Florida campaign will begin around November 15. As the campaign moves from city to city the director will change his headquarters accordingly.

The goal of the Development Program is $2,500,000 dollars. The program will be carried on until this goal has been reached.

Weather Report

Boys, who said it’s never fair at Davidson? Today, Wednesday, was the sixth day with no rain. There are several reasons for this ideal weather. First, during the middle of last week, two air masses of cold, dry air moved into this area and then a strong high-pressure area supplemented this cool air with a continuation of the fair skies. Today some scattered rain has been reported in South Carolina and Georgia but it is not expected to bring very much unsettled weather as it moves northward across this state tomorrow. Colder weather with fair skies will in most probability spread over this area on Friday and continue with much the same kind of weather as we experienced last weekend.