PAGE SIX

Intelligent Wives Seen as Necessity

“Marry a woman who knows more than you do” is the advice given to college students by Warren Bruner, management
consultant who is conducting an experimental course in career determination at Marietta College.

“A man’s personality and mental stature tend to increase as he progresses in his occupational field,” he told his class
recently. “On the other hand, a woman starts going backward as soon as she enters a career as a homemaker
— unless she realizes the danger and fights hard against it.

“Educate her less than the man, or start them even, and you provide one of several causes for the case
of a man in middle life divorcing the partner of his early struggles to seek a more compatible mate.”

Marriage as a career is one of many fields considered by Bruner in his course. The course is intended, he
said, to “lead to a wise choice of specific careers by exposing students to comparable information about a number of
career fields.”

“As far as is known,” Bruner continued, “Marietta College is one of the few liberal arts colleges in which life
planning is considered as important as delving into literature, history, art, or other subjects carried in most curricula. At least,
it's the only one that offers courses in career determination which students may elect for credit.”

These courses are the heart of a program of life planning, Bruner said. But he believes a college’s obligations to
students and society are not fully discharged until the courses are supplemented by individual career counseling and an effective placement
service.

“A number of other colleges,” he said, “are watching the experiment here with considerable interest. Many people think the time
is not far distant when all colleges will be compelled by popular demand to offer instruction of this type.”

PREVIOUS RECORD
(Continued From Page 3)

games played may look bad for the records; however, it should be remembered that a glance at the homecoming games
constitutes only a small part of the record. Davidson has made a splendid record in football history and can continue
to do so.

CAMERA CORNER...
(Continued From Page Two)

which have turned California's Imperial Valley into the nation’s winter market-basket. Thousands of these workers cram the various border towns
awaiting official permits to enter the U.S. Many grow tired of waiting and become the “wet backs” who swim the
rivers, or the “line hoppers” who steal across the border at night. From this situation has grown a lucrative business
on the American side, that of smuggling workers across the line for exorbitant fees. Thus a slave market in short.

This picture has an interesting plot, but a lousy cast which would probably make the picture more boring than your
Math book. “Sword in the Desert” Imperial Theatre Sunday through Saturday, stars Dana Andrews, Marta Toren. “Sword in the Desert”
is the story of Palestine today — the “Powderkeg of the East.” Marta, a new Swedish importation, is a girl-gunman
and Dana is a hard-boiled sea captain. This picture will have you howling for more.

Read your Davidsonian.

Lawyer: Please repeat the words the defendant used.
Witness: I'd rather not. They were not fit to tell a gentleman.
Lawyer: Then, just whisper them to the judge.

By the time a man becomes important enough to take two hours for lunch all he can eat is crackers
and milk.

No matter what happens — there is always someone who knew it would.

WHEREVER you go: AGU PROUD! ets Senex Fone Pronetss, Remember this seal — it’s your assurance of the best!

Ray Brown Spreads

LIBRARY ANNOUNCES...
(Continued From Page 3)

School’s Good Will Story; Edward, My Son; Goodbye, My Fancy; Life With Mother; (Reprinted From The Mebane, N.C. Journal)

Davidson College, one of North Carolina's Southern conference lesser-known football powers, can be justly proud of the manner in which
their public relation representatives excel in public appearances, especially of a Touchdown club nature.

We speak primarily of Ray Brown, head backfield coach at Davidson.

Brown, who, for the second consecutive year, has appeared before the Mebane Touchdown club, has received more acclaim for his
appearance here than any other coach or representative has managed to do.

The club has been favored with such notables as Dan Hill of Duke, Chuck Erickson of Carolina, Bobby Kellogg of
Wake Forest, Ed Storey of N.C. State, and Jim Mallory of Elon, but none of these has possessed the winning
personality of Brown, who is still by far the most interesting speaker yet to appear before the local gridiron enthusiasts.

He has the ability to make the boys feel comfortable. And probably, the fact that he doesn’t seem to think
that his time is wasted by coming here is another factor that stands him in good stead in Mebane.

Brown, who was a backfield star himself a few years ago, has an enviable coaching position at Davidson under coach
Bob Jamerson, and we feel that he will go far in the

The Mudlark, by Theodore Bonnet, is a delightfully ironic historical novel about a London ragamuffin and the disturbance he caused
in the reign of Queen Victoria. A Book-of-the-Month Club selection, it is an amusing bit of historical

boys and young men; and tennis

FOUNDATION STUDIES...fiction. Theodore Bonnet began (Continued From Page 3) work on this novel while he was in the Pacific during
World War II. The struggle with recalcitrant “Toms and Marys” to brush their teeth regularly are numbered, the survey also
revealed. Not only do boys and girls clean their teeth regularly at an early age, but they have strong likes
and dislikes for specific brands of both toothbrushes and dentifrices. Brandwise percentages were 73.8 per cent for the former and
89.1 per cent for the latter group.

The survey also uncovered another interesting fact regarding the “average American boy,” namely, that age 16 is the time when
he begins his routine with lather and razor and starts removing the down from his face. When America’s students play,
the survey showed, they have pretty well-defined preferences in their choice of sports. Fishing is more popular than golf and
tennis with boys, and leads the other two sports by a wide margin among co-eds. But whether it is tennis,
golf, or fishing, and whether a young sportsman or sportswoman is involved, the survey indicated that makers’ brand names are
still first choice as guides in buying equipment.

In other fields surveyed, the extent and power of student purchasing was equally evident. In record players and recordings, findings
showed that 85.5 per cent of the students interviewed were regular buyers of records and that the popularity of recordings
was high in all age groups from 14 to 26 years of age. In motor products, the Foundation study showed
that 3 out of 4 of the male students interviewed own or have access to automobiles. Tabulations revealed that 76.1
per cent of the boys and young men interviewed buy gasoline and that both boys and girls are buyers of
the tires, oil, and other products used to maintain automobiles in good running order. In other sections of the study,
results demonstrated that the greatest proportions of students consider makers’ brand names as the most reliable guides in their purchases
of watches, personal jewelry, candy, and when buying gifts.

DAVIDSON IT'S WEEK OF NOV. 14-19. MON. - TUE. “EVERYBODY DOES IT” Paul Douglas - Linda Darnell WEDNESDAY - THURSDAY
“DOCTOR AND THE GIRL” Glenn Ford - Janet Leigh FRIDAY - SATURDAY “BORDER INCIDENT” George Murphy - Ricardo Montalban Copyright
199, Liccars & Myis Tosco Co. CHESTERFIELDS ARE IN THE DAVIDSONIAN

but did not hit upon a satisfactory form for it until some time after the war. The Way West, by
A. B. Guthrie, Jr., is perhaps even better than his The Big Sky, often termed the best story of the
prairie schooner days of the West ever written. It is the tale of a fleet of prairie schooners making their
way from Independence, Mo., to Oregon, and the story of the lives of the people, their problems, and their triumphs
in that fleet. Nineteen Eighty-Four is a brilliant, biting satire on the horrors of totalitarianism, in whatever form it may
come. George Orwell has shown keenness and prophetic power in this remarkable tour de force from Life, as well as
from other popular magazines, for its timeliness and force. Point of No Return, by John P. Marquand, has had just
as much notice from the press and the general public as Nineteen Eighty-Four if not more. Point of No Return
is a satirical novel on American middle-class life. Full of wry humor, the book describes some decisive days in the
life of Charles Gray, a New York banker, who must take his choice between social position and money. Billie Burke’s
With a Feather on My Nose is a humorous and delightfully whimsical autobiographical account of the famous actress's experiences on
and off the stage. This is recommended reading for anyone interested in a pleasant afternoon without too much strain on
mental faculties. Lead, Kindly Light is a sincere and wholly sympathetic attempt on the part of Vincent Sheean to describe
and explain the life and philosophy of Mahatma Gandhi, the great Hindu leader. Sheean went to India in 1946 and
remained there until after Gandhi’s death; he was present at Gandhi’s assassination. He therefore is fully capable of writing such
a book, and he does it with consummate skill and devotion. The only force on earth capable of defeating the
atomic bomb, Sheean believes, is Gandhi’s doctrine of non-violence.

PROFS ATTEND ... (Continued From Page One) ing words by Congressman Walter M. Judd, Minnesota, stirred the gathering more than
any other address. Dr. Judd, a former missionary to China, presented the great need for laymen to understand the conditions
in the Far East. His address was broken several times by the applause of the audience and when Dr. Judd
finished 5,000 Presbyterian laymen stood to cheer the speaker and to give their most hearty backing and support to the
work of the church in these trying days.

Golfer: Notice any improvement since last year? Caddy: Had your clubs shined up, didn’t you? He: Yes, I'm a self-made
man. She: Well, it's nice of you to take the blame.

Little Tommy had spent his first day in school. What happened? He was asked on his return home. Nothin’. A
woman wanted to know how to spell cat and I told her. Reader: So you make up these jokes yourself?
Editor: Yep, out of my own head. Reader: You must be.

The most agreeable match under heaven would be that between a deaf husband and a blind wife. If a man
empties his purse into his head, no man can take it away from him. An investment in knowledge pays the
best interest. She'd be more spic if she had less span.

TIME OUT! By Chet Smith

“We're having labor troubles with our pin boys — so I'd appreciate it if you gentlemen wouldn’t mention the word
strike!”

CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN John Mack and Son Mooresville, N. C.
