FRIDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1949

Cagers Lose Close One to McCrary; Varsity and Frosh Bow to State Teams

By J. V. HOWELL

The McCrary Eagles shaded the Davidson Wildcats 76-69 last Tuesday night. This was the second loss in a row for
the Wildcats who lost to State College Monday night. The game was close and hard-fought all the way with McCrary
leading most of the time from one to five points. However, Davidson moved ahead during the last minutes of the
first half to take a two-point halftime lead. The Wildcats looked better against the Eagles than against State, but they
could not match the accuracy of the Eagle set shot artists or the shooting at the foul line. The Eagles
sank a total of 25 free throws. Tommy Haller led the Wildcat scorers with 15 points and was followed closely
by Coleman and Brooks who had 13 and 14 points respectively. “Ab” Williams was high for McCrary with 17 markers
while Moran and Nance followed with 15 and 14. The final score at the game does not indicate just how
close it really was. With two minutes to go, the Eagles were leading by only one point. They were helped
considerably by several Davidson fouls and by the new rule which holds that with two minutes to go in a
game, a player entitled to a foul shot may shoot his shot and also take the ball out of bounds
for his team. All of the Wildcat players looked much better than they did against State. They showed a fast
break attack during the last half of the game, which had not shown in the State game. All in all,
a great deal of improvement was made.

By CHERRY STRIBLING

Coaches Boyd Baird and Ray Brown took their respective basketball squads into State's huge new Coliseum Monday night and both
were out-classed although scrapping until the last whistle. The freshman squad was handicapped chiefly by a lack of height and
went down before State’s Wolfpups by a 73-32 margin. George King led the scoring for the freshmen with 9 points.
In the main event it was simply a case of too much height and experience as the State Wolfpack racked
up a 77-43 total on the game Wildcats. Whit Cobb played an outstanding game by holding State’s All-American candidate Dick
Dickens to 3 field goals and making 6 points himself. Dutch Hengeveld hit on several nice set shots and led
the Davidson scoring with 10 points. Tommy Haller had six points also. Ranzino and Horvath were the big guns for
Case's Red Terrors. The Sophomores on Coach Baird's squad showed great promise but were no match for the taller and
more experienced State squad. They are sure to gain experience as the season progresses and will be strong contenders for
conference honors.

VAUGHN McALLISTER...

(Continued From Page One)

and several broken ribs. Shoaf was treated for bruises and shock. Vaughn is a patient at the Wesley Long Hospital
in Greensboro and probably will be confined for at least six weeks. He is a member of the Sigma Alpha
Epsilon social fraternity and is working towards a B. S. degree in business.

CHRISTMAS GIFT...

(Continued From Page One)

the past three years include a donation to Hanchow Christian College in China in 1946, rebuilding the Y.M.C.A. Student Center
in Sendai, Japan in 1947, and last’s contribution was sent to “casualty” students at Marburg University in Germany. Each of
these projects has exceeded the $5,000 goal, the peak contribution being last year’s gift of $6,100. More than one million
women in the United States are in business for themselves.

V-A, MEDICAL OR DENTAL APPOINTMENT...

IF YOU CAN'T KEEP IT, CANCEL IT PROMPTLY AND GIVE SOME OTHER VETERAN A BREAK

Parker-Gardner Company
118 W. Trade St. Phone 8257

ANNUAL CHRISTMAS...

(Continued From Page One)

1947, by the Y.M.C.A. through the efforts of Jack Etheridge, a “Y” Cabinet member in charge of Boys’ Work. The
idea immediately caught fire and has been enthusiastically supported by the fraternities and Campus Club ever since. It is hoped
that this idea will come to be one of Davidson's more meaningful traditions — a tradition that will continue to
bring a feeling of the reality and good cheer of Christmas to the approximately one hundred sixty-five children who come
to Davidson once each year. For many of these children, this party is the highlight of the Christmas season and
one of the most eagerly anticipated events of their year.

ODK SPONSORS...

(Continued From Page One)

tains for the sophs and frosh will be decided on the field of action. (7) The come off of the
day will be the departure of the referees: Jim Vann, Harrison Taylor, John Ellis and Norman Whitehart. (8) In case
of a tie, windsors will be worn. Pre-game comments and predictions are coming in from all sources including the mouths
of babes, and the frosh are claiming three out of three victories; so the sophs will have to boisterously bridge
these boisterous, bloated, bombastic brats into their bracket if they don’t want the battle as their fier. And so, will
the frosh remain puerile impotent futilities? Once again the question is asked: will virility replace sterility? Who will win in
this mighty struggle? By the way, if you miss this dramatic struggle, tune in “East Lynn” next week.

GLEE CLUB...

(Continued From Page One)

Thee, O Christ, and bless Thee, For by Thy sacred cross, Thou hast redeemed the world.” Salvation belongeth to our
God—Paul Ichesruskov; Arr. by Archibald Davidson, O Lord, Increase My Faith—Orlando Gibbons; Arr. by Howard Hinders.

GROUP II - (Short—Secular)My heart Commends itself to Thee —Orlando di Lasso; Madrigal— Arr. by Joseph Daltry. Varmeland (Swedish Folk
Song)— Arr. by Gladys Pitcher.

GROUP III (Christmas)
Lo, how a rose e’er blooming—Michael Praetorius. Arr. by Archibald Davison.
Glory be to God—Opus 37, No. 7; (Melody of the Znamen tradition). Arr. for men’s voices by A. Gretehaninoff.
How brightly beams the Morning Star—Chorale, Arr. by P. Wolfrum—Philipp Nicholai.
Noel, Noel—Gevaert. Arr. Charles Grayson.

W. S. HENDERSON
Jeweler
EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING — CRYSTALS FITTED
Main St. Davidson

Invocation by Rev. Neill McGeachy of Statesville

High School Gymnasium—(Photo Courtesy Statesville Record)

What The Cats Were Doing...

Hoopsters Take Part In Gym Dedication

Saturday night Davidson's basketball team encountered V.P.I. in a game in Statesville which marked the dedication of the new gymnasium
at Statesville Senior High School. The game was the second of the night, with the Statesville Greyhounds entertaining the Greensboro
Whirlies in the opener. The game played in Statesville was originally scheduled to be played at Davidson, but parties in
Statesville made the necessary arrangements with the college to secure a topflight college game for the dedication ceremonies. Before the
games started, Rev. Neill McGeachy of Statesville pronounced the invocation and later in the brief proceedings, Jack Wagner, prominent Statesville
businessman and former grid and golf great at Davidson, made a few remarks.

Construction on Statesville’s new physical education plant was scheduled to have taken place when the rest of the high school
was built shortly before the war; however, as was the case here at Davidson, high prices and wartime restrictions made
it necessary to postpone the construction until the past year. The gym is constructed of brick veneer and the architectural
scheme fits in with the high school plant. In addition to the large playing court, the building contains numerous locker
rooms, classrooms, and workout rooms. It is doubtful if there is a town of comparable size with Statesville in the
state that can boast of such a fine physical education building for their high school. Davidson is proud to have
had a part in dedicating this new addition to Statesville High School, and the College extends congratulations to all who
were instrumental in making possible this much-needed addition to Statesville.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sport Quizz
1. John “Hook” Dillon, former U.N.C. basketballer, is playing on what team this year?
2. Head basketball coach at Duke University is:
3. One of the leading money winners in golf lives in Badin, N.C. Who is he?
4. What school dropped out of the Southern Conference several years ago after refusing to abide by the NCAA “sanity
code”?
5. What football player led the nation in rushing this past season?

RULES
1. Print your answers clearly on the back of a Chesterfield wrapper.
2. No entries will be accepted later than 24 hours after the DAVIDSONIAN is circulated.
3. Take your answers to Frank Perrin in 112 West.
4. The first three correct entries will receive a carton of Chesterfield cigarettes.
5. This contest is not open to members of the DAVIDSONIAN staff.

PATRONIZE DAVIDSONIAN ADVERTISERS

Mooresville Creamery
GRADE “A” MILK
PASTEURIZED
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
MAKERS OF
Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N.C.

TWENTY YEARS AGO—December 12, 1929...
(1) Thad Brock’s spectacular run, longest in grid history not to make a touchdown. Brock ran 102 yards against Duke,
yet failed to score.

10 YEARS AGO—December 14, 1939...
(1) Court season opens as Wildcat Quintet licks J.O. Jones, 34-30.

FIVE YEARS AGO—December 14, 1944...
(1) Wildcats take opening basketball game by defeating U.S. Rubber Co., 54-46.

ONE YEAR AGO—December 10, 1948...
(1) Davidson Wildcats win cage opener over Charlotte “Y,” 52-28.
(2) Williams stars in this game with 20 points.

GOWN BY JO COPELAND
JEWELS BY TRIFARI AND HOEFFER—MAUBOUSSIN

PAGE FIVE

Swimming Included In Phys. Ed Program
By WOODY McKAY

As our long-awaited gymnasium nears completion, the subject of swimming is being discussed more and more around the campus. At
the present time, the hope of the athletic association is to open the gymnasium by the end of this semester.
Professor Pinkney says that they don’t plan to open the gym until all construction is finished and things are moved
in. They believe this can be done shortly after the Christmas holidays if no more difficulties arise.

The opening of this new building will, of course, give students access to the swimming pool. Headed by Coach Redding,
swimming will be entered into the physical training program. As to the content of this instruction, there has been nothing
definitely said. The possibility of a swimming team has been mentioned and considered. If talent is shown in this line,
a swimming team will probably be chosen and one or two meets may be arranged with other colleges. Since this
is the first year, seniors showing swimming ability will probably get preference over an underclassman when the team is chosen.
Since the plans are indefinite as to the swimming program, the Davidsonian will try to keep you posted as soon
as any definite plans are made.

Drive carefully: don’t insist on your “rights.”

At least 65 percent of the people in the United States have never spent a night in a hotel.

Camels for Mildness
Yes, Camels are SO MILD that in a coast-to-coast test of hundreds of men and women who smoked Camels—and only
Camels—for 30 consecutive days, noted throat specialists, making weekly examinations, reported not one single case of throat irritation due to
smoking Camels.
