The end of the 1949 basketball season brings down the curtain on a great campaign in Davidson athletics. For some
of the cagers, it is the end of their collegiate athletics. Seniors Buddy Cheek and Bobby Maner can concentrate on
graduating now with some spare time placed on intramural fields and volleyball. Johnny Richards is also through for the year
but will be around for another tour of the gridiron as well as the basketball court. Mike Williams, Whit Cobb,
and Henry Neisler move from one court to another. They have already picked up their tennis rackets to scrap for
slots on Coach Derrick Barton's ace squad. Cobb will also find some time to slip on spikes and skip around
the cinder paths for Pete Witte. Ed Hopper, Bill Iverson, and Tommy Haller will also be seen the rest of
the spring with the Cat trek squad. Hopper and Haller will team with Bill Pritchett to form a mean punch
in the hurdles. Husky Bill will plod his way over the mile and two-mile courses. The only contribution of Coach
Norman Shepard to the diamond is pitcher Dutch Hengeveld. As a freshman last year, Dutch was one of the most
effective men that Coach Charley Jamerson had. In early drills, he has shown some of his old form. Baseball workouts
began this week. Jamerson will have a tough job in finding material to fill in the vacancies which have opened.
Professional ranks have claimed last year's ace battery of Dick Marlow and Poole. In the outfield, capable replacements will be
needed for two slots. Center fielder Jack Burris failed to return to school this year and has since joined the
play-for-pay boys. Dave, who held down the clean-up spot in the lineup for two years, dropped from school after the
football season. This leaves Carl Shepard, who has only Auburn Lambeth in the outer garden. Jamerson has been using Bert
Anderton, a converted infielder, in the orchard for the opening sessions, and he will probably draw a starting assignment. The
other slot is still wide open. The infield will probably start just as it did last year. John Ellis will
cover first, Charlie Pearson and Jake Wade will form the keystone combination, and Bill Baird is set at the hot
corner. Bill Houck and Tommy Langford have shown some promise and may edge one of the veterans for a spot.
The mound staff, though missing Marlow, seems to be well set with a crew of veterans. Norman Whiteheart seems to
be back in form. After a fine freshman year, Whiteheart was sidelined most of last year with an ailing flipper.
Charleton Vorrenee, Hengeveld, and Dick Blank, who returns after a year out of school, will form with Whiteheart a staff
of right-handed lettermen. Jamerson will have a brace of left-handed veterans in Dick Richards and Jim Hunter. Both are numeral
winners. Behind the bat, there reigns a three-way race between Henry Wilson, Buddy Chandler, and Red Wilson. All three are
looking good but lack experience. They will have to work to fill the shoes of Poole. Chandler batted over .300
as a Cat three years ago but was sidelined by the appearance of Poole last year. Overall, it looks like
Coach Charley has a lot of work ahead of him to mold a truly effective combine. Not being able to
use freshmen is a severe blow to the Cat cause. Such yearlings as John Jervis, Herman Hayden, and Jack Branch
could go a long way toward easing the situation.

W.S. HENDERSON
Jeweler
EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING — CRYSTALS FITTED
Main St. Davidson

GRADE “A” MILK PASTEURIZED
Mooresville Co-Operative Creamery
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205 MOORESVILLE, N.C.

Sporting Goods
415 S. TRYON STREET
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

SHIP AHOY
CHARLOTTE’S LEADING RESTAURANT

Wildcat Sports
SPRING SPORTS BEGIN
Friday, March 11, 1949
THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Mott Price
Husky Mott Price has earned a name for himself in Southern Conference wrestling as a good wrestler and a hard
man to beat. But last fall, Mott earned a reputation around Davidson as a hard-fighting, pass-snatching end on the Wildcat
grid machine. As Buddy Cheek’s substitute, Mott played quite a good deal, especially during the VMI game when Buddy couldn't
make the trip because of medical school. The Wildcats were getting beaten badly and had failed to strike pay dirt
when Mott somehow raced into the clear, pulled down a long pass on the 40-yard line, outraced the Kadet secondary
60 yards, and gave Davidson their only score of the game. And, of course, there was his play in the
William and Mary game in Charlotte when he caught a couple of passes, one for a 30-yard gain. However, Mott
is still more widely recognized for his wrestling ability, and it isn't often he loses a match. Mott is a
170-pound six-footer, but he dehydrates himself down to 165 in order to wrestle in that class. He is 23 years
old and now calls Charlotte, N.C. home. Mott went to Barium Springs High School and graduated from there in 1942.
While at Barium Springs, he was an outstanding football player and wrestler.

SAE Captures SWATSMEN Cage Crown
By GORDON SCOTT
In spite of competition from the ROTC Department during drill—hopefuls working out in preparation for the interfrat track meet and
Pete Whittle’s regular track workouts, Coach Charley Jamerson’s men on the diamond went through their first organized drills on Tuesday
afternoon. Taking advantage of the spring-like weather, with the thermometer jumping to the middle sixties, the men out for the
team were sent through a brisk batting session. A number of the batters connected with some right healthy licks—for the
initial practice sending the ball sailing into the deep outfield.

I was planning to write a long column this week. However, it is certain...books, information as to where each team
finished in the final standings was impossible to secure. Apologies to all those who desired this knowledge. The SAK’s finished
first, and the Nappa Sigs finished second. This breaks my heart, because the several twirlers saw action; two southpaws, Diek
Richards and Lefty Hunter, throwing from the right side were Norm White, Dickie Blanks, and Charleton Torrence, who looked particularly
good on the hill. Henry Wilson, who saw some service behind the plate last year, was alternating with Wilson on
the receiving end. Red Marlowe, Buddy Chandler, Jack Dave, and Dick Burris were part of the team. The loss of
Voole to professional ranks, and Carl Shepherd’s dropping out of school, have left three gaping holes in the Wildcats. With
Auburn, last year’s batting champ, a battle royal is expected this year. Lambeth is the only veteran returning among the
outfield aspirants for these two open slots in the starting lineup.

SHOW GOOD FORM IN WORKOUTS

He also went to the finals in the state wrestling meet but lost out there. After working a few months,
duty called Mott, and he entered the United States Infantry in December of 1943. Mott arrived overseas just in time
to get in on some of the big battles in Germany, and after participating in these, by a strange coincidence,
the war ended. Whether Mott was the cause of it all, we can't say, though. Then he was stationed in
Austria in the occupation troops for a while. He was discharged from the Army in May of 1946 and entered
Davidson in September of that same year. He played football and made the varsity his first year out. And he
went out for and made the wrestling team and won about one half of his matches that year. He lost
to a good wrestler from State in the conference tourney, but he was good enough to make his letter in
his first year of competition. Mott has had a lot of hard luck with injuries, as last year when he
broke his hand in the Richmond football game; he didn't let this stop him. He put a cast on it
and came back, even playing in several games with the cast still on.

(Continued On Page Four)

Herb Erwin connected with several beauties during batting practice. Martin, Mac Dalton, Grover John Rose, and Lambeth were also seen.
Except for the catcher, Jamerson has an infield of regulars returning this spring, with John Ellis holding down first base,
Jake Wade, who alternated with Jim French last year, working around second base, Charlie Pearson back at short, and Bert
Anderton and Vall Bird at the hot corner. Several new faces were seen working around the infield positions, but it
is too early to hazard a guess as to who will be around when the season gets underway. With the
opening game only a week away, Coach Charley is expected to put the team through some stiff drills in preparation
for the opener with Cascade Mills of Mooresville on the 1st.

Make it $50,000 by next Tuesday and you'll know! In a recent coast-to-coast test of men and women who smoked
Camels for 30 days—an average of one to two packs a day—throat specialists, after making examinations, reported not one single
case of throat irritation.

Private Dining Rooms

SMOKE CAMELS FOR 30 DAYS

I'VE KNOWN THAT FOR YEARS, NANCY! AND I GO FOR CAMELS' FULL, RICH FLAVOR, TOO!

HOW MILD CAN A CIGARETTE BE? WELL, SKITCH, THE CAMEL 30-DAY TEST CONVINCED ME THAT CAMELS ARE THE MILDEST CIGARETTE
I'VE EVER SMOKED!

CINDER STARS START STIFF SCHEDULE

Returning Lettermen Give Hope Of Excellent Season

The Davidson College track team begins practice next week, right after the interfraternity track meet, with bright prospects for a
successful season this spring. The first meet is scheduled for April 9 with South Carolina at Davidson. Most of the
outstanding cinder-men will be returning from last year's good squad, but the loss of star Ed Newton by transfer will
be sorely felt. Newton was undefeated in dual competition and compiled the most points during the season. Ken Goodwin is
expected to fill in for Newton in the dashes. Bill Pritchett and Ted Hopper are high and low hurdles sophomores.
Pasture is expected to be back in the high jump. Pritchett has been looking good and is expected to be
one of the stars of the team. In the 440-yard run, letterman Fred McCallister and returnee Murray Ashman will be
the entrants this year and will offer strong competition. Bob McGehee in the half-mile will be back in the event,
and there is a possibility that Jack (Gunder) Parity will also try this event this year. In the mile run,
it will be distance star Gray and Blake Bradley, a rapidly improving cross-country track star, who will carry the colors.
Grube and Bobby Long will run the two-mile race. Haller, Cornell, and Hatter will return in the broad jump. Bob
Henderson and Cornell will high jump. The grid stars Buddy Jim and Red Bradley will throw the discus. Bob Chandler,
a husky, will put the shot. Sharpe will be after the school record in the javelin. Pete Brown and ‘Monk’
Montgomery will pole vault while Jim Hardin will hurl the javelin. The entire relay team of McCallister, Ashman, Gray, and
McGehee will be back.

Around 70,000,000 Americans are members of some church. But you wouldn't think so if you counted all the Sunday churchgoers.
Joe Louis says that he is interested in any business that offers the possibilities of a profit. Well, Joe should
be able to put the needed punch in any business.

It's real harmony when Skitch Henderson and lovely Nancy Reed, his featured vocalist, get together and sing the praises of
Camel mildness.

Money-Back Guarantee! Try Camels and test them as you smoke them. If, at any time, you are not convinced that
Camels are the mildest cigarette you've ever smoked, return the package with the unused Camels and we will refund its
full purchase price, plus postage. (Signed) R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.

for Parties and Banquets

“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”

Phone 25490

221 South Tryon Street

NOT ONE SINGLE CASE OF THROAT IRRITATION

Charlotte, N.C.
