PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, April 8, 1949

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

MAC HART
JOHN McNAIR

EDITORIAL STAFF
Stan Bennett ........................ Associate Editor
Bill CMO ............................ Associate Editor
Ronnie Dietrick .................... Associate Editor
Jack Hazard ....................... Sports Editor
Ed Hollister ....................... Managing Editor
Lonnie Turnipseed ............... Managing Editor
Doug Tus ......................... Managing Editor
Dick Morgan ...................... Managing Editor
Tom Niblock ...................... Staff Photographer
Bill KihW .......................... Cartoonist
Poll-Cat Editor
Gil ................................. Make-up Editor
Jim Murray ....................... Make-up Editor

FEATURE REPORTERS: Phil Mitchell, Hartley Hall, Gabe Lowe, Neil Leach, Jimmie Henritzy, Henry Hansen, Pete Kalogridis, Drew Gurley, Bill Sargent, Bob Grube, Jimmy Fickeisen, Bill Hollister.

REPORTERS: Randy Taylor, Bill DuBose, Warren Sims, Ralph Robinson, Tom Allen, Dick Barnwell, Bill McCrary, Tom Mann, Bill Cumming, Phil Libby, Ben Drymon, Dudley Pendleton, Nat Daniel, Dick Chandley, Bob Northeutt, Stuart Shippey, Hugh Huffaker, Bill Neal, Harper Newbold, Jim Blackburn, Joe Pierce, Harry Shirley, Bob Hubbell, Angus McKellar, Jack Veirce, Slats McClintock, Boye Kendall, Lamar Hinson, Ed Richardson.

SPORTS STAFF: Cherry Stribling, Gordon Scott, Furman Warlick, Watt Jeffries, Bill White, Phil Hammond, Bryant Robinson, Dan McKeithan, David Whitener, Ed West, Bill Buckey, Jack Stevenson.

POLL CAT STAFF: Jim Carr, Claude Higginbothan, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown, and Neal Underdown.

Charlie Reid
John Hobart

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager
W. S. McSwain
Wylie Smith
Bill Houck
Asst. Circulation Manager
Bill Cassels
Asst. Advertising Manager
Charles Clinkscales
Asst. Advertising Manager
Hector McKeithan
Assistant Advertising Manager
Ni McConnell
Collections Manager
Charles Dockery
Subscriptions Manager
John Loftin

ASSISTANTS: Bill Cumming, Bill Hart, Bob Erwin, Bill Pharr, Harold Clayton, Sam Cumming, Rod Shaw, Gene Taylor, Nelson Tomlinson.

CIRCULATION STAFF: Alex Goley, Parks Dalton, Joe H. Miller, Neill Underdown, Joe Haller, John Hardin, Thad Monroe, Hugh Hunter, Ben Naat, Cam Faison, Paul Guthry, and Phil Willer.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE NEW YORK, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Member 1949 Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

1948

DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Student Election

In Tuesday’s election, there were 625 votes cast. That was bad enough. Wednesday there were only 576 votes cast. Are we to believe that on Tuesday, 300 members of the student body, almost one-third of the total number, are too busy to take five minutes off and vote—that on Wednesday, the same number, plus fifty more, are so tied up in classroom work that they can’t get off to vote? Why was it that the number of those who did not vote increased by fifty on Wednesday? Could it be that the pet candidates of those fifty were eliminated and they were just too lazy—or didn’t care enough—to help pick the man who would finally do the job?

Let’s look at those figures once again. Out of an electorate of 925 voters, there were only 576 votes cast. The election is by majority vote, hence 259 votes can name the president of the student body, an office which should be filled by majority vote. Were we president of this Davidson College student body, we would most assuredly want to have the confidence of a majority vote behind us.

The student body officers, the members of the Student Council, have the duty of upholding the Honor System. A part of that duty is to punish with expulsion anybody who violates the Honor System. It is strain enough on the members of a Student Council to have to wonder that there may be something to the view that student government is pretty much of a farce after all. For instance, the student body voted on whether or not to install a permanent manager in the Student Store; but two months before that vote was taken, the administration was already looking for a man to fill the position. In many such cases, the “student government” is little more than an advisory board to faculty committees—a glorified student-opinion-poll.

There are others who consider student government and student elections merely as good propaganda material for next fall’s Rush Week. While we sincerely hope that student government means more than that to most of us, there are those on the campus who look at student offices in that light. If all the students would take an interest in student government and would vote, student government could be just that. It could command authority. Also, there would be no question of any politics being involved because there is no group on the campus that is numerically strong enough to have any political power if 925 votes were cast in every election.

This editorial is not to be construed in any way as a reflection on any man that has been elected to office this year. We are solidly behind all of those men who have been elected to date. It is rather a plea that every man consider it his duty to vote so that elections will be more of what its name implies that it is.

We might suggest for future consideration that if there is not more widespread participation in the coming elections, some sort of “quorum” method be introduced into the electoral system so that 85 or 90 percent of the students would have to vote in an election to make it valid. After all, student government is little more than a farce if not endorsed by all the students.

Dear Editor:

Since the pages of the DAVIDSONIAN have carried this year criticism of almost every part of the chapel service from the Scripture to the “swishes,” I would like to question the frequent, and I believe unfortunate use of one of our most popular hymns. How a seemingly alert and intelligent student body, which all sing one morning, “I Sing the Almighty Power of God,” and then a day later just as sincerely and reverently sing, “Rise Up, O Men of God, the church for you doth wait, her strength unequal to her task, rise up and make her great,” is beyond my power of reason.

If the student body were unaware that the church is a divine institution with an Almighty Head, then there could be found a legitimate excuse for their singing such a prayer to man to come to the aid of a weak (?) strengthless (?) church; however, as long as most of us are acquainted with the Christian doctrine of Christ’s Kingship in the church and of its biblical support: “He (God) hath set him (Christ) at his own right hand in the heavenly places, far above principality, and power, and might, and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this world, but also in that which is to come: and hath put all things under his feet, and gave him to be the head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fulness of him that filleth all in all.” (Ephesians 1: 20-23), it seems to me inconceivable that we can continue to sing a hymn which tells us that despite the great and mighty power of her Head and Cornerstone, the Church is still unequal to her task until little, depraved, egotistical, conceited man comes to her aid, and then “presto!”

The Davidsonian Suggests...
By BOB HOLLISTER

Each week, from the appearance of this issue until the end of the school year, there will be printed in this column a series of articles concerning our campus organizations. The articles will appear each week—one written by a member of the organization in question and the other written by a student outside of that particular group. Each contributing student will have been asked to state his personal opinions in regard to the value of the organization to the student body and to Davidson; in addition, he will be asked to give his views on the relation existing between the student body and whichever group is being discussed. Finally, he will, to the best of his ability, point out any modifications which are, in his opinion, necessary in making the organization a more active, more helpful, and more interesting agent in the life of every Davidson man.

The first pair of articles to appear in this series have undertaken discussion of our YMCA as their topic. The Davidsonian asked Carl Eborn and Jack Payne to make the first contributions to this column.

THE YMCA
By CARL EBORN

In any consideration of the YMCA, as to its accomplishments and/or shortcomings, it is absolutely necessary to remember that any criticism which might be involved is purely hyper-critical. Little difficulty is experienced in the effort to cite many varied and noble activities of the Y. They assume such channels as: Bible study on Wednesday night, and deputations on Sunday morning. However, this program is not considered complete enough. That there is a need that is not being met in the present Y program is a fact evidenced by more than a few. This stems from a frustration in the student body which seems to result from a thirst that is never quenched. There are those who seem to be the most consecrated and yet reach that point on the journey where all they meet seems to be doubt; a horrible whirlpool which seeks to draw them under and extinguish the very light which has led them past the challenges of the past. There are those who witness a worship service, study the Bible and associate with consecrated Christians for years, but are never influenced to a deeper, richer life. It is in connection with these two phases of the religious life at Davidson, it seems, that the Y has failed most. And it is quite obvious that the complexity of the problem necessitates no simple answer. However, as Rome was not built in a day, so must the solution be worked out. One initial step would be to encourage those “frustrated” men to take heart over the words of Jesus, for if they truly seek, they shall undoubtedly find. The brightness of tomorrow's sun is reflected in today’s clouds. The seemingly dark pitfall is but the valley before a higher ridge; the summit of which affords a larger view than ever before.

The progress of the “Y” in any effort to bring Christianity home to more of the students is greatly impeded by the connotation generally applied to religion. Some have the idea that it means standing on the street corner and asking passers-by if they are saved or not; others have the opposite idea that it means being a good boy and going to church on Sunday. The greatest gift in existence should certainly be appealing, though there are many materialists who will always refuse to accept it. Since the religious life of the college centers around the YMCA, it seems reasonable to expect the Y to show every man what Christian service means. Most people are seeking something; that something is a new life in Christ, but they don't realize it because of the ever-present disguise. Facts must be faced! A failure of the YMCA to present a program that is complete enough to fill the need, is a failure of every individual student in the student body. It has long been one of man’s dubious talents to stand by, do nothing, pass the burden off on someone else, and then complain because the result is less than satisfactory.

THE Y.M.C.A.
By JACK PAYNE

I was asked by the Davidsonian to write an article in criticism of the YMCA. I have chosen rather to write on a subject which, though it is in the nature of a criticism, is directed not so much toward the YMCA as toward all of us as members of that organization. This does not mean that the Y is beyond criticism nor does it imply that I think it isDoing a perfect job. Many of the ideas expressed here were covered in a recent talk at Westminster Fellowship and are submitted now largely because of the requests and encouragement of members of that group. Several of the points were contributed by friends, not my own, or suggested. It is hoped that these remarks will be accepted in the spirit in which they are made—viz, one of objectivity. The whole thing started last fall when I received a letter from a Davidson graduate of some years back, echoing a sentiment which concerns the spiritual lives of every individual student and the stand of the college itself; hence I feel it is of vital relevance.

To be sure, Davidson has assumed unprecedented leadership among small southern colleges: in providing her students with a truly liberal arts education, in supplying the Southern Presbyterian Church with a large percentage of her ministers, in sending men into all the professions who are imbued with a deep social consciousness. Nevertheless, let us admit, categorically, that she is a long way from perfect. Davidson has made mistakes in her history and being human she must continue to make mistakes. Instead of continually examining ourselves and striving for improvement where we are weak, it would seem we too often exalt our good points for self-praise and personal back-patting.

In the special convocation supplement of the Charlotte Observer that came out last fall, the following words appeared: “Davidson is no slavish worshipper of the status quo! As in the past century, she met the world’s changes with a growing mind so will she meet those of her centuries to come. Her students are in the main of this type—men of proved mental ability, social sensitiveness, and high moral purpose. In their case, this enterprise is the highest; a disinterested effort to achieve man's chief end. Davidson is a Christian College because the life she proposes, the culture she propagates, and the philosophy she embodies are consistent with the principles of Jesus Christ.”

Even though this may largely be true, and we fervently trust it is, must we not admit that such public statements are reminiscent of the prayer of the Pharisee and truly we meekly say, in effect, “Lord, I thank Thee I am a Davidson man and not a UNC student!” In short, we must acknowledge that these statements cannot be made without careful and continual self-examination, which, to my mind, is lacking.

To put a man in that position by the vote of a majority that is no more than thirty percent of the real majority, is to our notion, a great injustice to him. With barely two-thirds of the students voting in student body elections, it is no change. The church becomes great! Such a thought is rank blasphemy to any New Testament Christian. If we must sing “Rise Up O Men of God” in chapel, let’s please delete the second and third verses for the comfort of those who still reverence the doctrine of the sovereignty of God. —W. O. HARRIS.

ATTEND CHURCH

The display of new spring bonnets regularly brings great crowds to church on Easter morn. This undoubtedly was what led a religious paper to go poetic as early as 1901:

“Attend your church,” the parson says.
To church each fair one goes;
The old go there to close their eyes,
The young to eye their clothes.

“O would some power the giftie gie us,
To see oursels as others see us!
It wad frae monie a blunder free us,
An’ foolish notion.”

The main point of emphasis should not be “Look how much better we are than the State institution,” or “How much better job we're doing than such and such school with twice our student body.” Rather, should it not be in this wise—"To whom much is given, of the same much will be required?” Where along the line, in our spiritual pilgrimage, are we bid to stop and declare the goal achieved? Ours must be a ceaseless, ever-forward struggle. When we stop for self-congratulatory reminiscences, we are endangered of losing what ground we have gained. We, too, have been repulsed and, by implication, some good we have done, and, by implication, that the world will stand or fall on the outcome of our 1,000 lives. This is alright to come from the outside, but from our own lips it is unbecoming and even harmful. Imagine how some of the recent publicity must look to non-Davidson men or those who do not understand or who are not privileged to breathe this cherished atmosphere. I submit to you that this attitude is harmful rather than beneficial to the best interests of the college. I fear it is conducive to an unhealthy sense of our own superiority over both non-Davidson associates and graduates.

Moving to the individual plane, let us reaffirm our faith in God and our belief in His Word as the standard by which we are to live. Nevertheless, let us at the same time admit that although we believe in the ultimate TRUTH revealed in Jesus Christ, we, not being God, and hence imperfect, do not know all the truth. Moreover, let us confess our own countless mistakes and sins and in humility look to God for our salvation. There is a real danger that we may drift through life not believing in much of anything, that we may lose our capacity for a personal faith in God. On the other hand, there is an almost equal danger that we may become so certain of our own position that we will cease to inquire for a more perfect relation and interpretation of God's Word. We have a tendency in later years as well as in youth, to elevate what we have been taught by our parents and dogmatically to assert it as THE truth, i.e., the only truth. This leads us to abhor the point of view of other people who differ from ourselves and creates a real enmity within the church fold.

Paul, in his letter to the Philippians, offers us this choice word of advice: “Do nothing from selfishness or conceit, but in humility count others better than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. Have this mind among yourselves, which you have in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God as a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men.” Unless we count ourselves to be equal with God, we will be very, very humble and very respectful of the views and faith of other people, knowing that it’s a very real possibility that we can be wrong, that in any event their views and ideals count for something in the eyes of a God who places supreme value on the dignity of every individual. Neither will we rest on our oars, but will ever endeavor to see more closely that vision which, for most of us, is still clouded as through a glass.

It will make a man consider twice before he says, even jokingly, “I pity that church; they're going to get a union man.” Paul concludes: “And being found in human form he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even death on a cross. Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.” It was Christ Himself who said: “Whoever would be great among you, let him become the servant of all.” To that end we must strive.