PAGE TWO, THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, March 18, 1949

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

MAG HART: .......................... EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JOHN MONAGHAN .................. BUSINESS MGR.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Stan Isenhart .................. Associate Editor
Bill Calhoun .................. Associate Editor
Ronnie Dinsmore ............ Associate Editor
Jack Hazard .................. Sports Editor
Bob Hollister .................. Managing Editor
Lonnie Turnipseed .......... Managing Editor
Howard Daniel ............... Managing Editor
Dick Morgan .................. Managing Editor
Tom Niblock .................. Staff Photographer
Bill King ......................... Cartoonist
Charlotte Reid .................. Poll-Cat Editor
John Chaltun .................. Make-up Editor
Jim Murray .................... Make-up Editor

FEATURE REPORTERS: Phil Mitchell, Hartley Hall, Gabe Lowe, Neil Leach, Jimmie Henritzy, Henry Hansen, Pete Kalogridis, Drew Gurley, Bill Ibe, Jimmy Fickeisen, Bill Hollister, Randy Taylor, Bill DuBose, Warren Dick Barnwell, Ralph Robinson, Tom Aten, McCrary, Tom Mann, Bill Cumming, Phil Libby, Ben Drymon, Dudley Pendleton, Nat Daniel, Bob Northcutt, Stuart Shippey, Hugh Harper Newbold, Jim Blackburn, Shurley, Bob Hubbell, Angus McKinnon, Ed Richardson.

SPORTS STAFF: Cherry Furman, Wi Harlick, Watt Jeffries, Bill White, Phil Hammond, It. Robinson, Dan McKeithan, David Whitener, Ed West, Bill Buckey, Jack Stevenson.

POLL CAT STAFF: Jim Carr, Claude Higginbothan, Jim Visher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown, and Neal Underdown.

BUSINESS STAFF
Gordon Scott .................. Business Manager
W. S. McSwain ............... Assistant Business Manager
Wyhe Smith .................... Assistant Advertising Manager
Bill Houck ....................... Assistant Advertising Manager
Bill Cassels ..................... Assistant Collections Manager
Charles Clinkscales .......... Assistant Collections Manager
Hector McKeithan ........... Assistant Collections Manager
Charles Dockery .............. Assistant Circulation Manager
John Lottin ...................... Assistant Circulation Manager
Bill Hart, Bob Erwin, Harold Cla Sam Cumming, Rod Shaw, Nelson Tinson.

CIRCULATION STAFF: Alex Goley, Parks Dalton, Ansley Moses, Joe H. Miller, Neill Haller, John Hardin, Thad Moner, Ben Morris, Cam Faison, Paul Willer.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE New York, N. Y.
Chicago + Boston + Los Angeles + San Francisco

1948 Member 1949
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Spring Services

Your Y.M.C.A. has set its annual Spring Services for the week after we get back from the holidays. As usual, there will be six services, three in chapel on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and one each on those nights in the church. The minister is one who has not preached to the students lately and may be new to most of them. He is Dr. George Heaton of the newly established Myers Park Baptist Church of Charlotte.

The Spring Services and the Fall Services

In the past, the Y has brought many good speakers to these services, and they always prove to be a real blessing to those who take the right attitude toward them. Among the best in recent years were Dr. Redhead of Greensboro and Dr. Chappel of Charlotte. Last year, the services were led by three men who laid their emphasis on various aspects of applied Christian living. The series was well received by most of the students and the system might well be continued in the future.

Dr. Heaton has done a lot of preaching to student audiences. Also, he has done a good deal of work in the field of industrial relations. Consequently, he should have some added appeal for those who decry the repetition of purely inspirational services. The old saying may well be applied to the Spring Services, that we will get out of them what we put into them. The services have real potentialities of blessings for the students if we will approach them in the right spirit.

Disgustedly Yours

After our recent request for no more anonymous letters, we received one this week from “Disgustedly Yours, A Reader.” We are willing to admit that “A Reader” may be a much more specific signature than “A Student,” still it borders on the anonymous. We have committed ourselves to a policy of not printing any more anonymous letters. However, “A Reader” hits around at one or two good points which we shall take the liberty of commenting on.

Disgustedly Ours, who very properly, perhaps, resents “being called ‘a stupid squad sergeant’ and ‘a stupid fool,’” has arrived at the momentous conclusion that the dastardly article on the R.O.T.C. drill period was written by one of the battle-weary veterans on the staff of our live-wire newspaper or is just the misguided attempts of a freshman to be smart. He thinks it was anonymous.

Our distrusted reader seems to have missed the point of our article. It was not, nor was it meant to be, a serious indictment of our R.O.T.C. drill which is efficient enough to have rated, as he points out, the Army’s “excellent” for the past several years—whatever that may mean. The article was in the style of what journalists are wont to call a “feature.” A feature takes any angle other than a “news-facts” approach and develops it either for purposes of information or entertainment, or both. In the particular circumstances under which we print the DAVIDSONIAN—that is, where most news reaches the students by the mediums of chapel and a healthy grape-vine before we get hold of it and where opinions and their expression are necessarily rather stereotyped—the feature must play a rather important role.

Even though “Disgustedly Ours” may be a bit too engrossed in his new-found importance as a squad sergeant to appreciate this particular brand of humor, we believe that it might have had some appeal to a good many of our readers who found themselves half-heartedly participating in compulsory drill.

“A Reader” makes his best point in closing though he doesn’t seem to realize the implications of it. He says—“I realize from the newspaper as a whole that you are very hard up for something to fill up space, but you could do a little better, I’m sure.”

The Davidsonian is the student’s newspaper, not the staff’s. It was founded by the student body, is for the student body, and should be of the student body. The students elect the editor; as far as we can judge from fair criticism, good and bad, and from our general observations of student opinion, it is what the students want insofar as we can make it that. If “A Reader” and a sizeable number of students who agree with him are not seeing the sort of things they would like to see in the DAVIDSONIAN, it is because they are too busy leading squads to make their opinion known. Anybody who wishes to help us “fill up space” is welcome in the staff’s headquarters.

Going on Way?

One of the best pieces of advice we have heard about hitch-hiking to Charlotte on a Saturday afternoon or night is don’t hitch-hike. The odds are against you. You are apt to find about half of the student body on the corner ahead of you. However, if there’s no solution but to make the weekly pilgrimage, a little more courtesy and thoughtfulness, especially on the Charlotte corner, should take some strain off of tempers and speed up the process for all concerned.

As far as we know, nobody has ever written out a code of ethics for hitch-hikers. But if they had, the first rule should be to wait for your turn. And wait where you will not hinder the other fellow’s chances of getting a ride. Too many of us, when we come up and the corner is crowded, just stand around and crowd the corner instead of standing back out of the way until the other fellow gets a ride, or moving off down the street out of his way. If we move on down, somebody else often comes up later and gets the best place after the first man is gone. People are not apt to stop if there is a crowd on the corner. And it is hardly in keeping with a spirit of fair play to get ahead of somebody who has been waiting longer than you have. So, if we’ll just be a little more thoughtful, we can help all concerned.

SIGMA CHI

Among the prominent activities of the past week end were Brothers Apperson and Slick John who figured in social activities. Before he left, Brother Apperson was given a timely warning by Brother Zedaker who told him of a blind date he once had who held a degree from a Braille institute. But, unheeding this advice, the Profile and Little Slick marched straight on to their respective fates. Slick must have been struck dumb by what he found for he has maintained complete silence concerning the whole affair. The Profile, however, did divulge the information that, after all, brain is better than brawn. At least he could defend himself.

A name which has been conspicuous by its absence from these pages for quite a while is that of “Ski-snoot” Pritchard. It really doesn't seem right to let this column go to press without some free advertising for this illustrious brother. All that is known to be newsworthy of his recent activities are only two incidents. First, he was recently heard to say for all to rejoice, C is for Carlos, Chile and Carr; look for them in the nearest bar. D is for Dorton, Dardel, and Drymon; E is for Erwin whose alias is Hirans. F has had it, and G is for Gene; he expects his choice to win by Kentucky Derby. Secondly, he has declared war against the local feathered population after the recent strafing attack he endured. So much for Ski-snoot. If Bos Richard will break down and do something spectacular he will have a similar tribute paid to him in a future column.

“Blanket” Norwood broke away from his sheltered life long enough to engage in some nefarious midnight activities last week-end. Congratulations to “Gunder” for his gallant track meet. Two-bit’s talents must be in some other line, for he failed miserably in last week's try against Jackson.

Sigma Chi is happy to announce the pledging of Jack Metaney.

KAPPA SIGMA

Last Friday was a big day for the Sigmas. Thanks to our many talented freshmen, we scored just as many points as have ever been scored by a fraternity in the interfraternity track meet. Tom Stockton broke records in the 880 and three-quarter mile races, and Slick, the pop-eyed one, broke the shot put record. Dave Williams almost broke the high jump record, and if the relay team of Stockton, White, Spach and Stockton had not been so tired, they would probably have gained the record in that event. It's a good thing Tom Stockton and Bill White decided to save themselves for the indoor meet at Chapel Hill; otherwise, the fraternity house might not have a new trophy on the piano on which Mouse ducks his cigarettes.

The function Saturday night at the river was acclaimed by all who attended as one of the best this chapter has ever had. Held at the river in a place which was originally owned by the local bootleg king, the party was aided by warm weather (and a full moon). The members of the Soat and Gun Club were as nice and cooperative as they could be, and thanks for the success of theSquare dance go to Mr. Williams who did a job of calling it. There was square dancing, regular dancing, a hayride, boat ride, a full moon, and (we don’t know what else) an expert.

PI KAPPA PHI

With a gun in my back as a little hint, I was told to put no more names in a sentence. Well, here we go you lucky guys, pick up the paper—and your eyes. A is for Alvin, and B is for Bud; C is for Claude who is Uncle Fud. D is for Don, Juan, and E is for Frost; it really is Ernest and now I'm lost. F is for Fishhead, and G is for Gurley; H is for Herb who sacks in early. I is a tough one, it really doesn’t go; but J is for Jerry or maybe Old Joe. K is for keymen, and L is for Luke; M is for Moe who's a total gone Duke. N is for Niblocks, Tom and Frank, they're the ones who fill the bank. O is for Odell, and P is for Poe; if you hear a Q, please let us know. R is for Rawson, and S is for Sarge; T is for Turnage who is still at large. U is for Underdown, but V draws a nix: W is for Willer who argues for kicks. X, Y, Z we'll have to let go, but A is for Allen, our number one Joe. L is for Bill, and we really have plenty; seven is all, but it seems like twenty. More B's for Boykin, Barringer, and Boyce; if I finish this thing, I'll certainly rejoice.

An Opportunity
By GENE

One of the major questions asked by representatives of the firms who are presently interviewing members of the senior class concerns extra-curricular activities. It is very evident that these business endeavors during our college years certainly merit consideration. If you do not agree that extra-curricular activities are an important phase of your college education, then imagine for a minute a college without them. Take away the fraternity court, college newspaper, athletic teams, etc. Although there is hardly any consent to the outright abolishment of activities, there are many of us who fail to support and use the opportunity that is ours. While our prospective employer does not expect each one of us to be the proverbial “campus wheel,” he does have the right to expect that we have moderately participated in campus activities, and in that respect, let us examine the opportunity that is ours through extra-curricular activities.

Thanks to the Campus Club, student body now has the opportunity to practice some of the theory we are learning. Here we have the opportunity to learn by the trial and error method. An innocent error committed on this friendly campus will not be nearly so expensive as a similar one made after we are permanently located in some professional capacity. Often, I have listened to the announcements in chapel, and I have wondered what percentage of the student body is taking advantage of the opportunity to be found in campus activities. We are all aware that the campus organizations are plagued by members who are merely deadweight. To be more specific, the editor of one of our publications told me the other day he could depend upon twenty-five percent of his staff. When such conditions exist, the bulk of the workload is left to those who realize the true purpose of the organization and therefore do more than their share to carry its name through the year. We are certainly defeating the primary purpose of our extra-curricular program when we make it necessary that a few students carry the workload of any campus organization. If our campus activities are going to be permitted to play the role in our college education that they deserve; if they are intended to mean more than just “subjects” to be reported on by the college annual each year; if we consider them to be an essential part of our college life; then each one of us must resolve to loyally support our extra-curricular program at Davidson College. What is the situation with you? Are you an active participant in this program on the Davidson campus?

By ART JENKINS

H is for Harold, the Latin queen, I is a misfit, but J is for John; from K we move on to another one. L is for Laurin, and M is for Mur- rave. We'd list them all three, but we’re in a hurry. More M's for Murphy, Morris, and McSwain; and for McClintock, Mead, and McCain. N is for nobody, and O is the same. But P is for Parks, and Q is a shame. R is for Rhodes whose stomach is a tank; S is for Sam, and T is a blank. U is for Underdown, and V is for Vance; W is for Weber; will I finish ever, ever? One more stanza will complete the stand, but don't think it ain't been grand. A is for Alexander, and B for Boom. C is for Clarence and Cecil, too; glory be I think I'm through. Not so fast it must be fate; pardon me, Clayton, I overlooked a hairy pate. Doesn't rhyme; I'll try to work you in some other time. If that's all the crew, believe it or not, this time I really am through.

PHI DELTA THETA

This week-end the brothers welcomed back to campus McLean, Al “Big Wind” Potts, Cameron Sutton, and Brinegar. Potts was seen cavorting at the annual SAE costume brawl. Potts seems to have been afflicted with a severe case of hiccoughs throughout the evening, but Al’s lungs were in perfect working order. Methuselah Whiteheart, Winston-Salem romeo, threatens to get a date in the near future. The old broken-down hurler must be planning one last fling before Father Time cuts him down. Freshman brothers Warren and Pickard journeyed to Salem in the company of Bob Knight and the Bullshooting Pounder. During the course of the evening, the neophytes became separated from their old daddies and startled the assembled multitude with an acrobatic display.

The TIGER of Clemson tells of an expensive way of being sure you don't get “walking papers” when the end of the semester rolls around. A group of Clemson students visited the post office just before grades came out and bought a group of mail as a medium, Harvard students are now using it in rebellion against Hollywood. They have produced their own production which they call “The Times,” a fifty-four-minute picture. The Harvard students, plus Radcliff girls, spent $1,400 and two years in making it. The players consisted of undergraduates and a few stage-struck individuals. Ivy Films was set back including a mile of film because of inexperience. They hope to make money because the movie has already been booked at several colleges. “The Times” stars are identified only as X and Z. The heroine, Y, bestows a kiss on the hero at the height of the 3,000 feet of film. The story goes something like this: “X works in a factory. He has a girlfriend named Y. He takes up kite-flying as an escape from his humdrum life. It spreads to be a national craze. Factory production halts while workers fly their kites. X gets fired as a troublemaker. Y leaves him for his boss’ limousine. Then the bosses negotiate a contract stipulating everyone flies their kite at the same height. People stop chasing each other. Curtain.”

The manager of the dining rooms at Carolina stuck his neck out by putting a suggestion box in the lobby of the cafeteria. The first day, 1500 students responded. Twenty cards contained only two words, “Drop dead!” Other complaints ranged from “too much gasoline in the tomato juice,” to “not enough toothpicks.” But many legitimate suggestions have brought results, and everybody is happier.

Another item of interest from the DAILY TAR HEEL is the account of a trial conducted by professors of the English Department. This was no ordinary trial because the crime was committed in 1598. It seems that an Englishman named Thomas Drake brought an indictment against Jonas Bodenham for confiscating $400,000 plus property acquired by Drake's deceased brother, Francis, the notorious Sea Dog. The jury's verdict was guilty and then the decision: the trial was read. The decisions of the 1598 trial and the original trial were found to be identical.

The JOHNSONIAN of Winthrop, and the OLD GOLD AND BLACK of Wofford are carrying out a commendable project in each of their respective schools. Each sponsors a contest in which fifty South Carolina high schools participate. This is to select the outstanding senior boy and girl in each school. The winners are invited to the college where they are treated with much respect and pumped full of propaganda. The administration then sponsors another contest, the winner receiving a full scholarship to the college. The purpose of the contests is to get the cream of the crop from South Carolina high schools, and according to the JOHNSONIAN, who has tried it for the past few years, it has been very successful in doing so.

The RED AND BLACK of U. of Georgia reports that the scholastic accreditation of that institution is in serious danger of being revoked. The principal reason for this is the fact that about 250 instructors are being discharged, an action necessary because of a million-dollar reduction in appropriations. This is a state at Carolina.

The Round Man, with one arm around a freshly cooked side of beef, and the other around fair Connie, rolled into the swing of things last weekend. The Round Man, while flitting across the dance floor with nymph-like grace, paused on the downbeat to nibble a sandwich. Rumor has it that Charlotte police have out a dragnet for Carnal Campbell and Hungry Hubbell. This iniquitous pair hotly pursued a Charlotte damsel into one of the city’s cinemas, and only the strong arm of a manly usher saved her from a fate worse than death.

The man who possesses a hot temper has a hard time keeping it in cold storage. Termites have worked on many a man who claims to be a pillar in the church. “We should weigh secrecy and democracy; we can't always have both,” says David E. Lilienthal.