PAGE SIX THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, May 13, 1949

ODK TAPS TWELVE...
(Continued from Page One)

gia Tech in 1946. He is the retiring president of the Kappa Alpha Social Fraternity, hurls the javelin for the track team, is a member of the “D” Club and president of the 21 Club at Davidson.

PAUL HORNE
Paul Horne, the present manager of the student store, a pre-ministerial student and a member of the Campus Club, hails from Spring, N.C. Paul, who has done an excellent job at running the store this year, has been asked to be the manager for the next year and has made a tentative acceptance.

BILL ALEXANDER
Bill Alexander, newly inaugurated president of the YMCA, is from Jacksonville, Fla. “Bull,” a member of the 1947 football squad, the wrestling team, the Beaver Club, the “D” Club, Philanthropic Literary Society, and is the newly elected No. 111 in the Kappa Alpha Social Fraternity.

WHIT COBB
Whit Cobb, a three-letter man in track, basketball, and tennis, hails from Durham and Charlotte. The newly elected president of the student body, past president of the Beaver Club, retiring vice-president of the student body, and a member of the “D” Club. He is also a member of the Phi Delta Theta Social Fraternity.

BOB HOLLISTER
Bob Hollister, newly elected editor of the Davidsonian, hails from New Bern, N.C. He is president of the Phi Delta Theta Social Fraternity, a member of the Sigma Upsilon, Philanthropic Literary Society, Scabbard and Blade. He has served on the staffs of the Quips and Cranks, Scripts and Pranks, and the Davidsonian, acting as managing editor of the Davidsonian this year.

LISTON MILLS
Liston Mills, newly named president of the senior class, hails from Wilmington. Liston is the newly elected president of the Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity, a pre-theological student, columnist on the Davidsonian, and a member of the Sigma Upsilon honorary literary society.

BO RODDEY
Oliver Roddey, an outstanding basketball player and No. 1 man on the tennis team, comes from Charlotte, N.C. He is a member of the Beaver Club, the “D” Club, and is to serve as vice-president of the senior class next year. Bo is a member of the Kappa Sigma Social Fraternity.

BILL BIRD
Bill Bird, the incoming president of the Pan Hellenic Council, comes from Fredericksburg, Va. A pre-med student, Bill has held the third base slot on the baseball team for three years, is a member of the Beaver Club, “D” Club, retiring president of the Junior Class, and a member of the Kappa Alpha Social Fraternity.

SUMMER SCHOOL...
(Continued from Page One)

English 21-22—Wood; German 11-12—Beaty; History 61-62—Johnston; Math 11-12—Mebane; Psychology 21-22—Godcharles; Biology 11-12—Puckett; Chemistry 31-32, 41-42—Logan; Physics 21-22—Fulcher.

The courses for the second term are: Bible 21-22—Baumann; Biology 31-32—Behrman; Chemistry 31-32—Logan; Economics 31-32—Brown; English 11-12—Cummings; English 61-62—Lilly; German 21-22—Vowles; History 41-42—Thompson; Math 11-12—Kimbrough; Psychology 23-51—Abernethy; Political Science—Pinkney. Spanish 11-12 and 21-22 are offered for the first and second terms respectively, but the instructors in that subject have not yet been decided upon. Additional information about summer school may be obtained from a folder available in the registrar's office.

HAPLESS, SACKLESS...
(Continued from Page One)

thought that I was suffering from a ‘pink toothbrush’. Replies ranged from “Will you please shut that blank-blank door and get out of my blank-blank light! Got three reviews tomorrow and everybody and his brother thinks this is Grand Central Station.” Maybe we've got room here; maybe we haven't. Sorry, we're all set here, and besides we like a conventional club bid.“Sure, we're going to have room next year. Aren't you that fellow who tied his roommate to the bed when he was asleep and rubbed his bare feet with catnip, then let three stray cats into the room? I don't know, Joe. He looks kind of odd to me. Sorry, fellow, I think my little brother’s coming up next year, and we want to save him a room. Better luck next time.” And so it went. Things like this can make a man develop a complex, and directly to this do I attribute my recently acquired spasmodic twitches, speech impediments, and obvious personality abnormalities. Nevertheless, I am far from cracking up under the strain. Every spare moment is spent trying to find a room with at least semi-compatible roommates. If worse comes to worst, there are always garages around, and there are storage rooms in the basements of all the dorms. Of course, if the situation really gets desperate, there's always Watts.

Mayor, which is known affectionately to its members as the Campus Club, is where nothing ever happens. Atkins, Thompson, and Wilkinson trot home to see their true loves, while Dave Bowman, McAnts, and a goodly number of anonymous poor souls remain within the extensive corporate limits of Beaty's Metropolis. All Willis Coggins has done lately was to drag about thirty golden voices through a maze of competition to the Holy Grail, which adorns our radio for the second straight year. Our former president has announced that a change (in number) will be made in his happy family and that soon, before too long, we shall see our Happy Herb become the favorite father of a little Meza.

And before it slips my mind, the following members were elected and appointed to various offices by all in a campaign characterized by great interest on the part of the concerned:
President: Malloy Owen
Vice President: Jim Campbell
Secretary: Dick Harris
Treasurer: Murray Remson
Pan Hellenic Rep.: John Watt

The committee chairmen for the coming year are:
Social: Deck
Program: Bob Keever
Religion: Gene Little
House: Alvin Gerhardt
Publications: Henry
Feed & Cleaning: Lawrence (Bugsy) Atkins
Scholarship: David Deck
Membership: Glen Neal

Terrible Verrel Kirk, Ribald Richard Harris, Toughie Thompson, Careless Carey Henderson, Vibber Phipps, and a good many other hopefuls had dates on Winthrop-Davidson (mostly Davidson) day, and the boys seemed to be glad to get back into the spring feel of things. Pardon me, Dr. Cunningham, I meant that old spring feeling. Lloyd went to Kernersville, Libby was in Winston-Salem, and Mary Ellen traveled to York, South Carolina. (No, please.) We haven't seen much of Matt McGowan lately, but Pino and Ed Parker have been around more often.

UNDERARM DEODORANT
Men and women use “Aloride” to stop underarm perspiration and odors. Full strength, effective, pleasant to use. Convenient to get. A “best buy.” A large bottle (year’s supply) delivered to you for $1 postpaid. Send cash or check to ALORIDE, Box 3035, Arlington, Va.

OUR BEST GRADES HEAVY 200 for $15.00
Send for Price List—Save Money
WORTHWHILE CHICKS
101 W. North Avenue
Baltimore 1, Md.

Duke Photo Co.
404 W. Trade St.
Directly in front of P. O.
FOR PORTRAITS OF DISTINCTION
“Specialists In Men’s PORTRAITS”
Portrait & Commercials
A Complete Photographic Service

DAVIDSON THEATRE
WEEK OF MAY 16th
MONDAY and TUESDAY
LITTLE WOMEN
June Allyson—Margaret O'Brien
WEDNESDAY - THURSDAY
THE KISSING BANDIT
Frank Sinatra—Kathryn Grayson
FRIDAY and SATURDAY
SOUTH OF ST. LOUIS
Joel McCrea—Alexis Smith

VISIT THE STUDENT’S STORE FOR YOUR NEEDS

TOPS WITH THE TOP STARS
“When you smoke CHESTERFIELD you get a milder, cooler smoke. That’s why it’s my cigarette.”
Starring in “BRIDE OF VENGEANCE,” a Paramount Picture

TOP MEN of Hollywood and with colleges too—Chesterfields have a milder, much better taste. And they’re my cigarette.”