PAGE TWO ~ THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF ----------------- BOB HOLLISTER
BUSINESS MANAGER -------------- BILL HOUCK

EDITORIAL STAFF
Chief Associate Editor ----------------- Doug Hix
Chief Associate Editor ----------------- Lonnie Turnipseed
Chief Associate Editor ----------------- Jack Hazard

MANAGING EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall, Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister, Randy Taylor.
Sports Editor—Gordon Scott
Make-up Editors — Dan McKeithen, Cherry Stribling.
Art Editor—Bill King
City Editor—John Hobart
Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager ----------------- Advertising Managers
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison.
Circulation Manager ----------------- Huffaker
Asst. Circulation Managers ----------------- Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager ----------------- John Foltin
Subscriptions Manager ----------------- Alex Goley

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

Introducing Your Editors:
Although many different students are responsible for the content, makeup, and publication of the Davidsonian, few ever receive adequate recognition
for the effort they expend from week to week. In an earlier issue of this paper, there appeared a listing
of all members of both the editorial and business staffs. It is our purpose here to record the activities of
the men who are more directly responsible for the content and makeup of your Davidsonian.

The Davidsonian of 1949-50 is fortunate in that it is able to call upon the services of one of the
most efficient and productive staffs it has ever known. There are eight managing editors and three associate editors on the
staff. We will discuss each in the order of the pages with which they are concerned.

The three associate editors — Jack Hazard, Doug Hix, and Lonnie Turnipseed are in direct control of the entire paper.
These three men decide where within the paper the content matter of the Davidsonian is to appear, and when it
is to appear. These managing editors are directly responsible to them and they arrange and supervise the duties of the
entire staff.

Among the managing editors — Hartley Hall is in charge of make-up and layout for the front or “straight news”
page. He and the men working under his capable, if somewhat vociferous, direction arrange and entitle all front page news
items.

On page two is Tom Mann — one of the Davidsonian's hardest workers and the most consistent “idea” man. Tom
assigns and makes up all page two copy. He works with our column writers and critics in securing the editorial
page copy.

Bill Hollister is in charge of copy and make-up on page three. Bill has been working in this position only
two weeks, but even in that short time has made this page more directly the students’ page it is eventually
to be.

Gordon Scott, our sports editor, has the double-barrel job of organizing and procuring all sports copy for pages four and
five. He is to be commended for keeping up with both intramural and college athletics in fine fashion.

Jim Murray as editor in charge of page six has the thankless task of juggling all of the paper’s loose
ends and coming up with a readable back page. Jim is a consistent, dependable manager. He can always be relied
upon to construct an interesting page — on time.

Neill Leach as assignments editor tirelessly holds down one of the Davidsonian’s most complicated posts. He is responsible for the
assignment of all news articles. Neill also follows up each assignment and sees that all available news sources are covered
by our reporters.

Bill Cumming as manager of all cuts appearing in the paper, works with Neill and the school photographers in securing
pictures to be published in conjunction with major news stories. Bill is another managing editor who can be relied upon
consistently to perform his duties thoroughly.

Randy Taylor — copy editor — is responsible for all material submitted for publication. Randy works with our freshman and
sophomore reporters in an effort to improve the quality of the Davidsonian’s articles.

Arnie Covell, feature editor, makes all feature assignments and is directly responsible for the procurement of every feature or informally
written article appearing among these pages.

No Davidsonian could ever boast more editorial staff talent. For this reason, we have been able to promise the Student
Body the beginning of the finest series of Davidsonians it has ever known.

Hospitality
It has been called to our attention that visitors on the campus, parents and friends of students, have no very
good way of locating boys they want to find without the co-operation of us students. Of course, they can find
a student directory in the Guest House and probably some detailed instructions of how to get there after they know
where they are going. But most of them would not know about that. Chances are, they’ll ask some student passing
by if he knows “my boy Bill” and where he is at the moment. It may take a moment of
our sometimes important time to be courteous and helpful to these visitors, but actually we will be doing the school
and also ourselves a favor by a good turn of that kind. One mark of a Christian, educated man should
be his courtesy and hospitality. One mark of a Davidson man IS his courtesy and hospitality.

Speaking to a women’s group, Lady Astor said, “Women, we have got to make the world safe for men.” It’s
the best safety measure yet proposed.

Instead of trying to clear the name of his client, many a lawyer seems to fight harder to win a
delay.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1949

LETTERS... FEATURES EDITORIALS... CRITICISMS OF FRATERNITIES

A Faculty and Student Opinion Poll
While Davidson’s fraternity system seems to serve well enough so as to merit no drastic rerouting, it is no bad
idea to examine it from time to time in order that needs for improvement will not go unattended. Here are
opinions, suggestions, and criticisms from three professors and three students for us to mull over and consider constructively:

Prof. Baumann:
Fraternities have many good qualities. They have a potential that is undeveloped. However, by way of negative criticism of fraternities,
I would like for someone to define the typology of the fraternity man. Of what type is a fraternity man?
Some men are not asked to join a fraternity because they are not considered to be of this type. What
is the criterion for defining this type? If there is an articulate criterion, I know that it is cast aside
if it happens to be expedient. In addition, there is the problem of exclusiveness that needs consideration. Fraternities, in a
sense, have tended to be exclusive. Exclusive groups, so some sociologists say, are noted for their intolerance. Intolerance is a
problem in a democratic culture.

Rob Palmer:
At Davidson there are ten “social” fraternities; yet under the present faculty rules each of these groups is allowed only
one off-campus function a semester. Although on-campus functions are not discouraged, there is only one place, Erwin Lodge, other than
the fraternity houses, which is suitable for a function. Such enjoyable activities as hayrides, parties at Harris Lake, or afternoon
picnics on the river are termed “off-campus” and are therefore outlawed if their one function has already occurred. I am
sure the social chairmen would welcome the opportunity to provide more numerous and more varied types of functions. It is
my opinion that the faculty ruling on this matter should be amended.

Prof. Davidson:
There are not, at present, a sufficient number of social fraternities at Davidson for the students who are interested in
this type of activity. For our present size student body (or even one of seven hundred men), we should have
at least three additional chapters of good national organizations. There is space for three houses across the road from the
Kappa Sigs, the Phi Delts and the S.P.E.’s. With the student body of the type we have, there should be
enough fraternities for every man interested to belong to a chapter of not over fifty or sixty members. There will
always be a large number of Davidson men who do not care for fraternities and no pressure should be brought
to bear either to force them to affiliate or to convince them that they are missing an important college activity.
Fraternities are important only in so far as they have something to contribute of lasting value to the student and,
through him, to the institution.

Ken Goodpasture:
There is at the present time much talk about changing Rush Week to the second semester. I believe I will
have to take my stand in defense of the present, first semester rushing system. First of all in consideration for
the freshmen the second semester plan would, undoubtedly, be best, for it would give them a much better chance to
look over the fraternities, and would also relieve their “neophyte” minds of some of the first semester strain which naturally
plagues every struggling freshman. However, I think we endanger our Davidson fraternity system by putting off the Rush Week. There
is very little basic difference in the ideals and activities of the Davidson fraternities, and there is a high degree
of competition due to the fact that every fraternity has several outstanding men with no overload of top men in
any one fraternity. To be frank, as the system now stands a semi-good fraternity can fool a good man into
joining them thus strengthening that fraternity and thus strengthening the whole group of fraternities. If the change to second semester
rushing were made, I contend that the fraternities which happened to be strong at the time of the change would
continue to be strong and the rest would become weaker. This eliminates the competition, health, and vigor which now exists
in our system. Therefore, though the freshman may join somewhat blindly, and though he is a bit overloaded in first
semester responsibilities, I think that we will always have a more equal and more competitive group of fraternities as the
system now stands.

Prof. Martin:
The fraternity situation at Davidson is unique in two ways — the lodge system, which enables one to have close
friends and even roommates who are members of other fraternities, and the fact that the amount of so-called “fraternity material”
is more than the fraternities can take on as members. In my opinion the former situation is definitely an asset,
while the latter leads to disappointments, probably temporary. While the function of fraternities is essentially social, it seems that they
should take the opportunity to further not only social poise, but higher scholarships as well. They should help make the
“Davidson Gentleman” not a self-satisfied, complacent snob, but rather a gentleman in the true sense of the word — friendly,
courteous and intelligently aware of his duties in the community.

Stubby Evans:
Our fraternity system is the best I’ve yet to witness. With all students living together regardless of fraternal ties, closely
knit cliques are almost non-existent while other colleges have no intermingling and fraternities are closed factions splitting the school. Rivalry
between fraternities at Davidson rarely exists except, of course, during rush week and occasionally after a riff during an athletic
contest. Two conditions have long served as equalizers for our system. They are the fraternity houses which are uniform and
the first week rushing season which has put the fraternities on equal footing. The current protest against the latter as
an academic hazard to school life is, however, well grounded. The most potent reasons for changing the rushing to second
semester, aside from academic reasons is as I see it, to make the freshmen more unified as a class and
to make the fraternities get on the ball not for just the single rush week but for a whole semester,
which might mean for good.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Editor, THE DAVIDSONIAN:
We would like to request that in his next article, Mr. Hansen answer these questions: Who and what is a
critic? What is the purpose of criticism? What is the purpose of the criticisms printed in the DAVIDSONIAN? In particular,
if the purpose of his criticisms of the artists of the College Concert...Series is to present to the view of
the student body the fact that the Series should be composed of “great” artists rather than “name” artists, his criticism
justified. No artist should be presented on the basis of the fact that he or she is well-known and on
no other basis whatsoever. The purpose of the Concert Series should be to present to the student body fine music
rather than celebrities. In our opinion, the critic should approach the performance of an artist solely on the basis of
the beauty, or lack of beauty, and technique of its presentation. That a critic should use his criticism purely for
a background upon which to display his caustic slander and doubtful humor is a despicable thing. Criticism is not ridicule
and when ridicule is disguised under the name of criticism, its purpose is defeated; for who will take into serious
consideration that which attempts not to edify but to burlesque? We do not call upon Mr. Hansen in the name
of the Democratic Party or the Presbyterian Church, U.S., but in the name of those who would like to see
greater artists appear on the stage of Chambers Auditorium. We hope that in the future, the editors of the DAVIDSONIAN
will limit their critical articles to those that are wholesome and founded upon good judgment.

Yours very truly,
Perry E. Gragg
Newton

Dear Editor:

In answer to Mr. W. O. Harris’ letter (Davidsonian, November 11), I would like to say that though he has
apparently rent his spleen with some supposedly stinging expletives, Mr. Harris has also evaded the real issue about which the
present wave of criticism is more deeply concerned. If Mr. Harris will listen closely and read carefully, he will in
no wise detect the promulgation of any of the suggestions that he implies would be foisted on the student body
by the very courageous minority who have the foresight to criticize our method of obtaining a better way of life.
Nowhere have I heard that all chapel programs should be abolished; nor have I heard any requests for Sunday vespers
to be cancelled; nor have I heard appeals for the opening of an ABC Store in Davidson; nor have I
heard of suggestions that we drop Bible, sophomore English, ROTC, or some other recently-under-fire items. No one has suggested that
the Editor of the Davidsonian be shot, nor have I heard of a motion that the YMCA be abolished.

As the person who this year gave impetus to an over-all policy of justifiable criticism was Dr. Abernathy, it might
have been well if Mr. Harris had attended the meeting of the staff of the Davidsonian which Dr. Abernathy addressed.
Substantially, Dr. Abernathy repeated what he said in the memorial chapel program. To wit: “There are some things wrong with
Davidson. Let us analyze, criticize and correct them.” To come to any such conclusions as Mr. Harris reached in such
emotional phraseology is to my mind beneath the dignity of a professed Davidson student of the type which Mr. Harris
considers himself.

Admittedly, I have made no attempt to answer Mr. Harris’ letter in respect to the charges he made that we
have had enough criticism of the various functions at Davidson that he mentioned. I have, however, tried to say that
that was not the topic of the recent barrage of critical views, but rather that we could do a better
job in each of the functions previously reviewed, by honest criticism with intent to build, not to tear down.

—Bob Johnson.

FUZZ

The writer spent last weekend attending the Social Science Forum held at Women’s College in Greensboro, N.C. The forum, bringing
together eminent figures in the fields of economics, political science, philosophy, and politics to discuss such explosive topics as minorities,
the welfare state, and the threat of bigness in business, labor, and government, seemed on the whole more impressive for
the questions it raised than for the conclusions it reached. The keynote appeared to be an idealistic brand of economic
determinism. Senator Douglas provided the melancholy spectacle of a fine economist unable to express his real views for fear of
losing votes; he was willing to affirm only his opposition to bigness anywhere, except in trade unions, and his wholehearted
support of labor, the farmer, and democracy. There was too much emphasis on pure theory, particularly on the assumption that
all you needed to do to perfect man was to perfect his institutions. Still, the forum was valuable because of
the issues it raised and the interest it aroused. Consistent student attendance nearly filled Aycock Auditorium during the night sessions;
delegates were present from as far away as Sophie Newcomb College in New Orleans. After their prepared comments, the authorities
had to face a barrage of biting questions. All in all, the writer could not help feeling ashamed that he
had never attended a similar event at Davidson. Our lecture series, unhappily, is noted neither for controversy nor for interest.
This and other facts, together with recent authoritarian outbursts in the Davidsonian, make us wonder whether the college is choosing
the best means to achieve its avowed end of Christian education. We are all in favor of that end; otherwise,
we would not be here. But we may disagree as to the best way to reach our goal. Just as
security kills imagination, so unanimity may kill thought and tend to weaken conviction. Homogeneity, up to a point, is good;
so is a stable base of doctrine and belief. But a dead calm of conformity, we believe, will not produce
the type of Christian leadership able to breast the icy waters of the contemporary world. Is Davidson a safe place
to send your boy? Not unless she pre...

(Continued On Page Three)

LITERARY SOCIETIES?

Of all the types of organizations on the campus which can be called extra-curricular, the literary societies would best deserve
the appellation of dead letter. It would seem that there is almost no single phase of their rather limited services
to the student body as a whole which might not just as well, if not better, be performed by some
other organization. Whatever may be said against some other organizations, this particular charge cannot, with any justification, be thrown against
them. The Davidsonian, the Scripts 'n Pranks, and several others, though they may not serve as well as they might,
can claim that no other organization could serve at all in the particular region of their activities.

This is a serious charge. The writer does not know just exactly what the purpose of these organizations supposedly devoted
to literary upliftment actually is. If the purposes of the literary groups, as a whole, is to form an elite
inner circle which will benefit only those who are fortunate enough to be members, then this criticism is unwarranted. But,
even granting this as their purpose, it is rather surprising upon an examination of their membership to find that approximately
forty percent have never displayed the slightest indications of literary or oratorical talent. This forty percent can say, with questionable
pride, that none or at the most one or two of their literary works have appeared in the two publications
where, for lack of any other, we naturally look to find evidence of any reason for this group’s membership in
these literary groups. Some of this group, of course, have distinguished themselves in the literary field while not actually writing,
i.e., they have served in various capacities on the staffs of our two publications. But this number is fairly small
and when all allowances have been made for any valid reason other than creative writing as a basis for membership,
then we still find thirty percent whose right to be members of literary organizations is tenuous.

What then, has been the basis for admittance of this thirty percent? While in this particular connection the word “pull”
sounds somewhat ugly, it must be used—since there is no other visible basis for an explanation of their membership. Perhaps
these organizations do not wish to serve the student body. It is assumed, however, that they do. If this is
true, then it is suggested that these organizations hereafter take as members those who deserve membership. Perhaps their value to
the campus and student body at large will increase when all of their members are sincerely interested in bringing the
fruits of their literary endeavor to everyone. This editorial does not minimize the efforts which have been made. It merely
suggests that these efforts might be made more often and more effectively if the literary societies numbered in their membership
those men whose value to the literary world is clear.

Elliot Social Science Forum

“WHAT WE OUGHT TO KNOW VS. WHAT WE DON’T DO”
By TOM ABEL

The Elliot Social Science Forum held in Greensboro last week was not the best of its kind ever held, but
certainly no worse than average. Many eminent speakers took part, among them Drs. Louis Hacker and Otto Klineberg, Columbia University,
Dr. Glenn Negley of Duke, and Senator Paul Douglas of Illinois, formerly with the Economics Department of the University of
Chicago. Dr. Quincy Wright was also present, but unfortunately didn’t get a chance to say much due to the eloquence
of Senator Douglas.

The program, briefly outlined, consisted of a main topic each morning and evening with panel discussions in the interim. Some
of the topics under discussion were “The Welfare State,” “Nationalism, Myth or Reality,” (better stated: “Realistic Myth”), and “The Problem
of Minorities.” The keynote discussion, “What We Know vs. What We Do,” proved to be more like “What We Ought
to Know vs. What We Don’t Do.” Of course, that is the feeling which should be left with the audience
after any good forum.

One of the main fallacies in the earlier talks was the speakers’ discussing various solutions to certain problems with the
attitude that human beings are perfect little machines, just waiting for some great plan to lead them in the right
direction. In the last discussion, the greatest difficulties arose from political pressures, which kept Senator Douglas literally shaking in his
boots. Yea verily, some of the answers received to questions from the floor were as those handed down by the
Delphic Oracle of old.

Dr. Glenn Negley of Duke conducted one of the best panels held on Russia vs. United States. He attempted to
prove that basically the U.S. system of values differs only slightly from that of the Russians, the greatest schism between
the two ideologies being the methods used by each nation to achieve a common purpose. It was brought out that
Russia very definitely has a competitive system of business, for if a man works up to a good job, he
will be pretty well off, even by our standards. On the other hand, if he fails, he doesn't get fired,
but shot. How could any system be any more competitive than that—to the individual at least?

Although Senator Douglas’ opening speech of the final forum, “Next...

(Continued On Page Three)
