PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, February 11, 1949

AMONG THE GREEKS...
(Continued From Page Two)

week for the local followers of the crimson and gold. Congratulations are in order for caterers Guthery and Roddey, who engineered the food and drinks. We were glad to have as our guests Tony Tucker, Herbert Middleton, Tommy Langford, and Bill Sechnest. Brother Dick Baxter’s heart-throb served as the K.A. Rose of the occasion.

The week got off to a fine start Monday night when the brothers, ever mindful of the pledges’ welfare and happiness, devised various amusements for them. Pledge Bryan Robinson spent some time learning about the intricacies of the local division of the Southern Railway—good thing he and the evening freight to Statesville didn’t get to the trestle at the same time. Pledges Buckey and Sommers managed to break into print in Thursday’s Observer, along with a typical Travistian story. The next few days found all the pledges immensely enjoying their roles as cigarette and chewing gum machines. The brothers also found their music during meals a delightful aid to digestion. A visitor to the house Thursday night could have seen Chief Window-Washer Chuck Kirby directing his accomplished gang of demolition experts among the usual clouds of dust and glass cleaner aroused by the annual spring cleaning. After these days of rest and relaxation, all will be in top shape for initiation this week.

Absent over the weekend was General Charlie Mitchell of the Confederate Army, who hopped a stage up to Raleigh for the Old South Ball thrown by Duke, Carolina, Wake Forest, and State. Accompanying him was the Confederacy’s expert on electronic warfare, ‘Radar’ McConnell, the late owner of the best pair of sideburns on the campus. They were assured by Governor Vance that Washington would fall in a matter of sorts.

Conspicuously absent was the usual feminine pulchritude for the weekend. Although the number of brothers with dates was somewhat reduced, what was lacking in quantity was more than doubly made up for in quality. “Jack S.” Lyles, the Sigma chaplain, was generally acknowledged to be the chapter's best connoisseur of women. Those who were at lunch on Sunday agreed it had been a mighty fine weekend.

Congratulations to the Pan-Hellenic Council for an excellent job. Woe to Harry Bachmann (the educated layman) and H. P. King, who retired to their caves in the Tennessee hills for a weekend of meditation.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
The Mid-Winter Dances gave much excitement to the weekend and the Sig Alphs were in the midst of it all. We not only had better food at the boarding house, but also many and better and lovelier table companions. Brother John Coddington squired our beautiful SAE sponsor, Miss Douglas McCoy, and managed to keep her out of reach nearly the whole time. Bro. Bob McGehee was with the talented Ann Cochren who sang so very beautifully at vespers Sunday night. Brother Rivers Jenkins dived deep down into the hot-headed secession state to bring back the beauteous Mary Ann—it was worth the trip for our sakes, Rivers!

Well, guess what? Brother Monty Hill finally got a date and I imagine won a good many bets on the side. Monty hasn't had a date in so long that he was much at a loss at what to say but we will have to hand it to old Monty, he sure can pick ‘em. We enjoyed dancing with Brother Mac Erwin’s date—she was undoubtedly the best dancer on the floor. The gruesome twosome Meatball Gambrell and Rick Richards were “without” at these dances, but Brother Meatball did an excellent job as master of ceremonies at the banquet. This thanks to Bro. Bobby Carson, was the best one we've had. The decoration and tables were snazzy and the food was great. Pres. J. D. Ashmove gave a singular talk based on women and Dale Carnegie, and Bro. Will Hodgin turned patriotic on us—honoring the U.S. flag. Dick Richards honored us with a history concerning the “sporting” death of Duke of Marlborough. The banquet was terminated by the singing of all the good old songs of SAE.

Saw Slicker Silly Pate being held at bay by Patsy Ray, Saw Bra, Ken Good, and breakfast faithfully prepared by Al Guthrie, Wood Leach, and Bob Clark, while the rest of us were swinging and swaying to the rhythms of Johnny Satterfield and his orchestra. Saturday night the dance was merely a repeat performance minus the presence of Jim Cobb and Bob Knight, who journeyed to Salem with Misses Carrington and Pleasants. Several characters were added, however. Even “Seedy” Jim was seen sneaking in. “Ol’ Cook” Vann was caught munching on a carrot when the lights were out. “Hebrew” Bob Patton decided to pick up a few nickels by having his dirty argyles washed by the girl brothers. She left Sunday with a country bag full.

That old Winston-Salem squire, Norman Whiteheart, the fraternity Casanova, left his record in pieces when Ava Gardner flushed him at the last minute. “Grad A” Spires has been working on his car for a week now and reports he has the flatulator in good working order. Monk had nothing to say all weekend. Watch for his new collection of poems just coming off the presses, entitled “Lines Pasture.”

Bro. Rod Shaw was seen backing his U-Drive-It from Charlotte to Davidson after the dance with his beauteous Floridian girl. It was good to see all the wayward wandering brothers again—hope they'll drop around a lot more often. Phil Tatem must bring "Lib" back soon, too!

Flowers and sympathy are in order for Bro. Joe Richert who was injured in the line of duty. He broke his left foot in a weightlifting catch in Charlotte—here’s to your health, and reconstruction period, Joe! Pledge Put Johnson did some outstanding weight lifting at the meet, we understand. Pledge Hinson looked a little beat up after the varsity football scrimmage Saturday, but claimed that he had energy to spare.Ball Bro. J. ay for women the so Was at informal to the Satter- think a lot of, dancing instrumentals field. The SAE basketball the intra-frat and we extol all concerned to help we of satisfying team) is top of league now keep it there. Nice work, men, but Lamar } Saw | C. Roberts and Flora, whoin | on} ‘we have just now begun to fight.” | PHI DELTA THETA The brothers and pledges of Phi '] Delta Theta in the company of the finest collection of feminine pulchritude in the South, descended upon the Queen City en masse this weekend. The festivities started off with a banquet held at the Policeman's Horse Club. Power Smith, toastmaster par excellence, was in charge, and Dr. Bernard Boyd treated the boys and their dates as speaker. Hats off to social chairman Rol Palmer for a hard job well done. Congratulations also to Pledge Buddy Spivey, who received the fraternity’s annual award of a loving cup as the class's outstanding pledge. At the dance, took advantage of the darkness and sweet music to put his own talent to work. The job managing the stag line enabled all of the brothers to snake on each other's and the pledges' dates. After the dance, all headed to Bounder. Grade “A” Phone 69 AL'S GRILL WHERE YOUR PATRONAGE IS ALWAYS WELCOME! WESTERN STEAKS — FRIED CHICKEN! Mooresville, N. C. - Restaurant A. J. Bistony, Prop. swell } of the brothers | s-and for | =| Written in a Semi Yoma,’ Jim Cobb was once again in the grips of a fiery passion as he startled all the brothers by dating—a girl! Finally, the big deal of the weekend was pulled by Brother H. P. Smith as he placed the sword and shield on sweet Nell from W. C. Facts are housed in cold, drafty sheds, much as the feed they consume is toward generating body heat instead of toward weight gains. What happened to Jack Hazard? RCA VICTOR “SUPPER CLUB FAVORITES” at your local Record Dealer. Why Students Fail On First Job Chicago — Why does the college-trained man frequently fail at his first job? The answer—he is still a child in one way or another because he lacks one or more of seven basic traits. That is the answer given by Dr. N. McMurry based on a survey by his management firm, which studied 1,167 trainees directly hired from college by 247 companies. He listed the seven traits as: The ability to stay long enough with a company to repay the investment in training. The ability to accept responsibility. The ability to follow a path to the end. Self-reliance. Perseverance, or the quality of being agreeable to different groups and different persons. Identification of his personal goals with those of the firm. And the ability to exercise authority without belligerence. Absence of these traits, or any one of them, indicates failure of an individual to grow emotionally,” said Dr. McMurry. Restful Colors If three walls of a bedroom are papered or painted a restful color and the fourth is brightly contrasting, the bed should be placed against the contrasting wall. Looking at a restful color is more relaxing and conducive to sleep—but even restful colors won't help if the bed is worn out and uncomfortable. Forty thousand and over! THE BEST CIGARETTE SYSTEMS FINANCED BY REA added between 473,000 and 195,000 consumers during 1948, the largest total ever connected in any one year. Dye REN We manager, Marshall Whisnant, with Dick Baxter and Jack Blackwood, CHARLOTTE OFFICES .. (Continued From Page One) Johnson; Kale-Lawing Co., president, Bill Bobbitt; Raylass Department Stores, manager, Hugh Farrior; Radio Station WAYS, general manager, Jack Gray; Radio Station WSOC, general manager, Jack Etheridge; S. & W. Cafeteria, manager, John McNair; Mutual Building and Loan Ass'n, president, Teddy Keesler; Station WGIV, president and general manager, David Hipp; Sterchi's, manager, Orin Hutchinson; Thacker’s, vice president, Charles Jarrett; Pound and Moore, president, Dewey Keesler; Barringer Hotel, manager, Bo Roddey; Charlotte Observer, publisher, Bill Lander. Forty thousand and over! DAVIDSON THEATRE ITS YOUR ASSURANCE OF THE BEST! Haul & Crymes Inc., Sporting Goods 415 S. TRYON STREET CHARLOTTE, N. C. MONDAY and TUESDAY ‘THREE GODFATHERS” John Wayne - Pedro Armendariz WEDNESDAY - THURSDAY “RETURN OF OCTOBER” Glenn Ford - Terry Moore SHIP AHOY CHARLOTTE’S LEADING RESTAURANT FRIDAY and SATURDAY “GALLANT BLADE” Larry Parks Marguerite Chapman RECORDS MOVIES ON THE CHESTERFIELD SUPPER CLUB Radio's outstanding nighttime show. Starring Perry and his partners Jo Stafford and Peggy Lee. Featuring the Fontane Sisters, the Starlighters, and the orchestras of Mitchell Ayres, Dave Barbour and Paul Weston. Tune in—all NBC stations, five nights a week, coast to coast. It’s Great Entertainment! In MGM's latest technicolor musical, “WORDS AND MUSIC,” at your local theatre.