«A HILL HEAVED FROM HALLOWED HALLS VOLUME XXXVIII

DR. BROYLES ENDS STIMULATING SERIES OF ‘49 FALL SERVICES

Davidson’s annual fall services will be concluded tonight at 7:15 by the YMCA's guest speaker, Dr. Vernon S. Broyles of Atlanta, Georgia. “The Church Can Not Be Defeated,” is the theme of tonight's final sermon of the three-day series of inspirational worship programs. The program has been presented to the Davidson Student Body and local community by the college student YMCA. Wednesday marked the first of six talks delivered by Dr. Broyles during morning chapel periods and special evening lecture hours in Chamber's auditorium. He has been available during the day for individual conferences. Pastor of the North Avenue Presbyterian church of Atlanta, the lecturer is also chairman of the overseas relief committee of the Presbyterian church, U. S. He recently returned from a trip to Europe in which he visited Belgium, France, Italy, Germany, Hungary, and Switzerland. After completing his college work at Davidson, being a member of the class of 1927, Dr. Broyles took his theological training at Union Seminary, Richmond, and also studied at the University of Tübingen in Germany. He has served pastorates in Virginia and Mississippi. Dr. Broyles' first discussion was on the subject of “Freedom and Its True Meaning.” He developed his talk around significant portions of scripture. “And then Jesus said unto the Jews that believed him, If ye continue in my word ye shall become disciples indeed. And ye shall know the truth. And the truth shall make you free.” Wednesday evening’s service was concerned with “by Whom we have forgiveness of sin.” Problems of broken homes, economic failure, communism, alcoholism, and other fundamental problems are not unique to our generation. Most of our problems are relatively simple if you go to the heart of the thing. “Experts” are the curse of our age. The cross speaks to the heart of every man. It delivers you from fear of death. It removes the fear of life and makes you want to live.

(Continued On Page Six)

Executive Committee Bans Hill From Dorm

Wednesday afternoon at 4:30, Mr. Montgomery S. Hill, Jr., was required through the action of the executive committee to leave his room in Georgia dormitory and to remain outside this and all other dormitories until after the Christmas Holidays. Monty was ordered to find room elsewhere because he accidentally scorched a small place on the floor of his room while attempting to rid the place of ants. On Saturday afternoon of the Homecoming weekend one of Hill’s roommates in No. 30 Georgia received a box of cookies from home. These were placed atop a table until Sunday afternoon. When the boys came in at this time they found the entire box covered with ants. The floor beneath was black with the insects also. Hill fired a small piece of cardboard and attempted to kill a few ants in hopes of clearing the table and floor. The ruined cookies were dumped into the wastebasket and the burning cardboard was found still burning on the floor. It was immediately extinguished but left a burnt spot about one-tenth of an inch deep and covering an area of approximately six square inches. The janitor discovered the spot Monday morning while sweeping and the maintenance department was informed. Through the channels the report went until finally Mr. Hill was called up before Dean Bailey to explain the matter. Here at this time the other two occupants of the room were cleared of suspicion and the blame for burning Georgia’s deck was laid to Mr. Hill. Now this member of the junior class is out of his assigned room for a two-month period, but the ants are still there!

An exceptionally attractive

Women’s College Invites Students To Social Science Forum

Dr. Abernathy has received the announcement of the annual Harriet Elliott Social Science Forum to be held at the Woman’s College of the University of North Carolina in Greensboro on November 10-12. The topic for the Forum this year shall be “The Social Sciences: What We Know vs. What We Do.” An invitation has been extended to all members of both the student body and faculty. The courses for and the purposes of the Forum are best illustrated as follows: “Society’s failure to turn to fruitful account the conclusions formerly grounded on evidence assembled by social investigators, and the reluctance to reconstruct institutions on these foundations constitute one of the many dilemmas of our time. “The Forum is directed toward these goals. It brings together distinguished social scientists to survey the state of social knowledge, to investigate the forces that thwart its application in social relationships on their several levels, and to stimulate the search for policies and techniques to solve the dilemma.” Many famous social scientists will be present at the Forum. These include Paul Douglas, U. S. Senator from Illinois and Professor of Economics at the University of Chicago; Louis Hacker, professor

(Continued On Page Six)

Guests Visit Campus

On Wednesday afternoon Davidson College was visited by two distinguished guests, Mr. Chester Barnard, President of the Rockefeller Foundation and Dr. Robert Calkins, Executive Chairman of the General Education Board of New York City. Following a visit with the administrative officers of the college and a trip around the campus, they were the guests of honor at a tea held in the YMCA Guest House lounge. Thirty members of the faculty and student leaders were present.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 4, 1949

Shown above are the seven seniors who received bids to Phi Beta Kappa. They are left to right, top row: John Lyles, Charlie Davis, Dick Morgan, Roger Clapp. Bottom row: Bill Mebane, Charlie Burrus and Bryan Storey.

‘ORGANIZATIONS NEED TO TAKE INITIATIVE,’ SAYS ABERNETHY

Photo Club Invites Interested Members

Last Tuesday evening representatives from various organizations on the campus met at the Library with Prof. Abernathy of the Philosophy Dept. to discuss the points and highlights of the professor’s speech in chapel Thursday, Oct. 27. Leaders from the Davidsonian, YMCA, and the fraternities heard him speak further upon the subjects of their respective organizations that were included in his speech. The main points of this informal discussion were those that the students heard in chapel last week and other comments that the speaker had planned to say, but did not have time for. Dr. Abernathy told the group that an organization should take the initiative more and act more forcefully.

North Car. Etchings Presented to College

The Faculty Committee on Fine Arts has announced that a present to the college of fine etchings done by Louis Orr has been given by Mr. Thomas F. Staley, of Rye, New York. The etchings are on subjects in North Carolina and belong to the same group previously donated by Mr. Staley of thirty-six etchings by Orr. Those have since been framed and placed in the dining hall where the additional five will also be hung. The artist, Louis Orr, has had a very distinguished career. Being one of the most famous American etchers, he has been widely acclaimed in Europe as well as in the United States. Born in Hartford, Connecticut, on May 19, 1879, he later studied with Walter Griffin and Jean Paul Laurens in Paris, his greatest distinctions having come in France. During World War I he was commissioned to do sev

(Continued On Page Six)

Supply of Narcotics Stolen From White's Drug Store

Last Sunday night White’s Drug Store was broken into and a quantity of narcotics was stolen. At about 5 a.m. Monday morning, Mr. C. S. Goodrum, owner and operator of the store, was notified after the Mecklenburg County police, who patrol the town, discovered the robbery. The front door of the store was jimmied open and the locked box containing a supply of narcotics was broken into. According to Lt. J. Howard Payne of the Mecklenburg police, morphine and codeine were missing in sizable quantities, but several bottles of milder drugs were not taken. The case, which is suspected to be linked up with other dope ring activities, has been reported to the Federal Narcotics Bureau, and an agent was expected to arrive in Charlotte sometime during the first of the week to help local police in cracking an alleged state-wide dope ring with headquarters possibly in Charlotte. The Davidson robbery is one of two which have taken place in the county in the past 15 days, the other being at Hoskins Drug Store on the edge of Charlotte. Mr. Goodrum said this was the first time during his 35 years in the store that his establishment had been broken into for narcotics. It had been entered five or six times before for other reasons, he said. Although dope was the primary attraction of the thief or thieves, a ten-dollar and a fifteen-dollar fountain pen were missed, and from $8.00 to $10.00 in change was taken from the cash register. County police made examinations in the store for the purpose of securing fingerprints. Chief Stanhope Lineberry of the Mecklenburg police has said that there are indications that Mecklenburg County is a main source of supply for other areas of the state, including the military reservation at Fort Bragg. According to information received by the Charlotte Observer, Federal narcotic agents, the law enforcement men of the Treasury Department, apparently will reopen their office in Charlotte. This office has been closed for the past three years.In taking up projects that it wants to do, one example is that if an organization wants to have a certain speaker but is met with opposition towards this project, it should go ahead with it regardless of the opposition. Prof. Abernathy explained that the lack of maturity in the students was quite noticeable because the activities, functions, and policies of the various student activity groups were not of a high standard as they should be. The appearance of immaturity within the whole student body is disgraceful to the name of Davidson. There is such a low level of maturity that the activities by the majority of the students are like those of high school students. The professor went on to say that there seems to be no advancement in the men when a freshman moves on up the ladder, so to speak, to become a sophomore and junior, etc. The quality of the students’ work among the extracurricular activities is very poor, one reason being that the competent ones for running the various groups and performing the important jobs are not doing this. The competent students and ones who have little knowledge of their particular job are the boys who are actually degrading the standard of the extracurricular activities of the college. To summarize, Dr. Abernathy means that there is a great need for improvement and achievement in the minds of the Davidson students. There should be an awakening among the students to this fact and also to the fact that the functioning of the extracurricular activities have much room for improvement in order to establish a better name and more respect for those organizations. Prof. Abernathy’s purpose in expressing his views and opinions on the many faults and shortcomings of student groups is, in actuality, a remedy for this “deplorable” situation. He mentioned that he hoped this would arouse opposition among the students and get them to thinking about the true facts of their own groups. This would most likely create an incentive among the students to do something about it.

(Continued On Page Six)

Organized last year by a group of interested students, the Photo Club offers a new field in extracurricular activities to Davidson students. Efficient darkroom equipment for this club was made possible through a cash gift to the Physics Department by Carey Dowd, a former Davidson student. The club is open to anyone interested in photography, whether in the box camera stage or not. This organization is now composed of ten active members who meet regularly on the second and fourth Wednesday nights of each month. The major objective of the club is to have a photographic exhibition in conjunction with the Fine Arts Festival held each year. Anyone who is interested in becoming a member of the Photo Club may contact Charles Burrus, 411 West, or Jack King, 8 Rample.

BILL TROTMAN

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI NEOPHYTES NAB NARCOTIC

NUMBER SEVEN

XAPPR ISSUES SENIOR SIDS

NATIONAL SCHOLARSHIP GROUP INDUCTS SEVEN NEW MEMBERS

Electing seven seniors to its ranks, the Phi Beta Kappa Society held its regular fall meeting in Chambers Building Thursday afternoon, October 27. The new members are Charles Andrew Burrus, Roger William Clapp, Charles Till Davis, John Steadman Lyles, William Nelson Mebane II, Richard Lyon Morgan, and Bryan Moore Storey.

18 New Members Initiated Into ‘D’ Club

Initiation of eighteen new members into the “D” Club was the main item on the agenda of this most active organization in its meeting at Phi Hall on October 17. The initiates are as follows: Jim Thompson, Roger Cornell, Bill Klein, Joe Miller, Bill Childs, John Crosland, Murray Ashman, Ken Goodpasture, Rob Henderson, Rivers Jenkins, Rob Palmer, Cecil Brandon, Ben Vernon, Murray Rimson, and John Kelton, all varsity sports letter winners; Andy Horn, W. W. Smith, and Carl Garrison, who were varsity sports managers. Under the direction of President Jake Wade, the meeting continued with the introduction of other important items of business. It was suggested that the Athletic Council should be reactivated and begin functioning as a full-scale activity. This Council, composed of the Captains and Senior Managers of each of the varsity teams, has in the past served as an active intermediary between the coaches and the “D” Club. Trainer Charlie Parker, Pete Brown, and Bob Long were instructed by the President to look into this activity and to try to get the organization functioning again as it has in the past. An Initiation Committee was also designated to attend to the matter of providing more meaningful initiation rituals for the incoming members in the future. It is well to note that the club abides by its by-laws; three members were dropped from the roll for having missed two or more consecutive meetings. Attention is called to the next (Continued On Page Six)

MARY WELLS McNEIL

MASQUERS PRODUCTION SEES MISS McNEIL, TROTMAN IN ROLES

By PHIL LIBBY

Playing prominent roles in the supporting cast of the Red and Black Masquers’ production of “John Loves Mary” are Mary Wells McNeil and Bill Trotman. Before coming to Davidson as Dr. Cunningham's secretary, Mary Wells McNeil did editorial and secretarial work for Charles Scribner's Sons Publishing House in New York. She was graduated from Agnes Scott College with a major in history. There her extracurricular activities were centered around dramatics and journalism — during her senior year she was assistant editor of the college newspaper. Mrs. McKinley, the part played by Mary, is a calm and lovable woman of 50 who loves her husband very much, sometimes even to the extent of profound awe. She considers herself dominated by her husband, which is untrue. Bill Trotman, who is majoring in English, is a member of the freshmen class hailing from Winston-Salem. He is a pledge of Beta Theta Pi fraternity, being historian of his pledge class. Bill is quite versatile in dramatics and has had a great deal of experience in that field. Besides being in the Little Theatre in Winston-Salem, he has acted in 24 plays during the last four years, one being “Blackbeard” which he also wrote, directed, and produced. Senator McKinley, who is played by Bill, is a man of 55, who is used to having his own way. Although he is somewhat egotistical and overbearing, he is almost completely dependent on his wife. In their respective roles of Senator and Mrs. McKinley, Bill and Mary are both making their first appearance in a Masquers’ play.

Charles Burrus

Charles is a physics major from Shelby. He is president of the Photographic Club, vice-president of Sigma Pi Sigma, and a member of Delta Phi Alpha. Charles plans to go to graduate school for a master’s degree in physics.

Roger Clapp

Roger Clapp is a physics major from Winter Haven, Florida. This year he was elected president of Sigma Pi Sigma. He plans to do graduate work in physics specializing in nuclear physics.

Charles Davis

Charles Davis is a history major and is taking honors work in history and English. Outside of his studies, Charles holds several offices and is a member of various organizations. He is vice-president of Sigma Upsilon, vice-president of the Forensic Council, a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society, a member of the International Relations Club, a columnist for the Davidsonian, associate editor of Scripts and Pranks, a member of the Honorary Fraternity Council, and a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. In 1949 Charles won the Verreen Bell Award in creative writing. When he graduates, he plans to work toward becoming a college professor.

John Lyles

John is a Navy veteran from Chester, S. C., doing honors work in English. He is president of Kappa Alpha, president of the Forensic Council, president of Sigma Upsilon. John is a member of the YMCA cabinet, Student Development Committee, Philanthropic Literary Society, Scabbard and Blade, Delta Phi Alpha, and the Honorary Fraternity Council. John was recently chosen for membership in Who's Who In American Universities and Colleges.

Bill Mebane

Bill is a pre-medical chemistry major from Davidson. He is a member of the pre-med and chemistry honor fraternities, a member of the rifle team, advertising staff of Quips and Cranks, and Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.

Dick Morgan

Dick is a Bible major from Philadelphia. At different times, he has been managing editor of Scripts and Pranks, on the sports staff of the Davidsonian, and a Y Sunday School teacher. Dick is also a member of Sigma Chi social fraternity. He plans to take up Christian teaching as a life’s work.

Bryan Storey

Bryan is an English major from Rome, Georgia. He is a member of the International Relations Club and plans to go on to law school after graduation.

Debate Highlights Phi Society Program

A debate was the highlight on the program of Tuesday evening’s meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society. The topic of the debate was: Resolved: “That Davidson Is a Safe Place to Send Your Son." The affirmative was taken by Bill Peters and Frank Perrin, while R. B. Covington and John Calhoun argued for the negative. The affirmative contended that Davidson provides a student with those fundamentals which make for a better society. Of special note are Davidson's outstanding contributions to church and civic life, taking for example Charlotte, where there are 42 graduates serving in the ministry, and 40 are active in public service. Another important point brought out by the affirmative was the fact that last year 27 out of 30 prospective medical students were accepted into medical school.

(Continued On Page Six)