PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, February 11, 1949

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
MAC HART

BUSINESS MGR.
JOHN McNAIR

EDITORIAL STAFF
Shir Kennett - Associate Editor
Bill Calhoun - Associate Editor
Ross Dietrich - Associate Editor
Jack Hagood - Sports Editor
Bob Hollister - Managing Editor
Lonnie Turnipseed - Managing Editor
Doug Bux - Managing Editor
Dick Morgan - Managing Editor
Tom Niblock - Staff Photographer
Bill Kibbler - Cartoonist
Charlie Reid - Poll-Cat Editor
John Hobart - Make-up Editor
Murray - Make-up Editor

FEATURE REPORTERS: Phil Mitchell, Hartley Hall, Gabe Lowe, Neil Leach, Jimmie Henritzy, Henry Hansen, Pete Kalogridis, Drew Gurley, Bill Sargent,
Bob Grube, Jimmy Fickeisen, Bill Hollister.

REPORTERS: Randy Taylor, Bill DuBose, Warren Sims, Ralph Robinson, Tom Allen, Dick Barnwell, Bill McCrary, Tom Mann, Bill Cumming, Phil
Libby, Ben Drymon, Dudley Pendleton, Nat Daniel, Wick Chandley, Boo Northcutt, Stuart Shippey, Hugh Huffaker, Bill Neal, Harper Newbold, Jim
Blackburn, Jack Pierce, Harry Shurley, Bob Hubbell, Angus McKellar, Jack Peirce, Slats McClintock, Boye Kendall, Lamar Hinson, Ed Richardson.

SPORTS STAFF: Cherry Stribling, Gordon Scott, Furman Warlick, Watt Jeffries, Bill White, Phil Hammond, Bryant Robinson, Dan McKeithan, David Whitener,
Ed West, Bill Buckey, Jack Stevenson.

POLL CAT STAFF: Jim Carr, Claude Higginbotham, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown, and Neal Underdown.

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager - Wyle Smith
Advertising Manager - Bill Houck
Circulation Manager - Bill Cassels
Asst. Circulation Manager - Linkscales
Asst. Advertising Manager - Hector McKeithan
Asst. Advertising Manager - David McConnell
Assistant Advertising Manager - Charles Dockery
Collections Manager - John Fortin
Subscriptions Manager - W. S. McSwain

ASSISTANTS: Bill Cumming, Bill Hart, Marshall James, Duval Hunter, Bob Erwin, Bill Pharr, Harold Clayton, Sam Cumming, Rod Shaw, Gene
Taylor, Gene Jackson.

CIRCULATION STAFF: Alex Goley, Floyd Phillips, Parks Dalton, Cecil Rhodes, Ansley Moses, Joe H. Miller, Neill Underdown, Tommy Haller, John
Hardin, Thad Monroe, Hugh Huffaker, Ben Morris, Cam Faison, Paul Guthry.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 8, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1948 Member 1949
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Why ...
“The time has come,” the walrus said, “to talk of many things”... And from the wide variety of subjects we
could undertake to discuss, we have selected a topic which we believe is of somewhat greater interest to every reader
than the walrus’ much belabored cabbages and kings. Every member of the student body is at present in the process
of wasting four years of his life unless he is here for a REASON. There could be few more important
issues upon which we could dwell than that REASON. What is the value of a liberal arts education? What is
liberal arts? In the words of a renowned college president, we are now in the process of cultivating the ability
“To be at home in all lands and all ages; to count nature a familiar acquaintance, and art an intimate
friend; to gain a standard for the appreciation of other men’s work, and the criticism of one’s own; to carry
the keys of the world’s library in one’s pocket and feel its resources behind one in whatever task one undertakes;
to make most of friends among men of one’s own age who are the leaders in all walks of life;
to lose oneself in generous enthusiasms and cooperate with others for common ends; to learn manners from other students who
are gentlemen; and to form character under professors who are Christian. These are the returns of a college for the
four best years of one’s life.”

To have achieved this is to have developed within oneself a discerning nature—capable of surveying the whole of life and
selecting from among the myriads of details that go to make up the fabric of our existence, only those threads
that construct, only those elements that beautify, only those materials that strengthen. Such a goal is hard to keep constantly
in mind because of the immensity of its scope. By the very nature of what we are doing, events take
place day by day, hour by hour. Yet one of the values of a genuine education lies in the training
it gives us in the art of piecing together these unrelated bits of action and information into a pattern of
usefulness. Another contribution this procedure called education is the “know how” we receive from it, essential to the most satisfactory
adjustment of our lives to those on every side. To understand people and to possess the ability to size up
situations—another of liberal education’s indirect boons—and thereby to exert the influence of our individual personalities and characters most effectively.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
The Midwinters week-end proved very eventful for the Sig Ep brotherhood. Brother Daniels found out that the law still has
a long arm, but Brother Hart was lucky enough to escape such a fate. Chic Howe showed up at the
airport band box without his one and only, but he wishes it to be known that his girl is still
a basketball “Stand-By.” Duke, had planned to win the “Most Beautiful Date” award, but showed up empty-handed. “Admiral” Parker attended
the affair, but was sighted deep in the arms of Morpheus long before 4 A.M. Questions of the Week—What kept
Brothers Correll and Herndon in the Statesville area so long after the Friday night dance? Could it have been brotherly
love? How does Norton rate? What kept Hopper’s attention at Queens these Sunday nights? What happened to Walker’s date? Sandy
keeps on happening. Brothers Humphries and Vledge Brother Plaster are forming a new club. I. C. Clark may join too,
using the “Wait till next week-end!” motto. You aren't losing your grip, are you? Jack Roddey, our most notorious scholar
and eligible bachelor, brought along an old friend and pledge, Dave Moore, from the Hill. Our other York representative, Pledge
Brother Bailey, was lured (as usual) to Winthrop for the frosh dance. Clenseur surprised us all by showing up with
a date after some hasty negotiations. Other stalwarts fell by the wayside. Trammell, Furman, Correll and others received that last
minute, “I’m so sorry to tell you at this time, but *Professor” treatment. Salem Owens made a brief appearance but
the call was too much for him. But we all had fun and the call now is “On with Spring
Frolics.”

PHI GAMMA DELTA
Special bulletin from beleaguered revolutionaries fighting for radical reforms in a brilliantly executed coup d’etat that was from the beginning
doomed to dismal failure: Help! Unquote. Ladies Phi Gams, Achtung! We need more guns and less butter; send us your
dimes and shekels or we must needs perish with aforethought. From the valley of Fiji Court came the 600, cannon
to right of them, cannon to left of them, and two bean shooters and a slingshot un-mangled. From the Stronghold
of the Brethren, where men of good will and intention, fearing none save the intentions and the will of the
lowly pledges, had holed up with French 75's (Frenchies) and were awaiting the attack with utmost courage and fortitude, sipping
true Napoleons and munching mints while a friendly little game of chance proceeded down the Hall of the Fortress a
ways, these brave men avidly read from their ROTC Manuals the proper way to sustain an attack on the rear
and at the same time prevent anyone from dealing from the bottom of the filthy deck. Lacking the clear-headedness and
shrewd perceptibility of Vice Admiral Jimmy Poag and the dogged ruggedness and rippling muscles of little Corporal Eddy (Fig) Newton,
who saw the folly of remaining within a poorly manned fortress and obtained transfer orders to P. C., the brothers
sent out a call for help to Marburg, Hangchow,Other equally troublous places in I say read a a Also gone
were Mutt Dabney and Jeff Cashon, who went to the aid of Tottering Tennessee. Rapid Richard Blankety-Blanks, sent down as
special investigator of rear guard actions, failed in the final test and refused to show his face in the fracas.
But the Battle was getting underway and despite the loss of blood sustained in an earlier engagement, Mudrock McKeithen and
Hog-Jaw Strait set it themselves and pitched in, fortunate somewhat-the-same-financial-straits. The war raged fierce and frantic and fancy gentlemen rode
in from far and near to watch their favorites fight it out on the honorable field of combat. The wall
of the invaders captured at length forced in, and Bull Christopher stood in the middle of the room and bel
sanctuary was 'lowed louder every time he tossed another pledge the drain. Brother Patrick, after the fight, had down this
comment only to make: “Oh, if I had the wings of an Angel.” Brothers Beals, Clark, Vance, Brown, Barron and
an assortment of pledges mixed it up, while Courier Jenkins jumped on his one-legged horse and after reinforcements. For want
of a rider the lost, rode madly war was nearly and eventually the remaining contestants who were not dead, passed
out, or mortally wounded agreed till another time to conclude antagonistic operations. Congratulations are nevertheless in order to our new
brothers! Welcome out of the fold, men... Mid-Winters and the Fijis both were successful, at least from fragmentary reports drifting
in. The breakfast at Erwin Lodge was the calm dream after the stormy nightmare of the week preceding it, and
just between eggs Slaydon Myers and Aubry Miree agreed that it was swell, really, it was. Onions soaked in garlic
go in round figures amounting to dozens. Chris and Joe, the two roommates who are so close to one another
that they share in love as in war all the fruits of their affairs together. Note to Vance: You missed
out on several long counts by taking the second night. Ask anyone who was out at Billy Pharr’s wonderful place
on the river after the Saturday night dance!

SIGMA CHI

Sigma Chi went to the dances this weekend, that is, most of them did. One trio conspicuous by their Friday
night absence consisted of Bones Brooks, Professor J. Riddervold and Licentious Dendy. These seekers after culture, etc., spent their evening
on the front row of a Charlotte theater. Brooks’ only regret was that he forgot to carry a tape with
him. Next time he plans to take along his yardstick. Brothers Norwood and Mann, Richard, Calhoun were on the town
again Saturday night. During the course of their nightly escapades, they left souvenirs on the Queens campus, serenaded the peaceful
Charlotte inhabitants with ribald songs, etc. The banquet at the Chez Montet before the Saturday night dance was, by a
conservative estimate, a howling success. Among those who made it so were Saintly Stubbs, whose halo slipped a little during
the course of his remarks as a toastmaster, Dr. W. O. Puckett, who delivered a highly amusing after-dinner dissertation on
the lives and habits of Davidson professors, and Holy Willie Harris, who survived a threat by a hostile minority and
gave a remarkable toast in his usual broadminded way. Congratulations to Brother Gray Hampton for the wonderful dinner he planned
for the occasion. All of the brothers had gorgeous dates but one who did not have one at all was
Honey Hamilton. After his encounter the night before with the star tiddly-wink player of Concord, he deemed it advisable not
to endanger his delicate constitution again. W. & M. after being frustrated by Beat, seems to have found new life
again in Bede-bob. Pleasants, selection of the following officers to serve during the spring semester: John Calhoun, consul; Bob Butt,
pro-consul; Ronnie Dietrick, secretary; Don Shriver, treasurer; Irving Stubbs, corresponding secretary; Bill Clark, pledgemaster; Dick Morgan, editor.

KAPPA ALPHA

The best feed of the year Sunday night topped off a most interesting (Continued On Page Four)

(Revised by One cold night long ago the clatter of hoof-beats was heard just beyond the village limits of Davidson.
Moments later Paul Revere himself galloped into our bustling little community, repeating drowsily to himself, “One if by land and
two if by sea.” It was late and poor Paul had ridden hard and was almost asleep in the saddle.
Suddenly he was startled by lights just ahead—not one, not two, but nine distinct lights blazed out in all their
brilliance. Paul began to wonder whether he had his signals crossed or whether the apple cider he had downed in
Mooresville was strictly fresh. In the midst of his perplexity, he spied a watchman standing by the road, and bringing
his trusty steed, Silver, to a halt, he inquired, “What is thy name, good sir?” The other, thinking carefully and
rolling a cigarette, answered, “Men call me Lincolneth and what, pray tell, disturbeth thy brow at this time of night?”
“In the south,” brave Paul replied, still wondering about the cider, “Canst thou explain to me the meaning of all
these lights?” “Ah, sir, if that be your difficulty, ‘tis easily remedied. Mark you yon light? That shineth from a
structure, once inhabited by Ponce De Leon who first called it Rumpdeth (It was this building that instigated his search
for the Fountain of Youth). Behind those tottering walls, some student laboreth on a term paper. Have you ne'er heard
of a term paper? Indeed, ‘tis a wondrous engine. One forgetteth it for two months, putteth it off for two
weeks, and writeth it in a single night.” “Most interesting, Gaylord,” replies patient Paul, partially pacified, “but, prithee, my man,
what means yonder light?” “Oh, that,” the sturdy copper answereth (I mean “answers”), “is the light from West, where methinks
a bull session is in progress. A bull session, sir, is where one discusseth everything under the sun by moonlight.
“The next light over cometh from the second floor of Watts where the boys are entertaining other students at a
tea dance. “Perchance that dim light in the distance cometh from the room of a student who worketh diligently on
an accounting problem. “The next light shineth from old East where methinks a poor fellow searcheth for a rat who
had disturbed his slumbers.” “But what,” interrupted reliable Revere, “pray tell, is that light which has just gone out?” “That,”
explained Copper, “is from Duke, where one of the lads hath probably just returned from a wild hare.” “Enough,” cried
Passionate Paul, “Forsooth sir, enough, the British are coming!” “Warn them,” cautioned the Copper, “to be sure to register their
horses with Deane.” “Od Dodkins, zounds, and hubba, hubba,” cried persistent Paul, “’Tis a pack of madmen that dwell here!”
With that, he galloped away towards Cornelius still wondering about the cider. —The End.

Paging The Professors By NEIL LEACH

PROF. J. H. OSWALT

Those students who went up to Duke last year for the purpose of taking the Vocational and Educational Guidance Tests
probably met Prof. J. H. Oswalt for at that time he was the assistant director of this department at Duke.
Prof. Oswalt resigned this position last year and now is serving his first year here in Davidson as a member
of the Psychology Department. This part of the country is not unfamiliar to Prof. Oswalt, for he was born in
Statesville and grew up there. Later he attended Davidson and enjoyed all the privileges of being a mere twenty miles
from home. In 1935, after his graduation from Davidson, he went to Glade Valley High School where he taught for
two years. Seeking a more interesting field of instructing, Prof. Oswalt was employed for one year as a teacher at
Flora McDonald College. This was “quite an experience” for our neat, pipe-smoking professor, but today he is still continuing his
life without feminine guidance. Five years in the Army seems like an awfully long time, but that’s how long Prof.
Oswalt served—59 months, to be exact. This time was not spent idly we can be sure, for before he was
discharged he achieved the rank of lieutenant colonel. Plenty of action shuffling paper was not entirely enjoyed by our professor
during the time that he served as chief of military personnel in the Far Eastern Air Command. This position in
the “chair corps” was given up without argument in 1946 when Prof. Oswalt got his final release papers. Soon after
his return to civilian life, Prof. Oswalt went to Duke for two years to complete his graduate work. Most of
the time just previous to his coming to Davidson was spent at Duke as a graduate student and as a
member of the Testing and Guidance Bureau of the university. Prof. Oswalt is another member of Prof. Purcell’s “bush league”
golf club. He hasn’t yet mastered the game but greatly enjoys the trips to the course. Hiking is another of
Prof. Oswalt’s favorite forms of recreation. He has tackled the Appalachian Trail, but has not yet covered the entire length
of this beautiful, but exacting, trail. Here’s hoping he will attain this difficult goal this summer.
