PAGE FOUR

GERMAN STUDENT... (Continued From Page One)

be given to me by Davidson College. I then was one of the luckiest boys I ever met. Now time passed by rapidly. On August 29th I passed the last part of my examination, concluding my high school education (the school system in Germany is different from yours, but let that be a subject for a future article.) On Sept. 4th I left Frankfurt, en route to Bremerhaven. Sept. 7th we all (22 German exchange students) stepped proudly on board the US Army Transport General Rose and on Sept. 16 we disembarked from the ship in New York, feeling very happy to be in a strange new land of which we had heard so much.

BIDDING—CON (Continued From Page Two)

ject matter and selling points of the different fraternities were practically the same. I think the period of informal pledging (the last two days) only tends to confuse minds which are already congested. The two-day high-pressure system which was used for the first time in a long while this year, not only steals from the “getting-acquainted” time in the already short rush week, but also makes for hasty decisions based on snap judgments and first impressions which can be very misleading. Too often the smiles and manifest friendliness shown during the rush week days disappear, and one may wish after joining he had scrutinized that fraternity with more care. We owe it to the rushee, who is sometimes naive as to the ways of fraternities, to give him time to make his own decisions about joining a fraternity. If the rushee, by his own uninfluenced choice, joins the wrong fraternity, then he cannot blame those who “hot-boxed” him for his mistake. Also, when he voluntarily (without outside persuasion) joins a fraternity, he will feel more obligated to get in and work and cooperate with that fraternity.

I think also, that the high-pressure sessions tend to work on the emotions, which are too ephemeral to base a long-range, four-year choice on. I think also, that it is a reflection on the judgment of the Davidson freshmen to subject them to the “hot-box” system of informal pledging. A boy 18 years old and supposedly having enough character and mental alertness to be accepted in Davidson is capable or should be capable of choosing his own companions without outside persuasion, which is more often than not, on such short acquaintance, disinterested in him personally. Therefore, I say give the rushee a fair chance to look over the fraternities which manifest an interest in him, and let it go at that, without any two-day period of informal bidding, which will eliminate the breaking of impromptu pledges and strained relations between fraternities. By this method, the rush week, I believe, will terminate with more beneficial results for both fraternity and rushee.

BIDDING—PRO (Continued From Page Two)

the informal bidding all fraternities have a good many fine boys already pledged and are not 100 percent in doubt as to the final outcome. It seems to me that the fraternity and the boy can know more exactly where they stand with each other, and this should be helpful to both.

PLIGHT TON. Y.... (Continued From Page Two)

body was duly taped, impressed, and afraid, we were greeted by a chorus of boos and derisive remarks from numerous small boys at the gate. This made everybody who'd ever played baseball in a southern mill town feel more at home. As to the game, I will refer you to the N. Y. Times, Sunday, October 25, sports section. It tells what happened. After the game a few bold souls spoke of going to N. Y. City, but they ended up at the movie in Highland Halls. The rest were refused admittance to the Cadet’s dance because they neglected to bring evening clothes. Sunday was cold and clear. We were taken back over the Catskills, beginning to blaze with autumn fires; flown down the Hudson and over the great city itself; back to Washington, Charlotte, Davidson, and so to bed.

CAT TALES.... (Continued From Page Three)

As expected, it was Army’s superior depth in manpower which had a big hand in their win. Their offense was practically unstoppable when the starting backfield was in. Another important part of the Cadet victory was played by Jack Mackmull, their extra point and kick-off specialist. Mackmull’s kick-offs were long and wobbly and the Cat backs had a hard time handling them. The length of his kicks kept the Cats repeatedly backed up in the shadow of their own goal post. As the statistics show, the game was far from all Army. Lambeth completed almost two-thirds of his attempted passes and Turner and Sifford lived up to advance notice by turning in beautiful pitching performances. Sifford’s bullet passes shot through the Army defenders several times for good gains. The running of Lambeth and Sifford was good but several times big losses cut down the net yards rushing to 17. One thing that Coach Jamerson won't spend any sleepless nights over is the fullback slot. Runyan looked like a battering ram against the Army line and should cause plenty of trouble against teams in this conference. Rhea Adams played the best ball of his college career, handling thefullback duties while Runyan was out. Though the 47-7 score doesn’t look too good for Davidson, just take a look at the statistics and then maybe talk to some of the boys who saw the Cats scrap the mighty Cadets. If you don't agree that Coach Charley and his boys did themselves proud, we'll go out on a limb and say that you're sadly mistaken.

NETS START SWISHING
(Continued From Page Three)
fete from the freshman squad; Malcolm McLean, a native Carolinian hailing from Charlotte, a golfer of state-wide fame as well; and Bob Turk, husky guard from Atlanta, Ga. Eric Clark and Bob Nimitz also advance into varsity ranks. Returning from last year’s varsity, are Bo Roddey, also a veteran of three winters on the hardwoods, and holding various tennis titles; Tom Hallow, six foot one forward, and Dutch Hengeveld, ex-Davidson high athlete. Bowen, Jim Miller, John Crosland and Al Cook move up from the “B" squad to make their bid for glory.

Arriving at the field after every-
Ted;
FOR THE UTMOST IN QUALITY
Herff-Jones Class Rings
BILL PETERS — 112 WEST

Showing of Latest FALL FASHIONS
At SCOFFIELDS
Tuesday, October 4th, 1949
MR. BUCK TROUTMAN, Representative
MELLON’S
Charlotte, N. C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
D. O. AND P. O. RENEW...
(Continued From Page Three)
The Blue Hose have had two weeks to get ready for the Davidson match, and it has given them time to get their defense rigged up for the aerial circus they are undoubtedly looking for. Tomorrow's game resumes a series between the two Presbyterian schools that was discontinued in 1926. Davidson holds the edge in the series with five wins, against two losses and a tie.

ARMY POWER PROVES...
(Continued From Page Three)
mag was completed in the second half on passes by Galiffa and a final one by Bob Blaik, son of the West Point coach. The Wildcats threatened again early in the fourth quarter, but they were held for four downs on the Army 15. Auburn Lambeth, not only great in his passing, looked very good running, while the other halfback, Jimmy Sifford, received and passed superbly. Cliff Turner also threw well and it was glue-fingered Mott Rice who continually pulled in aerials. Another bright light is that there were no injuries to the squad. Although the Cadets were too powerful on offense, the large margin came from passes to crack ends that were too big for the Davidson backs to handle. The Wildcats did a more than creditable job against the team that won the eastern championship last season.

AMONG THE GREEKS
(Continued From Page Two)
(T. C.) suggests that plans be thought of for Homecoming decorations, Hart shudders and changes the subject with, “We need a television set.” “Si, si, si," retorts McNeely. Here is an outburst, “I'll kill you, you little— (what shall I say?).” The mouth is Sipe's and the ears are Joe Brown's. Sipe hears the words, “Is Louise well yet?” which displeases him. “Is there any more business?" Mr. Trammell interrogates. Capt. Loftin replies in the affirmative, stating that he needs some money. Nobody trusts him and all he can get is by brute strength. Everybody leaves as the gavel chips varnish.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
With lessons well on the way to becoming tedious, Delta Kappa’s Fijis sought relief from scholastic torment by running off in search of more exhilarating entertainment than can be found at the Davidson Theater. Bird Man Patterson flapped over to Greensboro where he doubtless left the girls starry-eyed, especially Juicy Lucy. Tom Haller kept up his program of improving relations with Queens by spending every spare moment in the wicked city. Even though a majority of his brothers were off cherishing the babes, the Pulaski Pinhead, Alan Groseclose, moodily wandered over the campus muttering something about “Sissy’s going with girls”—poor animal. “Excitable” Alexander, having lost his head at Queens, went all the way this summer and lost his pin—just shows what a beach party can do. Jim Parker, Bob Barron, and Coleman Poag, part of the Rock Hill syndicate which just purchased a '26 Cadillac, have been seen leering at each other and chortling over the bed this fabulous mechanism is rumored to contain. Congratulations are in order for Tommy Haller, rush chairman, Bob Gay, Paul Jenkins, Pete Brown and Dickie Blanks for their work during the rush period.

CHESTERFIELDS ARE COMPLETELY SATISFYING. THEY'RE MILDER.
Grace Overton
Queen City Skating Rink
2221/, EAST TRADE
Two Skates Nightly
7-9 and 9:15-11:15 P. M.
Mr. and Mrs. Ernie Paul
Managers and Professional Instructors
RCA MUSIC AND SOUND SYSTEMS
NEWEST TYPE PLASTIC FLOOR — NO DUST!

MUCH MILDER... IT'S MY CIGARETTE.
THIS LOVELY VOCALIST featured with WALTER HAGEN AND HIS ORCHESTRA
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1949
BUT WITH A BEAT FOR YOUR DANCES
Booking Address:
WALTER HAGEN
Phone 3-3261
1405 E. 4th St.
Charlotte, N. C.
PHONE 56-3696