BACK THE CAT
MATTERS
VOLUME XXXVI
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1949

“BIKO” |FACULTY HUSBAND-WIFE TEAM| - ey xurr omepenxor® |PRESENTS MUSICAL RECITAL

After having examined the German high school, its system and present problems, at least to some extent, let us now
continue to follow the process of education and take a look at the German University. The institution in Germany, similar
to the American postgraduate school, is the University. Its history and tradition are very old and go back to 1348
when the German emperor Karl IV founded the first university in Prague (which is now the capital of Czechoslovakia, but
was then a German city.) A short time later, also in the 14th century, the University at Heidelberg, Erfurt, and
in Koeln were founded. Today, there are thirty universities in Germany, 20 per cent of which are in the Russian
occupied zone.

Whenever describing one institution or an organization, one way to do it is to take one out of many which
may be typical of the rest. Let us take the one out of many which is very typical. The University
of Heidelberg is one of the best-known German universities. Heidelberg is an ideal town for a university. It is situated
at the end of the lovely Neckar river, leaves the mountains and enters into the plain country, its waters gliding
smoothly and glittering in the sun like a silver ribbon. Modern buildings and little, old-fashioned panel board houses decorated with
woodcarved emblazonments of famous noblemen extend along both sides of the river closely crowded at the foot of the mountains,
several old stone bridges connect the two parts of the town. On the left side, at a height of about
two hundred feet, overlooking the town and the valley, and shadowed only by great elm trees, there are the ruins
of the old castle of Heidelberg, beautiful sandstone buildings, that will glow in the red of a setting sun. And
near the center of the town, whose two towers rise high into the sky, and whose deep-toned bells are famous
all over Germany, there are the buildings of the university—old and wooden buildings, which seem to push aside all the
small houses surrounding them.

It may seem unnecessary to you to give a description so detailed of the place where the university is located,
but what I am trying to do is to give you an idea or word picture of a German University
town. There is a certain atmosphere, which is characteristic of these smaller German towns and which is to be found
only in Germany—nowhere else in the world. This atmosphere is perhaps best described as romantic—lined with old tradition and old
fashions, a place forgotten by the tempo of our world of today, remaining in the peace of the centuries which
have passed by its doors. And this atmosphere has a great (Continued on Page Six)

Pinkney Stands on Burning Deck As Fire Truck Stalls

Several days before the Thanksgiving holidays fire broke out at the home of Professor Jim Pinkney. The blaze was caused
by leaves which had collected in a chimney, but there was no damage to the house or any of its
furnishings, it has been learned from Prof. Pinkney. Mrs. Pinkney discovered the fire, and it was reported to the local
fire department. Although the town fire truck attempted to answer the call, it could not be pushed to the scene
of the conflagration in time to be of use. A dead battery is said to have been the cause of
the delay. At the time the fire occurred, Prof. Pinkney was meeting one of his classes, which was interrupted for
the occasion.

Earl F. Berg, Eunice P. Berg, Harold Frantz, and Elizabeth Frantz gave a joint recital of two husband-and-wife teams Wednesday
night, November 30, at 8:15 P.M. Both Mr. Berg and Mr. Frantz are on the Davidson faculty, Mr. Berg having
come here in 1941 and Mr. Frantz being new here this year. Mr. Berg sang baritone, accompanied by his wife
at the piano, and Mrs. Frantz played violin, with Mr. Frantz accompanying on the organ. Mr. and Mrs. Berg have
been giving recitals together since their college days in Morehead, Minnesota, and Mr. and Mrs. Frantz have also been playing
together for several years. The violin and organ arrangement is unusual; Mr. Frantz adapts the accompaniments for organ himself.

The first of the five portions of the program consisted of two arias sung by Mr. Berg: Schlummert ein, ihr
matten Augen, from the Cantata “Ich habe genug,” and Ja, ja, ich kann die Feinde schlagen from the Cantata "Selig
ist der Mann”; both arias by Bach. The second section was the Sonata in D major of Handel, consisting of
four movements: Adagio, Allegro, Larghetto, Allegro. Mrs. Frantz played this selection. The third portion of the program was five songs
by Hugo Wolf, sung by Mr. Berg: “Gesang Weyla’s;” “Nun wandre, Maria;” “Der Tambour;” “Anacreon’s Grab;” and “Das Staendchen.” The
fourth part of the program consisted of Christian Sinding’s “Suite in A minor,” comprising three movements: Presto, Adagio, Tempo giusto.
The fifth section was another five songs by Mr. Berg. The first “Elegy,” and the second, “All Day I Hear,”
are both by Elizabeth Clark Speer. Bela Bartok wrote the third, “Tears of Autumn;” Samuel Barber is the composer of
“Rain Has Fallen,” the fourth selection; and “The Lover's Maze” was written by Peter Warlock.

SIGN UP NOW FOR W. C.

Bill Klein, Social Administrator of the YMCA has announced that the Woman's College in Greensboro is seeking at least 50
Davidson men for a fine social function and dance there on December 10. If interested, please sign the list on
the main bulletin board in Chambers.

Progress Program Launched In Florida

Davidson College has just recently opened its Program of Progress Campaign in Florida. The campaign was officially opened November 13th.
Davidson Sunday was held in and around the vicinity of Jacksonville. Four men from Davidson went to conduct these exercises,
Dr. J. R. Cunningham spoke at the Riverside Presbyterian Church in Jacksonville, Professor Beaty at South Jacksonville, Mr. Arnold at
the First Presbyterian Church in Gainesville and Mr. Bill Smith at the First Presbyterian Church in Lake City. The theme
of the sermons was Christian Education and Its Role in American Life Today. Mr. J. W. Conyers, moderator for the
Synod of Florida, held services in the Springfield Presbyterian Church of Jacksonville.

Next on the program were the kick-off dinners. The first of these was held in Jacksonville on November 17th. Dr.
Cunningham was the speaker for the occasion. Joseph H. McConnell, president of National Broadcasting Company, and an alumnus of Davidson,
was a guest of the dinner. November 19th was the time of another of the gatherings. Interested Davidsonians from the
area surrounding Orlando heard a talk by Mr. Arnold. Friday, December 12, President Cunningham will go to Tampa. This kick-off
dinner will be for those interested in Davidson from Tampa and the nearby area. The goal expected from Florida is
$100,000.

Sigma Upsilon Hears Essay And Short Stories

The members of the Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity held their post-Thanksgiving meeting on Monday night, November 28. Having gathered at
the Sigma Chi house, they were ready to begin the meeting at 9:15. The meeting was presided over by the
vice-president, Charles Davis. As is the usual custom three papers were read, one being an essay, and the other two
short stories. These papers were both read and written by the members of the organization themselves. The first short story,
“The Yellow Envelope,” by Bill Cummings was a discussion of the results of family domination on a college freshman, and
the inevitable end to which it leads. George Adams read his “Tobacco,” which tells of the ways in which man
is affected by this plant. “Behold, how the fate of nations is swayed by the golden weed,” is a quotation
from this essay which brings out his main point. The last event of the evening was another short story. This
was the story of a man of the Kentucky mountains whose main taste and desire was for booze, and how
this affected him. This interesting climax to the evening was provided by John Hobart.

Queens Girls Plan Yule Season Dance

Queens College is holding its annual Christmas dance in the form of “A Crystal Ball,” Saturday evening, December 3, at
8 p.m. on the campus. This dance is one of two school dances of the year, sponsored by the Social
Committee of the college. Since Queens’ balls are frequented by many Davidson students who will be on hand at the
occasion, this dance will be of particular interest. Billy Knauté and his orchestra are to play for the festivity which
will be a card dance, a tradition of the college. The five sororities on the campus usually hold a party
in their houses or a formal banquet in downtown Charlotte before the dance.

JACOB LATEINER

Army Cheer Leaders Southern Novelist To Our Herod Herod’’ Speak at Phi Meeting

Every year when Army and Navy get together for their annual struggle on the gridiron, the midshipmen and cadets try
to out-insult each other. Poor old Navy was slightly backfired upon this year, but here's the whole story. When the
cadets came out on the field in Philadelphia, preparatory to mopping it up rather well with the bluejackets, they were
greeted by the midshipmen in the stands with a new version of “An, Brave Old Army Team.” The words: “We
don't play Notre Dame; We Don't play Tulane; We just play Davidson, For that’s the fearless Army way!" The middies
were pretty cocky after that, so, when they had all taken their seats, a banner was displayed, reading: “After Davidson—Smith??"
The cadets at this point had nothing to say. When the banner “When do you drop Navy? was held up,
however, they were all ready: “Today,” read the card that popped up in the army stands. The rest is history.
However, there is one small “P.S.” to be added; towards the end of the game several signs appeared in the
Army cheering section that far outdid any of Navy’s best efforts at insult. They said simply: “Davidson scored, didn’t they?”

By DON SHRIVER
Marian Sims, noted Southern novelist, will speak at an open meeting of Phi Society to be held Tuesday,December 6, at
7:30 P.M. Interested students are invited to hear Mrs. Sims address the Society on the subject, “Writing as a Lifelong
Source of Enjoyment.” Her lecture will center on the rewards of creative writing and how students may improve their writing
skills, but will include comments on campus publications and current literary trends. A discussion period, with questions from the audience,
will follow.

Mrs. Sims is a resident of Charlotte and a native of Dalton, Georgia. Since 1934, seven novels have come from
her pen, nearly all of them dealing with the South. One critic has said, “Nobody has written so well of
middle-class Southern people as has Mrs. Sims.” Her novels include “Call It Freedom,” “The City on the Hill,” and “Storm
Before Daybreak.” The speaker will also announce the winner of the Philanthropic Fall Writing Contest. A Phi Key is being
awarded this fall to that member who writes the best paper of 1000 words or less.

West Entertains ‘The Uninvited’ Turns Out to Be "The Horse Who Came to Dinner"

If you are a Davidson student and a normal individual (which in all probability is only a possibility), you by
odds of 1 to 5.54 live in West Dormitory and likewise by odds of 1 to 860 were in same
Saturday night, November 12. If this be so, perchance this recount will rejuvenate the corpus of your math 11—smitten heart.

About 11:00 P.M. on the aforementioned day when most good Davidsonites were in Charlotte, and the rest of us were
trying to recuperate from Friday night, a sylphlike pitter-patter of hoof-beats on the floor above brought reminiscences of perhaps Charlie
Mitchell on the Barium Springs stage, an amateur rendition of “Mule-Train,” or the St. Nick octet on Weihnachten Eve (that’s
the night before Christmas to you German students). However, it turned out to be none of these. When I heard
same, I bounded the 16 odd steps-rote and turned the corner as I reached the first floor: “And what to
my unspectacled eye should appear, but a centaur-like twosome, one front and one rear.”

Hastily affixing my Ballard and Ballard postpaid, ready-ground-before-your-eyes horn rims, I noted that the one afore was one “Horse” Gene
Regen, while arrears was just one horse. (As to which one may lay claim to said title of “horse,” I
leave open to discussion and interpretation.) Nevertheless, as the story goes, it seems as though this poor four-legged Equus Callabus
had been found that evening and to the dismay of the bronco — to coin a trite pun — the
boys had just been passing the “buck” (gelding, what have you). My report takes original ownership back to Leroy Mimms.
From thence this “grass-stallion” passed into the hands of the heavyweight category of aforementioned Gene Regen. Regen, not getting this
walking business too well, decided to ride the charger, and accompanied by fellow-horsemen, Linton Deck and Andy Horne, with numerous
other hearsays, the group reined this Bucephalus into several ground-level dormitory halls. Finding it almost impossible to move astern, this
“head”-strong steed several times forced his way into the gentlemen’s restroom, rooms, and halls in order to make the correct
U-turn (as required by North Carolina law) in order to get out of the dorms.

Later, upon the suggestion of many Abernathy-lecture-conscious Lone Rangers, Bob Hollister again was to be the scapegoat by means of
this he-horse. It seems the assemblage, with horse (masculine and neuter-plural), gained access to the basement floor of West by
the back door and left this hay-burner to figure the Editor's room out for himself. You can imagine the chagrin
and embarrassment of the nag when he found himself confronted, not with a stall full of oats and alfalfa, but
a room knee-deep in Davidsonian clippings, Abernathy’s lecture embossed on steel, negatives of “Fifi” and free passes to the Imperial
Theatre. Well, there’s no telling what transpired during this period of isolation, but everyone had good reason to believe this
inquisitive Equus pretty much absorbed the Mounder’s room and vice-versa. As the old saying goes, (Continued on Page Six)

The Davidsonian will definitely take “John Loves Mary” on the road for at least one performance, according to an announcement
made by Bob Gay, Director of the Masquers production. The announcement came after a long meeting with the Executive Committee
of the college by several members of the Masquers Wednesday afternoon and after Director Gay had agreed to revise certain
parts of the play. The main faculty opposition is believed to have centered around scenes involving drinking, swearing, and one
in which John appears sans trousers on the stage. It is believed that these parts of the play make it
undesirable in that the presentation of it by a college organization would not be in keeping with the Davidson standards.
These parts will be revised.

With these revisions, the Masquers will present the play Friday night, before the Winthrop College audience in Rock Hill, S.C.
It will be sponsored by the Winthrop Dramatics organization and curtain time will be 8 o'clock. “John Loves Mary” was
presented twice before the Davidson College audience on last November 21 and 22 without any faculty opposition. The Masquers are
undecided as yet as to whether or not the play will be carried to any other outside audiences.

Columbia Deputation Received on Campus
By GEORGE H. McMURRAY

Monday morning’s chapel program was conducted by a deputation of seven ministerial students from Columbia Seminary, Atlanta, Georgia. The morning
devotional emphasizing the theme of Christian Commission to the Ministry was conducted by Al Harris, Bill Iverson, and Bill Brownson,
Davidson graduates. A solo was sung by Tom Young, and the announcement was made that the visiting students would be
available Monday afternoon for those who wished to make personal interviews and to discuss the requirements and general program of
Columbia Seminary.

The Atlanta deputation arrived in Davidson Sunday to carry on the seven o'clock vesper service at Unity Church. Bill Brownson
delivered a message entitled “Vital Christian Living” after the singing of selected hymns. Highlight of the two-day visit was a
basketball game Monday night between the college varsity and Columbia’s team. Despite the lack of early season practice and the
failure of two first-string players to arrive on the campus due to an automobile accident, the visitors were able to
score 25 points. The Wildcat cagers won the tussle by compiling 67 points. Members of the deputation, all of whom
played on the team, are Bill Brownson, Bill Iverson, Al Harris, Jim Reeves, Sam Hoyt, Bob Cousas, and Tom Young.
Dick Summers and Leroy Siecrest came as members of the basketball squad.

MOVIE ON WORLD GOVERNMENT

This coming Wednesday night at 6:30, December 7, a representative of the United World Federalists will present a movie on
World Government in the Y lounge. All interested or curious students and faculty members are invited.

ATTEND LATEINER CONCERT NUMBER TEN TURNS TO CAMPUS
JACOB LATEINER TO PRESENT CONCERT HERE MONDAY NIGHT

The second program on the Davidson College Artist Series, a concert by Jacob Lateiner, young Cuban pianist, will be given
in Chambers Auditorium on Monday night at 8:15 P.M. The concert will be the young musician's second appearance at Davidson.
He played an earlier engagement here in 1948 and was included on this year's series because of his popularity here
and in all parts of the country.

Lateiner, recognized as one of America’s leading pianists since his 1948 debut in Carnegie Hall, will play a program selected
for him by Mr. and Mrs. James Christian Pfohl, both well-known musicians. Lateiner at 21 has attracted wide attention for
his artistry and versatility. He has spent 15 years in professional study and has toured both in this country and
abroad. Beginning to study piano at the age of four, Lateiner was receiving professional instruction by the time he was
six. At seven, he gave his first public recital. In 1939 he and his family moved to Philadelphia from Havana,
and the young pianist played with the Philadelphia Symphony after five years of study at the Curtis Institute of Music.
Included in the program will be several Chopin selections and the music of Beethoven, Mozart, and Bach. Season tickets for
the Artist series will be honored on Monday night and single admissions will be sold at the door.

Modern Language Association Meets At Davidson

Some three hundred and eighty members of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association were guests of Davidson College on Friday,
November 25, 1949. This Association is made up of teachers of modern languages, including English from 32 states and foreign
countries, with the majority of the members coming from the states from Kentucky to Florida.

During the morning of Friday, several departmental section meetings were held. Professor Charles Roberts of the Spanish Department read a
paper, entitled: “Las Memorias" of Pio Baroja at the Spanish section meeting. At 12:30 Davidson College served a banquet to
the guests in Chambers Dining Hall. Prof. E. A. Beaty presided. President John R. Cunningham gave the address of welcome.
The President of the Association, Prof. Geo. P. Jackson of Vanderbilt University responded. Additional section meetings and discussion groups occupied
the afternoon. At 3:00 the Executive Committee were entertained in the home of the Vice President, Dr. Geo. B. Watts.

Friday evening the annual banquet was held in the Hotel Charlotte. Prof. John W. McCutchan of Queens College welcomed the
members on behalf of President Blakely. The President of the Association made the principal address of the evening. The Saturday
morning sessions were held at Queens College. At the Teaching Problems Section meeting, Dr. A. V. Goldiere of Davidson was
named chairman for the coming year. Queens College served a complimentary coffee during the morning. At the annual business meeting
which was the last item on the program, it was announced that the next meeting would be held in Knoxville,
Tenn., next Thanksgiving as guests of the University of Tennessee. Kentucky was voted into the Association. Dr. Geo. B. Watts
of Davidson was elected President of the Association for 1949-1950. During the afternoon the North Carolina Chapter of the American
Association of Teachers of French enjoyed a complimentary luncheon at Queens College. The principal speaker was the national president, Dr.
Joseph M. Carriere of the University of Virginia. The honorary Spanish Fraternity, Sigma Delta Pi met at a luncheon meeting
in Efird’s Dining Room. (Continued on Page Six)
