Contribute Ten To National Inter-Collegiate Who’s Who

he Wavidsonian

ALENDA EUK UB) DAVIDSONIAN

TO COMMENT ON ABERNATHY'S BLAST NEXT WEEK

SEE PAGE TWO FOR ABERNATHY ARTICLE

ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., OCTOBER 28, 1949

NUMBER SIX VOLUME XXXVIII

VERNON BROYLES NAMED FALL SPEAKER

PROMINENT ATLANTA PASTOR

TEN CANDIDATES CHOSEN FOR WHO'S WHO

Mr. Horace Johnston

Davidson Benefactor Passes Unexpectedly

The YMCA and Davidson College are fortunate in having secured Dr. Vernon S. Broyles, Jr., pastor of North Avenue Presbyterian Church of Atlanta, and chairman of the Overseas Relief Committee of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., as the speaker for the fall services, which are scheduled for November 2, 3, and 4.

Broyles, who recently returned from a tour in Europe, graduated from Davidson in 1927, received his B.D. at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, and went to Germany for more graduate work at the University of Berlin. After serving pastorates in Virginia and Mississippi, he was called to his present church in Atlanta, where he has made a distinguished record, gaining wide recognition as a speaker and writer. He has appeared on the Presbyterian Hour and contributes to many leading religious journals.

Davidson students will be interested in Dr. Broyles' observations on Europe, since he has recently made a first-hand study of conditions there by the Christian World Service, an interdenominational organization of which he is a member of the Board of Directors. His itinerary covered Belgium, France, Italy, Germany, Hungary, and Switzerland.

The all-service sponsored annually by the Y will be held in Chambers auditorium at 7:15, November 2, 3, and 4. Dress is optional. Dr. Broyles will also speak at the chapel services Wednesday through Friday, and he will be available for private consultation if students will arrange an appointment through Bill Smith.

Newt Robertson, publicity director of the Y, stressed that fraternities continue the custom of attending in groups.

The names of the ten campus leaders who have been selected to represent Davidson in this year’s Who's Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges have just been announced. This coveted honor is bestowed once each year upon those students outstanding in scholarship, leadership, cooperation in educational and extracurricular activities, citizenship and service, and promise of future usefulness.

The selection was made by an anonymous faculty and administration committee; and the names of the chosen men, along with a biographical sketch, will be published in this year’s book among those of campus leaders from over six hundred other American institutions.

The book, Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges, was first published fifteen years ago by an organization which was founded for the sole purpose of recognizing on a national basis the men who have been most outstanding in their respective colleges.

The names of those men at Davidson who have been chosen for this year are as follows:

BILL ALEXANDER—
Bill, who hails from Jacksonville, Fla., is studying for the ministry. He is this year’s president of the YMCA, and is a member of Kappa Alpha fraternity. He is a member of O.D.K., and has been captain of the wrestling team and played football for two years. He is a member of Philanthropic Literary Society, the “D” Club and has been associated with the Beaver Club, the Court of Control and Scabbard and Blade. He has also been vice-president of the Sophomore class and vice-president of the student body.

G. T. McKEE
R. C. GAY

On Tuesday, October 25, 1949, the Davidson community was saddened by the unexpected passing of Mr. Horace Johnston, a nationally known textile manufacturer. Mr. Johnston's death occurred quite unexpectedly late Saturday after he suffered a heart attack.

Saturday morning, Mr. Johnston and his sister, Mrs. R. J. Stokes, had attended homecoming exercises at Davidson. They took part in the dedication of the new gym which was named in honor of their late father, Charles Worth Johnston.

Mr. Johnston's interest in Davidson was deep and constant from the time he first attended the institution. He was a member of the committee which sponsored the Davidson College development program. This program came to a climax Saturday with Davidson's “Parade of Progress.” At this time the opening of the new gym was dedicated.

Mr. Johnston was born Sept. 3, 1899 at Cornelius, the son of the late Charles Worth and Jennie Stough Johnston. He attended Staunton Military Academy, Davidson College, and the University of North Carolina. After the death of his father, Mr. Johnston who had been associated with the textile enterprises for many years, succeeded to the presidencies of the corporations. They include Highland Park Manufacturing Co., Johnston Mills, Inc., and Johnston Manufacturing Co., all of Charlotte. Mr. Johnston was also a charter member and deacon of Myers Park Presbyterian Church.

In addition to his industrial, religious, and civic activities, Mr. Johnston was a member of the Board of Trustees of Davidson College and a member of the Board of Directors of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce. He was also a member of the Charlotte Rotary Club and the Charlotte Country Club.

National Y Secretary Will Present Convocation

By PHIL LIBBY

On Tuesday, October 25, 1949, Davidson was fortunate in having brought to the campus, Dr. Eugene Barnett, national general secretary of the Young Men's Christian Association. Dr. Barnett took his graduate work at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and then went to China as a missionary. After twenty-five years in China, because of his excellent work and enthusiasm he was recalled to this country to take the position of national general secretary of the YMCA.

In this capacity Dr. Barnett has traveled the world many times, endeavoring to improve Christian relationships. He has met with such men as Ghandi, Lord Mountbatton and General MacArthur to discuss various problems concerning the young people throughout the world. Dr. Barnett told the student body that we are responsible to the world today, first; as Americans and secondly, as Christians. He went on to point out the high prestige of Americans the world over, as he has noticed in his extensive travels. Dr. Barnett reminded us that this is a great opportunity for us to make a real contribution, for it is a real responsibility.

1950-51 Fulbright Awards Announced

Announcement has recently been made by the Department of State and the President's Board of Foreign Scholarships of the opening of competitions for U.S. Government awards for graduate study in the United Kingdom, Belgium, Burma, Netherlands, Philippines, Greece, New Zealand, France, Italy, Iran, and Norway for the academic year 1950-1951. The scholarships offered to American graduate students are made available as a result of Public Law 584, 79th Congress (the Fulbright Act). This is the second year in which American graduate students will have an opportunity to compete for these awards which provide travel, tuition, and maintenance for study abroad for one academic year.

The number of opportunities for study in each country is as follows: United Kingdom, 25; Belgium, 10; Burma, 5; Netherlands, 10; Philippines, 10; Greece, 10; New Zealand, 5; France, 25; Italy, 10; Iran, 5; and Norway, 10.

Scabbard and Blade Plans Year's Program

By TOM STALEY

Scabbard and Blade is a national honorary organization whose purpose is to gain a better understanding of our military system and to determine and become familiar with the current advances of military science in its several fields. The organization accomplishes this aim through the mediums of talks by informed speakers, articles written on pertinent military topics, and films produced to illustrate tactics used by our armed forces in combat.

President Sandy Carnegie presides over the twenty-one active members of the Davidson Scabbard and Blade. Deserving students of only the Senior ROTC course are bid for membership. These prospective members are chosen on the basis of leadership capacity and military proficiency.Bot tending in a body, Dr. Broyles, the Student Body. Attitudes of Christians in other countries were reviewed as follows: United Kingdom (156), Belgium and Luxembourg (22), Burma (3), Netherlands (25), Philippines (6), Greece (12), New Zealand (10), France (20). In the case of Italy, Norway, and Iran, the exact number of scholarships to be offered is not available at this time, but applications are being received in these competitions nonetheless.

The weather forecast for the weekend here in Davidson calls for generally fair weather, cool at night and mild in the daytime.

Bob Bumbarger—Rob is from Hickory, N.C., and served in the Navy. Majoring in Business, he is president of Pi Kappa Phi. Bob is editor of the Annual.

Whit Cobb—Whit, majoring in business, is from Durham, N.C., and is a member of the Junior Class, on the baseball team, on the Student Council, and a member of the Beaver Club and the "D" club.

Notice: Incidentally, there will be a full moon next weekend on November 5.

Student Leaders Chosen For “Who’s Who”

Frosh Wrecks Plane

At approximately 6:30 Monday evening, Harold Johnson of the freshman class cracked up his light plane while attempting to land on the old Davidson airfield, which was lighted only by the lights of an automobile. John was on a return flight from his home in High Point when darkness caught him aloft. He had planned to land on the field between Davidson and Mooresville, but being unable to find the strip, followed the highway back to Davidson. Several times he buzzed the campus in an attempt to get a light of some sort on the old field. Some wide-awake citizen drove his car onto the local landing strip but made the disastrous mistake of turning his lights across the strip instead of parallel to the runway. Johnson, thinking the best approach to be parallel to the lights, came in across the runway, hit a ditch on the south side, and the plane was flipped over on its back. The plane received considerable damage to the landing gear, prop, and wings.

Money-raising campaigns are not new to the Davidson campus, for we notice that one hundred years ago an effort was made to raise money for the literary society buildings. It is unlike the present campaign in that it was carried on by the students themselves. This letter was sent in 1848. The buildings were finished in 1849.

Davidson College
January 22, 1848

Dear Sir,

We, the students of this institution, about to undertake to build halls for the two literary societies, find ourselves compelled to call on our friends and those of the institution to assist us in our undertaking. When it is known this institution took its origin from the kindness, liberality, and benevolence of its friends, we hope we will not be censured for taking the course we have to raise the means to carry on the intended building. Of course, as the times are hard, we cannot expect very large subscriptions. However small an amount we may obtain from any one person, it will be most thankfully received. We find the above-mentioned Hall indispensable, as we now have no place to hold our meetings and the lecture rooms are entirely too small. We, of course, feel a delicacy in following the plan we are, but our circumstances clearly show we cannot succeed in our undertaking otherwise. The money we will not need before next fall; we only wish it subscribed at this time. Should you think proper to assist us (matters not in how small a degree), you will please mention the amount in a letter in note form and direct it to me, Lancaster Ville, S.C., as I will be there the month of February during our vacation. For all the favors done us at this time, we are sorry to say we are unable to return anything as a recompense, except our sincere and undivided thanks. Hoping that you will do whatever may seem best for you for the Eumenean Society, I will subscribe myself on behalf of the same, your humble servant.

(Signed) Robert P. Stewart