Since this is the last shot we'll have at this column, we’d like to pass around a few thanks and
pats on backs—if the phraseology is acceptable. A big thank you to the entire sports staff. These are the boys
who week after week give their time to the sporting scene at Davidson. To Gordon Scott, our successor, goes a
world of praise for faithfully turning out material every week. Cherry Stribling has filled in for the writer, as has
Scott, and both have been of great help in the make-up field. Stribling has turned out his own column weekly
with few exceptions. Dan McKeithen and Furman Warlick have come through whenever asked and were of great aid. Phil Hammond,
Bryan Robinson, and Bill Buckey have been regular weekly standbys. Jack Payne and Ed West, though not regular workers, have
always been available in a pinch. And last, but far from least, is Bill White, who has added the professional
touch to the staff! Bill has rendered advice more than once and has been one of our best, though he
is burdened with many other duties. Mae Hart has helped to set us straight in close times. Her department has
been felt all along. We'd also like to thank Joe Thigpen in the alumni office for furnishing us with much-needed
information throughout the year. Frank and Tom Niblock have been present when pictures were needed, and it is to them
that we are indebted probably more than anyone. Before we get too far, we must tip our hat to the
coaches and players for their excellent cooperation throughout the year. To these latter and the student body as a whole,
we say thanks for the fair and just criticism of our actions and words. We’ve been attacked for much that
has been said, but never have we felt such an attack to be unwarranted. It is this type of reaction
that keeps a staff on its toes and stimulates interest in student activities. Hearing from the students and players, we
know that our stuff is at least being read. We realize that it is seldom worth reading. We regret that
the coverage of events in recent weeks has been so meager. We've yet to run a story on the golf
team. The freshman tennis squad has gained little recognition, and intramural play has been left out entirely of late. Lack
of space has been our trouble, but we hope to be able to correct this injustice with added space from
a six-page edition. The spring sports slate is so crowded that we have found it impossible to render justice and
at the same time fulfill our advertising contracts. To Monty Hill, Phil Tatum, Ben Vernon, Bill Medford, Alan Mead, and
all the other members of the golf team, we do apologize. It's not that you have been forgotten, but that
happenings here on the campus have somewhat overshadowed your activities. Interest in the recently completed fraternity volleyball tournament reached a
new low. It would seem that if no more interest were shown in the sport than this year, it should
be dropped from the intramural schedule. It appeared to be a drudgery for some groups to field a team every
afternoon. The Athletic Department recognized the fact that interest was at a low ebb when it refused to issue softball
equipment for practice before the volleyball season was completed. It used as its reason the statement that if such equipment
was issued, the students would become so involved in softball practice that they would not finish the volleyball tournament. If
this be the case, then why should they be made to play the game? Intramurals are for the student’s pleasure.
Could it be possible to push the track meet back a week or so, thus giving additional time to practice
softball? In this way, volleyball could be dropped. We realize that to push the track meet back might interfere with
the track season, but it would give the fraternities a better chance to round into shape, and if a varsity
or freshman meet should run before the inter-fraternity meet, the participants could still be eligible if not otherwise disqualified.

WHATEVER YOUR NEEDS
SUITS
HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
TIES
SHOES
and the 101 other things
SHOP EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP
STREET FLOOR

Wildcat Sports
SEE CHESTERFIELD SPORTS QUIZ ON THIS PAGE!
April 22, 1949

Frost Pel Squad Stops Contra, UNC

DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS PAGE THREE

TORRENCE STRIBLING

Charlton pitched all but one victory ball. Charlton usually was the victim of passed balls, like good ball, along but
had hard and came out. Possessed of a good curve and a hard straight fast one, of errors, and this
year he shone out in the N.C. State game when he hurled a shiny six-hitter and was out of trouble
almost the entire route. He has been beaten by Clemson and N.C. State once before when they jumped on him
in the ninth inning to win 6-5. He also pitched a few innings against McCrary and was charged with the
loss. In the summer, Charlton joins teammate Charlie Pearson on a textile semi-pro ball team. He stands six feet with
a weight of 170 pounds. Charlton is 20 years old and thus has another year of eligibility left, and Coach
Jamerson is expecting big things out of him in the 1950 season.hhieen z he Ig, for Ca 1 me «sl:
TIN TRODUCIN Hil 1, JU) By CHERRY n (rd Ver Me \ to 0 The hard-luck pitcher of the Davidson
diamond squad finally came through this year with an outstanding win and has thus established himself as one of the
classiest hurlers to be seen on this campus in quite a while. Charlton Torrence hails from Gastonia where he attended
high school for three years before attending Darlington School for Boys in Georgia. In high school, Charlton played football and
baseball and from the start, he was marked as a promising young hurler. At Darlington, he participated in football, basketball,
and baseball, being an all-around star in all these sports. Charlton was at Darlington for one and a half years
and graduated from there in January of 1946 and entered Davidson the second semester of the 1946-47 school year. He
played baseball his first year at Davidson and won one game while pitching creditably in several others. He pledged and
became a brother of the Kappa Sigma fraternity. The next year Charlton...

CAMELS ARE A LONG-TIME FAVORITE WITH ME, TONI! I KNOW HOW MILD A CIGARETTE CAN BE! Alan Dale, a top-ten
phono favorite, gives out with the solid dream music. Yes, for starry-eyed dancing, just ask for Alan Dale’s new number,
"MEET ME TONIGHT IN DREAMLAND" (Signature Record). Here's Alan Dale chatting over a Camel with lovely Toni. MILD IS RIGHT,
ALAN, I KNOW, TOO, BECAUSE I MADE THE CAMEL 30-DAY TEST! There are more than 800 species of native North
American birds. With fans who know... it’s Camels for mild, flavorful smoking pleasure. Just ask for Camels! Take it from
Alan—“Camels are a grand, cool, mild smoke!” WITH SMOKERS WHO KNOW... IT’S CAMELS FOR TASTE AND MILDNESS! In a recent
test of hundreds of people who smoked only Camels for 30 days, noted throat specialists, making weekly examinations, reported...

CINDERMEN MEET CITADEL IN SPRING FROLICS DOUBLE HEADER By GORDON SCOTT Despite the efforts of the wind to thwart play,
Davidson’s varsity team ran off another doubleheader on Field Saturday. The Wildcats were host to the semi-pro McCrary Eagles and
absorbed an 11-2 pasting at their hands. The visitors from Asheboro tapped top pitching talent—Vorrenee, Hunter, and Hengeveld—for 11 safeties,
more than Davidson’s nine garnered off Millin and Hicks. Erratic infield play by the Wildcats offered the visitors several of
their runs. Jake Wade started the bottom of the first inning by connecting with Millin’s tosses and sent the ball
over the leftfield fence, putting Davidson on the scoreboard. However, the Eagles came back in the third with four runs
to take the lead for the rest of the game. Davidson scored again in the last of the fourth. Dick
Richards walked, advanced around the bases on a passed ball, and was pushed across by Dutch Hengeveld. McCrary was not
content with a two-run advantage and marked up two runs in the fifth and five in the seventh. In addition
to Wade's round-tripper, Smith and McGehee pounded out four-baggers for the visitors. Nance led the Eagles at the plate with
three-base knocks, followed by McGehee who collected a triple and a homer. Davidson's eight hits were divided among eight players:
Pearson, Bird, Erwin, Wade, Houck, Chandler, Torrence, and Hengeveld each contributed one hit. The Cat hurlers had some trouble with
their control, giving up 11 free passes—three by Torrence, two by Hengeveld, and six by Hunter. Torrence started on the
mound for the locals and was charged with the loss.

Rules of Contest: George (Buddy) Cheek has added more laurels to his already impressive list of honors. The Alabama senior
has been named on the third team of the Helms Athletic Foundation All-American five. (Continued on Page Four)

WITH SMOKERS WHO KNOW... IT’S NOT ONE SINGLE CASE OF THROAT IRRITATION due to smoking B. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co,
Winston-Salem, N. C.
