PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, May 13, 1949

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

EDITORIALS

THE DAVIDSONIAN Presents
FEATURES
LETTERS

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF --- BOB HOLLISTER
BUSINESS MANAGER --- BILL HOUCK

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jack Blaser --- Associate Editor
Doug Hix --- Associate Editor
Lonnie Mente --- Associate Editor
Abe Gogel --- Managing Editor
Bill Cumming --- Managing Editor
Hartley Hall --- Managing Editor
NG EHeACh --- Managing Editor
Lon Amant --- Managing Editor
Jim Murray --- Managing Editor
Randy Taylor --- Managing Editor
Gordon Metott --- Sports Editor
John Peebles --- Society Editor
Tom Mac --- Exchange Editor
Watt Jeffries --- Exchange Editor
Bill Hollister --- Make-up Editor
Dan McKeithen --- Make-up Editor
Cherry Stridline --- Make-up Editor
Art Editor --- Gabe Lowe
Liston Mills --- Henry Wilson
Henry Hansen --- Charlie Davis

SENIOR REPORTERS: Pete Kalogridis, Phil Mitchell, Dick Barnwell, Phil Libby, Bill Neal, Ed Richardson, Jim Fickeisen, and Gene Regen

REPORTERS: Warren Sims, Dudley Pendleton, Nat Daniel, Jim Blackburn, Bob Hubbell, Lamarr Hinson, Tom Allen, George McMurray, Manly McWilliams, Ben Morris, Bill Bacon

SPORTS STAFF: Furman Warlick, Bill White, Phil Hammond, Bryan Robinson, Ed West, Bill Buckey, Jack Stevenson

POLL CAT STAFF: Jim Carr, Claude Higginbotham, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown, and Neal Underdown

WEATHER REPORT: Trew Gurley and Bill Sargent

Columnist: Saapuceay
Columnist: Columnist
Columnist: Columnist

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager: Charles Dockery
Advertising Manager: John Loftin
Circulation Manager: Bill Hart
Asst. Advertising Manager: Bob Erwin
Asst. Advertising Manager: Bill Pharr
Collections Manager: Harold Clayton
Subscriptions Manager: Sam Cumming

ASSISTANTS: Bill Cumming, Gene Taylor, Nelson Tomlinson

CIRCULATION STAFF: Alex Goley, Parks Dalton, Neill Thad, Paul Moses, Joe Underdown, Tommy Haller, John Hardin, Hugh Hutisier, Ben Morris, Cam Guthry, Phil Miller, Faison, W. S. McSwain, Wylie Smith, Cassels, Charles Clinkscales, Hector McKeithan

Assistant Advertising Manager: David McConnell

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the Act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1948 Member 1949
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

PRINTED BY
DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

FAREWELL TO COACH SHEPHERD

It is with a deep feeling of regret that our student body bids farewell to its beloved basketball mentor. Coach Shepard has won for himself a spot in the hearts of the students with his friendliness and sportsmanship. He has served in various capacities in the Athletic Department for the past fifteen years, but we know him best for his outstanding work as basketball coach and athletic director. His work has had a direct effect upon the student body in general and particularly on those boys who have played on his teams. His leadership and sense of fair play have contributed a great deal to the name of Davidson College and have furthered its widespread reputation for clean play and good sportsmanship.

Not only has Coach Shepherd successfully carried out his duties as athletic director and basketball coach, but he has found time to take an active part in national athletic associations, including the NCAA selection committee of Group 3, National Rules Committee, and the U.S. committee for the selection of the U.S. Olympic teams. In working with these committees, he has exercised that same sense of responsibility and leadership for which he is so well known.

After fifteen years of working for a new and adequate athletic plant, it is rather ironic that he should leave on the eve of its completion. We feel that it is through his perseverance and hard work that the college will soon be able to boast one of the finest gyms in this section. “Shep,” as he is affectionately known around the campus, is going to a bigger job in a much larger school. With him goes our heartfelt thanks for a job well done. He will long be remembered around the campus for his ideals and hard work. We hate to see him leave, but we wish him luck in his new position.

Y.M.C.A. PRESIDENT'S REPORT

Hidden among the criticism that has been directed at the YMCA this year have been a few students who have expressed to me their gratitude for the work of the YMCA and the outgoing Cabinet. I would like to take this opportunity, however, to express my gratitude to the student body for entrusting to our care the work of the YMCA for the past year. It is for this purpose that I submit the YMCA President's Report for the year 1948-49. We review with a sense of humility the ways in which we have failed, but we feel confident that the YMCA for the coming year will be more prosperous, provided it receives the interest which was so suddenly manifested during the recent election and which has already begun to evaporate. (Wednesday night there were only 15 present at the open forum to discuss the work of the YMCA.)

The report which follows does not cover all the work of the YMCA for the past year. We omitted the things considered as “in the rut,” such as the Christmas party for the Queens and Converse girls, boys’ work, Days, colored work, Sunday Schools, etc.:

1. The largest amount ever contributed for the Christmas Gift Fund was contributed this year. This includes an average per student.
2. Largest attendance for the Spring and Fall Services in recent years. This was due largely to the informal nature that the YMCA inaugurated this year.
3. No outstanding debt left for the new Cabinet, and finances were left in good order. It should be mentioned here that the offerings of Vespers were of a generous nature. Jack Ethridge did a good job as treasurer.
4. Largest attendance at Hall Prayer meetings as far as records indicate.
5. An extra large number of students participating in the work of the YMCA in the nature of deputations, boys work, Chapel, etc.

The Cabinet this year was composed of eight pre-ministerial students, three of these having been elected by the student body, and nine other students, two of whom were elected by the student body. There is not enough space to enumerate the areas in which the cabinet could and should have done better work. But the work that it did accomplish could not have been done without the assistance of YMCA Secretary Bill Smith. The Cabinet is grateful for his enthusiasm, efficiency, and cooperation.

Respectfully submitted,
HERB MEZA
YMCA President, 1948-49

DISSATISFIED WITH TEX BENEKE

You've written a lot on the subject of the dances we have here. I'll be very frank to express my disappointment at Mr. Beneke’s session at the Frolics. We have only a few dances a year, and one couldn't help noticing that toward the end of the dance these jitterbugs got plenty tired of the rapid oscillating. Many fellows and girls go to a dance for the purpose of listening to every other number the band plays. A few soaped-up versions are O.K., but dare we say Mr. Beneke overdid the thing? Can we forget the plug given this band from the stage of Chambers Auditorium? Remember, they played some old Glenn Miller favorites. If Glenn Miller ever heard Beneke's Cannonballers, I dare say he would choose to forget that his name was the only thing that got Beneke to the top. Where were those old Miller favorites on May 22? Those good old numbers are only remembered on records now—Beneke forgot them. Would it be possible for Hell to make a definite clause in each dance contract for a certain ratio of slow numbers to fast ones? Beneke got away with nothing short of robbery. He got his part of the contract because he demanded it—money. For a seven-dollar ticket, we want and frankly expect satisfaction. The big band boys demand and get what they want, and if we can’t demand and get our money’s worth, let's use records for our dances.

CARY HENDERSON

College Rags In Brief
By ART JENKINS

According to THE OLD GOLD AND BLACK, a freshman pulled a perfect squelch at a recent Wofford dance. He walked up to some sophisticated senior babe and asked her to dance. “Listen,” she says, looking down her nose, “I don't dance with a baby.” “Beg your pardon, ma’am,” replied the freshman, humiliated, “I didn't realize your condition.”

This bit of irony comes from Ga. Tech's TECHNIQUE: “Man comes into this world without his consent, and leaves it against his will. When he is little, the big girls kiss him, and when he is big, the little girls kiss him. If he is active in politics, it is for graft; if he is not interested in politics, he is no good to his country. If he makes a lot of money, he is dishonest; if he is poor, he is a bad manager. If he needs credit, he can’t get it; if he is prosperous, everyone wants to do something for him. If he is religious, he is a hypocrite; if he doesn’t go to church, he is a hardened sinner. If he gives to charity, it is for show; if he doesn’t, he is a stingy cuss. If he is affectionate, he is a soft specimen; if he doesn’t care for anyone, he is coldhearted. If he dies young, there was a great future before him; if he lives to a ripe old age, he missed his calling. If he saves money, he is a tightwad; if he spends it, he is a spendthrift. If he has money, he is a grafter; if he hasn’t got it, he’s a bum. So what's the use?”

Coed sun-bathers at Carolina attract quite a bit of attention according to an article in the DAILY TAR HEEL. They invaded the roofs of various dormitories during the first hot spell which, unfortunately for them, coincided with fraternity hell week. Pledges found that hell week could be fun after all. Some of them climbed cautiously to the roof of a neighboring building of one of the favorite sun-bathing roofs, fire hose in hand, and thoroughly sprayed the sun-goddesses, creating a stampede for the shady indoors. Their spirits dampened but not lost, they moved to another roof which was, however, in eyeshot of one of the fraternity houses. That particular fraternity has since taken up the study of astronomy—or at least they have installed a telescope in an upstairs window.

The Class of ’49 at the U. of Chattanooga has a unique idea for a class gift. Instead of donating something of use to the campus, theyHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

are burying a century crypt to be opened by the Class of 2049. The crypt will contain copies of the various campus publications along with other items pertinent to the interest of students a hundred years from now. An undergraduate student at Duke proved that one doesn’t have to be a seasoned scholar to make valuable contributions to science. This 19-year-old Biology student, in a routine soil bacteria study in a Botany laboratory, isolated an organism which proved an able killer of fungus growths such as athlete’s foot. Maryland’s DIAMONDBACK printed an article complaining about a practice which is not only a racket but an extremely dishonest curve-breaking scheme. It seems that a few two-legged parasites have been stealing copies of examinations from professors' files and wastebaskets, running off mimeographed copies, and selling them for five bucks a throw. Most of the thefts are detected but “that doesn’t keep the racketeers from cleaning up.

HELLO FROM L. O. (BY LISTO)

Since we are rapidly coming to the close of another illustrious school year, it would be well to gaze back on the “big three” social events of the year, and to see what sort of an indelible blot these have left on the minds of our students. Let us begin with the beginning, namely Homecoming. The weather prophet predicted fair and balmy breezes for the great day, but as the crowds floated onto the campus, the cry “soak the alumni” became a literal one. Nevertheless, the Davidson spirit prevailed, and the student body attended en masse the water carnival held on Richardson Field. The dances are some which we have heard said will never be forgotten. Who could ask for more wonderful Friday and Saturday nights than those at the Morris Field Gymnasium dancing to the music of an inspired Billy “Enough?” And, attempt to find a more ideal situation than that enjoyed by the more blood-thirsty of our number, who gloried in the screams and groans of the crushed and dying in those Enough revelations of a wet (?) weekend.

Let us now proceed to the next function of size and importance—mid-winter. The site of the gathering was the same as our previous festivities, though not quite so jammed. Numerous celebrities attended, not the least of whom was Jolting Johnnie Satterfield and his bouncing bobcats. Only one factor in the grand and glorious weekend seems to stand out—namely the look of perplexity as the dancers attempted to discern what to do to Johnnie's Jolts. But now to the Spring Frolics. All were excited over the proposed weekend for which they paid through the nose, and were fortunate in securing a band with a leader who sang through a similar organ. The dances, however, proved to be a huge success, so everyone says they were told, and all were happy with the choice of the orchestra. In summing up, there is only one general observation, which is the appalling amount of money students lost playing the stock markets on these occasions. Many now have speculated as to the source of the ingredients for the various barbecues held of late. It's fitting to celebrate “I Am an American Day,” on May 15th, but day. long-awaited)

A SENIOR REMINISCES BY BILL BROWNSON

There is always the danger, in writing one’s reminiscences, of lapsing into sentimentality, and gazing wistfully into a past which now assumes a rosy hue in the light of a rather commonplace present and an uncertain future. And yet to think back over a full and happy college experience without a trace of sentiment or enthusiasm is impossible for one whose stay here has been at all meaningful. These, then, are the thoughts of one to whom Davidson has meant a great deal. However expressed, they are sincere. If inappropriate, or ill-advised, may they be excused as those of one who is genuinely proud to be a Davidson man.

As the senior looks beyond graduation to new duties and new responsibilities, there is often a faint, nostalgic yearning for the days when life was not quite so serious, or so complex, as now it seems. The outlook for the future is bright, to be sure, but few of us can break the ties formed in four rich years without a lingering backward look, and a sense of mild sorrow at their passing. For those to whom college was merely a burdensome necessity, and commencement a welcome escape, there may be no such feeling. Perhaps for those who sought only a diploma from their Alma Mater, and begrudged the years they gave, leaving her behind will not be difficult. But to the degree that we have loved Davidson, and become a part of her, our separation from her life will be painful. And yet there is a sweetness mingled with that pain, cherished things are never really lost, but remain with us in memory, growing dearer with the passage of time. All of us have our college memories. They are vague and formless now, perhaps, obscured, and rightly so, by our plans and dreams for the days ahead. But when viewed in the calm, sure perspective of later years, these happy reminiscences are numbered among our most precious possessions. And so, as we seek to express those memories, may we be delivered from a shallow, conventional sentimentality, and realize with a warmth of appreciation their enduring worth.

In recalling to mind our life at Davidson, the question inevitably arises as to just what our college career has meant to us. What are those qualities and influences that have made our college what it is, and have had a real bearing upon our lives? As we prepare to leave these halls for the last time as a student, soon to be identified with the busy rush of modern life, it seems fitting to pause briefly, and to make a thoughtful appraisal of the true values in our undergraduate life. It is trite, perhaps, but true nevertheless, that a college (or any institution) derives its quality from the caliber of the men who comprise its membership. To put it simply, Davidson is a fine school because fine men have made it that way. The fellowship and friendship of such men will surely be one of the memories which we shall treasure most highly in the days to come. We haven't enjoyed all of our courses, nor have we always been stimulated by our professors, but the rather tedious process of learning has been, in the long run, a gratifying one. Our athletic teams were not always the very best, but the men who represented Davidson were respected for the way they played, and we were never ashamed to wear the red and black. We griped and complained, and were dissatisfied at times, it seemed, with everything. We criticized and disparaged some of the traditions and policies of our college, but we loved her just the same, and were proud to be her sons. It was hard to return to the campus after a big weekend, and we never fully realized then, the great privilege that was ours. In chapel we let off steam together, we laughed together, we sang together, and we prayed together. We suffered through the same exam periods. We gathered in front of Georgia, or in the stud, or almost anywhere to shoot the bull with the fellows. There was always something to do, and never the time to do it.

Davidson, to me, is a wonderful place. It’s that way because the faculty and the students are wholesome, friendly people, and because here are provided the means and the atmosphere for building character, and developing every side of a man’s nature. And above all else, it’s wonderful because Jesus Christ is here. Davidson is different, and He makes the difference.

Political Angles WAGNER, TAFT-HARTLEY, WOOD (BY HENRY HANSEN)

Truman had a somewhat dubious mandate from the people, but unfortunately they were not so considerate as to give him even that wispy sort of an assurance as far as his program was and is concerned. He got elected by going out and giving them hell, but being elected and instituting a lot of “catch what voter you can” campaign promises are, as President Truman has discovered, two distinct things. And the second does not necessarily follow the first. Truman vowed that he would put into effect each and every one of his campaign promises and did so with a benign assurance which, at the very least, could not be called politically astute. Programs, particularly large and sweeping ones, are seldom easy to put in, even when a president has a favorable Congress, and Truman has found certain difficulties in this matter with particular reference to a strange coalition which has sprung up between certain oddly assorted political bedfellows—namely the Dixiecrat and certain Republican groups.

President Truman’s first major hitch might be said to be the debacle concerning the Walgren appointment. Many hoped that Senator Byrd, in spite of being a long-time Democrat, would untie the tie which existed and defeat the nomination of Walgren for chief post of the NSRB. When this much hoped for event actually happened, it opened new and distinctly pleasant vistas to Dixiecrat and Republican both and pointed the way to further cooperation in spoking the wheels of President Truman's little red wagon. Recently the forces of labor and capital began to assemble on Capitol Hill for the coming battle of the Taft-Hartley—Wagner protagonists. So far the squabbling over these two bills and their newer forms, the Lesinski and Wood Bills, has disappointed no one except an embarrassed Truman and an angry labor group who are angrily questioning the man from Missouri as to the whys and wherefores of the hitch which has been met.

As yet, the situation resolves itself into still more unresolved chaos, but out of this a clear lesson presents itself to those who would be politically active. Don't count your campaigns before they are passed, for, as President Truman has found out, there’s many a slip twixt “givin’ ’em hell” and giving them the complete program in the form of passed legislation. While this fiasco is all highly amusing to those who dislike Truman, it is to be hoped that a bill will yet emerge which will pursue a more middle of the road policy since the present Lesinski and Wood Bills are simply refurbished editions of the old Wagner and Taft-Hartley legislations and are no different in aims or means, practically speaking, from their earlier predecessors. If we ever hope to stop this endless see-sawing between an advantage first for labor, then for capital and management, and then back again, we must pass a piece of legislation which will represent the honest and objective efforts of both groups to be fair to all concerned. Any bill arising from violent partisan viewpoint can only lead the way, eventually, to a determined effort by the opposition to pass a bill equally propitious to the horses grazing on their own side of the fence.