PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by the Class of 1915

“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOB HOLLISTER

BUSINESS MANAGER
BILL HOUCK

EDITORIAL STAFF:
Chief Associate Editor - Doug Hix
Chief Associate Editor - Lonnie Turnipseed
Chief Associate Editor - Jack Hazard

MANAGING EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall, Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister, Randy Taylor.
Sports Editor—Gordon Scott
Make-up Editors — Dan McKeithen, Cherry Stribling.
Art Editor—Bill King
City Editor—John Hobart
Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager - Bill Cassells
Advertising Managers - Willie Smith, Rod Shaw
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison.
Circulation Manager - Huffaker
Asst. Circulation Managers - Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager - John Loftin
Subscriptions Manager - Alex Goley

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

After December Tenth

As Dean Bailey made known to the student body Thursday in Chapel—we were there this time—the information contained in our “scoop” of last week concerning the removal of restrictions on student automobiles was official. Though The Davidsonian appreciates the cooperation and consideration shown in allowing us to be the first to release the happy news, it is not on that basis that this editorial is being written. What we have to say is solely for the benefit and in the best interests of the student body.

In permitting any student to bring a car to the campus, and to keep it here at his own discretion—under no restriction except in the matter of parking areas—the executive committee is conducting two experiments in one. Aside from the obvious issue of trying to determine whether or not the number of cars which are kept on the campus under the new regulations will be greater than can be accommodated by the College and the town, the committee is making an experiment which will reveal the degree of our maturity. We have been given a golden opportunity to prove to our own satisfaction and that of the College, something all of us believe and most of us live up to—the fact that we are capable of accepting responsibility, and handling it with judgment. Our obligation to each other and to the student body as a whole is clearly evident. Any individual using his car carelessly and without consideration for others is not only proving that he himself still belongs in high school, but is stamping the label “irresponsible” on the entire student body. If each of us accepts this newly granted responsibility, and realizes that we are being regarded as the adults we think we are, December tenth will be a most welcome day indeed.

Rhodes Scholarship

After having been a student here at Davidson three or four years, we sometimes come to ignore or overlook some of our most valuable assets. We perhaps take for granted many of the opportunities that surround us. In failing to identify these opportunities with ourselves, we run the risk of losing what might otherwise have been of real worth to us. Such an opportunity presents itself in the form of the Rhodes Scholarships. The period of extended study at Oxford which these scholarships provide makes it possible for any outstanding student — and there are many such here at Davidson — to enrich his life immeasurably; and in a most practical way to equip himself with what is perhaps the best liberal education the academic world has to offer. An opportunity of such far-reaching possibilities merits the attention of every senior who has behind him a superior scholastic record.

Homecoming Weekend

Although much has been said about the Homecoming weekend, at the risk of a few repetitions, a few observations about it would not be out of order. First, for this weekend to be the success that it is hoped to be will require the support of every student in the student body. In the past, a few students have thought of this weekend as a good one for that trip home or for other trips. While there is probably very little danger of that this year, nevertheless it would be well for us to remember that we may witness the beginning of a new era in the history of Davidson College. To miss an opportunity of this kind would be regretted in later years.

Secondly, little has been said about the dances, other than the information concerning when they will be and the orchestra. As was pointed out in the last issue of the DAVIDSONIAN, these dances are for the entire student body and their success depends upon their support. A very excellent orchestra has been secured. These dances have long been a tradition of Davidson, therefore, as we build new traditions, at the same time let's support the old ones and make this set of dances the best in the history of the college. It is still not too late to make plans for what will be one of the social highlights of the year.

Thirdly, the decorations around the school, dormitories, and fraternities will add a great deal to this festive occasion and impress the alumni. However, decorating on such a large scale requires a lot of time and energy from somebody. A small group of men cannot possibly accomplish this tremendous task alone, therefore if you are called on to help, and doubtless you will be, give as much of your time as possible.

The DAVIDSONIAN Presents

EDITORIALS...LETTERS...FEATURES

"I'VE GOT TO HAVE COPY"

“The Bounder” & Co., Publishers

To whomever it may concern, the editing and producing of The Davidsonian is a colossal undertaking requiring the skills and ideas of a large group of specialists. Due to the rule of austerity which has prevailed on the campus since the issue of the April Fool's edition, the paper has had to go underground in order to maintain its position of open-minded liberalism. Because of this migration, the editors are known only by aliases. The editor-in-chief is known by his associates as “The Bounder.” His closest associate and bodyguard is called “Roundman.” These men, with the help of the writers who have not yet been discovered by the “austerity police,” Wednesday night is a time of immense activity. After the staff gathers in its hidden headquarters, “The Bounder” addresses the group on the ethics of good journalism. This usually lasts for two hours and then the staff gets down to work. The first job is the editing of copy that has come in from foreign correspondents. The Davidsonian has correspondents at the north and south poles, one in the Belgian Congo and one in Sub-Slobovia. These reporters guarantee the paper a thorough coverage of international events. The sports department has just about the hardest time. The sports reporters are sent with all of the athletic teams in special limousines and must file their copy at least two days after a game. The sports editor said that this year was going to be pretty busy since the school had three all-Americans. The department contemplates enlarging the sports section from ten pages to fifteen pages. However, this is unlikely since the school has ordered the discontinuance of snowballing as a major sport. The city desk is just a cut and dried part of the paper due to the austerity police which hand out stereotyped communiques on local events. At present, there is no editorial page. The second page has been converted to a bulletin board which has eliminated announcements in chapel. Advertising has also been abolished because one ad manager slipped up and let a Rootbeer plug get on the back page. This organization functions as a well-oiled machine. The only flaw in the works is an occasional suicide which occurs when a front page has to be remade at 10:45.

FUZZY FIZZES....

The writer is embarrassed this week that he has had to send out an S. O. S. for help — ever had four reviews in four days? — but thankful that such good help was forthcoming. First, he would like to present an article entitled Flush by Jack Stevenson, a noted authority on the subject:

“Telegram for me? Gee, thanks. Wonder who'd be wiring me — hope nothing’s gone wrong at home — told Dad he shouldn't try to pull that job on the Second National. Uh, oh, can't be there for Homecoming. Letter follows explaining love, Jane. I'll be darned. Never woulda thought it.

“Oh well, where's my black book? Oh, here it is. Let’s see — Mary at Converse, Linda at Hollins, and Nell in Winston. And Kitty at W. C. Oughta be able to get a date with one of them. Better run by the bank and get some change first.

“Yes, sir, five dollars in quarters, please. Thank you. Now I’ll run up to the library and use that phone booth.

“Operator, I want Converse College in Spartanburg, please. Hello, Mary. Well, how’s ole Converse? Sure have missed you, baby. Been wantin’ to come down, but this BS 2 course I'm takin’ keeps me buried in books all weekend, every weekend. Just haven’t left the campus. Sure, I still love you, Baby, and I’m gonna be down to see you one of these first weekends. Hey, how ‘bout you comin’ up here for our big Homecomin' weekend this weekend? Oh, I see. You have an ingrown fingernail, huh? Too bad — some other time. Well, I'll write you soon, Baby, and be down to see you 'fore too long. Bye, now.

“Hello, Operator. Give me Hollins College, Va., please. Hello, may I speak to Miss Linda Field, please? Oh—that’s right, she was a senior last year, wasn't she? Well, thanks anyway.

“Winston-Salem, please, operator. Hello, Mrs. Kenaston? How're you? Fine. May I speak to Nell, please?”1 speak to Nell? In the hospital. Havin’ a baby! Oh, yes Ma'am — I surely enjoyed her wedding, too. Fine time. Evermore fine. Well, bye, Mrs. Kenaston. My best to Nell. “Doggone — forgot all about that gal gettin’ married. Three down, one to go. Hello, Operator, get me W. C. in Greensboro, please. Miss Kitty Burns please. Hello, Kitty, didja have a big summer? Swell, yeh, I did too, Baby. Sure I still love ya. Oh, oh, well you see, I uh, I uh—broke my wrist at the first of the summer and didn’t write at all this summer. Sure, it’s fine now. Thanks. Say, Kitty, how would you like to come down for our homecomin’ dances this weekend? Oh, can’t huh; got a cold. Heard Dr. Cunningham say it positively will not rain. Can’t take the chance. That's too bad. Well, nice talkin’ to you, Kitty. Be up to see you soon. Yeah, bye. “Hey, anybody wanta buy date tickets for the Homecomin weekend? Leaving this rueful aspect of our college life, and turning to the matter at its center—What Is Education? by Tom Prufer: ‘Anyone who wants an education and thinks that he is becoming educated should know what education is. We all have a vague idea, but vagueness tends to confusion and falsity. To go anywhere we need a map, and a blurred map is of little use in really getting there. Some clear lines, however, have been drawn for us in three books: Education at the Crossroads by Jacques Maritain, Liberal Education by Mark van Doren, and How To Read A Book by Mortimer Adler. The first is an analysis of basic and prevalent errors in American education, which are countered by a clear statement of the true aims of education, interior and spiritual, always hard to attain, but especially in the modern world. There is a presentation of the dispositions necessary at the very heart of the student. “Truth does not depend on us, but on what is,” so education is not getting something, but giving oneself to a task of discovery. Van Doren’s book, both rich and succinct, often achieving a mastery of style and statement, sets forth education as the process whereby the person becomes free; free from his own false opinions, and blind-alley desires. Education is a deepening of insight, a steadiness against giddy changes and opinions, and a command of the means of communication. Adler discusses more practical matters — what to do now. He gives advice and rules about what and how to read. The greatest teachers are far from us either in time or in space, but we can learn from them simply by mastery of the art of reading. These books are maps, clear, colorful, detailed, and true to the terrain, if anyone wants to go the way of getting an education. EARLY FUND RAISING Davidson's first financial campaign was held in 1836 when $30,000 was raised to open the college. Now Davidson is working toward a $2,500,000 goal in its current campaign. CAMPUS COST $1,521 The Davidson College Campus, comprising 469 acres, was purchased in 1863 for $1,521, or $3.25 per acre. Attention: FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1949 FEATURES Herbert Hoover! By GABE LOWE Davidson, N. C. Oct. 11, 1949 Hon. Herbert Hoover Washington, D. C. Dear Mr. Hoover, I am taking this opportunity to apprise you of a situation in Davidson College which you may find interesting. It all began when I registered for my courses at the beginning of this semester. One of the courses that I signed up for at that time was political science 71, the study of American diplomacy. Shortly after the semester began, however, I decided that I would rather audit the course, in order not to have a large amount of my time consumed by parallel reading. Therefore, I set about to discontinue taking the course for credit and to audit it. I went to the office of the Registrar, told him what I wanted, and assured him that it would in no way affect my eligibility to graduate in my class. He informed me then that if I would get the permission of the professor to drop the course and would return to his office, he would make the change from that point. Having done that, I was informed by the Registrar that in order to audit the course that I had just discontinued, I must get the permission of the professor — again — and of the Dean of the Faculty. I followed these directions implicitly, and assumed then that the whole matter was closed. The following week I cut this course which I was auditing, and received a cut-card for it from the Dean of Students. I went to the Dean’s office and informed him that I was no longer taking political science 71 for credit, and that therefore the cuts that I take in that course should not count on my aggregate of cuts. The Dean replied that he had not received word from the Registrar’s office to that effect, and that I should go to the Registrar and get him to place a notation on the cut-card, and then return to his (the Dean's) office. Upon going to the Registrar's office, I was informed that the matter of cutting an audited course was under the jurisdiction of the Dean of the Faculty, and that I should get him, and not the Registrar, to make the notation on the cut-card as the Dean of Students had requested. When I confronted the Dean of the Faculty with my request, he replied that he had nothing official telling him that I was only auditing political science 71, and that for all he knew I might be asking him to abrogate a cut in a course that I was taking for credit. However, at my insistence he assured me that he would: “look into the matter," and I, being then just on the ragged edge of sanity, left the entire matter in his hands. I am writing to ask you, Mr. Hoover, to investigate this Bureaucracy which exists in the administration of Davidson College, and to learn if possible just what my relation is to political science 71 at this time. Very respectfully yours, GABRIEL LOWE. CAMERA CORNER By HUGH SWAN Wayne stars in this dusty adventure of the early American cavalry. Tradition maintains that the girl who wears the yellow ribbon is the private property of the cavalry-captain. If it’s a hard-hitting fast-moving adventure you want, this is it. “She Wore A Yellow Ribbon” runs from October the 16 through October the 23 at the Carolina Theatre. The Southern Premier of “Christopher Columbus” will be shown at the Center Theatre. It will start a run of two weeks on Columbus Day, October the twelfth. This technicolor spectacle, starring Fredric March, dramatically depicts the story of Columbus — the inception of his idea that “by sailing west I will come to the east,” the hectic years spent in convincing the Spanish Court of the soundness of his theories, the voyage to the New World, and finally the twilight of his remarkable life. If you like history, this is a story of human drama that changed the destiny of two worlds. “This Happy Breed” runs from October the sixteenth until October the twenty-third at the Dilworth Theatre on South Boulevard in Charlotte. “This Happy Breed” is the story of one English family between World Wars I and II. It is a cavalcade that covers only twenty years, but it is a story of (Continued On Page Three) College Rags In Brief By WATT JEFFRIES Collegiate newspapers everywhere at this time of the year are blossoming forth with the word freshman. One can scarcely help turning all the pages of any of these papers without finding himself confronted with the word — typical are: “Freshmen: Here is a lovely letter, written to you”: “Hungry Frosh”, “Frosh Learn to Party in Roaring Rush Week,” “Frats Pledge 250 Frosh.” Most of the schools with which we have contact have completed rushing and have begun subjecting their freshman to the ordained regulations. To quote the Emory Wheel, “Frat rush functions furnished a startling introduction to campus “party” capers as fantastic costuming, elaborate decorations, unique skits and ‘woman of the world’ rush gals highlight the date affairs. What perhaps startled the frosh even more was the realization that “this kind of stuff goes on all the time.” The Phi Delts had an insane Ball for which the decorations were barred windows and upside down pictures. Frankenstein and others were on hand jumping like mad. The Sigma Nu “Casino” was raided by the campus Gestapo, and the KA’s held their annual showboat. With rushing safely in the background at the University of Chattanooga, the University Echo feels free to publish a “lowly letter” to freshmen from the upperclassmen. Here are a few excerpts from the letter: “We of the upper classes know exactly how you feel, and we shall be glad to give you a hand (perhaps one of your own that we have cut off). We have some special destructions, er INstructions, pardon us, which serve as a sort of prescription and which, if you follow, will lead to the recovery of your equilibrium within a few months. (Continued On Page Three)