PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

MAC HART - EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JOHN McNAIR - BUSINESS MGR

EDITORIAL STAFF
Stan Kennett - Associate Editor
Bill Calhoun - Associate Editor
Ronnie Dietrick - Associate Editor
Jack Haeard - Sports Editor
Bob Hollister - Managing Editor
Morris Turnipseed - Managing Editor
Doug Dix - Managing Editor
Dick Morgan - Managing Editor
Tom Niblock - Staff Photographer
Charlie Reid - Cartoonist
John Hobart - Make-up Editor
Jim Murray - Make-up Editor

FEATURE REPORTERS: Phil Mitchell, Hartley Hall, Gabe Lowe, Neil Leach, Jimmie Henritzy, B. Hansen, Pete Kalogridis, Drew Gurley, Bill Sargent,
Bob Grube, Jimmy Fickeisen, Bill Hollister.

REPORTERS: Randy Taylor, Bill DuBose, Warren Sims, Ralph Robinson, Tom Allen, Dick Barnwell, Bill McCrary, Tom Mann, Bill Cumming, Phil
Libby, Nat Daniel, Dudley Pendleton, Hugh Bly, Bob Northcutt, Stuart Shippey, Ben Neal, Bill Neal, Harper Newbold, Jim Blackburn, Jack
Pierce, Harry Shurla, Bob Hubbell, Angus McKel, Jack Peirce, Slats McClintock, Beye Kendall, Lamar Hinson, Ed Richardson.

SPORTS STAFF: Cherry Stribling, Gordon Scott, Nan Warlick, Watt Jeffries, Bill White, Phil Hammond, Bryant Robinson, Dan McKeithan, David Whitener,
Ed West, Bill Buckey, Jack Stevenson.

POLL CAT STAFF: Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown, and Neal Underdown.

BUSINESS STAFF
W. S. McSwain - Assistant Business Manager
Wyhe Smith - Advertising Manager
Bill Houck - Circulation Manager
Bill Cassels - Asst. Circulation Manager
Charles Clinkscales - Asst. Advertising Manager
Hector McKeithan - Assistant Advertising Manager
David McConnell - College Subscriptions Manager
Charles Dockery - Manager
John Fortin - Manager

ASSISTANTS: Bill Cumming, Bill Hart, Marshall James, Duval Hunter, Bob Erwin, Bill Pharr, Harold Clayton, Sam Cumming, Rod Shaw, Gene
Taylor, Gene Jackson.

CIRCULATION STAFF: Alex Goley, Floyd Phillips, Parks Dalton, Cecil Rhodes, Ansley Moses, Joe Haller, Neill Underdown, Tommy Haller, John Hardin,
Thad Monroe, Hugh Huffaker, Ben Morris, Cam Faison, Paul Guthry.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Member 1949 Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest 1948

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Wildcat Spirit

In looking over the Davidsonians of the last three years, one of the things which occupies a place of importance
in the editorials is the Wildcat Spirit. It seems that after the war years, when the student body had been
relatively small, there was a gradual decrease in the enthusiasm of the student body. Among those returning there were many
who had been here before the war and they knew the standards of spirit and friendliness that have always been
characteristic of Davidson. Today I don’t think about this spirit, as it is an inseparable part of the student body.
However, the expression of it is cause for concern. We all hate to see a basketball decision which we think
is unfair, and frequently without thinking, we start booing and hissing, even while the opposing player is shooting. This is
very discourteous and shows a lack of sportsmanship on our part. More than that, however, it reflects upon the name
of the school. The team realizes that this is all a part of the game and in many instances they
have motioned to the students to stop this unsportsman-like conduct. When the games are in Charlotte, very often the Davidson
students are not responsible for starting the booing, but they join in all too often. Consequently, the townspeople think that
it is the student body that is responsible for this conduct. In these instances, there is little that we can
do but refrain from joining in with the others who are displeased with the referee’s decision. This way we can
bring credit instead of discredit upon the school. In the “Cracker Box,” however, we are also guilty of these misdemeanors.
We take advantage of opportunities to ride the referees and the members of the opposing teams. This is very poor
sportsmanship on the part of the student body. If the team, although evidently displeased with a decision, can go ahead
and play the game, win or lose, it seems that we could cooperate with them and make the opposing team
remember us not only as the “scrappiest” team which they have played, but also as the most sportsmanlike, players and
observers alike. Notwithstanding all this, I think the student body deserves a word of praise for the spirit that has
been shown this year in all of the athletic contests. When the chips were down we have stood by the
team and given them our support. I think the team realizes that they have the backing of each member of
the student body. Let's keep it that way.

Hall Prayer Meetings

Little has been said so far this year about our hall meetings. This is one of the distinctive features of
our college program. The success of these hall meetings depends directly upon the support of the students. Each week certain
members of the student body go to the trouble to prepare a thought for the evening. We, as fellow students,
can well afford to take a few minutes aside from our studies and join the other members on the hall
in a few minutes of worship. The hall meetings serve two important purposes. First, they take us aside from the
busy life we lead and give us the opportunity for quiet meditation. They provide thoughts that are stimulating and urge
us onward to the best that is in us. These quiet moments of worship provide, along with our other services,
the stabilizing agent in our lives. Second, these meetings help us to get to know the other students on our
hall better. They promote a unity among the students in these moments of fellowship together. In life these opportunities are
important, and can be taken advantage of with little effort. At present the men in charge of this department of
the Y.M.C.A. are considering changing the time from ten to ten-thirty or eleven o'clock, in order that men from other
campus activities may take advantage of these meetings. As this semester is well underway, we can determine to support these
meetings and to take an active part in them. In this way we can make them more meaningful to all.
—R.L.A.T.

The United States has over 225,000 miles of railroad, or nearly 40 per cent of the world’s mileage. Modern farming
requires more and greater skills than almost any other occupation. Haywood County, N.C., contains 72 mountain peaks more than 5,000
feet high. Drive carefully; don’t insist on your “rights.” Cato, Father of Rome, judged his slaves by the way they
slept. He knew those who slept best, worked best. At least 65 per cent of the people in the United
States have never spent a night in a hotel. More than one million women in the United States are in
business for themselves. Catherine de Medici introduced ice cream. The recipe for ice cream was brought from Asia by Marco
Polo, in its earliest form, into France in 1550. There have been three eras in farm mechanics: human or hand
power prior to 1850; horse power, 1850-1910; mechanical power, starting in 1910 with continued expansion. A point is one-seventy-second of
an inch. Up to the middle of the 18th century very little had been done to standardize type sizes and
then an arbitrary measure was chosen for a scale, divided into 72 parts, and the divisions were called points. The
American people spend 15 per cent of the annual food budget for dairy products which supply 30 per cent of
the food consumed annually.

AMONG THE GREEKS

PI KAPPA ALPHA
Where there’s a will there is most certainly some sort of a way as was evidenced by various excursions of
Pikas over the week-end in spite of rain, snow, sleet and vespers. Brother Mill probably had some occult motive for
going toward Chapel Hill and Durham, but he swears that seeing the games was his intent. His one and only
Rodgers went along for the ride, but since Liston just happened to be passing through Raleigh, he stopped long enough
to see if he had picked up any more fraternity pins. Brother Camerson made the trip in an advisory capacity.
Members of the Duke fraternity didn’t know what they were getting into when they offered to put up Brother Grant
and his posse for the night following the Duke game. Brother Mac Hart played sandman, that is he tried to
induce all the crowd to hit the sack. Brothers DuBose and Cumming and Pledge Furr were in on the “activities.”
Brother Shumate motored southward down Converse way to smooth things out for Mid-winters. Brother Lacy made an impromptu visit to
a certain female institute of learning in Columbia last week, and ended up clerking for the femmes in the student
store. This dubious honor must have been granted him for some talent that he showed, but for the life of
me, I don't understand what it could be. Brothers McNair and Dockery spent part of the week-end in the nearby
hamlet of Charlotte. The journey was to attend a social gathering of an undetermined nature. Brothers Hadley and McElroy were
in the Queen City that same night, but they were interested in the “finer things of life” as they took
in the opera at the Armory. At the regular brothers’ meeting last week, voting was held to determine who would
receive the $100 award as the best all-around pledge. This award is made annually by Mr. John A. Scott of
Statesville, N.C., as a memorial to his son, Edgar E. Scott, '42, who was killed in action in Burma during
the Second World War. After lengthy discussions of all the pledges by the brothers, Ladson “Coot” DuBose of Clinton, S.C.,
was selected to receive the memorial award. Congratulations, BROTHER “Coot.”

KAPPA SIGMA
Jelly Kelly has pulled the “snake job” of the week. He mysteriously disappeared several afternoons last week reportedly to buy
shoes, but it was later disclosed he was having secret meetings with Red Man’s girl in Concord. Red Man found
out and has now publicly challenged Jelly by calling him a low-down snake. Stubby Evans really came through in the
clutch last Saturday to give the wrestling team a victory over Citadel—congratulations. Dewey Keesler has been uncovered as a new
basketball star. He scored 12 points against the Sigma Chis. Bucky Faw certainly has a pretty pair of undershorts. Virginia
had them hand-painted and gave them to him for Christmas. We certainly wish Mary Lou would go back to school
so Charlie Pearson will start playing fraternity basketball. Townes Thomas has finally taken off that turtle-neck sweater. The people passed
out in the fraternity house last night from cigar smoke. It's a new fad since the pledges must carry them.
Bill Williamson, on the way to Myrtle Beach, “chickened” out and decided to spend the night in Lancaster. A proposal
has been made that the pledges keep their present status until a later date in May. This was brought up
by the brothers likening the candy, chewing gum, and candy the pledges carry, and will be voted on at the
next fraternity meeting. Cheek cut vespers Sunday night in order to hear “Amos and Andy.” He took notes on the
program and thinks he is pretty cute by mimicking them. The new piano certainly looks good in the house. The
fact that only Mouse can play it is immaterial. Libba was home from exams, so Lenoir Keesler just didn't bother
about school for three days last week. The height of conceit and confidence is illustrated in the case of Rucker
Dudley. Going intoexams with three I's and one FE, Rucker was taking all bets on his chances, and even giving
odds. Now, not grateful to have passed everything should have had more quality points, he complained. Orchids to Dewey Weesler
for learning a new and even more complex blessing. Good luck at midwinters!

PHI DELTA THETA

The weekend of January 29 pulled into sight to add to the happiness of the brothers and pledges. Everyone scattered
to all nearby states, the brothers to satisfy their own tastes, and that much we know, but it would be
impossible to describe the pledges’ activities over the weekend. At our great University Friday night, there could be seen Phis
and more Phis from N.C. Gamma. Sparky Cobb and Hill Iverson well made the Phis proud by their participation in
the spectacular downfall of the White Phants. Much praise should also go to “Horse Pistol” Smith, the Wildcats’ No. 1
manager, and to “Excitable” Normie Whiteheart, the No. 1 rooter that night. After giving the Tar Heels such a headache,
Sparky found it safe to show himself at the Carolina Phi house after the Duke game. It seems that he
had ample protection from brothers “Hopeless” and “Harmless” Witherspoon and pledge “Hop” Lazenby. They had much to say about the
Bowery Brawl party on tap for the night. Sounds like fun!

Since the girls at Duke were at home between semesters, “Hopeless” was unable to continue the trip back to school
Sunday with brother “Harmless,” but had to stop over in Lexington to make up for the female companionship he missed
in Durham. “The Hollister Rounder” snowed the women down Converse way with that hypnotizing “something lost beyond the ranges” look.
Charming Charlie enjoyed the capital city. The girls in Raleigh got a break when Bill, Smith Parker, and Brassy Davis
went social in our sister institution some 20 miles south. Hubbell and “Bubbles” Kleinstein said, “This weekend and Jo will
have to wait.” Hubbell returned from the Queen City with a remarkable photograph of the “Little Feller” in action! Question
No. 1: Smith (The Terror), why do the Greensboro police keep such a close eye on the steps of Curry
High School? The Smith couple has the answer.

H.P. broke into news again—Siler City this time. Other dealings worth mentioning: Brother Tom Mann slipped off for a quiet
weekend in Columbia, S.C. Scott Verner made his weekly pilgrimage to Mt. Holly and Bette C. Brothers Pritchett and King
used their season tickets for front rows at the weekly production of “The Show” at the Tryon in Charlotte. Pritchett’s
only comment, “Shucks.” The “Rounder” spread to Greensboro, according to reliable reports. Brother Mebane was seen taking in the numerous
night spots of our town with a fair lass from Woman's College. Reports haven’t been received on the activities of
“Daddy Grace” Brownson for the past weekend. Don’t ask us why Brother Leach is interested in raising rabbits. We don’t
know, but think there may be some connection with Queens. What has you characters?

Friday, February 4, 1949
By LONNIE TURNIPSEED

On Wednesday afternoon, two lovely damsels cruised over the Davidson campus in two bright, shiny station wagons. Before they knew
what was coming off, ten unsuspecting, innocent students were lured into their conveyances and suddenly found themselves in the Red
Cross Blood Bank in Charlotte. Mysterious figures moved to right and left there, eyeing these poor trembling students fearfully. They
sat, fearful of impending fate, and watched helplessly as bottle after bottle was filled. At long last, the needle was
withdrawn, our hero sure that all of his fluid had been drained. He was placed on a stretcher, quickly whisked
away, and the next victim was marched in. Through another maze of passages and into another room, he was placed
upon the table after much struggle. His shirt was removed, and he was strapped helplessly in place. Towels were placed
beside his arm, sheets in readiness, and a massive figure entered. He asked small questions, walked to a table in
the corner, put on his rubber gloves, and advanced upon the terrified student. At his side were two assistants carrying
a tray, which they placed beside the table. From this tray, the leader drew a tremendous needle to which was
attached a long rubber hose. Not poison, thought our hero. Then he felt stabbing pains in his extended right arm.
The torturer was trying to force a large square needle into his arm, tearing tissues. Upon being revived, the victim
saw his very life blood being drained into huge containers at his side. Steadily growing weaker, he surely did not
dare sit down or even look ill, as attendants were watching with pitchers full of black coffee. Soon the damsels
returned, loaded the station wagons with their victims, and returned them once again to the Davidson School of Gentlemen, looking
for new victims.

Paging The Professors:

PROF. JAMES S. PURCELL

The majority of Davidson's professors are married, but we must not forget the members who are in the bachelor group.
Prof. James S. Purcell is numbered in this clan and seems extremely happy about it! Professor Purcell came to Davidson
in 1948 to add to the English Department his knowledge of American literature and also his ready wit and easy
laugh. In preparation for his job as an English professor, Prof. Purcell attended Stetson University in Deland, Fla., to earn
his A.B. degree. From his homeland in sunny Florida, he went to Duke for his M.A. and finished his requirements
for a Ph.D. degree there. This degree is to be conferred in June. His master’s essay on “Southern Poor White
in Fiction,” and his Ph.D. dissertation, “Literary Culture in North Carolina,” would be quite interesting and informative reading. Before the
war, Prof. Purcell taught at the College of the Ozarks, a Presbyterian school in Clarksville, Ark. He also taught and
served as a part-time professor at Duke before he finished his graduate work. His four years in the Army saw
our professor make the rapid rise from Pvt. Purcell to Captain Purcell. He served in the Pacific theater for two
and one-half years. Most of this time he was enduring the rigors of the Hawaiian Islands. Here he served as
an intelligence officer on General Richardson's staff. At Stetson, Prof. Purcell enjoyed tennis and golf and was pledged into membership
of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity. He still plays “bush league” golf with Joe Martin and is “still able to
keep up with Prof. Causey on the tennis court.” This son of a Methodist Florida preacher has much praise for
the Davidson student body. He has found the students are industrious and have an exceptionally high interest in literary fields.
With a smile, he assures us that he’s “not trying to be funny.”

We've been getting vague reports on the dealings of Brother Auburn Lambeth with a young lady from Charlotte. Looks like
Auburn plans to keep us in the dark too. Brothers Knight and Jabels Vann partied down at Bain-on-Yadkin with Jabels
keeping a close eye on “The Body.” See all you characters.

Speed in excess of 20 miles an hour rapidly wears the cross chain links of automobile tire chains and results
in early failure of the cross chains. These are the weakest links because the rapid wear reduces the cross-sectional area
of the links and the remaining section is not sufficiently strong to withstand the repeated pounding on pavements at the
higher speeds.

Well-fed birds do not die of cold, in spite of severe weather conditions—starvation is the chief factor in winter bird
losses.
