Whatever the fans in Charlotte may think of Davidson, none can deny that the 1949 edition of the Wildcats have
given Charlotte some of the fanciest and most thrilling basketball that has been seen around the Queen City in many
a day. And those who filed in to take a seat in the Armory just before the opening whistle Tuesday
night knew that they could expect to see a well-drilled, dead-eye fancy basketball team from Davidson on the floor that
night. Also, with the opposition being provided by Coach Tom Scott's White Phantoms from the University of North Carolina, they
knew to expect a good ball game, and they really got it. It was nip and tuck all the way
and Davidson controlled the floor game, while setting up several nice plays which failed because of a missed shot. The
only thing which kept Carolina in the ball game was their accuracy when, by faking off a close guard, they
could pump 'em in from outside the foul circle. They also controlled the backboards for a good part of the
first half but this could not be said of the second half when the whole Cat team went in for
the rebounds and got more than their share of them. Especially noticeable was the return of Buddy Cheek to his
last year’s All-Southern form in the scoring department which he led with 19 points and also in the ball handling
and floor work department handled with a smooth style. Another noticeable thing was the smooth ball playing of freshman Bill
Brooks in the preliminary tilt with CCUNC. Brooks threw them with equal dexterity with either hand from short distances. He
should prove to be a valuable player with the varsity next year. The freshmen rolled over the team that beat
Lees-McRae, one of the few conquerors of the Kittens, with little difficulty, although Bill Proctor for the Owls kept the
game interesting. Bobby Turk was limping on an injured ankle and Brady Osborne filled in for him quite capably by
pouring through 18 points. Davidson’s frosh are having quite a season and give the Cat followers hopes of some strong
teams for the next few years. The varsity starts another swing into South Carolina this weekend with a game at
Columbia Thursday night with the Gamecocks who are bound to give trouble because it will be their last ditch battle
to get into the tournament. South Carolina and Duke are fighting it out for that eighth tourney position and the
Carolina team and student body are sure to be out for blood when the Davidson hoopsters roll into town. Friday
night the Cats take on College of Charleston and Saturday night the Citadel. These two games should fatten the won-lost
record and not give too much trouble either. The outlook for the tournament battles will be better if Davidson remains
in the fourth spot because we will then be in the opposite bracket from the classy N.C. State Wolfpack and
have a much better chance of reaching the finals or even winning the tourney. William and Mary will be a
hard team to beat as will George Washington. If North Carolina knocks Duke out of the tournament, all together Davidson
will be much better off because Duke seems to be the nemesis of the Hardwooders, having conquered the Cats twice
while losing to many other teams, some of them definitely inferior to Davidson. Another meeting between the Cats and Phantoms
is not unlikely and would be a thriller, indeed. Our money would certainly be on Davidson if this game should
materialize. One of the deciding factors in the way the basketball team has developed this year has been the showing
made by the unsung substitutes who have come through in several games to provide the spark for a close victory.
Chief among these rapidly improving players is Ed Hopper, the senior from Meridian, Miss. Ed adds a lot of needed
height to the lineup when he is in and his springy jumping ability enables him to get up there with
the tallest. He is also a generous contributor to the team’s .716 free throw average which is the best in
the nation by 22 percentage points over Kentucky. The latest addition to the ranks of dependable subs is Tommy Haller,
who played for a good many minutes in the Clemson game and turned in a nice performance while dropping in
one field goal. With two more years of eligibility, Haller has the ability to develop into a top-flight performer. Although
basketball is the headliner in the sports picture on the campus, spring football and wrestling are continuing with the football
squad butting heads regularly down on the freshman field. With the warm weather, other activity is springing up on Richardson
Field and in the gym. The batteries of the college nine are working out and limbering up their arms while
the tennis team is cranking up to get started with the return of Coach Barton.

SHIP AHOY
CHARLOTTE’S LEADING RESTAURANT

Wildcat Sports

KAPPA SIGS AND SAE TO MEET

Friday, February 25, 1949
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Pictured above is the Davidson freshman squad under Coach Boyd Baird. The Kittens have hung up a 15-2 won-loss record.
They are, front row (left to right): Tom Craven, Mac McLean, Tom Coleman, Bill Brooks, Bob Turk, Don Lazenby. Second
row: Boyd Baird

By PHIL HAMMOND

The smile that you have seen on Coach Boyd Baird this winter is due to the way his freshmen charges
have performed. The flashy Wildkittens have only lost two games this season, one being to the Duke Blue Imps and
the other, an upset to Lees-McRae. Since almost all the varsity will graduate, it will be up to the freshmen
team to fill in their places and from all indications, it appears Coach Shepard will have a better team next
year than most people think. The one-two scoring punch of the squad this year has been two boys from the
bluegrass country, Tom Coleman and Bill Brooks. When Coleman has a bad night, Brooks usually rips the cords for twenty
points or more and vice versa. If both boys are “on,” the team finds itself unable to be beaten. Brooks
is noted for his deadly one-handed shots from any part of the court and Coleman can hook with either hand
and is a better than average tip-in artist. Coleman is outstanding on defense. It is very rare when his man
scores over ten points and he is also an excellent rebounder under both baskets. Coleman is expected to fill in
Cheek's shoes although he is a forward. Brooks will have to take Williams’ place and although he is following a
great ball player, great things are expected of him.him. Mac McLean has come a long way since he starred at
Central High and he is expected to see a lot of action on the hardwood next year as one of
the steadiest players on the team. Recently, he has been hitting the basket quite frequently. His one-handed shots from way
out and his driving lay-ups have produced many points. Don Lazenby, the All Mid-South lad, has proved to be an
excellent shot artist. Don is an excellent floor center, is deadly as a set man, and has gotten his share
of the rebounds. Other Wildkittens of recognition are Bob Turk, who is a very steady ball player; Fred Spach, an
excellent (Continued on Page Four)

Hang Up Outstanding Basketball Record

Tom Stockton, Fred Spach, Brady Osborne, Eric Clark, Bill McNeely, Ralph Futrell, Ham Wade. Third row: Bill Reynolds, Tom Cumbie,
Dick Stockton, Nimmocks.

Frosh Hang Up 15-2 Record

Last week the sizzling frosh cage squad kept up its luckless pace as it sent two more ball clubs down
to defeat. Friday night they took the measure of Mitchell College in the Davidson gym by a score of 73-31.
Brady Osborne paved the way with 15 counters, followed by Brooks with 11, but the whole squad shared in scoring
and when the final whistle blew, eleven men had contributed to the aggregate score. Saturday night in Charlotte, the frosh
whipped CCUNC by the comfortable margin of 65-46 in a preliminary to the Davidson-UNC game. Bill Brooks topped the Witten
scorers for the evening with 20 tallies as Mac McLean played a smooth floor game and rebounded the ball well.
Proctor had an exceptional night as he dropped in 28 points for CCUNC and was the backbone of the opposing
squad.

AL’S GRILL
Grade “A” Restaurant
WHERE YOUR PATRONAGE IS ALWAYS WELCOME!
WESTERN STEAKS — FRIED CHICKEN!
Phone 69
A. J. Bistony, Prop.
Mooresville, N. C.

Signature Record, Johnny Long has brightened the bounce to an old-time favorite. Yes! Johnny picks his music for your dancing
pleasure, ...for his smoking pleasure, he chooses Camels! As Johnny puts it, “Camels are the mildest cigarette I’ve ever smoked.”

30-DAY TEST ...and you'll know: Yes, make the 30-day Camel Mildness Test. See for yourself how mild Camels are. Hundreds
of people, after making the test, reported NOT ONE SINGLE CASE OF THROAT IRRITATION.

Johnny Long’s new “SWEET SUE”? Listen to Johnny and you'll know!

HERE'S ORK-PILOT, JOHNNY LONG, TALKING IT OVER WITH BROADWAY SINGING STAR, SANDRA DEEL.

Rusty Fields, Charlie Barrett, and Bob SARs, KS; Keep Clean Slates

Basketball talk and WS houses were red-hot, as this week the season slowly began to close out with both teams
still playing 1.000 ball. Neither has lost a game, but the SAEs occupy first place due to the fact that
they have played one more game than the WSs. The KAs relinquished third place to the Betas, and the Dikas,
in a “losing” contest with the Sigma Chis, sank to the cellar. Though they were tied for last place last
week, the Sigma Chis managed to lose one less game than the Dikas, thereby advancing themselves upward to an eleventh
place tie with the Phi Kappa Phis. Other teams remained about where they were last week in the standings.

President Paasikivi says that Finland’s objective in foreign policy would be to promote trusting relations with all countries. But can
you trust all countries?

IVE SMOKED CAMELS FOR A NUMBER OF YEARS AND I KNOW HOW MILD CAMELS ARE. I MADE THE MILDNESS TEST
A LONG TIME AGO!

WELL, JOHNNY, SINCE I TRIED THE 30-DAY MILDNESS TEST, CAMELS ARE MY CIGARETTE, TOO. CAMELS ARE SO MILD AND SO
FULL FLAVORED!

Money-Back Guarantee! (Continued on Page Four)

Smoke Camels and test them in your own “T-Zone.” T for taste, T for throat. If, at any time, you
are not convinced that Camels are the mildest cigarette you ever smoked, return the package with the unused Camels and
we will refund its full purchase price, plus postage. (Signed) R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.
