PAGE TWO 6 THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, April 15, 1949

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JOHN McNAIR

BUSINESS MGR.
MAGIA Lica

EDITORIAL STAFF
Stan INGNNel - Associate Editor
Bill Galnoun - Associate Editor
RONNGEcWICHICK - Associate Editor
Jack Hazard - Sports Editor
Dick Morgan - Managing Editor
TOMP@NIDIOCK - Staff Pinan
Billgiiits - Cartoonist
Charlie Ref - Make-up Editor
JONI MIODATt - Make-up Editor
JHMM UTINY - Make-up Editor

FEATURE REPORTERS: Phil Mitchell, Hartley Hall, Gabe Lowe, Neil Leach, Jimmie Henritzy, Kalogridis, Drew Gurley, Bill Fickeisen, Bill Hollister, Bill DuBose, Warren Sims, Ralph Taylor, Tom Allen, Dick Barnwell, Bill McCrary, Tom Mann, Bill Cumming, Phil Libby, Ben Drymon, Dudley Pendleton, Nat Daniel, Dick Chandley, Bob Northeutt, Stuart Shippey, Hugh Huffaker, Bill Neal, Harper Newbold, Jim Blackburn, Bob Hubbell, Angus McKellar, Jack Pierce, Harry Shurley, Boye Kendall, Slats McClintock, Lamar Hinson, Ed Richardson.

SPORTS STAFF: Cherry Furman, Warlick, Watt Jeffries, Bill White, Phil Hammond, Bryant Robinson, Dan McKeithan, David Whitener, Ed West, Bill Buckey, Jack Stevenson.

POLL CAT STAFF: Jim Carr, Claude Higginbothan, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown, and Neal Underdown.

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager - S. McSwain
Advertising Manager - Wyhe Smith
Circulation Manager - Bill Houck
Asst. Circulation Manager - Bill Cassels
Charles Clinkscales - Collections Manager
Hector McKeithan - Subscriptions Manager
David McConnell - Asst. Advertising Manager
Charles Dockery - Asst. Advertising Manager
John Loftin - Asst. Advertising Manager

CIRCULATION: Parks Dalton, Cecil Moses, Joe H. Miller, Neill Underdown, John Hardin, Thad Monroe, Hugh Huffaker, Ben Morris, Cam Faison, Paul Guthry, and Willer.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 8, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1948 Member 1949
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Dr. Sentelle
News of Dr. Mark E. Sentelle’s death last Wednesday afternoon is a cause of sorrow among the friends of Davidson. To those who studied under him, he was a beloved teacher, a wise counselor, and a true friend. To those of us who knew him mostly by reputation, he was a loyal son of the college, grown old in its service. To all, he represented the things that Davidson stands for. As a teacher of the Bible, he was unswerving in his loyalty to learning. Many are the former students of his who labored under him for a day, but who, this day, reverence his memory. For he was that sort of teacher who educated the whole man in the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. He was a true Christian gentleman of whom Davidson can be proud.

Student Elections a Farce?
The last few days have seen much discussion of the farce that our student elections have turned into. There have been as many explanations as there have been bull-sessions. There are those who say that the farce is not a farce at all, but a serious protest. Some people blame it on the veterans, who, they say, have no reverence for anything that’s holy. Others say that the whole business can be blamed on a small number of underclassmen who have not undergone the dignified process of growing up. This explanation may or may not be as superficial as the one that blames everything on Spring Fever. The most evident thing to come out of all the discussions is that our trouble cannot be traced to any one thing but to a complexity of causes. Maybe most of them are temporary, maybe not.

One sure thing is that our election system, like most things at Davidson, is geared to a student body of approximately six hundred and was not designed to accommodate nine hundred and fifty people. As has often been pointed out before, our system of nominations and our “no-politicking” policy were set up for a group in which every student would know any man who would be apt to be nominated for an office. There is no getting around the fact that this system will not work to best advantage with the present size. If we thought that the number of students would stay at its present high, there would be no excuse for not making some sort of changes to meet the situation. However, it seems most likely that within five or six years the student body will be back to normal. At least, it is to be hoped that this will be true. The college does not have the facilities for the present number of students, either in faculty, dormitory space, library, and study facilities.

If this is the assumption that we have to go on, the question is—should we make any temporary change in the set-up or should we let it rock along in hope of better days? The student body has several alternatives. They are: (1) continue with the present farce and let the student government gradually lose what authority and dignity it has; (2) rock along in the present system, hoping that the voters will take affairs more seriously and maintain the student government with what authority it has; or (3) make some change in the election system by which officers will be chosen intelligently and with some serious purpose. This is the problem which the boys in the student body seriously interested in student affairs must face.

Letter To Editor
Dear Editor:
There is an old Davidson tradition which seems to many of the faculty to have become extinct. It has been a custom for many years for the students after vespers to visit in the homes of the professors. However, few students take part in this privilege any more. Most of us are here at Davidson because we desire an education. Since we have been here, we have made many acquaintances and lasting friendships with fellow students. We forget somehow that the professors are our friends and enjoy our visits whether we like theirs or not. Visiting the professors on Sunday night acts as a sort of stimulus on the part of both the professor and the student to create a better understanding of each other and greater friendship ties.

I realize that modern transportation facilities tend to draw us away from school over the week-end, and after Sunday night vespers the only time left for us is to catch up on Monday’s assignments. These week-end pleasures and times are all well and good, but we are letting our faculty down. Time was here at Davidson when all the profs' homes were open to the students on Sunday nights and any straggling, struggling student had a chance for renewed strength and hope. We here at Davidson are very traditional-minded and do all we can to preserve in many cases the things our fathers did and enjoyed. Let’s all get on the ball and help preserve this declining interest and tradition.
TREW GURLEY.

Dear Editor:
To our knowledge, the results of the vote taken before Spring Holidays as to the various alternatives of operating the Stud have not been made public. If this is correct, we think it would be of interest to the Student Body if the results of the vote were made public.
Sincerely,
C. JAMES HENRITZY.
GABRIEL LOWE.
BILL BOYCE.
GRADY SPIRES.
BILL BROWNSON.

Major Gen. Claire L. Chennault thinks that China is the key to future world peace. Any kind of China should always be handled with care.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
With crashing bats and flashing spikes, the SAE's spent this week-end in their usual whirl. The Davidson baseball team with Brothers Buddy Chandler, Mac Erwin, Bert Anderton, and Dick Richards made a swing of the southern clubs this past week. Catcher Chandler clouted a home-run with one on at the Citadel. Someone reported having heard the repercussion of the bat as far north as Greenville, S.C. Chandler paced the Wildcats to a 7-4 win. Brother Bruce Chasenger went up to High Point with the freshman track team to run the 440-yard and added on the mile relay team. Brothers Bob McGehee and Ken Goodpasture stayed on the campus with the varsity track squad to help defeat the University of South Carolina 85½ to 40½. Bob took third place in the 880 run, and Ken took second place in both the 100-yard and 220-yard dashes. One of the South Carolina boys who beat Ken in the 100-yard dash racked up the incredible time of 9.6 sec. (Ken did not throw a brickbat at the boys who come to breakfast after 8 o'clock in the mornings). Here's good luck to the softball team during the coming season. We will have a good chance for the Fraternity Cup if we win the softball tournament.

PHI DELTA THETA
This week has been slow in reaching the ears of your roving reporter. Many activities, however, concerning the news of social purity grades, have leaked out. With Totts’ Cameron blazing along in the lead slot with a total of two points, and Brother “Monk” Montgomery tallying all of ten, the Phis seem to be holding their own. It seems the “Rounder” enjoyed his seat next to Betty Lynn, who fellows shall dare, of damsels in distress the wont of knights of old. Shelly cleared his throat to unfold his sad tale. He severed the binding apron strings and independence gained. To his rosy knees, he rose with ease, and at length of abuse he complained. “By faith, a veritable tool am I, an object of desecration. And I would dare almost declare, Rodtesey's lowered my sovereign station. For my place in the order of things, though not a demi-god, is pretty high, to an angel well nigh. In fact, I'm somewhat semi-odd.” “This ROTC's for the birds, the way that I detect ‘em. With my twenty-two-five, I shall try to derive, just exactly how to correct ‘em. I'll offer a few of those helpful hints and get the brass on the ball. And secluding my fame by not singing my name, they'll never know who did it all.” “Of malice aforethought not guilty am I, as here I lay down my confession. My tutor Mac Hart has not done his part in the rules of the writer’s profession. Though soldier, author, dilettante, I never heard of a ‘by line.’ If I don’t sign my feature there’s not any creature, they'll never know who did it all.”40> Victors reach by Curtis. (I do not want to forget this as Brother Cobb is expecting the article.) And then this same S. C. Well-known flush any minute as flash possessed the affrontery to hand out the gaff on “Punky” complaining of a poor start. Brother —Spring Frolics date-to-be. Aiken was heard to say meekly that he would settle for a poor start and a 9.6. Bill King and Ted Bowers were seen engrossed in an electrifying game of pool at the “Y” last Wednesday night—just as they were on the verge of blows, the Charmer roared up in a ‘50 convertible and severely reprimanded them for behaving in such an uncouth manner.

We were all glad to see Carl Pahl back on his two feet again after a successful operation on his knee. We heard that Bro. Phil Hammond was surprised to learn that he had to write a term paper for English—I guess he is also surprised to see the sun come up in the mornings—both are inevitables. We should like to toss a bouquet to the volleyball boys for nearing completion of a good season and to the one and only Chas. Parker.

Snafu Comes Through! By COL. PAPPY JOHNSON

At militaire profish am I, a veritable Eisenhower. High in Georgia, sword rings on. For Shelley Beard, much to be feared, set aside his demi-tasse. Aside he thrusts his paper dolls, aside his teddy bear; aside beauty lotion, “Awake brave champion the like me. Of gallantry full many tales were told by bards of yore. From Crimean plain comes back said refrain of six hundred men turned to gore. Another man has now been found to follow these valiant few. Another brave man who's joined that fair clan and acquired their selfsame hue.

Glass Cutter... Another interesting relic of Davidson's early days has been received by the library. A diamond glass cutter which was used to cut glass for old Chambers Building has been presented by Misses Minnie and Sadie Scofield. The glass cutter was used by the grandfather of the Misses Scofield, John Nichols Scofield, who was the contractor for the building. Old Chambers was erected in 1858-60, and the relic is therefore at least 90 years old. It has been placed in the Davidsonia Room of the library. In view of the fact that the diamond has intrinsic as well as historical value, the gift is indicative of the donors’ affection for Davidson College beyond the usual bonds. Since their grandfather first came to Davidson almost a century ago, the name Scofield has been a familiar one to Davidson students. The granddaughters still live in the quaint cottage on the corner of Main and Depot streets which was occupied by John Nichols Scofield, the builder.

The Davidsonian Suggests... STUDENT ELECTIONS By JACK HAZARD

Editorials and letters to the editor are written every year at this time advancing protests, compliments, and new ideas about our election system. The fact that we have a student government and elections for student offices is all very fine, but possibly a review of the system with the ideas of ironing out flaws in a healthy manner is needed. As often as editorials are written, so are proposals that campaigning be allowed. Immediately upon the introduction of the word “campaign” one thinks of parties, bloc deals, posters, pledges, promises, etc. But in campaigning I mean a form of placing the candidate before the student body so that the latter will know for whom it is voting. My proposal is that every candidate be required to make a speech of not more than two or three minutes. This could be done in Chapel the day that his name is to appear on the ballot. This speech would consist of an outline of what he has done at Davidson, such as were listed in The Davidsonian last week on editorial candidates. A candidate could present his views on the particular office for which he has been nominated. This process would first allow the student body to associate names and faces. Second, it would present a man's qualifications for the post for which he is a candidate. Third, and possibly the best, it would cut down the number of unreasonable nominations simply for friendship’s sake. If each man is requested to make such a speech, there will be fewer and fewer candidates who are only named for a joke or fashion.

STUDENT ELECTIONS By BILL MONTGOMERY

Concerning our system of elections here at Davidson, it seems to me there is ample room for wide improvement. As the system operates at present—and this has been often repeated—fifty percent of the student body has no idea who the men are they are asked to elect to positions of responsibility. However, after having listened to and participated in numerous discussions both for and against the method of handling the election of our student officers at Davidson, it is my personal conviction that every plan of modification presented so far has overlooked the basic problem—that of plain old student interest and cooperation. Gallons of ink have been strewn up and down the Davidsonian editorial pages for the four years I have been a Davidson student and the fundamental problem still exists. If the three hundred men who never take part in student elections could in some way be encouraged to take an interest in student voting, our election problems would have been nine-tenths eliminated. Personally, I see no advantage in proposing another plan until this basic fault is done away with, and all nine hundred men go to the polls during each election. When that happens we will be on the road to the best possible electoral policy.

As pointed out above, there would be fewer candidates who are only named for a joke or fashion. The present plan of having Student Council officer candidates be recognized on the stage is a good one as far as it goes. But when a number of candidates parade across the stage and are named, very few remember a minute later who is who. The recent nomination for secretary-treasurer is an example. If all of these candidates had been required to make a brief speech, I dare say the number would have been cut, and those who did remain would leave a deeper impression in the minds of the students. I would like to say more on the election system, both pro and con, but space prevents. I definitely think some action should be taken and would like to hear arguments on the above proposal.

Other Colleges Say

Every college rag in the country is talking about it, so it is about time it got in the Davidsonian. You have probably heard of Pyramid Clubs, which are sweeping the nation, but if you don't know how they work, here are the rules for getting rich as found in the U. of Maryland’s Diamondback.

“A person buys membership into the club with a dollar. When he pays, the new member's name is placed at the bottom of a pyramid-shaped chart, which contains the names of 15 members. The top man, whose name is at the apex of the triangle, had paid his original dollar four days ago. The new member brings in two new members. He is then moved up from a number four bracket to number three; the top man goes off, and the triangle splits in two. After this has gone on for two more days, our man is on the top of the pyramid. He collects the $8 brought in by the new members of that day and goes off the list to the bottom of an eight-man ladder. He and 266 other persons of his standing pay the $8 to the number one man on the top of the ladder the following day, and his seven peers, who were all on the bottom of the list, each brings in two new members. 

“Each day he moves up one rank until 12 days after he kicked in his dollar, he then receives (theoretically) $2048 from 266 top-of-the-pyramid men. During his 12-day rise, a member handles money only once, on the fourth day, before he hits the jackpot.”

Everyone is at first skeptical of the validity of this neat little money-making enterprise. I have examined it to see just how foolproof it is and have arrived at the following conclusions: A pyramider can’t be too much of a “sucker” because all he has to lose is one dollar. He can't cheat because he would not only jeopardize his chances of hitting the jackpot, but would foul up the whole system and have everybody on his neck. The only catch is that it requires an infinite number of subscribers for everyone to get paid off. Before even one man (the top man) gets $2048, it takes 2048 members. This is why it wouldn't work at Davidson unless somebody figured out a simpler system. The system stops when the source of potential membership is exhausted. Taking these facts into consideration, it seems that the only persons who can get paid off are the first members. So here is an opportunity of a lifetime for someone to clean up if he likes paperwork well enough to start one. Pyramid Clubs started in California about the middle of February and have now spread all over the nation. Police officials the country over have tried to stop it, but can't figure out an illegal aspect. They have broken it, however, in Arkansas, Tennessee, and Georgia. The club seems destined to continue until every Eskimo and Australian has been taken in—then it will probably move to Mars.

Poem for today: Hush little telephone, don’t you cry, you will be tapped by and by.

Faul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. TRYON STREET
CHARLOTTE, N. C.