ALL THE WAY WILDCATS | Volume XXXVII ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY MARCH 4, 1949

LET’S MAKE IT TWO HOLIDAYS!

149 STUDENT BODY EXCEEDS $40,000 GOAL

H. L. Shaw Returns To Campus, Awards Vereen Bell Prize

DAVIDSON ALUMNUS TO MAKE PRESENTATION

Harry L. Shaw, distinguished alumnus of Davidson, will arrive on the campus on Tuesday, March 8th. Mr. Shaw returns to Davidson for the twofold purpose of judging the Vereen Bell Contest and for speaking to professors who would like to have some of their work published. Mr. Shaw will speak in chapel on Wednesday morning and deliver the Vereen Bell Award to the winner of the Vereen Bell Contest at that time.

Harry Shaw, class of 1926, is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, and Sigma Upsilon. He has served as a professor at the University of South Carolina and New York University. He has also held the position of editor with Harper and Brothers. Mr. Shaw, who took his A.B. at Davidson in 1926, spent two years doing graduate work and teaching English at the University of South Carolina, where he took his M.A. degree in 1927. From there Mr. Shaw went to New York University where he was a professor of English, and in 1937-1938 he was the director of the Federal Writers Workshop in New York. In 1942 he was an associate editor and director in composition at Columbia University. In 1943-1944 Mr. Shaw served as editorial director for Look magazine, and from 1944 to 1947, Mr. Shaw was the managing editor. Since 1947, Mr. Shaw has been the editorial director of a collection of books with Harper and Brothers.

Mr. Shaw has written and published a number of books, among which are “Writing and Rewriting,” “A Complete Course in English,” “Harper's Handbook of English” (with Marquis E. Shattuck), “Reading the Short Story” (with Douglas Bement), and “Americans One and All” (with Ruth Davis). Also, Mr. Shaw has frequently contributed articles to the Saturday Review of Literature, North American Review, and the Review of Reviews.

Davidson Students Work With Scouts

Four scout troops and a cub pack in Davidson and Cornelius have been aided in their programs this year under the auspices of the YMCA scouting department. The boys who work in this field act as assistants to the local scoutmasters and have done an excellent job this year.

Al Gerhardt and Watt Jeffries have worked with the local colored troop while the white troop was helped during the first semester by Gordon Finley. Flynn Long and Bruce Davis served as both scoutmaster and assistant in the Cornelius white troop, and Don Coffey, head of the scout work, has worked with the local cub pack. Everett Blake has served as a den chief in the local cub pack. The activities of these boys include the showing of movies, leading in games and songs, helping the boys pass tests, advising scoutmasters, etc. Swims are taken in the Charlotte “Y” and springtime overnight hikes are being planned. In the past, these scout troops have been an asset to the recreational life of the Christian youngsters of these two communities, and undoubtedly will continue to do so in the future.

Development Drive Leaders Survey Their Gains

Herb Meza is shown above marking up the latest gains made in the Student Campaign of the Davidson College Development Program, as Carl Pahl, student body president, looks on. The students have already attained their goal of $40,000 and it is expected that this will be greatly exceeded.

Variety Of Modern Athletic Equipment To Be Offered In Davidson's New Gymnasium

By ED RICHARDSON

The completion of the new gymnasium is expected around the first of November if all goes well with the work. This is due to the rapid progress in the construction of the building, surprisingly accompanied with suitable weather. Originally scheduled for completion around January 1st, the work is already over six weeks ahead of schedule.

Before the war, when the price of materials was low, the estimated cost of the edifice was put at $270,000. However, due to the sharp rise in the cost of materials, the figure rose to over $800,000. This was lowered to $600,000 by removing some of the luxuries that were in the plans. There were no major items taken out of the construction plans. However, in the near future, there is the possibility that these removed luxuries will be added to the gym after completion.

This new gymnasium will be an ideal building for both intramural and intercollegiate athletics. The big basketball court will seat approximately 2,000 people. The seats can be folded away, making enough room for two courts, in order that the freshman and varsity teams may practice at the same time. Also on the same floor space, badminton, volleyball, and one-walled handball courts can be set up. An auxiliary gym on the lower level will furnish quarters for all types of gymnastics. There will be a large dressing room for the entire student body that will accommodate a peak load of 250 people. This will have the basket-type locker system. Besides ordinary rooms, such as coaches’ offices, lecture rooms, equipment and supply rooms, men’s and women’s lounges, training rooms, drying rooms, and locker rooms for nearly every sport here, the gym will house separate rooms for wrestling, boxing, weight lifting, plus a trophy room. The big feature will be a regulation size swimming pool which is 75 by 28 feet. In addition, there are plans for three-walled squash and handball courts, and a room equipped with an indoor golf driving range. In all, there will be playing space and locker room facilities for basketball, volleyball, handball, wrestling, boxing, weight lifting, and gymnastics. A corrective exercise room will be available also for those who are physically handicapped.

It has been asked by the management of the construction company on the gym that all the students and other persons refrain from walking on the construction or being in the way of the workmen, as this hinders the progress. Students who wish to see the work being done on the building can do so very easily by watching from the football field.

Concert Dates Set For Spring Tour

Definite arrangements have been completed for the spring concert tour, which begins Saturday, March 19, at North Fulton High School in Atlanta, Georgia. Other appearances on the itinerary include Druid Hills Presbyterian Church in Atlanta on Sunday morning, March 20, and Decatur Presbyterian Church in Decatur, Georgia, that evening. On Monday, March 21, the chorus travels to Waynesville, North Carolina; Tuesday, to Asheville; Wednesday, March 23, to Johnson City, Tennessee, and Thursday, March 24, to Bristol, Tennessee. From Bristol, the chorus will go to Bluefield, West Virginia, for its final concert of the tour on Friday evening, March 25.

Last year, the Male Chorus made a tour which took it to South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida, stopping at many of the larger cities throughout these states. This year, Florida has been replaced by the states of Tennessee and West Virginia, and it is expected that many alumni and friends of Davidson who have not heard the chorus before will have the opportunity to hear them on this trip.

Weather Report

The weather looks good for Friday night but on Saturday showers are likely to develop—the rain showers will be light and probably will end before Sunday. With such prospects in mind, a fair, cold Sunday is forecast. Fair on Monday.

NUMBER TWENTY

FRATERNITIES, CAMPUS CLUB, INDEPENDENTS UNITED ACTION RAISES FUNDS REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION OF NEW GYMNASIUM POOL

Students Pledge $40,244 Toward Development Drive Program To Date

The Davidson Development Program office officially announced today that the student body has reached and exceeded its goal of $40,000 in its fund-raising campaign for the Davidson College Development Program.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The Program. Based on the latest individual reports from the participating organizations, the combined total of all the money pledged to date amounts to $40,244. The organizations, with their total amounts pledged and the percentages of their goals reached thus far, are as follows: Beta Theta Pi, $5980—153 per cent; Pi Kappa Alpha, $3092—111 per cent; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, $2830—83 per cent; Kappa Sigma, $4011—103 per cent; Pi Kappa Phi, $4421—132 per cent; Phi Gamma Delta, $1950—88 per cent; Phi Delta Theta, $2833—78 per cent; Sigma Phi Epsilon, $2445—98 per cent; Sigma Chi, $2620—116 per cent; Campus Club, $2849—70 per cent, and the Independents, $2849—63 per cent. These figures plus an anonymous gift of $2000, the donor of which specified that it be contributed through the student campaign, bring the total amount of money and pledges raised by the student body, as of today, to $40,244.

Carl Pahl, student body president, in commenting on the achievement, said, “The student body should be commended, and I hope that all the organizations that haven't reached their goal as yet will do so by March 15.”

With competition among the organizations for top honors raging with the keenness of a razor’s edge, the student campaign, which started officially with the concert by Tommy Dorsey and his orchestra on February 14, has been proceeding since that time at an unusually fast pace. The Betas, as from the beginning of the drive, are still in the lead in totals and percentages. The money raised by the student body will be contributed toward the building of an indoor swimming pool in the new gymnasium. It was the official project of the Davidson Lions Club for the school year 1948-1949. Organizations that exceed their goals will have their names engraved on a plaque in the swimming pool, with the top three being distinguished in some way from the others.

The student campaign ends officially on March 15, at which time the date for a holiday will be decided upon by the student body.

YMCA ACTIVITIES INCLUDE BOY’S WORK: HALL MEETINGS

The YMCA at Davidson built its foundation on active hall prayer leaders who see that the needs on their particular floors are taken care of. To mention a few, there’s Bob Gay up on the third floor of West, and Harrison Taylor over in the east wing of Duke, and Jack Melaney on the fourth floor of West, and Malloy Owen down on the first floor of East. They and many others are helping Orion Hutchinson in the spiritual development department of the YMCA.

Over across the tracks, the community work department, headed by new cabinet member York Pharr, is putting on a recreational program for the Negroes. W. C. Patton, Bud Aiken, and W. C. Coleman have all been involved in that work, taking over coaching duties and supervising activities there. These are just two of the boys who are working with Dave Anderson, head of that department.

At Sunday vespers, there is always a group of workers handing out bulletins, taking up the offering, and helping to make the service run smoothly. Whenever department head Hopper has to be away, Bruce Frye steps in and takes over. Sandy Morgan, Latta Johnston, and John Smoot are among the steady workers in that department.

Recognition should go to the Davidson Lions Club for their efforts. The biggest job for the head of publications of the YMCA is putting out the “Wildcat Handbook.” For the past year, Frank Lemmon has served in that capacity, with Newt Robertson as publications chief. Wilkes Macaulay, Lonnie Munnipseed, and Dave Graseclose all helped in getting the '48-'49 issue out. Bill Hamilton and Bill King also contributed significantly.

Lollie Pop Weds

By JOHN HOBART

M. Terry Bull and his bride, Ima Nutt, proved what students have suspected for a long time: that Coach Terry Bull is really a character. The wedding, characterized as a really hilarious event, carried a cane. He is known in real life as Prof. H. E. Fulcher. Ima Nutt served as the flower girl and was dressed in a white ruffled dress, white bonnet, white socks, and black slippers. She elaborately threw petals around the place and faintly resembled a real flower girl.

The honorary Spanish fraternity, Sigma Delta Pi, held a banquet in honor of Mr. Segovia at the Guest House immediately following the concert presented by Mr. Segovia. Many students and faculty members of the fraternity and many members of the Music Department were present. Refreshments were served under the supervision of the hostess, Mrs. Caldwell.

Sigma Delta Pi is a national organization that was founded for the purpose of creating interest in the Spanish language and the culture of Spain and Latin America. The chapter here at Davidson was organized in 1933, and since that time has played an active role in extracurricular activities on the campus. The Spanish Club meets with this group, and most of the initiates of the fraternity are former club members. At a regular bi-monthly meeting Monday night, seventeen new members were initiated into Sigma Delta Pi. They are: R. W. Adams, Portsmouth, Va.; J. P. Barkas, Wilmington, N.C.; and others.

The IRC Hears Calhoun on Atlantic Pact

In a short meeting Tuesday night, March 1, members discussed the North Atlantic Defense Pact and made plans for the next meeting. The main part of the program was presented by John C. Calhoun, who, in a brief fifteen-minute talk, stated that the pact was first conceived by General Marshall in his Harvard commencement address and has recently been realized in the agreements of Britain, France, Belgium, The Netherlands, and Luxembourg.

The cast of 33 included many of the town's prominent citizens.

(Continued On Page Four)

(Continued On Page Four)