PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, January 14, 1949

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JOHN O. McNAIR

BUSINESS MGR.
MAG HART

EDITORIAL STAFF
Stan Thomas - Associate Editor
Bill Calhoun - Associate Editor
Rone Worsham - Associate Editor
Jack Hazard - Sports Editor
Bob Hollister - Managing Editor
Lonnie Turnipseed - Managing Editor
Doug Mattox - Managing Editor
Dick Morgan - Managing Editor
Staff Photographer
Stuart Eusen - Cartoonist
Poll-Cat Editor
Dave Make-up Editor
Tom Niblock - Make-up Editor
Charlie Reid
John Hobart
Jim Murray
Phil Mitchell, Hartley Lowe, Neil Leach, Jimmie Henritzy, Pete Kalogridis, Drew Gurley, Bill Grube, Jim Fickeisen, Bill Hollister, Bill Warren Sims, Ralph Robinson, Tom Allen, Dick Barnwell, Bill Mann, Bill Cumming, Phil Libby, Ben Dry, Dudley Pendleton, Nat Daniel, Dick Chandley, Northeutt, Stuart Shippey, Hugh Huffaker, Bill Harper Newbold, Jim Blackburn, Jack Peirce, Slats McClintock, Boye Kendall, Tamar Hinson, Ed Richardson.

FEATURE REPORTERS:
Gabe Hansen, Sargent, Randy Taylor, Dubose.

SPORTS STAFF:
Cherry Stribling, Gordon Scott, Furman Warlick, Watt Jeffries, Bill White, Phil Hammond, Bryant Robinson, Dan McKeithan, David Whitener, Ed West, Bill Buckey, Jack Stevenson.

POLL CAT STAFF:
Jim Carr, Claude Higginbothan, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown, and Neal Underdown.

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager - W. S. McSwain
Advertising Manager - Wylie Smith
Circulation Manager - Bill Houck
Asst. Circulation Manager - Bill Cassels
Asst. Circulation Manager - Charles Clinkscales
Asst. Circulation Manager - Hector McKeithan
Assistant Advertising Manager - David McConnell
Collections Manager - Charles Dockery
Subscriptions Manager - John Fortin

ASSISTANTS:
Bill Cumming, Bill Hart, Marshall James, Duval Hunter, Bob Erwin, Bill Pharr, Harold Clayton, Sam Cumming, Rod Shaw, Gene Taylor, Gene Jackson.

CIRCULATION STAFF:
Alex Goley, Floyd Phillips, Parks Dalton, Cecil Rhodes, Ansley Moses, Joe H. Miller, Neill Underdown, Tommy Haller, Totin Har, Thad Monroe, Hugh Huffaker, Ben Morris, Faison, Paul Guthry.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE
New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1948 Member 1949
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Changes In Student Store

Recent developments in the Student Store issue have caused many campus leaders to wonder whether or not substantial changes should be made in the way in which the Student Store is run. Two good reasons for effecting some sort of a change stand out over and beyond, perhaps, the consideration of future losses of the actual money lost. In the first place, is it right to put temptations such as are involved in handling student store funds before the students who do the clerking? While the theory that a Davidson student will walk a mile to pay back a camel that he bummed is all well and good, it does not always work out—as we have seen. The boys who work in the store, for the most part, have a hard time making ends meet. Sometimes as much as eight hundred dollars a day in cash passes through the store. Are we justified in putting a temptation of such dimensions in front of anybody? Should honesty be facilitated? Should dishonesty be made difficult?

In the second place, when losses have cropped up, there is almost no way under the present set-up of finding the cause of losses. In the present case, part, at least, of the total loss was attributed to student pilfering when the whole blame did not belong there. No one, whether he be clerk, store manager, or just a student customer can be sure that he is entirely free of suspicion. The Student Council is calling upon the student body to consider these things, to study the situation and decide whether changes should be made. A change that would get rid of these situations would be to hire a full-time manager for the store and make him responsible for losses. The catch here is to find a man who can and will do the job. Almost certainly to secure a man who would be willing to take the responsibility involved, we would have to sacrifice our open shelf-figure your own bill methods and with it our precious honor system. Just how precious is our honor system? Is there any value in knowing that you are among people who cherish honesty and make an effort to impress it upon those around them? Is there anything good about having a place like the Stud where you can meet and talk and shoot bull and feel like you are trusted entirely? Is there something about a plan that’s unbusiness-like, even foolishness, and yet works (?) because this is Davidson. Or, on the other hand, is it foolish to say that the store can be governed by the honor system in the same way that an exam or review is? Is there any basis at all for thinking that the honor system can correct the Stud situation? It is those questions that the Student Council is asking us to think about. They want to know what the students think. Let’s give them some opinions, some ideas—they want to know what to base their judgments on.

Blame It On Marshall

Why put out a paper this week? There's not much news. Managing editors, like everybody else, are busy with last-minute pre-exam catching up. Term papers and parallel are beginning to get imperative and last-minute reviews come around to our doors just like everybody else's. Why then a paper this week? It’s a long story and it goes way back to the year 1801. A fellow named Adams who at the time was President of the United States stayed up late one night, as Davidson students are wont to do at this time of year, writing. He and his party had just been defeated in a national election, he was going out of office the next day, and he was taking the measures open to him to perpetuate his party's influence by appointing younger men among his cohorts to government positions. One of those “midnight oil” appointees was a fellow named John Marshall whom he appointed Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, and who is indirectly responsible for this issue. For, two of the most famous cases that came before him in his thirty-four years of chief-judging and precedent-making were the Yazoo Land Case and the Dartmouth College case.

The cases were involved, as every student of history or economics knows, but the precedent set was that a contract is an inviolable thing, sacred, not to be broken. Now, the Davidsonian has a contract with a national advertising firm that specifies the date on which certain ads are to be run. So, don’t feel like the news just couldn't wait, and don't get the idea that managing editors would have insomnia if they went to bed before two a.m. on Wednesday nights. We just didn’t feel like we could disappoint our late friend, Mr. Marshall, and it is through his courtesy that we bring you this issue of the Davidsonian.

Becoming A Christian

Our Book of Church Order states five questions which are to be answered by those who unite with the Church by profession of faith. The first three questions have to do specifically with accepting Christ as Saviour and becoming followers of Him. They include: First, the acknowledgment of sin in God’s sight, for which we deserve His displeasure and have hope only in His mercy. Second, faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, as the Son of God and Saviour of sinners: accepting Him and trusting Him alone as a personal Saviour. Third, a resolution and promise, not in our strength but with the help of the Holy Spirit, to endeavor to live as the followers of Christ should live. Fifth, submission to government and discipline, and a promise to seek to preserve the purity and unity of the Church’s life and fellowship. When these five questions have been answered satisfactorily before the Session, which is composed of the pastor and the ruling elders of the congregation, we are received into the membership of the Church. We have made our profession of faith, we have taken our stand for Christ, we have entered openly and actively upon His service.

—From the Committee on Evangelism, Presbyterian Church, U. S.

PHI DELTA THETA

With feelings of general relief the Phis of N. C. Gamma terminated the two weeks of boredom and deprivation of intellectual pursuits which the college forced upon its students under the name of Christmas holidays and returned joyously to their studies. (Editors note: The man who wrote this is safely confined in a remote asylum). Brother Joe Miller tells of wondrous times down in the sunshine state in the vicinity of fabulous Silver Springs as the guest of Brother Blue. The Monk Ray returned from school from obviously wide holiday wheeling without his car but with a new love. His car suffered mutilation when Monk was returning one night from a dance. Hopeless Jim Witherspoon reports a new romance which budded in Beckley’s mad holiday whirl. Jim's harmless brother, John, was also caught up in the whirl of mad parties. He was mistaken for a Hollywood press agent at a champagne party which he attended in a natty dark blue sport shirt with no tie. Many loyal Phis took advantage of the game Saturday night with South Carolina to put in a last week-end before exams begin. Quite a number of lovely dates from Queens cheered them on with sweet voices mingled with the voices of the Wildcats to the most exciting victory seen in many a day. So exciting, by the way, was this game that even Taciturn Norman Whitehart was on his feet, cheering madly before the game ended. Refreshed by Florida sunshine, Brother Neil Leach has become a candidate for dealer of the week. After spending most of Saturday afternoon and as much of the night as permitted in the company of Bunny, the Queens hitch-hiker, he headed for the queenly campus again Sunday afternoon. Other Phis seen at the game with dates included Bob Hubbell, the milk shake Romeo, with sweet Shirley, Hoopie and Sara Claire, who looked as pretty as ever (Sara Claire, that is), and Joe Miller and Mary Kay, as cute as ever. (Mary Kay, that is). The manager of the Tryon theater reports that quite a number of the sons of Pallas were present at the Kiddie Matinee which his theater presented as a late show Saturday night. He further reported that several Phis requested season tickets to the late shows which the Tryon presents in the interest of civic virtue. Brother Smith left early Sunday morning for Greensboro in the company of Brother Bill Mebane. Both were seeking female companionship; Neil with Salem Smith, whom he met at Davidson day last year, and Bill with Elaine Holly, an old flame which seems to be burning brightly again. Brother Fred McAllister seems to be finding time off quite often from his managerialduties at the boarding house for amorous attempts in Charlotte. Lovely Lillian, no doubt. With Midwinters fast approaching, several Phis are threatening to break the exam confinement next Saturday night for romantic ramblings. We wish them good luck.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

Last week, Coaches Fanjoy and Sifford unveiled their basketball team which performed creditably before losing their initial game by one point. The boys have a smooth floor game and with a little sharpening up on shooting will be ready for the remainder of the young inter-fraternity basketball season.

Horse Pistol Smith left among the EKS most exclusive stores. Brother Mills was the unfortunate victim of a circumstance Saturday night. After preparing all week for the terrible realization that his story Saturday night, his typewriter by parties unknown didn't go as he wheeled it for juice. It was a pros money drive, and if need be, he would surely have sacrificed his mid-day meal for the whory of his Ima’s Mama. Fortunately for him, however, he arrived at the boarding house before the remaining food was consigned to the boarding house's pig pen.

Brothers McElroy and Smith ate at Chez Montet Saturday night. It must be the “atmosphere” that they are after. Brothers Denison and Huffaker attended a matinee at the Carolina. The conclusion seems to be that all men should be, at any rate. Pledge Cook is due back to the hill after having been kept at home due to a tonsillectomy during the holidays. Pledge Rimer underwent surgery during the holidays and missed a couple of days of school, but he’s back in the fold now after a shoulder operation. While on the subject of ailments, Denison has intimated that he has a hangnail on his left little toe. We all wish for him a speedy deliverance from this trouble and trust that he won't have to resort to anything as painful as removing it with toenail clippers.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

It was certainly hard for the old clan to get back into the swing of things since the Christmas holidays, which we all undoubtedly had. Just getting away from this place was big enough to do anybody good. The most pertinent thing of the week was the SAE election. Brother Ashmore was elected as the president for the semester. Second in command will be Brother Dave “Beelzebub” Gambrell. Writing the minutes for the next few months will be Brother John Codington, and handling the money will be Brother Louis Rogers. It looks like things will be in fairly good shape for a while.

It looks like the Sig Alphas will have the team to beat in basketball this year. We certainly ran roughshod through the Phi Delta Theta quintet, 32-26. Brother Bud Aiken looked good as did Bennett under the basket. Brother Bill Hodgins is heading up our combine this time and so far—so good. Bill was hitting the other night, too. Dave Erwin performed a tireless and fast game, and much of the credit goes to Brother Bobby Carson's ease and poise on the floor. Some of the members have expressed the wish that little Duncan “Longhorn” get to play sometimes. Personally, I think we'd better leave well enough alone.

We saw lots of the boys at the Tryon the other night. Bruce, La- scraps. Brother Bob Dr. C. R. Harding Sets Record For 57th on August 3. Although retired from any teaching duties at the college, he is still physically active, attending functions and meetings. He is mentally alert, keeping fully informed on local and world conditions. He is a constant reader and contributor to newspaper columns and is beloved by former students and all his associates.

Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch was once showing an interested visitor her small flower garden upon which she had showered loving care and attention. Quaintly, Mrs. Wiggs had labeled each flower after some religious denomination, whose characteristics the bloom seemed to partake of. One flower was called a Baptist because it enjoyed water so much. Another was called Episcopalian because it was rather cool and aloof and did not mix with the other flowers. “And that?” inquired a visitor, pointing to a bed of lilies, hardy perennials that never failed to thrust their lovely blossoms into the air with the coming of each summer. “Oh, them,” exclaimed Mrs. Wiggs, “they're Presbyterians. They always know just what they'll be before they come up.”

Thus, Caleb Richmond Harding, born in Milton, North Carolina on August 5, 1861, amidst the confusion and anxiety of the first few months of the War Between the States, knew he was going to be a Presbyterian before he was born. His father, Dr. Ephraim Harding, was a Presbyterian minister before him. His grandfather was a Presbyterian minister. And the natural course of predestinated events, all things in the early part of his life pointed towards his following in the footsteps of his paternal forbears and becoming a minister of the gospel.

Perhaps the thunder of guns at Fort Sumter, and the fierce clash of arms in the Valley of Virginia prevented young Caleb Richmond Harding from possessing the physical qualifications that would have made him, as his father and grandfather before him, an outstanding preacher. He started upon the path, it is true, but as a very young man, found that his throat was too weak to thunder pulpit utterances. As a consequence, Caleb Richmond Harding turned from thoughts of the ministry to thoughts of teaching. Speaking at close range to students on the front seat required not nearly so much effort and vocal ability as warming up empty front seats in a church congregation.

The early determination to be a minister unerringly led the footsteps of this slender youth, at the age of 15, to Davidson in 1876. On the little campus that was just then beginning to show the signs of beauty that have marked its later years, Caleb Richmond Harding, soon to be known as “Dickie,” started an educational career that has had few parallels in this country.

Dr. Harding is an institution at Davidson, first, because of his unusual record in length of service. He has been connected with the college as a student and professor longer than any other man who has ever been with Davidson. Dr. Harding is humble in his claims to be a great teacher, but his influence has been profound. His students will not forget his keen curiosity, his forthrightness, and his frequent talks before the student body. They will not forget years ago, when he used to appear in chapel and admonish his hearers to wear their boots and overshoes if they would keep away from the twin terrors of dampness and cold.

A good part of Davidson tradition lies in the jokes and incidents told about Dickie. All these years he has had a unique appearance and a unique personality. He likes a good joke today as well as he ever did, especially when it involves some familiar or unfamiliar trait of Greek syntax. He still has the same keen piercing eye, the same infectious and titillating laugh, the same high-pitched voice, and he wears the same tall, bat-winged collar, all of which have been observed by Davidson men for more than a half-century. He is the same Dickie Harding that he was in the 'Eighties and 'Nineties and on beyond.

Davidson was a small college in 1876 when Caleb Richmond Harding came here as a stripling of 15. Spry as a cricket then, even as now, Richmond Harding was a fleet runner by virtue of his light weight, and also a fine high jumper at Davidson. Dr. Egbert W. Smith, '82, has always reminded Davidson men that Dickie Harding was quite an athlete in his own way, and how much terrain he could cover in one of his kangaroo hops. The young student tried hard to develop his chest and biceps by persistent use of the parallel bars at Davidson, and later on at Johns Hopkins, but soon had to give up even this slight amount of exercise, and also tennis, of which he was inordinately fond.

“The men whom I knew in college that have made a name as men of character and men of intellect, as the winners of life’s honors, are the men who early began to live in earnest, who quickly learned to stand alone, to use their liberty and not to abuse it, and to set their faces flint-like towards the dawning of a new day,” said Dr. Harding, when speaking of his college days. “Those who fritter away their time in college sometimes, but rarely attain.”

Having been graduated from Davidson in 1880, Dr. Harding did post-graduate work at Johns Hopkins University the next year, taught in Charlotte for two years and was professor of Greek at Hampden-Sydney College in Virginia for two years. In 1885, he received his M.A. degree from Davidson, and in 1887 was awarded a doctor of philosophy degree at Johns Hopkins, having taught for a year prior to that at Kenmore University High School, Amherst, Va. It was there that he met and married Miss Mildred Berry, daughter of Judge Taylor Berry.

Dr. Harding came to Davidson in 1888 as professor of Greek and German. He retained his position until 1910, when he became professor of Greek and head of the Greek Department. As professor of Greek for many years, Dr. Harding has no illusions about the popularity of the ancient language, about its difficulty to the average student. Said he of his teaching: “I look back with deep regret over a serious mistake I made in the earlier years of my teaching at Davidson, when Greek was compulsory for the A.B. degree. I knew that Davidson claimed (and rightly) to be an ‘A’ grade college.

(Continued On Page Four)