ean en - / i'm EVERYBODY'S ; ~ wn)” COMING ; 10 4, SEE, HOMECOMING ee OCTOBER 21, 22, 23 VOLUME XXXVIII a “BIKO”

Each time I hear the college bell ringing in the morning I think of a similar bell in Germany ringing for the similar reason: to pull the poor students out of Morpheus’ arms to put them back into rough reality. What the bell is concerning there seems to be no difference between the American and the German school systems. But bells generally are not main points except when announcing the end of a period.

Besides this remarkable conformity, however, the German school system is very different from the American one. The child enters grammar school at the age of 6 years. Like America, he is taught basic knowledge — how to read, to write, and to count. Grammar school education in general lasts 8 years. At the age of 14, the time it will be confirmed, the child leaves grammar school and starts training for his vocation, for example, locksmith or carpenter. About 80 percent of all German children receive this education. The other 20 percent attend high school. They leave grammar school after the fourth grade and change to either high- or middle school. High school education required for university lasts 9 years; middle school education, not sufficient for university, lasts 6 years.

Coming back to high school, we find two main types of which one is called the humanistic branch and the other the realistic branch. Both differ in their courses of instruction: the humanistic branch includes the Greek language, the realistic branch may be considered to be more scientific, which makes it the far more important type of high school. Pupils attending high school are not able to choose their courses but have to take all courses taught for that certain grade. The courses at the realistic branch of high school are: 9 years of German, English, mathematics, geography, biology, history, religion, sports, music, and fine arts; 6 years of Latin, 5 years of physics, and 4 years of French, chemistry, and political affairs. Having finished all 9 years, you have to pass a final examination in all courses, called the “Abitur.” This examination is regarded to be the most difficult one a German student ever has to pass. You may pass it with 1, 2, 3, which would be the same as A, B, C, but universities these years required A or B for admission.

In Germany, you will not find any institute comparable to the American college. Having graduated from high school, you arrive at somewhat the same point in your education as a senior graduating from college. As I know, some American universities before the war used to give 4 years credit to a German student having graduated from high school. In spite of this good education, the German school system has a principal disadvantage. Only 20 percent of the German youth attends high school. During the last years, several plans have been made in order to change this fact, and some may be carried out this fall, but about this subject, I would like to talk the next time.

PAT LAIRD --- BLUE BARRON VOCALIST (Concord Presbytery)

Executive Committee Alters Auto Rules For Trial Period

Thursday, during the Chapel hour, Dean J. C. Bailey announced to the student body that major changes had been made by the Executive Committee concerning the car regulations at Davidson. Dean Bailey explained the revised regulations to the students and emphasized the point that the following rules are in effect on an experimental basis. The regulations are as follows:

1. During the period beginning on October 4, 1949, such restrictions as are now in force with reference to the bringing of motor vehicles to Davidson and the using of such vehicles by students shall be suspended, except as is provided in the subsequent sections of this paper. The suspending of these restrictions is to be regarded as an experiment; if the results are favorable, the period during which the restrictions are suspended may be extended; if the results are unfavorable, the Faculty will impose whatever restrictions may seem best suited to the situation.

2. Students are prohibited from keeping or using on the campus (a) motorcycles, motorbikes, scooters, and all similar types of vehicles, and (b) cars which make so much noise that they attract attention and constitute a nuisance.

3. Students who bring cars to the campus will be expected to park their cars in the areas designated by the Dean of Students and the Faculty Committee on Buildings and Grounds. Students who fail to park their cars in the designated areas shall be subject to a fine of five dollars or the loss of car privileges or both.

4. The Faculty reserves the right to impose restrictions at any time upon any individual student or upon the student body as a whole if (Continued On Page Six)

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, OCTOBER 7,

GYMNASIUM READY FOR HOMECOMING

To Visit Davidson

On Monday, the student body will hear a “male war bride.” He is Mr. Robert Smith, who at present is the Dean of Music at Flora McDonald College. Mr. Smith will be here to give Davidson gentlemen a glance at the musical culture of Scotland.

Mr. Smith’s musical experience began at the age of 16, when he was appointed organist and choir director of the North Parish Church in his native Scotland. He later received his Licentia (degree) in organ and piano at the Royal Academy of Music in London and from there went to Saint Andrews University on a Carnegie Scholarship to do graduate work in piano. As director of male-voice choirs, mixed-voice choirs, and junior choirs, he has received twenty-six first premier awards in choral competition in Great Britain.

During the war, Mr. Smith served with the famed British Eighth Army tank corps in North Africa, Sicily, and Italy. During this time, he met an American Army Nurse, Sara Fussell, whom he married and returned with her to her home in Jacksonville, Florida, as soon as their army duties were completed. In Jacksonville, Mr. Smith acted as director of music at Robert E. Lee (Continued On Page Six)

“STONEWALL” JACKSON HAZARD

Every year when final exams end, most of the Davidson students set out for three months of frivolity. Some get jobs and hoard up vast sums of money so that they can return to school the next year and have their frivolity then. Still others come to Summer school in order to get a better education and better equip themselves for future life. Then, too, there are those who are completing their college course and who will soon receive their diplomas. All of them may be looked upon as the fortunates when June rolls around.

But there is another group, though it may be small, that is indeed less fortunate. This group consists of those who face six weeks at Ft. Benning, Ga., with absolutely none of the above-mentioned advantages. Certainly, they will have no frivolity; the few pennies which they will receive would not keep the skinniest in drink; they will receive no education to aid them, and they are getting no diplomas. Last June, some fifty of the brave souls left the campus led by the gallant General Tube and his adjutant, Colonel Badknee. They were met by a warm welcoming committee, but the crafty general saw through it and warned his men against falling for any false niceties. The Tube was right because it was not long before...These civilians turned GIs were being flooded with rules, regulations, and alphabetical symbols which so distinguished military life. One preministerial lad blushed every time someone said SOP until he found that it meant Standard Operational Procedure and that he was not misunderstanding what was said. The alert soon found Ft. Benning’s combined excuse for the Stud and Frank’s, the latter half being the more popular. Every afternoon after five o'clock the throngs flooded through the green doors and besieged the coke bar. Others went over for haircuts, and still others sought fellowship and relaxation. At the U.S. Army rest camp, the men were not exposed to such things as John Health beating on the door at 7:30 in the morning and pulling them out of bed. Instead, they were quietly aroused each morning at 5:30 by a sweet-talking sergeant who turned on the lights and quoted sweet poetry. After five long minutes, the men happily ran out into the company street for reveille. Of course, the prompt General Tube was always leading his men. With the roll call complete, the soldiers casually strolled down to their exquisite dining room where their orders were taken by neat, white-coated waiters. Upon finishing a wholesome breakfast, all returned to the barracks to find their beds neatly made and the floor swept. This left plenty of time for letting the breakfast settle before boarding the comfortable buses for a pleasant trip to an air-conditioned theater for the morning's instruction.

Local “Saviors Of Our Country” Enjoy Uniform Vacation At Benning Resort

1949 Receives Unity

This week, Unity Church, where many Davidson College students have found a church home during their school years, will officially become a member of the Concord Presbytery of the Southern Presbyterian Church as the Calvary Presbyterian Church. In 1893, John P. Munroe, then a well-known physician and president of the Davidson Cotton Mill, saw a program by his employees who were not being reached by the town church, and established a Sunday School and erected a church building on the present site. The Davidson Presbyterian Church supplied workers for this Sunday School until the local Methodist Church was established. At this time, the Sunday School was discontinued.

(Continued On Page Six)

Freshman Violators Summoned by Court

Doug Rice, Honorable Judge of the Court of Control, issued in chapel on Wednesday the second round of indictments concerning freshmen who have violated regulations. His Honor reminded the freshmen of the weekly meeting of the Court at Phi Hall Thursday at 9:00 p.m. Rice made clear that he was not pleased with the general conduct of the freshmen and cited a general obnoxiousness in lieu of trying to catch the true Davidson spirit. He expressed his displeasure with the lack of attention which the freshmen paid to keeping the campus. The Judge also desires that all freshmen know that if it is impossible for the court to hold a meeting in chapel on Wednesday, they will be notified by mail of their expectation to attend the regular meeting of the Court on Thursday night. In conjunction with this measure, he said that ignorance would be no excuse, for the cards will be mailed in plenty of time.

The following freshmen are required to attend the meeting of the Court this week:
1. Bob Henry: disturbing upperclassmen by singing in the shower.
2. John Alexander: no name plate, refusal to go to Stud for upperclassmen, general obnoxiousness.
3. Arnold Whisnant: ignorance of freshman regulations, hiding in closet during pep meeting, breaking campus, threatening to “buy off” a member of the Court of Control.
4. Harold Jennings: breaking campus, refusal to keep an appointment with an upperclassman, lying to an upperclassman.
5. John Ottley: no freshman cap.

(Continued On Page Six)

EVERYBODY'S COMING TO HOMECOMING OCTOBER 21, 22, 23

NUMBER THREE

“PARADE OF PROGRESS" TO BE FEATURED ON BIG SATURDAY

Miss Susie Jackson’s Betrothal Announced

Mr. and Mrs. Frank L. Jackson of Davidson have announced the engagement of their daughter, Susie McQueen, to George E. McClenaghan of Florence and Greenville, S.C., son of Mrs. G. E. McClenaghan and the late Mr. McClenaghan of Florence. The wedding is scheduled for November 20. Miss Jackson attended Woman's College in Greensboro. Later she became secretary to Dean Sentell and more recently to Dean Bailey. Mr. McClenaghan, a graduate of Davidson College, served during the war as a first lieutenant in the South Pacific theater of operations. Now situated in Greenville, Mr. McClenaghan is a supervisor for international correspondence schools. Before the war, Mr. McClenaghan was in business in Florida. The wedding will take place in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church with Rev. Carl Pritchett officiating. Detailed wedding plans have not yet been completed.

Heads and Plans Named by Masquers

On Wednesday night, September 28, the Red and Black Masquers had their first meeting of the 1949-50 year. Officers were elected for the ensuing year as follows:
Tom Apperson - President
Bob Gay - Vice-president
Gabe Lowe - Secretary
George McKee - Treasurer

In the course of the meeting, it was decided that the production of the Masquers for the fall semester will be “John Loves Mary.” Director for the play will be Rob Gay, assisted by George McKee, Nancy Copeland, and Linton Deck. R. B. Covington was elected business manager for the production, and George McKee was elected stage manager. In planning the program of activities for the year, it was agreed that following a comedy production in the fall, the Masquers would stage a more serious play in the spring to coincide with the annual Fine Arts Festival which is given by the Music Department of the College. Professors Erwin, Davidson, and Billy were instrumental in the formation of this plan.

PICK UP YOUR CONCERT TICKETS AT PROF. PFOHL’S OFFICE ON ELM ROW BY OCTOBER 15, 1949

By BLAINE KELLEY

Hailed by the good wishes of the weather man, complete homecoming plans have been announced. Spearheaded by the “Parade of Progress,” this year’s event promises to be even more spectacular and varied than last year's occasion. The great weekend is drawing nigh — the time when once again the students and the grads join to share in this, the culmination of the happiest days of college life. But this time, not only is homecoming to be the most important event of the year, but also it may be truly called the greatest event in the history of our college. As we march forward to a “Greater Davidson,” it is the step which we take this homecoming that is deemed the most significant. Thousands will throng onto the campus to begin the weekend which will commemorate both the completion of our new gymnasium and the beginning of our new church. As we approach the final round in the development campaign, the longest stride of progress will have been made. Only a few days ago, thoughts began turning into action as students rushed letters to prospective dates and the administration braced itself for the onslaught of teeming throngs to the campus. Nothing but time will be lacking in the program of events scheduled to begin Friday, October the 21st and end Sunday night. Homecoming is officially launched Friday night by the President's Dinner which is held in the college dining hall. The concert of the celebrated Miss Margaret Truman begins at 8:15 P.M. in Chambers Auditorium. This, being one of the highlights of the weekend, promises delightful entertainment. Concert attendance will be limited to the “early bird” ticket holder. Long anticipated by the students and preceded by the hard work of the Pan Hellenic Council, the dance featuring the music of Blue Barron and his orchestra will be held in the new gymnasium. The formal dance will be held on Saturday night.

(Continued On Page Five)

Mr. and Mrs. Frantz Give Joint Recital

Mr. and Mrs. Harold Frantz presented a musical program for the chapel exercise on Tuesday. Mrs. Frantz played the violin, accompanied by Mr. Frantz at the organ. Three selections were played: Andante by Vivaldi-Bach, Rondo by Mozart-Kreisler, and the Slow Movement or Canzonetta from the Violin Concerto by Tchaikovsky. Each selection was received with great enthusiasm by the student body. This is Mr. Frantz’s first year at Davidson. He came to us from Grand Rapids, Michigan, where he was director of music at the Fountain Street Church. Mr. Frantz has assumed the job of teaching organ and piano to the music lovers of Davidson College. He received his training in Philadelphia, in New York City, and in Princeton. Mrs. Frantz has played the violin since she was a child. She first started her career in Knoxville, Tenn. She and Mr. Frantz have studied in the city of New York.