FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1949 PAGE SIX THE DAVIDSONIAN

Once a slave, a helpless mass of humanity depending on a powerful government. The system which once served him well became sick; then, instead of trying to make it well again, he has allowed it to be murdered before his eyes. When Stephen Douglas saw clearly that the Civil War could not be averted, he said, "The South, the poor South. What is to become of her?" This, in paraphrased form, is the question proposed by this article.

GYMNASIUM READIED PASSING OF AN ERA (Continued From Page Five)

Oppression and hardship, they shared and shared alike, and by all striving together, they all managed to get by. To date, the congregation has made the largest contribution to the new high school of any group in town by their barbecue last spring. The group is also very active in meetings. Sunday School and church are conducted on Sunday morning, and there is a Sunday evening devotional for young people and for adults. On Monday evenings, there is a young couples prayer cell, and on Tuesday night, there is a Boy’s Club meeting. A great many of the people come together on Wednesday nights for prayer and Bible study, and on Saturday nights, there is a young people's prayer group.

The first of these additions was under the direction of Al D. McClure in 1930, and the second under the leadership of Bill Macy in 1946. The first book of church order was drawn up by student-pastor Watson Street and Dr. C. M. Richards, then pastor of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, and was adopted by the board of directors in 1938. (It is of interest to note that during World War I, due to the lack of sufficient men, women were called upon to serve on the official board.) Davidson College students who have served as pastors of the Davidson Unity Church are: Don Brandon, Sid Morris, Roger Metcalf, Jack Davis, Rod Williams, Sid Crane, Bill Boyle, Charlie Parish, John Murray, Jimmy Nesbitt, George Apperson, Jimmy Stimpson, Ed Golden, and George Oglesby. Kennedy Smartt and Matthew McGowen have served in the past few years as co-pastors, and at a recent meeting of the Concord Presbytery, they approved the calling of Kennedy Smartt, a graduate of Davidson College, as supply pastor for the coming year.

Originally, the membership was entirely composed of mill employees, but now, with an enrollment of approximately 125, the congregation is represented by farmers, shop workers, clerks, college employees, carpenters, and mill workers. The membership is also well represented in the nursing field. Although the congregation is small, there is a great spirit of Christian Brotherhood displayed among them. The people are always eager to aid in any endeavor and continually show a spirit of true love in times of sickness and need. Through the years of depression and hardship, they shared and shared alike, and by all striving together, they all managed to get by.

The church building as it stands is in need of repair and an adequate heating system. The church cabin, where the pastor has lived for the past three years, is not sufficient for a minister and his wife. The first thing the new church hopes to do is build a manse. In the future, they hope to erect a new church building. They also hope to inaugurate a visual aid program for educational and religious purposes. It is now seeking to call a full-time pastor and to reach those who are not now active in some church. The name Calvary was chosen for the church because of the people’s faith in the Victory of Calvary, and because of their firm determination to make all that “Calvary” means (not only Christ's redemption of sin, but also his victory over sin made possible for every believer) a reality in their lives.

Due to circumstances beyond our control, the Honorary Fraternity Council Schedule will not be printed until next week.

The government is reaching into the private lives and affairs of people. Area after area of life has been invaded by the government's grasping, probing fingers. Bit by bit, chunk by chunk, the freedom of the people is being withdrawn, and all in the name of the common good. Whatever evil which may have been inherent in big business is now far overshadowed by the larger evil of big government. The biggest force of all has become the most powerful, and through long tenure, the most corrupt. “Elect us, elect us, you have nothing to fear but fear itself and big business.” This is the cry of those in power, and daily the freedom of the people is lessened, daily the power of the government increases in areas in which it was never meant to function at all. Daily this robbing of the people's sacred heritage goes on, and the “stabilization,” “devaluation,” and “subsidy,” and by talk of “fair deals,” do not see that freedom is departing. Has the “freedom to” been lessened? The answer is that it has been, is being, and will continue to be lessened unless the people awake. One day they will awake. They will know the masquerader for what it really is — socialism. They will bemoan their lost freedoms, but — too late, too late.

An era is passing. The philosophy planted by Franklin Delano Roosevelt is reaching full fruition. Rank and verdant, it is spreading its green tentacles over all, choking every growth it encounters: soon it alone will rule triumphant over all. The basic nature of man has been sacrificed to a corrupt political and economic ideology. Man, born to create, will live to be but a slave, a helpless mass of humanity depending on a powerful government. The system which once served him well became sick; then, instead of trying to make it well again, he has allowed it to be murdered before his eyes. When Stephen Douglas saw clearly that the Civil War could not be averted, he said, "The South, the poor South. What is to become of her?" This, in paraphrased form, is the question proposed by this article. Crushed before our very eyes. Man’s basic, precious values and his very nature are being defiled, distorted, smashed. We, like Douglas, can well ask, “Our nation, our poor nation. What is to become of it?”

An era is passing. Do we wish it to pass? Do we wish what will inevitably follow if we pursue the present course? Have we lost whatever understanding we once possessed? An era is passing. What do we propose to do about it? What can we do?GYM TO |. (Continued From Page One) dressing rooms is equipped with showers and private lockers. The new gym is to be supervised at all times by the athletic staff of the college. Mr. Charlie Parker has been appointed by Professor Pinkney, director of athletics of Davidson College, to act as manager of the gym.

"TAKE A TIP FROM ME — SMOKE CHESTERFIELDS... THEY'RE MUCH MILDER. IT'S MY CIGARETTE!!!"

(Continued From Page One) The affair will begin at 10 P.M., and continue until 2 A.M. The set tickets will guarantee admittance to the proposed Friday afternoon concert and the two dances. A half-hour intermission will allow time for those who wish to visit the fraternity houses for refreshments. The Saturday program begins with the completion of the cross-country meet with Randolph Macon in the stadium at 9:45. Ten o'clock marks the time for the symbolic highlight of the whole weekend. At this time everybody — students, dates, alumni, faculty, and visitors — will assemble for the dedication of the new Charles Worth Johnston Memorial Gymnasium. The ceremony will feature the presentation of the gym by the family of the late noted man, including Mr. R. Horace Johnston and his sister. Following the dedication, everyone will assemble in groups marked by placards showing the various regions from which the people hail, and thus will begin the “Parade of Progress.” Led by our own and several visiting bands, the assemblage will march from the gym, around the front of Chambers, and out toward the front campus to the site of the new church, the actual dimensions of which will have been laid out by the surveying class. Here will be held the official groundbreaking ceremony. It is this “Parade of Progress” which will symbolize the great progress already attained in our development program. Everyone on the campus is urged to attend and participate in this most significant event. Plans now call for large floats to be entered in the parade, each of which will be a model depicting the proposed church, the fine arts quadrangle, the dormitory, and the other objectives of the campaign. From here, interested members will adjourn to Chambers Auditorium, at which time the inauguration of the new alumni officers will be held and a report on the progress of the development campaign made. The new alumni officers for this term are: President, Mr. John I. Smith of Greenville, S.C.; Vice-President, Mr. Archie Shuford of Hickory, N.C., who will succeed Mr. D. R. La Far of Gastonia, N.C., and Mr. Martin L. Lafferty of Concord, N.C. Officials participating in the program plan to include Chairman of the Development Program, Mr. J. Spencer Love of Washington, D.C., who is chairman of the board of Burlington Mills; Honorary Chairman, Mr. H. Smith Richardson of New York City, who is chairman of the executive committee of Vick Chemical Co.; and Honorary Vice Chairman, Mr. E. H. Little of New York City, who is president of the Colgate-Palmolive-Peet Co. From twelve o'clock until game time, a barbecue luncheon will be served to everyone on the grounds south of Chambers Building. At the same time, an invitation is extended to all to visit the Johnston gymnasium where an open house will be held both before and after the game. Two-thirty is kick-off time for the football spectacle in Richardson Stadium, where the Wildcats will clash with the Richmond Spiders. Again, as in the past, a cup will be awarded to the fraternity having the best-decorated house; dormitories will also participate in the decoration. The Saturday night dance will be held from eight until twelve and will be informal. The program for Sunday will include a church service at 11 o'clock and an afternoon concert by the Davidson College Band. And thus with a special vesper program at 7:30 P.M. the 1949 Davidson Homecoming will draw to a close.

Program Of Events

Friday, October 21.
8:15 P.M.—Concert: Miss Margaret Truman—Chambers.
10:00 P.M. — Formal Dance: New Gym.

Saturday, October 22.
10:00 A.M. “The Parade of Progress” Dedication: Charles W. Johnston Memorial Gymnasium. Ground Breaking: Davidson Church. Installation of Alumni Officers and Preview of Development Program Plans —Chambers.
12:00—2:00 P.M. Open House. Charles W. Johnston Memorial Gymnasium.
12:00—2:00 P.M. — Homecoming Barbecue Luncheon—South Court.
2:30 P.M. —Football Game—Davidson vs. Richmond. Richardson Field.
4:30—6:00 P.M. —Open House

Sunday, October 23.
11:00 A.M. Worship Service — Davidson College Church.
4:30 P.M. Concert: Davidson College Band—Chambers.
7:30 P.M. Homecoming Vespers —Chambers.

FORT BENNING... (Continued From Page One) The average day carried on in this same vacation-like manner. After a delightful noon meal, several hours were given to rest before the trip to a shady nook for an afternoon of interesting instruction. This, as we said, was the average day. There were of course more strenuous days—about 42 of them—but all in all — the six weeks’ stay was pleasant. An account of Ft. Benning would not be complete without mention of Phenix City — the city across the river. The streets of this town are lined with churches and the city should be best known for its nunneries and the fine milk which its eating places serve. One Davidsonian, having been kissed by one of the nuns, refused to wash his face for three weeks for fear of washing away the holy mark which she left. Some roamed the cities byways just to soak up the pleasant atmosphere which prevailed. Space does not permit a full coverage of all activities, but suffice it to say that the Chamber Maids would have been justly proud of their sons, “Oh! What a farce!

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE (Continued From Page One) it appears to be for the best interests of an individual student or of the student body as a whole to do so.

5. a. It is the judgment of the Faculty that it is for the best interests of the individual student and for the best interests of the work of the College as a whole that ordinarily students bring cars to the campus only when there are special social functions or other special reasons for doing so.
b. The Dean of Students is requested to write a letter to the parents of all students now in the College informing them of the point of view of the Faculty in this matter.

A ‘MALE’ WAR BRIDE (Continued From Page One) High School until recently when he accepted his present position at Flora McDonald. Our ability in securing Mr. Smith at this time is made possible through the influence of Mr. Pfohl, with whom Mr. Smith worked this summer at Transylvania Music Camp.

FRESHMEN VIOLATORS (Continued From Page One)
6. Bill Bledsoe: walking on grass, no freshman cap, refusal to carry laundry, no name plate, gross disrespect.
7. Adrian Bowen: acting athletic when he’s only a supporter, remaining incognito by not wearing a name plate, prouder of his black hair than the red cap.
8. Dick Gilchrist: leaving football game early, no freshman cap.

Rice is issuing a plea for all upperclassmen to cooperate in the fullest with the court. He especially would like for the student body to be quieter in chapel in order to shorten the meetings.

NOTICE
Let's beat State tomorrow night at Memorial Stadium, then campus the Freshman for another week effective Monday morning.

ALL THE NEW POPULAR PHONOGRAPH RECORDS.
Columbia Masterworks Red Seal Victor
Parker-Gardner Company Since 1898
118 W. Trade St. Phone 8281

Withers Electric Company
® Radio Repairs
® Electrical Supplies
® Light Bulbs
DAVIDSON, N.C.