FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1949
Carolina Inn, By GENE

Yes, in spite of logical demands for complete destruction, Carolina Inn, overlooking Copelands “If it hasn't got it now I will have it next week,” will undoubtedly continue to shine from year to year with its look of austerity. Carolina Inn, being constructed Keep Shining the structure, being void of iron and cement, and lighting a fire in the middle of your room. The smoke ascends through the conveniently located holes in the ceiling provided for by Father Time, after forcing the inhabitants of the catacombs to flee for the library or elsewhere. On the other hand, there is the elaborate plumbing system which works on the principle of gravitation. A large bucket is situated on the roof to catch the frequent rainfall. When you want some water you pull a cork from the hole in the ceiling—as if you were pulling one from a bottle on Saturday night—and down pours the water, provided it has rained recently. The water is heated by the rising flames from your cozy potbellied stove. Once an insurance man visited the college, and, when asked to appraise the Inn, was somewhat dumbfounded. While Mr. “Cash” Jackson stood by grinning from ear to ear and kneading his palms, the insurance agent lit a cigarette and carelessly cast it to the ground near the building, subconsciously hoping that the Inn would burn down, only to find a Davidson student stooping over to pick up the butt. Well, better luck next time.

Well, that’s more or less (mostly less) the story of Carolina Inn.

CAMERA CORNER ... (Continued From Page Two)
the simple, everyday things that go to make the life of an ordinary Englishman. It is a story of human joy and despair woven into a fabric of the struggle and reward of this family. It is an English, technicolor production starring Celia Johnson and Robert Newton. If you are a serious-minded person who likes to face life in its real form, see this picture next week. “The Big Steal” starring Robert Mitchum, Jane Greer, and William Bendix plays October the seventeenth and eighteenth at the Davidson Theatre. It’s an adventure in grand larceny that leads Mitchum deep into the wilds of Mexico and deeper in love with Greer. “Come to the Stable” starring Celeste Holm and Loretta Young runs October the nineteenth and twentieth at the Davidson Theatre. If you think you would like life in a monastery, see this picture. “Rope of Sand” starring Burt Lancaster, Peter Lorre, and Corinne Calvet shows October the twenty-first and twenty-second at the Davidson Theatre. Corinne, a new French actress, plays in the “sultry” love scenes. Need I say more? For the “BEST” in entertainment read your Davidsonian.

COLLEGE RAGS... (Continued From Page Two)
Prescription For That Fever...
(2) Get a hat and wear it, it keeps your head on.
(3) Speak to all upperclassmen wherever they may be. You won't like this, but they do.
(6) Do whatever an upperclassman tells you to do. Carry a pillow in case he tells you to drop dead.
(6) Observe all the little easy-to-follow rules during Freshman Week, such as:
(a) No breathing on weekdays.
(c) Crawl up the steps to all classes.
(d) No hair on Friday.
(f) Sing the Alma Mater in the key of FF flat.

The author concludes his letter with this poem:
Three blind rats
Didn't wear their hats,
Thinking this oversight perfectly harmless,
But they went home that evening armless.

Davidson freshmen, I believe, can be indeed grateful that such is not the attitude of their upperclassmen.

BUILDING COSTS
Contractors built Davidson College’s first five buildings in 1836 for the sum of $10,250. The College Church, to be built during 1949-50, will cost approximately 58 times as much - $600,000.

DAVIDSON THEATRE WEEK OF OCT. 17-22
MON. - TUE. “THE BIG STEAL” Robert Mitchum - Jane Greer
WEDNESDAY - THURSDAY “COME TO THE STABLE” Loretta Young - Celeste Holm
FRIDAY - SATURDAY “ROPE OF SAND” Burt Lancaster - Paul Henreid

YOU ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO ATTEND A SPECIAL SHOWING OF FALL APPAREL AND ACCESSORIES ON TUESDAY, OCTOBER EIGHTEENTH AT SCOFFIELD’S, Charlotte, N.C.

Among The Greek
THE KAPPA ALPHA COLUMN
BONG, BING, PLUNK, (the announcer just passed out). This is NBC, the National Beer Corporation Station, where 99 million gather each week. The time: same time as it was yesterday at this time. Silence — Ah, shut up! The Happy Hangover, Hungover Distillers of Davidson present the Distillers Journal featuring Water (Bah!) Winchell whose Sigma sin-dicated column unfrequently appears in this and nine hundred and ninety-nine other full-fifth rated poop-sheets scattered from Cape Hatley’s to the Golden City of opportunity — Cornelius. Now here's Water (Bah!) Winchell with the latest corn gathered from the still and the gutters of the Great Whiteway or the Broadway of the South—Concord Road. Good evening ladies and gentlemen and all others who might be listening in... All clippers, shylocks, and H. P.'s at large let’s go to press... FLASH!!! $2 Guthery or fight, while shaking his head like a metronome, released to the world tonight with his nefarious companion, “Shoulders” Roddey, a bit of information which is bound to shake the card playing world right away from the bridge table. These two card sharks, long noted for their exceptional genius at cards, have discovered a new and exciting card game entitled “Fish.” This startling announcement comes on the heels of their recent discovery that half of the married population are women... The famed tuba player, Allen Garrison, and his illustrious cohort, Rodger the Dodger Cornell, with his saxophone, can be seen nightly performing before a packed Watts audience in “Blow, Blow, Blow the Man Down.”... It’s really a hit... Sexpert Mitchell is believed to be training his new girl to be another Fifi as the scars too well indicate... Why anyone would pay a buck to see Fifi is beyond reason when they can run their fingers through Hazard’s hair for nothing... Bryan “The Head” Robinson, a very modest fellow with a great deal to be modest about, will soon start modeling for a well-known bathroom fixture company... Bull Alexander’s mating call, as reported to this distorter by a very unreliable source — Jack B. Lyles, closely resembles what a great many boys will be getting before Homecoming — A Royal Deluxe Flush... What's that Bull? Howard Proctor, the poor man’s Milton Berle, was sadly disappointed on learning that Pitching Woo isn't a Chinese baseball player... Hypo King, whose forehead was recently voted most likely to recede, requests that the waiters bring the ice cream at the beginning of the meal so that it will be completely instead of only halfway melted... Bro, Hynes suggests that Shearer Hall be burned at the next pep rally immediately followed by Rumple... Jack Hunter is in the infirmary reporting that he has no friends but lots of enemies. Smuggled out by Guthery, who earlier reported that Hunter was “Sick,” was the infirmary menu which reads as follows: Breakfast: One pink pill; Lunch: Two pink pills; Dinner: Throw the carcass to the dogs... Rumored: From confidential sources it is heard that Allen “Lefty” Vance is spreading a malicious rumor among the Pledge Class that the College's mangling insti...

THE DAVIDSONIAN
SIGMA PHI EPSILON
October 8, Sigma Phi Epsilon initiated to the rank of “brother” two sophomores: Bill McNeely and Marshall Taylor. We congratulate them and ourselves. On October 9, we pledged three men: Joe Parker, Gilbert Thomason, and Gene Little. We would like to felicitate them also. Sigma Phi Epsilon will have its Homecoming informal banquet on Saturday the twenty-first at the Ship Ahoy restaurant in Charlotte. All Davidson SPE alumni have been invited down for the weekend. Plaster plans to invite the redhead down from Salem for the big weekend; Coffin claims he's going to bring his wife, and Humphries is either going to invite a girl from Spartanburg or from Salem. SPE have three brothers in the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra: Coffin, Humphries, and Sipe. Sipe must be the best because he stays the latest at rehearsals, never returning here until one o'clock. The SPE house is going to be installed with a coke machine and a telephone in the next couple of days. Carlyle Charles, Bob Willard, Bill Bogart, and A. T. Correll came back to see us last week. Grads are always welcome. We’re gradually losing our touch-football team. First it was Lefthander’s collar-bone, then it was Pat's incisors. We sure hate that. Pledges Herndon, Wartlick, Gay, and Toney are helping us out plenty. Daniels can’t get a woman for Homecoming at all, it seems. Cahow keeps pushing him into “teacher, teacher encore,” however, for he needs a ride. Loftin’s girl must have given him instructions, for he was found soaking his head (for two hours) in Georgia last...week, narrated by Mighty Joe Young. Since upperclassmen are barred from this area, this statement cannot be confirmed by people in authority. However, this reporter has dispatched Special Agent Watt “Lightning” Jeffries into this forbidden area to discover the truth of the matter. Brother Jeffries, having roomed with “The Head” Robinson, is well acquainted with apes. Furthermore, Bro. Jeffries is out for cross-country so we can rest assured that an answer will be had before too many moons.

Chitchat: Jimmy Larkin, who talks like Vaughn Monroe sings or in other words with a mouth full of mush, interdigitated with his flame over the weekend... John Quincy Adams, our only ex-living President, states and I definitely quote: “What this college needs is a band conductor with the proper technique.” Staley beaming happily after winning his own dessert at a raffle... Howard “Slats” Ferguson and Alec “Luke” Summers doing nothing as usual... Glasgow “Moscow” Hicks circulating a snapshot of a Salem beauty which is in a close race with “Sunshine and Health.” Tom... Hampton Mauze seems to be the King of the C of C... the Freshmen Class God's gift to the women is John “Snow King” Ottley who has been spending too many evenings with women in the Queen City... In Trash... tution, the laundry, is being operated by the smiling Armenian.

HONORARY FRATERNITY SCHEDULE FIRST AND THIRD WEEKS

MONDAY
Alpha Epsilon Delta
Eumanean
Phi Mu Alpha 8:15
Pan Hellenic Council
Omicron Delta Kappa

KAPPA SIG PAGE THREE

Know Mo’ Dan De Dawg Do!
By GEORGE NICKELS

Too long have we tried to conceal from our psychophantic, four-legged friends the fact that they really own us. Too long have we shunned their superiority. Rather than confess our inferiority, we, by some sly, psychological quirk, strive to outwit these unsuppressed mammals. And here we are, the Joe Colleges of yonder-year, catalogued as only second in preeminence to the fossilized faculty philosophers, left holding the bag, one end of which has already been chewed away.

It is indeed fortunate that the female humans who wander over our grass-green campus have, in ten out of nine cases, male escorts. I for one would certainly be against having these lovelies roaming without companionship with the dogs having the upper paw on the campus. Some dogs are big, some are small, ours are both, except that ours, differing from the natural trend in dogdom, have scattered and varied forms, some longer from head to paw, others wider from nose sag to tail wags. We must confess, though, that our dogs are friendly. Only yesterday, while passing under the critical watch of the chamber maids, was it that a shedding form peered from behind a tall, round column, bounded from the pedestal and approached me. He took, I noticed, several steps before his skin started moving along with him. He galloped over, sat down heavily on my shoes, and looked me over carefully.

I couldn't move, so I had to look at him, too. He was obviously admiring me. His next move was to take my pants leg in his mouth and shake it, possibly to test the quality and taste of the material. With one blue and one brown eye, he gazed at me tragically, and howled in his leery sort of baritone. I started to thwart him with strong-arm tactics, but halted, realizing that force would be answered with force. He kept looking at me. He meditated on man's inhumanity to dog. He sighed. Realizing that quick action was necessary, I reached to my pocket for the protruding candy bar, ripped the nut-covered bar from its wrapper, and cast it into his gaping jaws. So now it’s nuts he doesn’t like! He showed in his obvious way of searching out tidbits in his food that in spite of his pedigree, he contains a trace of anteater. His appreciation was unpretentious. With a leap he got my tie in his teeth and hung from it. I, who have never known asthma, found it was some time before I could get my breath.

All of our mongrels have many odd traits. Mob psychology seems always to be in effect. Not a game passes without their deciding to play a queer form of hopscotch and tax on the football field. Our dogs are very democratic in their ideas about love. And they sleep. What sleeps! A collision with another planet wouldn't affect them. Unfortunately, the Davidson campus has a shortage of fire plugs. I summon all to be awake to the quivering muscles of a dog’s hind leg. They disrupt our assemblies. And they stroll nonchalantly in our classes, not seeking knowledge. Not that I’m down on the absent-minded professor who proverbially combs his cigar and lights his hair, winds up his key and opens the door with his watch, fondles mice and sets traps for the baby, says his prayers when he enters a theater and leaves the church for a smoke between acts, but there was a prof a day ago who, when passed a flea-covered off cast of a jackal, cursed under his breath the lowly freshman who failed to tip his beanie.

Here are listed a few of the obnoxious, but fascinating traits of our dogs. Now it is up to us to get along with them. Simple is the rule for this: Say Caesar—Lookee heah, pomp, how come yo’ teach yo’ dawg dem tricks? I can’t teach my dawg nothin’.” Pompey—"Dat’s easy. Yo’ jest has to know mo’ dan de dawg do!”

FROM THE TOWN AND CAMPUS SHOP —3rd FLOOR

FOR THE MOST IN CASUALNESS
BLOCK’S CALIFORNIA KORDO-SUEDE
Matchless combination of suede-like corduroy and BLOCK’S “Luxury-Fit” with its full chest, tapered lines and roomy shoulders. Your favorite California colors... airline grey, canyon maroon, pigeon blue, and sea green. Sizes 34 to 42. Regulars and long. See our Tuxedos and Accessories so important for the 1949 season and season to come.

TATE-BROWN CO.
Charlotte, N. C.

WATCH REPAIRS
JUST A GOOD SHOP WHERE FAST SERVICE IS THE RULE!
W.S. HENDERSON

TUESDAY
Sigma Pi Sigma
Seabbard and Blade
Philanthropic 9:15
YMCA Cabinet
Sigma Delta Psi
Forensic Council

SECOND AND FOURTH WEEKS

MONDAY
7:15 Sigma Delta Pi
Beaver Club
“D” Club
Social Fraternities
IRC

TUESDAY
8:15 Gamma Sigma Epsilon
Le Cercle Francais
Red and Black
Masquers
Sigma Upsilon

WEDNESDAY
Delta Phi Alpha

THURSDAY
Social Fraternities

FOR THE MOST IN CASUALNESS
BLOCK’S CALIFORNIA KORDO-SUEDE
Matchless combination of suede-like corduroy and BLOCK’S “Luxury-Fit” with its full chest, tapered lines and roomy shoulders. Your favorite California colors... airline grey, canyon maroon, pigeon blue, and sea green. Sizes 34 to 42. Regulars and long. See our Tuxedos and Accessories so important for the 1949 season and season to come.

TATE-BROWN CO.
Charlotte, N. C.

WATCH REPAIRS
JUST A GOOD SHOP WHERE FAST SERVICE IS THE RULE!
W.S. HENDERSON