It's unusual the way that Davidson’s basketball schedule was arranged in that the first four games that the Cats play
will be in four different new gyms. Playing the first game of the year, the hoopsters met N.C. State’s “Hoosiers”
in their mammoth new coliseum. On the following night, the McCrary Eagles semi-pro team played host to the Cats in
their newly completed gym.

By GORDON SCOTT

The next game that the local hoopsters played was on Saturday night in Statesville where they officially dedicated the new
$250,000 gymnasium of the Statesville High School. Then after this game—on Thursday night—Davidson returns to the campus to play the
first game—against Duke—in the Charles Worth Johnston Gymnasium. This will be a red-letter day in the history of athletics at
Davidson College.

STUDENTS WILL HAVE BEST SEATS

When you walk into the new gym here at Davidson, it’s still hard to realize that it is a reality.
The building that has been longed for and planned for has been nearly completed and ready for use. We find
it difficult to forget those nights in Charlotte at the Armory—the ever-present problem of transportation there and back, the fights
for first-row seats, which were the only good ones in the entire student section, and the mutterings by the unfortunate
majority of students who were forced to find a seat in the highly undesirable student section, far behind the goals.
Fortunately, this is all in the past, for Davidson's home games will be played on the campus, and students will
have the best seats in the house.

The present plan for seating, which is subject to change as conditions may require, is something like this—the entire West
side of the gymnasium will be reserved for students, faculty members, and their families. The seats in this section will
be on a first-come, first-serve basis. In the event a student has a date for one of the games, he
will be required to buy a date ticket, but his date can sit in the student section. There are approximately
nine hundred seats in this section which would, of course, be insufficient to accommodate all the students and all the
faculty at one time. However, the assumption under which the Athletic Department is working is that there will not be
100% representation from either group at any game. Personally, we would like to see students turn out in such numbers
that this seating plan would have to be junked in favor of one that will accommodate every single student in
Davidson College.

N.C. STATE AUTHORITIES SLIP UP

The remainder of the gym will be for basketball enthusiasts from the surrounding territory, and the seats will all be
reserved. Tickets for these seats will be sold for $1.50, although some of the seats may have a cheaper tag
on them. Arrangements for seating of students from the school that may be playing in the gym will be made
on a reciprocal basis, and a section will be reserved for them. If this plan is followed, then any students
from N.C. State who follow the Wolfpack to Davidson will be in for a surprise, for they will have to
pay $1.50 for a seat just as we Davidson students had to do in Raleigh Monday night.

In our opinion, the situation at Raleigh was inexcusable. With 12,000 seats in their new coliseum, it does seem that
the proper authorities could have made some arrangement for the Davidson students—small though the number may have been—who made the
long trip to the Capitol City. As it turned out, however, we had much better seats than anything that they
could have reserved for us. The State student section was behind the goals, and there is no telling where they
might have placed us.

DUKE WILL BE TOUGH

Thursday night’s game with Duke should pack the new Davidson gym to the rafters. The Blue Devils are generally conceded
to be the only team in the Conference capable of toppling State, so that gives some indication of their strength.
But the Dukes will have a job on their hands, for Boyd Baird’s plucky Cats would like nothing better than
to win the first game played in the gym. The netters are gaining experience and confidence with each game they
play and by Thursday night they should be at their pre-Christmas height.MENTION Campus Club. WE FEATURE Patronize Our Advertisers! Catalin
o and Revere Sweaters DAVIDSON (In His Favorite Colors) WEEK OF DEC. 12-17 MON. - TUE. “AFRICA SCREAMS” Bud Abbott
- Lou Costello Virgin Wools and Cashmeres WEDNESDAY - THURSDAY SLEEVELESS OR WITH SLEEVES “ADAM'S RIB” $5.00 - $18.00 Spencer
Tracy - Katherine Hepburn FRIDAY - SATURDAY “STAMPEDE” Rod Cameron - Gale Storm Marion Davis Co., Inc. 113 South Tryon
St. Charlotte, N.C. RECREATION CENTER Davidson, N.C. Wildcat Sports THE DAVIDSONIAN 1949 All-Fraternity Team Frosh Soph. Senior Soph. Senior Senior
Senior Senior Senior Junior Senior Frosh Senior Senior Junior Senior Junior Bill Cassels, Pi Kap; Bob Bennett, SAE; Bill Brooks,
Sigma Chi; John Ellis, Kap Sig; Earl Groves, Beta; Lamar Hinson, SAE; Louis Rogers, SAE; Jim Rodgers, Pika; Cherry Stribling,
KA; Ted Bowen, Phi Delt; Jim Evans, Kappa Sig; Lane Cloaninger, SAE; Sam Joyner, Beta; Whit Cobb, Phi Delt; Will
Herndon, SPE; John Whitfield. ALL-FRATERNITY TEAM First Row: Dave Williams, Charlie Simmons, John Jervis, Bill Carter, Walt Hankins. Second Row:
Bill Houck, Bill Bird, Charlie Pearson, Earl Smith. IS CHOSEN BEAT “DOOK” FRIDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1949 Betas, Kappa Sigs Dominate
Mythical Team; Walt Hankins, Named On Ballots, Captains Team With newspapers over the country publishing All-America, all-section, all-state and any
other selections they can dream up, the Davidsonian jumps on the bandwagon with its all-Fraternity team. However, this selection is
unique in the fact that it was not chosen by biased sportswriters, who cannot possibly see all the candidates in
action, but by sports managers and players — men who ought to know. The first squad runs true to form;
as should be expected the two teams, which tied for the loop championship each placed three men on the mythical
team while the third place winner landed two berths. The highly touted Betas went through the entire season without a
defeat until they were dropped in an upset in their final contest. This loss gave them a 9-1 record and
deadlocked them with the Kappa Sigs who finished with a similar record. The KA’s, the group which downed the Betas,
were behind with an 8-2 record. One of the main cogs in the powerful Beta offense was End “Hank” Hankins,
a pass catcher deluxe. He is given the honorary position of captain because he received a first-place nomination from every
ballot. Holding down the other flank position is another star pass receiver, the Kappa Sigma’s speedy Dave Williams. Two sterling
guards are found in chunky Charley Simmons, another Kappa Sig, and Bill “Swish” Carter of the KA’s. These were two
of the hardest-charging players in the league and their swiftness was no liability. Rounding out the all-star line is Beta
center Johnny Jervis, fine linebacker and ball snapper. ORIENTAL RESTAURANT BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND
DINNER CHARLOTTE, N.C. PHONE 2-2238 Charlotte 2 Walle Shop “ACROSS FROM THE BURNING SOME” ON WEST TRADE STREET By DAN
McKEITHEN In the backfield there is as fast a foursome as could be hoped for. Any of these was a
real scoring threat whenever he got his hands on the ball. Little Billy Houck, the Pi Kap’s contribution to the
team, is a nifty triple-threat, who kept his team always in the game. Third Beta to make the squad is
Earl Smith, only married man selected. All opposing teams feared Earl's deadly bullet passes. Another great performer was Charley Pearson
who led the Kappa Sigs to a tie for the championship. The fourth spot in the backfield is held by
KA ace, Bill Bird, who did everything well. One can see that this would be a really terrific ball team
if it ever became a reality. Two ball hawks on the ends, a stalwart line and four explosive backs make
up this year’s All-Fraternity first team and what a team. However, close behind this team is the second string which
also has nine top players. This group boasts a big line and has four backs that could star in any
backfield. Linemen Jim Vann, Gene Regen, Bob Bumbarger, Bill Purcell, and John Evans gave opposing teams plenty of trouble. Norman
Whiteheart performed admirably for the Phi Delts as did Monty Hill for the SAE’s. Both these boys were exceptional punters.
Pika Bill Collins was his team’s offensive big gun while opposing teams learned to fear the accurate passing arm of
the Sigma Chi star, Johnny Kelton. We feel that the selections make up one of the most representative groups ever
picked for an all-fraternity team. Although we aren’t having a banquet nor giving out medals, we extend congratulations to the
members of the two teams and to those receiving honorable mention. Patronize Our Advertisers! FORMAL WEAR by After Six Tuxedo
Full Dress $45.00 up $50.00 up Dinner Jackets $27.50 up Or Rent Them Tuxedo $6.00 Full Dress $7.00 Accessories $3.00
John Mock & Son MOORESVILLE, N.C. PHONE 230
