. “FOR A ae ee LY THR ———— ; “—_.. BILL HOUCK STAFF | sie Rear : Fa Jeffries Bill
Cassells Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Asst. Circulation Managers Ansicy M Neil Underdown Ansicy Moses,
Collections Manager John Loftin Subscriptions Manager Alex Goley PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY Entered as second-class matter at the Post
Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897. CAMPUS DANCES Last weekend saw the first dance
set on the Davidson campus in quite a few years. There have been words spoken for and against the move,
but no matter what is said, dances on the campus are probably here to stay. For many students, this is
the first time there has been little worry about transportation to and from the dances. The drive to Charlotte sometimes
made it necessary for several couples to double up and sometimes even discouraged some boys from getting dates because of
not having rides. The new Johnston gym is the best auditorium for dances that we have seen the Pan Hellenic
Council acquire. The Charlotte Armory was the next best thing, but it proved to be too small for many of
the dances. The acoustics in the armory were better than in the gym, but the fault there may be in
the band—the sweetest music this side of Guy Lombardo. The Morris Field gym was totally inadequate on all the above
counts. It was extremely difficult for everyone to find transportation halfway to Gastonia. The floor was too small for Davidson
dances, the acoustics were terrible, and the place was a hideous-looking old fire trap. Parking at Morris Field was inadequate,
and it was like slushing up the Italian Peninsula after the usual Davidson rains. Then, too, we might bring in
the Charlotte Hotel ballroom where everyone found his little square foot of space and did his dancing (?) right there
all night. This really wasn’t too bad unless your space happened to be too close to the band. Such poor
unfortunates were continually being hit in the head by the trombones. But the ballroom wasn't so bad when one compares
it to the basement of the Armory. In this dance hall is found about the same amount of space as
in the hotel, but the dancers were placed on a foot-high platform. This actually wasn’t too bad if you could
safely work your way into the center of the throng. But those on the outside were rhythmically being pushed off
the platform. The power of the whole W. & L. football team on that damp November day in 1946 failed
to cause as many injuries to Davidsonians as did Billy Butterfield, his band, and the Bone’s elevated dance floor. Dances
on the campus also will have certain difficulties, some of which we will not discuss. The main argument against the
practice is the difficulty of having a banquet or breakfast during the weekend. The possibility of having such here on
the campus must be ruled out for the simple reason of lack of facilities. Therefore, to have a banquet, the
fraternity must revert back to the old custom of going to Charlotte. For a breakfast, it is also necessary to
make the trip. However, the administration has voiced its disapproval of breakfasts in Charlotte in no uncertain terms. Banquets or
breakfast, the trip must still be made. This fact poses the same problem of transportation to Charlotte that existed before—a
prime argument for having dances here. We might at this point inject the fact that very few rooms were available
on the campus for the past weekend because homecoming planners above the student level secured a major part of the
available space. This was done last summer for the convenience of alumni who would return to fill the coffers to
overflowing. However, this problem will not exist at other dance weekends, although there will be many who will have to
find rooms for dates outside of Davidson—more trips to Charlotte. We will not voice an opinion as to where the
Pan-Hellenic dances should be held, but we have presented these few facts, both pro and con. Letters To The Editor
To The Editor: Davidson students have given their Christmas Gift Fund to two very worthy causes in the past two
years. Both of these have been to other preservation of our extra-curricular activities. Since it has been pointed out that
we have no policy, we O __ FEATURES EDIT In response to the wave of comments which have swept the
campus since Dr. Abernathy’s talk in chapel Thursday, critically analyzing and indicting the extra-curricular activities on the Davidson campus, The
Davidsonian, in view of the significance of this talk, is taking the liberty to reprint the salient features of Dr.
Abernathy’s criticisms, along with some student reactions. In substance, Dr. Abernathy’s criticisms are as follows: After three years of careful
observation of our extra-curricular activities, four conclusions have been reached: (1) the level of achievement and quality of resourcefulness found
in our extra-curricular activities are inferior to that of similar activities in first-class high schools; (2) the leadership of and
the actual participation in extra-curricular activities is concentrated in too small a fraction of the student body; (3) in terms
of program content, there is almost no sense of growth or development in the planning of programs which appeal to
higher levels of maturity and experience; (4) through our extra-curricular organizations, students are learning poor attitudes, incompetent and inefficient ways
of doing things, and a certain blindness toward higher standards and possibilities. Extra-curricular activities do have a place on a
college campus when they meet certain requirements. Those organizations which provide life-like situations for the testing of what is learned
in the classroom, which provide students with important social skills, and which, in turn, further motivate classroom performance, have the
most obvious justification in the college community. Do our organizations meet these requirements and fulfill these standards? The Davidsonian, for
instance, does not. It would never win a first-class rating in the National High School Press Association contest conducted by
Columbia University. The actual quality of its writing is very low, and it has no consistent editorial policy. Most of
the editors are not performing the functions of editors; in fact, they would be hard put to explain what these
functions are. Not one of them is interested enough in his job to buy a book on journalism and master
some of it. Our editors don’t have any real conception of what news is, nor how to find it, nor
manufacture it, nor what to do with it when they get it. The student body as a whole has failed
to discharge some of its responsibilities. It is hard to have a good college newspaper unless it has some readers
who are critical and appreciative in their judgments. The students should bring unrelenting pressure on the editors for a higher
caliber of performance. “Perhaps you would do better to elect some students to a general faculty-student board of publications which
would appoint the Editor on a merit basis, from a group of applicants, which would review at regular intervals both
the policy and performance of the editorial staff.” There are many other organizations on the campus which do not meet
the previously stated requirements. To learn about international relations, a student must study. He must read reports of the foreign
correspondents in the New York Times, or the reports of the Foreign Policy Association, or the magazine, “Foreign Affairs,” or
a solid book or two. Then the students will have prepared themselves for discussions, talks, and movies. To mention another
group, the fraternities, also do not fulfill these requirements. At Davidson, we have succeeded in eliminating most of the more
obvious abuses of fraternities on a campus. But, have our fraternities been any more successful in justifying their existence in
a community of learning? A fraternity should emphasize the basic objectives of the institution. The fraternities should support the educational
program. It should seek faculty help in establishing programs to improve study habits, reading, vocabulary, tutoring, note-taking, etc., for all
the students in the group who need such help. The fraternities should single out some worthy projects to support. One
might get behind a vocational guidance program; another might offer some award in creative writing or dramatics; another might raise
money to bring a special lecturer to the campus, or back the movement to increase interest in the arts and
music. This sort of thing might have far-reaching consequences. With those thoughts, Dr. Abernathy has presented the Davidson student body
with one of the most challenging questions ever to come from the speaker's platform in Chambers Auditorium. For years, according
to Dr. Abernathy, we have been in a rut as regards our extra-curricular programs, and have been content with the
status quo. Actually, we have been retrogressing. People have complimentarily slapped us on the back, poured golden phrases into our
ears, and told us that we are impeccable, upstanding, Christian gentlemen. Thus have we been lured into idle complacency. Our
inquisitive interest, youthful drive, and intellectual curiosity have been stunned, and we have been satisfied with the situation. Following are
some student and faculty opinions on Dr. Abernathy's talk: NEIL LEACH: The well-founded and straightforward criticisms of Prof. Abernathy hit
a sore spot in the college curricular. Now that our veryability and incentive as enlightened students has been attacked so
openly, our main defense should not be in firing back with remarks aimed low, but we should take these words
as they were intended and rise out of the “everything’s rosy” attitude with direct improvements of our own program. Notice
the professor's words closely and you'll see that they upset many applecarts. If these various applecarts are righted and returned
to their respective low-class corners, the professor's words will have been wasted. We can’t afford to lie back down. Now
that we're awake, let's stay.

BOB BUMBARGER: I regret any attack demanding REPROD! from any attack demanding RIALS... LETTERS. campus publications. I will admit that
the Davidsonian and although he failed to mention it, The Annual, fall short of the highest standard of journalism. However,
we do not have a school of Journalism here. Here at Davidson, campus publications are a sideline to the men
who work on them, whereas, at certain schools, such as UNC, scholastic work is considered a sideline by the students
working on the college publications. I feel that any criticism of Davidson College publications should take the above facts into
consideration. I do not condemn Dr. Abernathy for his very constructive criticisms but I would like to defend the students
who work on the Davidsonian staff. The highest in journalistic standards.

CURTIS HARPER: Too often we as students conform so comfortably to the status quo and as a result, a lukewarm
attitude toward extra-curricular activities is in reasonable order. The trouble with Davidson to a great extent has been to fall
in line too easily and attempt to keep on the campus an unrealistic fellowship of happiness and joy, such as
does not exist “out in the world.” There is a great need for well-informed and experienced students as well as
faculty to stand before and, if necessary, against the student body in efforts to awaken fellow students out of their
happy but impractical dream.

BO RODDEY: I think that Dr. Abernathy did a truly great thing by getting up and telling exactly what he
thought of the same aspects of college life in the way of constructive criticism. I hope he has set a
precedent both for student and faculty members. I agree with Dr. Abernathy on several of his points, but concerning the
Davidsonian I think he is expecting far too much on a voluntary basis. I know of no student working on
the Davidsonian or any other campus publication, for that matter, who are planning journalism as a career; therefore, too much
time cannot be spent “rooting” through journalistic volumes in the library. Other schools give credit in journalism or sizeable financial
help to students who hold positions on school papers, yearbooks, etc. I think that the campus publications will by necessity
remain on their present level unless some added incentive is given to the students working on them.

THAD MONROE: I agree wholeheartedly with Dr. Abernathy’s views on extra-curricular activities at Davidson. I think they could be improved
in practically every phase. And while we're on the subject of improvement some mention should be given to the atrocious
conduct in chapel during Dr. Abernathy’s speech. I hope that this didn’t reflect the attitude of the student body toward
the constructive criticisms of Dr. Abernathy.

PROF. MARTIN: The talk should prove beneficial since it combats self-complacency and measures us by standards of the PROF. McGAVOCK:
It was an

By HENRY E. HENSEN

On October 21, 1949, the Davidson College Artist Series presented Margaret Truman to the student body and friends of Davidson
College. No blame can be laid at the feet of the Artist Series for bringing her here, as she seemed
really to regard her as something less than brilliant, while ardent Democrats and lavendered old ladies found nothing in her
singing to disturb either their party affiliations or their concert chatter carried on, of course, behind folding fans of Japanese
extraction. One of the people whom Legette Blythe referred to as “heavy-walleted” was heard to remark, “They fed us well,
but there’s no meal on earth sumptuous enough to make listening to her a pleasure.”

Miss Truman's concert was truly a revelation. We Americans have always believed that hard work and sincerity can overcome any
obstacles but it would appear that a concert singer must still have a voice, even when her papa is president.
Her first group contained three numbers, one each by Scarlatti, Giordani, and Durante. They were sung in English and from
the first trembling note gave one intimations of what was to come. In the second group, with the singing of
“Dove Sono” from “Le Nozze di Figaro,” the truth was revealed. Miss Truman could not sing. In fact, Miss Truman
bore certain faint but startling resemblances to a certain Madame Jenkins who used to convulse her Carnegie Hall audiences with
her erratic cacophonies.

To descend to the serious, Miss Truman seemed to have a technical understanding of what she ought to do, but,
let’s face it, Miss Truman has simply not got a voice. Even had she some understanding or feeling for her
music, her performances would only be tolerable, but her resources are purely technical and her efforts to apply this technique
produce a condition known in the audio engineering field as “listening fatigue.” To me, her German Lieder were most satisfactory.
Her feeling for these songs seemed to be free of spurious responses and the comparatively restricted range of these songs
seemed to suit a voice which leapt nimbly but unconvincingly over the thin and crackling ice of both

(Continued on Page Five)

By WATT JEFFRIES

Dean E. H. Bell of Emory University has inaugurated a definite program among the Emory fraternities to combat the nation-wide
attacks on College Fraternities. The it says “my hope is that we can make the fraternity system well enough by
fraternities so far, but adds that there is room for improvement. The dean suggested particularly improvement of pledge training, “If
freshmen get lost in the crowd, we'll have clubs — not brotherhoods,” he warned. He suggested further enforcement of house
rules barring alcoholic beverages, reduction of fraternity dues (“outspending the other fraternities is no mark of distinction”), and emphasis on
scholastic requirements for pledges.

War has broken out between man and his best friend at Southwestern University. In a humorous manner, one writer tells
how one campus had gradually “gone to the dogs” and how it had been necessary for the dogs to “go
to the pound.” The whole trouble seems to have started among the canine “pupils.” They were regular enough, but were
often tardy to class and were not content to enter quietly, but seemed to prefer to disrupt the lecture. This
situation may have been overlooked, but when the canine “students” began howling outside the class windows for their mates inside,
this was too much. One professor said, “If there’s any caterwauling to be done during my lecture, I'll do it.”
The dogs who have not passed their “comprehensives,” when the dog catcher comes around are bound for the pound.

The following letter was received by the Gamecock, published by the students of the University of South Carolina:

Dear Sir: My brother and I are interested in finding out the possibilities of raising game cocks. Although material and
information concerning the raising of game cocks are very limited, we feel that possibly your magazine can help us a
lot. Would appreciate your letting us know the subscription fee, etc., of your magazine, Gamecock.

Is there a Frankenstein or (courtesy Technique) or Dracula in your campus organization’s closet?” Thus begins an article in the
Emory Wheel entitled: “Ugly Man Hunt Begins!” Students are asked to drag “him” out, snap a picture, and enter it
in the APO ugly man contest. Proceeds go to the community chest.

A canny Scotchman was engaged in a bitter argument with the conductor over whether the fare was to be five
or ten cents. Finally, the disgusted conductor picked up the Scot's suitcase and threw it out the door, just as
the train was passing over a bridge: “Hoot mon,” wailed the Scot, “First you try to rob me, and now,
you’ve drowned my boy.” — Emory Wheel.

By LISTON MILLS

And then there's the story of the blind date. You know, when your best buddy rushes up and states that
he’s prepared to do you a favor. We and sweat it out

Then they arrived at the buddy's date’s home. Friend and feline were back in a flash, and they were on
their way to Anemic Irma’s establishment. All the way the pal’s piece of pulchritude portrayed the personality and prestige of
her protege. Bonehead’s brain was really soaring. How could anyone so young get so lucky so quick? He even got
in an argument with buddy over who was going to manipulate the machine. It seemed like years to Bonehead.
