PAGE SIX

BIKO

Since the last time I have gotten a little besides the point when talking about the atmosphere and the present student life at Heidelberg, the university which I picked out as an example. Let us now return back to the buildings of this “alma mater” and look around a little.

One of the main differences, that you might at once notice, is the missing of a university campus. German universities do not have a campus; they are mostly located in the center of a town and consist only of the administration buildings, the lecture halls, and the lab buildings. The students do not live in dormitories, but in and around the town with families and in their own apartments. This fact, of course, has a great influence on the student life as a whole, which is not so entirely connected with the university as the student life in America. It also explains the missing of fraternities within the German student life. I personally think that the fraternity is found in no other nation, of the western nations at least, than in America. But before getting into a discussion about fraternities and the German organizations that might be compared with it, let me first tell you a little about the lecturing system at the University.

As I said before, you enter the university after you finish your high school education successfully, that is, after you graduated from high school with an A or B average. Until recent times it was even then very difficult to be matriculated at any university, for the veterans had filled the lecture halls everywhere. Then students used to send applications to ten or more universities and if they were lucky, they were accepted at one. This, of course, has changed now and things returned to normal.

After having sent your application and being accepted or matriculated and after having found proper quarters in town, called a “bude” (digs), you look over the courses of instruction and assign the courses you would like to take. Up to here there is not much difference between the German and the American systems. The difference, however, begins when you come to the system of lectures itself. After having signed your name to the roll of the professors you would like to hear and after having gone through all formalities of matriculation, you do not get in touch with the university itself until the time of exams. Up till then, nobody cares too much whether you attend your lectures or not, what you do and what you study. You are able to stay away from lectures for several days or work in the labs all the time; it is entirely up to you how you do your work. The only thing you have to do is to pass the semester examinations. This is also caused by the system of lectures itself. It is not hard to find lectures attended by 200 students who all signed for the same course. It naturally would be connected with many difficulties to check the roll every time. It is also up to you how many semesters you study, when you specialize, and when you make your master’s degree. Of course, there is a minimum number of semesters required for a master’s degree in a certain subject, but there is no limit above. If you fail a semester, you are very well able to repeat it if you have the money. Thus one of the famous figures at many German universities came into being, the so-called “student forever,” a man who studied every semester 2 to 3 times and just passed his life being a student at all universities on the continent. If you could afford it, this was sure a wonderful life to live.

The number of semesters for the different master's degrees vary, as I said before. The M.D. in medicine requires a 12-semester study, while the M.D. in chemistry requires only 8, the M.D. in economics 6 semesters. Of course, you can study two subjects at the same time, as for instance, law and economics, and extend your studies over a longer period. I am planning to do this myself.

But the life at a university, as all of you, I think, know pretty well, does not only consist of learning and lab work. There are many things going on besides that, sometimes even more important. The German universities are not different, and also there the student life consists of more than “cracking books.” But I think it will be a good idea to tell you about this next time.

Goodykoontz Accepts Post At Louisville

Rev. Harry G. Goodykoontz, Th. M., Th. D., has been elected Mary Hamilton Duncan Professor of Religious Education in the Louisville Presbyterian Seminary, according to an announcement by President H. Caldwell. He will succeed Dr. Lewis J. Sherrill, who has resigned, effective July 1, 1950, to accept a position in the faculty of Union Seminary, New York, after serving in the Louisville institution for 25 years.

Born in Roanoke, Va., Dr. Goodykoontz graduated from Beaver High School, Bluefield, W. Va. He received his A. B. degree from Davidson College, where he was an honor roll major in philosophy and English, member of the “Y” cabinet and board of control, member of ODK leadership fraternity and Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, captain of the track team, and member of the football and basketball squads.

He took his theological education at Union Seminary, Richmond, Va., receiving the B.D. degree in 1931, and winning the Moses D. Hoge Fellowship, on which he received the Th. M. degree in 1933. His doctorate of Theology, with a major in Religious Education, was conferred in 1937.

As associate director of young people's work in the Presbyterian Church, U. S., Dr. Goodykoontz was one of the originators of the youth program known as “Kingdom Highways.” Later, he held the pastorates of the First Presbyterian Church, Fayetteville, Ark. and First Church, Denton, Texas. He was Moderator of Washburn and Dallas Presbyteries, President of the Fayetteville Ministerial Association, and a member of the Committees on Religious Education in the Synods of Arkansas and Texas.

Since 1945, he has been Director of Student Work in the Presbyterian Church, U. S., with headquarters in Louisville. He has served as Editor of The Presbyterian Student, chairman of the National Commission on Church Student Work, Chairman of the Executive Committee, United Student Christian Council, and member of the Executive National Protestant Council on Higher Education. In 1948, he participated in international student conferences in England, Holland, France, and Switzerland. In 1949, he was Chairman of the Nominating Committee of the World’s Student Christian Association meeting in Canada.

Dr. Goodykoontz is author of Christian Ways for College Days, 1949, and of articles and reviews appearing in Intercollegian, The Student World, and various church papers. Mrs. Goodykoontz was formerly Miss Betty Love, of Wilmington and Asheville, N. C. With their three children, they live at 1811 Sils, Louisville.

University Of S.C. Has Air ROTC

Columbia, S. C., (IP) — One of seventeen colleges and universities starting the fall term with Air ROTC units forFor the first time, the University of South Carolina brings to 127 the number of educational institutions conducting Air ROTC training in the United States and Hawaii. The University's unit will specialize in Transportation, one of seven types of specialized instruction given at the schools, and the studies will include general administration, supply, aircraft maintenance engineering, armament, communications, comptrollership, and air installations. Freshmen who elect to take the course will be enrolled in the two-year basic course. Students who have had previous military experience and who otherwise qualify may be enrolled immediately in the Advanced Course usually given to third and fourth-year ROTC students. Freshman classes will be taught military orientation and study the organization and operation of the Air Force. These subjects are continued in the second year, with the cadets receiving some instruction in the specialized course. During the third year, the instruction primarily concerns the subject matter of the specialized course, and in the following summer, the students attend a six-week course at a summer camp at a USAF installation. The specialized course instruction is continued during the fourth year, and the cadets receive commissions as second lieutenants in the USAF Reserve upon completion of their studies.

In Gift Fund Hall Leaders Named
As is customary, the Christmas Gift Fund will be conducted on the dormitory halls by various hall leaders who have been asked by the “Y” to conduct the drive to each individual. The overall success of the drive depends wholly on the cooperation of the entire student body. The YMCA earnestly requests your wholehearted cooperation with these student hall leaders. Monday night at 6:30, a supper will be given for all hall leaders at which time the group will be given final instructions and suggestions about the conduction of the campaign. Those men who will head the drive in their representative locations are as follows: Rumple Left Section—Don Shriver, Bob Stubbs. Right Section—John Lyles, Chuck Kirby. Watts First Floor—Mott Price, Frank Sharpe. Second Floor—Jim Campbell, Howard Paul. Third Floor—Lonnie Turnipseed, Jim W. Campbell. Fourth Floor—Boyce Kendall, Alvin Gerhardt. Georgia First Floor—Charlie Mitchell. Second Floor—Johnny Guiton, Doug Hix. Third Floor—Allen Strand, Bill VanStory. West Basement—Jimmy Larkin. East First Floor—Bill Cassels, Cliff Turner. Second Floor—Dick Lilly, Slimey Sloan. Third Floor—R. B. Covington, John Watt. Fourth Floor—Al Guthrie, Virgil Pino. Basement—Bob Richardson. Duke Left Section—John Kelton, Lefty Hunter, Stubby Evans. Right Section—Jim Glenn, Doug Rice, Bob Keever. Middle Section—Jake Wade, Sam Joyner. First Floor—Auburn Lambeth, Dave Miller. Third Floor—Gabe Lowe, Bryan Robinson. Fourth Floor—Milton Clenseur, Frank Hooper. Others Hoke House—Charlton Torrence. Carolina Inn—Amos Camp, Johnny Richards. Town: Grady Spires, Bob Patton, Bill Mebane. Cardboard Village—Carl Eborn, York Pharr.

Literary Society Plans Chapel Play
Eu Hall was again the scene of a spirited meeting of the Eumanean Literary Society on December 5, at 7:30 p.m. President Chuck Kirby called the society to order, after which Vice President Ken Goodpasture led in a short devotional. The roll was called, the minutes read, and the floor opened for business. Discussion followed on the society's play to be presented in chapel on Wednesday, the 14th. An amendment was made in the constitution to the effect that all members missing three meetings a semester without adequate excuse be dropped from the roll. Other business concerning the meeting before Christmas was brought before the society. A short story was read by Mr. Jim Campbell, who was then welcomed into the society. Because of the Lateiner concert, other papers to be read were postponed until the following meeting and the critic's report was not given. The meeting was then adjourned by President Kirby.

A point is one-seventy-second of an inch because up to the middle of the 18th Century very little had been done to standardize type sizes and then an arbitrary measure was chosen for a scale, divided into 72 parts, and the divisions were called points. Catherine de Medici introduced ice cream, in its earliest form, into France in 1550. The recipe for ice cream was brought from Asia by Marco Polo.

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1949.

KRATHWOHL OUTLINES BLUFF-PROOF TESTS
Denver, Colo. (IP)—"If you don’t want to work, don’t go to college because you can’t bluff the prof any more.” This warning to lazy students was given by Dr. William C. Krathwohl, director of tests of the Institute of Psychological Services of the Illinois Institute of Technology. Speaking in this city recently before the Division of Educational Psychology of the American Psychological Association’s annual meeting, Dr. Krathwohl outlined testing methods which indicate the results that can be expected from students in English. An index of industriousness of any student can now easily be figured from college placement or orientation tests.

MEN ARE A MESS
If you smile at him, he thinks you're a flirt. If you don't, he thinks you're an iceberg. If you let him kiss you, he wishes you were more reserved. If you don’t, he'll seek consolation elsewhere. If you flatter him, he thinks you're simple. If you don't, he thinks you don’t understand him. If you let him make love to you, he thinks you're cheap. If you don’t, he'll go with a girl who will. If you go out with other fellows, he thinks you're fickle. If you don’t, he thinks no one will have you. MEN—God bless them! Don’t know what they want!!!

Lists Ticket Prices
The Faculty Athletic Committee has adopted the following policy with reference to admission to home games for the 1949-50 season: Married members of the faculty and staff are entitled to two (2) complimentary tickets (one ticket taxable and one ticket non-taxable) for games in Davidson. Single members are entitled to one such ticket. The widows of deceased faculty members likewise are entitled to one ticket. Children tickets will be sold for 50 cents for conference games, 25 cents for non-conference games. Faculty members and their families, and students, will sit in the west rollaway sections. Seats in these sections are not reserved, but it is believed that they will be adequate for all students and faculty families who will attend the games. All other seats in the gym will be reserved. Tickets may be secured from the ticket office in the rear of the gym basement, the first of each week before the game or games of that week. After Christmas, it is expected that the ticket office will be located in the new gym.