Davidson Al GOLD KEYS STUDENT LEADERS GET VOLUME XXXVI The Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, MAY 13, 1949

Alumnus Returns From Canal Zone As Army Instructor

ROOM SEEKERS GET GREEN STICK DK TAPS TWELVE STUDENT

C. W. Sample Leaves Caribbean Position To Join ROTC Staff

Homecoming is a tradition of American colleges and universities. It is the period when alumni return to the scenes of their higher education. Major Charles Walker Sample, Fort Amador, Canal Zone—will report to Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina, where he will join the ROTC staff as an instructor. Major Sample returns to his alma mater with an enviable record as an all-round athlete and social leader. At Davidson, he earned a letter in football, track, and golf; won the Southern Conference pole vault championship in 1938; was president of Sigma Delta, an athletic fraternity; president of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, a social fraternity; and received his Bachelor of Science degree in 1939.

Shortly after graduation, Major Sample—brother of Dr. A. M. Sample of Fort Pierce, Florida—was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Infantry. He went on active duty status under the Thomason Act of July 5, 1939. As a student, Major Sample attended the Motor Mechanics School in 1941 and the Advanced Officers School in 1944 at Fort Benning, Georgia; and the Command and General Staff School in 1946 at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas.

Major Sample served in the European Theatre of Operations with the 9th Infantry Division and earned the right to wear the Combat Infantry Badge, the Bronze Star, and the Commendation Ribbon. Major Sample, Mrs. Sample (formerly Julia Bennett), and their two children, Anne Moore Sample, aged 3, and Julia Bennett Sample, aged 1, will leave the Isthmus on May 6th aboard the “Panama,” a Panama Railroad Company boat.

Senior Auction Set For Monday Evening

Sponsored by the Beaver Club, the annual senior auction will be held Monday night, May 16, at 8:00 p.m. in front of Georgia dormitory. The purpose of this sale is to allow seniors a chance to rid themselves of articles which will not be practical to take along when they leave school. However, it is not restricted to the sale of seniors’ belongings. Anyone wishing to sell some possessions may do so. The fact that all goods sold have been used by college men assures a sizeable pool of articles useful to every student in school. Last year’s conglomeration included easy chairs, table lamps, tennis rackets, radios, inner tubes, ladies’ underwear, and three-quarter inch cable—only a few of a varied assortment of fixtures, furniture, and machinery.

Fear of losing an article of considerable value at a ridiculously low bid may be expelled by setting a minimum price. The affair will not be entirely a matter of buying and selling. The appointment of J. D. Ashmore, Bill Scruggs, and McNeill Upchurch as auctioneers hints of something other than business, and Hal Haynes and his Hillbillies will be on hand to exercise their talents with a full ensemble of guitars, fiddles, and jugs. So bring a chair down Monday night if you don’t want to sell it, sit in it, and enjoy the proceedings.

Summer School To Offer Accelerated Course Of 14 Hours

On June 2, the first term of summer school will open, continuing through July 19. July 20-26 will be the dates for the second term. The sessions will be conducted as in previous years. The eight-hour and four-hour laboratory courses will begin on June 2, and the six-hour and three-hour courses in other subjects on June 9. During the second term, only six-hour and three-hour courses will be offered. But there is a consolation, as all Saturdays of the second term except July 30 and August 20 will be holidays.

By entering at the beginning of the session on June 2 and remaining through both terms to August 26, a student can secure 14 semester hours of credit. For high school graduates wishing to enter as freshmen in June instead of next September, they will be able to complete two of their freshman courses before the fall session. By this plan, it is possible for a student to complete his college career in three calendar years, provided he attends three full summer sessions.

The expenses listed for tuition are $8.00 per semester hour; room, $2.50 per week; laundry, $1.25 per week; Health Service Fee, $2.00 per term; Student Activities Fee, $1.00 per term; and board will be approximately $10.00 per week in the private boarding houses.

The courses offered for the first term with the professors are as follows: Bible 11-12—Boyd; Business 42—Griffin; Economics 21-22—Ratliff; Economics 41—Griffin; (Continued On Page Six)

Major Sample and Family

BY HARTLEY HALL

I really have a problem with the rooming situation. For a while, I had the comforting though unwarranted idea that I was all set for next year. I liked my room; it seemed to like me. Several nights ago, our platonic relationship was rather suddenly brought to an unhappy end when a crude hulk of humanity heaved into the room and bellowed forth my last name. I replied. He loped over, brandishing a big jackass smile from ear to ear, gave me a slap on the back, and said, “I’ve been looking all over for you, pal!”

As I picked myself up and tried to artificially respire a little air back into my lungs, I motioned him to a seat and feebly mumbled something to the effect that I wished he were still looking for me. He declined my offer of a chair and said, “You planning to use this room next year?” “Well, I really don’t know.” “The only reason I ask is that I just told Mrs. Little that you were leaving, ‘cause, you see, me and two of my buddies are planning to move in here next year and we just wanted to be sure that you didn’t mind.” It seems like a kind of... “Fine! I knew you wouldn’t mind. Fellow, you don’t know...

VESPERS

YMCA, Rev. Joseph Clower, First Presbyterian Church, Morganton, N.C.

CHAPEL

Monday, May 16—Athletic Award Day.
Tuesday, May 17—Sikes—Talk on Water Safety.
Wednesday, May 18—Unannounced.
Thursday, May 19—Unannounced.
Friday, May 20—Unannounced.

'Y' Board of Control Chosen By Students

In the recent student body elections, Harrison Taylor of the rising senior class and Randy Taylor and Neil Leach of the rising junior class were chosen to serve as student members of the YMCA Board of Control. These newly elected members assume office at the first regular May meeting of the board. The junior members thus elected shall serve for a period of two years.

This Board of Control is composed of Dr. Cunningham, Mr. Jackson, Dr. Pritchett, Dr. Davidson, and five elected student members. Besides the threeNewly-elected Curtis Harper and Dave Anderson remain to serve their second year on the board. According to the local constitution, it is the duty of the Y secretary to authorize speakers for Fall and Spring Services, select the board, and choose all financial transactions concerning the funds of the YMCA. The board also determines the general policies of the Y.

The twelve men tapped by Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity, in Chapel last Thursday are (top row, left to right): Tim Harden, and (bottom row), Bill Bird, Bo Roddey, Bill Alexander, Liston Mills, and Whit Cobb. The newly honored leaders, with the exception of Bo Roddey, are Juniors: Bob Hollister, Hapless, Sackless Students Plagued By ‘Spastic Twitches and Speech Impediments.

"How much I appreciate this. Well, long." With that, he stretched his six-foot-three-inch frame, flexed a sixteen-inch bicep, and with another of those chest-flattening slaps, he moved through the door. Now, there was nothing to it; you see, you don't have to change. The room was perfect. I decided to fix the whole mess by taking my usual pet channels. But you would have thought it was much simpler. I decided there was nothing to waste time on. I would just fix it right. 

Dr. Davidson Writes Ante-Bellum Novel
The Mecklenburg Historical Society is bringing out a novel on May 20 (Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence Day) written by Professor Chalmers Davidson. The novel concerns early life in and around this section of North Carolina and is called “Cloud over Catawba.” As might be expected, Peter S. Ney figures in it, and there are references to Prexy Robert Hall Morrison and Maxwell Chambers. Of especial interest to Davidson students is a series of letters, woven into the story, from the 1890s. Davidson was “Old South” before the Civil War. 

Davidson students may find it disappointing that life at Davidson was not all it was cracked up to be. Professor Davidson says there is nothing any alumnus could object to. The story is principally concerned with the conscience of the hero, the Calvinistic River belle plantations. The end of the story serves as a love story without its hot Presbyterian proprieties. The book represents Davidson in the 1840s, with maps of the Catawba River section, courthouses, churches, and plantation homes drawn in miniature. The book will be sold at the Davidson College Bookstore and in Charlotte bookstores. It is a short novel, and the price, according to the author, is reasonable.

NUMBER TWENTY-NINE
Kappa, honorary student body Cheerleader For '49
Charlie Mitchell, of the rising senior class, was elected head cheerleader last Wednesday in a student body election. Charlie hails from Wilmington, N.C., where he was head cheerleader at Wilmington High School. After his graduation there, he served in the United States Navy for a year and a half. He entered Davidson in the fall of 1940. Charlie has been a cheerleader for the past two years. He is also on the track team and a member of the Kappa Alpha Social fraternity. With the aid of Bill Cassels, the only other returning cheerleader from last year, Charlie plans to pick one boy from the sophomore class, two from the junior class, and two from the senior class to help him lead the Wildcat yells. He says that at present, it is too early to make any definite plans concerning cheerleading for next year, but he has made some tentative plans to increase enthusiasm and eliminate confusion at the games.

Storage Space To Be Available In Dorms
Space for storing trunks and other belongings during summer months will be available as in the past for those students who wish to do so, it has been learned from Mr. D. Hobart, Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds. There is some storage space in the basements of East, West, and Georgia dormitories and on the halls of Duke. However, since this will supply only a small part of the needed space, the College Warehouse next to the ROTC Building will also be used, and those living in Watts and Rumple will store their belongings there. Everything should be tagged with the owner's name. Since these storage rooms will be kept locked, it will be necessary to contact the janitor to get storage space. The best time of day to see the janitor is in the afternoon, shortly after dinner. Everyone is asked not to leave any belongings in the rooms or closets during the summer. It's not safe and will be in the way of workmen.

Faculty Author LEADERS LEADERSHIP FRAT ISSUES BIDS TO SIX SENIORS, SIX JUNIORS
In the tap day exercises in chapel Thursday, six seniors and six juniors were invited to become members of Omicron Delta Kappa, leadership fraternity. These were chosen on the basis of character and leadership in the fields of scholarship, athletics, publications, and fine arts. The men are: Seniors — Hugh Farrior, Dave Gambrell, Ed Hopper, Bill Scruggs, Tim Hardin, and Paul Horne; Juniors — Bill Alexander, Whit Cobb, Bob Hollister, Liston Mills, Bill Bird, and Bo Roddy.

HUGH FARRIOR
Hugh Farrior, chairman of this year’s election board, has spent most of his life in China but now calls Montreat home. He has been an active member of the Council, Alpha, and I. R. C., and president of Phi Mu Alpha.

DAVE GAMBRELL
Dave Gambrell, a member of the “Y” Cabinet, the Glee Club, Phi Mu Alpha, and Phi Mu Society, hails from Atlanta, Ga. He has served as a member of the football team for three years, manager of the "D" Club, and editor of the Scripts. Dave is retiring from the Sigma Fraternity and has come in for much commendation as editor of this year’s magazine.

ED HOPPER
Ed Hopper, a basketball and track star, hails from Meridian, Miss. Ed has been an active participant in basketball this year and has been the outstanding high hurdler for the Davidson track teams for four years. Holder of various offices, Ed is at present president of the “Y” Cabinet and a member of the Sigma Phi Fraternity.

BILL SCRUGGS
Bill Scruggs, the retiring Pan-Hell president, has been responsible for the successful dances this year, including spring frolics. He is a member of the famed Scruggs and Upchurch Duo, and a headliner with the Senekes Orchestra. Bill, coming from Charlotte, is one of the head cheerleaders this year and a member of the Beta Theta Pi Fraternity.

TIM HARDIN
Tim Hardin, coming from Macon, is a pre-dental student who entered Davidson from Georgia. He is a member of the Davidson Social Club.

Davidson Presents Pre-School Edition For Incoming Frosh
Bob Hollister, elected editor of the Davidsonian, announced today that he plans to publish a pre-school issue of the Davidsonian next year exclusively for incoming freshmen. It is to come out on September ninth, the day the Freshmen arrive. This edition is for the purpose of acquainting the newcomers with the college, its extra-curricular activities, and its traditions. This issue will be composed of two pages, including articles such as: Information concerning the YMCA; Rush Week, how it is conducted and the schedule; a calendar of the main departments of the college; information concerning extra-curricular activities, requirements for graduation in the three years at Davidson; information on sports at Davidson, including our record this year, prospects for next year, and general information concerning our athletic policy. It will also include an article on the dances at Davidson College, a feature on a typical Davidson Freshman, and editorials entitled, “On Joining a Fraternity,” “Davidson Traditions,” and “Study Habits.”