Bill Bird Elected To Head Pan-Hellenic Council For Ensuing Year

THIS WEEK-END BOUNCE WITH BENEKE

ALENDA VOLUME XXXVII

The Davidsonian

ORTA LIBERTAS

BUT SAVE SOME FOR WINTHROP NEXT WEEK

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, APRIL 22, 1949

NUMBER TWENTY-SEVEN

HAMILTON WILL EDIT

PAT CLARK TO BE SECRETARY

BOBBY CARSON, TREASURER

Monday night, April 18, a joint meeting of the old and new Pan Hellenic Council was held at the Beta house. At that time, the new Pan Hellenic elected its officers for the coming year. Bill Bird, representative from Kappa Alpha, was elected to be president of Pan Hellenic for the coming school year. Pat Clark, SVE, was elected secretary, and Bobby Carson, SAE, was elected treasurer. The new Pan Hellenic organization will take over in September.

Bill Bird, the new president of Pan Hellenic, hails from Fredericksburg, VA, where he was the outstanding student in his graduating class in high school. At Davidson, Bill has been a member of the Student Council, Beaver Club, and "D" Club. Bill is president of the Junior Class this year. He played three years of varsity baseball at Davidson. Bill Bird is Kappa Alpha’s Pan Hellenic representative for next year.

Pat Clark was elected secretary of the new Pan Hellenic. Pat hails from Clarkton, N.C., where he was president of his class in high school. Before coming to Davidson, Pat attended the University of North Carolina and served three years in the U.S. Army. At Davidson, Pat has been active in the ROTC, serving as battalion commander for the first semester of this year. Pat is a member of Scabbard and Blade at Davidson and represents Sigma Pi Epsilon in Pan Hellenic.

Bobby Carson will be treasurer of next year's Pan Hellenic organization. Bobby hails from Charlotte, N.C., and is a senior. Also a veteran, Bob served two years in the U.S. Navy before coming to Davidson. Carson, a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, has the distinction of being the only married member of the new Pan Hellenic.

Other representatives on next year’s Pan Hellenic are Pete Brown, Phi Gam; Tom Apperson, Sigma Chi; Jack Fanjoy, Pi Kappa Alpha; Jim Cobb, Phi Delt; Slick Evans, Bob Richardson, Kappa Sigma; and Walter McSwain, Pi Kappa Phi.

"Y" Imports Coeds For Social Function

By importing one hundred Winthrop College girls next Saturday, the YMCA is engineering one of the biggest on-campus social functions of the year. Arrangements have already been made between Davidson and Winthrop and the girls will arrive at 2:00 o'clock, Saturday afternoon. Entertainment for the visiting coeds will consist of a track meet with Washington and Lee beginning at 1:30 p.m., a baseball game with Clemson beginning at 3:30 p.m., and a dance from 8:00 until 11:30 o'clock, when the girls must leave. The dance is being sponsored by the Beaver Club which will furnish added entertainment not yet designated.

Students knowing girls at Winthrop have been requested to get dates ahead of time so that the Y can post an accurate list on the blackboard. Failure to do this caused duplication the last time that a similar event was held. Bob McGeehee commented on the function with these words, "The early interest has been good and it is hoped that this interest will continue and increase so that the day will be a big success."

Old Time Revival At Unity Next Week

Beginning Sunday night, April 24, and continuing through May 1, Rev. John Howard will preach a series of special services at the Davidson Unity Church. "Lifting Christ in the Crises," will be the subject of the week-long services which will begin at 7:30 each night. Rev. Howard is remembered by some as a former student at Davidson. During his last two years, he served this Unity Church. It is well to note that the church made the same advancement in members and in additions to the physical plant under John Howard's leadership. He was most popular among his fellow students at that time and has been highly spoken of by all his associates as a great minister of the Gospel. For these revival services, Rev. Howard comes from his own church in Tifton, Georgia. Ken Smartt, the present pastor of Unity Church, and Matt McGowan, the assistant pastor, join with the entire congregation in cordially inviting all the students to come and hear Rev. Howard and to join in and enjoy the singing. The people of Unity Church are strong hymn singers. Hymns sung with real spirit will be heard at the congregational song service which will precede each of the revival services.

TEX BENEKE

Weekends Will Feature Life: Liberty, Pursuit of Women

Two or three times each year the students here at Davidson are granted the dubious privilege of throwing up their heels and acting like other college students do every week-end. It doesn't take long for you to figure out to which week-end we refer. The dance sets, of course. At these times the fellows (those that have been good little boys) are allowed to forget their Saturday morning, and have one hell of a big time—with some minor reservations. The week-end must be carried off with decorum, making for a "hang your clothes on the hickory limb, but don’t go near the water" affair, and sometimes producing extreme conflict situations due to incompatibility of our "be a good boy, and have a good time" outlook. Nevertheless, the student body has learned that "sweetness and light" when mixed in the proper proportions can have a pleasingly stimulating effect on any dance set—especially when "she" is around to have a part in the mixing.

The only dismal outlook for the coming week-end arises in the fact that from all we have been able to learn, we will lack the usual baptismal rain that in the past has always descended with characteristic benevolence on our dances. Dr. Cunningham was extremely worried over this situation, realizing that the majority of the upper-classmen would have no idea whatsoever of how to act during a dry dance week-end. Also realizing that "one in the tar is worth two in the mud," the Executive Committee has taken immediate steps to get the campus in a state fitting for such an occasion.

While the faculty has been rather concerned of late over the low scores made by our students on some rather enlightening tests last year, the majority of the student body has been rather concerned over some high grades they made on other enlightening tests of this past week. Undoubtedly everyone here on the campus is expectantly contemplating altering his grade somewhat (especially if he made over 20), and with a nominal amount of cooperation there's no limit to what might be accomplished. For those who contemplate mocking affairs and who still remember the old adage about the preferences of men and sissies in their amour, we might throw in a word of caution about this He-man stuff—besides let's do these things like gentlemen: happy hunting, and here's eight to five she won't.

Davidsonian Appoints New Managing Editors For 1950

Bob Hollister, recently elected editor in chief, has announced his staff for the coming year. Associate editors, who are members of the senior class, will be Jack Hazard, Lonnie Turnipseed, and Don Hix. Managing editors, who come from the rising junior class, will be Don Shriver, Stan Kennett, and Bob McGeehee.

Sigma Upsilon met Thursday night, April 14, at the Kappa Sigma house, holding its first meeting since the Spring holidays. President Stan Kennett opened the meeting with the announcement of a creative writing contest made possible by the interest and contribution of Mr. William C. Dobb-Kerr of California. Mr. Dobb-Kerr suggested that members of Sigma Upsilon select the best eight or ten papers and send them to him for final elimination and the selection of the award-winning submission. As set forth by Mr. Dobb-Kerr, the contest is open only to members of Sigma Upsilon.

The program continued with the presentation of an essay by Professor Woods of the English Department, dealing with the Troy legend and its historical significance. The essay was extremely well written and displayed deep insight and vast knowledge of the subject. Following this, Bob Hollister read a short story entitled, "The Last Mile," a story of a coal mine fire which ended with an ironic twist. Don Shriver next presented his observations and memories of city life. Don brought out the spirit of the city, its vitality, and its fashion. Finally, Professor Erwin concluded the night's program with the review of two literary works by Thomas Wolfe and Virginia Woolf. Professor Erwin brought out the similarities and differences between both Thomas and Virginia Woolf. He pointed out that both possessed a unique style and fashion, which was evident from their writings.be Hartley Hall, in charge of the front page; Jim Murray, the back page and proofreading; Tom Mann, the editorial page; Neal Leech, assignments; Arnie Covell, feature stories; Randy Taylor, copy; Bill Cumming, cuts. John Hobart was chosen to fill the newly created job of city editor. The sports editor will be Gordon Scott. Others named for staff jobs are: Bill Hollister, exchange editor; and Bill King, art editor. These appointments will become effective after this issue. Hollister has stated that the paper will have six pages weekly if possible from the financial standpoint. Also, he stated that twice during the year on big weekends, an eight-page issue will appear. Also, the sophomores and freshmen who have worked on the paper this year are called to stick with the DAVIDSONIAN and help put out a first-class paper next year. Stressing the desire for an efficient organization, he said that the staff will work for an “A” rating which is awarded by the Associated Collegiate Press. As for changes in policy, Hollister stated that all juniors on the staff will be eligible to run for the editorship next year if they do a reasonable amount of work and are, in the minds of the editor and associate editors, good candidates. This means that a man could become a candidate without being a managing editor. Another change announced was that the associate editors, who have traditionally been rather inactive, will be directly connected with the paper and will take an active part in its publication.

Mills Named To Lead Rising Senior Class

Liston Mills has been chosen by the rising senior class as president for 1950. After the elimination of a field of fifteen candidates, Mills defeated Curtis Harper in the run-off held on April 21. Liston, who comes to Davidson from Wilmington, is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha and was recently elected president of the fraternity. Bo Roddy will be vice president, but the choice of class officers only goes to press. The office of secretary-treasurer depends on the result of a run-off between Jake Wade and Jim Cobb.

Sam Joyner is president of the rising junior class. Sam hails from Kernersville, N.C., and is a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity. He has played baseball for the last two seasons. Assisting Joyner as vice president will be Wood Leach, and Warren Sims will take charge as secretary-treasurer.

Mac McLean will take charge of the rising sophomore class as president. Coming to us from Central High School in Charlotte, Mac has played on the freshman basketball and golf teams. He is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity and of the Beaver Club. Other officers of the sophomore class will be Jim Fickeisen, vice president, and Dick Stockton, secretary-treasurer.

Professor Thompson To Assume Pastorate

This coming summer, Professor William M. Thompson of the Bible Department will leave Davidson to take up his new duties as pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Hampden-Sydney. His new position will not call for teaching—only those duties required of a college pastor. Professor Thompson was very active in college life while a student at Davidson. Graduating in the class of '35, he was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, ODK, Sigma Upsilon, and the International Relations Club. He was also president of the YMCA and managing editor of the DAVIDSONIAN. Prof. Thompson found time to manage the tennis team and was a member of the “D” Club. He was described in the annual of '35 as being “tactful, resourceful, and dignified.”

After leaving Davidson, Professor Thompson taught school at Episcopal High in Alexandria, Va. He then went to Union Theological Seminary and upon graduation planned to take his Ph.D. work at Edinburgh. This plan was abandoned because of the outbreak of war in Europe, and instead, he went to Yale for one year for residence work toward the Ph.D. degree. While at Yale, Professor Thompson was a member of a reserve unit of the chaplain’s corps. When the United States was drawn into the war, he became regimental chaplain for the 351st Infantry Regiment of the 88th Division, serving overseas in North Africa and Italy from March 1943 until October 1945. After his discharge in January 1946, Prof. Thompson went back to Yale for more work before coming to Davidson. Professor Thompson has had some experience in this new work as he has served as the assistant pastor of Grace Memorial Presbyterian Church in Richmond, and as the pastor of Royster Memorial Presbyterian Church in Norfolk, Virginia.

CRIPTS ’N PRANKS

BOB GRUBE DEFEATED IN RUN-OFF FOR EDITORSHIP

MARY MAYO

Greek Choruses To Present Song Fest

The annual Inter-fraternity Sing will be held on the steps of Chambers Building at 7:30 p.m. on Tuesday, April 26. There are expected to be eleven competing groups, representing ten social fraternities and the Campus Club. The winning group, which will be selected by a committee of three judges, will be awarded a trophy cup which they will be entitled to keep for the coming year. Any group that wins the cup for three consecutive years is allowed to keep it permanently. The judges for this year are: Mr. Larry Walker, assistant manager of WBT in Charlotte; Mr. Gordon Sweet, professor of music at Queens College; Dr. Charles Kraemer, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. A fourth judge, Mrs. John Holliday of Queens College, will select the most able conductor of the various groups, and to this man will go a trophy cup to be held permanently by him.

As has been announced previously, the judging will be on the following basis: Entertainment value, 20 percent; mode of presentation, 10 percent; arrangement of songs, 15 percent; choice of songs, 15 percent; and general tonal effect, 40 percent. Special consideration will be given to the fact that the competing groups are not, and cannot be, expected to be real musicians. The judges will be on the lookout for novel ideas, and a good score can be obtained from this type of presentation alone. There will be adequate seating for the audience. Loudspeakers, lights, and a piano will be provided. In case of rain, the sing will be held in the auditorium. All are invited to attend and an enjoyable and memorable evening is guaranteed.

Houck Chosen New Business Manager

Bill Houck was recently selected by the Publications Board to serve as business manager of the DAVIDSONIAN for next year. Houck has served on the business staff for the last three years and has been circulation manager this year. A pre-med student, he is active in intramural sports and is a member of this year’s baseball team. Bill is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity and will manage his fraternity boarding house next year. His home is in Florence, S.C.

The business manager has charge of the business staff, takes care of all national advertising, keeps the books, pays the bills, and administers the budget. The paper operates on a budget of nearly $6,000 annually. This money is secured from advertising, subscriptions, contracts, and the Student Activities Fund.

In an election ending Tuesday, Bill Hamilton was elected editor of the school magazine for the school year 1949-1950. Hamilton defeated Bob Grube in a run-off ballot for the editorship. Bill has served on the staff of Scripts ’n Pranks for two years and is the art editor this year. Bill does quite a bit of art work on the campus and he has been on the Wildcat Handbook staff for this year. Hamilton’s parents are missionaries, having just recently returned from China. Bill was born in Suchow, China; however, he has been in this country since 1941, living in Atlanta until his parents relocated. Bill is a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society and the Campus Club. Bill, an art major, plans to go into commercial art after his graduation from Davidson in May of 1950. Hamilton has not yet picked his staff for next year’s Scripts ’n Pranks; however, he has been thinking it over and plans to announce the new staff next week.

Lan Pan Voted Best Phi Society Orator

The Philanthropic Literary Society held its regular meeting on April 14. The program consisted of a series of five talks made by men who had previously been selected from a larger group. President Ira Harmon introduced the speakers, and Lan Pan was voted best orator by a secret vote of the society. Following are the speakers and their subjects: Lan Pan, the famous Patrick Henry recitation of “Liberty or Death” speech; Hugh Perrin on Charles Darwin; and Lyles on Parasitic Infections.

The society key for this semester was awarded to President Ira Harmon. Plans were made for a joint meeting with the Winthrop Literary Society on April 29 at 7:15 p.m. Dick Richards will speak against the topic of loyalty during an oratorical contest. Three judges will be selected by each society, and the subject will be appropriate to the students present at the joint meeting.

GRAVES INTERRED

Graveside services for Lieutenant Edward L. Erwin were held at the Cremores Temple, but were conducted in the Philippines. He is survived by his parents, Professor and Mrs. Edward L. Erwin, and by one sister, Mrs. Robert C. Dyer of Chicago.