In spite of all the dances, the concert by Margaret Truman, the Parade of Progress, the barbecue dinner, the big
event of this Homecoming Weekend (and every other Homecoming) is the football game which finds Davidson entertaining the University of
Richmond once more. The Spiders, who seem to be as unpredictable as the Cats, are a good bet to pull
all the stops out in an effort to add to the woes of the crippled Davidsons.

LINE-UP RIDDLED WITH INJURIES

Probably no Davidson team in recent years has faced the prospect of playing a game with so many top-flight men
out of action or at least partially slowed up due to injuries. A rundown of this list should show why
Coach Charley’s hair is getting grayer by the minute... Richards out with a leg infection... Sharpe nursing a badly sprained
shoulder... Mapes sidelined with a chipped cheekbone. None of these three is expected to see action. To this list can
be added Reynolds, Carnegie, and Eborn who will be slowed up with charley horses... Runyan whose back is still giving
him trouble... Turner who has been out for two weeks... Lambeth who returned from St. Louis with several bruised ribs
and a nose injury. Charlie Parker expects to have all of these ready for at least part-time service today, but
none will be in top shape.

MUCH DEPENDS ON SOPHOMORES

The job of filling these gaping holes has fallen on the shoulders of several battle-proved sophomores, and with so many
second-year men in the line-up today, Davidson backers may get an idea of what to expect from the local gridders
for the next year or so. Counted on for heavy duty in the line are Bill McNeely, the Iredell County
lad who wasn’t even sure what a football looked like before entering college... Jim Fasul, who has already distinguished himself
in his first year of varsity play, and massive Jerry Kiser who carries 280 lbs. on his stocky frame. Seatback
Johnny Guiton is almost certain to show his stuff against the Spiders. Johnny played during most of the second half
against St. Louis, carrying the ball 12 times and averaging five yards a try. This tiny speedster has continually looked
good in scrimmages and is probably the best broken field runner on the squad. Ham Wade, another sophomore, has been
moved from defensive halfback to offensive fullback. Against the Bills from Missouri, Ham posted a healthy 5.5 average lugging the
ball for the best rushing average to date on the team.

POST-MORTEM OF ST. LOUIS GAME

If their past performances this year mean anything, the Wildcats should be “up” for the Richmond contest despite the injuries
which have riddled the line-up. The comments of students and faculty members concerning last week’s thumping at the hands of
the rough Bills have done little to help the morale of the team. True, Davidson was beaten and beaten soundly
by a team “that didn’t have nearly what Presbyterian did,” according to one of the members of the coaching staff.
But a squad whose ranks were depleted by injuries to the extent of the Davidson team, is bound to have
some of the life taken out of it. In the first place, Turner and Mapes didn't even make the trip
to St. Louis... Eborn and Richards didn’t play during the game... Sharpe and Carnegie were forced to leave the game
due to injuries... and the starting backfield, Rimer, Sifferd, Lambeth, and Runyan were all hurt during the first half and
didn’t play during the last half. At different times during the second half, eight sophomores were on the defensive eleven
and seven sophs took the field on the offensive.

(Continued on Page Eight)

TIME OUT!
By Chet Smith

“He subscribes only to gruesome murder magazines—they make the customer's hair easier to cut!”

CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
John Mack and Son
Phone 289
Mooresville, N. C.

PAGE SIX

Bills Hand Locals Terrific Drubbing
By DAN McKEITHEN

Davidson's up and down football team found itself down last Saturday as it received a 41-12 pasting from the St.
Louis Billikens on the victor’s home field. With a rain-soaked homecoming gathering looking on, the underdog St. Louisans scored after
just four and a half minutes of play on a 60-yard run. A Wildcat fumble set up a second score
for the Billikens. With the score, 12-0, the visitors came back with a touchdown on a 51-yard pass play from
Auburn Lambeth to Jimmy Sifford. After Billiken halfback E. McCluskey broke away for a 66-yard scoring jaunt, Lambeth returned the
kickoff 85 yards to set the stage for the second Davidson tally. Fullback Rhea Adams, subbing for the injured C.
L. Runyan, carried the pigskin into paydirt. Shortly after, a Lambeth pass was intercepted and run for a TD. The
half saw the score 26-12, and also saw the last of the Davidson scoring. The second half scoring was accomplished
by fullback Shackleton’s short plunge, a safety, and a 77-yard run with an intercepted pass. Minus at least four first-string
men, including Lambeth, the Wildcats had trouble moving far. Johnny Guiton ran for 50 yards to the St. Louis 27,
but it was here that the drive bogged down. Fullback Ham Wade ran very well and ended up with a
commendable five and a half yard average per try. Returning to their section of the country, the Wildcats plan to
play hard and add a few victories.

Wildkittens Hold Furman Frosh to Tie

Last Saturday the freshman team opened its grid season with a hard-fought duel with the $27,000 Furman freshman squad. The
Wildkittens were outweighed 25 pounds per man in the line and 15 pounds in the backfield, but were nevertheless able
to equal the Hurricanes in first downs and score. The South Carolinians were first to score. In the second quarter
Robertson took the ball on an off-tackle play and struck for pay dirt. In this same quarter, with 12 seconds
left to play, the Wildkittens connected on a long pass play from Rowland to Harrell which was good for 56
yards and a touchdown. Both teams missed their try for extra points and the half ended with the score 6
and 6. Neither team scored in the second half. Davidson play was marked by Rowland's passing, which was good for
several long gains and a touchdown, and Stanley's kicking, which, with the exception of a blocked one, averaged between 45
and 50 yards. The Wildkittens have four remaining contests, the next being with State on October 28. The State team
has several all-state men on their bench, but nevertheless suffered defeat at Durham in their last game. This game should
be fairly even as it is the second time either team has taken the field this year. Assistant Coach Wilson
says that even with the lightness of the team they make up for it in fight and spirit. The squad
is in the best of shape and the few injuries sustained in the Furman game have already improved so the
team is once more at full strength. The Freshman backfield is one of the fastest in several years so from
all outward signs the team should have a pretty good season.

Remained Open

Davidson was the only college in the Confederate States which opened for every session during the Civil War.lost 83 alumni
in the Civil War, 20 in World War I, and 55 in World War II.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

STOCKTON TWINS SHOW FORM

Team Play Is Keynote In Upset Cross Country Win Over William and Mary

By BILL ADAMS

Bounding back from last week’s defeat like a brand new boomerang, Davidson’s cross country lads upset the dope sheets and
handed William and Mary's Indians a conference defeat Saturday morning at Richardson Stadium by the close score of 28-33. The
win was a team victory, offering convincing proof of the hard work and determination shown by the Red and Black
bearers since last week's disappointing opener. Davidson has now broken even in her first two Southern Conference outings.

Although William and Mary gathered first and second places in the meet, Davidson showed its all-around merit and depth by
sending every man on the team across the finish line before William and Mary’s fourth runner could finish. Leading the
Wildcats in their victorious chase was Bradley, who toured the Davidson course in 21:45, the best time of his career
on our course, and a time bettering any turned in by the renowned Jack Gray at this point last year.
Only nine seconds behind Bradley was sophomore Tom Stockton, who seems destined to be another Davidson track great, while the
entire Wildcat team of D. Stockton, Grube, Anderson, Long, Patterson, and Lee bested their previous efforts in pacing out the
victory. William and Mary presented two brilliant runners in Baker and Lindsay; however, the Indians failed to produce the necessary
support behind their pace-setters to win. This was the same William and Mary team that beat our Davidson speedsters last
year, but things were different this time.

Coach Whittle expressed a little surprise at the outcome but seemed very pleased with his boys. He pointed out the
fact that Davidson’s men were in much better condition than the invaders from Williamsburg and weren't harassed by the injuries
and ailments slowing them last week. He expressed his satisfaction in every man’s showing and in the performance of the
team as a whole. They should be congratulated for a job well done.

The results:
1. Baker (WM) 21:30; 2. Lindsey (WM), 21:38; 3. Bradley (D), 21:45; 4. T. Stockton (D) 21:54; 5. Lawson (WM),
22:03; 6. D. Stockton (D) 22:24; 7. Grube (D) 22:59; 8. Anderson and Long (D) 23:30; 10. Patterson (D), 23:54;
11. Lee (D), 24:31; 12. Sinnesom (WM) 25:00; 13. Desamper (WM), 25:20; 14. Carter (WM), 26:17; 15. Hopkins (WM), 27:15.

Wildcat Sports

HARRIERS MEET RANDOLPH-MACON TODAY

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1949

UNPREDICTABLE CATS, SPIDERS, MEET

Davidson Seeks to Keep Conference Slate Clean By Win Over Richmond

Netters Practicing Under Cobb, Roddey

Davidson's basketballers have started pounding the hardwood in order to get in shape for a full season which opens with
the State College conference champs. Minus the coach of many successful past seasons, Norman Shepherd, the Wildcats will start a
clean slate under the spirited coaching of Boyd Baird. Although Coach Baird is not able to be with the team
much so far because of his coaching duties with the freshman football team, he will take over a young, but
determined group of basketball aspirants as soon as possible. Whit Cobb and Bo Roddey lead the group of experienced players,
and these two have been serving as coach in the absence of Baird. Johnny Richards, now doing a good job
on the gridiron, is expected to do just as good a job on the hardwood and continue his fine form
of last season. Dutch Hengeveld and Tommy Haller, also of last year’s varsity, are showing good floor play and should
see a lot of action this year.

Graduates of last year’s freshmen team, which had an enviable record, are going to give some real trouble to the
opposition before the year is out. The stalwarts of Coach Baird's ’48 freshman team such as T. C. Coleman, Don
Lazenby, Bill Brooks, Mac McLean, and Eric Clark are rounding into shape and show promise for a good season. There
is one thing missing from this team which is a great handicap, and this is height; however, a fighting spirit
can make up for a lot of inches, and Davidson teams are known for this spirit.

COACH SHEPARD SETTLED IN LEXINGTON, MASS

Mr. Norman W. Shepard, former director of athletics at Davidson, and Mrs. Shepard have recently settled in Lexington, Mass., some
ten miles from his office at Harvard University. Leaving Davidson in August, they spent the month of September in Orleans,
Cape Cod. With the opening of Harvard University, they went to Arlington, Mass., where they remained a few weeks with
Lieutenant Charles Steel, Jr., son of Colonel Steel, former head of the Davidson ROTC Department. Coach Shepard writes that Harvard
“is really an academic institution, with other things subsidiary. There are no athletic scholarships. It’s tough on the coaches—but the
way it should be.”

By BILL WHITE

Davidson being the high-ranking scholastic institute that it is, the three R's stand head and shoulders above everything else on
the Cat campus this homecoming weekend, the trio representing Rejuvenation, Richmond, and Rain. In the face of the injury plague
which has taken its toll in Coach Charley Jamerson’s husky grid ranks this past week, rejuvenation is a difficult task.
Richmond looms every bit as big a threat as the club which spoiled homecoming last fall, and Dr. Cunningham's rain,
like the poor, is always with us. Nevertheless, against Richmond here tomorrow, Davidson should be a more reasonable facsimile of
the club which tripped State than the one which saw its players knocked right and left in the somewhat surprising,
top-heavy spill at St. Louis last Saturday. Coach Charley has stressed rejuvenation this week in work, and the crippled Cats
definitely want this one. Jamerson admits that the Wildcats were not keyed-up for the inter-sectional, nothing-to-gain, loss to the Billikens,
but adds that the enthusiasm is up for this Southern Conference clash with the Spiders tomorrow afternoon in Richardson Field
stadium. At present, Davidson owns as clean a slate in conference play as anyone in the loop. Richmond, VMI, Washington
and Lee, Furman, and the Citadel are the South, and a few less “breaks” in the realm of the injured,
Davidson could, mathematically at least, win the conference title. Richmond, the team who startled conference circles with a 12-0 upset
of Furman two weeks ago after the Hurricane had bumped South Carolina, runs from the same single-wing behind an unbalanced
line that Davidson does, but depends mostly on power plays through the middle with Joe Purinai, a hulking fullback, the
man who carries most of the mail. Cotton Billingsley, a fleet tailback whom the Cats will remember, and wingback Dick
Hensley will do what tossing is done by the Spiders. Davidson undoubtedly will strike often through the air via Lambeth,
Turner, and Johnny Guiton, but Richmond’s pass defense rated third best in the country last season is heralded just as
strong this fall with linebackers John Mac Brown and Hoover Britt able to bat down aerials like a hunter popping
ducks from a blind. Richmond claims cripples, too. Both teams would like to improve on a rather hectic year. It
promises to be a corker from 2:30 on.

VISIT THE Student’s Store FOR YOUR NEEDS
