FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1949

Among The Greeks

BETA THETA PI

Although gone forever, Homecoming of 1949 will long be remembered as a great one for Phi Alpha’s sons of Wooglin. At 7:30 p.m., Friday, the weekend was ushered in at a fine open house at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Oren Moore in Charlotte. After an hour or so of delicious food and delightful chatter, new faces and new names had been associated and old acquaintances renewed, and the stage was set for an enjoyable holiday. During intermission, hot coffee and cocoa were dished out down at the house along with cold drinks, sandwiches, and everything necessary to make the intermission party a success. After the dances, with only the glow of cigarettes to distinguish man from furniture, Phi Alpha’s beautiful girls were serenaded until heads began to nod and a gratifying day was brought to a close. That is, excepting stags and pledges. The stags had long since been in bed and the pledges’ work was just beginning.

Bright and early Saturday morning, Davidson had another theater—in the form of a large wildcat whose insides revealed the inside story of the DDP. Following the dedication of the gym, the flaming red ensign of Phi Alpha in the capable hands of Brother J. B. Stroud, assisted by Brother Gant Carlton, led a remarkably large and cheerful group of Betas in the colorful Parade of Progress. Shortly before, Brother Dave Anderson had gladdened the hearts of all by coming in third against Randolph-Macon in the cross-country meet. After the game, in which Brother Cliff Turner threw the pass for our single tally, the chapter met at Erwin Lodge for a splendid buffet supper, featuring hot fried chicken with all of the trimmings. This again was the work of Brother Anderson, boarding house manager superb. Saturday night’s intermission was complete with fun, food, and fellowship, and was highlighted by the presentation of favors. All, including many alumni and friends whom we were delighted to have with us, agreed that the weekend was a complete success.

Since homecoming, the Beta football team has continued undefeated, sparked by the brilliant passing of Brother Earl Smith and the fine blocking of Brother Sam Joyner and the rest of the squad. A word of praise, I believe, is in order for the entire intramural program this year with regards to the good sportsmanship shown by all concerned. This could be, and so far this year, is one of the primary functions of the program. With the broadening of the scope of activities, it will play an increasingly important part in our college lives and it is up to us to take advantage of the opportunity provided. Along this same line, we as a student body would do well to assimilate criticism offered us and be the better for it. Phi Alpha signifies her willingness and looks forward to taking part in the life of an improved Davidson.

KAPPA SIGMA

This week the chapter pledged C. L. Runyan. C. L. joined the chapter Friday. Runyan is a sophomore from Gastonia and the first-string fullback on the football team. We are about to gain a sister or lose a brother—either way is all the same difference. In other words, “Bus,” the dateless wonder, has finally found his match. The only thing that stands between John and Bailey's smooth romance is an explanation of the reason why “Bus” is called “Bus.”

There were two expeditions to W&L last weekend, but only one got there. There was the football expedition, which was given a send-off by Betty Wayne, who really gave Henry something to think about on the way up—right land-Thomas trek to Hollins ended on the side of a tree when Redman decided to show Grimes how to make some real time.

The Duke army is making preparations to go on maneuvers and from the office of General Evans, the following names have been released as a roster of the forces: Bus Token and Slitz-privates; Toy Withers, sergeant; Sidney Hunsucker, corporal; Henry Wilson, lieutenant; Slick Evans, general. There have been other volunteers for this crack corps but so far these are the only men who have been able to pass the rigorous entrance requirements.

Charley Miller has been walking around with stars in his eyes, mumbling something about “this time for keeps.” We gather that the “pals” are going to try it again. The men on the football team have turned in a good record so far, losing only once. Bill Purcell, “Slick” Evans, “Stubby” Evans, Charley Pearson, Dave Williams, B. Roddey, George Lippard, Charley Simmons have been the men holding down the team. Carlton Torrence and Dan Page were going great till they were sidelined with injuries. Bo Roddey has been the big gun in the lineup so far this year, accounting for several touchdowns with his glue-fingered pass receiving.

Bill Purcell took off for Laurinburg five minutes after he heard that his girl was coming from Wake Forest. Dewey Keesler has been snaking on Dick Stockton. Eric finally got rid of his ring—guess who got it. Dave Williams has been trying to figure how to get his back. This is a little late, but Kirk got rid of his pen on the sly. Dave Crosland introduced Slitz to Dutch’s girl, Betty Anne Braswell, at Homecoming and he’s had it bad ever since.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

Sigma Phi Epsilon has set the date for its fall function for December third—whereabouts uncertain. Bill Dixon is going to publish a Sig Epigram. This date will hardly give the brothers time to rest up from Homecoming which just about beat them all. On the subject of Homecoming, it is fitting and proper that a brief resume of what happened to SPEs be related. On Saturday night of that weekend on the Upper-Deck of the Ship Ahoy Restaurant after the banquet plates had been cleared away by the waitress with the mustache, Melvyn Sipe, in an unsure voice, introduced the notorious big-town gossip Gus Travis who proceeded in a still more unsure voice to tell the same anecdotes, which he, at the same time, and place and before almost the same audience, told last year. You'll have to hand it to Gus, though. He's got a marvelous memory for details.

Homecoming weekend was also homecoming for many SPE alumni. Seen around the banquet tables, stumbling over Hart at the house or marching in the Parade of Progress were Jim Herndon, Tom and Hugh McLaughlin, Fred Powell, Frank Furman, Z. Holler, Hurd Bradford, Frank Wilson, John Thatcher, Harry Shaw, Bill Bogart, Jerry Robinson, Ed Lilly, Bill Wier, Ed Hopper, Earl Meyers, Carlyle Charles, Dave Blevins, John Hay and Les Taylor. Everybody had a great time except the boys in the band, who didn’t go to bed Friday night. Also, Joe Brown struck up an unquestionable friendship with James Toney; Saturday night they had become quite attached to each other.

There weren't many new feminine faces with the SPEs at the dances (except Perry’s girl). Does that mean everybody is getting serious? Oh! By the way, the pledges honored themselves and us by bringing in some new faces (and figures) which were beyond a pledge’s accepted capacity. The SPE football team, which up to this time has retained an unmarred record, found hidden talents the other day when the laundry caught fire. Kester, Loftin, Clenseur and the others courageously set up a bucket brigade with carbon tetrachloride bombs and quenched the inferno. Magna gratia habenda est eis quibus vicerunt ignem.

A little while before this column was written there were played two games of spank-tail hearts at the house. The victim of the first was it, Humphries got it with a belt in the second round. However, there are rumors that the indomitable Frye was sorely beaten on third floor West last year and never came back.

Item: Attention of Mr. Will Herndon. Just as in King’s Mountain, the municipal law of Chapel Hill states that sidewalks are for the use and convenience of pedestrians.

CAMPUS CLUB

It’s a mite late to say it, but it’s our first opportunity to report a most scrumptiously successful Homecoming weekend. First off, let us pat the brothers on the back for managing to find such dazzling damsels. They were Miss Sybil Corbett of Agnes Scott with Chief Mulehui Owen, Miss Jenny Jones of Winthrop with Lintron Deck, Miss Shirley Byerly of Queens, with Jim Campbell, Miss Joyce Crosland of Queens, with Bill Boan, Miss Betty Taylor of Randolph-Macon with Al Gerhardt, (Continued on Page Five)

Rent a New Car at SCARBROUGH
Prewar Rates
Special Rates on Long Trips
DRIVE IT YOURSELF, Inc.
212 W. 4th St. Phone 38-4513

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PROFESSOR IAIN WILSON

Dunkirk Veteran Is On Davidson Faculty

I wonder how many of the Davidson student body know that we have on our faculty a professor who is a veteran of Dunkirk and D-day and who was also a German hostage during the last war, and a former officer on the staff of Field Marshall Montgomery. Professor Iain Wilson, associate professor of Bible, is from Oban, Argyle, Scotland. He studied at Marburg University in Germany and at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland. From Edinburgh, he received the Master of Arts degree and the Divinity degree. After completing his studies, Prof. Wilson was evacuated from Dunkirk with his battalion; and in 1944, he landed with it on D-day.At Normandy, during a truce, he was held as a guarantee of British good faith while the dead were being collected. At the close of the war, Prof. Wilson was appointed to the staff of Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery as liaison officer with the Evangelical churches in Germany. Upon discharge from the army in 1946, he served for a year as head of the Evangelical Section of the Religious Affairs Branch of the British Control Commission in Germany. In October 1947, Prof. Wilson joined the executive staff of the Department of Reconstruction and Inter-Church Aid of the World Council of Churches in Geneva, as secretary for Germany. In November 1948, Prof. Wilson left the Department of Reconstruction to join his wife and children in Lynchburg, Virginia. Mrs. Wilson is originally from Lynchburg. They have a son, age 5, and a daughter, age 2. Their son had the unusual “distinction” of being born during an air raid in London. Their daughter was born in Germany. During the early part of 1949, Prof. Wilson lectured in the United States. Davidson offers him his first teaching experience. When asked what his opinion of Davidson was, Prof. Wilson said that it was impossible for him to have an opinion as yet, because a college such as Davidson was entirely new to him. He said that there were no small liberal arts colleges in Scotland. He did say that he was not accustomed to so much emphasis being placed on sports. Also, he stated that the fraternity system was entirely new to him, since there were no fraternities in Scotland. Prof. Wilson said the thing that he probably noticed most in the United States was the interest that was shown in other people. In Scotland, it was entirely unheard of for a person to be interested enough in you to talk to you about where you were from, what you had done, and where you had been; and he said that even in an interview he was just a little embarrassed to talk so much about himself. A lecture is that process whereby ideas pass from the notebook of the instructor to the notebook of the student without affecting the mind of either.—U. of Va. Spectator.

Prof. Wilson had the unusual experience of being held for two or three hours as a German hostage during the war.

History of Campus Publications Dates Past Present Weekly Into Last Century

For the Davidson man to assume that there was no campus newspaper in the pre-Davidsonian days is as gross an assumption as that of Southerners who believe that there was no America before the establishment of the C.S. of A. There were indeed several publications antedating to 1884 and 1895, which gave much local coloring of the past. These publications, on the permanent reserve shelf in the library, were established, rose, and receded long before the initial issue of the Davidsonian was in print. The earliest of these papers evolved from The Weekly Enterprise. This publication was edited in 1883 by R. G. Sparrow ('88) and was entirely independent of the college concerning the representation or financial aid thereof. This want-ad and train-schedule three-columned almanac later became “The Davidson College Enterprise,” which maintained its independence but gave the student a literary outlet. This paper was a three-column, four-page, twelve-inch sheet containing receipts, local news, college notes, weather reports, and advertisements. The Davidson College Enterprise remained at Davidson from 1883 to 1888, the length of the college career of Editor Sparrow. To be noted in the first issues are articles on a new livery stable, winter weather, horse thieves, and the building of the new church. From this last article, we reprint: “Before the new church is built we wish to recommend one thing which we think is essential to the comfort of the congregation, and that is that the church be heated by a furnace.” Undoubtedly, preachers of hellfire and damnation held this task hitherto. Typical of Editor Sparrow's local column is the following: “A gentleman who lives just across the river is happy over a recent addition to his family consisting of three young persons.”

Following the Enterprise is Timely Topics, a college journal modeled after the Charlotte Observer, having six six-columned pages. This publication, printed on June 7, 1895, represented the Davidsonian in its prenatal form since it was the first attempt at journalism at Davidson with a composite authorship and being representative of a body. It was edited by the sophomore class of 1895, under the supervision of Dr. W. S. Currell, their English professor. Even in '95 the publications did not escape the bitter sting of constructive criticism. The Southern Railway, it was understood, threatened to sue this “Weekly Journal of Current Events” for its completely naturalistic expose of C. T. Hagan on an “Awful Collision” of trains Numbers 102 and 38 near Greensboro on June 7, 1898. This headliner story is an (imaginary?) eyewitness account of the collision followed by “the continuous awful hissing of escaping steam, the hideous shrieks of women, and the hopeless agonizing groans of the dying,” and a description of the holocaust: “From the midst of this were issuing the most awful groans and here and there would be seen the bodies partly exposed, some dead, some writhing in agony, pinned down between the timbers.” However, this imaginative, creative writer, along with his newspaper, laid all journalistic precautions aside by stating: “Timely Topics is modeled upon the Charlotte Observer. If anything is amiss in it, readers are requested to blame the model.”

Sprinkled throughout the publication are social, political, and religious discussions on state, national, scientific, historical, and local affairs. An article dedicated to an interview of Thomas A. Edison produced an introspective question and answer column on contemporary situations arising from Edison’s inventions: “Will electric boats be used to cross the Atlantic? Will we ever be able to telephone across the ocean?” And oddly enough the question: “Will the electric light ever entirely supersede the burner?” Only to be answered by the wizard: “No, not entirely.”

A reflection of '95 spirit might well be heeded by present-day cheerleaders who could advantageously add the following sophomore yell to their repertoire: “Hoop la hi! Hoop la hi! Rah zoo! Bah zoo! Rah zip! Pang! Let her go! 97! Boom! yah! Bang!” Likewise mirrored in this paper under “Davidson Doings” was the stock punishment for students on all peculiar holidays or homecomings: “April 27 was set apart for field day, but early in the morning it appeared as if it would set in raining and rain all day. Consequently, the students were dejected.” Too, an article of interest was one on a member of the faculty: “The famous speaker, Dr. A. Currie, delivered an oration at the Lyceum on Monday evening. At one time both orator and audience were entirely overcome with emotion.”

Looking back into the article, “In the Gloaming” of the ninth issue of Volume V of The Davidsonian, one may read this eloquent eulogy on Timely Topics: “This paper is part of Davidson History. It stands at the beginning of representative journalism at Davidson. It is a monument to the class of which it should be proud. Indeed, it is a credit and is an invaluable increment to the collections which we prize and hold dear to our collegiate and sacred history. This experiment in college journalism then, well laid the foundation for further progress in the publication of future college newspapers.”

Seeing a young brunette beauty dining with a Private in a Washington Restaurant Cafe, a wily Colonel and a Major sent this note to the GI: “I believe I studied with you at Yale, and the Major thinks he studied with you at Princeton. Please come over and settle the argument—Colonel B.” The reply was prompt: “I didn't study at Yale or Princeton, but at the National School of Taxidermy and I'm taking care of this pigeon myself—Private R.”

VISIT THE DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT 142 E. Morehead — Charlotte

WHATEVER YOUR NEEDS SUITS HATS SHIRTS PAJAMAS SOCKS and the 101 other things SHOP EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP STREET FLOOR