PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, February 4, 1949

HOW ALL THE NEW POPULAR BRITISH CHAPLAIN
Galiaols S NEW NOVELS OFFER GIFT REVIVES HOPE
(Continued From Page One) (Continued From Page One) (Continued From Page One) (Continued From Page One)

PHONOGRAPH RECORDS
Columbia Masterworks
Red Seal
Victor

Parker-Gardner
118 W. Trade St. Phone 8253

Third, the coming generation think that what they gave their lives for they lost, since they are now inhabited by four different countries. There are eleven and one-half million people in northern Germany alone who were left homeless.

An article in the Christmas issue of the University newspaper announcing the forthcoming gift, had these words: all “give-away” shows to extend international cooperative work, which during these days of rejoicing should find a strong echo in us.”

Although classes were suspended, there were possibilities to what would happen to the German people. Hence that the events of those years left no bitter aftereffects.

Number of Students—3,000 (2,250 men; 750 women; 750 foreign students; 400 German refugees).
Faculties (Departments)—Theology, 250 students; Law, 550; Medicine, 1,000; Philosophy, 400; Science and the Arts, 800.

Average, five years. Since 1898, more than 50 per cent have to earn their living. Conditions of Health—650 are wounded or crippled veterans; 70 have TB; great numbers are suffering from illness resulting from wounds in wartime; many hundreds are suffering from illness resulting from deficiency in nutrition.

WHATEVER YOUR NEEDS
SUITS
HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS

415 S. TRYON STREET

Mr. Wilson went farther to say that we must help and help more in this critical situation in Germany. He stated that the German church could not do it alone. We are helping in some ways, but the church work, as a whole, is not enough.

In some instances, colleges have invested as much as one-tenth of their funds in businesses and other properties. If a depression comes or if business in general does go into a recession, these funds may be in jeopardy. It has been held out that the purchase of non-educational enterprises has increased tremendously in the last few years, a study conducted by the New York Times has shown.

In Real Estate
Let's go! $40,000

Catalina, by W. Somerset Maugham. This novel is a story of a lovely and talented girl who was trampled by a bull at the age of sixteen and crippled permanently. She sees a vision of the Virgin on the steps of the cathedral, who tells her that she will be cured by a miracle. This is carried out and Catalina becomes a nun.

The Good of the Martyrs by Naomi Mitchison. A historical novel of Christians in Rome during the first part of Nero's reign. It is an exciting account of the growing persecution of the Christians and their secret police.Needs—Fats, proteins, sugar, cod—CHARLOTTE, N.C. TIES milk because it had no facilities in the late twenties. "The Polished Blade” by Lawrence Schoonover. This novel takes place in France during the 15th century. Pierre, an orphan, who was adopted by a famous armorer, witnesses the death of Joan of Arc and is befriended by Jacques Coeur, a famous financier, and rescues a lady in the plague-stricken city. His adventures take him to many places and after much excitement, he emerges a wealthy man. He returns to his native France and marries his lover, who is about to become a nun.

SHIP AHOY and the 101 other things. Organizations such as world church groups and summer camps, the transportation, medical supplies, and furnishing of needed cash help break down the isolation that is present. This can be noted by the fact that there were 61 students sent over to the United States to study at various colleges and universities. Working in Britain and international work camps which are aiding and guiding solutions to the German situation was pointed out by Mr. Wilson. This was illustrated by the appearance of friendship between former S.S. troops and the chairman of the New Alumni Fund. In conclusion, Mr. Wilson said that the $50,000,000 fund is financially able to give relief and aid to those handicapped by lack of democratic and free institutions.

The percentage received from endowments is probably more than that of 47 states combined. We should acquire the spirit of public giving in the hope of developing income for New York, which will enable us to expand its public services. One member observed in a meeting that the city “saved” $1,300,000 that would have been spent if the government had remained in hand. The action taken is so revolutionary in connection with these corporations being taken over that it is remarkable.

DAVIDSON THEATRE WEEK OF FEBRUARY 7th
MONDAY and TUESDAY
“WORDS AND MUSIC”
Judy Garland - Mickey Rooney

WEDNESDAY - THURSDAY
“GOOD SAM”
Gary Cooper — Ann Sheridan

FRIDAY and SATURDAY
“BELLE STAR’S DAUGHTER”
George Montgomery - Ruth Roman

ANIMAL LOVERS PROTEST THEIR USE IN CIRCUSES
London—A priest who distributed free circus tickets to children in his parish had his church picketed by two members of the performing animals defense league. The director of the league and an assistant stood outside St. Paul Church at Harringay handing out pamphlets alleging that the circus animals were treated cruelly to make them perform. On one placard were attached instruments said to have been used on the animals.

The Alaskan brown bear—grizzly—weighs from 1,800 to 2,000 pounds. There are only four poisonous snakes in the U.S. These are the coral snake, rattlesnake, copperhead, and water moccasin.

New York’s earliest industries were lumber and grist mills. Nineteen million acres of woodland have produced enough pine lumber to put Alabama ahead of all states in this industry.

A. J. Bistony, Prop.
MILD and they taste good. It’s MY cigarette.
STARRING IN THE ENTERPRISE PRODUCTION “NO MINOR VICES”

MAKE YOURS
Copyright 1949; Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
“I like a cigarette that makes ‘em. They’re Milder... it’s My cigarette.”

VOTED THE MOST VALUABLE PLAYER IN THE NATIONAL LEAGUE
MORE THAN COLLEGE STUDENTS SMOKE THIS CIGARETTE
CHESTERFIELD