**The Davidsonian**

VOLUME XXXVII

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 1949

NUMBER TWENTY-FIVE

HOLLISTER NAMED DAVIDSONIAN EDITOR

Ballot defeated Jim for the presidency, polling 335 votes to Alexander's 247, by virtue of a decisive vote margin. Yesterday, the fourth hill “Slick” Evans of the YMCA, maxed an interesting race of the spring elections. Alexander's victory was what probably proved to be the most extended and decisive election. 

Evans and Alexander were the two candidates who survived the first ballot. The election board decided to run the third ballot due to the fact that Alexander and Evans came close to being equal. Alexander went on to win in the fourth ballot. 

Alexander said, “I appreciate very much the honor and want to thank the student body for it. The ‘Y’ is doing a good job, but there is a lot of room for improvement.” He also mentioned that he thought more students on the campus should be reached by the YMCA.

Trophy Case Named Senior Class Gift

As preparations move forward for Class Day and graduation exercises, the senior class has reached a decision on its class gift and colors. Following the custom of donating something which may be enjoyed by the entire student body, the class of ‘49 has decided to leave to the college a trophy case for the new gymnasium. Because of the possibility that such a case has already been provided through another gift, an alternate has been named which will be an electric clock and scoreboard, also for the gym.

In the voting which preceded this announcement, the establishment of a scholarship for foreign students was defeated almost two to one by those who approved the trophy case. The decision highlights the principle that a class gift should be for the general good of the entire student body. Senior class colors have been settled as blue and gold. The class flag used during graduation will feature a design in these colors.

‘Review of Davidson’ Published By College

“Views of Davidson” is a brand new publication of the Public Relations Department of the college. Designed for general promotional purposes and to be used as a supplement to the catalogue, the book will also serve as a unique memento of the college. It contains forty pages and presents 226 views of Davidson. Artistically done in two-tone brown ink on ivory paper, it is a graphic story of the college past, present, and future, which will doubtless become a cherished addition to the library of Davidson's alumni and friends. The book contains almost no type except for captions to the page and to some of the photographs. The front and last pages are done in full color. The cover is striking in gold and the Davidson red and black. It is being sold by the college for 75 cents per copy. The actual printing and engraving cost is said to be 62 cents each.

According to the authorities at the Davidson College library, the new View Book is the fourth such publication in the 112-year history of the institution. In 1903 there was a modest little “souvenir album” containing twelve pictures. The second made its appearance in June 1943 and was also very small and plain as compared to more recent efforts. In 1943 the first complete view book was published.

New Mag. ‘’College’ Given Recent Debut

New York - The College, a new monthly magazine for the college student, made its initial appearance last week on American college campuses. The magazine is designed to fill the long-desired need for a national collegiate publication. College will concentrate on a picture presentation of college life on the American campus from coast to coast.

The inaugural issue contained articles covering all aspects of the controversial subject of fraternity life and the fantastic football stunts. Ably supporting these five features were articles on homecomings throughout the country, behind the basketball scenes, and humor and cartoons.

Spring Frolics Will Feature Music of Nation's Top Band

By ARNIE COVELL

With the music of Tex Beneke, the 1949 Frolics dances will take place in the Charlotte Armory on April 22 and 23. Hours for Friday night have been set from 9 ‘til 1, and the informal of Saturday night from 8 ‘til 12. In addition to the dances, Beneke will give a concert on Saturday afternoon, which will begin at 2:30 in the Armory auditorium. The concert will be open to the public; however, a section of seats will be reserved for Davidson students. The price of tickets for the set will be $7.00, and for a single night, $4.00. Admission to the concert is included in the set ticket, otherwise, the price is $1.00.

Tex Beneke, who has taken over the baton of the Glenn Miller orchestra, has been a member of the Miller band ever since it was established. He was a part of the original unit organized by Miller in 1938, and as the years progressed and the Miller band skyrocketed to the heights, he became one of Glenn's closest professional and personal associates, and the main cog in the band by virtue of his vocal solos. Beneke is now the nation’s top dance orchestra leader, according to outstanding field critics, and a leading figure in the popular music business. Today, Tex Beneke's orchestra, intended to bring back the old Glenn Miller sound, has recaptured the number one record.

Faculty Authorizes Mid-Year Holidays

At a faculty meeting held last January, it was decided that the school calendar for the school year 1949-50 would be altered by the insertion of a holiday between semesters to give students and faculty a necessary rest between exams and the beginning of the spring semester. The holidays will consist of an extended weekend between semesters. First semester exams next year will end on Friday, January 27, and the second semester will begin on Tuesday, January 31.

Dr. Mark Sentelle

The newly established office of Dean of Students, in which capacity he will serve, was announced. Dr. Sentelle has been a part of the Davidson faculty since 1920. He received his D.D. degree from Kings College, Bristol, Tenn; and Presbyterian College, Clinton, South Carolina. The funeral was held at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church at 3 p.m. Active pallbearers included R. Withers, Parks Martin, J. Brown, Potts, and Cloyd. Honorary pallbearers included members of the faculty and administration of the college. The survivors are: one brother, J. R. Sentelle, Greenville, Tenn.; three sisters, Mrs. Agnes S. Davidson, with whom he made his home; Mrs. E. E. Houghton, Birmingham, Ala; Mrs. M. Lea, Knoxville, Tenn.

Southern Symphony To Play April 20

The Southern Symphony Orchestra of Columbia will be heard in concert on April 20, in Chamber Auditorium, starting at 8:15 p.m. The concert is the last of the College concert series. The visit of Columbia’s orchestra, made up of seventy musicians, is the top rung of the ladder which has been steadily climbing. The Southern Symphony is this year celebrating its tenth anniversary, and the sixth under the same conductor, Mr. Carl Bamberger, who will direct the concert here.

Lambeth to Top Beaver Club Officers For Ensuing Year

Tuesday night the Beaver Club met at the Kappa Sigma fraternity house for the purpose of initiating newly accepted members and electing new officers. President Cobb opened the meeting and called “Stubby” Evans to give a brief history and purpose of the club. The Beaver Club was explained to be an honorary underclassman organization recognizing extra-curricular leadership. It entertains visiting athletic teams and carries out other service projects. Initiation of new members followed this address. The new initiates included three members of the rising junior class and twelve members of the rising sophomore class. Blake Bradley, Tom Craven, Wood Leach, Bill Bacon, Bill Brooks, Tom Coleman, Jim Fickel, Bill Freeman, Johnny Guiton, Don Lazenby, Malcolm McLean, Dick Stockton, Tom Stockton, Allan Strand, and Ham Wade received membership.

NEW EDITOR BEGAN WORK ON PAPER IN FRESHMAN YEAR

In the publications elections held Tuesday and Wednesday, Bob Hollister was elected editor of the Davidsonian for the school year 1949-50. Bob defeated Jack Hagler on the final ballot. The editorship of the Davidsonian is the top rung of the ladder which Bob has been steadily climbing since he first enrolled at Davidson. He has been a member of the editorial staff for three years, one year as managing editor, acting in the capacity both as city editor of the front page and as sports editor.Ce emee second semester will not begin until one is observed as a member of the editorial staff. It is noted that this orchestra was born on Tuesday the thirty-first. Dr. Sentell served as a member of the editorial staff of Scripps 'n Quips. Frank Holder, a member of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity, was skeptical when the large project for such an orchestra was launched in Columbia ten years ago, but the tremendous success it has achieved has routed the skeptics. Bob Hollister, who has been maintained for many years, was a candidate for the editorship of all three publications, but since he has been elected editor of the Davidsonian, he is not eligible for the Scripps 'n Quips. As a result of the new holidays, Commencement will fall in June next year instead of May as in previous years. Dr. Sentell, a professor at Davidson College from 1892 through 1949, died at his home Wednesday afternoon, April 14, at 3 o'clock following several months of declining health. The concert here will be one of a dozen the orchestra will give in Carolina cities other than Columbia. 

Hailing from New Bern, N.C., "Bouncer" is a pre-med student, a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, in which he has recently been elected president. He is also a member of Sigma Upsilon, Philanthropic Literary Society, and Scabbard and Blade. The semester, as far as the other classes are concerned, will end with the last day of exams, which will be the second of June. Other than these two changes—the semester holiday and the date of Commencement—the calendar remains substantially unchanged. Holidays for Homecoming, Thanksgiving, Christmas, and Spring Holidays will be of the same length that they were this year. 

The new holidays are reportedly the brainchild of Dean Brown, who advocated the alteration of the school calendar in faculty meetings, stressing the mechanical need of a break between semesters to give both faculty members and the administrative offices of the school a chance to catch up. Also, Dean Brown emphasized the fact that the new holidays would provide a much-needed period for both students and faculty members. 

Dr. Sentell received his M.A. degree from Yale and served a church in Texas. In 1903, he returned to Davidson College as a professor of Bible and Philosophy. Under the presidency of Dr. Henry L. Smith, Dr. Sentell formulated regulations on student absences. In 1910, Dr. Sentell was made chairman of the faculty. 

The Southern Symphony Orchestra was secured for the Artist Series when it was found that the Detroit Symphony Orchestra would be unable to appear due to the cancellation of contracts, not only here but in a number of other locations. 

For Davidson and vicinity, the weekend weather will be very good for outside sports and activities. There is a possibility that some scattered showers will occur Friday night, followed by fair spring-like weather with pleasant temperatures on Saturday and Sunday. 

Sigma Delta is a national honorary Spanish fraternity. Members are elected into the organization from those men in the student body who have shown interest in the Spanish language and Latin American countries. Varied programs are presented at each meeting, and "fiestas" are held several times during the year. The Spanish Club meets with the fraternity and joins in the various activities. 

Retiring officers are: Virgil Pino, president; and Malcolm McLean, secretary-treasurer. These men will be installed at the next meeting and will serve the fraternity next year. 

At one time in the recent past, Davidson had a higher percentage of professors with Doctor’s Degrees than Duke. Whether this is still true, no available statistics indicate. Students know well that a Ph.D. holder is not necessarily a better, or even as good, a teacher as many professors who haven't submitted to the grind. There might well be virtue in not permitting the profession to grind out all life and originality before a man settles down to pursuing it. Nevertheless, one of the criteria which educational associations use in rating institutions is the number of Ph.D.’s on its faculty. 

The College Library has recently acquired an interesting set of books called "Doctoral Dissertations," which is published annually, listing those who have received doctorates at accredited universities and giving the title of the dissertation. Since the first volume only appeared in 1933, many faculty members here are not listed. However, the following are some which apply to our present professors:

1936 Abernethy, George L. “The Theory of Social Contract in England” (Michigan).
1938 Louis B. Schenck, “Infant Baptism in the Presbyterian Church” (Yale).
1939 William G. McGavock, “Annihilator of Quadratic Forms with Applications of Pfaffian Systems” (Duke).
1942 Davidson, Chalmers G. “Life and Letters of General William Lee Davidson” (Harvard).
1943 John Alexander McGeachy, “Symmachus and the Senatorial Aristocracy of the West” (Chicago).
1945 Charles Brooks Anderson, “The Growth Patterns of Salt Lake City” (Continued on Page Four).

In October, the Beaver Club sponsored a clothing drive for needy persons overseas. The club also held two dances this year, the Freshman Dance on October 23, and the Converse Day Dance, which proved a big success. Members of the club are always on hand to meet visiting athletic teams and to ensure that the visitors are well cared for. With capable officers and interested members, the Beaver Club looks forward to more activities this year and next.