FRIDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1949 | THE DAVIDSONIAN

Among The Greeks

PI KAPPA PHI

Speaking of the dance, several of the Pi Kapps seem to have had a really bang-up time at the Nurses
Dance last Saturday night in Charlotte. Bob Wheless comes back with tales that make us wonder what we're in for
when injuries call us to a Charlotte Hospital. Bill, the Snow-Sargent, seems to be infatuated with Katherine whom he met
over there. How about that Pit? Mitchell Patton seems to stay tied up with Marrion Wolff, who is at Winthrop.
I believe that Mike would like to be marryin’ Wolff, but as for the other half, she says “... no!”
When Mitchell asked for a picture of her, she obligingly sent a camera.

The annual football game between the brothers and pledges ended in the usual fashion. The brothers easily defeated the pledges,
the score being 6-0. All the pledges played well, but were no match for the brothers with their agile performer
Claudeball Higginbotham. Claudeball was awarded with a trophy that will really support him in his old age. Billy Houck is
writing to Santa Claus to send him a new baby doll and a rattle for his past female companion. Johnny
“I'm embarrassed” Cobie has announced that his birthday is not in November, as the singing brothers have apparently thought on
about ten different occasions. Kurt found a number of true loves at Queens last weekend. And boys, Bob Murray finally
found his dream girl last weekend. There is only one little catch, she is engaged. An unnamed brother gave Colonel
Ballard and his sons of Uncle Sam a start the other day with his selections from Spike Jones and scrutinizing
comments, that were broadcast from his Duke dorm room. Who has a speaker in Duke? Some inside dope on the
developments of Pretty Boy Cassels and his suitor, Charlotte. She's coming up for an extended (as usual) weekend.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

“You just wait ‘till basketball season.” That’s the battle cry of our football team which has converted to gym shoes
and shorts. Jim Miller, Pat Clark, and Marshall Taylor and the rest of the boys ought to shoot a very
good record this year. Joe Parker made the best grades among the freshmen again this report with Herman Mauney a
close second. Bub Kester is one of the top men in grades in the whole fraternity, having made one A,
three B pluses, and a B. Imagine that! Humphries, Coffin, and Plaster were entertained very fraternally by Frank Furman down
Jacksonville way when the band went South. Coffin especially had a fine time. Marshall and Lefty got down to Jacksonville
for a few hours during the holidays. They went by a local vacuum tube, which took them on the way
through Nigeria, Bulgaria, and Hysteria. J. G. Humphries, due to persistent pouting, has been moved from third to first chair
horn in le grand pere blanc’s orchestras. Hooray! We sure have been missing Melvyn. The irony of his moving out
was that his bitterest foil, Joe Brown, moved into his sack. You should have seen Reid Gay and Sam Loftin
throwing their line, pulling no punches, at one of the last freshmen football games.

DR. TOM DAGGY

Dr. Tom Daggy, assistant professor of biology, was recently awarded the J. J. Davis prize by the Indiana Academy of
Science. The Davis award, which is made annually, went to Dr. Daggy for research and writing on the Tenebrionidae. Dr.
Daggy, a graduate of Earlham College and of Northwestern University, has been a member of the Davidson staff since 1947.
The faculty and student body congratulate Dr. Daggy on his notable achievement.

KAPPA SIGMA

Last Saturday night the annual Black and White was held at the Morris Field Policeman’s Club. The banquet began at
7:30 and was followed by a dance which lasted till twelve. Charlton Torrence was master of ceremonies and with the
help of Doctor Chalmers Davidson presented an excellent program. The main feature of the entertainment was a song which had
a stanza dedicated to each of six outstanding Presidents of the College. The song followed a short talk by Dr.
Davidson in which he gave a character sketch of each president. The music for the song, which was presented by
a sextet, was written by Dr. Pfohl and the words were furnished by Dr. Davidson. The dance after the banquet
was one of the best that we have had. “Moose” found a good band when he got Walter Hagen —
they didn’t know what Be Bop was. The dance would have been a lot better if Eric and Bill White
hadn't left so soon. They weren't stag. Bill said he wanted to stay but “Fars” wouldn't let him. Dave the
Heartbreaker turned up with somebody new, but after Converse, he can't seem to make up his mind. T Square has
really been haunting Spartanburg. He's in so good that he calls up collect. It may not be love but it
sure is cheaper. Spear Ears had his knee operated on over the holidays. He must have found a good looking
nurse because he was so quiet when he got back, and he didn’t eat, and he got pale. It couldn’t
have been anything else. Acker the backer was the mystery man of the week. He's got everybody wondering why he
was late to the banquet, and he’s got Joanne wondering where he got his new goggles. We've heard that Salem
fits in somewhere. Charlie Miller forgot Doris this weekend. They must not be pals anymore, all those cute children from
Barium Springs. They're going to feel silly when they meet those little gals at the Christmas party. Better pull up
your beards, Santa Clauses. Everybody's getting ready for Saturday's (I'd better put the date, December 10, after the twisting of
the dates in last week's, December 2, DAVIDSONIAN) fall function. Let’s have a good time, but be careful — driving
you know. Editorial: Read your fraternity magazine. It’s got a lot of suggestions for fun, growth, and development. Incidentally, the
JOURNAL is one of the four fraternity issues at least six times a year.

Chapel Prayer

Due to the many requests we have had to print the prayer rendered in Chapel last week by Bill Alexander,
the “DAVIDSONIAN” has obtained it; and a copy appears below.

Our Gracious and Loving Father: Thou who dost move in orderly fashion the immense reaches of the universe, yet whose
eye is on the little sparrow which drops to the ground and whose heart is sensitive to the suffering and
fortune of thy children, hear our prayer as we raise it to thee. Make us responsively conscious that You are
concerned with our little lives, that you really care whether we do right or wrong. Give us a profound sense
of the reality and concreteness of our sin. Sharpen the blunted nerves of our consciences that we may recognize evil
by habit and careless living. Deliver us from the guilt of generalizing. Forbid that we should ask forgiveness of “our
many sins” when we mean that intolerant bigoted attitude toward a colored man or that sense of pride which prevented
our forgiving a student who abused us. Help us to search our hearts faithfully for what we have done wrong,
and not to lazily pass it off by repeating some glib phrase in chapel. Save us from the hypocrisy of
holding a hymn-book in our hand and thoughtlessly and perfunctorily ritualizing the words. Help us to feel deeply the great
experiences and abiding symbolism of our religion. And never let us forget our Great Friend who opposed all hypocrisy and
shallow religion with his whole soul, and who went to a cross that our religion would be founded not on
generalities but on one particular time in history when God rent the curtain of eternal silence. In the name of
him who was flesh and blood and not generality, we pray. Amen.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

With the Christmas function only a flush away, the Fijis have shown remarkable activity of late — learning new wrestling
holds or checking and rechecking Mr. Kinsey's handbook in preparation for the coming fling. The uniform for the occasion will
be tux and checkered caps. (The caps are a concession to Pete Brown who has refused to attend unless he
can wear his.) Buddy Fields orchestra will play, and the whole affair promises to be nothing but great. Last weekend
was a pretty prosaic one, most of the brothers stayed here at the monastery or went into Charlotte for the
two-hour course in anatomy presented by the Tryon every Saturday night. Birdman again visited W. C. and recounted with lurid
tales to tell his less-experienced brethren. Brothers Haller, Alexander, Vance, Jackson, and Pledge brothers Doubles, Robinson, Cumming, and Braxton graced
the Queen's dance. Amid this gaiety, brother Stuydon Myers underwent Mr. Woods' version of “Twilight Sleep” in the serious operation
of removing a splinter from his hand. Ichabod Abbott seems to have lost his love for the Dutch girl from
Venezuela at Salem Academy and fallen for a Converse girl from Alabama at Pell City High School. His well-meaning roommate
Aubrey Miree confidently reports that he intends to lower his purity test rating at least three points this weekend with
the date “Evil Ivy” has gotten him. Brother Groseclose, with the help of underlings Moylan and “Javelin” Whiteman, set up
a few roulette wheels, etc., in the basement for the benefit of those among the brethren — anything for a
little honest fun. Congratulations to sports manager Rickard Clark and his red-haired assistant, “Albino” football. Big help next season.

Go to the Library And See World

The Davidson College Library has recently acquired two new globed maps. One is a terrestrial globe and the other is
a celestial globe. Both are products of the famous maps and globe makers, George F. Cram, Incorporated, of Indianapolis, Indiana.
The world globe is as near up to date as possible. It is correct for the period immediately following the
second World War. The map of the heavenly bodies is not intended to be complete as such. All visible stars
and planets are not on it, but most of the major constellations and stars of the first magnitude are included.
The globe is mounted in such a way that one can easily see by adjusting the globe which stars are
visible at any hour of the night on any night in the year. The company pronounces the globe to be
mathematically accurate, and it may be easily studied by anyone providing he realizes that he must imagine himself on the
inside looking out in order to get the proper perspective. The celestial globe was placed in the library especially for
Professor Fulcher’s astronomy classes, but it should be of interest to a great many other students. The maps are lighted
on the inside so that they may be studied easier. There is apieces, Mr. Frantz will give several chorale preludes,
especially written for the celestial map attached beneath it. METHODIST STUDENTS

Father's Position

His son was in ROTC and had an appointment to West Point, but could not pass the physical examination. Though
“heeled,” he can't play bridge. Having in mind to complete his sophomore year at Davidson, Christopher led the Fijis to
a successful season in inter-fraternity sports. His father assumed duties as head of the ROTC department here. Col. Ballard was
graduated in 1936 and received his B.S. degree cum laude.

COL. BALLARD

Davidson has on its faculty a very competent and interesting member in the person of Colonel James L. Ballard. Colonel
Ballard is the head of the ROTC department. He was born in Des Moines, Iowa, in 1919, the son of
an Army Officer. He attained a varied knowledge in his youth, having attended schools all over the United States and
in the Philippines. He has received two high school diplomas.

As a boy, his problem would have been solved if he had enrolled at Norwich University. After one year at
Norwich, he received an appointment to West Point but was unable to enter because he could not pass the physical
examination. He then turned to Davidson College. In 1936, Ballard entered Davidson College. The college had its beginning when Dr.
Paul Brandon Barringer of Charlotte moved to Davidson as college physician in 1886. Dr. Barringer was well prepared for the
job, holding degrees from the Universities of Virginia and the City of New York, and having furthered his education in
Vienna. He was also suited for the job in that his grandfather, the Rev. R. H. Morrison, D.D., was the
first president of Davidson.

Colonel Ballard, after graduating from college, worked a year for the Security National Life & Trust Company in Charlotte. In
1940, he entered the Army on active duty as a Reserve officer. The following year he received a regular commission
and rose rapidly in the ranks. He has served in Iceland, participated in the D-Day operations where he was wounded,
taken part in the drive into Germany where he was wounded again, and served as an aide to both General
Bettle Smith and General Eisenhower. Colonel Ballard has taken courses at the Air University at Montgomery, Alabama, and also spent
a year at the University of Southern California, doing graduate work in the study of Guided Missiles. It was here
that Colonel Ballard received his appointment as head of the ROTC department. Colonel Ballard is married.

Dean of Students John C. Bailey and Mr. Bill Bird, the President of the Pan-Hellenic Council, represented Davidson College as
guests of the National Interfraternity Conference, held at the Mayflower Hotel in Washington, D.C., for its forty-first annual session, November
24-26. Dean Bailey appeared as a non-voting participant in the affairs of the Conference because of his position as Dean
of Students. All Deans as well as Presidents of the various colleges were invited to attend. Mr. Bird was present
in the Undergraduate Conference, which likewise had no vote. The National Interfraternity Conference proper is composed of alumni of the
fifty-seven fraternities within the Conference.

A proposal by the Conference to abolish all rules by national fraternities pertaining to discrimination by the fraternities because of
race, creed, or color, thereby leaving such matters entirely up to each local chapter, is perhaps the most noteworthy act
of the meeting. Other important matters discussed by the Conference included a talk by Mr. J. Howard McGrath, Attorney General
of the United States, on the problem of subversive influences on college campuses. This was his first statement about fighting
communism since becoming Attorney General and may be an important statement of policy. He laid down seven “modes of action”
for this fight against subversive doctrines: “Be well informed about the world in which you live;” “be cognizant of the
history of American democracy;” “exemplify, in your own conduct and thought, the principles of democratic achievement;” “know your enemy;” “learn
to think straight;” “don't make false charges;” “specific suggestions for concrete action by fraternity men to fight communism;” “making democracy
work is the best answer to the communist challenge.”

The Honorable Tom C. Clark, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, appeared in a discussion panel group of the Conference
on the subject of the juvenile delinquency problem and what the college fraternity system can do to combat it. In
reference to the matter of fraternity scholarship, which has received a good deal of attention here and elsewhere, Ralph W.
Wilson, Scholarship Counselor of the Conference, had this to say: “The Fraternity System seems headed for scholastic oblivion and on
its way at a rapid pace. Fraternity scholarship as such has practically disappeared from the halls of learning. If we
are willing to face the truth, we can save ourselves. With the proper coordination and all shoulders to the wheel,
this matter of indecent fraternity scholarship can be straightened out in less than a year.”

Davidson was one of the institutions which exhibited interest in fraternity discussion programs on the campus, with sponsorship through the
Dean's office and the interfraternity council. These chapterhouse discussions would probably take the form of organized bull sessions on topics
of general interest to the members of the various fraternities, according to Mr. Clyde S. Johnson, chairman of the Conference
Committee on Chapterhouse Discussions.

Monday evening, December 12th, the faculty will present its second concert of the season. Mr. Frantz, whose proficiency at the
organ was demonstrated to advantage when he accompanied his wife's violin renditions, will again perform. However, this time he will
play a Bach chorale prelude for the season of advent, and a Franck chorale number in A Minor. Also on
the program is a Mozart composition in C Major to be played by a trio composed of such talented musicians
as Mrs. Elizabeth Frantz, violinist, and Mrs. Louise Nelson Pfohl, pianist, featuring Mrs. Denise J. Howorth as guest musician, invited
from Rock Hill, South Carolina, to participate in the program. Mrs. Howorth will play the cello in the trio.

Everett Blake, Jr., was elected this week as the new president of the Methodist Student Movement, Davidson chapter. Blake, from
Rocky Mount, North Carolina, is a member of the Class of '52 and SAE fraternity. He succeeds Malloy Owen who
is now state president of MSM. Other new officers elected are: Vice-president Clay W. Evatt, Secretary-Treasurer Carlyle Crenshaw, and Program
Chairman Hubert Cannon. Six-thirty Sunday evenings has been set as the weekly hour for meetings of the local Methodist group,
with the first floor of Phi Hall serving as the location.

Cato, Father of Rome, judged his slaves by the way they slept. He knew those who slept best, worked best.

VISIT THE DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT
142 E. Morehead — Charlotte
221 South Tryon Street

THACKER’S, INC.
Private Dining Rooms for Parties and Banquets
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
Phone 25490

Fan! & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. TRYON STREET

Rent a New Car at SCARBROUGH
Prewar Rates
Special Rates on Long Trips
DRIVE IT YOURSELF, Inc.
212 W. 4th St.
Phone 3-4513
