According to statistics released Thursday, Davidson's cagers lead the nation in the free throw department. Out of 867 opportunities from
the foul line, the Wildcats have hit 262 times for an average of .714. This accuracy has paid off more
than once this season in enabling the Cats to grab victories which may not have been theirs on field goals
alone.

Definitely, Coach Norman Shepard's boys also drew a rating of being the number three defensive squad in the South. This,
by virtue of allowing opponents an average of 46.1 points per game. Shepard is regarded as a master of defense
formations and has a great aptitude for solving tricky walls of opponents as well as throwing in some rough ones
of his own. His shifting man-to-man employed by the locals has caused many a foe to set their offensive gears
against a zone defense.

Victories in Virginia last weekend served as sufficient to assure Davidson of its second Southern Conference Tournament appearance in as
many years. The Cats warmed up Friday night against VMI and came out with a 1-3 win. Then they stayed
hot Saturday night to hand the Washington & Lee Generals their worst defeat in history. The Generals had been riding
high before that with a neat average of something over 70 points per game for their last few outings. Then
Mike Williams, Buddy Cheek, Whit Cobb, and Ed Hopper opened up and showed the Lexington folks that there is a
basketball team down here in North Mecklenburg County. The aforementioned gentlemen pumped in over a hundred points between them in
the weekend of work.

N.C. State’s Wolverines evidently didn’t read the clippings of these games or if they did, they didn’t believe them. The
Pack rudely set the keyed-up Wildcats on their respective rears as it waltzed to a 62-54 verdict Tuesday night. The
win extended State’s grip over Davidson's athletes this year, cross country excepted. The Raleigh lads are the only ones who
have topped 60 points against the Cats this year. They have now accomplished the feat twice. The way the present
line-up stands, Davidson could well be forced to meet State in the semi-finals of the tournament. Barring some collapse, we
look for them to go that far. George Washington has taken over second place in the conference standings, pushing the
Presbyterians to third and consequently in the same bracket as first-place State. However, a look at the remaining schedules of
the two teams favors Davidson to regain its second-place rating and a chance for a crack at State in the
finals, it being assumed that the Wolves will come out on top of the upper bracket.

Davidson journeys to Charlotte Tuesday night for the last time (we hope) to meet Carolina’s White Phantoms in a return
match. The student body may well breathe a sigh of relief that this will be the Armory finale. As we
pointed out earlier, it is a matter of great inconvenience for the students to travel to the Queen City for
a mid-week performance. And even more inconvenient to be forced into the lousy seating facilities which the authorities have forced
upon them. As was the case in the State game in Charlotte, all seats will be reserved except those in
the end zones. This includes those balcony seats which a few more fortunate students got by swallowing their supper whole
or not eating at all and then dashing to the Armory. We believe that the students should be praised for
their support of the Charlotte games under the circumstances. We also feel that if no students showed up for those
games, the fault would be solely with those who scheduled the games over there. As we acknowledged before, it is
necessary to schedule the major games in Charlotte in order that the Athletic Association may realize some remuneration for its
basketball program. But we hope that when the new gym is completed here in Davidson, the students will get the
break for a change.

WHATEVER YOUR NEEDS
SUITS
HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
TIES
SHOES
and the 101 other things
SHOP EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP
STREET FLOOR

SHIP AHOY
CHARLOTTE’S LEADING RESTAURANT

Wildcat Sports
Friday, February 18, 1949
THE DAVIDSONIAN
PAGE THREE

Wildcats Cinch Tournament Bid With Pair of Wins; Bow to State
By GORDON SCOTT

After clinching an invitation to play in the Southern Conference Tournament by virtue of wins over VMI and Washington and
Lee on a weekend trip to Virginia, Davidson's spirited Wildcats were rudely set back on their heels by Coach Everett
Case's N.C. State Wolfpack by a score of 62-34.

Freshmen Top VMI, Belmont Cagers
By BILL BUCKEY

Last week saw the point-happy Kitten basketball squad rack two more victories into their win column. Thursday night they more
than doubled their opponent's score in whipping Edwards Military Academy, 67-32. Brady Osborne led the way with 20 points, while
T.C. Coleman followed up with 19. Pulling away from a half-time score of 27-14, Osborne ripped the cords for 15
counters in the third period as the frosh made nine out of 12 free throws. Simpson led Edwards Military with
14.

Saturday night the Kittens, led by Bill Brooks with 18 points, again came out on the long end of the
score as they trapped Belmont Abbey 47-41. Brooks set a sizzling pace from the foul line as he dropped in
eight out of eight and must have been a good example for the team.

This week saw the SAE's move into a two-day stint in Lexington. Noticeably weakened by the absence of their forward,
Eddie Lutes, the Keydets of VMI were unable to threaten offensively, and Davidson's thick work kept them at bay. With
Mike Williams dropping in seven points, Bill Iverson must have been a good example for the team. The SAE's started
the week off by tying the Sigma Chis.29-27. Then the visiting Cats posted nine points before the Phi Gams beat
the Dikas, 42-22. The following days, the Independents beat the SU's 27-21. With Cheek and Williams leading the way, Davidson
ran up 29 points by halftime, limiting the Keydets to eight. A second-half rally by the home team fizzled out
shortly after it began, and Davidson took the upper hand for the remainder of the game, with Coach Shepard using
reserves freely. The final score stood at 51-31, Davidson. Cheek with 12 points and William with 13 topped the winner's
list.

By BILL WHITE

Pete Whittle's advance guard of spring, his winter track crew, forsakes the cinders for the hardwood Saturday when it goes
into action at Chapel Hill in the Southern Conference Indoor meet in Carolina's Woolen Gymnasium. Hampered for space in which
to work, the Cat cindermen have again converted Chamber's main hall into a late afternoon sprint straight-away for the dashes
and hurdles. On the more than 70 warm, clear days, they have stuck to the out-of-doors. This past week, however,
Whittle has worked his charges inside Chambers to get them accustomed to the hardwood feel.

By DAN McKEITHEN

When the subject of basketball is brought up, automatically comes to mind a gaunt 6'4" footer, Blake dropping a ball
down a basket, but around Davidson little Bobby Maner from Wilmington, N.C., is not out of place on the basketball
court. Probably the smallest player in the Southern Conference at five foot eight inches, Bobby is often seen quickly stealing
the ball from a larger opponent. When Maner entered Davidson as a freshman he had never played on a school
basketball team before, although he had played some in the YMCA City League. After two years of constant, hard work,
the aggressive boy broke into the starting line-up and since that time has held his own. On the court, Bobby
is always a hustler, and his spirit gives the team an added lift. A good ball handler, this scrappy senior
uses his speed to be a very reliable defensive man.

On February 12, the wrestlers from Duke University defeated the Davidson matmen by the score of 28 to 5. Davidson's
squad was handicapped by the loss of Captain Jimmy Jung and Mott Price. Duke won both of these bouts by
forfeit. The loss of these two top performers hurt Davidson's chances, but better things are expected from the matmen when
these two are back. Ken Goodpasture, a newcomer to track who looks like a heaven-sent gift to the 100 with
Ed Newton out of school, will be the No. 1 in the varsity division, while Tom Stockton has been showing
strong for the frosh in the three-quarter mile.

HOW MILD A CIGARETTE CAN BE! I'VE SMOKED CAMELS FOR YEARS!

The Band of Dixie, a capable combo, puts "Cruising Down the River" into fast shuffle and swing rhythms. Blue Barron
sticks to one brand of cigarette. Here, Betty Clarke, his vocalist, tells how mild Camels are. Make the 30-day Camel
test and see for yourself how mild Camels are. Smoke Camels and test them in your own "T-Zone." T for
taste, T for throat. If, at any time, you are not convinced that Camels are the mildest cigarette you ever
smoked, return the package with the unused Camels and we will refund its full purchase price, plus postage. (Signed) R.
J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.
