Friday, May 13, 1949
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Noehren to Resume Studies In Europe

Noehren, of the music faculty, will sail again for Europe early in June. Under the auspices of the Carnegie Foundation, he will spend several weeks making a special study of organs in Holland from the 17th and 18th centuries. Mr. Noehren will carry out his research in collaboration with Dr. M. Vente, a noted historian and authority on organs in Holland. Noehren has also been engaged again to give several concerts in Europe this summer, including appearances in London, Amsterdam, and Haarlem. The organ at Haarlem is perhaps the most famous of all the old organs in Europe and is one which was greatly admired by Mozart on the occasion of a visit to Holland. Mr. Noehren is the author of an article on American organs which recently appeared in a Belgian professional journal. An article on his studies of last summer, “The French organ of the 18th century,” will be published next month in an American journal.

ALL THE NEW POPULAR PHONOGRAPH RECORDS
Columbia Masterworks
Red Seal Victor
Parker-Gardner Company
Since 1898
118 W. Trade St.
Phone 8251

New Student Council Takes Office

Shown above are members of the newly installed Student Council: They are, left to right: John Evans, Allen Strand, Roy Cunningham, Auburn Lambeth, Malcolm McLean, Tom Stockton, Bill Biard, Sam Joyner, Ted Bowen, Randy Taylor, Liston Mills, Harrison Taylor, Jim Sifford, and Whit Cobb.

You May Be Accepted for an Early U. S. Air Force Aviation Cadet Training Class

If you are a college graduate, married or single, between the ages of 20 and 26½ and physically and morally qualified, you may be accepted for assignment in the U. S. Air Force Aviation Cadet classes starting in late summer or early fall. You get a well-planned course, valued at $35,000; this includes about 275 hours of flight training, and the finest aviation education and executive training in the world. Win your wings and then start a career with a future. College men are today’s leaders of the U.S. Air Force. With new and complex aircraft and equipment being developed, scientific research becomes more and more important, increasing the need for college-trained men. As a college graduate, you will have an unlimited future in aviation fields of personnel management, operations, matériel, supply, research, and development. It’s a year of learning, flying, and time for recreation with a hand-picked top-string team of Americans. Upon assignment to an Aviation Cadet class, you will be sent to one of the U.S. Air Force bases in Texas for the world’s finest aviation training. Here you will receive about 175 hours of flying instruction in the Texan T-6 trainer plus an extensive course in aviation education and executive training. Navigation, fuels, weather, radio, and radar are some of the subjects you will take. During this training period, you'll find plenty of hard, fast action to keep you fit and trim. The best athletic facilities are available. Upon completion of training, you will win your silver wings and receive a Reserve commission as second lieutenant in the U.S. Air Force. Outstanding graduates receive Regular commissions upon graduation.

U. S. AIR FORCE

Single or married men with two years of college (or who can pass an equivalent examination) between ages of 20 and 26½ with high physical and moral qualifications, act now! Get full details at your nearest Air Force Base or Recruiting Office or write: Chief of Headquarters United States Air Force, Attention Aviation Cadet Branch, Washington 25, D.C.

This Paper Printed by Davidson Printing Company

To Work Or Not To Work

With the rapid approach of that glorious day, May 27th, thoughts are again turning to the summer and to work. Naturally, a great deal can be said both for and against working. The disadvantages are rather obvious: long hours of toil and labor, a weakened mental and physical condition which might well lead to serious implications, and an ostracism from the opposite sex for the greater part of the day. Certainly, one need not stretch his imagination to arrive at certain other disadvantages which are just as concrete in nature, but the ones mentioned above give ample illustration of the evils of working. But how tolerable is this necessity? Only the weak and spineless succumb under economic necessity. If Phorean can battle the world, so can a Davidson student. Let every student render cautious counsel to both sides of the question of working before he accepts the chains of work for the long summer period. And let the more prudent take repeated counsel in the words of Patrick Henry: “I know not what course others may take, but as for me, give me liberty or give me death.”

It is, of course, much more difficult to present the advantages of working. They are “few and far between” but if one is diligent and patient, he will eventually discover that there are some advantages to be found. Take the weakling who obtains employment in the town’s best drug store or the competent student who gets a job working on a construction crew.

Jake Wade Elected New ‘D’ Club Head

In the forthcoming year of the “D” Club, Jake Wade was elected president and Monty Hill sec.-treas., with a run-off between Rice and Buddy Chandler for vice-president. Jake Wade, a rising senior, who hails from Charlotte, has been a member of the student council for the past two years. A member of Kappa Sigma Social Fraternity, Jake is a star back of the football team and an able second baseman on the baseball team. Jake was the leading ground gainer for the Wildcats last fall, besides being a standout in basketball. Monty Hill, a rising junior from Greensboro and an outstanding sharpshooter on the golf team, is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. Buddy Chandler, of Norfolk, Va., also a member of that fraternity, has shown himself as a stalwart guard on the gridiron just as Doug Rice, from Bennettsville, S.C., a member of Kappa Sigma Social Fraternity, has been outstanding in the backfield.

Miller Elected To Lead Phi Society

At its last meeting of the semester, the Philanthropic Literary Society elected Dave Miller to serve as its president next fall. Also elected were: Don Bryan, vice president; Ray Cunningham, treasurer; Robinson, secretary; Charles Davis, first critic; John Lyles, second critic; and Stubbs, Jeffries.Irving supervisor, and Watt The offices of critic and supervisor main- first second supervisor. In one of the major traditions of criticism of members’ conduct and speech at the society: constructive meetings, Frank Lemmon announced the winners of the Retiring President Spring Writing contest held within the society. First place went to second to Charles Davis, and third to Bill. The Tuesday meeting, filled with the blended humor and spirit of seriousness traditional with the society, included reports on several recent activities, notably the steak-fry and social held May 7 at Erwin Lodge. Harrison Taylor presented a resume of the joint Philanthropic, Eumenean meeting of April 29, and commented on the difficulties and rewards of impromptu speaking. Humorous highlights of the evening were Charles Davis’ Judiciary Report bidding farewell to the graduating members and a discussion of a motion that elections be conducted with all eyes closed. Some laughter also was occasioned over the ability of Dave Shepperson to preserve a buttoned coat.

President Lemmon concluded the meeting by noting the society's progress during the spring semester and expressing his hopes that the fall will see an even more active and profitable season for every member.

Marburg Student to Enroll Here

Sponsored jointly by Pi Kappa Phi fraternity and Davidson College, Helmuth Schwinge, of Germany, will pursue his studies for the coming year at Davidson. This is the second consecutive year Pi Kappa Phi has sponsored a foreign student for a year's training in the United States. Helmuth is now a student at Marburg University in Marburg, Germany, and at eighteen, he is one of the youngest students enrolled there. His father is a professor at Marburg, which was the recipient of the YMCA’s Christmas Gift Fund of the past year. Such students who wish to study in America apply for scholarships in their home countries. If they meet the qualifications prescribed by the authorities and are accepted, they are distributed by the Institute of International Education in New York to some sponsoring organization. Helmuth has been accepted by the Institute of International Education and by Davidson, and according to present plans should arrive in time for the semester beginning in September. He will be one of approximately 26,000 foreign scholars now receiving their education in the United States. Several Davidson men who will be in Europe this summer are planning to meet Helmuth and preview him on the life he will lead at Davidson.

Final Plans Made For Graduation

Approximately 170 seniors will be graduated at the commencement exercises on May 30 this year. The exercises will climax a three-day program of alumni meetings, class reunions, and commencement festivities to be held on the campus. The first event on the agenda for Saturday, May 28, will be an Executive Committee meeting of the Alumni Council at 10:00 A.M. At this meeting, nominations for officers, committees, and alumni trustees will be made. At 11:00 o'clock there will be an alumni council meeting to which the faculty, all seniors, and alumni are invited to attend. This will be followed by class reunions at 12:00. The senior-alumni luncheon will be held at 1 o'clock for alumni, faculty members, seniors, and their parents out on the campus. At this meeting, the seniors will be welcomed into the association, a report of the alumni council meeting will be made, and officers, committees, and alumni trustees will be nominated. At 4:00 p.m., senior class day exercises will take place. Following this will be a faculty reception for seniors and families at 5 p.m. A Band concert out on the campus is scheduled to begin at 7:30 p.m. On Sunday at 11 a.m., the baccalaureate sermon will be preached by Dr. William V. Gardner, of Atlanta, Ga., in Chambers Auditorium. Tentative plans for a vesper service have been made for Sunday evening. The academic procession will begin at 10:15 on Monday morning. Dr. A. Hollis Edens, president of Duke University, will deliver the commencement address after which diplomas and several honorary degrees will be presented. The following men are candidates for graduation:

Patronize The Davidsonian Advertisers.

Winning two debates with the University of North Carolina held in Eu Hall on the night of May 3, the Forensic Council brought to a successful close its 1948-49 debating season. Scoring for Davidson were Flynn Long and Jack Hunter, affirmatives, and Bryan Robinson and Don Shriver, negatives. These men comprised the same team that made a recent successful trip to the Marshall-Wythe Tournament at William and Mary College, Williamsburg, Virginia. Here Long and Hunter won first place among affirmative teams, second place in the entire tournament, losing to Navy in the finals by a split decision. A list of the schools they defeated includes Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Washington and Lee, the University of Virginia, and William and Mary. Shriver and Robinson, the negative team, won over Virginia Polytechnic Institute, the University of Virginia, and Navy, but dropped contests to Washington and Lee, and Princeton. Just recently, at the Grand National Tournament at Mary Washington College, Fredericksburg, Virginia, Davidson announced an overall score of four wins and three losses. Lyles and Long, debating affirmative, trounced the University of Virginia and Middle Tennessee College, but bowed to East Carolina Teachers College. Hunter and Davis, debating negative, defeated Stetson College and Temple University, but lost to Northwestern University and Geneva College. During the year 1948-49, the Forensic Council participated in sixty-two debates, of which thirty were victories, thirty defeats, one non-decision, and one an exhibition. An even more active season is contemplated for next year.

Another recent activity of the Forensic Council was the Freshman Speech Contest, held in Chambers on the night of May 2. Pete Kalogridis was awarded first place and a prize of eight dollars for his oration on the American Constitution. Kalogridis’ speech was praised by the judges both for its content and its presentation. Walter Coppedge, winner of the six-dollar second prize, used the same subject and was a close runner-up to Kalogridis. Copping the third and fourth prizes, four dollars and two dollars respectively, Shelly Peard and Carroll Camp presented talks on The New South and Compulsory Church at Davidson. Judging these speeches was a faculty committee composed of Professors Johnston, Griff, and Ey. Immediately before the contest, the annual Forensic banquet took place at the House. Mrs. Caldwell provided a delicious meal, and Dr. Johnston, chairman of the faculty committee on forensic activities, added to the pleasure of the occasion by his speech on The Six Greatest Orators of America. Dr. Johnston's list included Patrick Henry, Clay, Webster, Bryan, Wilson, and Alderman. In conclusion, he emphasized the fact that good speakers are made, not born.

There were only four participants in this year’s Freshman Speech Contest. The Forensic Council hopes for a larger turnout next year and urges these four and other interested students to try out for the debating team next fall.