PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, January 14, 1949

DAVIDSON FORTUNATE... (Continued From Page One)

repeated on his tiny three-stringed instrument with marvelous fidelity the folk tunes he heard sung by the nomadic gypsies. At
seven he was enrolled in the Vienna Conservatory, from which he graduated with highest honors. He continued his studies at
the Paris Conservatory where he won the highest prize for violin that the conservatory could offer. At the age of
17, he was launched upon a brilliant career as a violin virtuoso, which has taken him to the four corners
of the world. Wherever he plays, he wins the ready admiration of his audiences for his technical abilities and penetrating
interpretations.

Enesco’s greatness stems from his absorption in his playing, his penetration of the composer’s intent, his beauty of tone, his
combination of the emotional and intellectual, neither overshadowing the other, and his implicit sincerity. When the war engulfed Europe and
with it, Romania, Georges Enesco’s name disappeared from the news. Finally, Yehudi Menuhin, his friend and former pupil, went abroad
in 1945 and found Enesco unscathed in his country home outside Bucharest. During the long period he was cut off
from the outside world, he had done much composing, including one of the great violin concertos of the day.

Georges Enesco plays an oversize violin. It was especially designed for his broad fingers by the French violin maker Collin.
He is medium in height, heavily built, and his fingertips are so wide and the muscles of his hands so
powerful that he can play a span of three notes on his large violin.

Mooresville Co-Operative Creamery
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

State Theatre
SATURDAY
“DESPERADOES OF DODGE CITY”
Durango Kid
Also “GAY INTRUDERS”
John Emery
SERIAL CARTOON
Late Show Sat. Nite and MON-TUE.-WED
“PALE FACE” (Color by Technicolor)
Jane Russell - Bob Hope
and Buttons and Bows
NEWS SHORTS
and THURS.-FRI.
“BELLE, STAR'S DAUGHTER”
George Montgomery
Ruth Roman
NEWS

CENTER THEATRE
Mooresville, N. C.
WEEK STARTING JAN. 7
“LAW OF THE WOLF”
Rin Tin Tin, Jr.
also “THE LAW COMES TO TEXAS”
Bill Elliott
SERIAL CARTOON
Late Show Sat. Nite 10:30 Only
MON.-TUES.
“ANGEL IN EXILE”
John Carroll - Adele Mara
NEWS — SHORTS
WED.-THUR.
“IN THIS CORNER”
Scott Brady
also “SIREN OF ATLANTIS”
Maria Montez
NEWS

DR. HARDING... (Continued From Page Two)

knew also what constituted an ‘A’ grade course in Greek for the freshman and sophomore years. I knew that the
average or mediocre student couldn't master such a course from day to day with only about 40 minutes spent in
preparation of the lesson. I could not be persuaded or forced by the penalty of failure to devote more time
than this to his lesson.

“And with this thought, I gently applied the thumb-screws, with the result that I made the courses unpopular by passing
quite a fraction of those who were in the lower half of the class that either could not or would
not learn. It was a choice, either to do this or kill Greek myself. I found an excuse for issuing
these free passes in the thought that possibly in these ‘unplowed fields’ I had set my plow too deep.”

Whatever else one may say of Dr. Harding, one must give due prominence to his youthful zest for mastering Greek.
After so long a while, I surrendered. I continued to do my best for those that wished to learn and
seared my conscience by passing quite a fraction of those also for mastering Greek. He has not been content to
stay in a rut, or to confine his mind in those channels approved by more conservative men. Dr. Harding is
a sort of modern Don Quixote, rattling his lance of scholarly argument and humorous native good sense against the windmills
of indifference and ignorance. He will speak on the slightest provocation in favor of Latin in the public schools. He
believes that Latin has no superior as a teacher of mental gymnastics, and a paver of broad foundations for learning.
He fights for this with the same avidity that he once fought single-handed against the whole faculty and trustees to
uphold the honor of Latin and Greek in the A. B. degree.

“It was largely through his influence that the A. B. degree today at Davidson requires one or both languages. Dr.
Harding once taught Greek to the rawboned country boy from Mill Bridge in Rowan County who was later to become
Dr. Walter Lingle, president of Davidson. He has also taught practically all the Davidson men on the faculty today and,
as such, knows them from the ground up. His former students are numbered by the thousands, and for them he
keeps alive a large amount of love and affection. He believes in the Bible as a complete guide to human
conduct. He cherishes humor as an unfailing...

Bates Cleaners
For Good Service
REMEMBER THIS SEAL
ITS YOUR ASSURANCEOF THE BEST! Withers Electric Company ® Radio Repairs © Electrical Supplies ® Light Bulbs

Porters something to cheer about. Hopper dropped in three buckets and Johnny was deadly with his hand push shot, scoring
eight important points. Late in the third...

CATS TOP... (Continued From Page Three) tallied six points, and his first goal was the one that put Davidson ahead.
By this time the Davidson cheering section had gone completely crazy with yelling, and they hollered for more. Cheek obliged
with one of his long push shots. Cobb and Hopper added a goal apiece, and Williams dropped in a free
throw. The final score stood at 64-53, and as fans filed out of the hot, smoky Armory, they were convinced
that for real, deep down basketball enjoyment, the Davidson Wildcats are the boys to watch.

The initial half of the Maryland-Davidson game was extremely close and hard-fought. Buddy Cheek was in four personal fouls but
had racked up seven points in the meantime. The scoreboard showed the score to be 24-24 as the two teams
left the court at intermission. In the third period, three minutes had ticked off on the large scoreboard clock, and
Davidson's stock seemingly went down as Center Cheek was credited with his fifth foul. To add to this, Mike Williams
had accumulated four fouls and was pulled from the game temporarily. With Whit Cobb, Bill Iverson, and Bob Maner the
only regulars on the floor, Hopper and Richards entered the game and after a few minutes gave the fans something
to cheer about. Bob pushed a beauty from the side court that put the locals ahead to the tune of
38-37. The Cats were never headed from this lead, and at the final horn, the score stood at 52-49, Davidson.
Unknown reserves had turned what looked to be a losing cause into a convincing win.

Send The Davidsonian home.

Duke Photo Co.
404 W. Trade St.
For Portraits of Distinction
"Specialists In Men's Portraits"
Portraits, Commercial
A complete Photographic Service
Phone 3-8230

BRYAN EN
DAVIDSON, N. C.
221 South Tryon Street
THACKER’S, Private Dining Rooms for Parties and Banquets
"A GOOD PLACE TO EAT"
Phone 25490
Charlotte

Davidson Company
Clothing For The Man
205 South Tryon St.
Charlotte 2, North Carolina

STUDIOS WILL SEEK (Continued From Page One) activities, scholastic averages, and talent in any of the lively arts. These contests
will be conducted during our world premiere festivities in the towns. The all-expense trip to Hollywood will go to the
college selected. Twelve winning freshmen will receive prizes with the all-expense trip going to the national All-American freshman girl. On
which campuses do we find our girls? If any readers would like to help in the selection of these lucky,
lucky, female institutions (or co-ed), drop us a card, care of The Davidsonian, postmarked by midnight January 14, with as
many schools as you would like to recommend in the order of your preference. The schools with the most votes
will be among those recommended.

Send The Davidsonian home.

Paul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.
Phonograph Records
118 W. Trade St.
Phone 8251

Community
A man never gets so sick but he hates to see lady friends drop in and see him with a
week's beard. Flies are developing immunity to Now if we could only develop immunity to flies.

Makers of Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.

LAD Company
Since 1898

SHIP AHOY
Charlotte’s Leading Restaurant
Western Steaks
Phone 69

Better
Most modern methods and best equipment — all laboratory controlled
Electric Detector
Every Chesterfield must be exactly right in moisture content.

Copyright 1949, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Make Yours The Al’s Grill
Grade “A” Restaurant
Where Your Patronage Is Always Welcome!
Mooresville, N. C.
Fried Chicken!
A. J. Bistony, Prop.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
WEEK OF JANUARY 17th
MONDAY and TUESDAY
"FIGHTER SQUADRON"
Edmond O'Brien - Robert Stack
WEDNESDAY - THURSDAY
"A SONG IS BORN"
Danny Kaye - Virginia Mayo
FRIDAY and SATURDAY
"STATION WEST"
Dick Powell - Jane Greer

This great new modern cigarette factory to meet the increasing demand for the milder cigarette from smokers all over America.
Every step in the manufacture of Chesterfields is scientifically laboratory controlled. Moisture content must be exactly right in every Chesterfield.
