Ras v. Bowers and Bill ~ \ For the annual: pd weekend, Coach Charley and his charges are off to
Lexington, Va., this time for a game with the Keydets of VMI. For the second time, they will take the
field in the role of definite underdogs. It could have easily been the other way around, but recent performances by
the Wildcats have given writers and dopesters little or no reason to think they can produce a win.

ANOTHER HOMECOMING GAME

There is something that can be said both ways concerning tomorrow’s game. On the dark side of the picture, the
Davidsons will be playing their fourth straight homecoming game this season. Three have resulted in defeat for the local gridders,
and as mentioned above, they will be in for another licking at the hands of VMI unless the dope-bucket is
upset. The fact that it is the Keydets’ homecoming is bad enough, but there’s the added truth that they are
always hard to lick on their home field.

On the other hand, Jamerson expects to have the squad in the best shape, physically, since the State game. Eborn,
Sharpe, Chandler, and Richards will be back in the lineup. The backfield is still a question mark. Sifford suffered a
thigh injury against W&L which has been giving him trouble this week, and he may be slowed down considerably. Lambeth
is not in top shape due to a shoulder injury, and Rimer aggravated his old shoulder injury against the Generals.
Runyan’s back injury hasn’t responded to treatment as well as had been hoped for, but it’s probable that he will
make the trip. This brief rundown shows that the Cats are still nursing a number of ailments, but it’s a
far cry from the situation that existed last week when W&L waltzed over them.

SUBS SHOW PLENTY OF FIGHT

Last Saturday, with six starters out and others added to the list as the game progressed—some new faces were seen
in the lineup. Some of these had played briefly in earlier games, but for others, it was their first varsity
competition. We're speaking of Marvin Kelly, “Slimey” Sloan, Bob Turk, Brady Osborne, Bill VanStery, Amos Camp, Johnny Gruiton, Bill Freeman.
All of these subs performed like veterans and exhibited the fight and spirit that has been lacking during the last
few weeks. Their scrap and determination were a real inspiration to the handful of Davidson supporters who followed the team
to Lexington and labeled them as sure bets to see plenty more action before the current season fades out.

FROM THE SIDELINES

During half-time festivities, the crack Charleston, West Virginia High School Band dedicated a number to the Wildcats. The band formed
a huge star and played “Stardust” while a scantily-clad ballerina went through her paces in the middle of the formation.
VMI Cadets were scattered throughout the grandstand, and they cheered heartily for the Cats to the disgust of their neighboring
W&L enthusiasts. Pete Whittle’s Harriers, in their brilliant red warm-ups, added color to the drab afternoon when they came onto
the field before their meet. Cal Shepperd, former star tailback for the Red and Black, was on hand for the
game, as were some alumni now attending Union Seminary. After their win, the members of the Cross Country team took
a dip in the pool at the W&L gym and then played basketball as if they hadn’t had any exercise.

Column at W. & L.
W. S. HENDERSON
EXPERT WATCH Jeweler

By Chet Smith

DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1949 PAGE FOUR

THE BY FURMAN WARLICK

During half-time of the Washington and Lee Davidson football game in Lexington, Virginia, the Davidson Cross Country team downed the
General Harriers by a decisive 20-24 score. This was the only bright spot for Davidson students and fans in Lexington
for the weekend. Hansburger of Washington and Lee came in first with the good time of 16:26. Before another General
crossed the finish line, five Davidson harriers had come in and assured Davidson of a win. Speedy Blake Bradley was
the first Davidson man to cross, coming in thirty-one seconds after Hansburger in the time of 16:57. Tom Stockton, Dave
Anderson, Dick Stockton, and Bob Long followed Bradley across the line.

The victory of the cross-country team helped in keeping the weekend from being too disappointing for Davidson fans who could
hardly believe the drubbing that their football team was taking from a fired-up General team who were making it easy
for W&L alumni and students to celebrate homecoming. For Bradley, it was the second straight time that he has led
the Davidson harriers, and if he keeps on with his fast times, he will lead them in many more. It
was the third consecutive Davidson victory this year after an opening defeat against a strong N. C. State team.

Results: (1) Hansburger (W&L) 16:26; (2) Bradley (D) 16:57; (3) Stockton, T. (D) 17:02; (4) Anderson (D) 17:10; (5) Stockton,
D. (D) 17:21; (6) Long (D) 17:49; (7) Lonergan (W&L) 17:54; (8) Lee (D) 17:59; (9) Leviette (W&L) 18:03; (10)
Grube (D) 18:07; (11) Patterson (D) 18:08; (12) Viler (W&L) 18:21; (13) Van Leon (W&L) 18:24; (14) Gardner (W&L) 18:53;
(15) Wyatt (W&L) 19:00.

Tryouts Invited For Sigma Delta Psi

The Davidson chapter of Sigma Delta Psi, the National Honorary Athletic Fraternity, has announced that any student who wishes to
become a member may do so if he is able to pass the following athletic tests:
- 100 yard dash—11.6 seconds.
- 20 ft. rope climb—12 seconds.
- Shot put—according to weight.
- Football punt—40 yards.
- 120 yard low hurdles—16 seconds.
- Broad jump—17 feet.
- Baseball throw—250 feet.
- Javelin throw—130 feet.
- One mile run—6 minutes.
- 100 yard swim—1:45 minutes.
- Hand spring.
- High jump—5 feet.
- Hand stand—10 seconds.
- Fence vault—chin high.

The Davidson Chapter was chartered in 1929, and has made an impressive record both locally and nationally. In 1938, the
team won the National Competition Championship of the fraternity and received the engraved plaque which hangs in the athletic office.
Anyone desiring to take the tests may secure further information from Coach Whittle or any of the following members: Hal
Haynes, Tom Haller, Rhea Adams, Bruce Ballenger, Jim Vann, or Bill Pritchett.

Wildcat Of The Week
BY JACK

From viewing the score of last week's 53-0 drubbing by Washington & Lee, one would think that there could have
been little for Davidson supporters to smile about. But those who saw the game will disagree. We refer to the
defensive tackle play of Jim Fasul. We aren't stretching things when we say that Fasul was in on better than
one of every two tackles, and on many of these, it was the stocky sophomore alone who nailed the W&L
ball carrier. From his tackle spot, which is virtually the same as an end in an ordinary defense, Fasul broke
up the General's interference time after time to set up tackles for the linebacker and secondary. With the absence of
many of the first-string offensiveMen, Fasul was called on for duty in clearing the way for Cat ball carriers. He
showed up as well here as in his defensive play. Jim is also slated to see service on offense and
defense against VMI today. Guard Bob Sharpe is still hampered with a shoulder injury and the big Greek has shown
that he is the best man for the job. The Cats will use a six-man defense line against the Keydets.
Fasul's status is undetermined but he will be in the game. Jim is from Fayetteville. He went to high school
in the eastern Carolina city and played on the 1947 North Carolina State Championship team with Wake Forest's flashy sophomore
back, Nub Smith. Also in that state championship line was center Bill Archer who has seen a lot of action
for Coach Charlie Jamerson this fall. Fasul has as much scrap as the next guy on the field but he
can forget about football as easily when it's over. He appreciates a good joke and a big time. He will
be around for two more years and will be a big factor in both of them.

BY J. W. HOWELL

Betas 18—Sigma Chi 6

A strong, undefeated Beta team, sparked by the passing of Earl Smith, came from behind a 6-0 Sigma Chi half-time
lead to win 18-6 last Friday afternoon. Earl Smith passed brilliantly to Hankin for three spectacular last-half scores to put
the game on ice for the Betas. The Sigma Chis fought hard but they could not stop the Beta passing
attack. Kelton passed for the only Sigma Chi score. The Betas also led in first downs 6-4.

Phi Delts 12—S. P. E.'s 0

The Phi Delts defeated the S. P. E.'s 12-0 in a close hard-fought game last Thursday afternoon. Whit Cobb proved
to be the deciding factor in the Phi Delt win. Cobb intercepted an S. P. E. pass and went all
the way to score the Phi Delts' first touchdown. Later in the game, he scored again on a long spectacular
run. The S. P. E.'s led in first downs but were not able to break loose for sizeable gains or
touchdowns.

INTERFRAT STANDINGS

Team W L T
Beta 5 0 0
Phi Delt 4 1 0
Kappa Sig 3 1 1
Pika 3 2 0
Phi Gam 2 3 0
Sigma Chi 2 4 0
Pi Kap 1 5 0
Campus Club 0 6 0

LOST A BICYCLE?

Trainer Doc White reports that a blue bicycle, with chain off, was left last spring outside the coaches’ dressing room
door at the Old Gym and has never been called for. Doc has the bike at home. The owner may
claim it by description. Otherwise, Doc will sell the bicycle within two weeks. Those interested call Doc at 3111 during
the day.

Frosh Bow To State Wolflets

The Freshman Football team encountered the hard-hitting N. C. State Wolflets last Friday and fell before the onslaught by a
33 to 0 margin. This score does not indicate exactly what went on under the lights in Fayetteville that night.
In the first half, nothing seemed to go right for the Red and White. Their passes were intercepted and the
kicks were blocked. State had a smooth-running passing attack and used it to great advantage. This was the real factor
that brought about State’s triumph, since the running game of both teams was about equal. When the half ended, the
score was 26 to 0. Davidson came back on the field in the second half a different team and held
the Wolflets to one additional score. The playing in this period showed a marked improvement over the preceding one. The
final score of the game was 33 to 0. The Kittens played hard and furiously the whole way and kept
fighting until the final whistle. This State team was good and the line and backs were big. Perhaps if the
weight had been more equal and Davidson's first drive had not bogged, the score might have been different. The Wildkittens'
play was marked by the fine running of Bill Rowland. Bob Tucker, Pierce, and White also played well. The defensive
play of C. Gregg showed up well on the more unglamorous side of the game—that of defense. The next team
the Kittens meet will be the Belmont Abbey squad. The game is scheduled for Friday week at 3 o'clock on
Richardson Field. Belmont Abbey will field a strong team which beat Presbyterian Junior College 35 to 0.

Strengthened By Return Of Much Needed Regulars to Line-up

By BILL WHITE

Another Homecoming, another T or variation thereof, and another appearance in Lexington are the orders of the day for Davidson’s
still-crippled Cats when they buck VMI’s Keydets in the Virginia village tomorrow afternoon. No doubt the Lexington football faithful will
trek back this weekend to see the Wildcats in action again, not because they were offensively impressive last week in
the loss to Washington and Lee but to see for themselves that certainly the Presbyterians can play better than 53-0
football. Realizing that full well and as confident as the spectator that the Cats can perform better than they did
last Saturday, Coach Charley Jamerson has reaped the sowings of leaving several men at home last weekend and hopes it
will pay off this time. Back into the fold are brilliant sophomore fullback C. L. Runyan, the line-buster who ripped
State's wall at will, Auburn Lambeth's tailback alternate Cliff Turner, guard Buddy Chandler and possibly Bob Sharpe, and tackle Carl
Eborn, none of whom made the jaunt last weekend. Still question marks, however, are Lambeth and wingback Jimmy Sifford, while
Hal Mapes is probably lost for the season with the shattered bone in his cheek. Robby Turk has gained experience
fast replacing Mapes, and he and Tom Comer are developing into a fine pair of sophomore flankers to work on
defense while Pete Brown and Mott Price handle the offensive duties. With Sifford sidelined, Jake Wade will see double duty
at safety and on the wing, working the latter spot with lil’ Dave Erwin. Turner will get the brunt of
the tailback duty. The Keydets of VMI trimmed Richmond 14-7 and bowed to Army this past Saturday by only 40-14.
Their top tosser, and they throw the ball around plenty, is Joe Veltri, a boy who will vie with Lambeth
for the honors in the airways. The Tom Nuggent-coached Keydets operate from the split-T, a formation that has caused the
Cats no end of trouble all season long. N. C. State used the T but little, and the Cats solved
their single wing. The long drive late in the game which was halted by Wade's TD interception was manufactured behind
the T. If the Cats can solve that, they may be able to enjoy their first Homecoming this year. Thus
far they have been beaten at St. Louis’, their own, and Washington and Lee's.

VISIT THE RECREATION CENTER
Davidson, N. C.

BELK BROTHERS
Will Present A Special Showing Of Suits, Topcoats, Tux, Sportswear and Haberdashery
Wednesday, Nov. 9, 9:30 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
At Miss Minnie’s
CHARLIE BALDWIN, College Representative
