Two athletic events last Saturday held a great deal of interest for Davidsonians. Item number one was the College All-Star-Charlotte
Clippers football game in Memorial Stadium and the other was the basketball game that night in Statesville’s new physical education
building between Davidson and V.P.I. As all know, the campus interest manifested toward the football game in Charlotte was due
to the fact that Buddy Chandler and Jake Wade were among the select group of seniors who were invited to
play.

CHANDLER WRECKED CLIPPERS

Far too little was written about the All-Star game, at least from a standpoint of the terrific line play on
the part of the stars. Coaches Walker and Enright’s powerful forward wall nearly wrecked the pros from the Queen City.
Here's the thing that should interest friends of Davidson—Buddy Chandler, stellar Cat guard for the past four years, turned in
without a doubt the outstanding defensive game of the afternoon. Buddy played the entire game as a defensive guard beside
Duke’s highly touted tackle, Louis Allen. Few will deny that the hefty Chandler outshone his All-Southern companion. Someone remarked after
the game that "Chandler played most of the game in the Clippers’ backfield," which is not so much of an
exaggeration at that. Buddy boomed through the Clippers’ line repeatedly and made life miserable for tailback Casey Jones. Each time
the Clipper flipper would drop back to pass, Chandler was hawking him. In the waning minutes of the game, Casey
was limping around on the field like he had been in a bout with a steamroller. Buddy's performance in the
game only goes to back up all that has been said and written about him during his four years at
Davidson. He was playing with linemen from Wake Forest, Duke, State, South Carolina—but none of them stood above him. It
was a fitting end to a brilliant college career.

Little Jake Wade, Davidson’s other participant in the game, played on offense and defense, although his unfamiliarity with the “T”
kept him from figuring in on any of the running plays. Jake turned in a good game at defensive halfback,
knocking down passes and making several teeth-jarring tackles. In the first half, Jake hit Carroll Blackwell after he had gotten
into the secondary, and that was all for Mr. Blackwell. He left the game holding his right shoulder and didn’t
see any more service. The disgusted Clipper fullback wasn’t used to such treatment—at least by a 145-pound halfback.

CAGERS HIT ON ALL FIVE

A disappointingly small group of students went to Statesville to see the Cat cagers tangle with the V.P.I. Gobblers in
a game which was the featured event in the dedication of the new high school gym. Boyd Baird's sophomore-studded squad
completely outplayed and outfought the previously unbeaten Virginians in a performance which proved beyond a doubt that the Cats are
going to give somebody trouble this year. Baird has gotten his team coordinated with amazing speed, and Saturday night he
discovered a smooth working quintet in Brooks, Coleman, Cobb, Haller, and Hengeveld. Brooks and Coleman, whose sparkling play brought many
favorable comments from the press this week, teamed to give the Cats almost complete control of the backboards, particularly during
the second half. Thus, one of Davidson's main weaknesses year-in-and-year-out, seems to have been solved. At this writing, the Duke
game is yet to be played, but regardless of the outcome, Davidson has a team which could conceivably better the
record of last year's quint. The average height of the team is greater than last year’s and the shooting ability
of each of the players is superior to that of last year. What's more, there are sixteen hustlers representing Davidson—fifteen
squad members and Coach Baird. Whit Cobb said early in the season, "We may not win all our games, but
we’ll be out there fightin’." The team has the spirit, the coach has the spirit—let’s hope the student body follows
suit.

For a smile on every face and a carol in every heart we commend you to the spirit of Christmas.
Happy holiday.

PAGE FOUR

Conference Decisions Of Interest To D.C.

By DAN McKEITHEN

The annual meeting of the Southern Conference was held this year in Roanoke, Va., on December 9 and 10. Representatives
from Davidson were Football Coach Charley Jamerson and Athletic Director Jim Pinkney. Several important conclusions were reached, but two of
these in particular pertained to Davidson. It was announced that the Southern Conference Tennis Tournament will be held here on
May 12 and 13 of the coming year. North Carolina University has been the site for many years, but now
that Davidson has the best facilities available, the local courts have been selected this year. The other important announcement was
that a new rule has been made regarding freshman eligibility for varsity athletics. A man must earn his credit hours
in the school for which he is to participate during the semester preceding the varsity season. Under this rule, a
freshman cannot participate in football next season if he flunks out at the end of this semester, even though he
makes up his work in another institution and is allowed to return next fall. Of course, this rule will make
it tougher on schools with the semester system like Davidson, than those on the quarter system, like Carolina. Other decisions
were also reached. The University of West Virginia has been admitted into the Conference group, which now lists seventeen members.
The office of commissioner was approved. Although the other officers will remain, the commissioner will be given duties that have
been performed in the past by the president. Duke Football Coach Wallace Wade is one that has been mentioned for
this post.

Freshmen Hoopsters Bested In Thriller

By DICK LILES

The Freshman basketball team journeyed to Wingate Junior College Monday night, and turned in their best performance of the season.
Although they were defeated 65-64, they definitely showed improvement. After the practice games with the Charlotte and Kannapolis Y's, the
Wildkittens had a tough time handling the State boys and were trounced 73-32. From the looks of this week’s score
and the number of points scored, the frosh are improving rapidly. Wingate Jr. College has always had a fine basketball
quintet, and is probably one of the best in the junior college circuit this year. The frosh five from Davidson
led most of the first half, but were behind, 37-30, when the half ended. With two minutes remaining in the
game, Wingate led by 65-60; the whistle sounded with Davidson in possession and only one point behind. Adrian Bowen’s floor
play and sparkling defensive game was his best performance of the season. He and big J. V. Howell pumped in
13 points each to tie for leading scoring honors. Close behind with 12 was Harris Asbury and Bob Graham who
collected 10 points. Dick Bestas bested his closest rival with 20 tallies for the winners. It was Wingate’s sixth consecutive
win of the new season. It was certainly the most spectacular game the Frosh have played this year. With their
improvement, pep, and scoring punch, they should really sparkle the remainder of the season.

Withers Electric Company
© Radio Repairs
© Electrical Supplies
© Light Bulbs
DAVIDSON, N.C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sports

CONGRATS, JOHNNY!

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1949

IMPS DROP HOOPSTERS IN BRACE

Towering Dukes Too Much For Cats; Ray Brown's Frosh Loses in Thriller

By CHARLIE HAWKINS

The Davidson Wildcats dropped a hard-fought battle to the Duke basketeers, 66 to 49, on Thursday night in Davidson's new
gymnasium. It was the first meeting of the two teams this season, and as the score reveals, the Blue Devils
cannot be counted out of the Southern Conference race. Duke Coach Gerry Gerard's boys started early and jumped to a
9-3 lead, with only four minutes gone. The straight shooting of Wildcat forward Bill Brooks kept Davidson in the game
until Tom Coleman came in with seven minutes gone and scored six points to cut Duke’s lead to 18-14 at
the 13-minute mark. This proved the closest margin to which the Wildcats could whittle the Duke score for the remainder
of the game.

Wednesday night, the annual banquet for members of the football and cross country team was held in the College Dining
Hall. In addition to the members of the two teams, coaches, managers, and a number of faculty members were in
attendance. The highlight of the proceedings was the presentation of the Ed Armfield Blocking Trophy to Johnny Richards, senior from
Portsmouth, Virginia. Mr. Fred Hengeveld, Registrar of the College, served as toastmaster.Rest of the game. Then the Blue Devils spurted
to 25-17 at the 17-minute point, led by the shooting of 6 foot 6 in. Jim Kulpan and Scotty York.
The visitors pumped in eight points more to the Wildcats' five, to lead at half-time, 33-22. The ball handling of
Wildcat Captain Whit Cobb and the shooting of junior forward Tommy Haller sparked the Davidsonians at the beginning of the
second half, but the rebounding and shooting of the visitors were too much as the Blue Devils forged to a
41-30 lead at the end of five minutes of play. It was here that the height of the Blue Devils
proved to be too much for the Wildcats.

BILL BROOKS
Wildcat Of The Week
By BILL ADAMS

This time, our Wildcat of the Week is a tall, lanky blond, carrying 160 pounds on a six-foot two-inch frame,
who hails from Frankfort, Ky. Coming from such a cage-crazy environment, one would naturally expect Bill Brooks to be a
good basketball player. Anyone seeing him pour 20 points through the nets at Statesville Saturday night as he paced the
Wildcats to their first Conference victory can back us up when we say that he’s a whale of a good
basketball player.

Bill came to Davidson after playing three years of first-string ball for Frankfort High, with a good basketball reputation—good enough
for a scholarship, in fact. He hasn't disappointed anyone, either. First, he started off as high-pointer for Boyd Baird's freshmen
last year in sparking them to a very successful year. This season, as a sophomore, he has taken over a
first-string forward post for Baird’s varsity, and seems destined to be one of the highest scorers in the Conference.

Perhaps Bill Brooks' greatest asset is two tremendous hands which permit him to handle a basketball like a farmer gathering
potatoes. His lanky frame has earned for him the name of “Bones,” since he seems loose enough to fall apart
at any minute. Bill is left-handed and possesses one of the best hook shots from the foul circle that will
be seen in Southern Conference court circles this winter. He is a scrapper all the way, putting every bit of
his energy into each minute that he’s on the court as he exhibits a fierce desire to win. Not too
tall as basketball height goes, Bill is a very dangerous tip-in man and plenty capable under the baskets. Most of
his points come on his left-handed hook or on tip-ins, many times after following up his own shots.

Davidson followers who were expecting a sad year for the Wildcats after the loss of Cheek, Williams, and Co., are
much more hopeful of a good year now that the scrappy Cats have beaten VPI and put Brooks before the
public eye. If past performance and the will to win are any criterion on which to base a prediction, we'll
feel secure in predicting basketball history for Bill Brooks at Davidson as we salute him as the Wildcat of the
Week!

Chesterfield Sports Quiz

1. What Davidson football player received the Armfield Blocking trophy last year?
2. On January 7 the Senior Bowl will be the scene of a game in what city?
3. Bob Dillinger of the St. Louis Browns was sold to what team this week?
4. Jake LaMotta lost a decision to what French boxer in the last two weeks?
5. The collegiate punting title went to what football player this year?

RULES
1. Print your answers clearly on the back of a Chesterfield wrapper. No entries will be accepted later than 24
hours after the Davidsonian is circulated.
2. Take your answer to Frank Perrin in 112 West. The first three correct entries will receive a carton of
Chesterfield cigarettes.
3. This contest is not open to the members of the Davidsonian staff.

DRIVE CAREFULLY OVER THE HOLIDAYS

EXERCISE CAUTION

The rebounding and shooting of Duke's Crowder and Dayton Allen provided Duke with a 48-30 lead with seven minutes gone.
At this point, Tommy Haller fouled out, and despite the fine play of Brooks, the Blue Devils battled to a
53-32 lead. Tom Coleman fouled out as the visitors went further ahead, 57-35, with eight minutes left. Cobb’s fine defensive
play and substitute center Brady Osborne’s sharp shooting led the Wildcats in a comeback, but again the Duke height was
too much as the Blue Devils led 60-43, with three minutes left in the game. Osborne's two foul shots and
three field goals ended the Davidson scoring, and the game ended, 66-49.

The great factor in the winning of the Blue Devils was their height. Only two of the 17 Duke players
were under 6 feet tall, and they used this height in controlling the backboards throughout the game. The scrappy Wildcat
spirit and the “never say die” attitude kept Coach Boyd Baird's team in the game. Whit Cobb played his usual
spectacular floor game and excelled on defense as Bill Brooks scored 12 to lead the Cats.

The Freshman game, won by Duke, 45-38, was another hard-fought contest. The outcome was not decided until the last few
minutes of play, when the Duke freshmen exploded for a seven-point burst to win. Graham and Bowen stood out for
Davidson freshmen.

The master of ceremonies introduced Professor Beaty who pronounced the invocation. Following the invocation, the staff dinner with all the
trimmings was served by Mr. Spence. Professor Frontis Johnson introduced the guest speaker of the evening, “Rabbi” Henry Baumann of
the Bible Department of the college. Professor Baumann’s talk centered around two main points. His first point was that the
early Greek athletes trained diligently for a cause—the State. Transposing it to modern times, athletes in our colleges and universities
train for a cause—their school. The whims and opinions of one person don’t amount to anything, for it takes teamwork
to bring about results. The second thought which Professor Baumann presented to the group was Plato’s statement that an athlete
is the master of a situation. He does the best job that he can. He is able to control with
his skills, capacities, and abilities, and this is the obligation of all athletes here at Davidson.

Next on the program was entertainment—hillbilly music by Hal Haynes, Ansley Moses, and Fletcher Bright. Following this, the toastmaster called
on Dean Bailey to quote a favorite song of his entitled “He Was a High-Geared Daddy, But His Sweet Mama
Throwed Him In Low.” Dr. Bill McGavock was introduced and he made the award of the Armfield Blocking Trophy to
Johnny Richards. Coach Jamerson then presented letters to members of the football team. In his introductory remarks, Coach Jamerson attributed
Davidson's poor showing in football this past season to three reasons over which the players had no control—injuries, lack of
depth, and overscheduling. The following received letters for the first time: Grover Lee, Woody Leach, Marvin Kelly, Amos Camp, Bill
Van Story, John Rittenburg, Jerry Kiser, Johnny Guiton, Bob Gibson, Bill Freeman, Jim Fasul, Tom Comer, Jack Branch, Bill Acker,
Ham Wade, Bob Turk, B. C. L. Runyan, and Bill McNeely.

Coach Pete Whittle, before awarding letters to the cross country team, announced that Blake Bradley was elected captain of next
year’s team. Letters were awarded to Blake Bradley, Dave Anderson, Bill Lee, Dick Patterson, Dick Stockton, Tom Stockton, Bob Long,
captain, and Carl Garrison, manager. Three men who were out for the team all year were recognized—Dan McKeithen, Watt Jeffries,
and John Tolbert. Bob Long presented a small trophy to Bob Grube from the members of the cross country team.
Grube ran with the team until cupid stepped in. Jake Wade presented a gift to Coach Jamerson on behalf of
the members of the football team and D Club, and Sandy Carnegie presented gifts to Coaches Redding, Brown, and Baird
on behalf of the varsity and freshman squads.

Rent a New Car at SCARBROUGH DRIVE IT YOURSELF, Inc.
Special Rates on Long Trips
212 W. 4th St. Phone 38-4518

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT
BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C. PHONE 2-228
