THE DAVIDSONIAN
Friday, May 6, 1949
PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

BOB HOLLISTER
EDITOR IN CHIEF

BILL HOUCK
BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Lonnie Turnipseed
Associate Editor

Arnie Covell
Managing Editor

Bill Cumming
Managing Editor

Hartley Hall
Managing Editor

Neil Leach
Managing Editor

Tom Mann
Managing Editor

Jim Murray
Managing Editor

Randy Taylor
Managing Editor

Gordon Scott
Sports Editor

John Hobart
City Editor

Tom Haller
Exchange Editor

Watt Jeffries
Exchange Editor

Bill Hollister
Make-up Editor

Dan McKeithen
Make-up Editor

Cherry Stribling
Make-up Editor

Billie
Columnist

Gabe Lowe
Columnist

Liston Mills
Columnist

Henry Wilson
Columnist

Henry Hansen
Columnist

Charlie Davis
Columnist

SENIOR REPORTERS
Pete Kalogridis, Phil Mitchell, Dick Barnwell, Phil Libby, Bill Neal, Ed Richardson, Jim Fickeisen, and Gene Regen.

REPORTERS
Warren Sims, Dudley Pendleton, Nat Daniel, Jim Blackburn, Bob Hubbell, Lamarr Hinson, Tom McMurray, Manly McWilliams, Ben Morris, Bill Bacon.

SPORTS STAFF
Furman Warlick, Bill White, Phil Hammond, Bryan Robinson, Ed West, Bill Buckey, Jack Stevenson

POLL CAT STAFF
Jim Carr, Claude Higginbotham, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown, and Neal Underdown.

WEATHER REPORT
Trew Gurley and Bill Sargent.

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
W. S. McSwain

Advertising Manager
Wyhe Smith

Circulation Manager
Billy Cassels

Asst. Circulation Manager
Bill Cassels

Asst. Advertising Manager
Charles Clinkscales

Asst. Advertising Manager
Hector McKeithan

Assistant Advertising Manager
David McConnell

Collections Manager
Charles Dockery

Subscriptions Manager
John Lottin

ASSISTANTS
Bill Cumming, Bill Wart, Bob Erwin, Bill Pharr, Harold Clayton, Sam Cumming, Rod Shaw, Gene Taylor, Nelson Tomlinson.

CIRCULATION STAFF
Alex Goley, Parks Dalton, Cecil Rhodes, Ansley Moses, Joe H. Miller, Neill Underdown, Tom Haller, John Hardin, Thad Monroe, Hugh
Huffaker, Ben Morris, Guthry Faison, Paul Cam, and Phil Willer.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1948 Member 1949
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Arts Festival

Last Sunday, May 1, marked the beginning of the second annual Arts Festival on the College campus. Probably many of
us failed to take this seriously, and have therefore failed to attend many of the interesting programs planned.

Realizing that there is a deficiency in the Fine Arts curriculum on the campus, the faculty has afforded each student
this opportunity to acquaint himself with the “finer things in life.” The faculty committee doubtless spent a great deal of
time planning and coordinating this extensive program to have something worthwhile and interesting to present to the students. I believe
we can say that they were very successful.

Before going into the program itself, I would like to dwell a moment on the question of the value of
this to the students who are preparing for business careers, for example, or other careers that are not directly connected
with Fine Arts. First, an understanding of Fine Arts, though it be incomplete, is helpful no matter what field you
go into. There will always be opportunities to discuss music and paintings, etc., with others. To take part in such
a conversation it is obvious that one must at least have a general knowledge of the subject. The Arts Festival
helps a student to acquire this knowledge.

As Professor Pfohl said in chapel, to appreciate something we must be familiar with it. The more we know about
a subject, the more interested we are in it. The concerts by the Male Chorus and the Band and Symphony
Orchestra give us an opportunity to become familiar with this type of music, and therefore open a new source of
enjoyment to us. This is perhaps the greatest value of the Festival.

This opportunity to examine, and learn something about the paintings and photographs on display serves to familiarize us with various
elements of painting and photography. This in turn, as we said above, opens the door to a new and interesting
source of enjoyment, that we may tap for the rest of our lives.

The Concert Band, the Glee Club, and the Symphony Orchestra deserve a great vote of thanks for the time and
effort that each member put into the Festival to make it a success. The programs were very good and certainly
worth the effort to those who attended them. Also, thanks to the outsiders who came in to play with the
Little Symphony.

I think Professor Pfohl is to be commended for his bravery in attempting to familiarize the student body with symphony
in his chapel program. “Heartily” received by all, the program aroused an interest in this type of music.

Many of us were surprised to learn that there are so many artists among us, this fact coming to light
in the number of paintings, drawings, and etchings on exhibit in Chambers. The etchings of Louis Orr, presented to the
college by Mr. T. F. Stanley, added a great deal to the exhibits. Also, Mr. Hutchison’s lecture led to a
greater understanding and appreciation of the etchings.

As this festival week comes to a close, I think many of us will realize just how little we actually
do know about the Fine Arts, and some may possibly take steps to remedy this in the near future. Certainly,
we should look to a bigger and better festival next year with a better understanding and appreciation of the arts
presented.

YMCA Cabinet

YMCA President Bill Alexander is to be commended for the fine cabinet which he has chosen for next year. In
looking over the list of jobholders we found that he seemed to have every man in the place best suited
for him and at the same time he has a very good representation of all students.

The naming of Jim “Slick” Evans as treasurer of the group was a very appropriate move. As Bill himself expressed
it, one could hardly leave out a man who polled so many votes. Evans was runner-up to Alexander in the
recent election and had led the field until the final ballot. The election was certainly the most spirited for any
office in recent years and showed that a large segment of the student body was interested in some change in
the “Y” setup. These voters, it would appear, sought representatives of the non-religious emphasis rather than the pre-ministerial students. It
is argued that a good number of the votes were in the nature of a joke, but joke or no
joke, it showed a strong voice for a more varied YMCA staff.

Alexander has recognized this voice and has taken steps already toward heeding it. The appointment of Evans was one. A
second is the effort to move the “Y” to the old gym. Former editor Mac Hart editorialized on that point
several weeks ago and it seems that such a plan might be worked out.

The plan to make the gym into a student union building appears to be a feasible one. The only drawing
which the present “Y” has for the average student is one ping pong table in a room not large enough
for a game of tiddlywinks and one pool table which should have been scrapped years ago. I know nothing of
the financial status of YMCA, but there probably is some allowance for student recreation. However, whether the “Y” has the
money for such in its budget or not should be of little concern. Two or three pool tables in a
student union building such as the old gym could pay for themselves in a short time. Strong student support of
this plan is what is needed to put it over. Alexander reports that Dr. Cunningham is behind it and that
if something can be worked out, it will be. That there is a need is evident. The YMCA used to
be the center of student activity, but it no longer holds that distinction. The proposed change would place it back
in that spot. Student backing is what is needed and it should be shown. Congratulations again to Bill Alexander for
a good start and the best to him in his efforts to place the “Y” back at the top as
a student center.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

Springtime hits us all pretty hard, and it really seems to have taken quite a toll down at the SAE
house. Everything got off to a good start by having elections and by choosing a mighty fine group of officers
to lead the brothers during the next year. Brother Louis Rivers was elected president and has already started performing his
duties admirably. Dr. Cam Faison was elected vice president. Bros. Rod Shaw and Ken Goodpasture were elected Recording and Corresponding
Sec, respectively. Bro. Sandy Carnegie is now the Warden, and Monty Hill the Herald. Louis has taken over with some
new and ambitious ideas and with the cooperation from all of us he should lead SAE to rising heights next
year.

Bro. Mac Erwin was elected by the senior class to be Freshman Advisor for next year. This is a high
honor and the confidence in his ability is unwaived. Bros. Phil Hammond and Everett Blake are representing us on the
tennis team, which has done so well this year. Bros. Bert Anderton, Buddy Richards, Mac Chandler, and Vic Taylor are
putting the finishing touches on the baseball season. Bro. Ken Goodpasture is playing one-half of the top-seeded doubles team in
the College Tennis Tournament and we have already heard that they made a successful beginning.

In the intra-fraternity badminton tournament, Bros. Vaughn McAllister, Dave Erwin, Cam Faison, and Billy Pate are looking mighty impressive. The
track team has one more adversary this year, the greatest one of all; however, with such a team as Rivers,
Jenkins, and McGehee, we have very little doubt as to the success of Coach Pete Whittle’s thinclads. They have turned
in the best record of all the teams so far this season, and here’s hoping they continue.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

After two months of leisure, several of my esteemed brothers have decided that I should write another fraternity column. Since
everyone has been too broke to make news, how could they expect one? Last weekend, however, we had an on-campus
function, so news is plentiful. It was with a peculiar degree of pleasure that we welcomed to our campus and
our house several of the brothers' parents. In commemoration of Mother's Day quite a few mothers were able to be
here for Sunday. It is agreed that the doings were highly successful through the able help of Mrs. Gaffney and
our photographer, Bob Johnson.

Now to the more colorful exploits of our adventurous crew. This is now late Monday afternoon and “Big John” hasn’t
rolled over the horizon at his usual sedate 35 m.p.h. as yet. We'll light a candle in his window at
dark to guide him homeward—and to the right room should he be sleepy and not see plainly. Several of the
courageous calmly awaited the storm at Frank’s Saturday—the clouds got mighty dark, but there were too many of the Red
and Black for rain. One gentleman from Virginia, alias “Wild Bill,” alias “Bubble” was heard to remark “Hotolroly.”

A plot to the English class with Fanjoy doing their best—to the light. On the Saturday morning of the Arts
Festival, Beneke’s rendition of “Drink ‘er Down PKA” during the lecture was heart-rending.Seems I'm getting in a rut, so I'll
shut up and get out of it. One last note: Winthrop-Davidson Day—as is customary in naming wars, the name of
the victor is placed second—has been discovered in our midst; Loftin, crew Messrs. Cummings, and others are making Mecklenburg County
dry.

AMONG THE SPE

Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, let's go to bed, I mean press. Flush! (Several SPEs wish they had been.) Gilbert
Humphries, having heard of the wonderful Sunday dinners at the Sipe’s in Lincolnton, just decided to go home—with Fiddlin’ Mel
after the Beneke dance. Bugs had such a great time with Carol Coffin that he went home with her. Ed
didn't have such a good time with the belle from Richmond—at least, that’s what I heard. Larry didn’t get much
loving over the weekend. He said, quote, I didn’t want any, unquote. Admiral Parker tried to kidnap Peggy from Salem
and get her down here for our banquet but was too late. He decided she wasn't worth the trouble and
didn’t dance to more than two of Beneke’s numbers with her. He stayed outside the armory and sulked about the
bucks he lost by not getting to the banquet. Earl couldn't get much affection out of his nurse, for she
continuously kept her eye on the clock; she had to be in by ten o'clock. Trammel's purity test took a
frightful drop during the weekend. He dated a little cutie (?) from UNC. There seems to be some mix-up about
the time element of the dances, for twelve SPEs said they had the pleasure of dancing an hour with her.
How much can one girl take? First, Daniels; then Hart, and now Cahow. Poor Mickey. Hart, counting every minute, figures
that he waited for DeeGee to show up, exactly 24 hours. She must have had a fine time, for Hart
received a banknote of high value in the mail from her a few days later. All honors go to Bogart.
Not only must he be commended for having such a sweet little trick down from St. Mary’s, but for such
extraordinarily fine driving through an opaque fog after the formal. Betty, from Ft. Pierce (Cahow’s old flame), showed that she
was as fine a magician as they come. Without any crystallized moisture, she constructed a little snowman. Mills, Herndon, and
Frye told me to make an announcement about their frat pins, believed lost sometime during or after the dances. I
have a hunch they know what happened to them, though! Flipse missed the Saturday Beneke dance because his buddy, Pitts,
had come up, and they wanted to reminisce over all their former good times. “Hot Lips” McKeithan’s date nearly killed
herself with his umbrella. Someone said that he saw Hector down at the YMCA reading a magazine during the dances.
Question: Who was the new gal Latta had at the Beneke dances? Marshall Taylor got a good deal at the
Winthrop dance. Furman has been complaining about someone swiping from him the Winthropette that he snaked away from Miller. She
was just his size, too!

ERWIN ELECTED (Continued From Page One)

...students become oriented and adjusted to college life. His main duties come at the first of the year when he
is in charge of many phases of Freshman Orientation Week, and at the end of the year, when he conducts
the spring elections of the rising sophomore class. Jim Cobb will serve as secretary-treasurer of the senior class. Jim is
a veteran, having served a hitch with the marines. A member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, he held the
chapter’s secretaryship during the past year and is Pan-Hel representative for the coming year. Allan Strand of Greensboro was chosen
as Student Council representative of the incoming sophomore class. He defeated Kirk Oglesby in the election. Allan has been a
consistent winner on this year’s freshman tennis team. He is a member of the Beaver Club and is a brother
of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.

Political Angles

SPAIN’S NOT IN THE NEWS By HENRY HANSEN

Often news is found not in what some nation has done, but in what it has not done. The sins
of commission which a nation may commit quite often have more immediate effects than the sins of omission. But the
sins of omission can be quite as devastating in their effects in spite of the longer time they may take
to become apparent. The United States at the present time is investing billions in Europe in the hope of winning
certain nations to democracy and, incidentally, to a position which, in the event of war with Russia, would find them
allied with us against the red menace. It is not the purpose of this article to question the wisdom of
this policy even though it is only fair to point out that our relations with some of these nations are
those of a lover to a fickle maiden who may, at any time, succumb to the violent wooings of our
rival suitor and run off with all our gifts in the bargain. There is one nation, however, which could be
won at much less cost than some of the European nations we have won and are winning at such a
tremendous outlay of cash and material. This nation is Spain. Now it is true that Spain is a fascist country.
There is little, if any, hope of our converting her to a democracy. But there is little, if any, reason
for doing so. It is quite possible to have Spain on our side of the fence without converting her to
our form of government and she can be infinitely useful to us without renouncing her present form of government. Therefore,
why should we continue to roll our diplomatic eyes at the specter of fascism and shy violently away from the
friendly overtures which have been tendered us by Spain? All of the eastern hemisphere, including Spain, will probably have to
ally itself, eventually, either with the group of nations headed by Russia or with the forces marshaled by the United
States. What point NOW is there in rejecting the inestimable help Spain can give us in any armed conflict which
may develop between ourselves and Russia merely because she happens to have a fascist government? The answer, in view of
what Spain could mean to us, is that there isn’t any point at all in continuing to pursue our present
ridiculous and egregiously stupid policy toward Spain. Now just what can Spain mean to us? Consult any atlas and it
will immediately be apparent that Spain can supply us with excellent land and sea bases. Our air forces, land-based in
Spain, could fan out over all of Europe and a great part of Russia itself. Our sea force, based in
Spain, could control all of the Northern Atlantic and the waters around the hot spots of India and China as
well. Spain would not be an ideal base in every way for such air and sea operations, but, in the
event that Britain would go down in any future conflict, she would be of great help to whatever nation she
chose to favor. And to divorce any future policy of friendliness with Spain from ulterior motives, there is no reason
actually, including her fascist government, why we should not be just good friends with Spain. Her form of government is
no threat to us for Spain is a small country, no gigantic nation with gigantic influence as is Russia. But
her affiliations can be of great importance to us in any future conflict. Let's not see Spain lost to Russia
because we refuse to accept her in the fascist state. If we're a true democracy, we can accept Spain's friendship
and her help in the form of vital bases without worrying about her form of government. If Spain enters the
news as she almost certainly will since Russia herself could use bases there to play havoc with our own North
African bases, let’s have her on our side; let's make friends with Spain and secure some inestimably valuable bases for
our sea and air power in the process.

College Rags In Brief By ART JENKINS

When we speak of drunken drivers we usually mean automobile drivers. But a couple of students at the University of
Georgia have expanded the term to include tank drivers and they can testify that one can get into just as
much trouble whether you are driving a tank or an automobile. The other day these two excitement-hungry students stole a
tank from the ROTC armory for a little ride in the country. Frantic residents telephoned the police that a light
tank was running wild over dirt roads near the city limits. Police in three unarmored prowl cars set out manfully
to intercept the tank spearhead. They blocked all roads and climbed out to surround the tank on foot. The tank
crew tried to escape through a wheat field but a steep creek bank proved too much for the 20-ton vehicle
and it toppled over. The youths jumped out just before it caught fire.

The MERCER CLUSTER takes an optimistic outlook on the fact that there are so many ugly women in this world
by printing an article on the advantages of ugly women. According to this article, “a woman without beauty is like
a man without money; she just has a little harder time getting there than other people. One doesn’t have to
worry about making enemies when describing ugly women. This is largely because no woman has ever really believed that she
was ugly. Each one seems to think that it was all other women that God refused to bless. What little
sincerity the human race still retains is largely centered around non-beautiful women. When men extend courtesies to these women, the
action comes from the heart. But in dealing with beautiful people, you have just got to be more flagrant than
the next guy, else you lose out. How many thoroughly ugly women does one find in those dens of iniquity,
the country clubs and the dance halls of the country? Very, very few. Therefore, it must be reasonable to assume
that ugly ladies are likely to be moral ladies. And who wants to be beautiful when they can be good?”
unquote.

Everybody knows that pollsters are all wet, but here are the results of a poll taken among coeds of fifteen
schools over the country and published in the U. of Maryland’s DIAMONDBACK. The girls were asked to list the attributes
they prefer in prospective mates. First on the list was intelligence. Women still want to be mastered, contrary to the
opinion of most men. Equal rights are fine, but they want a husband they can respect, and even obey. Other
necessary attributes that were listed were patience, understanding, tolerance, poise, self-confidence, sense of humor, and high moral standards. The ideal
spouse is a Paragon-type character: lover, breadwinner, playmate, companion, scullery maid, doting parent, public accountant (to keep the budget straight),
boss, and all-in-one attractive package.

ARTS FESTIVAL (Continued From Page One)

...Chicago Museum and the Cincinnati Museum. Mrs. Bartlett, in addition to being a painter, photographer, and critic, has also won
prizes for creative writing. Davidson was fortunate to get the services of Mr. and Mrs. Bartlett as judges. Contrary to
past practice, there was no popular vote taken to reflect student opinion. The prizes consist of a book on art
or photography to be selected by the winners.

CAMPBELL GIVEN NOD (Continued From Page One)

Others honored in the elections were: Jim Larkin, secretary; Gilbert Humphreys, business manager; L. D. (Bugs) Atkins, member of the
Executive Committee.

The Japanese want to know if all Americans bathe daily. Haven't they ever tuned in on one of these B.
O. commercials! Now that a book of horoscopes for dogs has been published, the owner will be able to tell
the lucky day to be bitten by one.
