CHOOSE CUTEST CHICKS’ COLLEGES

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Volume XXXVII

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, JANUARY 14, 1949

SEE SCOOP ON SAPP'S SUCCESS

NUMBER FOURTEEN

SEVENTEEN SENIORS WILL GRADUATE

DAVIDSON FORTUNATE HAVING NOTED ITALIAN ARTIST FOR SECOND GUEST SERIES MEMBER

Georges Enesco, internationally famous composer, conductor, and violinist, gave a violin recital at Chambers Auditorium in Davidson, N.C., Monday night,
January 10, at 8:15 p.m. Returning to this country this season after an absence of more than seven years, Romania’s
most distinguished musical representative is making a tour limited both in time and the number of engagements accepted. The program
was as follows: “Sonata in A Major,” by Vivaldi; “Menuet and Rondo,” by Mozart; “Sonata No. 2 in D minor,”
by Schumann; “Partita No. 2 in D minor,” by Bach; “Kaddish,” by Ravel; “From San Domingo,” by Benjamin, and “Zigeunerweisen”
(Gypsy Airs) by Sarasate.

A consummate musician, Enesco’s musical gifts are without limitations. Although acclaimed as the greatest living interpreter of Mozart, he is
no specialist. He does not sacrifice one composer for another any more than he sacrifices his career as a conductor
or his time for composition to the demands of his violin. The New York Times put it: “Enesco is more
than a highly accomplished violinist; he is a high priest of his art.”

Born in the Moldavian hills of Romania in 1881, he absorbed as a child the simplicity and sincerity of his
native environment. His talent for music was discovered when, as a small boy, he...

(Continued On Page Four)

Student Fund Drive Starts Next Month

By JACK HOBART

In order that the student body's share in the current Development Program may be undertaken, the Student Development Committee will
be enlarged to include representatives from the various campus organizations, it has been learned from Mr. Ernest Arnold, assistant to
the president. Present plans indicate that the student representatives on this committee will be given full power to set a
goal as to the amount and project that the student body will undertake. Mr. Arnold has emphasized that the students
will map their own course.

The present committee, composed of seven leaders from the Senior Class, will make the selections of the additional members to
serve on the committee. Coinciding with the Student Body campaign will be a drive sloganed the “Town and Gown,” which
will cover all of the college faculty and staff (the “Gown”) members and the organizations of the townspeople as well.
Leaders of the Development Program hope that the two separate local campaigns will be completed just before the end of
the Charlotte drive, set tentatively for February 4, Mr. Arnold has said. Members of the Student Development Committee at present
are Carl Pail, Herb Meza, Mac Hart, George Cheek, J.D. Ashmore, Dave Shepperson, and Buford Goodmans.

Five Students Wed During Holidays

By JIM MURRAY

If anyone happens to question the bravery of Davidson's student life in the near future, our readers will now be
able to vouch for the merit of at least five members of the present student body. Yes, five of our
number have proven their courage by breaking out of comfortable bachelor ruts and into the seas of matrimony. Herb Meza,
Bill McGowan, Marks Underwood, Bill Howard, and Dan Ray are the intrepid adventurers who, during the Christmas holidays, left the
ranks of single men forever.

The bride of Herb Meza is the former Miss Dalia Santos of Tampa, Fla. Mrs. McGowan is the former Miss
Evelyn D. Cox of Anderson, S.C. To Mrs. Underwood goes the distinction of being the farthest from home. She was
Miss Hildegarde Bauer of Wiesbaden, Germany. The nearest is Mrs. Howard, formerly Miss Martha Jane Wilson of Huntersville. Mrs. Ray
was the former Miss Jane Horne of Charlotte.

Two of our newly-weds, Dan Ray and Bill Howard, are planning to commute to school from Charlotte and Huntersville, respectively.
The others have set up housekeeping here in Davidson. Herb will move into a mansion in the Cardboard Village at
the beginning of the second semester.

Now, having recorded the fall of our fellow students to the felicitous...

(Continued On Page Four)

Dr. Geo. Th. Watts, national secretary-treasurer of the American Association of Teachers of French, returned to Davidson in time for
the opening of classes, after attending meetings of the association and those of the Modern Language Association of America in
the Hotel Pennsylvania, New York City. Dr. Gordon Wood of the English Department also attended the meetings of the Modern
Language Association. Dr. Watts reports the largest and most enthusiastic meetings on record.

His Excellency Mr. Bonnet, Ambassador of France to the United States, made the only address at the twenty-first annual luncheon
meeting. He predicted that during the course of the year 1949 the situation in France will return to normal, and
that France will be re-created and will lead the way in the unification of Western Europe. He also urged a
much larger expansion of the program for the exchange of students and teachers between the United States and France.

Sigma Upsilon Hears Outstanding Papers From Four Members

Last Thursday night, January 6, the honorary literary organization of Davidson College, Sigma Upsilon, held its regularly scheduled meeting at
the Sigma house. The society moves each week from one of the fraternity houses to the next, using them all
in the course of the year.

The meeting was opened with Professor Gordon Wood's rendition of the fourth canto of Sigma Upsilon’s epic for 48-49, “The
Life and Loves of Meter Stewart Ney.” Professor Wood's contribution was considered somewhat abstract, though skillfully handled and displaying a
vast knowledge of literature.

Following this reading, Dave Gambrell presented the final canto of the epic poem which dealt with the overall picture of
Ney's life.

Next on the program, Sam Robinson read his “Lamentation of a Listener,” which recorded the trials and tribulations of a
radio listener whose receiver could bring in no station but WIV. Robinson's paper took the reader through a typical day,
starting in the morning with the news and terminating with Webster records and comments of the day.

Finally, Frank Lemmen read a short story to the assembled group. Lemmen’s story dealt with the life of a family
in lower Mississippi, a family controlled and finally wrecked by the domineering attitude of the old sick, dying grandmother. The
story was rather long, though handled in a beautifully simple fashion.

Changes Made In Curriculum As New Semester Begins

Registration for the second semester will be held by the registrar's office. Only those students who need to make changes
in courses need to register. The following information concerning the various departments with regard to second semester courses has been
issued by the registrar's office:

Applied Mathematics: Mathematics of Investments 32 will be offered by Prof. Peyton. Engineering Drawing 42 will be offered by Prof.
Mebane and will be limited to ten students.

Greek: Scientific Greek 720 will not be offered.

History: Section 72-a will meet with Prof. Thompson. Prof. Davidson will offer an elective course, American Colonial History 52.

Mathematics: Students in Mathematics 10, who complete this course successfully, will enter Mathematics 11 in the second semester. Students who
fail the course in Mathematics 10 will repeat Mathematics 10 the second semester. Students who make an F grade on
Mathematics 11 will repeat Mathematics 11 the second semester in section 11-a. Sections 13-a and 13-b will be combined into
one section of Mathematics 14.| Section 12-b will be discontinued | | After the formal program was concluded, Gambrell, as
chairman of the Mathematics committee, provided members with refreshments in the form of milk and chocolate cake. Section 22-b and
22-c will be combined into one section, Physics 22-a, to be taught by Prof. Pulcher. Prof. Vietzenpol will teach Physics
62. Prof. Peyton will teach Physics 52. Psychology 42, Mental Hygiene, will not be offered. Only one section of 42,
Abnormal Psychology, will be offered and preference for places in this course will be given to seniors. To enter Sociology
52, Anthropology, the student must have as a prerequisite an introductory course in Sociology. Many a Christmas bill is to
remain calm and uncollected.

Reporter Penetrates Iron Curtain To Write Of Cosmetic King’s Success
By T. HARTLEY HALL

“Go get a story about Hugo,” he had said, “a feature story—background, interests, hobbies, personality, the whole works.” “Sure thing!”
I answered, and with youthful enthusiasm, I grabbed my pad and pencil, assumed my most determined journalistic manner, and set
out for the College Cut-Rate—the business establishment and general hang-out of the subject of my article, Hugh Sapp. Maybe I
expected too much on the first try. Maybe I didn’t. Or maybe I had never run into a man like
Hugo before. Undoubtedly, my overconfidence and lack of preparation contributed to my failure to get a story. At any rate,
I entered the Cut-Rate with high hopes, ordered a cup of coffee, and proceeded to outline mentally just how I
would go about getting the information I wanted. I located my quarry seated behind the telegraph machine where he was
typing out a few “Sorry, I can’t make it’s” and “Congratulations on this occasion’s.” I discreetly waited until he finished,
then, with a cup of coffee, I approached and said: “Hugo, the Davidsonian has been making it a policy to
get up feature articles on outstanding personalities here in the community, and so forth, and so on.” I explained everything.
I wasn’t prying into his business to be nosy; only because it might be of some interest to the students.
And his reply? “You ain’t got no story here.” “But wait, Hugo,” I said, “you can’t brush me off like
that. Why, you’re one of the traditions of this college. A man of many talents, a multi-faceted gem, a veritable
dynamo of power-plus personality.” “You ain’t got much to write on, son.” “Do you think any other private institution can
ever take the place of Cut-Rate among the college students?” “Nah.” I tried to hide my rather evident disappointment at
the brevity of his answer. I covered up by laughing it off. “Ha! ha! What a man! Doesn’t like to
commit himself. No, really, great men do. Ha! Ha!” I’m afraid my efforts didn’t go over so big. I tried
again. “Are you a native Davidsonian? Born here, I mean.” His answer to this was only a nod of the
head—from side to side, which I interpreted as being a negative reply. Hugo lit up a cigarette, took a deep
draw, leaned back, and braced himself for my next volley of questions. I reflected a moment to phrase my question
correctly. Surely this one would bring forth a dash of that famed loquacity, a bit of that sparkling wit and
philosophy that had made him the sage of the community, a self-made man, a leader and promoter of all manner
of worthy causes and drives, the one man in Davidson who has endeared himself to both the hearts and billfolds
of every student and organization on the campus. All I need for an A-1 story is a little information. “Do
you have any particular interests, hobbies, plans, and what-not at present?” “Nah.” I tried to hide my rather evident disappointment
at the brevity of his answer. I covered up by laughing it off. “Ha! ha! What a man! Doesn’t like
to commit himself. No, really, great men do. Ha! Ha!” I’m afraid my efforts didn’t go over so big. I
tried again. “Are you a native Davidsonian? Born here, I mean.” His answer to this was only a nod of
the head—from side to side, which I interpreted as being a negative reply. Hugo lit up a cigarette, took a
deep draw, leaned back, and braced himself for my next volley of questions. I reflected a moment to phrase my
question correctly. Surely this one would bring forth a dash of that famed loquacity, a bit of that sparkling wit
and philosophy that had made him the sage of the community, a self-made man, a leader and promoter of all
manner of worthy causes and drives, the one man in Davidson who has endeared himself to both the hearts and
billfolds of every student and organization on the campus. All I need for an A-1 story is a little information.
“Do you have any particular interests, hobbies, plans, and what-not at present?” “Nah.” I tried to hide my rather evident
disappointment at the brevity of his answer. I covered up by laughing it off. “Ha! ha! What a man! Doesn’t
like to commit himself. No, really, great men do. Ha! Ha!” I’m afraid my efforts didn’t go over so big.
I tried again. “Are you a native Davidsonian? Born here, I mean.” His answer to this was only a nod
of the head—from side to side, which I interpreted as being a negative reply. Hugo lit up a cigarette, took
a deep draw, leaned back, and braced himself for my next volley of questions. I reflected a moment to phrase
my question correctly. Surely this one would bring forth a dash of that famed loquacity, a bit of that sparkling
wit and philosophy that had made him the sage of the community, a self-made man, a leader and promoter of
all manner of worthy causes and drives, the one man in Davidson who has endeared himself to both the hearts
and billfolds of every student and organization on the campus. All I need for an A-1 story is a little
information. “Do you have any particular interests, hobbies, plans, and what-not at present?” “Nah.” I tried to hide my rather
evident disappointment at the brevity of his answer. I covered up by laughing it off. “Ha! ha! What a man!
Doesn’t like to commit himself. No, really, great men do. Ha! Ha!” I’m afraid my efforts didn’t go over so
big. I tried again. “Are you a native Davidsonian? Born here, I mean.” His answer to this was only a
nod of the head—from side to side, which I interpreted as being a negative reply. Hugo lit up a cigarette,
took a deep draw, leaned back, and braced himself for my next volley of questions. I reflected a moment to
phrase my question correctly. Surely this one would bring forth a dash of that famed loquacity, a bit of that
sparkling wit and philosophy that had made him the sage of the community, a self-made man, a leader and promoter
of all manner of worthy causes and drives, the one man in Davidson who has endeared himself to both the
hearts and billfolds of every student and organization on the campus. All I need for an A-1 story is a
little information. “Do you have any particular interests, hobbies, plans, and what-not at present?” “Nah.” I tried to hide my
rather evident disappointment at the brevity of his answer. I covered up by laughing it off. “Ha! ha! What a
man! Doesn’t like to commit himself. No, really, great men do. Ha! Ha!” I’m afraid my efforts didn’t go over
so big. I tried again. “Are you a native Davidsonian? Born here, I mean.” His answer to this was only
a nod of the head—from side to side, which I interpreted as being a negative reply. Hugo lit up a
cigarette, took a deep draw, leaned back, and braced himself for my next volley of questions. I reflected a moment
to phrase my question correctly. Surely this one would bring forth a dash of that famed loquacity, a bit of
that sparkling wit and philosophy that had made him the sage of the community, a self-made man, a leader and
promoter of all manner of worthy causes and drives, the one man in Davidson who has endeared himself to both
the hearts and billfolds of every student and organization on the campus. All I need for an A-1 story is
a little information. “Do you have any particular interests, hobbies, plans, and what-not at present?” “Nah.” I tried to hide
my rather evident disappointment at the brevity of his answer. I covered up by laughing it off. “Ha! ha! What
a man! Doesn’t like to commit himself. No, really, great men do. Ha! Ha!” I’m afraid my efforts didn’t go
over so big. I tried again. “Are you a native Davidsonian? Born here, I mean.” His answer to this was
only a nod of the head—from side to side, which I interpreted as being a negative reply. Hugo lit up
a cigarette, took a deep draw, leaned back, and braced himself for my next volley of questions. I reflected a
moment to phrase my question correctly. Surely this one would bring forth a dash of that famed loquacity, a bit
of that sparkling wit and philosophy that had made him the sage of the community, a self-made man, a leader
and promoter of all manner of worthy causes and drives, the one man in Davidson who has endeared himself to
both the hearts and billfolds of every student and organization on the campus. All I need for an A-1 story
is a little information. “Do you have any particular interests, hobbies, plans, and what-not at present?” “Nah.” I tried to
hide my rather evident disappointment at the brevity of his answer. I covered up by laughing it off. “Ha! ha!
What a man! Doesn’t like to commit himself. No, really, great men do. Ha! Ha!” I’m afraid my efforts didn’t
go over so big. I tried again. “Are you a native Davidsonian? Born here, I mean.” His answer to this
was only a nod of the head—from side to side, which I interpreted as being a negative reply. Hugo lit
up a cigarette, took a deep draw, leaned back, and braced himself for my next volley of questions. I reflected
a moment to phrase my question correctly. Surely this one would bring forth a dash of that famed loquacity, a
bit of that sparkling wit and philosophy that had made him the sage of the community, a self-made man, a
leader and promoter of all manner of worthy causes and drives, the one man in Davidson who has endeared himself
to both the hearts and billfolds of every student and organization on the campus. All I need for an A-1
story is a little information. “Do you have any particular interests, hobbies, plans, and what-not at present?” “Nah.” I tried
to hide my rather evident disappointment at the brevity of his answer. I covered up by laughing it off. “Ha!
ha! What a man! Doesn’t like to commit himself. No, really, great men do. Ha! Ha!” I’m afraid my efforts
didn’t go over so big. I tried again. “Are you a native Davidsonian? Born here, I mean.” His answer to
this was only a nod of the head—from side to side, which I interpreted as being a negative reply. Hugo
lit up a cigarette, took a deep draw, leaned back, and braced himself for my next volley of questions. I
reflected a moment to phrase my question correctly. Surely this one would bring forth a dash of that famed loquacity,
a bit of that sparkling wit and philosophy that had made him the sage of the community, a self-made man,
a leader and promoter of all manner of worthy causes and drives, the one man in Davidson who has endeared
himself to both the hearts and billfolds of every student and organization on the campus. All I need for an
A-1 story is a little information. “Do you have any particular interests, hobbies, plans, and what-not at present?” “Nah.” I
tried to hide my rather evident disappointment at the brevity of his answer. I covered up by laughing it off.
“Ha! ha! What a man! Doesn’t like to commit himself. No, really, great men do. Ha! Ha!” I’m afraid my
efforts didn’t go over so big. I tried again. “Are you a native Davidsonian? Born here, I mean.” His answer
to this was only a nod of the head—from side to side, which I interpreted as being a negative reply.
Hugo lit up a cigarette, took a deep draw, leaned back, and braced himself for my next volley of questions.
I reflected a moment to phrase my question correctly. Surely this one would bring forth a dash of that famed
loquacity, a bit of that sparkling wit and philosophy that had made him the sage of the community, a self-made
man, a leader and promoter of all manner of worthy causes and drives, the one man in Davidson who has
endeared himself to both the hearts and billfolds of every student and organization on the campus. All I need for
an A-1 story is a little information. “Do you have any particular interests, hobbies, plans, and what-not at present?” “Nah.”
I tried to hide my rather evident disappointment at the brevity of his answer. I covered up by laughing it
off. “Ha! ha! What a man! Doesn’t like to commit himself. No, really, great men do. Ha! Ha!” I’m afraid
my efforts didn’t go over so big. I tried again. “Are you a native Davidsonian? Born here, I mean.” His
answer to this was only a nod of the head—from side to side, which I interpreted as being a negative
reply. Hugo lit up a cigarette, took a deep draw, leaned back, and braced himself for my next volley of
questions. I reflected a moment to phrase my question correctly. Surely this one would bring forth a dash of that
famed loquacity, a bit of that sparkling wit and philosophy that had made him the sage of the community, a
self-made man, a leader and promoter of all manner of worthy causes and drives, the one man in Davidson who
has endeared himself to both the hearts and billfolds of every student and organization on the campus. All I need
for an A-1 story is a little information. “Do you have any particular interests, hobbies, plans, and what-not at present?”
“Nah.” I tried to hide my rather evident disappointment at the brevity of his answer. I covered up by laughing
it off. “Ha! ha! What a man! Doesn’t like to commit himself. No, really, great men do. Ha! Ha!” I’m
afraid my efforts didn’t go over so big. I tried again. “Are you a native Davidsonian? Born here, I mean.”
His answer to this was only a nod of the head—from side to side, which I interpreted as being a
negative reply. Hugo lit up a cigarette, took a deep draw, leaned back, and braced himself for my next volley
of questions. I reflected a moment to phrase my question correctly. Surely this one would bring forth a dash of
that famed loquacity, a bit of that sparkling wit and philosophy that had made him the sage of the community,
a self-made man, a leader and promoter of all manner of worthy causes and drives, the one man in Davidson
who has endeared himself to both the hearts and billfolds of every student and organization on the campus. All I
need for an A-1 story is a little information. “Do you have any particular interests, hobbies, plans, and what-not at
present?” “Nah.” I tried to hide my rather evident disappointment at the brevity of his answer. I covered up by
laughing it off. “Ha! ha! What a man! Doesn’t like to commit himself. No, really, great men do. Ha! Ha!”
I’m afraid my efforts didn’t go over so big. I tried again. “Are you a native Davidsonian? Born here, I
mean.” His answer to this was only a nod of the head—from side to side, which I interpreted as being
a negative reply. Hugo lit up a cigarette, took a deep draw, leaned back, and braced himself for my next
volley of questions. I reflected a moment to phrase my question correctly. Surely this one would bring forth a dash
of that famed loquacity, a bit of that sparkling wit and philosophy that had made him the sage of the
community, a self-made man, a leader and promoter of all manner of worthy causes and drives, the one man in
Davidson who has endeared himself to both the hearts and billfolds of every student and organization on the campus. All
I need for an A-1 story is a little information. “Do you have any particular interests, hobbies, plans, and what-not
at present?” “Nah.” I tried to hide my rather evident disappointment at the brevity of his answer. I covered up
by laughing it off. “Ha! ha! What a man! Doesn’t like to commit himself. No, really, great men do. Ha!
Ha!” I’m afraid my efforts didn’t go over so big. I tried again. “Are you a native Davidsonian? Born here,
I mean.” His answer to this was only a nod of the head—from side to side, which I interpreted as
being a negative reply. Hugo lit up a cigarette, took a deep draw, leaned back, and braced himself for my
next volley of questions. I reflected a moment to phrase my question correctly. Surely this one would bring forth a
dash of that famed loquacity, a bit of that sparkling wit and philosophy that had made him the sage of
the community, a self-made man, a leader and promoter of all manner of worthy causes and drives, the one man
in Davidson who has endeared himself to both the hearts and billfolds of every student and organization on the campus.
All I need for an A-1 story is a little information. “Do you have any particular interests, hobbies, plans, and
what-not at present?” “Nah.” I tried to hide my rather evident disappointment at the brevity of his answer. I covered
up by laughing it off. “Ha! ha! What a man! Doesn’t like to commit himself. No, really, great men do.
Ha! Ha!” I’m afraid my efforts didn’t go over so big. I tried again. “Are you a native Davidsonian? Born
here, I mean.” His answer to this was only a nod of the head—from side to side, which I interpreted
as being a negative reply. Hugo lit up a cigarette, took a deep draw, leaned back, and braced himself for
my next volley of questions. I reflected a moment to phrase my question correctly. Surely this one would bring forth
a dash of that famed loquacity, a bit of that sparkling wit and philosophy that had made him the sage
of the community, a self-made man, a leader and promoter of all manner of worthy causes and drives, the one
man in Davidson who has endeared himself to both the
