FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1949 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FIVE

K. A's And Betas Pace Frat Loop
By JIM FARRAR and CHARLIE HAWKINS

K. A. 12; Sigma Chi 2
Last Thursday afternoon the K.A.’s continued to play good ball by rolling over the blue-clad Sigma Chis, 12 to 2.
The KAs were led by their triple-threat back, Bill Bird, who has been the standout on their team so far
this year. Bird scooted around end into pay dirt for the first score and heaved a nice pass to “Stump”
Asbury to account for the second marker. The Sigma Chis put up a nice fight and drove the KA back
over their goal for a safety and their only two points of the game.

Betas 18; SPE 0
In another encounter on Thursday afternoon, the Betas lowered the SPEs by the large score of 18-0. In this conflict,
the sights of back Smith were in perfect line as he tossed all three touchdowns for the strong Betas. The
glue-fingered Hanks was the recipient of two of the aerials, while Jervis latched on to the third one to end
the scoring for that day.

Phi Delt 0; SAE, 2 1st Downs
A powerful Phi Delt team lost one of the best-played football games of the '49 Inter-Fraternity Touch Football League to
the strong SAE. The sparkplug of the SAE team was triple-threat back Monty Hill, who kept the Phi Delts in
constant fear by his running, passing, and punting. “Bilbo” Bacon led the Phi Delts with his bullet-like passing. Neither of
these two strong teams were able to push across a marker, but the SAE boys were able to pile up
two first downs to none for the Phi Delts to give them the needed margin.

Kappa Sig 6; Pi Kappa Phi 6
In what was perhaps the most exciting game of the season, the Kappa Sigs and Pi Kaps battled to an
absolute deadlock. However, the outset of the game favored the Pi Kaps all the way as they pushed across a
tally in the first two minutes of play. The battling Kappa Sigs were unable to do a thing until the
last forty-five seconds when Charlie Pearson hauled in a pass to knot up the score. Neither team had an advantage
in first downs, so the game ended all even.

Sigma Chi 18; Campus Club 0
The second week of inter-frat football began with Sigma Chi overpowering the Campus Club, 18-0. Kelton was the sparkplug for
the victors, passing for two touchdowns and running for the third. The first touchdown came on a Kelton to Eastman
pass, the next on an aerial from Kelton to Merrill. Sigma Chi continued to display the smooth offense they have
been showing so far this season.

Pikas 14; SPE 6
By virtue of the perennial favorite, the “sleeper” pass and strong line play, the Pikas outplayed and out-scored SPE, 14-6,
on Monday. Jack Fanjoy scampered over with the sleeper pass early in the game, and Collins scored later to give
the Pikas the winning margin. The fine play was featured by both sides.

KA 6; SAE 0
Tuesday’s schedule brought a thriller. K.A. beat SPE, 6-0, in one of the hardest-fought games this season. Bill Bird, the
KA’s own “Choo-Choo” continued his fine play and passed to Charlie Mitchell for the only score. Good defensive play was
the key to this game and the line played well on both sides.

Betas 18; Pi Kappa 0
The Betas continued their high scoring by rolling over the Pi Kappas, 18-0, in Tuesday’s other game. The game was
marked by pass completions and penalties. Two Hankin aerials to Earl Smith and Roy Davis put the Betas well in
front, and the third touchdown was scored by Tommy Langford on a run that was set up by still another
Hankin’s pass. The Pi Kapps put up a game fight, but when the final whistle blew, the Betas were out
front, 18 to 0.

Phi Delt 6; Phi Gam 0
The Phi Delts eked out a 6-0 victory over the Phi Gams Wednesday in a very rough game. Whitcheart’s pass
to Spires set up the only touchdown of the game, as Spires went over from a few yards out. Fierce
line play and pass interceptions were the main features of this battle.

Sigma Chi 24; SPE 0
Sigma Chi battered tired SPE, 24-0, in Wednesday’s game, which was marked by Kelton's fine passing and running. This conflict
also marked SPE’s third game in three days. Kelton continued his spectacular playing by scoring the first touchdown on a
run and his passes to Griffiths and one to Hampton netted the other three scores, as the game ended with
the blues ahead, 24-0.

Interfraternity Football Standings Through October 12
W L T
Beta 3 0 0
KA 3 0 0
Kappa Sig 1 0 1
Pika 2 1 0
Phi Delt 2 1 0
SAE 2 1 0
Sigma Chi 2 2 0
Pi Kap 0 1 1
Phi Gam 0 2 0
Campus Club 0 3 0
SPE 0 4 0

ST. LOUIS-DAVIDSON... (Continued from Page Four)
The leg injury of Johnny Richards and the rib bruise of Henry Wilson, both linebackers, the Cats have flown into
St. Louis in top shape. They will return Sunday morning, reaching Charlotte in the early afternoon.

Mooresville Creamery
GRADE “A” MILK
PASTEURIZED
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

By FURMAN WARLICK
After the excitement and jubilant yells and screams had died down in Charlotte and Davidson and the moaning in Raleigh
had ceased, people began to think seriously about the 20-14 victory the Davidson Wildcats had taken from the Wolfpack of
N. C. State. There were many Davidson students who were already linking the name of scatback Jake Wade with that
of the revered Peter Stuart Ney. This victory gave the 1949 Wildcat team several firsts. It was the first time
that a Davidson team had won a victory from a highly-touted “Big Four” team since 1936 and it was the
first time a Wildcat team had scored on one of the “Big Four” teams since 1941. It was State that
the Wildcats beat in 1936 and it was State that Davidson scored on in the fall of 1941. Friends of
Davidson are, and rightfully, can be proud oftheir Wildcats. It is hard for a team of boys who play because
they love the game to win against the boys who “play for pay,” and that is exactly what Davidson has
been up against when they play against any of the “Big Four” teams. Speaking of the “Big Four,” it is
high time that Davidson was included in this “select” group and writers again refer to it as the “Big Five”
and not the “Big Four.” Davidson has held its own in all sports with these schools, excepting football and with
the victory over State, it may be a change of tide that will show that Davidson with its “play for
play” boys will be able to hold its own in football with the “play for pay” boys. Anyway, it is
an indication that Davidson will again be included in the “Big Five” and no longer will it be referred to
as the “Big Four.” If the Wildcats can continue to play the brand of football they displayed in beating State,
they shouldn’t lose another game this year, and could give Davidson one of the best records in the history of
the school.

ALL THE NEW POPULAR PHONOGRAPH RECORDS.
Columbia Masterworks Red Seal Victor
Parker-Gardner Company
Since 1898
118 W. Trade St. Phone 8201

BRYAN WENTZ COMPANY
“Clothing For The Man”
205 South Tryon St.
Charlotte 2, North Carolina

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT
BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
PHONE 2-2238

For Your DANCES
Contact Walter Hagen AND HIS ORCHESTRA
Booking Address
WALTER HAGEN
Phone 3-3261
1406 E. 4th St.—Charlotte

Handball, Swimming Varsity And Freshman Cross Country Teams Are Dealt Losses By N. C. State
By BILL BRADFORD

On Saturday morning, October 8, the Davidson Cross Country Harriers opened their 1949 season by falling before a smooth running
N. C. State team by the score of 16-42. In cross-country, the low score wins. First place counts 1 point,
second place 2 points, etc., with each team's final score being determined by the sum of the points made by
its 5 best men.

The team was badly crippled for the meet Saturday. Blake Bradley, the number one man, was slowed by severe stomach
cramps; Captain Bob Long failed to finish due to a sprained ankle and blistered heels; and worst of all, only
one man on the team, Dave Anderson, bested or equaled his practice time. The winning time posted by Dubose, Hunter,
Keenan, and Leonard, all of State, was 22:14. The best time for a Davidson man was Tom Stockton’s 22:30, good
enough for fifth place while depriving State of a complete shutout. Yet in practice last week, Bradley ran a 22:03
and Dick Stockton a 22:10, either of which would have won the meet had either of the boys reached those
times again. This is not to take any credit away from the State team, for they are well on the
way to a good season and earned their victory. The win Saturday was their third of the year, after an
early practice even starting before the official school year began at the Raleigh institution. They seem to have already reached
their peak, while the Red and Black squad has yet to reach its peak.

Coach Pete Whittle was a little disappointed in my boys due to a sprained ankle and blistered heels but seemed
well-pleased over the showing of Dave Anderson and the two Stocktons in their first Varsity meet. He expressed an eagerness
to meet State again in the conference and State meets and seemed hopeful of different results when these meets take
place. Results included T. Stockton 5th; Bradley 7th; Dick Stockton 8th; Dave Anderson 10th, and Bob Grube 12th.

The freshman cross country team also played host to a visiting team from N.C. State. The Wildkittens were not as
fortunate as the football team that night and fell victim to a score of 21 to 40 on the 2
1/2 mile course. Garrison and Jones of State crossed the line in a dead heat for first place with the
time of 12:00. Garrison ran the 880 for High Point last year and placed first in the N. C. State
meet while Jones, who ran for Washington and Lee High of Virginia, won the National Interscholastic Mile. Tom Staley and
Bob Henry, of Davidson, placed third and fourth with the times of 12:20 and 12:47, respectively. Tom attended Deerfield Prep
school and prior to last spring had never done any running, but he made up for lost time and at
the conclusion of spring track placed second in the New England Interscholastic meet. Bob Henry in the West Virginia State
Meet, broke the tape first in the half mile, he also was anchor man on the championship 880 medley relay
team. The other members of the cross country squad participating in the meet were: Hollander, Poindexter, Rankin, McCutchen, and Kepler.

Withers Electric Company
® Radio Repairs
® Electrical Supplies
® Light Bulbs
DAVIDSON, N. C.

GET YOUR HOMECOMING FLOWERS from CHUCK KIRBY — Rumple

WHATEVER YOUR NEEDS
SUITS HATS SHIRTS PAJAMAS SOCKS TIES SHOES and the 101 other things
SHOP EFIRD'S MEN’S SHOP
STREET FLOOR
