Norman Shepard Named Head Basketball Coach

A SUCCESSFUL FACULTY SENIORS BATTLE

VOLUME XXXVII

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Davidson College, Davidson, N. C., Friday, May 6, 1949

NUMBER TWENTY-EIGHT

MAC ERWIN NAMED FRESHMAN ADVISOR

CAMPUS MUSICIANS, ARTISTS FEATURED IN ARTS FESTIVAL

ETCHINGS OF LOUIS ORR PLACED ON DISPLAY IN CHAMBERS

Davidson's Second Annual Fine Arts Festival was brought to a close May 6 after a week of concerts and art
exhibits. The festival was conducted under the auspices of the faculty committee on the Fine Arts. The committee, which instituted
such a festival last year, is composed of Professors George L. Abernethy, chairman, Chalmers G. Davidson, Robert Noehren, James C.
Pfohl, and Gordon Wood.

The festival got under way Sunday, May 1, with an afternoon band concert held in Chambers Auditorium. (Due to rain,
it could not be presented on the previously planned date.) The program included selections from Bach, Britten, Tansman, Tschesnokoff, Weinberger,
and Williams. It also included an arrangement by Willis Coggins, a member of the senior class, of an Appalachian carol,
"I Wonder as I Wander." Prof. James C. Pfohl of the Music Department was the conductor.

The second item on the six-day program was a concert presented Tuesday night by the Male Chorus under the direction
of Prof. Carl F. Berg. The program was divided into two parts—the first half consisting of classical sacred selections, while
the latter half was comprised of comparatively modern secular pieces and folksongs. Buford Goodman and Moody Chisholm, both seniors, were
accompanist and vocalist, respectively.

On Wednesday, four features of (Continued on Page Four)

Art Festival Prizes Awarded Students

The Ninth Student Art Exhibit is this year a part of the Fine Arts Festival. The judges have rendered their
decisions and the awards are as follows:

For painting, the first place goes to Murphy Cronland, a sophomore from Lincolnton, N. C. His prize-winning painting was a
"Portrait of Father." For photography, the first prize goes to Charles Burrus, Jr., a junior from Shelby, N. C. His
prize-winning photograph was entitled "Morning." The judges gave honorable mention to Frank and Tom Niblock for "Landscape."

The judges all remarked on the superior quality of the exhibit this year. In the field of painting, the services
of the following were secured as judges: Mrs. George Abernethy, Mrs. Robert Noehren, and Mrs. Gordon Wood. All of these
faculty wives have had training in art and have taken an active part in encouraging its development in the college
and in the town. They have also exhibited in the College Art Exhibits from time to time, though they are
not eligible for consideration for prizes.

The photography judges were Mr. and Mrs. Paul Bartlett from Charlotte. Both paint and take photographs as a hobby. Mr.
Bartlett is considered by many the outstanding resident artist in this part of the country. He has exhibited (Continued from
Page Three)

Weather Report

We Davidsonians have had it rather clear and pleasant this week and the same type of weather will continue through
Saturday. Showers are likely on Saturday or Sunday afternoons, followed by cooler weather on Sunday and Monday. No full moon
this weekend, but one can be expected on Thursday, May 12.

Twelve Year Service

Norman Shepard, beloved basketball coach and head of the Davidson Athletic Department, has accepted a new position at Harvard University.
He is to succeed William Barclay who has maintained this position at the University for the past three years. The
news of Coach Shepard’s new job came as a complete surprise to everyone here at Davidson.

Coach Shepard, who has been active in basketball since his college days, is now considered one of the foremost authorities
in the South. At present, he is chairman of the NCAA Selection Committee for District Three, and is a member
of the Rules Committee for the National Basketball Coaches Association. He was also a member of the U.S. Basketball Committee
for the Olympic games last year.

Since 1936, when Coach Shepard first assumed his duties as head basketball coach for the Wildcats, he has turned out
teams which have (Continued on Page Four)

Puckett At The Bat

SOPHISTICATED SENIORS SWAMP FACULTY

In the annual Senior-Faculty Day exercises, held Tuesday afternoon, the seniors were the victors in winning by the close margin
of 3-2, with one event tied. All the activities and happenings during the afternoon produced excitement and thrills along with
many laughs for the student spectators. However, the "old men" of the Davidson faculty showed that they were not just
a bunch of lazy old professors, by any means, especially in the softball game.

The golf matches, headed by Charlie Neisler, started the ball rolling, when seniors Bill Medford and Allen Mead were swung
against Professors Pulcher and Blythe. The seniors won, 2 and 1, despite the handicaps they gave their opponents. In other
matches, the "some" twosome of Scruggs and Upchurch were defeated by Drs. (Continued on Page Four)

Hamilton, Hollister, Houck Named New Publications Board

The Publications Board is the governing body for the three campus publications and acts as a policy-making organization. The student
Publications Board at a meeting held May 5 appointed the following as business managers: Hamilton, Hollister, Houck.

Bill Hamilton, editor of the Davidsonian, and Bill Houck, Davidsonian business manager, were elected the three student members of the
Publications Board. Only the Davidsonian staff has been appointed for next year. The magazine and annual editorial staffs will be
appointed at a later date.

Bill Houck has appointed the following as members of the staff: Bill Cassels, assistant business manager; Rod Shaw and Wylie
Smith, co-advertising managers; W. S. McSwain and Cam Faison, assistant advertising managers; Hugh Battaker, circulation manager; New Underdown, assistant circulation
manager; John Lottin, collections manager; Alex Goley, subscriptions manager.

Bill Hamilton, newly elected editor of the magazine, has appointed only a part of his editorial staff. Those men who
have been appointed thus far are: Bill Wing, art editor; Neil O'Neal, typing editor; R. B. B. Covington, managing editor.
He will complete his appointments this week and will call a meeting of the new staff next week in order
to make plans for the fall issue of the magazine.

Campbell Given Nod As Band President

In the recent election of officers of the band for next year, Jim Campbell, a rising senior, was elected president.
Jim, who now occupies the first chair in the cornet section, has played in the band for the past three
years. He is also an active brother in the Phi Delta Theta fraternity and a member of Phi Mu Alpha,
a social fraternity. Jim's home is Marianna, Florida.

Another Florida boy, Bruce Davis, was chosen vice president of the marching and concert band. (Continued on Page Two)

FACULTY

In the overall golf score, the teachers outpointed the seniors 11½ to 10½ points. The tennis match, "coached" by Homer
Zedaker, with the seniors winning 5-2, was a different story, however. The No. 1 singles match, between Prof. W. M.
Thompson and Mouse Welborn, was one of the best of the afternoon. When the score was announced, the Bible instructor
had won 10-8. Another long match was one in which Bill Barron of the seniors defeated Prof. Guerrant. Causey of
the teachers dropped Buck Law, 6-4, while Bogert bested Prof. Logan of the Chemistry Department, 6-1. Tom West overpowered "Y"
See. Bill Smith by the same score. In the doubles, Zedaker and West pulled it out, defeating Causey and Smith
by the score of 6-4.6-4 Before that, OMSTS Moist frontis Johnston and Bill Mery and Phil Edwards had beaten Smith
and Logan, 6-3. Another feature of the day was the lively volleyball contest. Both sides were equal in taking a
game against golfers Ike Coffey and (Continued On Page Four).

At the initiation of this year's Phi Beta Kappas, the principal address will be delivered by Professor Howard Odum of
the Institute for Research in Social Science at Chapel Hill. The address is open to the public and will begin
at 8:15 in Phi Hall on Monday night. Professor Odum is a native of Georgia. He was educated at Emory
University, University of Mississippi, Clark University, and Columbia University. In 1920, he became Kenan Professor of Sociology at Chapel Hill
and, except for war work and exchange professorships at Yale and other institutions, has been there ever since. For twenty
years, he was director of the Institute for Research in Social Science at Chapel Hill. During this period, he was
also assistant director for the President’s Research Committee on Social Trends. He also acted as chief of the social science
division for the Century of Progress Exposition in Chicago in 1933. Dr. Odum is the author of some twenty books
in the field of sociology. He is an editor of Social Forces, a periodical for social study and interpretation. The
subject of Dr. Odum's address here is “University, Scholarship, and the People.” Immediately following the address in Phi Hall, which
is open to all who care to attend, there will be a reception.

Track Men Enjoy Unpremeditated Swim

When the April Monsoons set in Friday and continued Saturday morning, most students took it for granted that the track
meet with W. & L. would be called off and did not venture out to watch. No—no, it went on—though
not as planned. At 11:00, shortly before lunchtime, several of the coaching staff were sipping sodas. “Pete,” I heard one
ask Coach Whittle, “has the track meet been called off?” Someone opened the door, and Pete calmly tucked his feet
under him as a straw floated by. “Noooo!” he said. Knowing Coach Whittle to be a man of his word,
I tossed my sextant and some sea-rations into my yak and set sail half an hour before starting time. Aided
by a brisk breeze and favorable tides, I reached Port Richardson in due time and tied up to a floating
hurdle in time for the hundred-yard dash. Goodpasture suffered a bit of hard luck at the first—he dug his starting
holes too deep, and the gun left him standing in the mud-holes. They had to borrow a chain-hitch to pull
him out. Furious at this stroke of misfortune, he sat sulking all afternoon and scraped the seaweeds from his spikes.
The dash was won by Rivers (an appropriate name) Jenkins, who won the admiration of the Washington and Lee mentor.
“Yes,” beamed Whittle, “he must have been doing 18 knots.”

No little commotion was caused as Roger Cornell completely cleared the broad jump pit with a tremendous leap which shoved
him into a class by himself—except for a few kangaroos. Roger attributes the feat to sheer fear. He claims that
as he approached the take-off, he perceived with some consternation a large black fin slicing the surface of the dark
pool of water in the pit. His adrenal glands did the rest. The hurdles were run in a driving rain.
One White JERE men thought to take advantage of the poor visibility to deceive the judges by using a pogo
stick to clear the obstacles, but our Bill Pritchett had some tricks of his own and high-stepped with pride the
sea-urchin which he found in his shoe. Tragedy struck on the two-mile. One of the rival runners, who failed to
complete his fifth lap, apparently drowned somewhere on the north curve. The area was dragged but efforts to retrieve the
body were unsuccessful. “April showers bring May flowers,” said Al Jolson. We at Davidson have decided he meant waterlilies.

JIM COBB ELECTED SEC.-TREAS. OF THE RISING SENIOR CLASS

ERWIN ROTC Inspection Rates Satisfactory

The annual inspection of the Davidson ROTC units was brought to a successful close with a dress parade at the
regular drill period last Tuesday afternoon. The inspection began Monday when the Army representatives, Col. Grace and Major R. L.
Baker, attended the classes of both the basic and advanced courses of study and constructively criticized or approved the methods
of classroom instruction. On Tuesday morning, they inspected the facilities of the unit and conferred with President Cunningham about the
effectiveness of ROTC training at Davidson. During the afternoon, the inspectors checked each man individually and watched selected platoons and
squads from each company perform. On the basis of its appearance in all phases of the activity on the drill
field, the inspecting officers selected Company “D” as the best-drilled company of the battalion. Col. Grace was very pleased with
the results of the inspection and said, “It was the best inspection we have had in quite a few years,
and the inspecting officers were very complimentary. It is almost certain that the unit will receive the same high rating
it has held in past years.”

Thigpen Announces Coming Interviews for Placement

Joe Thigpen of the Placement Office has announced that representatives from the following three companies will be on campus for
interviews the week of May 9. The North American Casualty Company will show a movie in the second-floor projection room
of the Science Building at 8 a.m. Monday. This movie is being shown for those seniors interested in jobs with
North American Casualty and who have applied for interviews. The Norfolk regional office of the YMCA is seeking applicants for
physical education positions in this district. Starting pay for these positions ranges from $2700 to $3500. The Carolina Bank is
still open for a business major, particularly one interested in a position in a Western bank. For further information concerning
these openings and company representatives who are to be on the campus in the future, contact Joe Thigpen in the
news office.

PALLEN, STRAND REPRESENT RISING SOPHOMORES ON STUDENT COUNCIL

Mac Erwin has recently been elected by the rising senior class to succeed Buddy Cheek as freshman advisor for the
coming year. Erwin defeated Curtis Harper in the final balloting Tuesday. Mac is from Greenville, S. C., and has played
fullback on the Davidson football team since 1946. He is a veteran and is a member of the “D” Club
and Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. The freshman advisor is a member of the YMCA cabinet and is responsible for
helping new students (Continued On Page Four).

Mothers Day Banquet Honors Pika Parents

On Sunday, May 8, the local Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity observed the traditional Mother's Day and honored the mothers and
fathers of the Davidson Pikas. At the dinner, forty parents were present with their sons. A majority of the parents
arrived on Saturday evening or early Sunday morning, attending the Presbyterian Church with the brothers at Davidson. Dinner was served
at one o'clock at the boarding house. At the dinner, each mother was presented a jewel box with Pi Kappa
Alpha Greek letters engraved upon it. After the dinner, the brothers and parents adjourned to the fraternity house where an
informal gathering was held, giving the Pika parents an opportunity to meet other members of the fraternity and their guests.
During this gathering, motion pictures were made of the Pikas and their parents. Mother's Day is observed by all chapters
of the fraternity each year in May. It has been the practice of the Beta chapter to reserve the first
Sunday in May each year for this occasion.

“Y” Leaders Attend Statewide Retreat

Last week-end several members and officers of the Davidson YMCA represented the local Y at the YMCA-YWCA Leadership Retreat at
Camp Nawakwa near Greensboro. This state-wide retreat opened Friday afternoon, April 29, and concluded Sunday afternoon. The theme of the
retreat was “Faith Without Works Is Dead.” Every discussion was concerned with the practical application of the principles of the
theme carried throughout the retreat. There were discussion groups on every problem of college life. Bill Smith, local YMCA secretary,
Mr. Paul Derring, secretary at V.P.I., Marie Edwards of the University of South Carolina YWCA, and Mr. Claude Shotts, Y
secretary at UNC, led these groups and gave valuable suggestions. Herb Meza and Mrs. Meza were in charge of recreation
which was limited by the continuous rain. The seventy-five students present included representatives from UNC, NC State, Phiefer Jr. College,
Mars Hill College, Eastern Carolina Teachers College, WCUNC, and Greensboro College. Bill Smith, Herb Meza, Bill Alexander, Watt Jeffries, Dave
Miller, John Lyles, Neil Leach, Tommy Langford, Bob Gay, and John Miller represented Davidson.
