WILDCATS !?! WHAT ABOUT THE Volume XXXVII ORTA LIBERTAS LARGE DONATION SPURS DRIVE AS CHARLOTTE AREA NEARS TOP DAVIDSON COLLEGE,
DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 25, 1949 NUMBER NINETEEN

R. Horace Johnston and Mrs. Rosa Johnston Stokes Donate $100,000 For Gymnasium

(Reprinted from The Charlotte Observer)

A gift of $100,000 from Mr. Horace Johnston and his sister, Mrs. Rosa Johnston Stokes, to the Davidson College Development
Program campaign was announced this week. This is in addition to a total of $67,682.50 in contributions reported in George
Crouch’s Red Division of workers: $45,094 from Howard Arbuckle’s Black Division; $48,430 from Olin Nisbet's Corporations Division, and special gifts.

The gift from Mr. Johnston and Mrs. Stokes is to be used in the construction of a new gymnasium, according
to the announcement made by Dr. John R. Cunningham, president of Davidson. The gymnasium, named for the late Charles Worth
Johnston, a graduate of Davidson who became a leading textile industrialist, will be a monument to him, Dr. Cunningham said.

Dr. Cunningham cautioned the workers in the Charlotte area campaign that the Mecklenburg drive was far from completed. The workers
were still short of the goal and they must continue their efforts during the next several days to make the
local phase of the drive a success, he said.

Dr. Cunningham said that Mr. Johnston, father of Horace Johnston and Mrs. Stokes, was a “self-made man” who grew up
in the farming area near the town of Davidson, finished in the class of 1878, and got his start in
textiles as a mill manager at Cornelius. Mr. Johnston became a great textile executive, Dr. Cunningham pointed out. The gymnasium
is the next unit in the college building program, and it may be dedicated to Mr. Johnston’s memory next year.

Dr. Childs Will Speak

Dr. Harwood L. Childs, distinguished Professor of Politics at Princeton University, will deliver an address in Chambers Auditorium at 8:00
p.m., Friday, March 4. Dr. Childs, editor of the Public Opinion Quarterly and author of a number of books and
articles, will speak on the topic, “What Can Public Opinion Do?” This address is being given under the auspices of
the Public Lecture Committee.

College Initiates Guidance Program

Davidson College's first Guidance Clinic got off to a good start last week with about seventy-five applicants starting the fifteen
hours of tests. The tests, being run by Prof. Ostwalt of the Psychology Department, are designed to give students guidance
in the fields of study and vocation that they are best suited for. Prof. Ostwalt, who last year ran the
same tests at Duke University, reports that about seventy-five men expressed an interest in taking the tests, though the number
had to be restricted to fifty.

Two Weeks of Tests

The tests will last over a period of about two weeks. They consist of a preliminary interview, a three-hour test
on hobbies and special interests, four three-hour tests in fields of skill and aptitude, and a personal interview. In addition
to the interview, the student is given a written report of the findings and recommendations of the clinic. The purpose
of the tests is not to suggest a specific vocation, but to indicate general talent fields. Though not infallible, these
tests are often of great aid.

Lombardo Dance Slated

The American Legion post in Lenoir has stated that it has retained Guy Lombardo and his Royal Canadians for a
dance on May 3.

Bartons Back From Florida Honeymoon

Mr. and Mrs. Derrick Barton returned last Saturday from their honeymoon in Florida. While there, the newly-wed couple stayed at
the River House at Palatka, Florida. They also visited the noted English tennis star, Fred Perry, at the Boca Raton
Club. Mr. Perry is a close friend of Coach Barton.

The couple were married on February 11 in the Davidson College Chapel in a simple but beautiful ceremony, performed by
Dr. Bernard Boyd. Mrs. Barton, the former Martha Beaty, is the daughter of Professor and Mrs. Neal Beaty of Davidson.
She was graduated from Salem High School and Davidson College. Mr. Barton, son of Mr. and Mrs. William Barton of
Ilford, Essex, England, is a graduate of the Essex School and served for more than two years in the British
Army. He has twice played on the English Davis Cup team and since 1947 has capably served as tennis coach
for the college. The couple, who are presently staying at the bride's home on North Main Street, plan to take
an apartment soon.

Methodist Group Plans Activities Through May

On February 11, a dinner meeting was held at the Methodist House, at which plans for activities during the present
semester were made. Several Davidson students were present. Professors in attendance included Prof. J. H. Ostwalt, host of the evening,
and Professors Greet, Ratliff, and Purcell.

Some of the activities announced include a social at Myers Park Methodist Church on Saturday evening, February 26, which will
be held for both Davidson and Queens Methodist students. Also, a campus reception on Tuesday evening, March 1, at which
time Rev. Harley Williams, the local Methodist pastor, will be present. The purpose of the reception is to better acquaint
all followers of Wesley with Mr. Williams. Although planned primarily for Methodist students, any Davidson students are welcome at the
reception. It is hoped all students interested will take advantage of this opportunity to become better acquainted with Rev. Williams.

Weather Report

Winter refuses to make even a last ditch stand! Temperatures will continue mild this weekend while the weather will become
progressively better after a rather wet night—Friday. Saturday night should find fair skies and Sunday will, from all indications, be
delightful.

Pieces of Counterfeit

Pieces of counterfeit $20 bills have been turning up in sewage at the Greenville, S. C., disposal plant since publication
of news concerning the appearance of such bills here January 10, the police department has reported.

Being entertained by the songs of Wooglin, the songs, and fellowship of a new fraternity custom. Pi Kaps and Betas
in the picture above are enjoying the songs and fellowship of a new fraternity custom, instigated by the Betas, that
of inviting another fraternity in for an after-Vespers feed the last Sunday night of each month.

Minstrels Bounced To Speed Show

As the traditional “D” Club Foolies will be held on March 21 at 8:00 p.m., with Ashmore & Carnegie as
directors, the show promises to be one of the liveliest ever witnessed on the Davidson Campus. Work on the varied
acts has already commenced and all parts have been distributed. The show this year will in some respects differ from
the one held last year. Many who were here last year will recall the minstrel act, which was criticized afterwards
for moving too slowly; therefore, this year the act has been ruled out in order to step up the pace
of the show. However, to fill in this gap, two new acts have been inserted into the show, which will
provide more variety than was had last year. These two acts are an ROTC comedy scene and an audience participation
show, the details of which have not been worked out as yet.

Chorus Line Is Added

It wouldn't be a “D” Club Foolies without the bar-room scene, but as an added attraction this year, there will
be a chorus line, including such campus beauties as “Legs” Cheek, “Chesty” Chandler, and “Chesty” Stricklin. Rounding out the rest
of the show will be the unique group of minstrel singers, popular songs sung by Buddy Chandler, Connie Baill, Randy
Anderson, and imitations by Ensign, and hillbilly singing and comedy.

The microphone stand in front of the renowned Ashmore Orchestra will be none other than Jake Morgan as master of
ceremonies. With new jokes, several new acts, and several new members to the cast, along with the old familiar members
of the “D” Club who have helped produce great shows in the past, the “D” Club Foolies of 1949 will
be a show nobody can afford to miss!

Vereen Bell Award Entries Must Be In On March 1st

All entries in the competition for the Vereen Bell Award for Creative Writing should be submitted to some member of
the English Department faculty by next Tuesday, March 1, it was announced by Prof. Cumming last week. The Bell Award
is presented annually to the student submitting the best piece of creative writing. Prof. Cumming announced that tentative plans are
being made for Mr. Harry Shaw, a Davidson graduate of the class of ‘26, and at present the college editor
for Harper and Brothers of New York City, to make the award when he speaks on March 8.

Each entry is to be typed and submitted in a sealed envelope containing the author’s name along with the title
of the manuscript. A student may submit as many entries as he wishes but each must be creative—a short story
or a poem. Vereen Bell was a young novelist and writer of rising fame when he was killed in World
War II.Second Battle of the Philippines. A Davidson graduate of the class of '32, Bell was from Cairo, Georgia, and
had the settings of his writings in Georgia swamp country. The Vereen Award was set up as a memorial to
the promising young writer by friends and relatives. It consists of fifty dollars in value, the actual object to be
chosen by the winner in consultation with the faculty committee. Don Shriver of the present sophomore class was the winner
of the Award last year. All entries will be judged by a faculty committee from the English Department and narrowed
down to about half a dozen papers. It is hoped that Mr. Shaw will consent to make the final judgment
among these selected entries. Rules for submitting entries are as follows:

1. Entries must be turned in by March 1 to some member of the English Department.
2. Entries must be typewritten.
3. The name of the author is not to appear on the manuscript. However, a sealed envelope containing the name
of the author and the title of the work is to accompany each entry.
4. A student may make more than one entry.
5. All entries submitted must be creative.

Vereen Bell’s two novels were "Swamp Water" and "Two of a Kind," both of which have their background in his
South Georgia home setting, and both of which are in our library. In addition, a volume of his short stories
has been published recently and it is due to be received in the library shortly.

Official Washington claims a monopoly conspiracy in the sandpaper field. We wonder if the results will be a sandpaper finish.

BETA THETA PI ENTERTAINS PI KAPPS AT INTER-FRATERNITY OPEN HOUSE

To Continue Custom Of Monthly Feeds, Sings

During the second semester last year, the members of the local chapter of Beta Theta Pi inaugurated a program of
having other fraternities down for informal feeds after Vespers on Sunday evenings. Undertaken for the betterment of inter-fraternity relations, these
feeds and sings have proved highly successful and quite enjoyable to all who have been guests down at the Beta
House. This school year, the SAE’s, Sigma Chi’s, Pikas, and Pi Kapps have each been guests at one of the
Beta feeds. Says Dave Shepperson, president of the local Beta chapter, “We plan to have one fraternity over each month.
Since there are nine other fraternities at Davidson, this way we can completely make the rounds in one school year.”
Starting next with the Phi Gams, the Betas intend to continue their “good neighbor” policy each semester, so great has
been the success of their feeds this year. The purpose of these feeds, Shepperson stated, is “to get acquainted with
everybody on fraternity court as far as possible, and to foster good friendliness and relations between all fraternity men at
Davidson.” Shepperson went on to emphasize the fact that the expense of entertaining another fraternity at a feed is only
a little more than the expense of a regular feed for the host fraternity alone, and the results of these
inter-fraternity gatherings have been quite favorable; for the feeds thus far have been immensely successful. Emphasizing the informality of the
Beta feeds, he pointed out that members of both the host and guest fraternity should go up and introduce themselves
if they see someone whom they do not know. Said Shepperson, “Success depends upon the cooperation of everyone, both the
hosts and guests. Meet everyone. Get to know the boys on fraternity court.”

STEREOSCOPE SHOWS DAVIDSON OF 70’S

Davidson in the ’70s in three dimensions is now available in the library. Recently, six stereoscopic views of the campus
were given to the college by Misses Sadie and Minnie Scofield of Davidson. These pictures, when viewed through a stereoscope,
appear to have depth as well as length and breadth. Looking at a picture in the parlor through a stereoscope
was a favorite amusement of the 1880s and 1890s, and undoubtedly much romance resulted from two heads in proximity to
see Eu and Phi Hall, old Chambers, the Eu and Phi chandeliers, and the Felon House. There were possibly other
campus scenes taken, but these are all that have so far been discovered. On the reverse of these pictures is
printed, “W. F. Robertson, Asheville, N. C., Publisher of Stereoscopic Views of Southern Scenery.” Information from the Asheville Public Library
indicates that Mr. Robertson lived in Asheville during the late 1870s and early 1880s, so the pictures now in our
possession can be dated to that period. They show the trees around the “D” in front of old Chambers as
mere saplings, many of which have now died of old age. The most beautiful of the photographs is perhaps that
of the Phi chandelier, which stands out when viewed through the lenses with all its prisms in clear relief. A
stereoscope for viewing these pictures was placed in the library on loan by Miss Hattie Thompson, who, like the Misses
Scofield, has family connections which go back several generations in Davidson. The library greatly appreciates the kindness of these friends
of the college in making available to students and faculty this most interesting excursion into the past.

Students Virgil Pino (left) and Charlie Reid (right) converse with guest guitarist Andres Segovia in the Y lounge after Mr.
Segovia’s concert, the third in this year’s artist series.

VESPERS

Sunday, February 27 — Dr. Claude U. Broach, D. D.
Sunday, March 6 — Dr. John Newton Thomas, Ph. D., D.D.

CHAPEL

Monday, February 28 — Prof. Peyton.
Tuesday, March 1 — Prof. Martin.
Wednesday, March 2 — Dr. Cunningham.
Thursday, March 3 — Prof. Griffins.
Friday, March 4 — YMCA.

Honorary Chemistry Fraternity Sponsors Blood Bank Donations

At a recent meeting of Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary premedical society, plans were formulated for the collecting of blood from
the students by the Red Cross Blood Bank. The mobile unit will be in Davidson on Thursday, March 3, from
9 a.m. until 5 p.m. Students will be contacted by members of AED and will be asked to take part
in this important effort to obtain a supply of human blood for many vital medical purposes. Conditions will be made
as convenient as possible for those wishing to donate.

“Your Davidson,” a color film presenting local campus scenes, was shown to the student body Wednesday, February 16. The film
is being used in the present fund campaign to introduce the school and its needs. The color movie, a 24-minute,
sound reel, was made last spring by the American Film Service. Trying to give a composite view of Davidson, the
film depicts the buildings and grounds, student life through the eyes of a stranger, including athletic facilities. Group pictures of
Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, and the faculty were completely photographed to present Davidson’s leading personalities. In the near
future, “Your Davidson” will be shown throughout the state in communities where the Davidson Development Program is being presented, and
also in Greenville, S.C.; Atlanta; Gary; Richmond, Va.; Philadelphia; and New York, where there are large alumni groups. The college
also has copies available for individuals or groups who wish to use them.

Three New Books Are Recommended

From a number of new books purchased by the library, the Book Club selections have been chosen as those of
most interest to the students:

Cheaper by the Dozen by Frank Gilbreth, Jr., and Ernestine Gilbreth Carey. Dad was a man who had enough pull
to be divided into three parts: Dad, Frank, and six boys and six girls. This lovable and humorous story is
the account of the Gilbreth family and their many trying experiences that went through. Much of this story is built
on the annual trip to their summer home in Nantucket, and the harrowing experiences that accompanied them. One day in
Montclair, New Jersey, the Gilbreth’s house caught on fire. The excitement was terrific, with shouting and whistling. Only a neighbor
watching from his yard remained calm. But when his wife came to the door and looked out, she too got
excited. “What’s going on?” she cried. “The Gilbreth’s house is on fire,” he told her. “Thank God.” “I shall call
the fire department,” she shouted frantically. “What’s the matter, are you crazy?” “That’s the way the neighbors felt about the
Gilbreths. But the Gilbreths had a wonderful time themselves. And this book is the hilarious-but-true account of their life, written
by two of them.” (Editor.)

Elephant and Castle by R. C. Hutchinson. The novel Elephant and Castle, which has been lauded by critics as the
only really first-rate novel to come out of England in the last decade, is a story of a strange relationship
of a young lady of one of the old families of London and a man from London’s worst slums. It
is as full of people as any novel written by Dickens and has the free-ranging quality of Anthony Trollope. Hugh
Walpole, a noted literary critic, says about the author: “Hutchinson shows a genius for creation of character that no novelist
in England has equaled since Conrad.” (Continued On Page Four)
