FRIDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1949

CAPTAIN-ELECT BLAKE BRADLEY

Bradley Chosen by Team Mates to Captain 1950 Cross Country Team

By WOODY McKAY

Blake Bradley, the trim runner from Decatur, Georgia, has been elected unanimously by his teammates to serve as captain of
the cross country team in 1950. Blake, in his nonchalant way, has been running with the cross country team since
his freshman year and continues to improve each season. “He’s improved a great deal this year and we’re expecting even
greater things from him in track.” This is what his coach, Pete Whittle, has to say about him, and he
seems confident that Blake won't let him down.

Slightly overshadowed by “Gunder” Grey during the past two years, Blake has come into his own this year and has
consistently made better time than Grey did. He added another feather to his cap by placing eighth in the Southern
Conference, and that was against some top-notch competition. Not only is Blake outstanding on the cross country team, but he
is also an outstanding letterman in track. His slim, but strong frame will be remembered from his good work last
year as a distance runner. Having completed a successful season in cross country and aiming for bigger and better things
next year, his senior year, it is only fitting that he be selected to head up the '50 cross country
team.

A preministerial student, Blake always gives all he’s got in a track or cross country event. During the past season,
he took first place in several meets and wasn’t far behind in those in which he didn’t cross the finish
line first. He had a tough break in one meet in Raleigh when he got a cramp in his leg
and was forced to drop out. Besides this one instance, he has led the harriers through a pretty rough schedule
during the track and cross country seasons. Watch for him in the future, because he will probably be near the
front in any running event he participates in.

U.N. SOCIAL... (Continued From Page Three)

In a country like the Philippines, she commented, all these were concrete steps toward social progress and human welfare in
an actual practical way. Now, she said, there is a new United Nations building in Manila. It houses the technicians
who come and go with the world’s best experience, texts, and equipment to help a small, poor country to lift
itself out of the shackles of war, and find its future by releasing its own resources.

Mrs. Murphy mentioned Albania, Austria, China, Czechoslovakia, Ecuador, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Italy, and Poland, among other countries now receiving similar
assistance from the United Nations. The countries who are “giving” advice and assistance are Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Denmark, France,
the Soviet Union, the United States, and the Union of South Africa. She pointed out that approximately one-half of the
total number of United Nations member countries are asking for experience and help from the other half, but what is
really gratifying to note, she said, “is that in this non-political field of human welfare, there have been no hindrances.”

THE VISIT Charlotte Waffle Shop “ACROSS FROM THE BURNING CORNER” ON WEST TRADE STREET

THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FIVE

Greek Basketball Games Get Underway

What The Cats Were Doing...

By BILL BRADFORD and J. V. HOWELL

Kappa Sigs 44, SPE 12

The Kappa Sigs jumped to an early lead and never dropped it. At halftime, they led 22-10. Miller was the
high scorer for the night with 12 points. Fitzgerald was outstanding for the SPEs. Final score: 44-12.

Pika 41, KA 32

The Pika team started off with a bang and by halftime had run up a score of 26-12 against the
KAs. Fighting hard, the KAs moved the score to 30-32, but Jones for the Pikas hit with a field goal
and the KAs were never able to come close again. Warlick, with 11 points, and Gaither with 10 were high
scorers.

Betas 36, Campus Club 38

Although the Campus Clubbers put up a hard fight, they were unable to down the accurate shooting of the Betas.
High scorers for the Betas were Coleman and Brooks.

Cavalier Wrestlers Sizzle as Netters Outlast Virginians

The Davidson Wildcats, who had been considered the underdog, knocked unbeaten Virginia Tech off by the score of 60-56. The
game marked the opening of Statesville High School’s new $250,000 gym. A large crowd of more than 2,000 watched Davidson,
after leading by only a few points throughout the game, get hot in the last five minutes to assure themselves
of a hard-fought victory. It was Davidson's first victory of the year after losing to N. C. State and the
semi-pro McCrary Eagles. VPI had previously beaten Maryland and Carolina.

The game started slowly, with both teams missing a considerable number of shots. Whit Cobb hit just before the half
to give Davidson a 23-21 intermission score. The second half started fast and continued so for the rest of the
game. After five minutes of the second half, the score was knotted at 31-31. After that, it was all Davidson.
Bill Brooks and J. C. Coleman couldn't seem to miss with all sorts of sensational shots. Both helped to control
the boards. A rally by VPI in the last few minutes fell short. Whit Cobb, Mac McLean, and Dutch Hengeveld
played terrific floor games and Hengeveld also sank three goals and five free throws for a total of 11 points.
Brooks was the high man for the night with 20, closely followed by Tilson of VPI, with 16. Coleman hit
for 13. Although the game was termed an upset, it was the outcome of hard work by Coach Baird. Everyone
is looking forward to more improvement and more victories.

Davidson (60)
fg ft pf tp
Haller, f 2 3 0 7
Brooks, f 8 4 1 20
Osborne, f 0 0 3 0
Roddey, f 0 0 0 0
McLean, f 0 0 3 0
Lazenby, c 2 1 4 5
Cook, c 0 0 0 0
Cobb, g 1 2 2 4
Hengeveld, g 3 5 0 11
Coleman, g 4 5 4 13

VPI (56)
Sayre, f 3 6 3 12
Jones, f 1 2 3 4
Davis, f 3 0 2 6
Tilson, c 6 4 4 16
Sampson, c 0 0 0 0
Pohl, c 0 0 0 0
Bacalis, g 2 1 4 5
Prombold, g 3 0 4 6
Platt, g 3 0 0 6
Spruhn, g0111 Halftime score: Davidson 23, VPI 21. Free throws missed: VPI—Sayre, Tilson 7, Bacalis 2, Prombold, Spruham. Davidson—Brooks, Hengeveld
2, Coleman 4.

ARE YOU EDUCATED... (Continued From Page Three)

Bacon's essays; Shakespeare’s plays; Voltaire’s short stories; works of Anatole France; Goethe’s “Faust;” Keats’ “Odes;” works of Shelley; “War and
Peace” by Tolstoy; “Le Pere Goriot” by Balzac; and “Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire” by Gibbon; the works
of Flaubert; “Brothers Karamazov” by Dostoyevsky; Thoreau’s “Walden;” “Lives of the Painters” by Ruskin; and Plato's “Republic.” Also, the King
James version of the Bible, especially the New Testament, and Isaiah, Proverbs, Psalms and Songs of Solomon in the Old
Testament.

Both sides of the so-called ‘East and West’ nations have shared in exchanging their experiences when it comes to the
problems of disease, illiteracy and poverty.

GRADE “A” MILK PASTEURIZED Daily Delivery PHONE 205 MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Top Davidson Squads By MAC RICHARDS

The Davidson matmen opened their season by losing both freshman and varsity matches to the University of Virginia by 29-3,
and 27-5, respectively. Although the team score was one-sided, all the individual matches were close, and the teams showed good
prospects for the rest of the season. The next match is with Maryland on January 14. The individual results are
as follows: Bell; Kelton (DD) won by forfeit, Wright (V) decisioned Grissom, Senft (V) decisioned Haynes, Derris (V) pinned Covell,
Wool (V) decisioned Price, Metarin (V) decisioned Alexander, and Clarkson (V) pinned Kiser.

Harriers Run Well in Optimist Club Meet By BILL FARRIAR

Davidson's cross country team, led by Blake Bradley and Tom Stockton, placed third in the twelfth annual cross country meet
sponsored by the Optimist Club in Birmingham, Ala. Bob McMillan of Alabama beat out Auburn’s Whitey Overton in record time
to win the annual three-mile race. McMillan, running unattached, took the lead from Olympic teammate Overton in the stretch and
finished about 10 yards ahead. His time was 14:8.9, bettering the old mark, set by Don Noel of the University
of Louisville, last year, by 2.4 seconds. Auburn won the team title, besting the University of Alabama freshman team, Davidson,
Louisville, and Georgia in that order. Auburn scored 38 points; Alabama freshmen 50; Davidson 70; Louisville 72 and Georgia 123.
Art Perkins, flashy runner from Sewanee, finished third. Bradley and Stockton placed tenth and eleventh, respectively. Other Davidson men in
the event were Dave Anderson, Bob Long and Bill Lee. The race was sanctioned by the Southern AAU.

PEEPING TOM... (Continued From Page Three)

Examples, Dr. Dietrich pointed to sex plays and advertisements which have illustrations of the human body as being peeping Tom
activities. He notes also that burlesque thrives in most U. S. cities because of a slight degree of peepism which
exists within the average American. “However, there is a compelling force in some people which makes it impossible for them
to keep from peeping,” Dr. Dietrich observes. He explains that these individuals are emotionally sick and need referral to psychology
clinics which could help them.

VISIT THE BOAR’S HEAD DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT 142 E. Morehead — Charlotte

FRESHMEN: Craven (D) decisioned Lee; Blakely (V) decisioned Irvin; McElroy (V) decisioned Braxton; Slingluff (V) decisioned Goudy, Fitzgerald (V) pinned
Dobles; Harris (V) won from Morrow on a forfeit after Morrow was injured; Showalter (V) pinned Adams, and Turner (V)
pinned Talbert.

VARSITY: Morse (V) pounced

Final score: Betas 36, Campus Club 28. Sigma Chi 22, Phi Delts 13

After a halftime score of 8-8, the Sigma Chis rolled back to down the Phi Delts, 22-13. High scorer was
Mead with 8 points, followed by Eastman with 7. White was high scorer for the Phi Delts.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company MAKERS OF Deluxe Ice Cream Mooresville, N. C.

TWENTY YEARS AGO—December 14, 1929... (1) Brock makes all-state end.

TEN YEARS AGO—December 14, 1939... (1) Court season opens as Wildcat five lowers J. O. Jones, 34-30.

FIVE YEARS AGO—December 16, 1944... (1) Davidson defeats Elon, 48-35.

ONE YEAR AGO—December 12, 1948... (1) Cagers get off to good start with wins over Kannapolis “Y,” McCrary Eagles, Clemson
and Washington and Lee.

JOHNNY RICHARDS Covered Armfield Blocking Trophy Given To Johnny Richards at Football Banquet

A center who realized the dream of all linemen in his last collegiate football game by lugging the ball for
74 yards and a touchdown, won a trophy at the annual Davidson football banquet Wednesday night for never laying his
hands on the ball as a carrier. Converse though the two above statements seem, the Wildcats’ senior ball snapper, Johnny
Richards, became the fourth man to win the Ed Armstrong blocking trophy, awarded annually to the best blocker on the
squad as ascertained by the coaching staff. Mr. Ed Armfield of Greensboro, a Davidson graduate, has made the award for
the past four falls. In Mr. Armfield’s absence Wednesday night, the trophy was presented by Dr. William (Bill) McGavock, member
of the faculty athletic committee. As usual, there was an air of expectancy as to the recipient of the award,
but when Dr. McGavock came to that point in his introduction which recounted the 74-yard touchdown trip by a center
to score the first touchdown in the Thanksgiving Day battle with Citadel, the Cat was out of the bag. Richards,
a Portsmouth, Va., husky who played four years of football at the pivot spot for the ‘Cats, becomes the third
lineman to win the trophy. The award went to Earl (Red) Bethea, now coach at Porter Military school in Charleston,
S. C., a blocking back. The two following years the trophy went to E. T. (Buddy) Chandler, then a sophomore
guard, and Bob Sharpe, who had just completed his junior year at guard. After running behind Mitton (Bronco) Bailey last
fall, Johnny moved into the starting post this year as a ball snapper. Late in the season, however, he was
moved to the linebacking post and turned in an outstanding performance there. Counted on as a leading pivot man on
the basketball court this winter, Richards has currently benched himself to catch up with his studies. He hopes to rejoin
the crew after the Christmas holidays.

Best Wishes to all of you for a Merry Christmas J. O. JONES, Inc. DISTINCTIVE MEN’S WEAR Charlotte, N. C.
