PAGE SIX

OWEN DEPLORES COMPLACENCY OF FACULTY, STUDENT BODY

Mr. Guy Owen, new English instructor on the campus, comes from Clarkton, N.C. He was graduated from the University of
North Carolina in 1947 with an A.B. degree, and he received his M.A. in 1949 from UNC. He has also
taken some graduate work at the University of Chicago.

Davidson Freshmen Escort Princesses

On Wednesday night, Nov. 16, sixteen freshmen served as escorts for the Princesses of Christmas at the annual Christmas Coronation
Ball which is held in connection with the Charlotte Christmas Festival. The Princesses for whom the freshmen were to act
as escorts had been selected by their various hometowns to be their candidate for Queen of the Charlotte Christmas Festival.
During the Ball, one of the Princesses was selected to reign as Queen and was crowned by Miss Audrey Totter,
Hollywood movie star, who was in Charlotte as guest of honor along with Mr. Fulton Lewis, Jr., world-famous news commentator,
and Mr. Ted Malone, Mutual Broadcasting System storyteller. Assisting Miss Totter in the coronation was Miss Ann Rose of Mint
Hill, last year's Queen.

The dance, which was held in the ballroom of the Charlotte Hotel, was attended by over three hundred people, including
many distinguished persons, all of whom were the guests of the Charlotte.

Le Cercle Francais Hears Mrs. Goldiere

Le Cercle Francais held its second meeting of the year at the home of Dr. Goldiere on November 15. After
the business session, Bob Keever presented the program. Ed Parker gave a newscast covering various phases of current events in
France, such as the Salon d'Automobiles, new books, modern art, politics, etc. Mrs. Goldiere, who studied at Laval University at
Quebec this summer, gave a “causerie” in French on her impression of Quebec and told several of her experiences there;
the talk was illustrated with posters, books, etc. After these talks, the members enjoyed delicious French pastries. The president, Bill
Goodman, adjourned the meeting. Those present were: H. Barr, R. F. Boyd, F. W. Best, H. P. Bridges, W. A.
Goodman, R. R. Hart, J. V. Hunter, K. W. Jones, J. R. Keever, W. N. Mebane, J. J. Murray, C.
L. Norwood, E. C. Parker, and J. D. Whitener.

MUSIC RECITAL... (Continued From Page One)

B. Flat by Mozart, Charles Auten playing the Prelude and the Minuet from “Suite Bergamasque” by Debussy, and Paul Laverty
playing “Sonata in F Major” by Mozart. The organ students Paul Jenkins and Henry Bridges presented that there will be
no more student recitals before the Christmas holidays. In the spring, however, there will probably be one each month.

STATISTICS REMAIN... (Continued from Page Five)

Punting
Times Kicked yds. Ave.
Runyan 15 485 32.3
Sifford 34 960 28.2
Chandler 1 30 30.0
Sloan 2 36 18.0

Pass Receiving
No. Caught Gained
Price 28 248
Brown 27 262
Sifford 14 219
Rimer 8 48
Lambeth 6 28
Turner 3 22
Wade, J. 3 86
Reynolds 1 1
Freeman 3 15

Scoring: Sifford 18, Runyan 12, Mapes 6, Lambeth 6, Wade, J. 6, Brown 6, Price 6.

MR. BURGES JOHNSON... (Continued From Page One)

an A.B. and later L.L.D. He served for a time on the New York Evening Post and later in an
editorial capacity with several magazines. After serving on the faculty at Vassar, he was chosen to head the English Dept.
at Union College. Now retired, Dr. Johnson is engaged in making a tour through the South, lecturing at colleges and
universities.

Harriers Defeat Gamecocks, 15-55

On Friday, November 11, Davidson’s winning cross-country team journeyed to Columbia, S.C., and handed South Carolina's Gamecocks a 15-55 whitewash
in a Southern Conference cross-country meet. The rout marked Coach Pete Whittle’s Cats' fifth straight win, against an opening-day defeat.
The victorious Wildcats, obviously coasting against their feeble southern cousins, sent their entire squad of eight men across the finish
line arm-in-arm for an 8-way tie for first place and a complete skunking of the host Gamecocks. The Wildcats' time
was 17:45 for the 3-mile course in what amounted to merely a warm-up for the big Conference meet on Monday.
The entire Red and Black squad of Blake Bradley, Tom Stockton, Dave Anderson, Dick Stockton, Bob Long, Bill Lee, Dick
Patterson, and Dan McKeithen really showed their heels to the South Carolinians in the first whitewash of the year and
another triumph for our rampaging harriers.

Horse sense is what keeps a horse from betting on people.

Withers Electric Company

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1949

MECKLENBURG ALUMNI... (Continued From Page One)

In addition to the presentation of the Mecklenburg Award, the dinner will feature among others, an address by Dr. Cunningham,
a concert by a quartet from the Male Chorus, and a new movie about Davidson College, made during the Homecoming
weekend.

GRIDDERS SHOULD... (Continued From Page Four)

drives in Greenville last Saturday that certainly showed fire that has been missing for lo these many weeks; Lambeth seemed
to have shaken loose from injuries, completing 13 of 24 passes, while big C. L. Runyan looked like the Soph
of the Week he was by bulling through holes right and left. The husky Gastonia ploughman broke through the Hurricane
wall for ten yards and the lone Cat score in the fourth period, carrying would-be tacklers across with him. Jimmy
Sifford was the lone man put back on the injury list. He received a mutilated nose bone when one of
the boys in Purple shoved Jim's nose guard closer to his nose than necessary. Bob Sharpe took a stiff blow
on his shoulder that forced him out for a good while, and Jerry Kiser was out of commission after midway
through the third period with a charley horse. Both of these boys are expected to be ready for the Rollins
game.Clash tomorrow night under the Orlando lights, however.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
MAKERS OF Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.

VISIT THE RECREATION CENTER
Davidson, N. C.

One thing I’ve noticed about Davidson is its friendly spirit. He believes that this spirit is shown not only in
the college, but also in the town. There is one complaint that Mr. Owen has to make about Davidson. He
is often mistaken for a student, and consequently is treated like one. One day just after he arrived, he went
over to the Guest House at lunchtime and asked a lady where the faculty ate. She told him and then
asked the “insulting” question, “Whom do you wish to see?” Another incident happened one day that was worse than this.
He was talking to a lady when she casually asked him if he were a sophomore. He shook his head,
and she cautiously asked if he were a junior. When he shook his head this time, she asked him, almost
disbelievingly, if he were a senior. This time after he shook his head, he hastily told her that he was
a professor.

After these two incidents, Mr. Owen decided that he was not dignified enough. He said that he had seriously considered
purchasing a pipe, but after he thought about this awhile, he decided that a pipe might brand him as a
freshman. And he certainly did not want to be mistaken for one of those.

Knowing that Mr. Owen was single, I asked him if he had any prospects for a wife. He said that
he did, and then he rushed me out of his office, so that he could go to the post office.
It seems that he was expecting a letter from a Miss—.

JACKSON CITES...
(Continued From Page One)

Having graduated from Davidson with an A.B. degree in 1927, Dr. Puckett did graduate work at the University of North
Carolina where he received an M.A. degree, and then earned his Ph.D. at Princeton, where he later was an instructor
in the field of pre-medical work. Dr. Puckett has taught at several schools of higher learning including Princeton University, Presbyterian
College, Southwestern, and Davidson. During the war, Dr. Puckett worked at Princeton on the problem of wounding effects of small
projectiles. He came to Davidson in 1946.

Robert Bumbarger
Bob, a business major, is from Hickory, North Carolina. He is president of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity and has
served in previous years as the fraternity’s treasurer and pledge master. For two years Bob was in the U.S. Navy,
being on a P.T. boat most of the time. Bumbarger is editor of Davidson's annual, and was recently chosen for
membership in Who’s Who Among Students In American Universities and Colleges.

Curtis Harper
Curt’s home is in Lynchburg, Virginia. He’s a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, has served on the Student
Council, and is a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society. Curt was nominated for president of the student body in
1948, and was elected president of his Sophomore class.

John Lyles
John, a pre-ministerial student, is from Chester, South Carolina. He is a Navy veteran and is doing honors work in
English. John is president of Kappa Alpha social fraternity, of the Forensic Council, and of Sigma Upsilon. He is this
year’s recipient of the Agnes Sentelle Brown Award and is a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society.

Doug Rice
Rice, who is from Bennettsville, South Carolina, graduated from high school in 1940. He served thirty-four months in the Army
Air Corps and, after his discharge, he entered Davidson in the spring semester of 1946. Doug plays football, is a
member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity and is taking a B.S. course, planning to go into business after graduating.
He is a member of the Ly Club and is judge of the Court of Control.

Jake Wade
Jake, a native of Charlotte, is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. He has served as a member of
the Student Council, and is now president of the “D” Club, a member of the Honorary Fraternity Council, and plays
varsity football and baseball.

First Student: “What's the best way to teach a girl to swim?”
Second Student: “First, you put your arm around her waist, take her right hand in yours...”
First Student: “But this girl’s my sister.”
Second Student: “Push her off the dock.” — Akron Buchtelite.

They’re MILDER!
They’re TOPS!
IN AMERICA’S COLLEGES WITH THE TOP MEN IN SPORTS
WITH THE HOLLYWOOD STARS
