FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1949

NEW MEMBERS SWELL... (Continued From Page One)

Senior Reporters — Pete Kalogtidis, Phil Libbey, Ed Richardson, Jim Fickeisen, Gene Regen, Hubren Sims, Nat Daniel, Bob Hubbell, Jim
Carr, Trew Gurley.

Reporters — Lamar Hinson, George McMurray, Bill Bacon, John Ottley, Bill Bledsoe, Lewis Barnes, Joe Dudley, Sonny Marlette, Angus Andrews,
Josh MacKenzie, Luke Scales, Bob Keever, Bob McAmes, Pete Ormsby, Dick Doxey, Craig Alexander, Bill Pharr, Tom Staley, Carlyle Crenshaw,
Haydon Myers, Rufus Cromartie, Bill Stewart, Ed Blanton, Jim Speed, Scotty Stallings, Pete Milner, Frank Hanshaw, George Bason, Bill Klein,
Bill Cornelius, Jesse Fisher, Hugh Swan, Herman Hollander, Bob Hotchlin, Elliott Braxton, Harry Hickey, Bob Wheless, Bill King, Garland Still,
Nick Mitchel, Hubert Cannon, Tod Currie, Charles Bryan, Larry Dagenhart, John Maynard, Joe Parker.

Sports Staff — Furman Wartick, Bill White, Phil Hammond, Woody McKay, Bill Adams, Jim Smith, Jim Farrar, Charlie Hawkins, Bill
Farrior, J. V. Howell, J. McDowell Richards, Dick Liles, Bill Stafford, Al Gook.

BUSINESS

Advertising Staff — Jack Turner, Bill Hart, Sam Cumming, Gene Taylor, Nelson Tomlinson, Manly McWilliams, Bill Mebane, Goula Barrett.

Circulation Manager — Hugh Huffaker.

Assistant Circulation Managers — Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown.

Collection Manager — John Loftin.

Subscription Manager — Alex Goley.

Circulation Staff — Bob Clark, Neely Dixon, Cecil Rhodes, P. W. Miles, Rufus Cromartie, Jack Arwold, Ed Richardson, John Bennett,
Fletcher Bright, Jim Harper, Parks Dalton, Al Reese, Bob Poston, Buddy Ennis, Jim Bryan, Dick Doxey, Lewis Nelson, Bucky Long,
Glenn Eddington.

PREMEDICAL SOCIETY... (Continued From Page One)

to encourage excellence in premedical scholarship and to stimulate an appreciation of the importance of premedical education in the study
of medicine. The society also seeks to bring the premedical student into contact with other premedical students, medical students, and
educators, and to help him in his transition from college to medical school.

BIKO... (Continued From Page One)

youth to recover.

G.Y.A. ORGANIZED

The C. S. Military Government in cooperation with the U. S. Army worked out a program, the so-called G. Y.
A., German Youth Activities. American soldiers founded clubs for German boys and girls where they had a chance to work
and play and to get in touch with America’s ideas and thoughts. Games and parties were arranged by the occupation
groups for the same purpose. However, this could not be done in schools. The problem of the school system was
entirely different. Courses of instruction and methods of teaching had to be changed. Experiments were made, but most failed. So-called
orientation and reeducation groups were founded, the purpose of which was to discuss democratic ideas and thoughts. But still the
average German boy refused to accept the new ideas. The change from one side to the other was too rapid.

In 1946, the state governments of western Germany were constituted. These governments had, as well as the state military governments,
a branch for the development of our cultural relations. It was the purpose of these branches to find ways of
rebuilding the German school system and secure a democratic education. In 1947, the first social activities and student activities were
introduced in high schools. In 1948, we decided to work out a special program for our school. We planned to
play somewhat like a political party: the idea was to put the new democratic ideas into practice and thus give
the students a chance to get acquainted with them by experience. (To Be Continued)

LOCATION OF DAVIDSON

Early planners of Davidson College decided in 1835 that the college should be located “about equidistant from Charlotte, Statesville, Concord,
and Salisbury.”

NOTICE FACULTY MEMBERS AND COLLEGE PERSONNEL

A number of faculty members and members of the college staff have asked that they be allowed to purchase single
admission tickets to the Margaret Truman Concert, so that their friends who are to be with them for Homecoming can
attend this concert. We are setting aside 50 tickets for this purpose. If you plan to purchase any for your
friends, please do so before Noon, October 15th, at the Office of the Department of Music.

LITERARY SOCIETY... (Continued From Page One)

Treasurer Ray Cunningham. These officers announced the admission of fifteen students into their membership: Neil Leach, Arnie Covell, Tom Stockton,
Tony Tucker, Jack Stevenson, Stewart Shippy, Tom Prufer, Kurt Biedenkopf, Bob Barron, Bill Currie, Sam Joyner, Bill Kline, Bill Harris,
Tom Mann, G. L. Lowe. After the initiation ceremony, the new members read papers which they had written for the
occasion.

MORE GUILTY FROSH... (Continued From Page One)

David Birkhead.

(1) Cocky and obnoxious in general.
(2) Insulting and assaulting upperclassmen.
(3) Claims he is bigger than Jake Wade.

John Bennett—

(1) Impersonating an upperclassman.
(2) Walking on the grass.
(3) Not wearing his hat.(4) Failure to speak to a member of “The Court.”

Pete Ormsby—
(1) Not wearing his hat,
(2) Impersonating “big-time op.”

Bill Pharr—
(1) Not wearing his hat,
(2) Not speaking to upper class,
(3) Not knowing Freshmen regulations.

Neely Dickson—
(1) Walking on the grass,
(2) Not speaking to upper classmen,
(3) Generally obnoxious.

Tucker Blaine—
(1) Wearing his hat during playing of National Anthem at State game.

Tyler Berry—
(1) Refused to get upper classmen’s laundry,
(2) Has attitude contrary to that of a Davidson man,
(3) General obnoxiousness.

George Crouch—
(1) Carrying cap in his hand,
(2) Disrespectful to upper classmen by refusing to put cap on when told repeatedly to do so.

Lewis Barnes—
(1) Continually refusing to speak to upper classmen,
(2) Acting like a “big-shot” on the intramural field.

Luther Sappenfield—
(1) Arguing with upper classmen,
(2) Disrespect to upper classmen.

Roy White—
(1) Had his hat on and was milling around when Alma Mater was played Saturday night.

George Knight—
(1) Tried to avoid pep meeting, rushed in his room, locked door, and cut out lights,
(2) Refused to carry laundry,
(3) Called upper classmen names,
(4) Attempted to send Freshmen out of chapel before others had left.

I. W. Jervey—
(1) Grossly obnoxious,
(2) Refused to carry laundry.

Al Reese—
(1) Lying to upperclassmen about laundry.

Phil C. Davis, Jr.—
(1) Generally obnoxious,
(2) Insubordination to upper classmen,
(3) Disgraced the State of Florida.

David Adams—
(1) Disrespectful to upper classmen,
(2) Failure to speak to upper classmen,
(3) Not carrying laundry,
(4) Walking on the grass,
(5) Breaking campus.

ALL THE NEW POPULAR PHONOGRAPH RECORDS.
Columbia Masterworks
Red Seal Victor
Parker-Gardner Company
Since 1908
118 W. Trade St. Phone 6257

D CLUB TO CONDUCT...
(Continued From Page One)
Committees were elected. The committees and their chairmen are as follows: Academic Committee, Pete Brown; Entertainment Committee, Quincy Adams; Chapel
Program Committee, Bob Carson; Complaint Committee, Johnny Richards; Vigilance Committee, Bob Sharpe.

The club decided that the dates of the senior members of the Davidson football team are to act as sponsors
of the Homecoming game with Richmond. Mr. Charlie Parker, the football team’s trainer, was elected to serve as faculty advisor
to the “D” Club.

The club’s next meeting is to be held on Monday, Oct. 17, at which time the seventeen men who earned
their letters last spring and who are all eligible for membership in the “D” Club will be voted on individually
as to whether they shall be invited to become members. The meetings of the “D” Club are to be held
on the second and fourth Monday in each month, and attendance will be enforced. The club ruled that if a
member misses two consecutive meetings of the club he will be dropped from the roll.

GUARDIAN ANGEL...
(Continued From Page One)
to find out too much about “my boys.” John, considering all the foolishness that is thrust upon him, does an
admirable job making up the beds and cleaning up the rooms. He is rather short, and seems to carry a
basketball under his belt. His appearance is deceptive though, for he has very powerful arms, and his hands are twice
the size of an average man's. Once I was unfortunate enough to see him handle two football players and myself
at one time without raising a sweat. I was sore for a week, and my cohorts resembled State’s line now
wishing they were deceased.

In addition to all of this, John is a faithful football fan, going as far as Raleigh to watch the
Cats play. John Heath has worked for the college for around twenty years, and as long as he is able
to keep his boys straight, he will be waking them up with his traditional “beep beep.”

BELOVED SECRETARY...
(Continued From Page One)
It may be said without restraint that Miss Steele was one of the most loyal members of the college staff.
She retained a loyalty to the person for whom she was working, discretion, and an eternal fitness for being a
president's secretary. She had a genius for friendship and a devoted spirit which evoked the admiration of all with whom
she came in contact. In her latter days she was weak in physical condition; nevertheless her spirit remained strong to
the last. She was a charming personality with a gracious, sincere welcome to all whom she could assist; but topping
all was her Christian character which radiated a spiritual quality in all her relations.

Mooresville Creamery
GRADE “A” MILK
PASTEURIZED
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

“TO MY FRIENDS AND FANS I RECOMMEND CHESTERFIELD. IT'S MY CIGARETTE.”

VISIT THE Student’s Store FOR YOUR NEEDS.
