Down on the three green tennis courts, Coach Derrick Barton is working with a group that last year turned in
the best record of all Davidson athletic teams. We, of course, speak of the Wildcat tennis squad which ended the
1948 campaign with a record of fifteen wins against a lone setback. The red and black netters romped over all
comers except the University of North Carolina. The Tar Heels gained a close 5-4 decision in a match which decided
the state collegiate championship.

Returning from that oft-winning aggregation are six lettermen. The only loss is Captain Jerry Robinson who held down the number
three singles spot and teamed with Mike Williams for the third doubles team.

Wildcat Sports
Friday, March 18, 1949
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Netters to Launch Campaign in So. Car.

SIX LETTERMEN RETURN FROM ONCE BEATEN 1948 SQUAD
By JACK STEVENSON

The oft-winning Wildcat tennis team began practice in earnest last week in preparation for what Coach Derrick Barton says may
be the best season in tennis history at Davidson. Last year's team lost only one match while winning 15, and
having one rained out. The team lost only one man, Jerry Robinson.

Heading the list of returnees is Junior Davis Cupper Bo Roddey. Roddey, a junior, has held down the number one
spot for two years and as a Wildcat has seldom been downed. He joined the touring amateurs last summer and
made quite a name for himself in tournament play over the country. In the National Clay Courts tournament in Chicago,
he advanced through several rounds of play before bowing to one of the seeded entries. Bo will probably again team
with lefty Whit Cobb to form the number one doubles entry for the Cats. This duo alternated last year with
the Keesler boys for the top spot.

In the number two position will probably be husky Teddy Keesler. Another lad who swings from the wrong side, Ted
is the possessor of one of the hardest smackers in the business. He also made several appearances last summer in
tournament play. Though most of these were in the South, Ted was also marked as a top performer. Lenoir Keesler
will probably miss the opening clashes on the tour through South Carolina. He underwent a knee operation several weeks ago
which will keep him sidelined for a few more weeks. Along with Williams and Cobb, he will make a strong
bid for the third singles berth.

The sixth spot is still a wide-open race among several contenders. Numeral winner Henry Neisler, Rob Palmer, Alan Fanjoy, Bill
Childs, Pete Kennedy, and freshman Jack Stevenson are all scrapping for the job. Stevenson will be eligible for varsity competition
because he is a veteran, but will, in all probability, see more service with the yearlings. Besides Stevenson, the freshman
squad boasts two of last year’s top prep players in North Carolina. Dewey Keesler, who captured the high school crown,
is following in the steps of his older brothers. Little Alan Strand of Greensboro could join Keesler in giving the
Wildcats a strong one-two punch. Small though he is, Alan has proved that he knows his way around a tennis
court by topping many a racket-wielding giant.

Pete Kalogrides, a Florida product, is also making a strong bid for a place in the field. Pete ranked high
among prep players in the Sunshine State in recent years. These four will probably nail the top berths, but the
other two spots are still vacant. Any freshman who is interested in tennis is urged to come down for a
try. The schedule has yet to be released, but it is in the making at present and almost certain to
be included.

By BRYAN ROBINSON

Monday the basketball season closed and the interfraternity volleyball tournament started. Coach Charley Jamerson will unveil his 1949 diamond aggregation
in a two-game set with the Cascade Mills of Mooresville. Jamerson is still juggling names to come up with a
natal way into Cabarrus County. Jim is a Vann is looking forward to a record with Cascade Mills, the Cats
will play on the far side of Richardson.First day was characterized by ragged set and at present, many of which
show great promise. Whether any of these will pull a job away from the so-called veterans is another story. The
outfield is the present biggest question mark where only Auburn Lambeth is sure of a position. Some capable infield material
is being shifted to the garden—a step which may help in the quest for fly chasers, but at the same
time may weaken the infield. From past performances, it would appear that very few of the present veterans are so
good that a little fresh meat wouldn't help. In this we are speaking of all positions except possibly Lambeth’s. Of
course, in a real test, we may be proved to be all wet, but one point is that it doesn’t
appear that a real test is being made. When some of the better infielders are shifted without a chance to
prove their abilities, it would seem that the team is set on paper before practice began.

New faces are dotting the diamond scene this year and hopes to make a good showing in the local diamond
on Monday and Tuesday was evident in all the games. He is also a brother of the Phi Delta Theta
fraternity. He is a big boy and has a lot of strength in his big frame. Coach Whittle is planning
to cater to him and Jack Gray, Bill Pritchett, and perhaps a few other outstanding track and field men. Jim
is also outstanding in interfraternity athletics on the campus while starring for the Phi Delts, especially in touch football. He
is also active in other phases of campus life.

When Davidson opens the track season on April 16 with Furman University in Greenville, S.C., Vann will be in there
throwing and Davidson is expected to take this first test easily. His main opposition is expected to come from such
teams as Clemson and the University of South Carolina. Right now, Vann has his eye on that school record of
145 feet, and most everybody around here believes that he can not only break the old school record but also
set a new mark that will perhaps be several feet over the old one and will certainly stand for a
good many years to come. We are all hoping he can do it, so good luck, Jim Vann!

The three teams have inter-school games so that each team will play at least one game a week. Cornelius has
a fine group of youngsters who show great enthusiasm for the game. Huntersville proudly holds an undefeated record and displays
a group of boys who have potentialities for good high-school careers. The Davidson boys, under the leadership of Bob Grigsby,
joined the Charlotte YMCA boys’ division and journeyed to Charlotte for these weekly scheduled games. Victories were slow at first,
but the boys improved as the tournament progressed and climaxed the season with a 37-21 win over Seversville.

Additional features of the weekly trips were the after-game swims in the “Y” pool and raids on a nearby ice
cream shop. The Phi Gams beat the Pi Kaps. The Betas were victorious over the RA’s. The Phi Delts beat
the Pikes. Tuesday’s results: The Kappa Sigs beat the SPEs. The Betas beat the Phi Gams. The Pi Kaps lost
to the Sigma Chis. The RA’s were victorious over the Pikes. The SAF’s beat the Chi Phis. Wednesday's results: The
Kappa Sigs beat the Betas. The SPEs defeated the Sigma Chis. The Phi Delts beat the Betas. The RA’s topped
the Pi Kaps. The Phi Delts were victorious over the KA’s.

One of the big events of the season for two of our teams was a doubleheader February 9, with the
Concord Community Boys’ Club at the local high school gym. The favored Concord Midgets and Concord Junior teams bested the
Davidson and Cornelius teams, respectively, but not without a hard fight from the scrappy Gra-Y teams.

German scientists have developed an ersatz meat and milk. Now if they can develop an ersatz appetite.

The director of the famed Monte Carlo Casino says dice will be offered on its gaming bill of fare next
fall. The rolling bones should prove a natural.

Milton's Clothing Cupboard will be here Tuesday, March 22, 1949, at Miss Scofield's. PANTS—Flannel, Gabardine. SUITS—Flannel, Gabardine. SHIRTS—Nelson Page pastel
Bold Look, Marlboro Button Down Oxford, Casual Sports Shirts. SHOES—Cordovans, Buckskins. COATS—Sport Coats, Blue Blazers, White Dinner Jackets. SOCKS—Pre-shrunk Argyle.
SWEATERS—Cashmere.

WATCH REPAIRS: Just a good shop where fast service is the rule! W.S. Henderson, Jeweler, Main Street, Davidson, N.C.

Baseball Schedule:
March 18 - Cascade Mills at Moore
March 19 - Cascade Mills at Moore
March 21 - Springfield College at Davidson
March 22 - Springfield College at Davidson
March 25 - Wofford College at Spartanburg
March 26 - Clemson College at Clemson
March 28 - Presbyterian College at Clinton
March 29 - Furman at Greenville
April 8 - U of S.C. at Columbia
April 9 - The Citadel at Charleston
April 13 - McCrary Mills at Davidson
April 16 - Furman (tent.) at Davidson
April 20 - U of N.C. at Chapel Hill
April 21 - U of N.C. at Chapel Hill
April 25 - C. of S.C. at Davidson
April 28 - Wofford College at Davidson
April 30 - Clemson at Davidson
May 4 - Guilford at Guilford
May 5 - Hampden-Sydney at Hampden-Sydney
May 6 - V.M.I. at Lexington
May 7 - W. & L. at Lexington
May 13 - Presbyterian College at Davidson

*Conference games
