PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF
GORDON SCOTT

BUSINESS MANAGER
JOHN LOFTIN

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editors: Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Senior Editors: Bill Cumming, Dan McKeithen, Bill Hollister
Features Editor: Arnie Covell
Managing Editors: Pete Kalogridis, Tom Abel, Bill Adams, George McMurray, Ed Richardson, Shelley Beard
Sports Editor: Bill White
Photographs: Pete Ormsby
Art Editor: Jim Fickeisen
Proofreader: Charlie Baldwin
City Editor: Nat Daniel
Columnist: John Hobart

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager: Alex Goley
Advertising Manager: Manley McWilliams
Circulation Manager: Ansley Moses
Collections Manager: Jack Turner
Subscriptions Manager: Bill Hart

Platform - 1950-1951

In last week’s Davidsonian, an editorial stated that in the immediate future, steps would be taken by the student leaders of the Davidsonian to formulate a platform for the ensuing school year. In the same editorial, students were asked to contribute their ideas for making a better Davidson, but the response was disheartening to say the least. Perhaps this is an indication that the majority of men here at Davidson are satisfied with the status quo and don’t desire to see any changes made, but the Davidsonian feels that there are certain areas in which improvement would be desirable and herewith submits the platform which it has adopted for 1950-51:

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Rush Week Forum

(Editor’s Note: This is the second and last of our articles on Rush Week from a purely personal view. This week’s article is written by Bill Klein, President of the Pan Hellenic Council this year.)

First of all let me thank both the fraternities and the new pledge brothers for their cooperation during rush week. Secondly let me welcome the new men into the best fraternity system in the country. After reading Bill Bird's comments on rush week it seems that there is little remaining for me to say. Bill can much better evaluate rush week than I can since he could view it from the outside, and since he went through the same thing last year. In my position I could only notice the good points, naturally ignoring the weak spots and failures. Probably the best way to evaluate the period is to look at the results. Two hundred and fifteen pledges is a rather substantial number; the majority of freshmen went fraternity. This in itself is a pretty good indication of the success of Rush Week. My only criticism is that the pledges were not evenly distributed. Some fraternities pledged over twenty-five boys, crowding their boarding houses to the limit; other fraternities pledged less than twenty when they had been hoping for more. If in the future some arrangement could be made whereby the fraternity could be certain of the number of pledges it would receive, a fraternity would not have to be concerned with the number that might pledge. Queens College has a system for limiting the number of pledges which next year's Pan-Hellenic Council could do well to study.

However, under this year's system, it was impossible to determine the number of pledges to expect. The logical answer seems to lie in informal pledging. There has been some talk about dirty rushing going on during the rush period, but I believe consideration of this year’s program in light of what happened last year, will prove that this year’s rushing was far more free of dirty rushing than last year’s when verbal pledges could be made. After reading the editorial published in the last issue of the Davidsonian, I wonder just what the writer expects. I contend that you will be unable to eliminate dirty rushing completely no matter what kind of system you use. Whenever you have seven hundred people involved in a competitive enterprise you just can't expect everything to run perfectly. Then, too, it is quite a difficult job to define rushing as well as to find concrete proof that the fraternity is guilty. So as far as dirty rushing is criticized, I feel that this year’s rush period was as clean as could be hoped for.

I agree with Bill Bird in that afternoon dates should be eliminated. What little rushing that may be done during the afternoon does not really help a fraternity; it more often harms it because so many brothers are unable to be at the parties. Rush week this year was definitely too long. I would even recommend that next year it run for only four days, starting on Tuesday afternoon. This year everyone was so tired by the time the day of formal pledging came around that they had little interest in what went on. Also, there won't be such a plague of colds if everyone is able to get that extra day of rest.

I believe that the great redeeming virtue of this rush period was the split week idea. I think that it is one thing that should be kept and improved upon. For one thing, the fraternity was able to concentrate on those men whom it felt they would want to pledge. By the middle of the week there are many rushees that have already been eliminated, and who will not receive a bid. These men are usually ignored the last days of rushing because the brothers are trying to concentrate on the men they want. There is no worse feeling in the world than to be completely ignored in a group of strangers while others receive all the attention. By not inviting these men back to the fraternity house during the last days of rush week, many feelings are saved which otherwise might be hurt. Secondly, the Campus Club, which does not enter into active rushing, is able to entertain boys these last two days. This is a definite help to this organization which serves a vital need on the campus. If rush week is to function smoothly, it is imperative that the (Continued On Page Five)

Music With Hansen
By HENRY HANSEN

1. To abolish the double-cut system.
2. To change the existing system of giving cuts.
3. To make Physical Training non-compulsory for all seniors, regardless of their age.
4. To improve the telephone arrangements in the dormitories and the college at large.
5. To change the system of student body elections.
6. To have more varied and interesting chapel programs and speakers.
7. To give praise where praise is due.
8. To criticize when it is felt that criticism will improve a situation.
9. To advocate Sunday-night visitations to faculty homes.
10. To urge the clarification of student regulations to the student body.

This ten-point platform is the result of a great deal of thinking by the editors of the paper and the President of the Student Body who contributed to the planning. None of us believes that it is all-inclusive for there are naturally certain areas which we could not invade. As we said last week, we do not expect this platform to meet with instantaneous approval among the faculty and administration and possibly the student body at first, and we maintain that the Davidsonian will be gratified if even two or three of the points are put into effect. In the interest of a better Davidson was this platform conceived, and the Davidsonian pledges itself to push relentlessly for the adoption of the planks in it.

Accommodations for Dates

Ever since the Pan-Hellenic dances were moved to the campus last year, the problem of finding accommodations for dates has been ever present and as yet unsolved. However, a step in alleviating the situation was taken in the right direction this week when it was decided that Duke Dormitory would be vacated by the students during the week-end to make room for girls.

This plan, pushed by the Pan-Hellenic Council in coordination with Mrs. Little, Supervisor of the Dormitories, was opposed by only a handful of the students in Duke Dormitory. They, of course, had their own reasons for opposing the move; however, we must go along with the majority and commend them for their unselfish decision. It will be an inconvenience to them, true, but it will likewise inconvenience students in other dormitories with whom the Duke men will have to double-up. From no viewpoint is it a desirable move, but it was the best that could be done under the circumstances. The lessons learned in the mild squabble over moving students from Duke this year should be carefully considered by those in authority over the matter next year. If it is necessary to accommodate dates in one of the student dormitories on dance week-ends—and there seems to be no other choice at present—it would be well for the administration to formulate some definite policy to be followed in the future so that the students in Duke will know exactly where they stand when they sign up for a room in that dormitory.

Music, on the campus of Davidson College is expanding its scope and deepening its power. To the Davidson student this year will be offered opportunities for hearing music and participating in it in a range far greater than was the case last year or any year prior to that.

The Davidson College Artist Series will present five concerts which should prove to be of high merit. The Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra which gave such a splendid performance last year will be back. The wondrous Shaw Chorale will return with a program one feature of which is certain to be a performance near perfection in choral work. Miss Joan Hammond, who made such an outstanding debut in Charlotte last year, will visit the campus for the first time; her concert should be really outstanding. The band, concert band, and male chorus will again offer splendid opportunities to those who wish to participate in music. And finally, the rich and varied record collection in the Carnegie Library will offer the best to those who merely wish to listen.

The Davidson campus is not the only place, however, where the student can hear music. Each year Charlotte has offered ever greater delights to the music lover. It is the main purpose of this article to furnish information about one of the phases of musical life which Charlotte has to offer. Last year our own director of music here at the college, Mr. James Christian Pfohl, became conductor of the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra. The progress and excellence of the orchestra up to that time had been wavering. But through Mr. Pfohl’s gifts of organization and musicianship the Charlotte Symphony has been brought to a high standard of performance. This year’s series should present an orchestra accustomed to its conductor and he to it so that we may reasonably expect even better things of the Charlotte Symphony. Five regular concerts with three guest artists will be presented this year. These concerts come on Oct-October 24, November 21, January 30, February 27, and April 10. In addition, and this testifies eloquently to the present caliber of the orchestra, it will appear both on the Winthrop College and Davidson College artist series. It is the hope of the writer that there will be many who will be interested in purchasing season tickets. These tickets are on sale now in Mr. Pfohl's office. One other thing should be mentioned in speaking of the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra. Not only does it offer the opportunity of hearing polished performances of contemporary and standard works, but also it provides the opportunity of seeing the finished performance in the making, of observing the arduous and fascinating processes by which a performance is produced. This last is so because rehearsals of the symphony are thrown open to those who are interested. These open rehearsals are so interesting in themselves and in the information they furnish as to what makes an orchestra tick that it is hard to say which one would rather see, the finished performance or the rehearsals leading up to it. The easiest solution is simply to purchase a season ticket and see both rehearsals and performances. For the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra undoubtedly provides an opportunity unusual, perhaps unique; no better opportunity exists in this area for seeing an orchestra in the fascinating preparation and brilliant performance of the works it plays.

DAVIDSONIAN’S PLATFORM FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
1. To abolish the double-cut system.
2. To change the existing system of giving cuts.
3. To make Physical Training non-compulsory for all seniors regardless of their age.
4. To improve the telephone arrangements in the dormitories and the college at large.
5. To change the system of student body elections.
6. To have more varied and interesting chapel programs and speakers.
7. To give praise where praise is due.
8. To criticize when it is felt that criticism will improve a situation.
9. To advocate Sunday-night visitations to faculty homes.
10. To urge the clarification of student regulations to the student body.

Howe Green — THE — Freshman Farce
It is the custom of every freshman class to make its debut in college society at the haven for beautiful women, Queens College. Whether this is voluntary or mandatory is purely undecided. As we look in on Howe Green in the basement of Rumple Saturday afternoon, we find Heavey's gift to the freshman class busily preparing to make the annual pilgrimage to the “get-acquainted dance.” At this moment there is a knock at the door, and he hears the familiar voice of Hoopy Davis say: “Are you about ready, Mr. Green?” With name-tag on his coat lapel and cap carefully placed on his head, Howe opens the door and says, “Yes, sir, Judge, I'm ready.” “Your limousine awaits you, Mr. Green,” answers Hoopy. He tenderly escorts the young man to a waiting pink Cadillac convertible, chauffeured by Johnny Kelton, who steps out and opens the rear door. Hoopy takes the arm of the young gentleman and helps him into the car. In a moment the sleek convertible is speeding toward Charlotte. Beautiful minutes of peace and comfort fly by and soon the shiny car enters the spacious grounds of Queens College. Howe is escorted into the middle of the grand ballroom floor by Judge Davis who tells him to be sure and have a good time and then departs. Frightened by the sight of so many beautiful women, Howe retreats quickly into a corner. Anxious moments later a devastatingly beautiful, sexy woman approaches him with delightful nonchalance. “You look lonely, good-looking. Would you care to dance?” Howe protests, “I'm not a very good dancer,” as she leads him out on the floor. Snuggling up close, she begins to hum softly. “Isn't Harry James’ music romantic,” she whispers. “Yes, ma'am,” gulps Howe. As the music stops, the bewitching queen grasps Howe's hand and starts for the door. “Wouldn’t you like for me to show you the campus?” she wistfully inquires. “It's beautiful at night.” “But it's so dark outside. How can we see?” trembles Howe. “We'll get along,” she murmurs and clasps his hand a little tighter. Pointing out buildings on each side, the beautiful girl skillfully draws the young man along the path. As they pass a bench under a tree, she sits down and says, “Let’s talk a little while.” Howe timidly sits down on the end of the altogether too-short bench, but soon she is snuggling up close. “Do you know what I would like to do,” she whispers? “No, but I can imagine,” he shudders. When Judge Davis blows his whistle a moment later to assemble his children for the return trip, he is startled when Freshman Howe Green rushes up and hugs his neck gleefully.

—Archibald Elamenbash

Draft Notice
As most of you know, Colonel Ballard had an editorial in the “Davidsonian” this week on the draft situation, under the National Selective Service Act. On Saturday morning, a change on one point of information in that editorial was received from the State Director of Selective Service. The editorial said that only students in the upper half of their academic class were eligible to have their inductions postponed until the close of the school year. However, now any student, ROTC or not, A grades or D grades, will not be inducted during the academic year, that is, until next June. At that time, however, students in the lower half of their class and who have been classified 1-A-P may be promptly inducted. Students in this classification may not enlist in any other than the Army service but are subject to the Army draft. Students in the upper half of their class and who have been classified 2-A are also subject to induction after the close of the academic year. Students in this classification, however, may volunteer for other Services, provided this is accomplished before the call to report for induction is received. It should be pointed out that granting of deferments, to be administered by the Military Department, has no relationship to anything just said. Further word on all of this will appear in the next issue of the Davidsonian.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1950

The World Last Week
1. Occupational controls in Berlin will soon be eased by order of the Allied High Commission.
2. The East German Republic is reported to have joined the Economic Mutual Aid Council, a phase of the Marshall Plan.
3. The British Labor Party, at its annual conference, is gearing itself for another attempt at a big parliamentary majority.
4. On an order from the U. S. Eighth Army, South Koreans crossed into North Korea on Sunday, October 1.
5. The Egyptian cabinet has voted to spend eight and a half million on purchasing arms.
6. French forces have occupied an important road center in North Indo-China.
7. Prime Minister Nehru of India has requested that the Korean war not be carried too far, since it contains the “seeds of a mighty conflict.”
8. Suffering from the effects of a severe summer drought, Yugoslavia is seeking help from the United States.
9. Three million Americans have received bigger pension checks under the new Social Security system.
10. Rising prices are endangering the expansion of the Air Force.

Geech’s Goulash
By PAT McGEACHY

First of all, a hearty welcome to our fellow travelers, as they re-board, “The Good Ship O’ Zion.” We may have lost a few fortunates overboard, and we may have gained an assortment of fourth class passengers at our last port, but by and large, things appear relatively ship-shape and familiar. The Captain's welcoming speech has touched off another lap in our venture. Tally ho! and all that sort of thing. To those of us to whom falls the ignoble task of scrutiny and polish, in reference to brass-work, there comes a wave of blissful indignation. To Arms! The grime of ignorance and prejudice tarnishes the sacred fixtures. It is to us that falls the task of scourging the leftist from our hallowed midst, so that our vessel may shine before men. In more basic English, the above metaphoric hodge-podge attempts to say that this column will be produced in a liberal, Platonic, Democratic, Capitalistic, and Theistic fashion, for the high calling of the obliteration of imperfection from the Davidson atmosphere. Any and all advice and criticism will be welcomed. Little of it will be followed, to be sure, but never scorned. If, therefore, you wish to air your views, do not hesitate to correspond with this pot-pourri of curious denunciations.

The year, of course, is yet young for the formation of violent opinions, so let us reserve this first volume for a brief word of encouragement for the days to come. This is intended as a caution to those to whom Davidson is new, but can also serve as a reminder to all who are connected with the college. This will only take one sentence: Davidson College is a good thing! In the columns of the college publications, from the stage of the auditorium, and in bull sessions, you will observe a great deal of criticism and griping. Do not be alarmed. This is a good thing. No institution is perfect, and of course Davidson would be the last to claim perfection. She needs criticism, for She needs to be improving always; change occurs and She must change with it. The people who gripe do not hate Davidson; they love her. Otherwise they would not be here. It is because they love her that they criticize. They want to see her even better, and they probably will. If Davidson is not like it was when Dad was here, it has not degenerated, it has changed. I remember a faculty member saying that the Davidson Spirit was not dead, simply different. College has changed everywhere. It is our own optimistic opinion that most students have come to realize that there is more to college than horseplay. Young America is more serious-minded, and more liberal. Things are not as bad as they have been, and with a little encouragement they will get better. Now this is a very optimistic point of view, perhaps a little too much so, but for gosh sakes somebody better be optimistic or we'll all go nuts. Which, on the other hand, might not be a bad idea.

Student Club
University of Miami
Coral Gables, Fla.

Meeting the gang to discuss a quiz—a date with the campus queen—or just killing time between classes—the University of Miami Student Club is one of the favorite places for a rendezvous. At the Student Club, as in university campus haunts everywhere, a frosty bottle of Coca-Cola is always on hand for the pause that refreshes—Coke belongs. Ask for it either way... both trade-marks mean the same thing.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF CONCORD
© 1950, The Coca-Cola Company