FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1950 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FIVE

CITADEL PUPS HIT WILDKITTENS HERE SATURDAY

Untested Cat Frosh Look Polish

"Now when I was..."

Rod Harrelson, left, Davidson Wildkitten halfback from Greensboro, listens attentively while freshman back coach Jake Wade, Jr., former Wildcat star,
tells the little speedster how it is done. Harrelson is expected to open at right half for the Kittens in
this afternoon's meeting with Citadel’s Bullpups on Richardson Field. Eavesdropping on the conversation are two linemen who will play a
big part in Coach Boyd Baird’s club’s game this afternoon. Kneeling on Wade's right is Bob Loy, 6-2, 195-pound product
of Allenport, Pa., and on Jake's left is guard Malphus Bradbury, a good looker from Wilson.

WILDCAT OFFENSIVE (Continued From Page Four)

hands, while the Cats snared three Hose heaves. To most Cat followers, the Presbyterian win was the first early pay-off
from Coach Crowell Little’s Little-T, a scrappy, speedy offense, and a well-trained defense. The Wildcats were masters of the situation
all the way, showing that they will be no soft touch for any club they may meet this fall.

PHI DELTS... (Continued From Page Four)

their second season victory. After that, it was Bird who scored two touchdowns to make it 18. For the ATO’s,
Winters scored on a short quarterback sneak.

Standings Through Wednesday

Team W L
Phi Delts 3 0
Kappa Sigs 2 0
KA’s 2 1
Betas 2 1
Pikas 1 1
SPE’s 1 1
Sigma Chis 1 1
Phi Gams 1 2
SAE 1 2
CC 0 1
Pi Kaps 0 1
ATO's 0 3

Some people seem to learn the tricks of the trade, instead of the trade itself. And some people keep so
busy listening to their troubles that we never have time to tell our own.

A doctor fell into a well and broke his collarbone. A doctor should attend the sick, and leave the well
alone.

Round out your Campus Wardrobe at Davis Co.

Marion-Slacks 100% Wool Gabardines, saddle-stitched edges, off-seam pockets. Green, grey, brown, and navy blue. $12.95

OTHER SLACKS 7.95 to 25.00

Sweaters Fasbrand by Revere and Puritan. 100 per cent wools, 100 per cent Nylons and Cashmeres. All styles and colors.
2.98 to 18.50

MARION-DAVIS Exclusive Undergrad Charge Store in Charlotte 521 West Trade St.

But Possess Beefy Forward

Way Still lacking a potent attack but boasting a tough defensive club, the freshman football team will open their season
here tomorrow afternoon against the junior Bulldogs from the Citadel. Coach Boyd Baird has had his charges working hard all
week in preparation for this contest, and except for that offense which needs sharpening up, the Wildkittens seem to be
ready. While the Wildcats are playing Citadel’s varsity in a Southern Conference tilt at Charleston, Coach Baird will be testing
the club which he has been molding for over a month. The Kittens tapered off in Thursday afternoon’s practice sessions
after scrimmaging the varsity several times earlier in the week. Johnny Gray, 155-pound halfback, made his way through the Cats’
defense for several long runs during these sessions, and Preston Whitfield plowed through the varsity line with the aid of
some good blocking, but in general, the frosh offense bogged down against their heavier and more experienced opponents.

Coach Baird has not made a definite decision but he may have to follow the plan of varsity Coach Crowell
Little and use the two-platoon system. Baird has, with few exceptions, run the same teams on offense and defense in
scrimmages, but only game experience can determine whether this system will work for the smaller frosh squad. As he has
stated before, Coach Baird will not name a regular first team until he has seen his club game-tested. At many
positions, there are several boys who have shown up well in early drills, and the frosh coach plans to substitute
freely during this opening game. However, Baird says that the starting lineup will look something like this:

Hershel Allen, the Georgia Cracker who came North for an education, will start at quarterback. Standing an even six feet
tall, Allen weighs 161. To his left in the split-T formation will be Johnny Gray, the Statesville speedster. At right
half, the probable starter is Rodney Harrellson, a 170-pound Greensboro boy. Preston Whitfield, another Georgia product, will start at fullback,
packing 180 pounds on a six-foot frame. At the ends, Lee Knott and Andy Courts rate the nod. Courts, who
hails from Reidsville, Tennessee, is the lightest man in the line at 150 pounds, while Knott tips the scales at
173. Bob Loy from Allentown, Pa., and Neil Graham from Hamlet will start at the tackles. These two huskies, both
weighing 190, should anchor the Kittens’ line. Bill Putnam from Clearwater, S. C., and Malphus Bradbury of Wilson are the
guards. Putnam weighs 190; Bradbury, 185. P. C. Davis, 165, from Hillsboro, will hold down the center position.

Coach Baird knows little about the Citadel squad, but the spirit and hustle his charges have exhibited in practice sessions
may make up for what they lack in ability against the Bullpups. The frosh will have a rest after this
contest, as the varsity will hold the spotlight at Homecoming, tangling with Washington and Lee. The next game on the
freshman schedule is on October 27 with the Furman frosh.

Freedom Bell, Symbol Of Crusade For FreedomRs a. FREEDOM Bell, symbol of CRUSADE FOR FREEDOM, cast in solid bronze, weighs
10 tons, stands nine feet high, measures 98 inches in diameter. In bas-relief, five figures represent the major races of
man. On Oct. 24, United Nations Day, the Freedom Bell will be installed behind the Iron Curtain in the Western
Sector of Berlin, and will peal out daily thereafter the message of freedom to the world. Enshrined in its base
will be signatures of millions of Americans who have signed the Declaration of Freedom.

I sneezed a sneeze into the air; it fell to the ground, I know not where: but hard and cold
were the looks of those in whose vicinity I sneezed.

Mooresville Creamery
GRADE “A” MILK
PASTEURIZED
Daily Delivery
PHONE 206
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
MAKERS OF
Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.

The Oldest and Cleanest Place in Charlotte
CHARLOTTE WAFFLE
TOM LASARIDES, Proprietor
Charlotte, N. C.
We Welcome Davidson Boys at Any Time

OLD GRADS... (Continued From Page Four)
Atop the west side of the stadium will flow the American flag and the red and black Davidson banner, both
summertime purchases by Mr. Scott. On the opponent's east side, nineteen colorful cloths representing the seventeen schools of the Southern
Conference, the United States of America, and the state of North Carolina, will stretch along the track from one end
of the stadium to the other. Mr. Scott also hopes to decorate the outside of the stadium with bunting in
red and black, and the Washington and Lee east side with the Generals’ bunting, but he cannot yet be sure
that the decorations will arrive in time for use.

Perhaps the grad will let it slip by his surveying eye, but the returning newspaper and radio man will notice
an improvement in the press box. It boasts a new coat of paint inside and out. The fourth estate shed
is slated for completed renovation, by the way, before next fall with the possible addition of glass enclosure. The entrance
to the stadium has been painted and new wooden platforms, replacing the rotted wood of old, now bridge the gulley
from the track to the aisles of the stand. And not a place to be outwardly showy and inwardly drab
with dirt, the stadium sports dressing rooms which have also been painted and cleaned up along with the shower rooms
that have received plumbing repairs as well as a coat of paint.

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests
Number 3... THE FLICKER
“One question.... Where do I flick my ashes?”

Don’t think our neat-pleated friend with the drape shape doesn’t know the score! He’s plenty hep to all those tricky
cigarette tests! If you’re in the groove, they’re not fooling you, either. You know, from your own smoking experience, that
just one puff of this brand... then one puff of that brand isn’t going to give you the answer you
want. What can you possibly tell by a quick inhale and exhale, a whiff or a sniff?

The sensible test — the one that gives you the proper answer — is a day after day, pack-after-pack tryout
for 30 days. It’s the Camel 30-Day Mildness Test! You judge Camels for 30 days in your own “T-Zone” (T
for Throat, T for Taste) — the real proving ground for a cigarette. Once you’ve tested Camels as a steady
smoke, you'll know why More People Smoke Camels than any other cigarette!

AFTER U.N.C, RUNNERS LOOK TO DUKE MEET
With hardly time to catch their breath from this afternoon’s meet with the University of North Carolina, Coach Heath Whittle’s
cross country team travels to Durham Monday morning to meet Duke’s Blue Devils. Going into today’s Southern Conference meet, which
was added to the Cat schedule only Tuesday, the harriers had a 0-1 record after their 22-33 loss to powerful
N. C. State in Raleigh last weekend.

Unfortunate question marks have suddenly cropped up in the thinclad ranks in No. 1 man Blake Bradley and promising soph
Bob Henry. In the loss to State, Bradley caught a stomach cramp and Henry blacked out. Both boys were apparently
in good physical condition going into the meet, and had shown no ill effects from running previously this fall. Bradley
did catch a cramp on one occasion last fall, at State, and once in track last spring. The weakened condition
of Bradley and Henry definitely is harmful to the Cats’ hopes for the fine showing they had hoped for this
fall. It was indeed a contributing factor in the State loss. As it was, Tom Stockton carried home the Cat
colors first behind the Pack's Clyde Garrison, sophomore sensation from High Point. The lean, sandy-haired youngster who was Southern Conference
frosh champion last fall, is a leading contender for the varsity conference crown this season.

Despite his cramp, Bradley managed to finish fifth, followed for the Cats by Dick Stockton in the seventh spot, Bill
Lee ninth, and Dan McKeithan tenth. In Duke, Davidson will be meeting a team that is gunning for them. The
Blue Devils last year, fresh from a win over North Carolina, came to Davidson only to be upset by Whittle’s
crew over the Cat course. At Durham, the Devils will have the advantage of trotting over home terrain, and they
will have the incentive for the win. Leading the Dukes will be captain Henry Bullock, a senior from Durham who
has been for two years one of the top half-milers in the Southern Conference. R.H. Shipley, whose victory over former
state prep mile champ Bob Shookley paced the Kittens 27-28 win over State's freshmen, will lead the frosh against Lees-McRae
here Tuesday.
