The atmosphere outside the dressing room at the Armory reminded you of a funeral. A small group milled about silently
waiting for the dead to reappear alive after a hot shower. No one spoke for a while, then somebody tossed
in the epitaph: “Boy, from here on out, I’m buying them. Yessir, buying them—the bigger, the better. If they can’t
sign their names, sign it for them. Let them take home ec. or anything they wish. But get ‘em!”

“You’re right. That’s the only way we'll ever play anymore,” a fellow mourner assured the stunned speaker. A bit harsh,
perhaps, but those are our sentiments exactly. Not the part about signing the horse's name or letting him slide through
the course, but we'll stand forever and a day on that part about “buying” them—the bigger the better.

With the revival of college football after the war, the so-called weak sisters of the Southern Conference were faced with
a decision. Should they continue the fast-fading practice of at least a pretense at simon-pure athletics as they were able
to do a decade ago with moderate success, or should they loosen the purse strings and try to close the
gap—partially, at least—with the big colleges and universities who were making the old-time slave markets look like pikers in the
purchase scramble.

Most of them chose to fatten up football scholarships and also throw out a few more of them. We won't
say that some even winked at grades to keep their bozos in school, but we doubt that anyone with his
eyes open will deny that that is being done to some extent somewhere. But those schools making the decisions openly
and above board went after top high school talent, made them attractive offers for football ability, and the boys were
enticed to come and play—not for pay always, but for expenses.

Now then, Davidson attempted to go it about halfway with the 1946 season launching with Bill Story at the coaching
head, and the Bloody Man from Norfolk turned out a fine team. No one was being paid a salary, no
convertibles or train tickets to every game for ma and pa were being handed out, no one not keeping that
grade line at “C” was playing ball, yet a few—un few—top prepsters were lured onto the campus in the next
couple of years. But the material that Story had started with in 1946 ran out. There had been no long-range
recruiting plan, just those “few” enticed at random. It was several years before the effects began to show.

Then came 1949, last year, and the teams that had formerly been in the lower half of the league with
Davidson were beginning to show the fruits of their 1945-46 decisions. Citadel licked us 25-19, Furman 21-6, Washington and Lee
53-0, VMI 47-6, and even Richmond 28-7. These were schools that had been in our league, remember? This year, the
fact has been rubbed in again. The VMI walloping really impressed it.

Fortunately and hopefully, something is being done about it. We are several years behind, but the Wildcat Club shows that
the alumni also get embarrassed when they hear a crack like: “Hey, Joe. How can the Cats get beat by
today and still win a moral victory?” To coin it, that stuff is getting old. This, then, is a thanks
to those men who still remember how it feels to get beat, and it is also an urge to them
not to let up. For Pete’s sake, let’s do it right and all the way this time. Certainly, make grid
recruits uphold the scholastic standards every other student must, but make them offers attractive enough to get them here. Our
“little sisters” have proved that athletes can be found who can play football AND stay in school, and they have
gotten these rarities because they have made a nicer offer.

An interesting question on that fake football questionnaire in chapel last year, placed on the paper for the purpose of
antagonizing, asked: “Do you want your school to be known for its football team?” Naturally, the reply must be, no,
for the scholarship and high standard of gentleman-production it has long been known for. But actually, to too, too many
people Davidson is known for its football—leaving other athletics for the time—it is known currently for its poor football teams.
One of our ends overheard this comment at the Central-Reynolds high school game: “Daddy, is Davidson a junior college?” To
which poppa replied, “It sure is, son. It sure is.” We caught this one at the same game: “I certainly
hope Parker won’t go to Davidson, I’d hate to see him wasted for four years there.” That's what they're thinking,
and it doesn’t help your school from any angle—athletic or not.

After we get this thing rolling, the game gates will pay for the investments, boys will be helped, and we
can hold our heads up again. It’s like the chicken or the egg gag. Which is first, bigger crowds and
then better players or better players to bring bigger crowds? A chicken laid the egg that brought the feathered nation.
A player—or two, or twenty—are musts to lay the nest eggs from which our grid prosperity will hatch.

By BILL WHITE

Shipley, Kitten Runners Post Splendid

By JACK EFIRD

The next victim of the harriers was Pfeiffer Junior College 23-38. The present freshmen cross-country team is proving itself one
of the best in the recent history of Davidson. As of this week, they have won all four of their
meets. The first test was by far the closest for the Kittens. They defeated North Carolina State by a mere
one point 27-28. Bill Shipley defeated the former state prep mile champ Bob Shoakley for first place with two other
Staters finishing third and fourth. However, the Kittens picked up their other points when Bill Coe, Paul Alexander, John Holt,
and Bob Murray finished fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth. In this meet Shipley again finished in first place. This time
he broke the freshman record at Davidson by running the two and a half miles instead of the usual two
and a half, but Shipley seemed better suited to this distance for he broke the course in 12:02.5. The old
record was set last year by Clyde Garrison and Bob Jones of North Carolina State. Seven of the first ten
finishers were Davidson runners.

On Homecoming morning Lees-McRae was defeated 24-36. This is the only race of the season Shipley did not win. He
finished second to his teammate Bill Coe. The Kittens took third, fourth, sixth, and eighth places to win the meet.
The next victim of the harriers was Pfeiffer Junior College 23-38. The present freshmen cross-country team is proving itself one
of the best in the recent history of Davidson. As of this week, they have won all four of their
meets. The first test was by far the closest for the Kittens. They defeated North Carolina State by a mere
one point 27-28. Bill Shipley defeated the former state prep mile champ Bob Shoakley for first place with two other
Staters finishing third and fourth. However, the Kittens picked up their other points when Bill Coe, Paul Alexander, John Holt,
and Bob Murray finished fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth. In this meet Shipley again finished in first place. This time
he broke the freshman record at Davidson by running the two and a half miles instead of the usual two
and a half, but Shipley seemed better suited to this distance for he broke the course in 12:02.5. The old
record was set last year by Clyde Garrison and Bob Jones of North Carolina State. Seven of the first ten
finishers were Davidson runners.

On Homecoming morning Lees-McRae was defeated 24-36. This is the only race of the season Shipley did not win. He
finished second to his teammate Bill Coe. The Kittens took third, fourth, sixth, and eighth places to win the meet.

Wildcat Sports

NO FOUR PAGE THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SECTION

After Facing Va., W. & M. Today, Runners At S. C. Meet Monday

By BILL SLEDGE

Not feeling the need or desire for the classroom, the Cats leave for Raleigh this Monday to participate in the
Southern Conference meet. The competition will be keen.

STATE IN ‘49

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1950

TO REBOUND AT ’PACK

Wolves Wary of Wildcats After ‘49 But Fierce and Favored Tomorrow

By DICK LILES

‘It's time we were rebounding, ourselves,’’ Coach “Cruel” Crowell was saying the other afternoon while watching the Cats prepare for
their all-important clash with the Wolfpack of State College this weekend. He was referring to the fact that Davidson had
caught three straight Southern Conference teams on the rebound from losses.

His team, led by Tom and Dick Stockton, should win this meet. If so, they will complete the regular season
with a 4-3 record which is a respectable one, considering how much the loss of Blake Bradley hurt them. Coach
Whittle opined that if Blake could have remained with the team all season, they would possibly hold a 5-1 record
at this time. Blake was captain of the team and running ahead of Tom Stockton. With his services, losses to
Duke and UNC could easily have been turned into wins.

As everyone knows, Wildcat of the Week: Auburn Lambeth

By DICK ROPER

To the ranks of the greatest passers in the history of college football, add the name of Auburn Lambeth. The
shy, unassuming Wildcat quarterback made himself a place among the all-time greats when he completed the 200th pass of his
college career last Saturday afternoon against VMI. Even in the humiliating 46-6 defeat the ‘Cats suffered that day, Lambeth's brilliance
could not be denied. On a slippery, muddy field, Auburn tossed eleven complete aerials for ninety yards and one touchdown—not
a spectacular feat, but it is this consistency of hitting his receivers in either a winning or losing cause that
has earned him fame.

The remarkable thing about Lambeth’s success this season is his average of completions. Through the VMI game he had thrown
108 times, connecting 65 of them for 704 yards and a .618 percentage. And he has had but eight of
his tosses intercepted in seven games. Although an injury forced him to miss the Erskine game and a chance to
increase his total, Auburn is certain to break his own record of 77 completions made last season. And, who knows?
With a little luck he may still break the all-time collegiate record of 240 completions, even though the Wildcats have
but three games left on their schedule.Lambeth's 200th Pass Completion Only Cheer For Slim Davidson Crowd In Loss To Keydets

The Flying Squadron of VMI scored the first time they got their hands on the ball in the first few
minutes of play last Saturday afternoon, and they didn’t slow down for four quarters. Davidson’s hard-luck Wildcats had caught another
team on the rebound, and that was the story as VMI swept over Davidson 46-6 before a rain-slimmed crowd in
Charlotte’s Memorial Stadium. It was the fifth time this year the Cats had caught an opponent on the rebound from
the previous week's play, and that spells trouble for any team with such a schedule as the Cats’.

Carter of Lees-McRae and Shipley were running neck and neck all the way to the final turn in the track.
At this point, Carter put on a burst of speed to win by a few seconds. The Kittens, however, gathered
enough points to win the meet. The second meeting with Pfeiffer, which Davidson won 23-49, was the best performance of
the year for Shipley. The course was three miles, and Shipley broke the record at the Pfeiffer course. This, however,
was not the only record he broke. The North Carolina State Junior College record (Continued On Page Six) into victories.
Last Monday, the Varsity and Freshman teams went to Raleigh for the state meet, both placing fourth, due to lack
of depth. In the varsity meet, the first ten men broke the old record, Tom Stockton placing third for the
Cats. An almost identical thing occurred in the freshman meet, with the first three men breaking the record. Bill Shipley
placed third for the Wildkittens.

By CHARLIE HAWKINS

VMI kicked off to Davidson, and two plays later Jerry Eggleston of the Keydets recovered a C. L. Runyan fumble
on the Davidson 47-yard line. The Flying Squadron pushed steadily down the field as backs Anson, Birge, and Stump alternated
carrying the ball to the Wildcat 27-yard line. From there, quarterback Jimmy Coley pitched to end Neal Petree in the
end zone for the first VMI score. The placement was good, and the Keydets were off to an early 7-0
lead.

However, the Wildcats were not to be denied so soon, and they took a punt late in the first period
and drove to the VMI 14-yard line as the quarter ended. This drive was highlighted by the passing of Davidson’s
ace quarterback, Auburn Lambeth. Throwing to ends Dave Williams and Bob Turk, then to halfback A. C. Gregg, he completed
8 in a row between C. L. Runyan’s line plunges. As the second quarter began, Lambeth, finding no receivers after
fading back to pass, twisted his way to the 7-yard line. One play later, the Cats scored as Johnny Guiton
took a screen pass from Lambeth and sped over for the tally. The try for the extra point was wide.

VMI received the kickoff and powered their way down the field on line-blasts by their bulldozing fullback, Joe Stump. He
scored over the right side of the line some plays later, the placement was low, and the Keydets were ahead
13-6. The battle was nip and tuck after this until George Chumbley intercepted a Cat pass and ran it back
to midfield. A 20-yard VMI pass was good from Coley to Chumbley, and with only seconds left in the half,
Anson passed to Petree for the score. The try for the extra point was blocked, and the score was 19-6
at intermission.

The second half kickoff was taken by the Keydets deep in their territory, and they ran it back to midfield.
Line blasts by Stump and Birge and a 22-yard gallop by Anson took the ball to the Davidson 2-yard line.
Anson skipped over left guard for the tally, and the conversion was added by Birge to bring the score to
26-6. Later, VMI tackle Dick McFarlin fell on an Auburn Lambeth fumble, and the Keydets were off again. A Coley
to Birge pass was good for 43 yards, and Birge rammed over right tackle from a few yards out for
6 more points. His placement was good, and the Flying Squadron had a 36-6 lead.

VMI's next drive was good for 68 yards as sub-quarterback A. J. Marchand, trying to pass from the Davidson 34-yard
line, found no receiver and ran instead for another Keydet score. Birge converted (Continued On Page Six).

The newspaperman asked, “Who taught you to pass the football with such amazing success?” To which Auburn replied, “Why, I
don’t know that I can pass very well.” We rather think he can.

The Cats face a task this week that is not exactly a pleasant one. Weakened and worn, they must stop
Mooney's running and passing, and O’Rourke’s plunging. They must also keep Costa out of our backfield and try to shake
Runyan and Gregg loose, and protect Lambeth when the passing is needed. The “Littlemen” are snarling and wanting to prove
that last year’s game was not just luck or a mistake. When the two touted teams meet in Raleigh this
Saturday, you can bet your life on a good game with plenty of fireworks and plenty of hard football.

Many Davidson traditions are of comparatively recent origin. Fifty years ago no one had ever heard of the Wildcat, “O
Davidson,” Homecoming, the Chambermaids, or even the Davidsonian!

C. L. RUNYAN ... State Won't Miss Him!
