In these days of military mindedness, two ROTC battalions, and a questionnaire in every P.O. box, ex-Major Crowell Little blew the dust off his gold leaves this week, pinned them on his sweatshirt, and announced himself as commander of two platoons. The pictures of the Furman game influenced the organization change, too. Thus, tomorrow night or tonight (check one, one never knows when this sheet will appear) the Wildcat is thrown into the arena to do battle with the Blue Hose ones, and this time there will be fresh troops ready to hustle in for a goal-line stand when we fumble on the three.

PLATOONS TO FIGHT FOURTH QUARTER FATIGUE

At the season's outset, Little decided against two platoons because of a lack of depth. However, after reviewing the Furman game, he has come up with this system as the answer to the fourth quarter fatigue that possibly cost his crew its opener. The offensive flashed brilliantly against the heavier Hurricane, though there was a spot of tarnish here and there by fumble. And defensively, the Wildcat wall was better than we have ever seen it, especially when the chips were down and Furman throttled down to our four only to be stopped cold. That looked like the Davidson the alumni is hollering about—a club with fight and scrap. That was also the club in the first half. The second semester was too much fresh power against too much tired fight. Jimmy Fasul, for instance, went almost the entire route without relief. Even a sixty-minute man has but so much. So again the sportswriters set their typewriters on automatic, punched “Davidson” and out spilled “an outmanned but not outfought band of Wildcats succumbed to the sheer weight of numbers tonight.”

WHEN ARE MANEUVERS NOT MANEUVERS?

Actually, tomorrow night’s Presbyterian test is really maneuvers for the two platoons—not from the standpoint of the opposition to be encountered, but from the general staff's outlook. If the defensive line lacks the power that can alone be had from offensive men or vice versa—then somebody is going to have to play a lot of football. Gregg and Leach are tentatively slated for both duties at halfback. The line, though, definitely will function as specialized units. Then the Major will watch the results, view more movies, and announce his decision as to whether the Wildcats stay on a two-platoon footing for the duration of the campaign.

The Major, incidentally, was the subject of much nice talk in Memorial Stadium’s press box last Saturday night, and we gathered the plaudits like a poor man after pennies. Everyone conceded that the Wildcats were a new ball club—one with zip, fight, and trickery, unmatched in recent years. This they could tell even in the debut. By BILL WHITE

One onlooker commented on the lack of a sort of hesitation that had bogged Davidson's offense last year. “These boys look like they know what they’re going to do next. Not befuddled like they were when I saw them last season.” Another scout liked Gregg: “Lambeth isn’t the only threat Little has. This kid Gregg is as sharp as a runner as I’ve seen. Your line’s tougher to crack, too.”

MR. MEDWIN: “WE WERE LONG OVERDUE”

Furman’s publicity man Jules Medwin, who had been booming the Hurricane as the best Furman team in a decade, was a sad man at halftime. An upset to Presbyterian, a bad loss to Washington and Lee (though few would now be ashamed of losing to this year’s Generals) and now his team was trailing Davidson by eight points. It was enough to make a guy join the circus as an advance agent. He banged his binocular case down vehemently when a Furman flanker missed that long pass down the sidelines just before the half. And a Furman fumble two minutes earlier had brought him out of his seat storming out of the press box and refusing to look. After the game, he felt better, believably enough, and you almost felt glad for him. “At last we showed that power. It just couldn't hold back any longer. We were long overdue.” It’s no shame to lose to a club as pent up as the Purples were. However, it is not the Baptists but the Presbyterians we are denominationaling with tonight. They were rough brethren on our camping grounds last meeting day. Let’s hope we’ve done a heap of living in the right direction since then.

SPORTS SECTION — Wildcat Sports THE DAVIDSONIAN

PRESBYTERIAN CAMP MEETING TOMORROW FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1950

CATS, P.C. MATCH SPEEDY GAIT. OUT WITH BROKEN WRIST

Lambeth and Co. Pit Trickery Against Famed 10-Second Backfield

Two Presbyterian teams, as alike in style as denomination, renew family feuding tomorrow night when the Wildcats run into Presbyterian College’s troublesome Blue Hose in Clinton, S.C. Anything but non-run, these Hose have struck a snag only against Clemson’s surprisingly powerful Tigers, marked up two wins already in the young season. Until Davidson's offensive showing against Furman last Saturday night, Presbyterian was generally considered in most quarters as too much backfield for the Cats to handle. The complexion has changed somewhat, however, and the Blue Stockings can rate no more than one touchdown favorites tomorrow night.

Coach Lonnie McMillan’s club shocked surrounding grid circles with their season opener 13-12 win over Furman two weeks ago and then bounced back after the loss to Clemson to trim WCTC last weekend, 21-7. Their famed ten-second quartet of backs is a danger to any foe, a split second of daylight in that line meaning an opportunity for one of these speedsters to Davidson defensive hopes for putting the skids on Presbyterian’s flashy backs when the Cats meet the Blue Hose in Clinton tomorrow night are made no brighter by the loss of linebacker Henry Wilson. The 155-pound senior broke his right wrist in the first quarter of last week’s game with Furman, and will be out of action from three to four weeks.

Sons of Lee, Paced By Big Line, Impressive In 24-6 Opening Win

By WALLACE ABBOTT

The first three days of intramural football have been completed, and although it is too early to make predictions, it can be said that every team in the league is loaded with talent. All of the fraternities have been strengthened by the addition of many pledges, however, in most cases returning players comprise a large part of the lineups. In the games played this week the KA’s, Phi Delts and Betas looked particularly impressive. The KA’s line may prove to be one of the most powerful in the league. Once again the Betas will feature a devastating running attack, which will not be halted often during the season.

KA’s 24—SPE’s 6

A hard charging KA line proved to be far too much for the SPE’s in both teams’ initial game. The KA line rushed the opposing passers all afternoon, causing many of the passes to be intercepted. The SPE’s scored on a blocked punt recovered by Cahow, while the KA’s tallied on two passes and two interceptions, the passes to King and Ward and the interceptions by Bachman.

Phi Delts 6—SAE’s 2

In one of the most interesting games played this season the Phi Delts edged the SAE’s by a score of 6-2. It was a close hard fought game.

WILDCAT OF THE WEEK: A. C. GREGG

Right off the bat it is evident that picking the Wildcat of the Week is going to be about as simple as stating flatly that a snappy sedan is far and above a better piece of automotive engineering than a multi-tanned truck, or vice versa. Nevertheless, the fair-haired boy who was indeed the fair-haired boy of the Davidson attack against Furman last Saturday, for all his fumbling, still edges some very nice bidders in the line for the first honors of the season. A. C. Gregg, the Wilmington lad who never set the state afire as a prepper though he was voted his school’s most improved player his senior year, showed the slim Memorial Stadium crowd that the only blond in the Southern Conference who runs like a hare gone haywire is not alone found in Carolina’s Dick Bunting. Exhibiting a slithery style of tackle evasiveness that is going to make him hard to lay a hand on this fall, the 163-pound sophomore

A. C. GREGG

gained a total of 60 yards in eight tries for a 7 1-2 yard average per crack. Two of the trips were for 34 from line to line, but much greater in actual ground covered. In addition to this marks from scrimmage, Acehauled back three kickoffs, one 12 yards which culminated in a fumble, but two others which brought the Cats 23 and 43 yards, respectively, up the field. He grabbed four passes from Lambeth—a 15-yarder which ended in a TD, one good for 10, another good for 22, and a fourth covering 25 yards before Gregg bobbled it. True, the Wildcat of this Week was more or less erratic in his performance, but he was also playing his first college football game—the only sophomore to start. Hence fumbles are explainable partially by nervousness; the running attributed to ability. Also Gregg’s defensive play was of no weak nature, and few thought it would be. At (Continued On Page Five) game in which line play was important; Sutton standing out for the winners and Hinson for the losers. The Phi Delts touchdown came on a long pass from Cutts to Lazenby.

Sigma Chis 12—Phi Gams 6
The Sigma Chi’s, taking advantage of short passes, were able to beat out the Phi Gams in the last 10 minutes of their game. The game was close up to the point when Berry and Kelton started completing their passes. For the Phi Gams Crawley and Bryson were outstanding in the line.

Pikas 14—ATO’s 0
In a game full of dropped passes and interceptions the Pikas proved to be the stronger and more alert of the two teams. Both came close to scoring on other occasions, but they weren't able to push the ball across. Both of the Pika touchdowns were made on passes by Martin, one of them going to Parks and the other to Underwood.

Betas 12—Pi Kapps 6
On the first play of the game, from scrimmage, the Pi Kapps scored and appeared to be on their way to an upset win. However, the Beta running attack finally started rolling and they were able to eke out a victory. The game was marked with many disputes and vicious line play. Both of the Beta touchdowns were scored on short runs by Church Elliot. The Kappa Sigs won on default from the Campus Club.

FOOTBALL STANDINGS (Through Wednesday)
Team Won Lost
KA 1 0
Beta 1 0
Kappa Sig 1 0
Phi Delt 1 0
Pikas 1 0
Sigma Chi 1 0
Phi Gams 0 1
SPE 0 1
Pi Kapps 0 1
ATO 0 1
CC 0 1
SAE 0 1

dance his way into the secondary. Blake Watt and Walter Gooch, names remembered painfully well by the Presbyterians of North Mecklenburg, again spearhead the Hose attack. At quarterback, scouting reports say that Jack Harper is a deceptive manipulator of the T, passing out in southpaw fashion that would fool a magician. Like Davidson, Presbyterian sports a relatively light but fast and rugged line headed on defense by Bozo Weir and quite competent when it comes to making way for their T offensive.

Though pleased with his club’s offensive showing last Saturday, Coach Crowell Little was disappointed in the defense’s failure to check Furman’s fourth period power, and thus he is tomorrow night re-installing the two-platoon system which Coach Charley Jamerson used last fall. The Wildcat offensive line will see Dave Williams and Bob Turk on the flanks, Hoopie Davis and Jack Branch at tackles, Jim Fasul and Jerry Kiser at guards, and Arnold Whisnant at center. In the backfield, at quarterback will be Auburn Lambeth with A. C. Gregg and Woody Leach on the halves and C. L. Runyan at full. Defensively, it will shape up something like this: Dick Blank at end with Walter Oakes; Branch is slated for double duty at tackle, with Freeman working Davis’ spot; Bob Gibson and Lee Talbirt will move into the guard spots, and Runyan, Bill Acker, and Jim Rogers will share the linebacking chores. Gregg and Leach will remain at halfbacks.

Davidson will go into its second game minus the services of two of its top performers, with a third a question mark. Henry Wilson, rugged little linebacker, is out from three to four weeks with a broken wrist sustained in the first quarter of the Furman game. Jack Ruth, Lambeth’s highly promising sophomore understudy, will also miss the tilt due to kidney trouble. Ruth is expected back in line-up for the Citadel game, however. The question mark this week is Dave Williams, top receiver, who is still having trouble with badly bruised knee muscles.

Electric Scoreboard Ready For Service
Installed this week in the way of athletic facility additions was the giant new electric scoreboard at the south end of Richardson Field. Purchased from Fair-Play Scoreboard Company of Ft. Des Moines, Iowa, through Faul and Crymes of Charlotte, the board cost approximately $1600.00. It will be operated from the press box, giving in lighted figures in addition to the score, the quarter, down, yards to go, minutes and seconds elapsed in the quarter. Athletic Director Paul Scott added that the scoreboard is also convertible for baseball use, and this spring it will be moved to the site of the baseball diamond, now in the making.

Early Wildcat Lead Wilted Under Heat Of Furman Explosion
By DICK LILES
Although the Davidson Wildcats opened a new season and a new era of football with a slightly disheartening loss to Furman last Saturday night, indications are that the boys are really “holding” that football this year and that better things will follow. Furman, fielding a slightly favored team, came out according to prediction with a 32-20 triumph in Memorial Stadium. After being led through almost the entire game by a fighting, scrappy bunch of “Wildcats”, (Super) Jasonek finally felt his oats and began galloping, cashing in on a costly Cat fumble to start things off. The “Littlemen” jumped to a quick 7-0 lead in the early minutes of the contest when they recovered a Hurricane fumble and went on to score with Lambeth flipping. The Cats managed another in the second quarter and lead 14-6 at the half. The second half exploded when the kickoff was dropped and Furman recovered on our own 16. From here “Sonny” Horton carried over on his first try to nearly tie the score. Davidson hopped back on Horton’s fumble on his 48 and Lambeth again passed for the tally, this time to sub-half, Gordon Stuart. Some of the most brilliant defensive work was brought about in the third period when a 42-yard run by Horton was stopped just short of the goal and the unsung stalwarts of the forward wall held for just four downs and averted a score. However, the game blew up for the Cats in the fourth when, tired and weary, they couldn’t hold on to the “Supersonic” by when he got wound up. Jasonek galloped off on a long run to score and again turned a Gregg fumble into a tally when he picked up a lateraled “grounder” and scampered about 30 yards for the six. It was a hard-fought, clean battle all the way with the slight reserve power hindering a strong finish by the locals. The game brought out an exchange of abilities between halfbacks Sonny Horton and A. C. Gregg (the fair-haired Davidsonian) both in toting the ball and dropping it. Both had a bad night of butterfingers, but ran brilliantly. Woody Leach played a beautiful game at half and was particularly good on his smashes. Auburn seemed to have started the season off fine and to break a few records for he completed 9 out of 18 passes for a .500 average, completing and passing.

(Continued On Page Five)

Starlite DRIVE-IN THEATRE
Salisbury-Landis Highway

Wednesday and Thursday
Spencer Tracy
James Stewart

Friday and Saturday
“GUN LAW JUSTICE”
Jimmy Wakely
Cannonball Taylor
also “JOE PALOOKA”
SERIAL - CARTOON

Sunday
“SO PROUDLY WE HAIL”
Claudette Colbert
Paulette Goddard
Veronica Lake
CARTOON

Monday and Tuesday
“RIDING HIGH”
Bing Crosby
Colleen Gray
CARTOON