FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 1950 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FIVE

KAPPA ALPHA TEAM WINS GREEK TRACK MEET BY SCANT MARGIN

Bob Henry Smashes Record In 660 Event as KA’s Top Field in Classic

By CHARLIE HAWKINS

The KA’s nosed out the Phi Delts in the last event of the track meet last Friday afternoon to win the inter-fraternity title by a total of 25 3-4 points to Phi Delt’s 25 points. The lead had changed hands several times before the KA’s nosed ahead in the relay to win.

Buddy Chandler took first place in the shot put and gave the SAE’s five points to start on. Evans, of the KS’s and McNeely of the SPE’s, followed in that order. Charlie Calhoun gave the SAE’s five more points and an undisputed lead in the meet when he took first place in the 100-yard dash, with a time of 10.5. Bill Bird, Roy White, and Tyler Berry finished behind him.

In the three-quarter mile, Jake Wade and Bo Roddey took first and second to give the KS's a combined total of eight points, while Tom Staley and Dan McKeithen finished third and fourth to give the KA's three points. Chandler took another first place for the SAE’s when he won the discus with a throw of 113’ 8”. Ray, Horn, and Price followed him in that order.

The KA’s took their first place of the afternoon when Ed West finished ahead of Phi Delt’s Roy White to win the low hurdles in a time of 14.4. Green of the SPE’s and Tucker of the KA’s tied for first in the high jump with KS's Bob Graham, and Murray of the Pi Kapps finishing that way. In the 440, Phi Gam Bob Gay finished ahead of Reese of the Phi Delts to win in a time of 56.

In the next event, the 660, Bob Henry of the KA’s bettered the previous record by 10 seconds to beat George Nickels of the Phi Delts. Henry’s time was 1:28.2. Wooten of the Betas edged out SAE Charlie Calhoun for the broad jump with an effort good for 20’ 2”, while Charlie Calhoun took the 220 with a time of 24.2. Roy White, Barron, and Crawley finished in that order after him.

In the relay, which proved to be the deciding factor for the day and the meet, the KA’s nosed out the Phi Delt’s to win the crown. Charlie Calhoun was the high point man for the day with 13 points, 10 of which came from two first places he won. Roy White of the Phi Delts finished second in scoring with 11 points, although he failed to take a single first. Buddy Chandler of the SAE’s finished with 10 points, due to his two firsts in the shot and the discus.

Chesterfield Sport Quizz

1. What major league baseball team is currently leading the Grapefruit League?
2. Who won the Wilmington Open Golf Tournament last weekend?
3. Who are the North Carolina men’s doubles champions in tennis?
4. What Southern Conference tennis team has posted nearly 70 consecutive victories?
5. What team is the defending Southern Conference baseball champions?

RULES

1. Print your answers clearly on the back of a Chesterfield wrapper.
2. Take your answers to Frank Perrin in 112 West.
3. No entries will be accepted later than 24 hours after the Davidsonian is circulated.
4. The first three correct entries will each receive a carton of Chesterfield cigarettes.
5. This contest is not open to members of the Davidsonian staff.

Kappa Alpha Sports’ manager Ed West is shown receiving the inter-fraternity Track Trophy after his fraternity copped the championship by a meager 3-4 of a point over the Phi Delts. Included in the picture are KA’s who compiled points during the finals—left to right, Tony Tucker, Dan McKeithen, Tom Staley, Ed West, Bob Henry, Bill Carter, Coach Pete Whittle.

Tennis Team Wins Three Matches On Holiday Jaunt to Ga. and Fla.

By WOODY McKAY

Coach Barton’s tennis brigade not only made a “march through Georgia,” as a little admired army leader did several decades ago but also carried his team to victories in the state of Florida during the recent spring holidays.

Winning three of five matches on their first tour of the still young tennis season, the Davidson courtmen came up against some very stiff competition. Rollins has one of the top teams in the nation this year as does her State mate, Miami, and Florida University has come up with a strong team. Florida State University was the first opponent of the tennis tour, and the Wildcats sailed through.

BO RODDEY

Roddey Ranks High Among College Stars

By BILL WHITE

Southern Conference championships, virtually as scarce and vague an item as Sunday movies in this Presbyterian village, now are looming, mind you, just around the corner and Oliver (Bo) Roddey is the man marked to pick them up and bring them home.

The boyish Charlotte senior at present rates as the class of the conference courts in the singles field, and teamed with Davidson's No. 2 man Whit Cobb, he’s the logical leading contender for the loop doubles crown when the Southern Conference matches are run off on Davidson's all-weather greens the middle of May.

All this is not early season speculation. Oliver Bo is certainly no flash in the pan who has looked good in recent competition and is being boomed for conference honors. This prize would come only as the climax of a long, uphill-all-the-way scrap in prep and collegiate circles. A senior now, Roddey is tabbed the man to beat to take a title previously in the hands of William and Mary’s Fred Kovaleski and North Carolina’s Vic Seixas before him. In his sophomore and junior years, Bo advanced in conference play until he was stopped by one of these brilliant racketeers.

Undefeated his sophomore year, Roddey went on that summer, campaigning on the courts in tournaments all over the East, to turn in some of the finest tennis of his career, bowing in Cleveland to Pancho Gonzales after carrying the former U. S. Amateur champ to three sets, one to a grueling 10-8 count. Last spring, Bo was tripped thrice, meeting some of the strongest collegiate netters inthe country. In addition to several minor tournaments added along the way, Roddey had it mostly all his way in winning the North Carolina state singles crown at Greensboro late last August and sharing the doubles with Cobb. This spring, Bo, exclusive of yesterday's match with Florida, has chalked up six wins in seven starts, losing on the southern tour to Rollins’ Chilean No. 1 man Balbiers. As yet, the Cats have not met a Southern Conference foe. When they do, Roddey will go into the better part of them the favorite. It isn’t easy to have the No. 5 ranking in the South hung onto you and a favorite role in most of your matches, to boot. That’s what Bo has ahead of him, however. There is plenty of tough competition ahead; to wit, Carolina’s Clark Taylor, a blaster who has been scalping every foe in sight lately. As Smith Barrier, sports editor of the Greensboro Daily News, remarked after Bo won the singles this past summer, he still looks like the freckle-faced kid who walked away with the boys’ crown not so many years back. Still, modest, unassuming Bo with a knack for winning championships.

Their ranks without giving up a set. This was their second, 9-0 victory in a row. The victory streak was decidedly stopped when the Davidson netters traveled to Winter Park to oppose Rollins. Rob Palmer was the only singles swan to knock down a Davidson victory, while Roddy and Cobb continued their winning streak in doubles; however, both Wildcat wins went three sets. Rollins really rolled, and defeated the ‘Cats, 7-2. Gainesville, Florida, saw a bloody good match between Barton’s boys and Florida University’s netters. When the noise subsided and the dust cleared, the Floridians had squeezed out a 5-4 victory over the visiting Carolinians. Georgia University and Georgia Tech were implements of revenge: ful Wildcat crew, both under their onslaught. Georgia took bowing a goose egg for their score against the ‘Cat netters, while Tech was able to grab two victories from them. The Tech score, 7-2, in favor of the Carolinians. Throughout the tour and the present season the duo of Roddey and Cobb has been unbeatable, and they stand a good chance of going undefeated this season if they continue their superb playing. The team as a whole did notable work, and should be near the top of the conference when the season's curtain falls.

Cats Lose in Return Game With Carolina
By MAC RICHARDS

Behind the masterful pitching of Dean Cassell, veteran Tar Heel hurler from Union, N. J., the University of North Carolina shut out the Wildcats, 9-0, in the final game of their two-game series. Cassell was in complete control, giving up only one hit and fanning ten batters. Bill Bird, first up in the seventh, singled sharply over second for the only Wildcat hit of the afternoon. 

Box score:
Davidson abrhoa
Pearson, ss ........ 3 0 0 1 5
Rice, lf ............ 4 0 0 0 0
Bird, 3b ........... 3 0 1 2 6
Mapes, 1b ........ 3 0 0 9 0
Lambeth, cf ...... 3 0 0 3 0
Erwin, rf .......... 3 0 0 2 0
Jervis, c ........... 2 0 0 4 0
Wade, 2b ........ 3 0 0 3 0
Whiteheart, p ... 2 0 0 0 4
*Craven .......... 1 0 0 0 0
Smith, p .......... 0 0 0 0 0
*Batted for Whiteheart in 8th.

Carolina abrhoa
Eldridge, cf ...... 4 2 3 1 0
Hesmer, 2b ...... 3 0 0 2 1
Gurganus, c ...... 4 2 2 9 2
Lamb, rf .......... 4 2 1 0 0
Hobbs, 1b ........ 5 1 2 10 1
Senter, 3b ........ 3 0 1 0 0
Clements, lf ...... 4 2 1 3 0
Brookshire, ss ... 3 0 1 1 3
Cassell, p .......... 4 0 1 1 2

In First Home Match of Season
By BILL ADAMS

Davidson's powerful tennis squad made their first home appearance, after a long spring holiday tour, a memorable one, by soundly thrashing the Harvard net squad 9-0, Monday afternoon. The whitewash marked the Cats’ fifth win in seven starts this spring, the only two setbacks coming at the hands of nationally prominent Rollins and Florida. Sir Derrick Barton’s netters moved through their northern neighbors like a finely-edged razor cutting young fuzz, losing only one set in the entire match. Captain Bo Roddey, the Cats’ No. 1 man, easily whipped Craig, 6-2, 6-0, in the feature match. Whit Cobb showed the form that elevated him to the No. 2 post by trouncing the Harvard captain, Hughes, 6-1, 6-4. Powerful Teddy Keesler had little trouble in his match as he belted Frey off the courts with a 6-1, 6-1 lacing. Allan Strand, the only sophomore singles man for Barton so far this year, continued to play beautiful tennis as he subdued Gordon, 6-4, 6-1. Rob Palmer, who was moved up to No. 5 for the match, easily beat Bramhall, 6-4, 6-1, while Bill Childs made his singles debut a successful one by turning back Reese, 1-6, 6-4, 6-1. The doubles was simply a continuation of too much Davidson power. Roddey and Cobb teamed to beat Craig and Hughes, 6-2, 6-1; Teddy Keesler and Strand humbled Bramhall and Murphy, 6-0, 6-2; and Allan Fanjoy and Dewey Keesler closed the day with a 6-1, 6-3 triumph over Reese and Bacon. Barton, who seemed pleased over the Cats’ easy win, gave Harvard an alibi by stating that they hadn’t been outside for practice very much due to the weather in Cambridge, but few observers of the match felt that even year-round summer heat in Cambridge could not have changed the results very much. A sidelight of the match was the fact that this was the first time Davidson and Harvard have met in athletic competition since Norman Shepard left here to become athletic director at Harvard.

Mooresville Creamery
GRADE “A” MILK
PASTEURIZED
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

VISIT THE
Charlotte Waffle Shop
“ACROSS FROM THE BURNING CORNER”
ON WEST TRADE STREET

WITH SMOKERS WHO KNOW... IT’S Camels for Mildness
Yes, Camels are SO MILD that in a coast-to-coast test of hundreds of men and women who smoked Camels and only Camels—for 30 consecutive days, noted throat specialists, making weekly examinations, reported NOT ONE SINGLE CASE OF THROAT IRRITATION due to smoking CAMELS!