FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1950

Betas, Kappa Sigs Lead Into Stretch

By DICK ROPER

Although there was a decline in injuries during the week, there was no decline in action on the intramural field. Games played this week were played with the accustomed fervor of past weeks. Wide open passing and blocking continued to be as fierce as ever. Only two teams remain in the league who have been defeated only once. They are the Kappa Sigs and the Betas. It now seems to boil down to the fact that the winner this year will be decided in their game.

Kappa Sigs 18, Sigma Chi’s 0

The Kappa Sigs continued to roll over all opposition, as they defeated the Sigma Chis in a hard-fought game. The Sigma Chis put up a stiff battle, but the offensive play of Johnny Kelton and Tyler Berry was not enough. The Kappa Sig line once more was a rock wall. The Kappa Sigs scored on passes by Sloan to Spach (2) and Torrence.

SAE 42, ATO 6

The SAE’s showed a tremendous amount of scoring punch as they rolled over the ATO's 42-6. It was a game the outcome of which was never in doubt from the beginning, the SAE's having scored 30 points in the first half. J. Roberts’ passing, and the receiving of Monty Hill was once more the basis of their offensive power. In the line, Lamar Hinson was the defensive standout.

KA's 6, Phi Gams 6

Once again the Phi Gams battled an opponent to a tie, but weren't able to score enough first downs to gain a victory. The KA’s led in first downs 5-3, due largely to the running of Bill Bird. It was Bird who ran over the KA touchdown. The Phi Gams scored on a screen pass to Homer Phifer. In the lines, Lynn Crawley of the Phi Gams was a standout.

Phi Delts 8, Pikas 2

The Phi Delts certainly pulled this game out of the fire, because they scored on the last play of the game. Bill Bacon faded back and just turned the ball loose. It was “Big Al” Cook who got under it and went on for a T.D. Wes Pritchard was once again a standout for the Phi Delts in the line. Grover Martin led the Pika attack in this close battle.

Betas 18, SPE’s 0

A strong Beta running attack proved to be too much for a game, but outclassed SPE team. Devastating blocking by Sam Joyner led the way time and again for their end sweeps, which twice went for TD's. Besides the running attack, Tommy Langford caught enough passes to keep the SPE's wary of their passing attack. Horace Ball’s passing was good for the SPE's, but not too effective.

Phi Delts 4 FD, Pi Kapps 2 FD

Bill Bacon’s most accurate passing of the year was enough to carry the Phi Delts to a victory over the Pi Kapps. With the absence of several regular players, the Phi Delts had trouble getting together any scoring punch. The trouble confronting the Pi Kapps was the dropping of several good passes. Andy Horn’s receiving deserves a lot of credit for the victory.

Kappa Sigs 4 FD, SAE’s 2 FD

The Kappa Sigs continued their victorious play, as they conquered the SAE’s on first downs. “Slimy” Sloan’s passes to Dan Page and Peck Spach accounted for all their first downs. A hard-charging Kappa Sig line gave Jay Roberts plenty of trouble in getting off his tosses. On the receiving end of most of his passes were Monty Hill and Rob Bennet.

Sigma Chis 12, Pi Kapps 0

Without any signs of an offense to carry them to victory, the Pi Kapps went down to defeat before the Sigma Chis. Bill Cassell’s passing was the only semblance of an offense that the Pi Kapps could muster. However, it was just the opposite for the Sigma Chis, for they had two effective receivers in Hampton and Wolfe, and two good passers in Berry and Kelton.

Standings Through Wednesday

Team | W | L
---|---|---
Kappa Sigs | 7 | 1
Betas | 6 | 1
Sigma Chi | 6 | 2
Phi Delts | 6 | 2
SAE | 5 | 3
KA | 5 | 3
Phi Gams | 3 | 4
Pi Kapps | 3 | 5
SPE | 1 | 7
Pika | 1 | 7
ATO | 0 | 8

The first recorded “Class Gift” was that of the Class of 1906: funds to restore Lake Wiley (below present golf course) which had washed away, and a toboggan slide for the bathers.

“Experience the pride of wearing Genuine Cordova. The burnished mirror-like finish of genuine shell cordovan reflects the good taste of the wearer. Its long life, combined with Crosby Square craftsmanship, assures many miles of service. A sure part of ‘gracious living’ for men. Make your selection early.”

WILSON-WRIGHT
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Gardner-Webb Game Cancelled; Injured Have Time To Heal

Last minute cancellation of this afternoon’s Richardson Field tilt with Gardner Webb junior college came as a reprieve to a doomed man to Davidson's injury-riddled Kitten ranks. After three straight losses to Southern Conference frosh foes, the yearlings...Jake Wade and Kirk Oglesby were counting injuries other than that to their pride. Had they gone into today's contest with Gardner Webb, they would have done so minus reserve tackle Julien Weinberg, reserve guard Nabby Armfield, and starter Billy Putnam at fullback. Also on the ailing list is Neale Graham, the 6.2 190-pounder, who has been making quite a duet of racket in the wall with running mate Bob Loy. Graham pulled a ligament against N. C. State’s Wolflets last Saturday and was slated for partial duty today. Gardner Webb notified Athletic Director Pauli Srott yesterday morning that due to a previous commitment to Campbell junior college and a mix-up on dates, they would be forced to cancel today’s slated meeting with Davidson's freshman team. Gardner Webb was to have been the first non-conference foe for the Kittens this season, and for that reason, the frosh were to have entered the home scrap on more or less equal terms with the junior college club. With the cancellation, however, giving the injured an extra weekend to rest and return to game level ability, the Kittens should be at top strength for the season finale here next weekend against Asheville-Biltmore. While stumbling through their first three in almost pitiful fashion, the Kittens have worked under handicap all fall and have met superior opposition in every instance. At Furman (0-47) and State (0-46) they were an outmanned outfit. Last weekend at Raleigh, the Kittens went into the scrap with six key men left home due to scholastic quarantine. The Pack frosh made every break count, too. Long pass interception returns, punt and kickoff returns, all of which paid off in touchdowns, contributed to the rout. Through the middle, the Kittens proved themselves fairly solid, but the ends were vulnerable.

Inter-Frat Netters Wind Up Next Week
Director Pete Whittle stated yesterday that intramural tennis would come to a close the first of next week. He said that tennis has been received with great enthusiasm by the fraternities and competition is keen. The schedule has progressed rapidly due to good weather conditions. These are the tentative standings through round 7. Some results are still unknown.

SAE’s ............... 6 1
SPE’s ............... 5 1
Betas ............... 4 1
KA’s ............... 4 1
Phi Gams ........... 4 1
KS’s ............... 4 2
Pikas ............... 3 2
ATO's ............... 2 5
Pi Kapps ............ 1 4
Sigma Chis ......... 1 5
Campus Club ........ 1 5
Phi Delts ........... 0 7

Mooresville Creamery
GRADE “A” MILK
PASTEURIZED
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
MAKERS OF
Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.

TO KITTENS
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests
Chesterfield nested Member 5... THE GNU

The number two team in the nation this week, according to the Associated Press poll, has averaged no less than 42 points per game. What is the name of this high-scoring club?

The first ten runners across the finish line in Monday's State cross-country meet at Raleigh broke the course record. The winner eclipsed the old mark by almost two minutes. His name and time?

One of baseball’s greatest pitchers, who registered 373 victories in 696 games, died last Saturday. Who was this diamond immortal?

While Kyle Rote is the boy the pre-season grid glamor mags played up, SMU has come up with a passing hotshot who has completed 97 aerials in 94 minutes of playing time. Who is the tossing scourge of Southwest Conference football?

Answers should be turned in to Chesterfield representative David Moylan in C-East. Winners will be listed in next week’s Davidson.

“I knew the answers... but I wasn’t talking!”

Last week’s winners:
John Whitfield
Graham Smith
Bill Crymes

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Shows Start at 3 P. M.

MON.-TUE., NOV. 13-14
“I’LL GET BY”
William Lundigan - June Haver
News - Sport - Cartoon

WEDNESDAY, NOV. 15
“WAGONMASTER”
Ben Johnston - Joanne Dru
COMEDY

THURSDAY, NOV. 16
“WOMAN ON PIER 13”
Robert Ryan - Larraine Day
Variety - Band - Cartoon

FRIDAY, NOV. 17
“A LIFE OF HER OWN”
Ray Milland - Lana Turner
CARTOON

SATURDAY, NOV. 18
“ICHABOD AND MR. TOAD”
Walt Disney Feature
Comedy - Novelty - Cartoon

The debating team couldn’t make much use of this non-talkative baby... but one look at his “literary leanings” tells you that tests don’t buffalo him. Especially those tricky cigarette tests! As a smoker, you probably know, too, that one pull or one sniff — or a mere one-inhale comparison can’t prove very much about a cigarette! Why not make the sensible test — the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test. You judge Camel mildness and flavor in your own “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste) ... for 30 days. Yes, test Camels as a steady smoke and you'll see why...

More People Smoke Camels than any other cigarette!

The Folks at Home Will Enjoy the Davidsonian
FROM OUR 3RD FLOOR ... TOWN AND CAMPUS SHOP

Have You Ever Seen A Dream? ... Well! ... We Have
ESQUIRE 100% pure wool ARGYLE SOCKS
IF WRITING IN GIVE QUANTITY AND SIZE
Please Add 15c For Postage and Sales Tax
The Label Of Distinction

PAGE FIVE