About this time last year Jack Hazard came bouncing into my room, slapped me on the back and said, “Congratulations
Scotty — you've been appointed Sports Editor of the Davidsonian.” Almost immediately, we sensed the work and time that the
job would entail, but it was later, perhaps last fall, when we really began to realize that the labor side
of the job was insignificant as compared to the pleasure received out of it. And it has been a pleasure
and privilege to report on the sports situation on this oak-covered campus during the past year.

In looking back over the sporting events of the year, there are several things that stand out in our mind...
the dogged fight by Charley Jamerson’s gridders against all-conquering Army, and the subsequent failure of the team to produce in
other games... the dedication of Johnston Gymnasium and the event of a well-rounded physical education program, to say nothing of
having an adequate arena in which to play home basketball games... the success which Boydson Baird enjoyed in his first
fling at coaching varsity basketball... the near-faultless performances on the hardwood of truly “one of the greatest of them all,”
Captain Whit Cobb... the spirit and keen competition among the fraternities in the basketball rounds... the good showing made by
Dick Redding's swimming team, the first in the history of this institution... the record posted thus far by the untutored
golf team... the track team which has effortlessly run past all its opponents except S.C.... the arrival of Paul Scott
on the campus to assume his duties as Athletic Director... and finally the stirring win by Sir Derrick’s crew over
North Carolina’s netmen.

Reporting all of these, and other events, has required a great deal of work and inconvenience to a number of
persons, and we would like to extend our sincere thanks to them for a job well done. Among those who
are due a bouquet are Bob Johnson and John Talbert, the college photographers, who were always Johnny-on-the-spot when there was
a need for pictures... Joe Thigpen, who rendered valuable aid when pictures or information were needed... the athletic staff which
cooperated graciously when they were approached for facts and figures... Dan McKeithen, our right-hand man, who did a lion’s share
of the work that went into putting out the sports pages... Cherry Stribling who did a commendable job in writing
up the Wildcat of the Week each edition... Bill White and Bill Adams whose first-rate articles have appeared in practically
every issue of the paper all year long... and Charlie Hawkins, Jim Farrar, Mac Richards, Bill Bradford, Dick Liles, Woody
McKay, Jim Smith, Bill Farrior, J.V. Howell, Al Cook, and Bill Brooks, whose writings have been the backbone of the
paper. All of these men composed a sports staff which any college paper would be proud to have. They have
all worked hard and deserve commendation for their efforts.

All of the suggestions and criticisms which have come from the student body at large have been appreciated, because they
have helped correct some of the weaknesses in the paper. There were, and still are, however, many improvements that can
be made on the Wildcat Sports page next year. To our successor, who is yet to be named, we wish
the best of luck in his efforts and to you readers who have bothered with wading through Cat Tails this
year, we say thanks a million.

Netters Cop Unofficial State Title By Turning Back Vaunted Tar Heels
By BILL GORDON SCOTT

Davidson’s netters clawed out a 5-4 victory Saturday afternoon over the vaunted V-shirts of Carolina and thus scored a triple
win. First of all, it meant the State Championship for Davidson, secondly, the victory broke a 15 meet winning streak
for UNC, and thirdly, it was a special gift to Coach Derrick Barton, who would rather beat Carolina than return
to bonny Britain.

It was nip and tuck every step of the way, with both teams looking like the winner and then like
the loser. With the matches tied at 4-4, all eyes turned to sophomores Allan Strand and Dewey Keesler. The final
and deciding match was won by this pair over Jim Hammerstein and Hugh Beam of Carolina in straight sets, 6-4,
6-3.

In other matches, Clark Taylor, No. 1 for UNC, defeated Bo Roddey of the Wildcats, 6-4, 5-7, and 6-2, in
the most exciting sets of the day. Both boys played magnificently and a loss by either would have been no
disgrace. Whit Cobb triumphed over Heath Alexander of Carolina 7-5, 6-4, in a very good match. Fanjoy outlasted Dameron 7-9,
6-2, 10-8, in a real thriller. Charlie Rice overcame Ted Keesler 13-11, 6-4 with the first set being the longest
of the day.

In the other doubles matches, Taylor joined with Rice to stop Roddey and Cobb 6-4, 2-6, 6-3 in a match
marked by spectacular and frequent net play by all four boys. Teddy Keesler and Fanjoy defeated Alexander and Winstead 6-1,
6-2. A very nice job, Cats, and orchids to all the folks out there to back 'em.

FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 1950

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WILDCAT OF THE WEEK
By BILL ADAMS

This week, the Davidsonian turns its spotlight on Allan Fanjoy as the Wildcat of the Week for his superb performance
against Lesley Dameron in the No. 5 singles spot for the Wildcat tennis team against Carolina Saturday.

The defeat of Dameron seemed to be the turning point in the match as Derrick Barton's Cats went on to
take 2 out of 3 doubles matches and hand the Carolina netters their first defeat of the year. Wildcat spirits
were at a low level after the defeats of Bo Roddey and Teddy Keesler as they looked at the scoreboard
and saw that Fanjoy was already a set behind in the only singles match still going. But as his match
with Dameron lingered on and on, it became apparent that Fanjoy was not to be denied. Overcoming his early disadvantage,
he put on probably his best performance of the year as he rallied time and again to outlast Dameron and
register a 7-9, 6-2, 10-8 victory which evened the singles matches at 3 all, and also seemed to give the
Cats a needed uplift for the doubles yet to come.

Then Fanjoy teamed with Teddy Keesler to beat Heath Alexander and Winstead in the No. 2 doubles match to further
aid the Wildcat cause. Allan Fanjoy is a senior from year of varsity competition. Victories such as the one Saturday
when he has come through under pressure have greatly aided the Wildcats incomprising their remarkable record this year and have
made him a much-respected member of the Davidson tennis class. ———— Winston-Salem playing his first: STATE TENNIS CHAMPS ! !
PAGE THREE Tennis Team Continues Victorious; Duke Dumps Diamondmen, 16-5 By WOODY McKAY N. C. State’s netters were trounced by
Davidson’s racqueteers 9-0, in the Wildcats' last match before leaving for their northern trip. After taking the singles without losing
a set, the Wildcats continued their shutout by taking all three doubles without losing more than three games in any
one of these last sets. Coach Barton dipped into his reserves in the singles and placed Peyre Kennedy and Bill
Childs in the No. 5 and No. 6 slots respectively. Both came through with wins as did the regular top
four. Bo Roddey, playing his usual consistent game, blanked Caldwell Ragay 6-0, 6-0, to take the No. 1 spot. Teddy
Keesler, Whit Cobb, Allan Strand, and Peyre Kennedy had little trouble in securing victories over their opponents. Bill Childs was
pushed during his first set before winning 7-5, but settled down in the second set to take it 6-1. Davidson's
netters embark this weekend on their northern tour where they will run up against such teams as William and Mary
and Yale, and they're also going to have good competition from their other opponents. William and Mary, whose long winning
streak was broken last Wednesday by the University of Miami, has a strong team (Continued On Page Four) By CHARLES
HAWKINS The Duke Blue Devils jumped on the Davidson baseball team in general and Lefty Hunter and Norman Whiteheart in
particular to win, 16-5, at Richardson Field Thursday afternoon. It was not until the late innings that the Wildcats began
to batter out base hits for runs. Lefty Hunter was knocked out with a 4-run barrage in the first inning
and was replaced by Norman Whiteheart. Although Whiteheart was touched for 5 runs in the second, he finished the game.
In the fifth inning, the Blue Devils cashed in on 2 singles and an outfield error for 2 more tallies.
The Wildcats pushed across their initial run in the 5th on 2 singles and a walk. Duke slashed back in
the 6th with 2 triples and a passed ball for 2 more runs. Davidson added another run on singles by
Pearson, Rice, and Mapes before Duke came back for 2 runs on a single and a home run by Lucas
in the 8th inning. A double by Erwin and singles by Harold Smith and Norman Whiteheart netted the ‘Cats another
run in the last of the 8th inning. Duke scored one more run in the 9th on a double, a
single, and an outfield fly. A walk to Byrd and singles by Mapes, Lambeth, (Continued On Page Four) Linksmen in
Repeat Performance By Tying State in Raleigh Match Chesterfield Sport Quizz 1. What is the distance between bases on a
baseball diamond? 2. Who was the first Negro pitcher to break into the majors (in 1948)? 3. Name one of
the two teams which played a night game on opening day for the first time in major league history? 4.
What horse won the Kentucky Derby last year? 5. With what team is Bobo Newsom pitching this year? RULES 1.
Print your answer clearly on the back of a Chesterfield wrapper. 2. Take your answers to Frank Perrin in 112
West. 3. No entries will be accepted later than 24 hours after the Davidsonian is circulated. 4. The first three
correct entries will each receive a carton of Chesterfield cigarettes. 5. This contest is not open to any member of
the Davidsonian staff. Send The Davidsonian Home By DAN McKEITHEN On Tuesday afternoon at Raleigh the N. C. State golf
team once again tied the linksters from Davidson, this time 15-15. Earlier this season the two teams played to a
13½-13½ deadlock in Charlotte. Medalist of the match was Davidson's number one man, Monty Hill, who fired a sparkling three-under-par
69. His opponent, Huntley Spencer, was only one stroke behind with a 70. None of the Wildcats were up in
the eighties. The course was in good shape, the hard fairways and soft greens aiding in keeping scores low. Each
team played with seven men and it’s well for the locals that they did. State was leading by a 15-12
score when the cards of the first three foursomes had been totaled. The outcome was left in the hands of
the final two-some. Bob Bumbarger rose to the occasion by defeating his man, 3-0, thus giving Davidson the points needed
for a tie. “My cigarette? Camels, of course!” This match gave the Wildcats a record of five wins, two losses
and two ties. Hill (D) defeated Spencer, 2-1; Mac McLean (D) defeated Davant, 2-1. Best ball: State 2, Davidson 1.
Jim Sloan (D) defeated Zaubeg, 3-0; Green (NCS) defeated Rush Dickson, 2-1; Best Ball: Davidson, 2½, State ½. Gerringer (NCS)
defeated Cecil Brandon 2½-½; Wilkins (NCS) defeated Ben Vernon, 3-0. Best ball State 3, Davidson 0. Bumbarger (D) defeated King
3-0. Furman Uses Two Wild Innings To Humble Win-Starved Wildcats By DICK LILES Furman pushed across 6 runs in the
6th and again in the 9th to squeeze by the Wildcats in the home contest Monday afternoon 14-11. It was
the return game of this year's series in which Davidson had already been shaded 7-6. The Cats hopped on starter
“Effie” Ervington for 6 runs in the initial frame and held on strongly to a slim lead until the 6th.
The Hurricane kept whittling away the lead until the score rested at 12-11 after the wide-open sixth. The hits in
the game were identical with the runs. 14 were garnered by the Furmanites and 11 for Davidson. Watson was the
big noise for the winners at the plate with 4 hits in 4 times at bat including a double and
a triple and batting in two crucial runs. Bill Bird, Hal Mapes, Mac Erwin, and Dutch Hengeveld were all hot
at the plate in the slug-fest. Bird had 3 for 5; Mapes 2 for 4, Erwin smashed 2 doubles in
6 trips, and Dutch collected a double and a single in 5 trips to help his cause. Auburn Lambeth also
smashed a terrific triple in the 2nd frame. Metcafe of Furman relieved wild Evington on the mound in the first
of the second inning and although walking 5, giving up 8 hits in 6 frames, and fanning only 2, was
rewarded the game. Hengeveld hurled great ball for the locals giving only 4 free bases, striking out 8 men, but
allowing 14 hits. Nine errors were committed by the two squads in the game, Davidson responsible for 5 of them.
The Cats also left 10 men on base. Houck cornered a grounder and tossed to Pearson on second, who in
turn whipped over to Mapes at 1st for the only double kill of the ball game. Yes, Camels are SO
MILD that in a coast-to-coast test of hundreds of men and women who smoked Camels—and only Camels—for 30 consecutive days,
noted throat specialists, making weekly examinations, reported NOT ONE SINGLE CASE OF THROAT IRRITATION due to smoking CAMELS!
