The freshman beat you to the car and was already whipping out a veteran-like “Goin’ as far as Davidson, mister?”
before you were sure the big Buick was really stopping. You followed in the back seat. Your pleasant-faced and fifty-ish
driver shifted his cigar into offensive formation and kicked off the conversation.

“Well, by this time next week, you boys will have your first game behind you, won't you? What kind of
team do you think you'll have this year?”

Again beaten to the draw, you listened while the yearling ran back the reply. “This is going to be a
lot better year than last year. You know, they didn’t win but two games last year. But this year should
be lots better. New coach, new formation—and I’ve never seen such spirit before. And the captain this year, Auburn Lambeth,
I guess you've heard of him, well, he’s about the best passer I ever saw. He has always been real
good, but I'll bet this is his best year yet, because he’s a senior this year and has had lots
of experience.”

You leaned back on your airfoam backseat bench and figured the frosh would carry the ball this second quarter, too.
The man who had given the boy the ball shifted his cigar to a defensive position and also figured the
red-capped one would carry on. He did.

“Coach Little has really got the team in great shape, too. And that line! Brother! Jasonek and Moates and those
fellows may be good, but you oughta see little ole Henry Wilson and C. L. Runyan back up that line
and those rocks, Jimmy Fasul and Jerry Kiser, and Bill McNeely, and Jack Branch, and Reynolds, ’n Freeman, ’n those
boys. Man, those freshmen couldn’t move against them. And we've got some good freshmen. We're really getting some good boys
in there now. They’ve got a Wildcat Club formed, that’s a highly organized and pretty powerful booster club that is
really bringing the material in.”

Well, not yet quite in the league with Uncle Sam, you cynically mused, but they are growing. But look here.
The boy’s got a new play.

“I think we can beat Furman. Shoot, they were supposed to be so hot. Presbyterian and Washington and Lee sure
showed ’em different, and if Furman is better, so are we. I can just see it now, Lambeth passing; Runyan
and Wade hitting those holes; Guiton, ’n White, ’n Gregg, ’n Leach, Stuart slipping around on those options. Boy, they’re
going to give somebody some trouble from this Little-T.

“I’m glad I came to Davidson this year, because things are really looking up. That Wildcat Club should be a
pretty good organization. Just so they give us money and get us players, they’re tops in my estimation.”

Although he was running the wrong way, the kid had been covering ground. But now he fumbled. “You ever heard
of the Wildcat Club? It is kinda new.” And his opponent recovered.

“Yes, I’m a member of the Wildcat Club.” It was a new ball game.

“I’m glad to see you so enthusiastic about the new season. We are enthusiastic, too, but we aren't, and you
can’t expect too much in the way of miracles from Crowell this year. The Wildcat Club just got started this
summer, and its first trickle of recruits came in with your freshman class this year. So they won't even be
playing this year. Then, this thing will grow, Davidson athletic standards will rise, boys will respond to invitations to the
campus, and our days of one-deep line-ups may be on the way out.”

He had scored, and the two front-seaters changed the conversation to high school basketball, and you still sat silent, happy
over the driver’s win, and weighing the words of both. Lambeth will be better this year. The T-formation should see
to that. And in addition to his improvement, Jack Ruth and Dave Peeler have shown up surprisingly well as top-flight
replacements—almost alternates. But what about our receivers? All more or less untested. And if Fasul, Kiser, Rogers, Davis, Talbert &
Co. are improved up front, how deep are those reserves? Injuries could ruin us up the middle. And Furman. Did
Mr. 53 ever have that club pegged wrong, as some Southern Conference grid scholar may have already detected. Twice beaten,
but still big, fast, and favored. That’s our foe. The first of nine this fall, all of which could set
the Cats down in order.

OPEN AGAINST FURMAN—Pictured above is the 1950 edition of the Davidson Wildcats which opens its season tomorrow night in Charlotte
against Furman. They are first row: Bill McNeely, C. L. Runyan, Jerry Kiser, Lee Talbert, Auburn Lambeth, Woody Leach, A.
C. Gregg, Bill Free.

Dozen Intramurals To Kick Off Monday

The 1950-51 interfraternity football season gets underway Monday afternoon with the debut of 12 teams of “Jolly Greeks” onto the
Interfraternity Field for two head-knocking sessions. With the introduction of the new season, a fresh spirit arises over the student
body and competition hits its highest strains. The season promises to be a good one in many aspects. Something new
in that twelve teams are now competing and the competition promises to be rough. Expected to be in the top
category again are the Kappa Sigs, KA's, Phi Delts, SAE’s, Betas, and Phi Gams. Watch the SPE’s and as strong
as last year, with plenty of material and reserves. But until the last whistle of the last game anything could
happen and any team could end up on top. New to the sports agenda of intramurals, is the addition of
tennis and horseshoes.These “Extras” will add to the scope and interest of the campaign for the cup. Intramural Director Pete
Whittle also has many new ideas to bring about a better season than in previous years. The referees have been
designated and the new (or old) sports managers have been decided. Here follows a complete list of the fraternities and
sports managers of each:

SPE: J. B. Frye; Phi Delt: A. W. Clark; Kappa Sig: W. P. Spach; Kappa Alpha: R. D. Cornell; Pi
Kapps: T. G. Nall; Phi Gams: C. H. Clark; Pikas: Grover Martin; Sigma Chi: D. C. Pleasants; SAE: B. G.
Ballenger; Betas: S. B. Joyner; ATO: R. G. Grigsby; Campus Club: J. D. Deck.

First games starting next week:
Monday: Phi Delts vs SAE; KA vs Pikas.
Tuesday: Phi Gams vs Sigma Chi; ATO vs Pikas.
Wednesday: Betas vs Pi Kapps; Kappa Sigs vs Campus Club.
Thursday: Phi Delts vs KA; Phi Gams vs SAE.

(The games of the week will be posted on the board outside Chambers.)

THE LABEL OF DISTINCTION
THE MEETING PLACE IN CHARLOTTE FOR DAVIDSON MEN SINCE 1897

The Third Floor Town and Campus Shop Is Headquarters for Varsity Town Clothes For Young Men On Their Way Up
to Keep Their Budget Down.

The Phi Gams as the dark horses and regular being much improved. Neat can boast such speedsters as A. C.
Gregg, Roy White, Wood Leach, and Jimmy Fasul; second row: Bob Turk, Roy White, John Painter, Jack Ruth, Gant Carlton,
Bill Reynolds, Marvin Kelly, Hoopie Davis, and Ham Wade; third row: Dick Kelly, Clay Evatt, Dick Blanks, Ted Gutherie, Bob
Tucker, Arnold Whisnant, Bill Acker, Johnny Guiton, and Boo Gibson; fourth row: Henry Wilson, George Cornelson, Gene Pierce, Dave Williams,
George Nickels, Gordon Stuart, Bill Bower, Walter Oakes, and Dave Peeler.

FURMAN FAVORED TOMORROW
Hurricane Is Rugged, Lettermen-Laden

Wildcat Cross Country Team Heavy, Win-Hungry

First Cat Customer

The 1950 Wildcats, with the all-around “new look,” will be out for the first win of the season over Furman's
Purple Hurricane in Charlotte tomorrow night. Furman, 21-6 victors last year, already has two games under their belt and will
be putting their weight and experience against the Wildcats’ speed, fight, and spirit. Coach Crowell Little’s Cats will, in their
mentor's debut as Wildcat head coach, run from the “Little T,” a combination of the “split T” formations, and Ham
Wade, Johnny Guiton, Gordon Stuart, and crushing C. L. Runyan, plus superb quarterbacks Auburn Lambeth and Jack Ruth. Davidson's scrapping
forward wall, led by guards Jim Fasul and Jerry Kiser, consists of tackles Hoopie Davis, Gene Pierce, Bill McNeeley, Bill
Reynolds, Jack Branch, Lee Talbert, and Bill Freeman. Center is no problem for the Cats with Henry Wilson, Bill Acker,
Arnold Whisnant, and George Nickels around, and the ends are solid with Dick Kelly, Marvin Kelly, Dickie Blanks, and the
pass-snatching combination of Bob Turk and Dave Williams. The Cats, who have been practicing for some weeks now, are short
on experience, weight, and depth, but their famous scrap should overcome that. In recent scrimmages against V. P. I., Coach
Crowell’s boys looked surprisingly good. The two scrimmages uncovered some new stars in Gregg and Ruth, and showed many onlookers
that the Cats are fast-striking this year and have surprising potentialities.

Furman's Purple Hurricane, another “T” team, will be out to make it two in a row over the Davidsonians. Big
Ed Jasonek, their powerful halfback, is seeking conference recognition this year, and in two games thus far he has done
well. He leads a heavy and experienced Furman team that has already played and lost two games and is hungry
for a victory.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
SATURDAY, SEPT. 30
“THE IROQUOIS TRAIL”
George Montgomery
SPECIAL AND CARTOON

MON.-TUE., OCT. 2-3
“MY BLUE HEAVEN”
Betty Grable - Dan Dailey
NEWS and CARTOON

WEDNESDAY, OCT. 4
“JOHNNY ONE EYE”
Pat O’Brien
SPORT & COMEDY

THURSDAY, OCT. 5
“LOVE HAPPY”
Marx Bros.
March of Time and Cartoon

FRIDAY, OCT. 6
Tom Conway
“THE GREAT PLANE ROBBERY”
Special - Band - Cartoon

Furman Strong This Fall

Coach Pete Whittle’s cross-country team has sold out to — of all rivals — N. C. State! At least, as
far as picking a course to run on this autumn. The Cat Warriors, facing one of their toughest schedules in
many a year, will travel the Raleigh course three times out of seven meets. Twice they are at home, once
in Durham, and once in Charlottesville, Va. Last year's crew, which lost only to N. C. State in dual competition
and finished fourth in the Southern Conference meet, Whittle's 1950 thinclads find themselves strong only at a time when every
opponent will be stronger. Headed by top returnees from the 1949 varsity men Blake Bradley, Tom Stockton, Dick Stockton, Dan
McKeithan, Dick Patterson, and (Continued On Page Five)

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests
Number 1... THE PUFFIN BIRD

“What’s all the huffin’ and puffin’ about? I’ve been a Puffin all my life!”

You may think this “bird” is funny — but he’s no odder than many of the cigarette tests you’re asked
to make these days. One puff of this brand — one sniff of that. A quick inhale — a fast
exhale — and you're supposed to know what cigarette to smoke from then on. The sensible test doesn’t have to
rely on tricks and shortcuts. It’s a day-after-day, pack-after-pack tryout — for 30 days. That's the test Camel asks you
to make! Smoke Camels regularly for 30 days. Your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste) is the best possible
proving ground for any cigarette. After you’ve made the Camel 30-Day Mildness Test, we believe you'll know why...

More People Smoke Camels than any other cigarette!
