FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1950 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FIVE

THEY SAY WE'RE TRYING FOR A SCHOLARSHIP...

What The Cats Were Doing...

ONE YEAR AGO—February 11, 1949...
(1) Williams cooks Furman as Cats calm Purple Hurricane, 66-40.
(2) Whit Cobb played more minutes per game last year than any other member of the Cat squad.

FIVE YEARS AGO—February 9, 1945...
(1) Cats beat Charleston, 32 to 28.
(2) Citadel takes Davidson, 52 to 32.

TEN YEARS AGO—February 8, 1940...
(1) Davidson quint wins over Guilford, 47-27.
(2) Davidson quint wins over Citadel Cadets, 52-42, and "Wootsie" Cowan sets new record for Davidson gym with 31 points
against Citadel.

TWENTY YEARS AGO—February 11, 1930...
(1) Cats defeat VMI, 35 to 27; Roanoke College, 49-16, and VPI, 38-20.

Tankers Working Hard for First Meet With State J.V.'s in Local Pool Feb. 17
By WOODY McKAY

Beginning with the bare essentials, and we do mean "bare", Coach Dick Redding has undertaken the task of building a
team of ample amphibians to comprise Davidson's first varsity swimming team. Although the first couple of days found a large
influx of possible candidates, this group slowly but surely waded itself out and left a determined few around which to
build some Davidson ducks. Since that time, endurance and form have been the nucleus around which the team has been
working so as to improve form for more speed and for better time in distant swimming. Many of those out
are swimming as much as two and a half to three miles a day.

The largest group of swimmers is the sprinter class. Bill Ray and Aubrey Miree show the best prospects up to
this time, but some others are giving them good competition. The races in this class are of 50 and 100
yard lengths with a freestyle stroke. This calls for strong arms and smooth swimming, and such boys as the two
already mentioned along with Fred Spach, Hugh Evans, Ken Taylor, Gray Hampton, and Francis Pepper are working hard to bring
down their time.

The 220 yard breaststroke group have worked hard and regularly, and show results by the speed they have picked up
since beginning practice. George Cornelson and Ray Cunningham are running close for best time in this group, and they are
almost ready for competition.

The longer freestyle distances, 220 and 440 yard lengths, are beginning to cut down on their time also. John Jervis,
Bill King, Dick Gilchrist, and Paul Cole are the workers out for this class. These boys seem to be improving
sufficiently for the short time they have been working, and should give some good competition in coming seasons.

The boy nearest to competition time, Bob Long, shows a great deal of promise; however, he is the only senior
on the squad and will be with the team only for the present season. George Knight and Dan Heiser are
also out for this group of backstroke competitors for 150 yard races, and, being freshmen, should do a lot of
swimming during their college days.

All of these boys are working hard each day, but a team can’t be top-notch during its first season. It’s
going to take a year or two to mold out a good bunch of swimming competitors, but it is getting
off to a good start. The team is planning to meet N. C. State at Davidson on Friday, February 17.
Dates may be permitted too, since the swimmers are going to be different and wear swimming trunks. The Wildcat team
will oppose State at Raleigh on February 24, and plan to meet Clemson on March 13. The team will do
its best, but they will be against experienced competition, so they may not take all the first places; however, as
any new team, they need the support of the student body. Let them know that swimming at Davidson is off
to a good start.

Improved Grapplers Drop Two Close Ones
By BILL ADAMS

The Davidson wrestling team took the sports spotlight during the past week with two home appearances against conference foes. Saturday
the matmen lost a tough 17-11 decision to N. C. State and Wednesday they again went down to defeat before
the UNC grapplers by a score of 18-11.

In the State match, the Cats came very close to a win. Going into the last match Davidson needed a
decision for a tie and a pin to win, but footballer Charlie Musser of State proved just a little too
much for Bull Alexander and won the decision over Charley Parker's pride. In the first match Jenkins (S) decisioned Dan
Bell but Johnny Kelton pinned Buie (S) in the next to give Davidson a 5-3 lead. Shorty Lafar and Arnie
Cavell lost decisions to Rudolph (S) and Martin (S) and Poklin (S) pinned Hal Haynes to put the Cats behind
5-14. But the tide changed as Mott Price and Bob Gay both took decisions to set the stage for the
last match and climax-ending.

North Carolina’s Tarheels came here Wednesday boasting a better won-lost record than the Cats and also two conference champions which
made them heavy favorites. But the Wildcat grapplers seem to be improving with each match and gave the cocky Tarheels
quite a battle before falling. The first match was very even, though just a little slow, and ended in a
draw between Sam Bell and his opponent.

GREEK RACE TIGHTENS
By DAN McKEITHEN, MAC RICHARDS, JIM SMITH

Pikas 51; Independents 41
In one of the roughest games of interfraternity play the undefeated Pikas won over the Independents, 51-41. The hard-charging Independents
started off fast, leading by 12 points at one time early in the game. However, flashy Jim Smith began hitting
and proceeded to put on one of the finest exhibitions of scoring seen this year. He ended up with 20
points while Charlie Barrett got 11 and Jim Sifford got 10 for the winners. Independent John Ritterburg kept his team
in the game by garnering 12 tallies. Both teams were hitting well, but the Pikas rang too many in the
final quarter.

KA's 32; Campus Club 20The Kappa Alphas had no trouble in downing the Campus Club by the score of 32-20.
The KA’s took a lead they never lost when Bill Adams hit for the game's first basket. It was 14-9
at the half as both teams substituted freely. High scorer for the evening was Adams with 9, closely followed by
teammate McWilliams’ 7, and the same number by Campus Clubber Livingston.

Kappa Sigs 48; Phi Gams 39
Hitting with deadly accuracy, the high-flying Kappa Sigs put down a fighting Phi Gam outfit by a 48-39 score. Sig
Al Fitzgerald continued his high scoring by dumping in 12 points, high for the contest. Redman Crosland helped the winning
cause with 9 points. Phi Gams Amos and Carol Camp, and Dickie Blanks split 28 points between them in an
attempt to overtake the winners, but time ran out on them.

Pi Kapps 29; Phi Delts 18
The lowly Pi Kapps upset the Phi Delts, 29-18, in the lowest scoring contest of the evening. With Jerry Nall
hitting for 10 points in the first half, the winners left the floor at intermission leading by 16-7. Nall burnt
the cords for 14.

Cagers Find Going Rough in Charleston
By J. V. HOWELL
Citadel's Bulldogs took an early lead and held off a spirited bid by Davidson in the closing minutes to win
a 41-34 Southern Conference basketball victory on February 3. It was a tight defensive battle from beginning to end and
both teams missed a large percentage of their shots from the floor. Citadel's ability to score from the foul line
proved the difference. Citadel’s Chester Szymaneki led all scoring with 17 points. Captain Whit Cobb and Fred Hengeveld led the
Davidson scoring with 8 each.

Johnny Kelton and Shorty Lefar both took decisions for the Cats to give them an early lead, but Arnie Covell
and Hal Haynes were both pinned. Haynes was pinned by Kemp, who was one of Carolina’s Conference champs and probably
their best all-around wrestler. Mott Price, who just missed pinning his man, lost a very close decision by time. Bull
Alexander lost to Gupton by time, too. Gupton was Carolina’s other Conference champ. In the last match, big Bill McNeely
won a close decision over Augustine in the last 30 seconds as he rallied to come from behind. This last
match was the day’s best and really gave the crowd plenty to yell about in spite of the team loss.

DAVIDSON THEATRE WEEK OF FEBRUARY 13-18
MON.-TUE. “HOLIDAY AFFAIR” Robert Mitchum - Janet Leigh
WED.-THURS. “WHEN WILLIE COMES MARCHING HOME” Dan Dailey - Corinne Calvert
FRI.-SAT. “AMBUSH” Robert Taylor - Jon Hodiak - Arlene Dahl

Pi Kapp Billy Cassels got 9, and Phi Delt Auburn Lambeth got 6. The losers never could get up enough
steam to make the game close.

Independents 56; Campus Club 21
The sharp-shooting Independents coasted to an easy win over the Campus Club 56-21. The Campus Club has yet to win
in eight games. Whitfield managed 7 for the Campus Club while Mape had 17; Eborn 13; and Rittenburg had 11
for the Independents.

INTERFRAT STANDINGS
Team W L
Pikas 7 1
Sigma Chi 7 1
Kappa Sig 7 1
A. T. O. 6 2
K. A. 5 3
Phi Delt 4 4
Independents 4 4
Phi Gams 3 5
Pi Kaps 2 6
Betas 2 6
S. P. E. 1 7
Campus Club 0 8

SPE 33; KA 27
The SPE's upset twice-beaten KA’s by the score of 33-27. It was Jimmy Miller who almost beat the KA’s singlehandedly
by dumping in 23 points. He made many of these on long set shots. McWilliams had 8 for the KA’s.

SAE 44; Beta 23
The twice-beaten SAE’s coasted to another easy win by trouncing the Betas by 44-23. Aiken with 18 and Bennett with
10 led the SAE’s. Langford, Elliot, and Monroe had six points each for the Betas.

Sigma Chi’s 31; Pikas 28
The Sigma Chi’s gained a first-place tie with the Pikas by beating the Pikas 31-28. Pikas had not been beaten
in the last seven games. Dorsey Pleasants led the Sigma Chis by hitting 11 points while Jones had 11 for
the Pikas. The loss moved three teams into a tie for first place: Pika, Sigma Chi, Kappa Sig.

Kappa Sigs 31; SAE’s 30
The Inter-fraternity loop saw an excellent basketball game last Friday night when the netters of Kappa Sigma nosed out the
SAE’s by the score of 31-30. Charlie Pearson paced the winners to victory with a total of 11 points, while
Bob Bennett was high scorer for the SAE's with a like total. It was only the second loss of the
season for the losers, winners of last year’s Inter-fraternity league.

Phi Gams 52; Pi Kapps 32
Last Friday night the Pi Kapp hard-wooders were defeated by the Phi Gam net men to the tune of 52-32.
Getting off to a quick start, the Phi Gams jumped to a 27-10 advantage at the halfway mark. The Gams
were paced by Christy Whiteman with 24 points, while Erwin was high man for the losers with 12 points.

Phi Delts 40; SPE’s 31
In another Friday night game, the Phi Delts coasted home to victory over the SPE’s by 40-31. At halftime, the
Phi Delts had a convincing 21-14 lead. Top man for the winners was Jim Cobb with 11 points, while Jimmy
“If Ranzino can do it, so can I” Miller paced the SPE’s with 10 points.

Sigma Chi 28; Beta 19
The victorious Sigma Chis continued to burn up the hardwood and snap the ball through the basket when they defeated
the Betas last Friday night by a tally of 28 to 19. Top scorers for the two teams were Perry,
for the Sigma Chis with 6 points, and Stroud, for the Betas, with 6 points. The halftime score was 13
to 4 in favor of the winners.

Parker-Gardner Company
118 W. Trade St. Phone 8257

Yes, Camels are SO MILD that in a coast-to-coast test of hundreds of men and women who smoked Camels—and only
Camels—for 30 consecutive days, noted throat specialists, making weekly examinations, reported NOT ONE SINGLE CASE OF THROAT IRRITATION due to
smoking CAMELS!
