FRIDAY, MARCH 10, 1950 THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRATERNITY CAGERS END SUCCESSFUL SEASON

PAGE FIVE

Pancho, Former Bad Boy Of Tennis

KAPPA SIGS, SAES COP FINALS

Richard Alonzo (Pancho) Gonzales is the most colorful tennis personality since Bill Tilden. Gonzales, who was lured into the professional
fold by Promoter Bobby Riggs, all-time tennis great, after winning the National amateur title for the second year in a
row, is at once fiery and easy-going. He can smash the opposition on the court or play with the indifference
of a sun-stroked beginner. He is the paradox of the racket. Yet he is never dull. The biggest U.S. champion
of them all (6 feet, 2 inches, 195 pounds), at 21 he is also the youngest ever to turn professional.
He brings to the monied ranks the brightness of color that will be reflected in sharp competition on the court.

Gonzales has the fortitude of youth. In the 1949 U.S. Lawn Tennis Association championship at Forest Hills, where Gonzales was
defending his purple, he engaged in the longest set on record against Ted Schroeder. He lost this one, 16-18, and
also the next one, 2-6, and many counted him out. They had reckoned without Pancho's fortitude, however, for he came
right back to win, taking the next three sets, 6-1, 6-2, 6-4. In so doing, he painted the background for
the inevitable: His switch to the pro ranks, where he could earn the money required to support his wife, Henrietta,
and his son, Richard, Jr., who was born last year.

Some months before Pancho won his first National Championship at Forest Hills in 1948, he lost in a tune-up tournament
at Newport, Rhode Island. Later, his friend and adviser, Frank Shields, asked him why he had failed so badly.

LETTER TO WHIT COBB

Mr. Whit Cobb
Captain of the Basketball Team
President of the Student Body

Dear Whit:

On behalf of the student body at Davidson, I would like to take this space to publicly express to you
our sincere gratitude for the athletic ability you have displayed at Davidson for the last four years. During your stay
here at Davidson you have compiled a remarkable record which we all are indeed proud of. Not only have you
taken honors in basketball, but also honors in tennis, track, and student life.

As I look back over the past three years in basketball, I recall that in your sophomore year you were
selected by the sports writers to an honorable mention berth on All-Southern Conference. Your junior year was perhaps your brightest
because in that year you were selected on the Greensboro Daily News first string All-State, sports writers’ third string All-Southern,
and scored 296 points to lead all guards in the conference scoring. This past season you were selected by the
Charlotte Observer to hold down first string All Big Five; by the Charlotte News on the second string All Big
Five, and finished the season as second highest scoring guard in the conference.

In tennis, you have again brought on honors that we are indeed proud of. While at Davidson, Whit, you have
earned three letters in tennis and are returning again this year to bring it to an even four. In 1947
you won the Eastern Carolinas doubles and singles championship and last summer, along with Bo Roddey, won the doubles championship
for the Ole North State. Despite the fact that tennis takes most of your time in the spring you always
managed to find time to participate in track and field events for dear old D.C. I don’t believe I'll ever
forget that meet against Furman in 1948 when you came running up from the tennis courts, pulled off your sweat
clothes and broad jumped 22 feet on the first jump, then ran over to the starting line on the cinder
path and took first place in the 440 event. In all, it took you about four minutes to win two
first places and a letter in track. No, I guess I will never forget that afternoon just like I'll never
forget your last basketball game in Davidson when you went out in a blaze of glory.

Whit, your tale is not told yet because you still have ahead of you two more sports which you so
ably participate in, and all of us are looking forward to seeing you in action. Even when the track and
tennis season is over I still don’t believe your tale will be told, because it will be constantly retold for
many years to come. Your life at Davidson is fast drawing to a close, but you will leave behind a
remarkable record which Davidson will always be proud of. You have written a chapter in the school’s history, and have
displayed to the students and public remarkable sportsmanship and leadership which Davidson has been noted for. So to you, Whit,
from the student body, I say ‘well done’ to a deserving boy.

His dark eyes flashing and his big frame hunched, Gonzales said sheepishly: “Guess I been playing poker too much and
too late.” Shields was beside himself. He said, angrily: “The best thing you can do is return to California. You're
not doing yourself any good and you're giving amateur tennis a black eye.” The light in Gonzales’ eyes darkened. He
said, quietly: “I give you my word I give up poker.” He has kept the vow and his turnabout was
reflected in the splendid showing he made in the Nationals.

Yes, Gonzales is no darling boy, or wasn’t. Everybody knows of all the woe he brought to the tennis nabobs
in his short, splintered play-for-glory career. He was even banned once, in California, for refusing to attend school. But it
is gross libel to believe he grew up as a zoot-suiter. Let's say, he was a spirited lad... a kid
who learned tennis with a 5-cent tennis racket given him by his mother and who became a great champion without
ever taking a formal lesson.

By CHARLIE HAWKINS

The Kappa Sigs won the fraternity finals on Tuesday night, 45-32, edging the Kappa Alphas for the fraternity basketball crown.
The Kappa Sigs jumped off to an early 5-3 lead with 6 minutes and 10 seconds gone and never relinquished
it. The game started slow, with the first point coming on a free throw by Preyer after 3 minutes to
put the KA’s ahead, 1-0. Almost immediately, the fireworks began. Pearson hit a quick set shot for the Kappa Sigs
and McKeithan matched it for the KA’s. Marvin Kelly's goal and Fitzgerald’s 3 foul shots put the Sigs ahead 7-3
to stay. Preyer’s rebound gave the KA’s their second field goal and ran the score to 7-5. Truelove's follow gave
the Sigs a 10-7 lead with 7 minutes gone in the ball game. Three minutes later, the Sigs had run
their lead to 19-7 before McKeithan hit a free toss for the KA’s to put the score at 19-8. In
the next 6 minutes, Ham and Jake Wade collaborated for 8 points to give the Sigs a 27-14 lead at
the half.

The KA’s struck back quickly in the second half as Byrd, McKeithan, and Preyer began to hit. With only 5
minutes gone, the KA’s had whittled the Sigs' lead down to 29-22. Then the Sigs began toget hot once again,
Fitzgerald's rebound and Truelove’s set shot bettered McWilliams’ 3 points, in the next 4+ minutes to give the Sig’s a
33-25 lead. Quick baskets by Ham Wade, Truelove, and Fitzgerald ran the score to 39-29. Only a few minutes remained
then, and a Sig’s SS score to 7.3, Kelly's set shot.

MATMEN FALL IN TOURNEY

Davidson's varsity wrestling team entered the Southern Conference wrestling tourney held at College Park, Md., the first of this week
but ran into a little trouble and failed to show up as well as had been hoped for. Coach Charley
Parker took a full eight-man team to the tourney but only two of the eight were able to get past
the first round. John Kelton advanced to the second round on a bye but was decisioned by Lysa Bouski of
Maryland in his next match, while Bill McNeely won a first-round decision over Dubick of Maryland but lost out to
Eggleston of VMI in the next round. Murphy Crenland, Jim Grissons, and Mott Price all lost first-round decisions while Annie
Covell, Hal Haynes, and Bull Alexander were pinned. Thus the entire squad was eliminated with only a one-point total.

Washington and Lee took their third consecutive championship by piling up a total of 29 points, followed by VMI with
24, Maryland 15, Duke 14, North Carolina 11, The Citadel 11, VPI 7, N.C. State 2, Davidson 1, and George
Washington 0.

At the age of 13, Jack Kramer decided to be a tennis player instead of a baseball player, and became
champion of his junior high school in San Bernardino, Calif. At 14, he went hunting bigger game, and lost in
the first round of a Santa Monica Boys’ Tournament. It was a terrible shock, and Jack determined to play tennis
the way the winning kids did. They told him to go see Perry Jones, dean of tennis coaches. Jack did.
Jones helped mold Kramer into a champion ... so did Dick Skeen, a shrewd pro ... Ellsworth Vines, ex-amateur champ,
and Clifton Roche, a brilliant engineer with a geometric approach to tennis. For $25 down and $5 a month, Skeen
taught Kramer how to swing a racket. Vines taught Jack hard-driving play and a power-packed forehand. To this day, Kramer's
style is patterned after Vines. At 15, Kramer won the National Boy's crown. He was on his way. The kid
with the crew haircut and big smile began making championship tennis look easy. He won ten tournaments in 1942 before
going into the Coast Guard. He came out to be the blazing star of amateur tennis in ‘46 and '47,
winning the U.S. Singles titles and Davis Cup (Continued on Page Six).

By BILL ADAMS

Victory looked certain, but McKeithan’s foul shot and Adam's push pulled the KA’s to within 3 points of the Sig’s
and a 41-32 score. With a little over a minute left, Slimey Sloan stole the ball and raced downcourt to
score 2 more Sig points. Fitzgerald's crip on a fast break with 30 seconds left ended the scoring, 45-32. For
the KA’s, Preyer and McWilliams led the scoring with 9 and 8 points. Ham Wade and Fitzgerald gathered 12 and
11 for the new champions.

Consolation Finals

By JIM FARRAR

Tuesday night in the finals of the Consolation bracket of the Inter-frat tournament, the SAE’s downed the scrappy Phi Delts.
The SAE’s, urged on by a most enthusiastic pledge class, found the first leg of the road to victory very
rough. The Phi Delts were hitting their floor shots nicely, and the SAE’s were having trouble finding the range. Lambeth
and Strand put the Phi Delts ahead four to nothing on set shots. Bennett and Aiken put the orange-clad boys
back in the game with three successive foul shots. Spires then hit his first long shot of the night, with
Warren putting a foul shot in. The score now was seven to three, Phi Delts. However, the height of Aiken
and Bennett began to tell as Bennett began rebounding them in, and Aiken was faking them off the backboard to
set up an effective fast break. Lambeth and Bennett went into a point-making spree right before the half, and the
score at the half saw the SAE’s edge ahead 17-16. The first of the second half saw the Phi Delts
make their last try for victory. Warren and Leach put the Phi Delts ahead 20-19 for the last time in
the game. At this point the SAE’s surged ahead behind the rebounding and shooting of Bennett and Aiken. With the
score 31-24, SAE’s, Spires hit for two to make the score 31-26. Bennett and Aiken made it 36-26 on three
foul shots and a follow-up. Spires hit for a push shot from the foul circle and Warren potted a foul
shot to make it 36-29. Charlie Calhoun finally found the range and hit for two straight set shots to make
the SAE’s ahead 40-29. Lambeth rebounded one in for the Phi Delts to make it 40-31. McMurray raised the ball
to the skies in his usual manner and then sunk his foul shot. Bennett followed up with a push shot
to make the score 43-31. Spires hit a long shot, but Bennett cancelled these two points with a beautiful rebound.
McMurray added some insurance for the SAE’s. They now lead 47-33. Spires made a foul shot and Lambeth squeezed one
through the net just before the buzzer to end the game. The final score was 47-36, SAE's coming out on
top. The Phi Delts were led by Lambeth and Spires with 14 and 11 points respectively. Bennett stood out for
the SAE’s with 22 big points. McMurray was next with eleven points. Much credit can be given to big Bud
Aiken for his work under the backboard. Both teams looked very good and were closely matched for most of the
game.

Other Games

By DICK LILES and MAC RICHARDS

S.A.E. 51; Pikas 42

In the consolation semi-finals of the Interfraternity Basketball Tournament, the SAE's defeated the Pikas 51-42. This thrilling game saw George
McMurray pour in 14 points for the winners while Jim Sifford collected 10 for the losing Pikas. Score at half
was 23-15 for the SAE’s.

Phi Delts 39; Sigma Chi 28

The consolation runner-ups captured a close game from the Sigma Chi's by 39-28. Grady Spires and Auburn Lambeth led the
Phi Delts with 9 points each. Bob Merrill was high for the Sigs with 6 tallies. The score at half
was in favor of the winning Delts by one point, 15-14.

Kappa Sigs 43; Pi Kapps 20

The high-flying Kappa Sigs fully lived up to expectations by completely routing the Pi Kapps 43-20. There never was any
doubt about the outcome, for the Kappa Sigs led 23-14 at half-time. High men were Fitzgerald for the Kappa Sigs.

(Continued on Page Six).

WITH SMOKERS WHO KNOW... IT’S NOT ONE SINGLE CASE OF THROAT IRRITATION due to smoking CAMELS! Camels for Mildness. Yes,
Camels are SO MILD that in a coast-to-coast test of hundreds of men and women who smoked Camels—and only Camels—for
30 consecutive days, noted throat specialists, making weekly examinations, reported.
