COURT CHOSEN TO CORROE OTHERUBS VOLUME XXXVIII No. 4 The Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.
C., FRIDAY, MAY 19, 1950... DULCE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, MAY 19, 1950 FRIDAY, MAY 19, 1950 RECOGNIZES FUTURE

Davis To Be Judge Of Court of Control; Announces Revisions

“Hoopy” Davis has been chosen as judge of the Court of Control for 1950, Randy Taylor, student body president, disclosed
this week. Davis was elected by a committee composed of the president of the student body together with the Student
Council members of the rising senior class, which also elected his co-workers for next year. Johnny Kelton will be recorder,
while Tom Allen and J. B. Stroud will be the senior members; John Guiton and Bill Brooks, the junior members,
and Arnold Whisnant and Gordon Stuart, the sophomore members on Davis’s staff.

For Davis, a rising senior from Decatur, Ga., this will be his second straight year on the freshman governing body,
serving as a junior member during the past year. He announced tentative plans for remodeling the court in an attempt
to re-achieve its initial purpose—that of instilling freshmen with the high ideals and concepts of Davidson, instead of allowing it
to be used more as a humorous outlet for the upperclassmen. Davis expressed the desire that next year, the entire
student body will fall in line with his hopes of making the court beneficial and helpful to freshmen, instead of
merely tormenting them. He feels that the court can be of great value to freshmen if it is governed properly
and hopes to attain success in making the court a little more serious and profitable to all.

SMITH WINS STRAW-VOTE OF DAVIDSON STUDENTS

Smith ---------------- 108
Graham --------------- 70
Reynolds ------------- 10

Vote was announced to the whole student body in chapel and open to any North Carolinians who wanted to vote.

Keys Presented At Final Staff Meeting

At the last meeting of the editorial and business staffs of The Davidsonian on Monday night, recognition was offered to
outstanding members of the staff and the new staff formally took over its duties. Among those receiving special commendation for
their work with the paper were the following juniors who received keys: Jim Murray, Randy Taylor, Gordon Scott, Neal Leach,
Bill Hollister, Arnie Covell, Hartley Hall, and Bill Cumming. Others receiving special citations were Lonnie Turnipseed, Doug Hix, and Jack
Hazard.

Bob Hollister handed over to Gordon Scott the duties and responsibilities of the editorship and congratulated him on his election.
Scott urged all members of the staff to continue their efforts in order to make next year’s Davidsonian the best
in its history.

Student Body Elects YMCA Control Board

In the final student body elections last week, four members of the rising senior class were chosen to the YMCA
Board of Control. The Board of Control is composed of eleven members, five of whom are elected by the students
from the student body. Those men who have been recently elected are Johnny Kelton, Tommy Haller, Ken Goodpasture, and Tommy
Langford. Neil Leach, next year’s Y.M.C.A. president, completes the student membership. This newly-elected board shall assume office at its first
regular meeting. At this meeting a chairman, a secretary, and a treasurer will be chosen. Among the most important functions
of the board is the selection of speakers for the YMCA-sponsored spring and fall services each year.

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA INITIATES

Students tapped into Omicron Delta Kappa National Leadership Fraternity are, left to right, top row: Gordon Scott, Randy Taylor, Auburn
Lambeth, Dave Miller, Sam Joyner; bottom row, left to right: Kappa Kappa Group Presented Charter

At an informal banquet held last Monday night at the Kappa Kappa boarding house, the local social fraternity received a
charter from Mr. J. W. Vann, chairman of the High Council of A.T.O., authorizing the change of the local organization
into an A.T.O. club. Mr. Vann, who was accompanied by Mr. R. B. Johnston, province chief of A.T.O. for North
and South Carolina, arrived on the campus following an executive order from Colonel J. M. MacGregor, national president of the
fraternity. To attain its present status, the local group has had to meet with the approval of the A.T.O. chapters
of this district, the high council of the fraternity, and the national president. The next and final step toward initiation
as an active chapter of A.T.O., will be the approval of two-thirds of the chapters of A.T.O. throughout the country.

Following the banquet, formal initiation of fraternity officers for next year took place. Speeches were made by incoming President Bill
Boand, and by outgoing President Malloy Owen. Professors J. C. Bailey and L. B. Schenck, who were guests of the
fraternity, expressed their approval of and welcome to A.T.O. upon the occasion of its first appearance on the campus.

The K.K. officers for the coming year are as follows: Bill Boand, president; Tom Lowman, vice president; Dave Cowan, secretary;
John Whitfield, treasurer; Bob Burroughs, boarding house manager; Joe Morton, Pan Hell representative; Bob Keever, pledge-master; Bob Inman, historian; Joe
Armstrong, sentinel; Bob Boyd, usher; Roland Engelhart, palm correspondent.

Notice

All students are asked to turn in their room keys to the Treasurer's Office before examinations start. One dollar will
be refunded to each student for the key.

Development Drive Approaching Quota

The Davidson Development program will come to a close on June 5, when a final report will be given at
Commencement. With six areas yet to report, the drive now stands approximately $250,000 short of the $2,500,000 goal. According to
Mr. Arnold, assistant to the president, the campaign will be officially closed on this date, but some scattered contributions can
be expected to follow throughout the summer and fall. At the present time, a last-minute appeal is being made to
the alumni who have not yet contributed, as well as a second appeal in some cases. Those areas that now
have incomplete reports are Reidsville, Statesville, Wilmington, Florence, S.C., Charleston, S.C., and Bristol, Tenn. It is hoped that their reports
will aid in lowering the present deficit in the goal.

The development program had its beginning in the autumn of 1948 when the National Development committee, headed by Chairman J.
Spencer Love, met to present plans for the campaign. The actual drive began on February 11, 1949 and met with
miraculous success. Within a few weeks, the Charlotte-Mecklenburg County goal of $750,000 was over-subscribed by $100,000. Over $100,000 was raised
by students of the college and townspeople. At the end of five months, (Continued on Page Four)

BRAWN REPLACES BRAINS IN BATTLE OF THE MID-CENTURY

On Thursday afternoon, the Senior class of Davidson College, in six closely contested trials of athletic skill, outlasted a die-hard
faculty, and despite the efforts of such greats as Dr. Frontis Johnston, Professors Jim Pinckney, Chalmers Davidson, Henry Baumann, and
Coaches Boyd Baird, Crowell Little, Charlie Parker, and Dick Redding, the faculty members found themselves two events short of a
victory as the 1950 edition of Senior faculty day faded with the setting sun.

The first events of the day took place simultaneously on the handball and badminton courts, and the faculty made a
brilliant beginning by taking both events, winning all the handball games, and losing only one badminton contest. Jo-Jo Thigpen, after
his handball victory over big Mac Erwin, said with a modest smile, “Mac had an off day. I was lucky,”
and in badminton Harrison Taylor's status was changed to that of the baldheaded man on the losing team.

At two o'clock the tennis matches got underway, and although the Seniors took the event by winning both doubles matches,
in the singles, Professor Frontis Johnston and his pipe defeated Slick Evans and his (Continued on Page Four)

Long, Dr. Bernard Boyd (no pictures).

MUSICAL SENIORS BOW OUT AS BAND PRESENTS FINALE

On Monday morning, May 15th, the Davidson College Band, under the direction of Mr. James Christian Pfohl, presented its regular
semester chapel program. The number chosen was from selections played by the band in its concerts this year. The opening
number was a piece by the English composer.

Future Saw Bones Take Compulsory Med School Exams

On Saturday, May 13, 33 pre-medical students took the medical college admissions test from 9 until 5 in the Science
Building. Students entering medical school for the year 1951-52 are required to take the examination May 13, 1950 or November
6, 1950. Several hundred testing centers are located throughout the United States and in foreign countries. The examination is given
to test the student in science and understanding of modern society. No special preparation was recommended for the test. However,
the Science section presupposes a familiarity with beginning courses in Biology, Chemistry, and Physics. For a $10 fee, the reports
on the examinations will be sent to as many as three medical schools. A $1 fee is charged for reports
beyond the first three.

Battalion to March In Charlotte Parade

A large portion of the ROTC Battalion will participate in a parade being held in Charlotte Saturday afternoon, May 20th.The
parade is in honor of the anniversary of the signing of the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence, and also in observance
of the first annual Armed Forces Day, so declared by Presidential proclamation. To permit the cadets to be in Charlotte,
formed for the parade by 1:30 P.M., the Faculty has voted to remove 10 minutes from each of the 4
class periods on Saturday morning, thereby concluding the academic work at 11:35 A.M. The lunch hour has been requested to
be at 11:35 A.M. also. The unit will leave Davidson in an Army convoy at 12:30 P.M. The Davidson unit
in the parade will be commanded by the Battalion Commander, Cadet Lieutenant Colonel Hartley Hall. It will be comprised of
the Band, Battalion Commander and Staff, The Colors, (Continued on Page Four)

Neil Leach, Charlie Davis, Mac Erwin, Harrison Taylor—and Bobby played Ralph Vaughn-Williams “March: Sea Songs.” Completely different from the usual
march heard at parades and concerts, this number is a compilation of sea tunes which the composer heard in his
native England. This is the second work by Vaughn-Williams to be played on the campus, the first being the symphonic
work “Job” which was played by the Cincinnati Symphony in its concert earlier this year. The second selection was a
number by the Russian composer, Kabalevsky, “Comedians Gallop.” Even though the tempo of this piece is extraordinarily rapid and thus
very difficult, it is one of the band's favorite selections. The final number of the concert was the “Gaiete Parisienne”
by Jacques Offenbach. This number is a posthumous work, a ballet, and consists of pieces by Offenbach which have been
transcribed for band by the director of the Navy Band. Five of the numbers from the ballet were played by
the band, the first the Overture which is taken from one of Offenbach’s operas. The second part is entitled Gallop,
the third Valse, which is the love music from the opera “Orpheus in Hades.” The fourth part is the Quadrille
or Dance and the final part the Can Can from the opera “Orpheus in Hades.” (Continued on Page Four)

PAN-HEL FINANCIAL REPORT
Cash April 1, 1950 — $198.06
Rec. from Ticket Sales — 1654.18
Rec. for Flowers — 110.00
Operation of Concession Stand — 41.00
$2,003.24

Printing Expenses — $31.35
Quips & Cranks — 62.50
Homecoming Cup — 19.72
Charge for Takers — 20.00
Maid Service — 12.00
Orchestra — 676.00
Supplies — 23.41
Labor and Materials from College — 57.65
Pan-Hell Function — 50.00
Tax on Tickets — 181.27
Flowers — 117.00
Pan-Hell Keys — 60.86
Refund to Fraternities — 400.00
Bal. on Hand — 291.48
$2003.24

R. A. Carson, Treas.

TAPPING CEREMONY FOLLOWS ADDRESS BY ALBERT McCLURE
Eleven new leaders were dubbed into the ranks of Omicron Delta Kappa in traditional semi-annual tapping ceremonies held in Chambers
Auditorium during the chapel program Wednesday morning. Rev. Albert B. McClure, superintendent of Barium Springs, was the guest speaker for
the leadership fraternity. Curtis Harper, chairman of the program committee, opened the service after the singing of the hymn, “Rise
Up, O Men of God,” followed by three portions of selected scripture. Rev. McClure was introduced as an alumnus of
Davidson College, where he was a member of the YMCA Cabinet, president of the campus pre-ministerial organization, a member of
the track team, and an ODK elective. Following the guest speaker's address, Bill Bird, president of the organization, commenced the
colorful choosing of new members from the student body. At each rap of Bird's gavel, an old member of the
fraternity would leave the stage, walk down the silent aisles and slap the initiates on the back.

Bo Roddey tapped Mac Erwin. Mac is an SAE from Greenville, S.C., completing a pre-business course. He served this year
as freshman advisor, has made letters in both football and basketball. Mac was recognized this year in Who’s Who in
American Colleges and Universities. In the following order, the old members tapped remaining men into membership: Whit Cobb tapped Gordon
Scott: Statesville, N.C.; Eumanean; sports editor of Davidsonian; Sigma Upsilon; next year’s editor of the Davidsonian; Publications Board; fraternity. John
Lyles tapped Charles Davis: Senior class; Fayette, Mississippi; Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Upsilon Literary Society; Philanthropic Literary Society, president; Forensic
Council; International Relations Club; Davidsonian, Fuzzy Fizzles; Vereen Bell Award; Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity; Eighth Davidson Rhodes scholar. R.
B. Bumbarger tapped David Miller: Senior class; Johnson City, Tennessee; Philanthropic Literary Society, president; marshal for 1949 commencement; Male Chorus,
secretary; feature work for Quips ‘n Cranks; International Relations Club; chairman of Election Board. Curtis Harper tapped Neil Leach: Junior
class; DeFuniak Springs, Fla.; Davidsonian, managing editor in charge of assignments. (Continued on Page Four)

SOCIAL FRATERNITIES HOLD ANNUAL SPRING FUNCTIONS
Several of the social fraternities held functions last weekend both on and off the campus. Perhaps the most colorful and
interest-drawing of these was Kappa Alpha's Old South Ball. For one weekend each year this group relives the customs and
events of those days immediately prior to the Civil War. Dressed in string bow ties and other such items of
the period, they presented quite a unique sight to freshmen and transfers. After an official secession ceremony, festivities were removed
to the Morris Field Officer's Club. There the brothers enjoyed a banquet followed by an after-dinner talk by Mr. Gus
Travis, Charlotte Observer columnist. Highlight of the evening was the ball itself for which Chick Burroughs supplied the rhythm and
razz. One irony marked the entire weekend: Confederate uniforms ordered for the occasion failed to arrive due to a Southern
Railroad strike.

Sigma Phi Epsilon celebrated its annual Sweetheart Ball at the Red Fez Club. An installation of officers for the coming
term was held, followed by an entertaining program given by this year’s former pledge class. Walter Hagen and his orchestra
played for the dance at which the Sig Ep Sweetheart was given a loving cup. The yearly Rose Ball of
Pi Kappa Phi took place at Morris Field Policemen’s Club. F. L. Jackson, treasurer of the college, spoke at the
conclusion of a banquet there. Senior members of the fraternity received cuff links commemorating their last year of active brotherhood.
Musicmaker Ziggy Herwitz set the dance in motion during which Miss Charlotte Rustin of Columbia, S.C., was crowned Rose of
Pi Kappa Phi for 1950. The college dining room was the scene of a banquet held by Pi Kappa Alpha.
Alec Hodgin served as emcee for this portion of the Pika Dream Girl Ball, while Lee Talbert created peals of
laughter among those present with his clever skit. Brothers and their dates then adjourned to the dance at Erwin Lodge
for which Fleet Green and his Flitty Fifty made with the notes. Miss Rosemary Swaney of Wilmington, N.C., was voted
Pika Dream Girl of 1950 after which she was given a Dream Girl pin and a bouquet of red roses.
Differing only in dress and music, Kappa Sigma whooped it up at a square dance given at the Charlotte Observer
Fresh Air Camp. Mr. Pat Williams, from North Wilkesboro, called the dances. Hal Haynes and his cohorts manufactured their version
of hillbilly music.
