GROVER LEE

El Tubo Proves Prominent Young Davidson Personality

Write a feature on Grover Lee, Bud Fowle, first pinned the name of the card said. That is quite an
assignment. How can anyone put all the facts and tales about the gallant General Tube into an article of 350
words?

Grover is without a doubt one of the outstanding personalities on the campus today. In fact, it has been said
that the four years from 1946 to 1950 should be called the Tubian era at Davidson. For it was an
August afternoon of 1946 that this hulking athlete from Durham first arrived at the local depot after an all-day trip
from the east Carolina city. And it was in these same early days of post-war football practice that another Wildcat
immortal, Fowle, exclaimed that his only possible moniker was Tube. However, Grover insists that since his departure in June will
bring an end to the Tubian era, his nickname should also die at that point. For how can so prominent
a figure make his mark in the business world with such a tab?

Grover’s football days started on the North Durham sandlots. It was here that he was a plunging 80-pound fullback. But
music made its bid and threatened to ruin this most promising of gridiron careers. At Central Junior High School, Tube
took the trumpet in hand and blew himself to fame in the Central band. But in the eighth grade, the
sporting blood reigned supreme and it was back to the gridiron as a flashy 130-pound end. Grover’s powerful build convinced
his prep coach that he would best fit in the middle of the line. So for the rest of his
high school days, it was Grover Lee, watch charm guard.

Grover reported to Bloody Bill Story as blocking back but shifted back to end where he had former experience. Here
he worked well on a great jayvee squad alternating with Marvin Kelly. When advancing to varsity ranks, Jamerson shifted Lee
back to the blocking post and it was here that the Tube saw gallant action in the St. Louis and
Rollins games in the past campaigns. Grover brought new spirit to a battered Wildcat aggregation which trailed by some 40
points with only minutes left in the St. Louis game. He rallied the forces with the challenging remark that he
was there and it would be a Cat march from then on.

As a soldier, Grover has drawn fame second only to that of his athletic prowess. Cadet Lt. Lee has cut
a mean figure on the drill field all year and it will be Lt. Lee, U.S. Army Reserve as he
takes his 101 days of advanced training at Ft. Benning this summer. Only certain graduates are eligible for this school
but Grover has made his mark. In selecting Lt. Lee for advanced training, the army probably bore in mind the
hustling cadet at the ROTC camp last summer. There, Grover was always first out for a formation and was always
ready.

Books could be written on this number one character of the Tubian era but sufficient to say that the Holy
City will never again...be the same. They're MILDER! They're TOPS! © Copyright 1940, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Armstrong, Lawrence Atkins, Bob Burroughs, Carl Garrison, Bob Grigsby, THE DAVIDSONIAN ask Claude to do anything for him in Washington.
But to the dismay of his opponents, people still attend his rallies, and businessmen care very little over who obtains
them certain legislation or favors as long as it is obtained. The deciding factor will be the vote of the
middle-income bracket. And the race becomes hotter and hotter as that May day approaches. At this point, both sides are
predicting victory, but an observer might justly say that things look a bit brighter for George than for Claude. However,
anything can happen, and probably will. Too bad about George and Claude — they used to be such good friends.

ERWIN TAKES (Continued From Page One)
Inspection and a formal review were held on Richardson Field. At the latter ceremony, Cadet Lawrence Erwin, Jr., a freshman
from Morganton, N.C., was awarded the American Legion Proficiency Medal. This medal is awarded annually by the North Carolina Department
of the American Legion to the cadet making the most improvement during the course of the year. Incidentally, Cadet Erwin
was one of 13 cadets officially commended by the Inspecting Team for outstanding performance at the inspection.

KAPPA KAPPA (Continued From Page One)
Malloy Owen, of the local group, acted as master of ceremonies, introducing Mr. Richard Johnston, who in turn introduced the
guest speakers. Following the banquet, an informal reception was given by the petitioning group at the K.K. house honoring the
visitors. The guest list included President Cunningham, the deans, members of the administration, the members of the faculty committee on
fraternities, and representatives of all the local national fraternities on the campus. Davidson students who are now brothers of the
local Kappa Kappa fraternity are as follows: Joseph Bell, Bill Boand, Bob Boyd, George Brinkley, Ralph Brooks, R.C. Burwell, A.B.
Caldwell, David Cowan, David Davis, Roland Engle, Henry Hansen, Dick Harris, Bob Inman, Kenneth Jones, Bob Keever, David Koontz, Parker
Ledbetter, John Livingston, Thomas Lowman, Bill McCrary, Pat McGeachy, Leslie McNeill, M.C. Marlette, Herbert Middleton, George Morton, Joe Morton, Malloy
Owen, York Pharr, Fielding Russell, Dean Seagle, Graham Smith, Bill Smith, Marvin Thompson, Bill Whitesides, Whit Whitfield, Dan Wilson, Doc
Winters. The following are pledges: James Brown, Carl Hassell, Owen Kellum, Raymond Lynch, John Nisbet, James Shuping, Joe Sink, Donald
Crosby.

ARCHIBALD RUTLEDGE (Continued From Page One)
Describe both human and wild life at Hampton, the famous South Carolina plantation which has been the home of Mr.
Rutledge’s ancestors since 1686.

DUKE DUMPS (Continued From Page Three)
and Branch gave the ’Cats 2 more runs in the last of the 9th to end the game.

SCABBARD & BLADE (Continued From Page One)
Sergeant; Washington, N.C.; Kappa Alpha, President Band, Phi Mu Alpha. Hugh Underwood Leach—Platoon Sergeant; De Funick Springs, Florida; Phi Delta
Theta, D Club, Beaver Club; football. Charles Harper Newbold—First Sergeant; Wilmington, N.C.; Historian, Pi Kappa Alpha; served 18 months 504th
Parachute Inf. 82nd Airborne Division. Dan Ingram McKeithen, Jr.—Platoon Sergeant; Bethesda, Maryland; President, Kappa Alpha; Cross Country, Davidsonian make-up Editor;
Quips and Cranks.

TWIN PIANISTS (Continued From Page One)
In 1947 they graduated from Oberlin Conservatory of Music, Oberlin, Ohio, having been elected to membership in the National Music
Fraternity, Phi Kappa Lambda. They were two out of ten from a class of 450 to receive this honor.

WALKER TAKES (Continued From Page One)
passed to supply Eu seniors each year with a special Eumanean diploma as a compliment for their service to the
society and as a memento of their college days. President J.W. Campbell appointed Jack McLaney and Gordon Scott of the
rising senior class to serve as marshals for the Eu Society in the graduation exercises this year.

WHAT TO DO (Continued From Page Three)
leadership in boating, canoeing, and sailing, with emphasis on program planning, will be held at Camp Mondamin, Tuxedo, N.C., June
4-14, under the direction of Robert Zubrod. The total fee for the aquatic schools is only $40, and for the
small craft school $45, which includes board, room, books, supplies, and tuition for the 10-day period. Through the cooperation of
the Tennessee A&I College, the enrollment fee for the Negro Aquatic School at Nashville is only $30. The fee may
be paid by the individual enrolling in a school or by sponsoring groups, such as camps, municipalities, Red Cross chapters,
or other agencies.

VISIT THE Charlotte Waffle Shop “ACROSS FROM THE BURNING CORNER” ON WEST TRADE STREET

BRENDA MARSHALL
Famous North Texas State Teachers College Alumna says: “Chesterfields are so much milder and better-tasting that I find them completely
to my liking.”
Brenda Marshall STARRING IN “IROQUOIS TRAIL” AN EDWARD SMALL PRODUCTION RELEASED THRU UNITED ARTISTS
