PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF -------------- GORDON SCOTT

BUSINESS MANAGER -------------- JOHN LOFTIN

EDITORIAL STAFF

Associate Editors ---- Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall

Features Editor ------------------ Shelley Beard

Managing Editors ---- Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George McMurray, Ed Richardson

Photographs ---- Pete Ormsby

Photographer ---- Raymond Lynch

Proofreader ---- Dick Roper

City Editor ---- Nat Daniel

Art Editor ---- Jim Fickeisen

Sports Editor ---- Bill White

BUSINESS STAFF

Assistant Business Manager -------------- Alex Goley

Advertising Manager -------------- Manley McWilliams

Circulation Manager -------------- Ansley Moses

Collections Manager -------------- Jack Turner

Subscriptions Manager -------------- Bill Hart

Faculty Advisor -------------- Prof. Henry T. Lilly

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Davidson, North Carolina as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March
3, 1897.

Making Ends Meet

Last year for the first time since the war, the Davidsonian made it a practice to print a six-page paper
every week. This practice was followed except for a few four-page editions which came off the press. The same procedure
has been and will continue to be followed this year. Some may ask, “Why not have a six-page paper every
week?” The answer is relatively simple—lack of funds. The two sources of income which the Davidsonian has are advertising and
a sum of money which is yearly taken out of the $25.00 activities fee which every student pays at the
beginning of school. Under ordinary circumstances, this income will just about cover expenses; however, in some weeks, printing expenses may
run above average, and the result is that the deficit must be offset by printing a four-page paper occasionally. The
Staff regrets that this situation exists but feels that the student body and friends of Davidson should know the whys
and wherefores when a four-page paper appears. There are a considerable number of disadvantages in planning, make-up, and advertising which
result from changing the size of the paper, so it is far more desirable from our standpoint to keep a
standard number of pages in the Davidsonian; however, changes are sometimes necessary in order to make ends meet.

Treat ’em Right

With the basketball season just around the corner for Davidson, we would like to make one suggestion to the Department
of Athletics concerning accommodations in Johnston Gymnasium for students from schools which may be playing Davidson. It is not a
question of space, for except for the “big” games there will be plenty of room for anyone who cares to
see the action on the hardwood. Specifically, what we advocate is that a section of seats should be reserved ahead
of time for visiting students, and that the ticket offices of these schools be notified of this fact. The response
in many cases will probably be small, but at least an effort will be made to treat the visitors courteously,
to say nothing of affording good seats for those who may follow their team to Davidson. The Davidson ticket office
could be notified of ticket sales in plenty of time to dispose of those seats which were not sold. In
too many instances last year Davidson students who followed the Cat hoopsters around the circuit were required to pay full
admission prices and take what was left of the seats available. Regardless of the treatment accorded Davidson students in foreign
ports, the local Athletic Department would do well to assure these foreigners better accommodations when they invade the local campus.
It might even set a precedent for other schools to follow.

Thought For Today

In this day and time when so much talk is circulating around about Davidson's football future, it is interesting to
note the All-“Southern” Conference football squad which was selected this week by the Associated Press. Seven out of the eleven
men on the first team come from far above the Mason-Dixon. Not that there is anything wrong with a Yankee’s
coming South to pursue his education, but a blind man can see that the ratio of players from the North
and South isn’t just mere coincidence. Regardless of what position one may take with regard to “buying” football players, the
fact remains that the majority of the top players, even in the South, are those who obviously matriculated to campuses
for reasons other than that the school has a good Department of Economics, etc.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

DAVID AND GOLIATH SOUTHERN CONFERENCE STYLE

THE WORLD LAST WEEK

1) President Truman has allocated sixteen million for the initial Yugoslavian relief fund, and the first shipment of Marshall Plan
flour has arrived.

2) An announcement from the U. S. Bureau of Mines said that gasoline has been produced from coal in practical
quantities for the first time.

3) A U.N. committee decided to send back to the Little Assembly the complaint of Nationalist China against Soviet intervention.

4) Allied and German observers rate the Peoples’ police in the Russian zone of Germany as unreliable and declining in
quality.

5) Communist China protested to France against “provocative invasions” of three provinces from Indo China.

6) Peiping’s representatives in the Security Council reasserted that the forces in Korea are volunteers, and therefore will not be
forbidden to go.

7) French forces in Indo China are still in serious positions; one garrison barely escaped a recent trap.

8) After overrunning several towns in northwest Korea, Red troops struck hard behind American lines as the situation grows much
graver.

HOWE GREEN

the freshman farce

By ARCHIBALD HAMENHASH

“Hey, Joe, who's going to speak in chapel today?” whispered Howe Green to his buddy Joe Stoop.

“Oh, some guy named Professor Savafarm from North Carolina State College is going to speak on the European Corn Borer.”

“Holy cow, not again! I get so tired of listening to those men every day, and women with shrill voices
and high hats from the S. P. C. A. screaming not to let scheming doctors torture dogs for medical research,
and professors discussing the insects and beetles on Mount Everest. Who arranges those programs?”

“Gentlemen, I find it impossible to speak with so much noise,” interrupted Professor Kimbrough rudely. “Please give me a little
attention.”

Howe was silent, for he had already found out enough to know that chapel wasn’t going to be a pleasant
experience.

When the dreaded moment arrived, a semi-hush descended over the suspicious student body as one of its members stood on
the platform to introduce the speaker, who was not a Davidson man.

“Is that guy sitting back there the speaker?” whispered Howe to his neighbor, who was already slumped in his seat
and breathing deeply. “He looks like a fugitive from a redrying plant with all those wrinkles. Where's his cane?”

“This morning we have a very distinguished speaker with us, Professor O. I. Savafarm from North Carolina State College,” said
the introducer. “He was born in 1879 on a small farm near Cornville, Kansas, and attended public school there. In
the great blight of 1891, his family’s entire crop was destroyed by the European Corn Borer and they (the family,
that is) were forced to flee to Virginia. You can easily see why he chose these pests as his field
of study.”

“Professor Savafarm did not attend Davidson College. He was a student — ”

“S-s-s-s-s,” rose from the rows of stormy faces, indicating there was still life out there. The student continued, “It is
concerning the habits of this insect that he will address us now. Professor Savafarm.”

A perfunctory round of applause sounded, Professor Savafarm cleared his throat, straightened his tie, and began.

“Did you know the European Corn Borer destroys 5,368,417 bushels of corn a year in Iowa,” he thundered, and paused
to let this startling revelation take effect. The response was electrifying. A few light sleepers yawned, but the eyes of
the rest of the audience remained closed. Encouraged by this spectacular display of interest, the Professor continued unabated.

“This pest, which mates on the 13th of December, can be destroyed by the efforts of you, thus preserving America’s
rich heritage of agricultural achievement. My friends, I was born and raised on a farm, and I want to tell
you there is no better life than living with nature, and raising crops, and participating in Agricultural Advancement.”

He was stopped short by a murmur, which slowly increased in volume until it became a roar: “Culture beat agriculture.
Culture beat Agriculture. Yea!”

When order was at last restored, the professor, obviously shaken, tried to continue. But it was too late. He had
lost the initiative, and the victory cup went once more to the Davidson College Student body.

THE POLL CAT

By SLAYDON MYERS

Do you plan to attend graduate school after finishing Davidson?

Yes—59 percent

No—41 percent

Are you certain as to what business or profession you would like to make a career of?

Yes—65 percent

No—35 percent

Are you planning to enter your father’s profession or take over his business?

Yes—26 percent

No—74 percent

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1950

MUSIC WITH HANSEN

Those who were fortunate enough to be present on Wednesday,April 26 at chapel heard a performance of Gian-Carlo Menotti’s opera,
"The Telephone." This year it is to be done once more because of its huge success both here and at
other colleges in the area last year. It will be presented next Tuesday, December 5 in chapel by Phi Mu
Alpha. Bill Whitesides will sing the tenor role and Bobbie Jones, the soprano. "The Telephone" had a highly successful run
on Broadway. The opera itself concerns two people—a young man, Ben, and his efforts to propose to his girl Lucy,
before leaving for the war. His intentions are of the best and she too, is interested in him, but every
time he is on the verge of phrasing the momentous question the telephone rings and Lucy answers, or Lucy is
making a call in answer to the call she has just received. His time is running out, but even his
anguished, "what time is it" precipitates a call by Lucy to ascertain just that fact for Ben’s edification. Eventually, Ben
being a fairly bright young man, the solution presents itself. He realizes that he will never reach Lucy except by
telephone which has thwarted him thus far. He leaves the apartment, places the call, and is, at last, successful. Lucy
accepts and their last duet is a miracle of tender love. The plot itself is intrinsically humorous, but the telephone
conversations of Lucy, so satirical, so urbane, and so pointless from Ben's point of view, furnish the real humor of
the piece. Ben, at one point, realizing that the phone will never be silent and give him his chance, takes
a pair of scissors and advances stealthily on the phone to cut its life cord, but, just in time, the
telephone rings frantically, summoning Lucy to its defense. She upbraids him for menacing the instrument and he replies, "It was
only in self-defense." To sum up, "The Telephone" is a delightfully humorous satire of Italian opera and like all good
satires, succeeds in being an excellent original. Its brevity and its appeal determined the decision to give it as a
chapel program for Phi Mu Alpha requests that all students be in their seats and quiet by 10:25. This is
necessary so that the entire opera may be given.

Exchange Student Sends Greetings

(Editor’s Note: Guy Dardel, French exchange student here in 1948-1949, sends this letter to his many friends here at Davidson.
We feel those of you who remember Guy will be interested in hearing about him again.)

Dear Friends,

It has been such a long time since I had some kind of a relation with you! However, I have
to say that I am often thinking about you and the great time I had when I enjoyed your hospitality
and your generosity. I hope everything is all right at Davidson and that you have good students in your lectures.
Sir, I hope, too, that a good atmosphere is reigning over Davidson College in general and that the French group
comprehends smart boys as ever. Please give me some news of this good old Davidson and all the people around.

Now, let me give you some news about me. Just before the Summer vacations, I passed my second-year examinations successfully
so that I need but one more year to get my law license (licence en Droit), and I just passed
my examinations and got admitted to the second year of the Transportation School, that is, I still need one year
to be able to pass my examinations and get my Transportation diploma. So far so good, as you can see,
and I am very glad I got these exams. Tomorrow I am starting my Transportation School, while the Law School
does not begin before November. Altogether I will have a busy year, since I will have to pass, by the
end of the Academic year, my Law "licence," my transportation diploma and an examination which will enable me to be
a lawyer.

Do you know whether or not some Davidsonians are in France this year? If so, would you tell me some
news about them and give their names so as to give me the possibility to get in touch with them.
Now I am quite sorry about Charlie Hadley; he did not visit us during his stay over here, save once
when he got into Paris for the first time and was so sick. My father asked news from him very
often but we did not have the pleasure to see him again. Certainly, you know what happened, and you can
give some news about him. Please tell all the boys coming over here not to hesitate to phone or to
let me know when they arrive, for I would be so glad to help them in any way possible.

Please give my regards to the Watts, Lillys, Browns, Cunninghams, and all the friends. I would need a whole page
to name them. Let me give you all the best regards from my parents as well as from myself.

Yours sincerely,
Guy Dardel
29 rue Chevalier
Montmorency (S et O)
France

Gags

Freshman orientation speaker: “You men are the cream of American youth.”
Dissident voice from the rear: “Heaven help the skimmed milk!” —The Plainsman

If every boy in the U. S. could read every girl's mind, the gasoline consumption would drop off 50 percent.
—Yale Record.

Shortly before the invasion started, a general and his staff were watching a troop-carrying glider go by. From it came
a carrier pigeon. Powerful field glasses followed the bird to a nearby coop. A colonel raced over, got the message
attached to the bird's leg, bounded back breathlessly, and handed it to the general. He opened it with trembling hands,
read it, cursed and threw it to the ground. Then he walked away, his face a bright purple. The colonel
waited a moment, then picked up the message. It read: “I have been sent down for being naughty in my
cage.” —Varsity

A famous maestro had a tough time deciding whether to marry a very beautiful but stupid girl or a rather
painful looking creature who was blessed with a magnificent voice. Art triumphed. He married the soprano. The morning after their
nuptials, he woke up, took one look at the bride, nudged her and shrieked, “For goodness sake; SING!”

An infant was awakened from a peaceful slumber in a hospital. Looking down at his raiment, he yelled over to
the occupant of the next crib: “Did you spill water on my diapers?”
“Naw.”
“Humm. Musta been an inside job.” —Varsity.

“For goodness sake, use both hands,” shrilled the coed in the front seat.
“I can’t,” said her escort, “I have to steer with one.”

A versatile real estate salesman of West Texas had just finished describing the glorious opportunities of that part of the
country to a prospect from the East. “All that West Texas needs,” he said, “to become the garden spot of
the universe is good people and water.”
“Well,” replied the prospect, “that’s all that Hell needs.”

FROM THE EDITOR’S MAILBOX

TO THE EDITOR:

Auburn Lambeth, Wood Leach, and Davidson Football Team:

Dear Auburn and Wood:

In reply to your letter of last week, I would like to clarify my viewpoint in the takeoff on the
VMI game. It was not intended to be derogatory in the extreme, and I regret that you drew such conclusions.
You must admit that to most of the student body there seemed to be a lacking of driving spirit on
the part of our team. The very fact that the team realized its spirit was not at its best, as
you said, against VMI, prompted your meeting with the coaches the Monday following the game. This seems to me to
have been a very commendable move. The object of my column was to create in the team a fighting spirit.
My method might have seemed harsh, but I feel sincerely that it brought results. You and your teammates slaughtered Richmond
College, 39-0 and gave State one of the hardest fights of the season. I have thought for a long time
that if you once got fired up enough there would be few teams able to stop you. The hope and
the aim of us all is a winning team, and I should be the last to discourage its efforts by
destructive criticism, but rather I hope to foster determination by constructive criticism.

Sincerely,
Archibald Hamenhash

To The Editor

In last week's “Davidsonian” an article was published which reached a journalistic low at Davidson. I am referring to Mr.
Nat Daniels’ somewhat strained first effort as a columnist. I do not know what Nat's intentions were; but if he
intended his article to be humorous, he failed miserably. If he intended to be serious, he displayed execrable taste. If
he does not show considerable improvement in the future, it would be better for him to forsake his journalistic career
and devote his excess energies to more fruitful and less libelous endeavor.

Sincerely,
J. C. Hodges
