Sandwiched sideways between Business Law and Johnson’s 71, we bucked these review questions this week.

(1) In the light of Davidson's drive to get out of the athletic dumps, what was the effect of the W.&L. walloping on the minds of those who stood idly by and watched the slaughter? Drawing on conversation which we had made mental notes of after the game, we scratched on our paper: “They were, along with Coach Crowell Little, a bit disappointed in Davidson’s showing, but hardly were they as disappointed with the Wildcats as they were impressed by the might of the forces that were mustered under the two Generals. W.&L. definitely showed that it has by far the strongest team in the lower half of the loop, and that indeed it might well give the bigger boys a fit. Add to that the post-game testimony of Coach George Barclay that ‘this was our finest game of the year,’ and keep in mind that it was coming from the coach whose team just missed beating heavily favored Virginia a week earlier.”

Pleased that we knew the answer to the first one and hoping that others would sanction our reply, we stepped before the next barrel.

(2) Do you believe that the alumni after the game were covered with a gloom of pessimism stemming from the thought that no improvement had been wrought; the Cats were still getting their teeth kicked in? The notes popped back into mind readily on this one. Simply reproduce post-supper conversation with an alumnus: “They didn’t look too good, particularly on defense, but if ever Davidson was outmanned, it was today. I don’t suppose those boys (Branch and McNeely) being out helped you all any, either. But I didn’t feel badly about the defeat. The offense looked good from time to time—very good. The team was evidently well-coached and knew what it was going to do from one minute to the next. And after recovering from the shock of those first two touchdowns, they picked up in spirit and drove for scores. That’s the kind of stuff these guys in the stands were looking for—that old spirit revival. I certainly am not as down as I was after last homecoming. I don’t know when I have ever been as disgusted with a Davidson team as I was then. No, I think we’ll play pretty good ball from here on out. I believe that was the low point of the season this afternoon.”

Underlining the last sentence with a prayer, we went to No. 3.

(3) What, in your opinion, are the chances of Davidson (enrollment app. 850) switching the proverbial shoe and giving W.&L. (enrollment app. 1250) the boot, say two or three years hence? Uh. That was it with both barrels—his clincher. Thus the stock treatment for such questions. Give him a few facts and pad it with opinion. Now rack to remember... the press box, minutes after game time. A gentleman very closely associated with Washington and Lee is speaking. “You’ve got a darned good offense, there. Our blocking was just mighty sharp this afternoon. But listen. You stick with Crowell Little. Give him time and material, and he’ll do the job for you. You said yourself you couldn’t ask for miracles the first year. You just stick with Little. You may not know it, but W.&L. practically flipped a coin between Barclay and Little when we were in the market several years ago. Yessir, I believe Davidson can go places with that man.”

That was all the quote worthy of note, so we flavored it with some thought of our own. We wrote: “If the alumni saw the need Saturday, Little needs only time; they will supply the material. It would be hard for them to have overlooked the need if they took a healthy look at the size and depth of the beef that the Generals corralled into Richardson Field’s pastures. The old grads used the word ‘outmanned’ plenty that evening. It simply depends on how long they remember the outmanned picture and how much it moves them to do something about it.”

We closed the pen and read back over the paper to see what we had said. In summary fashion, it seemed to attach importance to the W.&L. game because it was before the Old Grads had showed them what we had—or what we didn’t have. It was evident that the man they had picked as a coach is second to none. The offense showed that. But, you can’t stop a freight train with trickery. You've got to derail it, and it takes manpower to do it. Or, as Coach Little put it: “You can’t catch a bear with a switch.” Even if we flunk the review, we learned the lesson. The alumni should have, too. They sat in the same class with us and watched the same lecture.

Team Statistics
Individual Running
Davidson Opponents
Carries Gain Loss Net Av.
25 First Downs, rush 52 Gregg 36 248 20 228 6.6
24 First Downs, pass 16 White 16 102 7 95 6.6
1 First Downs, pen. 1 Runyan 24 129 4 125 5.2
50 Total First Downs 79 Wade 12 46 6 40 3.2
1097 Yards Rushing 1097 Leach 11 29 1 28 2.8
401 Yards passing 401 Lambeth 29 74 47 27 0.9
1181 Total Net Yards 2180 Guiton 3 24 0 24 8.0
76 Passes attempted 76 Bower 2 5 0 5 2.5
31 Passes Completed 31 Stuart 1 2 0 2 2.0
6 Passes intercepted 6
7 Fumbles Lost 7
23 Number Punts 20
36.6 Punting Average 28.8
37 Yds. Punts Returned 193
16 Number Penalties 25
136 Yards penalized 216

Richardson Field Saturday night, it will be a contest between two football teams that have lost 3 games apiece, and it will be a contest to determine if either team can come back from the previous weekend's loss. Both teams will be more than eager to get back on the winning side after losing lop-sided affairs the past weekend. Erskine has beaten Catawba, 32-28, and East Tennessee, 12-7, while losing one-sided games to Wofford, Presbyterian, and East Kentucky. The score of that game was 56-0, and Erskine took both a physical and moral beating. The big question in the heart of every true Erskine fan is whether or not his favorite team can overcome the after-effects of such a beating and go on to beat Davidson.

Erskine runs from a regular “T” formation with a few variations and some “split T” options by the quarterback. The Erskine quarterback, Dulumback, is one of the leading ground-gainers in South Carolina. This is quite a distinction, with such ball carriers as Steve Wadiak, Ray Mathews, and Jackie Calvert to compete with. Dulumback throws passes left-handed, and it is through him that the Erskine squad has gained the reputation thus far this season as a passing team. The Erskine line, which took a beating from East Kentucky last week but also probably learned a few things, is led by guards Bolin and Macinsco. According to scouting reports, their line is very big and capable, probably much heavier than that of the Wildcats.

As in the case of the Erskine fan, the big question of the Davidson fan is whether or not the Cats can shake their losing ways and rebound for a win after last week’s one-sided loss to a Washington and Lee powerhouse. The Cats also took a beating last week, but they also probably profited by the experience. This week the Cats welcome back to action Jack Branch and Bill McNeely, a pair of big tackles. This could well bolster the squad since it is doubtful that first-string tackle Bill Freeman will be able to play Saturday. The Cats will be looking for still injured quarterback Jack Ruth to spell Auburn Lambeth on occasions. His fine passing and play calling set up one touchdown against Washington and Lee, and he scored the other one, even though he hadn't practiced for weeks. Speedsters A. C. Gregg and Johnny Guiton, both of whom showed well against the Generals, will be set and ready for action, as will be the powerful fullbacks Ham Wade and C. L. Runyan. As for the Davidson line, it will be the old regulars Jim Fasul, Jerry Kiser, Arnold Whisnant, Bob Turk, and Walter Oakes ready to match Erskine’s forward wall and check their backfield.

By comparative scores, Davidson's Wildcats are a healthy favorite. Also by past performances, the Cats would get the nod, since they came back from a Furman loss to swamp Presbyterian earlier in the season. However, records disappear when the whistle blows, and only tomorrow night’s game will tell which has the best comeback.

Davidson Erskine
Williams LE Parker
Davis LT Woolbright
Fasul LG Mancino
Whisnant C Cannon
Kiser RG Turpin
Pierce RT Sitton
Turk RE Deer
Lambeth QB Dulumback
Leach LH Mitchell
Gregg RH Cooper
Wade FB Neal

Individual Scoring
TD EPA EP FG TP
Gregg 3 0 6 0 18
Turk 2 0 0 0 12
Leach28208 Stuart 10006 Lambeth 10006 Guiton 10006 Runyan 13006 Wade 10006

HUSTLER — Little Johnny Guiton came into his own tough package of power to stop with a splendid—if brief—showing against Washington and Lee last weekend. The compact 158-pounder will in all probability show a lot of heel tomorrow night when Davidson meets Erskine in Richardson Field stadium.

Chesterfield SPORTS QUIZ
1. Washington and Lee’s Generals, with only Richmond and Virginia in their way this year, stand to bag the Southern Conference championship for the first time since what year?
2. October 24th, a University of Pennsylvania All-American potential amassed a total of 490 yards to eclipse the old record of 458 yards individual total offense set by Hunchy Hoernschemeyer of Indiana in 1943. This one man show's name?
3. Davidson College’s classy passer, Auburn Lambeth, needs how many completions to add to his collegiate record to enter the select “200” circle of passers?
4. Florida's Gators last week knocked an undefeated team from the list of national leaders, despite two touchdown tosses by the losers’ Bill Wade. Wade's team?

Answers are to be turned in to Dave Moylan, no later than Tuesday following this publication. Winners will be announced next week.

Crushing Washington & Lee Attack Too Much Might For Smaller Cats
By DICK LYLES

Injury-ridden and lacking some of the spirit which has been so prevalent on the team so far this season, the Red and Black Wildcats of Crowell Little showed up badly for the Homecoming crowd of 9,000 while absorbing a 47-12 licking in the hands of George Barclay’s Washington and Lee Generals. The Generals commanded a large lead throughout the entire game by jumping at the outset of the game to two quick tallies. W. and L., led by Gen. Gil Bocetti, has one of the largest, most powerful grid teams in years. They completely overpowered the Cats with their smooth running, blocking, and passing. Meanwhile, it seemed almost impossible for Davidson to stab the huge line and gain on the ground, so as usual the Cats took to the air with Captain Auburn Lambeth completing 12 out of 23 tosses. Lambeth quarterbacked, passed, and played defensively like the splendid ballplayer he is. To a bevy of receivers, he tossed 23 passes, 12 of them were caught and went for considerable gains, and several more hit their mark but were dropped. Barclay, W. and L.'s coach, remarked after the game that he was glad he didn’t have to face Lambeth again this year. Only 17 more completed passes and Auburn joins the ranks of the “200 Club.” He has completed 43 out of 74 already this season. Several miscues on covering the kick receiver led to a quick T.D. by the Gens as the game started. From then on it was pretty much an offensive game from the standpoint of the visitors. The Cats put on several drives and showed real punch in the two touchdowns. It was the second half that saw a reviving Davidson team make several sustained drives and fill the air with passes. Hard luck and not quite enough drive stalled most of these drives short of their mark but proved that the spark was still there. C. L. Runyan shone with some hard-driving, ball-toting in these drives. Runyan, injured from the Citadel game, forgot his troubles and smashed through the front wall carrying a few with him. The riddled line was backed up superbly by George Nickels and Jim Rogers. Also, “Bull” Freeman continued on his “bulling” ways and racked down hard on Gil Bocetti and crew. A. C. Gregg, although hurt, caught several passes and ran well to keep up his stellar performances. Little Johnny Guiton came out of the ranks of the unheralded and also turned in a sparkling running show.

NOTICE
Contrary to notices on schedule cards, in newspapers and through other media, Davidson and Erskine will play in Davidson on Richardson Field, Saturday night at 8:00. Originally the game was slated for 2:00, but with the Wake Forest-Clemson game slated for Winston Salem the same afternoon, the Cat-Fleet scrap was moved to 8:00 so that the football faithful of this area may take in both games. The game has never been scheduled for Charlotte, however. Davidson's final home game next week with VMI is the second and last Charlotte game.

Kappa Sigs 38-ATO 6
The Kappa Sigs just couldn't be stopped once they got rolling against the ATO’s and the decisiveness of the score indicates it. They scored on almost every type of play as they rolled up the season's highest score. In the line, Simmons was outstanding while Spach and Sloan shone in the backfield.

KA’s 18-Pi Kappas 6
The KA’s showed a variety of individual stars as they outfought the Pi Kappas and won by a score of 18-6. Instead of Bill Bird doing the passing, it was T. W. Aldred and he looked good in completing several tosses. The Pi Kappas put up a terrific fight all the way but the KA’s couldn’t be stopped. Bill Cassels played an outstanding game for the Pi Kappas.

SAE’s 12-Pikas 0
Despite a determined game by the Pika line, the SAE’s were able to gain a victory by the score of 12-0. It seemed that the SAE pass defense was too strong all the way through. Monty Hill alone intercepted five passes. Both SAE tallies came on passes by Jay Roberts.

Sigma Chi's 2-SPE’s 0
The Sigma Chi’s on the margin of a safety were able to beat out the SPE’s 2-0. It was Johnny Kelton who led them to victory in a very closely contested game. For the SPE’s it was Jack Wilson who played a sterling game.

Pi Kappas 20-ATO’s 0
With very little opposition to halt them, the Pi Kappas took the measure of the ATO’s 20-0. The ATO’s were unable to ever get started from their T-formation. For the Pi Kappas, Bill Cassels played his usual fine game, making one particularly good catch for a touchdown. For the ATO's, Dick Harris shone in the line.

Kappa Sigs 5-Phi Delts 2
Behind the passing of Jim Sloan, the Kappa Sigs were able to defeat the Phi Delts 5-2. It was a very rough game with several players being hurt. The Phi Delt offensive was sparked by the passing of Bill Bacon and the receiving of Neil Leach. Simmons was a defensive rock for the Kappa Sigs.

Standings Through Wednesday
Won Lost
Beta 4 1
KA 4 1
KS 4 1
Sig Chi 3 1
Phi Delts 4 2
Pi Kappas 3 2
SAE 2 2
Phi Gam 1 3
SPE 1 4
Pikas 1 4
ATO 0 6

Kitten Harriers Put Mark on Line Against Pfeiffer This Afternoon
Davidson’s Freshman cross-country team victory parade went on the line this afternoon in a return match with Pfeiffer Junior College. The Kittens defeated Pfeiffer in the first meet at Davidson and should take their measure again. On Homecoming morning the Wildkitten Harriers downed Lees-McRae Junior College 24-36 for their third straight win. Bill Shipley, hailing from Asheville, lost for the first time this season. First place was taken by Lees-McRae, the time being 12 minutes and 5 seconds for the two and one-half mile course. Shipley was second with Bill Coe right on his heels to take third place. Fourth place was taken by Lees-McRae with Bob Graff, Paul Alexander, and John Holt taking fifth, sixth, and seventh respectively. After the Pfeiffer meet this weekend, the Kittens don’t meet anyone until the state meet is run in Raleigh on November the 6th.

It's no news when an athlete has failed to perform because he was out of shape. But it is a man-bites-dog item when an unconditioned boy comes through in top shape style. That is the story of this week's Wildcat of the Week—Jack Ruth. Last Saturday, in his relief role for Auburn Lambeth, Ruth quarterbacked the Cats in some of the sharpest play series of the season and tossed for the second Cat touchdown. In his brief role, he hit on four of seven passes for 72 yards. Ruth’s story this year has been an in-again-out-again condition. A kidney ailment knocked him out of the Presbyterian game, and after returning to action against the Citadel, Jack was benched again by the doctors and was even slated for a trip to the hospital. It was not until Saturday morning that Ruth knew that he would be able to play. Good conditioning earlier in the season had kept him well through the two-week layoff but there was the lack of the feel of the game for two weeks, and then too a certain sluggishness should have been inevitable. His handoffs and pitchouts were veiled in secrecy and his aerials rivaled Auburn’s for cool accuracy. Generaling both Cat scoring drives, Ruth found Bob Turk in the end zone for Davidson's second touchdown. He also skippered the first pay-off trip with Lambeth coming in to make the toss for the TD. It is probable that with Lambeth on the injured list with a bruised hip, Ruth will see plenty of service tomorrow night against Erskine. And it will hardly be a case of the bat boy going to the plate for the team slugger. Ruth has exhibited a calm head, sure eye, and deceptive arm in every appearance to date, and if he anywhere near approaches last Saturday’s show, the Cats won't miss Auburn.

VISIT THE DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
142 E. Morehead — Charlotte