PAGE THREE ~ PASTOR, RECORD ARTIST, STEPS TO FAME FEATURING SAXOPHONE AND VOCAL TALENT

Tony Pastor was born in Middletown, Conn., thirty-four years ago. His father was a New England cabinet maker and was
determined that his son should follow in his footsteps. Tony did learn woodworking, but from the day he got a
saxophone, at the age of 16, Tony knew that music was his first love. He admired Jimmy Dorsey's style of
play and aimed to emulate JD's musical success. A year after he learned to play, Tony was a member of
the famous Commanders under Irving Aaronson. After three years he opened his own night club in Hartford, Conn., and featured
his own orchestra. The depression forced him to close and he joined several touring bands—Smith Ballew, Joe Venuti, and Vincent
Lopez. Next came a long association with Artie Shaw’s string band in which Tony comprised the entire sax section. When
Shaw took ill at the Hotel Pennsylvania in 1939, Pastor stepped in as temporary leader and soon after Artie’s return
formed his own band again. He was immediately signed for RCA and Bluebird Records and landed an engagement at the
old State Ballroom in Bridgeport. Then came dates at Virginia Beach and Casa Manana in Hollywood. He got his first
New York booking at the Lincoln Hotel following Charlie Barnet and stayed seven months on a two-week contract. Next came
the Paramount Theatre on Broadway, home of name bands, and Pastor’s success was assured.

During his career, bandleader Pastor has been featured on many recordings. His first contract was with RCA Victor and Bluebird.
Following was a brief association with Cosmo. Pastor’s current platter pact is with Columbia Records and has been the most
successful of all. Since switching to Columbia, Tony has been responsible for several nationally-known hits. “Red Silk Stockings” was the
first and was followed by “Gonna Get a Gal,” “There's a Man at the Door,” and “You Started Something.” Though
he always was a leading recording artist, Pastor did not hit his first million record until “Gonna Get a Gal”
was released by Columbia. Previous hits were “Paradiddle Joe,” “Sunday in Savannah,” “I Found You in the Rain,” and “Robin
Hood” for Victor and Bluebird. They all passed the half-million mark.

Columbia's 1949 promotion plans call for an extensive Tony Pastor campaign. The versatile singing maestro has been given his choice
of material and may select whichever songs he feels best suit his style. Very few artists are given that consideration
by a major label. But Tony’s showmanship and salesmanship have proven that he is certain to be among the leaders
in the field of popular recordings again this year. “Style,” says Tony Pastor, “is the basis of musical success. The
bands that gain a definite mark of recognition are in the best position to attain lasting popularity.” The famous bandleader
who will appear in person with his orchestra at Davidson for Midwinters, is a firm believer in some sort of
signature through music. Tony himself makes a good example of what he is trying to prove. His own vocal ability
and the manner in which he renders a song are known to just about every man, woman, and teenager in
the country. His voice is unusual, to say the least, and Pastor is careful to select the songs he sings.
They must be suited for his style. Through the years careful selection and increased activity have proven invaluable in his
rise to fame. Today a new Tony Pastor vocal is assured of a large record sale, songs that achieve a
TP plug are Hit Parade best bets. Musically the Pastor orchestra presents an assortment of arrangements that do not follow
a set pattern. Ballads receive a special treatment as do novelties, standards, and instrumentals. Yet the basic quality and Tony's
own saxophone choruses make each song a recognizable Pastor trademark. His years of experience have made Tony one of the
most respected advisers in the music business. Those best qualified to comment say that his style of singing and playing
is among the most popular in the nation today.

Communists Paint Distorted Picture of American Youth at Meeting in Hungary

The American delegation to the World Youth and Student Festival in Hungary pictured the United States to the other delegates
as a place where most young people “have no jobs at all, and walk the streets in search of employment,”
according to an article in the current issue of The Saturday Evening Post (Feb. 11). In an article entitled “How
Our Commies Defame America Abroad,” Vic Reinemer, a Montana University graduate, gives a detailed factual report on the distorted picture
of the United States presented by the American delegation to the 10,000 other delegates from all over the world. Reinemer
was a member of a small minority group in the delegation which attempted unsuccessfully to have the truth told about
conditions in the United States. Reinemer reports that a brochure printed in four languages and distributed to other delegates at
a cultural presentation by the American delegation, said in its introduction: “In a time of developing economic crisis, the few
of us lucky enough to land jobs face declining wages, insecure seniority, speed-up and campaigns of terror and sabotage against
our unions. But the greater part of our young people have no jobs at all, and walk the streets in
search of employment. Many of us are former servicemen, our meager veterans’ allotments exhausted, our postwar dreams of full employment
smashed. To the ever louder demand of our youth for jobs, all Wall Street can answer is ‘Join the Army.’”

At the Festival Exhibition Hall, Reinemer writes, the American display featured a picture of the Statue of Liberty behind bars.
“Another,” he continues, “showed a hooded figure hanging a Negro. Photographs of slums represented American housing. Well, like most Americans,
I’m not very proud of slums or the Ku Klux Klan, and I'm not surprised when communists play them up.
But I was surprised to see these things presented by the American delegations as typical of our country. A number
of us felt that our display should show something more positive about the United States as well as these blemishes.
But we didn’t get to first base with that idea.” Reinemer says “things were different at the Soviet pavilion,” adding:
“The pictures there were bright, modern day nurseries, beautiful school buildings, hospitals, and resorts.” The “obvious distortion” in the picture
of the United States conditions was “almost funny,” Reinemer comments, until he realized that to many people “this was simply
confirmation of what they'd been told.” He continues: “After all, we were Americans, representing our country. Certainly they could take
our word for it. When I realized that, it no longer seemed funny at all.”

Reporting on the make-up of the 200-member delegation, Reinemer says that they were about equally divided between girls and boys,
whose average age was twenty-two. “Half a dozen were Negroes,” he says. “Ninety-five were students, thirty trade-unionists, and the others
for the most part representatives of various organizations—forty from Young Progressives, for instance, and thirteen from the Association of Interns
and Medical Students, plus a few free-lance observers like Hugh (his companion) and myself. New York City seemed to have
the largest representation. Reinemer was a student at the time at the Sorbonne in Paris and knew when he went
to the Festival that an attempt would be made to impress the delegates with the “virtues of communism.”

Students Speak On Missions at Historic Sugaw Creek Church

Mecklenburg’s famous old Sugaw Creek Presbyterian Church near Charlotte played host to three Davidson boys last Sunday, concluding its month
of World Mission emphasis. Ken Boyer (Korea), Dave Anderson (Africa), and Bill Hamilton (China) spoke at the old church through
the YMCA Deputations Department, sharing their experiences and impressions of the foreign mission fields with the adults and young people's
group at both morning and evening services. Dr. and Mrs. Charles Robinson of Charlotte entertained the boys in their home
for the day. The boys found out what many other deputations in the past have known: that it means a
lot to visit an active, friendly, and interested “home church.” Sugaw Creek Church was twenty years old when another group
of Mecklenburgers were putting their signatures on a historic Declaration in 1775, but through the years it has kept alive
and in step with the times, and now shows an invigorating interest in world missions. It also boasts a very
large and active young people’s group, insuring its future life and growth. The Deputation Department of your YMCA is a
channel through which you can help many local churches in this area, and also benefit from such friendly Christian fellowship,
which is spiritually refreshing and mutually helpful. Keep in touch with Don Shriver for deputation openings.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Emory Fraternities Answer Criticisms

Atlanta, Ga.

FLICKER FLASHES By HUGH SWAN

*** Excellent Picture
** Good Picture
* Fair Picture

Monday and Tuesday

“Holiday Affair,” starring Robert Mitchum and Janet Leigh. Robert, a department store clerk, gets fired because of Janet. He tries
to get up with her and cannot. He later realizes that she left one of her packages. Luckily, her address
is on the package, so he goes to see her in hopes that she will tell the store manager that
he should not be fired from an error on her part. He finds a poorly furnished apartment sheltering a little
boy of five and a boyfriend of thirty-five. Janet is busily cooking supper and trying to straighten out an argument
between her little son and her boyfriend. Robert's arrival makes matters worse. Immediately Robert decides he wants this very attractive
widow, and attempts to win her by winning the love of her little son. Who finally wins Janet—Robert, her “steady,”
or her son? You can guess that old Marijuanaer Mitchum triumphs.

Wednesday and Thursday

“When Willie Comes Marching Home,” starring Dan Dailey and Corinne Calvet (the flesh and blood French bathing suit). No material
was received on this picture; but the cast, plus bits of information gathered here and there, promise you two full
hours of entertainment.

Friday and Saturday

“Ambush,” starring Robert Taylor, John Hodiak, and Arlene Dahl. The major of Fort Gamble, Arizona sends for Robert Taylor, daring
scout who is mining for territory right in the heart of the territory held by Diablito, renegade Indian warrior, escaped
from the reservation with his bloodthirsty band. The major asks Taylor to scout out Diablito who has captured the sister
of Arlene Dahl. Through interest in Arlene Dahl, Taylor accepts the scouting job. John Hodiak, recently made first-in-command, does not
have the ability to attack Diablito. Despite his dislike for Hodiak, Taylor goes along and the fight begins—with Indians, that
is.(1.P.J—In an effort to combat nation-wide attacks on college fraternities, a definite program to make Emory University fraternity system an
answer to critics was set in motion on this campus recently. E. H. Rece, dean of students, in a letter
outlining the program to fraternity members, declared, “My hope is that we can make the fraternity system work well enough
here at Emory to demonstrate its value." To better fraternity-University relations, the letter urged improvement of pledge training, enforcement of
non-drinking rules, reduction of expenses and more emphasis on scholarship. A new procedure for maintaining the University’s rolls of fraternity
members was announced. “If freshmen get lost in the crowd we'll have clubs—not brotherhoods,” Dean Rece warned. Rigid training was
recommended to keep the fraternity spirit alive in freshmen. Enforcement of house rules barring alcoholic beverages has been lenient recently
in deference to veterans, the letter continued. But, it says, this condition will be changed “and it may be necessary
for someone to get hurt to prove we mean it.” More and more parents are complaining about fraternity expenses, the
dean of students revealed in the letter. Freshmen, he wrote, are beginning to ask if it is worth it. Since
food, rent and utility prices are not going down, social costs must be cut, the letter warned. “Outspending the other
chapters is no great mark of distinction.” Reminding fraternities of scholarship requirements for pledge initiations, the Dean's letter stated that
the time to work on freshmen’s grades is now—not two weeks before finals.

Note to Professors
Southwestern Louisiana Institute’s Vermillion asks students what habits of professors annoy them most. Some of the replies given were:
“Forgetting that we have other homework when making assignments. A teacher should realize that his courses are not the only
ones.”
“Why must professors talk so fast that one can’t take notes?”
“I hate ambiguous test questions when only one answer is acceptable.”
“Learning a professor's biography instead of hearing a lecture bores me.”
“I am disturbed when an instructor gives his lecture to the wall or the window instead of to the class.”
“Teachers shouldn't ask if there are questions and then say, ‘That should be understood,’ when someone does want a point
explained.”

Men of Distinction Wear Copeland Hats
Several days ago Mr. W. C. Copeland's Shop on Main Street was the scene of a sale which boosted the
business index for hat sales in the Town of Davidson by several hundred points. The hats were secured from Belk
Brothers in Charlotte where they had been in stock for quite a number of years. They were not of the
style that is demanded by the Queen City’s men of distinction. Therefore, Mr. Copeland was able to offer the hats
for a price of 25c. According to "The Gremlin,” Bill Stanley, who was contacted for information on the matter, many
of those who live at the Carolina Inn capitalized on the sale. Some even bought as many as four pieces
of the fine quality headwear of which Stetson and San An Jr. were two of the make hats offered. “The
Gremlin” let it be known that there was an assortment in colors. Among those making purchases at the store, which
features a multiplicity of articles for all members of the family, were Brady Osborne, Bill Johnsey, Bill Freeman, Bob Gibson,
Tom Comer, Jack Branch, Joe Willard, and Phil Mitchell, it was learned from Mr. Stanley, who himself has been seen
on the campus with an ancient white chapeau on his cranium. Mr. Copeland has said that he might get in
some more hats which he can offer at reduced prices.

VISIT THE Charlotte Waffle Shop “ACROSS FROM THE BURNING CORNER" ON WEST TRADE STREET

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1950

HENRY WILSON
Slick Evans Jr., Yokel Football Star Squeezes A's Between Trout; Poetry
In the middle of the football practice one afternoon, Ray Brown leaned over and whispered into a helmet, “Okay, Hank,
knock him flat when he comes around end.” Hank put him on his ear, but in the process he got
a lip even a mother wouldn’t love. This was just another day for “Slick” Evans Junior, the lightest center since
Davidson stopped playing six-man football. Besides being a football player that Charlotte sportswriters named as Jamerson’s “Solace” for 1948-49, Henry
Wilson has other talents. He can talk like a hillbilly, play the harmonica like one, and spit tobacco juice like
one. “Hank” and Hal Haynes used to have a good time entertaining the student body at chapel with “Old Mountain
Dew,” but now “Hank” says the boys are out of his class. Despite the fact that he’s from Morganton, Henry
makes straight A’s, and writes for both the Davidsonian and the Scripts and Pranks. Many of the poems that appeared
in Scripts and Pranks last year were furnished by him. At Woodberry Forest prep school, Henry was a three-letter man.
He played football, baseball, and basketball. Here he has made letters in baseball and football, playing catcher and center, respectively.
Henry said that one of the main reasons he came to Davidson was because he could play more football here.
Yet his pounds would keep many coaches from giving him a second chance. Trout fishing is a hobby Henry enjoys
and he and “Slick” Evans made a fishing trip recently to Florida. Last year his fishing not only got him
into trouble, but cost him around $25 besides. He and “Stubby” Evans and “Slick” went fishing up near Lenoir and
ended up on a Federal game reserve. This was good for a night in the Lenoir jail. “Stubby” wasn’t packing
a rod, so he just watched—seven dollars worth. As evidence of his literary and athletic ability, Henry is a member
of Sigma Upsilon, Eumenean Literary Society and the “D” Club, as well as being poetry editor for Scripts and Pranks.
Besides these he is a member of the Beaver Club and Kappa Sigma social fraternity. After graduation this harmonica-playing junior
says he will probably go into the furniture business or become a game warden.

New Travel Book
Madison, Wis. — “Work Study Travel Abroad 1950” has been put on sale by the publications bureau, U. S. National
Student Association, 304 N. Park, Madison, Wis. The 10,000-word booklet, which follows similar booklets for 1948 and 1949, gives agencies
to contact for traveling during the summer months, outlines their programs and provides general year-round facts on going abroad. The
booklet is being sold to students at NSA-member schools for 25 cents a copy. All others pay 50 cents a
copy. Student governments and campus NSA committees may also order copies in bulk at greater price reductions. The booklet outlines
NSA’s programs abroad as well as those of more than 100 other groups that cater to student travelers.

Einstein may have the key to the universe, but the chances are someone has changed the lock on the door.

Mooresville Creamery
GRADE “A” MILK
PASTEURIZED
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Withers Electric Company
® Radio Repairs
® Electrical Supplies
® Light Bulbs
DAVIDSON, N. C.

VISIT THE DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT
142 E. Morehead — Charlotte
