DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 29, 1950

The paradise of the brotherhood and lavish entertainment—and all for the prospective pledges. They are truly kings for a day,
as, at their command, quantities of food, ranging from the commonplace snacks to the gourmet’s delight, are brought forward. Tobacco,
whether pipe, cigar, or cigarette, is also provided. Pictured above are the scenes of jovial fraternity rushees.

GREEKS GRAB GRATEFUL GRUBS

ALENDA VOLUME XXXIX

NOTICE

Dies After Illness

Dr. John Wilson MacConnell, 72, for 42 years physician and professor at Davidson College, died Tuesday night after an illness
of two weeks. Dr. MacConnell, who retired from the Davidson faculty several years ago, was the first professor of Biology
at Davidson, a position he assumed in 1908. He later instructed in physiology and hygiene. In addition to his service
at Davidson, Dr. MacConnell was for two years an instructor at Panton’s Academy of Charlottesville, Va., and was house surgeon
at the Presbyterian hospital in Baltimore, Md., during 1907-08.

The medical career of Dr. MacConnell included distinguished service on the Mexican border in 1915 and with the AEF in
World War I. He was promoted successively from first lieutenant to colonel in the medical reserve and was retired in
1929 for disabilities incurred in line of duty during active service. Active in civil as well as medical affairs, Dr.
MacConnell was a member of the town board of Davidson for many years and was a director of the bank
of Davidson. He was a member of the Davidson Presbyterian church.

Davidson Adds Six To Present Faculty

Six new members of the Davidson faculty began their duties with the opening of school this fall. The additions to
the teaching staff are placed in the chemistry, speech, political science, economics and business, and music departments.

Donald J. Bettinger, Cincinnati, Ohio, has joined the science staff as assistant professor of chemistry. A graduate of Miami (Ohio)
University, Bettinger received the master of science degree from the University of Cincinnati where he worked for two years as
a laboratory instructor. He is a member of the American Chemical Society, the American Association for the Advancement of Science,
and Phi Beta Kappa.

J. D. Carriker, Jr., of Newton, has been appointed Assistant Professor of Economics. Carriker received his Masters Degree from Indiana
University last June after studying at the Bowling Green College of Commerce and the Newton business school. The new economics
professor is a veteran of three and a half years army service. He was recently married to the former Miss
Margaret Bowling of Crowley, W. Va.

A new addition to the faculty as associate professor of speech is...

Frosh Cake Racers Revive Old Custom

Three freshman cross-country candidates paced the first fifty placers across more than a mile and one-half course Wednesday afternoon in
the post-war revival of the Cake-Course Race. Establishing the record in the first running over the new course was Bill
Shipley, of Asheville, beating Greensboro’s Bill Coe by two yards after a full sprint by the two down the last
100 yards. Shipley’s time was 8:57.1. Third man was Bob Graff, a Kitten harrier, who was trailed not far behind
by A. P. Boardman, the first of the real novices to finish, and a strong runner who may well do
future service with the thinclad corps. Fifth through tenth places were won respectively by Bobby Murray, Duncan Smith, Johnny Smith,
John Holt, Clarence Baker, and Joe Carpenter. Finishing eleventh through fifty and eligible for prizes presented afterwards were: Buddy MacKay,
Bill Arena, Tommy Breedman, Paul Alexander, Bob Owen, Eddie Adams, Rod Reid, Alfred Wells, Charles Williams, Henry Connelly, (Continued on
Page Five)

Davidson Freshmen Journey To Queens

The Davidson freshman was entertained last Saturday night by the girls of Queens College in Charlotte. “Queens Day,” as the
event has come to be known, found nearly 100 students at that school, both upperclassmen and freshmen taking advantage of
the opportunity to mix socially. Arranged and planned by the Freshman class at Queens, the program got under way at
eight o'clock in the college auditorium with a series of skits including singing, instrumental, and humorous talent. Afterwards, the audience
was free to dance in either the day room or the recreation hall, both of which were decorated with Davidson’s
school colors. Although 180 signed up to make the trip, only about fifty freshmen actually got to Charlotte. Tommy Haller,
Pan-Hellenic board member in charge of arranging the event for the boys, was unable to secure satisfactory transportation, so many
students were not able to go. The affair was carried on in a much different manner than in 1949. Last
year the whole freshman class went but since that group was so much larger than the number of girls in
the Queen frosh class, the attendance to Queens was limited this year.

Paint

Citizens of the town of Davidson have had their peace widely disturbed during the past several weeks by a mysterious
band of vandals wearing red caps marked with the numerals “54”. These obnoxious oddities have leaned against the fire hydrants
(where available), disturbed the peace surrounding the construction of the new cathedral, loitered in the Post office, and made nuisances
of themselves in many other various and sundry ways. Thanks to the superb work of the Davidson Police Department, this
group's attempts to completely disorganize the city government had been held to a minimum until last week when a sinister
plot was discovered. The vandals had successfully...

Happy Freshmen Vandals Desecrate Sacred Water Tower

Beaty, guaranteed that these agencies’ slogan would remain on the Water Tower until it was repainted with aluminum paint. Last
week the town fathers noted to their horror that the bathing suit company’s slogan had been defaced, and the “51”
changed to “54”. Circumstantial evidence points directly to the wandering band of vandals and since the town faces two heavy
breach of contract suits, they are searching frantically for some means of dealing with the culprits.

BULLETIN—Davidson, N. C.—Word has just arrived that the mysterious mob is connected in some obscure way with the college, and
that institution has agreed to shoulder the responsibility of reprimanding the offenders. The 51 group is expected to ask to
take over the job because they have been grossly insulted by the desecration of this sacred numeral. The punishment has
not been revealed, but it is rumored that the freshmen (as they are now known) will be enslaved behind the
eight ball for a period of several weeks. Several citizens have expressed the hope that this will be a lesson
to the freshmen, and that they can soon learn to live among their betters in peace and harmony.

The largest group, 29, was received by Kappa Sigma; Gamma Delta, Sigma Chi, and Sigma Phi Epsilon. There was, however,
thorough satisfaction even among those fraternities pledging smaller groups, thus indicating the unusual dispersion of potential talent and future leaders
at Davidson.

This year’s rushing also featured the rushee’s choice of dates. This, thanks to the lenient Pan-Hellenic Council, made the choice
of fraternities easier for the rushee, and moreover, gave the fraternities an estimate on prospective pledges.

The new pledge classes are:

Phi Gamma Delta—T. L. Are, M. Bellamy, W. E. Blackwell, C. Boyd, W. F. Bryson, J. P. Carpenter, L. S.
Champion, E. C. Chipman, W. O. Dobbins, J. S. Faires, J. M. Graham, C. D. Hall, D. B. McIntyre, R.
E. Mims, C. C. Morgan, C. Phifer, W. E. Phifer, D. D. Reid, H. Rolston, R. F. Roper, W. M.
Scott, C. F. Sims, H. G. Sutton.

Sigma Chi—B. M. Compton, T. R. Coulter, R. S. Crutchfield, L. H. Erdman, M. D. Field, R. C. Garrison, J.
N. Golding, R. T. Graff, J. W. Holt, C. Johnson, G. W. Knight, T. J. Ligon, G. G. Mahy, A.
J. McKellway, G. E. Melton, R. A. Mitchell, D. Oberndoerfer, J. C. Pietenpol, C. M. Roper, W. H. Shipley, C.
Williams.

Pi Kappa Phi—D. O. Southwell, C. H. Whitaker, G. T. Ashford, G. Burg, P. H. Biddle, D. R. Neal, P.
B. McGuill, J. Booker, C. P. Thompson, C. L. Remsberg, J. L. Peeler, C. M. Murray.

Pi Kappa Alpha—W. C. Sledge, W. P. McAlister, J. M. Craig, B. W. Gary, J. G. Thomas, J. W. Phipps,
G. L. Beardsley, J. R. Clark, J. L. Gray, W. N. Graham, B. P. Minter, T. A. Farmer, R. K.
Smith.

Phi Delta Theta—L. B. Price, C. K. Brown, D. E. Adams, W. P. Alexander, G. L. B. Rivers, R. H.
Harrelson, T. R. Oldenburg, S. C. Topple, R. M. Crosland, G. M. Williams, B. W. Dennis, S. M. Cutts, J.
M. Henley, H. V. Lamon, J. W. (Continued on Page Five)

OPEN HOUSE SUNDAY

On next Sunday evening immediately following vespers, there will be an open house at the Methodist Church honoring the Methodist
students attending Davidson. The informal gathering, sponsored by the various organizations of the church, will be of special interest to
the large number...of Methodist students on our campus.

Rev. Foster Accepts Church At Davidson

Rev. John W. Foster, Class of 1912, has accepted a call to the Cavalry Presbyterian Church. Coming to Davidson from
his home, Whitsett, N. C., Rev. Foster is the first ordained minister to hold the post recently vacated by Ken
Smart. Everyone is invited to meet Rev. Foster either at an open house Friday in the new manse on School
Street or at the regular Sunday services. Contributions to the building fund will be gladly received; write Box 205, Davidson.

A new schedule, one which included latter rison, R. A. Palmer, P. P. Pharr, H. Strader, provide a beautiful and
ample student Major Richard E. Harris. Several hours of deliberation often precede a fraternity choice. Judging from the above pictures,
however, the boys seem to feel perfectly at home, no matter what house they are in or which fraternity they
finally decide to join.

COOL CASANOVAS CALL ON QUIET QUEENS

Successful Rush Week Brings 215 Rushees To Eager Greeks

Rush Week on the Davidson campus came to a climatic finale last Saturday afternoon, September 23. Several sophomores and 215
freshmen combined to make one of the largest pledge classes ever to sign with the 11 Davidson fraternities. From the
illustrious sons of others pledging large classes were Phi.

Bulletin!

In an exclusive dispatch to the DAVIDSONIAN, Doug Rice, manager of the Student Store, announced today that the “Stud” will
be open every Sunday night from 10:00-11:00 p.m. effective Sunday.

Batts Says Old Gym Fit For Restoration Into Student Union

Mr. Porter Butts, Student Union expert from the University of Wisconsin, announced after visiting the campus last week that the
old gymnasium could be renovated to provide a beautiful and ample student union for Davidson College. Mr. Butts reported that
since the roof, walls, and main floor are in good shape, a considerable saving in both time and money would
result from using the old gym. This provoked smiles of relief from harassed development program officials who have been met
on every hand by increased building costs and a critical shortage of materials. If present plans are carried out, construction
work will begin in about 3 months and continue for 6 months, meaning that the long-awaited Student Union will open
early in 1952. According to Assistant President Arnold, a new front, terraces, and glassed-in space will be added to beautify
the old gym, making it a beautiful and adequate structure for various student union facilities. Just what these facilities will
be is not yet definite, but they are sure to include: a lounge; rooms for ping pong, billiards, and clubrooms
for meetings; offices for student organizations, including the YMCA; an auditorium for lectures, recitals, and small group dances; a snack
bar; and the student store.

ROTC Regiment Is Formed; Enrollment Sets New Record

The Davidson College R.O.T.C. unit began this year with a record strength of 530 men as compared with last year's
record high of 467 men. The strength of the unit broken down into classes is as follows: Freshmen—232; Sophomores—198; Juniors—55;
Seniors—45. This year, for the first time, the unit is organized as a regiment; formerly it was a battalion. With
the regimental organization, every Junior and Senior has a specific job to perform. Any time a junior or senior is
absent from drill, his job must be performed by the man directly under him. In past years, due to the
relatively small unit organization and the relatively large number of juniors and seniors, there were some men who had no
specific duties. The Military Department has made the following appointments:

Regimental Commander—Cadet Colonel Kenneth R. Newbold.
Regimental Executive Officer—Cadet Lieutenant-Colonel Auburn Lambeth.
Regimental Adjutant—Cadet Major Richard E. Harris.
Regimental Plans and Training Officer—Cadet Major Eugene Burch.
Regimental Sergeant Major—Cadet First Sergeant Larry Degenhart.

First Battalion:
Commander—Cadet Lieutenant Colonel Woody Leach.
Executive Officer—Cadet Major Pritchett.
Commander—Cadet Captain Bill Bacon.
First Sergeant—C. G. Herion.

Company A:
Commander—Cadet Captain Tom Craven.
First Sergeant—Tony Tucker.

Company B:
Commander—Cadet Captain Bill Cassels.
First Sergeant—W. D. Reynolds.

Second Battalion:
Commander—Cadet Lieutenant Colonel Charles H. Newbold.

(Continued on Page Five)

Last Sunday morning, Reuben Pea, dishwasher and handyman at the S.A.E. boarding house, was found dead on the railroad tracks
shortly after the 4 o'clock train passed through, but the exact cause of death had not been determined at press
time yesterday. It is generally believed, and this has been confirmed by the engineer, that Reuben was killed by the
train, but the body had not been mutilated extensively, and rigor mortis had set in only twenty minutes after the
body was discovered, so the possibility of foul play has not been ruled out. Reuben had just been paid more
than a week's salary late Saturday afternoon, and an investigation of the body revealed that only a few cents remained
of a sum approximating thirty-five dollars.

Negro Dishwasher Meets Death Under Mysterious Circumstances

Reuben lived in the Brady’s Alley section of Davidson and had no living survivors. He was active in the local
Negro Methodist church, and one of his last acts was to give $1.50 to the work of his church. His
minister also revealed that he was to have been in charge of service at the church Sunday night. Funeral services
were held this week at the Davidson Negro Methodist church and were attended by many of Reuben's friends throughout the
community. Police are still investigating the death of Reuben, and the coroner has stated that he had been dead several
hours before the train passed on. The engineer reported that he saw the body slumped on the tracks; that he
did not hit it hard enough to mutilate it. The Negro might have been struck in such a way as
to fracture his skull.

Davidson Host To German Students

This year Davidson College has the pleasure of playing host to two students from Bavaria, Germany. Both of the young
men, Dieter Oberndorfer and Max Stolberg, are here by way of the program being conducted in Germany by the high
commissioners for German Reorientation. Dieter Oberndorfer, sponsored by Sigma Chi, is from Munich, Bavaria, and was contacted through the University
of Munich, where he had made application for the continuance of his studies. Included in his courses here are French,
history of philosophy, political theories, contemporary history, speech, sociology, and general psychology. Dieter’s father is a professor of Protestant Religion
at the Wilhelm School of Humanities. When asked what he thought of Davidson College, Dieter commented that it is “a
beautiful campus” with a very friendly spirit built upon “a high scholastic level.” Max Stolberg, sponsored by Beta Theta Pi,
is from Weiden, Bavaria. He is including in his schedule of studies French, political science, economics 21-22, 31-32, and 81.
His intense interest in the trading world, as shown by his choice of subjects, might be explained by the fact
that his father runs a flour mill. Max is twenty years old and has a younger brother and sister. Replying
to questions concerning his opinion of the campus, Max said, “It is a fine place. I really enjoy it because
all the folks are so friendly and kind.” Both young men are looking forward to a pleasant and enlightening year
at Davidson College.

Dr. Schenck Spends Summer In Europe

Dr. L. B. Schenck, Professor of Bible at Davidson, was chosen last summer by the Carnegie Foundation of New York
City to travel to Europe for a period of study and research with some of the continent’s most prominent theologians.
The purpose of his trip was the coordination of European and American thinking on certain theological problems. His particular interest
in the research was the doctrine of the child in the church and in the Covenant of God. Dr. Schenck
is well qualified on the subject, for he is the author of a book published by the Yale Press in
1940 entitled “Presbyterian Doctrine of Children in the Covenant.” Interest in the book has evidently not been confined only to
this country, for translations have found their way into the hands of European theologians and it is understood Schenck’s writings
have aroused considerable interest there. The doctor made his trip to Europe with the idea of acting as a liaison
link between European and American thinking on the subject. The whole trip lasted about ten weeks, and even if research
work and study did consume most of his time, the doctor nevertheless was able to find time for short pleasure
trips. He spent several weekends high in the majestic Alps, and even found time once to journey up into Bavaria
where he witnessed the famous and spectacular Passion Play at Oberammergau. The doctor's trip took in much of Europe in
a wide arc. He left New York City aboard a Norwegian ship and headed across the Atlantic, through the Straits
of Gibraltar, to Genoa, Italy.
