Pretty Adele Castle is featured with Tony Pastor and his orchestra. The winsome brunette has been hailed by tradesters as one of the finest girl vocalists in the business. One of the most coveted positions in the world of popular music, the featured spot with Pastor was vied for by more than one hundred applicants. All were tested during Tony’s last stay in New York, and Miss Castle was selected after one of the closest audition series in recent memory. A New Jerseyite, pretty Adele has sung with Ray Eberle and his orchestra. As a featured vocalist, she has been heard on all major radio networks and at leading theatres and ballrooms. Before turning to band work, she had achieved a great deal of local success at suburban supper clubs and theatres near New York. A singer ever since her eleventh birthday, Adele was featured on local radio outlets as a child and appeared at all benefits and civic functions. While singing with Eberle, she was feted by her local townspeople at the famed Meadowbrook. Since getting her big break as featured singer with Tony Pastor, she has become the favorite daughter of North Jersey and one of the most popular vocalists in the land. Heard on Tony's Columbia Records, Adele Castle looks forward to one of the brightest futures in music as a part of the Pastor team, a formidable entry in the band sweepstakes.

Alumni Celebrate Decade of Destiny
(Reprinted from the December 2, 1949 issue of the Asheville, N.C. Citizen.)

Alumni and friends of Davidson College met here last night in observance of what Davidson's President John R. Cunningham fittingly speaks of as “Davidson's Decade of Destiny.” When Davidson’s Centennial was being celebrated in 1937, the details of the present Development Program were taking shape. At the Homecoming exercises a few weeks ago, an impressive list of accomplishments was presented. Among things done are the Grey Memorial Library, the Science Building, and the tremendous and admirably equipped Gymnasium. But the homecoming Davidsonians were reminded once more that the expansion program is only well begun. They were also told that, whatever the reason may be, the Presbyterians in these latter years have not devoted to Davidson the earnest consideration and the comparable material aid which the college received between 1837 and 1900. Dr. Cunningham and his associates who work together to better equip Davidson for its part in the education of youth in these troubled days are speaking out very frankly. They know that from the very first days in America the Presbyterians were builders of schools and colleges. The President and his faculty believe that the old zeal for education and character has not departed from the sons and daughters of the Scottish Presbyterians who came to America seeking and accepting larger opportunities. Davidson's President and his advisers are confident that they will have the necessary support as they plan for restoring the old section of the campus as the Woodrow Wilson Memorial quadrangle, for a center of fine arts, and for the rest of the Development program.

(Continued From Page Three)
K. A. 19; Phi Delts, 18.
Independents, 35; Betas 29.
SAE, 31; Pi Kaps 21.
Phi Gams, 34; SPE, 32.
Kappa Sig, 39; Sigma Chi, 37.
Phi Delts, 45; Campus Club 16.
Pikas 38; Betas 29.
K.A, 23; Independents 21.

INTERFRAT STANDINGS
Won Lost

For those making all their books from the Book Store, the store’s hours for the next few days will be as follows:
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday:
A.M. — 9:00—10:15
P.M. — Friday - Dance—9:00 P.M. to 1:00 A.M.
Saturday Wrestling: 1:30 to 3:00 P.M.
Pastor Concert: 3:30 to 5:30
Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra Concert: 7 to 9 P.M.
Dance: 10:00 to 12:00 P.M. (No Intermission)

Thomas to Deliver Art Lecture Series
The faculty committee on Fine Arts is privileged to announce that Professor Howard Thomas, Prof. of Art at the University of Georgia, will be on the Davidson Campus on March 6 and 7 for lectures, watercolor demonstrations, and informal meetings with students and faculty. Prof. Abernathy, Fine Arts committee, informs us that Prof. Thomas comes under the auspices of the Fine Arts Commission of the Association of American Colleges. This organization makes it possible for a number of American artists to spend instructional time on college campuses throughout the states. Prof. Thomas is a well-known American artist and formerly directed the art department of Agnes Scott College.

BIKO.. (Continued From Page Two)
Sure, they tried to do their best; but it is the fault of the system they used, and that is used by so many people today. Many articles are written about other countries that are based on some minor observations within a short time and not upon a long study of and groups of the people. They claim to give a...True picture and are not more than the reflection of the thoughts of a small group of people that are in no way typical for the rest. But these articles can do more damage than can make good again. They can destroy more understanding and goodwill between two nations that have misunderstood each other for a long time and are now trying to create friendship and cooperation, than, as for example, I as an exchange student can ever build up. They certainly do not help both of us. It would be the same thing if I would come to America, go around and talk to all the members of the communist party in this country, then go back and write about America being a communistic nation. Everybody could see that this system would be entirely wrong, you may even say, dangerous. I am writing this, not in order to attack the two reporters of the American Legion Magazine. I am far from doing this. I am writing this because I want to try to point out how important it is that one tries to acquire a right and true picture by long and serious study of the people, their institutions, and their way of life, before one starts to write about the country and forms an opinion that might become the opinion of millions of others, who never had a chance to see this country. Because, today more than ever before in history, we need an utmost readiness for understanding and friendship, good will, and cooperation among all nations that are willing to live in peace. And we must try to avoid anything that does prevent us from reaching this aim.

Submitted by a student of Davidson College.

2—Manuscript must be turned in to any member of the English Department on or before March 1, 1950.
3—Submitted work must be typewritten and double-spaced.
4—Work may be of any length in any style and on any subject.
5—Submitted paper is not to bear the name of the writer, but is to be accompanied by a sealed envelope bearing the writer's name and title of the manuscript.
6—From the manuscripts submitted, the English Department will select the few best and turn these over to a judge or committee of judges for the final decision. This final committee will not be from the faculty of Davidson College.
7—The Award for 1949-1950 will be a $50 prize chosen by the committee and the winner, in consultation.

(Continued From Page One)

Schedule of personal appearances have prevented Tony from creating any new songs recently. He will...

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
MAKERS OF
Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.

Growing old is a bad habit which a busy man has no time to form.

Ability is inherited from his ancestry which includes Leonardo da Vinci and his uncle, who had a famous New England orchestra when Tony was a child. It was in...

Knitting company desires representative to sell popular, fast-selling School Sweater. Easy sales—good earnings. Write for details.
60 Springfield Avenue
Newark, N. J.

BELK BROTHERS OF CHARLOTTE
will present
A Spring Showing Of
MEN'S CLOTHING AND HABERDASHERY
WEDNESDAY, FEB. 8th
AT MISS MINNIE’S
10 to 7:30

DAVIDSON THEATRE
WEEK OF FEBRUARY 6-11
MON. - TUE.
“INTRUDER IN THE DUST”

...many I’ve smoked, Chesterfields leave a clean, fresh taste in my mouth. It’s the only cigarette I’ve found that does that.