FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1950
THE DAVIDSONIAN

—Isaiah 9:6

The street lights have been hung, the store windows decorated, and the Santa Clauses have been hired. The bicycles look
a little redder, the dolls a little prettier, the merchant's smile broadens with his sales increases, and the sour-faced clerk’s
smile is a little more forced. The children playing in the snow are bragging about how much Santa is going
to bring them. Christmas has been lost in a jumble of lights, tinsel, advertising slogans and the jangling of bells—for
the most part cash register bells.

“Stop a moment, stranger, and hearken, I am the spirit of Christmas gifts—a symbol of the unselfishness which characterized God's
greatest gift to mankind nineteen and a half centuries ago.

“You will never find me as a part of the mink coat Mr. Brown gave his wife because Mr. Jones
was giving Mrs. Jones muskrat. I get lost when Harry rushes down to get Joan ‘Evening in Paris’ because Bill
is giving her ‘Chanel No. 5.’ I am not given with the cigars for the boss when the whole staff
wishes they were loaded. For though they are called gifts, they are not truly given.

“I am the gold, and frankincense and myrrh which the wise men placed before the manger. I am the two
coins which Little Brother slipped into the altar plate, and I was the spirit that rang those chimes. I instill
my being in the roast turkey left on the poverty-stricken doorstep, and in the box the scrubwoman packs for her
wayward son in Joliet. I am in the forgotten gifts—those which were forgotten by the giver—asking no recompense and expecting
none. I am at home in the fruit-filled stocking of the janitor’s son, but in the banker’s home there are
so many toys, that I would suffocate.”

“Be not afraid, stranger, for I am not malicious. I may shake men’s self-centeredness to its foundations, or deflate individual
egos, but my love is enough for all of them. I must go now, stranger, for there are many who
truly give, and their gifts must carry my blessing. Adieu, and peace be with you.”

The stranger stood for a moment, looking around him. He took a sheaf of bills from his billfold, gazed at
them thoughtfully, and walked quickly down a side street toward some shabby tenements. Once on the street he stopped an
instant before each door. When the brief visits were completed, he stepped across the street, and as soon as the
first cry of joyous surprise sounded, he disappeared into the night.

Willie, with a thirst for gore,
Nailed the baby to the door.
Mother said, with humor quaint,
“Willie, dear, don't spoil the paint.”

Starlite DRIVE-IN THEATRE
Salisbury-Landis Highway
WEEK STARTING DECEMBER 14

Wednesday and Thursday
‘BARRICADE’
color by Technicolor
Dane Clark - Raymond Massey
Ruth Roman
CARTOON

Friday and Saturday
Rod Cameron in
‘THE OLD TEXAS TRAIL’

Music solution to some of your Christmas shopping problems with the record which it has placed on sale recording by
the Davidson Concert Band, conducted by James Christian of Earl F. Berg, of the traditional songs of Davidson. One side
of the record contains “O, Davidson” played by the band followed by two verses of “Alma Mater” sung by the
Male Chorus. On the other side of the record, the band plays a stirring march, “Men of Might,” written by
Leonard V. Merretta and dedicated to the Davidson Band. These records, which are priced at one dollar, arePlastic and break-resistant,
and are packed in colorful red and white wrappers. These wrappers make them most attractive as gifts. The Music Department
suggests that this is the ideal gift for any persons who are interested through you as a student in Davidson;
family, girlfriend, interested friends, and particularly for a younger brother, who is a future Davidsonian. Here is an opportunity to
provide them with a very real and lasting touch of Davidson in her traditional and stirring songs. These records will
be on sale throughout the holiday season at the “Stud,” “Hugo's,” White's Drug Store, and the Music Department Office. You
may hear these records either in the record library or at the Music Department Office.

The Davidson Music Department offers an attractive and inexpensive special “Songs of Davidson” gift for the holiday season. This is
a tian Pfohl, and the Davidson College Male Chorus, under the direction of Hail, O Davidson” sung by the Dr.
C. K. Brown, Davidson dean of faculty and economics professor, was elected chairman of the conference of Academic Deans of
the Southern States at a recent meeting of the Conference held in Richmond, Va. Dr. Brown, a member of the
Davidson faculty since 1923 and valedictorian of his class while a student at Davidson, succeeded Dr. Otto R. Nielson of
Texas Christian University as chairman of the conference. During the past three years, Dean Brown has served as secretary-treasurer of
the conference.

The conference, now in its twentieth year, is made up of education administration deans of all (Continued On Page Five)

German Fraternity

Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity, met at the home of Dr. Vowles last Wednesday evening. The initiation of new
members was conducted by the president, Alfred Neumann. They were T. W. Turner, J. A. McFarland, W. L. Spivey, B.
W. Robinson, C. G. Herion, W. P. Whitesides, Dieter Obendorfer, and Max Stolberg. Only those students with a high average
in their German courses and an interest in German culture are invited to join this fraternity. A discussion of the
proposed change in the college diploma followed, after which a program was presented. Bill Whitesides sang several German Lieder, and
Dr. Vowles read an interesting letter from a former Davidson student. After being served refreshments by Mrs. Vowles, the group
adjourned.

RENT A CAR AT THE U-Drive It 4th St. Charlotte

VISIT THE DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT “A GOOD PLACE TO EAT” 142 E. Morehead — Charlotte

Season’s Greetings from Milton’s Clothing Cupboard Chapel Hill 126 W.

BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER TRADE ST. PHONE 2-2238 CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Where you meet your friends and Charlottes Finest Restaurant

Happy New Year

INFORMAL COMFORT IN FORMAL WEAR

All the charm, the easy-fitting grace of custom tailoring are yours in this comfort-plus tuxedo designed by Tony Martin, executed
by AFTER SIX, America’s first name in formal wear. Superb 2-ply lightweight imported worsted in midnight blue highlighted with Skinner
silk-satin shawl collar and slim lapels. Straightline styling, natural shoulders, a truly wonderful value. 65.00

formal accessories

ARROW AND MANHATTAN SHIRTS 5.00 to 6.50

BLACK, MAROON OR WHITE TIES 1.50

FORMAL BOUTONNIERES 50¢

SWANK STUD AND LINK SETS 3.50 to 12.50*

CROSBY SQUARE BLACK CALF SHOES 12.95

INTERWOVEN BLACK NYLON SOCKS 1.00

*Plus Fed. Excise Tax

Ivey’s Men’s Shops Street Floor
