‘FRIDAY, JAN. 18, 1950

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By BILL ADAMS

The Tarheels of UNC paid Johnston gym their first visit Saturday and emerged with a 63-53 triumph over Boyd Baird's
Wildcats in a Southern Conference battle before a full house of 3,000 fans. The defeat marked the Cats' third conference
loss against one victory.

Davidson started out in perfect fashion. The Wildcats, who had an 8-point lead about mid-way in the first half, seemed
to have all the necessary guns to win with Whit Cobb hawking Tarheel seige-gun Hugo Kappler with the grace of
a panther and Dutch Hengeveld apparently red-hot for the basket, but then the scene began to fade. A check of
personal fouls necessitated the removal of ace forward Bill Brooks with four fouls and the conserving of Tommy Kaller and
Don Lazenby with 3 each. P. C. Coleman quickly acquired his quota of fouls to match his teammates. Charlie Thorne,
of Carolina, found his shooting-eye, and soon the stage was set for the rest of the game. From that point
on, Davidson was unable to get its starting-five into the game together a single time and was forced to battle
Carolina's best with a shifting line-up. Howard Deasy and Nemo Nearman took charge of rebounds as Thorne poured points through
the nets, while Nearman and Deasy used their six foot six inch heights to keep the smaller Cats away from
rebounds. A few breaks and less fouling might well have produced a different outcome. Few spectators were convinced of any
Carolina superiority, but nevertheless, Carolina 63, Davidson 53, is the score which goes down in the books.

Dutch Hengeveld led the Cat point-makers with 14 points, followed by Bob Tark with 10, and Brooks and Haller with
7 each. Whit Cobb turned in a truly great defensive game, breaking up several Carolina fast-breaks by himself. Thorne was
the big man for Carolina making 18 points besides handling their floor game. Nearman made 12 and Kappler 11, while
Davidson's fine early passing game lost its wedge to set up too many Carolina scores. The Cats were still hanging
on to a 1 point lead at half-time but they soon fell behind in the second half and were never
able to catch up.

The Davidson football team has elected as captain for the 1950 season Auburn Lambeth, the sensational passing tailback who has
led the Wildcat offense for the past two seasons. The honor is one which Lambeth richly deserves. Twice an all-state
selection, he finished the past season fourteenth in passing, eighteenth in kickoff returns and thirteenth in total offense among all
the backs of the nation. For the first time since the war a captain has been selected by his teammates.
Coach Bill Storey began appointing captains for each game, a practice which Coach Charley Jamerson continued. However, Jamerson feels, as
most other coaches do, that teams should have a leader elected by the players. All great ball clubs have been
led by natural leaders and the Wildcat team has surely picked one in Lambeth, who is vice-president of the Student
Body. Elected as alternate captain is Woody Leach, crack defensive halfback. The speedy Leach came out of complete obscurity to
land a first-string berth on Jamerson’s defensive unit the past fall. Woody was a hard hitter and showed skillful ability
in coming up fast from his halfback position to bottle up enemy plays. The selection of Leach, an officer of
the Junior class, comes as no surprise either. Congratulations to the first captains elected by the team since the war.

Interfrat Hoopsters Battling in First Round

By MAC RICHARDS, JIM SMITH, J. V. HOWELL, BILL BRADFORD

Pikas 36; Campus Club 18

The Pikas jumped off to a flying start and ran up a 21-8 half-time score on the Campus Club. Gaither
of the winners led the first half spree with three buckets. He and Ralph Brooks of the Campus Club tied
for scoring honors, with each getting eight. The second half was closer, but the Pikas’ early scoring proved the difference.

Sigma Chi 30; KA 26

The KAs lost their second game, but the SAE’s had a one-point margin at the whistle. Towering Bud Aiken and
Bob Bennett, SAE stalwarts, split 12 points between them, but it was Phi Delt's Auburn Lambeth who was high.

Sigma Chi 36; Campus Club 23

The Sigma Chi's undefeated team continued its winning ways as they pulled away from the hard-fighting Campus Clubber to a
substantial lead.

INTERFRAT STANDINGS

Club W L
Pikas 4 0
Sigma Chi 4 0
Kappa Sigs 3 0
SAE 4 1
Independents 3 1
Betas 2 1
KA 0 2
Phi Delt 1 0
Pi Kaps 1 4
SPE 0 4
Campus Club 0 4for the 13-point victory margin. Early in the game, the Campus Club made a real fight for
the lead, but the undefeated Sigma Chis eventually left them far behind. Merrill paced the Sigma Chis with seven points,
while Remson and Brooks tied for scoring honors for the Campus Club with six each.

KAs 22; SAE 21
In this close-fought battle, there were few points scored. The halftime score read 10 to 10, and at the final
buzz, it was 22 to 21, K.A. Preyer and Aiken were high with nine points each.

Pi Kaps 23; Betas 22
Scoring was likewise slow in this contest. At the halfway mark, the scoreboard read 8 to 10 in favor of
the Pi Kaps. Monroe for the Betas and Reynolds for Pi Kaps were high scorers with seven points each. The
final score was 22 to 23, with the Pi Kaps coming out on top by the margin of one free
throw.

Phi Delts 32; Phi Gams 29
It was a hard-fought game all the way, but with the Phi Delts keeping the upper hand most of the
time. At halftime, the Phi Delts had a five-point margin, score 20-15. Roy White poured in nine points to pace
the Phi Delts, and two Camps both had eight. The final score was 32 to 29, Phi Delts.

Kappa Sigs 41; Independents 34
In this high-scoring battle, the Kappa Sigs came out on top by a margin of 41 to 35. Fitzgerald had
13 points and was high for the Kappa Sigs. Poole was next, turning in a nice performance for the Independents
with 10 points. The halftime score was 20 to 15.

Independents 35; Pi Kapps 26
The strong Independents were just too much for the scrappy Pi Kapps. The Independents went on from an 18-8 halftime
lead to win the game by the score of 35-26. Castles and Nall hit regularly for the Pi Kapps in
the second half, but numerous baskets by Poole and Taylor spelled the margin of victory. Nall had 12 to lead
the Pi Kapps, while Taylor's 12 points and Poole’s 11 paced the Independent attack.

SAEs 24; Phi Gams 23
The SAEs eked out a 24-23 victory over the Phi Gams last Tuesday afternoon. The SAEs led all the way
but were closely pressed by the Phi Gams, who narrowed the SAE lead to only one point before the final
whistle blew. Aiken led the scoring for the SAEs with seven points, while C. Camp, Abbott, and Blanks led the
Phi Gam scorers with six points each.

Sigma Chi 32; SPEs 26
The Sigma Chis continued their winning ways by notching their fourth straight triumph over the tall SPEs, 32-26. Merrell and
Pleasants were the high men for the Sigma Chis with 11 and 10 points respectively. Mauney had 9 for the
SPEs.

SAEs 44; Campus Club 21
The Campus Club were the victims of another team as the SAEs downed them 44-21. Whitfield and Livingston each had
9 points for the Campus Club, while Bud Aiken and Bob Bennet had 10 each for last year’s champs.

Pi Kap Alpha 41; Pi Kap Phi 31
The Pikas overcame a 5-point Pi Kappa lead at the half and went on to down them 41-31. Nall and
Whisnant had 12 and 10 points respectively. Sifford and Smith led the Pikas with 12 each. The Pikas are unbeaten
in four starts.

KAs 25; Phi Gams 15
The KAs beat the Phi Gams by a score of 25-15. Scoring among the Phi Gams was about evenly divided.
McKeithen led the KAs with 14 points.
