¢ ROTO RIFLEMEN RICHLY AWARDED VOLUME XXXIX } SCHOLARS

Competition For G. F. Baker Awards Reopened For ‘51

Professor B. D. Thompson, secretary of the Committee on George F. Baker Scholarships, announced the opening of Baker Scholarship competition
for 1951. From three to five boys may be accepted from the 2,000 high schools and preparatory schools to which
informative circulars have been sent. Each award is renewable from year to year for a maximum of four years, provided
the grantee maintains a scholastic record of high honor and continues to give satisfactory evidence of the development of other
qualities for which he was selected.

In the belief that the strength of the United States lies in the quality of its people, and that the
quality of its people depends upon the education they receive, Davidson College offers these scholarships to encourage young men of
ability to seek college training. Applicants must furnish evidence of superior scholastic ability, well-rounded personality, strength of character, and high
qualities of leadership. Neither scholastic aptitude alone, nor achievement in extra-curricular activities alone, is sufficient.

Present Baker Scholars are: George Bason, Alan Garrison, Mitchell Patton, Herman Bell, Larry Dagenhart, Bob Henry, Jim Speed, Bob Crutchfield,
Buddy Lamon, Buford Price, Moody Smith, and Alden Williams.

Any student who knows a possible candidate is urged to send his name and address not later than February 1
to Professor B. D. Thompson.

Beavers Make Plans For Visiting Teams

On November 7, the first fall meeting of the Beaver Club was held. It was decided that a member of
the club will be with each visiting athletic team while it is on the Davidson campus. The idea is to
make the team feel welcome and to improve our relations with other colleges. Committees for each sport were appointed. It
was also decided that the Beaver Club would sponsor a dance during basketball season.

The club consists of 24 members, 12 juniors and 12 sophomores. Each spring 12 freshmen, who have won freshman numerals,
are elected into the group and become active members their sophomore year. The Beaver Club is an underclassmen organization, therefore
when a member becomes a senior his membership becomes inactive. The officers of the Beaver Club are: President, Mac McLean;
Vice-President, Allan Strand; Secretary-Treasurer, Gordon Stuart. The three functions of the organization are: the senior auction, the clothing drive, and
welcoming the visiting teams.

Mock Group Offered As Cure for Problems

The latest popular campus suggestion is a system, which if installed at Davidson College, would prove, claim its advocates, of
great benefit to the student if used properly, is the House Committee, composed of one senior or junior from each
dormitory. This system would be installed by the student council to receive and straighten out all complaints regarding superfluous noises,
janitor service, lack of hot water, and other such complaints from the dorms. In co-operation with the Court of Control,
this committee also would have charge of certain freshman regulations. One of these which should be put into effect, is
the mailing system. Under this system one freshman is appointed on each floor to collect all mail on his floor
at 10:30. The mail is then pooled and one freshman posts it all each night to ensure early mailing.

With the co-operation of the students, the committee would be able to ensure better living conditions in the dormitories. All
would become acquainted with their committeeman in order to ensure a closer working union between the students and the committee.

Notice

Next Saturday, November 18, will be W.C.U.N.C.-Davidson Day, the first mass visitation from nearby girls’ colleges of this school year.
Tommy Haller, Y.M.C.A. social chairman, has arranged the day which will see over 150 W.C. students arriving at 1:30 p.m.
All students who want dates for the day should sign the list at the north end of Chambers Building. Plans
for the day have not yet been completed, but already on schedule is a freshman football game with Asheville-Biltmore Junior
College on Richardson field at 2:00. A dance Saturday night and other activities are being planned.

Nine Men Initiated Into Literary Group At Regular Meeting

The regular Monday night meeting of Eumanean Literary Society was highlighted by the acceptance into membership of nine upperclassmen: Robert
Merrill, Sammy Hope, Robin Hinson, Coleman Poag, George Irvin, Ed Richardson, Fred Holder, Hubert Cannon, and Mike Myers. Most old
members agreed that the papers read by the initiates were the best ever heard by the society.

“A Dilemma of Modern Society,” by Robert Merrill, told of the problems confronting a college boy in love with a
faraway lass. Sammy Hope's excellent short story, “Contrast,” depicted the pathos of an old violinist whose daughter lay dying. Robin
Hinson, in a different vein, told about the moonshiner's son who came to Davidson because he had heard so much
about “That Good Old Davidson Spirit.” In “The Automobile What Was,” Coleman Poag reviewed the development of the horseless carriage.
George Irvin dramatized a bit of history in “The VMI Cadets at the Battle of New Market,” and then Edgar
Richardson educated the society in his usual lurid manner with a “Discussion of Style.” “Travels By Sea,” by Fred Holder,
gave some of the author’s impressions and experiences while serving in the Navy. An unusual idea was “Modern Travel”; he
compared a college student's bumming a ride to Columbus’ sailing out into the unknown Atlantic. The final paper, “The How
and Why of the Fire. (Continued On Page Six)

The Davidsonian — ALENDA CUR UBS LIBERTAS DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, NOV. 10, 1950

DISCUSSION GROUP CONSIDERS RULES

Before an open fire in the hospitable Colonial living-room of Dr. Chalmers Gaston Davidson, a small group of students gathered
last Sunday evening after Vespers to thoughtfully consider the place of rules and regulations in a liberal arts college. This
was the first of a series of after-Vesper discussion groups which will be sponsored by the Y.M.C.A. this year.

The rules and regulations of several other liberal arts colleges were examined and compared with local ones. There were particularly
vigorous discussions of the cut system and the drinking and Sabbath observance rules. The general conclusion was that there is
a need for reconsideration and revision at Davidson. Positive suggestions were made and will be relayed through several channels. Any
who are interested in future discussions please watch the Davidsonian announcements and the Y.M.C.A. Bulletin board.

Above are shown cadets of the Davidson ROTC Regiment being decorated by Lt. Colonel J. L. Ballard in drill last
Tuesday afternoon. Assisting him is Major C. M. Sample. The decorations were awarded for marksmanship with the M1, carbine, and
mortar at the 1950 summer camp. The cadets, left to right are: R. W. Hubbell, E. P. Shoenberger, R. E.
Blanks, T. H. Lamb, E. Tufts, J. B. Frye, C. L. Norwood, F. M. Purnell, T. Craven and W. T.
Cassels. Lt. Col. A. C. Lambeth, Regimental Executive Officer, is facing the group.

NEWS ITEMS

The brothers and pledges of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity were hosts Sunday night following Vespers to the members of
Kappa Sigma. The SAE’s invited the Kappa Sigs as the first in their new program of having socials for all
the fraternities on the campus sometime during the year. Cokes, coffee, cookies and cheese and crackers were served to members
of both frats. Hosts and guests “shot the bull” at the SAE house during the hour-long session.

Aubrey Miree, of the junior class, was last week elected captain of the Rifle Team for this year. The first
shoulder-to-shoulder match of the season was fired Saturday morning on the local range with VMI. VMI won the match by
the close score of 1821 to 1790 out of 2000. Aubrey Miree was the high scorer for Davidson. The team
also fired its first pistol match, being defeated by Mississippi State.

Davidson Band To Perform

Masquers Stage Nightly Rehearsals Of ‘Command Decision’

In its third week of rehearsal, “Command Decision” is being rehearsed each night in preparation for the performances on November
21-22. This will be the first play produced by the Red and Black Masquers for the 1950-51 season.

Appearing in one of the main supporting roles of the Red and Black Masquers production of COMMAND DECISION is Bill
Hollister, a member of the senior class. Bill, a pre-med student from New Bern, N.C., is a member of the
editorial staff of the Scripts 'N Pranks, Eumanean Literary Society, Red and Black Masquers and Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.
Last year he served as a managing editor of the Davidsonian. By no means is this Bill’s first appearance with
the Masquers. He will be remembered for his commendable performance in the Masquers’ production last spring, THE MAN WHO CAME
TO DINNER, in which he played the role of a young newspaper editor. He has also worked backstage on other
productions. Before coming to Davidson Bill played roles in a number of plays at McCallie.

The role in which Bill will appear in this production is that of Brigadier General Clifton Garnett, a meticulous, virile
officer in his late thirties. Garnett, whose only experience in air war has been in flying a desk in Washington,
is sent to England to warn General Dennis, the protagonist of the play, about extraordinarily heavy losses which the latter
has incurred in his aerial warfare over Germany. While in England he learns through first-hand experience that there is more
to war than desk work.

Bob Crosland, a member of the sophomore class, will appear in the role of Senator Malcolm. Bob, who hails from
Charlotte, is a pledge of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity and a member of the tennis team. Although this is
his first appearance with the Masquers he has had acting experience in high school. Just this past summer he played
a role in Gilbert and Sullivan’s ever-popular operetta THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE.

Senator Malcolm, a Southern senator from Mississippi, is a typical demagogic politician whose eyes are always turned toward the next
election—his shallow thinking and ornate trite phrases testimony to this trait. Although the senator has only a bare knowledge of
what is going on, he attempts in vain to understand and remedy the confusion; instead, he only adds to the
turmoil.

Committees have been set up which will assist in theproduction of “Command Decision.” They are as follows: Director, Tad Currie;
Associate Director, Prof. R. W. Tyson; Stage Manager, Joe Mattison; Properties, Billy Pharr and Ru- (Continued On Page Six)

Mr. Kenneth Moore, director of the Davidson Football Band, promises another unique and entertaining halftime performance for fans at Riddick
Stadium this Saturday night when the band travels to Raleigh to support the Wildcats against the Wolfpack of N. C.
State. It was two years ago, when Davidson last met the Wolfpack on its home field, that the band first
presented an entire halftime formation in the dark, using the colorful light displays which have since become such a popular
feature of its drills. This formation, which attracted a great deal of favorable comment at the time, included the first
presentation by the band of its beautiful “Carolina Moon” routine. This same formation was used by the band at one
of the home games last year and was well received by the home folks also. Mr. Moore states that the
drill Saturday night will again feature a formation done with lights and will also include block letter salutes to both
schools. Under Mr. Moore’s direction, the band has made very effective use of the light formations at two of the
previous night games this year. Halftime at the P. C. game in Clinton, S. C. was highlighted by a South
Pacific routine done with lights on the musicians’ feet. At the Erskine game, the band provided an entertaining innovation with
their singing of “Over the Rainbow,” while outlining a rainbow with colored lights. This spectacle proved so popular locally that
(Continued On Page Six)

Le Cercle Francais Holds First Meeting

Le Cercle Francais held its first meeting of the academic year Tuesday evening, October 24 at the home of Dr.
and Mrs. Watts. The meeting was officially the time of receiving new members, after which the program chairman, Jack Hunter,
presented a very interesting and informative program. Three of the new members, Herman Bell, Mac Bulgin, and Frank McCutchan gave
as their initiatory contribution the resume of three well-known French short stories. Jack Hunter presented a glimpse of his tour
in Europe with particular emphasis on his impressions of France and more descriptively of Paris. The guest of the evening
was Mr. William Hart, an alumnus of Davidson who has had a varied career as professor of French at Whitman
College and more recently as a Captain in the U. S. Army stationed in Frankfurt, Germany. Of his experience, he
related present trends in France since the reconstruction and presented a hopeful view of France as it is endeavoring to
take its place among the leading nations of the day. After the meeting was adjourned, Mrs. Watts and Mrs. Goldiere
served delicious refreshments conducive to a French social hour.

Received by Le Cercle Francais are Messrs. Mac Bulgin, Herman Bell, Frank McCutchan, J. N. Smith, Hubert Cannon, Bill Crymes,
Fred Deaton, and Duke Fowler.

BAKER BRAINS TO TAKE TIRESOME TESTS

NUMBER SEVEN

Erection Of Student Union Awaits Architect's Signal

Preliminary plans have been completed for converting the Alumni Gymnasium at Davidson College into a campus center for student recreation
and extracurricular activity. The remodeling, costing approximately $200,000, probably will begin early in 1951. The center will be financed with
funds raised in the $2,500,000 Davidson Development program, which was successfully completed last June. It will be the third building
project begun under the program. A new gymnasium was completed in 1949 and a church is now under construction. President
John R. Cunningham, in announcing plans for the campus center yesterday, said that remodeling of the old gymnasium instead of
erecting a new building will save approximately $100,000 to $150,000. “The present building,” he said, “is ideally located and will
be adequate.” The gymnasium, built in 1914, is just east of and behind Chambers building. It is easily accessible from
students' dormitories, classrooms, and fraternity halls. The 36-year-old building has been inspected thoroughly by construction men and was found to
be in good condition. A special consultant skilled in student union construction reported that the floor space of 20,000 square
feet is well arranged to provide the facilities needed for a campus center. The gymnasium, antiquated for athletic purposes, will
provide space for such features as a snack bar, banquet hall, game rooms, theater, music and television rooms, office space
for student organizations, and meeting rooms for campus groups. No name has yet been chosen for the building, but construction
will begin as soon as the final plans are drawn. Architects are now at work and the blueprints should be
finished within three months. The construction was authorized by the executive committee of the Davidson trustees following a recommendation to
proceed immediately offered by the building and grounds committee of the trustees.

10 MOST ‘BORING’ CLASSICS

The world’s 10 “most boring classics” have been selected in a poll conducted by Columbia University Press. Results of the
poll establish John Bunyan’s “Pilgrim's Progress” as the most boring book. Others on the most boring list include: Melville's “Moby
Dick,” Milton’s “Paradise Lost,” Spenser's “Faerie Queene,” Boswell’s “Life of Samuel Johnson,” Richardson’s “Pamela,” Eliot’s “Silas Marner,” Scott's “Ivanhoe,” Cervantes’
“Don Quixote,” and Goethe's “Faust.”

1950 ‘Y’ Xmas Gift Fund Allocated To Betterment of Negro Housing

As most upperclassmen know, last year the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet voted unanimously to allocate the 1950 Christmas gift
fund for the betterment of Negro life in the community. In a community meeting last spring it was brought out
that the “Y” Fund would act as a part of the security on loans up to three thousand dollars, made
by the Davidson bank. This makes it possible for those responsible citizens who are able to furnish ten percent of
the total loan to go ahead and build, which heretofore could not have been done because of the limited credit
available. The “Y” Fund is not lent. It merely serves as part of the security on a regular bank loan
which is covered partially by the property itself. At the close of school last year, the Citizens committee reported at
the town meeting that work had already begun; that they had financed a house for John Heath, and that Dr.
George B. Watts had begun construction on two other houses. At that meeting the committee asked that the citizens of
Davidson sign surety bonds to be (Continued On Page Six) used as security in order that the work might begin
before the “Y” Fund had been made available. During the summer much work has been done, and some of the
results are very evident in the Negro community not far from our own campus. In Brady's Alley, the worst of
the sections, all the outhouses have been removed and plumbing facilities installed in the houses, as required by a recent
city ordinance. In the new section, Dr. Watts has completed his houses and seven houses in addition to John Heath's,
have been financed through the committee, and have now been built. Only those citizens who can furnish a lot or
three hundred dollars are eligible, and these are carefully screened as to integrity, reliability, and earning power. Three of them
work for the college, and the rest are employed among local plants and factories. The college has purchased some houses
in Brady's Alley, and is repairing them in order that some of the persons which it employs may have better
living conditions. Thus the idea that was born the day the fire siren stopped the (Continued On Page Six)

PHI AND EU HEAR “ANGEL STREET”

“Angel Street” was read at a joint meeting of the Eumanean and Philanthropic Literary Societies last Monday night. After a
short devotional by Ken Goodpasture, the meeting was turned over to Red and Black Masquer Bob Gray, who introduced the
Patrick Hamilton saga. Subtitled “A Victorian Thriller,” the play deals with a woman who is driven insane by her murderous
husband. In the parts of Mr. and Mrs. Manningham were Ted Daniels and Mrs. May Holly. Others in the cast
included Mac Bulgin as Inspector Rough, Mary McGill as Nancy, the maid, and Alma Courtney as Elizabeth, the housekeeper.

College Musicians To Present Concert On Davidson Campus

A program of chamber music will be presented in Shearer Hall Auditorium at 4:30 p.m. Sunday, November 12, by a
trio composed of Elizabeth Frantz, violin; Denise Howorth, cello; and Louise Nelson Pfohl, piano. The program will consist of “Sonata”
by Loeillet; Trio, Opus 97 “Archduke” by Beethoven; and “Short trio on Irish Tunes” by Alec Rowley. Mrs. Pfohl is
a graduate of the University of Michigan where she held a Juilliard Fellowship and studied under Albert Lockwood. She spent
a year in Vienna where she was a pupil of Paul Weingarten. She was on the faculty of the University
of Michigan before coming to Davidson. Mrs. Frantz studied for many years with Mishel Piastro, Toscanini’s concert master. She spent
the past summer at the Cumberland Forest Music Festival which was organized at the University of the South in Sewanee,
Tennessee. There she was a pupil of Joseph Gingold, concert master of the Cleveland Symphony. Mrs. Howorth, cellist, has studied
with Franz Lorenz, formerly of the Philadelphia Symphony, and with Yves Chardon of the Boston and Minneapolis Symphonies.

SIGMA UP BEGINS ANNUAL PROJECT

Sigma Upsilon, Davidson's national honorary fraternity recognizing student literary talent, held its second meeting of the year Thursday night a
week ago at the Phi Delta Theta house. Pete Kalogridis opened the evening’s program by reading his own essay entitled
“The Dilemma.” The essay considered the paradox of war and peace—whether the United States should prepare for war in order
to keep the peace, or risk being subjugated by a stronger nation. After a group discussion of Kalogridis’ essay, Mac
Bulgin presented an original short story called “The White Dress.” The story dealt with the disillusionment of a young girl
who idealized her lover, only to discover that he was “like all the rest.” The society's poem of the week,
“A Thanksgiving Prayer,” was written and delivered by Gordon Scott. Hartley Hall closed the program by presenting the first in
a series of regular reports on the society's project for the year—a study of the revolt of contemporary writers against
materialism. Hartley’s report provided background material on the causes of the revolt.
