PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF .................. GORDON SCOTT
BUSINESS MANAGER .......... JOHN LOFTIN

Associate Editors .......... Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Features Editor .................. Shelley Beard
Managing Editors .......... Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George McMurray, Ed Richardson
Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Photographer—Raymond Lynch
Proofreader—Wallace Abbott
City Editor—Nat Daniel
Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen
Sports Editor—Bill White
Assistant Business Manager .......... Alex Goley
Advertising Manager .......... Manley McWilliams
Circulation Manager .......... Ansley Moses
Collections Manager .......... Jack Turner
Subscriptions Manager .......... Bill Hart
Faculty Advisor—Prof. Henry T. Lilly

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Death’s Win Streak at Davidson

The approach of any holiday season brings with it a spirit of joy and happiness in the hearts of everyone,
but this spirit should not entirely overshadow some sober reflection on a drama in which three Davidson students have played
the leading role during the past three years—Death on the Highway.

One who goes about preaching impending doom is generally unpopular and the subject of no little amount of ridicule; but
be that as it may, the fact remains that some student, perhaps you or me, has a rendezvous with death
if we can use experiences of the past three years as any standard for judgment. Traffic accidents have taken the
lives of three students, and all three occurred during the holiday season, one during Christmas and two during Spring vacation.

The time has come when each student who drives a car must fully realize the potential deadliness of the machine
in his hands, and exert every effort to see that Death’s victory streak among Davidson students will stop at three.
This can be brought about by not driving with an overloaded car, obeying all traffic regulations, being particularly careful when
driving at night, keeping within the speed limit—in short, driving as you would if a highway patrolman were sitting in
the front seat beside you.

Unfortunately, looking out for yourself on the highways is not enough today. The highways are crowded—particularly during holidays—with idiots who
have not comprehended the responsibilities they assumed when they became licensed to operate an automobile. They drive about with reckless
abandon, passing on hills and curves, exceeding the speed laws and creating a general menace to other drivers and pedestrians
as well. There is little an innocent driver can do to combat this situation but to remain constantly alert so
that instantaneous action can be taken if the need arises.

A look at some staggering figures on highway deaths will give some indication of the extent of this wholesale slaughter.
During 1949, 10,540 persons were killed in cars as the result of collision alone. It has been established by the
National Safety Council that in the majority of the accidents it was one driver alone who was breaking the traffic
laws, usually by speeding, and furthermore, that nearly 60 percent of the drivers involved in fatal accidents were violating a
traffic law of some kind at the time of the accident.

None of us can know when serious accidents or death may strike. But all of us can, by using a
little horse sense and obeying traffic laws, decidedly lessen the chances of Death’s claiming another victim from among the student
body.

Why No Messiah?

For one reason or another, we haven’t been able to generate a great deal of Christmas Spirit this year. It
may be that we are getting older or that the critical situation in Korea has put a damper on spirit,
but of one thing we are certain, something synonymous with Christmas here at Davidson was omitted this year—the presentation of
Handel’s majestic “Messiah.”

To many students who have been at Davidson for three or four years, this annual performance by the college orchestra
and the combined choruses from Queens and Davidson was the first indication that Christmas was just around the corner. It
afforded students, faculty and friends the opportunity anew of hearing the simple, but ever beautiful story of the Messiah’s birth
and reign on earth put to incomparable music. It afforded a wonderful opportunity for a quiet reaffirmation of faith as
the stirring Hallelujah Chorus proclaimed—“For the Lord God Omnipotent Reigneth, Hallelujah...!!”

Inasmuch as no reasons have been given why the “Messiah” was not presented this year, we believe that in all
fairness to the large group of disappointed members of the Davidson family, a statement should be made in chapel by
the Music Department which will shed light on the subject before school closes for the Christmas vacation; and we would
urge that every possible step be taken to ensure that the “Messiah” will be on the college calendar in the
years to come.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

COMPETITION—

Little man, I’M way AHEAD of You!

College Kage

“Do you want to stop the car and eat, sweetheart?”
“No, pet.”

He and his best girl were seated in a corner.
“Give me a kiss,” he pleaded.
The girl made no answer.
“Won't you please give me a kiss?” he asked again.
Still no answer.
“Please, please, just one,” he begged.
Still no answer.
“Are you deaf?” he shouted at length.
“No,” she snapped, “Are you paralyzed?”

His wife lay on her deathbed. She pleaded, “John, I want you to promise me that you'll ride in the
same car with mother at the funeral.”
“O. K.,” he sighed, “but it's going to ruin my whole day.”

A farm lad was drafted. Home on his first furlough, he was asked what he thought of army life.
“It’s fine,” he declared enthusiastically. “The food is good, the work’s easy, and best of all, they let you sleep
late in the mornings.”

She was the kind of girl you'd like to bring home to mother—if you thought you could trust father.

A race track habitue told his wife, “The darndest thing happened to me at Jamaica this afternoon. I was bending
down to tie my shoelace and some near-sighted goon strapped a saddle on me.”
“What did you do?” asked the wife.
“What could I do?” complained the husband. “I came in third.”

Mose: Ah heah’s yo wife is gettin’ uppity these days with a new second-hand hat and sech stuff.
Rastus: Dat’s no lie, brother. De next thing ah knows dat woman will be wantin’ shoes —Yale Record.

Athletic Policy Forum

A forum dedicated to the subsidizing program at Davidson met with much success this past Tuesday night in Phi Hall.
Much credit is due to Prof. Tyson who acted as moderator.

Athletic Director Paul Scott, the first of three speakers, reviewed the present subsidizing system. Interesting is the fact that now
about $30,000 is used for scholarships, $18,000 of which is in the present Frosh football team. In the Southern Conference
there is too big a gap between the extremes. As you know Prof. Scott came to Davidson from Cornell where
the Midwest Conference operates without any serious friction. The nine schools of the conference (each with from 650-1000 students) subsidize
only up to the amount of $200, yet have a good brand of football.

Prof. Fulcher would want to see larger subsidization at Davidson only under these conditions:
1. That such did come entirely from outside the student body or from interests on school property.
2. That grants or aids be given only to students making progress toward graduation.
3. That the curriculum offered not be changed.

The money must come from Wildcat Clubs and friends of the college. Athletes here have a scholastic average that is
above the student body average. Often the athlete will make higher grades during the season than after. Last year athletics
went $11,000 in the hole, but $5,000 of this was lost on non-charging sports. The first year 667 people contributed
to the Endowment Fund; this past year twice that number contributed. “If Davidson is to continue to be a well-rounded
college she must improve her athletics.” By MIKE MYERS

Prof. Gallent took the other side of the issue. A “subsidizing program would make little or no contribution to the
college status.” Opponents of this statement would immediately bring up the money motive. Of the above mentioned $11,000 loss, salaries
of coaches and scholarships are not included or the loss might be nearer $30,000. The alumni will say that all
we want to do is bring to Davidson the bright young boys who would come to Davidson normally... you wouldn't
need a Wildcat Club for this. ‘We want to just win our share of games.’ From 1896 to 1945 Davidson
lost 46 percent of all athletic contests, won 44 percent, tied 10 percent. With State we've lost 63 percent. Thus
the pro-subsidization arguments don't bear close examination.

Prof. Gallent went on to state the general average of Davidson students is around 8, while newly subsidized students (Frosh)
have 54 percent making D’s and F's. He proposed three solutions:
1. Let coaches of sub-conference strength teams form a small conference.
2. Fix a schedule of our own strength.
3. Quit. “Athletics is not a fundamental part of college.”

Student body members Tom Mann and Bill White joined Profs. Gallent, Scott and Fulcher fora 15-minute panel discussion during which
Mann asked Scott what part football plays in the college’s aim to prepare men for future work. Also, he questioned
Prof. Gallent’s figures of 54 percent of Frosh athletes making D's and F's. Scott: “Athletics improve human conduct and everyone
will admit the world’s human relations are bad. Also, sports are a release for the audience.” Mann: “Could this not
be accomplished by means other than athletics?” —all of which leads to the unanswerable question ‘does education include athletics?’ In
the closing general discussion, the main thought brought out was the moral issue involved. If we went in for large-scale
subsidizing, would it not deteriorate Davidson internally? Would students lose the personal contact with players that is now enjoyed? Dr.
Puckett brought out the fact that subsidizing has already had its effect on the high school boy. He has a
feeling that he can be bought for the right price. Ken Goodpasture was interested in ‘fighting in our own weight’
— play lesser teams in brawn sports yet keep contacts with Duke and Carolina in basketball where our skill is
on a par with theirs. “This would be difficult,” answered Prof. Scott, “what holds for one sport must follow for
all. If we want to stay in the Southern Conference, we must try to win more than our share.” Coach
Brown commented that the University of Va. spends only $30,000 for athletics, yet won 8 conference games. As the moderator,
Prof. Tyson explained at the onset of the forum the purpose was not to arrive at definite conclusions or decisions.
Yet everyone in attendance probably feels that forums such as this one are definite steps toward a better Davidson athletically.

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1950

THE WORLD LAST WEEK

1) The Association of American Universities has unanimously approved universal military training for eighteen-year-olds.
2) Along with others, India’s representative to the U.N. called on Peiping to not cross the thirty-eighth parallel.
3) Attlee and Truman stated officially their agreement on no appeasement in Korea, but they apparently did not agree on
the issue of Formosan policy and Communist China’s admission to the U.N.
4) The southward fleeing Koreans created further grave problems in Korea.
5) The 1950 Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to Dr. Ralph Bunche, an American Negro. In addition to the Americans,
two Germans, two British, and one Swiss received Nobel prizes.
6) Generalissimo Franco of Spain has for the first time publicly asked that Britain cede Gibraltar to Spain.
7) The President received a bill from Congress for thirty-eight more million as famine aid to Yugoslavia.
8) The Army has asked that induction in January and February be double what was previously requested.
9) The truce request by thirteen Middle East and Asian countries was regarded with varying degrees of hopefulness throughout the
world.
10) In Singapore, Moslem rioting resulted from a court decision to return a Moslem-reared girl to her Catholic mother.

MUSIC WITH HANSEN
By HENRY HANSEN

Phi Mu Alpha, honorary music fraternity, this year has had an interesting and busy series of activities. Within the fraternity
itself, a great deal of activity has occurred. New officers were elected just prior to the end of school last
semester. They are:
President—Alfred Neuman.
Vice President—Roy Davis.
Secretary—Bill Whitesides.
Warden—Herbert Russell.
Historian—Henry Hansen.

Around the middle of this semester, bids for new members were sent out and early next semester fifteen will be
initiated thus giving the organization some thirty members. “The Telephone,” Gian Carlo Menotti’s comic opera, was recently given for a
second straight year, after being so well received in 1949. The fraternity’s secretary, Bill Whitesides, played the tenor role opposite
Bobbie Jones of Queens College in a performance fully as successful as the previous year’s. Plans are in the making
to present one or two more similar types of programs. The traditional Inter-Fraternity Sing will once more be sponsored by
Phi Mu in the spring. Phi Mu has shown considerable interest in bringing outside talent to the campus to be
presented to the student body and it is hoped that plans now being made will present several artists next semester.
Also under discussion are plans for a campus radio station which would present programs of the best classical music to
the student body. Considerable interest has been shown in this project by both Phi Mu members and students at large.
If it is found possible to bring these plans to fruition, the station will play an extremely important role in
the life of the campus. This year the major networks have made considerable cutbacks in the amount of classical music
broadcast. At the present time, very little classical music is being offered over the air in this vicinity with the
exception of one or two local programs. Whether or not this is done will depend to a large degree on
student interest. If you would like to have such a station here on the campus, please let one of the
officers know your feelings about it. Phi Mu is embracing a considerable round of activities and interests which by next
semester should see it playing one of the most active and valuable roles it has ever played on this campus.

WAX SCRATCHINGS
By BOB WHEELES

There are a few new, rather good Christmas tunes on the market. One which I believe to be the best
of the group is “Christmas In My Heart” as played by the Percy Faith Orchestra. The orchestra-choral work in it
is wonderful. It’s one of those tunes that you can hear over and over without getting tired of it and
I wouldn’t be surprised to see it around for quite a few Christmases to come. If some of you are
having trouble remembering Percy Faith, you may recall his recording of “All My Love” which he made not long ago.
Perry Como has a new disc called “Home Christmas.” This one is only fair; not good, not bad. As could
be imagined it explains that “There's no Christmas like a home Christmas,” dribbling sentiment in every bar from beginning to
end. Perry does his best for it, but he just didn’t have much material with which to work. Another new
song with a Christmas theme is “Silver Bell” which has been given a very nice treatment by the Andrews Sisters.
I was not particularly impressed by “The Christmas Tree Angel.” Several companies have cut it, but no matter who does
it the thing still isn’t impressive. Dennis Day’s latest is a ditty called “Christmas In Killarney.” It’s fair, but nothing
to get excited about. Maybe I just don't like Irish songs. Anyone buying Christmas records would do well to bypass
most of these new platters and get some of the better oldies like the King Cole Trio’s “The Christmas Song,”
or Bing’s “White Christmas”; Johnny Mercer’s “Winter Wonderland” is another good one. There are two excellent arrangements of “You're All
I Want For Christmas.” Frankie Laine was the first to put it on wax and did a swell job of
it. Soon afterwards a large number of artists etched the number, but the only outstanding one in the group was
that of Hugo Winterhalter. For the flip side, Hugo recorded one of the prettiest of new Christmas songs, “Blue Christmas.”
By new I was referring to the last couple of years, for he cut these tunes last year just in
time for the Yule trade. Let's leave Christmas music for another year and look at some of the other popular
tunes of the day. The ever-popular Perry Como has a sure hit in a new number he has cut for
the Victor label. This one is “You're Just In Love,” and it has all the markings of a song that’s
hit parade bound. A cute tune, Como's voice plus some mighty fine vocal assistance by the Fontaine Sisters—how could it
go wrong?

The Editor's Mailbox

Editor, Davidsonian:

Most of us agree that in all their bitterness, the review is a normal ingredient of the academic broth. We
would further agree, as proper Davidsonians, that the humanitarian professor will hardly schedule his reviews at “undesirable times.” Uniquely enough,
the desires of the class at Davidson is a recognized factor in the determination of review dates. It is a
convenient tradition. Last week's editorial, “Bone of Contention,” pointed to a violation of the tradition in one prof.’s scheduling a
review on Saturday afternoon. All of the students victimized by this seeming violation are seniors, and seldom have we sprung
to the rescue of any professor indicted by the Davidsonian. But the facts of the case are there:
1. The professor had given two cuts recently and decided to make up one of them. Little objection from the
class.
2. Eleven days ahead, discussion of the review date began in class.
3. Discussion continued into a second class period, and Saturday afternoon encountered the least objection.
4. Two members with Saturday plans were permitted by the professor to postpone the review until Tuesday.

In the light of these facts, most of us believe that the professor was improperly indicted.

Sincerely,
Some members of the Class,
(Names withheld by request)
