PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

BOB HOLLISTER
EDITOR IN CHIEF

BUSINESS MANAGER
BILL HOUCK

EDITORIAL STAFF
Chief Associate Editor - Doug Hix
Chief Associate Editor - Lonnie Turnipseed
Chief Associate Editor - Jack Hazard

MANAGING EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall, Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister, Randy Taylor.
Sports Editor—Gordon Scott
Make-up Editors — Dan McKeithen, Cherry Stribling.
Art Editor—Bill King
City Editor—John Hobart
Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager - Bill Cassels
Advertising Managers - Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison.
Circulation Manager - Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager - John Loftin
Subscriptions Manager - Alex Goley

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

Look Who’s Talking...!

The latest issue of the campus humor magazine takes time out from its usual babbling to present an editorial policy
and make a slam at this newspaper—Davidson's leading weekly publication. The editorial in this folio of advertising refers to The
Davidsonian as “a local pulp publication.” The grade of paper used in the two literary outlets seems to be the
only field in which the magazine is superior to The Davidsonian. There seems to be no more fields in which
the artist (oh, pardon us, the editor) can claim superiority.

The normal reader of the magazine hastily thumbs through the pages in search of jokes, then tosses the sheets of
high-grade paper stapled together into the trash can—its proper home. In this most recent issue, the editors had the audacity
to cut out many of the jokes—which naturally reduced its readability, accordingly. The claim of the editor in committing this
crime was that the magazine could do with fewer jokes. If he is cutting jokes, he should do a good
job of it and throw out the biggest joke of all—the entire magazine.

We are almost afraid to ask the question of why our college magazine can’t be like other college magazines and
present us with true college humor. We say we are almost afraid because of the certainty of the answer that
like other Davidson institutions, the magazine does not care to be like other colleges. The magazine is so content to
be in the strict Davidson way that it refuses to be more liberal in its views. It appears to fear
the censure of our more conservative brethren in the student body and on the faculty. We have heard and read
much work by students which shows good literary work, but seems to be a bit too off-color for the magazine
to print. Perhaps if the editors could see their way clear to broaden their scope, they could acquire much more
material and readers—which we understand to be the purpose of the magazine. We are college men with supposedly near-mature minds
at least. Can we not be presented with more realism in the work of the magazine?

—J.H.

Abernathy Again...

Not long ago the student body was somewhat set back on its heels by a speech by Dr. Abernathy, in
which he attacked several of the organizations on the campus for their complacency and uselessness; this newspaper being one of
the principal points of attack. Since that time he has met with several groups of students and discussed various aspects
of the problems with them and suggested solutions. Whether or not The Davidsonian or any of the other organizations have
improved or not is a question which I do not intend to take up, as that is for you to
decide. I do wish, however, to express an interpretation of his speech, which seems to me to be a very
practical one, along with the others that have been expressed. It seems to me that he is simply saying that
the various organizations on the campus are simply not realizing their potentialities, they are not capitalizing on their opportunities. In
our own case, for example, he pointed out that we have some very capable reporters on our staff, but they
need a little training to improve the quality of our paper. We have been allowing this talent to go unused
and the paper has suffered for it. Here in the student body we have men capable of doing better jobs
than they are doing, and thereby make the school better, as well as benefit themselves by their work. In our
various honorary and literary societies we have unlimited possibilities for improvement of study habits, and general scholarship but in many
cases they are going unrealized. I think Dr. Abernathy’s advice has already begun to bear fruit and several organizations have
taken steps to make improvements and realize their potentialities. The organizations on the campus were organized with a specific purpose
in mind, but in a few cases, this original purpose seems to have been forgotten and the organization merely exists;
it does no good whatsoever. Some few of these organizations don’t even bother to meet any more ever to elect
officers, unless it is at the last minute for the annual. If the members of the literary societies would take
the meetings seriously and try to attend each meeting, much could be accomplished. As it is in most cases, only
a small representation of the group is on hand. The social fraternities and the Campus Club have unlimited possibilities in
helping the student adjust himself to social situations as well as raise his scholarship level. Theirs is the opportunity to
undertake worthwhile projects and carry them through together. If they really take the problem of social development seriously, it will
benefit each member in the long run, as well as strengthen the friendships within. After all, we are in college
to learn, to prepare ourselves for a life’s profession. When we do less than our best in anything, we cheat
no one but ourselves. Don’t be one of those who in ten years will be saying “When I was in
college I could have been this, or I could have done that if I would have.” Make the best of
all your opportunities, and help make each organization do its best to carry out its aims and purposes.

—Huffaker

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Passing of an Era... Penultimate Phase

By HENRY E. HANSEN

At the beginning of this year an article by this writer appeared in which the Roosevelt administrations were indicted for
having created a desire in the people to be cared for rather than care for themselves. This whole condition can
with almost complete accuracy be laid at the feet of an application of the Hansen doctrine of the economic man
which contends that man works only for the economic motive and that when man’s economic needs are best satisfied, then
man is functioning best. The earlier article attempted to prove that this is a basic tenet of both Communism and
of Socialism and, further, that this doctrine was slowly but surely becoming a part of the thought of this country
through euphemistic nomenclature which disguised its real socialistic intent and made acceptable to the people what they would otherwise reject.
The earlier article also attempted to prove that man, under Socialism, was but a slave and tacitly implied that this
was undesirable. That question will not be of concern here.

Last week President Truman made his annual state of the nation speech. Throughout he stood for the right things, the
correct things which all loyal Americans of course desire. From a superficial examination of the speech it would appear that
Truman is not attempting to carry on the New Deal. But two short paragraphs give this impression the lie.

“We have met and reversed the first significant downturn in economic activity since the war. In accomplishing this, government programs
for maintaining employment and purchasing power have been of tremendous benefit.”

“At present, largely because of the ill-considered tax reduction of the Eightieth Congress, the government is not receiving enough revenue
to meet its necessary expenditures.”

Both of these statements are probably true. The first claims credit for the government in averting an economic recession. This,
of course, was done by the same ultimately futile buttressing of a weak structure from without that occurred in the
thirties. It was paid for with tax money derived mainly from the middle class. These increased taxes have made it
impossible for a large segment of the population to save enough for old age, but that is all right. The
government will take care of them through the ever-increasing dispensations of our ever-growing welfare state. The second is interestingly highlighted
by the recent Hoover Report. It would seem from this that a large part of the government expenditures are completely
unnecessary.

This article does not propose to argue against socialism, welfare statism, or whatever else you wish to call it. The
American standard of living is the highest ever and, in spite of the fact, that Americans are no happier, no
more socially intelligent, and a good deal less self-reliant through the application of this economic man doctrine, the writer feels
that further discussion on this point is pointless—it appears that we have cast in our lot for good with Franklin
and Harry. But the writer would plead for more economy in the gradual chattelizing of America. We simply cannot afford
to spend too much money in turning the people into adult children. Freedom is expensive, but the taking away of
this nowadays cheap commodity should be conducted as inexpensively as possible. An era is passing and we have evidently decided
what to do about it, but we must do it with as much dispatch and as economically as possible.

BOOK NOTES

By TOM PRUFER

We are living in intellectual and moral chaos...

Two frogs fell into a pail of milk. One flopped over on its back and drowned. The other started kicking,
made a pat of butter, and hopped out. The following is a quotation from a book by Romano Guardini, a
German who has done a lot of kicking.

“Let us try to realize how deeply we are sunk in relativism, that is, the attitude of mind which either
denies an Absolute altogether, or at any rate, tries to restrict it within the narrowest limits. We have lived through
the collapse of an edifice which we expected to endure for an incalculable period of time, the collapse of the
political structure of our country and its power, of the social and economic order existing hitherto, and with it of
much besides. We can watch the social sense changing. And our mental attitude towards objects and life in general is
equally changing. These changes go too deep to be dismissed with a few words. Artistic vision has changed; the expressionism
which has gradually become familiar, is already yielding, and the desire is springing up for a new classicism. A scientific
and philosophical view of the universe is forming, which strives to attain loftier and freer understanding of objects in accordance
with their essential nature. Faced with these profound changes we become rather more acutely conscious of what in truth is
always happening—that the attitude of the soul towards itself, its environment and the first principles of being, is continually shifting.
The forms of human life, economic, social, technical, artistic, intellectual, are seen to be in a state of steady if
slight transformation. We live in a perpetual flux. As long as this flux is not too clearly perceived, as long
as a naive conviction ensures a strong underlying reserve of vitality, or deeply-rooted religious beliefs balance the increase of knowledge,
life can endure it. But in periods of transition, and when centuries of criticism have worn away all fixed belief,
the flux forces itself on the mind with an evidence from which there is no escape. The condition ensues which
ten years ago was universally predominant, and is still widespread today; a sense of transitoriness and limitation takes possession of
the soul. It realizes with horror how all things are in flux, are passing away. Nothing any longer stands firm.
Everything can be viewed from a thousand different angles. What had seemed secure disintegrates, on closer inspection, into a series
of probabilities. To everything produced there are many possible alternatives. Every institution might equally well have been ordered otherwise. Every
valuation is only provisional. Man thus becomes uncertain and vacillating. His judgments are no longer steady, his valuations unhesitating. He
is no longer capable of action based on firm conviction and certain of its aim. He is at the mercy
of the fashions prevalent in his surroundings, the fluctuations of public opinion, and his own moods. He no longer possesses
any dignity. His life drifts. He lacks everything which we mean by character. Such a man is no longer capable
of conquest. He cannot overcome error by truth, evil and weakness by moral strength, the stupidity and inconstancy of the
masses by the great ideas and responsible leadership or the flux of time by works born of the determination to
embody the eternal values. But this spiritual and intellectual pov-Poverty is accompanied by colossal pride. Man is morbidly uncertain and
morbidly arrogant. The nations are confused by pride, parties are blinded by self-seeking, and rich and poor alike are the
prey of an ignoble greed. Every social class deifies itself. Art, science, technology — every separate department of life considers
itself the sum and substance of reality. There is despairing weakness, hopeless instability, a melancholy consciousness of being at the
mercy of blind, irrational force — and side by side with these a pride, as horrible as it is absurd,
of money, knowledge, power, and ability. Impotence and pride, helplessness and arrogance, weakness and violence — do you realize how
by the continued action of these vices true humanity has been lost? We are witnessing a caricature of humanity. In
what then does humanity in the deepest sense of the term consist? To be truly human is to be conscious
of human weakness, but confident that it can be overcome. It is to be humble. It is to realize man’s
transience, but aspire to the eternal. It is to be a prisoner of time, but a freeman of eternity. It
is to be aware of one’s powers, of one’s limitations, but to (Continued On Page Six)

College Rags .... IN BRIEF

Is there such a thing as a Christian attitude toward the white-negro problem? Can we look to the Church for
solutions of issues with social as well as moral implications? This question has been fought to the fore by the
recent, valuable YMCA forum on the race question. Answering it entails more trouble than one would think. In the first
place, it might be well to look at the history of the Church participation in secular matters, for since Constantine
this kingdom “not of the world” has played a very important role in the affairs of temporal rulers. Constantine conquered
under its sign, the feudalistic society of the Middle Ages was strengthened by its undergirding theology, the bourgeois capitalism of
the sixteenth century evolved a new theology to make it serve new needs, Henry VIII altered the English Church into
the tool, not the enemy, of royal despotism. Before the rise of national states, Christianity had strengthened the sway of
pope and emperor; now, it formed one of the sturdiest supports of divine right monarchy. The King, the Stuarts believed,
was “ordained of God,” and his will was automatically law, his judgments, justice. In France this view continued almost to
the nineteenth century. Only the rise of eighteenth-century rationalism, deistic or atheistic in tone, served to break the union between
Church and State, or, if you please, the prostitution of Church to State.

In our own country, founded in part on rationalistic principles, there has been far less connection between ecclesiastical and politico-social
forces. Yet even here, the Church proved invaluable to the Federalist party in establishing the idea that a rich man
is usually a virtuous one. Jefferson was unable to see the truth of this statement, but he was a free-thinker.
And, indeed, America has seen “Christian approaches” to the Negro problem before. The ferocious Quaker, John Greenleaf Whittier, the religious
fanatic, John Brown, the Southern ministers with their Biblical cant in justification of slavery, all are manifestations of the perverted
forms that religious enthusiasm may take. Nowadays, faced as we are by the threat of totalitarianism, it is eminently natural
that we should incorporate the ethics of democracy into our Gospel. It becomes extremely easy to say, "This is anti-democratic;
therefore it is un-Christian.” Of course, Christianity existed for hundreds of years before the western world began to be democratized,
but to the contemporary zealot, that is beside the point. A distinguished missionary, just home from China, observed recently that
America has evolved a new Trinity, Christianity, Capitalism, and Democracy. How desirable this connection between the Church and secular institutions
would be if the former could transfigure the latter, itself, meanwhile, remaining pure! All too often, however, the opposite process
occurs. In its eagerness to advocate a secular program, the Church forgets that it was originally a revolutionary institution, pledged
to ends not of this world, and goes with the tide of whatever force is temporarily ascendant.

This is not to say that the Christian should not practice his Christianity. If he is sincere, application of the
ethic is inevitable. But he must be cautious about laying down blanket solutions, wary of universal panaceas. Let him fight
injustice wherever he finds it, but let him not claim omniscience on the authority of his religion. Let him remember
that preachers are not authorities on all subjects, that the best intentions may bring about the most harm, that moderate
realism often achieves more results than blind idealism. As Pascal says, “He who would act the angel acts the brute.”
At different times the Church has spoken to men with different voices; usually it is on spiritual matters that her
words have been most consistent and most telling.

Who Pulled The Most Punches? By TOM ABEL

It is the author's personal opinion that we must again compromise and get sort of a happy medium between the
two. The problem is simply going to have to evolve, and evolve quite slowly. We feel that the Church should
take steps whenever it is possible to allow greater tolerance, and on the other hand, the way that tolerance gets
to the point where the Church is willing to change some long-standing statute is by the personal wants of the
individual members. Therefore, it should be up to all of us to do whatever we can, whenever we can to
raise the bars of our own personal prejudices and pre-conceived ideals to let in just a little more liberality, but
that’s just one man’s opinion.

To get back to the conference proper it was interesting to note some of the things that went on during
the discussion — perhaps the first of its type here at Davidson, at least in a long while. An omnipresent
fact was that all the speakers were unable to attempt even the slightest bit of approach in a purely secular
fashion. Perhaps the development of thought would have been much better if they had been able to, for maybe the
problem should be approached from a purely materialistic viewpoint. Who knows? As can be imagined, the conference was far from
clear of burning prejudice, and although I'm not hard of hearing, I could have sworn that every time anybody used
the word “liberal” it sounded like “heretic.” It's strange, but liberals in the South today seem to be just as
much behind the eight-ball as they were a hundred years ago. Of course it’s their own fault, for everyone knows
that the safest place is right on top of the fence. Just sit there, don't think, and you'll never be
accused of liberalism.

And speaking of fence tops, it would seem to us that Davidson College has at last started teetering a little
bit in regards to its once solid stand. By that I mean that the conference, regardless of the confusion, was
a success, a definite step in the right direction. Maybe if we could have ten or a dozen more such
meetings people would really begin to wake up — so what are we going to do about (Continued On Page
Six)
