MAIDS MOAN MARRIED MEN VOLUME XXXVI * % 5 ALENDA DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 1950

“Imaginary Invalid" To Be Presented By Barter Theater Jan. 16

By TOM ABEL

On January 16, next Monday evening, the renowned Barter Theatre of Abingdon, Virginia, is going to present one of its
road plays, “The Imaginary Invalid,” at the Mooresville High School Auditorium. The play starts at eight-fifteen sharp, its sponsorship being
handled by the Mooresville Junior Civic League.

The Barter Theatre had its birth in the early years of the depression when Bob Porterfield, the company’s manager, saw
the need for creating a theatrical group to handle the large number of actors from the legitimate stage who were
thrown out of jobs by the crash. The name “Barter” was derived from just what is implied. At the early
productions, a man would be posted outside the door with a pair of scales, accepting eggs, cabbages, and every conceivable
sort of produce as admission in lieu of money.

All summer long, plays are given in the home town of Abingdon, with the company, (or really companies, since they
have expanded considerably in recent years), remaining on the road from September until May, giving the plays of the preceding
summer all over the nation. The group was particularly honored last summer when they were invited to play “Hamlet” in
Elsinore Castle, where that famous Shakespearian character is alleged to have lived. It is offers like that which add almost
daily to the ever-growing heritage and reputation of the theatre.

Today the Barter Theatre is what could be considered a “semi-pro” organization, consisting of everything from the simon-pures to the
seasoned professionals. Many famous actors and actresses had their beginning with the Barter Theatre. It is unique in another sense
besides its founding, being the only theatre in the nation to be subsidized by a state. For the past several
years, the State of Virginia has helped support the theatre.

The play to be presented next Monday night promises to be a great success, for into it has gone nearly
twenty years of experience and study by a great company under a great manager, Bob Porterfield.

Frosh Keep Red Caps as Sophs Down ‘Em

Freshman hopes for victory in the annual Freshman-Sophomore Day contests were rudely shattered when a long pass from Johnny Guiton
to Ham Wade went for a game-winning touchdown at Richardson Field last Friday.

The winner of the meet, called to decide whether or not the Freshmen could discard their “53” caps, depended upon
who won the football game, since the Frosh had jumped to an early lead by taking the sack race, and
the Sophs had retained by out-yanking the Frosh in the tug-of-war event. Thus, with the events tied at 1-1, and
after a scoreless first half, the Freshmen, led by Bill Rowland and A. C. Gregg, drove to within sight of
paydirt, but the Sophs held and took over on their own 20. The game then seesawed back and forth in
Sophomore territory until late in the 4th quarter, when the upperclassmen resorted to spread formations and sleepers combined with sharp
passing by Guiton and Sloan to score with 4 minutes left in the game. Although the Frosh tried desperately to
shove across a last-minute touchdown, they were forced to kick and the Sophs ran out the clock.

A good crowd of enthusiastic Freshmen viewed the contest along with a sprinkling of upperclassmen.

(Continued On Page Six)

MID-SEMESTER GRADUATES

Academic Travel Association Sponsors European Study Tour

The Academic Travel Association, a non-profit organization, has announced the following European study tours for the summer of 1950:

Four weeks in England (London, South Coast, Lowlands,) $620.00.
Three weeks in England and one week in Paris, $665.00.
Four weeks in France (Paris, French Alps, Riviera, $690.00.
Three weeks in France and one week in London, $750.00.

Additional weeks in England, France, Scotland, Holland, Scandinavia, Germany, Switzerland, and Italy, may be secured for $50 to $75.

The comprehensive tours include transportation (New York to New York) to, from, and within Europe, full board in good hotels,
or modern university accommodations, and a complete supervised educational and recreational program of excursions, sightseeing, theatre and concert visits, conferences,
lectures, political and professional contacts, and social and sport activities.

These prices are valid for registration before March 1, 1950; a $100 deposit will secure your reservation, the remainder payable
in

(Continued On Page Six)

Petite Fifi Expires Under Killer's Tire

At 6:25 p.m. Wednesday, Fifi was run down and brutally killed by a grossly irresponsible hit-and-run driver on the Concord
highway. At the time of the fatal accident, Fifi was crossing in her usual manner from the Kappa Sig boarding
house to the Beta house. Fifi, truly man’s best friend on the campus, received her title through the respect of
students for her true and humble spirit. She was also dearly loved by all her other associates. We shall surely
miss the friendly whimper and the everywhere presence of Fifi. There was a tear in the bloodshot eye of the
thoughtful lad who bore the limp body to the local funeral home as the fleeing killer sped on towards Kannapolis.
Funeral arrangements have not been completed, but friends are requested not to send flowers.

January Sees Skins Handed Twenty-One

On Friday evening, January 27, Davidson College will hold its mid-term graduation exercises in Phi Hall. Professor Earnest Beaty of
the faculty will be the principal speaker for the occasion. There are some twenty-two candidates seeking Bachelor of Science degrees
at this the close of the first half of the college term. They are as follows: Rhea W. Adams, Portsmouth,
Va.; Charles E. Auten, Charlotte; Hunter R. Boykin, Charlotte; John C. Calhoun, Huntington, W. Va.; Tom C. Clark, Clarkton, N.
C.; William N. Clark, Jr., Rocky Mt, N. C.; Robert F. Coble, Jr., Bessemer City, N. C.; William A. Dixon,
Belmont, N. C.; George S. Edwards, Rocky Mt.; John L. Ellis; Andrews, N. C.; Charles E. Fleming, Cleveland, N. C.;
R. W. Goeckeritz, Charlotte; E. Herbert Johnson, Pittsboro, N. C.; Randolph M. Kabrich, Jr., Wytheville, Va.; Henry P. King, III,
Bristol, Tenn.; M. Morris Morgan, Laurinburg, N. C.; Paul L. O’Briant, Jr., Durham, N. C.; Sam L. Pharr, Jr., Mooresville,
N. C.; James F. Rodgers, Statesville, N. C.; Kelly A. Sherrill, Jr., Mooresville, N. C.; Richard B. Stone, King, N.
C.; and Theodore B. Summer, Jr., Asheville, N. C.

Sophs take touch football and down Frosh during annual competition.

Development Fund Goal Nearly Reached

$350,000 is the amount needed to make the Davidson College Development Program a success. $2,148,378.82 has already been contributed toward
our college's expansion by Davidson alumni and friends the nation over; and it is hoped that the $2,500,000 goal will
be reached by February 15, the closing day of the development drive.

Returns are coming in from such Florida centers as Miami, Tampa, Palm Beach, Jacksonville, and Orlando, where organized campaigns are
being sponsored; and in the South Carolina cities of Columbia, Sumter, Florence, and Charleston, kick-off dinners have been or will
be held to set in operation alumni-prompted development drives. Similar programs have been in process in these North Carolina cities:
Asheville, Lumberton, Elizabethtown, Kinston, New Bern, Reidsville, and Statesville. Systematized Davidson development campaigns are functioning in the following states: North
Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Virginia, South Carolina, and New York. Donations, however, have been received from many other sections of the
country where there are Davidson alumni. Mr. Robert J. Sailstad, who is now soliciting the less thickly populated areas of
Florida, is director of the Development Program.

The Davidson Development Program was officially launched on Homecoming a year ago, but the first important action of the drive
took place on February 11, 1949, when Davidson students governed theCity of Charlotte, N.C. during a Charlotte-Davidson Day which emphasized
the close relationship between Charlotte and this college. Soon after this event, Governor Kerr Scott of North Carolina delivered an
address at the kick-off banquet of the campaign to raise $660,000 in Charlotte and vicinity. The kick-off of the Student
Development Program came a few (Continued On Page Six)

CHRISTMAS WEDDINGS CLAIM LIBERTY OF DAVIDSONIANS

Wedding bells rang out during the Christmas season for a number of Davidson men. Among the faculty, Mr. Glenn Roberts,
instructor in the chemistry department, started the new year out successfully by wedding the former Miss Betty Marie Canipe of
Charlotte. Mrs. Roberts, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Edward Guy Canipe of Oxford, was graduated from the Lowell High
School and from the Presbyterian Hospital School of Nursing where she is now employed. They were married January 2, at
5:30 o’clock in the Ranlo Baptist Church, Gastonia. Rev. H. D. Brown, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Rock
Hill, and Dr. J. C. Canipe of Hendersonville, uncle of the bride, officiated.

Joseph Wheeler McLaney, Jr., of the senior class was married to Miss Sara Elizabeth Barber of Charlotte. The ceremony took
place at 4:30 o'clock in Avondale Presbyterian Church, where Mrs. Earl F. Berg of Davidson, organist, and Moody Chisholm of
Kannapolis, vocalist, presented the wedding music. Mrs. McLaney, daughter of Rev. and Mrs. Lowery Barber of Moultrie, Ga., was graduated
from Aberdeen High School, Aberdeen, and from Queens College, where she was a member of Phi Mu sorority. She was
a special student at Assembly’s Training School in Richmond, Va., and for the last two months has taught kindergarten in
the Avondale Presbyterian Church. Mr. McLaney of Charlotte, was graduated from Central High School and served two years in the
armed forces, a year of which was spent in Japan. He is a member of Sigma Chi social fraternity. In
a ceremony which took place (Continued On Page Six)

NUMBER THIRTEEN

TONY PASTOR “GREATEST VOCALIST STYLIST” SIGNED FOR FEBRUARY 17-18

Bill Bird, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, announced this week that Tony Pastor and his orchestra will provide the music
for the Mid-Winter’s dance set February 17 and 18. Pastor, who is recognized as having one of the best bands
in the land, is acclaimed as “America’s Greatest Vocal Stylist.” Featured with his fifteen-piece orchestra are vocalists Buddy James and
Adele Castle. Tony has made hits out of such songs as “Paradiddle Joe,” “Please Don’t Squeeze da Banana” and “The
Lady From 29 Palms.” Both dances will be held in the Johnston Memorial Gymnasium. The formal dance of Friday, February
17, will be from 9 to 1. Included in the Friday night program is the Pan-Hell figure, which will be
presented during intermission. The informal dance of Saturday night will be from 8 to 12. There will be no intermission
that night in order that those fraternities who have banquets will enjoy as much actual dancing as possible. In addition
to the two dances, the weekend festivities will include a wrestling match between Davidson and VPI and a concert in
Chambers from 3:30-5:30 given by Tony Pastor (without admission charge). In this concert, Pastor has promised to present a variety
of entertainment with emphasis on novelty tunes. Tony Pastor is the second bit of evidence to back up the policy
of the Pan-Hell this year of getting three top-flight bands, instead of two “Knauffs” and one “Tex Beneke.” Further information
concerning the dances can be obtained between now and February 17 by consulting the Davidsonian from week to week.

29 New Courses Set For 2nd Semester

The approach of the second semester finds several new courses being offered to the students which are new to the
curriculum of Davidson College. The breakdown of the American home, accelerated since the war years, points with unmistakable evidence to
the fact that many couples enter marriage while they are yet unprepared to meet the demands of married life. Sociology
62, a course dealing with marriage and the family, is aimed at training students for the important career of marriage.
Professor Douglas will instruct the class, which will meet at the third period Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. Another course making
its debut will be Bible 52, under Dr. Charles R. Eberhardt. This will be “a study of the sources, genius,
and dynamics of the Reformation. The course will seek to develop in the student an understanding of the early Protestant
faith in general and of the thought and faith of John Calvin in particular.” All candidates interested are asked to
confer with Dr. Eberhardt before registering for this course. English 152 (Public Speaking), although not a new course, will be
presented for the first time this college year during the second semester by Dr. Bernard H. Boyd, during the fourth
period Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday. Registration must of necessity be limited to twenty students.

Inter-Racial Group Hears Wilson Speak

Groups from Johnson C. Smith and Barber-Scotia, a school for colored girls in Concord, met with the Davidson College members
of the Inter-Collegiate Council last Saturday from three until four in the Quadrangle room at an inter-racial meeting with Professor
Iain Wilson as the speaker. After Professor Wilson’s lecture on the World Council of Churches, refreshments were served and an
informal discussion was carried on. In his lecture, Professor Wilson discussed the history of the World Council of Churches and
the Amsterdam conference. He stated that the World Council of Churches planned to have a World Conference every five years
to better the relations between the different Protestant churches with the Catholic Church. With this break, the Church split up
into many branches, Professor Wilson said, but the World Council of Churches is endeavoring to incite a feeling of oneness
again into all churches all over the world so that a “group idea” may come into mass and (Continued On
Page Six)

Masquers Announce Twin One-Act Plays

In a meeting of the Red and Black Masquers which was held in December, it was the decision of the
group to present for their second production of the year two one-act plays. The plays which were selected are “The
Valiant” by Holworthy Hall and Robert Middlemass and “Sunday Costs Five Pesos” by Josephina Niggli. “The Valiant,” which is to
be directed by Bill Trotman, is a tragedy which has become almost a classic in American literature. It has been
received with great enthusiasm by American audiences during the last three decades. The scene of the play is the warden’s
office of the Connecticut State Prison. Appearing in the leading roles of “The Valiant” are Tom Apperson as Dyke and
Mrs. B. M. Boyd as Josephine Paris. The supporting cast is as follows: Bob Gay as Father Daly, Bill Pharr
as Warden Holt, Ted Daniels as Dan, and Bob Hotchkiss as the attendant. “Sunday Costs Five Pesos,” a light comedy
with a Mexican background, is to be directed by Nancy Copeland. Mrs. Dorothy Herring and Wylie Smith are cast in
the leading roles as Berta and Fedel. (Continued On Page Six)

HOT COFFEE, DONUTS FOR EXAM-WEARY LADS

Each year the YMCA serves coffee and doughnuts at exam time. Bill Klein, chairman of the Social committee, has announced
that this year the refreshments will be served every night from January 23 through January 26, from 10 to 10:30
p.m. in the Chambers dining hall. A plate will be placed on a table and those who take refreshments are
asked to contribute any amount they desire for the refreshments.
