VOLUME XXXVIII

ORCHID, OUTING, SET TICKETS WILL GRACE FROLICS QUEEN

The Davidsonian—Pan Hellenic Council Spring Frolics’ beauty contest is nearing its deadline. Our three judges, Professors McGavock, Boyd, and Davidson are soon to meet and select the winner. Our first Spring Frolics’ beauty queen will be crowned by the President of the Student Body, Whit Cobb, and presented during the Pan Hellenic figure the night of the formal dance. In addition, the Davidsonian is presenting the winner with an orchid corsage, dinner for her and her date at Chez Montet, and tickets to the dance set. It is hoped that the student body will be interested in the contest to the extent that this feature of Spring Frolics will be established as a traditional part of our Spring dances. If such is the case, students in the future may look forward to the final dance set with even more interest and anticipation than is now felt. In keeping with the beauty of these particular dances, a beauty queen representing the students’ dates should add to the enjoyment of the weekend for all. All entries submitted must be on behalf of girls who will attend the dances. All pictures will be returned to men submitting them after the judges' decision. Turn in entries to Bill King, 15 Georgia, before April 16th.

Julliard Violinist Plays Concert Here

On Wednesday, April 12, at 8:30 p.m., Phi Delta Alpha presented Miss Mary Elizabeth Freeman in a violin recital in Chambers auditorium. Miss Freeman is a native Carolinian and has been a scholarship student at the Julliard School of Music for the past five years, where a brilliant future is predicted for her as a concert artist. She has appeared in many superb performances in New York and in the South, the latest being guest artist on the Texaco Chorus Concert in New York. Through a competitive examination, Miss Freeman has been chosen to play first violin for three years in the Julliard Summer Symphony Orchestra, under the direction of such eminent conductors as Walter Hendl and Fritz Reiner. Other concerts on the tour will be presented at Erskine College, Winthrop College, and Rutherfordton, N.C. Marjorie Freeman Alewine at the piano.

Famed Stars Glitter In ‘D’-Club Foolies

Spring Frolics weekend will start in fine style when our athletes turn esthetes for the annual D-Club Foolies Friday night, April 21, from 7-9 p.m. Jake Wade, D-Club spokesman, announced that a wide variety of sparkling entertainment is being planned for the students and their dance weekend dates. Besides solos by Buddy Chandler, Jimmy Rogers, and Harrison Taylor, football stars Jerry Kiser, Bill McNeilly, Ernie Strickland, C.L. Runyan, Bill Van Story, Bob Henderson, and Gene Craven will provide their own inimitable version of the can-can. Bill Trotman, Grier Williams, Bill Whitesides, Mes. Redding, and Marvin Kelly will present specialty acts in the star-studded show, for which Henry Wilson will serve as interlocutor. Jokes by the tenmen, music by Hal Haynes and the Cripple Creek Boys, and many more acts are being planned. Said Jake, “That’s a whale of a lot of entertainment for just 50c, so everybody come and bring your dates.”

YMCA Serves Needs Of Negro Community

This division of the College “Y” is more particularly concerned with the Colored Community of the Town of Davidson. In the colored community, the YMCA carried on a three-fold program in its efforts to be a definite Christian influence among the people. The students of the College give their time and efforts to the forwarding of such causes as teaching Sunday school classes, directing the playground activity of the colored children, and the showing of educational movies. The splendid cooperation of some twenty members of the student body during the school year has made it possible for the “Y” to furnish supervisors for the playgrounds each day Monday through Friday from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. It is under the direction of these boys that the children of the community enjoy the full circuit of sports from football to basketball to softball and back to football. The basic equipment for the sports participated in during the various seasons is furnished by the “Y.” There is quite a group of students on the Sunday school teaching staff for the community. These men are ready, when needed, to take part in teaching Sunday school classes for the three different colored churches of Davidson. In former years this was one of our fields of greater activity but for the past few years we had limited demands in this area due to the fact that it was only a matter of time before the churches had developed trained teachers. Despite the fact that the churches are fully staffed, the College YMCA stands ever ready to extend this hand of Christian service. A great favorite with the folks of the community is the weekly movies which are shown each Tuesday night at 7:30. This is one phase of the “Y” program which is participated in and enjoyed by all ages. This is made possible because of the gracious aid rendered by the Film and Sound Division of the Public Library of Charlotte and Mecklenburg County. All films are catalogued according to age, school grade, interest, and subject matter in detail. Not only are these movies the best in audio-visual education, but they have proven highly delightful as well and have been (Continued On Page Six)

The Davidsonian

ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 1950

Seven Fraternities Choose New Leaders

Recently the fraternities held their elections for the fraternity officers. The following men were elected. Included are a few of their extracurricular activities.

PIKA
President, Gordon Scott, sports editor of the Davidsonian; vice-president, Dick Boyd; treasurer, Harry Lee Underwood.

KA
President, Dan McKeithen, makeup editor of Davidsonian, track, cross country team; vice-president, Blake Bradley, track, captain of the cross country team; treasurer, Earl Schoenberger.

SAE
President, Bill Little; vice-president, Cam Faison, Scabbard and Blade; treasurer, Sandy Lewis.

KAPPA SIG
President, Randy Taylor, vice-president of the student body, managing editor of Davidsonian; vice-president, Bo Simmons for Scripts ‘n Pranks, business manager; treasurer, Warren Sims, golf.

PHI GAM
President, Dick Patterson, cross country team, “D” Club; vice-president, Bob Gay, wrestling, Red and Black Masquers, “Y” Cabinet, “D” Club; treasurer, Lynn Crowley, track, Glee Club.

PHI DELT
President, Neil Leach, “Y” Cabinet, managing editor of Davidsonian; vice-president, Mac Leach, editorial staff of Scripts ‘N Pranks, managing editor of Davidsonian; treasurer, Thenton Davis, football.

SPE
President, Milton Clenseur; vice-president, Jimmy Miller, basketball; treasurer, Henry Howe.

The Betas, Sigma Chi’s, Pi Kaps, and the Campus Club have not held their election yet.

STUDENT RECITAL

A recital of music performed by students will be presented by the Department of Music Monday evening, April 17, at 8:15 o’clock in Chambers Auditorium. Vocal soloists who will appear on the program are Lawrence Atkins, Jesse Fisher, Charles Herion, Bruce Pruitt, and David Whitener. Instrumentalists will be George McKee, pianist, and Herbert Russell, organist. This will be the fourth student recital to be given during the current school year. Two more such programs are scheduled for presentation in May.

PHOTOGRAPHIC EXHIBIT

There is to be a student photographic exhibit in connection with the annual Arts Festival to be held around the first of May. Students are invited to submit prints to hang in this exhibit. All prints should be mounted, but may be any size. They must be turned in to Charles Burrus, 413 West, not later than Monday, April 24.

Tar Heel Historians To Meet On Campus

The Historical Society of North Carolina will hold its spring meeting at the YMCA Guest House on Saturday afternoon and evening of this week. The program will include the reading of a paper by Dr. C.G. Davidson, director of the Davidson College library, entitled “Catawba Springs - Carolina Spa.” The afternoon session will be followed by a dinner at the Guest House for the members and their guests. The evening program will consist of a business meeting restricted to members only. Other Davidson members of this exclusive organization are Professors C.K. Brown, F.W. Johnston, and W.P. Cumming.

“THE MAN WHO CAME TO DINNER" FEATURES “THE SENATOR,” “DADDY ERWIN", “MRS. DUTCH"

Monty Wooley was the first. Since then the number has become legion. And you can add another to the ever-increasing number.of "Men" who came to dinner when Bill Trotman assumes the Falstaffian role of Sheridan Whitesides in the Red and Black Masquers Spring production. The Masquers will give "The Man Who Came to Dinner" in Chambers Auditorium on a date tentatively set as May 5. With the announcement of Trotman as lead also came the selection of approximately twenty persons in supporting roles. It will be one of the largest casts assembled here in several years and Director Nancy Copeland believes it to be one of the most experienced. Besides Trotman, who has established himself as an accomplished actor by his performance in "John Loves Mary" and his directing of the two one-act plays earlier this season, Miss Copeland announced that Prof. E. J. Erwin and Mrs. Ruth Hengeveld would also take important parts, as Dr. Bradley and Mrs. Stanley, respectively. Both Mr. Erwin and Mrs. Hengeveld took active roles when the "Man" first came to dinner on the Davidson campus back in 1942, and Shaw Smith portrayed the inimitable Mr. Whitesides. Prior to that time, Mrs. Hengeveld had been a consistent participant in Masquer productions. Prof. Erwin is also the group's faculty adviser. Playing opposite Mrs. Hengeveld will be Bill Pharr, the warden of "The Valiant" fame, as Mr. Stanley. Together they form the distraught hosts whose home is turned into a madhouse by the bewhiskered Whitesides. The entire cast of "Sunday Costs Five Pesos" will be back in action again. Dorothy Herring will have the very difficult role of Maggie Cutler, secretary to Whitesides; Mary Wells McNeil will be seen as Miss Preen, the nurse; Jesse Carter as June Stanley, Mae Holly as Harriet Stanley, and Wylie Smith as Banjo. Others in the cast include Tad Currie, Bob Hotchkiss, Carter Patterson, Nancy Adams, Bill Hollister, Vance Mizelle, Phil Davis, Howard Ferguson, Ellen Thigpen, and Howard Proctor. The play as originally produced on Broadway in 1936 was a take-off on the pomposity of certain notables of that day, notably Alexander Woolcott, Noel Coward, and Gertrude Lawrence. After a long run success on the Great White Way, it was made into a very successful movie. Monty Wooley starred in both versions. Alexander Woolcott, himself, once took the role of Whitesides while the show was on the road.

Pictures Needed For Art Contest

Details were also released concerning the annual student art contest to be held here May 1. Entries may be either original or copied, but the latter must be labeled as to source. The exhibit will take place in the Quadrangle Room of Chambers, and all entries must be turned in to Wylie Smith on or before April 24. Students, faculty, and faculty wives will be eligible for entry. The best entry will be judged on the basis of a popular student vote and the decision of a panel selected for this purpose. All exhibitors will be limited to three entries each. Paintings and drawings will be matted by the contest committee. Since 1938, when Robert Horton's "Old Lady" won first prize, the art contest has been an annual event at Davidson.

RANDY TAYLOR ELECTED STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT

NUMBER TWENTY-TWO

FROLICS

THE DAVIDSONIAN TO CROWN BEAUTY QUEEN FOR DANCE SET

Billy Knauff and his orchestra are featured next Friday and Saturday night at the new Johnson gymnasium by the Pan Hellenic Council in the grand finale of the year's dance series, the 1950 Spring Frolics. Bill Bird, president of the Pan Hel, released officially to the Davidsonian Wednesday afternoon the news that the Charlotte orchestra was under contract for the dance. Knauff has gained the reputation of being one of the best orchestras in the Carolinas and is said to be catching the eye of the entire Eastern seaboard with his superior presentations of popular dancing music. The Knauff instrumental group, who are no strangers to the Davidson student body, will play with a new addition to this sixteen-piece vocalist combination. The introduction of a Xylophonist is being made. Friday night, from nine to one o'clock, has been chosen by the Pan Hel as appropriate for the informal dance; the Saturday night dance will be formal, starting at eight o'clock and concluding at twelve. This plan was decided upon in order that students and their dates might more conveniently attend the Friday evening presentation of the "D" Club Follies of 1950 which begins at seven o'clock and lasts till nine. Another activity of interest will take place Saturday afternoon when Davidson netters meet the UNC tennis team.

QUEEN, SENIORS HONORED

The dance will be highlighted by the Saturday night announcement and crowning of the Davidson Spring Frolics Queen. This lovely girl has been chosen by three professors — Dr. Boyd, Dr. McGavock, and Dr. Davidson — who have made their selection from a large number of photographs turned in previous to the dance period. Added attractions include a large figure to be formed by the Pan Hellenic Council, fraternity presidents and their dates before intermission. A huge numeral "five" and "zero," will form a "fifty" in honor of the graduating class. Coat checking will be handled by the "D" Club and all benefits will be turned over to that organization. Concessions will be sold under the management of Paul Horne in the basement of the gym for those who desire them. Tickets may be purchased from Pan Hellenic representatives or from the ticket office at the front door of the Johnson Gymnasium the nights of the dances at the following prices: $3.00 for a two-night set ticket, tax included; $2.00 for one night, tax included. Bill Bird, as spokesman for the Pan Hellenic Council, regretted and wished to explain why the student body under law could not put on a private dance on their own campus without paying tax.

STUDENTS BETRAY TRUST

As will be remembered, the last dance was sponsored by an independent organization, the Pan Hellenic Council, which extended blanket bids to the fraternities, Independents, and Campus Club. These groups assessed themselves and sold membership cards, thereby the high expense of government taxes was avoided. However, several students betrayed their trust by selling tickets to young people in Charlotte who wanted to come to the dance. Tax officials notified the Pan Hellenic Council that this infraction had occurred and that dances in the future should be financed so that tax regulations would not be violated. "Had the student body cooperated satisfactorily," said President Bird, "we could have continued the plan whereby we were able to reduce the tickets for the last dance from a would-be $7.00 to $5.50."

ROTC Inspection Requires Two Days

The Annual Formal ROTC Inspection will be conducted on Monday and Tuesday, the 17-18th of April. This inspection, required by the Department of the Army, will be performed by a group of three senior officers and will, as in the past, cover 4 phases: classroom procedure and efficiency, the facilities and equipment of the Military Department, the records, files and the like, and an inspection of the drill of the Cadet Corps. The PMS&T has announced a full schedule of activities to be observed during the 2-day period. The inspecting team is comprised of officers stationed at Fort Bragg, N. C. They are: Colonel Clifford C. Duell and Lt. Col. Walter E. Womble of the Field Artillery, and Major Kenneth B. Burns of the Infantry. This group will be beginning an inspection of 8 different senior ROTC units in North Carolina and Georgia. Colonel Duell has had both an outstanding educational and military background. He has a Mechanical Engineering degree from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, a Master's Degree from Rensselaer, and the degree of Doctor of Science from M.I.T. Entering the Army in 1921, he has seen peacetime service at various stations in the United States. During the last war, he served through 3 European Campaigns, followed by a 9-month tour with the American Military Mission in Turkey. He holds numerous decorations, including the French Croix de Guerre with Palm. Colonel Duell is a graduate of the Field Artillery School and of the Chemical Warfare School. At present, he serves on the Army Field Forces Test Board No. 1 at Fort Bragg, N. C. Colonel Womble is a graduate of the University of Arkansas and entered the Army in 1940. During the last war, he served through 3 European Campaigns.