"SORRY. WRONG NUMBER

VOLUME XXXIX

ALENDA

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1950

BRADY'S ALLEY

Little Symphony To Give Concert December Third

William Whitesides, tenor, and Grier Williams, trumpet, will appear as soloists with the Davidson Little Symphony in a concert to be presented at 4:00 p.m., Sunday, December 3, 1950, in Shearer Hall Auditorium. Mr. Whitesides will sing “Il Mio Tesoro Intanto” from “Don Giovanni” by Mozart. Mr. Williams will play the “Concerto for Trumpet in Bb” by Haydn.

Mr. Whitesides, a native of Glenwood, North Carolina, is a member of the senior class. He has been a member of the Davidson Male Chorus throughout his four years in college and is this year the president of this organization. He has been one of the soloists with this group for the past two years. Last Spring Mr. Whitesides was a soloist in the presentation of the “Creation” by the choir of the First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. This past summer he appeared again as soloist in the performance of the Beethoven “Mass in C Major” at the Transylvania Music Camp.

Mr. Williams, who is a member of the sophomore class, came to Davidson from Jacksonville, Florida. He is now playing first trumpet in both the Davidson Little Symphony and the Davidson Concert Band. In addition to these duties, he is a member of the trumpet section of the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra, which will appear at Davidson in a concert with Joan Hammond on February 20, 1951. Mr. Williams spent the past summer at Transylvania, studying trumpet. After the completion of the 1950 season of the Transylvania Music Camp, he remained to play in the Brevard Festival Orchestra.

To open the concert Sunday afternoon, the Little Symphony will play “Six Contredanses for Orchestra” by Beethoven. Following the two solos, the orchestra will complete its program with the “Symphony No. 1 in C major, op. 21,” also by Beethoven. The Davidson Little Symphony is conducted by James Christian Pfohl.

NOTICE

All who would be interested in attending either of the YMCA after-Vesper discussion groups listed below, please see or drop a postcard to Irving Stubbs.

“Elements In The Protestant Reformation” to be conducted by Dr. Eberhardt on December 3rd.

“America’s Foreign Policy Toward The Orient” to be conducted by Dr. Guerrant on December 10th.

The Davidson College Concert Band will present its first formal concert of the year on the campus next Friday evening at 8:15 p.m. Soloist for the concert will be Mr. Clemens Sandresky, pianist, of Asheville, North Carolina. Mr. Sandresky will play “Konzertstück” by Weber. He will be remembered with pleasure by the student body for a chapel concert which he presented here last spring.

Masquers Perform Before Small Crowd

The first play of the 1950-51 season was presented by the Red and Black Masquers on Tuesday and Wednesday, November 21st and 22nd, when they presented “Command Decision,” before two small but very appreciative audiences. The production of this serious drama marks one of the first times the Masquers have attempted anything in such a serious vein. When asked about the success of the play, its director, Tad Currie, remarked, “It was an artistic success but far from a financial success. It looks like we'll have to take it on tour to clear the books.” Plans are now underway to take the play to Winthrop College in Rock Hill where last year “John Loves Mary” was presented before an audience larger than that of both Davidson performances. Tentative dates were set for December 12th or 13th.

From The President

To the Davidsonian:

The following items should be of interest to the student body. Within the past few days the first over-all drawings of the new Student Union have been received. The plans for this building are being drawn by Mr. Michael M. Hare of New York City. Mr. Hare is the architect who has been retained by the Student Union Association of Colleges and Universities of the country. He has participated in the designing of a large number of new Unions and in the remodeling of others. The plans as now submitted to Davidson are in semi-final form. Alterations and changes can yet be made. The drawings will be in the hands of Mr. John Lyles of the Y.M.C.A. for the next week where they may be seen by interested faculty members or student groups. Study and suggestions from either group will be appreciated.

The physical survey of the Fraternity Court has been made in recent days by a competent engineer. The plans are now in the hands of the college's landscape architect, Mr. Charles F. Gillette, of Richmond. After a brief period of study of these plans, Mr. Gillette will come to Davidson for the purpose of conferring with several fraternities who have made application for the privilege of adding patios to their present structures.

DR. J. R. Cunningham.

SLUM CONDITIONS IN WHICH NEGROES LIVE CAUSE DISEASE, UNSANITATION

By J. BRUCE FRYE

On December 7, 1941, the United States entered a war against the powers of the world that threatened our welfare and our very existence. A decade later, the students of Davidson College find themselves on the eve of a similar situation, certainly not of the enormity and critical importance of that struggle, but one which will call for the all-out effort of the members of the student body. During chapel, on Thursday, December 7, war will officially be declared on the slum conditions of the Davidson Negro community, in the form of the YMCA Annual Christmas Gift Fund kick-off program. These slum conditions have been prevalent for years, breeding disease, unsanitation, fire hazards, and immorality, literally at the backdoor of Davidson. The offensive will be launched in two theaters of operation. The first of these is Brady’s Alley, located less than one hundred yards off Main Street. There are eleven houses in this area, all being fifty to sixty years old, which house 87 people. Seventeen people live in one three-room house, thirteen people live in one four-room house, and twenty-five people live in one five-room house, as examples of the crowded conditions. There is no sewerage system, other than an open ditch, in this area, and outdoor toilets serve all the inhabitants. The water comes from outdoor spigots, which oftentimes freeze up in cold weather. The walls of these eleven houses are papered with eight or nine layers of newspaper to keep out the cold air. Paper wrapped around the flues to keep the heat in constitutes a very terrible fire hazard to the people of the community, and to the business district, only a few feet away.

The second area is Shearer Town, which was built some sixty years ago by a former president of Davidson College. It is just beyond the town limit and over the county line, on a dead-end, dirt road, and hidden from public view. Not as crowded as Brady’s Alley, Shearer Town exhibits much the same slum conditions, however. There are ten houses located here, occupied by thirty-five people. A common spigot serves all these people. It is located outdoors, and on cold days, when it freezes up, the people have to go over a hundred yards, across an open field, railroad tracks, and a public highway, to Albert's Grill to get water.

(Continued on Page Four)

TREASURE HUNT

Sir Derrick Seeks Embryo Netters

This year, for the first time in the history of the college, the athletic department is actually “scouting” the field for possible tennis players. Last weekend the department sent Head Tennis Coach, Derrick Barton, all the way to St. Louis, Missouri, where the top junior tennis players of the nation were gathered for the National Junior and Boys Indoor Tennis Championship Tournament. For four days these young players competed for the championship title, during which time Coach Barton carefully selected three prospects from the better players. These three men are now only seniors in high school, and if they agree to come to Davidson next year, they will be eligible for the freshman team only. The department is in communication with them now, and the decision as to whether or not they attend Davidson next year is up to the men themselves. Davidson’s athletic department, in connection with its program aimed at developing the college’s intramural and intercollegiate athletics, has now set about the task of building a better tennis team. A good team requires good players, and unfortunately the team is missing many of last year’s top men. Five of the first six men on last year’s team were graduated, but the coaching staff is on the lookout for prospective players.

Pictured above is one of the ancient Negro dwellings in Brady’s Alley, off Main Street, which will be razed when a more suitable house can be built for its occupants. This year’s Y.M.C.A. Christmas Gift Fund will be used to better living quarters for the Negroes in Davidson—(Photograph by Raymond Lynch).

JACKSON RESIGNS COLLEGE POST; D. G. MARTIN NAMED SUCCESSOR

F. L. Jackson, for 37 years Treasurer of Davidson College, has announced that he will relinquish his full-time duties during 1951 and become a college consultant. D. Grier Martin, Bristol, Va., hosiery executive has been named as Treasurer-elect by the Davidson Trustees. Mr. Martin, former Alumni Secretary at Davidson and now sales manager of the Grey Hosiery Mills, will join the Davidson staff next Spring, probably in March or April.

D. GRIER MARTIN

F. L. JACKSON

Davidson Professors Highly Pleased,’ Hold Offices At Language Meeting

The cold and icy Thanksgiving weather could not deter the spirits of certain of the Davidson College faculty members who headed Knoxville, Tennessee way for the twentieth annual meeting of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association, held November 23-25 at the University of Tennessee. This group consisted of Professors Cumming, Purcell and Erwin of the English department; Dr. Watts and Dr. Goldiere of the French department; Dr. Vowles from the German department; Professors Causey and"Roberts of the Spanish department, and Kenneth Jones, student representative of the French department. The delegates, teachers of one of the modern languages in colleges, universities, and high schools, arrived from Georgia, Virginia, Kentucky, Alabama, Florida, Tennessee, and the two Carolinas to spend two days in study of the various phases of modern language teaching. Dr. George Watts, who was elected president in the 1949 meeting held on this campus, presided. Dr. Cumming served as chairman of the committee for revising the constitution, while Dr. Goldiera held the chairmanship of the committee on Teaching Methods. Professor Charles Roberts, who has been chairman of the committee on new members, reported the addition of 251 new members to the group, which brought the total membership to over 1000 persons. At this meeting, Prof. Roberts was named managing editor of the South Atlantic Bulletin, the official newspaper of the group. Prof. Purcell has served as North Carolina chairman for this same membership committee of which Prof. Roberts was chairman.

MOORE'S BATON BECKONS FROZEN BAND
By ALDEN WILLIAMS

Old Man Winter was the only one not to answer the roll as the Davidson College Band left for Atlanta last Friday, but he was destined to play, by his presence, nevertheless, one of the biggest parts in determining the actions of that body for three days. A clear, cold, average fall day greeted the instrumentalists as they left the Hill in two Trailways buses after breakfast. Greenville was their first stop, and the South Carolina city showed itself to be one of the culinary meccas of the South as sixty hungry boys gave those garden spots of gustatory refinement, the Sanitary Restaurant and Pete’s No. 2 (Pete’s No. 1 and, for that matter, Pete himself, being apparently nonexistent), the best business they'd had in months. From then on until the middle of the afternoon, it was still fall, but at 3:30, winter came. Strange white pellets filled the sky, and colorless, frozen substance formed on the windows. Confusion and bewilderment reigned until at once, with a shout, the Florida boys came to the fore. “It must be snow!” they yelled. Then, following the lead of their Western North Carolina brethren, who had heard in folk tunes and family legends of such a phenomenon, put on their coats, saved for just such an event. Then, feeling conspicuous without shoes, they put them on, too, and broke into that old favorite, “I'm Not Trying To Set The World On Fire, I Just Want To Light A Smoke Pot In Your Orange Grove.” As patches of snow appeared here and there over the countryside, reaching in places depths high in the centimeters, one boy was heard to gasp, “This is one of the worst snows Georgia’s had in years, isn't it?” When reminded that records do show worse storms, he was crestfallen, but kept his head out of the window just the same.

By the time Atlanta’s North Fulton high school had been reached, the cold had set in with a vengeance, and it was with quaking hands and trembling ears that the boys stepped on each other on their way to the auditorium. Once there, they met their weekend hosts, and covered, by twos and threes, the whole of North Fulton County. Friday night saw their first performance, a concert in the North Fulton school. Here again, Old Man Winter threw his icy wrench into the machine, as many alumni were kept from the concert by the weather. But the attendance was good, and the concert was accomplished with a minimum of hitches. Response to the program, which included Vaughn Williams’ “Folk Song Suite,” Morton Gould’s “Cowboy Rhapsody," and John Phillip Sousa’s “Stars and Stripes Forever” was spontaneous and enthusiastic.

Saturday morning, several of the boys were late for the appointed meeting time, 11:30, and so a fitting punishment was sought by the Band's Executive committee. As the temperature fell from four degrees to two, it was thought that five laps around the track in spats and ties might do the trick, but then, fearful of being accused of lenience by the authorities, it was decided that a brisk rehearsal of the afternoon's proposed formation would be more appropriate and effective. At 12:30, the boys were carried to the buses, thawed out on the way downtown, and then froze again as they depleted Atlanta of its 1950-51 supply of earmuffs. No accurate record can be secured covering their activities until game time, but it is known that one of the more intellectually thirsty freshmen found a rare bargain in old books which was declared “unbelievable” by all those who could read. A few freshmen also had a chance to glance over the treasures. Once out at Grant Field, the band left the buses, claimed their instruments, and took their places in the stands. As usual, Director Kenneth Moore raised his baton, (Continued on Page Four)

Mr. Jackson, who is widely known in college and financial circles, will continue to occupy his present position as Treasurer and Business Manager for several months. When Mr. Martin assumes responsibility for the office Mr. Jackson will continue his college service in an advisory capacity. Mr. Jackson came to Davidson in 1913 as the college's first full-time treasurer. Since then the college has never operated at a deficit. In 1949-50 inflationary prices would have caused a financial gap but unallocated funds were transferred to the current budget to prevent an operating deficit. The Davidson treasurer is widely known and respected in college financial circles. He was instrumental in establishing a uniform system of accounting for colleges and universities and served on a number of national college committees. In 1941-42 he served as President of the Association of University and College Business Offices. Mr. Jackson is also a past president of the N. C. State Accountancy Board and of Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity. An elder in the Presbyterian Church, Mr. Jackson is a 32nd degree Mason, a Shriner, vice-president and director of the Bank of Davidson and is a trustee of the Presbyterian Foundation, the General Assembly of the Southern Presbyterian Church and of the North Carolina Textile Vocational College.

Mr. Martin, treasurer-elect, has been in business since leaving his post as Davidson Alumni Secretary in 1936. Since 1940 he has been with the Grey Hosiery Mills in Bristol, Va. He is secretary of the Bristol Planning Commission, a past president of the Lion’s Club, Deacon in the First Presbyterian Church and a director of the Board of Education, the Salvation Army and the Country Club.

Production Of “The Telephone” To Star Jones And Whitesides

Profs. Plug Turkeys With ROTC Popguns

An old-fashioned turkey shoot was held by the ROTC department on Thanksgiving eve for the faculty and their families. Over seventy professors, wives and children crowded the ROTC building to join in the fun. Three main events were held. A regular target shooting contest headed the list, with a “Mystery Bird” match being the most interesting of the afternoon. The latter contest, won by Professor Orange, was merely shooting at a large paper turkey, the heart of which was hidden. Professor McGavock won the former event in the men's division, while Mrs. Heath Whittle was the ladies’ champion. Both were awarded live turkeys. A minor event which all enjoyed was to shoot at small metal turkeys for small prizes. The children attending were entertained with movies. A weapons display was also open to the group.

FACULTY NOTES

Professors Cumming, Erwin, Roberts, and Watts also attended the planning session of the Southeastern Region of Phi Beta Kappa, preparing for the meeting of the SAMLA at Davidson in November, 1951. Dr. James Y. Causey served as chairman of the nominating committee of the Folklore Section of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association at its annual meeting at the University of Tennessee, November 24-25.

On Tuesday morning at the chapel period, the Davidson chapter of Phi Mu Alpha, honorary music fraternity, will present a performance of Carlos Menotti’s “The Telephone.” This work was given its first reading at Davidson last spring and was so enthusiastically received that there have been numerous requests for a repeat performance this year. Menotti's “The Telephone” and another of his works, “The Medium” ran on Broadway for several years. “The Consul,” Menotti’s latest work, is now in production on Broadway. “The Telephone” is a modern one-act opera depicting the plight of a young man’s attempt to tell his sweetheart of his love for her in competition with her ever-ringing telephone. His solution to the problem highlights the production. The role of Lucy will be sung by Miss Roberta Jones, a junior at Queens College, and that of Ben by William Whitesides. The two were also soloists in the Transylvania Music Camp performance of Beethoven's “Mass in C” last August. The performance is produced by Alfred Neumann, president of Phi Mu Alpha.

SEA-FARING BOOKS

The library places orders for books published abroad with B. H. Blackwell, Oxford, England, a most reliable firm. It recently received this notice from them. “We regret that a package containing three volumes ordered by you was recently found floating in the North Sea off the Isle of Wight. We shall replace them at once and regret any inconvenience caused you, etc.” As was said before Blackwell’s is a most reliable firm!