SNOWBALLING IN MAY

Richardson Field lies green and lazy these warm May days, frequented occasionally by sunbathers and wayfaring butterflies, the latter not to be mistaken in type or intensity for the vast hordes present shortly before kickoff time on autumn afternoons. It is pleasant to sit in a cool office nearby, protected from the sun's rays by venetian blinds and listen to a man talk about snowballing. True, the phraseology takes your mind off the heat, but the real pleasure comes in realizing that Crowell Little is speaking in terms of building football to a healthy competitive level once more at Davidson. His rebuilding program is the main ingredient for this snowball which he hopes to start rolling in Charlotte tonight.

In the Panel Room of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church tonight, eager Davidson alumni will shove their chairs back from a $1.50 dinner and nod approval as Little starts tossing his snowball. The energetic gentleman whose aggressive ways on the gridiron have already earned him the nickname Cruel Crowell is out to get cruel with the alumni. Better said, he will begin the organization of systematic solicitation, with or without scholarships, of high school huskies who otherwise would drift, without a word spoken by Davidson, into the waiting arms of another coaching staff.

“This program is no new athletic policy toward football,” Coach Crowell hastened to explain. “It is just a matter of getting this thing organized, really going out after ball players if we are to play football like we want to play. It will do away with the piecemeal business of getting a good boy just at random or by chance.” In short, it constitutes getting more for our money—bigger and better ball players by the alumni’s beating the bushes, encouraging, and helping to finance boys needing scholarships, all in keeping with the NCAA’s Sanity Code.

HOW FAR TO FAYETTEVILLE?

Looking at the pile of blue prospect-information forms over which Little peered at you and the list of names on the blackboard nearby, you knew that this man was already well along the way in upholding his end of the deal. Weekend after weekend back during the late winter and early spring, high school and prep standouts flooded the Davidson campus. Coach Crowell and staff went after virtually every boy recommended for the Shrine Bowl game, and more; invited them up; and went all out to sell them on Davidson. Certainly, that enthusiasm has not been present here since Bill Story gave it a try back in 1946. But Story’s program was more or less like a League of Nations that failed. It stirred them up for a while, but didn’t have the organization or strength to keep the alumni working, which, in turn, will keep the alumni from griping.

As Coach Little says, “We cannot expect too big a thing next fall. But I am hopeful that in another year we will begin to see the fruits of our labor. This thing will snowball with publicity, with enthusiasm among the students and alumni, and with results.” Permit a cheer for that final phrase, “and with results.” Once that phase has been reached, the program should be able to keep itself going and growing with its own momentum. Nothing promotes and encourages like good results.

It makes you feel good to talk to a business-like, efficient man like Crowell Little. He impresses you immediately as knowing what he wants, and better, how to go about ensuring that he gets it. You were liking him the more you talked to him. Then Dick Redding popped in, buzzed some hush-hush into his ear, and Coach Crowell looked up: “How long will it take to drive to Fayetteville?” You concluded your talk, and he was off to snowball again.

SIGN-OFF ‘TIL SEPTEMBER

Come the next fall which Coach Crowell is building for, the seniors will no longer be with us. They will be a part of that business-suited and filthy rich alumni set that grandstand quarterback far better than Auburn Lambeth or Johnny Guiton will be able to do. Can’t you just see Jake Wade and Buddy Chandler strolling into our first home game in double-breasted pinstripes, Chandler puffing a big cigar and Jake gnawing on an apple. And the program editor? Old Sheckles Roddey, himself. Come to think of it, maybe we do owe it to these guys to let them work the stands after all. They’ve never exactly done anything we’d regret.

By BILL WHITE

Looky Heah, You-All Red-Blooded Sons of The Old South, Wildcat Sports

FINAL FLING ‘TIL FOOTBALL

FRIDAY, MAY 19, 1950

THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

CLIP AND SAVE: CONFERENCE CHAMPS!!

Everybody's happy—and well they might be, for this picture was taken after the Roddey-Cobb duo took the doubles in the Southern Conference tennis meet, following Roddey’s brilliant singles win. Shown are Bo Roddey, Coach Derrick Barton, Prof. Frontis Johnston, who presented the trophies, and Whit Cobb.

The final results are as follows:
Kappa Sigs - 984 1-5
KA's - 972 1-3
SAE's - 830 7-13
Phi Delts - 827 1-2
Betas - 794 3-10
Phi Gams - 790 8-9
Pi Kapps - 585 7-15
Sigma Chi's - 653 1-2
Pikas - 592 7-15
Campus Club - 366

It pays to patronize Davidsonian advertisers. You will find reputable businesses.

Palmer End Careers This Week-End

By CHARLIE HAWKINS

Coach Derrick Barton’s tennis team will try to end a very successful season here this afternoon and tomorrow afternoon in two matches with the Deportivo Club of Chapultepec. The Mexican amateur touring several southern schools, and recently, they made a Mexico.

Pritchett Captains ‘51 Thinclads; Team Sends Eight To Hill

By JIM FARRAR

Friday and Saturday of this week, eight men from the 1950 edition of the Wildcat Track squad will travel to Chapel Hill to participate in the Southern Conference Track Meet being held there May 19-20. Among those going is Bill Pritchett, captain of the ’51 thin clads, who during the season traveled over the high hurdles at a 15.1 clip. On the one-mile run will be Blake Bradley, while Bob Long and Dave Anderson will compete.in the two miles. In the high jump will be Bob Henderson, who has during the season shown definite possibilities to do well at the meet. In the discus, Davidson will have three men — Don Lazenby, Jim Vann, and Bob Sharpe. This year’s captain of the track squad, Jim Vann, tossed the discus 140 feet in a regular meet, which is just six feet shy of the school record. The first three places at the Southern Conference will go to Atlanta the following weekend to participate in the Southern Southeastern meet to be held at Tech.

Colonel Story’s Returning To Tell The Tales Of Yesteryear
By WHIT (IRVIN S.) COBB

Proteges, and president of the D Club, tell us that Coach Story accepted the invitation this week after much negotiation. The rumor has it that Bloody Bill, as he was affectionately called during his short but fruitful stay here, was scheduled to speak at a meeting of Former Davidson College football coach Bill Story, the southern gentleman with the demagogic lingo, will return to his stamping grounds on Monday evening, May 22, as guest speaker at the D Club banquet. Jake Wade, one of Coach Story’s proteges, and president of the D Club, tells us that Coach Story accepted the invitation this week after much negotiation. The rumor has it that Bloody Bill, as he was affectionately called during his short but fruitful stay here, was scheduled to speak at a meeting of the U.D.C., but President Wade was able to persuade him to come back and relive again the days of yesteryear, when the way to block a man was to ram your head through him, and the way to be big was to think big.

It will be remembered that under Coach Story the Wildcat gridsters enjoyed two of the most fruitful seasons in Davidson history. Coach Story retired from coaching after his second season to take a position in the education system in Norfolk, Va. He came to Davidson from Granby High School in that same town where he turned out some of the finest grid machines in southern high school history, coaching such outstanding boys as Carl Eborn, Sandy Carnegie, Easy Rhodes, and Chuck Stobbs. Welcome back to Davidson, Coach Story, and stay as long as you will.

Sigmas Close Strong In Softball Play To Seize 4th Straight Championship
By DICK LILES

For the fourth consecutive year, the Kappa Sigma fraternity has captured the Interfraternity Athletic Award for compiling the greatest number of points in intramural competition. This year the Kappa Sigs squeezed by the threatening A's by 11-13 points, finishing fast in the softball competition. The SAE's came in third closely followed by the volleyball champs, the Phi Delts. The Betas came in fifth with the Phi Gams only 3 points trailing for a sixth place. The trophy will be presented to the Kappa Sigma sports manager Charlie Pearson in the special athletic awards day in chapel Monday. On that day, spring sports letter winners and outstanding performers for the year in athletics will be publicly recognized.

This year there were 304 contests played by the Greeks among themselves which is a new record. This was the first year that handball and swimming were introduced into the program. Next year also promises to be a big one in interfraternity sports for work has already begun on planning the events.

Davidson's tennis stars have been clean sweeping their matches with Southwestern, easily winning both singles and doubles. The Deportivo team is composed of numerous Mexican Junior Davis Cuppers, and their number one man, Alfredo Millet, Jr., beat Derrick Barton's running mate of Davis Cup competition in 1947. All the Mexican netters sport a list of tournament championships, and they will be trying to add to their win streaks here. Members of the Mexican team are Alfredo Millet, Jr., Frederico Cerantes, Luis Pifkohl, Jr., Rodolfo May, Alberto Daniel, Jr., and Carlos Houcasivas.

Roddy and Whit Cobb, the last word in Davidson and Southern Conference tennis, will be out to end their college careers and the tennis season in fashionable style. Roddy, fresh from his convincing win over UNC's Clark Taylor, has shown he has what it takes to make a real tennis star. His precision shot-making was breathtaking last week in the Southern Conference Tournament, and the Wildcat ace will be out to continue his winning ways. Bo will team with Cobb, one of Davidson's greatest all-time athletes, in the doubles; the two won the Southern Conference doubles title last weekend by virtue of consistent and spirited playing. Much credit is given to Coach Derrick Barton, the old pro, for turning out such a good Wildcat squad this year. Even with such good material as the 'Cats had this year, Coach Barton was a vital factor in the success of the tennis team.

SOFTBALL STANDINGS
Club Won Lost
Betas 9 1
Phi Gams 7 3
Kappa Sig 7 3
SPE 7 3
Pika 7 3
KA 5 5
Sigma Chi 5 5
SAE 3 7
Phi Delts 1 9
Campus Club 0 10

Cat Golfers Finish Fifth In-Conference
By WOODY McKAY

Davidson College's golf team stroked its way into fifth place among Southern Conference team competition. Harvie Ward of UNC won out in his battle with Wake Forest's Arnold Palmer to become champion of the conference and led his team as they grabbed second place in the final tournament standings. Wake Forest came through with a record-breaking team score of 575 and grabbed the conference crown from Duke University. The winners’ top foursome didn't have...

It's only common sense that I smoke the cigarette that agrees with my throat. NOTED THROAT SPECIALISTS REPORT ON 30-DAY TEST OF CAMEL SMOKERS... NOT ONE SINGLE CASE OF THROAT IRRITATION DUE TO SMOKING CAMELS. Yes, these were the findings of noted throat specialists after a total of 2,470 weekly examinations of the throats of hundreds of men and women who smoked Camels — and only Camels — for 30 consecutive days. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C. Make your own 30-Day Camel Mildness Test in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste).