Wildcats And Richmond, With 2-5 Marks, Out To Salvage A Win This Afternoon

The athletic set moving in and out of Raleigh Saturday and Monday past could hardly have been mistaken for one
another. Nor can there be any comparison to the reception they got.

Saturday it was cold and rainy. The athletes were brawny footballers from Maryland, North Carolina, Duke, Wake Forest, N.C. State,
and Davidson. Their reception, though slimmed, was enthusiastic and they were the talk of the day—football is football.

Monday all returned to normal in the capital after a big grid weekend, the weather cleared up, and the second
set moved in. Short and tall, slim, but few fat boys. Many hardy, but few husky. Their reception? The official
committee handshake, direction to dressing quarters and the clerk of the course, and the usual host niceties. A few mothers,
agricultural class cutters, and well-wishers looked on. A title at stake? Oh, yes. Southern Conference, at that. But then, cross-country
is cross-country.

This was the setting for our cross-country team’s final chase of the season, against runners from every school in the
loop. It was the end of the road that at the onset of the season looked rosy and turned rocky.
The harriers turned in their worst postwar record with three wins and four losses, a fourth in the Big Four
meet, and sixth in this big loop show. A sixth isn’t too bad, you comment? No, not at all. But
for these boys it’s no good. They haven't picked up the defeatist attitude that has prevailed in some quarters. However,
they almost did.

You know the story. Coach Pete Whittle had won something like 15 and lost only three cross-country meets since the
war, was looking forward to this being another top year. Brad- ley was forced out, the club dwindled from the
regulation eight to an abbreviated six, and the season hopes tumbled. But our commendation is simply for finishing the season.
They almost didn’t you know. Or did you? As the boys put it, “Who’d know the difference if we didn’t
finish the year? We go to our biggest meet, come back, and someone asks where we went this weekend, or
when are you going to the such and such meet? No one would know it if we just quietly quit.”

Just as sure as you never miss the water till the well runs dry, there’d have been some hollering done
had the boys thrown it in. It’s not hard to get down in the dumps in a sport where few
even know what it is all about and the newspapers act as if it doesn’t even exist. But in the
light of the records of other athletic teams, believe it, Davidsonians watch that cross-country record—even if they don’t find out
what it was until the following spring when annuals come out. Curtailed in quantity and quality, the six did admirably
well and most admirably they shook off that idea of disbandment.

Next fall, Dick Patterson and Dan McKeithan are the only two who won't be back and, of course, Blake. But
Bill Shipley, a frosh hot rock who should be some stuff as a runner before leaving here; Bill Coe, and
others are moving into the varsity ranks. The Cats should bounce back on the top of the pile again. They'll
be particularly hard to lick after having to bow their heads before the storm of opponents this autumn. And remember,
though it looked like they might break at one point, they had the deep roots of game spirit that enabled
them to shake it off and lift their heads erect again.

CAGERS OPEN 26-GAME CARD WITH NCS ON HOMEBOARDS CARDED FEBRUARY

By JACK EFIRD

The varsity basketball team will open its second season under the able coaching of Boyd Baird on December 4th by
opposing N.C. State in Raleigh. The Cats are looking forward to improving their 10-16 record of last season as all
but two members of last year's squad are returning this fall. This year's team will be headed by a fine
group of juniors led by Kentuckians Tom Coleman and Bill Brooks plus the high-scoring senior co-captains, Tom Haller and Dutch
Hengeveld. The seasoning acquired last year should greatly improve the play of the hoopsters who were out for their first
year of varsity competition. Three members of the squad, Brooks, Haller, and Hengeveld, scored over two hundred points last year.
Brooks led the team with 290 points.

The opening half of the season will prove a rugged test of the Wildcats' ability, for twelve of the first
thirteen games will be played on foreign courts. On the other hand, February will be “home month” for Baird's crew.
They play six games in Davidson at Johnston Gymnasium, one in Charlotte Armory Auditorium, and only two, Washington and Lee
and VPI.

Wildcat Sports

THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SECTION

tendered him, but that he had not filed an application for the position. The VPI head football coach’s position was
vacated October 15 with the resignation of Bob McNeish, who in three years had lost 18 games, tied one and
won 1. Twenty-five applications are in for the post, including several big names in coaching, according to the Observer article.
Little, as stated in the story, is happy at Davidson and would regret leaving, but commented that the opportunity would
be too great to turn down. Many in the student body, when quizzed informally, agreed that the present Cat coach
would have a wealth of material—

GOBBLERS GETTING TOO GREEDY

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1950

WILDCAT OF THE WEEK

Davidson Will Be Out One Coach...

VPI Issues Offer To Little

News via the Charlotte Observer that Coach Crowell Little will accept an offer as head football coach at VPI was
greeted with mixed opinion and feeling of regret here Thursday, while the coaches’ offices remained silently vacated for the weekend.
An article by Observer sports editor Wilton Garrison quoted Little as saying that he would accept the offer if tendered
him, but that he had not filed an application for the position. The VPI head football coach’s position was vacated
October 15 with the resignation of Bob McNeish, who in three years had lost 18 games, tied one and won
1. Twenty-five applications are in for the post, including several big names in coaching, according to the Observer article. Little,
as stated in the story, is happy at Davidson and would regret leaving, but commented that the opportunity would be
too great to turn down. Many in the student body, when quizzed informally, agreed that the present Cat coach would
have a wealth of material—

Cats In Top Shape For League Battle With Tough Spiders

By DICK LILES

The coming weekend presents for the football aggregation at Davidson College much hope toward a victory as the season wanes
out. The Wildcats are looking forward to romping on the erratic Spiders.of Richmond U. when they meet up there this
afternoon. For the first time since the season began, the Cats are at near-full strength and are in good shape.
After pulling an upset and really pulling a great surprise last week against State, the gridders are looking forward to
exterminating the “insects” up Richmond way. The wonderful defensive showing in the 15-7 defeat at State and the powerful running
of Ham Wade (who almost duplicated his “big” brother's feat of last year) and Roy White, tend to raise the
hope and morale of the boys, coaches, and students toward a Southern Conference victory for the victory-hungry Cats. Richmond poses
a puzzling problem, however, for they have played hot and cold all season and are hot after their last week's
defeat of the Gobblers from VPI. The week before they lost to N. C. State by only 7 points and
so are by no means a weak team as might be expected from their 2-5-0 record, the same mark Davidson
now boasts. The Cats met VPI before the season and found them anything but a pushover, especially the second scrimmage.
Also to boost the spirit of Coach Little is the fact that the doctors and Trainer Charlie Parker have ruled
that Henry Wilson will finally be ready for a game for the first time since he was injured in the
Furman game. His arm has healed sufficiently and he will be at his old post of backing up the line,
where Jim Fasul and Jerry Kiser will be back as of old in spite of the hurts from last week.
Also on the O.K.'d list are C. L. Runyan, Jack Branch, Bill McNeely, and Lee Talbert. Only Hoopie Davis will
be absent from his starting post. With the team in good shape and spirits, Auburn in their calling and tossing,
Runyan's power available, and Roy White continuing his fine play, the Wildcats are looking forward to a very profitable afternoon
in Richmond this afternoon. Even with the greatest fond hopes or aspirations, this will be the only remaining game in
which the record of this year could be made better than last.

WRESTLERS LIST SEVEN MATCHES

When the varsity wrestling team opens their season with Washington and Lee, here at Davidson, on December 18, they will
be starting a series of seven Southern Conference dual matches. Their eighth and final match is with a non-conference team,
the University of Virginia. The final wrestling activity will be the Southern Conference meet sometime early in March, probably about
the 6th, 7th, or 8th. Coach Charlie Parker will have four lettermen returning—Johnny Kelton, Bob Gay, Bill McNeely, and Shorty
Lafar, who will form the mainstays of this year’s team. The schedule is as follows:

December 18—Washington and Lee, Davidson.
January 13—N. C. State, Raleigh.
February 2—VMI, Lexington.
February 7—University of N. C., Chapel Hill.
February 10—The Citadel, Davidson.
February 15—Duke, Davidson.
February 17—VPI, Blacksburg.
February 22—University of Virginia, Charlottesville.

Freshman
January 13—N. C. State, Raleigh.
February 7—U. N. C., Chapel Hill.
February 15—Duke, Davidson.
February 22—University of Va., Charlottesville.
(Possibly one more on the Freshman schedule.)

DAVE PEELER

By DICK ROPER

The brawn of the N. C. State forward wall was puzzled. This was not supposed to happen, they were thinking.
But it was happening, and with aggravating frequency. Davidson’s Wildcats, underdogs by several theoretical touchdowns before the kickoff, were stopping
the Wolfpack’s line plunges before they could hardly get started. Before very long, however, the mystery was cleared up for
the State boys. The man who was mainly responsible for embarrassing Coach Beattie Feathers’ charges was standing, very cool and
collected, tight across the line from them, hulking behind a very large number “54” Wildcat jersey. One David Roscoe Peeler,
Jr., was standing for no foolishness at his line-backing position that night. Flanked by Jimmy Rogers and George Nichols in
the Cats’ 5-3-2-1 defense, Dave was making State’s formidable backs live hard. Sometimes he would crash into the line as
the ball was snapped and tear up a play as it was barely beginning. Again, he would play a waiting
game; hitting the ball carrier as that unfortunate individual crossed the line of scrimmage. Dave was the main reason last
Saturday night why the Wolfpack got so little yardage through the center of a determined Cat line. It was almost

(Continued on Page Six)

COACH CROWELL LITTLE

Working with virtually the same material from last year's crew as the ball was snapped and tear up a play
as it was barely beginning. which won two and lost eight, Little has won two games and lost five to
date. His club has definitely shown the guiding hand of a good skipper at the helm, however, and Davidson has
been a fighting, offensive-minded team on its way up all fall. Only five seniors will graduate from the 1950 club.

Gonzaga Bulletin — “Mr. and Mrs.” Rogers Gentlemen Jack are expecting the arrival of a barking bundle of joy on
October 8. If one of the expected offspring is a male, Gonzaga will again own a thoroughbred British Bulldog mascot.

ROY WHITE

“Whizzer” Whites have been making grid news on sports pages for years now, and Davidson has come up with one
deserving of the nickname. The chunky sophomore carried 14 times and gained 111 yards against State last Saturday for what
were by far the top offensive honors of the night. He carries a 6.4 yards rushing average against Richmond this
afternoon. The Genosea, Ill., citizen has two more falls with the Cats, and he is sure to become one of
Davidson’s top gridders. By the way, if “Whizzer” grows stale, call him Roy.
