FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1950

These snapshots show Pete Whittle’s once-beaten track squad in action against Mercer last Saturday. In the upper left-hand shot, Bob Reeder is shown edging Ken Goodpasture in the 100-yd. dash. Reeder’s time of 9.7 set a new school record. Upper right: Tommy Haller vaulting into second place, behind Clements of Mercer. Lower left, Bill Pritchett of Davidson is clearing the last hurdle in the 120 high hurdles. Following Pritchett were Haller and Johnson of Mercer, respectively. Lower right: Tom Stockton sprints for the finish line in the 880 followed by brother Dick and Leroy of Mercer.

Track Team Makes Successful Invasion of Georgia In Running Past Mercer U.
By HARTLEY HALL

The Wildcat cindermen took eight out of fifteen events to beat Mercer University on their home track in Macon, Ga., this past weekend. This was the fourth win over Mercer for Davidson in as many years. Pre-meet reports predicted a wide margin of victory for the Wildcats, but Mercer showed a better team than in past years—mostly in the person of Bob Reeder of Charleston, S.C., who managed to take four firsts during the course of the afternoon.

Tommy Haller paced his team with 11 points, showing up particularly well in a 27-second low hurdles. In the sprints, it was all Mercer’s show, with Reeder doing the honors in a 9.7 hundred and a 23.1 two-twenty. Davidson dominated the weights, with Vann, Miller, and Lazenby winning the discus, javelin, and shot-put respectively. In the distance runs, Blake Bradley came through in the mile to beat Dick Benson of Mercer in a close race, and Bob Long in the two-mile ran a terrific race only to be edged out by Mercer’s Benson, who set a new school record at Macon with his time of 10:35.6.

Though Pete Brown was missed in his usual slot as high jumper, fledglings Haller and Fickeisen did a creditable job of representing the Cats in this department. Coach Jim Cowan of Mercer is a former Davidsonian, playing football, basketball, and learning his track technique from our own Pete Whittle. The final score in this coach-pupil contest showed that Davidson was on top by a score of 78-55.

Individual results of the meet are as follows:
100 Yd. — Reeder (M); Goodpasture (D); Carr (M) — Time 9.7 seconds.
220 Yd. — Reeder (M); Goodpasture (D); Ballenger (D) — Time 23.1 seconds.
440 Yd. — Klein (D); Burks (M); Ballenger (D) — Time 54 seconds.
880 Yd. — Tom Stockton (D); Dick Stockton (D); Leroy (M) — Time 2:08.6 seconds.
Mile — Bradley (D); Benson (M); Tom Stockton (D) — Time 4:47.5.
Two Mile — Benson (M); Long (D); Anderson (D) — Time 10:35.6.
120 High Hurdle — Pritchett (D); Haller (D); Johnson (M) — Time 16.0.
220 Low Hurdles — Haller (D); Pritchett (D); Johnson (M) — Time 27.0.
Pole Vault — Clements (M); Haller (D); Flowers (M); Height: 10'8".
High Jump — Reeder (M); Colquitt (M); Williams (D); Height: 5'8".
Broad Jump — Reeder (M); Cornell (D); Flowers (M); Distance: 21' 8 1/2".
Shot — Lazenby (D); Vann (D); Lanceford (M); Distance: 41' 2".
Javelin — Miller (D); Clements (M); Kinsaul (M); Distance: 162' 11".
Discus — Vann (D); Lazenby (D); Clements (M); Distance: 133' 3".
Relay (1 Mile) — Mercer — Time 3:42.8.

Mars Hill Trackmen Spoil Debut of Ray Brown’s Promising Youngsters
By J. V. HOWELL

Mars Hill floored the Davidson Frosh cindermen here at Davidson Saturday afternoon 78-53 in the first meet of the season for the Wildkittens. Big Billy Myers was the big gun for Mars Hill, leading the Mars Hill point makers with 9 points, taking first place in the shot, second place in the javelin, and third place in the discus.

For Davidson, the two most outstanding men were Roy White and Charlie Calhoun. White was the high scorer of the meet with a total of 13 points. He won first places in the high and low hurdles and a second place in the broad jump. Calhoun won the 100 and 220-yard dashes and tied with Donnahoe of Mars Hill for third place in the broad jump.

The final score does not indicate just how close the meet was. Davidson took six first places out of a possible 14. Lack of sufficient contestants in many of the events gave Mars Hill points. The time on several of the events was very good. Bobo of Mars Hill, who was last year’s 440 high school champion of South Carolina, ran the 100 in 10.2 and the 220 in 23.8. Several of the other boys looked exceptionally good and boys such as Henry, White, Graham, and Calhoun should prove to be consistent point makers for the varsity next year.

A robust woman who lost her thumb in a trolley accident consulted her lawyer.
Lawyer: But why do you think your thumb is worth $20,000?
Woman: Because that’s the thumb I kept my husband under.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Cats Were Doing...
ONE YEAR AGO—April 22, 1949...
(1) McCrary Eagles stop Wildcat nine, 11-2.
(2) Buddy Cheek named All-American in basketball.

FIVE YEARS AGO—April 21, 1945...
(1) No track team this year. Baseball just now starting.

TEN YEARS AGO—April 25, 1940...
(1) Wolfpack nose out Wildcat tracksters, 68-58 on slow track.
(2) Cats bow to Carolina, 7-2, but beat Lenoir-Rhyne in baseball.

TWENTY YEARS AGO—April 27, 1930...
(1) Wildcats open baseball season with 7-6 win over Georgetown nine.

Davidson Routs Furman In Tennis As Barton Puts New Faces In Line-Up
By JIM SMITH

What was billed as a match between Davidson and Furman turned out to be a runaway victory for the Davidson racqueteers by a score of 6-1. Bo Roddey, Davidson’s number one, did not even play in the match. Whit Cobb moved up from his number two slot into the top slot and performed masterfully in defeating the best that the visitors could offer, McMahon. Allen Strand, Teddy Keesler, Peyre Kennedy, and Bill Childs all ripped through their singles’ opponents, none losing more than three games in their match. The lone Cat loss was absorbed by Ham Wade and Pete Kalogridis in the number two doubles. This was the first varsity appearance for these two promising sophomores, who starred on last year’s strong frosh crew. This match with Furman marked Davidson’s first opposition with a Conference team thus far this spring.

The summary:
Cobb defeated McMahon 6-2, 6-1.
Keesler defeated Loghman 6-1, 6-1.
Strand defeated Leslie 6-0, 6-0.
Kennedy defeated Cumming 6-2, 6-1.
Childs defeated Turner 6-0, 6-1.
Strand-Keesler defeated...Loghman-Leslie 6-0, 6-0.

PAGE FIVE

Softball Grabs Spotlight With Fraternities As Highly Competitive Contests Get Underway

By BILL FARRIOR, J. V. HOWELL, MAC RICHARDS

Sigma Chi 12; Phi Delts 11

Monday afternoon saw the opening of the fraternity softball league as eight teams pulled off their wraps and began throwing the ball around. The most exciting of the quartet of games was the Phi Delt-Sigma Chi contest, which was won by the latter 12-11. The Phi Delts were leading in the last inning by two runs, but with none on and two out the winners got rough and pounded Pitcher At Davies for the necessary three runs. Johnny Kelton, Sigma catcher, showed a big bat as he pounded out four hits including a homerun and a pair of triples. Bob Merrell was the winning pitcher.

SPE 13; Kappa Sigs 9

The SPE’s grabbed an early 12-run lead over the Kappa Sigs and coasted to a 13-9 triumph. Bruce Frye twirled for the SPE’s but had to be relieved by Jack Wilson when the going got rocky. Wilson provided the big blow of the game, a homerun with two aboard.

Betas 10; Campus Club 2

O. B. Hyatt showed good form as he pitched the Betas to a 10-2 win over the Campus Clubs. Beta catcher Coburn slashed out four hits in as many times at bat while Campus Clubber “Doc” Winters got two doubles.

Pikas 9; KA’s 5

The Pikas defeated the KA’s 9-5 behind the fine pitching of stocky Liston Mills. Hard hitting by the Pika crew and Mills’ speedy slants were too much for the losers. Big blow of the game was a homerun by Pika Shortstop Jim Sifford.

Phi Gams 11; SAE 4

The Phi Gams trounced the SAE’s in their first game of the season 11-4. Allen Groseclose, with the aid of expert fielding and well-timed hitting, was the winning pitcher for the Fijis. Earl Huie clinched the game for the winners in the second inning with a grand slam homer. Dave Erwin was the leading hitter for the SAE’s with 2 for 4.

KA 10; Sigma Chi 7

With the aid of costly errors and some hard hitting, the KA’s defeated the Sigma Chi’s 10-7. Manly McWilliams was the winning pitcher for the KA’s while Bob Merrill took credit for the loss. Johnny Kelton led the hitting for both teams with 3 for 3.

Pikas 29; Campus Club 5

Jim Sifford came within one out of pitching a no-hitter for the Pikas in their second game of the season. It was one of those “everybody hits” days for the Pikas as they slugged their way to a 29-5 victory over the hapless Campus Club. The powerful slugging of the winners and erratic fielding of the Campus Club combined to give the Pikas their victory. Graham Smith and Boyce Kendall were the pitchers for the losers.

HARD-LUCK DIAMOND MEN DROP CLOSE CAROLINA SQUADS

By DICK LILES

A homer by Clemson third Baseman Ken Culberson with the bases loaded edged the Tigers by the Cats 13-11 in that important Southern Conference game in Clemson last Saturday. The tremendous clout highlighted a seven-run sixth inning rally which brought the hosts from behind to take an 11-10 lead. Clemson opened up quick with 4 runs off Charlton Torrence in the first inning, but was blanked from then on to the wild sixth. Davidson slugged Griffith and Baker for 10 runs by the sixth and it was this rally in the sixth that gave the game to Roger Baker, the reliever. Lefty Hunter relieved Torrence for Davidson in the third inning. The Wildcats combined 4 errors by the Tigs and 9 hits including triples by Hunter, Mapes, and Rice and a homer by Auburn Lambeth to collect the 11 runs. Meanwhile, Clemson used the first and sixth innings, 9 walks, a double and a homer by Culberson, and 10 hits for the winning trick. Torrence and Hunter combined for 8 strikeouts while Clemson maneuvered only 5. Bill Bird collected 2 hits for 5 trips to the plate and Lefty Hunter was perfect at the plate with a triple for one trip to lead their mates in batting honors. Koebel with 3 for 3, Baker with 2 for 2, and Culberson with his two long hits led for the host club. Baker was the winning pitcher and Torrence is charged with the loss.

FURMAN

Furman shaded the Wildcats at Greenville Monday in a close ball game by pushing over 2 runs in the bottom half of the 8th inning. This Southern Conference tilt ended in a 7-6 margin for the Hurricane. Outfielder Red Watson led the hosts with 2 hits, pushing in 3 runs for the winners. Mac Erwin, incidentally a Greenville, S. C., Senior, smashed a triple and a single to push across the same number of tallies for the Cats. Although losing by the one run, the local Davidsonians collected 10 hits and committed only 2 errors. Furman could garner only 6 hits off Jack Branch and reliever Craven. The Cats ask for revenge and their second conference win when the Hurricanes visit here Monday afternoon for a return tilt.

HARDING HIGH...

(Continued From Page Four)

for a game-winning triple. Erliot and Whisnant had Davidson at the plate with 2 for 1 and 2 for 4 respectively. Harding had several good hitters. Ballard had 2 for 4, Jones 3 for 5, and White had 2 for 3. Dixon, the first Harding hurler, struck out 19 and Ballard 2 to make a total of 21 strikeouts.

The next night was more of a “hit parade” than the night before. Smith was pitching for Davidson with a sore arm, and Harding had no trouble in getting to him for 10 runs in four innings. Robertson came in and allowed eight runs the remainder of the game. Davidson lost, 18-7. In the fifth inning, Coach Baird substituted the bench and found he had much potential power on his bench. The substitutes got more total bases than the entire regulars. The big gun in this show was Charlie Harrell with a homerun and a triple in two trips to the plate. Vance tripled, Lippard singled, and Doubles singled to lead a ninth inning tally which produced four runs. It was too late, however, and Davidson went down again. Whisnant and Harrell led Davidson at bat with two for three and two for four, respectively. Jones led Harding with two homers and a single in four trips to the plate.

COLLEGE RAGS...

(Continued From Page Two)

and tests that his fraternity brothers have compiled. His gregariousness compels him to sit in the back row during tests.

The Nonchalant Type: Takes no notes. Always eats lunch or knits in class (coed), even if it’s the only class that day. Sometimes reads a paper during lecture, stopping only to look at his watch. Cuts third highest marks in the class. Brings gorgeous girls to all school dances. Is strictly hated by all.

WATCH REPAIRS

JUST A GOOD SHOP WHERE FAST SERVICE THE RULE!

R. W. S. HENDERSON

Grand Rapids Room University, Michigan (Ann Arbor)

In Ann Arbor, the Grand Rapids Room on the campus is a favorite student gathering spot. In the Grand Rapids Room—Coca-Cola is the favorite drink. With the college crowd at the University of Michigan, as with every crowd—Coke belongs. Ask for it either way... both trade-marks mean the same thing.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY Coca Cola Bottling Co. Concord, N. C.

© 1950, The Coca-Cola Company