PAGE SIX

Spivak's Orchestra Is Featured In Top Hotels and Theatres

“You grow sweeter as the years go by,” is perhaps the best way to describe the music and the trumpet
soloings of Charlie Spivak, who brings his top-rated orchestra to Davidson on October 20-21. Always a sweet band, and winner
of the coveted Downbeat poll in that category, Charlie plays plenty of licks for the trained ear. Charlie features his
trumpet practically all the time which means that when you pass by the door, you know whose band is in
the room. He also leans towards ballads—another guarantee that your ears will enjoy a vacation.

Charlie has come a long way since the days when he was known as one of the greatest of the
jazz trumpeters. He had admittedly gone commercial and if that’s bad, then money in the bank is also bad. He
has established records at New York’s Hotel Statler, the top hotel dance spot and the Paramount theatre on Broadway, mecca
for dance bands to prove he’s in the right groove. One of the managers at the Commodore Hotel in New
York summed it all up perfectly when he said: “Spivak blows clear enough for all to hear but people can
still carry on a conversation.”

For many years, before forming his own dance band, Spivak was rated as the most sought-after freelance trumpeter in the
country. He played with radio's leading conductors on the most important programs. Before that time, Charlie was featured with such
great bands as those conducted by the Dorsey Brothers, Ray Noble and Ben Pollack. During his freelance days, he earned
more each week than many top-notch bandleaders, but decided to toss this security aside to form his own unit. Bear
in mind the fact that though he was well established as America’s finest trumpet player, he had little reputation with
the cash customers. To them, fronting his own band, he was a virtual newcomer. But Charlie went and did it,
as the saying goes, in spite of all the difficulties and today, his is rated as one of America’s top
bands—on records, in the movies, at theatres and hotels.

Open 8 A.M. - 10 P.M. — Sunday 2 - 9 P.M.
College Cut-Rate

TUXEDOS... For... Homecoming Dances
RENTALS - SALES
Nationally Advertised Brands
Wilson-Wright’s
Two Doors Down From Bank
MAIN STREET
DAVIDSON, N.C.
221 South Tryon Street

THACKER’S, INC.
Private Dining Rooms for Parties and Banquets
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
Phone 25480
Charlotte, N.C.

36 Rules for Thumbing... Look Sad, Lad, You'll Get There

Last week in this newspaper there appeared an article which criticized the freshmen for disregarding the hallowed Davidson “bumming corner”
traditions. That article, however, touched on only one point. There are others which, in order to get a decent ride
in this day and time, must be observed by everyone, freshmen and upperclassmen alike.

In the first place, the word “bumming” should be outlawed by all ride-beggars. Hitch-hiking, although a double-jointed word, is much
nicer, and besides, Davidson gentlemen are not supposed to be bums. The word “thumbing,” while not quite as genteel as
the other, will do if you are on a road where nothing but A-model Fords pass by.

The second, and perhaps most important rule is knowing how to hold the good right hand. The thumb should be
extended gracefully, pointing in the direction of the thumber’s destination. The fingers should be tightly clenched, so as to show
determination. The legs also are important; they should be spread about 12 inches apart, so as to have a good
foundation when the slipstream of a sleek Buick passing at 90 miles per hour hits the would-be rider.

Rule No. 3: Unless you are a free-for-all champ, never venture back down the road so as to face the
oncoming cars first when anyone else has already taken up a vigil at a certain spot. You may go on
down the road a little, but never, never, try to cut off another man’s ride unless you want your head
bashed in with the stob of a CAUTION sign.

These are the three main rules in the lost art of hitch-hiking, but there are other tricks of the trade
which are helpful. For instance, your facial expressions will often help you to get a ride. Say Lana Turner, or
a reasonable facsimile thereof, drives along in a beautiful new convertible. Naturally, your first impulse will be to whistle, but
check it, boy. Just grab your suitcase and walk calmly out on the road as if you'd been waiting for
her for the past 30 minutes. You'll either have a ride and possibilities for a fine weekend or go through
the unpleasant task of digging.your. LEE, UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS "53 ‘SYS. ae WITH ANY OTHER CIGARETTE! \es THE DAVIDSONIAN

...icker self out of the concrete. However, this is standard procedure, so don't be afraid to take a chance. For
the family out for a weekend trip, put on your best Joe College look and perk up hopefully. If you
have shaved that day, chances are some sympathetic mother will force Hubby to slow down and make with the lift
for you. The sad, What-have-I-got-to-live-for expression is reserved for old ladies with Cadillacs. If you spot one of these plums,
just sit down on your suitcase, carefully letting the monogrammed “D” show, and look forlorn. This look is irresistible to
female philanthropists and women who are afraid they'll have a flat tire. And remember the cardinal rule: Davidson students never
take rides in anything less than Cadillacs or Rolls Royces. Any student violating this rule will be subject to most
severe disciplinary measures by the Court of Control.

“Y” CABINET... (Continued From Page One)

...area in which agreement was held in Gaither Hall. Perhaps the most significant area in which agreement was reached was
the organization about which it was concluded decisively that the Y. M. C. A. should be not a service unit
apart from student life, but rather a group which gives, and serves as an outlet for Christian service. Thus, around
this central idea—the Y. M. C. A. a means for the expression of Christian Faith—the cabinet laid the foundation for
what should prove to be an active and serviceable year. Half-hour devotionals were held each morning before breakfast and each
night before retiring. Neil Leach, president, presided over the combined cabinet discussions. The members of the cabinet attending were: Tommy
Haller, Randy Taylor, Ray Cunningham, Sandy Morton, Tom Mann, Bob Grigsby, Tommy Langford, Irving Stubbs, Don Shriver, Allan Strand, Bill
Buckey, Bill Adams, John Kelton, Watt Jeffries, Bryan Robinson, Neil Leach, Bob Gay, and John Lytes, General Secretary.

Get Your Car for Homecoming 142 E. Morehead—Charlotte

BEFORE YOU SMOKE THEM -- you can tell Chesterfields will smoke milder, because tobaccos that smell milder smoke milder. AFTER
YOU SMOKE THEM -- you have no unpleasant after-taste. WHILE YOU SMOKE THEM you get more pleasure than any other
cigarette can give you—that’s why millions of smokers say: THEY SATISFY.

LEADING SELLER IN AMERICA’S COLLEGES

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1950

Starlite DRIVE-IN THEATRE Salisbury-Landis Highway

Stressed for Students GOING BACK TO SCHOOL THIS FALL? IF YOU UNDER THE G.I. BILL, NO YOUR MONEY YOUNG WEEK
STARTING OFFICE OF CHANGE IN OCTOBER 11

St. Louis, Mo—(IP)—The largest administrative turnover in the history of the College of Liberal Arts at Washington University has already
resulted in changes designed to improve the quality of a really well-educated graduate. According to Chancellor Arthur H. Compton, the
“mass production” elements which some critics of American education say have been characteristic in the past, will henceforth be among
the missing at Washington University. “We are entering upon a period,” he says, “in which improvement in quality is our
prime concern.” Commenting on the native ability decline of leadership, he declared that it will be the University’s job to
cultivate leadership from every available source and to attempt to reverse the present tide toward a population low in potential
leadership.

Innovations in the College of Liberal Arts, as reported by Dean Thomas S. Hall, show a definite trend “to recognize
excellence and to encourage students to go ahead as fast as they are capable.” Students can be excused from the
second half of the freshman English course if they make an outstanding grade in the first semester.

ALPHA EPSILON DELTA... (Continued From Page One)

...field of medicine and surgery. During the first semester, the programs will be held at 7:15, unless otherwise previously announced.
In addition to the announcements in chapel, the programs will be posted on the bulletin board on the second floor
of Martin Science Hall.

Be wiser than other people if you can, but... do not tell them so.

Stonestreet’s Cafe GRADE ‘A’ CAFE Fine Foods Mooresville, N. C.

VISIT THE DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT “A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER 126 W. TRADE ST. PHONE 2-2238 CHARLOTTE,
N. C.

142 E. Morehead — Charlotte

COMPARE CHESTERFIELD
