When the Charlotte News came out with their All-State basketball team last week, we, along with numerous others, were surprised to note that Whit Cobb had been placed on the second five instead of the first. It was stated that the team which the News made public was composed of the five players who received the most votes from the Big-Five coaches, regardless of positions. While no one would question the ability of the five named on the first team, we question that it is what an All-State team should be. For that reason, and to get his views, we wrote Furman Bisher a letter about the matter. It says very little that most don’t already know, but we’re certain that it expresses the opinions of not a few. Here it is for what it’s worth...

Dear Mr. Bisher:

We here at Davidson were very interested in your recent edition of the News which carried the All-State basketball team for this year. Needless to say, our interest mainly stemmed from the fact that our own Whit Cobb failed to make the squad. I’m not writing you to argue on this point for I fully realize that the selections were not made by you or your staff but by coaches of the Big-Five teams who should know what they are talking about. Even if you had made the selections yourself, I wouldn’t feel myself qualified to contradict the opinion of a much more qualified sports writer than I'll ever be. No, what I would like to bring forward is the soundness of your method of selecting the honored quintet. Of course, no better committee could be found to do this than the coaches, but the point I don’t understand is why you have a team made up of five players who received the highest number of votes, regardless of the position the men play. This, to me, is not what a true All-State team should be. What is the difference in having an all-star basketball squad with two centers and three forwards and an all-star football squad with four quarterbacks such as Galiffa, Williams, Tidwell, and LeBaron? It just doesn’t seem quite fair to have a mythical team unless each position is represented. The guards, which the News omitted, are an integral part of the make-up of any team. Why shouldn’t they get the same recognition for their proficiency as the high-scoring forwards or bean-pole centers? Often guards are less glamorous in their performance (not so with our boy Cobb) but their value as team men cannot be overestimated. To push my argument a little farther, I believe you'll agree that if it were possible to play a game between the News team of Horvath, Ranzino, Dickey, Nearman, Kappler... and Cobb, Groat, Nearman, Ranzino, and Dickey who were selected by another newspaper, the latter quint would win hands down, because of the addition of two guards of the caliber of Groat and Cobb. This is, of course, problematical, but I hope you see the point I’m making. I really have no great interest in the matter of how you select your teams in the future for it's certainly your own business. I simply wanted to present the other side of the picture to you in the hope that you will seriously consider the matter and possibly avoid what might be called future injustices to deserving players. I hope that you will find time to write me your ideas on this matter, regardless of what your opinions may be, because I am so convinced that my stand on the question is right that I would sincerely like to hear your side of the story. Doubtless you have perfectly valid reasons for selecting the team as it was.

(Continued On Page Six)

In Los Angeles, there is always a friendly gathering of University of Southern California students at Ted Owen’s. And, as in colleges everywhere, ice-cold Coca-Cola helps make these get-togethers something to remember. As a refreshing pause from the study grind, or on a Saturday-night date—Coke belongs. Ask for it either way... both trademarks mean the same thing.

Ted Owen's, Los Angeles, Calif.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD © 1949, The Coca-Cola Company

COACH LITTLE AND CAPT. LAMBETH

Whittle Optimistic As 39 Aspirants Answer Call to First Track Workout

By BILL ADAMS

Coach Pete Whittle issued his annual call for all varsity track candidates last Tuesday, holding a meeting that afternoon with an enthusiastic group of 39 boys who answered the summons. Workouts for a grueling eight-meet schedule began Wednesday and will continue until the first meet on April 1. Coach Whittle expressed his joy at the turnout and indicated that the Wildcats should have a highly successful track season this year. He pointed out that he has eighteen lettermen with which to work and several promising sophs up from freshman ranks, besides several neophytes who may come through. Spear-heading the list of returnees is Captain Jim Vann, the Cats’ powerful discus man who is reaching for the top rung of the conference ladder this year; hurdlers Tommy Haller and Bill Pritchett; sprinters Whit Cobb, Ken Goodpasture, and Rivers Jenkins; jumpers Bob Henderson and Roger Cornell; distance men Blake Bradley and Rob Long; javelin by Joe Miller, and pole vaulter Pete Brown. Best bets from the freshmen are half-miler Tom Stockton, quarter-miler Dick Stockton, high jumper Dave Williams, and hurdler Bill White. These boys, already having proved themselves, should be a great help in rounding out the team. The squad is well balanced, lacking only an experienced shot-putter. Last year’s team was very successful, but this year the thinclads should do even better.

The complete squad at this stage:

Lettermen — Dave Anderson, Pete Brown, Blake Bradley, Roger Cornell, Whit Cobb, Ken Goodpasture, Tommy Haller, Bob Henderson, Bill Klein, Bill Lee, Bob Long, Joe Miller, Ed Montgomery, Dick Patterson, Bill Pritchett, Dick Stockton, Tom Stockton, and Jim Vann.

Non-Lettermen — Tom Allen, S. C. Archibald, Bruce Ballenger, Bill Bacon, E. C. Bowen, Bob Barron, Len Crawley, Dave Cowan, L. W. Cleveland, Jim Fickeisen, Ben Gibson, Andy Horne, Mac McLean, Joe Poole, S. H. Skippey, John Talbert, Edgar Tufts, Bill White, Chris Whiteman, Dave Williams, and Ed West.

The schedule — April 1, Furman, here; April 7, South Carolina, there; April 15, Mercer, there; April 19, Wake Forest, here; April 22, Citadel, there; April 29, W. and L., there; May 6, Clemson, here; and May 19-20, Conference meet at Chapel Hill.

Withers Electric Company
- Radio Repairs
- Electrical Supplies
- Light Bulbs
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
MAKERS OF — Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.

Pitchers, Catchers Throwing a Few As Season Draws Near

By BILL BROOKS

Davidson's baseball team, if the pitchers and catchers are any indication, should be hard to beat this season. Last year’s mound aces, Fred Hengeveld and Charleton Torrence, are back again with added support from Norman Whitehart, Lefty Hunter, Harold Smith, and Tom Craven. The big question mark is Torrence’s arm. Last fall he suffered a complete shoulder separation in fraternity football, and speculation has been great as to whether he could pitch this spring. Coach Jamerson says that from all indications, Charleton apparently is sound now and can be expected to star again for the Cats if no hidden trouble develops.

Hengeveld has just finished basketball, where he starred, and should be ready Freddy as usual. Whitehart, who injured his arm three years ago, reports that it is now as strong as it has ever been. With him in good shape, the pitching staff will be much stronger. Lefty Hunter, the portside pitcher, knows the business thoroughly, and is gaining control rapidly. He'll be counted on for heavy duty and should come through. From the freshman team of last year, Harold Smith is showing the most promise. Coach Charley is well pleased with his work thus far.and will rely on “Smitty” for good support. Tom Craven is going through the paces and can really burn it in. Two sophs, Johnny Jervis and C. L. Runyan, are jockeying for the catching position. Jervis is currently swimming, and C. L. dislocated his shoulder, but both should be ready in time and will carry the load together.

“Did Edison make the first talking machine, Pa?”
“No, son, God made the first one; Edison made the first one that could be shut off!”

Send The DAVIDSONIAN home.

College Plays Host To Large Group Of Visiting High School Athletes
By CHARLIE HAWKINS

In the past few weeks, some one hundred high school athletes have been visiting the Davidson campus, looking over the school, and conferring with the coaches about their interest in Davidson College and Davidson’s interest in them. Each of the athletes has either been recommended by alumni or was recommended for the Shrine Bowl game that was played in Charlotte last December. After each boy is contacted by Davidson, he comes here and spends a few days conferring with the coaches and getting a general idea of the school. The second floor of the old gymnasium has been made into a dormitory for the visitors, who eat in the college cafeteria, with the exception of a few who are invited to various fraternity boarding houses for their meals. After the interviews with the coaches, the boys fill out general information forms, giving the athletic department data on the achievements, skills, and qualifications of each boy. Each athlete's scholastic record is then checked by the Registrar’s office to see if he is eligible for admittance into Davidson as a student. Afterwards, when all data has been checked, the athletic department writes the particular boys telling them whether or not Davidson is interested in them. No scholarships have been given yet. Many of these boys have expressed their interest in Davidson, and the friendly Davidson spirit has been complimented several times by the visitors. The growth of a sound and better athletic policy at Davidson would certainly benefit the school a great deal, and that growth is beginning.

Chesterfield Sport Quizz
1. Who beat Ted Williams for the American batting championship in 1949 by less than a point?
2. Who took Holy Cross’ place as No. 1 basketball team in the nation last week?
3. Who is the greatest football player of the century?
4. Who is the top professional tennis player in the nation?
5. What famed Negro baseball player left the majors last year?

RULES
1. Print your answers clearly on the back of a Chesterfield wrapper.
2. Take your answers to Frank Perrin in 112 West. No entries will be accepted later than 24 hours after the Davidsonian is circulated. The first three correct entries will each receive a carton of Chesterfield cigarettes. This contest is not open to members of the Davidsonian staff.

Little Working Gridders Hard As Spring Drills Enter Final Stages
By BILL WHITE

Davidson students, alumni, and visiting sportswriters—three castes of mankind who suffered through the Wildcat win famine of ’49—will see the brighter spring of a new year and with it a preview of next fall’s football fashions at Davidson when Coach Crowell Little exhibits the fruits of his off-season labors in the Red and White game in Richardson Field Stadium next Saturday afternoon. Following the plan now in use at North Carolina and N. C. State, the athletic department will charge an admission to the game which will see the material split equally on talent and Little seated in the stands while assistant coaches run the show. As far as work has progressed so far, indications are of a slightly optimistic nature, and there are a couple of rising sophs who have helped bring the sunlight into the gloom. To say that A. C. Gregg and Roy White are moving up to fill the posts vacated by Jake Wade and Charlie Rimer would technically be the truth, but it would also be a takeoff on the ability of both boys. A. C. has speed to burn, but what is even more remarkable about the comparatively light scatback is his hard-hitting drive. As a defensive halfback last fall for the Davidson frosh, Gregg racked with regularity bigger backs who slipped through into his territory. He came up fast and made contact quick. But that drive he put to better use as a ball carrier. With power plus speed, Gregg showed last fall that he can not only scat, but shake himself loose when temporarily in the arms of a would-be tackler. A quick spurt and he was out and on his way. He's been demonstrating the same elusiveness to date in winter drills. Stomaching Lambeth’s pitch from the T-spot, Gregg pops through holes that are open-and-close affairs and then goes like wind. White, who may well pick up the nickname Whizzer which another White, a gridder out West, made famous a few years back, operates with A. C. like a twin from the other half. The North Carolinian who did his preping in Illinois looks even more like the track man he is in a football suit than most trackmen.

Strong Tennis Team Rounding Into Form
By DAN McKEITHEN

When the last basketball game has been played, athletic attention shifts to the spring sports. With spring comes Davidson's winningest team—the tennis team. Although the weather hasn’t assured us that tennis season is here, Coach Derrick Barton has had his boys practicing for the past three weeks, cold or hot, windy or not. From the looks of the material working out, it seems that the tennis team can make up for the wins that the football and basketball teams failed to get. Ace Bo Roddey will return to his familiar number one spot while Teddy Keesler will keep his number two, unless Whit Cobb jumps up to take it. Although it’s too early to make any predictions on the other three slots, it is a cinch they will be in very capable hands. Ready to make a battle royal out of it are former subs Bill Child, Rob Palmer, Peyre Kennedy, John Crosland and Allan Fanjoy, as well as ex-frosh stars Allan Strand and Dewey Keesler. However, these men are not going to have a winning season without really putting out. The heaviest schedule in the history of the team has been arranged. Looking at the schedule, one not only finds such top teams as Rollins, University of Florida, Florida State, William and Mary, Harvard, Yale, Kalamazoo, UNC, Duke and Cincinnati, but also an international team of Mexico’s best players. The big goal the team will be aiming for is the Southern Conference Tennis Tournament, which will be held here at Davidson on May 11, 12 and 13. Now that Kovaleski of W. & M., and Seixas of Carolina, have graduated, our own Bo Roddey will probably grab the top berth in singles seedings. Before the tournament there is that ominous-looking schedule, but the way the boys are practicing now they should come out in winning style.

What The Cats Were Doing
ONE YEAR AGO—March 3, 1949...
(1) W. & M. dump Cats for tournament with a 54-50 win.
(2) Cats lose to South Carolina, 69-53, while the College of Charleston and The Citadel fell victims to the Cats by the respective scores of 55-53 and 50-42.

FIVE YEARS AGO—March 4, 1945...
(1) Cats down Furman, 50-33, to end season.

TEN YEARS AGO—March 7, 1940...
(1) Baseball and track take place of basketball as teams begin spring practice.
(2) Maryland grapplers win over Cats, 16-14, in finals.

TWENTY YEARS AGO—March 6, 1930...
(1) Wildcats rally to beat Wofford five, 29-10 in season final.
(2) Wildkittens close season with wins over Wingate, 34-17, and Porter Military Academy, 49-29.