Doc White’s little battered yellow lamp shade, home-made chair cushion, and pint-sized sewing machine are incongruously conspicuous in the modern tile splendor of his Johnston Gym quarters. The Doctor himself goes about his too numerous duties with a make-the-best-of-all-these-conveniences resignation, but inwardly he seems to yearn for the cramped quarters of the old gym.

By BILL WHITE

As the first clouds in eight weeks began to gather and folks began wondering whether it would start Friday or Saturday, we began thinking back over some of the Homecomings they must have had back when..., and booked an appointment with the Grand Old Man of Davidson College athletics to reminisce a while. The Doctor, still finding all that room too much for his liking, led the way into his equipment closet, pulled out a stick of Beechnut as would any fine host, and like a corporation lawyer in his library reached up on a shelf and brought down a stack of programs for the discussion.

When Once Presbyterian Met Baptist

The baseball cap came off, and Doc ran a finger through his tousled grey hair. “Well, to start off I'll tell you the biggest crowd that ever was up here. It was in 1937, and we were playing Wake Forest. There were bleachers way down yonder 'tother end of the field from one side to the other, up this way like they are now, and folks ’uz standing all around the track. Can’t remember who won that game, but it was the last time we played Wake Forest up here, and it was real close competition. I reckon that game musta drawed 12 or 15 thousand people.”

Doc satisfied himself that Teeny Lafferty didn’t play that year, having graduated in the spring of '37, then perused the '39 Carolina program. “McClintock, Caldwell, McLean, Crutchfield—that boy’s in here just a couple of days ago. I knew his voice before I ever saw him. And Davey Spencer. That’s my back. Just give him that much,” and Doc parted his hands a foot, “and he was gone. That’s why I say he was better than Lafferty. Teeny had Tom Corbin up there making room for him, and after he left, Ed Armfield. But both of ’em were some ball players.

“Now you know how old them jerseys the freshmen were wearing the other evening are,” Mr. White chuckled as he pointed to the squad picture in the 1940 Citadel program. “Reckon Johnny Frederick’ll be down here this weekend—with his ball team. He’s coach, I believe it’s up at Hanes. Reckon a lot of them'll be back here this weekend. There's another Sharpe right yonder—Herb Rainey. They didn’t go over him. No sir!”

Our student body president would have blushed and beamed to have been in our shoes for the next gem of the past. The Doctor had a '41 Carolina program. “We used to play Carolina and Duke both good first halves. Trouble was you always had to play the second half. Now here’s a tackle who played both of ’em. Alf Taylor. He played 60-minute ball all the time. I seen him come off the field when he couldn’t move. And he wouldn't play in no shoes anybody else’d wear. Had to have an old worn-out pair that wouldn’t hardly stay on his feet. I was glad to see him finish and get those things outa here, I give 'em to him.

“And old Red Bethea was our top back in about ‘41-'42. That was just before the war started. And this must be ’43, there’s Bud Wyser’s picture. He was the manager. Initials were W. H., and they used to call him Budweiser.

“Didn't have much during the war. I remember one game little Jake Wade came up here to play for that school down yonder—just a high school team, y'know, and set ’em on fire. After the war in ’46 we had the best prospects in some years, and in '47 we should have really went places. We didn’t do bad, either, but we missed some chances.

You Forget The Scores, But Not The Boys

“I can’t remember the scores of none of these games. Got most of my programs at home. Too many games to keep up with. But you can’t forget some of them boys.” The Doctor confessed to having withheld information, but defended himself with the perfectly fair assertion that “It ain’t always best to tell everything you remember.” He's seen a lot of them come, and a lot of them go. The Doctor has. And he's one they'll be seeking out when they start coming in here this weekend. Second to Chambers and Rumple, he’s the first thought the word Davidson brings to the mind of any boy who ever asked him for a towel or a pair of shoe strings. For memory’s sake, many will look past the beautifully spacious confines they find him in now, and remember the cluttered, crowded equipment room in Alumni Gym that was so long inseparably associated with Doc White.

WELCOME ALUMNI
Let’s Beat Those Generals

Wilson-Wright’s invites you to inspect their new store during your stay in Davidson. Complete Clothiers for Young Men
WILSON-WRIGHT’S
Located Two Doors Below Bank

SPORTS SECTION

Stockton Twins Carry Cat Hopes
By BILL COE

The Wildcat cross-country team launches the Homecoming activities today when they run the Washington and Lee harriers at 11 a.m. Although the ‘Cats haven't been too successful this season with a record of 0-3, they are going to be on the rebound, led by the Stockton brothers, Tom and Dick, both of whom have shown their superiority on cross-country runs to date. W. & L., led by Echols Harnsberger, is of unknown strength, but always powerful.

On October 13, the University of North Carolina team defeated Davidson by 24-34. Tom Stockton was first to cross the line, followed by Gordon Hamrick of Carolina, and Dick Stockton. Tom covered the little more than four-mile course in a striking time of 21:30. Last Monday, the team journeyed to Durham to run the Blue Devils. This was the best meet of the year for the ‘Cats, although they were edged by a score of 25-30. Again Tom Stockton won first place honors with an outstanding time of 20:47 over a four-mile course. Second and third went to Duke runners while Davidson's Dick Stockton followed closely for fourth place. The team was hampered greatly by the absence of Blake Bradley, captain and number one man, who was forced to give up running due to a stomach ailment.

The Kittens will run Lees-McRae immediately after the varsity race Saturday. The Kittens have a clean 2-0 slate having beaten N. C. State and Pfeiffer Junior College.

Wildcat Sports
THE DAVIDSONIAN

GENS RUGGED HOMECOMING FOE

Cross Country Team R Wildcat of Week

Tricky Dick Stockton was enjoying reflected glory this week. People were mistaking him, as usual, for twin brother Tom. Tom, you see, has been performing like the corporal who took the captain’s place and unexpectedly won the battle. Except Tom's team didn’t win the victories. Shoved into the No. 1 spot on the cross country team when Blake Bradley was forced to retire, Tom romped home with wins last weekend over the not-to-be-thought-lightly-of University of North Carolina and Duke cross country teams.

When the news was first out that Bradley, No. 1 man for two seasons, would have to hang up the spikes this season because of stomach‘shoulders. He had trouble, the mantle fell on Tom's head when Blake caught a cramp at N.C. State in the opener, finishing second to the Pack's sophomore sensation Clyde Garrison, last fall’s freshman conference king who stands a good chance of repeating again this season. At home last Saturday, it was Stockton, T., first over the field against Carolina, brother Dick finishing a respectable third. Monday, the thinclads of Coach Pete Whittle tripped to Durham to engage Duke, a team fresh from a skunking of Virginia three days earlier. Preacher Tom wasn't scared in the least by the Devils and paced them home. It is hardly fitting to the Wildcat of the Week to imply that he has stepped into this glory merely because the man ahead of him was forced to step down. He was giving Blake a fit in time trials, and some dead heat finishes would not have been unusual had Bradley continued to run.

TOM STOCKTON . . . Corporal Comes Through

Heart Warmed by ‘D’ Sweater, Stern Complimentary With Credit of Victory, But Cats Got No Kicks

By DICK LILES

Down in Charleston last Saturday night, all was not as gay as one might think Charleston would be on such a night, at least for about 50 men who had felt the sting of defeat that very afternoon. Meanwhile, their ardent supporters were literally up in the air at the ole Alma Mammy when they heard golden-throated Bill Stern tell them that Davidson had won over The Citadel by 19-12. The Davidsonians were cheering wildly, but no one group knew how wrong old friend Stern was than the hapless crew that sat around the dinner table at the hotel. The Wildcats met the Cadets with a terrible psychological disadvantage for it was Homecoming for the Cadets and they were “up” after being edged three times straight. Only a few minutes passed when Bohlen of Citadel skirted his right end for 54 yards to set up a score. Coach Quinn Decker’s new quarterback “Find” Dick Zelinski commanded the victory-bound Cadets masterfully, completing passes for two of the T.D.’s and setting up the other score. The Blue and White ran well, uncovering a new offensive punch while the defensive team lived quite up to former reputation and played bang-up ball. Davidson’s only real bright spot was the passing attack engineered by General Lambeth. Auburn completed 16 out of 22 passes for 205 yards which was practically all the ground the Red and Black gained all afternoon. Lambeth led both scoring drives and several that didn’t turn out that way. Runyan pulled one in under the goal post for the first score of the losers, and the final score was climaxed by Ham Wade carrying over from the one after a sustained passing attack. The game was marked with several brilliant goal line stands by both teams, but the most exciting was the one at the end of the first half when Citadel was on the Cat goal with four downs to go. Zelinski had passed for 48 and then a 15-yard penalty against Davidson placed the ball within stepping distance of the goal. For the first time in the game, the defensive play was great on the part of the Wildcats and they snarled and brandished their teeth and the pigskin got no further. The whistle blew and it was still inches from the marker. The Cats' greatest weakness in the game was their inability to block and get the ground attack on the loose. Even with laxness of play, the Red and Blackers came so close to tying the game in the last of the third quarter. The team had moved the ball for 81 yards to the Citadel eight. Three plays later it was on the one. Coach Little took a gamble on a hard-driving halfback, but fate intervened. Bill Bowers fumbled the ball or it was too low for him and D.C.’s chances (Continued On Page Five)

For the Generals, the game will mean three things: a chance to beat an old rival for a conference win, a chance to redeem themselves for last week's heartbreaking loss to Virginia, and a chance to get ready for their next opponent, Tennessee. For the 'Cats, it could mean only one thing—a Homecoming victory over a team not beaten by Davidson since 1943. It was in 1943 when the ’Cats last beat W & L. George and Tommy Peters combined with such stars as Red Bethea, Dick O'Hair, and Ben Lacy for a 21-13 win. The series was discontinued until 1947, when the Generals won, 32-0. Carl Pahl, Doug Rice, Mack Erwin, and Buddy Chandler were the ‘Cat standouts for that contest. In 1948, it was a Davidson Homecoming, and the Generals barely eked out a 21-20 win on the virtue of Michael’s true kick. End Mike Williams and back Cliff Turner turned in a sterling performance in that game for the ‘Cats. The 1948 contest also found a new star in the Davidson ranks—Auburn Lambeth, who completed 14 of 26 passes in the game, and was acclaimed “Sophomore of the Week” for his efforts. In 1949, it was a W & L Homecoming and the Generals rolled over the 'Cats 53-0 for the worst loss in the history of football at Davidson. Gil Bocetti, the Generals’ classy “T” quarterback was the mainspring in that lop-sided affair, and for Davidson, the game brought out two more new stars in Jim Fasul and Ham Wade. This year it will be a punching, passing, powerful W & L team that boasts such stars as Gil Bocetti, Talbot Trammell, and Bob Thomas. The line, as solid as a rock, has paved the way for the General backs with consistency all season. The Generals had rolled over Furman, West Virginia, and the Citadel, with apparent ease before dropping a heartbreaking 26-21 loss to Virginia last week in the final two minutes of the game. Coach Crowell Little’s ’Cats, injury-riddled and trying to rebound from last week's Citadel defeat, face a hard task. They face a team whose record is better and whose margin of victory by comparative score would be 34 points. With Jack Branch, Bill McNeely, Henry Wilson and Lee Talbirt out, the line will turn to stand-bys Jim Fasul, Bill Acker, Jerry Wiser, Hoopie Davis, and Bill Freeman for performances. In the backfield, it will be Roy White, Woody Leach, C. L. Runyan and Ham Wade ready to go for the ’Cats. Of course, Davidson Captain Auburn Lambeth will be in there pitching from his “Little T” quarterback post. One of the nation’s best quarterbacks, both as playcallers and as passers. Lambeth, in completing 16 of 22 tosses against Citadel both raised his total for the year and brought him nearer the collegiate record for completed passes in a college career. Bocetti, although just a junior, is widely known for his faking ability and he will be putting his reputation on the line. This could well be an interesting duel, both from the viewpoints of the quarterbacks and the teams themselves.

Starlite DRIVE-IN THEATRE Salisbury-Landis Highway

WEEK STARTING OCTOBER 19th

Wednesday and Thursday
BARBARA STANWYCK
JOHN LUND
—In—
“NO MAN OF HER OWN”
CARTOON

Friday and Saturday
TIM HOLT
—in—
“ARIZONA RANGERS”
—also—
“MYSTERY IN MEXICO”
WILLIAM LUNDIGAN
SERIAL — CARTOON

Sunday
JUNE HAVER
—in—
“THE DAUGHTER OF ROSIE O’GRADY”
CARTOON

Monday and Tuesday
“CHAIN LIGHTNING”
HUMPHREY BOGART