PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF
BOB HOLLISTER

BUSINESS MANAGER
BILL HOUCK

EDITORIAL STAFF
Chief Associate Editor
Doug Hix

Chief Associate Editor
Lonnie Turnipseed

Chief Associate Editor
Jack Hall

MANAGING EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall, Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister, Randy Taylor.

Sports Editor—Gordon Scott

Make-up Editors—Dan McKeithen, Cherry Stribling.

Art Editor—Bill King

City Editor—John Hobart

Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Bill Cassells

Advertising Managers
Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw

Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison.

Circulation Manager
Huffaker

Asst. Circulation Managers
Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown

Collections Manager
John Loftin

Subscriptions Manager
Alex Goley

PRINTED BY
DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

In Appreciation...

We take this opportunity to let the “Y” know that its Monday morning devotionals are becoming, to our way of
thinking, more and more meaningful. The idea—new to Chapel devotionals—of using a disembodied voice to convey a message and thereby
concentrate the listener’s attention on what is being said rather than who is saying it or how it is put
across—succeeds in uniting the student body’s interest in a religious exercise as few chapel programs ever have. Recently one of
the most effective of this new type of devotional was presented. Tom Langford and the “Y” may well be proud
of the program of January 16.

Again the Y.M.C.A. proves that it is wide awake in bringing to the campus Rev. Charles Jones of Chapel Hill
for a student-faculty forum on the pertinent subject of race relations. In undertaking this project, the “Y” is utilizing a
procedure long overlooked as a means by which student interest can be activated. This procedure is that of centering projects
of this nature about a nucleus of twenty, forty, or fifty students, rather than making an attempt—as has been done
so many times in the past—to include the entire student body in every venture undertaken by any of the campus
organizations. The “Y” has set the other societies and groups on our campus an excellent example.

New Athletic Program...

The Athletic Department has come up with a very fine program for the student body. We refer to the new
basket system of issuing gym clothes to the entire student body. Any student may now draw complete gym equipment upon
request at the gym. T-shirt, shorts, jersey, supporters, and socks are given each student with a clean towel in his
basket. The basket is kept in the equipment room and may be drawn out at any time by the student.
Plenty of locker space is available in the dressing room and a combination lock is provided with each basket. Many
students have already taken advantage of this new plan and all others should avail themselves of the facilities. The basketball
courts are open for students at any time. Also, the pool is being used daily during pool hours, and the
new handball courts are proving to be a popular spot. The handball game itself is fast becoming a favorite sport
on the campus and possibly tournaments may be arranged later on. The whole setup in the new gym is catching
the popular support which it merits and the athletic department should receive a big pat on the back for its
efforts. The college has long realized the need for such an athletic program for the student body, but has always
been hampered by a lack of facilities. Now the program is here and the students are already showing their long
desires for athletics and recreational activities.

—J. H.

Letter to the Editor

To the Editor:

During my two and one-half years here at Davidson College a gap in the variety of intellectual stimulation offered to
the students has become steadily more apparent. Throughout each school year numerous speakers are heard in Chapel, in Vespers, on
the college lecture series, and in other organizational meetings about the campus, yet, oddly, none is ever heard advocating strongly,
or even mildly, any principles which could possibly be construed as contravening either Christianity or Capitalism. Yet a merely perfunctory
reading of any daily newspaper or any one of several recent magazine articles will readily show how many people believe
in and advocate strongly principles directly opposed to those upon which Christianity and Capitalism are founded. Why is none of
them ever heard on the Davidson College campus?

Please understand that I am in no wise preaching overthrow of the ideas for which the college stands, nor am
I criticizing its right to attempt to indoctrinate its students in whatever ways of thinking it may choose. It is
merely that Davidson advertises itself as a Liberal Arts College, and one of the avowed purposes of such an institution
is to educate its students so as to enable them to cope efficiently with the complex problems to be met
in the cruel world “outside.” Yet how possibly can that purpose be well served by the careful, even meticulous, exclusion
from our ears of the arguments of one side of two of today's most controversial problems?

My suggestion as to a means by which this gap could be filled is a series of forums, possibly held
under the sponsorship of the college, or some student organization, to which speakers would be invited who take a stand
opposite to that generally propounded now on our campus. These forums could perhaps take the form of debates between speakers
or merely discussions to which the public would be invited. They would not benefit those who came only to deride
openly, nor those who came only to applaud secretly, but would benefit those who came with an open mind to
hear a logical presentation of the “opposition,” so to speak.

Let’s hear some comment on this!

RICHARD E. HARRIS.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Hodding Carter...

I have just come across a bleak fact—or figure—which may have the same relationship to the States’ Rights cause as
Appomattox had to the Confederacy. Government money, including payments to farmers, make up almost 22 per cent of the South’s
total income. Maybe this is already known to everyone but me. But I have never heard it mentioned by any
of the spokesmen who demand a return to the states of all rights and responsibilities not expressly delegated to the
Federal Government. It has been a good many years since I read the Constitution closely. I am quite sure, however,
that it contains no clause which provides that the Federal Government should come up with two bits out of every
dollar that finds its way into and out of my pockets.

The only thing to do, obviously, is to return such monies already received and to refuse any further federal money.
Probably the easiest way to start would be for every Southern farmer to demand an end to farm benefits of
all kinds, since farm payments represent considerably more than half of the total amount received. That would make our farmers
independent of outside influence and safe from the dangers of centralized government. What would happen to their farms is another
matter and not germane. The principal agricultural beneficiaries of such resoluteness would, of course, be the cotton farmers. Instead of
producing too much cotton two years out of three, they wouldn’t produce any cotton at all, and thus would relieve
the glutted market. Then they would be free to get jobs in the rayon industry.

Next in line would be the states. Those which border the Mississippi river should make the first gesture of renunciation.
No more flood control project payrolls. No more flood control. The resultant floods would be helpful for they would again
spread over the entire lower Mississippi valley, the nation’s topsoil which is now being discharged in the Gulf of Mexico,
where it is of no use to anyone.

Highway funds would also be returned, together with the salaries of all Southerners on the federal payroll—except possibly within the
District of Columbia—all allotments for hospitals, educational facilities, military expenditures, and national parks. The postal service, however, pensions, and bonuses,
would be left intact. Such action would be Spartan, but it would return the government to the states, where it
belongs, and the states to the Indians whose objections could be overruled.

I am sure that I can get every Southern political leader, especially those from the cotton belt, to back this
program. All of us know that the South must balance its agriculture with industry. We've been trying to accomplish this
by increasing our industrial income until it matches our agricultural income. This way would be easier. By eliminating farm benefits,
we'd reduce agricultural income to that of our industrial income. The money thus saved could be then used to complete
the rehabilitation of Europe without additional taxes. Additionally, the costs of national defense would be reduced, since the Southern perimeter
would have no economic value and could therefore be abandoned. And to this new world wilderness would emigrate resolute pioneers,
dedicated to the principles of local self-government and to hell with a federal bribe of 22 cents on the dollar.

—The Atlanta Journal.

Book Notes
By TOM PRUFER

“The Red Shoes,” from J. Arthur Rank’s British studios and easily one of the best of recent years, is back
in Charlotte again, held over this week at the Visulite. It is the story of Lemontov, a ballet impresario, Vicki,
a dancer, and Peter, a composer, who together create “The Ballet of the Red Shoes,” taken from a fairytale by
Hans Christian Andersen. In the ballet an enchanter-shoemaker makes a pair of red shoes. A young girl falls in love
with them, puts them on, dancing through the night with her lover at a carnival. But when morning comes and
she is tired, she finds that she still must dance. Once put on, the magic shoes will never let her
stop. She escapes the power of the shoemaker only by dying in the arms of a priest.

We soon realize that the ballet itself is the story of Lemontov, Vicki and Peter. For Vicki “to live is
to dance” and Lemontov, who can make her one of the world’s great dancers, is the magician of the red
shoes. But she and Peter fall deeply in love and she cannot have both him and the dance. She chooses
Peter, but the magic of the red shoes draws her back to Lemontov. At the end the red shoes are
cut off her feet just as they were earlier on the stage when she danced “the girl.” Vicki is a
tragic heroine, caught between two persons and two kinds of lives, both demanding uncomprisingly everything from her. The part is
superbly played by Moira Shearer, who can act as well as she can dance. The character parts and the photography,
especially the shots of the dances and of the Riviera, are excellent. In all aspects the production is outstanding for
subtlety, sensitivity, and strength. This is the second and probably the last showing in Charlotte, so don’t miss the last
chance to see a really definitive job of movie-making.

Juvenile Delinquency...
By GABRIEL LOWE

It seems to be the consensus of opinion among the newspaper psychiatrists and psychologists that the blame for the high
rate of juvenile delinquency in this country should fall on the heads of parents and the older generation collectively. It
is pointed out that they set a poor example for their children, and that is quite true. Parents talk about
the way teenagers drive automobiles, but there are few adults who can set examples of sober, attentive, skillful driving for
their young proteges to copy, as evidenced by the land-office business conducted by traffic courts and highway patrolmen. Parents deplore
teenagers drinking, forgetting that it was they who began the trend in the wild and wooly, and much-publicized, 1920's. Parents
are shocked by the interest in and knowledge of sex which their children show, and by the liberties of petting
which their children sometimes indulge in. Yet they hail books like “Forever Amber” as “best sellers”; they smear sex all
over the “best” magazines and the front pages of the newspapers; they enjoy it in movies and on the stage.
And still they expect their children, who are young, alert, and curious, to remain in dismal ignorance of the facts
of life until they choose to enlighten them, which in all too many cases is never.

The second indictment against parents is that they do not spend enough time with their children, and that, too, is
quite true. They complain that their children do not have old-time parties at home, but when there is nothing else
to do is more realistic than we like to admit. Many mothers work outside of the home, largely to prevent
boredom, taking them away from their children and denying the children much hometraining that would stand them in good stead.
From all these considerations, one can build a strong case to show that parents are to blame for juvenile delinquency.
But not all the blame can rightfully be placed on them. The real source of the problem lies much deeper
than just parents. Indeed, parents are almost as much a product of the problem as their children are. For the
real root of the problem of juvenile delinquency lies in the fact that the world has outrun the social and
moral standards that we set for home, which they used to enjoy so much. But the home is no longer
the institution of family life that it formerly was, thanks to the movies, professional sports, and especially the automobile. The
joke about home becoming the place to go many another problem that

SBiko By KURT BIEDENKOPF

A few days ago I got hold of a copy of the American Legion Magazine and I found an article,
titled “What the Germans really think.” Two reporters had tried to find out the real opinion of the German people
towards the occupation troops, the military administration and in general, towards the former enemies of Germany. The opinion of the
two reporters was that this could be done best by traveling through Germany as Germans (both spoke very good German
and had been in Germany before). They would then hear the actual thoughts expressed and thus get a very true
and objective picture of the German mind as it really was. So true all this is; but in my opinion,
as the article shows to me, both men made one great mistake. They went to nightclubs and to places where
no American soldiers were found. They asked the girlfriend of an American officer and a farmer in Bavaria, of whom
one of the two, as a secret service man, had been sent to prison five years before, for hiding weapons
and ammunition. Thus they only learned about a very small section of the people and their opinion, and they forgot
that there was a far greater percentage that thought entirely differently and whose viewpoint was in no way similar to
that of the people whom they had asked. They had made a mistake, that I myself am very afraid to
make whenever I write about my impressions of this country and its people. They had generalized the opinions of a
few men and women and made them standards for all the rest of the people. This, however, must lead everybody
to a complete misunderstanding of the situation as it really is. It must create an absolute wrong picture. Writing about
a country and describing its people, their characters and their ways of life is one of the most difficult and,
you may even say, dangerous tasks for a reporter or newsman. Only too easily one misjudges his impressions, generalizes them
and creates in other people’s minds a wrong picture; or, more than that, in our case it may even amount
to suspicion and disappointment. Through this mistake, they made, the American reporters got the impression of the German mind to
be thinking about any possible way to fight and mislead the occupation troops, to be absolutely disinclined to accept anything
that is brought to it by the Americans and is connected with the ideas of democracy, to try to find
any way of building up a new strong Germany and fight a new war. I, as a German, of course,
cannot possibly have any absolute objective viewpoint concerning my own home country. But even applying the greatest objectiveness I may
say, that this is not the fact. The wrong picture they gave is not the fault of the two reporters;
I am (Continued On Page Four)

it. We are still trying to fit a Victorian standard to an age in which men travel faster than the
speed of sound, in which there is a car in every garage, in which recreation has become a vicarious pastime,
in which that government is best which governs most. How is it possible to reconcile the Ten Commandments to the
hydrogen bomb? Yet that is what we are trying to do by clinging to the old rules of behavior in
a super-fast machine-atomic age and deploring any departure from them. But the solution is not to be found in a
more radical social and moral standard, as many are trying to show. That course leads only to corruption of the
race, degeneration and ultimate destruction. It is time that this generation began to take stock of itself to see just
what it wants and what it believes in. We need to abandon our inordinate worship of industry and what we
like to call progress, lest in gaining wealth and comfort we lose our souls. We need to stop playing up
the sensuous and seedy side of life as being mysterious and exciting and look at it in its proper relationship
with the other sides of life, lest our excesses lead to our own degeneration. This is the solution to juvenile
delinquency and to dogs our bewildered society.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1950

FUZZY FIZZES... By CHARLIE DAVIS

Why is information on the relative sums allotted at Davidson for the various kinds of scholarships and the various extra-curricular
activities “not available?”

What is the new Davidson College policy toward football? Is the administration willing to comment on it? Of the yearly
income of the Living Endowment Fund (normally thirty thousand, a goal this year of fifty thousand) at least one-third must
be earmarked for the Athletic Department. Is it true that football scholarships will be the keynote and chief object of
this year’s drive? Only seventy-five hundred dollars per year are used to buy new books and magazines for the library.
How much is spent in maintenance of athletic fields? What is the proportionate basis on which Davidson, presumably a liberal
arts college, formulates its budget? All these questions furnish food for thought. So do excerpts from an article in the
last “Christian Century” entitled “Colleges in a Moral Fog”:

“Football has led the American college deeper and deeper into a moral fog in which it is now lost. Claiming
competence to prepare its students for upright, intelligent living, the college is itself involved in such a tangle of moral
evasions, compromises and downright surrenders that it is jeered at by the sporting world at large and its ethical pretensions
are laughed at by its own undergraduates. The plight in which the college stands was brought pitilessly into the open
at the meeting of the National Collegiate Athletic Association last month. An effort made there to discipline seven schools for
admitted violations of the ‘sanity code’ adopted two years before broke down, largely because too many of the colleges in
the NCAA were not willing to punish the seven confessed sinners for doing what most of them were doing but
managing to cover up.

“Johns Hopkins seems to be about the only widely known college in the country which has shown courage enough to
deal with the issue which has thrown the NCAA for a loss. It has not followed the example of the
University of Chicago and Loyola of Chicago by dropping football altogether. But it has put its finger on the nub
of the problem, which is that honest amateur sport and competition for big financial returns cannot go hand in hand.
Johns Hopkins has extricated itself from any moral dilemma by one simple act. It has abolished all gate receipts and
guarantees for visiting teams. When Johns Hopkins teams visit other colleges to play, they pay their own travel expenses. When
other college teams visit Johns Hopkins, they do the same. Spectators at Johns Hopkins games enter free. Students who play
on Johns Hopkins teams—and from 68 to 90 percent participate in some form of athletics, the proportion varying with the
season—do so because they want to, and their sole reward is in the fun of playing and the physical development
it may bring. Incidentally, Johns Hopkins teams, competing against teams from colleges of approximately the same size which are willing
to forego money returns, win a fair percentage of their games. They have been doing this for fifteen years at
the Baltimore college, and as a result Johns Hopkins students, athletes as well as grinds, are students.

“Why is no one expecting the church colleges to undertake the task of moral rescue? The church colleges are always
talking about what a peculiar and vital contribution they have to make in applying the moral and ethical insights of
religion to the processes of higher education. How many hundred church-college presidents do you suppose have been inducted with an
inaugural address on “The Need for the Church College as a Source of Ethical Guidance to the Nation,” or something
very similar? Here is an ethical problem right in the church college’s lap; where is all that moral insight and
leadership? The church-related colleges have an association of their own, and many of the denominations have college associations. In the
aggregate, these must include a majority of all the colleges in the country, or at least a minority of such
size that its actions would have great weight. Why is nothing being heard on this issue from these church-college organizations?
Too often their vaunted moral insight just does not function in regard to themselves. (They have) no courage to stand
up to the victory demands of alumni or even of local business interests.

“We believe that there are, however, presidents of church-related colleges who are deeply disturbed over this whole business of athletic
overemphasis and hypocrisy. We believe that there are more of them than has been known, and that if they would
pool their concern, through their denominational or interdenominational associations, they could arrive at conclusions and proposals with which the entire
collegiate world would be forced to reckon. It is time for these presidents of church-related colleges to begin feeling each
other out to prepare the way to common action. ‘The sheer hypocrisy which exists in intercollegiate football,” says the New
York Times, “is monumental and almost beyond belief.” If that is true—and it is true for more than football—can the
church colleges go on acting as though it is no concern of theirs? Not, we believe, and maintain their reason
for being.”

College Rags In Brief... By WATT JEFFRIES

UNC’s “Daily Tar Heel” reports in a recent issue on Coach Crowell Little: It seems that on his last trip
with the N.C. team (N.C. to Dallas for the Cotton Bowl) Coach Little attended a party after the game which
was given by a wealthy oilman for the players. When an attractive female magician called for a married volunteer from
the audience, the dean “volunteered” for Little. He did so well that the lady commented “You'd make a pretty good
magician yourself.” One of the press members present cracked, “He'll have to be one next year to win at Davidson.”

From New York comes word on January 11 that college football coaches have voted to continue the use of the
platoon system. As a compensation measure for smaller schools, the rules were changed so that it is now legal to
substitute a player after each down. Formerly a team was penalized for making a substitution while the clock was running.

The Georgia Tech “Technique” reports that the Phi Kappa fraternity at the University of Pittsburgh recently won a legal case
in favor of “necking.” The dispute arose over parking in the back of the fraternity house, which is adjacent to
several private homes. One witness claimed he had not been able to sleep for two years because of the loud
talking and starting of cars. The court ruled that “necking” was legal if done quietly, and suggested that the Phi
Kappas cover the parking area with a hard surface.

Georgia Tech’s Glee Club made a tour of Germany during the Christmas holidays. They performed for U.S. Troops and visited
many places of historic and contemporary importance. One of the highlights of the trip was a visit to Stuttgart Tech,
which has been the recipient recently of clothing and equipment from Georgia Tech students. Stuttgart students played for a banquet
for the club, and among other songs, the glee club sang “I'm A Ramblin’ Reck from Stuttgart Tech,” and “To
Hell with Heidelberg.”

The University of N.C. football schedule for next year has been rearranged to include a game with Notre Dame at
South Bend. The Duke game has been made the last game in place of the traditional Virginia game which is
to be played earlier. William and Mary and L.S.U. do not appear on the schedule.
