FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1950 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

HELP LAY CORNERSTONE -OR BETTER TO 4 *» a a One Block From the Campus Where It All Started

The Community's Reaction Christian Ideals Brought To Life Through Gift Fund

By HENRY HANSEN

Last year most of us became aware of the fact that the town of Davidson consisted of more than Chambers, well-kept homes, and a business district with a patchy Victorian facade. Pouring out of the Presbyterian church in response to the fire alarm, the minister, Dr. Carl Pritchett, and the congregation discovered a fire in a little two-room house in Brady's Alley. But they also discovered a scene of such squalor, such filth, such a shocking kind of reality that Erskine Caldwell himself, able as he is at delineating such nauseous conditions, might have found it hard to portray accurately what the congregation and their minister found there that Sunday morning. They found eighty-seven people living in eleven houses. All were terribly crowded, some with as many as seventeen in three rooms. The house that burned was in an indescribably bad state of repair, tilting crazily; unpainted; ruinous brick chimney; cracks open to the wind; without water or toilet facilities; “insulated” with newspapers and cardboard; it and many of the other houses were such places as we wouldn't think of using for dog kennels. This was what they found. This was the other half of Davidson, the half which offered a biting rebuke to the prettier side, the side which was building a temple to God's glory whose spire would cast a shadow on something Jesus would never have tolerated for a moment; the half out of which we expect Christian piety to arise miraculously from an environment the wonder of which is that it has not produced more evil and depravity than it has.

Citizens React

Most of this we know already. Perhaps fewer of us are aware of what has been done to remedy these conditions. Much has been accomplished. Soon after the fire a committee of townspeople, acting in conjunction with the “Y” cabinet, pledged this year's Gift Fund to the work, pledged private funds for the purchase of government bonds which were to be additional security to the first mortgages held by the bank. Since that time ten houses have been built with these loan funds; two were built privately by Dr. George B. Watts of the Davidson College faculty, the rest by the housing committee. Changes in local ordinances have resulted in water and sewerage line extensions to which all the houses in Brady’s Alley are now connected, as well as other parts of the town which formerly had not such service. Definite progress has been made. However, that much remains to be done need hardly be said.

Gift Fund Only Part

But there is another fact which is not so evident. By whom was all this done? By the townspeople of Davidson acting both individually and as a body. The College as an institution has done nothing (with the exception of three houses purchased from Miss Hattie Thompson, two of which are being remodeled and the erection of one other house). Except that we have pledged our Gift Fund, the same may be said of the student body. This year’s Gift Fund drive will offer us the opportunity to extend the work which has been done here. It is more than probable that we will reach our goal for we have always been generous with our money. Occasionally, however, it is true that the giving of material means is one way of ignoring the deeper responsibility which should be ours. How many of us live in towns with Brady's Alleys? Most of us do. Therefore to subscribe five dollars is not all that we can or should do. It may be enough here in Davidson which is, after all, not our community. But what about those Brady's Alleys at home? To refuse to accept the responsibility at home is to make a mockery of part of the concept of Christianity, to make only nominal the application of the name, Christian, to ourselves. We have a duty at home which is not dissolved by participation in the Gift Fund drive here. Beyond this, what can the school do? That it could do a great deal more is evident. What the townspeople have done so far has not been alms giving. The whole project has been accomplished on a sound business basis. No money has been given outright and all that has been loaned will bear the usual interest.

Housing Facts...

The fire—February 17, 1950. Town meeting—February 24. Houses begun—May. Tenth house completed—November. Negro houses occupied in February—90. Negro houses owned in February—48. Houses now owned—58. Increase in home ownership—20 percent. Increase in housing—11 percent.

College Challenged

There is another little district nearby almost as bad as Brady’s Alley. Its name is Shearer Town. It sounds familiar. Shearer Hall bears the name of the same man. John B. Shearer was a president of this College. He built many of the houses in Shearer Town. Strange that a slum should bear the name of a president of Davidson. But no stranger than that Davidson College has largely ignored Brady's Alleys through the years. It would not be accurate to say that the College as an institution has done nothing. But Davidson College is a symbol both to its students and to many others unknown to us. Its symbolic significance as a Christian institution makes its responsibility even greater than would be the case were it not a church-related school. That it has largely ignored its duty here has resulted in more than a negation of Christian principles on an institutional basis. For disparity between what we preach and what we do as regards our Brady’s Alleys cannot but weaken the concept of Christianity itself both in the students and in those countless others whom we unknowingly influence. Thus the students must do more than give five dollars; the college must do more than it has done. The students have homes which have Brady's Alleys and while they exist we cannot rest until we have done our share in eradicating them. And the College, too, must act as well as speak in Christian ways, not only to help better a frightful condition but also to ensure that no one, student or outsider, looking at the College can say, “If that’s the Christian way, then I want none of it.”

Fund Drive Begins...

(Continued from Page One)

would not meet even “the most primitive of health standards.” A dangerous fire menace was illustrated at this meeting in that paper-lined flues, tinder-like walls, and waste-clotted yards if once ignited, could virtually raze Davidson's business section. These same conditions were found to have upped fire insurance rates on all adjacent establishments. Still another trouble spot is Shearer Town, a group of huts constructed by a one-time president of Davidson College. Here, as in Brady’s Alley, water is obtained from outside spigots which often freeze in winter. When such a freezing occurs, Shearer Town Negroes are forced to endure a 100-yard journey across railroad tracks and a state highway to the nearest water. Shearer Town is reputed to be the center of an intensive Negro crime wave. This community is located outside the political jurisdictions of both Davidson and Mecklenburg County.

Fire Brings Public Attention

Brought before the public’s eye in February, 1950, by a flash fire which gutted John Lowery's home, Brady's Alley was immediately acted upon by Dr. Carl Pritchett of Davidson College’s Presbyterian Church. He issued a call...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

for instant material aid to Lowery’s family and proceeded further to investigate the alley. Soon after this, Dr. Pritchert called a town meeting in order to plan for a solution to the existing housing and sanitation problem. Five men of varying experience in fields such as banking, electricity, plumbing, and the like were named to a citizen's housing committee. They were instructed to make a thorough study of this problem in order to draft a plan of immediate action. The men were F. W. Fredrickson, J. F. Pinckney, Thomas Sadler, J. V. Lore, William Withers, and J. F. Hartness.

Building Loan Plan Developed

A plan was then submitted wherein building loans could be arranged for those Negroes financially able to maintain extended payments. Land was purchased by the committee in Davidson's Mock Hill district and work began on new homes. Each home averaged a cost of $2700, of which 60 percent could be lent by the Piedmont Bank and Trust Company. A required 10 percent was furnished by the future homeowners themselves, and the “Y” Gift Fund will insure 20 percent in the form of government bonds. After the amount owed on these loans decreases to the value of the home itself, this Gift Fund money will be reverted to the YMCA for further use among Davidson's Negroes.

Ten four- and five-room homes have been erected in Davidson's Mock Hill district under the present housing plan. Two of these were built by Dr. Watts, a French professor at Davidson College, and have been sold by him. Featuring modern interior furnishings, they are complete with plumbing, lights, water, and heat. No more do their owners share the lament of a family still in Brady’s Alley who complained, “It looks like the white folks don’t care whether we live like pigs or not.”

Each of the new homeowners has been carefully screened as to his ability to meet the plan’s requirements. This was done to keep all arrangements on a business level without involving charity or outside assistance.

Our Eyes Have Been Shut, Writes Lingle

DR. W. L. LINGLE

Many of us had walked by that Alley every day, but we had never realized the conditions. You know some of us go through the world looking at everything and seeing nothing. Now don't go shaking your heads at the town of Davidson until you have looked at the living conditions in your own community. If you have eyes to see and hearts to feel, you will probably find similar conditions, or worse. I am reminded of a letter that I received forty years ago from the late Dr. A. J. McKelway in connection with a course in Christian sociology which I was to teach at Union Seminary in Richmond: “I might even hazard the suggestion that it would do more for the Kingdom for the young theologian to know something about the housing conditions of the Richmondites than to be intimately acquainted with the family life of the Hittites; the Richmondites being still alive, and the Hittites having been a long time dead.”

Brady's Alley Is Microcosm Of South's Housing Problem

By J. BRUCE FRYE

The students of Davidson College are becoming aware of the problem that exists in the town’s slum areas of Brady's Alley and Shearer Town, but it should be pointed out that these areas are not distinctive to Davidson. Every town and city in the South, and to an extent every community in the nation, has its “Brady's Alley” or “Shearer Town,” that exists, literally, under the noses of an apparently unconcerned body of citizens. To consider the Negro housing situation of the South in areas approximately the size of Davidson is the purpose of this article. (All statistics are used from the 1940 census.)

Davidson Typifies 20 Percent

Of the 9,904,619 Negroes in the South, 1,866,909 live in towns approximately the size of Davidson. To house these people there are 473,894 dwelling units, of which 65.9 percent are tenant-occupied. These dwelling units have a median number of rooms of 3.13, and the mean number of people living in each dwelling is 3.94. This is an average of a little better than one person to a room. The extreme crowded conditions that exist in Brady's Alley are not entirely consistent with these statistics, but in all statistics, there are extreme cases, and these certainly should be mentioned. Originally, one home on the Alley had thirteen people living in a three-room house. When the Lowry dwelling burned down, the four members of that family were forced to move into this house, increasing the number to seventeen. Incidents such as this are to be taken into consideration in the problem of overcrowding because they are bound to happen as long as these dwellings remain in their present state of disrepair. These dwellings are beyond the stage where repair would provide the inhabitants with a wholesome home life. The only solution is for new homes to be built.

In the matter of necessary utilities to be found in the home, 416,000 of the dwelling units of Southern Negroes living in areas comparable in size to Davidson have no running water or indoor toilet facilities. Consider the case of Shearer Town in this light; the nine houses are serviced by one outdoor spigot, and all the houses have outdoor privies.

Electricity is a Luxury

Of these dwelling units, only 104,000 are lighted by electricity. Consider the case of the Negro girl from Brady's Alley who received a record player from an out-of-town relative for Christmas two years ago and has been unable to operate it because there was no electrical wiring system in the house. It would cost $64 just to have the house wired. This amount is equivalent to over eight months' rent on the house. Of these units, 303,940 have no refrigeration, the lack of which is a source of disease. These are a few of the statistics that show the general conditions of Negro housing in the South as a whole, as projected in the light of the situation as it exists in Davidson.

The primary purpose of the YMCA Christmas Gift Fund is to improve the housing situation of the Negro in Davidson. Over and above that, Davidson hopes to pave the way for other towns and communities faced with similar conditions, and certainly there are many, to improve their lot. For this to be a success, every student must do his part, and in some instances more than his part. This should not be a problem for Christian students who should be willing to make self-sacrifices in order to help their fellow man in need.

Our Termite Thinking Menaces Democracy

Reprinted from the “Presbyterian Outlook,” March 27, 1950.

These findings from “Church and Community in the South” might well be considered alongside the Davidson story:

“Conditions of decay and overcrowding spell out the same sorry facts: high rates of disease, delinquency, and death for children and adults. Negroes, foreigners, and the poor generally get the worst of it as others get the best.

“Housing ties in concretely with much of the virtuous and vicious in our culture. It calls for the best that people of goodwill have to give in terms of reconstruction. This means reconstruction of thinking as well as action. We suffer greatly from a termite type of thinking and action that threatens the very foundations of democracy. From our point of view, these conditions combine to make a crude demonstration of Christian concern, or the lack of it, on the part of so-called respectable Christian citizens of our communities—until they get a shock which reveals to them that even on the level of self-interest and their own welfare, this sort of thing won't do.”

George Lowry's Home