FRIDAY, MAY 19, 1960

The Mecklenburg Declaration | Employment And Davidson College

THE DAVIDSONIAN
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

GORDON SCOTT
EDITOR IN CHIEF

JOHN LOFTIN
BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editors: Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Senior Editors: Bill Cumming, Dan McKeithen, Bill Hollister
Features Editor: Arnie Covell
Managing Editors: Pete Kalogridis, Tom Abel, Bill Adams, George McMurray, Ed Richardson, Shelley Beard
Sports Editor: Bill White
Photographs: Pete Ormsby
Art Editor: Jim Fickeisen
Proofreader: Charlie Baldwin
City Editor: Nat Daniel
Columnist: John Hobart

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager: Alex Goley
Advertising Manager: Manley McWilliams
Circulation Manager: Ansley Moses
Collections Manager: Jack Turner
Subscriptions Manager: Bill Hart

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897
PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY
Davidson, North Carolina

Retiring President Cobb

During the course of the past year much has been written about Whit Cobb the athlete, but to our knowledge
there has been little or nothing in print about Whit Cobb the Student Body President. In the eyes of countless
fans who watched him in athletic events during the past four years, he had few peers. In his role as
Student Body President at Davidson, Whit has done equally as well and we can't conceive of having a student leader
who could do a better job than Whit Cobb has done this year.

First and foremost, he has ably executed the duties which are connected with the office. The Student Council, under his
direction, has dealt fairly with all offenders who were brought before it. In addition, meaningless and outdated parts of the
Constitution have been deleted after the proposals in question were brought before the student body for a vote. No effort
was spared to keep the student body well informed as to the course of action the Council was taking.

Not only was he a good executive, but Whit possesses other characteristics which we believe made him the President he
was. On the platform he always had the necessary amount of dignity, but when the occasion called for it he
displayed a rare sense of humor that always went over in a big way with the students. Few will soon
forget the choice poems he read or his cheery salutations to the student body. Never outspoken either in chapel or
in the dormitories, Whit has been an outstanding counselor to all who have approached him, and his sincerity is unquestionable.

Whit Cobb has been good for Davidson. He has been a good advertisement for Davidson when visitors were on the
campus and student body. We believe that he represents everything that is good about Davidson and that he best exemplifies
what people far and wide call a “typical Davidson man.” Indeed we feel fortunate that we are privileged to be
at Davidson during what might be aptly called the Whit Cobb Era. To have known and associated with this man
during these years has been a pleasurable experience which will not soon fade from memory.

The Elections Board Proposal

After suffering through another seemingly interminable election period on the campus, we, along with the vast majority of students at
Davidson, are ready for a change in the election procedure. Nothing will be done about the situation this year, but
some definite action should be taken next year. What these changes should be, we quite frankly haven't yet decided; however,
we can't go along with the Election Board and endorse their proposals in full.

We will go along with them in their recommendations that any candidate wishing to run for an office can do
so by filing with the Chairman of the Board of Elections—that unsigned ballots should be used to ensure secrecy—that each
student would vote at a prescribed precinct desk—and that a minimum of two days would elapse between each run-off.

The biggest faults as we see it concern nominations in general and nominations of men for publications’ editorships in particular.
In a school the size of Davidson, it simply is unwise to nominate men for all the major offices on
one day and then vote for all of these men on the same ballot at a later date. The trouble,
as anyone can plainly see, lies in the fact that invariably the same man is up for two or three
different offices. A man who fails to be elected to one post should be allowed to run for another. Some
will argue that there is nothing wrong with having a man’s name appearing on the ballot for two or three
offices, but if such were the case, then it is entirely conceivable that a man might be elected to two
different major offices. So it would seem to us, that no matter what changes are made next year, nominations and
voting for each office must be carried on one at a time.

Another proposal which we strongly oppose is the recommendation concerning the nominations of publications’ editors. The proposal that all candidates
be screened by the Publication Board (to be composed of the editors and business managers of the publications) isn’t practical.
What do the editors and business managers of, say, the magazine and the annual know about the qualifications of candidates
for the editorship of the Davidsonian, and vice versa? In the past, it has been the policy of the publications
to nominate men from their staffs for the respective positions. This method has proved entirely satisfactory in years gone by,
and we see no reason why a change should be made now. However, we do favor extending the Publications Board
membership to include the editors and business managers of all three publications.

We are in favor of a change in the campus political policies as much as the next fellow, and we
won't let the issue die down next year; however, we feel that something more effective than the proposals put forward
by the Elections Board must be put into effect before the unsatisfactory present system is improved.

The participation of the Davidson College military organization and band in the May 20th celebration in Charlotte is not an
innovation as some think but a revival of a very old tradition. There was a time when the College closed
its classes and took a holiday for this local anniversary. Students and faculty alike journeyed to Charlotte, sometimes on a
special train, for the festivities.

May 20 vs. July 4

In the days before the War between the States, Davidson was much more closely identified with Mecklenburg County than is
the cosmopolitan institution of today. There were students who had heard their grandfathers give first-hand accounts of the movement for
Independence in Mecklenburg in 1775. Few Davidson men were unfamiliar with the history of May 20th and the controversy concerning
it. As the Civil War approached, sectional feeling developed to such an extent that many considered it a matter of
patriotism to celebrate May 20th in preference to July 4, overlooking the fact that the earliest local declaration and the
national declaration a year later contained no point of conflict.

Faculty Grants Holiday

An example of this state of mind is found in the faculty minutes for July 2, 1860. Professor Rockwell objected
to giving a holiday on July 4th (the College then ran through the summer) on the grounds that May 20th
had already been celebrated and two holidays were not customary. Up to 1858, it appears from the faculty minutes that
students must make a request for a holiday on May 20th before it was granted. But on November 15, 1858,
the faculty resolved “that there be a junior exhibition on the 20th of May hereafter as a regular custom, the
exercises to consist of original speeches and declamations, which will be distributed according to scholarship as determined by the preceding
semi-annual examination in February, original speeches being assigned to those whose standing is 95 or above, the declamation to those
between 95 and 92.”

The Great Centennial

The greatest celebration of May 20th was the Centennial in 1875. In April of that year, the faculty resolved that
a holiday be granted and that students be permitted to assist in the Centennial Celebration. The two literary societies, the
Eumenean and the Philanthropic, even debated making a financial contribution to the Charlotte committee on details but concluded (this being
Reconstruction depression) that the state of their exchequers did not admit of it.

Too Much Celebration

The members of both Societies did, however, participate wholeheartedly in the revelry. It was said that 40,000 people visited Charlotte,
then a village of 6,000 and for several days before and after the 20th the city was given over to
parades, balls, orations and games. The minutes of the Eumenean Society note of its program on May 21st (the day
after the big event) that the brothers’ “speeches showed the result of too great interest in the centennial.”

Ubi Orta Libertas

The last phrase of Davidson’s famous Ney motto refers directly to the Mecklenburg Declaration. “Let learning be cherished,” Peter S.
advised, “Where liberty has arisen.” Few then had any doubt that liberty and independence had arisen in the town of
Charlotte, county of Mecklenburg on May 20th, 1775. And fewer still raised any objections to taking the day off to
celebrate.

“BIKO”
By KURT BIEDENKOPF

Towards the end of a fiscal year the businessman will begin to add up the totals of the costs and
the profits of his enterprise and determine whether for him the past year has been a profitable one. If so,
he will start drawing up a plan for the next year, based on his past experience and with the objective
to improve his work. Not only the businessman does this. In every man’s life there is something like a fiscal
year, a period at the end of which he stops and looks back on the past, adding up the positive
and negative and making plans for the future.

As I now, shortly before the end of this year, begin to look back upon my own experiences in order
to add up the costs and profits I find that there have been no costs and that this time has
been profitable only. Innumerable chances have been offered to me to broaden my outlook on life in general and on
American life in particular and I have more or less tried to use them. All my fraternity brothers, who have
been wonderful hosts and many other friends have tried to make my year in America as profitable and as pleasant
for me as possible. And the school through many of its faculty members has given to me many new thoughts
and valuable ideas so that I may use them in the future. I have had many chances to see other
parts of this country and have learned to love it. The column of my profits is indeed a long one.
On the other hand, I have tried, more or less efficiently, to explain to you our way of life and
give to you a brief picture of our thoughts, only to find that they do not differ very much from
yours.When now, at the end of my experience, someone would ask me to summarize in a few words my impressions
of this country, then I think I would say that the American people are among the friendliest and most tolerant
in the world. They are very idealistic and willing to stand for their ideals, no matter what comes. In comparing
America and Europe, I would say that the first seems to me like a young idealistic man, who, strong, impulsive,
and very self-assured, is entering life, edging on many corners but nevertheless following his set path, while Europe seems like
an older gentleman, who oftentimes sticks to the past, very conservative and sometimes disgusted with this young man, who is
about to take the leading role in this world away from him. May America, when growing older and wiser, still
never lose this vigor and idealism of youth, which essentially is positive and constructive. I shall take this year in
America as a long-term loan, given to me by you (the influence of Prof. C. K. Brown's economics course in
this article is obvious indeed) and I shall do my best to pay it back in the future. I hope
that sometimes I shall be able to use all I learned here in helping to build a better world, where
peace and understanding will be dominant. For now, I can only thank every one of you, and I do this
with all my heart.

Letter to the Editor
8 May, 1950

Editor
The Davidsonian:

There has recently been a lot of controversy over the present election system. It seems to me that this is
due to the fact that a good number of the student body does not know the candidates. Campaigns are designed
to introduce the candidate to the voters. Jack Hazard mentioned mud-slinging and bad feelings as a result of campaigns. I
do not feel that there is any need to sling mud. I suggest that candidates for elections should be allowed
to prepare speeches to be presented in Chapel. The speeches should contain the qualifications of the candidate and what he
expects to do in office, and anything else he wants to throw in. If he does not want to deliver
a speech, let him print it in The Davidsonian or some other campus publication created for that purpose. I see
no reason why the candidate cannot be his own party. After he has made his speech, then let him remain
quiet and await the election returns. In this fashion, voters would know for what and for whom they were voting.
I do not see where campaigns of this sort would leave room for mud-slinging.

Sincerely,
Sam C. Cumming, Jr.

Opportunities For Business Majors

The largest single career field open to college graduates is in the management and operation of business firms according to
a study by the U. S. Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics. The number of graduates from university business
courses has risen very rapidly in the past 30 years. In 1920, 1,500 students were granted bachelor’s and first professional
degrees in business administration and commerce. By 1940, there were 19,000 graduates. During the war, enrollment and graduations fell substantially,
but after the war, the tremendous flow of veterans into business courses was reflected in the record figures of 38,000
graduates in 1948, and more than 60,000 in 1949. Even more will graduate this June. The great rise in training
in business has made collegiate business education the second largest field after teacher training, placing it ahead of engineering, agriculture,
law, and medicine.

What are the employment prospects for these graduates? Several factors affect the long-range employment outlook for students in this field:
the growth of business administration employment, heavy replacement needs expected over the coming years, and increasing use of business administration
graduates to fill these jobs. It is likely that total business employment will continue to grow over the long run,
causing a moderate increase in the number of executive jobs. There also will be a continuation of the trend toward
greater specialization and increased complexity in business. This has led to the wider use of such specialized workers as accountants,
personnel workers, market research analysts, and sales executives. However, a large part of this development has already taken place and
it is not likely that it will have as much effect in creating openings for managerial workers as in the
past.

Although the demands for graduates of collegiate business courses are expected to increase in future years, there will continue to
be severe competition for the better jobs which lead to executive positions. In 1947 and 1948, there was a strong
demand for business graduates by business firms making up their wartime deficit of administrative and professional trainees. In 1949, a
decline in business activity caused many companies to curtail their recruitment programs. As a result, there was keen competition for
available jobs among the record crop of more than 60,000 business graduates, and many were not immediately able to find
jobs which matched their qualifications. It is too soon to tell definitely whether this situation means that the number trained
has only temporarily outrun the long-run demand and immediate replacement needs, or whether business cannot normally absorb this many graduates
in executive trainee jobs or in beginning jobs in specialized fields such as accounting and advertising.

The main source of new job opportunities for graduates of business schools will be in the replacement of executives now
employed as they die or retire from business. New graduates will not, of course, obtain top jobs, but the dropping
out of those holding responsible jobs results in promotions within the organizations and vacancies in beginning jobs. A large proportion
of the executives in the higher-ranking administrative and technical jobs in industry are in the upper-age brackets where many leave
each year because of death or retirement. This means that a higher percentage than usual must be replaced during the
next 10 to 15 years. Many companies are seriously concerned about this problem. Will graduates of university business courses be
hired for executive positions in preference to those without degrees, other qualifications being equal? Present indications are that a growing
proportion of both top-level jobs and specialized operating jobs will go to these business graduates. Educational requirements for business executive
positions are being increased, in line with the trend toward higher educational requirements in many other fields of employment. Eventually,
college graduation may be required for most jobs at the administrative level. Not all of these jobs will go to
graduates of business courses, however, since engineers, lawyers, and other professional workers will be competing strongly in many industrial fields.

The Last Event

By HENRY E. HANSEN

On Saturday evening, June 5, 1950, at 8:15 will be presented the last important musical event of the entire year.
While it has been the custom to have music at commencement before this, this particular concert will be on a
scale of importance and present a soloist of such distinction as to make it unusual in the light of other
such events in the past. Though unusual in comparison, it cannot be said that it will in any sense be
unusual in relation to the events of this particular year. Music and its appreciation have this year shown a spectacular
sort of mushroom growth. Mr. Pfohl has added much to the scope of his activities which directly or indirectly has
made the influence of Davidson as a liberal arts college felt in an increasingly wider area. His assumption of the
conductorship of the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra and his augmented activities here and elsewhere have given direct benefit to the student
body and to many others in surrounding areas. Phi Mu Alpha has been increasingly active this year and, if plans
now in formulation turn out successfully, will play a role of increased significance musically in the future. Nor has the
student body been quiescent in the receipt of these richer musical offerings. Proof of the growing interest taken by students
in music is the fact that the enrollment in the music appreciation course which has been so rewarding has increased
to the extent that next year it will be impossible for one professor to handle the entire number of those
who wish to take this course. In these and a hundred other smaller but no less important ways, Davidson is
growing, maturing, and benefitting both its own name and its students in the area of music and its appreciation, one
so vital to a liberal arts college. The better future predicted by a good past is certainly becoming an actuality
musically.

Thus it will be a fitting climax that Mr. Robert Merrill, Baritone, and the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra under Mr. Pfohl’s
baton will both be presented here in concert to the graduating students, their friends and parents, and, it is hoped,
any others who may find this a most attractive time to return to the campus and renew contact with its
life. The concert will be held, with the cooperation of our recalcitrant weather, in front of Chambers. And even if
it rains, which for the graduation of the class of '50 it surely will not do, the concert will be
one of great excellence; and it will provide the climax to a year of superlative musical activity, a year unequaled
in the past and indicative of things to come. Mr. Merrill, a singer whose name needs no gilding, will present,
in conjunction with the Charlotte Symphony, an excellent program. The program, barring last-minute changes always in the offing, will consist
of the following:

Suite from the “Water Music”
Handel

Excerpt from “Don Giovanni”
Mozart
Deh Vieni Alla Finestra

Excerpt from “Heriodiade”
Massanet
Vision Fugitive

Excerpt from “Barber of Seville”
Rossini
Largo al Factotum

INTERMISSION

On the Beautiful Blue Danube
Strauss

Stout Hearted Men
Romberg

Through the Years
Youmans

I Got Plenty of Nothin’
Gershwin

Nobody Knows the Trouble I Seen
Burleigh

Glory Road
Wolfe

Excerpts from “Die Meistersinger”
Wagner
Prelude to Act III
Dance of the Apprentices, Act III
Entrance of the Mastersingers and Finale, Act III.

In addition to the program above, there will, of course, be a number of encores by both Mr. Merrill and
the orchestra.

VISIT THE
Charlotte Waffle Shop
“ACROSS FROM THE BURNING CORNER”
ON WEST TRADE STREET

Here, in the Textile Department of North Carolina State College, there is always a friendly crowd of students. And, as
in colleges everywhere, ice-cold Coca-Cola helps make these get-togethers something to remember. With the college crowd at North Carolina State
as with every crowd — Coke belongs. Ask for it either way ... both trade-marks mean the same thing.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.
CONCORD, N. C.
© 1950, The Coca-Cola Company
