PAGE THREE

New Church To Have Everything: Chimes, Lounge, and Kitchen Sink

The Davidson student body this year is seeing the fulfillment of a dream which has long been on the minds and in the hearts of all those connected with our college—the construction of a new church, the nucleus of the religious life on the campus. Since it is of particular interest to the student body, the Davidsonian has gathered news of general interest about the church, so that each student may be informed as to the progress of the structure which will serve as the campus place of worship.

The $700,000 building was designed by Thomas and Wagoner of Philadelphia, nationally known architects who specialize in the planning of churches. The contractors are Thompson and Street of Charlotte, who have also built, throughout the past years, the library, the science building, and the gymnasium, all of which are familiar sights to the Davidson student.

Construction of the edifice, begun last summer, is proceeding according to schedule. Almost all the steel is on the grounds, and the limestone, being shipped by truck from Indiana, is expected to arrive on time. It is hoped that the church will be completed by next summer.

The church sanctuary, which will face north toward Shearer Hall, will seat about 1150 people. It will include the chancel, which will seat a choir of 50 persons, with the pulpit to one side of this chancel, and a lectern, from which the Scripture will be read, on the other. In the tower of the church will be electronic chimes, which will be played manually from the organ now under construction in Buffalo, N. Y., or from the clock which will be located in the tower.

The chapel, with a planned seating capacity of about 200 persons, will be located across from the College Pharmacy, facing Main Street, and is designed for many uses where smaller groups will assemble. On the Southeast corner will be a large student lounge, also planned with seating space for 200 persons, which may be used as a lounge throughout the week. On the ground floor will be located a fully equipped kitchen, a combination recreation-dining room, and the scout rooms. There will be full space arrangements for all departments of the Sunday School, for the Pastor’s Study, and for the Church office.

“It is hoped," stated Dr. Cunningham recently, “that one of the regular morning chapel services, as well as the Vesper Service, to be held on Sunday evenings as usual, may be held in the Church Sanctuary. This will be our mid-week inspirational service.”

A Marriage Course Helps Your Chance

Chapel Hill, N. C.—(IP)—There are fewer divorces among couples who took courses in marriage and family problems while in college than among graduates who did not take such courses, surveys made so far reveal, according to Dr. Reuben Hill, who teaches such courses at the University of North Carolina.

Dr. Hill, who is professor of sociology and research professor in the University’s Institute for Research in Social Science, cited recently the results of a survey made by Stephens College in Missouri and the marital experiences of his own students. There are now between 600 and 700 colleges and universities giving courses in marriage and family problems, Dr. Hill said. The courses have changed a great deal in the last 25 years and they are definitely accepted in most institutions now as an essential part of the curriculum, he said.

Before coming here last fall, Dr. Hill taught marriage and the family and allied courses in the Universities of Wisconsin and South Dakota, Iowa State College, and Teachers College, Columbia University. He directs the University’s graduate training program for students of the family pioneered here by the late Dr. E. R. Groves, who inaugurated such courses at Boston University in 1924 and here in 1928.

The courses have changed a great deal in the last 25 years and they are definitely accepted in most institutions now as an essential part of the curriculum, Dr. Hill said. “The first instructors in such courses labored under many difficulties, for the subject was surrounded by a hush-hush atmosphere,” he said. “Discussion of family problems in college was regarded as a sort of sacred cow. It was not long, however, before such courses gained popularity. During one three-year period more than 100 colleges and universities established courses in marriage and the family.”

Athletic Contests and Pep Rallies

Is Directed by Monty Hill and his Spirited Squad

To seven men goes the credit for developing one of the most spirited student bodies in the South. These men are the Davidson College cheerleaders. Theirs is the spirit and guidance that has brought life to our campus. There are few students who do not realize that the cheerleader is the driving force behind school spirit, but most of them are unaware of the work necessary for the development of a good cheerleader. To put the vim and pep into a group is not as easy a task as it may seem, for not only does a cheerleader have to have good verbal qualities but also good physical coordination. Activities on the campus are another important asset that tend to make an even better cheerleader for he then comes in closer contact with the group that he leads.

Tate-Brown Plans Annual Fall Show

The students, faculty, and the general public are cordially invited to attend a showing of Tate-Brown’s 3rd Floor Clothing and Furnishings for men Wednesday, October 11, 1950, from 9 a.m. until 8 p.m. in the Scofield Building. Mr. Lake Byers and Mr. Dale Robertson of Tate-Brown's 3rd floor for men will show the newest styles and fabrics in shirts, socks, ties, sports shirts, underwear, slacks, jackets, belts, sweaters, suits, topcoats, and sports coats. Such nationally advertised lines of men’s wear to be shown are Varsity-Town suits, sports coats, slacks and topcoats, Manhattan shirts and ties, and McGregor Sportswear.

Orders will be accepted on merchandise for immediate delivery on charge (when charge account has been established), cash, C. O. D., or lay-away basis. Don’t forget the time or place! See the swell collection of style merchandise to include a complete colorful display of Tartan plaids.

Tate-Brown will sponsor a SHOWING of CLOTHING and FURNISHING for MEN from their 3rd FLOOR on WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11th, 9 a.m. till 8 p.m. in the SCOFIELDBUILDING, (Mr. Byers, manager of the Town and Campus Shop, will be assisted by Manly McWilliams and Dale Robertson. The showing will consist of nationally advertised merchandise to accent the Varsity-Town. This year Davidson has a wonderful group of boys who have every quality of a good cheerleader. The head cheerleader, Monty Hill, is a senior from Greensboro, N.C. Several of the cheerleaders are in their first year, and Monty deserves a lot of credit for the development of such an excellent cheerleading staff. Monty is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon and represents this fraternity on the Pan-Hellenic Council. He is a veteran member of the golf team, a member of the “D” Club, and last year was vice-president of the Beaver Club. 

A boy in his fourth year of leading yells is Bill Cassels, a senior from Columbia, S.C. Bill is president of Pi Kappa Phi and Editor of the Quips and Cranks. A senior from Pulaski, Va., Tommy Haller is another booster of our Davidson spirit. Tommy is a member of Phi Gamma Delta and represents them on the Pan-Hellenic Council. He is co-captain of the basketball team, and a member of the track team, the “Y” Cabinet, the “D” Club, and Sigma Delta Psi. Another senior is Al Cooke from Decatur, Ga. Al is a member of Phi Delta Theta, a member of Sigma Delta Psi, and plays varsity basketball. 

A junior member of the group is Bruce Ballenger from Charlotte, N.C. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, the track team, and Sigma Delta Psi. Another junior is Eric Clark from Elizabethtown, N.C. He is a member of Kappa Sigma and is vice-president of the Junior Class. Rounding out the cheerleading squad is Jinks Jervey, a sophomore from Greenville, S.C. Jinks is a member of Pi Kappa Phi.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1950

Wax Scratching
By BOB WHELESS

After reading my column last week, some of my readers (both of them) dropped by my room to ask about a vocalist named Sarah Vaughan. I had stated that she would be one of the stars whose new recordings would be reviewed this week, and these characters had the gall to ask who she is. For the information of anyone else who might still be living in the dark ages, Sarah is one of the greatest vocalists in the business. She does for a song what Jane Russell does for a sweater. If you want to see what I mean, listen to her waxing of “As You Desire Me,” or one of the numbers she has made with Billy Eckstine, or better still, one of her more recent recordings for Columbia, “I Love The Guy.” Several companies have cut that last tune, but none measure up to Sarah's version. Next time you're in a record shop, remember to listen to “I Love The Guy”—You'll like it.

Nat King Cole can add “Orange Colored Sky” to his long list of hits. It’s definitely headed for one of the top spots on the hit parade, and the way it’s going, it won't be long in getting there. Nat cut this one with Stan Kenton, and when his smooth 88ing is combined with a few whoops and shouts from the Kenton aggregation along with Kenton’s blaring brass section, the finished product is strictly top-quality wax. The flip side, a little thing called “Jambo,” isn’t anything to get excited about, but the “A” side makes this a worthy addition to any collection. Before we leave Nat, some mention of another of his new releases should be made. This one is called “Home” and unlike “Orange Colored Sky,” it is the slowly dreamy type etching which he does so well. Although it’s a retread from quite a few years back, that King Cole styling gives it enough lift to carry it a long way. Give it a listen.

Decca has a new star in Don Cherry who cut a tune labeled “Thinking of You.” You've probably heard it quite a few times over the radio, and from all indications, it’s just starting. This Cherry fellow has quite a voice and unless I miss my guess, you'll be hearing quite a bit about him from now on. George Shearing, the blind English pianist who came over to this country last year, has made a new recording of an oldie for the M-G-M Label called “When Your Lover Has Gone.” It is done in the same smooth, rhythmic boy styling that has made him one of the leading bop artists in the nation. Even if you don't like most bop, my guess is that you will like it as played by Shearing.

One of the leading tunes of the day in the soft, smooth, and sentimental field is Paul Weston’s “Nevertheless.” It’s so great that I'll go out on a limb and say that in a month's time it will be holding down the number one spot on the record hit parade. Paul never fails to turn out ear-appealing music and this is definitely Weston at his best in choral work as well as orchestration.

In searching for the right words to describe “I'll Never Be Free” by Kay Starr and Tennessee Ernie, I find my vocabulary extremely inadequate. It’s getting to be very popular, and there’s no doubt but that Kay is a fine singer, but still what to say about the record? It isn’t pretty, and the lyrics aren’t cute or tricky, but still there’s something about it that keeps you from flipping the dial when it’s played. I'll just say that it's different and let it go at that. You listen and see what you think.

Patti Page’s “All My Love” isn’t moving quite as rapidly as was expected when it was first released. It can't be denied that she does a rather nice bit of vocal work on it, but actually it isn’t anything to stand up and shout about. Mindy Carson's “The Touch Of Your Lips” is in about the same boat and if anything a little worse off—it has the same old June-Moon idea, and just can’t get started. Decca’s new etching of “T. D.’s Boogie Woogie” has proved to be a shot in the arm to the Dorsey aggregation. This is not a re-release of the old arrangement, but a swell revamping job which may in time become more popular than the old version which was at its height back in ‘43.

Honorary Frat Schedule
First and Third Weeks

MONDAY
7:15 Phi Mu Alpha
8:15 Photo Club
9:15 Beaver Club

TUESDAY
Eumanean Society
Delta Phi Alpha
Sigma Upsilon

WEDNESDAY
Sigma Pi
Masquers (1st only)

THURSDAY
Epsilon Delta Social
Philanthropic Council
Red and Black
Sigma Delta Psi

Second and Fourth Weeks

MONDAY
Fraternities
Gamma Sigma Epsilon
“Y” Club
Le Cercle Francais

TUESDAY
Scabbard and Blade
YMCA Cabinet (4th only)

WEDNESDAY
Forensic Council