PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF
GORDON SCOTT

BUSINESS MANAGER
JOHN LOFTIN

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editors .......... Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Features Editor .......... Shelley Beard
Managing Editors .......... Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George McMurray, Ed Richardson
Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Photographer—Raymond Lynch
Proofreader—Dick Roper
City Editor—Nat Daniel
Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen
Sports Editor—Bill White

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager .......... Ansley Moses
Collections Manager .......... Jack Turner
Subscriptions Manager .......... Bill Hart
Faculty Advisor

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY
Davidson, North Carolina

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C. under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Better Chapel Programs

Once each year—at least during the last three years—readers of the Davidsonian have been able to “look forward” to at least one editorial and numerous letters on the subject of chapel conduct. None of these appeals has seemed to help in the least, so we will attempt a different approach, that of absolving the student from part of the responsibility and placing the blame on the quality and types of programs that have been presented and the planners behind them.

Recently a member of the faculty stated, “Historically, chapel programs today are the best that they have ever been,” to which probably 95 percent of the student body will immediately say, “pity the poor fellows in years gone by.” There is no denying the fact that chapel programs have fallen woefully short of their avowed purpose to provide inspiration, entertainment, and instruction to the student body. The wisdom of having a daily, compulsory chapel program is not questioned here for it has seemed well to the powers-that-be through the years to have them, but there is no questioning the fact that better programs are needed particularly since students have to attend regardless of what is on the agenda.

Ideally, the present system should work. The faculty has one day, the Y.M.C.A. has one day, the Administration has one day, and there are two days for student programs. Groups as varied as these should be able on their assigned days to present a program that would command the interest and attention of the student body.

Consider, first, faculty day which comes every Monday. No sane person envies the task of a faculty member when he is called upon to make a speech in chapel. The majority of the faculty is apprehensive about standing before the Davidson student body because they perhaps have witnessed the reception that a fellow colleague may have gotten on a previous Monday; however, no faculty member need be afraid of the student response if he has anything worthwhile and interesting to say. What more needs to be said?

Programs on student days can definitely be improved. It is on these two days that there is the best opportunity for variety. Programs on the other three days will be largely taken up by speakers of one kind or another, but on the days set aside for students, the program should be keynoted by music, comedy acts, etc. The Beethoven trio in chapel last Tuesday was certainly a step in this direction. Pep meetings, Court of Control meetings, and the like often consume the time on some student days; but on the “off” days more effort should be made to provide good entertainment.

The Y.M.C.A. has the hardest job in attempting to present an appealing devotional program each week. It is difficult to get a voluntary worshipful attitude out of a student who is required to go to chapel. Keeping this in mind, the Y.M.C.A. chapel committee might consider the advisability of not attempting to have a long devotional program which comes in the middle of a busy morning. Past experience has proved beyond the shadow of a doubt that except on special occasions such as Easter and Christmas, these programs have generally failed to achieve their purpose. It would be fortunate if such were not the case, but it seems that existing conditions are simply not conducive to the success of such programs. A short devotional program followed by some “Y” sponsored entertainment would perhaps be of greater value.

On the remaining day for chapel, the Administration carries the burden. This is the most difficult of all to discuss for obvious reasons, but nevertheless changes for the better can be made on this day as on the others. Some outstanding figures in church work have been on the campus to speak to the student body on Wednesday mornings, but why restrict these speakers to this field? Every Sunday night at vespers, Davidson students hear the best that Protestantism can offer and that should be enough for one week. During the week speeches by corporation executives, lawyers, statesmen, educators, doctors, etc., should prove to be interesting and informative.

The job of improving chapel programs is a tremendous one. It will take hard work and planning by all of the parties who are responsible for staging them, but if this is done student interest in chapel will be enlivened and the general chapel conduct can do nothing but improve.

Howe Green — THE —

Freshman Farce
By ARCHIBALD HAMENHASH

In view of the glorious triumph of the men of might of the Davidson College football machine over VMI last weekend, I think it might be interesting to turn back the calendar to that inspiring Saturday and view the game with our freshman wonder, Howe Greene, who sits watching bug-eyed at the Davidson powerhouse roll unchecked down the field.

And there goes A. C. Gregg running back the kickoff through the entire VMI team for a touchdown! You have never seen such power. Thrilled, Howe turns to his friend Joe Stoop and exults: “Look, Joe, a score already. I bet Davidson’s got the best team she’s ever had. Why we'll probably take the Southern Conference title. And Wood Leach just kicked the extra point.”

A moment later Davidson kicks off to VMI and the sight of that 220-pound line roaring down on the ball receiver is so frightening that he drops down to the ground before he can be touched. For the remainder of the quarter a bitter see-saw battle rages between the VMI goal and their own twenty-yard line, with C. L. Runyan slipping through for another long seven points—the score, 14-0.

VMI has control of the ball on its two-yard line as the second quarter opens. For three downs they fail to advance the ball, and as the punter drops behind the goal to kick on fourth down, he is completely swarmed under by the entire Davidson line for a touchback. Score, 16-0. Exactly three minutes and twelve seconds later Davidson completes a march down the field in seven plays and scores again. Score, 23-0. What a confused VMI team! The first half ends, to the relief of the unfortunate VMI fans, just as Davidson is about to score again.

“Howe, what did you think of that first half?” asked Joe.

“Boy, that was beautiful. I've never seen such precision blocking and tackling. And that defense line was like a stone wall. Hey, look, the band’s out there singing again. They’re going to put the male chorus out of business if this keeps up.”

The stadium was darkened except for lights on the “chorus” feet, but the entire effect was ruined by some men in the back of the stands who insisted on keeping a light on so they could talk.

The second half is a repetition (Continued On Page Three)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE POLL CAT
By SLAYDON MYERS

Do you think that intramural football here at Davidson is too rough to be continued without some changes?
Yes—66 percent
No—34 percent

Do you think intramural football should be abolished, played under some new rules, or left unchanged?
Abolished 6 percent
Unchanged 17 percent
New Rules 77 percent

Do you think that the present system of officiating is an adequate one?
Yes—47 percent
No—53 percent

The two piano concert presented by Pierre Luboshutz and Genia Nemenoff was an interesting one. The program opened with Sicilienne by J. S. Bach. The performance of this selection was to me the most satisfying of any of the numbers played with the exception of the encore presented just before intermission. It was not only technically perfect, but its interpretation was excellent. It was characterized by simplicity and warmth and the total tonal fabric was not overlush, a characteristic which often shows itself in two piano arrangements.

The Sonata in D Major by Mozart was extremely well done. The first movement, allegro con spirito, fairly sparkled so crisp and clean was the playing. The andante was no less distinguished both in technique and in interpretation. The final movement, allegro molto, was not as well done as the two preceding ones. Here the playing was at times muddy. On the whole, however, it was well played and again, the arrangement was faithful to the original.

The Variations on a theme by Haydn of Johannes Brahms should have been the most satisfying work on the program. That it fell far short of this expectation is due, I think, to two factors. First of all, though Brahms himself wrote the music, the piece, as played, is not an arrangement for the two piano medium and it suffers greatly by contrast with the orchestral version. Brahms, a master in both pianistic and orchestral composition, has marshalled every resource which is available to two pianos, but it is not enough. The magic of Brahms’ orchestral fabric is lacking in the piano version. The mellow

THE EDITOR’S MAILBOX

Editor, The Davidsonian

As Editor of the Scripts 'N Pranks I wish to thank Tom Mann for his well-written and constructive editorial concerning the magazine which appeared in The Davidsonian last week. He recognized the two-fold function of the magazine implicit in its title, Scripts, the serious side, and Pranks, the humorous. His suggestion was that the magazine limit itself to straight humor and let the literary people expressThemselves in a literary review sponsored by the three literary societies. This is a very logical proposal, but as I see it, there are three basic objections to such a plan:

1) The quality of the magazine would suffer. The literary review would not be read.
2) The cost of a separate literary review would be prohibitive.

Let us look more closely at each.

Quality. Other colleges have tried a split of their magazine into literary and humor components with disappointing results. Some of the so-called college humor that crosses my desk from exchange can be classed only with the Sears Roebuck catalogue and Northern Tissue. Even in this Temple of Heaven we are only too likely to descend to the level of substituting beer and sex for real humor, and vicarious expression for the frustrated kid for genuine comedy. Having a balance between the serious and the humorous tends to encourage good writing throughout. Humor without crutches can be fine literature.

Reading. A literary review is the sort of thing that students would put on the shelf, “I'll read that sometime—some other time.” To take the worthwhile writing of Davidson and consign it to oblivion between the sanitary covers of a review is to thwart the purpose of publishing it at all. The same writing, sandwiched in between jokes and cartoons, has a much better chance of being read.

Cost. For one issue of the literary review, around six hundred cold fish, for two issues, twelve hundred. Where can you get it? From the literary societies?—laugh on the count of two. From the college? Try it.

I believe that providing a medium of expression for the writers on the campus is just as important as giving the students light entertainment. Since it is not practical to start a separate literary publication, it would seem that the best course for the Scripts 'N Pranks is to continue to serve its two-fold purpose, to muse and amuse, a hybrid, but high bred.

—Dave Hamilton

DAVIDSONIAN’S PLATFORM FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

1. To abolish the double-cut system.
2. To change the existing system of giving cuts.
3. To make Physical Training non-compulsory for all seniors regardless of their age.
4. To improve the telephone arrangements in the dormitories and the college at large.
5. To change the system of student body elections.
6. To have more varied and interesting chapel programs and speakers.
7. To give praise where praise is due.
8. To criticize when it is felt that criticism will improve a situation.
9. To advocate Sunday night visitations to faculty homes.
10. To urge the clarification of student regulations to the student body.

Music with Hansen
By HENRY E. HANSEN

The limpid flute, the biting strings, the crash of full orchestra are absent. If one is familiar with the orchestral version, these are heard by implication, memory supplying what the ears do not. Nevertheless, what is heard is but a shadow of the orchestra. The two piano version is a facile, skilled imitation of the orchestral and nothing more. That this is so points up the fact that two pianos or even four can seldom do justice to works written for performance in some other medium. Works composed for some single instrument usually come off worst through overinflation, but even the orchestra suffers when expressed by the piano. The two piano medium has little literature of its own but it should stick to what it has. When an arrangement is compared with the original, it invariably suffers for such arrangements are at best bastard works of art.

The second reason why the Brahms provided less satisfaction than expected was the interpretation itself. When one compares the way in which it was played at the concert with the way in which, say Toscanini, plays the same music, there is lacking an essential spark, a warmth. Many of the implications of the music are left unexpressed and on the whole, their interpretation left much to be desired.

The pre-intermission encore, a suite by Milhaud, was beautifully performed. It had vigor, fire and great feeling and this, in conjunction with the able playing of the music made it the most satisfying work of the evening.

The Suite Champetre by Rieti was distinguished by excellent technique. The work itself is largely one of those doses of sophisticated cacophony so characteristic of some modern composers. The second movement, Andante molto moderato, had more actual content, originality and character, than the two other movements. It reminded one greatly of the Franck D Minor symphony.

The last selection, The Rat, a fantasy of themes from “Fledermaus,” while entirely appropriate to light opera is, on the concert stage, an interesting bit of high class schmalz. The arrangement was excellent, the technique never better, interpretation good but, I could not help but feel that, though the Metropolitan is doing the opera for the first time this year, this fact is hardly sufficient for arranging, much less playing such a selection.

Three encores were given. One deserves mention for (Continued On Page Three)

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1960

THE WORLD LAST WEEK

1) The U.N. General Assembly voted 38-10 to resume diplomatic relations with the government of Spain.
2) In view of suspected graft at the port of Piraeus, the Greek cabinet has resigned.
3) E. Roland Harriman is the new president of the American Red Cross.
4) Peiping has asked India to withdraw her troops from Tibet, where the Red advance continues.
5) After regrouping on both sides, the opposing forces in North Korea are again hammering at each others’ lines.
6) Secretary Acheson's suggestion that the General Assembly have the right to ask its members for armed forces to prevent aggression was passed 52-5.
7) Chinese Communists have pledged to “save our neighbor” and “our Fatherland” from the Americans, reports have indicated.
8) Marshall Tito has pledged the support of Yugoslavia to United Nations decisions as to who is the aggressor in case of war between the U.S. and Red China.
9) After what seems to have been a palace revolution, the three-year-old son of the Nepalese king has succeeded him.
10) U.S. forces have made the second heaviest air attack of the Korean war.
11) Allied high commissioners approved a trade agreement between Bulgaria and West Germany.
12) The U.N. Korean Committee has unanimously adopted a resolution that the Chinese border must be respected.

In the fall of the year 1975, the incoming freshman class of Davidson College arrived for their period of orientation. In Chambers Auditorium, the Dean of Students briefly introduced them to their new home. They were then guided by members of the upper classes, who had been selected by the Westminster Fellowship for work with the freshmen, to the focal points of interest on the campus and briefly explained the functions of each.

“This is the College Church,” explained the guide. “Here the student pastor has his offices, and here he assists the Westminster Fellowship in carrying on its program of student work. Students attend, teach, and officiate in the Sunday School Program, the student Session, and the student Diaconate. The Fellowship will find a place for each of you after you fill out the interest blanks which you have received. If you prefer community work, or deputation work, you can apply through the YMCA, which has its offices in the Student Center.

“The sanctuary is used for Sunday Morning services, for the College Vespers, and for chapel exercises, three mornings a week. None of these are compulsory, but it has been the experience of most of the students in the past few years that the programs are of such value and interest to everyone, that they are rarely missed. Regular compulsory assemblies are held every Tuesday and Thursday in the Auditorium, and there we hold student meetings, concerts, plays, political rallies, pep meetings, and other events of interest.

“Before too many days have passed, you will be visited by the Student Pastor, who is Fred Burrows, Class of '55, and a graduate of United Seminary. Fred has been with us for four years now, and is greatly respected among the students as a good guy, so don’t fail to make his acquaintance.

“If you are a ministerial student, and would like to preach, the student representatives for Mecklenburg and Concord Presbyteries will be here when the upper classmen arrive. But above all, whatever your chosen field, try to make the College Church your church while you are here. With a student body of a thousand, we cannot expect all to take an active interest, but with the present class-room arrangement, we are able to hold classes for all. The student officers of the Sunday School, elected by the Sunday School last spring, will let you know in the next few days about classes.

“If you enjoy singing but do not have time for one of the regular Male Choruses, there are three Church Choirs which are open for volunteers. These practice once a week and sing in the chapel exercises and for church, Sunday morning. Usually one of the Male Choruses sings on Sunday evening.

“A special feature which most of the students seem to enjoy is the Wednesday night bull session, at which we invite the students to chat with professors on various subjects. Lists are posted each Thursday, telling where each professor will be, and his subject. That way, we get to know the profs, and maybe some of our problems can be aired.

“And now, fellows, let's move on up the campus to the Quadrangle. This has only recently been finished, and there are some things I'd like to show you.”

VISIT THE STUDENT STORE

