PAGE THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 1950

Professors, McGavock, Davidson ‘Ainq{[Commmisis Unied

COACH LITTLE SHARPENS CATS

Boyd Will Judge “Frolics Queen”

Timid Davidsonians Shy From Entering Lovelies in Contest

Say, what’s wrong with you guys? Are you bashful, lazy, or spineless? Here’s the chance to make a hit with your best girl, bring fame and honor on her and yourself, and make a stompin’ success out of a new institution here on the campus. You have the chance to do all this, and yet you are responding about as enthusiastically as you would to a summons to serve twenty years in the Siberian salt mines!

How do you think your lovely young lady friends would feel if they found out that you didn’t think enough of their physical charms (which, we are told by reliable sources, they spend much money and more time enhancing solely for the sake of your appreciation) to bother entering her in a beauty contest where she might receive formal and widespread recognition for her beauty!

All kidding aside, the Pan-Hellenic Council and the Davidsonian, who are cooperating to sponsor this beauty contest, hope that it will turn out to be the success that it certainly ought to be, and that it will be continued as an annual affair and become a part of that often referred to Davidson tradition. It is a self-evident fact that there is certainly no deficit of lovely young ladies squired and courted by the (Continued On Page Six)

DR. DAVIDSON HORNE'S MANAGEMENT PULLS STUDENT'S DR. BOYD DR. McGAVOCK STORE OUT OF RED DURING YEAR '49-'50

The city of Davidson has its Hugo, the faculty its “Cash” Jackson and the students not to be out-gyped have their own Paul Hornstein. Paul left Barium Springs, where he had made his mark as a basketball star and cheerleader, and came to Davidson in ’41. His budding commercial career was interrupted in '42 by a four-year tour of Europe—courtesy of the U.S. Army anti-tank corps. He returned after VE day and graduated with an ODK key last spring.

When I went to see Paul in his office I had to wait while he fed his usual line to a cigar salesman. Over in the corner of the Shop Paul’s young son Amos Hardy was feeding Cop Linker's cat, Mike. Amos said Paul had three interests; Mike, “Lizzie,” his car; and a girl at Erskine. Mike and Paul work on a reciprocal basis—rats for milk. The cat belongs to Cop Linker and Paul had a hard struggle to win his friendship, but now he says there hasn’t been a piece of merchandise ruined by mice this year.

His Model T, “Lizzie,” is a soft spot and you can't say anything against it without incurring the wrath of Horne. It was a roadster-convertible or a convertible-roadster up until '46 when the present body was added. Whenever Hugo Jr. gets time off he cranks up Lizzie and heads for Erskine. He would take Mike but he gets carsick. If Paul isn’t at Erskine or at the “Stud” he probably can be found with a group of bachelor Professors arguing over who will get married first. He and Professor (Continued On Page Six)

PRESS RELEASE—“Write this down, Mister: In the course of this month, the number of unemployed here has dropped—let me see, 387 arrested, 62 wounded, 11 killed—that makes 460 fewer unemployed.”

AS RUSSIA SEES US...

Beginning with this issue the DAVIDSONIAN will publish a series of Russian cartoons about the United States. These cartoons originally appeared in the Russian magazine KROKODIL. They have since been published in book form by the Public Affairs Press, in Washington, D.C., under the title of “Out of the Crocodile’s Mouth.” Since, at present KROKODIL is the only humor magazine published within the Soviet Union; since over half of its content matter is concerned with the sins of America; and since, with this ever-increasing flow of propaganda directed toward the Soviet peoples, we will soon no longer be able to say, “It’s just the Politburo that’s against us, the people really like us”; the DAVIDSONIAN, in the interest of our national welfare and for the benefit of Davidson students, is publishing this series of Russian portrayals of the United States of America.

JOHNSTON PHONE NUMBERS

Athletic Director ---------- 3111
Crowell Little -------------- 3116
Treatment Room --------- 7151
Charlie Parker Ticket Office --------- 5821
Pete Whittle Publicity Office --------- 5816
Joe Thigpen Coaches Office --------- 7156

WHEREVER YOU GO!

Remember this seal — it’s your assurance of the best!

Editor’s Note: Permission for reproduction of these cartoons from “Out of the Crocodile’s Mouth,” by William Nelson has been granted the DAVIDSONIAN by the Public Affairs Press, 2153 Florida Ave., Washington, D.C.

Meeting the gang to discuss a quiz, a date with the campus queen, or just killing time between classes—the Field House at Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge is one of the favorite places for a rendezvous. At the Field House, as in college campus haunts everywhere, a frosty bottle of Coca-Cola is always on hand for the pause that refreshes—Coke belongs. Ask for it either way... both trademarks mean the same thing.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD © 1950, The Coca-Cola Companycompleted 125 combat missions, leading many of them, supporting the invasion and the advances on into Germany. D.F.C., many other decorations. Promoted to Captain, then to Major. Air Medal.

Mayor Roy Carlse Training Executive, US Air Force!

With Catholics In Ousting Coca-Cola
(From The Christian Century)

Catholics and Communists have at last found something on which they can agree. They are both against Coca-Cola. In the French National Assembly, the Communists combined on February 28 in a solid bloc with the U.R.P. (the Catholic Party headed by Premier Bidault) to pass a bill giving the health ministry power to exclude the American soft drink from France. The bill must be passed by the upper chamber before it becomes law but if that body fails to do so, it may be returned to the lower house and there, if passed again, put on the statute books.

The bill does not mention Coca-Cola by name, merely giving the health ministry power to keep out of the country any beverage “made with vegetables, vegetable extracts, or any product of vegetable origin.” But the Catholic and Communist deputies who put it through made it clear it was Coca-Cola they were after. An amendment was adopted extending the prohibition to overseas departments, which means that the soft drink is also to be excluded from North Africa, where it has become popular with the Moslems, who are supposed to be total abstainers. Newspaper reports indicate that the U.R.P. voted against Coca-Cola more in deference to pressure from wine-producing regions than for any reasons of church teaching. The Communists joined in simply to make trouble for our own American interest in Europe.

Both these strange allies managed to convince themselves, before the debate ended, that, in the words of one of the most passionate deputies, “The whole landscape of France is at stake.” Perhaps it was.

(Continued On Page Six)

Back home, in Iowa, he went to work at Consolidated Vultee in San Diego, building PBY’s and B-24’s. But it wasn’t long until he had put in his application for Aviation Cadet training. He married a lovely Army nurse from Lowell, Massachusetts, whom he had met at Cannes, France. After the honeymoon, he studied at the University of Iowa.

CLAWS FOR COMING SEASON

Coach Crowell Little graduated from the University of North Carolina in 1938. From there he launched upon a varied coaching and Army career, beginning at King’s Mountain High School in 1938, and continuing as head football coach here at Davidson in 1950 after a period of Army service. Coach Little was at Kings Mountain High School from September of '38 to June of '39. From there he came to Davidson as head freshman coach under Head Coach Gene McEver. In January, 1941, Coach Little was drafted into the Army. He was stationed at Fort Bragg and then at Fort Jackson. From Jackson, Coach Little was sent to Officer’s Candidate School. After completing the course, Coach Little remained as an instructor at the school. From there he was sent to Westover Field, Mass., and then to Richmond Army Air Base. From here Coach Little was transferred overseas where he served eighteen months in England and Belgium. He was discharged from the Army in April, 1943, assigned to P-47 “Thunderbolts” with Fighter Group in England, to ground for the Normandy invasion. Major Carlson is now Chief of Operations, 2ATist Air Force Reserve Center, at O'Hare International Airport, near Chicago. Has two husky sons, a fine job, a great career still ahead of him!

ONLY THE BEST CAN BE AVIATION CADETS!

Coach Little joined the coaching staff at the University of North Carolina as an assistant coach in February, 1946. During the season of '48 and '49, he was the head freshman coach; and early this year he assumed the position of Head football coach here at Davidson. Coach Little said that he considered Davidson to be a fine school with a high rating and that he was happy to be connected with it. He stated that he would “like to bring Davidson's athletic prowess up to its academic standing.” Coach Little went further to say that he felt sure that within a few years Davidson could produce a team of which the student body and the alumni would be proud.

Commenting on last Saturday's first annual Red-Black football game, Coach Little said that he was not too disappointed with the results. There were quite a few mistakes, some that were inexcusable and some that can be improved with practice. Coach Little was extremely pleased with the spirit that was shown in this game. He said that the team must have this spirit in order to win. Coach Little stated that he had heard that there were some non-participating football players on the campus. He extends to them an invitation to play football, and he assures them that they will be given every opportunity to show their abilities.

(Continued On Page Six)