PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editor - Doug Hix
Associate Editor - Lonnie Turnipseed
Associate Editor - Jack Hazard

MANAGING EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall, Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister.
Sports Editor—Gordon Scott
Make-up Editors—Dan McKei-then, Cherry Striblin
Art Editor—Bill King
City Editor—John Hobart
Photographs - Proofreader

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Managers
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison
Circulation Manager
Asst. Circulation Managers
Collections Manager
Subscriptions Manager

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

Elections Are Here

This week saw the beginning of the annual spring elections, the annual spring Student Elections. In the next few weeks
will be decided who is going to lead the Davidson Student Body during the coming year and who will head
the various organizations, publications, and classes. This week saw the beginning of the end for some of us as student
leaders, but it also saw the beginning of new careers, new leaders, and new ideas. In less than a month
the leadership of the students will be in new hands, the hands that will guide them for a year. We
must all become familiar with those hands because we want the best pairs at the helm.

We owe it to ourselves to participate 100 per cent in all the elections we are eligible to vote in.
The privilege of choosing whom we want to lead us is one of our most cherished freedoms. To forget to
cast your vote or to entirely lack interest in the elections, your elections, is to show your lack of appreciation
for this privilege that we have of choosing our own leaders. In the years before the war, students here took
a great deal of personal interest in Student Elections and as a result our student government and our entire campus
strengthened. However, since the war, student interest has not reached that prewar level for various reasons and that feeling of
Davidson spirit has not existed here on the campus as it used to. I sincerely hope that the elections this
year will see a renewed interest on the part of the students in their elections and that this interest will
be manifested at the polls.

ELECTIONS ARE HERE SO CAST YOUR VOTE TODAY! — Whit Cobb.

Make Room For John Doe

By means of a poll of the entire Student Body we have been able to establish three facts concerning Student
Body opinion regarding our athletic program.

A substantial majority indicated that if we must choose between high academic rating and athletic renown the good academic standing
is to be preferred. However, as may have been expected, over 90 per cent of the Student Body chose both
a strong athletic program and a high academic standing as the goal for which we should strive. The importance of
the first point—that most of us were wise enough to realize that our primary purpose in being here is to
learn to educate ourselves—should not be overlooked.

The Student Body as a group indicated that they believed a certain basic amount of subsidization is necessary if we
are to continue to compete with schools of the State, W. & L., Citadel, Richmond, and Furman calibre. While it
is obvious that some subsidization must be made, we would like to see the athletic program made more a function
of the average member of the Student Body. A program could be devised which would give us a team capable
of holding its own against such schools as have been mentioned, and at the same time include a larger number
of students of average ability. Such a program would make room for those who wanted to play for no other
reason than for the fun of playing. If on the other hand the athletic program is not to be a
student program—with the accent on the students—if it is to be formulated without taking into consideration the matter of making
it possible for the maximum number of students to participate, but to be dominated by alumni funds and interests, then
why not allow those interested to assume financial responsibility for the entire program. In that case the portion of college
funds now earmarked for subsidization purposes could be invested in building up our intramural athletic program by means of which
a larger number of students of average ability could more equally participate.

An Open Letter

We, as a Student Body, were shocked and saddened on our return from Spring Holidays to learn of the death
of one of our closest friends, Scott Verner. We address this letter to his family and to those members of
the Student Body who knew him best with the hope that we can, to some degree, let them know how
much we valued his friendship. We are proud of the fact that he was a member of this Student Body.
In many little ways—unknown to most of us—he helped to create here the kind of environment that is Davidson's most
treasured attribute—that intangible quality about this school that will be Davidson to us when another gym replaces the one we
now call new. It is by virtue of men such as he that our lives are enriched and by lives
such as his that we are able to see the Spirit of God in our affairs. To remember him is
a privilege we are fortunate in being able to share, for in so doing we may to some extent make
his honesty and friendliness ours.

BOB HOLLISTER
BILL HOUCK

Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries
Asst. Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries
Program Manager—Charlie Baldwin
Bill Caseells
Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw
Hugh Huffaker
Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Alex Goley

To the Editor:

Mr. Don Shriver’s article, “Defenses of Peace,” which appeared in the March 17th edition of The Davidsonian, raises a number
of issues which are so vital as to require further discussion. It appears to me that Mr. Shriver’s basic contentions
were: (1) that preparedness leads to war; (2) that the military establishment, including the ROTC, is influencing the institutions of
higher learning toward “preparation of this nation for war;” and (3) that the colleges and universities, especially Christian institutions, should
be “directed into more positive means of approaching world peace.” These are serious statements and certainly merit serious study—far more
than can be undertaken within the compass of this letter. However, I will attempt to examine each very briefly.

As to the first point, Mr. Shriver stated that “we have long tried the negative approach to peace—preparedness, which now
as never before is only a makeshift . . .” This contention is hardly borne out in the plainly recorded
history of the United States. We have never been prepared for any war from the time of the American Revolution
to and including World War II. It scarcely seems necessary to recall the frantic efforts of this nation to arm
itself after the Pearl Harbor attack to indicate how little we were prepared in December, 1941. Our present policy of
preparedness, which is entirely new in American history, is designed to prevent the outbreak of any future war by creating
sufficient force to discourage aggression in any quarter. It is radically different from the policy of the United States and
the other democracies from 1931 to 1939 of viewing with alarm the continued aggressions of the Axis nations but doing
nothing to oppose them. There is no guarantee that our present policy will prevent war, but it surely could be
no more ineffective in preventing war than our past policies of almost complete unpreparedness until the eleventh hour.

The second point made by Mr. Shriver is summed up this way: “Of course it is the business of the
U. S. military to believe in the imperativeness of their job. Shall colleges lend their weight to such beliefs? His
answer is that it is not the responsibility of the colleges to lend weight to such beliefs; and that they
should avoid the influence of the military men who are attempting to enlist the support of the colleges. It is
my belief that the colleges and universities should be cooperative. The United States is now engaged in a struggle for
survival against a power that has publicly announced its intention to destroy us. This is not a struggle of our
own choosing. It was forced upon us by the Soviet Union. The United States did not want the Cold War,
but we have it. We did not want the Korean War, but we have it. We did not want the
Berlin blockade, but we had it. We did not want the Communist conquest of China, but we have it. We
did not want the Communist conquest of Indo-China, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of
Tibet, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Eastern Europe, but we have it. We
did not want the Communist conquest of North Korea, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest
of North Vietnam, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Cuba, but we have it.
We did not want the Communist conquest of Laos, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest
of Cambodia, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Angola, but we have it. We
did not want the Communist conquest of Mozambique, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of
Ethiopia, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Afghanistan, but we have it. We did
not want the Communist conquest of Nicaragua, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Grenada,
but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of El Salvador, but we have it. We did
not want the Communist conquest of Guatemala, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Honduras,
but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Panama, but we have it. We did not
want the Communist conquest of the Philippines, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of South
Yemen, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Zimbabwe, but we have it. We did
not want the Communist conquest of Namibia, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of South
Africa, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of the Seychelles, but we have it. We
did not want the Communist conquest of the Comoros, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest
of the Maldives, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Sri Lanka, but we have
it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Bangladesh, but we have it. We did not want the Communist
conquest of Nepal, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Bhutan, but we have it.
We did not want the Communist conquest of Burma, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest
of Thailand, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Malaysia, but we have it. We
did not want the Communist conquest of Singapore, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of
Indonesia, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Papua New Guinea, but we have it.
We did not want the Communist conquest of the Solomon Islands, but we have it. We did not want the
Communist conquest of Vanuatu, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Fiji, but we have
it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Tonga, but we have it. We did not want the Communist
conquest of Samoa, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Kiribati, but we have it.
We did not want the Communist conquest of Tuvalu, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest
of Nauru, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of the Marshall Islands, but we have
it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Micronesia, but we have it. We did not want the Communist
conquest of Palau, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of the Northern Mariana Islands, but
we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Guam, but we have it. We did not want
the Communist conquest of American Samoa, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of the Virgin
Islands, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Puerto Rico, but we have it. We
did not want the Communist conquest of the Bahamas, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest
of Bermuda, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of the Turks and Caicos Islands, but
we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of the Cayman Islands, but we have it. We did
not want the Communist conquest of Jamaica, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Haiti,
but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of the Dominican Republic, but we have it. We
did not want the Communist conquest of Saint Kitts and Nevis, but we have it. We did not want the
Communist conquest of Antigua and Barbuda, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Dominica, but
we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Saint Lucia, but we have it. We did not
want the Communist conquest of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, but we have it. We did not want the Communist
conquest of Barbados, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Grenada, but we have it.
We did not want the Communist conquest of Trinidad and Tobago, but we have it. We did not want the
Communist conquest of Guyana, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Suriname, but we have
it. We did not want the Communist conquest of French Guiana, but we have it. We did not want the
Communist conquest of Brazil, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Argentina, but we have
it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Chile, but we have it. We did not want the Communist
conquest of Uruguay, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Paraguay, but we have it.
We did not want the Communist conquest of Bolivia, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest
of Peru, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Ecuador, but we have it. We
did not want the Communist conquest of Colombia, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of
Venezuela, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Guyana, but we have it. We did
not want the Communist conquest of Suriname, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of French
Guiana, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Brazil, but we have it. We did
not want the Communist conquest of Argentina, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Chile,
but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Uruguay, but we have it. We did not
want the Communist conquest of Paraguay, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Bolivia, but
we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Peru, but we have it. We did not want
the Communist conquest of Ecuador, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Colombia, but we
have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Venezuela, but we have it. We did not want the
Communist conquest of Guyana, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Suriname, but we have
it. We did not want the Communist conquest of French Guiana, but we have it. We did not want the
Communist conquest of Brazil, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Argentina, but we have
it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Chile, but we have it. We did not want the Communist
conquest of Uruguay, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Paraguay, but we have it.
We did not want the Communist conquest of Bolivia, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest
of Peru, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Ecuador, but we have it. We
did not want the Communist conquest of Colombia, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of
Venezuela, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Guyana, but we have it. We did
not want the Communist conquest of Suriname, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of French
Guiana, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Brazil, but we have it. We did
not want the Communist conquest of Argentina, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Chile,
but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Uruguay, but we have it. We did not
want the Communist conquest of Paraguay, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Bolivia, but
we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Peru, but we have it. We did not want
the Communist conquest of Ecuador, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Colombia, but we
have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Venezuela, but we have it. We did not want the
Communist conquest of Guyana, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Suriname, but we have
it. We did not want the Communist conquest of French Guiana, but we have it. We did not want the
Communist conquest of Brazil, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Argentina, but we have
it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Chile, but we have it. We did not want the Communist
conquest of Uruguay, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Paraguay, but we have it.
We did not want the Communist conquest of Bolivia, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest
of Peru, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Ecuador, but we have it. We
did not want the Communist conquest of Colombia, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of
Venezuela, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Guyana, but we have it. We did
not want the Communist conquest of Suriname, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of French
Guiana, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Brazil, but we have it. We did
not want the Communist conquest of Argentina, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Chile,
but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Uruguay, but we have it. We did not
want the Communist conquest of Paraguay, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Bolivia, but
we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Peru, but we have it. We did not want
the Communist conquest of Ecuador, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Colombia, but we
have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Venezuela, but we have it. We did not want the
Communist conquest of Guyana, but we have it. We did not want the Communist conquest of Suriname, but we have
it. We did notPolish and perfect his technique and improve his stage presence to become a singer of the very
first rank. It is often said that we do not appreciate our own, but the size of the audience testified
to the fact that an increasing number of people are becoming aware of the exceptional talent which does exist on
this campus. This trend is encouraged and it is only to be hoped that these student recitals will see an
ever-increasing attendance. In the weeks to come, several more programs of this nature are planned. One will present a young
violinist whose talent is great. Another, by virtue of its importance and the fact that it is a “first” for
Davidson, will be presented to the entire student body in chapel. A later article will give complete information concerning this
important event.

I can’t, by any stretch of the imagination, understand why the colleges and universities should not be concerned with preparedness
as the U.S. Government is, unless these institutions are devoted to pacifism. The job of the military, as Mr. Shriver
indicates, is obviously to prepare the defenses of this nation. And it is just as obvious to me that, since
the colleges are a part of the United States and will be protected by the military in the event of
war, they should be. If the colleges are devoted to pacifism, however, then there is logic to the argument that
they should not lend their support to the objectives of the military establishment. As I understand the concept of pacifism,
war is considered the greatest evil to befall mankind, and resistance is never to be offered under any circumstance. The
pacifist position, of course, is recognized as a legitimate one in the United States; and conscientious objectors are not forced
to take up arms. I might point out here that pacifism was not recognized by the Axis nations, nor is
it recognized by the Soviet Union.

The pacifist decries war, but it does not follow that non-pacifists are warmongers. Certainly no one in his right mind
could enjoy the prospects of war, especially in this day and age. Returning to the situation now confronting the United
States, I do not see how anyone can justify, on grounds of Christian conscience or morality, passive submission or unpreparedness
toward a nation that has announced its unmitigated opposition to all non-communist countries and that has shown complete disregard for
peace. I would agree most heartily with him that the institutions of higher learning should devote themselves to the problems
of world peace in the most positive sense. Certainly, the colleges should offer their students the fullest opportunity to learn
the problems confronting the contemporary world and should lend all their resources to securing amity among the nations of the
world.

The one example Mr. Shriver cites, however, as being the “positive” approach to peace—the McMahon plan—appears to me to be
basically unsound. The McMahon plan, summed up briefly, calls for the U.S. to shift the billions of dollars now being
spent on arms to projects that will cultivate friendship with the Soviet Union. The theory behind the idea, of course,
is this: the U.S. is building up its armed forces, thereby threatening the Soviet Union. If we discontinue this, we
would prove our goodwill to the Russians who are just waiting for such a sign from us to become friendly.
In other words, we are the potential aggressors, and the Soviet Union is the menaced nation. The theory would be
a good one if it fit the facts; but it doesn’t. Senator McMahon apparently doesn’t remember that from the years
1943 to 1947 this nation did just what he is now proposing for it to do. We furnished them with
lend-lease aid. We assumed they wanted to cooperate with the western world. The Tehran, Yalta, and San Francisco conferences attest
to that fact. The United States even went out of its way, in the spring of 1945, to persuade several
Latin American nations to establish relations with the Soviet Union because it appeared to us that there could be genuine
cooperation between the east and the west. It was only in the spring of 1947, after heartbreaking attempts to gain
the cooperation of the Soviet Union, that we started to rearm and to follow the present policy of containment to
prevent the Soviet Union from further expansion. The McMahon plan, in essence, has been tried and found wanting. The United
States was not the power that failed to cooperate. It was the Soviet Union, which is also a matter of
plainly recorded contemporary history available to anyone wishing to study the reports of the Security Council.

Discrimination is obviously a prime characteristic of the Davidson gentleman. The recent appearance of the Robert Shaw Chorale was well
attended (a big name helps), while at the annual concert of the Davidson male chorus there were 43 students on
the stage, and 35 in the audience. This shows the delicate musical perception among us, a quality evidently lacking in
the outside world. For in its recent tour, the chorus played to packed houses and elicited such naively enthusiastic reviews
as “the best we've heard,” “superlative,” “finished artists of a near-professional calibre.” But at sophisticated Davidson, only one student in
twenty was interested enough to turn out for the same program. Is this proof of our discrimination or just another
illustration of the old adage, “A prophet is nowhere without honor...” Or could it be evidence of our cultural illiteracy?
It seems a little ironic if the latter is the case, since Davidson is a liberal arts college, and since
music is far and away our most emphasized art. The general apathy toward such things as dramatics, speech, painting, and
the various forms of writing might be in some measure excused; to date, we've had small opportunity to become acquainted
with them. But music is another story. Our concert series, our chorus, our band, our little symphony orchestra—all are excellent
and have been excellent over a period of years. And a very pleasant room in Phi Hall makes available to
every student the magnificent record collection of the college. Yet apparently only a tiny segment of the student body has
become aware of this program. Maybe most of us are simply uneducatable. If so, it is absurd to speak, even
in the future tense, of having “a liberal arts college.” Also a bit ridiculous, viewed in this light, is our
condescension toward state institutions as “trade schools.” Can you imagine an arts forum, even on a modest scale, at Davidson?
(There was a very fine one at W.C. the other week.) Or a debate tournament? (Agnes Scott puts on one
of the best in the South.) Or an organization like the Playmakers at Chapel Hill? Individual students may show concern,
but it’s a cinch they won't get support from the student body as a whole. And until they do, they
won't get too much support from the administration. We are justly proud of the “Davidson spirit,” but we should recognize
its present limitations. Should every tennis match, every swimming meet, every inter-fraternity softball game draw a larger crowd than the
one yearly concert of the male chorus? Do non-athletic activities really occupy such an insignificant place in our minds? If
so, the concept of the “well-rounded Davidson gentleman” is a myth, and a rather pitiful myth at that. “Blessed are
the Philistines, for they shall inherit the earth.” Too bad they won't know how to enjoy it.

SONG OF THE SENIOR
By MILNER

Out of the College of Cunningham,
Down new Chamber's hall,
I hurry aglow to reach the P.O., to West Hall,
Get at the books and discard them again,
Accept my bed, or narrow, or wide, every side.
With a student's pain, some sleep to attain
Far from the College of Cunningham,
Far from new Chambers’ hall.

All round the College of Cunningham,
All through dull Chambers’ hall,
Hengeveld cried ABIDE, Abide,
The rueful registrar held me thrall,
The cancelled credits turned my tide,
The fun and fond recollections said STAY,
The “C” average dipped for to work delay.
And the “profs” exams sighed ABIDE, ABIDE,
Here in the College of Cunningham,
Here in dull Chambers’ Hall.

High o'er the College of Cunningham,
Veiling dear Chambers’ hall,
My learning told me manifold
Fair tales of life, T. Hartley Hall
Wrought me his boisterous jargon to scold,
The debate, the sports, the frats, a good time,
Recalling, with joyful meaning and sign,
Said, PASS NOT, SO COLD THESE MANIFOLD TRADITIONS OF THE COLLEGE OF CUNNINGHAM,
THIS LIFE IN DEAR CHAMBERS’ HALL.

The Will of the Minority
By GABRIEL LOWE

The free ballot has always been regarded as one of the most valuable and indispensable advantages of the democratic system.
We hold it in awe, and wonder what we would do without it. We cannot conceive of a government in
these United States that would not be duly elected by the people whom it would govern. We say that the
right to vote allows us to put men whom we trust and respect in positions of authority, and thereby indirectly
we spend the taxes that we pay into the public coffers and we make the laws by which we govern
ourselves. And so we regard this inherent right of ours as sacred, and we will always fight to keep it
from being taken from us. But unless we wake up, we are in danger of losing the free ballot, not
by having it denied us, but by letting it wither and die from lack of application. The specter of this
danger is very real. For the life and virility of the suffrage varies directly with its use, and we use
it all too little. The purpose of an election is to determine and carry out the will of the majority.
But that purpose can only be realized if all or nearly all who have the suffrage exercise it. Otherwise, a
minority, sometimes a very small one, will fill the office for the whole electorate. For example, in a local election
in Jacksonville, Florida, several years ago, only twenty-one per cent of those eligible voted. This meant that the issue at
stake was decided by eleven per cent of the voters, instead of fifty-one per cent. It amounted almost to a
mandate issued by one-ninth of the people to the other eight-ninths. In Virginia, the notorious Byrd machine is able to
maintain its control over the politics of the State by controlling some 6-7 per cent of the vote, since only
about eleven per cent of Virginians vote in local contests. The franchise cannot last long in a society that pays
no attention to it. For it is a living creature, and it thrives on use. Deny it that use and
it will starve to death. The lesson has a local application in the student body elections now beginning. Last spring,
in an election for student body president, only 45.1 per cent of the students voted. This meant that the president
was elected by a minority of the student body. If we want our student government to be truly representative, we
must all participate in the electoral process. Otherwise, we will be governed by a minority, and the will of the
majority will be ignored.
