A gangling, rawboned backwoods boy from Illinois who might well have been the Dwight Eisenhower of his day once phrased
pretty well the manner in which a job should be taken over. Said he of a task: “With malice toward
none; with charity for all; with firmness in the right as God gives us to see the right...” The shoes
I stand in right now feel about as big as those the all-Big Ten rail splitter must have worn, and
his words are a comforting guide. I had no more idea when I read Gordon Scott’s farewell that I would
be filling this space this week than you did. Wednesday afternoon my boss informed me of my dubious honor, grabbed
my acceptance, and in the inimitable chuckle of a Statesville, N. C., native, laughed, “Well, no time like the present.”

By BILL WHITE

FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1950

TRIBE EDGES WILDCATS BY 5-4

Wildcat Sports

OINDERMEN RUN HERE SATURDAY

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jamerson’s Lads Put Up Good Fight But Bow To League Leading Pack

By CHARLIE HAWKINS

Coach Charlie Jamerson’s baseball 'Cats dropped a hard-fought game to the N. C. State Wolfpack in Raleigh Thursday. The score
was 9-6, and it gave the rampaging Pack their 10th straight win. They now lead the southern division of the
southern conference. State jumped to a 5-run lead in the last half.

Thus we move into a year of Cat Tales that you and I must suffer through alike. I’m just trying
to make it easier on you, dear reader, because I consider the appointment a true honor (although I tabbed it
“dubious”), I never guessed anyone thought I had the ability. Now all I have to do is keep ‘em fooled.
There'll be two more Davidsonians this spring after this edition. I started to write on the forthcoming Southern Conference tennis
tourney here, but decided to save that one for a little meat to chew on next weekend. The big show
will be in full swing by then, and there might be some extra poop we can furnish on the entrants.

As Mr. Furman Bisher, past editor of the Charlotte News and a gentleman of the press whom we have always
held in high esteem, stated in his first column as sports editor of the Atlanta Constitution, the first column is
generally only a lot of baloney from the orientation market which folks will digest as “the guy’s first try.”

“WITH MALICE TOWARD NONE...”

We're (haven't decided whether to use “we” or “I”) inclined to feel that a statement of policy is forthcoming from
the fellow who has the top spot on the sports page for saying what he pleases. That overline there by
copy-boy Honest Abe is No. 1. We go into this thing absolutely unprejudiced toward any party, club, frat, or what-have-you.
Probably don't know enough to be prejudiced. At any rate, it is “with malice toward none.” Let’s hope we'll have
guts enough to say what displeases us, but at the same time tact and manners enough to say it in
a constructive fashion. May we go on record that anything said in this column for the coming year is not
asserted with malicious intent.

“WITH CHARITY FOR ALL...”

... and there is No. 2. Honor to whom honor is due, in this case. Perhaps charity is hardly the
word for it. We don't want to give anyone credit unless he’s got it coming. Not that we want to
be stingy with praise. It just seems logical that a pat on the back means more when the recipient can’t
get them two-for-a-nickel at the five-and-dime. Especially at Davidson where we swear by the Wildcat spirit do we want to
give honor to whom honor is due. Nothing can help a club or individual more than recognition. It seems to
us that this thing of recognition of all worthy athletic participants, varsity, frosh, and intramural, is one of the primary
functions of a college sports page. It is the school’s own organ of praise. Thus, we are ready to continue
the fine job which Gordon and others have accomplished in the past. Particularly in this realm would we like to
continue “Wildcat of the Week,” a feature designed for acclamation of outstanding performers for old D. C.

“WITH FIRMNESS IN THE RIGHT...”

Any baseball or basketball ump or ref can tell you in a second the first rule of calling either game
is to make your decision quickly and then stand by it. That often takes a lot of fortitude. We are
going to strive to see them right the first time, and after we call them stick by them. It is
the privilege and responsibility of the appointee for expressing his views on the sports world about him to do so.

(Continued On Page Four)

Frosh Trackmen Register 2nd Win But Varsity Edged by W. & L.

The results:

VARISTY

A surprisingly strong Washington and Lee track team, coming through in the final two events, edged Davidson's Wildcats 69½ to
61½ for Coach Heath Whittle's cindermen’s second loss in six starts at Lexington, Va., last Saturday. The Generals, who completely
blanked Davidson’s crack Ken Goodpasture on the 100 and kept the stocky little speedster shoved back to third on the
220, turned in a swift 3:31 mile relay and a final javelin heave of 177 feet in the day’s last
two contests to fashion the triumph. Partly responsible for the W&L win on the relay was quarter-miler Jay Handlan, better
known for his basketballing, who clicked off a 51-flat on the 440 and came near equalling that mark on his
lap of the relay. Pete White, the General's hurdling ace, captured both timber-topping events as well as second in the
broad jump for scoring honors with 13 points. Captain Jim Vann, winning the discus and shot put, paced Davidson with
10. The Cat frosh, led by Roy White, Charlie Calhoun, and Bob Henry,

120-yard high hurdles: White (W&L), Pritchett (D), Haller (D). Time: 15.1.

880-yard run: Trotter (W&L), T. Stockton (D), Klein (D). Time: 2:01.6.

220-yard dash: Connally (W&L), Williams (W&L), Goodpasture (D). Time: 23.5.

Discus: Vann (D), Sharp (D), Lazenby (D). 136 feet, 4¼ inches.

Two mile-run: Three way tie among Long, Anderson, Lee, (All of Davidson) 11:44.4.

220-yard low hurdles: White (W&L), Croyder (W&L), Haller (D). Time: 25.1.

High jump: Williams (D), Metzel (W&L), Gallivan (W&L), Cornell (D), tie. 5 feet, 11 inches.

Broad Jump: Roberts (W&L), White (W&L), Parkinson (W&L), 21 feet, 1¼ inches.

Javelin: Oref (W&L), Miller (D), Blanks (D). 177 feet, 8 inches.

Mile Run: T. Stockton (D), Martin (W&L), Montgomery (D).

their second win in three (Continued On Page Four)

of the second before the Cats rallied for 3 runs in the top of the third inning. The Pack scored
2 more runs in the fourth and fifth innings while the Cats were scoring only 1 to raise the score
to 7-4. Davidson rallied in the sixth inning with 2 runs. Page, the State pitcher, hit Auburn Lambeth and Mac
Erwin in succession, and singles by Billy Houck and Charlie Pearson ran the score to 7-6. Page was relieved by
Sam Welch, and the rally was quelled when catcher Bill William threw out Pearson, the Cat shortstop, on an attempted
steal of second base. The Pack came back with 2 more runs in the eighth inning, and that ended the
scoring; the final score being 9-6. Davidson collected 7 hits off Page and Welch while Norman Whiteheart went the distance
and yielded 12 State hits. Bill Bird, Mac Erwin and Bill Houck collected 2 hits apiece for the Cats, and
Westbrook, Fowler, and Page matched them for the Pack. One of Bill Bird's wallops was a home run.

Gastonia Tops Frosh; Gaither, Erwin Win

By JIM SMITH

The Davidson freshmen golf team dropped another close match 12½—14½ to a potent Gastonia High School team at Meyers Park
in Charlotte Wednesday. ThereThere were, however, some bright points in the meet as our No. 1 and 2 men came
through with sparkling honors. Al Gaither and Lawrence “Red” Ervin won their match by a lop-sided score of 8½—½. Lawrence
Irvin of Morganton was the top man of the match, being the medalist with a low score of 78. Bill
Bristow and Lewis Barnes almost managed to gain a split in their match. The final score of their match was
in favor of Gastonia 5½—3½. The last match of the day proved to be the deciding factor in the final
score. Vernon Clifton and George Crouch couldn't seem to get going and were badly beaten by the score of 8½—½.
This match gave Gastonia the needed margin for the win.

VEREEN BELL
(Continued From Page One)

He had taken prominent roles in two of the Red and Black Masquer's productions. He was Senator McKinley in “John
Loves Mary.” He was the director of “The Valiant,” and he portrayed Sheridan Whitesides in “The Man Who Came To
Dinner,” which was presented last night and tonight.

Sloan Sole Winner For Cat Linksters In Durham Rounds
By WOODY McKAY

Duke University's linksters gave their Wildcat visitors a warm welcome on the Devil’s Hope Valley course by downing them 23½
to 3½. Jimmy “Slimy” Sloan was the only Wildcat to gain a victory against the Blue Devils although Hill played
well to finish with a 71 total. Duke's No. 1 clubber, Louis McLennan, took the honors of the day by
swinging to a below-par 67. His teammate, Frank Pollock, stepped into third place with a 73. The Durhamites were playing
in above-average form, and the Wildcats couldn't overcome the Blue Devils except in one pairing. This is one of the
worst losses the uncoached Wildcat linksters have had this year, and added one more loss to their conference play. The
summary is as follows:

McLennan (Duke) defeated Hill, 3-0.
Glenn (Duke) defeated McLean, 2-1.
Duke won best ball, 3-0.
Sloan (Dav.) defeated Reed, 2-1.
Pollock (Duke) defeated Dickson, 3-0.
Duke won best ball, 3-0.
Souchak (Duke) defeated Brandon, 3-0.
Hanes (Duke) defeated Vernon, 2½ to ½.
Duke won best ball, 3-0.

Charlotte Tech Tops Frosh by 5-2 Count
By MAC RICHARDS

Behind the five-hit pitching of Dick Short, ordinarily a third baseman, Tech High School of Charlotte defeated the Davidson freshmen
5-2 on last Monday. Tech scored first in the second inning after two were away. Earl Gunter doubled, and Don
Brady walked. McCaskill then blasted a double to score both Gunter and Brady. Tech added single runs in the third,
fourth, and seventh. With none away for Davidson in the eighth, Jim Farrar walked and Burt Downs singled to left.
Whisnant popped out and Jetty Morrow fanned. Smith then singled Farrar and Downs home. The Wildkittens added two more in
the ninth. Jim Smith went the route for the losers.

Hengeveld Shackles Clemson Tigers; Cats Bow to USC in Home Finale
By DICK LILES

It was a beautiful Saturday afternoon last week when the Wildcat baseballers, behind the steady hurling of Dutch Hengeveld, romped
on Southern Conference second placers Clemson by 6-4. Hengeveld went the route for the Cats, pitching brilliant five-hit ball. The
locals hopped quickly on the Tigs’ hurler Ford in the first frame by collecting two runs. The Clemson nine also
pushed across one in the first inning and one in the fourth and were tied with the Cats 4-4 by
the big 5th inning. The deadlock, however, was broken in the 7th and 8th when the locals used late inning
wildness and errors to collect a run in each of the two remaining innings. The Cats collected only five hits
just as Clemson and committed five errors, but turned them into the second win of the season, both being Conference
victories.

South Carolina
Tuesday afternoon the U. of South Carolina Gamecocks defeated the local nine in their last home contest of the season
8-5. It was a return Southern Conference tilt in which the South Carolinians took both ends. Davidson went ahead in
the 4th inning 5-4 on a two-run double, but the Roosters rallied in the 7th with 2 runs on 2
singles, an error by Davidson, and a hit batsman. Then they added a marker in each of the last 2
innings of play. The Cats slugged the ball well in the contest getting 8 hits. Charlie Pearson, Bill Bird, and
Mac Erwin each smashed a double and Hal Mapes slugged a triple. Also to their credit, Bill Houck pulled a
double play with first sacker Mapes. Craven and Hengeveld combined to strike out five men, but giving up 11 hits.
The winning pitcher was Camp, the second Carolina hurler, and Craven is charged with the loss.

Chesterfield Sports Quiz
1. Who is the president of the American League?
2. Who is the president of the National League?
3. In what sport is the Stanley Cup awarded?
4. What team broke William and Mary’s tennis team’s long winning streak?
5. Who is the only man to have ever officially cleared 15 feet in the pole vault?

RULES
1. Print your answers clearly on the back of a Chesterfield wrapper.
2. Take your answers to Frank Perrin in 112 West.
3. The first three correct entries will each receive ½ carton of Chesterfield cigarettes.
4. No entries will be accepted later than 24 hours after the Davidsonian is circulated.
5. This contest is not open to members of the Davidsonian staff.

Conference Championship Eludes Netters By Margin of One Match
By BILL ADAMS

Davidson’s tennisters fought William and Mary's powerful Indians through four hours of scintillating tennis Thursday afternoon but just couldn't quite
get a firm enough grip on the victory wreath and allowed the Indians to snatch a 5-4 decision. The match
was supposed to settle the Southern Conference title but another chance will come to the Cats for revenge in the
Conference Tournament to be held at Davidson later in the month. This tournament officially decides the Conference champion.

Thursday’s match was the first showing made by Derrick Barton’s charges on their long northern trek. Matches with Yale and
Haverford were rained out and even the William and Mary match had to be delayed a day. Possibly the biggest
surprise to Davidson supporters was the defeat of both Bo Roddey and Teddy Keesler, the Cats' top two men. Roddey
lost to Indian ace Howie Atwater in 3 sets and Keesler also went 3 sets before bowing to Boys. Whit
Cobb and Allan Fanjoy took straight set wins for Davidson, but Allan Strand and Rob Palmer both went down in
3 set battles.

In the doubles, Roddey and Cobb disposed of Atwater and Chennault, Keesler and Fanjoy beat Anthony and Boys, but Strand
and Dewey Keesler were beaten by Woods and Darnes. All of the matches were close, as the four hours required
to complete them verifies. William and Mary has lost but one match this year and none in the last three
years. They are the defending team champions of the Southern Conference but Davidson’s showing against them Thursday gave positive proof
that the Indian supremacy is beginning to totter. A 5-4 team score with 4 of the Cat defeats going 3
sets leaves plenty of room for optimism and speculation in what might have been. In reference to the Davidson-William and
Mary tennis rivalry, it leaves plenty of room for speculation in what might be in the future.

Summaries:
Atwater, WM, defeated Roddey, 6-2, 0-6, 6-3.
Boys, WM, defeated Keesler, 7-5, 4-6, 6-4.
Cobb, D, defeated Anthony, 6-1, (Continued On Page Four)

BLOUSE BY OFSDA'S
JEWELRY BY OEE NORTON

CAMELS FOR MILDNESS!
Yes, Camels are SO MILD that in a coast-to-coast test of hundreds of men and women, they found that in
a smoking Camels!
