Farman Bisher lost little time in answering the letter written to him which we published in last week’s Davidsonian. In
fact, his reply came less than twenty-four hours after he was written. The general response over the campus about the
letter we wrote has been in complete agreement with our stand, which was no surprise. However, many have asked us
what the sports editor of the News had to say in reply, so we are printing excerpts from his letter.

By GORDON SCOTT

Dear Gordon:
March 3, 1950

Happy to have your letter and have the opportunity to give you my answer on the why of a positionless
all-state team. First, as soon as the coaches return to the type of game in which position is more definitely
clarified, then we shall do the same on our all-state. For instance, at Carolina, Nearman often switches from center to
guard, so does Patterson and sundry other versatile operators. At State, Dickey is often used as a guard. Cartier is
a man of all positions. The cases of men employed solely in one position in basketball are isolated. The guard
who can shoot is now taking as many shots at the bucket as the center or forward. Groat, of course,
has no place on an all-state team. He has been out of school over three weeks. How can a man,
not in school and not the recipient of a letter (block letter), rank as all-state? As for Cobb, I admire
the young man greatly, have the utmost respect for him as an athlete and a gentleman. The Observer was a
one-man selection. Ours, the original all-state basketball team among North Carolina newspapers, has always been the product of the coaches.
Nothing would have pleased me more than to have White Cobb on the News all-state. It’s no reflection on him,
however, for I think he was bucking probably as fine a talent as we ever had in the state. Just
to keep us straight: I love Davidson like I love my own hometown, both full of dear hearts and gentle
people.

Sincerely,

Farman Bisher

So now you have both sides of the picture. It’s our own belief, however, that Bisher failed to present any
very conclusive arguments as opposed to those which were given to him. Compare the two letters if you have an
old Davidsonian handy, and draw your own conclusions. Frankly, we are more convinced than ever that we are right because
of the weak points in his argument. Read carefully his letter and see if you won't be able to punch
holes in everything he said on the subject.

ODDS AND ENDS... Cobb’s selection to play with the senior all-stars against State illustrates the point we have tried to
make in the whole matter. Wonder how a team of three forwards and two centers would fare against the "Pack"?
George Cornelson was the only Cat swimmer to take part in the conference meet in Chapel Hill earlier in the
week. He placed fifth in the 100-yard breaststroke event which is worth noting, considering his opposition and the fact that
he is but a freshman with a little over a month's practice behind him. Johnny Kelton and Bill McNeely won
bouts in the conference grappling spectacle at College Park but were eliminated before the finals. Both were in the consolation
round, but big Bill lost in the preliminary and Kelton lost by a hair, 4-3. Both are underclassmen and will
be back next year. The Kappa Sigs and SAB’s should be congratulated for their victories in the interfrat basketball tourney.
Biggest surprises of the tourney were the performances of the KA’s and the Phi Delts. These teams advanced to the
finals of the championship and consolation rounds, respectively, after only mediocre success during the campaign.

TENNIS PROS HERE NEXT WEEK!

FRIDAY, MARCH 10, 1950

THE DAVIDSONIAN

KRAMER AND GONZALES
World's Top Net Stars To Play Gym Wednesday Night

In Local Wednesday night Pancho Gonzales, National amateur champion, and Jack Kramer, world professional kingpin, meet in Johnston Gym. Promoter
Bobby Riggs, himself two-time National champion and current American professional champion, against dynamic Francisco (Pancho) Segura, the two-handed forehand expert
from South America. The Gonzales-Kramer match presents contrasting styles of the type that blend into fierce competition. Gonzales, the fellow
with the smashing service, coming against the daring, damn-the-torpedoes style of Kramer. Gonzales turned pro under Riggs’ tutelage after winning
the U.S. diadem for the second year in a row. His five-set victory over Ted Schroeder in the 1949 finals
at Forest Hills produced the most thrilling tennis ever seen at the staid stadium on Long Island. The first set,
which went to Schroeder, 18-16, would have left any other player distraught. Not Pancho Gonzales, who came back after losing
the next set, to win the match and the championship for the second year in a row. It was immediately
thereafter that Gonzales turned pro.

GRIDDERS PREP FOR QUAD GAME

By BILL WHITE

Only Auburn Lambeth’s brilliant passing arm could rate the Reds a shade favorite over the Blacks tomorrow afternoon when the
prospective material of Crowell Little’s first Southern Conference football team stages a brother-vs.-brother battle on Richardson Field, the climax of
six weeks of winter grid work.

A Picture

Davidson, N. C.

OPEN ALL DAY SUNDAYS

REGULAR MEALS and SANDWICHES

ALBERT'S GRILL

221 South Tryon Street

THACKER’S, INC.
Private Dining Rooms for Parties and Banquets
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
Phone 25490
Charlotte, N.C.

Cat Swimmers Bow To Clemson Cadets In Saturday Meet

By BILL FARRIOR

Saturday, March 4, saw the Davidson swimmers take to the water once again, this time against Clemson's mighty aquatic track
team. Again they met defeat but displayed a truly fine spirit as they went down, 53-21. Much of this can
be attributed to the fact that several of the swimmers were unable to participate due to sickness. Praise must be
given to the team as a whole but especially to Phil Ray, Bob Long, and George Cornelson who placed first
in their events.

1. 300 yard Medley Relay—2:28
2. 200 yard Free Style—2:34.9 White (C) Blench (C) Jervis (D)
3. 50 yard Free Style—25.8 Ray (D) Converse (C) Weeks (C)
4. 100 yard Freestyle —59.6 White (C) Ray (D)(D) Fern (C) 150 yard Backstroke — 1:54.6
1. Long (C)
2. Taylor (C)
3. Mauze (D)

200 yard Breaststroke — 2:53
1. Cornelson (D)
2. Atkinson (C)
3. Cunningham (D)

440 yard Freestyle — 5:48.7
1. Klinek (C)
2. Monroe (C)
3. Jervis (D)

400 yard Freestyle Relay — 4:06.1
Diving: Forfeit to Clemson.

Following the capture of the Pacific Southwest championship, Gonzales signed up with the Riggs tour outfit. The American-born Mexican has
been guaranteed $60,000, against 30 percent of the net, for the tour. His antagonist, awesome Mr. Kramer, is working for
25 percent, which is nice enterprise if you can get it. Last year, Kramer earned $125,000 from his professional tour.
Supremacy on this tour is important. It spotlights the winner as the leader among professional players and, naturally, gives him
an advantageous position in future fiscal bargaining. That is why Gon- (Continued on Page Six)

POOLE REJOINS CINCINNATI REDS
By DAN McKEITHEN

For a man that participated in athletics only one year at Davidson, Dave Poole has earned quite a reputation. He
was the only freshman in the modern history of the school to win letters in three major varsity sports. He
accomplished this in the school year of 1947-48, the last year that the Southern Conference allowed regular freshmen to play
on varsity teams.

Dave's promising college career in football, basketball, and baseball was cut short by his signing of a pro baseball contract
with the Cincinnati Reds back in October of 1948. However, Dave's joining the pro ranks when he did will probably
push him up to the big time earlier. He began his work as a Red farm hand at the Class
A Columbia, S.C., club last summer. A late-season batting slump pulled his final average down to .242, but he had
a goodly number of extra-base hits. Despite a pulled shoulder muscle, he fielded in top form. When he left for
the Reds spring training camp in Tampa, Fla., a couple of weeks ago, he appeared to be in good shape.
Owner of a rifle-like arm, Poole has the physical assets that go a long way toward making a top-flight catcher.
He has speed to go along with his 175 pounds which are well-proportioned on a six-foot frame. He has plenty
of hustle, but most of all he has that enviable mental asset—firm determination.

DAVE POOLE

Now with his rookie year behind him, Dave is starting that long haul to the top. Leaving his books and
his pretty wife, he is ready to settle down for about six months of the great American game, and from
the way he plays it, he looks like he’s going places.

GREGG

Chesterfield Sport Quizz

1. Who received the most valuable player award in the Southern Conference Tournament?
2. Prior to this year’s tourney, who held the record for the most points scored in tournaments in past years?
3. Name at least four players who made the all-tournament team.
4. By virtue of winning the tourney, N.C. State was extended, and accepted a bid to the National Invitational Tournament
in New York. True or False?
5. Who was selected as the outstanding coach of the tournament?

RULES
1. Print your answers clearly on the back of a Chesterfield wrapper.
2. Take your answers to Frank Perrin in 12 West.
3. No entries will be accepted later than 24 hours after the Davidsonian is circulated.
4. The first three correct entries will each receive a carton of Chesterfield cigarettes.
5. This contest is not open to members of the Davidsonian staff.

Davidson's Wildcats. Kickoff is at 2:30. Little will have his squad split with slide-rule equality, under the direction of assistant
coaches Ray Brown (Reds) and Dick Redding (Blacks) and performing in the first annual Red and Black contest before visiting
sportswriters, alumni chapter presidents, students, and Cat backers. The show, however, is not primarily for the show's sake. It is,
of course, to give Coach Crowell an insight into next fall, to see how his material and T-type attack will
function under actual battle conditions. The two teams will throw, speaking in somewhat general terms, a split-T line and a
diamond-T backfield against one another. On the sly, it can be reported that these two clubs have knocked heads for
the past week, killing the unrehearsed element but not the fight and zip the two teams will show tomorrow afternoon.
There are starting berths to be filled by next fall, and nothing is a set position in the off-season spring
drills. Thus the candidates will shoot the works in the dress rehearsal, which is at the same time the curtain
ringer for winter practice.

In Lambeth’s Red backfield, the Decatur, Ga., boy working from the T-spot, only one letterman will be present in fullback
Woody Leach, the speedy defensive halfback of last fall. On the halves will be a couple of good-looking rising sophs,
Roy White and Gordon Stuart, both speedsters and heavy hitters. Opposing this quarter is the Black backfield quarterbacked by rising
soph Jack Ruth with Ham Wade at full and scooters Johnny Guiton and A.C. Gregg on the halves. If one
can conceivably give the Red backfield an edge, he must award the Black line a slight, very slight, superiority. That’s
how close the two are. Top-flight guards Jimmy Fasul (captain) and Jerry Kiser give Redding's club a rock-wall mid-line with
Henry Wilson and Arnold Whisnant working as linebackers. Converted blocking back Bill Freeman will open at tackle along with ex-frosh
standout Bob Tucker, while the ends are both manned by non-lettermen in Lee Talbert, the promising husky who was ineligible
last fall, and rising soph Dick Kelley.

Brown’s line boasts three fine receivers on the flanks for Lambeth’s passes, letterman Bobby Turk and inter-frat stars Dave Williams
and Hank Hankins. Turk and Williams will start. Red guards are Angus McInnis, the boy who has drawn very favorable
comment on his fine line play to date, and sturdy Bob Gibson, who saw plenty of service as a soph
last season. Bill Acker will draw pivot man duties with rangy George Nichols in the reserve role, and Hoopie Davis
and Jack Branch, both able full-time performers, will open at tackles.

What The Cats Were Doing...

ONE YEAR AGO—March 11, 1949
1. SAE’s win interfrat crown.
2. Mott Price distinguishes himself in mat and gridiron work.

FIVE YEARS AGO—March 13, 1945
1. ’Cats beat Charleston in close contest, 39-37.

TEN YEARS AGO—March 14, 1940
1. Dave Spencer paces Reds in inter-squad game to end spring tilts.
2. Kappa Sigs win interfrat bowling crown.

TWENTY YEARS AGO—March 13, 1930
1. Baseball season opens with Georgetown.
2. Frosh track men show up well in S.I.C. meet.
