THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1950

Sleek, Curvaceous Machines Of A By-Gone Era Grace Oak-Covered Campus

Smooth Running Rattle Buggies are Atom Age Cassels, Spearman, Hogan Lead Bailing-Wire Parade

“Look,” they shouted incredulously, “it runs.” They motioned to the creaky, old model “T” Ford that jerked slowly down the hill and drove away. This machine is one of the many ancient carriages that chug, groan, strain and stumble around the campus carrying their proud and ingenious owners. Why would anybody ever want to become involved with one of those? Because they provide a thing called transportation which is sorely needed by errant young college students—and it has been observed that one’s popularity is greatly enhanced by the possession of these machines. All you need to keep one running is some surplus cash and a mechanical knowledge not less than that of the combined staff of General Motors and Ford, Inc. You can buy them anywhere—at used car lots, junk heaps, garages, or filling stations.

Bill Cassels was really lucky in buying that old Hudson that all the cheerleaders come out in before a game. He said that the car used to belong to a rural postman who had bought it when it had 10,000 miles on it. The first time he drove it he had two flats out on the road and a third just before getting back to his garage. The enraged man pushed it into his garage, put it up on blocks and there it sat for 25 years until Billy bought it.

CAT TALES...
(Continued From Page Three)

...of high school huskies who still instinctively throw a mean elbow.
3. Though cut down somewhat, the blocking is going to be just as savage in one-hand touch as two-hand, and it only takes one to kayo you.
4. Asking for cleaner play would have the same effect as proverbial pouring on the duck’s back. We should know something by next week. Whittle, Scott and pow-wow will produce a remedy, bet on that. Meanwhile, if you know a better way to stop a mouse-trap, drop in.

Mooresville Creamery
GRADE “A” MILK PASTEURIZED
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

THACKER’S, INC.
Private Dining Rooms for Parties and Banquets
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
Phone 25690

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
MAKERS OF Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.

Make Yours a SWEATER from Marion Davis Co.
LONG SLEEVES 4.98 to 18.50
SLEEVELESS 2.98 to 5.95
NYLONS CASHMERES
All Colors
Davidson Representative - George Knight
Charlotte, N. C.

The owners are continually plagued by breakdowns, flat tires, and smaller mishaps. Every afternoon you can walk behind dormitory row and see three or four boys cleaning, repairing, and adjusting their stubborn machines. The owners compete continuously with one another in trying to have the best running car. One boy has a two-speed rear-end and a high compression head on his Model “T” Ford, and he swears it will do 70 m.p.h. In college, the disheveled old jalopy, dirty and slovenly and covered with wisecracks is strictly passé. The vogue is the neat, well-kept model that runs smoothly in spite of its age.

D.C. BAND...
(Continued From Page One)

...and started toward the Davidson side. Suddenly the lights went out, much to the disgust of members of the WAYS radio station staff in the press box, and a large rainbow outlined in vari-colored lights appeared out of the darkness. Band Director Moore’s arrangement of “Somewhere Over the Rainbow” of “Wizard of Oz” movie fame drifted up to the hushed stands from the tenor, baritone, and bass voices of the band members. When the lights came on again, a large “D” had been formed in front of the Wildcat stands. James C. Pfohl, Davidson Music Director, commented that it has been 10 or 12 years since a similar stunt was pulled by a Davidson band. Mr. Pfohl used a like show when the band went to Harvard years ago. Mr. Moore modestly denies that the music used is his arrangement, but says that he only slightly revised someone else’s work. He says he has only seen this type of show used in the Big Ten Conference, the University of Illinois, in particular. To the knowledge of both Mr. Pfohl and Mr. Moore, no other band in this vicinity has used this stunt.

"Y" SERVICES...
(Continued From Page One)

...our personality compares with that of others. Secondly, we want escape from our loneliness, a loneliness that is especially prevalent with young men of our age in the troubled times in which we live. “Each person,” says Dr. Depp, emphatically, “is lonely at one time or another...The man facing the uncertainty of his future after graduation when he enters the competitive world on his own for the first time, feels a profound sense of loneliness.” Thirdly, we are looking for the fellowship and help in dealing with the moral problems of life. “The individual,” says the speaker in the fifth of his talks, “is listening to three voices: the voice from without that is the people with whom we come in contact day by day and who naturally have a behavior; the voice from...Within, deep influence on our manner of our conscience; and thirdly, the voice from above, the voice of God.” The Voice which should take precedence often does not. Which voice are YOU listening to?

In the concluding talk, Dr. Depp guided the listener in answering the question “What Can Religion Do?” He pointed out, principally, that religion, when actually deep-rooted within the person, gives an inner peace which enables him to get along with others, but most importantly it helps to get along with himself personally.

HOWE GREEN... (Continued From Page Two)

“How your father would feel.”

“Yes, Sir,” answers Howe, remembering that his father and Dean Bailey were classmates and old friends, and suddenly he feels very embarrassed.

“What seems to be your trouble, Mr. Green?”

“I don’t — .”

“Are you studying enough?”

“Yes- er-yes, sir, I think so, sir.”

“Look, son, your parents are doing without a great deal to send you up here and I believe you should show a little more appreciation. Don't you think so?”

“Yes —, sir.”

“Now I want you to stop all this playing around and get down to work—understand? You owe it to your parents.”

“Yes, sir,” says Howe as he stands up and begins to leave the Dean's office in deep humiliation. As he approaches the door, he hears the Dean say, “All right, Mr. Green, I'm counting on you now. You can do better.”

That night Howe receives a telephone call from home, and as he picks up the receiver his heart is pounding fast. After a moment's fearful hesitation, he summons the courage to answer.

“Hello.”

“Howe, darling! This is mother! We just got your report today and it's wonderful!”

“Good gosh,” says Howe to himself. “They sent the wrong report home.”

“Oh, Howe, I can’t tell you how proud I am of you!”

“But mother — ”

“Howe, that’s the finest thing you've ever done for me. I’m going to send you a big chocolate cake as a reward.”

Three minutes pass thus without Howe ever getting a chance to slip a word in edgewise. At last, with a final admonishment to write soon and a word of love, Mom Green hangs up.

“Holy cow, everything’s fine now, but wait until she finds out the truth,” thinks Howe as he wearily replaces the receiver.

GEECH'S GOULASH ... (Continued From Page Two)

Sees in the classic halls, I see—but I cannot go on. It is too much. The spirit of Davidson is dead, and you have killed it!”

Having partially recovered from the initial shock of the apparition, the student, repelled at the archaic rantings, was overcome with the strength to reply:

“Aw drop dead, you old fossil!”

The phantom choked, cursed, and raised the stick to strike. The student cringed. But suddenly the floodlights plastered the scene with a friendly warmth, and the fiend vanished. The student mopped his man hat. He wondered if it had been a dream.

“I'd better not tell anybody,” he thought to himself. “They'd never believe me. But I wonder if it’s like the old coot said? Is Davidson better off than before, or worse?”

With these words on his lips, he again moved on toward his dorm, where in the silence of his room, unhindered by his wheeling roommates, he discovered for his own satisfaction, the answer.

“She’s not worse, surely, and she may be better, but at least she’s different. And after all, variety is the spice.”

MUSIC WITH HANSEN ... (Continued From Page Two)

Because of their superior catalogue must go along with the 45. If Victor would in its majesty condescend to make the 7-inch LP, sense would be restored and I, for one, would not be convinced longer of Victor’s complete obstinacy. Victor would lose nothing by such a move and could only gain respect among record collectors. The only thing missing would be six delicious colors and a big center hole. The six delicious colors might even be retained for the benefit of those who enjoy such things. But to those who like to peer through spindle holes, and admittedly it is easier to do this with the 45 than with the LP, I can only consign them to a lifetime of peering through a record, which to quote Irving Kolodin, is the bold way to perpetuate those annoying inconveniences which are common to the 78 rpm.

LAND SUPPORTING... (Continued From Page One)

Playing one of the main supporting roles in COMMAND DECISION is Ted Daniels, who hails from Spartanburg, S. C. Ted, a junior at Davidson, is a member of the Red and Black Masquers and the International Relations Club. This is by no means his first appearance on the stage at Davidson. He will be remembered for his roles in “Arsenic and Old Lace,” “The Valiant,” and “John Loves Mary.” In Spartanburg, he has appeared with the Palmetto Players of Converse College in such plays as “Joan of Lorraine” and “The Corn Is Green,” having played the male lead in the latter. He also played in numerous high school productions. Ted’s main interest in the summer is in radio, a field in which he plans to devote his time after graduation from Davidson. The role which Ted portrays is that of Elmer Brockhurst, a cynical, hard-bitten war correspondent who knows his way around anywhere, especially among the top army brass. This prying, snooping newspaperman proves to be a real difficulty to the protagonist of the play, Maj. General Dennis, whom he hates.

Campus Center Princeton University Princeton, New Jersey

In Princeton, New Jersey, there is always a friendly gathering of Princeton students at the Campus Center. And as in university campus haunts everywhere, ice-cold Coca-Cola helps make these get-togethers something to remember. As a refreshing pause from the study grind, or when the gang gathers around—Coke belongs. Ask for it either way... both trademarks mean the same thing.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO., OF CONCORD © 1950, The Coca-Cola Company