FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1950

Whittlemen After Second Victory

In Final Home Appearance of Fall

Coach Heath Whittle’s abbreviated cross-country team bucks an out-of-conference foe tomorrow morning when it runs into the Bulldog Harriers from the University of Georgia.

The Georgians go against the Cats without any word on their past record or potential performance known in this area. Whittle’s runners will stick to their six-man team, two short of a full cross-country crew.

Tom and Dick Stockton are the two the Cats are looking to set the pace with Bob Henry, Bill Lee, Dan McKeithan, and Dick Patterson supplying the depth.

After losses to State, Duke, and North Carolina, the Wildcat runners bounced into the win column last Saturday by swamping Washington and Lee before a Homecoming crowd. Placing five runners in first place and one in second, the Wildcats completely shut out the Generals with a 15-44 victory. The Stocktons, Henry, Lee, and McKeithan crossed the finish line together, followed by Patterson.

Tomorrow morning's meet is the final home appearance of the harriers this season. From here out they hit Virginia and William and Mary in a triangular affair at Charlottesville, Va. and go to Raleigh for the Southern Conference and state meets.

Under a handicap all season with the loss of their captain and No. 1 man Blake Bradley, the Whittlemen have nevertheless performed surprisingly well and are gaining in strength with the season's progression. That fact plus the home course advantage should rate them the favorites’ nod over the Georgians in the morning.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

GEORGIA HERE FOR CROSS COUNTRY TOMORROW

PAGE FIVE

SPIRITED FROSH TRAVEL TO FURMAN

Freshmen Tennis Material Smooth in Fall Work; Should Be Future Aid To DC’s Athletic Pride

By MOODY SMITH

Davidson’s Freshman tennis team for 1951 has been working out this fall right along with the varsity boys and according to Coach Derrick Barton, prospects for the spring season are fairly good.

Up until the present time only five players have been selected for the frosh aggregation. Since this doesn’t constitute a complete team, one or more additional players will probably join the squad when spring practice commences.

The racket-wielders who have already made the team are led by John Bremer of Wilmington, N. C., an able netsman who for the past couple of years has been runner-up in the North Carolina high school singles tournament.

Also included on the squad is Corky Johnson, a member of Charlotte Central High's 1950 championship team. The remaining players are Buford Price of Lexington, Kentucky, Scott Downs of Ridgewood, New Jersey, and Harold Johnson of Atlanta, Georgia.

Downs is experienced for his age, having played in the No. 1 slot for Ridgewood High School in his hometown. McDonald, although he has never played high school or prep school tennis, has had considerable tournament experience; while Price, who is probably the least experienced of the group, has been showing up surprisingly well, upon occasion pinning back the ears of his more seasoned colleagues.

DEPP CHOSEN ...
(Continued From Page One)

Wrangler’s Room, will have as its topic, “Faith That Lives In A World At War.” The panel for this discussion will be composed of Dr. Guerrant, Professor of Political Science; Rev. J. Clyde Auman, Pastor of Forest Hill Methodist Church, Concord, N. C.; Dieter Oberndoeffer, German student; and Dr. Bernard Boyd, Professor of Old Testament, School of Religion, University of South Carolina.

By DICK ROPER

A once-beaten but still spirited freshman team will leave for Greenville, S. C., tomorrow morning to play the frosh Purple Hurricane of Furman in their second game of the season. At kickoff time the Wildkittens of Coach Boyd Baird will be underdogs by approximately 21 points.

Their first loss to the Citadel frosh two weeks ago showed up some flaws which have since been worked on a great deal in recent scrimmages, and the defense continues to look good, but judging by comparative scores, the Kittens will have an uphill fight of it to beat the Purple Hurricane. Furman beat the Citadel freshman team 31-6 last Saturday and were penalized 212 yards in the process.

The most important change in the lineup has been the shifting of fleet Johnny Gray to quarterback. Since the Citadel game, Coach Boyd Baird has worked the Statesville boy in that spot several times in scrimmages and he will probably see quite a bit of service tomorrow, alternating with Hershel Allen, Tim Gilley, and Sid Cutts. Allen, hurt in the Citadel contest, will be back to start tomorrow.

Coach Baird has had words of high praise for his line, which did an excellent job in the season's opener. He has particularly lauded the play of Tackles Neale Graham and Bob Loy, standouts on defense throughout the contest.

The frosh coach has put his squad through strenuous workouts every day, climaxing almost every practice with a scrimmage with the varsity. Both the freshman and varsity squads have run several hundred yards of wind sprints during all.

(Continued On Page Six)

A LOOK-SEE AT WILDCATS’ DATES TOMORROW NIGHT — ERSKINE'S HUSKY FORWARDS

End Ben Ruble

Tackle Lee Woolbright

Guard Bob Turpin

Two Doors Down from Bank

Center Jim Cannon

Guard Joe Mancine

End Bill McCoy

Main Street

FORMAL OPENING....
THURSDAY & FRIDAY, NOV. 2-3

Nationally Advertised Brands of DRESS AND WORK CLOTHES

Van Heusen Shirts, Botany Slacks, Florsheim and Crosby Square Shoes, English Sport Coats, Puritan Sweaters, Paris Belts, Ties and Pajamas, Knox and Hopkins Hats, Bantamac Jackets, Western Style Overall Pants

Valuable Prizes To Be Awarded

OPEN UNTIL 9 P.M.