Although a great deal of time and effort obviously went into planning the interfraternity sports program for this semester, the net result has not been too satisfactory. We would like to present our ideas on the subject and leave it to the powers-that-be to look into the situation thoroughly in order to avoid a repetition next year of the oft-times confusion that existed this year. In the first place, it is our belief that too many different sports were planned for the fraternities in the time which was available for them to be played. Even with only basketball, volleyball, the track meet, and softball last year, the program was too crowded and as a result, interest in the volleyball games, particularly, was non-existent. But with the addition of a basketball tournament, a swimming meet, and handball rounds this year, the strain on the participating men has been too great. Everyone will admit that the interfraternity contests are one of the most interesting activities of a fraternity, but it seems that a program which requires—as has been the case this spring—participation on nearly every day that passes is asking too much of the personnel of a fraternity. Not many of us have that much time to devote to athletics every day, and while most men do find time to participate, it is certainly at the expense of other things which they might be doing. Often only fraternal loyalty urges them on.

To us, one of the most undesirable results of the situation this spring has been the fact that it has been, and still is, necessary to run off fraternity games on the same afternoons that varsity teams are playing. With regard to this, the fraternity men should be able to support the school’s team when they are playing, and if a poll were taken among these men as to whether they would rather watch the varsity games or play in fraternity contests, the sentiment would most surely be in favor of the former. The situation was unavoidable because of the way it was set up this spring and we believe that the best way to avoid repetition of this next year is to revise the whole program. Specifically, we would favor a shorter basketball tournament and elimination of handball and volleyball. This would still leave basketball, track, swimming, and softball to be run off during the second term of school, and with a program such as this, it could be spread out more, thus avoiding the necessity of fraternities playing on the same day that varsity squads do, among other things. Every true fraternity man takes pride in his group's accomplishments in competition with other organizations on the campus and that is certainly the way it should be. But when the program is as time-consuming as it has been this year, there looms a greater danger of participation’s becoming a necessary chore rather than a pleasure. We have all seen definite indications that such an idea may have taken root this year. As a first step in correcting the existing situation, we would suggest that a meeting of Pete Whittle and representatives from each fraternity on the campus be held before school is out this year to map out some definite schedule of events for next year and to discuss the whole matter.

PACK TOPS WILDCATS IN SLUGFEST

Wildcat Sports
PAGE FOUR
RODDEY-COBB DUO DEFEATED
THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 1950

KALAMAZOO FALLS TO NETTERS
MICHIGAN TEAM COPS DOUBLES;
Wildcats Outhit Wolfpack In Conference Contest
BARTON'S LADS WIN 5 SINGLES
Costly Errors Prove Deciding Factor For Visitors
By CHARLIE HAWKINS
Fu. GORDON SCOTT

Coach Derrick Baron's Wildcat netters nosed out Kalamazoo, 5-4, in a "cold" match Thursday afternoon. The weather was windy, but it didn’t stop hotly contested tennis. Bo Roddey, Davidson's ace and number one man, beat Jack Sunderland of Kalamazoo, 6-1, 6-2, in a match of good tennis abilities. Sunderland's game was superb but Roddey's was just a little bit better. Whit Cobb lost to Kalamazoo’s Marvin Martin, 4-6, 3-6. Martin repeatedly drew Cobb up to the net and passed him. Ted Keesler of Davidson was too much for Kalamazoo’s Dick Cain as he took his sets by 6-0 and 6-2 scores. Keesler was just too hot, and he had Cain 5-0 in the second set before Cain scored. Allen Strand beat Willson of Kalamazoo, 6-3, and 6-4, in a good match that saw Strand take advantage of his opponent's weak backhand. Allan Fanjoy of Davidson and Gordon Dolbee played “hot and cold” tennis all through the match before Fanjoy nosed Dolbee out 2-6, 6-2, and 6-4. Davidson's Rob Palmer played spectacular tennis to beat Brad Allen, 5-7, 6-2, and 6-1. Palmer's play during the last two sets was outstanding. In the doubles, Roddey and Cobb lost 3-6, 4-6 to Sunderland and Martin. It was the first time Davidson’s number one team has lost this season. Sunderland and Martin were just too hot to be denied. Ted and Dewey Keesler lost to Willson and Waters of Kalamazoo, 6-4, 8-10, and 4-6, in a match whose score could have been changed by a few breaks. Fanjoy and Strand of Davidson also lost to Marrie Dolta and John DeVon in sets of 6-4, 4-6, and 4-6. The experience of the Kalamazoo team gave them an important advantage that paid off here. With this, the match ended with the Cats out in front, 5-4.

By JIM FARRAR

Thursday afternoon the Wildcat nine dropped a slugging contest to the visiting North Carolina State baseball nine. The cold wind blowing from the north into the pitcher's face made it extremely difficult for the pitchers to control the pitches, and it aided the batters a great deal. The entire game was a see-saw battle with the lead changing hands two times before the seventh inning when the score was tied at ten all.

Chesterfield Sport Quizz

1. What Harvard student is men’s figure skating champion of the world?
2. What is the name of the Cincinnati Reds' home field?
3. When was the last time the St. Louis Browns won the American League pennant?
4. Wake Forest's baseball team has two All-Americans on it. Who are they?
5. What is the Brooklyn Dodgers' farm club in the International League?

RULES
1. Print your answers clearly on the back of a Chesterfield wrapper.
2. Turn your answers in to Frank Perrin in 112 West.
3. No answers will be accepted later than 24 hours after the Davidsonian is circulated.
4. The first three correct entries will each receive a carton of Chesterfield cigarettes.
5. This contest is not open to members of the Davidsonian staff.

Auburn Lambeth (above), centerfielder, is here sharpening up his batting eye in a batting practice. The Decatur, Ga., star has been the leading hitter on the squad for the past two seasons and stands a good chance of repeating this year.In the top half of the eighth, State got men on first and second by virtue of a double and a free pass. On the next pitch, the batter hit a high pop-up to very deep short. Pearson fumbled the ball, threw it to Bird who in turn threw it by Jervy and allowed two runs to come in. The batter was allowed to score on the next pitch on a passed ball. From here on in, “Norm” Whitehart started bearing down. He struck out Smith, their ace first baseman, and another man, and caused the third out to be a ground ball to Bird. Their final tally came in the top half of the ninth when their shortstop connected for a home run through the slot in right center. Davidson came back in their half of the ninth and scored one run on Billy Houck's double and Charlie Pearson's single. Charlie was the hitting star of the day with three hits in five trips to the plate. First Baseman Smith was tops for them. Norm Whitehart pitched 8 full innings for Davidson and Herald Smith finished the game, pitching the entire ninth inning. Saturday the team travels to (Continued On Page Five).

Thoroughly, in so far as we have been able to determine, the fraternities had little or no say-so in the program this year and it’s a fact that several of them are dissatisfied.

WILDCAT OF THE WEEK

A couple of weeks ago, Coach Whittle’s outlook for the coming track season was dark and growing blacker by the day with injuries and withdrawals from the squad seeming to have no stopping point. But then almost immediately the tide turned the other way and things began to look brighter. Perhaps the greatest factor in this sudden change in the outlook was the return to the cinder paths of the distance star of the past few seasons, Blake Bradley. Blake had been counted out of the future for this season because of shin splints, bad feet, and a general rundown condition from the tough cross-country grind. Bradley had vowed never to set foot on a track again because of the bad effects it had on him. But with the coming of spring and the bright sunshine beating down on the undershirted spikemen striding around the cinder oval, the old fever began running through his veins again and he just had to get some shorts and spikes on in spite of his ills. To give the story a happy ending, Blake got into good shape and made the trip to Columbia with the squad to meet the University of South Carolina in a track duel. He came through in his usual winning style, copping a first place in the mile and a third place in the half-mile, a race which he had never run before. Now he is looking forward to another great season like he had last year. However, Blake and Coach Whittle agree on one thing, and the feeling is that Blake should stick to one race. So from now on it will be Bradley picking up firsts in the mile. Blake Bradley is a junior from Decatur, Georgia, and a member of Kappa Alpha Order. He has won letters for three years in cross-country and track, so he spends most of his time moving those pins up and down even in the summer which he spends running up and down mountains at the Athens “Y" Camp high in the hills of North Georgia.

STATE AND DAVIDSON LINKSTERS IN 13 1/2-13 1/2 TIE ON CHARLOTTE COURSE

By BILL ADAMS

Davidson’s golfers continued to fly high this week in spite of the attempts of a well-balanced N. C. State squad to bring them down. The State golfers did manage to hold the smooth-swinging Presbyterians to a tie Monday afternoon, though, for the first blemish on an otherwise perfect Wildcat record. The score was 13 1/2 to 13 1/2. Playing on the beautiful but testing Charlotte Country Club course, Monty Hill was again medalist for Davidson with a good 74, but lost his match to Spencer of State, who turned in a sub-par 71, low score for both teams. The other Wildcats came through to pile up enough points to tie the match, however, and preserve their record. Stuart Dickson and Bob Bumbarger both won their matches, Ben Vernon tied, while Slimey Sloan and Cecil Brandon were handed setbacks. In the best ball matches, Hill and Sloan lost, but Dickson and Brandon won, as did Bumbarger and Vernon. The Davidson team had won four straight matches until Monday, all against top-flight competition. State was the first team to even come close to handing the boys a defeat, but stiff competition had been expected from them all along. A few breaks on the last green and State could have been victim number five for the Cats, but instead the Wildcat putters failed and State gained a tie. The summaries:

Spencer (S) 3, Hill 0; Devant (S) 2, Sloan 1; Best ball, State 3, Davidson 0. Dickson (D) 2, Green 1; Smith (S) 2, Brandon 1; best ball, Davidson 2 1/2, State 1/2. Vernon (D) 1 1/2, Wilkins 1/2; Rumbarger (D) 2 1/2, Cerringer 1/2; best ball, Davidson 3, State 0.

A completion question of a University of Texas chemistry quiz read: “The aroma which emanates from Chemistry 605 is caused by _______.” Came the reckoning and the teacher’s jokes led hydrogen sulfide by a vote of 2 to 1.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
MAKERS OF Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.

Rent a New Car at SCARBROUGH
Prewar Rates
Special Rates on Long Trips
DRIVE IT YOURSELF, Inc.
212 W. 4th St.
Phone 3-4513

VISIT THE Charlotte Waffle Shop
“ACROSS FROM THE BURNING CORNER”
ON WEST TRADE STREET

Graham & Sons
State College, Pennsylvania

In State College, Pennsylvania, the favorite gathering spot of students at Pennsylvania State College is Graham & Sons because it is a cheerful place — full of friendly collegiate atmosphere. And when the gang gathers around, ice-cold Coca-Cola gets the call. For here, as in college haunts everywhere — Coke belongs.

Ask for it either way... both trade-marks mean the same thing.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA COLA BOTTLING CO. CONCORD, N. C.
© 1950, The Coca-Cola Company

Withers Electric Company
Radio Repairs
Electrical Supplies
Light Bulbs
DAVIDSON, N. C.

THACKER’S, Private Dining Rooms
For Parties and Banquets
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
Phone 25490