PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF ------------------------- GORDON SCOTT

BUSINESS MANAGER --------------------- JOHN LOFTIN

EDITORIAL STAFF

Associate Editors ---------------- Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall

Senior Editors ---------------- Bill Cumming, Dan McKeithen, Bill Hollister

Features Editor ---------------- Arnie Covell

Managing Editors ---------------- Pete Kalogridis, Tom Abel, Bill Adams, George McMurray, Ed Richardson, Shelley Beard

Sports Editor ---------------- Bill White

Photographs ---------------- Pete Ormsby

Art Editor ---------------- Jim Fickeisen

Proofreader ---------------- Charlie Baldwin

City Editor ---------------- Nat Daniel

Columnist ---------------- John Hobart

BUSINESS STAFF

Assistant Business Manager ---------------- Alex Goley

Advertising Manager ---------------- Manley McWilliams

Circulation Manager ---------------- Ansley Moses, Jack Turner, Bill Hart

Collections Manager

Subscriptions Manager

Adopting a Platform

Ever since the Davidsonian staff "turned over" late last Spring, numerous inquiries have come to us about what the paper
is planning to do this year—are we going to inject any new blood in it? ... are we going to
take a stand on any number of controversial issues here at the College and even in the international scene? The
general answer to all of these inquiries is that the Davidsonian plans to continue, for the most part, the pattern
which was followed last year, in which the paper enjoyed its best year since and probably before the war. Immediately
many will accuse us of complacency and lack of initiative, and justly so, except for the phrase in the above
sentence—"for the most part."

The Davidsonian will continue to be published weekly, be circulated on Friday night (barring unavoidable delays), contain six pages in
each issue, etc. But that’s as far as we are going. Time alone will tell what other improvements, additions, and
omissions will occur in the paper. But if we don’t do one other thing this year, the Davidsonian is going
to have a policy and a platform composed of well-chosen planks—planks which we believe will lead to a better Davidson.

In Dr. Abernethy’s now-famous blast against extracurricular activities in general here at Davidson, and against the Davidsonian in particular, he
mentioned the obvious fact that the school paper had no policy in its editorials. In an effort to take care
of this glaring deficiency, the Editor in Chief and Associate Editors of the paper plan to meet in the immediate
future in an effort to draw up several points which we believe will provide food for thought among the students,
and further strengthen Davidson's claim to the title of the South’s foremost liberal arts school.

What this platform consists of will be largely the result of thinking and planning by the heads of the paper
and their ideas may differ from those of many students or they may omit items which should be included. For
this reason, and because we firmly believe that the Davidsonian should be a medium through which every student can express
his views, we are asking anyone who has any carefully thought-out ideas which he believes will make for a better
Davidson, to write a letter to the Editor within the next day or so. Naturally, all ideas and opinions cannot
be used, but any communication from any student will be carefully considered. None of the letters will be published in
the Davidsonian unless the writer expressly requests that it be.

This is a chance for every student to present his ideas on how Davidson can be a better school and
a chance for all of the chronic complainers and fault-finders to get some action taken on their suggestions. Of course,
the Davidsonian cannot guarantee any results from anything it may support—in fact, we would be satisfied if action were taken
on even two or three items out of perhaps a ten-point platform. Regardless of the results, we are firm in
our purpose to bring before the student body and faculty any points which we believe to be worthy of consideration
and adoption by the powers that be.

Illegal Rushing

As long as the Pan Hellenic Council, acting for the social fraternities, continues the policy during rush week of having
no informal bidding—or hotboxing—there are going to be gripes and rumors to the effect that one or a number of
fraternities were guilty of what is known as "dirty rushing." The purpose of this editorial is not to comment on
the advisability of formal or informal bidding, but rather to propose that some different and more effective method of handling
groups reported guilty of dirty rushing be put into effect.

The way it was set up this year was simple enough—any fraternity that suspected another guilty of this offense would
turn them in to the Pan Hellenic Council and the offending Greeks would be fined $50.00. This plan is as
full of holes as a piece of rat cheese and here is a very good illustration to prove this statement.
A fraternity on the campus which pledged one of the largest groups of freshmen last week had three of their
pledges tell their rush chairman that they had all been "hotboxed" by the same fraternity. This rush chairman reported the
incident to the Pan Hellenic Council, whereupon they contacted the President of the accused fraternity. Quite naturally, the President denied
that any hotboxing had gone on in his group and as a result, the case was dropped. Any method of
enforcement with no more teeth in it than this is little more than a farce. We do not blame the
Pan Hellenic Council, for they did—under the principles of the Honor System—all that they could. When the offense was denied
by the obviously guilty fraternity, the Pan Hell could do no more.

What we would like to propose is this: as long as informal bidding is not allowed here on the campus,
there should be each year a committee of eleven men—one from each fraternity to be appointed by its president—which would
be given the responsibility of enforcing the law against dirty rushing. Any fraternity which suspects another of violating the law
would report the incident to this committee, which would then investigate and take appropriate action.

RUSH WEEK FORUM

(Editors Note: The Davidsonian is running this week and next week two articles on rush week from a personal viewpoint.
This week's article is written by Bill Bird, Pan Hellenic President in 1949-50.)

Now that the storm of rush week is over and the dust has settled on our feet, let's sit back
and comment on a few of the tactics. As past-president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, I would like to give a
few of my own comments on rushing.

Last year rush week was divided over the weekend. This, we all know, brought about many complications and phases of
so-called "dirty rushing." To Bill Klein, I'd like to compliment him for his judgment on this particular problem. He and
his council installed a straight week of rushing. But, however, despite the scare of a $50 fine for any offense
of "dirty rushing," it still occurred. It’s not fair to the other fraternities, it’s not fair to the other boys
in your own fraternity, and it’s not fair to the prospective rushee to tempt him in any such manner. It
occurred last year during rush week, again this year, and unless something is done, it will occur in the future.
I should like to suggest that a more rigid enforcement of this rule be made by the Pan-Hellenic Council.

Also, I would like to recommend the exclusion of afternoon dates during the Rush Week period. This would benefit both
fraternities and rushees. Speaking for the freshmen, they are all earnest to get off on the right foot in school
so why not give them a little time to get their school work done. And, then, on the other hand,
the turnout for afternoon rush dates is pitiful. But what more could you expect, what with football practice, labs, and
afternoon classes controlling the majority of the students in the afternoon. From my observation, these afternoon dates tend to be
more of a liability than an asset. The fraternity brothers don’t turn out in their mass numbers, shifting a great
burden on those who are present, trying to make the hour as enjoyable as possible for the rushees. And, from
the other side, the rushee sees the lack of attendance at the dates by the brothers and asserts immediately to
himself that there couldn’t be much to this fraternity because of the lack of interest they take in us.

I would also recommend that girls be excluded from these rush parties. I can hear the mumble of the Student
Body now for that, but first let me prove my point. The way I see it, the rushees come to
the houses to meet the fraternity brothers. They don’t come to meet the girls. But, unless I'm mistaken, this is
usually what happens. The fraternity brothers "flock" to the new "nuveens" on the campus and forget there ever was such
a thing as Rush Week going on. As a result, the rushee is usually left alone in some dark corner
reading any kind of magazine he can find in his area. This isn’t fair to the rushee, nor is it
fair to the brothers. The rushee in this instance isn't getting a line on his brothers-to-be nor are the brothers
meeting the rushees properly. The rushee should judge as well as be judged. Let me say also that this would
be a good slogan for the fraternities in the future to follow.

Now for a major point. Personally, I would like to see rushing postponed until the second semester. By this process,
it would give both the rushee and fraternity ample time to know each other and what to expect from each
other. As it now stands, it is a mass jumble of meeting boys (and shaking hands) and trying to figure
out which one has been the nicest to you and which one had the best punch. You can’t meet people
and know in a week’s time that they are the ideal group for you your next four years in school.
It can’t be done. But it is being done. I am sure that for both parties involved second semester rushing
would be more ideal.

But having second semester rushing will conflict with the boarding house situation of a majority of the fraternities on the
campus. Some boarding house managers say they can't run unless they have the help of the freshmen. In other cases,
they say that they'll have to raise the price of board without freshman help. This issue has legitimate excuses on
both sides. As to the outcome, all we can do is sit back and weigh both sides.

Along with this second semester rushing, I know there would be numerous cases of dirty rushing unless some plan is
devised to eliminate it. However, a particular school I have in mind does it with very little or no offense
from either the fraternity or the rushee. However, with the second semester rushing it would...

WAX SCRATCHING

By BOB WHELESS

Hi fellows! Here’s a new column that I hope you'll be browsing through every week from now on. Its purpose
is to keep you in the know on all the new releases. Let's get things going with Gordon Jenkins' most
recent contribution to the platter market. Jenkins, whose "Tzena, Tzena" is holding down one of the middle spots on the
Hit Parade and shows promise of going still higher, has a sure thing in "You’re Mine, You" backed by a
novel arrangement of an oldie "I'm Forever Blowing Bubbles." Artie Shaw was called in to give an added lift to
both sides, and when Artie’s clarinet is combined with the orchestration and choral work Jenkins is so famous for, terrific
is the only word that will describe the results.

Anyone who saw the movie, "Tea For Two," will tell you that Doris Day was at her singing best. In
her album by the same name, she combines with Axel Stordahl, The Page Cavanaugh Trio, and The Ken Lane Trio
to turn out six of the...be a great temptation for either party. If this method were to be used, it
would be necessary for all freshmen to room together and live aside from fraternities until rushing started. And, last but
not least, the strong fraternities would tend to grow stronger and the weaker fraternities weaker. Why? Because, as we say,
all the good boys would join the fraternities which were the strongest and the weaker fraternities would get the less
outstanding boys. I am afraid a situation like this would tend to bring friction between the fraternities. And this is
not what we are after. After all, the Intra-Mural Program gives us enough to fight for, why have an added
incentive. In closing, let me congratulate each rushee and fraternity for their choice and also Bill Klein and the Pan-Hellenic
Council for a tough job well done.

smoothest numbers she has ever recorded, even rivaling her work in “Young Man With a Horn,” Frankie Lane seems to
have come up with another hit with his etching of “Music Maestro, Please,” coupled with “Dream a Little Dream of
Me.” “Music” is a tear-jerking rendition about a guy who's out to forget about “her,” while “Dream” has a speedier
tempo, which accomplishes nothing but filling up the “B” side of a platter. The tear-jerking side should go. Perry Como’s
“Patricia” appears to be slowly catching on, but probably will never climb very high chiefly because of its limited appeal.
This Irish type waltz may be alright with fellows who have gals named Pat, and possibly with the bar and
tavern crowd. Nothing to get excited about! Next week I'll be back with news of releases by Sarah Vaughan, Doris
Day, George Shearing, Kay Starr, Don Cherry, and many others. See you then.

report this to the committee. The committee would approach the leader of the accused fraternity for an answer to the
charges and then the fraternity would be on trial before the committee. After reviewing all of the evidence and circumstances
surrounding the case, the committee would vote by secret ballot to determine the guilt or innocence of the offender. If
guilty, the fraternity would be fined not less than $50.00 or more than $100.00. Theoretically, there should be no need
for any sort of enforcement of the law against dirty rushing. But as long as certain fraternities continue to use
illegal methods to coerce freshmen and transfers into joining their particular group while other groups are making an honest effort
to abide by the law, some effective means of enforcement must be established for dealing with offenders. Obviously, the plan
used this year falls short of this need, and unless corrective measures are taken before next year, there is no
end to the amount of ill-will and resentment that will spring up among the fraternities.

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1950

THE POLL CAT

What length rush week do you favor? 3 days—25 percent; 4 days—17 percent; 5 days—58 percent.

Do you favor night and afternoon rushing? Night and afternoon—20 percent; night only—80 percent.

Would you be willing to return to school early for rush week? Yes—20 percent; no—80 percent.

Ballard Discusses Draft

Within the past few weeks, the provisions of the National Selective Service Act of 1948, as extended in 1950, largely
dormant for over a year, have returned to public view in full force. The ages particularly affected at this time
are those between 19 and 25 years. Because the lower part of this bracket focuses upon college students, and because
the average college student does not have available as complete information on the subject as he would like, a few
thoughts here perhaps will be helpful.

First, every male must register with his local draft board when he attains the age of 18; however, he is
not subject to being drafted until he is 19 years of age. As soon as the student in college receives
notice from his draft board that he is to appear for a physical examination, he should write his draft board
back home and request that the case be transferred to Selective Service Board No. 61, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina. The
home-town draft board will grant this request, and then the student must report to the Mecklenburg Board, on the new
date set by that Board, take the physical examination, regardless of whether his induction is to be postponed. This is
for the reason that, if he is found to be physically disqualified, his name can be removed once and for
all. Should the college student be approved for induction, the actual induction will be transferred back to the home-town board
for application against that board’s quota.

Second, in the beginning, the Director of Selective Service, in implementing the law, ruled that once a student entered upon
an academic year of college, his induction would be postponed until the end of the particular academic year. Recently, this
has been superseded by a ruling that: (1) if a student had completed one year of college, and (2) ranks
in the academic upper half of his class, the Selective Service Board may (not “will”) postpone the student's induction until
the end of the particular academic year.

Third, the fact that a college student is in the ROTC, either the basic or even the advanced course, does
not in itself have any bearing upon his draft status. This status is altered only when the ROTC student has
been selected for deferment. At that time, the PMS&T is required to transmit this information to the appropriate board via
an NME Form 4, “Military Status of Individual.” The draft classification of the student is thus changed. The sending of
the form is apparently not widely understood, because requests for transmittal thereof have been received from individuals not entitled to
them, and from parents or guardians.

Fourth, “deferment” means that the Government will allow the student to finish college if (1) he will agree to accept
a commission in the reserve infantry upon graduation, and (2) if he will agree to serve on active duty for
not less than two years as a commissioned officer, subject to the call of the Secretary of the Army. It
should be pointed out here that, at the present time, no non-deferred student who completes the ROTC course is required
to take a reserve commission. Moreover, should that student decline the offer of a commission, he is not required to
make reimbursement of any sort to the Government.

Fifth, allotments of deferment agreements for each of the 4 classes are made available by the Third Army Headquarters at
the beginning of the year. The present strengths of the ROTC classes, and the respective allotments, are:

Class - Def. En. Quota
Seniors 45
Juniors 55 100
Sophomores 198 140
Freshmen 232 100
Total 530 340

Sixth, deferment selections are to be made by the PMS&T, based solely upon recommendations of a “deferment board.” By law,
two assistants PMS&T and one civilian faculty member comprise the board. The composition of the board is: Major Sample, Chairman;
Dr. Puckett, and Captain Martin. From the chart above, it will be noted that no competition exists in the top
classes. As for the two lower classes, the board will act on the sophomores very shortly. Selections will be based
upon many factors, including scholarship, leadership, and general aptitude. Selection of Freshmen is required by law for the start of
the second semester, and will be based upon the same factors, plus the score on a general intelligence test, prepared
by the Department of the Army and administered by the Military Department of the college. The case of a deferment
granted a basic course student who later fails to be selected for the advanced course should be mentioned. The deferment
agreement will of course be canceled by the Government. Also, the deferment time, in any case of unsatisfactory performance, may
be canceled.

A number of special cases or situations have arisen, and undoubtedly others will. The following cases are of interest:

1. ROTC students finishing one year ahead of academic class: there are several of these. If the student has already
signed deferment agreements, he will continue to be deferred until he completes college. At that time, he would receive a
commission so would not be drafted.

2. ROTC Advance Course Students in Enlisted Reserve Corps (of any service): provided he has signed a deferment agreement, his
call to active duty is to be delayed, upon his own application to his reserve unit. Note that no student
in the basic course is affected.

3. Certain types of further schooling: Graduates of the advanced (Continued On Page Five) agreement may be canceled at any
time.

Howe Green, NIAN

RUSH WEEK FORUM

Howe Green, The Freshman Farce

ARCHIBALD HANENKASH

This column is dedicated to the freshman class, a low form of animal life created by nature in an hour
of complete frustration. Here, bouncing awkwardly down one of the many beautiful tree-lined lanes on the campus, comes a typical
example of one of nature's few miscalculations, Howe Green, his head resting serenely in the clouds. At this moment, through
a rift in the mist, he sees his classmate, Joe Stoop, bent over with laundry bags. Immediately he starts toward
Joe by the shortest possible route. ACROSS THE GRASS! He is suddenly awakened by the soothing command, “Off that grass,
you simple freshman.” Howe’s only answer is “Yes, sir” as he hurries to the nearest walk.

“Hey, Joe who did you have dates with last night,” he says as he finally catches his best friend?

“What dates? You know I don’t know any girls here. Say, do you realize there are only twelve more days
of rushing? Wasn't it nice of the Pan-Hell Council to give us a month of rushing to decide which fraternity
is good enough for us?”

“Yes, and it's swell of them to give us all day Saturday to walk down to the fraternity houses,” adds
Joe. “Hey, how about that ‘cake race’ tomorrow? Crip race, I call it. We freshmen probably will set a lot
of new records out there.”

“I hear it’s over two miles long,” answers Howe dubiously.

“Holy cow,” says Joe, “I’ve got to hurry up and take this laundry, ‘cause that upperclassman told me to get
back on the double to shine some shoes. I'll see you at the race tomorrow.”

The next afternoon, as the frosh line up to start the race, Howe Green nudges his pal, Joe, and whispers,
“Let's run it at top speed.” At that moment Coach Whittle blows his whistle, and the whole freshman class charges
off, with Howe and Joe leading the pack. After a minute, Joe laughs, “Boy, this is a snap! Downhill all
the way.”

“Yes,” says Howe, “we'll outdistance everybody else easily.”

A moment later, having made the turn at Erwin’s Lodge, Howe suddenly gasps, “Hey, Joe, I’m pooped. Let’s take it
a little easier.” As they start up the hill, they realize they are slowing down. Soon our heroes are alone
in the rear. Painfully, they walk to the top of the hill. No one is in sight at the crossroads.

“Which way did the rest go,” panted Joe?

“They must have gone to the left,” answers his pal.

Hours later, hot, tired and dejected, they stop to read a sign: “Davidson—8 miles!” At that moment, it begins to
rain.

Vanderbilt Center

Vanderbilt University
Nashville, Tennessee

In Nashville, Tennessee, there is always a friendly gathering of Vanderbilt University students at the Vanderbilt Center on the campus.
And as in universities everywhere, ice-cold Coca-Cola helps make these get-togethers something to remember. As a refreshing pause from the
study grind, or on a Saturday night date—Coke belongs. Ask for it either way... both trade-marks mean the same thing.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
CONCORD COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.

© 1950, The Coca-Cola Company
