FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1950

CAT TAILS By BILL WHITE

Every time you watched Auburn Lambeth complete a pass this year it made you happy and proud because he was
so darn much like a kid out there playing, frustrating men and opposing apes in circles just for the love
of it. That's why, too, you had hoped so that Auburn would have a great day in Atlanta last Saturday.
Aubie was keyed up for that one. He wasn’t at all like a big star returning to his hometown to
show the home folks what he could do—though that’s actually what he was. He thought he was just another ball
player going along and it happened that he and his teammates were playing this one in his hometown. He knew
his folks would look forward to it. Little thought did he give to the fact that Bobby Dodd and his
Tech squad, the newspaper and radio men of Atlanta, and folks in the Georgia capital in general were watching for
him. And he just wanted to play against Tech. Tech had always been Auburn’s school—when they weren’t playing Davidson, and
the chance to play against them was something out of this world. He, little old Auburn, playing in Grant Field
against Tech. He didn’t get the same big-time thrill out of playing Army last year, where he completed 16 of
23 passes. That’s why you felt sorta sorry for Auburn when the Cats returned from Tech, failing to give the
Engineers the game some had thought they would. Auburn was like a disillusioned kid.

COLD RECEPTION FOR RETURNING SON

“Shoot, man it wasn’t anything like I thought it would be. I’d really looked forward to this trip—to the sunnier
Southland, maybe 25,000 people in the stands and us with a chance to upset them Jackets. Shucks, what happened? Coldest
day in history. 1500 people there, and we ain’t even come close to beatin’ them.”

You couldn’t do anything but laugh at Auburn’s sad face. But it was a rather sad finale for the newly
established greatest individual offensive football player in Davidson's history, Southern Conference record-setter for touchdown passes in a single game, and
one of the finest passers and quarterbacks in the business. The bitter cold gave Auburn one of his worst days
on record, completing only six of 15 passes. Only two other such days come to our memory, this year’s cold
and rainy State game when he hit for but five, and the St. Louis game last year when an injured
Lambeth completed but six. It is going, for a while, to be hard to think of Davidson without Lambeth, just
as, I suppose, it was hard for the old timers to forget Davy Spencer and Teeny Lafferty, and the old-time
standouts all along the line. But Auburn, you see, eclipsed any individual offensive record any of them might have established.
Last season he accounted for 1,126 yards passing, more than the total of any predecessor on ground and in the
air. His 211 pass completions for a three-year period were—even before the Tech game—the seventh largest number ever completed in
an equal period by a college football player. He may even rise a notch when the six from the Tech
contest are added to it. But seventh is no small distinction.

THE THINGS YOU'LL REMEMBER

You'll remember these things about Auburn Lambeth along with his five for five completion record in his first college game,
his leading the nation for a month in his sophomore season, and the all-state ratings he bagged. These will be
on the record books. The other things you'll remember won’t. You'll remember the afternoon against Washington and Lee two years
ago when he pitched valiantly, hitting 14 of 22, to keep us coming from behind in an attempt to catch
the Generals. And how trailing 20-21, he kept pitching as W & L tacklers repeatedly racked him, firing on the
way to the ground, until he had to be forced off the field. Then will follow the memory of his
hobbling into the Furman game a week later, ankle taped and full of novocaine, hitting for two of three later
period passes, the last for a touchdown to beat the Hurricane 7-0. You'll remember his fine day against Army, and
the praise the New York papers had for him. You'll remember the afternoon we took the final of many shots
of Auburn, his standing there waiting for the photographer, almost fondling the ball and wishing over and over again he
were still a sophomore. It was so much like the guy. One with the love of the game right to
the core. Then you'll remember that’s what made a good football player great.

TUXEDOS FOR RENT at Wilson-Wright's Main St. Davidson, N.C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Baird, Coming Close Last Year, Hopes to Stop Wolfpack Tuesday

Cold Helps Tech/BETAS BAG GRID CUP, High-Scoring Pack, Paced By Ranzino, Hard to Hold Down

By CHARLIE HAWKINS

Coach Boyd Baird’s Wildcat basketeers play their first game of the season next Tuesday night against N. C. State’s mighty
Wolfpack in Raleigh. This will be the third meeting of a Baird-coached Davidson team against N. C. State, coached by
Everett Case. The first time the two teams met last season, it was a runaway for State; however, the next
game was a hard battle that State won only in the last few minutes of play, and then only by
a slim margin, 44-35. This year it will be a tough chore for the Wildcats to beat a Pack team
that has already played several exhibition games, one of which was a win over George Glamack’s Grand Rapid Professional team.
Baird is banking on another tight defensive net to slow down the Wolf attack, again, giving the Cats a chance
to crack their share.

Of course, the big cog in the State machine is Sam Ranzino, already picked by many as an All-American this
year. This high-scoring forward from Gary, Indiana, is one of the most proficient point-getters in collegiate circles. Then there is
big Paul Horvath, a 6’ 7” center with plenty of experience. To top this, there is guard Vic Bubas, one
of the steadiest players in the conference. Missing only Dick Dickey, Warren Cartier, and Joe Harand from his regulars last
year, Case can count on some great new prospects. Among them are Paul Brandenburg, Bobby Speight, Bill Kukoy, and Lovington,
a 6’ 11” center. So to any fan, it is clear State isn’t lacking in experience, number, and height.

Davidson has seven lettermen back, four from last year's first team. Tommy Haller, Dutch Hengeveld, Bill Brooks, and T. C.
Coleman form the nucleus of an experienced and young squad, with Haller and Hengeveld co-captains. Only Whit Cobb is missing
from the first five of a year ago, and he will be very ably replaced by Mac McLean, who got
a lot of experience last year as a sophomore and has been looking good in practice sessions. Then there is
Don Lazenby and Bob Turk, who are also juniors and have had a year's experience in Southern Conference play. A
transfer center who has been looking good in the drills so far is Bill Proctor, a 6’ 4” Charlotte product.
Up from last year’s freshman team is Bob Graham, a fine rebounder and floor man who also is a good
shot-maker. Coach Baird can also boast some fine prospects in sophs Adrian Bowen, George King, Lefty Vance, Joe Dudley, and
J. V. Howell. Up from the all-fraternity team of last year are Al Fitzgerald and Jim Smith. Davidson will probably
use their own roving zone against the Pack, as they did last season in the second game when it worked
so well. The Cats will...have their hands full in stopping State’s vaunted offense, but the Baird-constructed net went a long
way toward muffling the Pack guns once before.

Wreck DC, 46-14
By DICK LILES

In very unusual sub-freezing temperatures, the “Rambling Wrecks” of Georgia Tech wrecked all hopes of Davidson with a 46-14 defeat
in Atlanta Thanksgiving weekend. The cold wave that struck Georgia late Friday afternoon caused temperatures of from 10-15 degrees during
the game. Both teams were naturally hindered, but the much-stronger Tech jumped to an early lead by scoring in the
first few minutes, and then for four markers in the second quarter giving them plenty of time to run in
their reserve strength.

The Wildcats, although outmanned and out-classed, matched the mighty Techsters in the first quarter, and outscored them in the second
half playing brilliant ball despite the biting cold. The two scores came when Hoopie Davis intercepted a pass deep in
Tech territory and Roy White bucked it over on the next play. Gordon Stuart put his rather-late talented toe to
the ball and the point was good. The second came in the last period when Lambeth unleashed a 16-yarder to
Dave Williams, who made a brilliant catch although covered by two men. From the one-yard line, Lambeth sneaked the ball
over to score and again Stuart’s kick was good.

Auburn Lambeth closed out a brilliant season, and a more-brilliant career, by playing one of his best games. He completed
6 out of 15 passes for 59 yards and scored on a quarterback sneak for the last tally. The frozen
fingers of his receivers cut his completion total down, but nevertheless, he was always a constant fear to the Yellow
Jackets. Joe Salome of Tech led the show from the victors' point of view. He tossed two beautiful long passes
early in the game, and set up and directed three more before he was relieved. Probably the most outstanding plays
of the game came from a third-stringer however. Two backward passes by Bobby Robinson hit their mark each time, but
were dropped to the dismay of the cold-slimmed 1,500 Tech fans on hand.

Army Lays Its Hand Where State Failed

Jake Wade, Jr., former Davidson football and baseball star and more recently a coach of the freshman football team, was
inducted into the U. S. Army, Wednesday, November 29. While at Davidson, Jake lettered in football and baseball, playing wingback
on the gridiron, and shortstop in baseball. As a footballer, he immortalized himself in the minds of Davidson supporters last
year, with a late quarter 95-yard touchdown return of an intercepted pass to give the Cats their first win over
N. C. State since 1936. He was also named to the college all-star team which played the professional Charlotte Clippers
in a post-season game at Charlotte.

High Browed Press May Snob Him, But Aubie Gets The Honors Anyway

With the season’s conclusion, Auburn Lambeth’s honors are piling up like backwash. No, the Cat Captain hasn’t bagged any All-American
or even All-Southern honors. Teams that don’t win many games can’t claim any players like that. But Lambeth has to
date been named first string quarterback on the only two opponent team releases to fall into the hands of the
sports publicity office—those of Washington and Lee and VMI. He was also third team All-Southern, by pick of the coaches
and sportswriters of the loop, and honorable mention All-Southern in the Associated Press selection. Word from Homer Cooke of the
NCAA statistics bureau has it that—before the Tech game—his 211 pass completions in a three-year period were the seventh highest
in football history.

VISIT THE DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
142 E. Morehead — Charlotte

The Kappa Sigs TOPPED BY 12-0
By WALLACE ABBOTT

The headline game of the year is now over and the fiery, upsurging Wildcats are the new intramural football champions,
defeating the Kappa Sigs in the playoff, 12-0. The victory came in a game that was filled with fine passing,
running and punting. Exciting and tricky plays were the rule of the day and the Betas seemed to hold the
upper hand with these. It didn’t take the Betas long to score since their first touchdown came on the initial
play of the game, a double sleeper pass to “Runt” Richardson from Chuck Elliott. This was the first of five
passes to be completed by the Betas out of seven attempts. However, the Kappa Sigs didn’t do as well with
their passing, as they only completed nine out of 27, and two intercepted. The Betas not only did well with
their passing attack, but also with their running plays too. Time and again they picked up yardage as Tommy Allen,
Sam Joyner and Tommy Langford cleared the way for Elliott, and tallied their final touchdown on an end sweep in
this manner.

Indications from the score would seem that the game was fairly one-sided, but it was far from that. The Sigs
threatened to score several times, but lacked the necessary drive in the last few yards. The power of their attack,
however, can be indicated in first downs, which they led in 4-2.

FINAL STANDINGS
W L
Betas 9 1
Kappa Sigs 8 2
Sigma Chi 7 3
Phi Delts 7 3
SAE 7 3
KA 6 4
Phi Gam 4 6
Pi Kapps 3 7
Pika 2 8
SPE 1 9
ATO 1 9

Chesterfield SPORTS QUIZ

1. Duke University’s 7-0 win over the University of North Carolina ended a win famine over the Tar Heels, for
the Blue Devils, which began with a loss to UNC in what year?
2. The present season was a sad one for Notre Dame's once proud Irish. How many seasons have they gone
through—not necessarily in succession—without a loss or tie on their record?
3. Name two All-American football players who have come out of the Shrine Bowl classic in Charlotte.
4. How many, and by whom were the highest number of points scored in a single basketball game for Davidson
last winter?

Answers should be turned in to Dave Moylan, C-East. The winner will be announced in next week's Davidsonian. Last week's
winner: Bill McGarity.

Send The Davidsonian Home

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests

“You can use my name... but don’t quote me!”

Nobody’s pulling the feathers over this bird’s eyes! He’s spent too many semesters in Psychology I. He knows—as any smart
smoker knows—that you can’t make up your mind about cigarette mildness on one fast puff or a quick sniff. A
one-inhale comparison certainly doesn’t give you much proof to go on. That’s why we suggest: THE SENSIBLE Test... The 30-Day
Camel Mildness Test, which simply asks you to try Camels as your steady smoke—on a pack after pack, day after
day basis. No snap judgments needed. After you’ve enjoyed Camels—and only Camels—for 30 days in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat,
T for Taste) we believe you'll know why...

More People Smoke Camels than any other cigarette!
