PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 1950

THE DAVIDSONIAN
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF
BOB HOLLISTER

BUSINESS MANAGER
BILL HOUCK

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editor
Doug Hix

Associate Editor
Lonnie Turnipseed

Associate Editor
Jack Hazard

MANAGING EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall, Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister

Sports Editor—Gordon Scott

Make-up Editors—Dan McKeithen, Cherry Stribling

City Editor—John Hobart

Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries

Photographs—Ed Richardson, Watt Jeffries

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Bill Cassells

Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw

Advertising Managers
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison

Circulation Manager
Hugh Huffaker

Asst. Circulation Managers—Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown

Collections Manager
John Loftin

Subscriptions Manager
Alex Goley

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

Frolics Queen
We would like to urge all members of the student body to submit an entry to the Spring Frolics Beauty
Contest. The idea of a Frolics beauty queen arose in an attempt to enliven interest in and anticipation of the
last dance set of the year. We feel that if this event is established as a traditional feature of our
Spring dances that not only will the students themselves more thoroughly enter into the activities of the weekend, but our
dates will also enjoy the festivities more. It will help to concentrate student interest in the weekend and thus make
it more fun for all. For these reasons, we ask that as many students as possible submit entries now. All
photographs should be turned in to Bill King, 15 Georgia. They will be returned immediately after the judges’ decision has
been announced.

In Closing
Since the time which remains before the new editor and staff of the Davidsonian is chosen nears an end, we
take this opportunity to express our gratitude to everyone who has—during the course of the year—worked with the paper on
editorial or business staff and thereby contributed toward its success. We very definitely feel that it has been a success
this year. We resolved last September that the school year, 1949-1950 would see the beginning, at least, of a trend
toward a more interesting and informative Davidsonian. We, the editors, believe that beginning has been made. We hope that what
has been done will prove to be, in fact, only a beginning. We thank sincerely the managing editors—Arnie Covell, Jim
Murray, Hartley Hall, Neil Leach, Bill Cumming, Bill Hollister, and Tom Mann for having directly made this progress possible. We
thank Gordon Scott for his thorough coverage of sports during the year. Just as important in the operation and publication
of the paper are the reporters who, by force of their continued interest and effort, have kept the copy coming
in despite reviews, lack of news, and writers’ cramp. Next week the student body will choose one of our managing
editors as the next editor-in-chief. We are happy to report to the members of the student body that a poor
choice could not be made.

Pan Hel Policy
With the election by each of the social fraternities of their Pan Hellenic Council representatives for next year, we feel
that the time is opportune for a reopening of discussion on our 85 percent plan. As most of us know,
the 85 percent plan is a device by which the Pan Hellenic Council is assured a certain amount of income
for each dance set. The Council maintains that in order to plan its dances efficiently and secure the best dance
bands, it must be guaranteed some set amount as operating capital. No one could deny that the group must be
able to count on some definite sum in order to plan its dance weekend budgets. However, there has not been
a dance weekend during the year for which—as a result of this 85 percent plan—one or more fraternities has not
had to pay sums ranging from ten to seventy-five dollars to the Pan Hellenic Council for members who did not
attend the dances. This means that this money had to be prorated among the men who did not attend—either because
they didn’t want to or because they were unable to and these men received nothing in return for their investment.
The fact that each fraternity is required to pay for tickets for 85 percent of its members in order that
we can have a “name” band once or twice a year, when all 85 percent of the fraternity men don’t
care whether they're dancing to a name band or not—doesn’t make sense. In view of this situation, and since it
is true that some sum must be guaranteed the Council, we propose that the amount be reduced to 75 percent.
If this is done, it will work far less hardship on the individual fraternities and at the same time the
Council will be assured of an overall income only slightly less than at present. Since there is to be an
eleventh fraternity on the campus next year, it is obvious that the Council will suffer little reduction of income. Seventy-five
percent of 550 men is only slightly less than 85 percent of 500 men—assuming an average of fifty men per
fraternity. Thus, the individual fraternities will be required to pay for only 75 percent of their members and this figure
will more nearly approach the number of students—on the average—attending the dances. No one then would have to pay for
something he never received. We would like to ask the fraternities to consider this matter and determine whether or not
they are in accord with our views.

Concert Review
Mary Elizabeth Freeman, Violinist
By HENRY E. HANSON

On Wednesday, April 12, at 8:30 p.m., the Gamma Kappa Chapter of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia Fraternity presented Miss Mary
Freeman, violinist, in concert in Chambers Auditorium.

Miss Freeman presented an interesting and varied program which ranged all the way from Vivaldi to Bartok. Technically speaking she
is an excellent violinist. In such matters as trills, glissandos and the actual physical manipulation of her violin she was
most competent. In her interpretations she displayed an evident understanding of what she was playing which showed that her acquaintance
with her selections was more than superficial. In this matter of interpretation she excelled in the contemporary works she played,
a characteristic which seems to be common among the younger artists of the day. Her playing was marred, however, by
an inability to maintain even tones which, at times, detracted greatly from her playing. Also, occasionally the tone became strained
on high notes.

The Sonata in A major by Vivaldi was an excellent selection. It was well played and the expression made lucid
the chamber style of this early work. The Brahms’ Sonatensatz (Scherzo) was an extremely attractive work, vigorous, yet lyric and
provided an appropriate finish to her first group. The first movement, Allegro non troppo, of the Lalo Symphonie Espagnole was
played with great spirit and was one of the most enjoyable works of her program. It suffered only slightly from
the inability, mentioned earlier, to stay on pitch. The Six Rumanian Folk Dances by Bartok were beautifully played. The dances
themselves, particularly the fourth and sixth, were full of folk feeling and presented Bartok in a new vein from that
to which we have become accustomed. The Bloch Nigun (Improvisation), was an extremely modern work, haunting and beautiful because of
its dissonances and was perhaps the best played number of the evening. The last two numbers, Pantomime from El Amor
Brujo and the Ritual Dance of Fire, both by De Falla, were very well done. Her final encore, the March
from the Love of Three Oranges by Prokofiev, was beautifully played.

In commenting on the attendance, it was not up to the last concert, but it might be said that even
a hundred or two hundred might look quite lonely in Chambers. Perhaps it would be best to hold such concerts,
in cases where the audience is uncertain, in Shearer, Phi, or even in the “Y” lounge. There is nothing so
disheartening as a handful of people trying to sound like standing room only in their applause and, to the artist,
the situation which has always been characteristic of such recitals in Chambers cannot but have a dampening effect on the
execution itself.

The New South
By GABRIEL LOWE

The antagonist of the South has long used as his major arguments the violation of the rights of the Negro
and the acts of violence committed against him (specifically lynching), when he has no means of redress. Great weight was
added to his argument in the spring of 1947 when a score of taxi-drivers in Greenville, S.C., confessedly guilty, were
acquitted of the bestial beating and murder of a Negro. That case was given great publicity, actually more than it
deserved perhaps, and the reaction in other parts of the nation was to drag the South lower in the esteem
of people everywhere. Even to native Southerners who have pride and respect for the South, the inexplicable and indefensible action
of that South Carolina jury was a source of deep mortification and shame.

But there have been numerous cases which received little or no national publicity in which the perpetrators of the crimes
were apprehended and duly punished. One example is the recent shooting of an old Negro in his cabin by two
white men, who robbed the cabin and terrified a fifteen-year-old boy into staying in the cabin in silence for some
hours, but who were speedily caught, tried and punished. Last week, however, no less an antagonist than Life Magazine ran
a two-page article on “Mississippi justice” in the murder of three Negroes by a white man. Life was reluctantly forced
to admit that “Even when a... Negro... testified against the white defendant... the audience of 800 kept quiet,” and then
continued in the same tone to say that “There was no rabble rousing at the trial, although it was black
vs. white in the heart of Mississippi.” Life closed the article by saying that “Other Southern juries have in the
past months stood up to the problem of justice for the Negro,” and cited brief instances.

Now, when an article like that is printed in Life it can mean only one thing: That there is so
much fire in evidence that Life is forced to admit the presence of a little smoke. It means that the
South is beginning to take herself in hand and to eliminate much of the prejudice and suppression with which the
Southerner has traditionally regarded the Negro. It means that the Negro is being gradually educated to take his place as
a useful citizen in Southern society. And it means that the white man is being educated to regard the Negro
as a potential citizen of value and to accept him as such. The old generation is dying out, and with
its death is going ignorance, prejudice, and tendencies toward rabble-rousing and extra-legal violence. Over the grave of this older generation
will rise a justice that is no respecter of color.

CORRECTION:
In last week's issue a typographical error appeared in the following statement in Dr. Guerrant’s letter to the editor: “The
McMahon plan appears...to me to be basically sound.” It should have read: “The McMahon plan appears to me to be
basically unsound.”

College Rags ....-IN BRIEF
By BILL CUMMING

Dawdling on the Job
From S. M. U. comes news that steel workers there have been dawdling on the job. Labor experts soon located
the cause of the trouble, however, and have taken steps to remedy the situation by asking coeds to refrain from
taking sun baths on the balconies of their dorms. Said the experts, “It causes the workmen to dawdle and be
less attentive to their work.” The steel workers are part of a construction crew on an eight-million-dollar project at Southern
Methodist.

The Show Must Go On
The Clemson Tiger, editorializing on the need of an auditorium with adequate dressing rooms, this week relates a tale of
some interest. The Barter Theatre Players, who recently presented a spicy French play on the campus, were directed to change
their costumes from street clothes in the registrar’s basement office, since Clemson has no auditorium and dressing room facilities. It
seems that this room has several windows which afford the casual wayfarer an excellent point of vantage if there happens
to be anything going on inside which strikes his fancy. The Tiger relates that no one had seen fit to
shroud these apertures and afford the visitors what might be called the veil of respectability. Shortly there gathered a considerable
aggregation of art-loving students for educational purposes, of course. Says the Tiger, “Though this gathering was in very bad taste,
it was not exactly like the hazardous misdemeanor of peeping-Tomery inasmuch as the interested spectators were in plain view of
the performers and the air of surreptitiousness did not prevail. According to some who got there early, the actresses were
understandably indignant at first; however, they soon fell into the spirit of the thing, and being the show-must-go-on-showmen that they
are, put on a burlesque that would do credit to the most talented. This of course brought squeals of childish
delight from the audience.”

General Sherman
From Vanderbilt University comes a tale of woe. Members of the local Kappa Alpha Order were eagerly in hot pursuit
of their deodorized pet skunk, “name of General Sherman,” when the ardor of the chase was sharply cooled. You guessed
it. Wrong skunk.

Here Comes Carolina
The Daily Tar Heel reports that recently a black convertible full of Carolinians in the company of John Barleycorn cruised
through the Duke campus. The occupants of the car were singing at the top of their voices, “Here Comes Carolina,”
and shouting “Beat Duke in 50.” However, they received no response from Duke students during the whole time they were
on West campus. Suddenly the bitter truth dawned on one of the Tar Heels. Duke was out on spring vacation.

Letters & People
People are crazy! It takes all kinds to make a world! How true, how true, and one of the best
ways we know of finding out just what kinds of people it really takes is to read letters addressed to
the editor. We say this without any fear of contradiction. There are all kinds of letters, each one representing some
unknown personality hovering in the background. These shadowy beings emerge on paper as ogres, angels, beasts, and what-nots. Some twist
the language beyond any recognizable form. Some clutch at our heartstrings. Some are just plain nasty. Other letters are couched
in careful terms of praise, but, alas, these are too few. The letter writer seems to tend to flowery language.
Indeed, we received several poems commenting on mercy killing. Most of them we could understand and chuckle over appreciatively, but
one was past any comprehension. With a premonition of proximity to greatness, we hurriedly dispatched the “thing” to the English
department. No word has been received. But of all the letters we have received, the one we cherished most is
one that after discussing at length and with some erudition a ticklish subject, ended with an abrupt “Go to hell!”
“We're going,” —Daily Kansan, University of Kansas.

“BIKO” By KURT BIEDENKOPF
In recent times newspapers have announced the return of the former American citizen Gary Davis to the United States as
a French immigrant. I want to take this opportunity to talk a little bit about the reason that made this
man who was a member of the U. S. Air Force during the war, give up his citizenship and what
he was hoping to reach with this world citizenship. It was more than three years ago, that people in France
began to notice a man in Paris, who was planning to establish world citizenship, hoping that he thus could prevent
war, which he feared would destroy civilization. This man was an American soldier, who had witnessed the horrors of war
and who believed to have found the answer as to how to prevent them in the future. Gary Davis was
assuming that war was made possible first of all because of the existence of nations. All through history, it seemed
to him wars had been caused by rivalry between different nations or their governments, by differences in viewpoints as to
which of them should control the other, her economical resources or political development. In order to prevent wars in the
future, Davis concluded, it would therefore be necessary to do away with nations as known by man up to present
times. Or there would have to be established one government only that would govern the people all over the world.
Being the only one this government could not fight any other nation, would have no rivals and world peace could
be secured.

With the United Nations a desperate attempt had already been made to reach this goal. But it seemed to Davis
that this approach would be destined to fail because he believed it to be impossible that governments would give up
their independence and submit to one world government. Knowing this, he tried to approach the matter from a different direction.
He believed that a movement like this one had to have its origin among the people and that the people
had to force their governments to follow them. To give this movement an organization he established the status of world
citizenship and was the first to give up his national citizenship in favor of a world-citizenship. He moved to the
territory of the buildings of the United Nations, which at that time had their meetings in Paris. This territory was
international in its character and not under the jurisdiction of the French government. Living in a small tent on the
lawn in front of the main building and being surrounded most of the time by numerous spectators and admirers, Davis
began to work for the campaign of his new movement. The controversy with the French government had secured him considerable
publicity and his idea seemed to be successful. Several times he tried to get the attention of the great council
of the United Nations to develop his idea to representatives of the world’s nations. However, he never succeeded and when
he tried to talk during a session from the gallery, he was removed by force and the council threatened to
prohibit his further staying on United Nations’ territory. Despite all this, Gary Davis went on calling meetings and speaking to
the masses of the population in Paris. People not only in France, but also in Germany and in the BeNeLux
countries joined his movement by aspiring world citizenship without, however, denouncing their own nationality. This compromise had been made because
governments refused to acknowledge world citizenship as a legal status. But as promising this start had been, as depressing was
the continuation of the movement. Seeing the final goal could not be reached within a short time, people began to
lose interest and soon nothing more was heard about world citizenship. The immediate problems in Europe were too great and
too important as to allow any place for this far-ranged movement. Whether Davis has finally given up to establish his
ideas cannot be said; it is, however, known that he tried to regain his American citizenship and upon refusal was
allowed to enter as a French immigrant. This is in short the story of another desperate trial to establish lasting
peace and save humanity from destruction, an effort that ended like so many others did, unsuccessful and almost forgotten, but
that in my opinion shall not be forgotten always.

THE SPACE FILLER
By JACK
The title of this column is probably the most descriptive label that any column in this or any other newspaper
has ever had. Though to fill space is not the primary objective of this column, it is probably running a
closer second than Ted Williams’ 1949 batting average. As yet we haven't figured out what the primary purpose is but
maybe it will come to us later on. We were asked by the managing editor, Tom Mann, to write something
since all the other columnists were getting wise and giving up. Perhaps that would imply that the secondary purpose had
just passed the primary, whatever it may be. However, for the benefit of those who are still reading at this
point we will endeavor to present a few observations for whatever they may be worth. (We are always assured of
at least two readers: (1) Tom Mann, because he is supposed to read everything that goes on this page, and
(2) Mr. Broyles, the printer, because he has to read it in order to linotype it.) So for Mr. Mann
and Mr. Broyles we continue.

With a pat on the back for Pete Whittle and a mop of a wearied brow, we will herein comment
on this year’s intramural athletic program. It is the most complete program ever presented at Davidson. The new gym has
offered facilities for handball and swimming. Also the additional basketball courts gave opportunity for a tournament as well as the
regular season play. Right now the extra volleyball courts are seeing added action which makes for a rough grind on
the participants. The speed up in volleyball activity as we understand it is to provide more time for softball. There
will be less space available for that sport than in past years. Now this program is a fine thing. It
has kept the boys off the streets and saved the juvenile courts considerable trouble. There have been no pool hall
brawls in Davidson and street fights have been at a minimum. Frank’s Northside Lounge has reported a drastic reduction in
business since the athletically reformed student body is turning a cold shoulder to his trade. After all, how can a
man drink coca-cola and still remain in shape for this strenuous program?

In a serious vein, however, we do congratulate Pete for his full program and only pray for a moment to
catch our breath. Possibly the slower softball schedule will give us that. If anyone has read this far we won't
thank him, but will gaze at him in awe and offer our sympathies. If there is any reader who has
a personal pet peeve or compliment and doesn’t wish to write about it, he may get it in print by
contacting this department. As said above, we don’t guarantee that it will be read, but it will be printed in
this corner. We must place certain restrictions, however: No campaigns for Claude Pepper, beer halls in the student union, or
abolition of night baseball.
