Had television’s probing eye reached into a certain South Carolina village last Saturday night, the living-room Leahys would have loved
Auburn-Lambeth. The lean Cat quarterback bounced back to the huddle, planted his hands on his hips, and in his best
Georgian panted: “7-1-F43, and let’s go get six more points for the Cats, boy! Oh, them Wildcats is rackin’ tonight.
Them Blue boys just lost out here on this field. Let’s roll for Crowell! 31T-F48, on two. Let’s move on
down for ole D.C. Ain’t no stoppin’ these Cats tonight!”

That was the spirit—and the brainwork—that engineered the revenge win over the bullying Blue Hose from Clinton. And in that
respect, Auburn Lambeth outdid his passing self in perfection. According to Coach Crowell Little (of Par. 3, “roll for Crowell”
fame), Lambeth called a near-perfect first half. When a coach says that of his field general, he has confidence in
him, and the boy certainly has something himself. Lambeth showed for all the 4,000 scattered in Presbyterian’s Johnson Stadium to
see that he is truly a great football performer not just from a passing standpoint, but as quarterback and T-operator
as well.

When the Lambeth legend began on a fall afternoon in 1947 with a skinny freshman’s five for five against VMI,
few paid too much attention to it. The next year, the skinny freshman had gained in age, weight, and prestige
and in September 1948 was the nation’s best passer. Since then he has been on top at Davidson. But until
this year chiefly as a passer. Many failed to see Lambeth as a polished signal caller. The fall of ‘49
did see Auburn calling some that the folks up in the stands took issue with, but he was still a
T-formation baby in a single wing environment. He kept passing, however, and the comments you heard were something like this:
“Sure, Lambeth’s a great passer, but what else does he do?” You wanted to answer, “What else does he have
to do?” but let it ride.

He was doing something besides passing. He was running when he was trapped, and he was lugging back punts and
kickoffs at a rate which landed him thirteenth in the nation last year on total offense. Then comes the revolution
and the standby single wing is out the window. In comes the T, and back goes Lambeth to the spot
in which he laid his first hand on a football. Also, out goes your opponent for a glass of water,
and he hasn’t returned yet. He just saw the Presbyterian pictures.

If Auburn looked good in the opener with Furman, he looked wonderful against the Hose. A. C. Gregg, Roy White,
and C. L. Runyan didn’t leave much backfield honor room, and the line covered itself with what amount of glory
was left in the bucket. But Lambeth must have bathed in the bucket. Gregg and White got off on some
beauts, and Stuart, Acker, Freeman, Talbirt, Kiser and the rest of the crew had some great moments, but the guiding
hand of Lambeth stood out through the whole show. His ball handling was superb. Spotters in the press box who
had watched Davidson practice since last March couldn’t find the ball. Presbyterian defenders had the same trouble. It was into
a gut, out, into another, riding on a pitch out, and then sailing down the other side of the field
on a pass. Lambeth was a jack-in-the-box with a magic wand.

Auburn called himself for passing only eleven times, and he knows as well as the next fellow that he needs
almost eleven completions per game this fall to enter the collegiate select 200-completed club. But the ground attack was going
great guns, so the general of the offensive platoon stuck to the ground. His mix-up of plays combined with his
tricky deception as hand-off man meant that he need toss but eleven, six of which were completed and three for
touchdowns. It was straight power and speed until the goal was only a stone’s throw away. When it was, Lambeth
threw his stone.

The Citadel claims to have a boy equal in ability to our Auburn in their Jack Chandler, a very fine
passer. Presbyterian boasted the same thing in left-hander Jack Harper, who indeed was a good chunker. But for the all-round
quarterback, Lambeth is going to be hard to beat in any foe the Cats face.

CATISTICS
Team Statistics
By BILL WHITE

Individual Running
Davidson Opponents
Carries Net Gain Av.
15 First Downs, rush 22 Gregg 23 188 8
10 First Downs, pass 9 White 8 54 6.7
1 First Downs, pen. 0 Runyan 12 71 5.9
26 Total First Downs 31 Wade 6 32 5.3
402 Yards Rushing 497 Leach 7 20 2.8
229 Yards Passing 265 Stuart 1 2 2
631 Total Net Yards 762 Bower 1 5 5
52 Passes Attempted 38 Lambeth 14 19 14
15 Passes Completed 22
3 Passes Intercepted 5
3 Fumbles Lost 4
No. Yds. Returned TD 12
Number Punts 19 Lambeth 3 4 0
35 Punting Average 33.1 Leach 2 17 0
29 Yds. Punt Returns 64 Stuart 1 0 0
6 Number Penalties 10
60 Yds. Penalized 90
No. Kickoff Returns Av.
Individual Passing Runyan 11 383 34.8
No. Comp. Int. Yds. TD Wade 1 39 39
Lambeth 29 15 3 220 5 Ruth 3 0 0 0 0
Punt Returns Peeler 2 0 0 0 0
No. Ret. Yds. Av. TD Individual Receiving
Lambeth 1 9 9 0 Gregg 3 65 0
Stuart 2 29 1
Kickoff Returns Turk 3 30 0
No. Ret. Yds. Av. TD White 1 49 0
Gregg 3 57 19.1 0 Guiton 1 10 1
Leach 4 7 1.75 0

Wildcat Sports
SPORTS SECTION THE DAVIDSONIAN
CATS OUT ON LIMB WITHOUT BRANCH
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1956
CATS MINUS STARS FOR CITADEL

THE GENERAL: GUARD’S EYE VIEW
Were guard Jim Fasul to glance over his right shoulder this afternoon in Citadel’s Johnson Hagood Stadium, this is the
sight he’d see—captain Auburn Lambeth ready to reel off another bit of T-trickery from his quarterback post. Against Presbyterian last
week, the Wildcat passing whiz called what Coach Crowell Little termed “the finest first half of football I have ever
seen.” Aubie is the man the Cats are banking on offensively in his dual with the Cadets’ classy Jack Chandler.
For further particulars on Lambeth, see “Cat Tales.”

Phi Delts Move Into Lead As SAE’s Topple Betas
By WALLACE ABBOTT

The second week of intramural football showed several of the teams definitely shaping up as powerhouses. Among these are the
Kappa Sigs, who promise to give every team a rough battle, but leading the league Wednesday night were the Phi
Delts, who were undefeated in three games. From early indications, however, before the end of the season there will probably
be no undefeated teams.

Phi Gams 6-SAE 0
The Phi Gams put on a fine aerial attack and at the same time stymied the SAE attack to win
6-0. Both teams looked fine in the line, but it was the receiving of Lynn Crawley and the passing of
C. I. Clark that gave the Phi Gams a victory. Phifer and Doubles looked good in the Phi Gam line
while Hinson stood out for the losers.

Phi Delts 2 First Downs-KA’s 1
In a game in which both teams came close to scoring several times, but were unable to push across, the
Phi Delts edged the KA’s 2-1. Both lines proved to be good with every player looking great, but in the
backfield it was Bird who was the individual star.

Betas 6-Sigma Chi’s 0
The Betas varied from their usually strong running attack to score through the air and defeat the Sigma Chi’s 6-0.
In the line for the Betas each player was rushing hard and they were able to hold the Sigma Chi
passing attack down. The touchdown was scored on a long pass from Elliot to Langford.

SPE’s 6-ATO’s 0
In this game the SPE’s clearly outplayed the ATO’s, and though the score doesn’t indicate it, the first downs do,
for the SPE’s led 5-1. The one touchdown was scored on a pass to Bruce Frye. It was a close
game all the way but the ATO’s were never able to push across for a score.

Phi Delts 12-Phi Gams 6
The Phi Delts took advantage of two Fiji miscues to score early twice. One was on a blocked kick, the
other an intercepted pass by Ray. However, after that the Phi Delts were lucky to stay ahead. The Phi Gams,
chiefly on passes from Clark to Chipman and Abbott, scored 7 first downs to the Phi Delts 0. The Phi
Gams outplayed them, but the Phi Delts got the breaks early.

Kappa Sigs 20-Pikas 0
The Kappa Sigs, in their first season game, showed the most powerful line to be seen in several...

Old Grads Will Blink Eyes Twice At Richardson Field Next Week
Joy of returning grads on Homecoming weekend is...Invariably going back to the old spots, seeing the old sights, reliving old
memories. Paradoxically, the old grads also revel in noting improvement about their campus, and next weekend they will see plenty
in Richardson Field—if they keep their eyes open. True, it is the same old stand where the present-day warriors' fathers
did their grid business, but Athletic Director Paul Scott is going to have the little arena so dressed up its
own mother wouldn’t recognize it. Most outstanding of the improvements the alumni will nudge their neighbor about is the new
scoreboard, installed on the site of the ancient and out-moded white board job. For a week now electricians have been
testing and tinkering, and the big electric machine is ready to begin its career of letting folks know what the
score is. Although October 21 is not Flag Day, the banners will be abundant (Continued on Page Five).

Seasons. Led in the line by Seemore Simmons, they had the Pikas on the ground most of the day. The
score clearly indicated the power of the Kappa Sig attack.

SAE’s 12 - Beta’s 12
SAE’s 4 FD. Betas 2 FD

In the closest game thus far this season, the SAE’s came from behind to score in the last two minutes
and win the game on first downs. It was Monty Hill who led their attack, in his first game of
the season. The Betas scored on a blocked kick and a sleeper pass.

KA’s 18 - ATO’s 6

A touchdown pass from Bird to Ward on the first play of the game was enough to lead the KA’s
to (Continued on Page Five).

Wildcat of the Week:

One—and mind you only one—of the outstanding features of the Wildcat win over Presbyterian last Saturday night was the vastly
improved Davidson defense that put the stranglehold on P. C.’s fleet-footed foursome. Thus it is that this week’s Wildcat...

By DICK LILES

The Davidson Wildcats will again meet a trying test this Saturday afternoon when they tangle with a determined, thrice-beaten Citadel
eleven. Wound up over last week’s 24-0 trouncing of Presbyterian, the Cats must meet this one without the services of
several strong men who have been so dependable up to now on this scrapping team. Jack Branch, who so ably
held down a right tackle spot on both offense and defense, suffered a torn ligament in his right leg early
in the game. Also not being able to see action are ailing Henry Wilson and Jack Ruth, both out for
some time now.

For the first win of the new season, the Wildcats jumped on the Blue Hose of Presbyterian College, 24-0, unleashing
a driving offensive and an even better passing game. Auburn Lambeth passed to A. C. Gregg twice in the first
quarter for two touchdowns of four and 18 yards, respectively. Sub halfback Johnny Guiton also gathered in a Lambeth aerial
in the last quarter for the final Cat TD. Fullback C. L. Runyan counted the third tally on a smash
from one foot out. Halfback Roy White, the soph hustler from Genosea, Ill., came into his own in his varsity
debut with a beautiful catch of a 40-yard pass from Lambeth, romping on for ten more yards to set up
the second score. White and Gregg proved themselves a couple of sophs who are going to cause the big boys
plenty to worry about this fall.

The Cat offense was simple but effective. Several sustained drives sparked by Gregg’s running and Lambeth’s passing and climaxed by
touchdowns featured the attack. Particularly potent was Lambeth's lethal arm which accounted for or featured every Cat march. Gregg, White,
and Runyan moved the mail on the ground, and collected 288 yards doing it, 128 of them belonging to Gregg.
Going into the game as slight underdogs, having been dropped by Furman who suffered at the hands of the Blue
Hose, the Red and Black machine began to roll early in the first quarter and didn’t let up. Several deep
drives were checked by the Hose just short of a Wildcat tally.

Defensively, the Cats were vastly improved. Ends Dick Blanks and “Acorns” Oakes were effective on the flanks in aiding the
linebackers and halfbacks in checking P. C.'s vaunted option play, which Furman had used so well. In the center of
the line, Jack Branch’s absence after the first quarter was partially offset by the top line play of Bilt Freeman,
Bill Acker, Jerry Kiser, and Lee Talbirt. Presbyterian threatened only once, shortly before the second quarter ended. The Blues marched
60 yards to the Davidson five, depending mostly on the passing arm of Quarterback Jack Harper. Battling the clock and
a surprisingly tight Cat aerial goal-line defense, Presbyterian was unable to hit for a marker. The Cats compiled an impressive
17-11 first down advantage, most of theirs coming in the first half. Lambeth’s quarterbacking was nothing short of terrific, and
his passes were true six of eleven times to keep his average above the .500 mark. Only one pass fell
into enemy (Continued on Page Five).

Bill Freeman

The Cat of the Week comes not from the host of Cat backs who skipped through openings to give this
school one of its more enjoyable offensive evenings in several years, but the men who fixed the stranglehold on opposing
backs and at the same time made sure openings were created for the Cats. The man with the big hand
in the stranglehold was rugged Bill Freeman. Operating from left tackle on defense, Big Bill is one of the main
reasons why Presbyterian did not duplicate its 27-7 win of last fall as it had hoped to. Freeman played the
P. C. backs a waiting game, and was there for the kill when they attempted to hit his hole. With
his running mate Jack Branch out of commission after the second quarter, Freeman took it on himself to handle Jack’s
share, although 235-pound Bill McNeely, handler of Herculean tasks, was on the job. His play typified the line play that
held the Blue Hose in check when twice they rattled down uncomfortably close to scoring ground.

Freeman does not depend on weight for power. Indeed, he uses his comparative lightness for a quick, aggressive charge that
knocks a bigger foe right out of his position. It is Freeman's rugged, solid build that makes him a virtual
rock on defense. As a back commented in early season work, “Freeman hits hard, but he’s a lot harder when
you run into him.” “Bull” is a quiet, conscientious guy who takes his football seriously and packs every ounce of
his energy into the game when he is in action. And in the library he concentrates just as hard as
he does on the gridiron. His studies attest to that fact as does his playing to the latter.

Jerry Kiser is still having a little trouble with his knee, but will be back in his guard slot in
plenty of time for the game. Citadel will probably be “pent-up” and ready for the fray. After bowing to Florida,
Miami, and Washington and Lee, they might be “on” and throw up some mean competition. Also, it will be Homecoming
for the Cadets and that is always a bad time to have to beat a squad. Coach Little has been
working this week on a suitable defense to stop the antics of Cadet Quarterback Jack Chandler, who has already given
quite a few teams some scares and nightmares with his potent “radar” arm. Chandler is one of the finest quarterbacks
and passers in the South and an alert defense is almost a necessity. The effective two-platoon system used last week
against P. C. will be used again, but it becomes harder to fill the slots with such a small squad.
Coach Crowell will depend heavily on “Bull” Freeman, who romped all over the field in Clinton, Hoopie Davis, and Bill
McNeely to hold down his tackle slots. The other positions are pretty well stabilized and fairly deep in material. Auburn
will have to do most of the offensive work since Jack Ruth is temporarily out at quarterback, but can be
relieved on defense by several able halfbacks. The Davidsonians’ offense doesn’t have too many flaws as seen from their endeavors
last week. Falling back on the arm and finesse of Lambeth, and the sprinting and plunging abilities of A. C.
Gregg and C. L. Runyan, the Cats have only to get the old spirit and pep wrought up before the
afternoon fray to put another win on the records of this up-and-coming team. The “Homecoming Cadets” will be tough, but
it looks like the “Men of Mecklenburg” are on the march to a better season by continuing with a victory
over Citadel. It can only depend on their getting into the scrap and fast, because a close game is expected
in Charleston and the winner will be the team that does just that.
