Tuesday night was one of those nights that Davidson's not-always-so-lucky cagers simply couldn’t be denied a win. The way the
boys played—the spirit and drive that they exhibited—would lead one to believe that it was they who were fighting for
a berth in the conference tourney, not Clemson. As it was, the win had little to do with Davidson’s standing,
but it rudely shut the tournament door in Clemson’s face. The Bengals were pointing for a win, but the memory
of a defeat by Clemson was too fresh in the minds of Baird and his crew to allow such to
transpire.

COBB AGAIN WILDCAT OF WEEK
Wildcat Sports
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1950
THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FOUR

CATS SHOW CLEMSON TOP FORM
Wildcat Of The Week Cobb And Mates Stop Tiger's Bid For Conference Tournament Berth

By CHARLIE HAWKINS
The Davidson College Wildcats jumped off to an early 12-6 lead against the Clemson Tigers Tuesday night in Johnston Gym
and scrapped it out all the way to win, 77 to 66. It was Wildcat captain and guard Whit Cobb
who dropped in 20 points to sink the hopes of Banks McFadden’s Tigers. Eight of Cobb’s points came in the
first four minutes of the game, setting the tone for the Wildcats' victory.

By GORDON SCOTT
COBB TERRIFIC DESPITE ILLNESS
In posting their highest first half total this year—41 points—Davidson put on an exhibition of some of the fanciest and
most deadly shooting seen in Johnston gym thus far. Henzeveld's long, archless set-shots dropped through the nets for ten points;
Tom Haller pushed in 12 from his forward slot; and Bill Brooks, combining hard driving and push shots in the
circle, rang up a total of 16 points. Yes, these men all did a lion’s share of the work, but
orchids must go to Captain Whit Cobb, for his sterling all-round play. It would be almost trite to add anything
else to all that has been said all year long about his brilliant floor playing, so we'll only dwell on
the point-making knack which the Durham product had against Clemson. In a furious four minutes at the beginning of the
game, Whit had looped eight points through the nets, which is by itself close to his average for games this
year. This was indication enough that something was in the air, and Whit bore this out by going on to
post twenty points during the fray. The fact that made Cobb's performance all the more remarkable was that a severe
head cold had kept him in its grips for nearly a week. In practice on Monday, Whit took only a
light part and it was questionable whether he would do much playing Tuesday night at all. But he did, and
in doing so scored the most points of his entire basketball career. After the game, we were talking with Whit
and he said, “You know, this game of basketball is truly perplexing”—obviously referring to his scoring twenty points on one
night when his past performances this year had run hot and cold. We asked Whit when was the last time
he scored twenty points in a game, and he replied, “G. P., that’s the first time I ever scored as
many as twenty points in an organized basketball game in my life. My sophomore year, I managed 18 against Maryland,
and again 18 against UNC last year, but tonight was the first time that I have ever broken twenty.” This
fact is surprising, especially when one considers the fact that Whit was named to All-State teams in High School and
on college All-State squads for the past two years. It is proof that the lanky Student Body President has distinguished
himself as an all-round eager in the eyes of scribes all over the state, rather than as a basketball player
whose only forte is shot-making. That Whit should have risen to such heights Tuesday night as his athletic career is
drawing to a close, is a source of real pleasure to all of us who have watched this modest, unassuming
competitor in action through the years. There will always be basketball at Davidson, but never another Whit Cobb.

FROSH RING DOWN CURTAIN
The preliminary game Tuesday night between Ray Brown's Frosh charges and Clemson's frosh brought to a close the season for
the local lads. In looking back over the won-lost record, they can point to but three wins, but they can
point with pride to the spirited competition which they gave in many games while losing. In piloting his first cage
squad, Ray Brown did well in pulling the team together after a dismal start and producing a crew which more
than held its own against all opponents in the latter part of the season. This year’s frosh squad lacks boys
who can be immediately tabbed as sure-fire varsity material next year, the biggest reason, of course, being that this year’s
varsity is made up largely of sophomores and there will be few openings on it next year. But don’t count
these lads out, for in a year or two such names as Bowen, Graham, Asbury, Howell, King, Lippard, and Crosland—to
mention a few—will be making the press notices.

Take Your Date to the Wrestling Match at 1:00 P. M.

WHIT COBB
It was his great work in the Clemson game which makes him the Wildcat of the Week. Against the Tigers
Tuesday night, as in all games, the Davidson captain showed why many call him the conference’s best defensive guard. His
speed and defensive ability are assets which allow him to stick right on top of his man and which also
makes it impossible for an opponent to get a step on him, thus cutting fouls to a minimum. It is
needless to mention the high scorers that Whit has held down, but it might be noted that Cobb was charged
with one foul Tuesday night and that’s about average for him, but what an average. Many observers have wondered how
such a little (6 feet, 150 lbs.) man gets so many rebounds. Clemson sadly learned that it was his springy
legs and his ability to be at the right place at the right time. Although the records this year show
that Whit has fallen off in his scoring, it certainly wasn’t noticeable as he banged in 20 points to be
high man for the evening. His 8 points in the first four minutes of the game were a bad sign
for the Tigers, who were really out to win in order to make the Conference Tournament. Whit’s set shots, always
a dangerous weapon, made him look like the Whit Cobb who never missed a set a couple of years ago.
The leadership, playmaking, and fine ball handling of Captain Whit Cobb has made the difference between winning and losing in
quite a few games this year. An outstanding example of this took place the other night. It's difficult to believe
that Whit could ever hold a grudge; however, it seems so in this case. In Whit’s first year, Clemson knocked
the Wildcats out of the Conference Tournament and this time it was the Tigers who needed to win for a
berth. Whit paid them back.

Kittens Lose In Overtime For Second Consecutive Night; High Point Matters
By JIM FARRAR
Saturday night, the Wildkittens made their last road trip of the season down to Belmont Abbey to battle the Crusaders.
The Kittens, fresh from a 72-70 overtime defeat at the hands of High Point, were determined to end their season
on a high note.Wingate started off slow in the game. The tight zone defense of the Crusaders had the Red
men baffled throughout the entire first half. The long shots of Asbury and the driving push shots of Bowen were
the only factors that kept the Davidson five in the game. The score at the half was 25-19, Belmont Abbey
leading. However, the Davidson cagers fought back against the Crusader’s man-to-man defense and after the first ten minutes of the
second half, Davidson had tied the score at 37-all. The game became very rough, each team trying to gain the
advantage. With a minute and a half to play Davidson led by four points, 45-41. Bendel came in for Belmont
Abbey and saved the game for them by sinking two long shots. The game ended with both teams having 45
points. Belmont scored three quick field goals and then held off a rally by Davidson. Bowen and Vance scored field
goals for the Kittens with Asbury tossing in a free throw. This was the second straight game the freshman five
have lost in an overtime. Perhaps the failure of the Kitten five was due to the incapacity of Graham to
hit for five points. The tight defense of the Crusaders was responsible for the ace frosh forward being held to
so few points. Bowen led the Wildkittens with 14 points, followed closely by “Pee Wee” Asbury’s 12 markers. College is
said to be the world’s best matrimonial bureau. Marriage is within itself a liberal education.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N.C.

This Time Abbey

Chesterfield Sport Quiz

1. At present, who is the leading scorer in Southern Conference basketball?
2. What is the name of the now prominent football coach who coached Charlie Justice at Asheville High School?
3. What team recently “sewed-up” the North State cage title?
4. Who is the present welterweight boxing champion?
5. With the close of the 1950 baseball season, Connie Mack will have completed ___ years as manager of the
Philadelphia Athletics.

RULES
Print your answers clearly on the back of a Chesterfield wrapper. Take your answer to Frank Perrin in 112 West.
No entries will be accepted later than 24 hours after the Davidsonian is circulated. The first three correct entries will
receive a carton of Chesterfield cigarettes. This contest is not open to the members of the Davidsonian staff.

By DICK LILES

The freshman grapplers met High Point earlier this week and dropped a close match to them by 21-11. The Kittens
shortened the margin of defeat from their earlier meeting. The Pointers were handed five points because of Davidson’s inability to
produce a heavyweight, which made the score actually look worse than the match. Here are the results by the separate
classes:
121 lb.—Craven (D) decisioned Rogers (HP)
128 lb.—Irvin (D) pinned Willis (HP)
136 lb.—Slaydon (HP) pinned Kirby (D)
145 lb.—Hudson (HP) decisioned Goudy (D)
155 lb.—Morgan (HP) pinned Haynes (D)
165 lb.—Morrow (D) decisioned Freeman (HP)
175 lb.—Black (HP) decisioned Adams (D)
Unlimited—Bragg (HP) won by default.

George Irvin pinned Willis of High Point in both of their meetings. Also of interest is that Jerry Morrow improved
his tactics in decisioning Freeman, who pinned Morrow in their last meet. The next and final match of the season
will be held at Duke University against Duke frosh on Tuesday, February 21.

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT
BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
PHONE 2-2238

THACKER'S, INC.
Private Dining Rooms for Parties and Banquets
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
Phone 25490
231 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.

ADRIAN BOWEN

Points came in the first four minutes of play, and five more came in the waning minutes of the ball
game to clinch the victory. The scoring started off fast, with Brooks, Cobb, and Hengeveld hitting for Davidson, while Haugh,
Clemson forward, kept the Tigers within distance with his overhead shot. By halftime, Davidson had piled up 41 points to
Clemson's 34, which is unusually high for a midway mark. It was Davidson’s scrap pitted against Clemson’s height thus far.
Clemson’s two centers, 6’5” and 6’6,” were getting many of the rebounds. Clemson rallied in the first few minutes of
the second half and pulled ahead of the Cats for a short-lived lead. Tigers Jim Reynolds and Ronald Richardson had
begun to hit the nets, and the Cats were now forced to come from behind. That is exactly what they
did as Davidson's Bill Brooks, Tommy Haller, and Whit Cobb began to work brilliantly to pile up another Cat lead.
Once again Clemson forged ahead, 53-51, with only a few minutes remaining. It was here that Cobb’s leadership came through
as he led Davidson ahead again to stay. Wildcats Brady Osborne and Bob Turk came through with goals late in
the game to ice the contest for the Cats. Cobb’s 20 points were high for the night, and Bill Brooks
and Tommy Haller tossed in 16 and 12 apiece for Davidson's cause. Dick Haugh and Jim Reynolds led the Clemson
scoring with 16 and 14 points. From the foul line, the Tigers hit 15 of 24 tries, while Davidson was
successful on 17 of 25. This was perhaps the most brilliant game of the year for the fighting Cats, who
proved they had come a long way and were fast becoming a team to be reckoned with in the Southern
Conference.

A small town is the one where a person is never too busy to stop and listen to some gossip.

HARRIS ASBURY
Crack Guards On Kitten Quintet

WATCH REPAIRS
JUST A GOOD SHOP WHERE FAST SERVICE IS THE RULE!
W. S. HENDERSON
