Wildcats Catch Keydets For Final Home Showing

Pete Whittle was a worried man Wednesday night, and his brow furrows weren’t planted with concern over his cross-country team chances in Monday’s State meet. Mr. Whittle's splendid intramural sports program, after picking up where it had left off at the end of a banner year last spring, was bringing frowns as well as furrows. Wednesday night, Louis Owen was in a hospital in Winston-Salem, Barnyard Thompson and Jim Carr wore their arms in slings, big Ed Sutton was still limping, Fog Horne had a healthy cut over his eye, and numerous others were nursing minor hurts from the week’s wrath wrought on the field of friendly strife.

Touch football, rivaled only by basketball for dominance in the field of fraternity competition, was getting too rock-em and sock-em for a lot of guys’ good. In short, touch football was becoming tough football. No tougher than usual, you remind us. True, but it is becoming too much of a bad thing. One or two injuries now and then were understandable and thus excusable, but the infirmary’s running low on band-aids and the Greeks are getting short on gladiators. This year’s injuries have ranged from Owen’s possible skull fracture to dislocated shoulders, with chipped teeth, broken hands, sore jaws, etc., interspersed. The average college coach would have grabbed a sponge instead of a crying towel.

Conceded: It is bad. We are against the injuries. What to do about it? By Monday’s play, you may be playing under a different set-up. Don’t worry too much about the rumor that you won’t be playing at all. Whittle feels that this year’s schedule will be completed, but some changes are definitely going to be made.

“When we started the season,” the intramural director recalled, “I asked the sports managers what they thought about switching from two-hand touch to one-hand tag. They wouldn’t hear of it. The titles don’t impart too much difference in the games, and actually, the rules are just about the same. But two-hand touch is bringing on a lot of these injuries—particularly shoulder injuries—that we wouldn’t have with one-hand tag. You can shove a lot harder and push a man to the ground a lot easier with two hands than you can with one.”

An injection here on our part is that one hand would also tend to make the teams take to the air more, getting away from a running attack where rugged contact blocking is a prerequisite.

“Most of the schools,” Mr. Whittle continued, “are going over to tag football, and they report that it is not quite so rough. There is just so much spirit out there that you can’t hold them down. They are actually ready to die, if necessary, for dear old fraternity! It has me worried, seriously. I tried to see Mr. Scott today, but he was busy. Before Monday, I am going to have a meeting with him and the sports managers to arrive at some decision on the matter. I would be willing to make a change no matter how slight or how sweeping, so long as it will prevent just one injury. We may have to play ‘sissy’ football if that’s what they want to call it. And even that may not solve the problem.”

There has been much talk batted around the last week about cutting football from the intramural program, replacing it with volleyball from an already crowded spring schedule. There has even been talk that the powers that be have already spiked football’s future. That isn’t so. At least it wasn’t as we went to press. To us, and the catcalls are coming, abolishment of the game looks like the answer. Because:
1. Issuing equipment would only be the green light for rougher stuff.
2. Limiting play to boys who have never been out at any time for college football would still leave a loophole for a lot.

(Continued On Page Four)

By BILL WHITE
Wildcat Sports
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1950

Wildcat of the Week: Johnny Guiton
By DICK ROPER

Add one scatback. On the basis of a performance that won’t soon be forgotten by Erskine College’s Flying Fleet, little Johnny Guiton made a place all his own in the select circle of ‘Cat stars. Anyone who saw small John’s brilliant running in last Saturday's 44-0 win will not dispute the fact that he belongs right up there with the rest of the Wildcats of Renown—Auburn Lambeth, C. L. Runyan, A. C. Gregg, Roy White, et al. The Fayetteville boy who weighs every ounce of 150 pounds couldn’t be stopped as he tore through Erskine’s line and around the flanks for a total of 69 yards in ten trips with the ball. He personally scored two of the Cats’ touchdowns, and when the game ended, the slight speedster had a 7.1 average per carry. More than once, Guiton reversed his field to evade a host of would-be tacklers and pick up valuable extra yards.

Guiton came near scoring another TD for the Cats late in the fourth quarter when he scooped an Erskine pass off his shoetops and ran through the boys in Maroon for more than fifty yards before a longer-legged Erskine back overtook him on the visitors' 35. Although a clipping penalty nullified his gain, Johnny had broken up the final Fleet threat and the Wildcat club had a new star to talk about. This 21-year-old junior should prove a hard man to deal with in the remainder of the Cats’ games this season, and, if he continues to improve as he has recently, the fame of number 22 will be attached to Davidson as well as U.N.C.!

Kittens At Raleigh For Tough Battle With Frosh Pack

Coach Boyd Baird this week faced the unenviable task of preparing his twice-beaten frosh gridders for a game which may possibly be the toughest of the season. The Wildkittens will meet an N.C. State frosh team tonight which, although it has won but a single game, is being drummed by the press as the most powerful in recent years. Kickoff time is 8:00 p.m. in Raleigh's Riddick Stadium.

After the crushing 47-0 defeat which the Kittens suffered at Furman last Saturday, one could have cut the gloom in their dressing room with a knife. And, although they may be able to turn the tables with some breaks and improvement of their attack, they will meet a team heavily favored to trounce them again tonight.

Coach Baird has not had much time to work on improving his club this week. The freshmen have been working with the varsity in preparation for the Cats’ contest tomorrow afternoon with V.M.I., running the Virginians’ plays and setting up the Keydets’ offenses in full and dummy scrimmages. The frosh coach has other troubles, too. His starting fullback, Preston Whitfield, has been out of action all week with a leg injury, and Julian Weinberg, Nabby Armfield, and Bob Patton have also been sidelined with minor hurts. However, all of these boys are expected to see at least limited action in tonight's contest.

In what little time the freshmen have had to themselves, Coach Baird has stressed the potentialities of their passing attack. Four boys have been working from the quarterback slot and all have done a little of the throwing. Hershel Allen, Tim Gilley, Sid Cutts, and Johnny Gray have shared that position.

MEN’S CLOTHING STORE HOURS
Monday thru Friday, 9 A.M. to 5:30 P.M.
Open Mon. and Fri. Nights till 9
Student Charge Accounts Invited
Wilson-Wright’s
Davidson, N.C.

Sig Chi's, K-Sigs, Betas Lead Chase

The intramural race was narrowed once more when the KA’s were defeated twice during the week. Three teams are now tied for the lead. They are the Kappa Sigs, Betas, and Sigma Chis. However, it certainly cannot be said that these teams will be first when the season ends. There are far too many upsets scored each week to attempt to pick a winner. The leaders still haven't clashed so these contests will be awaited by everyone.

Phi Gams 6 - Pikas 0
The Phi Gams and Pikas remained in a scoreless deadlock until the last 45 seconds of play, when Ed Chipman completed a long pass to Wallace Abbott for a touchdown. It was a hard-fought game in which the Phi Gams threatened to score several times. For the Pikas, Grover Martin was outstanding, both offensively and defensively.

Sigma Chi's 6 - KA’s 0
The Sigma Chi's scored one of the most important of their season's victories when they edged the KA’s 6-0. Their lone touchdown was scored early in the game when they blocked a KA punt. Johnny Kelton then ran the ball over. It was a close, hotly contested battle all the way through. T.W. Aldred did some fine passing while Leroy Mims did a fine job in the line for the KA’s.

SAE's 12 - SPE’s 0
The SAE’s had little trouble in defeating the SPE’s in their game, the score being 12-0. As usual, the SAE’s relied on passing with Jay Roberts doing the tossing. On the receiving end of the touchdown passes were Bruce Ballenger and Monty Hill. Jimmy Miller and Jack Wilson carried the SPE's through the game with their outstanding play.

Kappa Sigs 18 - Pi Kapps 0
“Slimy” Sloan’s passing and the line play of SeemoreSimmons once more carried the Kappa Sigs to victory. Sloan passed for all 3 touchdowns, the receivers being Williams, Spach, and Torrence. The injury of Jim Carr somewhat hampered the Pi Kapps' chances as he was playing a fine game. Winston Wright also looked good for the Pi Kapps.

Betas 24, Pikas 0
The Beta attack was far too powerful for the Pikas to stop and they rolled to a comparatively easy victory. Pika passes were being constantly intercepted by the Betas, which held down their attack. The Betas looked very good on passes, but the Pikas were able to fairly well halt their running attack. The victory was a costly one, however, to the Betas, due to the injury of Louis Owen.

Sigma Chi’s 20, ATO’s 6
Although both teams lost several opportunities to score, the game did show a number of fine plays which resulted in TDs. For the ATO’s, John Whitfield looked good as a pass receiver. The Sigma Chi passing attack was led again by Tyler Berry. Johnny Kelton did most of the receiving.

Phi Gams 6, SPE’s 0
In the only overtime game so far this season, the Phi Gams were able to eke out a close victory over the SPE’s. The Phi Gams scored their lone touchdown on a long pass to Bill Christopher in the closing minutes of the overtime period. The regular game ended in a 22 first down tie. For the SPE’s, Horace Ball stood out as a passer and “Chick” Howe as a receiver.

SAE’s 12, KA’s 6
With the loss of Bill Bird from their attack, the KA’s were able to do very little in their game with the SAE's. The SAE line proved to be the difference in the contest. Both SAE touchdowns were on passes by Jay Roberts. Monty Hilt caught one touchdown pass while Bob Bennett caught the other. The KA’s scored on a pass to Bill Adams.

Cats Swamp Erskine In Best Offensive Show of the Season
By DICK LILES
The hot and cold Wildcats of Davidson College turned “red hot” Saturday night and scuttled the Flying Fleet from Due West by 44-0, as a whole slew of newcomers ran their posts with perfection. It was little Johnny Guiton who carried the spark (and the ball) for the spirited Cats by completely overwhelming the awe-stricken spectators with his classy show of running and driving power. Along with Guiton, Roy White and C. L. Runyan also turned in their best performances of the season. Roy showed the pep and fire that won him acclaim as a frosh star while picking up 116 yards in 17 hauls. Runyan produced the locomotion that pile-drove the ball for 109 yards. Runyan's display reminded everyone of the wonderful showing against State last year. It was this kind of power and drive that averaged him better than 10 yards per try in the fray Saturday night.

Erskine put up a scrappy defense, but it was wholly inadequate to the pounding legs of White, Runyan, and Guiton, nor to the flitting of passes in the air. Jack Ruth piloted the “Whiz Kids” in the sinking of the Fleet with the greatest of ease and like the true skipper that he was subbing for. While Lambeth sat out the game with an injured and sore hip, Ruth completed 4 out of 8 passes for 76 yards. Bill Freeman continued his ruthless ways in the opposition’s backfield by tearing into the Fleet's ranks and rendering destruction to the running game. Jim Fasul and Jerry Kiser also were outstanding in the forward wall on offense. These boys played most of the game and played exceptionally well. Dave Williams also continued his pass-snatching ways by sparkling on offense, while “Sturdy” Oakes tore ‘em open on defense in the flank.

FRAT FOOTBALL: TABLE PAGE THREE

Foes In Southern Conference Go At Charlotte Tomorrow Afternoon
By CHARLIE HASSELL
Tomorrow afternoon, the Wildcats meet the Keydets of V.M.I. on the turf of Charlotte’s Memorial Stadium in their last home game and the first in a series of three Southern Conference games. The Cats will be seeking their first conference win since their upset over North Carolina State last season. Up to this game, Davidson has met all five of its opponents on the rebound. V.M.I. follows the rule, having been defeated by an underdog Catawba last week, 14-13.

The Cats go into tomorrow's game practically at maximum strength. Captain Auburn Lambeth will return to the lineup as will Jack Branch, who suffered only a minor reinjury in the Erskine game. Also joining the ranks for the first time in several weeks will be Big Bill McNeely. Jack Ruth, though last week he played a game that merited him “Wildcat of the Week,” will be in better shape this week. Only Henry Wilson, still out with a broken wrist, is expected to miss the scrap.

The brunt of the aerial offensive will probably rest on Lambeth and his two principal receivers, Dave Williams and Bob Turk. These two ends have proved their abilities as snaggers this year, gathering in most of the 43 aerials Lambeth has completed. C. L. Runyan and Ham Wade will also be taking regular cracks at the V.M.I. forward wall. A. C. Gregg, Roy White, and speedy Johnny Guiton are being counted on for heavy ground work. All three of these average better than six yards per try.

In spite of a poor record last year and a tough slate this year, Coach Tom Nugent is optimistic about his V.M.I. players. The Keydets boast the first Virginia team to beat William and Mary, their intra-state foe, since 1939; they gave the Indians a 25-19 belting in their season opener. Coach Ray Brown, who has seen the Keydets play their past two games, believes they lost to Catawba last week because of a lack of spirit. “They were just flat, like we were against W. & L... They'll probably have it this week,” says Brown. They gave the University of Virginia a terrific battle, losing by 13-26.

The Keydets have a host of sophomore runners, chief among them being George Chumbley. The running offense, however, is built around Joe Stump, a 6'2", 21-year-old senior from Norton, Virginia. “Jumping Joe" ranks fourteenth in the nation on yards gained rushing, holding a net gain of 573 yards, as of this week. Brown believes Stump “is the best runner we'll play against all year.” Another sparkplug in the Keydet squad is quarterback Jimmy Coley, eighteenth in the land on total offense. He has completed 39 out of 97 attempted passes for a net gain of 592 yards. In the line, the Cadets average 192 pounds on offense, which gives them an edge on the Cat wall.

Memorial Stadium may see a formation that is completely new to it tomorrow afternoon. The V.M.I. men use their coach's invention, the “I-T" formation. It is merely a split T line with all the backs aligned directly behind one another straight back from the center. From this formation, they shift a great deal, moving into the conventional T. The Keydets also employ a double wing formation, sometimes split the ends, have a man in motion, or put flankers way out.

Davidson Position V.M.I.
Williams LE Quisenberry
Davis LT Eley
Fasul LG Goodwin
Whisnant C Bernick
Kiser RG Leighty
Branch RT Frankenberger
Turk RE Leck
Lambeth QB Coley
White LH Woods
Gregg RH Barry
Runyan FB Stump

U-Drive It
Get Your Car for Homecoming
142 E. Morehead—Charlotte

Team W L
Betas 5 1
Kappa Sigs 5 1
Sigma Chi 5 1
SAE's 4 2
Phi Delts 4 2
KA’s 4 3
Phi Gams 3 3
Pi Kapps 3 3
SPE 1 6
Pika 1 6
ATO 0 7

Old Reliable

WOODY LEACH
Offensively or defensively, Woody Leach has proved his worth as a back to be reckoned with when a team runs into the Wildcats. The Cat co-captain is a back-racking defensive ace, coming up fast and hard for the contact. He moves just as well with the ball under his arm, and hits just as hard. He'll be one obstacle the Keydets must remove for smooth sailing tomorrow afternoon.

It's State Meet For Cats Monday
Riding high after a 38-19 win over the University of Georgia last Saturday, Coach Pete Whittle’s varsity harriers will take to the road again when they enter the Big Five cross-country meet at Raleigh Monday. The meet will be run on the N.C. State course. The Cats will enter the meet seeded not higher than fourth, since they have lost to Duke, State, and Carolina. They have not run against the Wake Forest harriers this season.

After the Big Five meet, the Cats’ next contest will be a triangle with Virginia and William and Mary at Charlottesville, Va., on November 10. The season’s closer will be with the State harriers at Raleigh on the 13th. Coach Whittle’s club will go into the Big Five meet with a 2-3 won-lost record. Tom and Dick Stockton, outstanding in every meet so far this season, will carry the Wildcats’ hopes for a State championship, with Bill Lee and sophomore Bob Henry in close supporting roles.

INTRAMURAL STANDINGS
Standings Through Wednesday