VOLUME XXXVIII

SHAT! FOREMAN AWAKENS STUDENTS WITH SWELLING CHUCK WALLA

Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman opened the Spring Service here last Sunday night with a sermon entitled: "A Question—Do You Believe
In The Supernatural?" For his scripture, he used Acts 26:16, "Why is it thought incredible by you that God raises
the dead," and Ephesians 6:16, "Above all, take the shield of faith with which you can quench all the flaming
darts of the evil one."

With his captivating style, at once relaxed, friendly, and intimate, and at the same time forceful, concrete, and combined with
subtle drollery, he was ensured of an interested, attentive audience. Anxious to clarify the issue in the listener’s minds, Dr.
Foreman initiated his talk by distinguishing between natural, anything describable in terms of any exact science; mystery, the result of
seeing or being aware of something without knowing its cause; unusual, a very possible event, which, however, rarely occurs; unnatural,
a reversal of the usual situation, for example, man-biting-dog; and supernatural, an event or object belonging not to the natural
order, not to be described or predicted in the terms of any science.

One classification is cheap supernatural—superstition, belief in magic, ghosts, Santa Claus. Some of these beliefs, as astrology, are bad—useless and
wasteful; others, as Santa Claus, serve a good, harmless purpose. This cheap supernatural is of no value; if you believe
it, you are a shivering coward—scary, “skeery,” if not, it is just a joke to you. All this we can
ignore, knowing its fallacy. The supernatural that is important to us is twofold. The first part is “I,” not my
brain or my body, just “I.” I am supernatural; I cannot be explained in physical or chemical terms. Everything else
will pass away but “me.” Second is God—the source of life, immortal, incorruptible, pure, indestructible—supernatural.

We can draw only one conclusion—make one answer to our question, “Yes!” We do believe in the supernatural. There is
no choice. We cannot help but believe—in the human supernatural and in the divine supernatural. Obviously, the caterpillar has no
choice of what it does, but man has limited option, “free-will.” Being confident of this, we are admitting the human
supernatural. If a person has ever prayed, and if he believes history has a purpose, he acknowledges the divine supernatural.
Look at the negative viewpoint. We believe it, or else. Have faith in the human supernatural with a free soul,
or we are no more than a tin machine. What a crushing and foreboding thought, logically destroying itself. Believe in
the divine supernatural—God's plan and purpose, moving clearly, expressed—

(Continued On Page Six)

Scabbard and Blade Announces Sponsors

The Scabbard and Blade will present their annual military ball Saturday night, March 18, at the Morris Field Officers’ Club.
The dance will begin at 8 o’clock and conclude at 12 o'clock.

The sponsors for the Scabbard and Blade military ball will be: Mrs. Helen Carnegie, of Davidson, for Sandy Carnegie, past
Captain of Scabbard and Blade; Miss Martha Morrison, of Statesville, N.C., for Novel Childers, Captain of Scabbard and Blade; Miss
Winifred Jordan, of Gastonia, North Carolina, for J.C. Roberts, First Lieutenant of Scabbard and Blade; Miss Tommie Jeanne Green, of
Washington, North Carolina, for Jimmy Glenn, 2nd Lieutenant of Scabbard and Blade; Miss Ann Vann, of Talladega, Alabama, for Bill
Cleveland, 1st Sergeant of Scabbard and Blade.

Music for the military ball will be furnished by Billy Knauff and his orchestra. Knauff is a well-known Charlotte band
leader who has provided music for many Davidson dances in the past.

PALM SUNDAY CONCERT

Elizabeth Frantz, violinist, and Harold Frantz, organist, will present a program of music by American composers on Palm Sunday afternoon,
April 2, at 4:30 p.m. in Chambers Building. Music for violin and organ on the program will include a suite
on the Passion Chorale written especially for Mr. and Mrs. Frantz. Compositions for organ will include a Prelude and Fugue
by Cecil Effinger and Three Preludes on Welsh tunes by R. Cochrane Perick. Works by Douglas, Dickinson, and Philip James
will complete the recital list.

Scripts And Pranks Might Sling Slush

Bill Hamilton, editor of “Scripts and Pranks,” announced Tuesday that the first issue of that magazine to come out this
semester will be available to students by the twentieth or the twenty-first of this month. This issue of “Scripts and
Pranks” will be a four-page publication, and although the editor refused to divulge any information concerning the title or theme
of this “Scripts and Pranks,” it is rumored that the magazine will be a mud-slinging issue and will be dedicated
to retaliation against so-called “attacks” this newspaper has made upon “Scripts and Pranks.”

The feature article of this issue of “Scripts and Pranks” will be a novel by Bob Barron. This novel placed
third in last year's Vereen Bell Award contest. Other prose

(Continued On Page Six)

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 1950

The Robert Shaw Chorale

NUMBER TWENTY

FATR CONSOCTS BACK =AS...R CAR roars

NATION'S TOP CHORAL GROUP VISITS DAVIDSON CAMPUS

Fraternity Houses Follow Tuition In Price Trend Upward

In a recent letter to the presidents of the ten social fraternities and the Campus Club, Dr. John R. Cunningham,
President of the College, announced that the rent on each fraternity house for next year will be $400; in addition,
a fee of $100 for maintenance will be charged.

Previously, a special committee appointed by the trustees to study sources of college income had recommended that the rent be
increased from $300 per year to $500 per year and the maintenance from $75 to $125 per year. This increase
was held to be necessary as a result of the increased cost of operating the College. The special committee, in
its report, pointed out that the value of each fraternity house has risen from $5,000 in 1928, to $15,000 in
1950. In that same period, the price of coal rose from $4.50 to $11.50 per ton and the tuition and
fees of the College rose from $140 to $360 per year. Thus, while other costs were rising from 1928 to
1950, the rent on fraternity houses remained unchanged. The committee felt that the higher rental would—

(Continued On Page Six)

Top row (left to right): Miss Martha Morrison, Statesville, N.C., Sponsor for Novel Childers, Capt. of Scabbard and Blade; Mrs.
Helen Carnegie, Davidson, N.C., Sandy Carnegie, Past Capt. of Scabbard and Blade; Miss Winifred Jordan, Gastonia, N.C., J.C. Roberts, 1st
Lt. of Scabbard and Blade; Bottom row: Miss Tommie Jeanne Greene, Washington, N.C., Jimmie Glenn, 2nd Lt. of Scabbard and
Blade; Miss Ann Vann, Talladega, Ala., Bill Cleveland, 1st Sgt. of Scabbard and Blade.

VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE PLANS INCLUDE TESTS, COUNSELING

By CHARLES BRYAN

The objective of the vocational aptitude tests, as stated two weeks ago, is to provide students with concrete information about
the functioning of their minds which will help or enable them to choose a logical career. Because of the complexity
of the way the human mind operates, the tests and especially the method of recording their results, are very diversified
and all-inclusive, being classified by many divisions and sub-divisions.

The actual testing will take place over a period of two days including about twelve hours of actual tests and
a few untimed questionnaires to be answered in the students’ rooms. After the tests have been graded, the resultswill be
entered on Individual Test Profiles, indicating the degree of possession of many different traits. The percentile score and percentile rank
show how high the person rated on each particular trait in relation to all takers of the tests. Fifty indicates
average ability. Ninety would mean that only ten percent of the participants were more naturally inclined to a given trait.
The graph is filled out (shaded) for each trait to the correct point. The first main division measures natural mental
abilities, normally fully developed by the eighteenth (Continued On Page Six)

Pan-Hell Releases Midwinters Report

Last Wednesday the treasurer of the Pan-Hellenic council released that organization’s financial report for the period beginning Jan. 1, 1950,
and ending March 14, 1950. With a backlog of $1370 on hand at the beginning of the year, the council
financed the Midwinters dances and despite the fact that it realized only about $2500 from the sale of dance tickets,
the figures are still being written in black at $296.84. The complete report is herewith presented:

Receipts
Cash, Jan. 1, 1950 .......... $1370.33
Receipts from Midwinters dances ..........
Received from concession stand ..........
Accounts receivable ..........
Total receipts .......... $4455.79

Expenditures
Travel expenses, telephone and telegraph .......... $33.36
Tony Pastor .......... 3200.00
Decorations .......... 103.69
Maid Service .......... 12.00
Mailing charges .......... 1.04
Tax on Homecoming Dances .......... 631.93
Electrician .......... 25.00
Set up and removal of Bandstand .......... 17.85
Check exchange .......... 4.25
Delivery expense ..........
Flowers ..........
Piano Tuning .......... 10.00
Reserves March 14, 1950 .......... 296.84
Total .......... $4455.79

The last program in the current Artists Series was presented this evening in Chambers Auditorium by the Robert Shaw Chorale.
The Chorale, acclaimed as the finest group of mixed voices in recent years, is under the direction of Robert Shaw.
Shaw, a native of Red Bluff, California, originally intended to follow his father’s footsteps into the ministry. He studied Theology
at Pomona College in Claremont, California. To earn his way through school, he worked at odd jobs such as wrapping
bread for a bakery and correcting examination papers. While he was still an undergraduate, the director of the Pomona Glee
Club took a vacation, and Shaw was drafted to fill his place. Never having tried, he was not certain that
he could conduct a glee club. He did try and has been conducting ever since. In his Junior year, Fred
Waring came west to make a movie which was filmed on the Pomona campus. He heard Shaw's glee club and
was so impressed that he offered Shaw a job with his own group if he (Shaw) should ever come to
New York. In 1938 Shaw took him at his word and soon was training the Waring group to sing five
nights weekly on NBC. In 1943 Shaw was named Outstanding American-Born Conductor of the Year by the National Association of
American Composers and Conductors. In 1944 Shaw was guest conductor of the CBS Symphony. Enlisting in the Navy the next
year, he found his reputation had preceded him. He was immediately put to work organizing a service glee club. Since
his discharge, he has made a nationwide tour, does weekly radio work, and somehow manages to find time to execute
his duties as head of the choral department of the Juilliard School of Music. His choristers have repeatedly won the
highest praise of discriminating musicians for the accuracy and cleanness of their ensemble, the delicacy of their interpretations, and their
wide range of dynamic levels, from the most subdued pianissimo to tonal splendor that threatens to take off the roof.
A specialty of the Shaw system is diction. When choruses trained under Shaw perform, the words they are singing can
be understood, an unusual characteristic of choral work. The collegiate chorus has sung its own concerts at Carnegie Hall, Town
Hall, and the New York City Center. It has also appeared in choral works conducted by Arturo Toscanini, Leopold Stokowski,
Serge Koussevitzky, and other noted conductors. Under Shaw’s direction, the group has recorded for RCA Victor. It has presented first
performances of works by Barber, Bax, Blitzstein, Copland, and others. It has also commissioned (Continued On Page Six)

President's Open Letter Explains Military Position

In recently endorsing a booklet, Militarism In Education, Dr. Cunningham, with other leading educators, voiced a doubt concerning the wisdom
of allowing the trend toward increased military emphasis among American Colleges and Universities to continue. Since his action has been
given publicity by newspaper articles and an editorial, and since this publicity has caused some misunderstanding in regard to his
original purpose, Dr. Cunningham has submitted the following letter to the student body.

The booklet, Militarism In Education, to which I have recently lent endorsement, along with a considerable number of persons associated
with other educational institutions in the country, takes note of the increase in military activity and influence in our American
educational institutions. It states, “This activity represented by military subsidy in science departments, expanded military training units, increased use of
schools and colleges as recruiting grounds, and military propaganda directed towards students and faculty has serious implications both for the
future of our nation and for world peace.” The purpose of the booklet is not to question our nation’s need
for military defense at this time but rather to call attention to the very great increases in the direction of
overstressing the military in colleges and universities. It has to do more largely with the inappropriateness of using colleges and
universities so extensively for military research and military training. It is the belief of the author and of those sponsoring
this booklet that there are some agencies in the country such as the church and such as our educational institutions
which by their very nature should lend themselves to a positive program for peace. Quoting again from the preamble, “The
desperate need of the world for peace demands leadership commensurate with the need. Such leadership is more likely to come
from those whose orientation and training during their educational career is that of world brotherhood and the spirit of free
inquiry unhampered by narrow military considerations.” It is believed that our fellow citi- (Continued On Page Six)
