PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

BOB HOLLISTER ---- BILL HOUCK
EDITOR IN CHIEF BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editor ----------------------------- Doug Hix
Associate Editor ----------------------------- Lonnie Turnipseed
Associate Editor ----------------------------- Jack Hazard
MANAGING EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall, Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister.
Sports Editor—Gordon Scott
Make-up Editors — Dan McKeithen, Cherry Stribling.
City Editor—John Hobart
Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries
Photographs --------------------------------- Ed Richardson
Assignments Asst. -------------------------- Watt Jeffries
Proofreader ----------------------------------- Charlie Baldwin

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager ---------------- Bill Cassells
Advertising Managers ----------------------- Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison.
Circulation Manager ------------------------ Hugh Huffaker
Asst. Circulation Managers ----------------- Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager ------------------------- J. F. Tia
Subscriptions Manager ---------------------- 

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Congratulations, Mr. Scott

All members of the 1949-50 Davidsonian staff join in welcoming Gordon Scott as our new Editor — we congratulate him and wish him every success. As former Sports Editor, Gordon did an excellent job in reporting on college athletics this year. In carrying out his new job, he will need the support not only of all returning members of the old staff, but also of all members of the Student Body. The success of the paper is measured only in the width of student view it represents.

It seems we have come but a very short distance down the road to a much bigger and better Davidsonian. The goal we envisioned in September is far from the achieved stage. In doing what we have done, however, the singular dependability and resourcefulness of one man have constantly led the way. For four years, the personality of Doug Hix and his willingness to share in whatever work was to be done have materially shaped the course of the Davidsonian’s progress. Although the Student Body for the most part does not realize it, we owe Doug more than a vote of thanks, for in a job such as this, it is the ability to work with other students and the talent for being always available for such work that distinguishes a person such as Doug. He has done this for no other reason than his interest in the job, and consequently, the paper has been enriched by his loyal contribution.

We apologize at this time for the items we have printed here of a trite and meaningless nature. In times past, the paper has been characterized by the inclusion of meaningless material—copy used to make the page fill out. Perhaps it would have been better to have had large amounts of blank space. The paper has changed this year significantly in two respects — it has succeeded in becoming a little more mature and a little less the high school-like publication it has been. And through the efforts of Tom Mann, the editorial page—page two—has been vastly improved in regard to content and physical appearance. Tom alone is responsible for the new ideas and the effort through which these changes have been brought about.

For the third and last time, this is a “swan song” editorial. In most works of this nature, it is usually in keeping with the latest journalistic style trend to gaze back through misty, blurred eyes at past accomplishments and old associates — this we have done — the bright future and the conduct of the affairs of the 1950-51 Davidsonian we happily leave in the capable hands of Gordon Scott.

Close of an Era

On all sides, press and radio inform us of the strides made in medicine, of daily legislation in our Congress, and by the nations of the world, of new books and theories and inventions that seem to flow from the inexhaustible well-spring of man’s ingenuity. Things are changing by the hour and with things, man himself is changing. With the creation of instruments and materials of wide range and application, man’s ability to think in broader terms has been enhanced. He thinks less in terms of his innate right to possess this or that sphere of influence or action — the Western world at least is coming to feel the deep-rooted, underlying oneness of all men. He not only has begun to think in terms of the effect of his action on other men but has even taken faltering steps to improve the lot of mankind on a universal scale — and by this, we do not mean to imply that socialism and the welfare state are to be desired as marks of man’s increased concern for man — those things are indications only of man’s concern for himself. The change of man’s mental set, however, that now permits him to think in terms of far-flung projects and that awakens in him a concern about the standard of living of people half around the world is a new way of thinking. The old process of fenced-in thinking is losing ground — in its place, there is developing a broad horizon process which if carried through to all men and made part of all nations, will someday lead the world out of chaos and into the greater good.

Anne Bradstreet was the author of the first book of poems in English by a woman. Her work appeared in London in 1650.

Tin Can Island is the nickname of Niafou, one of the Tonga islands in the South Pacific.

In 640 A.D., in Egypt, the 700,000 volumes of the priceless antique library of Alexandria were burned by order of Caliph Omar. For six months, they were used as fuel to warm the public baths.

Solo singing in opera was introduced in Florence, Italy, in the 16th century.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1950

In a Broadway theatre, “Bravo.” On a nearby street, “Help.”

(EDITOR’S NOTE: Permission for reproductions of these cartoons from “Out of The Crocodile’s Mouth” by William Nelson has been granted the DAVIDSONIAN by the Public Affairs Press, 2153 Florida Ave., Washington, D.C.)

Commitment of the YMCA Gift Fund

“The Davidson College Y. M. C. A. being interested in the efforts of the citizens of the community in better housing among the Negro residents wishes to share in the financial support of this worthy endeavor. Each year, the students of the college under the guidance of the Y. M. C. A. cabinet make a benevolent gift to some good cause either in this country or abroad. This is known as “The Christmas Gift Fund,” in as much as this special campaign is launched at the Christmas season. The Y. M. C. A. cabinet hereby commits “The Christmas Gift Fund” of 1950-51 to the promotion of home ownership among the Negro people of Davidson. For the past two years, the students have contributed at least five thousand ($5,000.00) to this fund. It is the belief and intention of the Y cabinet that the same amount will be raised in the coming year. It is the understanding of the cabinet that the citizens of the community will join in contributing to this fund also under the leadership of the Citizens Housing committee. It is understood by the cabinet that the new houses to be built under this plan will be supervised by the Citizens Housing committee. The cabinet further understands that the sum which is raised in this campaign will be committed to the supervision of a board of trustees. This board is to consist of the secretary of the Y. M. C. A., the president of the Y. M. C. A., the president of the Student Body, Dr. J. R. Hartness, Mr. F. W. Frederickson. The successors of the two businessmen from the town (Dr. Hartness and Mr. Frederickson) are to be elected by the Board of Control of the Y. M. C. A. It shall be the duty of this board of trustees to purchase U. S. government bonds with the “Christmas (Continued On Page Four)

THE SPACE FILLER

Whenever something new comes along, everyone gets all hot about it. Then after a while, it cools down and things lapse back into the normal. Take this student election affair. It's not a new thing, but it’s new for this year and entirely for a lot of the student body. The big yell is up for open campaigns. Cut out the hypocritical practice of no one saying a thing in his or any other’s behalf. Freshmen cry that they don’t know any candidates. The election board is shocked because a candidate breathed. Word is going around that the constitution should and will be amended to fix all this mess.

This being our fourth election, we have heard this same stuff four times now. Every year it’s the same thing — why don’t we campaign? Why can’t we learn something about a candidate who wants the job and will do best? All this is as normal at Davidson in the spring as onions in the milk and Townes Thomas playing half rubber. And every year there are the same ideas about changing the constitution to allow open campaigns, coalitions, etc. Yet nothing has ever been done about it. Elections run their course; the beach, women, and baseball move in; exams follow and poof — we have the same election system the next year.

So far this spring, things seem to be running true to course — elections arrive; favorites win; upsets occur; 2/3 of the student body votes; election board appeals for a higher percentage of voting; new students don’t know candidates; no one is happy; and talk arrives about a change. And everything else is the same — Townes Thomas is playing half rubber; the milk tastes like onions; students are running to the beach and sunning all over the campus; Frank’s business is booming; and baseball games are drawing attention. Will it still be the same when elections are over? Will we still have the same system next year? Will the present machine (oh, pardon us, we mean administration) say that it won’t be the same? From pretty high up, we hear it that there will be an amendment to the constitution which will change the voting and campaigning methods.

By JACK HAZARDThis is supposed to be put before the student body next week. Whether it actually appears or not will be another thing. We don't know exactly what this amendment would provide but we imagine it will pave the way for campaigns and coalitions. Now if this does actually come from Chapel Hill comes news of a new type of contest on the campus, the “Ugliest Man on the Campus” contest, which is being sponsored by the Theta Chi fraternity. The only requirement for entrance into the contest is that contestants must be male students of the University and look as ugly as possible. Ugly men should have their pictures taken and submitted to Don Maynard in the office of the Daily Tar Heel. Fearing that some men might wish to enter the contest but have no way of getting their pictures taken, Maynard has announced that the D. T. H. will have a camera in its office and will be glad to photograph contestants. The winner of the contest will be announced at the Blue-White carnival on May 6th. Mr. Ugly will have a date with Miss Modern Venus and an evening at the Terrace View. He will also be awarded an outfit of clothing from Chapel Hill merchants.

Students at the University of Miami are having a soft touch in at least one class. The University is offering a three-hour credit course in automobile driving. The course, which is offered only to last semester seniors and to graduate students, comes complete with exams. A car with dual controls has been presented to the school for this course and examinations will be taken on machines bought from the American Automobile Association. The main purpose of the course is decreasing the hazard of poor drivers.

In the CAROLINIAN of W. C. we notice that U. N. C. men recently received a mass flush from members of the fairer sex in Greensboro. Freshman and sophomore escorts awaiting their dates in Chapel Hill were left empty-handed to saunter off to the Ramshead. The W. C. Social Planning Committee was forced to call off a dance weekend at the University when only thirteen girls bought tickets to attend the dance in Chapel Hill.

The DAILY TAR HEEL last week announced an acute water shortage in the Chapel Hill-Carboro area. University officials voiced a plea for a conservative use of water by Carolina students, who have not been so inconvenienced by the water shortage as have the townspeople. One complained, “My family has had to drink cokes because of the shortage.” Residents of the Chapel Hill area hope soon to install a new filter system equipped to handle 300,000,000 gallons of water daily.

If it’s going to sound mighty inviting to the student body, it'll probably be a lot of fun and stir up a lot of interest to hear speeches, see the campus splattered with posters, and find fraternities pairing off in vote deals. Whether it will be a good thing is open for debate. The way things are now the man who acts like he least wants the job will usually win. He shouldn’t even know he’s in the race and he'll have it in the bag. When it’s over everyone forgets the race and all are friends.

But now what if we openly campaign. There will have to be a reversal of vote appeal. A candidate will have to act like he wants the job. Mud will be slung, someone will get mad, fraternities will line up in groups against each other and before we're through everybody will be mad. You might say this won't happen at Davidson. If it doesn’t, Davidson will be far more different from other colleges than we ever imagined. Around here a man gets a vote because he’s a good guy. Elsewhere he gets a block of votes because he’s a campus politician and has a party behind him—but he’s not a good guy. A politician is the easiest yet the hardest person to get to know. At a big school that may be all right. But at Davidson the student body is too small to get entangled in such affairs. For this reason we think the student body should think awhile before it goes overboard on any drastic change. However, it might not be a bad idea for the elections board to realize that there has always been haggling within a fraternity as to which of its own candidates it shall support. If a fraternity has a candidate in a race, there should be no harm in all the brothers being urged to exercise their franchise on that day. So don’t worry boys. Everything will be all right. Just take it easy and Davidson will rock on along in her own way — It's a pretty good way, too, when you really think about it. We all gripe about this and that but after a while you too, will come to accept it.

Parker-Gardner Company
118 W. Trade St.
Phone 8391

Hackneyed thought it may sound there is something inspiring in the sound and sight of men making music. And the feelings of these men and of the man who leads them were succinctly stated by Robert Shaw when he said, “The more you deal with music the more humble and unworthy you feel in the face of its greatness.” To me this feeling of true humility is more characteristic of the amateur group than it can ever be of the professional one. This is so I believe, because amateurs play for the love of playing, not for money and subsistence and, so doing, are characterized by a purity of dedication that professionals lack. For this reason an event such as the third annual arts festival is of worth not only because of the music presented but also because, in an event such as this music is heard in its most sincere form.

Tuesday night’s program was as good an example as can be cited of such a performance by such a group. The first group, Three 17th Century Tunes by Valerius, was well done. Occasionally the orchestra's ensemble was not good and the horns began a series of defections which was only redeemed in the final portion of the program. The Concertante Symphonie by Mozart was a charming number except for the interminable second movement. The orchestra was very muddy in the first movement. The horns, particularly, displayed ragged entrances and excessive mistakes. The soloists improved steadily throughout the work as did the orchestra with the exception of the horns and the piece came to a sprightly close with the Presto.

The American Muse by Henry Cowell was beautifully sung as was American Men by Cecil Effinger. Throughout these two numbers the chorus was, as usual, near perfection in dynamics, entrances, phrasing, feeling, and pronunciation. In the third group the orchestra showed great improvement. The Night Soliloquy by Kent Kennan was well done. Cousin Pinkie by Charles DeLaney was a charming humorous number reminiscent in places of Copland’s Ranchhouse Party. Mr. DeLaney’s solo performance was outstanding. The Rumanian Folk Dances was played here before by Mary Freeman; it is much more effective in an orchestral frame than it was as arranged for violin. The third section came to a climax, musically and emotionally, with the Dance of the Comedians by Smetana. The orchestra did their best playing in this number and the horns were really good—a peace offering for earlier aberrations. So effective was this number that the last half of it was repeated as an encore. Many of the orchestra’s mistakes can be excused by the terrible lighting for “pit performances” in (Continued On Page Four)

A Wealth of Tradition
By TOM ABEL

One of the finest traditions of the old South was brought to life here at Davidson last Monday night, when Dr. Archibald Rutledge, naturalist, hunter, and poet-laureate of South Carolina, spoke in Chambers. He came fully equipped with a host of legends about Hampton, his old plantation home, built in 1730, “and with none of those New Deal tricks,” but a firm “religious” foundation. He also brought along a wild turkey reducer for the benefit of his Davidson audience.

Whether we agree or not with his idea that poetry must be understood by children (although this statement was probably just an oversimplification) to be good, none of us will deny that he gave one of the most refreshing talks heard here in a long time. It is interesting to get a look into the past, the traditions, of bygone days, and Dr. Rutledge seems to exemplify in every aspect the type of person who was the “Southern Gentleman” of the plantation life of ante-bellum days. His beliefs on the racial situation, so radically different from those of our society today, seem to have a certain tranquility about them, a tranquility which could have developed only after years of loving contact with his servants. His poetry (he is a candidate for the year’s Pulitzer prize for poetry) reflects the same, light, nature-loving attitude, and although some of it seems to be a little too much in the vein of “sweetness and light,” most of it is rather an interpretation of life by one deeply influenced by the people with whom he lives and the surroundings in which he lives. Dr. Rutledge, with his bland, antiquarian spirit is a living monument to some of the better traditions growing out of the growth of our country.

The Grill at Scott Hall is one of the favorite campus haunts of the students at Northwestern University. That’s because The Grill is a friendly place, always full of the busy atmosphere of college life. There is always plenty of ice-cold Coca-Cola, too. For here, as in college gathering spots everywhere—Coke belongs. Ask for it either way... both trade-marks mean the same thing.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. CONCORD, N.C.
© 1950, The Coca-Cola Company