PAGE SIX

Reformed High School Problem Child, “Abie” Klein, Now Typical College Casanova and Campus Wheel

There appeared in the Capital of the “peach state” on November 5, 1929, a small bundle of individuality, which was immediately labeled “Williamsis Rupertus Kleinensis” in order to differentiate it from a similar species of the same order. From that point, however, the records of the growth and activity of the specimen for more than a decade were obscured possibly by ink or jam-stained hands. It does appear, though, that sometime during this period the still immature Kleinensis became a part of a certain gang (scientifically: subhumani hoodlumus atlanti).

The first real evidence we have of the character of the individual deals with a narrow escape from reform school. It seems that in Junior High School certain of the more unsettled and individualistic students were given deficiency slips to carry home to their parents. But Bill (for brevity, we shall speak of it hereafter using this appellation) seemed to believe that the slips could be more appropriately used torn into confetti. At this point, he fell into disagreement with the authorities and the threat of reform school was presented. Needless to say, the democratic young fellow decided to fall in with the majority opinion on the issue.

At Boy’s High, our object of study must have made an immediate impression on his teachers. His first semester he made a C, a D, and two F's and continued with the former grade throughout his high school career. He was said to have had possibilities of becoming an outstanding back on his football team, but a broken collar bone nipped this blossom in the bud. Never the indolent type, this active young mind turned to newer and greener fields of conquest. More will be said of this later.

To name his extracurricular activities in high school would require too much space, but to describe two of the more typical might give the reader a general idea. Bill was always noted among that select group which met in the upper stories of the school in the early morning in order to drop bags of water on members of the faculty as they entered the building. To show the wide range of his character, he also delighted in turning on the water in the chemistry lab, heating the handle to the faucet, and then leaving both in that state. Always somewhat of an enigma to his teachers, he was at the same time in one of the teenage gangs, desirous of becoming a veterinarian, an unimpressive scholar, an Eagle Scout, and in love with a girl. For further information contact your nearest senior at Agnes Scott.

Then came a change in the life of Bill Klein. As a senior in high school, he was called to study for the ministry, became inactive in his high school fraternity, started teaching Sunday School in a polio hospital, and made up his mind to come to Davidson. He himself says that at this point his whole life was changed.

Little need be said to upperclassmen concerning Bill's campus activities: But for the benefit of the freshmen: he runs the 440 on the track team, is a member of Phi society, the “D” Club, Phi Delta Theta, and the student council, and is president of the Pan-Hellenic council. Last year he was social chairman on the YMCA cabinet. Incidentally, he has made A’s and B's all three years. Bill has become quickly recognized by members of two consecutive freshman classes because of the whistles he receives when he makes an announcement in chapel. ’Tis said that this is an honor due to all holders of above-mentioned social chairmanships. However, in this case, it might be due to the general knowledge of his ways with the fairer sex.

Perhaps his attraction to the ladies is due to something they see in his eyes or maybe it is his stand on the ideals of Chivalry. The latter was once demonstrated in his high school days when he got into a fight to protect a certain young lady from vulgar language. The outcome was both participants being arrested and released soon after. They met later that night at a drive-in to finish what they had started. A general free-for-all ensued. The thing finally broke up when the “other guy” had to be carried home. Perhaps a friend of our hero who later made All-American at Tech had something to do with the outcome.

Much to the distress of the student bodies of surrounding girls’ schools, Bill’s attention is focused at present (and forever, so he says) on Miss Dot MacLeod at Queens. Bill sprained his ankle this summer and was forced to go to New York for treatment. The fact that Miss MacLeod lives in New York of course had nothing to do with it. His roommate, “Hoopy” Davis, who has to straighten Bill out every once in a while, has definitely announced the following statement: “Under my GUIDANCE he is expected to blossom into young manhood this fall.”

SPIRITED FROSH... (Continued From Page Five)

Most every practice, too, so the Kittens should be in excellent physical condition for this tilt. The starting lineup will be the same as for the opener with the Citadel, since Coach Baird has not seen fit to make any major changes. However, the frosh coach still plans to substitute freely throughout the entire game.

TALENT ABUNDANT... (Continued From Page One)

Frank Hanshaw reported that invitations for prospective members have been printed; Hartley Hall brought up the idea of a society key based on the Crescent, emblem of Eu; and a slate of speakers from various fields was drawn up. Some of these men, it is hoped, will be brought to Davidson by Eu Society to give speeches and lectures.

THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTIST SERIES... (Continued From Page One)

Festivals from Massachusetts to California, year after year, throughout the United States, Canada, and Cuba. Among their major engagements in the 1949-50 season are appearances with the Philadelphia Orchestra under Eugene Ormandy and with the Little Orchestra Society of New York in a performance of a new concerto for two pianos written by Bohuslav Martinu and dedicated to Luboshutz and Nemenoff. Their annual Carnegie Hall recitals are gala events in New York; they average somewhere around eighty performances a season—this year this indefatigable duo set an all-time high in the final nine weeks of their transcontinental tour when they covered 56,700 miles from March 1 to May 1. In addition to their contribution...As performers, these two fine artists have greatly enriched two-piano literature by the rediscovery of many works long neglected by duo pianists and by the many beautiful arrangements of compositions made by Pierre Luboshutz for two pianos. Pioneers in the duo-piano concert, Luboshutz and Nemenoff are responsible for the high estate in which it is today held among critics and laymen alike, because of their choice of programs and the high level of their performance. Before they formed their spectacular musical partnership, both artists had distinguished themselves as soloists both abroad and in this country. They began playing two pianos for the sheer pleasure it gave them, and for the entertainment of their friends. Out of these informal recitals grew their public concert tours. They met in Paris in 1929, when Mile. Nemenoff enrolled in a master class conducted by Mr. Luboshutz at the Paris Conservatory. A romance ensued and two years later when Pierre Luboshutz was on his second tour of the United States and Genia Nemenoff on her first, they were married—just three days after she arrived in this country. As brilliant and popular offstage as they are on, the Luboshutz’ are noted for their hospitality and in between tours in New York their charming home is a gathering place for the musical great who look upon Pierre and Genia as did the music critic for the Philadelphia Inquirer who recently dubbed them “The Peerless Team.”

Withers Electric Company
® Radio Repairs
® Electrical Supplies
® Light Bulbs
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Snack Bar in Carnegie Library
University of Maine
Orono, Maine

In Orono, Maine, a favorite gathering spot of students at the University of Maine is the Snack Bar in Carnegie Library because it is a cheerful place—full of friendly collegiate atmosphere. And when the gang gathers around, ice-cold Coca-Cola gets the call. For here, as in college haunts everywhere—Coke belongs. Ask for it either way... both trade-marks mean the same thing.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO., OF CONCORD © 1950, The Coca-Cola Company

Room Conditions, Press Campus Discussed In College Handbook

The most important characteristic of a good roommate, say college students, is consideration. This is the general conclusion of the “College Board” of the Going-to-College Handbook whose fifth annual edition has just been published here by Outlook: Publishers. Students from all over the U.S.A.—150 of them—were asked, “What Makes a Good Roommate?” Their replies, summarized by the handbook editors, are:

A GOOD ROOMMATE:
(1) Is considerate (about lights, radio, use of room, etc.);
(2) Respects personal property and privacy;
(3) Is loyal;
(4) Goes at least halfway;
(5) Helps keep a neat room;
(6) Can discuss controversial questions without getting ruffled;
(7) Makes reasonable adjustments;
(8) Keeps reasonable hours;
(9) Cultivates a cheerful disposition.

The College Board also offered some negative impressions, as these students said:

AN UNDESIRABLE ROOMMATE:
(1) Thinks chiefly of self;
(2) Makes unreasonable demands;
(3) Betrays confidences;
(4) Borrows without asking;
(5) Leaves things scattered around;
(6) Argues heatedly;
(7) Is nosey—and noisy;
(8) Comes in late and wakes everybody up;
(9) Is too solitary—or too sociable.

The College Board was also queried about other topics, with answers reported in the current issue of the Handbook:
(1) What practical suggestions would you make about clothes for college?
(2) If you could go back to high school days, what changes would you make in preparing for college?
(3) What is the most inspiring or revolutionary idea you have yet encountered in college?
(4) What would you suggest to the incoming student about extra-curricular activities?
(5) Is part-time work good for a college student or not?

Handbook editors express their strong conviction that a free college press, with its recognized dangers, is more desirable than a muzzled press. They also point to what they feel is a vast unconcern on the part of students toward many of the most important and pressing issues of the day. On this point, Dean Rusk, Assistant Secretary of State, expressed his opinion in the Handbook: “Vital interest in pressing social issues is present among most students and would assert itself if given a chance—by an imaginative curriculum, interested professors, sensitive student and community leaders.” John Oliver Nelson, professor in Yale Divinity School, writes on “Finding Your Life Work in College,” and E. Fay Campbell, higher education leader, of Philadelphia, offers a word of advice on “How to Choose Your Courses”; while Hunter B. Blakely, Richmond, Va., discusses “Choose Your College Wisely.” Other writers in the 60-page volume include Muriel Lester, of London, who says in an article to college students, “Keep Your Eyes Open for the Greatest Adventure.”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Shows Start at 3 P.M.
MON.-TUE., OCT. 30-31
“THE MINIVER STORY”
Greer Garson - Walter Pidgeon
NEWS

WEDNESDAY, NOV. 1
“WHITE TOWER”
Glenn Ford - Claude Rains
SPORT

THURSDAY, NOV. 2
“RIGHT CROSS”
June Allyson - Dick Powell
BAND & CARTOON

FRIDAY, NOV. 3
“THE OUTLAW”
Jane Russell - Walter Houston
CARTOON

Saturday, Nov. 4
“TREASURE ISLAND”
Bobby Driscoll - Robert Newton
CARTOON

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests
Number 4... THE COMMON LOON

This fine-feathered friend isn’t being “taken-in” by all those tricky cigarette tests you hear so much about! A fast puff of this brand—a sniff of that. A quick inhale—a fast exhale—and you're supposed to know all about cigarettes. No! You don’t have to rely on quick-tricks. The sensible way to test a cigarette is to smoke pack after pack, day after day. That’s the test Camel asks you to make... the 30-Day Mildness Test. Smoke Camels—and only Camels—for 30 days. Let your own “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste) be your proving ground. And when you've tried Camels as a steady smoke, you'll know why... More People Smoke Camels than any other cigarette!

“Don’t be silly! What do you think I am... a goose?”