PASTOR, PASSION AND PARTIES | The Davidsonian VOLUME XXXVIII

Tony Pastor, Wrestling Match, Symphony Orchestra On Agenda
Books Laid Aside as Influx of Dates Add Life and Color to Campus

As long-awaited Friday finally rolled around, the whole campus suddenly blossomed forth with an array of beautiful femininity. To a book-wearied and love-starved student body, the appearance of dates was a welcome sight. Some arrived from nearby Charlotte, many from W. C., Duke, Salem, and St. Mary's, and others from farther away. As they began streaming in, attention shifted to Mid-Winter of 1950, and activities began.

For early arriving dates, things started off with Davidson’s first swimming meet, which was held yesterday afternoon against N.C. State’s J.V. team. A number of the fraternities held banquets before the dance last night. One of great significance was that of the Miami Triad banquet held in the college dining hall. This was the first time that the three fraternities, Beta Theta Pi, Phi Delta Theta, and Sigma Chi, each of which was founded at Miami University in Ohio, have held a Triad banquet at Davidson. Several of the other fraternities held buffet suppers.

The formal dance began at nine with Tony Pastor and his orchestra furnishing the music which featured a number of novelty jazz tunes and vocals by Buddy James, Adele Castle, and Pastor himself.

The busy program for today (beginning with classes for most) includes the wrestling match with (Continued On Page Six)

Two Seniors Receive Commissions in Army

Word was received this week from the military department that two members of the Senior class have been offered commissions in the Regular Army, effective upon their graduation in June. The PMS&T was notified on Monday that the Senate has approved the appointments of C. N. Childers and Charles D. Parker.

Childers, a native of Lenoir, completed the college course in military science in January with the rank of Captain. He is a distinguished military graduate and now heads Davidson's chapter of Scabbard and Blade. Before coming to Davidson, Childers served with the Engineers in Panama.

Parker, from Asheville, is a Distinguished military student and is now serving in the capacity of Captain, commanding Company B in the local ROTC unit. He will have completed four years of military training upon his graduation.

Guerrant’s Book Gets Favorable Reviews

On the first day of this year “Roosevelt's Good Neighbor Policy,” by Professor Ed Guerrant was released by the University of New Mexico press. The story goes back to 1944, when Dr. Guerrant was in Washington, working as an analyst with the office of Inter-American Affairs and the State Department. Right under his fingers in government documents, treaties, and newspapers was hot material for an untouched subject. When he left to come to Davidson as professor of political theory and Latin American and Oriental history, he had with him enough notes for a book. The chief problem was to organize them into a pattern and to bind the information together with a commentary. By the summer of 1948 he had the first draft of several chapters, and on the way to teach at the summer school of the University of Southern California he stopped by the press of the University of New Mexico, noted for its interest in Latin Americana. They gave encouragement, and as Professor Guerrant found spare time at night he finished subsequent chapters and submitted them. When the book was finally completed, the style and organization were approved by the editor and the manuscript was handed over to experts in the particular field, who checked the contents to the satisfaction of the press.

The theme of the book deals with the program of cooperation with Latin American nations during the New Deal era with special emphasis on the World War II years. By putting together concrete facts, he makes a complete study of the chronic headaches in the Inter-American foreign policy. Among these you will find an account of what happened and why, in the controversy with Mexico over the 1938 oil expropriations. Through questions as complicated as this, Dr. Guerrant has driven a far clearer line than might be (Continued on Page Six)

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1950

THE WEEK-END IN BRIEF

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18
1:30—Varsity wrestling matches vs. V.P.I.
3:30—Tony Pastor concert.
8:00—Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra concert.
10:00—Pan-Hellenic dance in the Johnston gymnasium.

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 19
7:30—Vesper services with the Rev. Lee F. Tuttle, D. D. as guest speaker.

Medical Education Revision Proposed

New Haven, Conn. — (LP) — Proposing that the medical education system be revised so that doctors will not have to wait until they are 28 or 30 years old before they can start their own practice, Dr. C. N. Hugh Long, dean of the Yale School of Medicine, recently pointed out that this training period can be shortened without lowering the standards of medical education, chiefly by permitting students to start studying medicine at an earlier age.

“The training of young men and women for the practice of medicine now occupies from 10 to 12 years after graduation from high school,” he said. “Nearly half the life of a young man or woman has passed before they can begin to be self-supporting in their profession.”

Dr. Long recommends that students from liberal arts colleges be admitted to a medical school at the end of their sophomore year. The students would then complete their pre-medical training and start on their medical courses under a new revised program. He proposes that the program be developed jointly by the Yale School of Medicine and Yale University since the student would be taking courses both at the medical school and at the college. The new program would have a curriculum occupying a minimum of three years, and the student's courses would include the following: first, general culture courses as may be indicated (Continued on Page Six)

RADIATIONS

Dr. Alexander Hollaender, Director of the Biological Radiations Division of the Oak Ridge National Laboratory will give a public lecture on “The Biological Effects of Radiations,” on Wednesday, February 22. Basement lecture room, Science Hall. 2:00 P.M. The lecture is open to the public. Dr. Hollaender is an outstanding man in this field.

WEEK-END FESTIVITIES

Dr. Thor Johnson — Conductor Cincinnati Symphony

Rabbi Feinstein Says Religion Can Help Us

Protestant Davidson students heard a different slant on things in chapel Tuesday morning from Rabbi Abraham Feinstein, prominent Chattanooga Jewish leader. Appealing to the students’ youthful, unprejudiced outlook, Rabbi Feinstein emphasized the brotherhood of men throughout his talk on “How Religion Can Help Us Build A Better World.”

Rabbi Feinstein graduated from the College of the City of New York and received his M.A. degree from the University of Cincinnati. He has served congregations in Huntington, W. Va. as well as Chattanooga, where he is quite active in Jewish and general community affairs.

The Rabbi, in his talk, showed religion as a dynamic, this-world force capable of providing the steel beams of basic truths upon which a better world can be built. He said that religion can help build a better world by: (1) insisting in the name of God that we help the needy; (2) teaching that there is a Supreme Law in the universe higher than international law; (3) ATTENTION STUDENTS!

Frank Perrin, campus representative for Chesterfield Cigarettes, has announced that beginning this week one carton of Chesterfields will be awarded to the student submitting the best letter to the Editor, printed by the Davidsonian each week. Letter may concern any subject and may be of any length. Prize will be awarded the day following release of the Davidsonian. Address letters to Editor Davidsonian, Davidson, N. C.

stressing the dignity of the human individual; (4) proclaiming the age-old message that God is the Father of us all, and that all men are brothers.In conclusion, he told the students that men’s hands may be black, white, brown, or yellow, but the hue of the heart is one. (Men like Rabbi Feinstein are awakening the south from its lethargy and bigotry, and are pointing the way to a new, progressive era in this region.)

Band Trips Include Pan Holl, Presidents Parade With Their Ladies Georgia, East Coast

The Davidson College Concert Band will leave early Monday morning on the first of two short concert tours which are planned for this spring. The first trip takes the band down Georgia way for a concert in Atlanta Monday night. From there the Davidson musicians move up into the mountains of western North Carolina for a concert Tuesday night in Waynesville and an afternoon concert in Asheville Wednesday. The band will return to the campus Wednesday night following the Asheville concert that afternoon.

Mr. Pfohl has arranged an enjoyable and well-balanced program which will be highlighted by excerpts from the very fine suite for band, Gaîté Parisienne, by Offenbach. Melvin Sipe will accompany the band as violin soloist.

A similar short tour is planned (Continued On Page Six)

Jessie Carter As Celestina In “Sunday Costs Five Pesos”

NUMBER SIXTEEN CHER

Cincinnati Symphony Program Will Include Strauss, Mozart

World Renowned Orchestra to Make Appearance in Chambers Tonight

One of the principal features of the 1950 Midwinter’s weekend on the Davidson campus will undoubtedly be the concert given by the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra on Saturday evening, February 18, at 8 o’clock in Chambers Auditorium. This famous group, considered one of the six principal orchestras of America, will be under the direction of Thor Johnson, distinguished American conductor. Johnson, who graduated from the University of North Carolina in 1934 with a bachelor of music degree and a Phi Beta Kappa key, is of particular interest to Davidson students, since the College conferred an honorary degree upon him in 1947 in recognition of his splendid work in the field of music.

But Johnson is not the first famous conductor of the Cincinnati Symphony. Its conductors, in chronological order, have been Frank van der Stucken, Leopold Stokowski, Dr. Ernest Kunwold, Eugene Ysaye, Fritz Reiner, Eugene Goossens, and Thor Johnson. Nor is the fame of the Symphony to be outdone by the fame of its conductors, past and present. For the Cincinnati Orchestra is recognized as one of the finest symphonic ensembles in the world. With a background of fine musical tradition dating back to the beginning of the nineteenth century, it came into being in 1895 in response to the demands of musical Cincinnati for a permanent orchestra of the first rank which would give frequent interpretations of the best in the musical literature of the world.

The concert to be presented here by the orchestra's 78 virtuosi players is typical of the excellent selections so characteristic of all the Cincinnati orchestra's programs. First will be Glinka’s “Russian and Ludmilla” overture; followed by Mozart’s classic Symphony in D Major, “Haffner”; and then Ralph Vaughan Williams, “Job”—A Masque for Dancing. After intermission the program will continue with Don Gillis’ por- (Continued On Page Six)

Hampton to Replace Calhoun as IRC Veep

The first meeting of the International Relations Club this semester, held Tuesday night, was highlighted by the presentation of papers from two new members, Harold Gilliland and Kurt Biedenkopf. Harold's papers dealt with the insulation of International Law, correlating the principles of Machiavelli with those of some of the leading German philosophers. The difficulties encountered by nations refusing to subordinate their ideals of nationalism to internationalism were specifically brought out. Kurt’s theme of Capitalism’s inevitable clash with Communism was brought out by the tracing of clashing ideals from before the French Revolution to the present day. He further pointed out the place of religion in government and the source of its effects on human history, concluding that religion perhaps affords the answer to the future of humanity.

The meeting was adjourned after the election of Gray Hampton as new Vice-President to succeed John C. Calhoun who graduated last semester. Bill Cameron, club President, announced that IRC is on the lookout for new men who are really interested in world conditions to bolster the membership.

Bill Pharr As Warden Holt In “The Valiant”

Carter and Pharr Reappear In Red ‘n Black's Twin Bill

When Jesse Carter and Bill Pharr play their respective parts in the Masquers’ forthcoming production they will be appearing before the Davidson audience for the second time each within a relatively short period. For Jesse, it will be her second appearance within the past three months. This time Jesse steps down a notch to play the leading support role as Celestina Garcia in “Sunday Costs Five Pesos,” a Mexican slapstick comedy. She had formerly played the feminine lead in the Broadway hit, “John Loves Mary,” last November. A Davidson High School Senior, she is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Carter of Davidson.

Pharr won his Masquers’ spurs with his portrayal of a policeman in last year’s “Arsenic and Old Lace.” He will continue his law enforcing as he becomes Warden Holt, one of the principals in the more serious half of the Masquers’ program, “The Valiant.” Bill hails from McAdenville, N. C., where, in high school, he was active in dramatics, and was a member of the Lowell Literary Society. Here at Davidson he is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity.

“The Valiant” is a dramatic story in one act of a condemned criminal, who resists all efforts to aid him by refusing to reveal his name or the circumstances of his crime. The prison officials and even the governor, believing his crime justified, are unable to help him in this presentation of a courageous youth's convictions written by Hall and Middlemass.

“Sunday Costs Five Pesos,” the lighter of the two plays, is cast in the Mexican village of Four Cornstalks and portrays a day in the life of four Mexican girls. Conflict comes when two of them vie for the affections of a lowly woodcarver who is seeking to rise from the lower level of decorating swinging barroom doors to the more acceptable task of applying his skill to the portals of a newly constructed church. The girls are not above settling their dispute with finger- (Continued on Page Six)

The Horse's Mouth,’ ‘Parasites’ Acclaimed

The Davidson College Library has recently received a number of new books, among which are the following subjects: autobiography, politics, fiction, and humor.

In the fiction field there is the Book of the Month Club's selection for February, which is Joyce Cary's “The Horse's Mouth,” acclaimed by critics as one of the best comic novels in years. It is a first-person narrative, the self-told story of Gulley Jimson. Jimson, as he tells his story, carries the reader through his life as an artist and as a rogue. He is portrayed at different times in heights of artistic creation. The next moment he becomes the object of fun and ridicule. “The Horse's Mouth” was first published in 1944, but renewed interest has been placed upon it by the Book of the Month Club.

Also in the field of fiction is Samuel Shellabarger’s latest, “The King’s Cavalier.” The setting for this highly exciting novel is laid around the court of Francis I of France and concerns the Bourbon conspiracy against him. Shellabarger has in this work created a fine array of unforgettable characters, among which are Blaise de Lalliere, a soldier in the service of Francis I, and Milady Anne Russell, an intriguing young Englishwoman who is suspected of being an informer. These two are caught up in a series of plots and counterplots which should prove more fascinating than those in “The Prince Of Foxes,” and “Captain From Castile.”

“The Parasites,” by Daphne Du Maurier, the author of “Rebecca” (Continued On Page Six)