FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1950 PAGE FIVE

JERRY KISER

Freshmen Harriers Remain Undefeated

The freshman cross country team easily whipped the runners of Pfeiffer Junior College, 23-38, Tuesday afternoon for their second straight
triumph. The great running of Bill Shipley, who has yet to be beaten, again highlighted the victory. He set a
new freshman record at Davidson by running the two and a half mile course in 12:02.5, breaking the old record
by two and a half seconds, which was established last year by Clyde Garrison and Bob Jones of North Carolina
State. The better ability and conditioning of the frosh were easily shown in that seven of the first ten finishers
were Davidson men.

For a certain young teacher named Brown, Whose eyes are covered with wool We now prescribe the daily broom To
sweep from his office the bull.

There are some boys of 18 who just can’t believe that some day they'll be as dumb as their fathers.

HEART WARMED... (Continued From Page Four)

The stalwart, already-famous Citadel defense stalled the running attack of the Cats and held them to 45 yards on the
ground. They collected 13 first downs to Citadel's 16, mostly on passing. Also, the Davidsonians played the entire game without
the able services of tackle Jack Branch and half the game without either Bill McNeely or C. L. Runyan, both
out with leg injuries.

Not just a handsome worsted suit, steady styled... getting quality workmanship that assures better comfort. A suit you'll like when
you're fit and ready.

In a game marred by frequent penalties, Coach Boyd Baird’s Wildkittens were edged 12-6 by a determined Citadel eleven last
Saturday at Richardson Field. Although they were held in most of the game, they showed at times good handling and
running. It plainly had a case of the jitters and were unable to do much with the strong Bullpup defense
in the first half. The Pups, passing their way down the field, pushed over two touchdowns to lead 12-0 at
the end of the first half. The Kittens reversed matters in the second half though and had things their way
most of the time. Behind the passing of quarterback Sid Cutts and the running of fullback Tex Coulter and halfback
Johnny Grey, they threatened several times but were unable to cross the double marker until the fourth period. Citadel was
forced to punt after a Davidson drive failed to produce, and Coulter, a 185-pounder, gathered it in and, picking his
way through a host of tacklers, raced 35 yards to score standing up. McCall’s kick was bad, and the score
was 12-6 with about 10 minutes left in the game. Citadel threatened again late in the period but was unable
to push it over. Neale Graham and Bob Loy were standouts in the line for Davidson while Grey, Coulter, and
Rod Harrelson showed well in the backfield.

All good-looking girls under twenty look alike and all well-dressed women over fifty look alike.

Phi Delts, Last of Unbeaten, Knocked from Ranks by Betas

By WALLACE ABBOTT

After only three weeks of intramural football, not a single team remains undefeated. The Betas Wednesday toppled the last undefeated
club, the Phi Delts, 12-0. This fact proves that there will be a great deal of contention among all the
teams for first place in the league. The teams definitely shaping up as powerhouses are the...Phi Delts, Betas, Kappa Sigs,
and KAs.

Pi Kapps 12 - Pikas 0
The Pi Kapps showed a very good offense in their 12-0 victory over the Pikas. Their passing was sharp, as
was their defense. The two touchdowns were scored by Hopper Alexander and Jerry Noll. Although the Pika offense had trouble
getting started, it was sparked by some nice pass receiving by L. A. Parks.

Kappa Sigs 14 - SPE 0
Two touchdowns and a safety were more than enough to give the Kappa Sigs a victory in their game with
the SPEs. The Kappa Sig line constantly gave the SPEs a rough time. Passes to Thompson and Spach accounted for
both Kappa Sig scores.

Betas 2 - Phi Gams 0
In a game that was scoreless up until the last 3 minutes, the Betas edged the Phi Gams 2-0 on
first downs. Throughout the entire game, both teams threatened many times to make first downs, but some great defensive play
halted the drives. In the defensive lines, Lynn Crawley looked good for the Phi Gams while Francis Pepper stood out
for the Betas.

Phi Delts 30 - ATO 0
The Phi Delts rolled up the highest score of the season to down the ATOs. It was all the ATOs
could do to keep from losing yardage while the Phi Delts just wouldn't be stopped. Two of the Phi Delt
touchdowns were scored by Frank Warren.

KAs 14 - Kappa Sigs 12
Even though both lines fought to a standstill, the KAs were able to outscore the Kappa Sigs by the margin
of a safety. Passing and running was, once again, the difference. Both Kappa Sig scores were by Charlton Torrence, one
being on an intercepted pass covering the length of the field. Ward and Bachman scored for the KAs on passes
from Bird.

Pi Kapps 3 - SPEs 2
The Pi Kapps were able to score their second victory of the week when they edged the SPEs 3-2. It
was the closest game played by both teams so far this year, but the Pi Kapps proved to be defensively
stronger. Bill Cassels played his usually fine game along with Jerry Nall. Mills and Grier looked good for the SPEs.

Sigma Chis 6 - Pikas 0
Despite the fact that the Sigma Chis dropped several touchdown passes, they were able to eke out a victory over
the Pikas. Both teams threatened to score several times, but it was only on a pass from Tyler Berry to
Johnny Kelton that enabled the Sigma Chis to do so. In the Pika line, Dick Boyd consistently hard charged.

Betas 12 - Phi Delts 0
The Phi Delts were unable to overcome the hard-charging Beta line, and so they went down to their first defeat
of the year. Both Beta touchdowns were set up on attempted punts by the Phi Delts. One of the kicks
went for only about 5 yards while the other was fumbled. In the Betas defensive line, Tom Craven consistently gave
the Phi Delts a hard time.

Standings Through Wednesday
Team W L
Betas 1 0
Kappa Sigs 1 0
KA's 1 0
Phi Delts 1 1
SPEs 1 1
Sigma Chis 1 1
Phi Gams 0 1
Pikas 0 2

FROM NOW ON YOUR DATE will want the DAVIDSONIAN EVERY WEEK

WELCOME to the DAVIDSON FOOTBALL TEAM from The Town and Campus Shop and FLOOR
