PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR.

EDITOR IN CHIEF -------------- GORDON SCOTT

BUSINESS MANAGER ------------ JOHN LOFTIN

EDITORIAL STAFF

Associate Editors --- Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall

Features Editor -------------- Florence Shelley Beard

Managing Editors --- Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George McMurray, Ed Richardson

Photographs—Pete Ormsby

Photographer—Raymond Lynch

Proofreader—Dick Roper

City Editor—Nat Daniel

Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen

Sports Editor—Bill White

BUSINESS STAFF

Assistant Business Manager ------ Alex Goley

Advertising Manager -------------- Manley McWilliams

Circulation Manager -------------- Ansley Moses

Collections Manager -------------- Jack Turner

Subscriptions Manager -------------- Bill Hart

Faculty Advisor -------------- Prof. Henry T. Lilly

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Davidson, North Carolina as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March
3, 1897.

“The Students’ Choice”

Congratulations are in order to Woody Leach of the Senior Class who was elected several days ago to represent the
Student Body on the newly created Athletic Council. In assuming membership on this committee Woody takes on a job, the
magnitude and responsibility of which have evidently not sunk very deeply into the majority of the students’ minds. This is
not just another committee, but it is a group of men representing the Trustees, Faculty, Alumni, and Students who have
the awesome job of trying to decide just what course Davidson College will follow with regard to athletics.

This committee will begin to function amid a period—probably unsurpassed in the history of the college—of much discussion and not
a few apprehensions concerning the question which is foremost in the mind of every true Davidson man—“Will Davidson go all
out for subsidized football, return football here to a strictly ‘amateur’ status, or attempt to continue its struggle along the
middle of the road?” No one can, at this stage of the game, hazard a guess as to the final
policy which will be adopted. It will be no easy job to gain a meeting of the minds of men
whose ideas may range from “entering big-time football with all its accompanying subsidies, etc.,” to “dropping out of the Southern
Conference and returning the game to the players and the spectators.”

Woody Leach will represent the student viewpoint on this vital issue, which may not even be his own personal feeling
as to the correct policy for Davidson to follow. For that reason, it is absolutely imperative that every Davidson man
take time out to seriously consider this matter. If there ever was a time in Davidson’s long and staid past
when the students have needed to shed the long robes of complacency and apathy that seem to surround many of
them, it is now. Davidson has reached the crossroads and it’s going to take some downright deep thinking on somebody’s
part to determine whether she will turn down Subsidy Boulevard or go in the other direction down Deemphasis Lane.

Unsigned Letters

One thing which the Davidsonian failed to mention in the early issues of this year regarding our policy was this
thing of unsigned Letters to the Editor, and the only reason that matter is mentioned now is because for the
first time this year it has raised its ugly head as is the case every year. We believe that letters
published in an open forum in a newspaper constitute one of the most vital services a paper can render to
its readers. Indeed, we have time and again asked for student body reaction through letters on matters that come up
from time to time. The response has been almost negligible, but nonetheless the opportunity is still available.

But there are certain rules with regard to publishing letters which every newspaper worthy of the name must enforce. The
most important of which is not printing unsigned letters. Recently, a letter was delivered to us in which the writer
expressed certain views regarding the football team. It was an average letter, fairly well written and we agreed with parts
of what was written. Nevertheless, the letter was of such a type that the Editor cannot accept responsibility for printing
it unsigned. The Editor of any newspaper is responsible for any unsigned material which may appear in a paper, and
that is one responsibility which we will not shoulder, particularly when the letter expresses radical or highly contradictory views.

Again the Davidsonian asks for your participation in its open forum, but anyone desiring to write a letter and then
having so little faith in what he has said that he won't sign it, is asked to save his and
our time by refraining from writing. If the writer signs his name and then requests that it be withheld from
publication that is one matter. Such a request will be honored at any time.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Famous Last Words

“C’mon, Cowan; W.C. girls ARE beautiful!”

THE WORLD LAST WEEK

1) Mrs. Anna M. Rosenburg has succeeded Paul Griffith as Assistant Secretary of Defense.
2) West Germany and Spain were elected to full membership in the U. N. Food and Agriculture Organization.
3) The 1949 Nobel Prize for literature went to an American novelist, William Faulkner, the 1950 award to British philosopher
Bertrand Russell, and the chemistry prizes to Germans Otto Diels and Kurt Alder.
4) Yugoslavian and Albanian relations were further strained as the Albanian mission was expelled in Belgrade.
5) Britain has refused the Soviet proposal for four power talks on Germany, but France seems more agreeable, though not
entirely.
6) Enrollment in U. S. engineering schools has reached a new low.
7) In Tibet Chinese forces are continuing their march on Lhasa.
8) The acting president of Venezuela has been assassinated. In 1948 he led a successful revolt against the Gallegos Government.

FROM... The Editor’s Mailbox

To The Editor:
Archibald Hamenhash
The Davidsonian

Dear Arch:

Your recent take-off on the VMI game was probably extremely amusing to many of your cohorts but surprisingly enough, we
fail to see the humor. If it was written simply for a space filler, as it would appear, then we're
willing to forget it. But if that was your personal opinion, then we're going to take issue with you.

It has been our privilege, or as you might say, our fate, to play with the bunch of boys who
make up Davidson's football team. To the best of our knowledge, there isn’t an All-American among them and none profess
to be; however, a better bunch of boys cannot be found. We know that we didn't live up to the
standards of the Davidson Spirit against V. M. I., and that we didn’t give our very best. That is why
in our meeting with the coaches the Monday following the game we decided to really work hard for N. C.
State and to redeem ourselves in the eyes of our friends.

We will be the first to admit that the Wildcats looked lousy against V. M. I. Sometimes you have it
and sometimes you don’t. Football has its ups and downs like anything else. But then you might say it’s about
time we were having one of our “ups.” Well, are we being too boastful in saying that the Davidson team
has played good games this year? Maybe we do lack school spirit or any semblance of fight. Maybe none of
the boys “love” the game anymore as we have heard it so often expressed. But do you think a guy
would go out and try to play a game when he was so banged up that he could hardly walk
if there wasn’t something inside him which drove him to do it? More than a few of the 'Cats have
done that very thing this year and on several different occasions. Could there be any school spirit in that?

We have been at fault and we admit it, but knowing that there are students who feel as your column
would seem to indicate certainly doesn’t exactly get us all fired-up to do a better job.

Sincerely,
Auburn Lambeth
Woody Leach

THE POLL CAT

By SLAYDON MYERS

1. What kind of a college magazine do you want?
a) One that continues to print both serious and humorous writing—41 per cent.
b) A straight humor magazine only—25 per cent.
c) A humor magazine with a literary review published separately—34 per cent.

2. If a literary review were published:
a) Would you read it? Yes—59 pct.; No—41 pct.
b) Do you think that the college should finance it? Yes—64 pct.; No—36 pct.

DAVIDSONIAN’S PLATFORM FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

1. To abolish the double-cut system.
2. To change the existing system of giving cuts.
3. To make Physical Training non-compulsory for all seniors regardless of their age.
4. To improve the telephone arrangements in the dormitories and the college at large.
5. To change the system of student body elections.
6. To have more varied and interesting chapel programs and speakers.
7. To give praise where praise is due.
8. To criticize when it is felt that criticism will improve a situation.
9. To advocate Sunday night visitations to faculty homes.
10. To urge the clarification of student regulations to the student body.

The Pot Boils

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1950

By HENRY HANSEN

The typical Davidson student is usually publicly praised as a paragon of all the virtues: privately he comes off a
little worse, sometimes to the extent of being damned as a witless idiot. The truth, on an individual level, probably
lies somewhere in between. This is not always the case. At athletic events he is prone to act the polished
role of a Chesterfield.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

As regards his manner, there are other times when he is endurable or even pleasant in the aggregate, even occasionally
in chapel. To dispense with introductory remarks, of late he has nowhere been more the witless idiot than at the
local movie. Granted that, in a selection of pictures very much above what has formerly been the level of excellence,
there occasionally appears a stinker, still we may reasonably assume that having paid our money we wish to see the
picture and hear it as well—not the loud brayings of Davidsonians en masse. This is evidently not the motivating idea
behind the behavior of most of the students who attend. Almost anything is sufficient to set up a clamor which
not only effectively prevents the hearing of the sound track, but also is quite apt to cause serious lacerations of
the eardrum. The usual impetus is some joke or the appearance of a female of pleasing or even startling proportions.
Now jokes and females of any proportions pleasing are fine. They are "good things" in the system. Past experience should
have taught us, however, that clever remarks are usually answered and pleasing females may speak and say something which is,
if possible, even more interesting than their purely physical accoutrements. This unbelievable state of affairs is particularly apt to exist
in the better type of picture. One can only say to this amazing idea what one says to the comment
"good show" by outgoing movie viewers, "How would you know?" For that matter, how do I know? Answer—there are other
theatres where people both look and listen and it is wonderful what sound does for Hollywood's present product. Most of
the major companies seem quite wedded to the idea of sound movies. It’s just too bad that we can’t enjoy
the benefits which, they tell us, accrue to pictures in which you can hear what the characters say. To dispense
with hyperbole, why can’t we view movies with a reasonable amount of vocal approval, disapproval, or whatever comment it is
deemed necessary to make. This is not to advocate stony silence. But we'd like to hear a few punch lines;
we'd like to enjoy pulchritude in something approaching silent bliss; we'd like, in short, to hear as well as see
the movie. If it be said that I am trying to crush a glorious manifestation of glorious Davidson spirit, if
this be said, then I answer thus: to sit in a dark cave and make strange noises on slight or
no provocation to the detriment of the alleged reason for gathering there in the first place is hardly school spirit.
Not one of those who contribute to such would be guilty of it individually. The condition would be accurately described
as a situation in which most of us would seem to enjoy being idiots together when we wouldn’t think of
being idiots apart. To reiterate and conclude, we'd like to hear as well as see the movie.

Gags

A five-year-old boy who witnessed his first football game that afternoon was overheard praying this prayer that night: “God bless
ma. God bless pa. God bless me. Rah! Rah! Rah!”

Standing joke: A professor who refuses to sit.

Kentucky Kernel

Prof: What do you find the hardest thing to deal with?
Student: An old pack of cards.

The Heights

“Oh, darling, I’ve missed you.” And she raised the revolver and tried again.

Fool: He who parks on the campus without a parking permit.
Idiot: He who refuses to pay his parking fine the first week.
Damn fool: He who thinks he can get a parking permit.

Preacher: “Henry, your main enemy is Drink.”
Henry: “Yeah, and you're the old guy what told me to love my enemies.”

Nurse: “Doctor, every time I bend over to listen to his heart, his pulse increases. What should I do?”
Doctor: “Button your blouse.”

Vanderbilt Hustler

The scene is a chemistry class. The dumbest student is being quizzed.
“What is the formula for water?”
“H, I, J, K, L, M, N, O”
“Who in hell ever told you that?” shouted the exasperated professor.
“You did sir, You told me it was H to O.”

University Signal

Angry parent, striding into dimly lighted room: “Young man, I'll teach you to make love to my daughter.”
Darling Dan: “Wish you would; I'm not making much headway.”

Kentucky Kernel

EDDIE ALLEN’S SPORTS ASIDE

Editor's Note: Due to several requests, we are printing a duplicate of Eddie Allen’s sports column in the Charlotte Observer
last week. It deals with a little denominational college which has athletic policy troubles.

The Little College That Was Left Behind

Bedtime story for today: Once there was a little denominational college. It was a fine college, known and respected for
its high academic and moral standards. It was the kind of college you might well choose for your son, being
virtually sure that he would leave it a clear-eyed young man with a true sense of values. Now the standards
of this college remained high because its administration conscientiously kept them that way. There was no deviation in the course
that they believed right, no eye-winkings at what the less firm of purpose might consider only ethical white lies. The
prime purpose of this institution, uniquely enough, was the mental and spiritual development of those enrolled there. It is odd,
but true, that although a student might be able to kick a football 60 yards or pull out of the
line to lead interference with outstanding dispatch, he was still primarily a student. Yes, this college encouraged athletics. In fact,
it owned a fine tradition in intercollegiate sport. Never a real power, of course, but producing what its alumni could
proudly call “grand little teams.” When college football teams were composed of men who had enrolled of their own volition,
this little school played, and sometimes even defeated, the best of them. Not having as large a student body as
most, they usually were at some disadvantage. But generally their opponents, while bigger, also adhered to so-called pure athletic policies,
and our little college often made up for lack of size with extra effort and spirit.

The Purity Code Where It Was Not Needed

This was before the bubble of intercollegiate football began to inflate to barrage balloon proportions. While checking the gate receipts
one afternoon, some school’s graduate manager was stricken by the cash possibilities of what until then had been sport—for sport’s
sake. He reasoned that with better teams would come better financial returns and, ostensibly, higher prestige for the school with
the better team. You might say the idea was popular. Soon throughout the land money began to pour into the
tills and even huskier young men into the enrollment offices of the prosperous schools. Meanwhile, our little college among the
oaks sat back, philosophically wondered what all the shooting was about, and steadily continued to steer its own quiet, sane
course. By the year, the conference of which our school was a member became stronger, the weaker teams correspondingly weaker.
Gradually a few little Goliaths were dropped from the schedule of our Little David, but soon even those who weren't
Goliaths at all became too powerful, too. The shopworn phrase “moral victory” became even more frayed from excessive wear. About
this time the national collegiate fathers became alarmed over the monster of their own creation. They issued a pretty piece
of paper known as the purity code and honor-bound each school to report itself for any violation of it. Well,
our little college was a member of the national body and accepted the purity code at face value, if not
for what it was worth. It was very funny when the cynics got hold of the news that our little
college had reported itself for some minor, inadvertent infraction. Without the subsidy that most schools considered only necessary but didn’t
care to admit, it was regularly taking its lumps on the playing fields. Its opponents grew bigger and better, but
in most cases, they declared no violations of the prissy purity code.

It’s Unhealthy In The Middle Of The Road

To some, it seemed to continue in this manner would do our college no good. Character building is highly to
be desired, but somehow, a boy doesn’t particularly benefit from having his nose pushed in the dirt every Saturday. It
was apparent that one of two choices should be made. First, to go what the sportswriters call “big time” in
athletics, which the administration never wished nor was prepared to do. Second, to carry on with its normal sports program,
but to drop down into its own level in intercollegiate endeavors. Such decisions, of course, cannot be made quickly. On
one side, the sports-minded alumni began to demand teams like the other schools had. On the other side, the administration
held steadfastly to its own level in intercollegiate endeavors. The unhappy result was a stalemate. While nobody could decide just
what to do, our little college's teams were left in the middle of the road. And what happens when you
stay in the middle of the road too long? You get knocked down. There isn’t any end to this story
and if you want a moral make up your own. As of now, our little college is still undecided. It
is still in the middle of the road and, gentlemen, the traffic is getting heavy.
