PAGE THREE

Among The Greeks

BETA THETA PI

Well, after a nice, long, restful holiday, everybody is back with the bright prospects of exams ahead. Things are not quite the same, however; there are two new additions to the Beta family. Congratulations to Earl Groves and his wife, Lucy, and Newt Robertson and his wife Betty, both brothers turned family men. Congratulations are also in order to Brother Cliff Turner, scholar and gentleman, for his recent achievements in the fields of band directing and dog training.

The new year was ushered in an appropriate manner by a large gathering of pledges and brothers from Charlotte, Davidson, Reidsville, Burlington, Greensboro, and Winston-Salem at Francis Pepper's cabin near the Twin City, after a fine basketball game at Hanes. The Betas present and their dates performed the proper ceremonies at twelve midnight, and some insisted on aiding those farther west at the stroke of twelve Central Standard Time. Everyone thoroughly enjoyed himself.

Young “Wooglin,” offspring of a campus canine known as “Blackie,” now has his eyes open and is progressing satisfactorily, although his father hasn’t been seen locally for several weeks. We have been particularly interested in this pup because he arrived in this world in Brother Gant Carlton’s room. Gant reportedly acted as midwife in the emergency.

We are proud of our boys who are making such a good start on Davidson’s young swimming team, especially John Jervis and Ray Cunningham, both first-class breaststrokers. The “whale” in his natural habitat is a wonder to behold. And, speaking of water, some of our more conservative brothers and pledges are viewing with alarm the actions of Brother Roy Horn and a certain young lady at Queens College. Some fear that they are eventually destined for water, both hot and deep, much like that in which are several other folks mentioned in this epistle.

Also in the proud-of department: Libba McGee, beautiful member of our family who was recently chosen Maid of Cotton. No one is prouder than Bob Richardson, whose pin she wears. Regardless of appearances, Phi Alpha sons of Wooglin are gradually centering their attentions on the coming festivities, as are most Davidson students during this crucial period, and are looking forward to another good semester in Beta Theta Pi at Davidson.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

Do you have that worn-out, run-down, chewed-out feeling? You do! Cheer up, only 140 days, 356 hours, and 201,600 minutes till school's out!

The pledges have decided to start the new year off right by volunteering en masse to go to the Queens party this Saturday at the Charlotte YWCA. Such spirit is really admirable.

The chapter was privileged to have the eminent Ox Garber as its guest this week. The Ox gave several absorbing lectures on the joys and benefits of married life for the enlightenment of his less privileged brethren.

Rabbit-habit Ivey must have influenced Aubrey’s activities with the fairer sex—little Aubrey has finally realized there are lots of cute little things besides squirrels to look for. Gluecose has been awarded a freshman cap for his stellar performance in the Freshman-Sophomore Day last Tuesday. No one but Grose could have come through in such great style. He has our sympathy.

Coach Rick’s basketball team, though off to a slow start, has a lot of promise. With Carol and Amos Camp at guards, Dickey Blanks and Bill Christopher at forwards, and Dick Stone at center, we should have a winning combination. Pete is nothing but great as a cheerleader and deserves a lot of support. Our cheering section has put all others to shame so far and is improving at every game. Let’s really support the team this year and come down for every game.

The chapter will miss Sam Pharr who is graduating at the semester. We all wish him good luck as he goes on to med school.

SIGMA CHI

Another semester draws to a close amid the usual last-minute rush to get in term papers, parallel reports, last-minute reviews, and to get ready for the final exams. Soon all of this rush will die down and the usual “why do this work today when I can put it off until tomorrow” attitude will return as always. Most of you have probably made the New Year’s resolution that this will not happen to you. When you get that clean slate next semester, you intend to keep it that way. Yes, you intend to make a good record for yourself in the New Year. Well, I hope that you do.

Let’s hope that the Sigs keep up their good record in basketball. The basketball team has thus far won three straight games. They have beaten the Phi Delts, Kappa Alphas, and the Campus Club, respectively. The team has been led on the floor by Dorsey Pleasants, the only starter that played on last year’s team. Phil Blatt has come through very well in the center slot. Paul Eastman, Bob Merrell, and Tyler Berry round out the fine quintet. For his height, Tyler Berry gets an exceptional amount of rebounds and his defensive play is sparkling. Keep up the good work, Laverty, in coaching this team to the top.

The fraternity will be guided this next semester by Consul John Kelton. He is ably backed by Marshall Dendy, Bill Harris, Joe Walker, Don Shriver, Paul Laverty, and R. B. Covington. With the 100 percent backing of the members, these leaders can lead us forward.

We congratulate the following for bringing glory to Sigma Chi in the past year: Mott Price, Bill Brooks, Bob Graham, John Kelton, Dick Morgan, and Don Shriver. We hope that you all have just as successful years in the future. Congratulations to Bill Clark, also, for his excellent leadership as consul. Congratulations to Joe McLaney, who got married during the Christmas holidays, and good luck to Bill Clark and John Calhoun as you get ready for graduation. May you be successful in whatsoever you do.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

Three more brothers are wearing again the pins which their girls were wearing until recently. Pat Clark, Ed Coffin, and Gene Little have exchanged diamonds for those little fraternity hearts that Ginger, Harriet, and Carolyn had. I didn’t mean that last word, really.

We had a fine fraternity function on December 10. There was a banquet at that wonderful Kuester house and a formal dance at the Morris Field Legion Post (commonly known as the Officers’ Club). This was our first time at Morris Field, and when it was finally found, it proved to be very nice. If you didn’t like to dance you could watch the Mickey Mouse on the wall. Professor Goldiere and Major Sample and their wives were our chaperons, and we enjoyed having them. Major and Mrs. Sample showed us some expert Latin-American dancing. Bedford M. Black, alumni secretary of N. C. Zeta and former president of the Wake Forest chapter, was a guest. Cahow was the official photographer, having been forced into the job by Dixon, who didn't want to embarrass his date by requesting her to change flash-bulbs, and took forty-eight pictures. Some fellows still see spots from all those blinding flashes. This was the first dance at which Morton or Daniels haven’t run true to form and presented us with a fine-looking date.

The Sig-Epigram came out with a directory of all the present brothers. Lefty Hunter wants it known that he is definitely not from Wilmington. By the way, his shoulder’s well and he’s playing some fine basketball for us. Talking about basketball, we have a fine team, managed by Joe Brown, and if it keeps practicing as Joe has been having it do on Saturdays, we will end up with an excellent record. Miller, Pat Clark, Hunter Wilson, and McNeely are the starters with plenty of good reserves.

In the last column, I was predicting that Loftin and Gay would meet at the Christmas party those little girl orphans they were making mad love to at a football game, but was I, and the rest of us, fooled! They were boys—big boys. Sam bought pocket knives for them, but they had to be returned because boys are noted for being most careless with knives around furniture. All the orphans, after they had thawed out from a wild ride in an open truck, had a fine time, as did the brothers, except one little fellow who must not like airplanes, who said to Harrison “Santa Claus” Taylor, “I hope you fall down the chimney and break a leg.”

The SPE field secretary, Charles Pafford, came to visit us last month. He was a pretty swell fellow. Also, R. D. Beam, our governor from State, and Jim Barnhardt of Charlotte, came by for a symposium with the council and Professor Fulcher. Bogart, Johnny Walker, Sandy Shaw, Z. Hollar, and some other alumni have been by to see us. We're always glad to see them.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, JAN. 13, 1950

ROTC

Major Sample, originally from Fort Pierce, Fla., is a graduate of Davidson in the class of 1939. While at Davidson, Major Sample made an enviable record on Coach “Pete” Whittle’s track team. He ran the 100- and 200-yard dashes, but his specialty was the pole vault. Major Sample was Southern Conference pole vault champion his junior year.

When Major Sample was a student here at Davidson, the different classes participated in intramural sports as well as the fraternity sports. Professors grin slyly as Davidsonians re-populate “Boys-Town” after holidays.See them, Dixon and Hart compiled a chapter alumni directory as a farewell token from Dixon who will leave in a couple of weeks. Anybody who wants one, just ask for it. God made the world, then rested; God made Adam, then rested; God made Eve. Since then no one has rested. —Holy Cross Tomahawk.

The Worutzer é 1anos
Parker-Gardner Company
118 W. Trade St.
Phone 8253

Withers Electric Company
© Radio Repairs
© Electrical Supplies
© Light Bulbs
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Knives for fraternities. He was athletic manager for his class his last three years. Major Sample is a member of the SPE social fraternity. Commenting on the changes at Davidson since he was a student, Major Sample said that the big change is in the number of buildings that are on the campus now. Duke Dormitory, the Science Building, the Library, and, of course, the new gym, were not built then.

In 1939, Major Sample began his army career at Fort Moultrie, S.C. with the 4th Division. He served in several southern states with the 4th, and in 1940, he was transferred to the 9th Division and was stationed at Fort Bragg. From Fort Bragg, Major Sample was sent to Ireland and Scotland. He participated in the initial North African invasion, and in 1943, he was transferred to General Eisenhower's staff. Major Sample returned to the United States in 1944. After returning, he attended the Infantry School, and then he was an instructor at this school until 1946. In 1945, Major Sample attended the Command and General Staff School at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. From 1946 until 1949, he was stationed in the Canal Zone working with military and air force missions. While stationed in the Canal Zone, Major Sample visited various countries in Central and South America on official duty. From the Canal Zone, he was transferred to the ROTC Department at Davidson. Major Sample is married and has two young daughters.

DR. E. O. GUERRANT
Davidson Professor Publishes Book

“Roosevelt's Good Neighbor Policy,” a book on U.S. relations with Latin America between 1933 and 1945 written by Edward O. Guerrant, associate professor of international relations at Davidson College, will be published January 1. Dr. Guerrant, a political and research analyst in the State Department, records the day-by-day developments which were guided by Franklin D. Roosevelt, Cordell Hull, and Sumner Welles. The author, a graduate of Davidson in 1933, has been a faculty member here since 1946. He received the Ph.D. degree from the University of Southern California. Published by the University of New Mexico Press, the new book is described as an engrossing and comprehensive report on U.S. Latin American policy under Roosevelt. It has already been selected for use at the University of Southern California.

After matriculating, all MEN in college must mature. Consequently, in passing from the stage of embryonic freshmanism to that sublime level of aesthetic seniorism, one must migrate through several mellowing periods before one reaches that much desired state of maturity. Let us then not be so casually naive as to overlook that necessary evolutionizing transit of the Christmas and New Year vacations during our college career. This ripening period has in itself three different phases, but involves as many minute mellowing processes as a Lucky Strike. Here, let us observe that the first of these three phases is that of transportation home. Since to describe transportation a la plane, car, or train would merely be dawdling in the realm of fantasy, I will digress to the particular by using my own experiences to describe a general situation.

My itinerary covered some 680 miles (square-trip) and moving homeward covered in an uncovered jeep. Slowly (60 ad infinitum m.p.h.) winding our way over Carolina’s curvations, contourous causeways, I knew not when all of us might be catapulted into eternity by our quite mad driver and right sad fliver (rhymes, doesn’t it). As we progressively drew near the speed of sound, I renewedly counted my beads with devout vigor and prayed for the pedal chain to bust. Serenely arriving in my hometown, I emerged from the jeep an almost frozen (circa absolute zero) inert mass of stiff joints, coagulated blood, and crystallized grey matter. By refusing the holiday spirits, I confused even the total abstainers in my household and to the amazement of the welcoming committee, I instead injected intravenously boiling solutions of glucose and plasma; once more restoring idiocy.

The next fairly universal phase of spending the Christmas holidays at home is that of spending the Christmas holidays at home. Upon reaching my abode I hastened to examine the incoming Christmas card pile to see just exactly who would compose my outgoing list and I checked the calendar for mailing time to find out which easily embarrassed and potential hanky, sox, or tie-giving relative I would send a card and yet have time for them to become sufficiently embarrassed to send me in return a tie clasp, billfold, or belt. Unbeknownst to myself, I arrived just in time to start and finish last-minute Christmas shopping, listen to “Rudolph, the Red-Nosed Reindeer” an infinite number of times on the victrola, decorate the Christmas tree (upon which I planted the first untangled electric light string on New Year's Eve) and enjoy several games of electric football on my little brother's still-hidden present from Santa. He, by the way, later admitted that he knew of it (the game) all along, but for the sake of our ego had effected a gullible air of belief that we were operating a still behind the closed doors.

On Christmas morning, in spite of Santa Claus, many in the repose of the thoughts collectively were reminded whose birthday was being celebrated. That afternoon and during the festive holidays I masochistically glutted myself with cranberry sauce, turkey, and plum pudding which so expanded my frame that I looked like I had masochistically glutted myself with cranberry sauce, turkey, and plum pudding during the festive holidays. As bowl games drew to a close and the bicarbonate of soda was placed on the shelf until the next holidays, some inner calling prompted myself (as other Davidsonians) to return to the salt mines. Consequently, as I packed my pillowcase and duffle bag I decided that for future Christmas holidays of loafing, chit-chatting with relatives, eating delicious home-cooking, and experiencing a feeling of “ye olde Christmas Spirit” there was absolutely no place like the Rimsky-Korsakov Hotel in Stalingrad.

In closing, there remains, of course, the ride back. As the old adage goes: speak softly, and carry a big suitcase (plus a Greyhound bus ticket), and you will go far. A Greyhound, incidentally, is the fastest moving thing this side of a pyramid or perhaps a petrified forest and makes as many stops in rural holes and warrens as an expectant rabbit (ess). As my time grew short and I thought once more of my holidays and tried to mitigate the idea of returning to school, I frustratedly felt convinced that only the sadistic rule of the P.T.A. would impose such poetic justice upon my weary soul. By the way!! Will the library be open during the spring holidays?

“AN with.”
“What vo’ got?”
“Three aces.”
“No, you don't, Ah wins.”
“What you got?”
“Two eights and a razor.”
“You sho do. How come you so lucky?”
—Auburn Plainsman.

Scene: A lonely corner on a dark night.
A voice: “Would you gentlemen be so kind as to help a hungry fellow who is out of work? Besides this revolver, I haven't a thing in the world.”
—Syracusan.

Late to bed
And early to rise
Keeps your roommate
From wearing your ties.
—Syracusan.

“It is better to remain silent and keep the teacher in doubt than to open your mouth and let him be sure.”
—Merrimack Warrior.

Teacher: “What is it when I say, ‘I love you, you love me, he loves me’?”
Willie: “That's a triangle where somebody usually gets shot.”

NEW career opportunities for you

In this era of long-range flights, the role of the navigator has become increasingly important. The U.S. Air Force now offers new opportunities to young college men between the ages of 20 and 26½ who are single and can qualify for such training. If you can meet the high physical and educational standards (at least two years of college), and are selected, you can be among the first to attend the new one-year navigator training course at Ellington Air Force Base near Houston, Texas. A new class begins each month!

Cadet! Force. transports! Then, graduation! You'll win your wings as a navigator... and a commission as a Second Lieutenant in the Air Force. With pay, you'll be ready for challenging assignments as a navigator with one of the famous commands in the U.S. Air Force. Your office will be the “front office” of mighty bombers or long-range transports!

You'll be an Aviation And, receive the best available training — including 184 hours in the new, T-29 “Flying Classroom.” you'll receive After a 30-day leave

Be among the first to win your wings as a U.S. Air Force navigator under the new navigator training program—be a key man on the Air Force team! Air Force officer procurement teams are visiting many colleges and universities to explain these career opportunities. Watch for their arrival—or get full details at your nearest Air Force Base, U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force Recruiting Station, or by writing to the Chief of Staff, U.S. Air Force, Attention: Aviation Cadet Branch, Washington 25, D.C.

U.S. AIR FORCE
ONLY THE BEST CAN BE AVIATION CADETS!