RAH! RAH! RAH! RAH! RAH! RAH! RAH! VOLUME XXXVIII

PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON Scholarship Society Taps Juniors, Seniors In "Spring Selections"

Recently the annual spring elections to Phi Beta Kappa were held, and five seniors and five juniors were honored. The
following received and accepted bids to North Carolina Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa: Robert Bruce Bumbarger, R. Bruce Jackson,
Jr., Boyce David Kendall, Paul Linwood O'Briant, Jr., Thomas Grady Spires, James McKown Campbell, James David Deck, C. Kenneth Kistler,
Joseph James Murray, Jr., and Donald W. Shriver, Jr.

Bob Bumbarger is a member of the senior class from Hickory, N. C. This year he has served as editor
of Quips and Cranks and is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa and Pi Kappa Phi. He plans to go
into accounting following graduation.

Bruce Jackson, who is from Drakes Branch, Va., is a member of the senior class and of Sigma Chi, social
fraternity. He is earning his B.S. in Mathematics and Physics and plans to teach for his life’s work.

Boyce Kendall hails from San Antonio, Texas. After graduation with an A.B. in English, he is looking forward either to
the ministry or teaching as his vocation. He is a member of The Campus Club and of the senior class.

Linwood O'Briant received his B.S. in History in January, 1951. While at Davidson he was a member of the Campus
Club and at present is engaged in teaching.

Grady Spires is a member of the senior class and of Phi Delta Theta.

(Continued on Page Five)

Eu Society Debates Student Elections

The Eumenean Literary Society had one of its most lively meetings of the year at Eu Hall on Monday evening.
Starting out in the usual formal manner, the meeting proceeded to produce fireworks before its conclusion, most of the sparks
flying as an aftermath to a hotly contested debate.

The meeting was opened with a devotional by President J. W. Campbell after which Parliamentarian Jack Hunter took the floor
and gave a few helpful facts concerning Parliamentary procedure for making a motion, gaining the floor, and the general conduct
of a formal meeting or debate.

Pete Kalogridis, chairman of the Program Committee, then presented the program for the evening — a debate on the question:
“Resolved: The Present System of Student Elections Should Be Changed.” George McMurray and Johnny Kelton presented the affirmative view while
Ken Goodpasture and Chuck Kirby took the negative approach.

The affirmative team began by

(Continued On Page Six)

Future Freshmen Win Church Scholarships

Dr. Cunningham announced this week that several men in next year’s freshman class have won scholarships or honorable mention in
Competitive Scholarship Contest for 1949-1950 given by the Board of Christian Education and Ministerial Relief of the Presbyterian Church in
the United States. They are as follows: Scholarships — William Boyd Hood, Jr., Wallace, North Carolina, and Holmes Rolston, Jr.,
Richmond, Virginia. Honorable mention — William Andrew Moffett, Jackson, Mississippi; Lucian Jay Endicott, Jr., Atlanta, Georgia; Richard Rosenbush Hicks, Jr.,
Lake City, Florida; Edwin Thomas Smith, Thomasville, Ga.

These scholarships range from two thousand dollars to one hundred dollars and can be applied toward expenses in any Presbyterian
School in the South.

NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 1950

Shown above are the men recently tapped by Phi Beta Kappa, honorary scholastic fraternity. They are, top row, (left to
right) seniors: Bob Bumbarger, Bruce Jackson, Boyce Kendall, Paul O’Briant, and Grady Spires. Bottom row, juniors: Jim Campbell, Dave Deck,
Clyde Kistler, Jim Murray, and Don Shriver.

Phi Society Gives Post-Season Glance At Scripts ‘n Pranks

The Philanthropic Literary Society turned mortician at its regular meeting Tuesday night in order to perform an autopsy on the
recently released college humor magazine, Scripts ’n Pranks. Bill Hamilton, editor of the magazine and Neil Leach, program chairman, were
the chief dissectors.

Editor Hamilton, himself, opened the way for criticism and discussion by outlining a four-point purpose for the existence of the
magazine.

1. To provide an outlet for student literary expression.
2. To furnish the student body with material of interest and entertainment.
3. To provide an opportunity for practical experience in putting out a magazine, making up for the lack of journalistic
training in the school curriculum.
4. To be a voice of student views and give a fairly representative picture of student accomplishment to those readers
outside the school.

He followed his outline with a brief discussion of the headaches connected with such a publication.

Leach rose to criticize the magazine on all four points, stating that it was neither a voice of student views
nor provided an outlet for student literary expression in that its contributors are limited to a select few who are
“repeaters” in each issue. He maintained it failed to give anyone save the editor any practical experience because the editor
selfishly regarded it as his own particular “baby.”

(Continued On Page Six)

STUDENT ART CONTEST

The committee on Fine Arts at Davidson College has announced plans for a student art contest which will be held
the last of this month. Paintings done in oils, watercolors, pastels, and other media will be considered by the judges.
An exhibit of the submitted paintings will be displayed in Chamber’s building on April 29th. It is not required that
entries be original, but copies must be labeled as such. Students are urged to turn in their entries not later
than April 24th to Wylie Smith, 214 East Dormitory.

Citizens Committee Enacts Housing Plan

Work has begun on the first of a planned 9-10 unit housing program on purchased lots in the Mock Hill
district of Davidson. This house will be occupied by John Heath, janitor of Georgia Dormitory, who is using his own
money with the supervision of the Citizen’s Committee. Two of these lots have been sold to Dr. Watts who also
intends to erect homes for Negroes. In addition, there are 2 or 3 other Negro families ready and able to
build new homes in an effort to relieve the overcrowded conditions in Brady’s Alley.

Further action on the part of the Citizen's Committee has come in the form of: (1) a recommendation to the
Town Council asking for enforcement of a city ordinance which requires all landlords owning houses adjacent to a city sewer
line to connect those houses with the line, (2) a similar recommendation requesting the adoption of a housing plan comparable
to that of Charlotte’s.

EXECUTIVE BODY SANCTIONS FIRST SEMESTER RUSH WEEK

Dean of Students, John C. Bailey and Dr. Lewis B. Schenck recommended Tuesday afternoon in a joint meeting of the
faculty and fraternity presidents that rush week for the coming year would be carried on during the first two weeks
of school rather than, as earlier proposed, during the second.

Three Fraternities Hold Spring Formals

Within the past two weeks three fraternities held their formal spring functions. Sigma Chi honored its newly initiated brothers at
its annual Sweetheart Ball, March 18, at the Red Fez Club in Charlotte. Phi Delta Theta held its annual Blue
and White Ball April 1 at the Women’s Club in Charlotte and Beta Theta Pi had its function also at
the Red Fez Club on April 1.

Sigma Chi fraternity at their function, honored its Sweetheart of 1950, Miss Eugenia Harris, who was escorted by Marshall Dendy,
from Macon, Ga. She is a member of Phi Mu Sorority at Queens. She succeeds Miss Betty Wayne Williams of
Laurinburg, N. C., as the fraternity’s annual favorite. Singled out for additional honors was Phil Blatt, freshman from Houston, Texas,
who was voted as the outstanding pledge for the past year. Other initiates were: Gene Beckman, Mullis, S. C.; Herman
Bell, Norfolk, Va.; Tyler Berry, Franklin, Tenn.; Mac Bulgin, Franklin, Tenn.; Paul Cole, Bluefield, W. Va.; Dick Doxey, Holly Springs,
Miss.; Paul Eastman, Concord, N. H.; M.B. Fowler, Clinton, N. C.; Joe Goudy, Fanwood, N. J.; Bob Graham, Atlanta, Iowa;
Bob Merrell, Leesburg, Fla.; Steve Mills, Sarasota, Fla.; Vance Mizell, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.; Lewis Nelson, N. Wilkesboro, N. C.; Neal
O'Neal, Raleigh, N. C.; Jim Patterson, Wytheville, Va.; Willie Pruitt, Anderson, S. C.; Luther Sappenfield, Charlotte, N. C.; Phil Sellars,
Charlotte, N. C.; Rich Steck, Orlando, Fla.; Frank Wallace, Montevallo, Ala.; Harry Wolfe, Charlotte, N. C.

The Betas were honored with Dr. Chalmers Davidson who was master of ceremonies at this banquet. He presented a short,
satirical history of five famous men that have been connected with Davidson: Marshall Ney, Robert Hall Morrison, William Lee Davidson,
Woodrow Wilson, and Dr. J. R. Cunningham. After the talk, he told jokes about members of the Senior Class in
the fraternity. The dance was an informal one.

(Continued On Page Six)

Professors in the college had petitioned the faculty committee led by Dr. Schenck to reconsider and further discuss the problems
that would arise next Fall. Dr. Schenck clearly stated to a joint group that the faculty committee now engaged in
finding a workable solution has not made this their final decision; that next year, after a more complete inspection of
the system as it exists, the problem would again demand renewed attention. At that time it is hoped that a
permanent rushing week may be designated for the school calendar of the future.

Earlier in the year, student-faculty discussion groups aired the pros and the cons of the question. The main points being:

Second Semester Points—
1. The scholastic average of the fraternity men falls below the school average. This is peculiar to most campuses. It
is believed that the first two weeks of school which are largely devoted to rushing is responsible for a large
part of this fact.
2. A second semester system would give both fraternities and rushees a better chance to know one another.

First Semester Points—
1. Since fraternities are relatively small and because they operate their own boarding houses, they are dependent on the first
semester pledges if they are to continue eating together as a group. Were the system to change to second semester...

(Continued On Page Six)

The Davidsonian

NUMBER TWENTY-ONE

ELECTIONS BEGIN NEXT WEEK FOR STUDENT BODY OFFICERS

Setting into motion student body election machinery, the student council met last Tuesday and created an election board and nominating
committee. The election board is composed of Rob Palmer, Phi Delts; Bo Roddey, Kappa Sigs; John Adams, KA; Pat Clark,
SPE; George Adams, Beta; Bill Boyd, Pika; Bill Houck, Phi Kaps; Dick Morgan, Sigma Chi; Louis Rogers, SAE; and John
Rose, Phi Gams. On the nominating committee are Harrison Taylor, Stubby Evans, Liston Mills, Whit Cobb, Sam Joyner, Randy Taylor,
and Allan Strand.

Wednesday in chapel nominations were presented for student body officers by this committee, and other nominations were made from the
floor. The candidates are:

For President: Jim Campbell, Sam Joyner, Johnny Kelton, Auburn Lambeth, Don Shriver, Neil Leach, Randy Taylor, Bill Klein, Monty Hill,
Tommy Haller, Bill Cassels, Irving Stubbs, Gordon Scott, and Ray White.

For Vice-President: Pete Kalogridis, Tony Tucker, Mac McLean, Bryan Robinson, Tom Stockton, Ladson Dubose, Allan Strand, Alex Goley, Bill Brooks,
and Tom Coleman.

For Secretary-Treasurer: George Cornelson, Larry Dagenhart, Geo. Nichols, Sid Whiteheart, Bob Henry, Bob Tucker, Bruce Pruitt, Adrian Bowen, Michael Patton,
Nick Mitchell, Dick Lyles, Neely Dixon, Tyler Berty, Preston Chaney, Bob Graham, Hunter Warlick, George Ervin, Bill Trotman, Roy White,
Charles Calhoun, Gene Craven, A. C. Gregg.

Voting will start Monday at an, as yet, unspecified time. Election of Student Council members, Y.M.C.A. officers, Class Officers, and
others, will take place immediately after the balloting on the student body officers, in the order set forth in the
Student Government Constitution. The Student Body Officers and Student Council will be inaugurated at some date before April 24th.

—Charles Bryan

Campus Club Group Will Petition A. T. O

Forty-five members of the Campus Club this week received faculty approval to petition the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity. This action
was the final green light for petitioning procedures by the organization now known as Kappa Kappa, whose members were once
a part of the Campus Club. According to a unanimous agreement, a group of about ten underclassmen who wish to
continue the Campus Club will maintain the original organization next fall. Next year’s club will retain ownership of the house
furniture while the larger Kappa Kappa group will possess the boarding house.

Both the petitioners and the non-petitioners will continue to operate the house and boarding house jointly under the present officers
of the Campus Club for the remainder of the college year. Each group, however, has elected its own officers and
is laying plans for a final separation in June. Kappa Kappa plans to secure a house on Fraternity Court before
next September.

ATO would make the eleventh national social fraternity at Davidson. The first fraternity formed after the Civil War, ATO is
one of the large and well-known nationals, with 107 chapters, and some 50,000 members. Other chapters in this area are
at Duke, UNC, USC, Charleston, W. Va., and W. & L.

The Campus Club, organized on October 13, 1947, has led an increasingly useful existence, naturally evolving from a loose-knit organization
into a more compact and congenial brotherhood. It will continue as originally planned in the future. ATO High Council chairman
John W. Vann and Province Chief Richard Johnston who were on the...

(Continued On Page Six)
