7 PAGE Six . BU SOCIETY... (Continued From Page One) | SEO’Y. OF LABOR... (Continued From Page Three)

estely than in others in the long-run. criticizing the present system of student elections as being unfair to independents or non-fraternity students, and to the candidates themselves since they are given no opportunity to present their qualifications for a student office. They urged that a new system be set up with parties and campaigns allowed, claiming that such a system would be of great practical value in familiarizing the students with politics similar to the politics they will later face in life.

The panel side replied that the present system was completely adequate, citing past and present student officers as evidence of the worth of the system. They also predicted that a change would not produce better officers but would create fraternity blocks among the large fraternities on the campus and hamper an independent candidate's chances of election rather than helping them. They also asked for an outline of the specific changes to be made in the constitution by the affirmative, which the affirmative team was unable to produce. This seems to have been the decisive factor in the decision, which was given to the negative team.

The nearness of the elections seemed to have awakened everyone’s attention to just what system would be best for Davidson; consequently, an evidence question period was permitted at the conclusion of the formal debate, which eventually turned into a free discussion some arguing one way, others another. However, no matter what conclusions were reached, a definite advance toward constructive thinking on present-day Davidson conditions was made which might possibly show us our own and the school's shortcomings much more clearly. Such an advance in thinking is definitely desired and hoped for by Eumenean members.

SCHOLARSHIP SOCIETY... (Continued From Page One)

ta, from Miami, Florida. He is seeking his A. B. in English and expects to go into the University after graduation. Jim Campbell is a member of the junior class from Philadelphia, Pa. After graduation with an A. B. in English he intends to enter the University. He is a pledge of Sigma Chi, social fraternity. Dave Deck is a candidate for the B. S. degree in Biology in June, 1951. He is a member of the Campus Club, and he hails from Atlanta, Georgia. He is not yet decided as to his vocational place. Kenneth Kistler is a commuting student from Mooresville. He will be graduated with a B. S. degree in Business and Economics in June, 1951, after which he expects to go into some form of business. Jim Murray is a junior from Lexington, Va. He is a member of Pi Kappa Phi and a candidate for the B. S. degree in Biology. He is uncertain as to his plans for the future. Don Shriver is a pre-ministerial student, majoring in history. He is a brother of Sigma Chi, social fraternity from Norfolk, Va.

CAT TALES... (Continued From Page Four)

for new graduates is likely to improve in this rapidly growing profession. In chemistry, competition will be keen during the next few years among persons without graduate training; the outlook is better for those with graduate degrees. There will probably also be an oversupply of business administration graduates. A surplus of new graduates has already developed in the field of accounting. Liberal arts graduates with work experience or specialized training will find it easier to get jobs than those with only a general undergraduate education. Prospects for new entrants are good in health service occupations. There is a current shortage of nurses, and demand for nursing service will probably continue to rise. In medicine and dentistry those able to enter and complete training will have good opportunities; however, competition is very schools. In pharmacy the supply of new graduates has almost caught up with the demand; the profession may be overcrowded in the long-run if enrollments in pharmacy colleges continue at present high levels. Good opportunities are expected also for other occupational groups important in health service, such as veterinarians, medi.

JOKES, JEST, JOY... (Continued From Page Three)

that Xenophon crossed the river Agis by means of a Ford. In passing, it might be interesting to note that in the spring of that same year (1915), a dignified and highly respected member of the senior class was caught in the “ignominious act of pitching horseshoes on Sunday.” The outcome of this atrocity was not reported. Still trying to get a laugh, some practical joker caused the Southern Railroad to place an ad in the October of 1917 issue offering five hundred dollars reward for the arrest and conviction of the person who had loosened the rails near Huntersville and caused a derailment of several cars. And now for just a few scattered choice morsels of typical Davidsonian jocularity.

Teacher — Man is a human machine. Little Willie — Yes’m; my father’s a thrashing machine. Prof. — You say it’s dry in your home state of Alabama? Fresh. — Yes sir. It’s so dry that there are bullfrogs eight years old who haven't learned to swim yet. He — There used to be something you liked about me. She — Yes, but you spent it all. Moe — Someone made a long speech in chapel last week. Joe — What was it all about? Moe — He didn’t say. I dreamed a dream and then awoke. I laughed because 'twas funny. I dreamed I had written home And hadn't asked for money.

Thus reads the evolution of humor in the Davidsonian. So maybe they weren't so funny, but what did you expect, Will Rogers? —Hubert Cannon

WILDCAT OF WEEK... (Continued From Page Four)

game in basketball. His deadly set shots were a constant threat to all comers. Dutch’s father, the College Registrar, was one of Davidson's diamond greats and it looks as though young Dutch will at least equal if not surpass his dad’s feats before he tucks his sheepskin under his arm next year.

EVERY DAY THEY ARE PROVING CHESTERFIELDS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NORTH CAROLINA... (Continued From Page Three)

seat in the House of Representatives. After the 1790 Census, seats in the House were apportioned to the States at the rate of one per 33,000 population. If this basis still prevailed the House would today have more than 4,000 members instead of the present fixed 435. After 1850, the Congress first determined its total membership and then divided the seats among the states in proportion to their respective populations. In recent decades, because of the shifting population, some States have gained seats in the House and othersHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

have lost. 

EXECUTIVE BODY... (Continued From Page One)

ter, two fraternities could not continue their boarding house, and still three more would be incapacitated financially and would be running debt margin for the first semester.

2. The fraternity groups would unquestionably feel strained, and would be encouraged to carry on informal rushing throughout the entire first semester. It would encourage dirty rushing.

3. The freshmen, in making friends with upperclassmen, would feel an undue pressure of awkwardness which does not exist at the present time.

Previous meetings invoked by the seriousness of the question pointed out by a census of opinion in each fraternity that the groups unanimously desire a first semester rush system.

WILL OF MINORITY... (Continued From Page Two)

electorate of 925 students, only 576 votes, or sixty-two per cent were cast in the election for student body president. This meant that 289 votes—well under a third of the student body—could have selected a man to fill the most important electoral position on this campus.

To the members of the senior class, there is little more than a personal interest and the exercise of a right in voting in the elections coming up, since they will not be here next year. But the three lower classes have a definite interest in who are elected as heads of their classes, their student body, their Y, and their publications. It is not only the right, but the duty, of every man in the student body—especially every rising sophomore, junior, and senior—to vote for the candidates for these positions. The man who fails to vote has no right to complain when the election does not come out as he would like it to. He has his chance to do what he can to make it come out differently; and it may happen that his vote and the votes of a few others like him can change the outcome of an election.

LETTER TO EDITOR... (Continued From Page Two)

Council of the U. N. or the record of U. S.-Soviet relations. Mr. Shriver’s conclusions, as far as Davidson is concerned, are that “by the very presence of a ROTC on this campus, Davidson College is committed to the active preparation of this nation for war,” which is not in harmony with the objectives of the college.

My conclusions are these: Davidson College should offer to its students the training necessary to graduate men who will be educated Christians, ready to undertake their obligations as citizens of this nation. In a world where armed conflict is still possible and as it could be necessary for the United States to use force to defend itself, the ROTC fulfills a need in American education probably more necessary now than at any time in the history of this country.

— EDWARD O. GUERRANT.

Professor James F. Pinkney has authorized me to state that he concurs in the ideas expressed in this letter.

BAKER SCHOLARSHIPS... (Continued From Page One)

Boys’ State in 1949, losing in the run-off election by one vote; Delegate to Boys’ Nation, where he was appointed Under-Secretary of Commerce; President of Charleston Presbytery Youth Fellowship; member, all-state high school band and all-state chorus.

Harry V. Lamon, Jr., Macon, Ga. “A” average in school; Cadet Colonel, Jr. ROTC; Trustee of Key Club International; Editor of school and ROTC paper; president of various school and civic organizations; active in Red Cross and other fund drives; track team.

Paul Buford Price, Jr., Lexington, Ky. “A” average; President Senior class; vice-president Student Council; tennis team.

Dwight Moody Smith, Jr., Spartanburg, S. C. President, student body; Editor of the school paper; 3-time winner of the Story-of-the-Month Contest sponsored by Winthrop College for S. C. high school students.

T. Alden Williams, Philadelphia, Pa. American Legion scholarship award, 1949; Editor-in-chief of the Yearbook; active in dramatics and school journalism.

CAMPUS CLUB... (Continued From Page One)

Campus recently, expressed great pleasure at the prospect of having a chapter at Davidson. Present officers for Kappa Kappa are Malloy Owen, president; Bill Brand, vice-president; Dave Koontz, secretary-treasurer; Marvin Thompson, rush chairman; Joe Morton, sergeant-at-arms. Temporary chairman of the group preparing to continue the Campus Club next year is David Deck.

Speaking of the action on the part of Kappa Kappa, Malloy Owen, at present, heading both groups, stated: “The decision to petition was thoughtful and considerate. It was the belief of a majority of the club that their ideals could be more effectively expressed on this now heavily fraternalized campus within the framework of a national fraternity.”

THREE FRATERNITIES (Continued From Page One)

each couple coming dressed to represent a song. Sam Joyner was in charge of the function and Billy Knaff's orchestra furnished the music.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company MAKERS OF Deluxe Ice Cream Mooresville, N. C.

The Aroma Tells You... We tobacco farmers know that when tobaccos smell milder they smoke milder. That’s how smokers can know that the mild, ripe tobaccos Chesterfield buys from me as a varsity sport at Davidson, then it should be treated as such, which should of necessity mean qualified instruction, more allowances made for such basic equipment as balls, etc., and adequate financial aid from the college. At present, none of these three needs is being met by the college to the extent that they should be.

PHI SOCIETY... (Continued From Page One)

Hamilton countered that lack of contributors and interest in the student body forced the publication back into his lap.

The discussion was opened to the members and revolved about the question of whether one magazine could adequately satisfy the literary palate of the student body. Hamilton pointed out that apparently eighty percent of the students wished to partake of their humor in two-line tidbits, most of which fell below the standard set by the censor and bemoaned the fact that humor of the Harvard Lampoon variety was sadly lacking on the campus.

He suggested as a solution that a literary magazine and a wholly humorous magazine be published alternately, entitling one “Scripts”, the other “Pranks”.

The brevity of the Davidson publication due to financial limitations, and the lack of publicity of forthcoming issues was also discussed.

---

FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 1960

The Phi Delts function was held in honor of the Senior brothers. Whit Cobb was master of ceremonies and Mr. F. L. Jackson was the main speaker. The dance, a very pretty one, with its blue and white scheme, was highlighted by the traditional Senior figure formed by the seniors and their dates. Dan Ramsey and his orchestra provided the music. Miss Fran Fulcher, who was escorted by Curtis Harper, was presented as the Phi Delta Theta “Dream Girl.”

