PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF .. BOB HOLLISTER

BUSINESS MANAGER .. BILL HOUCK

EDITORIAL STAFF

Associate Editor ... Doug Hix

Associate Editor ... Lonnie Turnipseed

Associate Editor ... Jack Hazard

MANAGING EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall, Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister.

Sports Editor—Gordon Scott

Make-up Editors — Dan McKeithen, Cherry Stribling.

Art Editor—Bill King

City Editor—John Hobart

Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries

Photographs — Ed Richardson

Assignments Asst. — Watt Jeffries

Proofreader — Charlie Baldwin

BUSINESS STAFF

Assistant Business Manager — Bill Cassells

Advertising Managers — Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw

Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison.

Circulation Manager — Hugh Huffaker

Asst. Circulation Managers — Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown

Collections Manager — John Loftin

Subscriptions Manager — Alex Goley

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Golden Years

These are the golden years. A man named William Hazlitt once wrote an essay he called, "On Going A Journey." Concerning journeys he had this to say: "There is hardly anything that shows the shortsightedness or capriciousness of the imagination more than traveling does. With change of place we change our ideas; nay, our opinions and feelings. We can by an effort indeed transport ourselves to old and long-forgotten scenes, and then the picture of the mind revives again; but we forget those that we have just left. It seems that we can think of but one place at a time. The canvas of the fancy is but of a certain extent, and if we paint one set of objects upon it, they immediately efface every other. We cannot enlarge our conceptions, we only shift our point of view. The landscape bares its bosom to the enraptured eye, we take our fill of it, and seem as if we could form no other image of beauty or grandeur. We pass on, and think no more of it, the horizon that shuts it from our sight, also blots it from our memory like a dream. In traveling through a wild barren country, I can form no idea of a woody and cultivated one. It appears to me that all the world must be barren, like what I see of it. In the country we forget the town, and in the town we despise the country."

Hazlitt could have had in mind many of us here at Davidson. Our perspective seems to extend to Main street and our understanding of the distinction between the important and the unimportant fades with our efforts to outguess the teachers. We will never be able to look back on what we have done either here or elsewhere and know that it has been our best unless we know how good our best can be. To learn this we must be willing to look beyond ourselves — to discover what has been the best of other men, their best thoughts, their best dreams. Do our thoughts and dreams and efforts seem capable of bringing to light as much good as theirs? Have we equipped ourselves as well as they were equipped? We cannot hope to be content with ourselves unless we do good — history teaches us that. We cannot do good unless we know good and make that good part of us. We cannot do this unless we cultivate an ability to see the whole picture. We know the fable of the three blind men trying to describe an elephant. To the man touching his trunk, an elephant was a big pipe — to the man touching his side, he was a wall — to the man holding his tail, he was like a piece of rope. Unless we can see beyond the confines of our own personalities the truths we need to know and understand come to us distorted by the veil of self. Without a clear and undistorted understanding of these truths we lack the materials with which to build character.

Most of our chapel speakers sooner or later get around to mentioning in solemn tones the precarious state of world affairs — the turmoil and strife all about us. One thing most of them fail to mention often enough is that only through the strength of personal character will the world ever be lifted from its state of fear and confusion. Nations, masses, empires, are the sum total of millions of individuals. Each of these individuals exerts an influence which aids either the constructive or the destructive forces which shape the world’s destiny. Our most important job is to so build our characters, our natures, ourselves that we will be able to exert as much influence on the constructive side as an individual is capable of — then and only then will we be giving of the best that’s in us. In order to do this we must look up and out — that we may grow up and out of ourselves. This business of growing up and out of ourselves is a long-term proposition — requiring a lifetime of attention and effort. Yet the time to begin is now — never will we have an opportunity equal to that which is ours at this moment. In the words of my best friend, "These are the golden years."

The barely-perceptible tide in the Great Lakes is called a seiche and is partly due to atmospheric conditions.

The Department of Commerce reports that in 1946 the ice cream industry for the first time "entered the ranks of the billion-dollar industries."

Navy researchers have a rocket that climbs 51 miles in less time than it takes to cook a soft-boiled egg.

The film of palm oil on finished tin plate is so thin it can hardly be seen with the naked eye, yet it is five times thicker than the average coating of tin on steel.

Recent statistics indicate that there are a million more women than men in the United States.

First record of an automobile race was from Paris to Rouen, France, in 1894. The 75 miles was covered at a speed of about 16 miles an hour.

George & Claude

By PETE KALOGRIDIS

It has been said that civil wars are by far the bloodiest. If this is the case then the present race for United States Senator going on in the great state of Florida at the present time is explainable.

For George Smathers was given his start in politics by none other than Claude Pepper himself. But to his benefactor’s dismay, Smathers’ new position in the House seemed to give him ideas, and it was not long before this young upstart was adopting a political philosophy which led to voting on the wrong side of the fence as far as Claude was concerned. But as if this were not horror enough, not only should one of the brethren leave the flock, but he should also have the audacity and villainy to turn upon and attack the leader himself. George simply bit the hand that fed him. And Claude has not forgotten this greatest of all blackhearted acts. Bandaging his wounded hand so well that the real merthiolate would not show, he girded himself for battle and gallantly announced that this would be a war of survival in which no quarter would be asked and certainly none would be given.

So the game of politics was being played almost entirely without the benefit of rules in Florida last week. Fast-talking George Smathers had learned the art of campaigning well from the master and promptly illustrated to his instructor that he had not forgotten the two golden rules of campaigning: (1) Never allow yourself to be put on the defensive and (2) Pour plenty of salt into old wounds. For at every stop on the road George would fish out an old newspaper clipping and read Claude's reported 1946 advice to the U.S.: pray for Joe Stalin because he is the kind of man Americans can trust. "Did you pray for Joe today?" Smathers would then ask, and the angry "noes" sounded like votes.

Claude, of course, was not to be outdone and was quick to point to the alarming fact that George was born in Atlantic City, damyankee intruder of the most vicious type, a second Sherman potentially more dangerous than the first, for this time it was the ground of Florida and not Georgia that would feel the coercion. To which George answered that he had graduated from the University of Florida, while Claude had deserted the great state to travel north into the winterlands of Harvard. "Felix Frankfurter had nothing to do with my education," boomed Smathers, "Alger Hiss is no classmate of mine. I don’t travel under the crimson banner of Harvard."

George had indeed learned his lessons well, but even he indignantly denied that he had gone as far as a story printed in northern newspapers. Obviously a yarn, he was reported to have said in a speech to illustrate cracker voters who did not know what the words meant except that they sounded very bad. "Are you aware that Claude Pepper is known all over Washington as a shameless extrovert? Not only that, but this man is reliably reported to practice nepotism with his sister-in-law, and"The start," said Dr. Wearn, "and the order, relationship, and quality of material presented will be vastly improved. We hope to produce better doctors by stressing that man as a whole is the basic concern." The plan is the result of over five years of study by the medical school faculty. "We are unanimous in approval of the new plan," stated Dr. Wearn, "and it has been a cooperative effort. The addition of young men to the staff has done much." A grant of over $400,000 from the Commonwealth Fund made the revision financially possible. The sum will provide for a coordinator and whatever new personnel are required to carry out the new program. The coordinator, who will be chosen from a field of individuals outstanding in the medical profession, will be charged with the basic responsibility of translating current developments in schools of medicine into a specific program, presenting it to the faculty, and adapting it for available facilities. It will be carefully studied out for one year before being applied. "Under the present system of medical education, too much memory is required," observed Dr. Wearn. "For example, anatomy is taught in the first year but the student learns surgery as a senior. These two will coincide under the revised program." Other basic flaws that have been pointed out are the deadening of initiative and curiosity by the tremendous amount of unrelated factual material presented and the lack of integration between departments.

College Should Train For Politics

New York, N. Y. — (LP) — American colleges fail to train young people to participate in politics for five principal reasons, a recent report issued by the Citizenship Clearing House of the New York University School of Law charged. The five chief faults for which the colleges are blamed are: (1) no training in politics at all for half the college students, (2) inadequate training for the other half, (3) lack of political experience of teachers in introductory courses, (4) deadly uniformity in college political instruction, (5) too much splitting up of basic instruction into too many minor fragments. The report recommended that colleges not only improve their introductory courses in politics but place stronger emphasis on the development of small courses in political parties for advanced students. "Every effort should be made to improve the training and political experience of teachers and extend the use of laboratory methods through requiring actual participation in political campaigns while still in college," Thomas H. and Doris D. Reed, nationally known consultants on government and editors of the report, declared. By a process of "curricular proliferation," the larger universities have multiplied their courses in government and political science with only inter-university competition as a stimulus, the report said. Political parties courses, it was found, are offered in 113 of the 218 institutions reporting, usually at the junior-senior level, but even the large universities are content with only one such course. Only 35 institutions require students to take an introductory course and in many others only 20 percent or less of the students ever come in contact with formal instruction directed at active citizenship. In only 25 of the 156 courses in American government, did the questionnaire returns note the use of any but routine instructional methods. Of the remaining 62 courses, 22 were in political theory, two in comparative government, six were combinations of political theory and comparative government, seven dealt with American history and four with the history of civilization. Seven were primarily courses in sociology and only six were labeled "Citizenship." With the exception of some courses in citizenship, the time devoted to the practical workings of the American political system was "very meager," the report pointed out.

College Rags In Brief

By BILL CUMMING

Since there doesn't seem to be much printable news from other campuses this week, here goes with some gags from other college rags:

He: "Only a mother could love a face like yours."
She: "I'm about to inherit a fortune."
He: "I'm about to become a mother."
—The Tiger.

Mother: "My dear, a nice girl doesn't hold a young man's hand."
Daughter: "But Mother, a nice girl has to."
—Gamecock.

A credit reporting agency in an eastern city made the following report concerning a debtor: "We have a report that this party has no property, either real or personal; no credit either actual or potential; no prospects, either present or future; and no hope, either here or hereafter."

When a girl finds that she isn’t the only pebble on the beach, she generally becomes a little bolder.

Paratroop instructor: "All you have to do is jump, count to 10, pull your rip cord, and your parachute will open."
GI: "What happens if I forget to pull the cord?"
Instructor: "That's what I call jumping to a conclusion."

Notice on Bulletin Board of Biology Department: "We don’t begrudge you dipsomaniacs a little alcohol, but please return our specimens."
—Johnsonian.

He: "Did anyone ever tell you how wonderful you are?"
She (purring): "Why no."
He: "Then where did you get the idea?"
—Tiger.

What To Do This Summer

RED CROSS OFFERS AQUATIC SCHOOLS

Seven national aquatic schools will be conducted by the American Red Cross in the Southeast this summer to train instructors of water safety, first aid, and accident prevention, according to an announcement by Oliver Allen, of Atlanta, Red Cross director of Safety Services in the Southeastern Area. To be qualified for enrollment in one of the schools, men and women must be 18 years of age or older and in good health. After attending the intensive 10-day course, they will return to their home communities to apply their knowledge as aquatic or safety leaders for schools, camps, industries, recreation and parks departments, youth organizations, clubs, municipal, state or federal agencies or other organizations interested in promoting safety measures. All of the schools are under the direction of Red Cross Safety Services leaders. The following schools have been scheduled by the Red Cross for the summer months: Northwestern State College, Natchitoches, La., under the direction of Eugene Jones, June 4-14; Camp Carolina, Brevard, N. C., under the direction of Ellis Fysal, first session, June 7-17 and second session, August 21-31; Roosevelt State Park, Chipley, Ga., under the direction of Harry Kenning, first session, June 14-24 and second session, August 21-31. An aquatic school for Negroes will be conducted at Tennessee A & I College, Nashville, Tenn., under the direction of Howard Anderson, June 20-30. Included in the 10-day school will be courses in lifesaving, water safety, swimming, diving, small craft operation, first aid and accident prevention. Each course includes study, discussion, demonstration, and practice. Upon completion of these courses, students will be qualified as Red Cross instructors. In addition to special representatives of Red Cross water safety, first aid and accident prevention, specialists in these fields from schools, colleges, and various safety organizations will serve on the faculties. A special small craft school, conducted exclusively to develop lead- (Continued On Page Four)

Day Room

College of the Holy Cross (Worcester)

In Worcester, Massachusetts, one of the favorite spots of students at the College of the Holy Cross is the Day Room on the campus. They like the Day Room because it’s a cheerful place — full of friendly collegiate atmosphere. And when the gang gathers around, ice-cold Coca-Cola gets the call. For here, as in college haunts everywhere — Coke belongs. Ask for it either way... both trade-marks mean the same thing.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. CONCORD, N. C. © 1950, The Coca-Cola Company