_ charge for each house to only $500. While increased fees are undesir- THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 1960 PAGE SIX PRIEST, PROFESSORS... (Continued From Page One) good case for English socialism as a remover of intolerable conditions of life for a great many people in his country. He said that the movement was far from any quest for individual power with which to later exploit the people, but that it was “a hunger and a thirst after righteousness.” If the opposing groups did not clash in their constructives because of a shortage of time, they certainly made up for this mission in the discussions and audience question periods which followed. These two periods were very informative as well as extremely enjoyable to all present. To those who were able to take advantage of the International Relations Club’s presentation of this debate, it seemed that those organizations should be commended highly for its efforts in having made the debate possible.

NATION'S TOP... (Continued From Page One) ed major works for chorus and orchestra by Norman Dello Joio and Paul Hindemith. The program given here included a cantata by Bach entitled “Christ Lay In Death’s Dark Prison,” a collection of 17th Century songs, and various operatic excerpts. Heard by one of the largest audiences to appear here this year, the Shaw Chorale was outstanding for its wide appeal.

TIMID DAVIDSONIANS... (Continued From Page Three) students of Davidson, so the only problem is to get you all to take a part in it by submitting contestants. We certainly will find no trouble in choosing a most beautiful young lass to reign as Queen over the Spring Frolics festivities, but the more that participate, the greater the success and the more fun had by all.

DAVIDSON GRADUATE... (Continued From Page One) published in America. He has his Master’s degree from Yale and his Ph.D. in English literature was awarded to him in absentia by Yale in February, 1950. He is teaching in his second year as assistant professor of English at Southwestern in Memphis. Recently Vowles gave a lecture before the Memphis Glass Club on the Swedish Orrefors glass works, which he has visited, and also read a paper at the recent meeting of the Tennessee Philological Association on Evelyn Waugh’s “Satire of ‘Galvanized and Translated Reality’.” Dr. Gordon Wood, another Davidson alumnus, now teaching at the University of Chattanooga, appeared on the same program.

SCRIPTS AND PRANKS... (Continued From Page One) works by Davidson students that will appear in the magazine will be two short stories by Dudley Pendleton and Tom Abel respectively. Poems written by John Lyles, Irving Stubbs, Don Shriver, and Tom Prufer will be articles of interest. The poem by Lyles is written in the style of Walt Whitman and Prufer’s poem has been recognized as a work of unusual merit by Davidson English professors. Added attraction of the magazine will be selected jokes and cartoons and a picture story of a weekend in Carolina.

FRATERNITY HOUSES... (Continued From Page One) not be out of line with the other fees of the College. However, Dr. Cunningham felt that an increase in charges for the fraternity houses from $375 per year to $625 was too heavy. Therefore, on his recommendation, the Trustees agreed to increase the

ELECTIONS... (Continued From Page Two) Heels and have served as a fairly competent check on those of Graham. Graham, the ex-U.N.C. president who is filling the unexpired term of the late J. Melville Broughton, has drawn a bit more resistance than the venerable Hoey. Among his opponents is Bob Reynolds, former Senator from Asheville. Reynolds is given the best chance to knock off the liberal-minded junior Senator. Graham, though not Red-tinted in any way, has drawn notice for his liberal views on education, medicine and other fields of economics. Down in Florida the senatorial race is a shade more torrid than here. Aside from minor candidates who will barely scratch, the race narrows down to two men: Senator Claude Pepper and Congressman George Smathers. If this paper has been noted for its lack of platform in the past we will at this time nail one down. That platform is for the defeat of Claude Pepper. The senior Senator from the Sunshine State rode into office on the shirt tails of the late President Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1938. He started his trek to the left under F.D.R., graduated that trek into a fast trot during the war, and is now galloping at a more rapid pace than Harry Truman and may soon catch Henry Wallace. Pepper, as usual, has been denying these charges of his Communist sympathies during his campaign. However, his position was soundly ridiculed by a Florida columnist recently. The writer put it this way: Pepper is like the man who hates alcohol so much that he is trying to drink it all so that its evils will be taken from the world. “The Pink Pepper,” as the Saturday Evening Post calls him, will have just about as much trouble hitting Communism with his method as the prohibitionists will killing alcohol. Congressman Smathers is a young veteran of the past war. When Pepper was first elected in 1938, Smathers headed the campaign in his behalf on the campus of the University of Florida. But Smathers, like many other Floridians, has had his fill of the betrayals of Mr. Pepper. The senator will have a rough time this trip, and even last-minute journeys through the swamps won't pull out enough ignorant votes to save his seat.—J. H.

COACH LITTLE... (Continued From Page Three) abilities. When asked about his hobbies, Coach Little said that football was his only hobby. He likes to play golf but finds very little time to do so. Little is married and has a six-month-old child.

Now James A. Farley, who heads the export end of Coca-Cola, is threatening that if France goes ahead with this exclusion of his product, there may be a counter-move to keep French wines out of the United States. Mr. Farley is not without influence in Washington. To refresh your memories, or in case you didn't read the first announcement in this paper two weeks ago, here are the facts. The winner of the contest will be crowned Queen of the Spring Frolics festivities at the formal dance by Whit Cobb, president of the student body. The three runners-up will constitute the Queen’s court, and the pictures of all finalists will appear in the Davidsonian. A panel of judges composed of Drs. Boyd, Davidson, and McGavoch, will choose the winners from contestants submitted by students. Following is a resume of the rules incorporating certain changes made since the original announcements: 1. Any student except members of the Davidsonian Staff may submit entries. 2. All contestants must be able to attend the Spring Frolics Dances. 3. A portrait-type picture together with a full-length snapshot must be submitted of each contestant. 4. The name and address of the contestant and the name of the person submitting the entry must accompany each entry. 5. All entries must be made not later than April 5, and turned in to Bill King, 15 Georgia. That’s all there is to it boys, so let’s get those pictures in as soon as you can.

MINE COAL... (Continued From Page Two) tempt of court, and the Act so odious to the Administration was pronounced a flop. There is one final consideration. The miner may be said to have won the strike because his wages were increased from $14.05 per day to $14.75. But in order to get this additional 70c per day, he had to strike 111 days, losing $1,559.55 in wages. It will take him 2228 days of work to recover this loss with his 70c wage increase; or, in other words, it will be over eight and a half years before the increase will have paid for itself. But it was a costly strike to the miner in a less direct but far more decisive way. The nation has reached the end of its patience with coal strikes that come as regularly every year asthe seasons. The result is that many railroads have abandoned coal-burning locomotives altogether while many others are rapidly approaching that point. Millions of homes have changed from coal to oil heat in the past three winters, and many industries that find it practicable are changing their source of power from coal to oil or electricity. In other words, the miner is striking himself right out of a means of livelihood and making himself the best salesman that the oil companies have. What will become of him when there is no longer a demand for 675 million tons of coal each year?

per year instead of the $625 per year as the special committee recommended. 

able, they sometimes are necessary. And in this period of change and adjustment, the college is also forced to make changes which result of necessity in increased fees.

PRESIDENT’S OPEN... (Continued From Page One)

zens should have authoritative information on the military program as it affects our educational institutions. In presenting this report on the expanding military influence in education, we do not necessarily imply that each of us would be opposed to every activity or measure described in it. It is the basic pattern that is dangerous. It is the trend that we believe to be wrong.

Since some have regarded his action as a reflection on the R.O.T.C. program at Davidson, Dr. Cunningham has authorized the Davidsonian to publish the following excerpts from his letter to Colonel Ballard of March 7, 1950.

“Let me make it doubly clear that I lent my approval to that statement not through any disapproval of the R.O.T.C. program at Davidson. Indeed I did not intend that it should have any bearing on the local situation. While the R.O.T.C. is mentioned in the statement, it has to do with situations which do not prevail at Davidson. Perhaps I should have foreseen that there would naturally be some question involved. It is my considered opinion that the R.O.T.C. Unit at Davidson has not at any time been more effective nor have relations between the local Unit and the College been more open and more cooperative. This would hold with reference to the Third Army Headquarters.

“The chief caution which is intended in this booklet is the gradual enlargement of military expenditures and influence in our universities and land-grant colleges. Very large sums of money running into tens of millions of dollars are being appropriated by the Army, Navy, and Air Force and by the Atomic Energy Commission for military programs and research in institutions of higher education. As these institutions become dependent upon such appropriations, they are likely to lose their independence, which to my mind is essential for the best of education.

“My interest in this whole matter, as I think you know, is in the direction of peace. There can be very honest differences of opinion as to what makes for peace in a world like ours. I believe it is the function of colleges like ours to emphasize a positive approach to peace. Meanwhile, I believe firmly in the necessity of military defense and have so indicated in my relations to the R.O.T.C. and to other military units which have trained at Davidson College through the years of my administration.”

ROBERT RYAN Famous Dartmouth Alumnus, says: “I stopped switching around when I hit on Milder CHESTERFIELD. It’s my cigarette.” “THE WOMAN ON PIER 13” AN RKO RADIO PICTURE

HORNE’S MANAGEMENT (Continued From Page Three)

Ostwalt have side bets on the question. Amos said, “Whenever there’s a nickel to be made, Horne will make it. I expected him to open up a concession at Spring services.” When I finally got around to talking to Paul he said he had a pretty good job, but all the clerks were jerks. Some people think he is being trained to fill Mr. Jackson’s shoes but Paul says he isn’t interested. Salesmen never give him any trouble once they run up against his sales resistance. Paul says that they try to sell him everything but they soon find out that the only thing he won't say no to is a free sample. So far he claims he has received several pipes, cigarettes, chewing gum and a wristwatch; but nobody has offered him any free liquor. Coke machines are his biggest source of revenue and the faculty even claims the machine in Chambers is trained to short change. Paul explained, “Some people are just as tight as I am and try to get a coke for a penny,” And he added licking his lips, “That’s when I make my money.” The only request that has ever stymied Paul was at Mid-Winters when two girls asked for beers. He told them he was all out right at the moment. When I got ready to leave Paul commented, “I have enjoyed working down here with the boys and I hope I have been worth the trouble.”

FOREMAN AWAKENS... (Continued From Page One)

ly onward — or else we have a universe of pure chance, mechanically bound, subject to any caprice of fate. This is just as threatening a thought, and, if true, what purpose have we in life, why live? All is hopeless. There is no conscience, freedom, love, or will. As surely as we live, we know this is not true, instead believing irrevocably in the immortality of all souls and of God's. But if we already know all this, why tell us? The answer: exercise it! Knowing supernaturalness, we have no excuse or reason for ignoring it. “Live less like a beast and more like a divine child,” “Live without fear,” and “Never say, ‘I've done all I can’.” We must not be complacent. Our supernaturalness is a mandate for wise, humble use of our powers — in God, our Maker’s, name — for his glory and man’s salvation. Believing in the human supernatural and the divine supernatural, we have powers over the things of earth; fear cannot seize us, and we can ever move toward new goals, toward our ideal of perfection, through brave, unstinting, Christian service.

VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE... (Continued From Page One)

year: 1. Reasoning — important for any professional work. 2. Word fluency — law, journalism, ministry. 3. Spatial factor — (ability to visualize) — mechanical work, architecture, art. 4. Speed and accuracy of number computation — accounting, finance, engineering. 5. Memory factor — general effectiveness of mind — any occupation requiring name or number retention.

Next considered are academic skills and general knowledge, which may continue to develop for a considerable period of adult life. 1. General English ability — spelling, sentence structure, grammar, etc. 2. General Reading ability — (a) Vocabulary; (b) Comprehension, (c) Speed. 3. General Achievement — (a) Math, (b) Social Science, (c) Literature, (d) Fine Arts, (e) Natural Science, (f) Current Affairs.

The third division is Vocational Interests. The score here does not indicate ability in given fields, but shows preferences. 1. Mechanical — engineer, production manager, etc. 2. Computational — Statistician, accountant, banker, actuary, etc. 3. Scientific — medicine, research scientist, etc. 4. Persuasive — selling, teaching, law, ministry, etc. 5. Artistic. 6. Literary — Law, teaching, welfare worker, etc. 7. Musical (interest, not ability, remember). 8. Social Service — minister, welfare worker. 9. Clerical — auditor, bookkeeper, accountant.

An occupation should be chosen which combines several relatively high interests. Other sections subdivide the above interests into inclinations toward specific occupations. If the interest is in business, there are sections recording degree of liking for these branches: 1. Accounting, 2. Collecting and adjusting; 3. Sales Office; 4. Sales—Store; and 5. Stenographer—Filing.

Personality Traits is the last important division: 1. Dominance, 2. Sociability, 3. Introversion, 4. Mental Health, 5. Self-Sufficiency, and 6. Self-Confidence. A miscellaneous section can be filled in with any other traits or inclinations not listed elsewhere.

Rent a New Car at SCARBROUGH Prewar Rates Special Rates on Long Trips DRIVE IT YOURSELF, Inc. 912 W. 4th St. Phone 3-4513

DAVIDSON THEATRE WEEK OF MARCH 20-25 MON. -TUES. “MOTHER DIDN'T TELL ME” Dorothy McGuire William Lundigan WED.-THURS. “MY FOOLISH HEART” Susan Hayward Dana Andrews FRI.-SAT. “PINKY” Jeanne Crain Ethel Barrymore Ethel Waters William Lundigan