HOLIDAY TRAFFIC CRASHES KILL DAVIDSON STUDENTS

Though they profess to a high set of ideals and are affiliated with a church, Davidson students aren't immune from dying in highway accidents. The story is always an ugly one, but unavoidably true. Three fatal accidents have been recorded among students of the college in the last three years. This is an exceptionally low rate in view of existing college-age death rates, but statistics fail to add up to parents and friends.

Joe Matthis had just returned from a hitch in the army prior to his enrollment at Davidson in September, 1947. Like a lot of other guys, he had in mind finishing his delayed college career. Joe went through most of the Pacific War without a serious injury, yet he lost his life at the wheel of an automobile. A truck had broken down and its driver had gone in search of a wrecker crew. Joe was returning to school from his home in Wilmington when his car smashed into this unlighted truck. That was October 31, 1947.

Death came again in the black night to Bill Gamble on March 27, 1948. Bill was a good boy, made Eagle Scout and played varsity ball with the ‘Cats after coming to Davidson. He planned to be a doctor. He and Charlie Baldwin were riding double on a motorcycle to Florida for the Easter Holidays. Bill must never have seen those two stray cows... he never woke up after his head was bashed against unmerciful asphalt. Charlie was thrown free. Bill died in a country hospital in Jessup, Georgia. The nurses there commented on his clean appearance. It wasn't his fault, but Bill Gamble was just as dead.

When Neil Leach and Scott Verner packed Scott’s Buick convertible in preparation for their return to Davidson after Spring Holidays last year, they thought they had taken up most of the room. However, there was yet another passenger along on that trip who waited some time before making his appearance. The drive from DeFuniak Springs, Florida is a long pull, so the boys and their rider got underway early. At that time of day, the straight roads in South Georgia were almost deserted. The boys were light-hearted, joking—reliving the good times of the holiday. But this happy scene was soon to give way to disaster for in a tragic instant a tire of the sleek convertible caught in the treacherous shoulder. Like a grotesque toy, the big Buick flipped on its back. Neil was catapulted from the car, but beneath the wreck lay an inert form. Their rider was no longer alive.

Take a Good Look Could Be Yours ROAD WAS SLIPPERY, CURVE WAS SHARP.

VOLUME XXXIX

—Photo by Faye Ridenour, Fayetteville, N. C.

ALENDA

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1950

JIM MURRAY WILL GO TO OXFORD AS DAVIDSON'S NINTH RHODES SCHOLAR

Last Saturday afternoon Jim (J. J.) Murray, Jr., of the Senior Class, became Davidson’s ninth Rhodes Scholar. In district competition held in Charlotte, Jim was one of the four men appointed from twelve representing six southern states. Earlier in the week in Richmond, Jim had been selected as one of the two candidates from Virginia competing for a Rhodes Scholarship in this district. Jim will begin his work at Oxford in October of 1951 in the Final Honor School of Zoology. He is majoring in Biology at Davidson. Jim is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity, and he is an associate editor of The Davidsonian.

Thirty-two Rhodes Scholarships are assigned annually to the United States. For the purpose of making appointments, the states are grouped into eight districts of six states each. North Carolina is in the third district which includes Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, and Tennessee.

(Continued On Page Six)

Debaters Spout As Season Begins

The Davidson debating team participated in the Dixie Tournament held November 30 through December 1 at the Selwyn Hotel in Charlotte. Davidson sent four teams. Hubert Cannon and Carlisle Crenshaw composed the first team, Jack Hunter and Pete Kalogridis the second, Dave Moylan and John Thompson the third, Bob Mitchell and Ben Dryman the fourth team. Each team sat in judgment of the team they debated. The topic of the debate was, “Resolved: That Non-Communist Nations Should Form a New International Organization.” Outstanding Davidson representatives were Hubert Cannon who came in fifth and Bob Mitchell ranking ninth. Some of the schools taking part were University of South Carolina, University of the South, Wake Forest, Roanoke, and Duke. The schedule for the remainder of the season is University of the South, January 5 and 6, Agnes Scott the first week in February, Lenoir-Rhyne the first week in March, William and Mary in the early part of April, and the Grand Nationals in Washington with Mary Washington College as host.

OXFORD BOUND!! Jim Murray, right, who was awarded a Rhodes Scholarship last week, is being congratulated by Dr. G. R. Vowles, chairman of the Rhodes Scholarship Committee at Davidson.

Former AP Newsman To Speak In January

John P. McKnight will visit his alma mater on January 8, 1950 to address Davidson College at 8:00 p.m. in Chamber's auditorium. Mr. McKnight graduated in the class of 1928. He has spent most of the last 20 years abroad as a correspondent of The Associated Press. A newspaperman “since I was big enough to sit up to a typewriter,” McKnight worked for the Shelby Star, the Wilmington Dispatch, and The Charlotte News before joining The Associated Press’ Charlotte bureau in August, 1929. The Spanish he learned at Davidson, where he received a B. S. degree majoring in modern languages, quickly won him an opportunity to go into foreign service. Revolutions impended in Cuba, and he was transferred there in January, 1930 to help cover them. Subsequently, he served as night cables editor in New York, and as bureau chief and correspondent in Miami, Fla., Mexico City, Lisbon, Madrid, Rio de Janeiro, Santiago (Chile), and San Juan, Puerto Rico. Given leave of absence for military duty in 1942, he was commissioned a captain for intelligence work. He spent 33 months in the Antilles Department, the last 15 of them as head of its Information-

(Continued On Page Six)

Last year there were over 30,000 deaths due to traffic accidents of all kinds.

Christmas Vespers Will Include Music, Familiar Readings

On Sunday, December seventeenth, the annual YMCA Christmas Vespers will be held in Chambers auditorium. The Davidson Christmas Vespers have become a tradition on the campus, and are an annual event for many alumni and friends of Davidson College. This is the eighteenth year of the Christmas Vespers. The program will feature much of the familiar Christmas music and Scriptures concerning the birth of Christ. The Davidson Concert Band and the Davidson Little Symphony, under the direction of James Christian Pfohl, the Davidson Male Chorus and the Chapel Chorus, under the direction of Earl F. Berg, will be the musical organizations taking part. Organist for the vespers will be Harold Frantz. The offering taken Sunday night will go to the Presbyterian orphanage, Barium Springs. Carols to be used in the vespers service include: “O Come All Ye Faithful,” “Joy to the World,” “Angels from the Realms of Glory,” “It Came Upon the Midnight Clear,” “O Little Town of Bethlehem,” and “Silent Night, Holy Night.” These will be sung by both chorus and congregation. The Prelude to be played by the orchestra is Corelli's “Christmas Concerto,”

(Continued On Page Six)

BULLETIN

After recently conferring with the architect, Dr. Cunningham revealed on Wednesday that the plans for the new Student Union are expected to be ready by mid-January. Construction is planned to begin immediately afterwards. Dr. Cunningham expressed hope that the building would be completed and ready for use next September.

Sophs Conquer; Caps To Stay

Freshman dreams of a red-cap bonfire vanished Tuesday afternoon as a star-studded sophomore aggregation whitewashed their lowly adversaries in all three events and showed the campus that the freshman cap is here to stay—'till second semester, anyhow. Opening fast in the first half, the frosh football team, led by Dangerous Dan McCall, racked up 3 first downs to the soph’s 1, but the sophs came roaring back in the second stanza to reverse the statistics and tie the game as it ended. They then went on to win by moving the ball further from the 50 than the frosh had been able to in 5 downs. The most beautiful play of the game was a sleeper pass from Elliot to Gregg which was called

(Continued On Page Six)Respector of persons; Scott had recently chosen a life of full-time Christian service and was feeling on top of the world that cool spring morning. His parents couldn't believe their ears when the news reached them. Neither could Joe’s nor Bill’s. For once Chambers Auditorium was hushed as Dr. Cunningham read, “He who believeth in me shall not perish.” In addition to these actual deaths, there have been a score of serious accidents in which students have been badly injured or crippled. No news of fatal traffic accidents involving the life or lives of Davidson students has been reported this year. It is the sincere hope of Dean Bailey and his fellow faculty members that this slaughter will not make inroads into the student body for a fourth consecutive year. At one time in the state of North Carolina, motor vehicular deaths were the greatest killers of college-age young men and women. Those killed in this fashion reached an approximate total which was equal to a sum higher than all those dying of other causes. This fact caused automobile insurance rates to almost double for cars operated by younger drivers. Due to the fact that this year marks the first full term free of automobile restrictions, Davidson College's traffic accident index may be raised. It is feared that this factor may cause a proportionate increase in fatal accidents here. 

Students, WHITE ROBE, HALO, WINGS, AND HARP NUMBER ELEVEN ~AGEEDED 

Faculty Give $5,300 to Aid Davidson Negroes 

It was announced this morning in chapel that the student body had reached and exceeded its $5,000 goal in the annual YMCA Christmas Gift Fund Drive. The total as of this morning was $5,300. 

Foreign Students To Present World Views 

Three Davidson students will lead the discussion groups about which the third YMCA forum, “Contemporary World Attitudes,” is centered. Pete Kalogridis, Hartley Hall, and Dieter Oberndorfer will begin on Saturday, Jan. 6, and end on Monday, Jan. 8. Unlike the other two “Y” forums held this year, “Christian Attitudes Towards the Race Issue" and “Davidson College’s Athletic Policy,” this comprehensive discussion will cover a period of a weekend instead of just one night. The forum will be opened Saturday afternoon with a series of International Relations Club sponsored March of Time films on several foreign countries, giving background for the weekend’s study. 

(Continued On Page Six)

MANGLED BUDDIES ARE LAXITY'S PRICE 

By SHELLEY BEARD 

The road stretched out wide in front of the headlights as telephone poles ticked by and slipped into blackness. The occupants of the car either slipped down into sound slumber or silently thought over the basketball game that had just ended. The driver settled back for the long pull ahead, stifled a yawn, and cut on the heater. On a curve ten miles from school, the driver, thinking of bed, started around a truck. Another car appeared over a hill and as the driver moved to his left to make room, the front wheels slipped onto the shoulder, hit a rut, and slid into the ditch. With a scraping grind, the front fender dug into the clay embankment, shooting the car up and into a twisting roll that sheared off a telephone pole and finally slung the mass of twisted glass and steel into the trunk of a roadside tree. After the splintering crash, there was complete quiet for a moment, then a low moan could be heard coming from a heap near the telephone pole. The figure tried to get up and then looked down on a leg that was twisted at a right angle to his body. With terrific effort, he was able to turn toward the car. He listened for a minute, then summoning strength to overcome growing dizziness, he called toward the wreck, “Bill, Tom,” pausing to push back the wetness that kept clouding his eyes, he called again. “BILL, TOM—can’t you hear me; say something!” Oh God, what happened.” Unable to fight the pull of unconsciousness any longer, he sank back to the ground. 

When consciousness returned, the lights of a passing car illuminated the scene and showed the hopelessness of lying where he was. Using his good leg, he crawled and lunged toward the road, leaving a small trough of bloody dirt behind him. Every inch caused almost overpowering pain in his leg. Occasionally, he had to stop to get his breath and gather his strength to continue. When the ambulance arrived, there was little to be done. The man who had been sitting in the middle of the front seat had been thrown into the knobs and grill of the dashboard. His face was a mass of ground flesh and cartilage. A sliver of glass had entered just over the eyes and cut back into the scalp until it became wedged into the skull. Both hands were lying forward in the dead man’s lap. The palms were turned up on the back of the wrists where they pushed when the man tried to stop himself as the car struck. The driver was in the same place that he had been when the car left the road, but the impact of the telephone pole drove the steering column forward into his chest and stomach, virtually pinning him to the seat. The expression of pain and fear indelibly stamped on his features and the grasp of his hands on the column gave grim mute testimony to the agony in which this person had died. 

About two hours later, a telephone rang in a small suburban bungalow. Mr. Jones came fully awake at the third ring and with a surge of alarm, he ran barefooted into the hall. As he picked up the phone, he saw the query in the eyes of his wife who had followed him into the hall. “Hello.” “Is this Mr. T. W. Jones?” inquired a feminine voice. “Davidson trying to hide the fear in his eyes from his wife who stood over him. “Mr. Jones, this is the Dean of Students. How soon can you come up here?” “Why? Has something happened to Tom?” “There has been an accident. Your son was in the car, and it is with great regret that I inform you he died on the way to the hospital. Try to get someone...” The telephone slid silently into its cradle as the pale huddled man sank slowly into a chair and placed his head between his hands. “Oh, no,” he whispered. His wife placed her hand on his shoulder momentarily and then, as suddenly realizing the finality of what had happened, turned toward the bed where she drowned her tears in the pillow. The man sat stunned, dead to anything but his grief. After a long interval, he got up and went into the next room. He picked up his Bible and began to read from the 23rd Psalm. “The Lord is my shepherd...” “This is Mr. Jones,” he said. 

Still more money is expected to be received, according to John Lyles, YMCA secretary, who said that approximately 100 students and several faculty members have not yet turned in their pledge cards. This year the Fund is to be used in the Davidson community to help Negro families build new homes. The money will be held in escrow for bank loans to Negro residents who, wanting to build, can present a 10 percent down-payment on a $3,000 home, and who have a respectable credit standing. When it becomes obvious that the need for such housing loans will not again exist, the money is to be returned to the YMCA Cabinet then in office to be used at its discretion in furthering “Negro activity in Davidson.” Interest in the local housing situation was aroused last spring when a house burned in Brady’s Alley, only 50 yards from the Davidson Presbyterian Church. Led by Dr. Carl Pritchett, pastor of the church, this interest was organized into action. The result being the unique housing plan for which the Gift Fund will provide financial support. 

Emily Post Seen At Sig Up Meet 

Sigma Upsilon, national honorary fraternity recognizing literary talent, met on December 7 in the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity house. Vice-President, Irving Stubbs, called the meeting to order in the absence of the president. The first article read was a poem by John Hobart entitled “Ode to a Machine.” Next, Professor Lilly gave an essay on Emily Post in the middle ages and the development of manners in the medieval period. This was a humorous article which displayed an enormous amount of research. Bill Cumming read a poem “August Dream” which described the looser sections of New Orleans. Professor Cumming gave a dramatic monologue dealing with a German aristocrat’s disillusionment and ruin. Mac Bulgin read a love lyric poem imitative of the Cavalier traditions. Following a discussion, the meeting adjourned.