PAGE SIX THE DAVIDSONIAN SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1950

Vets Receive Checks Totaling Almost Three Million Dollars

The first of 16 million checks for the $2,800,000 National Service Life Insurance special dividend went into the mails January
16. According to Veterans Administration, the major part of the payment operation will be completed by June 30, 1950. Veterans
who have received acknowledgment cards after mailing in their dividend application forms can be assured they will receive their dividend
checks before June 30. They are warned not to write to VA if they do not receive their checks at
an early date, since reading and answering inquiries will only slow up the process at VA.

The mailing of checks is being done by the Disbursing Office of the U. S. Treasury. The goal is to
mail 200,000 checks daily for each five-day work week, or about 1,000,000 checks a week. Veterans Administration to date has
received approximately 12,250,000 applications for the dividend, of which practically all have been acknowledged. However, says VA, about 25,000 of
their acknowledgments have been returned by the post office because these veterans had moved from the addresses they gave in
their applications, without leaving a forwarding address with the post office.

Approximately 400,000 World War II veterans have died since they took out their GI insurance. The dividend payments of these
deceased veterans will be handled separately. Dividends are to be paid on all National Service Life Insurance Certificates that were
held in force three months or longer, and the payments are based only on the period for which premiums were
paid. The period covered by the dividends begins with the month in which each policy was issued and extends to
the anniversary date of the policy in 1948.

ON SOCIALISM...
(Continued From Page Two)

We might also conclude, however, that the fault lies with administration, rather than the system. In short, it is the
people who are at fault and not the system itself. If administration becomes corrupt, we could ask why? An answer
might be indicated by the fact that, in present-day culture, the highest aspiration would seem to be power. It can
be effectively demonstrated that power leads to corruption if held too long. What then does this indicate? It indicates that
what is needed is not a new system for this country but improvement upon our present system under which the
values of the people would be different. Perhaps if the values of our own culture were changed, capitalism could more
effectively serve the needs of our people.

In closing, I would like to say one thing. In spite of successes which socialism undeniably has had, a warning
must be issued against authoritarian socialism, i.e. socialism in which the people are pampered and helped completely by outside agencies.
In this country, as in others, there has been an increasing tendency to give the people what they want or
lack, rather than helping the people to help themselves. This must inevitably produce a dependence which, however equal the distribution
of wealth achieved under such a system, cannot in the long run, be for the ultimate good of the people.

PROFESSOR OSTWALT...
(Continued From Page Three)

When he was discharged, Prof. Ostwalt held the rank of lieutenant-colonel. Prof. Ostwalt said that his work at Davidson so
far this year has been about the same as last year. He is doing some work with Dean Bailey in
vocational guidance. We welcome Prof. Ostwalt back to the campus, and we hope that his work here will be enjoyable.

TONY PASTOR...
(Continued From Page One)

V.P.I. in the early afternoon followed by an entertaining concert of Tony Pastor and his orchestra in the auditorium at
3:30. The concert of the nationally famous Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra under the direction of Thor Johnson will begin at 8
P.M. The second dance of the set will start at ten o'clock and last until one. Sunday will bring to
a close another of Davidson's mid-Winters dances, and with the departure of our dates, a saddened and becalmed student body
will once more settle down to “hit the books.”

CARTER AND PHARR...
(Continued On Page Six)

GUERRANT’S BOOK...
(Continued From Page One)

expected in so small a book. Final approval was given in May of 1939 and by January 1950 it was
off the presses, being reviewed as “first rate” and “indispensable” by the New York Times on February 5. Dr. Guerrant
has recently received letters of commendation from the present and two former assistant secretaries of State in charge of Latin
American affairs. He has already begun work on a new book—this one essentially a text—on American Diplomatic Policy.

In presenting these two one-act plays the Masquers are departing from their customary policy of one three-act play in an
effort to appeal to a greater portion of the student body. These will not, however, replace the regular full-length play
to be given later in the year. Both “The Valiant” and “Sunday Costs Five Pesos” will be presented in Chambers
Auditorium on February 27 and 28.

BAND TRIPS...
(Continued From Page One)

later in the semester which will take the band into eastern North Carolina and the coastal regions of South Carolina.

CINCINNATI SYMPHONY...
(Continued From Page One)

trait of a Frontier Town; Villa-Lobos, The Little Train from the Caipira, from Bachianas Brasileiras, No. 2; and will conclude
with Strauss’ well-known suite from “Der Rosenkavalier.” The concert should indeed prove profitable to all who attend. Its support assured
by a substantial endowment fund, the Orchestra has striven to include in its personnel artists of the very highest rank,
and to present concerts only of the very best in music, matching together both the most promising in the modern
idiom as well as the enduring works of the masters.

THE HORSE'S MOUTH...
(Continued From Page One)

and “The King’s General,” in the story of Niall, Celia, and Maria Delaney, who are parasitic creatures living off each
other, on inheritance, and society in general. The novel tells of the sophisticated, gray, and sometimes tragic world in which
they live.

Sholem Asch, the author of “The Nazarene” and “The Apostle,” has presented the reading world the unforgettable story of the
trials and joys of the mother of our Lord in “Mary.” The book presents a living picture of Mary's betrothal,
the birth of Jesus, and His boyhood. It is a story of love, devotion, and suffering.

"We Went Thata Way” is H. Allen Smith's humorous description of the new Wild West. It deals with fares covered
on mountain, cowboys and cowgirls, and rugged mountaineers with electric stoves all seen from Smith's palomino Cadillac.

The Society in America series has come out with Robert Tallant’s “The Romantic New Orleans.” It is an interesting treatment
of the combination of the modern city and the Vieux Carre or French Quarter.. IS AMERICA ADRIFT... (Continued From Page
Two)

The most serious objection to Keynes’ program, however, is that it is not politically feasible to adhere to it. Popular
support can be secured for increasing public expenditures on the basis of borrowed money, but once the process has started
it is politically next to impossible to reverse it when the time arrives to stop spending and reduce the debt.
Had the federal government been faithfully following Keynes’ ideas it would have a large surplus in the current year. The
plan becomes a one-way road to progressive inflation. No one can deny the exhilarating effect of injecting more money into
an economic system. Likewise, no one who has even a speaking acquaintance with history can be blind to the fact
that continued inflation leads to economic collapse. Inflation is a short-range device with long-range effects. Indeed, Keynes’ economics is admittedly
the economics of the short-run. His oft-quoted quip that in the long run we are all dead may reflect the
spirit of his economics, but it is a flippant statement that is unworthy of a serious student of human society.
In the long run our children will not all be dead, and it is to be hoped that the commonwealth
which we have built for them will not be dead either.

The pure inflationists who would run a deficit year after year for the express purpose of inflating prices progressively are
not a large group in America, but they may be dangerous out of proportion to their numbers. Some of them
are not at all vicious and simply suffer from lack of the distinctly human capacity to think beyond next Tuesday.
Others honestly believe that for the first time in history the light concerning money has broken on them and that
they have discovered how people can have anything that they desire simply by using monetary inflation as a means of
destroying economic classes that they hate or an economic system that they despise. Having destroyed that economic system, they hope
to be able to show that it collapsed from its own inherent weakness. And so it may collapse, but the
weakness that leads to its downfall will not be an economic one, but a moral one. It will be the
weakness of a people that has repudiated industry and responsibility and turned its back on virtue as the basis of
national life.

BING CROSBY Parks Gives Account (Continued From Page Two) Of Missionary Work

John Parks, recently a missionary to Brazil, came to Davidson Sunday, February 12, to speak to the Westminster Fellowship on
the recommendation of the Foreign Missions Committee of the Presbyterian Church, U.S. Mr. Parks used as his subject: “Personal Accounts
of Mission Work in Brazil.” He gave an account of some of the difficult tasks that a new missionary encounters
and showed some of the needs and problems of fulfilling the work in particular fields. This is one of the
series of programs being presented for the first five weeks of the new semester by the Westminster Fellowship. The Reverend
Mr. Parks is a native of Johnson City, Tennessee. He received his undergraduate education from Princeton University, after which he
was graduated from Faith Seminary in New Jersey. For two years he was a missionary to Brazil, and now expects
to begin a pastorate in Somerset, Kentucky.

Here the Roman society ceased to exist, because it was unable to follow the development of a different social status
of the individual and was overrun by the very primitive but young Germanic society. Although it is debatable whether the
resulting society was able to take into consideration all the changes that the social status of the individual and its
society were undergoing, it still cannot be denied that major changes took place. To discuss how far these changes were
carried is not the task of this theme. Third and last in the row we have what I may call
an evolutionary development. It is questionable whether this form of change may be called a collision. It is not in
the sense of the word because it is not a sudden but a slow process, extending over a sometimes very
long time. We find this form of development all through history and always following one of the other two forms.
But I shall refer to this form of development next week. (End first part. To be continued.)

Famous Gonzaga alumnus, says: “Smoke MY cigarette. MILDER Chesterfields.”

COLLEGE RAGS... (Continued From Page Two)

At four a.m., fifteen of the Tech men again forced their way into the house “determined to cut somebody’s hair.”
Said chapter president Hickman, they searched the house for S.A.E.'s responsible for the first hair cutting. Unable to find the
parties responsible, however, they cut Hickman's hair.

U.N.C.—Negroes Seek Entrance

From Chapel Hill comes word that Federal Judge J. J. Hayes has signed a court order allowing five additional plaintiffs
to a case in which two Negroes are seeking matriculation in the University Law School. The Daily Tar Heel reports
attorneys for the original plaintiffs, Robert Eppes of Asheville, and Harold Glass of Belmont, have been arguing against trial by
jury in a pre-trial conference of the Middle District Court. The University is seeking trial by jury. The trial has
been slated for the first week in April. The additional plaintiffs are Perry Gillard of Fayetteville, Floyd B. McKissick of
Asheville, Solomon Revis of Raleigh, James Lassister of Rocky Mount, and Richard Powell of Durham.

St. Louis U--No Football

The University of St. Louis, first school west of the Mississippi to play intercollegiate football, has dropped football for the
“immediate future.” According to the Very Rev. Paul C. Reinert, university president, “The University is unwilling to submit to scholastic
compromises.” St. Louis U., which first participated in intercollegiate football in 1888 and which played Davidson last fall, dropped football
after action was taken by the trustees following a poll of alumni leaders.

MEDICAL EDUCATION... (Continued From Page One)

...in individual cases; second, regular pre-medical training courses in chemistry, physics, and biology; and third, a revised program in medical
sciences. At the completion of this new program, the student would then enter the final two years of the medical
school program as it now exists. Under such an arrangement the student would receive his M.D. degree one year sooner
than he would under the present system.

VISIT THE RECREATION CENTER Davidson, N.C.

WHEREVER YOU GO! Remember this seal — it's your assurance of the best!

Hear CHESTERFIELD'S Great New BING CROSBY SHOW Every Wednesday the entire CBS Network— 9:30 P.M. E.S.T.— 8:30 P.M. C.S.T.—7:30 P.M.
M.S.T.—6:30 P.M. P.S.T.

Copyright 1950, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
