PRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1950 PAGE TWO | THE DAVIDSONIAN

Negro Housing Deplorable
By TOM ABEL

THE DAVIDSONIAN
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE

EDITOR IN CHIEF .......... BOB HOLLISTER
BUSINESS MANAGER ........ BILL HOUCK

EDITORIAL STAFF
Chief Associate Editor ........ Doug Hix
Chief Associate Editor ........ Lonnie Turnipseed
Chief Associate Editor ........ Jack Hazard

MANAGING EDITORS—Arnic Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall, Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister, Randy Taylor.
Sports Editor—Gordon Scott
Make-up Editors—Dan McKeithen, Cherry Stribling.
Art Editor—Bill King
City Editor—John Hobart
Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager ........ Bill Cassels
Advertising Managers—Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison.
Circulation Manager ........ Huffaker
Asst. Circulation Managers—Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager ........ John Loftin
Subscriptions Manager ........ Alex Goley

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

Rejuvenated ROTC Dept.
Since September Davidson has witnessed a drastic change in one of its instructional departments. No longer is R.O.T.C. regarded as a fifty-minute recess in a busy day. Colonel Ballard of the Class of '39 has reorganized the unit by injecting interest through an effort to understand each student individually, to model the four courses along lines which will appeal to the students and demand more effort on their part than has been required in the past.

The Friday of Midwinters Colonel Ballard advanced $2,000.00 of personal funds to advanced students whose government checks had been delayed. In so doing the Colonel not only made it possible for a number of students to enjoy the weekend who could not have done so otherwise, but he also gave evidence of his genuine interest in and willingness to help each student.

Another manifestation of this new attitude is the individual active participation of the members of the R.O.T.C. staff in the weekly drill. In times past, members of the staff have been content to stand by and look on as the reserve officers-to-be went through the maneuvers. Now they march or run along with the students. Although this fact is not especially noteworthy in itself, as a mark of the R.O.T.C. units’ new policy, it is an indication of a spirit of cooperation and sincere concern that is one of our goals here at Davidson.

The Old Gym
In his talk to the student body last Tuesday morning, Dr. Cunningham mentioned several matters considered by the board of trustees at their last meeting. One of these concerned the use of the old gymnasium. He cited the prospective uses to which it might be put, and then told us that a committee had been appointed to study the situation and make some recommendations about it.

This study by the committee will undoubtedly take some time, however, in view of all the facts that must be taken into consideration. We would like to suggest that the gym be put to use until such time as the committee decides what will be done with it. There are many organizations in the community and the college which could make very good use of the main floor these next three weeks, and it seems a shame to let it go to waste and keep these organizations from using it.

I am speaking particularly about the boys' work and the colored work in the community. Basketball season is about over, but these two groups have had little opportunity to play, since there are no facilities in the community available to them. Rather than keeping the gym locked up, it would seem to me to be a better idea to go ahead and let these groups use it, while the committee is trying to decide what the final disposition of the building will be. By the time the committee comes to some decision, baseball season will be here and these groups will have no further need for the gym. Why not let these groups use it for the next three weeks?

It is definitely understood that these groups would be supervised, and that the gym would not be left unlocked at all times. Each group could have certain times to use it with their group leaders, after which the gym could be locked up again. If this plan were followed, it would help the college Y.M.C.A. work tremendously, and at the same time not interfere with the plans for the disposition of the building. At any rate, I fail to see why the building should not be used while the committee is making their study, and hope that some adjustment to this situation may be made this week—R.L.T.

Wasted Time
In Rudyard Kipling’s poem entitled “If” we find these famous lines:
“If you can fill the unforgiving minute
With sixty seconds’ worth of distance run,
Yours is the Earth and everything that’s in it,
And—which is more—you'll be a Man, my son!”

In many of our classrooms (50) fifty such minutes or (3,000) three thousand such seconds are filled only with a very short distance run. This condition, which is seen most clearly in classes that are based almost entirely on note-taking, and there are many such classes, could easily be remedied; and the resulting transformation would lend itself to more profitable and interesting classes.

At the present time a student attending one of the above-mentioned classes writes continuously from one bell to the next, at which time he leaves with a cramped hand, several pages of unrelated notes, and a vague idea of what it was all about. The professor has lectured directly from his notes, and the students have concentrated on getting as much of his lecture in their notes as possible. He cannot stop to listen and thereby relate the facts given. If the professors of these lecture courses would simply mimeograph their notes and pass them out to the students at the beginning of the semester, the courses would be more informative and much more interesting. The student then could follow the lecture, take part in discussion, and enjoy the class. This would certainly be a vast improvement over the present system conducted by some of our professors —W. H.

We Would Like to See
By GABE LOWE

More regular and more convenient hours for purchasing books at the College Bookstore.
An improved telephone situation in the dormitories. We would like telephone booths in the dormitories with at least some degree of soundproofing. With the normal noise in the dormitories it is difficult, and sometimes well-nigh impossible, to hear what is being said on the phone. This is especially true in East and West, where the phones are located under slate steps that resound mightily with the fall of every foot on them. Furthermore, we would like to see the installation of telephones on the third floors of East, West, Watts, and Georgia and on the other side of Rumple to relieve the congestion of calls at the single phone in each dormitory, and to ensure more prompt answering of calls.
A student rating system in which students would rate their professors each semester as to knowledge of their subjects, methods of presentation, teaching ability, etc. This would provide a reasonable estimate of a professor's ability to put his course across to the students in a complete and comprehensive manner, and would show which professors are falling down on their job as teachers.
A revised cut system, based on the scholastic standing, and abolition of double cuts.
A revised and revitalized Catalog, including under each course of instruction a notation giving the days and hours in which that course will be taught. This would help the student to plan his curriculum for the coming year without having conflicts in his schedule.
An information and reception center for the convenience of strangers on the campus.
Fewer ministers and more public figures—lawyers, educators, politicians, editors, and writers—to speak to the student body. A revitalization of the nearly defunct lecture series could bring a stimulation of thought and a more active exchange of ideas among the students, and would acquaint them with ideas and theories that are spoken of in whispers at Davidson.
Publication of a humor magazine. Scripts ‘n’ Pranks is a good college literary magazine, but is wholly humorless. Davidson needs a publication that could take its place alongside the Covered Wagon of Oklahoma University, the Duke and Duchess of Duke, or the Orange Peel of the University of Florida. Jokes and articles need not be dirty to be humorous and enjoyable reading.

Cincinnati Symphony Review
By HENRY E. HANSEN

It was my privilege to hear the Cincinnati Symphony twice. On Friday, the seventeenth, they played in Rock Hill—the program was entirely different and these two hearings have strengthened my conviction that the group is one of the finest musical organizations in the country and that its conductor is a man of understanding and ability.

The program here opened with the overture to “Russian and Ludmilla” by Glinka. This was well done, with enough restraint to prevent the work from becoming the usual hysterical “tour de force.” Second on the program was the Mozart Haffner Symphony in D Major. It is in just such work as this that the abilities of an orchestra are shown to clear advantage. Production of a large volume is important, but in the Haffner, essentially airy and graceful, softness with clarity is essential. The Cincinnati accepted the challenge to their own advantage. Throughout the work the pianissimos were clear and pure with no muffing of tones. The attacks were clean and incisive and entrances clear. The only fault was in the last movement. In the passage identical musically, but marked alternately “ff.” then “pp.” I felt that there was not enough contrast. On the whole, however, the work was beautifully played and the interpretation quite competent.

The last number before intermission was “Job”—a Masque for Dancing by Ralph Vaughn Williams, the contemporary English composer. It is a magnificent work—virile, exciting, and well able to speak for itself. It was played in a straightforward manner which allowed these qualities free expression. The work is divided into five sections. Titles are given for each section, but no additional notes, and the music needs none. This quality was typified in the second section, “Satan's Dance of Triumph.” All things Satanic are clearly implied, even to the extent of anxious looks into dark corners for his Satanic Majesty’s presence. In the fifth section, one had the distinct impression that Job’s comforters were not so sorry as they seemed to be. Their expressions of sympathy sounded not a little sarcastic. The use of the saxophone, bass flutes, and muted trumpets added greatly to the tonal interest. Thematically it is original. Interesting in this respect was a theme in the first section which bears a striking resemblance to the “Black Swan” song in Menotti’s “The Medium.”

After intermission we heard first Don Gillis’ Portrait of a Frontier Town. The first section was unique. It is rousing music and, while not great, is a good portrait. Thematically it resembled An American in Paris gone Texan. The second section, Prairie Sunset, was very effective and was surprisingly unlike the Grand Canyon Suite. The third section was good-humored and image-provoking. The playing throughout was excellent.

The Villa-Lobos “The Little Train from the Caipira” was a charming number charmingly played. The rhythm as well as the conducting of Dr. Johnson, was tantalizing.

The program closed with the Strauss Suite from “Der Rosenkavalier.” Beautifully played and interpreted, it was a fitting finish to a program distinctive for its variety and excellence in both performance and interpretation.

FLICKER Flashes
By HUGH SWAN

Excellent Picture
Good Picture
Fair Picture

Monday and Tuesday
“Always Leave Them Laughing,” plays Milton Berle and Virginia Mayo. Milton Berle has had great success in night clubs, radio, and television. Up to now he has never played Berle in the movies. He played a cop, a gangster, and similar roles, but never a comedian. In this picture he plays a Berle-type comedian, which makes him happy. There would be no point in giving you part of the plot—the picture is built around the life of a comedian using Berle’s jokes. Here are some of Berle’s gags: How can I avoid falling hair?—step aside. Some husbands are like the wheel. Some husbands are like telephone calls because they always end up with the wrong numbers. Some men are like Christmas trees because—they’re always lit up. Some batters are like suitors because they're always trying to get to first base.

Wednesday and Thursday
“Without"Honor" plays, starring Lorraine Day, Franchot Tone, and Dane Clarke.

Friday and Saturday "Battleground," starring Van Johnson, John Hodiak, Ricardo Montalban, and Denise Darcel (a new French actress). It is the story of the 101st Airborne Division's attempt to hold Bastogne. They succeed through the sweat, blood, and tears of the GI Joes who fought so gallantly and unceasingly. All of the typical characters of a squad are portrayed as well as a typical friendly French girl. This picture has been widely acclaimed by many newspapers, magazines, and columnists. I have seen the picture and personally think it’s the most authentic picture of actual warfare to be produced by Hollywood.

"BIKO" — By KURT BIEDENKOPF

The discussion of this theory would be useless if it were not applied to the following. There is, however, a very close connection between this theory and our present world situation. For I believe that the development of recent history shows us very clearly that we are about to approach and witness one of these collisions between two extremes. Making this statement requires, of course, proving it, and, if this is possible, showing how the conclusions drawn thereof can be applied to our situation and to the course that should be chosen in foreign policy. If a collision in the said sense is about to occur, then there have to be two extremes existing, which cannot possibly continue to live side by side. These two extremes we find in communism and in the bastard form of individualism, usually referred to as capitalism. When undergoing a severe analysis of both, it will be found that the number of common factors is so small, if there are any at all, that it is justifiable to call them extremes.

Out of the individualism as was asked for at the time of the French revolution, and already before that by philosophical forerunners, there has developed an exaggerated form which is found in most of the nations with a capitalistic society. The idea of the individual surpassing in importance any other institution within the society and thus having a dominating status, and in the economic field the ideal of "laissez-faire" and its resulting in economic and financial monopolies are the main characteristics of this form of society. Although the ideal of "laissez-faire" today is not so important anymore, its results are still in existence and form a large degree of the economic part of the setup of this society. The individual, on the other hand, who has more and more gained importance and position, is about to split up the basic institution of any nation, the family. This capitalistic form of society, which is most developed in the United States, has proved to be unable to find an answer for many problems resulting mostly out of its economic setup. It is confronting with helplessness the serious problem of unemployment and social care of the citizen in the true sense of the word. Although defenders of the system demand that with time this problem will be solved, it must be said that in the present setup this seems to be impossible because of the advancing mechanization of industry. Thus the capitalistic society seems to be unable to solve the present situation which is mostly a result of its own ideas.

Communism, which was said to be the other extreme, is a philosophy introduced by Karl Marx and the German Hegel. The first and also important aim of this philosophy was to find a place for the great masses of industrial workers without any productive capital. This problem of the proletariat, which arose with the tremendous increase of industrialization in the later part of the 19th century and the question as to what social status should be taken by the industrial workers—the existing system was unable to provide any status—was claimed by Karl Marx to find a satisfactory answer within the setup of society that he thought would be the ideal one. The classless society without their own property, an international...

(Continued On Page Six)

TEN TIMELY TOPICS

(1) "The Case Against Mercy Killing," W. L. Sperry, American Mercury, March 1950.
(2) "England’s Public Medicine: The Facts," J. H. Means, Atlantic, March 1950.
(3) "Modernize The GOP," Senator Lodge, Atlantic, March 1950.
(4) "Television — Hopes and Limitations," C. H. Siepmann, Survey, January 1950.
(5) "Truman’s Third Term," G. W. Johnson, Atlantic, February 1950.
(6) "What Can We Expect Of Europe?" James Burnham, American Mercury, February 1950.
(7) "Science, Secrecy, Security," E. U. Condon, Harper’s, February 1950.
(8) "The Mirage Of Pensions," P. F. Drucker, Harper's, February 1950.
(9) "The World Economy Since The War: Problems And Prospects," E. R. Black, Virginia Quarterly Review.
(10) "Great Churches Of America — II. New Knoxville, Ohio," Christian Century, February 22, 1950.

Last Sunday morning a fire in a colored residential section of Davidson left four homeless and uncovered one of the most deplorable situations in this community. Thanks to the generous response of students and townspeople, the family has been well clothed, although at present they are having to live with relatives: fifteen of them in a three-room house. The situation stands thus: In this immediate area, there are eleven homes, all of which are rented and none of which have indoor plumbing. In these houses, since the burning of the Lowery residence, an average of about four persons to a room "exist" as best they can. In one house in particular, a five-room structure, twenty-five human beings are living. Let's look at some of the potential dangers. As these dwellings are located quite close to the main business section of Davidson, there is a terrific fire hazard. Had it not been for the wide-awake action of the local fire department Sunday morning, at least two, and maybe several more of these buildings would have been leveled, not considering the possibilities of the fire’s spreading to the business district.

Further, the health hazard involved is of tremendous proportions. Students may say, "How could this affect us?" Very easily: There are two college janitors living in this area, plus at least two employees of fraternity boarding houses. Should some kind of an epidemic break out, it could conceivably spread to, and throughout, the student body like wildfire. Think about this! Think also of the moral difficulties encountered by children, black, white, yellow, or brown, raised under such conditions of environmental congestion. Davidson’s crime rate, by no means lower than that of towns of comparable size, would undoubtedly be influenced directly or indirectly by the eradication of these conditions.

Then, the problem of eradication presents itself. The property owners cannot be blamed for existing conditions for two reasons: 1. Several of them (there are four) cannot afford to improve the quality of their buildings. 2. Even if those who could, decided to, the cost would be outlandish. The rent received is from $6 to $10 per month, and at that price, even the most simple repairs would seem ponderous. But there IS, perhaps, a solution. A real-estate agent in town has stated that a group of men with from five to ten-thousand dollars working capital could build six duplex apartments in a better location with the prospects of a reasonable profit. The men, apparently, are available; but the capital is not, at least at the present. This is where the Davidson student body could fit into the picture. This year the YMCA Christmas Gift Fund was $5,000. It went all the way to the Philippine Islands. Why not dedicate our Christmas Fund next year to the financing of this most worthy project right here at home. Remember, of course, that this money would not be given outright, but lent, lent as the working capital so sorely needed. As it was paid back it could be re-dedicated and sent on to some other worthy project, that way serving two causes.

Of course, the whole plan should be carefully investigated and analyzed, perhaps by a committee of the YMCA cabinet and local businessmen. If it should prove feasible to carry out such a project, the good effects would prove many of the axiomatic sayings we hear about what good Christians we are. Here we have a challenge, let’s face it!

Letter from Reader

"A JUSTIFIABLE SUGGESTION"

Now that the battle for Tournament slots has abated, I would like to again protest the unfair method of selecting the eight teams to vie for the Southern Conference crown. It is only too apparent that many of the better clubs of the Conference are forbidden tournament berths, while other mediocre aggregations make the Tournament on the strength of weaker opposition. Bringing the matter closer to home, the Davidson Wildcats have been denied a Tournament berth on many occasions due to a difficult schedule, only to watch far inferior quintets creep into the select eight. This season is no exception, for the Soph-riddled ‘Cats will not compete in the 1950 Tournament while such fives as VPI with a schedule of 10 comparatively easy Conference games will vie for the Crown.

I do not make this criticism without a constructive suggestion, for I feel that there is a workable solution to this problem which has long hampered the Southern Conference. Why not divide the Conference into three brackets. State, Duke, Carolina, G. W., and W&M would form the upper bracket. Davidson, South Carolina, Clemson, Wake Forest, VPI, and W&L would form the Medium bracket, and Furman, Citadel, VMI, Richmond, and Maryland would form the lower bracket. Each team would play the members of its respective brackets twice during the season, and all other clubs once. Such a schedule would give the ‘Cats a 20 game Conference schedule, whereas in 1949-50 they engaged their talents in 18 conference frays. I feel reasonably certain that such an arrangement would not only result in fairer selection of the Tournament select, but also provide the fans with closer, more tightly waged encounters. It is true that such an arrangement would have many difficulties, but I hazard a guess that these could be ironed out with a minimum amount of effort. I am sure that everyone concerned yearns for an improved method of selecting these Tournament fives, and then the Southern Conference King will feel justified indeed in his claim to the Conference superiority.

—R.L.M.

College Rags In Brief... By WATT JEFFRIES

Presbyterian

The Presbyterian College Blue Stocking this week relates a story of how female bandits swindled $110.00 out of two P. C. students last Friday. The two female swindlers, posing as Clinton tailoresses, made a spotless get-away after collecting $110.00 in cash. The fair thieves, one of them a vivacious young blonde with prominent features, left their victims with forty dollars worth of suit material and high hopes of future affiliations, says the Blue Stocking. The swindlers approached a group of P. C. students who had gathered outside of Judd dining hall last Friday, and pretended to be taking orders for tailor-made suits. Two students signed up with the false tailoresses who promised to return in a few days to measure them up for size. One of the two who signed threw an additional twenty dollars into the kitty to help the women in moving their business to Clinton “from down in Alabama.” Police were notified when the female felons failed to show up to take measurements; however, latest reports from the Clinton Police Department admit no trace of the girls has been found.

Carolina

The Daily Tar Heel last Tuesday announced that October 28, 1950, is destined to become a historic day in college football if everything comes off according to schedule. At a Southern Conference meeting in Lynchburg, Va., it was recently discovered that the University of Virginia has scheduled football games with UNC and West Virginia, both to be played in Charlottesville on the 28th of October. Roy Hawley, athletic director at West Virginia, a newly admitted conference member, called attention to the mistake at the Lynchburg meeting when he remarked that his team had a contract with Virginia for the 28th of October. According to Hawley, West Va. doesn't have an open date to which it can shift the contest. Carolina has an October 21 opening, but Virginia does not. Hawley sees a double-header as the only solution.

Michigan State

From Michigan State comes word that the college is planning its most ambitious project—a flying classroom tour of Europe. The trip is scheduled to begin on March 18th, when sixty of the nation’s top educators take off from New York by chartered plane to study European political and economic conditions. The study tour will last six weeks and include visits to Ireland, England, France, Switzerland, Italy, Germany, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Belgium, and Holland.