PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, MAY 12, 1950

THE DAVIDSONIAN
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF
GORDON SCOTT

BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editors — Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Senior Editors Bill Cumming, Dan McKeithen, Bill Hollister
Features Editor Arnie Covell
Managing Editors Pete Kalogridis, Tom Abel, Bill Adams, George McMurray, Ed Richardson, Shelley Beard
Sports Editor—Bill White
Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen
City Editor—Nat Daniel

BUSINESS STAFF
Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Proofreader—Charlie Baldwin
Columnist—John Hobart
Assistant Business Manager Alex Goley
Advertising Manager Manley McWilliams
Circulation Manager Ansley Moses
Collections Manager Jack Turner
Subscriptions Manager Bill Hart

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897
PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY
Davidson, North Carolina

Important Committee Appointed

Recently we were informed that Dr. Cunningham authorized the appointment of a faculty committee to study faculty-student relations. The committee is composed of Professors Johnston, Puckett, Godcharles, Abernathy, and Dean Bailey. Although it is not known whether there were any specific reasons for the President's action, it is known that he learned of the formation of a similar group at Princeton and felt that it was worthy of duplication on the Davidson campus. Whatever his reasons may have been, we are in full accord with Dr. Cunningham's action and feel that perhaps a long-felt need will be satisfactorily coped with here.

The committee is little more than a week old so there have been no definite steps taken or has any specific plan been adopted. The study of this group will be a comprehensive one, exploring conditions in every phase of student-faculty relations. It will cover relations in the classroom as well as in every conceivable area of extracurricular activities. The task is tremendous and there is no foreseeable end to the areas which the group may tap, but it is a step in the right direction—one that will meet with the approval of every student.

For years Davidson has been widely advertised as a liberal arts college in which there are close ties among faculty and student body. This is of course to some extent still true, but the increased size of the student body since the war has had an effect for the worse on this Davidson “tradition.” There is, of course, no outward show of animosity among the two groups on the campus, but there are few students here today who would state that student-faculty relations at Davidson are what they believed they were when they came to Davidson. Wherein lies the fault? We can’t answer that but feel certain that the newly established committee will go all out in an effort to better this situation, among the countless others that they will explore.

The student body can help in this work. The committee is free for suggestions, criticisms, and recommendations—in fact they are desirous of having them. It is to be hoped that the committee will have open discussions with students to air any views and ideas which they may have because without such discussions student body participation and interest in the work of the group will probably be kept at a minimum.

The committee was appointed as a temporary one to study the situation thoroughly and then make a full report. We hope that in making their final report (which will probably be some time next year) they will recommend the formation of a permanent Committee on Student-Faculty relations that will have as one of its duties periodic discussions among representatives of the student body at large and the committee. It goes without saying that any forum in which the students are given opportunity to express their views would minimize criticism of the Administration and contribute to a better Davidson.

In Re: Paul Horne

To our way of thinking, one of the most significant parts of the Annual Awards day last Tuesday was the reading by Dr. Cunningham of a faculty-prepared citation to student store manager Paul Horne. In singling out Horne for his outstanding service during the past year the faculty passed the following resolution during their May 2, 1950, meeting:

“The Faculty and Administrative Staff of Davidson College recognize the service rendered to the College and to the Student Body by Mr. Paul A. Horne in his capacity as manager of the Student Store. During the past eighteen months he has helped to reorganize and to manage this store on a business-like basis. In doing this work he has given his time and his energy in an unselfish manner, and he has earned the respect and good will of all his associates. The Faculty and Administrative Staff wish to assure Mr. Horne of their high esteem for him as an individual and of their appreciation for the excellent work he has done.”

Certainly no one connected with the college during the past year deserves recognition any more than Paul. His has been a hard job. It was his responsibility to institute a new system of running the student store amid grumblings among the students that the “open-shelf” system was the only practical way to run the Stud and that the new plan was a slap at the Honor System. There may still be some conjecture as to whether the Honor System has been undermined, but no one can complain that the present setup in the Stud hasn’t been satisfactory. For the success of the Student Store this year, Paul alone must receive the credit. The efficient way in which he handled his staff and the long hours he put in each day at the Stud have paid off handsomely. No longer is the Stud a financial thorn in the Administration’s side but is now a profit-making enterprise. The Faculty made a wise move in recognizing Paul’s efforts. We wholeheartedly endorse this well-earned resolution and feel sure that we speak for the entire student body in expressing appreciation to Paul for a job well done.

College Rags ...IN BRIEF
By BILL CUMMING

At George Washington U. ink will flow like wine and be free besides, thanks to AUBIS (All-University Benevolent Ink Society). Annoyed at having to pay the oppressive fee of one cent to have their pens filled in the library, members of the AUBIS banded together and contributed a dime each in order to present the library with two gallons of free ink. The ink will be dispensed without charge to students in the library who find themselves with dry pens during the pursuit of their studies. Each member of the AUBIS who contributed as much as a dime to the fund was automatically made a vice-president.

Last Friday was barefoot day for seniors at the University of North Carolina. According to tradition Tar Heel lads and lasses of the graduating class at Carolina go minus footwear throughout one whole day of Senior Week. The DAILY TAR HEEL reports that the name and nature of the day narrowly escaped a drastic change when one class officer suggested that the day be called “Beerfoot Day” because big things were brewing. It was further proposed that members of the class make their way about the campus with beer cans lashed to their feet; however this motion was quickly snuffed out.

The football team of the University of Arkansas is in the market for a genuine “Razorback” to serve in the capacity of mascot at the coming grid season.

The DUKE CHRONICLE recently announced a widespread revolt of fraternity fledglings. Climaxing two weeks of pledge retaliation, members of SAE, KA, Kappa Sig, Sigma Chi, Phi Delt, and Beta fraternities received immersions in a campus pool until campus police were called out. During the dunking days one Phi Delt was kayoed in the house chapter room while trying to make a getaway. Elsewhere on the campus an unfortunate grid star was marched to the pool singing “Glory to Old Georgia.”

Letters To The Editor

Open Letter to the Editor:

In spite of the recent move by a number of its members to petition Alpha Tau Omega national fraternity, The Campus Club will continue to function in the future as it was originally conceived.

The Campus Club stands on the principles stated in Article I of its Constitution:

“Realizing the necessity of an adequate and broad social life in the development of strong character and wholesome personality, we, the members of the Campus Club, have established as our purpose the creation of a medium of fellowship for non-fraternity men on the Davidson campus. By providing greater opportunity for these men to participate in athletic, social and humanitarian activities, we shall strive to encourage the physical, social, and spiritual growth of all Campus Club members, in addition to promoting their general scholastic progress. We believe that the vitality of the Campus Club, and its effectiveness in achieving these purposes, rests essentially in its autonomous, unexclusive, inexpensive, and wholly democratic nature. As members of the Campus Club, we are pledged at all times to uphold and enhance the great name of Davidson College.”

The Campus Club will continue to forward its regular program for non-fraternity men, of participation in social, athletic, and humanitarian activities on the Davidson campus. It will remain inexpensive financially and will continue to offer membership to every man at Davidson who desires to become a member.

We have written this open letter in order to clarify the position of the Campus Club and to clear up any doubts which may have arisen among the student body in regard to the future status of the Campus Club and its policies and purposes for existence on the Davidson campus.

The Members
Campus Club.
DAVID DECK, President.

May 9, 1950

To the Editor of the Davidsonian:

Dear Sir:

It has been brought to my attention that the purpose of a college is to provide an education for its students. However, it seems that some people have forgotten this primary purpose and have instead focused on other activities that detract from the academic environment. I urge all students and faculty to remember the true purpose of our institution and to strive to maintain an atmosphere conducive to learning.

Sincerely,
[Name not provided]

REVIEW OF ...

On May 4 and 5 the Red and Black Masquers presented “The Man Who Came To Dinner,” by Hart and Kaufman. This was undoubtedly the best play the Masquers have done this season. The set itself was excellent. And the cast, numbering twenty-nine, a heretofore unheard of number on the Davidson stage, was of an excellence which gave the lie to the old excuse of not being able to produce a play because the cast is “too large.” Everyone in this mammoth production was competent or even better. Dorothy Herring and Bill Hollister as Maggie Cutler and Bert Jefferson were singularly unconvincing in their early scenes in the play but warmed to their parts as they continued. Maggie’s outburst at Sheridan was entirely convincing and Bert's drunk scene was Bacchic to the core. As for Mr. Trotman, he was, expectedly, wonderful in his role, but there seemed to be some spark, some subtle quality lacking in his performance. It might be said that his own conception of the role and his playing of it was beyond him. Nevertheless, he turned in a top-notch performance.Performance over the sustained period of time, and it is doubtful whether anyone else could have done as well. Particularly outstanding were Howard Proctor's Beverly Carlton and Wylie Smith’s Banjo. Proctor gave, in my opinion, the best performance of the evening. He was English but not too English, in that half subtle, half blatant way typical of the English music hall dramatist of the Noel Coward variety. Mr. Smith carried his role, and Mary Wells McNeil as Miss Preen was uproarious — she is a born comic, her subtlest movement invokes belly laughs and her not-so-subtle ones can produce absolute prostration. As for the rest of the cast, well, they were all good — Mrs. Hengeveld, Mae Holly, Professor Erwin superbly himself, Vance Mizelle with his mercuric accent — and the audience was well repaid for the time and the money invested. As for the direction, with a cast so large, it is evident that a tremendous job was done by Nancy Copeland. In the face of many difficulties, she managed somehow to turn her cast, large and sometimes balky, into a smoothly functioning machine, one which turned in the most commendable performance of the year. This year has been an eventful one for the Masquers. Replete with fresh talent, they have brought their productions to a high pitch of excellence. Congratulations to the Masquers. And let me close with a challenge. How about doing the same thing with drama next year that has been done so successfully with comedy this year? There no longer remains any serious reason why the Masquers cannot do drama as well as they have done comedy. The talent is available, the numbers are available. So, in the coming year, let's have some drama!

“Y” Fund — As we all know, last Friday morning in chapel, Neal Teach, recently elected president of the YMCA, announced that a commission formed by uniting the “Y” cabinet, together with student body and class officers, had met and voted unanimously to devote the YMCA gift fund for 1950-1951 to help the Town of Davidson carry out its long-delayed program of Negro housing. He announced that a more detailed plan for the use of the gift fund would be outlined at a town meeting, which was held the following Monday night. So it was that the citizens of the Town of Davidson heard the following report from the committee formed to investigate and do something about the living conditions of low-income families, especially among the Negroes in this community: The Town of Davidson, in cooperation with and through the facilities of the Piedmont Bank and Trust Co., would secure through gifts and surety bonds the difference between the minimum amount the bank is allowed to lend on the value of the property, and the cost of the home, but not to exceed 90 percent of the total cost of the new home, with that total cost not to exceed $3,000. In other words, the bank makes a regular loan of 60 percent from its own funds with the property as security; the homeowner furnishes 10 percent of the amount, either in cash or through ownership of a suitable lot, and the security for the remaining 40 percent would be first the ‘Y’ fund, and as a double safety, the surety bonds signed by the townspeople in addition to their contribution. Incidentally, $6,000 worth of those bonds are already in the bank, so that the loan plan can go into action immediately without waiting for the collection of the ‘Y’ fund. Now here's where the student body fits into the picture: The ‘Y’ gift fund for next year will be supplemented by a collection taken up among the citizens of the town. Then this entire amount will be turned into government bonds (which pay 2.5 percent interest) and placed in escrow at the bank, to be used as that part of the collateral on new houses not covered by the property itself on a regular bank loan. After all the loans on houses built or bought under this plan have been reduced to a regular bank loan (60 percent of the value of the property), then the total amount in the bank will be put to some useful purpose in the community. If, however, some of the mortgages have to be foreclosed and the sale of the property does not cover the debt, the difference will come from either the interest or the principal of the money which is held by the bank. If the plan collapses completely, and the “Y” fund is used up, then those citizens who have signed the surety bonds would be assessed on a pro-rata basis according to the amount they have pledged. In looking over the situation, it seems to us that it is very unlikely that the plan will fail at all, and the ‘Y’ gift fund will actually serve a double purpose. In the first place, the citizens of the town, both white and colored, are backing the plan to the hilt, and already work has started. The committee itself has financed the construction of a new house for John Heath, and Dr. George B. Watts is building two houses which are to be sold to deserving and needy colored families. Secondly, the committee carefully screens every applicant, and only those able to meet its standards are eligible to come under the plan. Anyone who attended the meeting Monday night will agree that the spirit of cooperation among the Negroes and whites was remarkable, as several of the town's Negro citizens, in speaking for the whole group, expressed their willingness to do all within their power to make better living conditions in Davidson become a reality. Irving Stubbs, chairman of the ‘Y’ gift fund committee, has asked that seniors who wish to aid materially in this plan, either leave their contributions with him before they go, or make plans to mail it in next year while the regular campaign is under way. To get an idea of what is going on already, why not take a walk some Sunday afternoon over toward the colored school, by John Heath's new house. The work going on there will be pleasantly surprising and next Christmas, with our help, become an outward manifestation of the second great Commandment, “Love thy neighbor as thyself.”

By NAT DANIEL

Over The Past Week:
1. President Truman on his cross-country tour let fly at isolationist measures—appealed for support of the Brannan Farm Program of agricultural subsidy.
2. United Nations Secretary Trygve Lie reported that world powers were so busy fighting the “cold war,” that 1,600,000,000 people are being neglected, hungry and poverty-stricken.
3. Prime Minister Liaquat Ali of Pakistan seconded Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru of India in voting thumbs down on former U.S. President Herbert Hoover’s proposal to reorganize the United Nations, leaving out the Communists.
4. The fight began in the Senate, led by the present Administration in Washington, to establish a Fair Employment Practice Commission (FEPC)—despite any filibuster attempts by Southern Democrats.
5. The Supreme Court upheld the Taft-Hartley Law requirement of a non-Communist oath as 100 percent constitutional.
6. The Western Allies, five years after Germany's defeat, instigated a law, incorporating some of the older measures, designed to prevent German re-armament.
7. The Soviet Government has accepted a plan for Berlin city elections, but only under certain conditions, according to a letter sent to Western Allied Commandants by Russian authorities.
8. British Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin made it clear, that although France may ask for U.S. aid to Indo-China at the forthcoming foreign ministers’ conference, Britain will not ask for aid to Malaya.
9. General Chiang Kai-shek stated that only immediate U.S. aid to his Nationalists can prevent World War III from starting in the Orient.
10. Dr. V. Matchek, former Veep of Yugoslavia, asserted that the Tito-Stalin split was primarily designed to be a “tactic maneuver” to promote, not Democracy, but long-term die-hard Communism.

Infidelity is given as the cause only in about 8 percent of American divorces. The Celtic languages are spoken by about 3,500,000 people.

VISIT THE DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT
142 E. Morehead — Charlotte
GRADE “A” MILK
PASTEURIZED
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

Grand Rapids Room
University, Michigan (Ann Arbor)
In Ann Arbor, the Grand Rapids Room on the campus is a favorite student gathering spot. In the Grand Rapids Room—Coca-Cola is the favorite drink. With the college crowd at the University of Michigan, as with every crowd—Coke belongs. Ask for it either way ... both trade-marks mean the same thing.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
Coca-Cola Bottling Co. Concord, N.C.
© 1950, The Coca-Cola Company