PAGE SIX

Art-Travel Workshop Sponsors Tour

A new opportunity for summer travel and art study is being offered by the Mexican Art Workshop, which has successfully conducted an arts project in Mexico for the past three years. In addition to the Mexican Workshop, a European Arts Tour has been arranged, which also combines art appreciation and painting with the experience of living in a foreign country.

Personally escorted by a prominent American painter and designed for a seven-week period, the European Arts Tour includes leisurely visits to museums and galleries in Holland, Belgium, Italy, and France for art appreciation and discussions. A two-week residence in a villa on the Normandy coast for painting and recreation is a special feature of the trip. Departure by airplane is scheduled for July 2nd. The all-inclusive cost is $1107.00. An alternative “student sailing” via Cunard Line, June 15, on which only limited accommodations are available, is priced at $1187.00 for a ten-week period.

The Mexican project covers five weeks of travel, sightseeing, and art study. The popular and familiar Mexican Art Workshop, conducted in Taxco under the personal supervision of Carlos Merida, a prominent Mexican artist, will again provide instruction in painting and the Spanish language. The crafts work is carried on directly in the native silver, tin, and textile shops, for whose products Taxco is a famous center. Priced at $300.00, the tour includes instruction, field trips, and all first-class living costs within Mexico for the period July 10 to August 14. (Transportation to Mexico is not included.)

For folders and application, write to Irma S. Jonas, Executive Director, Art-Travel Workshops, 238 East 23rd Street, New York 10, N.Y. Both groups are limited in number.

EARLY SEARCH... (Continued From Page Three)

salary. The USES and the state employment agencies it advises have two advantages over private agencies; together they offer country-wide service in job information and placement, and their service is free. The agencies handle job openings ranging from college dean to junior messenger. They offer individual interviewing, tests, and counseling by experts to all applicants. A well-planned job hunt, in addition to other job-getting aids, should include a trip to your state employment service.

The classified advertising section in newspapers, trade journals, and business magazines can help locate jobs. Use the “Help Wanted” section to locate jobs you're qualified to fill, and also to follow business trends. Or you may use a “Situation Wanted” advertisement to publicize unusual experience or an unlikely combination of talents. In answering advertisements, give complete, but only relevant information. Only answer those whose requirements you can meet and don’t send samples.

ROTO INSPECTION... (Continued From Page One)

World War II he served in the Asiatic-Pacific Theater. He wears several decorations, among which is the Order of Cloud and Banner from China. He is presently the Post Executive Officer at Fort Bragg, N.C. Major Burns is a graduate of the University of North Dakota. During World War II he served with the 25th Division in the Philippines and Japan. He is presently assigned to the 28th Military Government Group at Fort Bragg, N.C.

DAVIDSON THEATRE WEEK OF APRIL 17-22 MONDAY - TUESDAY

YMOA SERVES... (Continued From Page One)

responded to accordingly. There has been an average crowd of about 60 persons per night and the total attendance so far this year has reached the 1,600 mark. Response to such programs increases with warmer weather; so, we expect to pass the 2,000 mark in attendance before the school year is over. Much credit for the gratifying response which we have experienced in our Movies is due to the Film Department of the Esso Standard Oil Co. in Charlotte, as they have furnished the “Y” with such added attractions as travelogues of the lands of the world, timely films of current world interests, and travelogues of each Southern and Eastern State, as well as of the South as a whole.

Signed: S. Yorke Pharr

CAT TALES... (Continued From Page Four)

were handled this year. Others may have different ideas or opinions on the subject. In either case, we would like to hear some of them, and we solicit your writing this column, care of Box 1194. Any letters received will be immediately published.

ITALIAN PROTESTANTS... (Continued From Page Three)

make free profession of his own religious conviction in any form whatsoever, personally or as a member of an association; to advocate the doctrines thereof and to practice its worship in private or in public morality.” Caliandro told Gigliotti the legal interpretation of this article is that it guarantees the rights described in it to “everyone” in Italy — citizens, foreigners, and those without nationality.

HAL HAYNES (Continued From Page Three)

thing in the manner least expected. Most of the time he can be seen doing anything: from watching the latest at the local theater to performing on the horizontal bar in the gym, that is, except when one is looking for him. On such occasions, he is believed to hide out either in the attic of the KA house or under Dr. Richard’s porch. The benefits of his originality are not limited to the KA’s. Such inventions as the “double whammy” eyes he displayed during the Red and Black game were for the benefit of humanity in general. His present ambition is to construct a yoyo out of inner tubes and rope, that he can operate from the fourth floor of West. This might be developed in about his sixth year in school, he says.

Hal's ideal for life after he graduates next year is that of a country doctor. He wants to live out of the city so that he can raise horses and dogs for fox hunting. Taking a realistic view on his future, Hal says that if his ambition doesn’t work out he and Ansel Moses will go back to making music for a living.

SARACENIC... (Continued From Page Three)

enough of the general, let us delve into the particular. Mr. Piltdown iswarming his ape-like hands in front of the Bendix gas heater as Mrs. P. and their son are working over his braille homework. Mrs. P. speaks: “Oh Java, I do wish you had a cranial capacity of more than 1070 cubic centimeters. Just look at the Peking’s son,” she (the Mrs.) says, “he has a dolichocephalic cranium and what's more it's low vaulted. I guess that’s because his father had 1400 C.C.’s of C.C. Java, don’t you wish you had a father like that?” Mr. P. flexes the prehistoric musculature of his comparatively low forehead and gritted his not yet completely ontogenized front teeth. “Now Nora, you know good and well I just finished painting two Vago (calendar) buffaloes on our walls. Besides that, I polished some slivers of flint to put in your Ronson cigarette lighter.” “You are clever, dear, but unless you show dear Junior how to see, he can never invent the wheel.” “I never got a college diploma, I never could see, and yet look at me. Who could deny that I am the most naturalistic wall painter considering my naive preconceptions.” “Nora, don’t ever say that again.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Biology Department Spends Holidays On Florida Field Trip. Following a precedent established last year, a group of students in the Biology Department here at Davidson used the spring holidays for a field trip to central Florida. Dr. Tom Daggy was in charge of the trip designed primarily as a survey of Florida botany but also planned to include the study of birds, mammals, reptiles, and amphibians. The route of the trip led down the east coast to Titusville, across the state to the west coast, and back through Gainesville. Starting from Davidson the group drove to Savannah to reach the first point of interest, a U.S. government experimental station specializing in research into the practical uses of many types of bamboo. Besides the endless varieties of bamboo arranged in small plots, other plants from palms to Chinese water nuts are grown. St. Augustine was chosen as an excellent place to study the various palms. Here may be found all of the Florida species except a few of the more tropical forms. The party attempted to visit as many different typical Florida habitats as possible. At Merritt Island were found beach and dune terrain, palmetto scrub, and tidal salt marsh. Near Sanford, in the central part of the state, flatwoods and hammocks composed an interesting contrast to the coastal vegetation. Some members of the group trapped and preserved some of the small mammals of the region for the study collection maintained by the Biology Department. Specimens of rats and mice from beach, scrub, and hammock situations were collected besides a raccoon and an opossum found killed on the highway. The chill nights reduced the number of reptiles and amphibians seen or caught by the group. One warm night in the lake district brought out frogs in large numbers, but very few snakes and lizards were seen during the trip. Because of the many different habitats visited, the party was able to see a wide variety of bird life. Shore birds, marsh birds, birds of the open fields, and birds of the deep woods helped to swell the total number of species observed to...

In the annual Grand National Debate Tournament held in Fredericksburg, Virginia, last week, Davidson College won third place with a total of 17 points. The affirmative team, composed of freshmen Carlyle Crenshaw and Hubert Canon, defeated La Salle, University of West Virginia, and Temple, losing only to the University of Vermont. The negative team, sophomores Jack Hunter and Shelley Beard, dropped decisions to Penn State and Dartmouth, but won over Carnegie Tech, Carleton, and Penn State in a three-way tie. The national topic for collegiate debate this year—“Resolved: That the Federal Government Should Nationalize the Basic Non-Agricultural Industries.” First place in the tournament was won by Carnegie Tech, a victory which alone gave Davidson 5 points.

For Sale
1936 CHEVROLET
Good Condition
$235
JACK H. FAUCETTE
3-3261

WALTER HAGEN
For Your Spring Dances
1405 E. 4th St.
Charlotte, N. C.

DENNIS MORGAN
Famous Wisconsin Alumnus, says: “Chesterfield satisfies because it’s MILDER. It’s my cigarette.”
CO-STARRING IN “PERFECT STRANGERS”
A WARNER BROS. PRODUCTION

“CHEAPER BY THE DOZEN”
Jeanne Crain - Clifton Webb
Myrna Loy

WEDNESDAY - THURSDAY
“THREE CAME HOME”
Claudette Colbert
Patric Knowles

FRIDAY - SATURDAY

CLOSING OUT SALE CONTINUES
Everything has been picked over so we are going to “GIVE” you some bargains that we could get regular price for. Come in look them over.

NEW GROUP SHOES $5.00
National Brand — Tan, ventilated — Only $6.50 — Spring and Summer Shoes

FAMOUS BRAND Jockey Shorts and Undershirts 50c

NEW LOT JACKETS $9.95
JACKETS $4.00
GROUP OF NEW SWEATERS

You Can't Afford Not To Come To Wrenn’s Closing Out Sale.
Wrenn’s Men's Shop
MAIN STREET
DAVIDSON, N. C.

AMERICA’S COLLEGES WITH THE HOLLYWOOD STARS
They’re MILDER / They’re TOPS /