PAGE TWO, THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF -------------- BOB HOLLISTER
BUSINESS MANAGER ----------- BILL HOUCK

EDITORIAL STAFF:
Associate Editor ---------------- Doug Hix
Associate Editor ---------------- Lonnie Turnipseed
Associate Editor ---------------- Jack Hazard

MANAGING EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall, Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister
Sports Editor—Gordon Scott
Make-up Editors — Dan McKeithen, Cherry Stribling
Art Editor—Bill King
City Editor—John Hobart
Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries

Photographs -------------------- Ed Richardson
Assignments Asst. -------------- Watt Jeffries
Proofreader --------------------- Charlie Baldwin

BUSINESS STAFF:
Assistant Business Manager ----- Bill Cassells
Advertising Managers ----------- Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison
Circulation Manager ------------- Hugh Huffaker
Asst. Circulation Managers ------ Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager ------------- John Loftin
Subscriptions Manager ----------- Alex Goley

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

Thank You, Dr. Godcharles

In his Chapel talk on Thursday, Dr. Godcharles brought out a point which we consider to be of paramount significance
to the Davidson Student Body. Unless we have misinterpreted his remarks, the essence of Dr. Godcharles’ talk was that as
future candidates in an increasingly competitive field, we are at a disadvantage when compared with university and technical school graduates
in that we do not acquire the same degree of fundamental proficiency along intellectual lines that is obtained by the
university and technical school graduates along the lines of their particular endeavors.

This is not an original idea—as Dr. Godcharles was careful to point out—but he did succeed in presenting the matter
to the student body from an original angle. It was further stated that the reason we do not acquire a
comparable proficiency is because we do not practice the procedures of intellectual give and take in the classroom and in
our extracurricular activities. Although this may appear to be an oversimplification of the issue involved, we believe that it is
at least an accurate analysis of our most serious shortcoming as students.

The fact that during the past six months we have heard or read numerous references to our complacency and our
willingness to absorb an education vicariously is additional proof that this weakness does exist. Dr. Abernathy has been whistling this
refrain all year and he has been joined by a chorus of writers whose ideas have appeared on this page
many times in the past. We also feel that the faculty in failing to encourage the development of this atmosphere
of mental reciprocity in the classroom is more at fault than it realizes. However, we certainly cannot escape the fact
that we are the people who have come here to learn. We are the ones primarily who will derive the
benefits from whatever Davidson has to offer. It follows, therefore, that we are the ones who must take the lead
in making this process a reality.

Then when we have succeeded in this business of learning how to think, we would be faced with the problem
of applying our newfound knowledge to the everyday situations with which we are confronted—not the situations in which we find
ourselves here at Davidson—we have set behavior patterns that take care of those smoothly enough—but to the affairs and responsibilities
we will all assume when we enter the increasingly competitive fields that await us.

This is a complex subject. We hope we will be able to enlarge upon it later. Each of us, however,
can perform his own enlarging process in the meantime by bringing this thing down to a personal level—thinking of it
in terms of his own personality and his aim in life.

Words To The Wise...

It is with the hope that this paragraph will come to the attention of every student keeping an automobile here
at Davidson that this is being written. The care with which we have observed the parking areas and the attention
we give to proper driving procedure, both in the Town of Davidson and about the college proper is steadily decreasing.
Student cars are continually parked directly behind the dormitories and in non-student parking areas. At times we do not even
display the minimum amount of driving courtesy and consideration.

The areas from which most complaints arise is the block extending from the road entering Concord Street behind the Science
Building down to Woodland Street which enters Concord between the Sample and Thompson boarding houses. As Concord Road is a
public highway, the administration has made the following requests concerning this area in particular: (1) That students who drive cars
to meals park as far off the road as possible. (2) That the required twenty-foot clearance from Woodland-Concord corner be
observed. (3) That cars not be parked on both sides of Woodland Street. This third request has been made because
when cars are placed on both sides of this narrow street, it becomes impossible for more than one automobile at
a time to make a passage into or from Concord Road. In addition, the limitation of visibility under such circumstances
makes this a dangerous practice.

In the event that measures are taken to curb free use of cars on campus, those of us who drive
carelessly and park without regard to the rights of others, will have brought such action about. If we are interested
in keeping our present privileges, we must also be interested in the obligations which must be assumed in relation to
these privileges.

REVIEW OF THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thomas Howard's Lecture
By SCOTT VERNER

Mr. Howard Thomas, artist-lecturer from the University of Georgia, painted a thought-picture in the style of creative art as he
talked to a group of students, faculty members, and guests Tuesday night. He produced the theory of painting creative art
as involving both visual imagery and subjective personality, emphasizing the value in having no set formula to direct the progress
of such a creation. To illustrate the inexplicable quality of abstract art, he related the concise reply of Picasso when
asked to explain a painting, “You don’t ask a bird to explain its song.” He continued the lecture by sketching
the value of design and image, both of which are devised consciously or unconsciously in the mind of the artist.
Mr. Thomas pointed out the basic qualities of line, color, and texture and evaluated the use of contrast in emphasis
of pattern and color. In the use of triangles, a progressive or continual movement is set up in the components
of a picture, for the visual stimulus doesn’t rest or stop at a certain point, the line of motion following
a pattern fused with the elements of the work.

Having sketched into the canvas of this listening group the basic design of his thought-picture, Mr. Thomas continued by filling
in this picture with visual color panels, the slides of paintings done by himself and his wife. Skillfully using the
colors of his personality and motor gestures, he spread over and smoothed the texture of the lecture. He pointed out
the directions of image in the individual studies and explained, not the content, but the method. To illustrate, Mr. Thomas,
in showing a semi-abstract called “a boat and a turtle,” told about the use of color, the employing of triangular
tops of waterproof buildings, the line of motion from the boat and the turtle and the pattern of a fish
covering the foreground. In similar manner he showed other studies and, concluding, put the finishing touches on his lecture word-picture,
leaving it to dry in the minds of the listeners.

College Rags in Brief
By BILL CUMMING

From Berkeley, California, comes word that lecturers and teaching assistants at the University of California have voted 300 to 1
to withdraw as a body if any member of their group is discharged for refusing to sign a non-communist oath
of loyalty. The hotly protested non-communist oath will be required of all University employees, who must either sign or get
out. The affidavit measure has drawn bitter criticism from Governor Warren and many prominent educators throughout the country. Warren, who
is an alumnus of the University of California, pointed out that any Communist would not hesitate to affix his “lying
signature” to the oath. Harold W. Woods, president of Princeton, is quoted as having said, “If such a requirement were
placed before the Princeton faculty, they would, I believe, rebel in the same way.”

The Clemson Tiger this week carried a classification of the types of mail seekers seen in the Clemson P. O.
Perhaps the types listed are not unlike some seen on after-chow trips to our local P. O. The classification is
reprinted in part below:

1. Just Got a Dear John Type—This type can usually be identified by the slow, halting way he totters through
the lobby and down the steps of the P. O. He is often shaking his head sadly from side to
side and muttering curses under his breath to himself. Clenched in his left hand is a crumpled wad of pink
paper. If he speaks at all, it is to remark, “Women—bah! I'm through with ’em.”

2. Never Say Die Type—This poor fellow never gets a letter, but he always walks down to the P. O.
right after chow, takes out his handkerchief, and cleans the dust out of the box. If anyone happens to see
him doing this, he will grin and say, “Oh well, guess you can't get ’em every day.” This type of
fellow reckons time from “the time in October when I got a letter (which was probably an advertisement for Hadacol).”

3. Romeo Type—The Romeo type carefully checks each of his letters at the box to see if the stamp is
on upside down and if there are any amorous initials on the back flap. Next, he puts the letter to
his nose to check it for perfume. If any letter passes these three tests, the Romeo develops a beautiful expression
on his face.and floats fairly out of the window. If his letters don’t meet the requirements, he crams them into
his pocket and stalks angrily away.

3—We hold to the idea that Abraham Lincoln studying by a log fire, splitting rails for a living and demonstrating
patience, tolerance, and wisdom all his life is a better model for Americans than Riders in the Sky.

4—We are for better breaks, greater opportunities, less work, and happier lives; but we remain skeptical of the promise: “I
can get ‘em for you wholesale.”

5—We believe David Crockett, Johnny Appleseed, Daniel Boone, Fremont, Davenport, and Washington are more dependable guides than Donald Duck or
Waltz-Me-Around-Again-Willie.

1—We deny that the true American is a sponge, an all-day sucker, or a butterfly.

2—We are for more fun, but we do not believe that a limousine he can’t afford, a recreation program he
doesn’t want, and a golf course certified by Congress are aids to happiness.

3—We do not glorify the aching back, the overburdened shoulder, or flat feet, but we think work is essential, sweat
natural, and a little personal concern for the future advisable.

4—We would like to see a roadway from cradle to grave bordered with tulips, paved with dance floors, and lined
with federal pie bakeries, but we are positive that this is not the permanent road to security.

(Continued on Page Six)

CINEMA COMMENTS By BILL BEATTIE

“MONTANA” Monday and Tuesday

Errol Flynn, having stayed indoors long enough for a brief fling at costume drama in “That Forsyte Woman,” has very
wisely returned to the great outdoors and his bread-and-butter, the shoot-em-up Western. Perhaps he felt that a herd of cows
would give him less strenuous competition for acting honors than his fellow humans. The story deals with a well-worn theme:
the struggle between sheep and cows for the lands of the Old West. Errol is on the side of the
sheep. Fighting against him (on the cows’ side) is Alexis Smith. But Flynn, assisted by the plot, conquers all, cows,
cattlemen—and Alexis. All Westerns have their redeeming virtues. In spite of the combined efforts of producer, director, and cast, this
one has too.

“CHAIN LIGHTNING” Wednesday and Thursday

This marks Hollywood's entry into the field of jet aviation. Humphrey Bogart climbs into the cockpit of a jet plane,
bites on a lemon (thus producing his tight-lipped grin), and the story, moving more with the speed of the Wright
Brothers’ original invention than with that of its subject, is on. He careens through the air testing new jets under
the watchful eyes of manufacturer Raymond Massey. Whenever he returns to the ground he gets a chance for a few
test runs with another fuselage, this one belonging to Eleanor Parker. Proving once again the advanced technology of the modern
age, the planes have it all over the actors. The flying sequences are good. The remainder of the cast, always
excepting the visual stimulation supplied by Miss Parker, should have stayed on the ground.

“BEAU GESTE” Friday and Saturday

Hollywood loves its cycles, as witness the current one dealing with the race problem. Back in 1939, the movie industry,
then not so crusade-minded, was rolling out one dealing with the white man in Africa. First came “Stanley and Livingstone,”
then the British chipped in with “Four Feathers,” and Paramount, not to be caught napping, hopped on the bandwagon with
a slambang sort of saga titled “Beau Geste.” The story deals with the three Geste brothers (Gary Cooper, Ray Milland,
and Robert Preston) who, each suspected of stealing a fabulous sapphire, leave England—and Scotland Yard—to seek oblivion in Africa with
the Foreign Legion. There, their lives are somewhat complicated by a sub-human sergeant, characteristically played by Brian Donlevy. “Beau Geste”
has been reissued, Paramount perhaps hoping that the public has remembered its more vivid scenes (a desolate desert fort, manned
only by dead men) and has forgotten its trite story and only average acting. It’s recommended as a good way
to kill two hours for those unfortunate enough to be stuck on campus Saturday night.

TEN TIMELY TOPICS

“Reflections: T. S. Eliot,” March 6, 1950.
“A Streamlined State Department,” Graham H. Stuart, Current History, February 1950.
“Arms and the Germans, 1950,” Telford Taylor, Harper's, March 1950.
“What’s Behind the Farm Policy Mess?” Business Week, March 4, 1950.
“Toward a Spiritual Community,” Alan Paton, Christian Century, March 8, 1950.
“Scientific Convictions and the Free Society,” Michael Polanyi, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, February 1950.
“The British Election,” Norman MacKenzie, New Republic, March 6, 1950.
“How F.D.R. Planned to Use the A-Bomb,” Look, March 14, 1950.
“The Hydrogen Bomb,” Louis N. Ridenour, Scientific American, March 1950.
“Armed Forces: According to Plan” (discussion on Admiral Sherman and how much it is worth to be ready), Time, March
13, 1950.

Another dance weekend has come and gone, leaving the usual number of broken hearts, empty souls, and depleted bank accounts.
This isn’t a column for the lovelorn, so I won't go into the matter of hearts and souls, but it
might be significant, perhaps, to look into the hollow void of the average Davidsonian’s bank account. “Where has our money
gone, what did it get us?” wail the students remorsefully, and, as usual, no statement whatsoever has been released by
the Pan-Hellenic Council regarding the profit or loss of the last dance weekend. All we students know, to our undivided
joy, is that we heard and saw a “name” band go through its various contortions for two nights and an
afternoon. If we happen to be fraternity members, we paid for the contortions whether we saw them or not, because
all dances of import (Homecoming, Midwinters, Spring Frolics) are technically fraternity dances, and any deficit must be made up by
the social fraternities on this campus.

Something is decidedly wrong. Either we don't have the right spirit for dancing, or we don't go (but get charged
anyway) because the prices are too high, but the fact remains that there has been a deficit (in that fraternities
have had difficulty meeting the eighty-five percent rule) for nearly every dance in the last several years. Honesty is the
best policy, particularly self-honesty, and we all know that this is not a college of multi-millionaires. Let’s wake up to
the fact that there are a lot of good bands available in this part of the country, bands which we
can honestly afford, capable of furnishing fine, danceable music at considerably less cost than the large “name” bands we have
been importing lately. I'm not criticizing “name” bands as such, but if we're going to dole out from three to
six thousand dollars which we don’t really have, we ought to get a good one. It's stupid, and nothing short
of stupid, to pay for a “name” when we're not getting the type of music we like to go along
with it.

There is a way, however, by which we could conceivably have one big band a year and not be cheating
ourselves. If two smaller bands were to play twice a year, with the “name” saved for Homecoming, say, the proportional
drop in cost would attract more students, which would mean more tickets sold, and a reasonable profit could be realized,
a profit that could be used to defray expenses for a large band the following Homecoming. By such a system,
even if the big dances were not a financial success, there would still be a smaller deficit to be pro-rated
among the fraternities and members. As it stands now, any fraternity member who isn’t coerced into going to a dance
is a self-made martyr, having to pay through the nose anyway. Let’s not worry about how the “Joneses” of other
colleges and universities are getting along, let’s just get the best music we can for our money and make ends
meet instead of fooling ourselves about what a “socially successful” campus this is. After all, success is not measured in
terms of money or paper-thin social platforms.

“BIKO” By KURT BIEDENKOPF (Continued From Last Week)

It therefore will be necessary, also to apply a foreign policy that will enable us to have some influence on
the future development other than by military power. It was said before, that a third kind of collision, also not
in the correct sense of the word, would be the evolutionary development. To use an example, the two bodies, which
are approaching each other with a very high speed have to be caught in a net, in order to prevent
their collision. This net has to be provided by the policy-making part of the government. It must be the task
of foreign policy to prevent a collision and to try to guide the development into the channels of evolution, by
following a clear-lined policy, trying to leave the defensive position in favor of one of offense or better determining one,
yet avoiding as much as possible any kind of friction. I admit, that this task is probably the most difficult
one a government ever had to face, but we must be aware that it is the only way to save
as much as possible. A war would mean the total destruction of the entire setups of both the involved nations
or rather societies, and would thus make it necessary to create a completely new form, if any, which would amount
to the same thing as starting from a new beginning.

We have thus far gone out from the assumption that a collision will occur within the near future of human
history, without spending much attention on whether this collision has already started in some form or another. Explosions, like ones
discussed in this theme, however, do not occur suddenly and without any signs of preceding developments. The French revolution, for
example, was preceded by a long time of interior struggles and theoretical battles between different ideas. If we now say
that we are about to witness another of these collisions, then there already must be signs of development in both
of the extreme societies, which point toward such a collision or toward its result: a new society. If examining the
latest developments in America as well as in Russia, we find this theory stated. Most obvious in America is the
trend towards a mild form of socialism that results from the inability of the capitalistic setup to solve vital social
and economical problems. The government, in its effort to control the situation, is being more and more involved with functions
that were up to now the only resort of the individual. Planning and master-planning forms of government control over the
nation’s economy are extended to a larger percentage. The actual economical freedom of the individual suffers through this development. The
Federal form of government, which was established to protect the individual from too powerful a government, is more and more
substituted by a strong and extensive central government. Although all these developments seem to be within a beginning status, they
are nevertheless present. In Russia, on the other hand, the idea of an international communistic society, or better, its idea,
has in

(Continued on Page Six)

THE POLL CAT By PAUL B. GUTHERY

QUESTION: Do you read the Davidsonian, and if so what page do you prefer?

Percentage Reading The Davidsonian: 97.4%
Percentage Not Reading The Davidsonian: 2.6%

Pages preferred by readers:
Sports Page: 51.4%
Front Page: 21.2%
Editorial Page: 14.3%
Feature Page and Fraternity News: 2.5%
No Opinion: 10.6%
