Pip-other day; we approached Coach Whittle about the progress of his cindermen to date. His reply was instantaneous and emphatic. “Terrible,” he said, “If we don’t get some good weather, the boys will never get into shape.” Well, the skies have cleared and the campus has been blessed with sun most of the week with the result that workouts in all four spring sports are moving ahead with good results.

By GORDON SCOTT

Netters Start Gruelling Schedule

Sir Derrick has been working with his netters on rainy days for the last three weeks and the start of the tennis season is just around the corner—Monday afternoon to be exact when the local squad entertains Ohio State, a midwest powerhouse. This is only one boulder in a rocky road ahead for the winningest team on the campus, for Barton has pulled no punches in arranging a near-killing schedule which includes such tennis strongholds as Rollins, Carolina, William and Mary, Yale, Kalamazoo, and Harvard to name a few. On the surface, this appears to be a slight case of over-scheduling but the fact is that Davidson's tennis team is potentially one of the best in the East and will be tough on all comers. The men on the team will be the last ones to speak of this year’s possibilities because they don’t hesitate in pointing out the hard matches that are before them. But don’t sell them short. They don’t lack confidence but would prefer for this season's record to show their worth rather than a lot of pre-season speculation.

Diamond Prospects Brighter

If pitchers Norm Whiteheart and Charlton Torrence can shake off injuries, Coach Jamerson’s baseball team will be in the best shape since the war. Lettermen are back at every position but catcher, and Johnny Jervis and C. L. Runyan can easily plug up that vacancy. However, here’s the hitch. Even with the experienced club that Jamerson has, chances for posting a good record will be considerably weakened due to the new scheduling which was made by the Conference. According to this schedule, every Southern Conference team in North and South Carolina will play the others twice during the season. This will mean that Davidson will have eight games with the “Big Four” powers, Duke, Carolina, State, and Wake Forest, which was runner-up in the National Intercollegiate Tournament last spring. Need we say more? The baseball squad will go into action during spring holidays, the first game being with Erskine next Thursday. The schedule is the roughest in years, but the Cats will be a better ball club than in recent years. If the pitching comes through as expected, look for some surprises in games with the Conference powers in the eastern part of the state.

Veterans Strengthen Cindermen

Pete Whittle is all-smiles these days and he has good reason to be. He has a wealth of material on hand that would put any track coach in good spirits... sprinters like Ken Goodpasture and Rivers Jenkins, distance men like Tom and Dick Stockton and Blake Bradley, hurdlers Bill Pritchett, Bill White, and Tommy Haller, discus men Jim Vann and Andy Horne, high jumpers Roger Cornell and Bob Henderson, Joe Miller throwing the javelin, and Bill Klein and Whit Cobb for the shorter distance runs. Newcomers are pressing these and other veterans hard, and until time trials are run off it will be impossible to rate the individual performers on the large squad.

Golfers In Warm-up Today

The golf team, headed by veterans Monty Hill and Ben Verner, has been working out in Mooresville and Charlotte in preparation for their season. Lack of space prevents us from giving a run-down of personnel or schedule, other than the fact that the golfers had a tune-up match with Fort Bragg in Charlotte this afternoon.

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT
BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST.
PHONE 2-2238
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 1950

JIM SIFFORD

All-Fraternity Basketball Team

FIRST TEAM
Position Name Fraternity Class
Forward Bob Bennett SAE Senior
Forward Marvin Kelley Kappa Sig Senior
Center Al Fitzgerald Kappa Sig Soph.
Guard Jim Sifford Pika Senior
Guard Jim Smith Pika Frosh

SECOND TEAM
Forward Auburn Lambeth Phi Delt Junior
Forward Tyler Berry Sigma Chi Frosh
Center Bud Aiken SAE Senior
Guard Jim Miller SPE Junior
Guard Charlie Pearson Kappa Sig Senior

HONORABLE MENTION
Dorsey Pleasants, Sigma Chi; Dave Erwin, SAE; John Crosland, Kappa Sig; Philip Blatt, Sigma Chi; George McMurray, SAE; Christie Whiteman, Phi Gam; John Rittenburg, Ind.; Paul Eastman, Sigma Chi; Dan McKeithen, KA.SE * 2 RE 3S 2 SS 3S

THACKER’S, INC.
Private Dining Rooms for Parties and Banquets
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
Phone 25490
221 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Sports

THE DAVIDSONIAN

AL FITZGERALD
Honorary Captain

(MANAGERS CHOOSE ALL-STAR FIVE)

COBB PLAYS TOMORROW

PAGE FOUR

BOB BENNETT
JIM SMITH

Kappa Sigs And Pikas Dominate Mythical Squad; Al Fitzgerald Polls Most Votes, Captains Quintet

Once again the Davidsonian sports staff is proud to present one of its exclusive all-fraternity teams—this time it's in the sport of basketball. From a poll of fraternity sports managers, a first and second team of the cream of the frat hoopsters was chosen. A unique thing about this all-star selection is that the top vote-getters in each position were placed on the mythical team and not necessarily the five men with the most votes.

The Kappa Sigmas, winners of the regular season as well as the tournament, placed two on the select five. The Pikas, who tied for second place in regular play, only to fold dismally in the tournament, also landed two berths, while the SAE’s, who tied for second during the season and won the consolation tournament, put one at the remaining post.

Kappa Sig Al Fitzgerald, former all-stater at Charlotte Central, received more votes than any other player and consequently is honorary captain of the team. The lanky center was the backbone of the classy Sigma outfit. He used his six feet two inches to good advantage in snaring rebounds, but he was best as a great playmaker at the pivot post under the basket. Most always in the double figures in scoring, Al got many points in free throws as well as tip-ins.

Teammate Marvin Kelly holds down one of the forward positions. Kelly was always one of the hardest workers on the court and could be counted on to be in there scrapping for the ball. During the season he displayed a deadly jump shot which accounted for many points, not to mention a good set shot.

The other forward slot goes to SAE Bob Bennett, who is a perennial all-fraternity choice. Big Bob was always a tough man under the basket and he was likely to tip in a rebound at any time. When he pumped up one of his archless shots it was a good bet to go in. Bennett was one of the SAE ironmen who usually played the entire game.

The Pikas, a surprise team in the regular season, have a lock on both guard positions with their two Jims—Smith and Sifford. Both of these boys were stalwarts for their team and racked up many a point between them. Although comparatively short in height, these two were long in speed and quickness. Only a freshman, Smith was a tough man to guard for he faked and dribbled well and could shoot from most any spot on the court. Sifford used a one-hand push shot almost exclusively in racking up his tallies. This shot he would throw up from anywhere and at any time, requiring only a split second to get set. Opponents sadly learned that he could make a goodly percentage of these.

The second team would not have to make any excuses if they were to meet the first squad on the court. Kappa Sig Charley Pearson and SPE Jimmy Miller at guards, SAE Bud Aiken at center, and Phi Delt Auburn Lambeth and Sigma Chi Tyler Berry at forwards make up a combination that would be hard to stop. The speedy Pearson was a sure ball-handler and accurate shooter. Miller, one-man SPE team, was a set shot deluxe as well as a good defensive man. The second tallest man in the loop, Aiken, put in most of his points from close range and used a deadly left-hand shot. Always leading Phi Delt scoring, Lambeth did most of the shooting for his team with a good one-hand push. He was no slouch on defense either. Berry was one of the main reasons why the Sigma Chis came from out of obscurity this year. The white-haired ace showed springs in his legs as he snared more than his share of rebounds. His coolness on the court was brought out by his fine ball handling and true passing.

Although there were many other top performers participating this year, it seems that the sports managers haven’t gone wrong in picking these players.

VISIT THE DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT
142 E. Morehead — Charlotte

Withers Electric Company
© Radio Repairs
© Electrical Supplies
© Light Bulbs
DAVIDSON, N. C.