PAGE SIX

A WORLD OF FOOD

WE WILL PAY $35.00 FOR EACH STRANGE FOOD FACT SUBMITTED AND USED. ADDRESS: A WORLD OF FOOD, 104 East 40th
Street, NEW YORK, NY.

Social Program at Wyoming Stresses Proper Chaperoning

Laramie, Wyo. (I.P.) - A new "Chaperone File" has been installed in the Dean of Women’s office at the University
of Wyoming, listing all faculty members eligible and their personal desires, whether they prefer chaperoning formal dances or other social
functions. Cards are sent to each faculty member to be filled out and returned if they are interested in chaperonage.

Announcing the new social program here, Dean of Women E. Luella Galliver said that at least two couples of chaperones
must be present at social functions. Each couple is issued a “return report” to be filled out and returned to
the Dean's office. This report stresses whether or not the chaperones were pleased with the conduct of those students attending
the function.

Some of the questions on the report sheets include: 1. Were you provided transportation? 2. Did someone take your wraps?
3. Were you properly introduced? 4. Did the students who were on the floor committee show enthusiasm? 5. Were you
asked to exchange dances? 6. Were you thanked for your courtesy?

The chaperones also check on any violation of University rules. The reports to the Dean of Women’s office ask: 1.
Was there any use of intoxicating liquors or beverages? 2. Smoking on the dance floor? 3. Prolonged absences from the
dance and the building, including occupancy of parked cars?

Social groups on the campus are allowed to choose their own chaperones if they are approved by Dean Galliver. A
detailed report must be sent in by the group giving the social function. These reports contain information as to the
type of costume to be worn, whether or not there will be corsages given, where the affair will be held,
the time it is to begin, and the names of members of the floor committee. This report must be in
the Dean's office before the function for her approval.

SUNDAY 2:00 to 9:00
WEEKDAYS 8:00 to 10:00

College Cut-Rate
Western Auto Associate Store

AMERICAN FLYER BICYCLES
MAIN STREET
DAVIDSON, N.C.

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT
BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST.
PHONE 2-2238
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Where you meet your friends
Charlotte's Finest Restaurant
SHIP AHOY

To Accept Negroes In Graduate Schools

The Board of Trustees of the University of Louisville has voted unanimously to admit Negroes. Beginning this month, Negroes will
be allowed to register in the graduate and professional schools, and in the whole University in September 1951. Municipal College,
the Negro branch of the University, will be closed on June 30, 1951. Action constituted notice to the Municipal faculty
members that their employment will end on that date. Dean Bertram W. Doyle of Municipal College told the trustees that
his faculty is in favor of the move even though it meant the loss of their jobs.

“There was no question that the trustees would admit Negroes,” said President John W. Taylor. “The only question was how
it could be worked out as a practical matter, such as whether we have sufficient facilities for expanded classes.”

Those schools to which Negroes will be admitted this month are Medical, Law, Dental, School of Social Work, Graduate School,
Scientific School, Music, and graduate courses in the Division of Adult Education. The only remaining division of the University, the
College of Arts and Sciences, will be opened the following September.

Recommendations from each of the University’s deans, the University’s chapter of the American Association of University Professors, and the University
Administrative Council were considered before the vote was taken by the trustees. The board's decision to admit Negroes followed similar
action by the three Louisville Catholic colleges — Nazareth, Ursuline, and Bellarmine — and by Berea College, Berea, Kentucky.

The Day Law, passed in 1904, has barred admission of Negroes to Kentucky colleges. The law was amended at the
last session of the legislature permitting a college to decide whether or not to allow Negroes to enter when the
college offers courses not obtainable at Kentucky State College for Negroes at Frankfort.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

University of Louisville

Harvard Financial Aid Center Proves Aid For Needy Students

The new Financial Aid Center of Harvard College is responsible for studying the financial needs of students, and for correlating
the heretofore separate financial assistance activities of the College, according to Provost Paul H. Buck.

“We are hoping to free our students from unnecessary financial worries, and we are aiming for the day when no
student who is admitted to Harvard will find himself forced to leave because of financial difficulties,” Provost Buck explained.

As the first steps toward improving its financial aid machinery, the College has established a new system of low-interest loans
for students, and expanded its staff for interviewing and aiding needy students, and for obtaining employment. Undergraduates are receiving about
$750,000 in financial assistance through the various College offices. Gift scholarships amount to about $525,000; and more than $20,000 in
long-term loans has been granted.

“In the Financial Aid Center we are trying to set up an office where students can get friendly, prompt, and
effective assistance in working out their budget problems,” Provost Buck declared.

Besides its work with students enrolled in the College, the Financial Aid Center is responsible for informing prospective students of
the costs.of attending Harvard College, and of the financial assistance a student may count on receiving. As one of its
first assignments, the Center prepared and sent to all freshmen this past summer a statement of costs and financial aids.
“It is safe to say that nearly half the Harvard undergraduate body is being assisted financially by the College, either
through scholarship grants, or employment, or loans,” Provost Buck explained. “Each year, for example, we award scholarship assistance to 20
percent or more of the incoming freshman class, better than 200 men. Our admissions records show that, in addition to
these men who have applied for scholarship assistance, have been turned down for scholarship but admitted by the Admissions Committee,
and have decided to come to Harvard anyway, without aid.”

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1950

MASQUERS STAGE...
(Continued From Page One)

fus Cromortie; Lighting, Jim Bryan and Jack Pieteripol; Costumes, Vance Mizelle; Business Manager, Coleman Poag; Prompter, Lawrence Hockman; Technical Advisor
Col. Ballard; Make-up, Bill Crymes, Slaydon Myers, Robert Gay, Robert Mims; Sound Effects, Russ Miller; Construction, Clyde Long; Clarence Morrison,
Faris Gyles, Dave Mathews.

Complete new sets are being built for the performance of “Command Decision.” Following the performances in Davidson the play will
go on tour to Queens College and Winthrop College. “Command Decision” marks the first time in 12 years that the
Red and Black Masquers have attempted anything in the serious vein for an opening production. Opening night for the play
is November 21. Chambers Auditorium will be used for the performance. Curtain time is 8:15. Admission: student, 35c; adult, 75c.
Advance tickets will be on sale. Anyone interested in doing work on the play is asked to see Tad Currie
or Joe Mattison.

PLANNING TO BUY OR BUILD A HOME UNDER THE G.I. BILL?
KE-BUYING VETERAN: IT'S PACKED WITH GOOD TIPS. For full information contact your nearest VETERANS ADMINISTRATION office.

SHIPLEY, KITTENS...
(Continued From Page Four)

was also broken by nearly forty-five seconds. Coe, Alexander, Carpenter; Graff, Murray and Smith all finished between fourth and ninth
place. In their final meet of the year Monday, the Kittens finished fourth in the state meet, but Shipley again
covered himself with glory. He bagged third place and was one of three breaking the freshman record for the course.
The influx of Shipley and mates should be a definite help to Coach Pete Whittle’s already strong varsity team next
fall.

DAVIDSON BAND...
(Continued From Page One)

Mr. Moore plans to include it in the drill Saturday night at Raleigh. With the Student Employment Office, the Financial
Aid Center has established lists of students having severe financial need, in order to give them a priority in the
assignment of well-paid jobs discovered by the office.

1060 'Y' XMAS...
(Continued From Page One)

preacher is becoming a reality, and as soon as the Y. M. C. A. gift fund is ready to serve
its purpose, it is expected to expand even more rapidly.

(Continued From Page One)

fly, by Mike Myers, really brought the house down and furnished a suitable climax to the evening’s program. Mr. Myers
maintained that the firefly’s sole purpose in emitting light was to aid mankind.

COMPARE CHESTERFIELD WITH ANY OTHER CIGARETTE!

BEFORE YOU SMOKE THEM ...you can tell Chesterfields will smoke milder, because tobaccos that smell milder smoke milder.

AFTER YOU SMOKE THEM ...you have no unpleasant after-taste.

WHILE YOU SMOKE THEM ...you get more pleasure than any other cigarette can give you—that’s why millions of smokers say:
THEY SATISFY.

LAMBETH’S 200th...
(Continued From Page Four)

ed, and the Flying Squadron held a 40-6 advantage. The Cats, still not being able to make headway, punted to
their own 47 yard line late in the game, and the Keydet substitutes drove from there for their final score.
Flashy sophomore back Edgar Woy took an 8 yard pass from Marchand to score, the try for the extra point
was wide, and the scoring ended 46-6.

However, not all was lost to the Wildcat cause. Auburn Lambeth completed 11 of 16 passes to reach the select
200 completions group.

VISIT THE DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT “A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
142 E. Morehead — Charlotte
