PAGE SIX

New Secretaries Fill All Offices

For the benefit of you wolves who'd rather do your howling here on the campus, we prepared a list of
the new secretaries plus background. Pounding the keyboard in Dr. Brown's office is Miss Alice Walker of Forest City, N.
C. A graduate of Flora MacDonald College, she majored in piano. For three years Miss Walker guided the International Relations
Club. The work of the Honorary Fraternity Council is invaluable in maintaining a workable schedule of meetings for its many
member fraternities, as well as coordinating their activities.

Next time you catch yourself seeing double it will probably be the Sherrill twins, Layce and Joyce (their mother did
this on purpose) of Mooresville. They’ve been together in everything including high school, college, and their jobs. Almost separated after
graduation from King’s Business College, they were reunited a day later when Joyce gave up a decision to work in
Charlotte. Couple of you guys need dates for homecoming?

Mr. Hengeveld got a corner on the market when two new girls came to his office this past summer. Miss
Sybil MacKorel, of Gastonia, came after majoring in Bible at Erskine College. She was offered her position by Mr. Jackson
when he noticed her ad in the Christian Observer. Boys with preference for brunettes apply here. Mrs. Tommy Northcott also
helps find lads who aren't taking P. T. She worked for the Dean of Instruction at Mary Baldwin College, was
a WAVE for four and one-half years during the war, and married a Navy medical man before accepting a job
here. Her father is Mr. F. L. Jackson of local fame. Another married gal, Mrs. Lee Talbert, works for Mr.
McLean. A native of Greensboro, she is a graduate of Charlotte Central High School. At that time she looked forward
to being a nurse until Lee came along. Couldn't notice any tears over this interrupted career, though.

In Mr. Payne's office, is Mrs. J. D. Corriher. An accounting major from Bolling Green Business College, she completed her
study there with an A.A. degree. Mr. Corriher is on the faculty and they have no immediate plans for the
future. After a peculiar bit of persuasion, Dr. Cunningham managed to get his secretary, Miss Ethel Beach, to come South.
She calls Woodmont, Conn., home and was camp secretary for New York City Mission Society before her present position. Previous
to that she was employed as secretary for the Yale Divinity School. Miss Alma Courtney, a graduate of Duke University,
came to Davidson last summer. She's a lively brownette, but Charlie Mitchell is top dog at the moment.

Tests To Be Given Four Times a Year

Princeton, N. J.—Tests of the Graduate Record Examination, required of applicants for admission to a number of graduate schools, will
be administered at examination centers throughout the country four times in the coming year, Educational Testing Service has announced. During
1949-1950 nearly 13,000 students took the GRE in partial fulfillment of admission requirements of graduate schools which prescribed it. This
fall candidates may take the GRE on Friday and Saturday, October 27 and 28; in 1951, the dates are February
2 and 3, May 4 and 5, August 3 and 4.

A new method of psychological warfare against Communism, CRUSADE FOR FREEDOM has been launched throughout the nation. Colleges and universities
are urged to support it for two reasons: as loyal American citizens, first; and secondly, since the group in any
country which most concerns the Communists is the “young intelligentsia,” college students will want to speak up for democracy and
freedom.

In launching the Crusade for Freedom on Labor Day in a nationwide radio broadcast, General Dwight D. Eisenhower described Crusade
for Freedom as: “a campaign sponsored by private American citizens to fight the big lie with the big truth. It
is a program that has been hailed by President Truman and all others who have heard of it, as an
essential step in getting the case for freedom heard by the world’s multitudes.” General Lucius D. Clay, as Chairman of
the Crusade for Freedom, has issued a special appeal to college and university students, stating: “As students of history, literature,
political, physical and social sciences, you know that what men believe to be true has been as important as the
truth itself in determining human events. If we are ever to achieve a secure and lasting peace, the other peoples
of the world must know the truth. They must understand our ideals of freedom and friendship for all men and
all nations. Working together in the freedom Crusade, we can help to put the world on the offensive. By signing
the Freedom Scroll with its declaration of world freedom you, as an individual, place yourself on record in the roll
call of democracy—a roll call that one day must extend around the world. I urge your participation in the Crusade
and sincerely hope that you will exert your leadership to help make it a great historic effort of free peoples.”

Every college student can help support the Crusade for Freedom, Gen. Clay points out, by doing two things: sign the
Freedom Scroll, which in brief affirms his belief as a free American in the right of all men to freedom;
and make a contribution to the Crusade, which will be used to help expand Radio Free Europe, which is the
medium through which private American citizens can fight back against vicious Communist attacks upon the American way of life. It
is hoped that students will want to contribute as they sign—even if they give up a pack of cigarettes.Cigarettes, a
milkshake, or a movie in order to speak out for freedom. Every college and university in the nation has been
asked to devise its own plan for its Crusade for Freedom activities. The president of each college and university has
received a letter from Gen. Clay, asking them to appoint a Campus Crusade Chairman who will appoint his Campus committee,
representing all campus groups. They will be asked to meet and devise the best means of conducting the scroll signing
and collecting contributions, which will be forwarded to the local or state Crusade Chairman. The Freedom Scrolls, signed by millions
of Americans, will be flown to Berlin, where, on United Nations Day, October 24th, they will be enshrined in the
base of the Freedom Bell, as part of the ceremonies dedicating the bell which will ring from the Rathaus Tower
in the Western Sector of Berlin for the first time on that day. It will continue to ring daily from
then on as a symbol of freedom, giving hope to those behind the Iron Curtain for the eventual return of
their freedom. Gen. Clay and the Crusade committee are counting on every educational institution in the nation to afford all
of its students and faculty members the opportunity to sign the scroll. 100 percent enrollment will be proof to the
Communists that the students of America believe in and appreciate the free and democratic way of life as opposed to
Communism and totalitarianism.

TED WILLIAMS lf BOSTON RED SOX PHIL RIZZUTO ss N. Y. YANKEES GEORGE KELL 3b DETROIT TIGERS

GRE is not required by all graduate schools, ETS advises each student to inquire of his prospective school whether or
not he is expected to take the test and, if so, which dates. The GRE tests offered in these nationwide
programs include a test of general scholastic ability, tests of general achievement in six broad fields of undergraduate study, and
advanced level tests of achievement in various subject matter fields. According to ETS, candidates are permitted several options among these
tests. Application forms and a Bulletin of Information, which provides details of registration and administration, as well as sample questions,
may be obtained from advisers or directly from Educational Testing Service, P. O. Box 592, Princeton, N. J., or P.
O. Box 9896, Los Feliz Station, Los Angeles 27, California. Completed applications must reach the Office at least two weeks
before the date of the administration for which the candidate is applying.

HEY MAC! INTERRUPTING YOUR GI BILL TRAINING OR DROPPING OUT OF SCHOOL? BE SURE YOU NOTIFY YOUR V-A OFFICE BEFORE
YOU QUIT!

Law Aspirants To Be Given Tests Each Quarter

Princeton, N. J.—The Law School Admission Test, required of applicants for admission to a number of leading American law schools,
will be given at more than 100 centers throughout the United States on November 18, 1950, and on February 24,
April 28, and August 11, 1951. During 1949-50, 8,100 applicants took this test, and their scores were sent to 92
law schools. A candidate must make a separate application for admission to each law school of his choice and should
inquire of each school whether it wishes him to take the Law School Admission Test. Since many law schools select
their freshman classes in the spring preceding their entrance, candidates for admission to next year’s classes are advised to take
either the November or the February test, if possible. The Law School Admission Test, prepared and administered by Educational Testing
Service, features objective questions measuring verbal aptitudes and reasoning ability rather than acquired information. According to ETS, it cannot be
“crammed” for. Sample questions and information regarding registration for and administration of the test are given in a Bulletin of
Information. Bulletins and applications for the test should be obtained four to six weeks in advance of the desired date
from Educational Testing Service, P. O. Box 592, Princeton, N. J. Completed applications must be received at least ten days
before the desired testing date in order to allow ETS time to complete the necessary testing arrangements for each candidate.

JOE DIMAGGIO cf N. Y. YANKEES ROBIN ROBERTS p PHILA. PHILLIES YOGI BERRA c N. Y. YANKEES EDDIE STANKY 2b
N. Y. GIANTS

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1950

Wealth of Books Added To Library; Six Non-Curricular Books Popular

Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson, library director, released this week names of the six most popular non-curricular books in the library
during the 1949-50 school year and also information on new library books. Based on circulation records, last year’s most popular
six in order of their popularity were “The Egyptian” by Waltari, “Point of No Return” by Marquand, “Guard of Honor”
by Cozzens, “Father of the Bride” by Streeter, “Bold Galilean” by Blythe, and “Naked and The Dead” by Mailer.

Among new books received during the summer by the library are: “Seeds of Treason” by Ralph de Toledano and Victor
Lasky. “Seeds of Treason” is the story of the Alger Hiss-Whittaker Chambers incident. Its dedication, which is typical of the
book’s tone, reads: “To Joseph Stalin—without whose help this book would never have been written.” “William Henry Belk” by Le
Gette Blythe, author of last year’s “Bold Galilean,” is the story of a southern farm boy, reared in dark days
of Reconstruction, who became a pioneer of modern merchandising in the South. Blythe is literary editor of the “Charlotte Observer.”
“Kon-Tiki—Across the Pacific by Raft” by Thor Heyerdahl, relates an effort of six men to support a theory that the
South Sea islands were peopled from Peru by crossing the Pacific, 4,300 miles, on the wooden raft Kon-Tiki, named for
the legendary sun king. It is an exciting account of twentieth-century adventure. “Have You Read 100 Great Books” with foreword
by Carl Van Doren. This highly valuable reference volume includes, among other instructive information, fifty lists of great books including
public library and college selections and reading courses. This is a life-long reading guide for those who want to know
something about the great books of all time. “The Spanish Gardener” by A. J. Cronin, author of “The Green Years.”
This is a haunting book with overtones of both beauty and tragedy. It is a tense, tender novel of a
father’s too-possessive love for his son.

Ten of the 75 members of Davidson College faculty and administration are listed in the latest publication by A. N.
Marquis, publishers of the standard “Who’s Who in America.” The new publication is a regional volume, “Who’s Who in the
South and Southwest,” modeled after the original Who’s Who. States included for biographical selection are Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina,
Georgia, Florida, Kentucky, Tennessee, Alabama, Mississippi, Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, and Texas. Those from Davidson who have biographical sketches in the
1950 edition are Dr. C. K. Brown, Dean and Economics Professor; Dr. John R. Cunningham, President; Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson,
History Professor and Library Director; Dr. George A. Douglas, Sociology Professor; Dr. Edward O. Guerrant, International Relations Professor; F. L.
Jackson, Treasurer; Dr. W. L. Lingle, President Emeritus; James Christian Pfohl, Director of Music; Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, Physics Professor;
and Dr. E. F. Shewmake, English Professor.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS... (Continued From Page One)

Sunday Pat visits members of the congregation two afternoons each week. Approximately one hundred members comprise the South Park church.
Many churches which are unable to support a full-time pastor can have services regularly by calling a pre-ministerial student as
supply pastor. Students gain valuable experience and meet people by aiding these needy churches.

STAN MUSIAL rf ST. LOUIS CARDINALS
