CHOSEN FOR WHO'S WHO

Thirteen members of the Senior Class were chosen this week for mention in “Who’s Who Among Students in American Colleges and Universities.” These men are: Bill Bird, Bill Cassels, Ray Cunningham, “Hoopy” Davis, Ken Goodpasture, Sam Joyner, Bill Klein, Auburn Lambeth, Neil Leach, Gordon Scott, Don Shriver, Irving Stubbs, and Randy Taylor.

“Who’s Who Among Students,” printed annually since 1934, seeks to recognize students who excel in scholarship, leadership, cooperation in educational and extracurricular activities, citizenship, and promise of future usefulness. Nominees are chosen from over 600 colleges and universities throughout the United States. Candidates are selected on each individual campus by a member of the college administration, faculty, or by a representative of the staff appointed specifically for the selection. Nominations are acceptable from any school classified in the Educational Directory as a four-year degree-granting institution. The number of nominees acceptable from each school is determined by a standard quota scale based upon enrollment.

A brief listing of each man’s achievements is as follows:

Bill Bird, a native of Fredericksburg, Virginia; is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fraternity, Pan-Hellenic Council, and varsity baseball team. He was the president of the Pan-Hellenic Council and ODK last year. Bill is majoring in business.

Bill Cassels, of Richland, South Carolina; is president of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity, Editor of the 1950-51 “Quips and Cranks,” and chairman of the Publications Board. He is seeking a BS Degree.

Ray Cunningham, of Davidson, North Carolina; is a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, “D” Club, varsity swimming team, and Student Council. Ray is Freshman Advisor for 1950-51 and vice-president of the Senior Class.

Thenton “Hoopy” Davis, of Palisades Park, New Jersey; is a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, Beaver Club, varsity football squad, and “D” Club. He is also judge of the Court of Control.

Ken Goodpasture, of Franklin, Tennessee; is a member of the Beaver Club, Sigma Delta Psi honorary fraternity, “Y” Board of Control, Honorary Fraternity Council, and varsity track team. He is president of the Eumanean Literary Society and Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. He will receive an AB Degree.

Sam Joyner, of Kernersville, North Carolina; is president of the Senior Class. Sam is a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society and Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. A BS candidate, he is a pre-medical student.

Bill Klein, of Atlanta, Georgia; is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, “Y” Cabinet, varsity track team, and Student Council. President of the Pan-Hellenic Council, Bill plans to enter the ministry.

Auburn Lambeth, of Decatur, Georgia; is a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, president of the “D” Club, member of Scabbard and Blade, captain of varsity football, member of the baseball squad, and the Beaver Club.

Neil Leach, of De Funiak Springs, Florida; is a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, ODK, and Sigma Upsilon honorary fraternities. He is president of the YMCA, vice-president of the Philanthropic Literary Society, and was a Managing Editor of the Davidsonian.

Gordon Scott, of Statesville, North Carolina; is a member of the Eumanean Literary Society and Sigma Upsilon honorary fraternity. He is president of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, Editor-in-Chief of the Davidsonian, and Treasurer of the ODK honorary fraternity. Gordon is a candidate for a BS Degree.

Don Shriver, of Norfolk, Virginia; is president of Sigma Upsilon honorary fraternity, and “Y” Cabinet. He is secretary of the Sigma Chi social fraternity and Associate Editor of the Scripts ’n Pranks.

Irving Stubbs, also of Norfolk; is a member of the Sigma Chi social fraternity, Philanthropic Literary Society, Sigma Upsilon honorary fraternity, and “Y” Cabinet.

Randy Taylor, of Milledgeville, Georgia; is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity, ODK, and Sigma Delta Pi honorary fraternities, “Y” Cabinet and Board of Control, and Student Council. He is president of the Student Body.

This year's selection of thirteen boys tops the number chosen for 1950 by three names. Approximately 160 Davidson men have been listed in “Who’s Who Among Students” since its inception sixteen years ago.

WHEELS

Artists’ Series Commences Friday With Luboshutz and Nemenoff

“This reviewer has never before known two-piano artistry comparable to this,” wrote Noel Straus, music critic for the New York Times, of a recent Carnegie Hall appearance of Pierre Luboshutz and Genia Nemenoff, duo-pianists, who will be heard in Chambers Auditorium next Friday, Nov. 3. “Perfection in two-piano playing,” is the way Dr. Serge Koussevitzky, conductor emeritus of the Boston Symphony, describes the art of the two most heavily-booked duo-piano team in the world today.

In the thirteen years of their career as duo-pianists, Luboshutz and Nemenoff have achieved a record unparalleled by any other duo-pianists. Distinction conferred only on the greatest artists has been theirs—repeated appearances with every leading symphony orchestra (they are the only duo-pianists who have appeared under the baton of Arturo Toscanini) and with such orchestras as the Boston Symphony, the Philadelphia Orchestra, the New York Philharmonic Symphony Society they are perennials; in addition to engagements on the leading concert series, and major music festivals.

Rifle Team Has First Practice

The Rifle Team began practice last week, with 20 men reporting for the practices. The team is coached this year by Captain Hood, assisted by Sergeant First Class Butts, of the Military Department. Among the candidates are 7 men who fired on last year’s team. Practices are being held every afternoon Monday through Friday. There are thirty-five matches scheduled during the season, which extends from early November through mid-March. Of the 35 matches, 24 are to be postal, 9 shoulder-to-shoulder, and 2 of the Army Area and Army Intercollegiate Matches of mid-March. Five of the shoulder-to-shoulder matches will be away from Davidson. During the week of the 30th of October, a postal match will be fired with Mississippi State. On the morning of the 4th of November, the VMI Rifle Team will fire a match against Davidson on the local range. Most of the matches will be fired by 10 men. These men will be the top 10 from qualifying scores among the 20 men on the team. Within the 10 men firing in the match, five will place. Practice thus far has been very encouraging and a highly successful season is hoped for.

News Items

The South Atlantic District of Phi Beta Kappa has accepted the invitation of Davidson College to hold its 1951 meeting on our campus. The meeting will be attended by approximately twenty representatives of chapters in the southeastern section of the country. The tentative date for the meeting is November 2-3, 1951.

Dr. Cunningham will attend the meeting of the Department of International Justice and Good Will of the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America in New York, Thursday, October 26. Following the business meeting in the morning, he will attend the luncheon at the Town Hall Club where addresses will be made by two members of the United States Mission to the United Nations, Ambassador Warren R. Austin and the Honorable John Foster Dulles.

Sigma Upsilon Meets; Nine Men Admitted To Membership Roll

The campus literary fraternity, Sigma Upsilon, held its meeting on October 19. The meeting opened with the initiation of nine new members. An impressive initiation ceremony was led by President Don Shriver and Secretary Hartley Hall. New members of the fraternity are George Bason, Mac Bulgin, Bill Beattie, Tom Mann, Pete Milner, Watt Jeffries, Bill Trotman, Bryan Robinson, and Professor Iain Wilson.

Following the initiation, articles written by the brothers were read and discussed. Professor Purcell read an essay on the life and work of Mason Lock Weems. The essay described the influence of Mr. Weems on early North Carolina literary culture. Shelley Beard read a short story about the influence a small boy had on the adjustment of his family to their new neighborhood. Two poems were given by Dave Hamilton. The first was entitled “On Genealogy, Civilization and Impatience.” The second was written on “Autumn.” Both will appear in the Scripts and Pranks. The last article read was a short story written by Professor Guy Owen entitled “The Wounded Hawk,” a very interesting and effectively written story. After comments were made on the articles read, Sigma Upsilon adjourned.The Red and Black Masquers have selected as their first production of the year the current Broadway drama by William W. Haines, “Command Decision.” The play will be under the direction of Tad Currie, a member of the Sophomore class. Professor R. W. Tyson will be the advisor. “Command Decision” depicts the top brass of the U. S. Air Force and reveals some of the problems which it confronted during World War II. The action of the play takes place in the office of Brig. Gen. K. C. Dennis at the Headquarters of the Fifth American Bombardment Division, Heavy, in England. Final casting for the play has been made. The cast is as follows: Ted Daniels as Elmer Brockhurst; Mac Doubles as Sgt. Harold Evans; Bill Pharr as General K. C. Dennis; Wallace Abbott as Col. Ernest Haley; Russ Miller as armed guard; Charles Hassell as Captain Lucius Jenks; Aldan Williams as General Kane; Bill Hollister as General Garnett; Bruce Pruitt as Major Prescott; T. W. Aldred as Col. Edward Martin; Bill Phiffer as Lt. Jake Goldberg; Owen Kellum as Major Belding Davis; Bob Crutchfield as Maj. Rufus Dayhuff; Bob Crosland as Mr. Arthur Malcolm; Alvin Gerhardt as Mr. Oliver Stone; Milton Craig as Capt. Lee; and Josh MacKenzie as N. C. O. Photographer. The dates of presentation of the play have been tentatively set for November 20-21.

DEPP CHOSEN AS FALL SERVICE SPEAKER; FORUMS SCHEDULED

It was announced this week by the YMCA Cabinet that all Services will be held October 29-November 1. This year, the YMCA has chosen Reverend Mark Depp, D. D., of Winston-Salem, as principal speaker for this series, the theme of which is to be “Faith that Lives.” Notice the series of discussion groups to be held in the homes of various professors. These meetings are open only to students who are interested in the subjects and who are willing to take an active part in the discussions. Their purpose is to broaden the individual and to inform him on topics in which he is interested. The program for the month of November is as follows: On November 5, Dr. Davidson will lead the discussion on the topic, “THE PLACE OF RULES AND REGULATIONS IN A LIBERAL ARTS COLLEGE.” On November 12, Dr. Schenck will head the panel on “BARTH AND BRUNNER AND CONTEMPORARY CALVINISM.” The topic for November 19 has not yet been announced. On November 26, Professor Ostwalt will lead the discussion on “THE UNITED STATES EDUCATION POLICY IN OCCUPIED GERMANY.”

Four Seniors Elected To Phi Beta Kappa

On October 19, four members of the senior class were elected to Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholarship fraternity. Those chosen were William T. Boand, T. Hartley Hall, J. R. Taylor, and T. Henry Wilson. Phi Beta Kappa bids are given not only on the basis of scholarship, but also on qualities of leadership and character. Juniors who have maintained a general average of A, and seniors who have an average of B-plus or better throughout their college years are usually eligible for membership. The chapter usually extends bids twice during the school year. A brief sketch of those recently elected follows.

William T. Boand
Bill comes from Dallas, Texas, and is president of newly-formed Alpha Tau Omega. He is a member of the Eumanean Literary Society and the Spanish Club, and sings in the Chapel Choir. Bill also takes part in Y. M. C. A. activities. He is taking a B. A. course, with a major in English. Bill plans to be a Presbyterian minister, and is entering the Austin Theological Seminary, Austin, Texas, next year.

T. Hartley Hall
Hartley is from Macon, Georgia, a member of Phi Delta Theta. He is on the editorial staff of the Davidsonian, Scrips and Pranks, and Quips and Cranks. Last year he was Battalion Commander of the R. O. T. C. Corps. Other activities include membership in The Scabbard and Blade, Sigma Upsilon, and the Eumanean Literary Society. He is taking a B. S. course with a Business major, and hopes to go into real estate work in Macon upon graduating.

J. R. Taylor
Randy hails from Milledgeville, Georgia, a brother in Kappa Sigma. He is President of the student body, a member of O. D. K., Eumanean Literary Society, and Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity. Last year he served as Vice-President of the student body and as managing editor of the Davidsonian. For two years he has been on the “Y” Cabinet and Board of Control, and was President of the Sophomore Class. He is majoring in English, and plans to become a Presbyterian minister.

T. Henry Wilson
Henry is a Morganton, N. C. boy who graduated from Woodberry Forest. A member of Kappa Sigma, he has done honor work for the past two years, and is in Sigma Upsilon. His main extracurricular activities are in athletics. As a sophomore he lettered in both football and baseball. Since that time he was defensive center on the Wildcat eleven until he broke his wrist in this year’s Furman game. He is in the Beaver Club and the “D” club.

In addition to the customary program, two panel discussions will be held in conjunction with the regular services this year. Rev. Depp, a native of Pennsylvania, is known throughout the Southland as an outstanding speaker and minister. A graduate of Allegheny College, he completed his seminary training at Boston University. During World War I, he served as a chaplain, and afterwards held several pastorates in Pennsylvania and Maryland. Rev. Depp is now pastor of the Centenary Methodist church in Winston-Salem, which, with its 3000 members, is one of the largest below the Mason-Dixon Line. Rev. Depp will speak at Sunday vespers, chapel through Wednesday and each evening at 7:15 p.m. Emphasizing personal religion, Rev. Depp will speak on the following topics in chapel: “What Happens When We Pray?”, “What Do You Want?”, and “What Can Religion Do?”. His three evening talks will be entitled: “Where Do You Live?”, “Why Aren’t We Better Christians?” and “What Are You Listening To?”. First of the two scheduled forums will be conducted at 2:30 p.m. Monday in the YMCA Lounge. Mr. Charles Coons, “Y” Secretary in Charlotte, will lead this discussion the topic of which will be “Faith That Lives In My Home Town.” Members of the panel will include Mrs. Cumming, Davidson housewife; Mr. Oscar Gant, local church elder; and Dr. William McGavock, Professor of Mathematics. The second forum, to be held in the Quad.

Talent Abundance Revealed At Varied Eumanean Program

An unusually stimulating and varied program marked the Eumanean Literary Society meeting last Monday night. Pete Milner, program chairman, lined up an imposing array of literary talent composed of Hartley Hall, who read “At His Brother's Grave,” by Robert Ingersoll; Frank Wallace, who gave three original poems: “Po’ White Trash,” “Companionship” and “Misses”; and David Adams, who conducted a game of mystery quotations in which he tried to stump the society on the authorship of famous sayings. Bill White did not guess any author, and so was awarded the impromptu speech for the night. “A new Lake Wiley should replace the old gym and shooting the chute replace skywriting as a Major Sport at Davidson.” Along the line of business, (Continued on Page Six)