"ence standings" is concerned, but Davidson will be out to avenge a slightly humiliating defeat at the hands of the
South Carolinians earlier in the month when Wildcat tournament chances were at stake. We are not going very far out
on a limb when we pick the local quint to stomp the Cadets and end the season in a winning
way.

AS WE SEE IT

It’s a pretty difficult assignment to try to give an accurate summary of Davidson's play in the season just drawing
to a close. In the first place, we don't believe that anyone was disappointed, as a whole, with the Cats.
True, some saw the glory and prestige of a tournament berth looming far ahead after that first conference win over
strong VPI, but erratic playing and inexperience entered the picture when the chips were down as the season progressed. We
will be the first to volunteer that Davidson had a far better team than conference standings would indicate, but that’s
neither here nor there. For the won-lost columns tell the tale. Regardless of the number of wins they managed, the
Cats played a brand of ball which was highly appealing to the average spectator. The use of the fast break
kept the games rolling along at a hot clip and the potential scoring threat of all the Cats kept the
interest of fans—to say nothing of the opponents—at a high pitch.

Last year, it was pretty much Cheek, Williams, and Cobb. But during the frays this year, each of the starting
five had his say in the scoring. The driving push shots of Bill Brooks were always good for a sizeable
number of points. The other forward, Tommy Haller, specialized with push shots from the left of the circle but could
be counted on for uncanny baskets from any position on the court. Don Lazenby and Tom Coleman, who alternated at
center didn’t break any scoring records, but they managed to get their share of shots under the basket. In addition,
T. C. came through with many beautiful hook shots. The long set shots of guard Fred Hengeveld were always a
threat. Combining set shots with push shots, Dutch possessed one of the best shooting averages on the squad. In averaging
slightly over eight points per game, Captain Whit Cobb specialized in driving lay-ups and long set shots in addition to
being the smoothest working guard in the conference.

RESERVES CAME THROUGH

In an effort to find a winning combination, Coach Baird substituted frequently, and the reserves performed well. Mac McLean took
few shots but when he did, he made them count. Remember the 15 points he got in the second half
against Clemson back in January? Bob Turk’s push shots kept his name high in the scoring totals for several games.
Brady Osborne was good for four or five points per game which is a pretty fair average considering the few
minutes he played each game. Bo Roddey utilized his speed to keep track of shifty opponents in his reserve role.
Al Cook, playing for the first time at Davidson, possessed a better than average shooting eye, but his limited service
in games afforded him little opportunity to show his mettle. Walt Hankins, who joined the squad after exams, proved to
be a good man on rebounds; and Ted Bowen and Bob Nimocks were used only sparingly, but they adequately filled
the bill when their turn came.

BAIRD’S FIRST CAMPAIGN SUCCESSFUL

We can’t overlook Boyd Baird in this short summary. Earlier in the season we sang his praises, and we have
had no occasion to regret one word of what we've said. Baird has come through with his first major coaching
job in enviable style. Molding a sophomore-dominated team around three lettermen is no easy task, but Baird did it and
produced one of the most spirited and scrappy crews that has graced this campus in many a day. His cagers
lost some close ones, they seemingly folded completely up on other nights, but winning or losing, the spirit was good,
due mainly to the spirit of Baird himself. His first varsity efforts have been crowned with success, and from here
it looks like basketball at Davidson will be in good shape so long as Boyd Baird is in the driver’s
seat.

PAGE FOUR

By BILL WHITE

The team in seedlings the one in winter, which his sophomores have grown and nurtured on experience, comes to an
end for Boyd Baird tomorrow night when his Wildcat cagers close out the season against Citadel’s Bulldogs in Johnston Gym
at 8:15. For only two Cat cagers, Captain Whit Cobb and guard Bo Roddey, will it be the career curtain
ringer. Every other man on the squad is due back next year. From here, both seniors will move into prominence
on the tennis courts before leaving the collegiate ranks for good.

Tonight's finale will be the first in three years that the Wildcats have not been Durham-bound for the Southern Conference
tournament, but few conceded at the first of the season they would have progressed as well as they did this
winter, much less make the tourney. As Coach Boyd Baird pointed out at the outset, “We'll have to win the
close ones and every one we're favored in, too, to make the tournament.” With the sophomore-dominated club that he had,
he could hardly take all of the close ones, evidenced by the North Carolina loss here when the Cats blew
a healthy early lead, chiefly due to inexperience. Also, the sophomores ran hot and cold throughout the conference this winter,
and Davidson did not have its exceptions, evidenced by the poor weekend showing in Charleston with low scoring losses to
the same Citadel they face tonight and to the College of Charleston whom they walloped two days later by some
thirty points.

Tonight, needless to say, the Cats will be out to avenge that loss to the Bulldogs and to take one
final fling at improving their conference position, at present not too distant from the cellar floor. Wednesday's win over Furman
bettered the standing, but revenge tomorrow will be one more feather in the cap and possibly one notch up the
ladder.

(Continued On Page 5)

TOMMY HALLER IN CAT VICTORIES

By CHERRY STRIBLING

This week, as the basketball season draws to a close, we salute the player who has made the most outstanding
improvement since last year—Tommy Haller. This spring-legged forward has really “come out” since the '49 season. Last year he was
a little-used sub, hidden in the shadow of such luminaries as Buddy Cheek and Mike Williams. However, he did receive
some good experience and some good coaching under Norm Shepard and this year he sprang into the forefront as a
starting forward. Haller’s big night was in the second Duke game when he pumped in over 20 points but he
has been fairly consistent as a point getter and is a good rebound and “tip-in” man. Haller plays with finger-tip
control. By that we mean that when he pumps in those one-hand shots.

Next week the interest in the inter-fraternity sports world will shift from basketball to the swimming and handball tournaments. The
handball tournament will be held in a “round-robin” fashion, with each fraternity entering a man in the singles and a
team in the doubles. Each team will have to lose two events to be put out of that particular event.
Tie games will be decided by time trials or in the actual competition. Each fraternity will be allowed to enter
two men in each event.will be played off by playing an extra doubles match. In the swimming meet, each fraternity
will be out of that event if two men are eliminated. They may lose their men in the competition. Each
fraternity is allowed to enter one relay team in each of the relays. The following events will be held in
the swimming meet: (1) 25-yard freestyle. (2) 50-yard freestyle. (3) 75-yard freestyle. (4) 50-yard backstroke. (5) 50-yard breaststroke. (6) Underwater
swim. (7) Individual medley (25-yard backstroke, 25-yard breaststroke, and 25-yard freestyle). (8) 200-yard relay (freestyle—50 yards each). (9) 150-yard medley
(50-yard backstroke, 50-yard breaststroke, and 50-yard freestyle).

Tommy is from Pulaski, Va., and is a member of Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity. He is an outstanding member of
the track team (Continued On Page 5).

By DICK LILES

Tuesday night terminated the regular season for the Davidson grapplers as they were edged by the Duke matmen, 17-9. The
match proved very exciting for both the men and the spectators. The feature match of the day was in the
“unlimited” class. The entire match was decided when 170-pound Billy Britt won a decision over 230-pound Bill McNeely by avoiding
contact with McNeely. Davidson’s hopes rested in a possible tie, had McNeely pinned Britt. Johnny Kelton, Mott Price, and Bull
Alexander looked in top form as they defeated their opponents for our only wins. Kelton decisioned the captain of the
Duke team, Gallagher. The final results are as follows:

121—Hodgson (Duke) defeated Bell, 5-2.
128—Kelton defeated Gallagher (Duke), 8-5.
136—Orzano (Duke) defeated Grisson, 8-2.
145—Dieffenbach (Duke) pinned Pendleton in 5:09.
155—Stork (Duke) defeated Haynes, 6-2.
165—Price defeated McMaster, 4-1.
175—Alexander defeated Harrison (Duke), 5-4.
Unlimited—Britt (Duke, 170) defeated McNeely (230), 3-1.

The preliminary match featured the Wildkittens going wild to defeat the Blue Imps, 25-13. Craven, Irvin, Goudy, Haynes, and Morrow
all won for the locals. Adams was the only loser and this was by a close margin.

By CHARLIE HAWKINS

Davidson’s hot and cold Wildcats took their second victory of the season over Furman Wednesday night in Johnston Gym, 68-58.
Although the Cats of Coach Boyd Baird started off in a walk, they ended in a dash. Captain Whit Cobb,
playing his last year on a Davidson cage squad, played a brilliant game and dropped in 16 points, besides leading
the team in floor play. Brooks, Osborne, and Coleman also sparked for Davidson in the scoring with 10, 9, and
8 points apiece.

The first half began slow as Davidson was having trouble finding the basket early in the game and the Purple
Hurricane of Furman was content with working the ball in and scoring only on good opportunities. Behind 4-0, the Wildcats
quickly snapped back with 2 baskets and a foul shot to go ahead, 5-4, with about 4 minutes gone. The
lead was exchanged again and again before Furman spurted ahead, 13-11 with 8 minutes gone. The ball game began to
move much faster then. A push shot by Malcolm MacLean with 10 minutes and fifteen seconds remaining put the Cats
ahead, 15-13. This time they stayed ahead. The score at the end of the first half was Davidson 33; Furman
27.

The second half was a high scoring one in which Davidson hit the hoops for 35 more points while Furman’s
Purple Hurricane was only getting 31. The action was fast in the second half as both teams began to score
almost freely. Kerr, who had only 2 points the first half, hit for 14 the second half. His set shots
kept the Hurricane within scoring distance of the Cats throughout that time. An interesting sidelight of the game was a
set shot duel between Kerr and Whit Cobb, both of whom totaled 16 points for the game. In the free
throw department, Furman hit for 20 of 32, while Davidson had 16 of 30. Behind Kerr in Furman’s scoring were
Edington with 11 points, and Pruitt with 12. Davidson’s Wildcats close out the season Saturday night against The Citadel at
Davidson.

By BILL ADAMS

Coach Ted Redding took charge of opening the gate for the Midwinters festivities here by arranging for the first intercollegiate
swim meet that Davidson has ever participated in, and although the Cat swimmers lost in their first attempt, they gave
promise of better things to come. Redding put his swimmers up against N. C. State’s Jayvees in an exhibition match
here Friday afternoon in the new Johnston gym pool before a large crowd, but the State tankmen were just a
mite swifter than Redding’s charges. The score was 30-36, indicating the balance between the two teams. Davidson won both of
the relays and George Cornelson won the 200-yard breaststroke to account for most of our points. Bob Long, Ray Cunningham,
and Bill Ray combined to win the 150-yard medley relay in 3:45, while Ray, Evans, Aubrey Miree, and Ken Taylor
composed the winning 400-yard freestyle relay team for the Cats. Johnny Jervis took third in the 200-yard freestyle and third
in the 440-yard freestyle. Aubrey Miree garnered second in the 50-yard freestyle, Ken Taylor placed third in the 50-yard freestyle,
and Bob Long was second in the 100-yard freestyle. Although possibly not an eye-opener as a beginning, the meeting was
still far from a failure. The boys did very well against competition for the first time, and with more time
and training, the Cat swim team should be much stronger by next year. A few more exhibition meets have been
scheduled for this year to lay a foundation for the teams of the coming years. We need only wait for
the foundation to harden now.

Chesterfield Sport Quizz

1. Who was the Yankee pitcher recently signed as the highest-paid pitcher in history?
2. Who was the North Carolina male athlete who was awarded the Teague Trophy last Monday night?
3. Who was the outstanding Southern Conference sophomore basketball player who was forced to drop out of school because of
scholastic work?
4. What is “The House that Ruth Built?”
5. Who was voted female athlete of the half-century?

RULES
1. Print your answers clearly on the back of a Chesterfield wrapper. Take your answers to Frank Perrin in 112
West.
2. No entries will be accepted later than 24 hours after the Davidsonian is circulated.
3. The first three correct entries will each receive a carton of Chesterfield cigarettes.
4. This contest is not open to members of the Davidsonian staff.

DAVIDSON
WEEK OF FEB. 27-MAR. 4

MON. - TUE.
“ALWAYS LEAVE THEM LAUGHING”
Milton Berle - Virginia Mayo
“WITHOUT HONOR”
Loraine Day - Franchot Tone
