PAGE SIX

“Jelly Belly” Kelly, “The Man With the Hands,” Pursues Athletic Career with College On Side

Recently a saddened but not broken end strode into the football field in Riddick Stadium and brought sad news to
the State backfield. When this mastodon from Fayetteville started his athletic career it seemed more likely that he would end
up in the Coliseum instead of the football stadium. This man is “Jelly Belly” Kelly of the Fayetteville Kellys. He
was born at an early age in the thriving adjunct of Fort Bragg. In this ideal environment “Jelly” received his
early athletic training; the Australian crawl being his stroke. From his home environment, he soon came to be recognized by
all of the teachers and students. (That's quite an accomplishment in itself.)

When “Jelly” finally reached high school, he became incorporated into the blazing juggernaut of the Fayetteville “Bulldogs.” Here he acquired
the reputation of a “swashbuckling debonair fool” for his exploits on and off the football field (due to personalities beyond
our control this article must slightly delete at this point). In recognition of his athletic prowess, “hell-on-wheels” Kelly was elected
captain of the basketball team during his senior year. This same year he personally and single-handedly won a football game
from Familet High School by scoring 18 points. “Stubby” Evans saw this game and came away muttering, “That Kelly is
really a horse. Won that game single-handed without a block being thrown.”

A little later on, Kelly decided to keep the public talking by burning up the hoops in a blazing basketball
season that ended with his name on the All-State five. In the abnormal course of events, Kelly came to Davidson
on a basketball scholarship which pays his room and board but has failed to get him on the court. In
this, his fifth year at the hallowed halls, “Jelly” has not only not played any basketball for the varsity, he
thought Shepard was some kind of a dog.

Here it might be appropriate to say that other than athletics “Jelly” did have a few interests. For two weeks
he was a member of the Boy Scouts, but when someone asks him if he passed Tenderfoot, he says, “Who
was he.” Today “Jelly” has stepped into the shoes of his departed roommate, “Slick” Evans as the dictator of Duke,
but claims he spends most of his time trying to keep “Toy” and “Sid” from fighting. “Jelly” has gone into
mourning for his departed friend, “El Tubo” Lee. As the patriarch of Thompson’s boarding house, he has his own special
seat where he spends most of his time engaged in his favorite pastime. The cooks have a special affection for
Kelly being that he has been there as long as they have.

In the underworld, Kelly also demands respect, being known to his poker pals as “Honest Fingers” or the “man with
the hands.” “Rubber Fingers” when asked about his activities and contacts in the lower circles, he said, “Aw, I just
have a few friendly hands with the boys every now and then. Nothing serious, just a gentleman’s game.” Kelly says
that after graduation he is going to work for the Coca-Cola Co. He will probably become known as the man
with “The Paws That Refresh.”

STUDENTS APPLY... (Continued From Page One)

ships will enter Oxford in October of 1951. Appointments are made for two years in the first instance with a
possible third year for scholars whose record at Oxford, and whose plan of study make such an award advisable. The
basic value of a Rhodes Scholarship is about 400 pounds a year. Basis for the selection, as specified in Rhodes’
will, consist of: (1) literary and scholastic ability and attainments; (2) qualities of manhood, truth, courage, devotion to duty, sympathy,
kindliness, unselfishness, and fellowship; (3) exhibition of moral force of character and of instincts to lead and to take an
interest in his schoolmates; (4) physical vigor as shown by interest in outdoor sports or in other ways. Further specifications
state that the candidate must be an unmarried male citizen of the United States; that he must be between the
ages of 19 and 25 on October 1, 1951, and that he must have completed at least his Sophomore year
by the time of his application.

IN OFF-CUFF SESSION... (Continued From Page One)

established colleges for he feels that much of the best work in educating youth is going on in this kind
of institution. Though state universities have somewhat alleviated the situation, the clusters of schools in particular areas and the competition
among them still exist. They all publish bulletins and rent advertising space to ballyhoo their graduates, their football teams, their
years back into antiquity, their ivy-covered halls, and their sacred traditions. All of which have little or nothing to do
with education. Some colleges and universities are even adding departments and professors not because their students need them but because
they need this new department to lure students to their own campuses. All this to Mr. Johnson seems unnecessary and
unfair to prospective students. But most of all it has little or nothing to do with education, which is what
the colleges are supposed to be dealing with.

Most colleges subsidize athletics, says Mr. Johnson, under the belief that winning athletic teams and increased publicity will increase their
enrollment and endowment. He says that many colleges spend much of their valuable money almost dishonestly in order to keep
the football team in the winning columns on a false supposition. It has been shown in many cases most students
don’t go to a college because of its athletic successes. Often students in one school are loyal supporters of another’s
athletic team without dreaming of changing schools. Colleges can raise their football teams from obscurity to the top ten without
increasing their enrollment by ten. It, of course, goes without saying that this commercialization of athletics has little to do
with education.

Mr. Johnson says the American system of education is a natural growth of democracy with some errors and it has
served well to train those who have the perseverance to want an education. It is not as strict and disciplinary
as the German system, but it is a machine which ambitious boys can utilize and make of it what he
wishes.

RUNNER-UP... (Continued From Page Five)

Tommy Ward, KA’s. Guards and Centers: Ray Cunningham, Betas; Buddy Williamson, Kappa Sigs; George Ruxton, Kappa Sigs; Bill Adams, KA’s;
Bert Downs, Sigma Chi; Lamar Hinson, SAE. Backs: Sam Joyner, Beta; Peck Spach, KS; Bill Bacon, Phi Delt; Chuck Elliott,
Beta; Tom Langford, Beta.

TANKS TAKE... (Continued From Page Four)

sophomore George Cornelson in that event. Three equally able backstrokers—Hampton Mauze, Gene Regen, and George Knight—are the front runners in
the 180-yard chase. Handling the diving duties are C. L. Runyan and nifty little Ed West, while utility men Jack
Turner, Al Dawes, and Johnny Coble round out the crew.

Want to quit smoking? Really, it’s quite simple. Just stop buying cigarettes. Then, when you feel the urge to smoke,
borrow a cigarette from a friend. Soon all of your friends will be helping you to quit smoking—if you still
have any friends.

VISIT THE BOAR’S HEAD DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT “A GOOD PLACE TO EAT” 142 E. Morehead — Charlotte

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Hang Your Hat at Hugo's By NAT DANIEL

It belatedly behooves me to get down to the business of introducing to the Davidson student body those places of
business which he, individually and collectively, most frequents.

First and foremost on our list is the Pride of Upper South Main—the College-Cut-Throat “Drug” Co., operated by the one
and only Hugh F. Sapp, a Davidson tradition surpassed only by the classic walls of Phi and Eu Halls.

No matter what college or university town one visits,There he will always find one business establishment or “hangout” which identifies
itself with the college whose students keep it in business, and insists that “the finest boys in the world” are
those of the college in question, especially those who spend their money at said emporium. Such an institution is Hugo’s.
A drugstore only by the grace of Hadacol and Ex-Lax, it supplies Joe College with everything from waste paper to
wastepaper baskets, including soap, pencils, pens, candy, sodas, and even second-hand radios, several of which have possibly been on Hugo's
shelves since that fateful day when he opened his doors to take the Davidson student to his heart and to
his cash register.

The second most frequented spot in our city’s “business” district is that long cardboard box called the Davidson “theatre.” Now
a part of a Charlotte theater chain, it is operated by Charlie Fleming (Davidson ’49), with a special feature each
evening behind the candy counter. Here once or twice a week, a Davidson gentleman, tired of the incessant drudge of
Munn, Plato, the College Omnibus, and history lectures, indulges in what is called by misplaced courtesy a screenplay or movie.
Identifying himself with the celluloid hero, together they dash to the rescue, indulge in a nice, heart-warming drink, or a
long, lingering, passionate kiss. He slips into a world which wise men dream of and only fools believe really exists.
But life is all too real, and at 5, 7, 9, or 11, he must forsake his utopia and return
to the drudgery of getting a liberal arts education.

The next stop in our journey along Main Street is the Davidson Bank, known on Wall Street as the Piedmont
Bank and Trust Co., which for a small service charge, makes the sweat of our parents’ brow ready expenditures at
the aforesaid places of business and at the scourge of Hugo's, our money-making student store. Here's one for Ripley—the only
combination hardware and grocery store is right here in the shadow of our unstable oaks and is known as the
Davidson Hardware Co. From stove to stove bolt, to saucepan, to the sauce itself, all under a single shingle, the
Davidson Hardware Company is the utility store of the campus and the community. They deliver refreshments and sell grass seed,
cleaning utensils, in short, anything to keep the Davidson home well trimmed, well cleaned, and well fed.

In conclusion, it may come to the reader's mind that we have tread lightly in our introduction of these places
of business, but he should remember the highest creed of a Davidsonian staff member—after all, these are our advertisers.

REV. ERNEST ARNOLD... (Continued From Page One)
Licensed and ordained as a Presbyterian minister in Granville Presbytery. From 1939 to 1948 he was executive secretary of the
North Carolina Council of Churches, with offices at Duke University, Durham. He became assistant to the president of Davidson College
in 1948. Mr. Arnold is chairman of the committee on public institutions of the North Carolina Council of Churches, and
chairman of the permanent committee on interchurch relations of the Presbyterian Synod of North Carolina. He and Mrs. Arnold, who
was Miss Frances Putnam of Laurens, S. C., at the time of their marriage, have a son, Philip, 10, and
a daughter, Judy, seven years of age.

“It is with sincere regret,” Dr. John R. Cunningham, president of Davidson College, said yesterday, “that we assent to Mr.
Arnold’s severance of his connection with the college. During the last three years he has won the respect and affection
of the entire college community. He rendered signal service, especially during the period of the Davidson Development program. He and
his delightful family will be missed in the entire community.”

Organization of the National Council of Churches of Christ in the U.S.A. last week, an official has observed, marked the
culmination of “nine years of planning toward a united interdenominational agency to advance the Protestant cause.” It has been hailed
as “the most significant act of cooperation between Protestant denominations in 300 years.” Approximately a dozen different church organizations—the Federal
Council of Churches of Christ in America and others—have joined forces and become integral parts of the new council “to
present a solid Protestant front.” In his new office Mr. Arnold, who already possesses a record of many distinctive attainments
in the field of religious leadership, will have exceptionally large responsibilities and opportunities, a spokesman noted.

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA... (Continued From Page One)
Hoopy, a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, hails from Palisades Park, N. J. He was among those
recently selected for “Who’s Who.” Hoopy was tapped by Auburn Lambeth.

Ken Goodpasture, of Franklin, Tenn., a candidate for the A. B. degree, was tapped by Randy Taylor. Ken is a
member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, of which he is president. Other activities include Student Council, Beaver Club, Varsity
Track Team, Sigma Delta Psi honorary fraternity, Eumenean Literary Society, of which he is president, Honorary Fraternity Council, “Y” Board
of Control, and “Who’s Who.”

Bill Klein, who was tapped by Neil Leach, is another of those chosen for “Who’s Who.” Bill hails from Atlanta,
Ga., is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity and president of the Pan-Hellenic Council. Aside from these activities,
this pre-ministerial student is a member of the “Y” cabinet, the Student Council, and the Varsity track team.

Don Shriver, who was tapped by Bill Bird, calls Norfolk, Virginia his home, and he is studying for the A.B.
degree. He is president of his social fraternity, Sigma Chi, of Sigma Upsilon, honorary fraternity, and the “Y” cabinet; also,
associate editor of the “Scripts 'n Pranks,” and member of Phi Beta Kappa. One of the candidates for a Rhodes
Scholarship from his state, he was also recently elected to “Who’s Who.”

Lieutenant-Colonel James C. Ballard came to Davidson in 1949 as PMST&T of the Davidson College ROTC unit. A graduate of
this college in 1939, Col. Ballard was in school at the same time in which his father was connected with
the ROTC department of the college as a faculty member. His military record began in 1940 when he went on
active duty with the army in the summer of that year. Between 1941 and 1945, he saw action in Iceland
and England, as well as various parts of Europe including France. His decorations include the Silver Star, Bronze Star, the
Combat Infantry Badge, the Army Commendation Ribbon (won three times), and the Purple Heart, won twice. Ballard’s achievements while a
student at Davidson typify the excellent quality of work which he is doing as a member of the College Faculty.
A member of the Pi Kappa Phi Social Fraternity, he graduated as an honor student receiving the degree of B.
S. cum laude. He was a member of Sigma Pi Sigma and Sigma Delta Phi honorary fraternities; was cadet commander
of the ROTC unit; a student assistant in Physics; a member of the Glee Club and college quartet, and was
active in intramural and fraternity athletics.

As a faculty member, he has not only shown the attributes of a good professor, but an active citizen and
a sincere Christian gentleman. Recently, he was chairman of the Blood Drive for the college and community and in this
proved that he is willing to be of service to all who need him. Following the completion of the tapping
exercises, the meeting ended with the singing of the Alma Mater.
