Bo Roddey wiped a grimy hand on his sweat-stained shorts and fidgeted with the end of his racquet in the
green grain of the all-weather court. He'd just trimmed Sir Derrick 6-1, looking very sharp at times and then not
looking quite like the Roddey he has been. "I'd really rather it didn’t come now," he said. "It’s just not
quite the time for it. You know what I mean."

By BILL WHITE

You realized that the boyish face wasn't wearing a deadpan mask out of modesty. It was more a stern, serious,
almost worried countenance that made you say, "I believe you really mean it, Bo. Just don’t think you’re on it
solid, do you?"

Wildcat Sports
FRIDAY, MAY 12, 1950

Cinders End Season with Impressive Win Over Clemson Tigers
By DICK LILES

The track season at Davidson closed in a blaze of glory for the Cats of Coach Pete Whittle as they
avenged the Tigers of Clemson for a defeat last year by walking away with a 68 1/4-61 1/4 decision. It
was their fifth win in seven meets for this year, the losses being to strong South Carolina and Washington &
Lee cindermen. Again it was Pulaski’s and now Davidson College’s Tommy Haller that was the big gun for the locals.
Haller captured firsts in the pole vault with an 11-foot leap and the 220-yard low hurdles. Also to his credit
were thirds in the 120-yard high hurdles and the broad jump. He collected a total of 12 points for the
afternoon. The closest race of the afternoon was the dead tie over the high hurdles by Davidson's Bill Pritchett and
Jim Townsend of Clemson. Pritchett got off to a good lead, but Townsend pulled up rapidly to cross the finish
line in a perfect tie at 15.1 seconds. Joe Miller, the Charlotte Junior, helped us finish strong in the pole
vault, javelin, and low hurdles when he hurled the javelin the farthest of his career. The toss was for 171
feet 4 1/2 inches. Davidson grabbed firsts in the mile, T. Stockton; high jump, Henderson; 440-yard, Klein; 100-yard, Goodpasture; broad
jump, Cornell; 120 lows, tie with Pritchett; discus, Vann; pole vault, Haller; javelin, Miller; and 220 lows, Haller. The freshmen
tracksters didn't fare as well in their 67-63 edge by the Clemson Cubs, Roy White.

And he granted you that was the case. He stopped to toss a ball back to Whit Cobb, then said,
"I haven't won a good match all spring. I feel like I’ve dropped some that would have helped us greatly.
So let's let it go for the time being, at least."

You’d approached Oliver Bo with the intent of picking up some personal stuff on doing a column on the End
of the Roddey Era at Davidson, much as two of our North Carolina neighbors have recently and painfully ushered out
the Justice and the Dickey eras. But your principal character had mixed the whole thing before you started. He figured
it wasn't the right time for such a story.

You had to have a column and wanted this one. "Maybe after the tourney," you egged. "Maybe," Bo said, and
smilingly added, "Wait’ll we see how we do in the tournament!"

As any fool can plainly see, we haven't waited until after the tournament. This is an in-the-family story. This isn’t
one for boss Jo-Jo Thigpen’s department, one to be mailed to papers over the Carolinas. This is just for us
here at old D. C. to read and, I hope, remember. So I truly don’t think there'll be any extra
pressure applied to Bo, and certainly every word said is deserved.

Now for this ballyhooed column. This weekend does mark the end of the Roddey, Bo-Oliver, Era at Davidson College. Four
of the finest tennis years Davidson has known have been synonymous with the collegiate career of this Mr. Tennis in
his native North Carolina. Only ten de- lo advance into tomorrow afternoon’s finals. The heat and terrific competition took its
toll quickly of members of the record field who could not stand the pace. After yesterday's action, Davidson still had
its three top men to go into the quarter-final competition this morning, pacing the loop in singles’ representatives. The Cats’
No. 1 ace, Bo Roddey, advanced by way of three singles victories and also moved along in the doubles with
No. 3 man Whit Cobb. Big Teddy Keesler, never sharper, knocked teammate Allan Strand out of the running in a
match which pitted the two late yesterday afternoon, Ted's power overcoming the game and dog-tired sophomore, 6-3, 7-5. The two
top-seeded entrants, North Carolina's brilliant Clark Taylor, and William and Mary’s Howie Atwater, also waded through three singles and a
doubles match on Thursday to continue toward the finals as expected. Top matches on tap for this morning pitted Taylor
against Ted Keesler; the number two men of North Carolina and William and Mary, respectively, Charlie Rice and Tommy Boys,
the latter the three-set victor over Carolina’s Don Skakle in a marathon thriller, 4-6, 6-0, 6-4; William and Mary's At-
(Continued On Page Four)

Derrick’s Knights Jab Generals, 9-0
By JIM FARRAR

The Davidson tennis team warmed up for the Southern Conference Tournament here this weekend by defeating Washington and Lee Wednesday
afternoon by the score of 9-0. Washington and Lee did not offer much resistance, as the Wildcats won every set
in the singles matches. The regulars were not called on to play the doubles, and the lower men came through
in fine fashion to sweep the match. The team has three more matches after the conference tournament. They are all
to be played here on the campus, two being with Mexico, and one with Cincinnati. The results: Roddey (D) def.
(W&L.), 6-0, 6-0. Cobb (D) def. Bouldin (W&L), 6-3, 6-3. Strand (D) def. Knudsen (W&L) 6-1, 6-0. Fanjoy (D) def.
Mohr (W&L), 6-0, 6-1. Keesler (D) def. Segar (W&L), def. Rockwell 3-0. Best ball: dropped in a 68 total to
take the low mark of the day. Worsham and Edens made clean sweeps of their Davidson opponents and collected six
points in doing so. Sloan, Vernon, and Cooper managed to squeeze out 1/2 point each for the low scoring Deacons
to add to Hill's one point gain. Both teams were keeping in the swing of things so as to be
ready for the conference tournament to be held at Old Town Club, course in Winston-Salem on Saturday, May 13. Wake
Forest and North Carolina University are the teams to beat this tournament, while Duke University will be there to defend
their last year’s title. The individual big guns will probably turn out to be Palmer and North Carolina's Harvie Ward,
national intercollegiate champion. Davidson’s Monty Hill is also expected to give competitors a run for their money, because he has
been playing well recently. The whole Wildcat varsity will try for the team title against all other conference competition. Summary
for the Davidson-Wake Forest match: Palmer (WF) over Hill (D), 2-1. Worsham (WF) over McLean (D), Wake Forest 3; Davidson
0. (Continued On Page Four)

Chesterfield Sports Quiz
1. Who recently became the first golfer in history to win the Masters three times?
2. What American League outfielder is a California policeman in the off-season winter months?
3. Including the rider of this year’s winner Middleground, how manyApprentice jockeys have won the Kentucky Derby? - 4. Who
is the fighter Ezzard Charles is slated to meet June 7 in Buffalo, N.Y., for the NBA’s heavyweight crown? 5.
What two events did members of the Southern Conference’s North Carolina track team win in the recent Penn Relays?

RULES
1. Print your answers clearly on the back of a Chesterfield wrapper.
2. Take your answers to Frank Perrin in 12 West.
3. The first three correct entries will each receive a cartoon of Chesterfield cigarettes.
4. No entries will be accepted later than 24 hours after the Davidsonian is circulated.
5. This contest not open to members of Davidsonian staff.

feats over a four-period span. Those ten come from an aggregate of over 100 matches from frosh-to-senior competition. There has
been something magical about the presence of Bo these four years. We’ve put him up on a kind of pedestal
— someone who wears the old Red and Black whom we all point to with pride; someone still to boast
of when we blush on hearing comments on our failures on other athletic fronts. It is a hard thing to
say, considering some of the splendid athletes we have had in the past four years, but I believe that Bo
has been the most outstanding nationally of any performer Davidson has had during his stay here. Fifth ranking singles’ player
in the South for the past two years is certainly pretty strong support by the Southern Lawn Tennis Association to
the high opinion we have of the little guy who edited our football program, did our cheerleading, and kept the
basketball team running with his live-wire antics. Check the fellows Roddey’s lost to this year, and you’ll find most of
them from another country or above the Mason-Dixon. That still validates his southern ranking. But Bo isn’t presently concerned with
his southern ranking alone. In tennis, you don’t just draw a line at the Mason-Dixon, for example, and confine your
victories to fellows raised on beans and corn-pone. Bo proved he wasn’t satisfied with that in his terrific three-set loss
to Pancho Gonzales two summers back. That was the summer following his sophomore season, an undefeated season, by the way.
Now, this weekend, Bo is anxious to assert supremacy in the Southern Conference circles. That is what was back of
his worried countenance Monday afternoon. That is why he said, “It’s just not quite the time for it.” He felt
that first there were the very difficult hurdles labeled Taylor (NC) and Atwater (W&M) to be taken before he should
receive the victor’s wreath. Win or lose this weekend, Bobo is still king on our campus. He will remain in
our minds Mr. Tennis for years to come. This has been, as we said it would be, just a frank,
personal, family talk. Maybe too frank. But we think we’ve got in a quotation the epitome of Davidson’s four-year feeling
toward Bo Roddey: The speaker? Any Davidson student, faculty member, or friend. “Match isn’t over yet, but Bo won.”

Eastman Again Big Gun for Kittens, Hurling 6-4 Revenge Over Wolves
By MAC RICHARDS

In their return game with Charlotte Tech High School, the Davidson freshmen squared things at one game apiece by handing
the Wolves a 6-4 defeat. The winning pitcher was Paul Eastman, while Robert Sweet was credited with the loss. The
Wolves outhit the freshmen, but Tech pitchers walked 11 Wildkittens, while Eastman gave up only three bases on balls. The
Wildkittens jumped to a first inning, 2-0, lead without a base hit. Two walks, an error, and a hit tied
it up in the bottom half of the first and went ahead in the third on Buddy Ross’ inside-the-park home
run. The Wolfpack added one more in the seventh. Davidson took the lead in the fourth when an error, a
walk, and a hit gave them two. Single runs were added in the fifth and sixth. The victory closed the
season for Coach Boyd Baird's frosh.

The scoring:
Davidson Frosh 200 211 000—6
Tech 201 000 100—4
Eastman and Downs; Sweet, Medlin, McWhiter and Horne.

(Continued On Page Four)

A top scholar and ROTC Honor Graduate Cadet Lt. Col. Nathan Adams enjoyed his final military ball in 1940, soon
left for Fort Sill’s Field Artillery School. Within months Adams was overseas, flying Major Nathan Adams, Auburn GO Personnel Manager,
US Air Force. Following a three-month course, Lt. Adams applied for pilot training, was accepted, and proceeded to Maxwell Field.
V-J Day came, and Adams decided to make the service a career. He chose personnel work as his career field,
was assigned to the Adjutant General’s School at Fort Oglethorpe, Georgia. He advises his Commanding Officer on selection, assignment, and
promotion of all officers and airmen in the command. If you are single, between the ages of 20 and 26½,
with at least two years of college, consider the many career opportunities as a pilot or navigator in the U.S.
Air Force. Procurement Teams are visiting many colleges and universities to explain these career opportunities. Watch for them. You may
also get full details at your nearest Air Force Base or U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force Recruiting Station, or
by writing to the Chief of Staff, U.S. Air Force, Aviation Cadet Branch, Washington 25, D.C.

AIR FORCE
ONLY THE BEST CAN BE AVIATION CADETS!
