Last week, we got off on a tangent and looked at some of the controversial aspects of the interfraternity sports’ situation—now, there are several other related items that we would like to get off our chest. Since last week, Coach Whittle has indicated that a meeting will be called in the next few weeks of fraternity representatives to make plans for the athletic program for next year. This is certainly a step in the right direction, but only the surface will have been scratched. Specifically, we are referring to the crying need of these same representatives getting their heads together and drafting some definite set of rules for each different sport, checking over the point system, making provisions necessary to assure that adequate officiating will be provided for all games, and perhaps most important of all—formulating a crack-proof set of eligibility rules for participation by varsity men, numeral winners, or men out for a sport during the time in which the fraternity sport is being played. All of these proposals should be printed and distributed to each fraternity, and in addition, it might not be a bad idea to post them in each dormitory and print them in the Davidsonian. Thus, every logical medium would have been utilized in an effort to publicize the regulations to every student. These aforementioned weaknesses in the program this year caused many criticisms and ill-feelings, and every one of them is avoidable if proper actions are taken. We are in full sympathy with the criticism that fraternities have brought to us during the year and asked us to air in this column. Let’s look at some of the things that did happen or might conceivably happen if corrective actions aren’t taken. Take for instance the touch football rounds. Indecision or uncertainty on the part of the officials have turned many would-be wins into losses for teams that deserved to win. In one very important game last year, one fraternity was ‘jilted’ out of a win because the official moved the ball back to the 18-yard line to start the downs after the team had penetrated within almost certain TD range as the result of a long pass. Of course, every team has suffered, so they say, as a result of faulty officiating, but it is unnecessary. If the official has made a decision the way he saw it, there should be no complaint; if, however, on the other hand, ignorance of the pertinent rules prompted him to make such a decision, then there is no excuse. Absolute familiarity with all the rules, and attendance in classes conducted by members of the coaching staff—which we have long advocated—should be requisites of all officials in any sport. Then there is the ancient question of playing ineligible men. Fortunately, most of the fraternities have abided by the rules to the best of their knowledge—or were forced to abide by them due to the alertness of other fraternities. Some men who are out for varsity sports, but failed to make the starting team, have skipped practice on days when their fraternity had a game in order to play with them. Along the same line, is it fair for freshmen who made their numerals in cross-country to be eligible for participation in the interfraternity track meet in Spring? A simple set of rules governing this matter could be drawn up in fifteen minutes time. We don’t believe that all the trouble can be attributed to the powers-that-be in the athletic department. There have been attempts to familiarize the fraternities with existing rules and (Continued On Page Six)

They Pass Every Hot Weather Test

Voted most popular by a cool majority of the student body—Haspel Refreshable Clothes are on the required list for campus wear in hot weather. Sensibly light, invitingly cool to the appearance...to your comfort, Haspel whisperweight suits are thoroughly schooled in “good taste... completely correct for classroom, social and traveling wear.

Haspel Sir Preme 25.50
Haspel Jackets 13.50
John Meck & Son
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

wildcat Sports

PAGE FOUR

GOODPASTURE BREAKS TEN

THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1950

RACQUETWIELDERS PRODUCE CINCY 1950 VOLLEYBALL CHAMPIONS

Last week the Phi Delta Theta volleyball team finished their season with a record of nine wins and one loss—good enough to give them the championship. The KA’s and Phi Gams were knotted for second place. The victorious Phi Delt crew, captained by Al Cook, is shown here. First row, left to right: Hugh Huffaker, Gene Craven, Mitchell Smith, Neil Leach. Second row: Jim Witherspoon, Bill Ray, Al Cook, Charlie Parker and John Bennett.

Mark Against Deacons, Goodpasture Posts His Best Time In 100, 220

Davidson's strong tracksters turned loose all their power Wednesday afternoon and gave Wake Forest’s Demon Deacons a 100 2-3-30 1-3 shellacking on Richardson Field in a Conference track meet marking the third win for Pete Whittle's thin clads against a lone defeat this year. The laurels were all for Davidson Wednesday, as the Deacons could amass only one first place, and that in the mile relay against a Davidson combination not as strong as it could have been since Whittle was giving as many boys as possible a chance to run. On the other hand, the Wildcats amassed the other 14 firsts in soaring past the century mark for the second time this year. The outstanding individual performances for the Cats were turned in by Ken Goodpasture and Tommy Haller. Goodpasture took firsts in both sprints, covering the 100 yard dash in a lightning fast 9.9 for the best performance of the day. This was the first time Goodpasture has ever broken 10 flat in a meet, and will make Conference sprinters take notice of a new star in their field. Haller, the Presbyterians jack of all trades, took 2 firsts and a tie for second to amass 11 1-3 points to be the Cats high scorer again. The best race of the day was the 440. Bill Klein, Bruce Ballenger, and Dick Stockton put on a real show for the crowd racing in to a close finish. Klein edged out in front at the tape while Ballenger and Stockton ended in a dead heat for second. Jim Vann returned to form again and took the discus with a hefty heave of 140’ 10” as Blake Bradley, Bob Long and Dave Anderson, Tom Stockton, Bill Pritchett, Bob Sharpe, Dave Williams, Joe Miller and Whit Cobb all came through for firsts in their specialties.

Summary:
1. Mile run: (1) Brady (D); (2) T. Stockton (D); (3) Pruitt, (WF) Time: 4:47.2.
2. 440 yard run: (1) Klein (D); (2) tie—Ballenger (D) and D. Stockton (D)—Time: 53:6.
3. 100 yard dash: (1) Goodpasture (D); (2) Barron (D); (3) Gregory (WF)—Time: 9:9.
4. 880 yard run: (1) T. Stockton (D); (2) Pate, (WF); (3) D. Stockton (D)—Time: 2:7:0.
5. 2-mile run: (1) tie—Long (D) and Anderson (D); (3) Pruitt (WF)—Time: 10:43:7.
6. 220 yard dash: (1) Goodpasture (D); (2) Mason (WF); (3) Barron (D)—Time: 23:3.
7. High Hurdles: (1) Pritchett (D); (2) White (D); (3) Butler (WF)—Time: 15:6.
8. Low Hurdles: (1) Haller (D); (2) Mason (WF); (3) Miller (WF)—Time: 27:3.
9. Shot Put: (1) Chandler (D); (2) Lazenby (D); (3) Richard (WF)—Distance 41’ 11-4”.
10. Discus: (1) Vann (D); (2) Sharpe (D); (3) Butler (WF)—Distance: 140’ 10”.
11. Javelin: (1) (D); (2) Johnson (WF); (3) Maynard (WF)—Distance: 161’ 3 1-2”.
12. Pole Vault: (1) Haller (D); (2) Fieckeisen (D); (3) Price (WF)—Height 10’.
13. High Jump: (1) Williams (D); (2) Tie—Butler (WF); Haller (D), and Cornell (D)—Height: 5’ 10”.
14. Broad Jump: (1) Cobb (D); (2) Wiggs (WF); (3) Cornell (D)—Distance: 20’ 10 1-2”.
15. Mile Relay: (1) Wake Forest; (2) Davidson—Time: 3:43:7.

Cat Netmen in Championship Form In Raking DevilsDavidson’s netters took another conference victory when they downed Duke University’s netmen on the Blue Devil’s courts by the score of 7-2. Bo Roddey led the Wildcat racqueteers in their winning of four 6-0 singles and all three doubles matches. Bo started things rolling by downing his opponent, Lew McMasters, 6-1, 6-1. Teddy Keesler, playing in the No. 2 spot, followed closely on Roddey’s heels as he defeated John Ross 6-0, 6-4.

The Dukesters managed to salvage two of the last four singles matches for the Devil’s only victories over the visiting ’Cats. John Tapley downed Allen Fanjoy 6-2, 6-4, while Frank Carloss was pushed to down Rob Palmer 8-6, 7-5. Whit Cobb and Allen Strand racked up two more victories for the Davidsonians by downing Hal Lipton and Jack Warmath respectively.

Davidson’s duos were unbeatable, although Roddey and Cobb had to come from behind to take the last two out of three sets. The Blue Devil opponents, McMasters and Warmath, took the only doubles set that the Wildcats relinquished and put the Davidsonians behind 6-4. However, Cobb and Roddey struck back to gain sweet revenge by taking the next two sets 6-2, 6-0. Strand and Dewey Keesler, both sophomores, joined to down Duke’s No. 3 doubles, while Teddy Keesler and Fanjoy rolled over the No. 2 combination of the Blue Devils to fill out the 7-2 victory.

Scores by sets as follows with Davidson players first:
Roddey vs. McMasters, 6-1, 6-1 — Davidson.
T. Keesler vs. Ross — 6-0, 6-4 — Davidson.
Cobb vs. Lipton — 6-4, 6-3 — Davidson.
Strand vs. Warmath — 6-4, 6-4 — Davidson.
Fanjoy vs. Tapley — 2-6, 4-6 — Duke.
Palmer vs. Carloss — 6-8, 5-7 — Duke.
Roddey - Cobb vs. McMasters - Warmath — 4-6, 6-2, 6-0 — Davidson.
Strand - D. Keesler vs. Tapley - Lipton — 6-2, 6-1 — Davidson.
T. Keesler - Fanjoy vs. Carloss - Ross — 6-2, 10-8 — Davidson.

Davidson's Victory-Crazy Netters Add Northern Visitors to Long List
By CHARLIE HAWKINS

The Davidson netters added another win to their envied record Tuesday afternoon when they beat the University of Cincinnati at Davidson. Bo Roddey, Whit Cobb, Allen Strand, and Rob Palmer all turned in their usual good performances for Coach Derrick Barton’s boys. Bo Roddey started things off with a victory over Cincinnati’s No. 1 man, Thomas, in sets of 6-0, 6-3, and Whit Cobb, playing No. 3 for the Davidsonians, won in sets of 6-2, 6-0 from Qualey. Allan Strand took his match from Cincinnati’s Gilbert by 6-1, 6-2 scores. Rob Palmer continued playing his fine brand of tennis by beating Yeager of Cincinnati in sets of 6-2, 6-1. Allen Fanjoy lost Davidson's only singles match in bowing to Grose of Cincinnati, 6-2, 2-6, 7-9, and Teddy Keesler, playing No. 2 for Davidson, overcame his opponent, Ogel, in sets of 6-0, 6-3.

Teddy Keesler and Allan Fanjoy, playing the No. 1 doubles position for Davidson, dropped their match to Thomas and Ogel of Cincinnati in sets of 4-6, 6-3. Allan Strand and Dewey Keesler regained winning form for the Davidsonians with a 6-4, 6-2 victory over Cincinnati’s number 2 double team of Gilbert and Gross. Davidson's Bill Childs and Peyre Kennedy lost to Cincinnati’s Qualey and Mault in sets of 1-6, 6-4, 6-4, to close out the match.

Saturday afternoon the Wildcats play a long-awaited match with the Tar Heels of the University of North Carolina. Carolina has beaten Davidson by scores of 5-4 for the last 2 years, and a win over the undefeated Carolinians would possibly bring the State Championship to Davidson, so look for a real battle Saturday afternoon.

Linksters Win One On Virginia March
By CHERRY STRIBLING

Davidson's golf team journeyed into Virginia for three matches last week and playing under extremely adverse weather conditions which made scores soar, only managed one win out of three matches. On Thursday, April 13, the Cat linksmen met Virginia Tech in a match at Roanoke. The match was played in a biting cold wind and snow, and over a poorly conditioned course. This match was lost by a 5-4 score. On Friday, Washington and Lee was the opponent. The Generals boast one of the best teams in Virginia, and playing the same conditions as on Thursday the team lost by a score of 9½ to ½. The team found itself on Saturday, after two bad matches and trounced VMI by a score of 7½ to 1½. Number 1 man Monty Hill defeated VMI's hitherto undefeated George Maxwell in the feature match of the day. The golf team’s record now stands at 5 won, 2 lost and 1 tied. The varsity and freshman teams journey to Raleigh Tuesday to meet N.C. State in two matches. The varsity will be overwhelming favorites in this match.

Harding High School Tops Wildkittens In Two Arc-Light Games
By JIM FARRAR

The Davidson Frosh dropped two games to Harding High School of Charlotte this week. Both games were played at night at Richard Field at Harding. The Tuesday game was a real thriller, with both teams playing very good ball. Harding jumped to a two to nothing lead in the first inning on a walk and a pair of hits. Davidson got back in the game with a run in their half of the third and another one in their half of the sixth. Harding got a run in the last of the seventh. In the top half of the ninth, the Frosh were behind 3 to 2. In this inning Morrow lead off and struck out, Whisnant doubled down the left field line, and “Hip” Cathey singled him home on a grass-cutter through second. Farrar walked, and that was all for Dixon who pitched brilliant ball for Harding. “Yankee” Eastman met Ballard, the new Harding portside hurler with a single through the box. Cathey came home on the hit, and Farrar scored on a bad throw to the third baseman. Reese and Elliott struck out to end the inning. Going into the last half of the ninth, Davidson was nursing a 5-3 lead. However, Harding and the umpire came back against Eastman in a big way. Lee singled for Harding, Cook and Parnell walked. With the bases loaded, the pitcher hit into a fielder's choice at the plate. Then came the disaster. Joe White caught a high inside pitch and drove it over left fielder Cathey’s head.

Chesterfield Sport Quiz
1. Who is the manager of the Chicago Cubs?
2. What Brooklyn rookie was voted most valuable player in the International League last year?
3. Who was the last major league pitcher to win 30 games in a single season?
4. Who is National Collegiate golf champion?
5. What is the lowest salary a major-league player can draw?

Rules:
1. Print your answers clearly on the back of a Chesterfield wrapper. Take your answers to Frank Perrin in 112 West.
2. No entries will be received later than 24 hours after the Davidsonian is circulated.
3. The first three correct entries will each receive a carton of Chesterfield cigarettes.
4. This contest is not open to members of the Davidsonian staff.