SUBSIDIZATION: THE ANSWER

Being a member of Eumanean, I have seldom the opportunity to enter the Shrine of the Phi across the way. My entrance to Eu Hall is embarrassingly rare enough. But Tuesday night the Phi confines afforded me one of my most enjoyable evenings on Davidson campus and also one of my warmest, despite the fact that the host had failed to provide adequate heat.

By BILL WHITE

The occasion was the second of the YMCA forums for the year, this being upon that very present verbal football, "The Davidson College Athletic Policy." Every student—and faculty member—who has any feeling either way on the matter should have been there. There was a disappointingly small gathering, but many of them had their say in the matter. They ran the show like this. Professor Tyson was the moderator. Athletic Director Scott led off with the picture of Davidson’s past and present stand in athletic policy and gave some of the practices prevalent in other parts of the country. Professor Fulcher followed with about ten minutes of reason as to why our policy should be a vigorous one toward subsidization, and Dr. Gallent closed the formal talk with ten minutes of reason as to why subsidization had no place in college athletics. Then followed a panel discussion during which Tom Mann spoke as a student in favor of Dr. Gallent’s views, and I put on a tie to sit beside Professor Fulcher for fifteen minutes. After that, the discussion was thrown open to the floor for fifteen minutes, and the questions flew.

For those who weren’t there, we are reproducing the main points stressed by Professor Fulcher and Dr. Gallent. They are merely the skeletons of argument (if that is not too harsh a word to use) that was drummed out in the course of the evening. You may think of more and better reasons pro and con.

Professor Fulcher:
1. I am in favor of our present plan of subsidization to athletes and even an extension, provided:
   (a) that such funds come from sources other than student fees and the income from our invested endowment;
   (b) that an athlete who receives aid or a scholarship must be making satisfactory progress toward graduation; and
   (c) that our curriculum be not changed because of subsidization.
2. I believe in a well-rounded college. I feel that Davidson should award aids or scholarships to men who show prowess in general scholarship, music, arts, writing, religious teachings, science, and athletics. Naturally, aids are to be given only to those making satisfactory progress toward graduation.
3. We are now living in an age of awards or compensations. Church choirs and church treasurers now are paid for services. Except for those of wealth, one expects to be paid for his labor or accomplishments, and this philosophy—whether we like it or not—has reached into college life. Every institution with intercollegiate activities eyes the gate receipts. Is it not natural that those who furnish entertainment where a charge is made should receive some compensation? Glory is wonderful, but in the present day of reality, mere glory or fun is no longer sufficient.
4. Subsidization of athletes is making it possible for many young men to attend college and to have many of the advantages of life that they would not have otherwise. I believe that most of the money that has come to the college this year through the Wildcat Club to help in athletics would not have come otherwise, and I feel that this money is helping worthy athletes here. Wildcat Club members have given of their own volition. Athletic ties are the closest bonds of alumni and student body. In no way is their gift toward a more creditable team hindering the educational purpose of this college.
5. The spirit of many institutions, for a good part, is built around the intercollegiate accomplishments of the institution. It promotes a cohesiveness of spirit through the credit it reflects on the school. This is exemplified in the songs and mottoes. Where else has the Wildcat Spirit of old come? Few alumni remember their alma mater only for her academic side.
6. Our athletic scholastic standard is higher than the average of boys not partaking in athletics. Seldom a year passes without one or more on the Phi Beta Kappa roster.
7. In my judgment, those who oppose our present plan of subsidization are afraid that the college from its student fee income or invested endowment income would have to bear the burden of finances.
8. For the first time in the history of the college, we have an organization that in an orderly manner is helping our intercollegiate athletic program. Because some colleges have allowed athletics to get out of hand and run into the red is no indication such will be the case at Davidson. The very purpose of the Wildcat Club vows to hold the program well in hand. They would help only boys who maintain the strictly upheld scholastic standards and meet the requirements for which every other student is responsible. There is no fear that Davidson is losing her head and allowing any part of the college to become disproportionate.
9. I feel that our athletic staff is competent and if given an opportunity will bring to Davidson the position in the intercollegiate world that is rightfully hers.
10. In subsidization, we are in good company. The best institutions in our state are doing it and so are Princeton and Yale, and even Harvard now, in the East. I feel that a part of our American education is tied up in intercollegiate sports—interest and participation—and that Davidson would take her rightful position among the other leading colleges of this area.

1. The basis of my presentation is that anything introduced into a college must be examined in the light of the purpose.

(Continued On Page Five)

PAGE FOUR
Wildcat Sports
THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SECTION
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1950

Cagers Open Northern Swing
Loyola Among Clubs Encountered
Swimmers Clash On Trip Through Md, Penn, Ky.

An extended Christmas tour opens, in effect, tonight for Davidson’s Wildcats when they meet Richmond’s Spiders in the Virginia capital. The Richmond meeting will be the third Southern Conference test in a row for Coach Boyd Baird’s hoopsters, and the first in which they might find themselves rated an even chance or better to walk away the victor. Tomorrow night, however, more real trouble is on the way up for the Cats when they travel over to Williamsburg for their fourth straight loop scrap with William and Mary's surprisingIndians. They hustle home Sunday for two brief days of classes and then head North again for three pre-Christmas engagements. Wednesday the Wildcats buck Quantico’s always-prepared-for-college-competition Marines. Thursday they run into one of the nation’s toughest outfits when they hit Loyola in Baltimore, and Saturday night the Davidsonians move over to Beaver Falls (near Pittsburgh), Pa., for a round with Geneva College. That ends the first half of the northern trip, with the boys traveling home with hopes of making it by Christmas Eve night. Five days after Christmas the Cats open shop again, this time in Pikesville, Ky. Six of the crew—Fred Hengeveld, Mac McLean, Bob Turk, Bill Proctor, Al Fitzgerald, and Bob Graham—will leave from Davidson to meet Tom Haller, Don Lazenby, Tom Coleman, Bill Brooks in the Kaintuck for the contest there with Morehead to North Carolina to meet McCrary's Eagles in Asheboro the second day of the New Year. After this one, the itinerary reads University of South Carolina in Columbia on January 6 and the Citadel at Charleston on January 9. All of which leads to the next home show by the Wildcats, January 9 with N. C. State’s Wolfpack. From there on out with the exception of a January 15 date with McCrary’s, it is nothing but conference competition the rest of the route. This early winter swing should strengthen the Cats considerably—in ball playing ability and general confidence. It should be a good toughening up period for the rough loop grind ahead, and that is exactly as Baird planned it. Dropping the North Carolina tilt by a close three-point margin hurt. Baird stated before the season that the Cats would have to take the close ones to make the tournament. That was a close one, but the Tar Heels possessed the power to protect a lead. This weekend, Richmond will be tough and William and Mary very tough. By taking both of them, Davidson can send herself off to intersectional war with a 2-2 home record and the consolation of better things ahead. Richmond last year played its finest ball of the season to sink the Cats. The Spiders have virtually the same outfit returning and gave Carolina a fit before bowing last week. If Davidson takes tonight’s it will not be without a fight. Coach Boyd Baird is expected to start Al Fitzgerald at center, replacing Bill Proctor, as a result of Fitzgerald's second half performance against North Carolina. Regulars Tommy Haller and Bill Brooks will open at forward with Fred Hengeveld and Mac McLean getting the usual opening bid at guard.

With Duke's Devils Tonight At Durham
By MOODY SMITH

Davidson College’s swimming team, tutored by Coach Dick Redding, plunges into Southern Conference competition for the second time in the school’s rather brief aquatic history when it faces Duke University's strong Blue Devil natators tonight in the Durham pool. The Red and Black lost a tough 40-35 decision to the Citadel last Friday in the first intercollegiate swimming meet in which a Davidson splash squad has ever participated. Though naturally inexperienced, the Wildcat fish gave a good account of themselves, and gave due warning to the rest of the conference not to expect a pushover with Davidson. Led by Captain Bill Ray and veterans Ken Taylor and Hugh Evans in the sprints, the Davidsonians also present an adept array of (Continued On Page Five)

Ex-Captain Cobb Joins NYAC Team

Whit Cobb, captain of last year’s basketballing Wildcats, is currently continuing his fine game with the New York Athletic Club team in the Gotham City. The squad had reportedly been set at 12 men until Whit reported for work, then they made room for a 13th man. Hardly unlucky will the Durham native prove himself either. At Davidson he was the highest scoring guard in the Southern Conference and recognized as a defensive ace without a rival. Besides his presidency of the student body, Whit was co-holder of the Southern Conference doubles tennis championship with Bo Roddey, winner of the Tommy Peters Sportsmanship Trophy, and Southern Conference Athlete of the Year for 1950—lettering in basketball, tennis, and track.

Against Richmond, Wm. & Mary
Wildcat of The Week
BILL (BONES) BROOKS

Bill (Bones) Brooks captures our spotlight this week for ‘Athlete’ honors by continuing and even bettering his last year’s cage record. So far this season, Brooks has averaged in the two Southern Conference games, 15 points per game—making 15 against State, and again tallying 15 markers against Carolina. Last year “Bullet” Bill averaged 11.1 points per game and reached the highest mark of Wildcat 1949-50 basketeers in scoring 30 points against Hanes Hosiery. In that game he also sank 8 out of 10 free throws to receive high honors in that field for the year.

Brooks was imported three years ago from the rich basketball fields of Kaintuck. He teamed with his “cousin” Tom Coleman in his freshman year to burn up the backboards and come out with a 16-2 win record. Since then he has been as hot as ever, making the starting five in his sophomore year. That was last year and he averaged 11.1 points against Southern Conference competition. Up until this year, Brooks was the “tall, skinny, one” to his hoopmates. Now he shares this dubious honor with Bill Proctor and Joe Dudley and can no longer be ribbed for that lack of flesh anymore. Bill is 6 feet 2 inches tall and carries 168 pounds on his lanky frame which even sounds high at that to the casual observer. His rangy arms and legs and jutting joints sometimes make it hard for the opponents as he is always everywhere on the floor, but especially in the scrambles. He usually comes out with the ball, too.

Brooks possesses one of the deadliest eyes in the business and he is always a nemesis to the enemy (Continued On Page Five)

WILSON-WRIGHT’S
MAIN STREET
DAVIDSON, N. C.

THACKER’S, INC.
221 South Tryon Street
Private Dining Rooms for Parties and Banquets
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
Phone 25490
Charlotte, N. C.