BILLY CASSELS IS CHOSEN TO EDIT ANNUAL
TROTMAN, BULGIN, BEATY HONORED
VOLUME XXXVIII

Che Mabidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Juniors Name Cassels to Head 1951 Quips and Cranks Staff

Voting returns for editorship of the Quips and Cranks named Bill Cassels as editor-in-chief of the 1951 Annual Staff. The final tally climaxed a heated race conducted by the Elections Board in selecting top administrative leaders for three campus publications. Victory was decisively clinched when Dave Miller, Chairman of the Election Board, announced Cassels’ majority over his single eligible competitor, Hartley Hall, for the position. According to Article XII, Section 3 of the Student Constitution, nominations for Editor of the Annual were made by the Annual Staff and voted on by the rising Senior Class.

Before coming to Davidson to major in business and economics, Bill spent most of his twenty-one years in Columbia, S.C., his hometown. He is most famously known for owning an excellently conditioned 1923 Hudson and dating attractive girls. For the past two years, he has been a Davidson cheerleader and has been nominated for the head cheerleader position next year. In the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity, Bill was crowned the outstanding pledge his freshman year, edited his fraternity paper this year, and was recently elected president of the brotherhood. A post on the YMCA Cabinet, Chairman of the Social Commission, is held by Cassels. He is active in fraternity intramural athletics and was a member of the Cross Country team in 1948. The newly elected editor served three years on the Davidsonian Business Staff—last year as Assistant Business Manager, and three years on the Quips and Cranks Staff of which he has just been chosen editor.

Phi Society Stages Ervin Lodge Picnic

For a much-enjoyed hamburger fry at Erwin Lodge last Saturday, the members of the Philanthropic Literary Society are much indebted to Harrison Taylor, the chairman of the social committee, and to certain other members of the society who made use of their talents that night. Most of the party watched the Wildcat baseball team defeat Clemson and then arrived at the lodge about six o'clock. Soon after, the feasting was begun around the barbecue pit below the lodge. Extraordinary culinary art was displayed by Henry Hansen in his preparation with french fried potatoes and all the trimmings. The meal was topped off with ice cream and cake. After eating, the members and their dates adjourned inside for round dancing and square dancing, which was called by Harrison Taylor. Henry Hansen further entertained the group by introducing several interesting and unusual parlor games. After more dancing, the party gathered outside in the moonlight.

(Continued On Page Four)

SIGMA UPSILON ELECTS SEVEN NEW MEMBERS

Seven men were asked to join the Sigma Upsilon honorary literary society on April 29. Shelly Heard, Jack Hunter, Pete Kalouridis, Dudley Pendleton, Stuart Shippey, Tom Abel, and Professor Guerrant were selected. Each of these men was carefully considered and have met all the necessary requirements of membership. These seven men eligible for membership will be initiated at the last meeting of the year to be held at Erwin Lodge next Monday night. Members will also be served a picnic supper. In addition to initiating new members, officers will be selected for next year and a short program will be presented by four veteran members.

Rutledge Presents Literary Laurels; Speaks to Students

The presentation by Mr. Archibald Rutledge, famous poet laureate of South Carolina, of the annual Vereen Bell award for creative writing was the occasion of chapel last Monday morning. This year the award was presented to versatile Bill Trotman for the writing of an “extraordinary work," a symphonic drama, complete with orchestration and stage settings, about Blackbeard, the infamous pirate who prowled North Carolina’s coasts. Mr. Rutledge said that in his estimation the work deserves to be ranked with Paul Green's renowned “The Lost Colony.” Honorable mention went to two other entries, Mack Bulgin, for his “Idiot Look of Love,” drew from Mr. Rutledge the observation that the accuracy of psychology in modern young people terrified him. Bill Beattie, a senior from Atlanta, Ga., also won honorable mention with his “High Dive.”

In a short introductory talk, Mr. Rutledge immediately won his audience by remarking with his characteristic quick wit, “after that wonderful introduction, I can hardly wait to hear what I'm going to say.” At the present time, he is devoting a great deal of time to helping young unknown writers get the breaks they deserve. He feels qualified to judge talent and uses his influence to “tell the world” about promising writers. The first purpose of a writer is to make his meaning clear. If he fails in this, his work is a failure. A writer who is obscure “has nothing to say and says it profoundly.” Genius and clarity walk hand in hand for one of the most difficult things in literature is to write something simple and clear and concentrated. One more valuable point was stressed by Mr. Rutledge, the writer owes a deep moral responsibility to his reader. By this, he does not...

(Continued On Page Four)

Vereen Bell Award Given to Trotman

Monday morning in chapel, Bill Trotman, freshman from Winston-Salem, was awarded the Vereen Bell Memorial award for creative writing by Dr. Archibald Rutledge, poet laureate of South Carolina. Each year the award, established in honor of Vereen Bell, a Davidson graduate killed in the battle of the Coral Sea, is presented to the student submitting the best writing. Bill's entry was “Blackbeard,” a symphonic drama in two acts, for which he wrote the script, composed the music, and designed the sets. The plot of “Blackbeard” is centered around the infamous pirate of the eighteenth century whose real name was Edward Teach. It tells of his ill-fated romance with his pirate-companion, Ann Bonney, of his finding Katherine, who tried to make his love for her lead him to a good life; and of his death through the conniving of the jealous Ann. The principal setting is a bluff on the island of Ocracoke, North Carolina, which overlooks Albemarle Sound. Bill conceived the idea of writing “Blackbeard” several years ago while he was a counselor at Camp Morehead. He secured a vast amount of pirate history at that time from Mr. F. C. Salisbury of the Twin City Times in Morehead City. After compiling his material, it took him a little over a year to do the actual writing. Commenting on the play, Dr. Rutledge said: “It deserves to rank with Paul Green's ‘Lost Colony’.” Bill has been very active in dramatics at Davidson this year, having...

(Continued On Page Three)

I. R. C. NAMES OFFICERS

At the last meeting of the International Relations Club, the election of officers for the new year was held. Gray Hampton, Bill Cummings, and “Coot” Dubose were elected respectively to the offices of president, vice president, and secretary-treasurer. Following this, Mr. Kan Pan addressed the club on Red China, stressing the fading out of the Nationalist government as a power. The last meeting of the club for this year will be held on Tuesday evening at Phi Hall. At that time, Professor Wilson of the Bible Department will speak to the club on “England as it is today, the possibilities of war, conditions of England's survival of a third world war.” All members are urged to be present.

Archibald Rutledge, distinguished writer from South Carolina, is shown presenting the Vereen Bell Award to Bill Trotman in Chapel Monday. Trotman’s winning entry was a symphonic drama about Blackbeard.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1950
OLD ORDER CHANGETH YIELDING PLACE TO NEW
NUMBER TWENTY-FIVE

SCOTT IS ELECTED DAVIDSONIAN EDITOR

GORDON SCOTT VICTORIOUS IN CLOSELY CONTESTED ELECTION

After four ballots of student-body voting which came to a climax the afternoon of Monday, May 1, Gordon Scott emerged as next year’s editor of the Davidsonian. Scott was chosen from a field of nine nominees whose names appeared on the first ballot, cast on Tuesday, April 25. The following Wednesday's...

GORDON SCOTT

YMCA Labor Forum/Spanish Club Meets; Draws Large Crowd

The second YMCA forum of the year was held Wednesday night in Phi Hall. The subject under discussion was: “The Christian Ethics in the Labor Management Problem.” Moderator for the evening was Dr. George Heaton of Charlotte, who outlined briefly some of the different approaches taken by Christian groups of varying background and belief. Other members of the forum were Dr. C. K. Brown and Mr. Griffin, Economics Professors of Davidson College, and Mr. Paul Burgess, representative of the CIO’s Political Action Committee, who is an ordained Congregational Minister. Graduating from Union Seminary, he is head of the PAC in North and South Carolina, where he is currently involved with the organizing of various textile mills. After Dr. Heaton’s initial speech, Mr. Burgess was the first speaker, outlining some of the necessary ideals which should be sought by...

(Continued On Page Four)1950 'Y' Gift Fund Promised to Negroes

Monday evening at a joint meeting of the Y. M. C. A. cabinet and class officers, a resolution was adopted committing the next Y. M. C. A. Gift Fund to the promotion of home ownership among the Negro citizens of Davidson. The resolution provided for a board of trustees to be established “to purchase U. S. government bonds with the Christmas Gift Fund and place them in escrow with the bank which lends the money on the houses included in this project.” The bank lending the money to the Negro families will use the bonds to help insure the loans. When the need for such assistance no longer exists, the bonds will then be transferred from the bank to the Y. M. C. A. cabinet then in office, which, at its discretion, will use the money for furthering Negro work in the community. The board of trustees will be composed of the secretary of the Y. M. C. A., the president of the Y. M. C. A., the president of the Student Body, Dr. J. R. Hartness, and Mr. F. W. Frederickson. The building of the houses will be supervised by the Citizens Housing Committee.

Elects New Officers

Sigma Delta Pi and the Spanish Club held a joint meeting at Erwin Lodge on April 26 with the Spanish Club of Mitchell College. An outdoor supper was prepared and served by the social committee, consisting of E. F. Montgomery and J. M. Coble, with the assistance of Mrs. A. V. Goldiere, Mrs. F. K. Fleagle, and Miss Della Shore. The program in the lodge consisted of the following: Uno de ellos debe casarse by Clyde Taylor, Ham Wade, Rip Bernhardt, and Irwin Richardson; El apuro by Bob Wearn, Dick Coburn, Ralph Roberts, Virgil Pino, and Bill Freeman; Spanish songs played on the guitar by Miss Ina Hill, a member of the faculty at Mitchell; and a play El valor de español by members of the Spanish Club from Mitchell. At the regular meeting on April 12 in the Guest House, the following officers were elected for 1950-51: President, R. T. Lewis; Vice-Presidents, P. B. Guthery and L. C. Robinson; Secretary, H. D. Middleton; Treasurer, A. V. Goldiere; Reporter, K. W. Jones; Faculty Advisor, C. W. Roberts.

Neil Leach Chooses Next YMCA Cabinet; Make Future Plans

Neil Leach, recently elected president of the student YMCA, announced to the Davidsonian Wednesday afternoon his cabinet selections for the 1950-51 school year. With the exception of the position of Freshman Advisor, which is now being voted on by the rising senior class, next year's YMCA cabinet is complete. The newly appointed cabinet members will work under the leadership of student-elected YMCA administrators: the president; 1st Vice-President, Allen Strand; 2nd Vice-President, Bryan Robinson. Reorganization is the keynote of Leach’s first action in his new post. Two principal steps are the basis of next year’s revitalized program. Last year, the YMCA cabinet was divided into four commissions—Faith and Worship, Social Activity, Service, and World Christianity—which was headed by a chairman and acted as coordinating councils within the cabinet. Leach feels that momentum is lost under such a system and that service may be carried on more efficiently by returning to the original plan of YMCA presidents, that to bring the entire cabinet back under the direct, unifying organization of the straight cabinet system. “Rather than waste good manpower and give indefinite jobs to cabinet members, each is to be given specific jobs for which he is responsible,” the new “Y” president stated. Secondly, he acclaims regularity of cabinet meetings is to be established: meetings will be held twice a month. Next year’s YMCA cabinet: Vespers — Sandy Morton. Chapel — Bob Gay. Last year’s position on the cabinet — College Bible class chairman. Spiritual development — Tommy Langford. Last year’s position on the cabinet — chairman of faith and worship. Special Services — Don Shriver. (Continued On Page Four)

MASQUERS END SEASON WITH ‘MAN WHO CAME TO DINNER’

The Red and Black Masquers marked the end of a successful season tonight with their presentation of the Broadway hit comedy of a few years back, “The Man Who Came To Dinner.” This popular play, which has been received very enthusiastically by theater and movie goers during the last decade, is a product of the pen of Moss Hart and George S. Kaufman. The scene of the play is laid in the modest home of the Stanleys, members of a small Ohio community. The story begins when the over domineering Sheridan Whitesides, literary critic and lecturer, stumbles and breaks his leg on the threshold of the Stanley home and is confined therein for a period of several weeks. The complications that follow provide a most amusing story and an enjoyable evening’s entertainment. Playing the leading role of this three-act comedy was Bill Trotman. Other members of the cast in order of appearance were as follows: Mrs. F. W. Hengeveld as Mrs. Stanley; Mary Wells McNeil as Miss Preen; Tad Currie as Richard Stanley; Mary McGill as June Stanley; Bob Hotchkiss as John; Carter Patterson as Sarah. (Continued On Page Four)

PHOTO CLUB MEMBERS NAME NEW OFFICERS

The Photo Club, at its call meeting of April 26, held elections for next year’s officers. After many repeated votes due to numerous ties, David Mathews was elected to succeed Charles Burrus as President of the club, and Ken Boyes was chosen to fill the office of Secretary-Treasurer which was previously held by Jack King. The Photo Club wishes to express its appreciation to those who gave advice and criticism on the Photo-of-the-Month and for the interest taken in this project. The President announced that the May selection would be posted soon. All members are asked to remember the last meeting of the year to be held Wednesday, May 10th, 7 p.m., in Professor Fulcher’s classroom.

Hartley Hall, cadet Colonel of Davidson’s ROTC command, a managing editor of this year’s paper, followed Scott closely throughout the race, and on Monday of the next week, as no voting took place Friday, April 28, only Hall and Scott were listed on the ballots. The votes were counted that Monday afternoon and the election’s outcome was announced the next morning during chapel assembly to the student body. Soon after having been told of his election, Scott was asked to tell reporters of any new plans or of any changes in policy he might be considering for the Davidsonian of 1950-51. He said, “although it is too early for me to have formed any definite plans, I will say that we will try to keep next year's paper up at the high standard Bob Hollister has set for it by utilizing the experienced men who served with Hollister on this year's staff. Maybe we can even improve the Davidsonian.” Scott is a rising senior from Statesville, North Carolina. Since the last half of his freshman year at Davidson, he has worked with the Davidsonian’s sports staff, moving into the Sports Editor's office for this term’s paper. Scott is president of his social fraternity, Pi Kappa Alpha, and is a member of the Eumenean Society and of Sigma Epsilon. John Heath, janitor of Georgia dormitory in which Scott (Continued On Page Four)

Davidson Entertains Third Arts Festival

During the past week the faculty committee on Fine Arts has presented to Davidsonians its third annual Arts Festival Week. Consisting of various recitals, exhibits, lectures, and one dramatic production, its purpose was to provide opportunities for a more concentrated enjoyment of the fine arts by students and faculty. The events took place according to the following daily summary:

SUNDAY
A concert was given by the College Band featuring numbers by Holst, Strauss, Kabalevsky, Grundman, Offenbach, and Enesco. Mr. Pfohl conducted the afternoon performance.

MONDAY
High spot of the day was the presentation of the Vereen Bell Creative Writing Award to Bill Trotman of the Freshman Class. Dr. Archibald Rutledge, poet laureate of South Carolina, gave the medal and made an address that evening. The winning work was a dramatic portrait of the pirate Blackbeard complete with musical score. According to Dr. Rutledge, it rated comparison with the renowned “Lost Colony.” A student recital took place in the afternoon starring Joe McLaney, Baritone; Harrison Taylor, Tenor; Henry Bridges, Organist; and Herbert Russell, Pianist. The accompanist was Eunice Berg.

TUESDAY
A lecture-recital given by Clemmens Sandresky brightened the morning Chapel Exercises. Mr. Sandresky pointed out that the composition of music is quite similar to that of a novel since a central theme is introduced in both and runs throughout the piece. He illustrated this by use of a sonata from Beethoven and terminated his program with a ballade, intermezzo, and rhapsody all by (Continued On Page Four)