PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF
GORDON SCOTT

BUSINESS MANAGER
JOHN LOFTIN

EDITORIAL STAFF
Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Associate Editors
Senior Editors
Bill Cumming, Dan McKeithen, Bill Hollister
Features Editor
Arnie Covell
Managing Editors
Pete Kalogridis, Tom Abel, Bill Adams, George McMurray, Ed Richardson, Shelley Beard
Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Proofreader—Charlie Baldwin
Columnist—John Hobart
Sports Editor—Bill White
Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen
City Editor—Nat Daniel

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Alex Goley
Advertising Manager
Manley McWilliams
Circulation Manager
Ansley Moses
Collections Manager
Jack Turner
Subscriptions Manager
Bill Hart

More Telephones Needed

In the last two issues of the Davidsonian mention has been made of the platform which the paper has adopted—a
platform of improvements, both material and otherwise, which the editors of your paper feel ought to be adopted “for a
better Davidson.” One of the planks down toward the bottom of this platform, but certainly not toward the bottom of
the list of needed improvements on campus, is that of improving the system of telephone communication between the students of
Davidson and the rest of the outside world.

Admittedly, the present system is woefully inadequate for the needs of the student body. By the ultra-conservative estimate of College
Catalog there are some five hundred and fifty students living in the six dormitories, and these five hundred fifty students
have the facilities of six telephones, giving a ratio of one phone to each ninety-one boys—even by this conservative estimate
of dormitory occupancy. The ratio might be improved somewhat by taking into account that Rumple is divided into halves and
Duke into thirds, making only a half and a third of the boys in these respective dorms who must vie
for use of the phone. At the same time it might be well to mention that half of the boys
in Rumple and two-thirds of the boys in Duke are virtually deprived of the use of phone service for incoming
calls, since they have no ready means of communication with the location of the telephone in their dorms, either vocally
or by written notice.

There are minor considerations of which notice might be taken. In most cases there are no booths from which to
engage in anything like a private conversation. Whatever is said over the long distance line must be done so in
competition not only with the natural elements involved in the distance between the two places, but also with the noise
and confusion that arises from dormitory existence. In East and West at least, the unwary speaker puts himself at all
times in peril of an unseasonal shower.

The whole situation could be taken care of pretty easily, and at no cost to the college—just by the installation
of more phones—in booths. A minimum of two phones in each dorm, on the first and third floors, and one
in each section of Duke and Rumple would do a lot towards helping this uncomfortable condition.—T.H.H.

Student Opinion on Holiday

The Poll Cat in last week’s Davidsonian indicated student feeling toward the proposed Thanksgiving holiday, and the results of the
survey, which included over three hundred students, would seem to indicate that the faculty should give serious consideration to the
subject at their next regular meeting which will be about two and one-half weeks before Thanksgiving. As the matter now
stands, the holiday will be one day—Thanksgiving Day, November 23.

We feel that there is more than a little significance in the fact that 79 per cent of those students
who were included in the poll would rather see the holiday fall on Saturday than Thursday. This was only one
question in the poll, but it is the one which we believe is the most important and the one on
which action might be taken. It must be assumed that the faculty probably had good reason for setting Thursday as
the holiday, but the Student Body has been told nothing about it, and the majority of them can see no
justification in it.

There are one or two reasons which would seem to make Saturday the most desirable holiday. First, and foremost, a
one day holiday in the middle of the week will be wasted time for the vast majority of the Student
Body, who live too far away from home to attempt a trip there. There will be no events on the
campus—not even a football game in Charlotte. Secondly, a number of students are planning to go to Atlanta to back
the Cats against Georgia Tech on Saturday. Some have the cuts; others do not, and the fact that the holiday
is planned for Thursday rather than Saturday will prevent some from going who would be able to go with free
cuts on Saturday.

The fact that the faculty doesn’t meet until slightly over two weeks before Thanksgiving does not matter to the students.
Few of them will be able to make any plans at all if the holiday is on Thursday and if
the faculty sees fit to change it until Saturday, the majority—at least 79 per cent—of them wouldn’t be disturbed at
the prospect of having only two weeks to make plans to go to Georgia or wherever they might desire.

Wax Scratching
By BOB WHELESS

Mindy Carson’s new ballad, “Rainy Day Refrain,” gets my nomination for the tune of the week. Lombardo and several others
have cut the same tune, but this one was made for Mindy and just doesn't sound right when done by
someone else. Some smooth working further enhances the ear appeal of this new discing, and when that’s added to Mindy’s
warm warbling you have one of the finest slices of shellac to be released this season. If you need further
reason to buy it give the flip side a listen. It’s a little thing called “Looks Like A Cold, Cold
Winter” and though not so outstanding as the “A” side, this light, bouncy ballad will be around for quite some
time.

Perry Como’s latest is labeled “The Best Thing For You” and it’s one of those tunes that gets under the
epidermis after a few hearings. Como’s voice gives it all the extra push that it will need to become a
top hit. His waxing of “Harbor Lights” should be on the market soon and when you hear this arrangement of
same you will realize why Perry was voted Top Male Vocalist of the year.

The Kenton Aggregation has just produced a rather subdued jump piece that they called for lack of a better name
“Easy Go”. It has a tune and should make a big hit with all Stan’s fans. Spin it over and
you hear the impressive debut of a new Kenton vocalist, Jay Johnsen, who sings the heavy ballad “But Then You
Kissed Me.” Johnson sounds much like a cross between Eckstine and Jeffries, and this hybrid voice should be quite pleasing
to loyal Kentonites.

As the last soft strains of “Goodnight Irene” slowly fade from view on the list of hits we give a
little sigh of relief; no more Irene. But some sadist realizing that with the departure of Irene people would once
again be their natural, happy selves thought of a scheme to keep them miserable; thus we have the birth of
Ziggy Talent’s “Please Say Goodnight To The Guy, Irene.” If Ziggy set out to fill ten otherwise perfectly good inches
of wax with a whole lot of nothing he succeeded in grand style. As an added treat you'll find on
the other side “Lena, the Queen A’ The Uptown Arena,” a little bit of fluff about a lady wrestler during
the Gay Nineties. The number sounds about like the title. 'Nuff said!

Victor Young has a sure thing in “Our Very Own” from the picture of the same name. The solo vocal
work is handled very expertly by the newcomer, Don Cherry. In case some of you don't recognize the name he
is the fellow who did such a fine job on the Decca release, “Thinking Of You.” This song receives the
same wonderful (Continued On Page Six)

THE POLL CAT
By SLAYDON MYERS

Are you going to both of the Homecoming dances?
Yes—65 per cent; No—35 per cent.

Do you have a date for both dances?
Yes—58 per cent; No—42 per cent.

If you have a date, do you have a blind date?
Yes—5 per cent; No—95 per cent.

FROM...
The Editor’s Mailbox

To The Editor:

Mr. Hansen's misleading article on changing the rhyme scheme of “Oh Davidson” leads us all the more to appreciate our
school song in its present form. If the words were changed from “and you win in everything” to “and you
win in every test,” as he suggests, this form would be shattered, not improved. Here is the rhyme scheme of
the verse, as it is now:

O Davidson, you are the best (a)
Old college in the East or West, (a)
You play a fair game, (b)
You play a square game, (b)
And you win in everything (c)
And when that red and black machine (d)
Is out to fight and looking mean, (d)
Then I am happy as for you I sing.” (c)

“Everything” rhymes with “sing.” If the song is written as above, this is obvious. Why then is the rhyme scheme
(a a b b c d d c) confused? Because the music of the song is not written in this
same order. The music forces the words of the song into a different pattern, a pattern of three lines of
similar beat and a concluding line. The “everything” clause must stand at the end of a line instead of at
the opening of a rhyming section, as it does in the first example. The words must be remolded from the
poetical form to the new metrical form. Therefore at the end of the lines appear words which do not always
rhyme with each other.

Hindu music illustrates this idea. One of the fascinating things in Hindu music is the beating of two different rhythms
at the same time. At times both drummers beat a down-beat; at times both beat an up-beat; and at times
one beats an up-beat and the other a down-beat. People like to listen for the moment the beats coincide. Gershwin
used this principle in “Rhapsody in Blue.” Similarly cross rhythm between the poetical beat and the metrical beat make our
song catchy and something to be proud of.

Since Mr. Hansen did not suggest any real improvements to be made on the idea, “and you win in everything,”
I suggest that we let “everything” be and leave it as a statement of our ideal. After all, the highest
ideals are, perhaps, never attained.Herman Bell

Dear Editor,

Mr. Henry Palestrina Hansen in his column on music last week came out with a rather unusual suggestion, that in
our college fight song “Oh Davidson,” the word “test” should be substituted for “thing,” from the line, “And you win
in everything.” His reason for suggesting this aberration of poetry and tradition is that “thing” does not rhyme with “west.”
Gadzooks, how blind can you be? Yes, they don’t rhyme, nor were they ever intended to rhyme. Let us reconstruct
the song as a whole:

Oh Davidson, you are the best
Old college in the east or west.
You play a fair game,
You play a square game,
And you win in everything.
And when that red and black machine
Is out to fight and looking mean,
Then I am happy, as for you I sing.

Thing rhymes with sing, any freshman should be able to see that, even Mr. Hansen if you point it out
to him. If he were to change “thing” to “test,” not only would the sense and meaning of the verse
be destroyed, but he would be faced with the absurdity of rhyming “test” with “sing”—or else change “sing.”

(Continued On Page Six)

DAVIDSONIAN’S PLATFORM FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

1. To make Physical Training non-compulsory for all seniors regardless of their age.
2. To abolish the double-cut system.
3. To change the existing system of giving cuts.
4. To improve the telephone arrangements in the dormitories and the college at large.
5. To change the system of student body elections.
6. To have more varied and interesting chapel programs and speakers.
7. To give praise where praise is due.
8. To criticize when it is felt that criticism will improve a situation.
9. To advocate Sunday night visitations to faculty homes.
10. To urge the clarification of student regulations to the student body.

Howe Green — THE — Freshman Farce

By ARCHIBALD HAMENHASH

“Please deposit one dollar and seventy-five cents,” said the operator.
“I've got it all in quarters,” comes the answer. “Here goes,”—bong, bong, bong, bong, bong, bong, bong.
“Hello, Ellen. This is Howe Green.”
“Oh, hello, Howe, how are you?”
“Just fine... how are you?”
“Oh, I'm just fine. I love school.”
“That's nice.”

A painful silence followed. Howe finally managed: “Are you having much rain down there?” This uneasy interchange continued for several
minutes, until it was suddenly broken by a rude voice: “Your three minutes are up.”
“Good gosh,” burst out Howe. “Ellen, there's going to be a big Homecoming up here on October 20th and there
are going to be two dances, and Charlie Spivak is going to play, and I'd like for you to come,
and I'll meet you in Charlotte Friday, and... can you come?... That’s great! Goodbye.”

Howe snapped his fingers in disgust as he hung up. “Holy cow, and I'd planned the way I was going
to say that for a week.” Just then, to add insult to injury, the phone rang and when Howe answered,
the operator said, “Mr. Howe Green? Deposit fifty cents more, please, for overtime.”

Yesterday afternoon Howe picked up Ellen at the railroad station in Charlotte, went to the S. & W. for supper
and started back to Davidson in his car about 7 o'clock. Halfway between Huntersville and Cornelius he gave out of
gas although he swore he had filled the tank that morning. At fifteen minutes to eleven that night, Howe at
last escorted his date into the spacious Johnston Gymnasium. It was time for the figure, and the music was playing
softly. Crowding around the rim of the floor to form the ring, the dancers pushed Howe and Ellen into the
center of the beautifully decorated gym. The lights were low and Howe, visibly moved and unacquainted with big dances, whispered,
“Everybody must be too timid to dance. Maybe if we start they'll follow. We'll get this dance jumping quick.” Using
a fancy new step he had learned at Queens, Howe proudly started dancing with Ellen, moving with wide, fast steps
which made the innocent couple conspicuous to the astonished onlookers. In a moment Ellen noted, “Howe, everyone is looking at
us and whispering.”
“Sure. They're getting interested,” replied her heroic date. “Everyone will be out here dancing in a minute.”

Hardly had she finished when Charlie Spivak made an announcement over the P. A. system: “Will the couple on the
dance floor please make room for the figure?”
“Oh, heavens, Howe, they’re talking to us. Let's get off quick,” said Ellen, grasping his hand and heading for the
sidelines. When they reached the edge, a group of upperclassmen crowded around the blushing couple and with loud laughs congratulated
Howe on his excellent dancing. Among them was “Snake” Simmons, a sophomore fraternity brother of Howe's. Almost without exception the
attention of the crowd was now being drawn to the figure, which was being formed. That exception was...

(Continued On Page Six)

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1950

THE WORLD LAST WEEK

Two billion dollars have been promised to aid French forces in Indo-China and Europe. After denying any desire for renomination,
Governor Dewey said he will support Eisenhower who said that he likewise has no ambitions for the presidency. In his
foreign policy speech, after conferring with General MacArthur, President Truman called on Asia to help maintain peace and bluntly placed
the blame for aggression on Russia. The Supreme Court has virtually said that Negroes cannot be banned from the use
of golf courses in Florida. On October 18 United Nations forces were only eight miles from Pyongyang, capital of North
Korea. A business men’s meeting in Boston was told that prospects for the rest of this year are good, but
that the beginning of next year will witness a slack.

GEECH’S GOULASH

By PAT McGEACHY

There is something in the air that reminds us of small boys at war. The glamour of a rivet gun
is not to be scorned. We remember the pleasant sensation of standing flat-footed on old pavement, and feeling the gentle
jar of the pneumatic drill massaging us to the very clavicle. Wouldn't it be great to tear up sidewalks or
rivet rivets and make all the noise you want to without being told to stop? Yes, there is something nostalgic
about a riveter at work. We felt that perhaps some of the students might share in our reverie, and so
standing in the shade of an old stump, and gazing through a network of orange steel, we watched these representatives
of industry, pausing to interview the passing devotees.

Rat-tat-tat-tat! “Now just what does that bring to your mind?” we asked of a passing student. He cleared his throat
significantly. “Well, I'm a science-fiction fan. Reminds me of a turbo-synchronized double catch atomic perspirator moving down the Plutonians. Any
other questions?”
“Yes,” said we, “Now that you mention it — ‘Rat-tat-tat-tat!’— in any case?”
“I don’t take that from anybody,” he rejoined. Guess he didn't think of us as anybody, for he turned on
his heel and vanished into a cloud of blue rivet smoke.

We determined to go easier with our next interview, especially as we could already see him rounding the Library, gingerly
edging his six foot three under an oak. As he stooped to twist a girder in two, we approached with
mixed emotions. “Pardon me, sir, but what does that riveting noise remind you of, if you'll excuse the final preposition?”
“M19A1 Cal. 30, Heavy Machine Gun, Water Cooled,” he clipped, biting the ends of the words with military precision.
“Benning?” we asked wittily.
“Nah! Fort Meade.”

This seemed to call for some sort of response, but being at a loss for words, we merely replied, “The
brevity of your dialogue is incomparable. In fact the intense vulgarity of your conventionality is so utterly stereotyped as to
lead me to resign as convocator of the interview.” We were about to withdraw in triumph, when with a pleasant
gnashing sound, our friend suggested, “The inordinate audacity of your unsuccessful attempt to confuse me with preponderous discourse is intolerable.
I shall therefore at this time take the enjoyable liberty of beating your brains out.” This unfortunate action might well
have taken place, had not a well-timed rivet struck our friend full on the temple, momentarily stunning him. In the
ensuing barrage of uncomplimentary terms, we left the scene, unfortunately unable to get his name or address. If however he
wishes to contact us, we may be reached. But it’s unlikely.

The moral, or morals of today's column may well be summarized:
1. Rivet guns are a poor subject for philosophy.
2. Never imagine yourself better than the other fellow, at least not out loud.
3. When writing columns for the Davidsonian, always get your ideas more than three hours before the deadline.

HOMECOMING SKETCH

By PETE MILNER

Attention, students! Once again your Presbyterian Broadcasting company with its affiliate, Davidson's station H E A V E N, “Your
Station of Stars”, brings you “PBC was There.” With respect to our forthcoming Homecoming Day, we thought it pertinent to
give you a flashback on the Davidson Campus to some 26 years ago to the first Homecoming Day. It is
the year 1924, November 16. It was only a year ago today that words were put to our fight song
“Oh, Davidson!”, and the students are hoping other words can now be fitted to the tune for this occasion. Parents
and sons for the first time in college history can meet together, and in the same level and light as
Davidsonians. This day will be of future significance and importance, we are sure, and this inauguration of Davidson's Homecoming Day
will be a needed celebration and Dates to increase and activate college spirit.

We now switch our scene to the place only 5 years later. It is October 29, 1929. Today, Homecoming Day
and Davidson College Day (Armistice Day) celebrations have been combined for the first time with the result that a whole
holiday has been granted to the students. Fun, frolics and frivolity will mark the occasion. The day’s schedule will be
crammed with: a review in the morning, the football game in the afternoon and a stunt night in Shearer Hall
at 8:00 p.m. This is, indeed, an occasion to be remembered and the presence of feminine guests will be a
new added attraction. It is hoped that house parties will be held on this day at the fraternity houses. The
R. O. T. C. Department will have a review, raising of the new...

(Continued On Page Six)

Welcome Alumni

You haven't seen Davidson until you've seen the STUD

THE STUD
