PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1950

THE DAVIDSONIAN
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

BOB HOLLISTER
EDITOR IN CHIEF

BILL HOUCK
BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editor ---------------------------- Doug Hix
Associate Editor ---------------------------- Lonnie Turnipseed
Associate Editor ---------------------------- Jack Hazard
AGING EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister
Sports Editor—Gordon Scott
Make-up Editors — Dan McKeithen, Cherry Stribling
City Editor—John Hobart
Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries
Photographs ---------------------------- Ed Richardson
Assignments Asst. ---------------------------- Watt Jeffries
Proofreader ---------------------------- Charlie Baldwin

BUSINESS STAFF
Business Manager ---------------------------- Bill Cassells
Advertising Managers ---------------------------- Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison
Circulation Manager ---------------------------- Hugh Tuffaker
Asst. Circulation Managers—Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager ---------------------------- John Loftin
Subscriptions Manager ---------------------------- Alex Golty

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.
PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Letter to Student Body

In taking leave of The Davidsonian this week and in looking back over the editions of the paper that have
constituted the 1949-1950 Davidsonian, I want to sincerely thank the Student Body for the privilege and the experience and the
fun that the editorship of the paper has been. The managing editors are responsible for having made this year’s Davidsonian,
in the words of Professor Lilly, “the best ever.” They deserve your thanks and appreciation. If you are interested in
showing them that their work has been and is valued, the best way that this could be done is to
submit articles, features, and your time, if possible, in helping them to make the paper even better next year.

I hope the next editor, whoever he is to be, will be wise enough to continue to work closely in
’50-’51 with those of the managing editors who are not elected. Nowhere could he find a more interested, capable group
of men. If the next editor enjoys his work as much and learns as much while at it as I
have, he will be well rewarded.
—Bob Hollister.

Professor Stands Exam

Last month Professor Griffin gave one of his first-year classes a form with which they were asked to evaluate that
course and make recommendations concerning ways in which he could improve the content of the course and its effectiveness. This
was not done as a result of any criticism or discontent but simply because Professor Griffin was interested in student
opinion of the course and any ideas they might advance or suggestions they might have which would make the course
a better one. Other professors at times make the same request of their students. Dr. Puckett regularly asks his first-year
Biology students for comments or suggestions concerning the textbooks used, material covered, and general teaching procedure. Too many professors, however,
never consult their students concerning their opinion of his course — some even discourage such comment. We believe that since
the result of all the teacher’s efforts are measured by the students' grasp of and interest in the subject matter
of the course, that it would definitely be to his advantage as well as the advantage of the class as
a whole if each Professor made it standard procedure to consult his classes at least once yearly — perhaps in
the Spring — with a view toward using their comments and suggestions to improve his course. Many of the suggestions
received would doubtless be contradictory or of little value for one reason or another, but even if one or two
ideas of value were secured, both the Professor and his future classes would profit thereby. Professor Griffin distributed to his
class a four-page folder which we believe covers the subject thoroughly. Main topics included were: (1) Professor’s knowledge of subject,
(2) Preparation for class, (3) Clarity of presentation, (4) Sense of proportion in presentation, (5) Ability to express himself, (6)
Method of expressing himself, (7) Opportunity for questions and discussion, (8) Ability to arouse interest, (9) Organization of subject matter,
(10) Frequency of quizzes and reviews, (11) Assignments, (12) Course content, (13) Amount of work required, (14) Original thinking required,
(15) Textbook, (16) Attitude in class between instructor and students, (17) Availability for conferences, (18) Appearance, (19) General Background, (20)
Sense of Humor, and a space for general comment and suggested improvements.

Keep the Gym Open

Recently the Athletic Department has found it necessary to close the new gym at night. During the day, the same
schedule is still in effect, but at present the gym is not available for use anytime after 6:00 P.M. The
reason for this action has been clearly indicated. A count was kept for an extended period of time of all
students using the gym after supper and Coach Jamerson stated that it was found that on the average five men
per night have made use of the new gym’s facilities since the end of the intramural basketball season. As the
cost of keeping the gym open from 7:00 until 10:00 each night amounts to approximately seventy dollars a night, it
was decided that the gym would be closed. However, the number of students remaining on campus during weekends and who
would like to use the gym Saturday nights far exceeds five. We believe it would justify the cost if the
gym were kept open until 10:30 or 11:00 on Saturday, since a much larger number of students would put it
to use then than do on weeknights. We would like to ask the Athletic department to consider keeping the gym
open Saturday nights — if not as a permanent venture at least until a trial period revealed that such a
procedure would not be wise.

LAST WORDS—
AS YOU CAN SEE HERE, CREED WITH THIS

PREVIEW OF OPERA TO BE PRESENTED
By HENRY E. HANSON

On Wednesday, April 26, at 10:25 a.m. Phi Mu Alpha will present in chapel Gian-Carlo Menotti’s opera, “The Telephone.” This
will be a musical event of considerable importance for it will be unique in several ways. First of all, it
will be the first time that a program of such a nature has been presented in chapel instead of in
the evening; the reason for this is that the appeal of this opera is felt to be so all-inclusive that
it should be presented where and when all can enjoy it. Second, it is probably the first performance in the
South, certainly the first to be done by such a group. Finally, certain elements of plot and story in "The
Telephone” are unique to opera.

“The Telephone” was sponsored by the Ballet Society of New York and had its first performance in the Heckscher Theatre
in the spring of 1947. Seriously questioned before its premiere from both dramatic and musical standpoints, it had an unparalleled
success both as good opera and as good theatre. Virgil Thompson said that “The Telephone” and its companion opera, “The
Medium,” were “first-class musico-theatrical works.” “The Telephone,” he described as an “opera buffa, light and full of laughter.” He found
it “gay, funny, and completely humane.” Olin Downes commented: “‘The Telephone’ was good theatre throughout, and lively, tuneful music.” It
is, “very amusing, done dexterously and with a light touch.” Toscanini himself was so impressed with “The Telephone” that he
went back night after night to hear the work.

It is not, of course, without trepidation that the performance of this work has been undertaken. Some have felt and
said that the performance would not be a success, not because the principals in the cast are incapable of singing
the difficult roles, but because the student body en masse would not appreciate such a performance. However, Phi Mu Alpha
feels that its faith in the student body will be completely justified.

We are fighting a battle today to determine whether religion or education is to be the saving power of our
civilization. Theologians point a finger of scorn at education and accuse it of secularism. Educators, in turn, condemn the church
for superstition, prejudice, and provincialism, asserting that only as we train the mind can we save society. And so they
fight. The problem is not simple. It can't be settled over tea cups. After all, religion and higher education posed
such a problem for Nazism that they had to be domesticated as serfs of the state. Potentially they were dynamite.
In the hands of a ‘wrong’ people they could be dangerous weapons.

The church-related college is unusually interested in this problem, because of all institutions of higher learning it has peculiar ties
to both religion and education. As the educational arm of a particular religious group, the church-related college is attentive to
the

College Rags ....IN BRIEF
By BILL CUMMING

From the University of Virginia comes a tale of woe this week. One student, upon returning from the holidays, was
notified that he had taken out three reference books which cost a fine of five dollars a day until returned
and that he owed the library a total of $190.00. Fortunately, however, he found that the maximum fine which could
be charged at one time was $25.00.

Duke professors are now seeing flying saucers. From the Bull City comes news that Dr. Franklin W. Young of the
Duke Divinity School sighted a round silver object in the sky while driving between Hillsboro and Chapel Hill recently. Young,
the second Duke professor to see flying saucers, said the object appeared to have a dark center and remained in
sight for about five seconds.

The George Washington Hatchet recently carried an interesting description of the types of characters that may be found on college
campuses. A few are reprinted below:

The Genius: Just sits there. Doesn’t move until professor makes a profound statement which no one understands; then he slowly
shakes his head up and down. He wouldn’t lend his homework to his mother. Strives for a 3.1 average. He
has no friends except other geniuses. Knows about girls from the movies he has seen.

The Note Taker: Sits and takes notes all period. Takes notes when prof. talks about the trip he took last
summer. Averages 200 pages per subject per quarter. Secret ambition is to take shorthand. Has nightmares about running out of
ink and breaking pencil point. Comes time to study for a test, he borrows somebody else’s notes. Can’t read his
own.

The Fraternity Man: Cannot study alone. Is never seen in school; he lives at the frat house. Works hard all
quarter and tries to get as much out of the course as possible, but never fails to take advan-

The Space Filler
By JACK HAZARD

Since this column has no policy in particular, we thought it would be a good place to mention an enterprise
into which one of our illustrious seniors intends to enter. This entrepreneur of whom we speak is Mr. Bill Little
of Greensboro. Bill plans to go into business manufacturing nothing. Now this may shock many, but actually it will be
a sound situation. Of course, there will be no attempt to sell the product since it doesn’t exist, but this
fact initself will be a great benefit to society. There are many manufacturers of nothing today who attempt to disguise
the product by giving it a name and then selling the product to the public through advertisement. For this reason,
we think Bill should draw the support of all. Take, for example, those who make bubbles. Bubbles actually amount to
nothing, but many people are making vast sums of money by selling this form of nothing. There are other ways
of commercializing on nothing. The man who manufactures falsies and other such forms of bluff is, in a sense, earning
his bread and butter on that which does not exist. Had we more imagination, we might list other ways in
which the public is so fooled. But we lack imagination and are too lazy to investigate further, so we'll go
on with the column.

The President of Nothing, Inc., will, of course, be its founder, Bill Little. (This is all right since the word
Little is next to nothing anyway.) The vice president will be Nobody and the Sec.-Treas., No One. The factory will
be located Nowhere and since the product will not go on the market, there will be no need for distributors
or any form of middleman. The cost of manufacturing and all overhead will naturally be zero—the price, the same. There
will be no need for raw materials, advertisement, or any form of sales promotion—naturally no salesmen. We are for Bill
Little and his venture and hope he succeeds. In order to aid its cause, we are generously donating the remainder
of this column for an unpaid and unsolicited advertisement. Said ad is as follows:

Outlook Varies For Teaching Positions

Graduates trained for elementary school teaching should find a wide choice of employment opportunities in most States this spring. On
the other hand, prospective teachers at the secondary level will find a highly competitive employment situation in all but a
few subject fields. Last year, only one student completed training for elementary teaching for every three who were needed; this
year, the shortage will be nearly as acute. The number of students completing preparation for high school teaching in 1949
was four times as great as the demand; the oversupply in 1950 is expected to be even greater. The need
for teachers in elementary schools will continue to increase over the next several years. (Continued On Page Five)

Is it that we would establish and cultivate here? What type of religion is most compatible with the educational philosophy
of a church-related college? Let us attempt to answer the question. Before we proceed, it would be best to define
what we mean by religion and what we mean by higher education. At the risk of oversimplification, we will define
religion as man’s search for and relationship with that which he considers to be the most supremely worthwhile, meaningful, purposeful,
and of ultimate concern for all human living. You could re-word this to say, “man’s search for and relationship with
God.” Whatever the words, religion is integrally related to a world view. Human experience is seen as related to that
which is of ultimate concern—to God.

To borrow a thought from Robert Calhoun, we will define higher education as that which seeks to develop a trained
intelligence, a spirit of free inquiry, a critical temper, and a clear-headed world outlook. The aim of education is to
train and produce disciplined and free people who are prepared to live in our highly-geared and complex society. An examination
of history will show that there have been many and various types of religion in the church-related college. A cursory
investigation of many such colleges in the Middle West, for example, reveals in the past generation or so a trend
which to the faithful might seem unhealthy and dangerous. In one denominational college in the past generation, required chapel has
been reduced from five to three days a week, with no compulsory Sunday worship service attendance and nothing resembling weekly
hall prayer meetings. While this is not directly related to courses taught in the department of religion, it nevertheless is
an outgrowth or expression of the stand taken by the college.

Let us inquire into this business of religion in the church-related college in order to see some of the main
types of religion that can exist. We might be able to discover the religion that is most compatible. At any
rate, it will be a way of examining our own situation with respect to religion. One type of religion that
has existed in higher education is that which, for all purposes, is a kind of humanism. It is a religion
in which man’s orientation goes no farther than the self. In history, this religious type has its exponents in the
18th century Enlightenment and Romanticism. In this religion, man’s reason, feeling, emotion, etc., become either implicitly or explicitly the final
authority or arbiter. Someone has said that in this sort of religion, man is his own God. Even though this
religion establishes some sort of reason or scientific method as its norm, it is not inimical to higher education. It,
too, desires to cultivate the critical temper and spirit of inquiry. It even has a world view. But its limitations
are clear. It can go no farther than the individual self can go. It is self-limited.

A second type of religion is an illustration of David Hume’s statement that man's religion by nature is polytheistic. It
is a type of religion whose orientation is focused about some church, creed, book, race, humanly constructed system of authority,
etc. Ostensibly, its claim is the comprehension of the reality which is God. It compresses this comprehension into a system
of dogma, ritual, ceremony, etc. To use Niebuhr’s thought, it domesticates God. Finite man understands and is able to represent
the Infinite. God is identified with that which is of ultimate meaning, which in this religion is usually a man-made
entity. And so we have the absolutizing of a nation, a particular church, an economic or political system, a culture,
or social classification. Such absolutizations are polytheistic and idolatrous and most assuredly a violation of the First Commandment. This religion
forbids criticism. Inquiry into religious matters is taboo, for this religion claims, in theory or in practice, to have the
final and complete answer. With its understanding of and peculiar identification with God as the authority, this religious type circumscribes
the area beyond which man cannot go in his search for truth. The recent attempt of a religious group to
ban the circulation of Nation Magazine in the public schools of New York City is a typical illustration of the
way (Continued On Page Six)

According to a recent study by the Department of Labor’s Bureau of Statistics, enrollments in grades 1 to 8 will
probably rise sharply for the next seven years in most States and then level off. The total number of elementary
teaching positions will therefore increase considerably, perhaps by more than 260,000 in the next seven years. The number of new
teachers required annually will be greatest about 1953, the year when the sharpest increase in the enrollments is expected. Many
more new teachers are required each year as replacements than for new positions, even in the current period of rapid
growth of elementary school population. On the basis of a conservative rate of seven per cent, it is estimated that
over half a million elementary teachers will be required in the next 10 years to replace those who die, retire,
or leave the classrooms for other reasons. In addition, a sizeable number will be needed to replace some of the
persons now teaching on emergency certificates. The number of young people taking training for elementary teaching will depend, in the
future as in the past, chiefly on the other employment opportunities available and the relative salaries offered. If general economic
conditions should become less favorable and there should be considerable unemployment (Continued On Page Six)

College Graduates Speak Poor English

Charlottesville, Va.—Quinten O. McAllister asserted here recently that “America’s college graduates don’t know how to speak and write the English
language.” His statement was made to the Southern Humanities Conference in a report on results of a countrywide survey of
business and government leaders who were asked what importance they placed on college training in English, foreign languages, and other
cultural topics. The replies showed, said Mr. McAllister, representing Meredith College, Raleigh, N.C., that college graduates today did not have
enough training in the use of written and spoken English and had vocabularies much too small for the needs of
business and government. Mr. McAllister said the 1,000 replies received indicated that training in foreign languages was not enough, that
some special skill in engineering or other fields was needed, and that better language was very important.

“The report indicates that Southern educators are looking outside their ivory towers in the hope of giving college graduates training
that will make them more valuable in the business and professional world,” said Sturgis Leavitt of the University of North
Carolina, conference head. Mr. Leavitt said the South recently had “made great strides in football and in industry.” “The South,”
he added, “has received support of big national foundations and it is time for many Southern foundations to interest themselves
in liberal arts progress in the South and bring the cultural stature of our region in line with its athletics
and its industry.”—N.Y. Times

The purpose of this article is to give certain salient facts concerning the performance here and, thus, heighten the enjoyment
of those who see it. The baritone role will be sung by Harrison Taylor, the soprano role by Roberta Jones
of Queens College. The opera takes twenty-five minutes to perform. Phi Mu Alpha requests that all persons be in their
chapel seats by 10:25. The bell which ordinarily rings at 10:50 will be silenced for the occasion. “The Telephone” is
an opera buffa, a light opera; it is beyond this an extremely amusing and witty satire of Italian opera, the
variety to which Mr. Shaw in his concert made jocular reference. It concerns two people—a young man, Ben, and his
efforts to propose to his girl, Lucy, before leaving for the war. His intentions are of the best and she,
too, is interested in him, but every time he is just on the verge of phrasing the momentous question, the
telephone rings and Lucy answers, or Lucy is making a call in answer to the call she has just received.
His time is running out, but even his anguished, “what time is it” precipitates a call by Lucy to ascertain
just that fact for Ben’s edification. Eventually, Ben being a fairly bright young man, the solution presents itself. He realizes
that he will never
