FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 1950

SOPH SOUTHPAW STEPS INTO VARSITY SLOT
By DAN McKEITHEN

The crack Davidson tennis team is a senior team with the exception of one man, Sophomore Allen Strand. Five of
the six singles players will be graduating this year and Allen, the number four man, will be the only singles
player left. Quite a burden will be handed down to the little man from Greensboro, and Coach Derrick Barton will
be depending on him for big things next year.

Although small at 140 pounds, Allen is sturdy and is always in good condition. Opponents soon find out that they
can’t wear him out. He is a good all-around tennis player who prefers to operate from the back line, although
he is good at the net. His is the game of smoothness and consistency as opposed to the game of
continually rushing the net for a kill. Because he is fast, he returns many shots which he could not otherwise
reach. Another factor in his favor is that he doesn’t lose his temper but is always trying up until the
final point.

Two years ago, while still in high school, Strand won the State Junior Singles title. Last year he was top
man on the undefeated freshman team and lost only one match. He has continued his fine brand of tennis this
year, losing only against the top-notch Florida teams. A popular boy on the campus, Allen is a member of the
Student Council and a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.

He should step into the role of number one man next year and that’s a big order considering that it
is the great “Bo” Roddey whom he will succeed. However, with average improvement, Allen Strand is the man who can
do it.

FROSH BASEBALL SQUAD TAKES TWO VICTORIES; EASTMAN, SMITH LOOK GOOD IN PITCHING ROLES
By DICK LILES

The Freshman baseball team, under the direction of Coach Boyd Baird, got off to a flying start by trimming Boyden
High School of Salisbury, 10-2, last Saturday afternoon. It was the first game of what seems to be a successful
season for the Frosh. Paul Eastman, portsider, pitched a masterful five-hitter for the Kittens and although they collected only four
hits themselves, the Frosh turned 12 walks and 6 errors into a 10-run game.

Arnold Whisnant was the leading slugger for the victors with a double in his four trips to the plate. Homer
Cathey, Al Reece, and Chuck Elliot also hit one safety each in the game. In getting his first victory of
the season, Eastman struck out 12 men, walked only 5, and gave up 5 hits. Barnes and Klutz hurled for
the losers, Barnes giving up 10 walks and 3 hits. Potts of Salisbury smashed a triple in the first inning.
Most of the Kittens’ 10 runs were collected in the initial inning and so Coach Baird substituted quite freely toward
the last of the game.

CENTRAL SALISBURY

Central High of Charlotte visited the campus Monday afternoon and absorbed a 5-3 licking at the hands of the winning
Frosh nine. Jim Smith hurled a 5-hit ball game, walking only 2 men and striking out 5. Davidson collected 7
hits and used 7 walks and 3 errors on the part of the Central squad to cop the game. Central
led the locals late into the game and it was not until the eighth inning that Jerry Morrow uncorked his
home run with T. W. Aldred on board; that the game was won. Jim Farrar, the keystone sacker, also lashed
a triple in the seventh. Claiborne and Frantz, each with a double, and pitcher Buddy King, who got two hits
in four trips to aid his own cause. Jim Smith pulled the same trick for the winners with 2 hits
for 3 trips. T. W. Aldred received 1 for 2 to stay behind Smith in batting honors. A double play
was concocted when short-stop Chuck Elliot bagged a grounder and tossed to Farrar on second, who then pitched to Whisnant
on first for the double kill. Buddy King was the losing pitcher, giving up 7 hits, 7 free bases, although
striking out eight men. The only shortcoming of the game was the committing of six errors by the locals. Other
than that, it was a thrilling game with plenty of hustle. Coach Baird is proud of the hustle and fast
men on the squad. Also that his pitching is improving so that he now has two first-class hurlers and a
reliever in Lefty Yancey Robertson. He is also confident in a fine season if the play continues as it has
so well started.

Semi-Pro McCrary Eagles Team Run Roughshod Over Cats By 17-4
By BILL BROOKS

Davidson's varsity baseballers played host to the semi-professional McCrary Eagles Wednesday afternoon and took a few lessons from the older
boys. The Wildcats just didn’t seem to have it as they absorbed a 17-4 defeat into their already saturated loss
column. Except for two innings, the fiasco seemed very much like a ball game, but those two sojourns removed all
doubt. The Eagles seemed to bat until they got tired and then condescended to make three outs. Except for those
two innings, the Cats looked like a real ball club, and much is still to be hoped for as the
season goes along and the boys settle down. Torrence looked a little wobbly on the hill and his arm seemed
to still bother him. At times he was fine, but at times he was lost. Branch, in his turn, had
more control than usual and the strapping soph should prove to be a steady moundsman soon. The real trouble is
a lack of power at the plate, a trait of Davidson ball teams, and unless the hitting improves, things don’t
look too good. In baseball, however, batting gets stronger with experience, and the Wildcats will be hitting soon.

SCHEDULE
April 18 — Harding High School,

WURLITZER
Parker-Gardner Company
118 W. Trade St.
Phone 8257

WILDCAT OUTLET... (Continued From PageFour) Clemson to try to end a four-game losing streak. They will be trying for their
second conference win against three defeats. Score by innings: Team RHE State 002 512 031—14 12 2 Davidson 204 300
001—11 14 5

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT
BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST.
PHONE 2-2238
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Charlotte, 3:30, April 19—Harding High School, Davidson, 3:30. April 21—Belmont Abbey, Davidson, 3:30. April 22—Oakridge, Davidson, 3:30. April 26—Central Charlotte,
8 p.m. April 28—Belmont Abbey, Belmont, High School, May 1—Tech High School, Davidson, 3:30. May 6—Tech High School, Charlotte, 7:30.

Patronize Our Advertisers

VISIT THE DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT
142 E. Morehead — Charlotte

THE DAVIDSONIAN

What The Cats Were Doing

1 YEAR AGO—April 15, 1949...
(1) Tennis squad tops Yale, 6-1.
(2) Bill Bird honored for outstanding work in baseball.
(3) Hunter hurls loop victory in baseball over Citadel, 7-4.

5 YEARS AGO—April 9, 1945...
(1) Baseball gets underway against Wofford while intramural track starts.

10 YEARS AGO—April 11, 1940...
(1) Cat tracksters cop thirteen events to win over Maryland, 89 2-3 to 41 1-3.
(2) K.A.'s win interfraternity track meet.
(3) Linkmen take Kalamazoo, 18-0.

20 YEARS AGO—April 10, 1930...
(1) Wildcat nine beats State, 8-2, in first game, drops second game, 6-4.
(2) Davidson trackmen enter track relays.

Powerful Central High Netters Make It Rough for Frosh in First Match
By JIM SMITH

The Davidson frosh netters dropped their initial match to a strong Central High team of Charlotte 6-1. Central won 5
out of 6 singles matches and the only doubles match. The second doubles was halted by rain and the third
was rained out before it was started. Central's victory marked their second win this year. They have only lost two
matches in the last 3 years, those to the Davidson Wildkittens last year. Keesler, State High champ, and Hal Furr,
State Junior champ, led the Central netmen. Dick Kelly managed the only win for the Wildkittens by downing Paul Langford
in the No. 6 singles 7-5, 6-3.

Results of the match:
Lacy Keesler (C) defeated Bob Walker, 6-1, 6-1.
Hal Furr (C) defeated Dick Thorpe, 6-1, 6-3.
Corky Clark (C) defeated Harris Asbury, 6-2, 6-2.
Edwin Potts (C) defeated Bill Bledsoe, 1-6, 8-6, 6-0.
Corky Johnson (C) defeated Bob Crossland, 6-3, 6-4.
Dick Kelly (D) defeated Paul Langford, 6-3, 7-5.
Furr and Clark (C) defeated Thorpe and Crossland, 6-0, 6-2.

Central appeared to be the most superior but the Wildkittens made a good match of it. The Frosh appeared a
bit jittery which they will overcome later, they should give somebody some trouble.

PAGE FIVE

Strong S. C. Cindermen Hand Pete Whittle's Crew Their First Set-Back
By BILL FARRIOR

The Davidson cindermen suffered their first defeat of the season as the Gamecocks of South Carolina eked out a two-point
lead on the final event before a small group of thoroughly chilled fans. The lead changed hands many times during
the highly contested meet. Charlie McGill of South Carolina was high scorer for the afternoon with 17 points.

EVENT 1ST PLACE 2ND PLACE 3RD PLACE
Mile Bradley (D) Stockton, T. (D) Marshall (SC) 4:51.5
440 McKenzie (SC) Kline (D) Spence (SC) 51 sec.
100 Woodlee (SC) Goodpasture (D) Drews (SC) 10 sec.
High Hurdles McGill, C. (SC) Pritchett (D) Haller (D) 16.2 sec.
880 Ward (SC) Stockton (D) Bradley (D) 2:6.3
220 Woodlee (SC) McKenzie (SC) Drews (SC) 22.3 sec.
2 Mile Long (D) Anderson (D) Beatie (SC) 11:06
Low Hurdles McGill (SC) Haller (D) Pritchett (D) 26 sec.
Pole Vault Badger, Pickett (SC) tie Brown (D) 11 ft.
High Jump McGill, O. (SC) Williams (D), McGill, C. (SC), tie 6 ft.
Shot Chandler (D) Lazenby (D) Stevens (SC) 42 ft. 6 in.
Discus Sharp (D) Vann (D) Stevens (SC) 135 ft.
Broad Jump McGill, C. (SC) Cornell (D) McGill, O. (SC) 21 ft. 3½ in.
Javelin Miller (D) McKenzie (SC) Blanks (D) 161 ft. 7 in.

No relay. Final score: U. S. C., 64; Davidson, 62.

WATCH REPAIRS
JUST A GOOD SHOP WHERE FAST SERVICE IS THE RULE!
W.S. HENDERSON

Plans Laid For Summer Term

On June 8 this summer, Davidson College will open its 1950 Summer Session. Science courses will begin on that day,
and later, beginning on June 13, the regular 3 and 6-hour courses will be offered. The first term will run
until July 27, Monday through Friday, with only July 3rd and 4th off as holidays. The second term lasts from
July 27 until August 31, with all Saturday classes except August 12. Only 3 and 6-hour courses will be offered
the second term as planned now. Bible, Economics, English, History, German, and Psychology will be offered along with the sciences
of Physics, Chemistry, and Biology. No course will be offered, however, unless the enrollment justifies it. Students who live in
the dormitories will be required to take full-time work and will be governed by the same regulations as during the
regular year. Tuition will be $10.00 for each semester hour earned. Room rent will be $3 a week and board
will be available in the College dining hall. Athletic and Student activities fees will be $2 apiece, and $1.25 a
week will be charged for laundry service. Anyone desiring to enroll should pick up a registration blank that is now
available in the Registrar's office.

WHEREVER YOU GO!
Remember this seal — it’s your assurance of the best!
Mooresville Creamery
GRADE “A” MILK
PASTEURIZED
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

GOWN AND JEWELS BY SAKS FIFTH AVENUE

Yes, Camels are SO MILD that in a coast-to-coast test of hundreds of men and women who smoked Camels —
and only Camels — for 30 consecutive days, noted throat specialists, making weekly examinations, reported NOT ONE SINGLE CASE OF
THROAT IRRITATION due to smoking CAMELS!
