IW a “Slick” Evans (“Toy” Shining His Shoes On Desk)

Vices In Variety Add Spice To Life For The Slickest Member Of The Evans Clan

“Slick” Evans, two-time candidate for the Y presidency, commandant of the Duke defenses, and the only man in the history of the school to flunk out four roommates, is really just a simple American boy—according to his present roomy “Jelly Belly” Kelly.

J. C. Evans was born in Charlotte and comes to us by way of McCallie and through the grace of Chief LineBerry. “Slick” faces retirement from student activities this spring with the hopes of going into the cotton business with his father, which he says is merely a front.

Following in the footsteps of “Dum Dum” Ennett and other illustrious Duke alumni, “Slick” has carried on the tradition by organizing the Evan's Marauders. These are a small group of specially trained soldiers under the leadership of Lt. Henry Wilson and Sgt. “Joy” Malloy. This group maintains strict discipline. Once when “Toy” messed up in ranks, he was handcuffed and locked up in a closet with a chicken leg and a biscuit to stay for the weekend. He was saved by a last-minute reprieve from the commandant.

Kelly also has a record of shipped roommates and they are a well-suited pair. However, Jelly says, “Everything he and I do is undercover.”

“Slick” has had a varied career. Last year he was leading in votes for the “Y” presidency up until a sudden shift in the last ballot. He says this was because the boys were saving an honest man for treasurer. Besides politics, he claims an undefeated record in interfraternity handball competition. In tennis, he says he is strictly a cash player, having recently taken a member of the tennis team for $17.

At the present time, “Slick” is in training for his forthcoming duel with Grover Lee to decide who gets Kelly. Grover says he hasn't trained any yet but fully believes that he can beat his patootie. “Slick” wouldn't comment on his recent fishing trip to Florida, but “Sandy” Rankin volunteered the information. He said they started for Florida on Wednesday and got there Saturday, where they spent several days enjoying the sights of the local junkyard. He added that “Slick” drove a thousand miles to catch one fish and had to throw him back because he was too little.

Since he did so well on that question, “Slick” referred me to “Sandy” when I asked him about his women. When he asked “Sandy” what he was waiting for, he said, “I’m thinking of something nice to say about your girls, but I can't.”

As I was leaving the room, a little squirt with a harmonica stuck his head in the door and said, “Pop, ain't it time for your evening brew at the roadhouse?”

In college days I must confess, I've often heard it said:
“The biggest block to one's success is usually one’s head.”

SHIP AHOY
The Place To Meet Your Friends
Student Union Building
University of Arkansas (Fayetteville)

In Fayetteville, Arkansas, there is always a friendly gathering of University of Arkansas students at the Student Union Building. And, as in college campus haunts everywhere, ice-cold Coca-Cola helps make these get-togethers something to remember. As a refreshing pause from the study grind, or on a Saturday-night date—Coke belongs. Ask for it either way ... both trademarks mean the same thing.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD © 1950, The Coca-Cola Company

Trips planned by the AYH local Councils throughout the U.S. cost as little as $1.25 a day. These trips, Dr. Miller added, will enable thousands of Americans now studying in American schools to join their fellow students who, since the war, have been traveling at home and in Europe in unprecedented numbers. He predicted that twice as many students would go on hosteling trips this summer as in 1949.

Hosteling—inexpensive hiking or cycling along established routes with overnight stays in hostels maintained by Local Councils of interested citizens—has long been a popular mode of travel for young people abroad and is attracting many followers in this country. Trips sponsored by the AYH National Headquarters will range in length from five to ten weeks and will start in late June and early July. On these trips, hostelers will travel in small mixed groups with trained leaders. Estimated costs range from $115 for some trips in the United States to $780 for trips to North Sea and Mediterranean areas. In all cases, costs cover the entire trip from starting to finishing points. For overseas trips, this means embarkation and debarkation points.

In the United States, hosteling groups will visit northern New England, the Great Lakes, Long Island Sound, and the Colonial Virginia area. Of particular interest are the seven-week National Parks-High Sierras trip for hikers and the Rolling Hostel trip, in which specially equipped trains will take hostelers cross-country, permitting them to cycle in scenic areas, using the train as their hostel each night. Rolling Hostel trips will go to the Grand Canyon and Yellowstone Park.

Trips planned for the North American continent will take hostelers to the Canadian Rockies, Gaspe Peninsula, Ontario, the Maritime Provinces, and the Saguenay River area, all in Canada, and to Mexico, Guatemala, and Alaska. The trips to Europe will include visits to the British Isles, Scandinavia, France, the North Sea area, Central Europe, Western Europe, the Mediterranean area, and Southwest Europe. Trips involving work projects will also be conducted in Germany and Holland.

Possession of an AYH Pass, which costs $2.00 a year for those under 21 and $3.00 for those over, permits a hosteler to remain overnight in any hostel in this country or abroad at a charge of not more than 50c. Hosteling in the U.S. began in 1934 and has since spread from coast to coast. At present, there are AYH Local Councils in 29 States, which supervise 160 hostels in such parts of the country as the New England coastal and mountain areas, Long Island Sound, the Great Lakes, Colonial Virginia, and the mountain regions of the West.

Hostel accommodations are located in barns and farm buildings, in cabins and private homes, and are supervised by resident house-parents. Each hostel provides separate sleeping quarters and washrooms for young men and women, a common kitchen where hostelers may cook their meals, and, in most cases, recreational facilities. Hostelers travel light, knowing that they will find clean blankets, clean beds, and cooking utensils at each hostel.

John D. Rockefeller, 3rd, president of American Youth Hostels, believes that in addition to its recreational value, hosteling is a factor in fostering international understanding. In a recent statement, he said, “Hosteling provides unique and sound opportunities for normal, friendly relations between the peoples of different nations. It affords practical experience in the importance of international goodwill.”

AMERICAN YOUTHS INVITED TO TRAVEL WITH SUMMER HOSTELS

New York—American students who want to travel this summer have the opportunity of going on a wide variety of low-cost hosteling trips in the U.S. and abroad, it was announced today by Ben W. Miller, executive director of American Youth Hostels at 6 East 39th Street, New York City. In addition to 27 National Headquarters for groups of various sizes, said Dr. Miller, hundreds of trips are planned by AYH local Councils throughout the U.S., many of which will cost as little as $1.25 a day.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, MARCH 10, 1950

“Live Dangerously”

Grinnell, IA—(I.P.)—A challenge to college and university students and their faculties to “think and live dangerously” was issued here recently by President Samuel N. Stevens of Grinnell College. President Stevens declared: “I find fault with the complacency which seems to exist among students and faculty in most colleges and universities in the United States. Educational institutions should be ‘dangerous’ environments in...which young people live during the formative years of their lives. “It is proper for young people to be radical, restless, and discontented with the status quo and eager to see great changes occurring in a social structure. It is unnatural for them to be complacent, passive, and primarily concerned with security and willing to allow the older generation to be more radical than they are. Take note David. 

“Unless we can develop in the American college student an impatience with the status quo, a passion for change for the better, and a heightened critical judgment as to the direction in which social change moves, we are responsible for the educational institutions of this country and have failed miserably. At the present time it appears to me that we are not meeting our responsibility as fully as we should. Too few young students are raising their voices to be heard in protest. There is too little agitation toward reform and improvement, too little organized effort among the students which takes on the nature of public protest or positive suggestion of desirable changes. The criticism which I am making generally of educational institutions throughout the United States applies equally to Grinnell at the moment.”

Jo: I don’t see where he gets off — springing a test like that. It was too long and he didn't even go over the stuff in class.

Mary: I flunked, too.

U. N. Chief’s Statements Urge Peace Negotiations

Lake Success, New York — Some 50 correspondents, representing the press and radio of the whole world, each Friday morning crowd into a small conference room here at United Nations headquarters to fire questions at the man who perhaps most nearly today represents mankind’s conscience and will to peace. That man is Trygve Lie, the 54-year-old former Foreign Minister of Norway who is now Secretary-General of the United Nations. In his fifth year as U. N. Secretary-General, Trygve Lie holds an unparalleled vantage point from which to observe the swirling currents of international affairs, all of which, in one way or another, U.N. is expected to deal with.

At his press conferences and in public statements since the beginning of this year, Trygve Lie has been forcefully urging international negotiations to prevent a third world war. “The only way to stop the armaments race and bring the contest for power under control,” the Secretary-General told a recent press conference, “is by persistent negotiation and conciliation, month after month, year after year. This is what the United Nations stands for above everything else,” he said. “It is the only way in the long run to prevent a third world war,” Trygve Lie says. “I would say that the United Nations — despite all setbacks — is already a much stronger influence for peace than many people think, if only all its friends and supporters will speak up.

“I would go further, I would say that there would be little hope for peace or for a settlement between the Great Powers if the United Nations did not exist.” The Secretary-General declares that he favors negotiation among the Great Powers . . . “all the time and on all levels — the top level, the middle level and the lower level — inside the United Nations and outside the United Nations.” “I think,” he remarks, “the world would be a lot better off if there had been more real negotiation and (Continued On Page Six)

“Photo Of the Month”—“Autumn Afternoon” Photo By Dave Matthews

Details of itineraries and costs of trips are available on inquiry at AYH National Headquarters, 6 East 39th Street, New York 16.

Synopses of Popular Books Now Available On Seven Day Shelf

Here is a synopsis of four non-curricular reading books which are now placed on the seven day shelf in the library. You will find on this shelf a variety of books which will interest all students.

I. The Golden Warrior by Hope Muntz. The Golden Warrior is a historical novel which relates, as no history could, the life of King Harold of England. It illumines what is perhaps the most climactic chapter of English history — the Norman Conquest. At Hastings, in the year 1066, Harold’s great English army was defeated by the Normans under William the Conqueror, and Harold himself lost his life — but in that battle he won everlasting fame and a permanent place in English hearts. Harold had sacrificed much for the sake of the crown. He had given up his beloved common-law wife, banished his own brother from England, and became a man almost without friends. The lives of few fictional heroes can match that of Harold, whose exceptional personal qualities charmed even his arch-foe William and won him the love of all England.

II. A Treasury of Southern Folklore—Edited by B. A. Botkin. This book A Treasury of Southern Folklore is rich with the drama and color and tradition of the antebellum aristocracy of the Bluegrass, the Tidewater, the Low Country and Creole Louisiana — jam-packed with wonderful lore and incomparable music of the Negro, with the fun and gaiety and simple wisdom of the usual folks of the backwoods and backwaters, the river bottom, swamps, and bayous, the hills and valleys. There are more than 500 stories and more than 75 folksongs. You will find this book a rare account of foxhounds, horse races, feuds and duels, voodoo, folk sayings, old-time dishes and drinks — and what the governor of N. C. said to the governor of S. C.

III. Chips Off the Old Benchley — by Robert Benchley. Chips Off the Old Benchley is a collection of material by Benchley which has appeared in various magazines and newspapers beginning as far back as 1915, and represents some of the most inspired writing the Old Master ever did. Undaunted by problems and phenomena that would faze any ordinary man, he courageously tackles the future evolution of man (tree or mammal?), puts forward his own five-year plan, elucidates his new bone dust theory of human behavior, and finally plunges straight into the mysteries of March 15. In short, here is a collection to delight, equally, both the sinful and the pure in heart.

IV. Little Squire Jim — Robert K. Marshall. Little Squire Jim is a story of North Carolinian mountain folks and particularly the story of the boy James Braxton Boyden and a Catholic mother. Left an orphan, Little Jim lives a lonely, secluded life, emerges only to run into trouble, and finally dies, “killed” as his neighbors believe, in the family tradition.

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT
BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST.
PHONE 2-2238
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

$35.00 GABARDINE OVERCOATS $19.95
REDUCTION ON ALL JACKETS
ONE GROUP LOUNGE JACKETS
Were $14.95, now $8.95
ONE GROUP
Were $19.95, now $12.95
ONE GROUP
Were $5.95-$6.95, now $4.00
ONE GROUP
Were $12.95, now $7.90

Wrenn's Men's Shop
SALE Starts Friday, March 10
ALL STOCK SUITS
$30.00 $35 $45 $60
ALL HATS $7.50 and $10.00 values now $5.00
RAIN HATS WAS $3.95 NOW $1.00
ALL TROUSERS REDUCED
$4.95-$8.95 Values $1.94
ALL GLOVES $2.95-$1.95 Values now— 97¢
1 GROUP SWEATERS HALF PRICE
1 GROUP SWEATERS $1.94
1 GROUP DRESS SHIRTS—$3.95 values, now $2.50
SCARFS—Solids and plaids 97¢
ONE GROUP SOCKS—50¢ pr. 39¢
All Corduroy SPORT COATS $14.00
REDUCED ONE GROUP
ALL OTHERS 20% off
SPORT SHIRTS REDUCED FROM $4.95 — $3.95
1 Group $2.95
One Group Shoes $11.95 — $13.95 now $5 - $7

MAIN ST. DAVIDSON, N. C.
OTHER EXCELLENT BARGAINS