Since the opening of Johnston Gymnasium last month, interest in physical education and particularly in inter-fraternity basketball games has risen
by leaps and bounds. This is understandable, however, considering the facilities available. With Physical Education classes all day long, work-outs
and varsity team practices in the afternoon, and interfraternity games at night, the gym has become the center of campus
activity.

By GORDON SCOTT

GREEK RACE TIGHTEST IN HISTORY

Never before in the recent history of interfraternity competition here at Davidson has so much interest been shown as has
been the case during the current cage competition. Much of this enthusiasm is of course due to the excellent playing
conditions which the new gym affords but the big thing in the picture is the excellence and near-equal strength of
all of the teams in the interfraternity loop. In former years many of the Greek organizations were content to delegate
five men of questionable ability to the laborious task of running around a basketball court for 32 minutes in a
vain effort to keep the glory of ole Eta Felta Thi alive, often with ridiculous results. Needless to say, this
wasn’t true in all cases but it was a pattern that was generally followed.

The interfraternity hardwood competition this year has definitely dispelled the long-accepted belief in the minds of many that there are
some teams who are year in and year out at the mercy of four or five tough teams; for this
year, with the possible exception of one or two quintets, the competition is of such an equal quality that any
team on a “good night” can whip another. It’s fortunate that such a situation exists. In a one or two
team race for the championship, interest invariably lags — except for the all-conquering leaders — and the remainder of the
teams are likely to play just because it is a duty, unpleasant though it may be.

A look at the current standings will reveal that three or four teams are apparently fighting for the cellar and
the opinion is naturally expressed that the race is not as close as we are making it sound. The fact
is that a vast majority of the losses which have put these teams where they are have been by a
very few points — in many instances by only one or two. A good example of this was the game
between the S. P. E.’s who at this writing have yet to win a game, and the Pikas who are
currently among the pack leaders. A desperate last half surge enabled the Pikas to come out on top by three
points 38-35. This is but one example, and if the reader would doubt this, we refer him to past scores.

CHAMPIONSHIP STILL WIDE OPEN

Since there will be two rounds of basketball this year, it would be folly to pick a champion at this
stage of the race. However, unless there is a sharp reversal of form the winner will come from among the
Kappa Sigs, Pikas, Sigma Chis or the S.A.E.’s. Any of these teams could cop the league championship considering the distribution
of talent on the teams. But in the long run, the deciding factor will be which team can stay “up”
and play steady ball throughout the remainder of the trying schedule. It’s a tight race and will continue to be
so down to the finish wire. It’s a race that is worth watching and following regardless of whether you are
a fraternity man or whether your particular quint is in the thick of it. In our opinion, it would be
well worth anybody’s time to take a little time off from the “books” and drop by the gym at night
when these games are played.

UNKNOWNS STEAL STARS’ THUNDER

It's not too early for sports’ managers of the different fraternities and social organizations to start looking over the field
of players in order to determine their choices for the Interfraternity Basketball team. In addition to many of the stars
of years past, many newcomers have been little short of sensational on the hardwood this year. Sports’ managers would do
well to carefully look these boys over, because actually, in many cases, these “unknown” stars are the ones who really
deserve post-season honors.

While on the subject of interfraternity athletics, we would like to make comment on the officiating at games. To begin
with, the men who have acted as officials in basketball games this year have for the most part done a
creditable job. The main trouble has been lack of consistency on decisions on the part of individual referees and the
whole group of men who call the games. Some are more lax in certain respects than others. Some allow the
games to approach free-for-alls as far as roughness is concerned without blowing their whistle. Now as we see it, this
fault cannot be explained by accusing the officials of being more biased when certain teams are playing. Rather, it seems
that they are not as familiar with the fundamentals of game-calling as they might be.

ATTENTION ATHLETIC DEPARTMENT

This is certainly no fault of their own, for they are doing the best that they know how. What we
would like to suggest to the Athletic Staff is that prior to competition in each of the interfraternity sports that
a sort of official’s school be held under the direction of some member of the college coaching staff. It need
not consist of more than meeting together for two or three nights at the very most, and at these meetings
the instructor could simply go over the more important rules with the aspiring officials. This idea may go over like
a lead balloon, but if you consider all of the hard feelings and complaining that have arisen, not only this
year but in years gone by, due to faulty officiating, then we're sure you'll agree that the situation is in
dire need of being reworked. Such instructional classes won't be a cure-all, but they would at least be a step
in the right direction. What do you think?

Gridders End Second Week of Work In Master-Minded “T”

By BILL WHITE

Two weeks of Diamond-T fundamental drills come to an end tomorrow afternoon, but Crowell Little's forty-odd grid aspirants have only
scratched the surface of the nine-week off-season session. The new Cat skipper has spent the first quarter of winter work
on conversion of material from the single wing to the fundamentals of the T, particularly the diamond-T which it appears
the former UNC frosh tutor will employ for the Wildcats next fall.

To date, naught but basic functions of the formation have been dealt with, the greatest job being the orientation of
backs. However, most of the candidates have run from the T at some time or other during their careers, the
frosh having been schooled in it just this fall. The Cat’s tossing tailback Auburn Lambeth is reconverting very nicely to
the T-spot, a post which earned him all-state honors as a prepster at Decatur, Ga. Running tentatively at least, behind
Lambeth are quarterbacks Johnny Guiton and Bill Bacon. Bacon, a swiftie at McCallie during prep school, is reporting for football
at Davidson for the first time.

Working with Lambeth and returnee fullback C. L. Runyan are two lightning fast scooters up from the frosh ranks to
replace graduates to be Jake Wade and Charlie Rimer. The two are Roy White and A. C. Gregg, both hard
hitters and hustlers who hit the line at top speed to slither through defensive backfields after grabbing the handoff from
the quarter. Woody Leach, rising senior, who last fall was a starting back on the defensive platoon, has also been
looking very impressive at offensive halfback in the relatively light drills to date.

While ends Bob Turk, Walt Hankins and Don Lazenby and tackles Brady Osborne and Bill McNeely may not report before
March 1 due to basketball and wrestling, Little has had a chance to see what new material on the flanks
and at tackle can do. A fraternity standout for two years, Dave Williams seemingly is going to make the switch
to the varsity grade without losing much of his elusive, glue-fingered ability. Ex-frosh Dick Kelley is another good looker at
end, and the two newcomers are making the competition keen for Dickie Blanks and Lee Talbert, the latter a jayvee.Last
fall because of eligibility rulings.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1950

GAMECOCKS EDGE DAVIDSON 58-56

Wildcat Sports

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcat Of The Week....

Starting off his first varsity basketball game against College of Charleston last Monday night, Bob Turk turned in a beautiful
performance which earned him the title of Wildcat of the week. The stocky blond from Atlanta stepped into one of
the forward slots and was the spark which ignited Davidson’s run-away in the second half. Bob’s specialty against the Maroons,
as against all foes, is a deadly one-handed push shot from around the foul circle. His aim was true for
13 markers against the Maroons, highest total posted during the game. Turk was one of Boyd Baird’s most dependable performers
on last year's twice-defeated frosh squad, and with two years of eligibility left, Bob should have a brilliant hardwood career
ahead of him. He’s not spectacular on the court, but his steadiness makes him a good team man and a
constant threat under the basket. “Harpo,” as he is tagged by his friends, excels on the gridiron as well as
on the basketball courts. Playing on last year’s frosh team as an end, he moved up to the varsity and
saw plenty of action as a defensive end. He'll be out there again next year, in fact, he will get
in the latter part of spring drills when basketball is over. We're proud to salute this first-rate athlete this week
and congratulate him for his stellar playing against College of Charleston. Needless to say, the name of Bob Turk will
become increasingly prominent in college and conference circles.

Another freshman who has given notice already of winning his varsity spurs early next fall is Angus McInnis, a hefty
185-pound scrapper who gets across the line fast and often. He'll be a handy man to have at tackle, a
post weakened by graduation this spring. Little hopes to scrimmage his club against that graduating club next weekend, but definitely
plans an intra-squad scrimmage for the eleventh of March, closing out the practice on that date.

Spirited Cats Avenge Earlier Licking By Trouncing College of Charleston

By JIM FARRAR

The Wildcat quintet came back strong in the second half to down a scrappy University of Charleston team Monday night.
Turk and Cobb led the Cat scoring with thirteen and eleven points respectively. Cobb started the scoring with 3 rebounds.
The score at the half was 31 to 25, Davidson leading. Puckhaber put Charleston back in the ball game in
the first minutes of the first half on a foul shot and a crip. Price followed with a crip to
tie the score at 31-all. Turk then made two push shots from inside the foul line to put the Cats
ahead to stay. Hengeveld hit a long shot, and Coleman made a crip to make the score 39 to 31.
Hengeveld was hurt under the basket but was able to walk off the floor of his own accord. McLean made
a foul shot making the score 40 to 31. Nelson made the score 40 to 32 on a foul shot.
Turk made a push followed by crips by Coleman and Lazenby making the score 46 to 32. Price made a
foul shot, and Cobb made a beautiful swish from out beyond the foul circle. Cheek matched Cobb's long shot to
make the score 48 to 35. Turk added his final two-pointer making the score 52-35. Haller finally got hot and
hit three crips and a long shot in the last four minutes, with Cobb adding a final push shot, making
the score 64 to 36. Nelson made a foul shot for Charleston to end the scoring for the night. The
final score 64 to 37.

Slaughter Drops In 31 Points as S.C. Starts Fast and Outdistances Cats

By CHARLIE HAWKINS

The University of South Carolina Gamecocks won their second game of the season from the Wildcats of Davidson Wednesday night
in Columbia, S.C., as they came out on the top end of a 58-56 score. It was almost a complete
turn-about from the other game played between the two teams. The first game was close until the last 10 minutes
when Davidson was worn down and lost by some 20 points. However, in this game, it wasn’t even close the
first 10 minutes, when it looked as if S.C. might win in a walk. The rest of the game proved
to be a real battle. The Gamecocks rushed to a 16-6 lead in the first five minutes and then ran
it up quickly to 23-9 for their biggest lead. Then Davidson began to get rebounds and hit their shots, and
as the half ended, the Gamecocks held a slight 31-28 lead. Most of the S.C. scoring was done by Slaughter,
who in the first half, had hit 6 of 13 field goals. All six completions came in the first 10
minutes. It began to look like a real contest. With only three minutes left, two goals by Cobb and Brooks
brought Davidson to within two points of the Gamecocks, 53-51. Then Brooks followed with a basket to knot the score,
53-53. A set shot by S.C. guard Cox and a Davidson foul shot by Tom Coleman upped the score to
55-54. S.C.’s Munn and Davidson's Brooks followed with baskets with only one minute left to make the score, 57-56. A
foul shot by Chuck Prezioso ended the scoring and the game, 58-56. Davidson's Wildcats hit 10 of 15 free throws
while S.C. got only 8 of 22. Brooks led Davidson's scorers with 14 points, while S.C.'s center, Jim Slaughter, hit
the nets for 31 points, although missing six free throws.

Chesterfield Sport Quizz

1. The first winner of the Heisman trophy was a star gridder at Iowa who was killed during the last
war. Who was he?
2. The only major undefeated basketball team in the country is —.
3. Paul Severin, All-American end at U.N.C. was recently appointed head football coach at what school?
4. Who was the highest scoring guard in college basketball in North Carolina last year?
5. In a recent AP poll, was voted top tennis star of the past 50 years.

Rules
1. Print your answers clearly on the back of a Chesterfield wrapper.
2. No entries will be accepted later than 24 hours after the Davidsonian is circulated.
3. Take your answer to Frank Perrin in 112 West.
4. The first three correct entries will receive a carton of Chesterfield cigarettes.
5. This contest is not open to the members of the Davidsonian staff.

Frosh In Best Form of Year Against EMI.

By BILL BRADFORD

Ray Brown's freshmen team came roaring back Monday night after a series of losses to down Edwards Military Institute 66-46.
The Kittens got off to a slow start against the Cadets and were trailing by two points, 24-22, as the
halftime buzzer sounded. Following intermission, the Wildkittens rallied, with Bob Graham's marksmanship leading the way, and went on to win
66-46. Graham turned in by far the finest performance of the evening, bucketing 23 points. His accuracy was unerring and
proved to be one of the deciding factors in the contest, although the excellent floor play contributed a good bit
to the final outcome. The win over E.M.I. was the second of the year for the frosh cagers, the first
win being against Parker High of Greenville.

Cobb led the Cats under the basket and in floor play. Puckhaber and Price headed the scoring for the University
of Charleston with 10 and 9 points respectively. Davidson was in control of the ball game all the way except
for a few minutes at the start of the second half. The scoring was very evenly distributed among the players.
Coleman had eight points, Turk 13, Cobb 11, Hengeveld 9, Lazenby 8, and Haller 8.

BRYAN WENTZ COMPANY
"Clothing For The Man"
205 South Tryon St.
Charlotte 2, North Carolina
