fell ‘ ° PLICKER FELLOWS CRAVE COMPANIONS VOLUME XXXIX The Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.
C., FRIDAY, NOV. 3, 1950 HEMOGLOBIN HOARDING LEAVES BALLARD BLOODLESS NUMBER SIX

Frat Sports Managers Meet; Decide to Continue Football

Serious injuries sustained by several players in interfraternity football games recently caused Coach Heath Whittle, supervisor of the interfraternity sports
program, to call a special meeting Thursday afternoon of all fraternity sports managers to discuss the situation. Coach Whittle pointed
out that three times as many injuries have been incurred in the interfraternity football program as in the regular tackle
game played by the varsity and frosh teams.

After discussing possible solutions to the situation, the decision of the group was to play the remainder of the scheduled
games this season with a special plea to team members to cut down on unnecessary roughness prevalent in many of
the contests. As Coach Whittle, supervisor of the interfraternity athletic program, pointed out, every team seems to “have it in
for the other, instead of playing for the enjoyment of the sport.”

Several proposed solutions included changing the game to “tag” football, issuing equipment and playing regular six-man (tackle) football, and limiting
the number of players on a team to seven or six. However, most of these were considered too radical to
be put into effect this year.

Athletic Director Paul Scott proposed the most popular solution to the problem. Since, as seems to be the case, most
of the injuries sustained in the interfraternity game are the result of vicious downfield blocking, he suggested that the rules
be altered to restrict blocking to within five yards of the line of scrimmage. Mr. Scott's suggestion was considered by
the sports managers to be the most practical, but the general consensus of opinion was that any change as radical
as that would hurt the attack of every team if it were to be put into effect this late in
the season. The group did, however, table Mr. Scott’s suggestion for discussion at a later date.

A Christian's Stand In Wartime Argued At IRC-YMCA Panel

A panel discussion on “Faith that Lives in a World at War” was held Tuesday night in Phi Hall. Members
of the panel were Dr. E. O. Guerrant, Professor of Political Science; Dr. Bernard Boyd, Professor of Old Testament at
UNC; Rev. J. C. Auman, Pastor of the Forest Hills Methodist Church in Concord; and Dieter Oberndoeffer, a German student.

Opening the discussion with a short talk, Dr. Boyd defended a position of Christian Pacifism. He indicated that a person
choosing such a course would invite serious criticism and probably see no immediate result of his stand. Although he would
be met by apparent failure, Dr. Boyd claimed “he would fail the same way Christ failed.”

Continuing this theme of a Christian’s stand in time of war, Dr. Guerrant suggested two courses of action that a
Christian might follow in relation to his government. First, he should make every attempt to secure the election of Christian
officials in that government. In the second place, he should strive to support those governments which put into effect Christian
policies and in general fostered the growth of Christianity.

Rev. Auman interceded with the thought that if the causes of war and in particular the economic causes were ferreted
out and remedied, there would be no wars. This would eliminate a necessity for making a difficult choice between church
and state during a national emergency. To clarify the position of the church on this matter, Dieter Oberndoeffer read a
portion of a Lutheran Church statement in regard to Germany's Re-armament Program. He concluded by asserting that no war is
justified in God's eye and that the church should remain neutral in all circumstances.

Several questions were posed by both students and faculty who participated in the discussion. These were answered either partially or
fully by the panel and other individuals present. Phi Hall was crowded almost to overflowing and this forum was judged
by the panel members to be one of the most successful and rewarding meetings of its kind held here in
recent years.

McLean Directs Clothing Drive

Beaver Club members sponsored the annual old clothes drive this week. This year’s collection will go to needy persons in
Europe and Korea. Under the direction of Mac McLean, Beaver Club president, boxes were placed in each dormitory for the
clothes and room-to-room canvassing was carried out Tuesday and Wednesday nights. Indications at press time were for a successful drive
with a large amount of clothes already collected. The drive officially ends Friday night, but those still having old clothes
that they would like to contribute may bring them to 310 East.

Chapel Schedule

A varied program is on the chapel calendar for this next week, featuring the performance of a Beethoven trio and
a speaker from Salisbury, representing the Synod of North Carolina in the Presbyterian Church. On Monday, November sixth, Faculty Day,
Professor Fulcher of the Science Department will be in charge of the program. Dr. Purcell will present Tuesday's chapel. Mr.
and Mrs. Kenneth Moore and Mrs. James Christian Pfohl will perform Beethoven's Trio in B-flat major for clarinet, cello, and
piano. Mr. Moore is new to Davidson this year, a member of the music faculty. Wednesday the eighth, Dr. Cunningham’s
day, Reverend O. V. Caudill, of Salisbury, N. C., will be the guest speaker. Reverend Mr. Caudill is Director of
the Presbyterian Planning and Building Committee of the Synod of North Carolina. Y. M. C. A. day is on Thursday,
November 9, and an appropriate program for that day will be presented. Professor Daggy will handle Friday’s devotional period, with
a student day program following. Attention is called to the calendar of events posted on the bulletin board at the
south entrance of Chambers. Chapel programs for the next thirty days are listed there.

Notice

In the box announcing the four Y. M. C. A. planned discussions in faculty homes on Sunday evenings in November
which appeared on this page in the last issue, the following sentence was mistakenly omitted. “It, of course, will be
necessary to limit the number of students participating in each discussion; Therefore, all who are interested in discussing one or
more of the above topics please see Irving Stubbs in advance of the appointed date.” The topic to be discussed
Sunday evening, November 26, which was not announced last week, is “Problems of Socialized Medicine.” The discussion will be held
in the home of Dr. Abernethy.

Film Society Plans For New Membership

The United Literary Film Society recently announced its schedule of films to be shown this semester. It is as follows:
November 10, “Les Miserables,” December 1, “Keys of the Kingdom,” December 15, to be announced later, January 3 “Intolerance,” January
12 to be announced later. The film to be shown on January 12 is a bonus which was not on
the original schedule. These programs should prove most enjoyable to the members of the society.

Plans are being made to establish the United Literary Film Society as a permanent organization on the campus. At present
there are approximately 300 members, over 90 percent of whom are students. An effort is being made to obtain a
larger screen before the showing of the next film. Two projects will be used at the showing of the next
movie which will provide a continuous program. Stuart Plummer and Robert McClure are the projectionists. Technical advisor for the society
is Professor Sellars. With the purchase of a larger screen it is hoped that membership to the society can be
reopened. All interested in becoming members of the United Literary Film Society should watch for an announcement of the reopening
of membership.

Shown above is Dr. Bernard Boyd, professor of Old Testament Bible in the Department of Religion at UNC, chatting with
“Y” Cabinet members Irving Stubbs, left, and Don Shriver, right, just prior to the panel discussion of which he was
chairman.

Y APPROVES HOLIDAY CHANGE

Dr. Bernard Boyd, Former Davidson Bible Professor, Returns To Campus; Serves on “Faith In War” Panel

“It’s a crip—I’m not doing a lick of work,” smiled Dr. Bernard Boyd, a former member of the Davidson Bible
Department and who is now a Professor of Old Testament Study at the University of North Carolina. Dr. Boyd returned
to Davidson as a panel member in Tuesday night’s forum on faith in wartime. He spoke with a degree of
relief as he expressed a desire to acquire additional duties and classes. Apparently well satisfied with his work at Chapel
Hill, Dr. Boyd reported that his extracurricular calendar was also less crowded than it had been at Davidson. Teaching two
elective classes, Dr. Boyd is concentrating at thepresent in giving a fundamental knowledge of the Bible to his students. One
of these courses is concerned with the basic Old Testament content, while the second is an attempt to illumine certain
background elements relative to the Bible as a whole. Of his students, Dr. Boyd laughingly said, “The majority of students
who enroll in my courses do so either because they want to learn or because they think it will be
crip.” Although he finds fewer of his students than would be suspected are pre-ministerial, Dr. Boyd claims he is “rapidly
making converts.” The two classes contain a total of thirty boys and girls. “Chapel Hill is a good town,” he
replied when asked to compare it with Davidson, “though there are perforce many more differing factions.” Even though he had
to sign a loyalty oath, he asserted that he has yet to discover a Communist there. Dr. Boyd's general plans
for the future include accomplishing a more thorough orientation of his professorship and stimulating the Tarheels toward more and varied
scholastic Bible study.

NOTICE
Mr. Robert M. Gamble, Chairman of the Donor Recruitment of the Mecklenburg County Chapter of the American Red Cross, writes
the college to express the hearty appreciation of the entire blood program organization for the response of Davidson College on
October 26. They report that 129 individuals gave blood for this worthy cause. They note the fine spirit of cooperation
in the community and pay particular tribute to Colonel Ballard whom they feel “did a superlative job.”

Tryouts To Be Held By Forensic Group
Bryan Robinson, president of the Forensic Council, has announced the tryouts for the Fall debating. These tryouts are to be
held on Monday and Tuesday, November 13-14, with emphasis on the speaker’s ability to grasp his subject as well as
exhibiting his speaking qualities. The tryouts will differ from actual debating in that the main speech is to be five
minutes long, the rebuttals to be two and one half minutes long, and in that no decisions will be made.
The tryouts will be judged by the faculty committee which is composed of Professors Guerrant, Lilly, Johnston, Griffin, and Tyson.
About thirty-five boys, from Seniors down to Frosh, have shown interest in entering this year's debating and Bryan urged that
all who are interested in trying out and have not notified him to please do so as soon as possible.
His room is 108 West. He also reminded those who are entering the tryouts of the supply of reference material
available in the library. The first debate will be held in approximately two weeks, but only regulars with previous experience
will compete. At the first tournament however, which is to be held in Charlotte beginning November 27, Robinson expects the
Council to enter in full strength.

Faculty Reverses Earlier Decision In Called Session
In an interview with The Davidsonian, Dr. Cunningham revealed that the faculty voted in a called meeting to change the
official Thanksgiving holiday from Thursday, November 23 to Saturday, November 25 and to cancel Vesper Services on Sunday evening, November
26. Students taking cuts on Friday before the holiday or on Monday following the holiday will be charged with double
cuts. This change, which has been the subject of a score of rumors and scuttlebutt, was passed almost unanimously by
the voting faculty. Though Thursday is officially a national holiday, the faculty agreed that Saturday would be a more appropriate
holiday under the existing circumstances. In order that Thanksgiving Day itself not pass unheeded, a special student-faculty service is being
planned in order to give the college an opportunity to give collective thanks. The Honorable Francis Miller, of Charlottesville, Virginia,
who was to speak at Vespers on November 26, has been informed of the cancellation and invited to visit the
campus later in the winter. Concerning a three-day holiday period such as was granted last year, the president affirmed that
it could not be repeated for a number of reasons. Several out-of-state parents contacted the Administration requesting that they not
calendar a three-day period due to its proximity to Christmas and the unwanted travel expenses involved for their sons. In
addition to these and other reasons, the Board of Trustees has never sanctioned the extension of a holiday which forced
returning students to travel on Sunday.

Local Blood Drive Pleases Chairman
Colonel J. L. Ballard, chairman of Davidson Red Cross Blood Drive, announced that the blood drive last Thursday exceeded all
previous goals of its kind. Although this year’s quota was not reached, Colonel Ballard was exceedingly pleased with its results.
One of the reasons was the fact that the date chosen for the drive by the Red Cross office conflicted
with many other events in the community. The drive was conducted in the basement of the College infirmary. Those who
assisted in the drive were Red Cross doctors and the local chairman. Ladies of the town operated a canteen under
the chairmanship of Mrs. F. W. Fredrickson, president of a local women’s organization. Many other people gave much of their
time toward making the drive a success. O. D. K. was responsible for much of the publicity given to the
drive. The Colonel expressed the desire for all of us to eat plenty of beefsteak between now and February when
a similar drive will be held if the Far East situation continues.

D.C. Band Vocalizes At Erskine Game
The Davidson football band staged one of its most unique halftime shows on Richardson Field last week when it sang
in four-part harmony “Somewhere Over the Rainbow.” After forming a large “E” for Erskine facing the east side of the
stadium, the band members turned (Continued on Page Four)

'Y' Services Concluded Wednesday
“Where Do You Live?” Ends Series
The observance of Religious Emphasis Week on the Davidson College campus came in the form of the annual Fall Services,
sponsored by the YMCA, using for their central theme, “Faith that LIVES.” The distinguished Dr. Mark Depp of the Centenary
Methodist Church in Winston-Salem was guest preacher for these services. The first of Dr. Depp’s messages bore the subject “Where
Do You Live?” The speaker asserted three levels of living—where we eat and drink, where we read and think, and
where we love and pray. On Monday morning, Dr. Depp delivered the second of the series entitled “What Happens When
We Pray?” He stressed the value of seeking a quiet place to be alone and have a personal talk with
God, and explained that prayer is answered in many different ways, often so that we are not able to realize
that our petitions are being granted. This message sought to answer a question which is foremost in the minds of
each of us who sometimes wonder concerning the value of prayer. In answering the question “Why Aren't We Better Christians?”,
Dr. Depp asserted the thought that, although this is due in part to a lack of knowledge of just what
Christianity requires of an individual, it is more deeply rooted in the fact that we haven't the courage to stand
up for our Christian ideals. We dare not be good Christians because we fear the responsibilities it places upon us,
forgetting or overlooking the fact that Christ himself, because of his courage, faced Calvary. To how many of us today
does our Christianity mean so much? In his fourth talk of the series, Dr. Depp challenged his listeners by asking
the question “What Do You Want?” In attempting to answer this question, the listener was led to consider three things
above all: first, how we as an individual rank in the universe as a whole. Too often we tend to
judge our respective positions by our social standing, and on the basis of how (Continued on Page Four)

Land Supporting Roles In ‘Command Decision’
The Red and Black Masquers’ production of William W. Hanes’ recent Broadway hit, COMMAND DECISION, will be under the direction
of Tad Currie. Tad, who comes from Kalamazoo, Michigan, has already acquired considerable distinction in dramatics at Davidson, although this
is only his second year here. He has had roles in two of the Masquers’ productions of last year, THE
MAN WHO CAME TO DINNER and JOHN LOVES MARY. Prior to coming to Davidson, he played numerous roles in high
school plays, having played the lead in THE BAT. During the summers Tad works in summer stock in Kalamazoo. There
his interests fall mostly in the field of technical stage setting and portraying character roles. In the forthcoming production Tad
will also take part on the stage as well as backstage. Besides designing the set of the play he will
be seen in the supporting role of Major Lansing, an intelligence officer and a “retread” as army men (Continued On
Page Four)
