FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 1960 PAGE SIX THE DAVIDSONIAN

2. Lacks intellectual stimulus;
3. Over-emphasizes exams in determination of final grades;
4. Gives too little attention to making clear the degree of detail wanted in the answer;
5. Tests only the acquisition of knowledge, not the organization or application of it;
6. Does not discriminate between the degrees of attainment of various students;
7. Lends itself to cheating;
8. Is constructed for easy grading;
9. Has uneven grading.

The committee recommended that more thought and time be devoted to preparing examinations, that grading be more adequate, and that the junior staff members be trained in the art of preparing and evaluating examinations. The committee also indicated that it “thoroughly disapproves” of “grading on the curve,” with a fixed proportion of a class receiving A's, another fixed proportion B's, and so on. It reported that the use of this procedure “is infrequent” here.

CAT TALES...
(Continued From Page Four)

You have perfectly valid reasons for selecting the team as it was, and if for no other reason than to satisfy my own curiosity, I'd appreciate your writing me about them. In closing, let me take this opportunity to thank you for all of the publicity your sports section gives to Davidson athletics. We all appreciate your excellent coverage of sporting events here at Davidson, for win or lose, you always give us a good write-up.

Sincerely,
GORDON SCOTT, JR.
Sports Editor
The Davidsonian

LIBRARY FEATURING...
(Continued From Page Three)

...ent, told in terms of painting, sculpture and architecture and its minor arts and crafts. There are four hundred and seventeen illustrations and over five hundred pages of intelligent text, in which thousands of names and thousands of facts have been brilliantly integrated into a long and swinging story that can be read for pleasure as well as for information.

“Beneath So Kind A Sky” by Carl Julien and Chapman Milling is an interpretation in word and in picture of the scenic and architectural beauty of South Carolina. It contains ninety-two magnificent photographs and represents every section of the state. It is a book of live oak and rhododendron, of swamps and mountains and streams, of Anglican grace, and Calvinist simplicity, all of which are South Carolina.

In the field of music, the Library has added an excellent study of the history of music throughout the world. “Music of The World” by Kurt Pahlen, is an up-to-the-minute account of music, musicians, and composers by one of the world’s foremost musicologists. The four hundred illustrations which are included contain many sketches and contemporary prints never before printed. Published by the Crown Publishers, it was translated from the German by James Galston.

WISCONSIN STUDENTS...
(Continued From Page Three)

...tory, and “with rare exception,” the small classes that are being conducted are fully justified. Nine of the most common faults in the University’s examination program were listed by the committee as follows:

1. Gives little or an erroneous idea of the purpose of the course;

TESTS SCHEDULED...
(Continued From Page One)

...mand. He reports that the real need of the students for a program of this sort is well pointed out by the many students who approach him and other faculty members and Dean Bailey for help and the high degree of interest being shown in these tests by the students who have discussed them with him.

Though any date is very tentative, the tests will probably be given just before or after Spring Vacation. Instead of being spread out over many days as was the case last year, they will be concentrated for convenience in two days with about fifteen hours of tests and questionnaires.

As an added help to students in choosing their work, vocational guidance information worth over one hundred dollars has been bought and will be placed in a special room in the library — one of the rooms of the first mezzanine, in the rear. There is a large amount of concrete practical help in this material, and students are urged by Prof. Oswalt to take full advantage of this excellent opportunity.

Next week the nature of the tests themselves, what they try to find and what they hope to do with the results will be discussed, as well as the course that should be followed in choosing a career.

SCABBARD AND BLADE...
(Continued From Page One)

...Council and of the business staff of Quips and Cranks.

Amos Towel
Amos is a senior from Norton, Va. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta, social fraternity and of Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity. He has played football and basketball and is a member of the “D” club.

Edward Exver Denison
Ed is a senior from Asheville. He is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha, social fraternity and of The International Relations Club. He also plays with The Davidson College Band.

Benjamin Mason Hatton
Ben is a senior who hails from Fort Benning, Ga. He is a member of Sigma Chi, social fraternity.

John Ebner Hazard
Jack is a member of the senior class from Jacksonville, Florida. He is a member of Kappa Alpha, social fraternity, Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, Philanthropic Literary Society and he is an associate editor of The Davidsonian.

Christopher Kennedy Hood
Chris is from Charlotte and a member of the senior class. At Davidson he is a member of the Student Dance Committee, a co-manager of the Student Store, works with the Scripts and Pranks and he is a distinguished military student.

SPANISH FRATERNITY...
(Continued From Page One)

Goodman, R. M. Lilly, H. D. Middleton, E. F. Montgomery and Paul Young.

The Omega Chapter of Sigma Delta Pi was installed at Davidson College in 1931. Students are elected for interest in Spanish literature and language and for proficiency in spoken and written Spanish.

Junius Brutus Stroud
J. B. is a junior from Faison, N. C. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi, social fraternity and of Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity. During '47-'48 he played junior varsity football.

TOWN MEETING...
(Continued From Page One)

...down of the fire-engine could destroy the entire business section in a short time if properly ignited.” A local merchant commented that fire-insurance rates were much higher as a consequence of these unsafe dwellings.

A plan was then presented by F. W. Fredrickson, local real estate man, which provided for the formation of a local holding company to issue stock on a new housing project. Repairs could be made on the houses as they stand through loans, but in his opinion the former plan was the most practical. Mr. Fredrickson stated...

FORMER DAVIDSONIANS...
(Continued From Page Three)

...pointed out, but in his opinion the former plan was the most practical. Mr. Fredrickson stated...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

that Federal Housing ease, Dr. Marvin said, and research- Aid could be obtained. Yet to call ers are beginning to learn about the in this organization would neces- causes of congenital diseases of the sitate higher rents than the owners heart. He added that that is the would be able to pay. The sugges- extent of knowledge of the causes tion meeting no opposition, the fol- of heart disease. lowing men were named to form “We do not know what causes this company and proceed to plan rheumatic fever, or high blood pres- for the new housing: F. W. Fred- sure, or the hardening of the arter- rickson, J. F. Pinkney, Thomas Sad- ies that kills people in the prime of ler, J. V. Lore, William Withers, their lives,” Dr. Marvin stated. and J. F. Hartness. “And until we learn these causes, The chief problem facing the com- we are largely powerless to prevent mittee will be that of procuring these three kinds of heart disease, suitable land in this vicinity. No which together make up about 90 further business or discussion aris- percent of the total.” ing, the meeting was dismissed. Dr. Marvin expressed his belief that the causes of these types of OMICRON DELTA heart disease will be discovered. (Continued From Page One) “It would be foolish and unfor- the following men: President Cun- givable to make any predictions,” ningham; Professors Mebane and he stated, “but great strides have Davidson; and Mr. Jackson, the been made in recent years. Hun- college treasurer. dreds of highly trained and devoted After the subject of the gym had scientists are working constantly, been marked off the list of the meet- and our detailed knowledge of these ing’s purposes, the circle’s business three diseases is increasing rapidly. moved on. A scholarship cup to be It is quite possible that the final awarded to the fraternity whose discoveries will not be the achieve- members achieve the highest scho- ment of any one or two investiga- lastic average was proposed as an tors, but rather the combined re- incentive to the raising of scholas- sult of the contributions of many tic interest among Davidson frater- workers in the same field. nities. It was decided that this cup “The progress already made is will be presented at the earliest con- highly encouraging and I feel sure venience. Curtis Harper was appointed to secure a guest speaker for ODK Tap Day exercises this spring. Finally, the remainder of the meeting was used to vote whether another chapter of Omicron Delta that even brighter days lie ahead,” Dr. Marvin asserted. EMBRYO TANKERS (Continued From Page Five) 180-yard backstroke 1:48.4: (1) Kappa should be organized at Bradley Polytechnic Martin (NCS), (2) Long (D), (3) Institute. Goode (NCS), (4) Knight (D). Peoria, IL. 200-yard breaststroke 2:51.4: Members of Davidson’s Delta (1) Cornelson (D), (2) Lewold Circle are: Bill Bird, Bo Roddey, (NCS), (3) Carlson (NCS), (4) Whit Cobb, Bill Alexander, Liston Cunningham (D). Mills, Jake Wade, Doug Rice, Bob 440-yard freestyle 6:26.4: (1) Holmes (NCS), (2) Cole (D), Hollister, Bob Bumbarger, John (3) Jackson (NCS), (4) Gilchrist Lyles, Curtis Harper, Dr. Schenk, (D). Coach Whittle, Dr. McGavock, and 400-yard freestyle relay 4:06.6: (1) Pinkney. Davidson (Taylor, Evans, Miree, Professor Pinkney Ray. State (2) Morris, Goode, Wil- son, Martin. —Read Our Ads— VISIT THE Charlotte Waffle Shop “ACROSS FROM THE BURNING CORNER” ON WEST TRADE STREET (Copyright 1950, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.) They’re MILDER They’re TOPS! sition, which leaves not much space for our own decisions. It forces us to answer with power only and thus drives us necessarily towards a new war, which to avoid is understood to be our main goal. —Read Our Ads— still would be above man. And this may be said without doubt to be a falsification of human nature, be- cause human nature needs such a supernatural being, the place of which not possibly can be filled by man. Having found this it would be easy to say that the new society necessarily had to relate more to our form of society than to the communistic one, because our set- up is providing a large place for religion. This assumption, however, would be very dangerous, because GREEK TOURNAMENT (Continued From Page Five) Campus Club 27; SPE’s 15 Orchids to the Campus Club! They finally came through with a 27-15 victory over the SPE’s. This marked the first victory of the year for the Campus Club and they well deserved this hard-earned victory. Rinson led them with 7, while Campbell had 5 and Whitfield had 4. All the SPE’s could manage was Miller with 6, the other few points on both sides were divided. A far- ing sun hindered both teams' acces- GRADE “A” MILK sory. It is debatable whether or not our PASTEURIZED religion, or better the place of the Delts 33; Phi 29 individual, is providing for this. It Daily Delivery Phi Delts 33; Phi Gams PHONE 25 is necessary for us to understand, that nothing can be won without making any effort to win it. And if our religion really should be one of the decisive factors in the future development of our society, also the effort that has to be made, must be very large, thus to justify the gain. It therefore should be one of our main aims to strengthen our religious position within our socie- ty, even if we should be forced to sacrifice part of our overemphasized individualism. But even doing that would not be enough. The communistic society through its aggressive character has pushed us into a defensive po- A fighting Phi Delt team pulled somewhat of an upset over the Phi Gams by 33-29. Auburn Lambert led the Phi Delts with 11 while Grady Spires had 10. Jim Cobb added 6 other markers for the Phi Delts. The Phi Gams were led by big Chris Whiteman with 11 while Christopher and Camp had 7. It was a hard-fought game with the game largely depending much on re- bounds which the Phi Delts con- MOORESVILLE, N. C. —Read Our Ads— DAVIDSON WEEK OF MARCH 6-11 FREEDOM AND (Continued From Page Two) he blames the Catholic hierarchy non-Catholics. The book has en- joyed wide circulation and numer- ous printings in the last few months. With the above in mind the CPU chose this topic for its round table discussion last week. A special guest for the evening was Father Weid- inger, Catholic parish priest for Chapel Hill. BIEKO (Continued From Page Two) and wrong. Thus, however, they are taking the place of a superna- tural being, that we believe to be God, and that, even if it would not be God as known to a Christian, MON.-TUES. “RED LIGHT” George Raft - Virginia Mayo WHEREVER YOU GO! WED.-THURS. “DAKOTA LIL” George Montgomery - Rod Cameron Marie Windsor FRI.-SAT. “EAST SIDE WEST SIDE” James Mason - Ava Gardner Barbara Stanwyck - Van Heflin Remember this seal — it’s your assurance of the best! WILLIAM LUNDIGAN Famous Syracuse Alumnus, says: “You know, thousands of words are being written every day. When it comes to Chesterfields, the words that I like best are short and simple... they’re MILDER and THEY SATISFY.” STARRING IN “OH, DOCTOR” A 20th CENTURY-FOX PRODUCTION FINE ARTS BUILDING SYRACUSE UNIV. CHESTERFIELD AMERICA'S COLLEGES WITH THE TOP MEN IN SPORTS WITH THE HOLLYWOOD STARS National Survey