PAGE TWO . THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 1950

THE DAVIDSONIAN
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF ................................ BOB HOLLISTER
BUSINESS MANAGER .......................... BILL HOUCK

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editor .................................. Doug Hix
Associate Editor .................................. Lonnie Turnipseed
Associate Editor .................................. Jack Hazard

MANAGING EDITORS
Arnie Covell, Pitt Gammons, Hartley Hall, Jim Ray, Bill Hollister, Neill Loca, Tee Mon Scott

Make-up Editors — Dan McKeithen, Cherry Stribling.
Art Editor—Bill King
City Editor—John Hobart
Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries
Photographs ........................................ Ed Richardson
Assignments Asst. ............................ Watt Jeffries
Proofreader ........................................ Charlie Baldwin

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager .......... Bill Cassells
Advertising Managers .................... Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison.
Circulation Manager ...................... Huffaker
Asst. Circulation Managers .......... Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager ...................... John Loftin
Subscriptions Manager .................. Alex Goley

The Davidson Negro problem has gone through three stages at this time, Revelation, Revolution, and Results. It is rapidly headed
for a final solution. A committee has been appointed to investigate the possibilities of forming a holding company, or corporation,
which could carry through tentative plans for the construction of low-cost housing units to help alleviate the fire, health, and
moral hazards of the dwellings in back of the main business district.

A lot can happen in ten days; it often does. From Dr. Carl Pritchett’s revelation a week ago Sunday to
his revolution last Sunday a great number of things came to light. In fact, so clear was the situation in
the minds of the townspeople that there was really little need for Dr. Harnsberger to point out the abilities of
rats and flies to carry disease from the open area at all hours of the night, to the main food
stores of Davidson only a few yards away, to point out the possible portent of a typhoid epidemic. The results
of the town meeting were, needless to say, and are, fast forthcoming.

It just goes to show what one brotherly love and human charity, as we all should, can do in a
town where people have consciences, where inwardly they want to do the right thing. It took a lot of courage
for Dr. Pritchett to say the things Sunday; it took a lot of work, and it’s going to require a
lot more to see this thing through to a satisfactory conclusion.

Correlate Summer Work
The time has rolled around once more when we must give the usual careless thought to how we will spend
the summer months this year. Some will give the matter a real and a serious thought while others will drift
on figuring how best they can “goof off” using the least possible energy and expense. These paragraphs are not for
you if you allow yourself to fall into the last group. These words are intended to give some brief pointers
to those truly interested in putting into and getting out of these three months, the best that they have.

First, see my main point: In order that your summer is to be most wisely used by you, it must
certainly be correlated to your school work and must fit itself into that all-important plan for your life’s endeavor. If
correctly correlated this summer work will make the nine-month experience of school most meaningful. What’s more, you'll be connected to
something real that you can feel and see, thereby making your aims and ideals for life close and vital.

Just think of the feeling of accomplishment in time well spent. If you chose right, and put your best in,
this feeling just comes naturally. Choose so that you'll be with lots of differently influenced people. The experience of knowing
people from many different frames of reference is invaluable. This correlated summer work will develop greater interest in and more
incentive for the work you will do later.

For practical suggestions, there are hundreds of bulletins in print to furnish comprehensive outlines of educational opportunities at home and
abroad. Students interested in industry, government, agriculture, institutional services (hospitals, etc.), interracial workshops, relief projects, may secure for 10 cents
such related information by writing to this address: The United Christian Youth Movement, 206 South Michigan, Chicago, Illinois.

Another source for information on work, study or travel abroad may be secured from: U. S. National Student Association, 304
N. Park Street, Madison, Wisconsin.

Summer service projects are numerous and are so varied that one looking forward to any major field of study should
find a project to fit his choice of work. You have a chance for a great investment. Correlate your summer
work, and the dividends will excel your greatest expectations.—N. L.

Lost Dollar
Every year each student at Davidson pays a total of twenty dollars into the Student Activity Fund generally without ever
knowing for what his money is spent, and unfortunately without taking advantage of the undertakings for which he has already
paid.

A general breakdown of disposition of this twenty dollars is as follows: YMCA $4, Davidsonian $4, Artist Series $4, Quips
and Cranks $4, Scripts and Pranks $2, Forensic Council $1. The remaining dollar is put into a cushion fund to
be drawn against should the case arise that additional expenditures are needed by any one of these organizations.

You have a stake in each of these organizations and undertakings by virtue of the fact that you have sunk
your good hard cash into their program for the year. The question now arises as to whether or not you
feel that you are getting your twenty dollars out of the program. There is no doubt that each student receives
an overall twenty dollar value from his input. The Quips and Cranks alone costs over $10.00 for each copy. The
issue now becomes, whether or not each student gets a fair return from each of the departments to which his
money goes. It is obvious that quite a few do not, and it is equally apparent that to reap this
return, students have but to take advantage of the programs already planned and set in motion.

Take, for example, the Artist Series, for which each student has already paid four dollars. While you won’t find a
half dozen students who are willing to give this amount away to fellow students, yet to date 265 of our
student body have in effect done this very thing by not getting their Concert Tickets and taking advantage of them.
These boys have donated over $1000 to provide musical entertainment for the rest of the student body—entertainment of the finest
sort which they too could enjoy at no additional cost whatsoever.

Nor is this the whole story. Notice that no mention is made of missing athletic contests. Student passes, contrary to
general opinion, don’t come out of this twenty dollars. Every time you miss a Forensic debate, ignore a ‘Y’ activity,
or cast the DAVIDSONIAN aside unread, you are in effect wasting your own money.

The $20 question is, how long are those who now pass up their paid-for campus activities going to continue getting
no benefit from their money.

This is a question that the DAVIDSONIAN cannot answer, but it can say that in the meantime those who do
support these activities really appreciate this kind donation toward their entertainment and enjoyment—T. H. H.

Editor, The Davidsonian:
A freshman reporter of “The Davidsonian” just stepped into my room asking simply, “Would you be in favor of a
series of agnostic lectures in Chapel?” Stunned at first, I finally told him that I would favor bringing believers in
extreme doctrines to this campus for completely free, and believe Chapel is neither the time nor the place to do
it.

An open forum committee of students could sponsor such speakers once or twice a month at special night meetings where
attendance would be entirely voluntary and only those persons interested would have to go. A real live communist, a welfare-state
man (Socialist), an admitted agnostic, an arch liberal, heard under their real classifications, not masquerading as anything else.

“BIKO” (By KURT BIEDENKOPF)
Revelation, Revolution and Results... By TOM ABEL

The question has recently arisen of having agnostic speakers in Chapel. I feel that perhaps a more suitable time and
place could be found for such speakers than during the compulsory Chapel period.

“You can lead a horse to water, but you can’t make him drink,” as the saying goes, trite as it
is, and I think it applies to this situation. For one thing, having an agnostic speaking in a place where
attendance is required just doesn’t make sense. Any speaker, whether he speaks for agnosticism or religion, should address a “voluntary”
audience, an audience that is at least going to listen to him.

And that brings us straight to home. I personally feel that the whole matter of compulsory Chapel and Vesper services
is morally and intellectually wrong. We go to Chapel day after day after day, and although we may not listen,
on occasion we are still receiving small doses of religion, small doses that tend to immunize us from ever catching
the whole “disease.” If the idea of compulsory religion here is to inoculate the student body of this institution with
so many small doses of axiomatic, deadening truths that we'll never really catch fire in our beliefs, then that policy
has evidently and sadly succeeded.

On the other hand, if we personally do not have the moral curiosity to attend Church voluntarily, if we do
not have the intellectual curiosity to go and listen to speakers of diverse opinions, then we are in the wrong
place. We ought to be out digging ditches instead of wasting time in college.

Flicker Flashes (By HUGH SWAN)
* * * Excellent
* * Good
* Fair

Monday and Tuesday
“Red Light” starring George Raft and Virginia Mayo plays. No material was received on this picture, but the title and
cast indicate an entertaining picture.

Friday and Saturday
“East Side, Westside,” starring Ava Gardner, Barbara Stanwyck, Van Heflin and James Mason plays. This picture is the story of
a slickster (James Mason) and his fight within to be true to his wife (Barbara Stanwyck). James loves wine, women
and song; but Barbara loves only James. Through her physical charms, Ava Gardner (the other woman or James’ other wife)
succeeds in luring James into the forbidden realm of infidelity. James’ infatuation for Ava destroys Barbara’s love for him. Van
Heflin steps into the picture to free Barbara of her human bondage caused by herown love for James, Van becomes
a close friend and a potential husband, Ava is murdered, James is involved and Van solves the murder. Barbara's life
is directly affected. The outcome is startling.

Co-operation Needed In Extra Activities

Fort Collins, Colo. (IP)—“The average student should realize that under today's educational standards there are, in reality, two campuses-in-one in
every major institution of learning,” according to Dean of Students J. C. Clevenger of Colorado Agricultural and Mechanical College. “There
is a pressing need to coordinate the activities of each, so that every student will have a balanced program,” he
continued. “Some of our students do not share in enough extracurricular activities while others do too much.

“There is real educational worth to be found in ‘out-of-class’ activities, as well as in classroom experience,” he declared, “and
it is the wish of the College to supply the means of helping our students obtain this value. It is
our hope that we can work out a system, the same as most large colleges do. It is only a
matter of time and finding the way to budget the additional expense. We should have a coordinator set up in
the Student Union to help, advise, and coordinate all students and student groups in their extracurricular social and activity programs.

“When it is finally accomplished,” he concluded, “we want the activity office so complete that it will assist the extracurricular
activity program, including assisting in managing and auditing financial matters of the various organized groups on the campus.”

It is also impossible for us to say or determine to which of the two existing extremes this new society
will be more similar, to the capitalistic or the communistic one. We are too much involved in either one of
them to give any objective judgment as to which side would be more desirable, at least we would not be
another factor, that will probably have an important place when the final decision will be made. This factor is the
Christian religion. The communistic society, as it is existing right now in Russia, has no place for a religion of
any kind. The state and its leaders are said to be the final authority not only on state affairs but
also on what is moral law, what should be right.

(Continued On Page Six)

Letter to the Editor

A Christian’s education in 1950 is seriously lacking if he does not know what some men believe who disagree very
sharply with him. However, I believe that to do this in compulsory Chapel or Vespers would not only be poor
talk but would be putting the stamp of Davidson approval on things which are diametrically opposed to everything Davidson stands
for. Though I believe she should grant her students freedom to hear rival doctrines on their own time, I think
Davidson has a perfect right as a Christian College to indoctrinate us in the beliefs and practices upon which she
is built. We need solely to develop an awareness of the tremendous ideological and philosophical conflict now going on around
us, but perhaps a voluntary forum would be a more appropriate medium than compulsory Chapel—Malloy Owen.

TEN TIMELY TOPICS

“The Nature of the Enemy,” editorial, Life, Feb. 25.
“Is War With Russia Inevitable?” George F. Kennan, Reader’s Digest, March, (Kennan is chief formulator of our policy toward Russia).
“Reading by Red Starlight.” John MacCormac, Saturday Review of Lit. Feb. 25.
“Objections to World Government.” Elmer Davis, New Republic, Feb. 27.
“The First Fifty Years—a History of the British Labor Party.” Harold J. Laski, Nation, Feb. 25.
“Arms and the Germans—1950,” Telford Taylor, Harper’s March.
“How to Live Better on 24 Hours a Day.” Karin Roon, Reader’s Digest, March.
“Bach After Two Centuries,” Herbert Weinstock, Saturday Review of Literature, Feb. 27.
“The World’s Health,” Michael M. Davis, Nation, Feb. 25.
“When God Says No or Nothing,” Ross Holman, Christian Herald, March.

GUTHERY OPINION POLL

(By PAUL GUTHERY)

QUESTION: Would you like to hear a series of Agnostics Lecture in Chapel?

For 78 Per Cent
Against 10 Per Cent
No Opinion 12 Per Cent

The Valiant is an interesting play. This critic has seen it three times and it never fails to amaze that
something so simple can be so deeply moving and so dramatic when properly produced. For this reason, I was somewhat
disappointed in the rather uninspired performance presented by the Masquers on Monday evening, February 27. With two notable exceptions, the
acting was only adequate. These two exceptions were: first, Bill Pharr, who played Warden Holt, and second, Tom Apperson, who
appeared as James Dyke. Mr. Pharr turned in a creditable performance and one felt that he was actually what he
was supposed to be, a warden, experienced, even callous, and yet strangely disturbed at the actions and attitudes of his
unusual prisoner, James Dyke. This impression is one not easy to convey; therefore Mr. Pharr’s efforts are deserving of commendation.
Adversely, one could only say that he spoke a little too fast. Mr. Apperson played his role with intensity and
restrained power. Anything more would have rendered it melodramatic. Strangely wooden at times, he nevertheless rose to a great dramatic
impact at the moment when he bade his sister goodbye, then sat down and spoke the effective lines ending with,
“The Valiant never taste of death but once.” Regardless of the lines actually written in the play, that should have
been his last speech. Drama was rendered melodramatic by his reiteration of this line as he left the stage and
also by the priest’s line, “I know that my Redeemer liveth,” which, incidentally, is not in the original play. This
interpolation and Mr. Apperson’s reiteration tipped the balance and somehow destroyed the dramatic effect of the play. After all—and to
be fair—the line between drama and melodrama is subtle and hard to define. The Valiant ended as a good old-fashioned
“meller-drammer.” However, the experiment—that of bringing drama to the Davidson stage—is commendable in every way, and with a beginning effective
in spite of its faults, it is to be hoped that the next production of the Masquers will not be
a comedy. Which comment brings me to “Sunday.”

Sunday Costs Five Pesos is obviously a hilarious play—at least, that is the way it affected me. The cast, in
toto, can only be described as brilliant and someone, probably the director, Mr. Trotman, did an inspired job of casting.
Mr. Smith, from his rollicking entry to his last line, “How grandioso,” was wonderful. The flavor of his accent eludes
me, but the flavor of his acting is in all respects pleasing. As Berta, Dorothy Herring was properly sultry, coy,
pleading and indignant, and all at the appropriate intervals, no mean accomplishment. We hope to see more of Dorothy Herring
in future Masquer productions. Mae Holly was sprightly and very effective in her role of Salome. Her somewhat ill-fated efforts
at reconciliation via chicanery were carried off with distinction and the fight between herself and Miss Carter was, as Mae
knows only too well, realistic to the point of being painful. Mary Wells McNeill kept me in stitches. Her part,
I presume, was to provide comic “accentuation” and it succeeded admirably. Her naturalness is extremely refreshing, even including the furtive
and not so furtive scratching after goodness knows what on her person. And finally Celestina, played by Jessie Carter, was
excellent. Miss Carter is undeniably good to look upon and I find it a relief to be able to mention
her superb performance in “Sunday.” Whatever her faults in John Loves Mary, she has completely redeemed herself and once again
the credit must go to excellent casting by Mr. Trotman, the able director of this play. The setting itself was
excellent. Colorful and original, it provided an excellent backdrop to the excellent acting of an excellent cast. Thanks again to
Mr. Trotman. In conclusion, The Valiant was a noble experiment and I hope the Masquers will try again with happier
results. As for Sunday Costs Five Pesos, anytime the Masquers wish to revive it, I'd like to be on hand
for the performance.

College Rags in Brief

(By BILL CUMMING)

From the Mississippi State Reflector comes a tale of woe about Feature Editor, Jim Peeples, who says his goose is
cooked with the local lasses. Following his recent article headed “Falsies Fix Flats; Serve as Pincushions,” one girl stormed at
him, “Do you consider nothing private?” The sweet young thing went on to say, “We girls receive questioning stares wherever
we go,” then hastened to add speculations concerning Peeples’ probable ancestry and suggestions of where he should spend his posthumous
days. Withering under a blitz of female tongue-lashing, Peeples took hope when a particular female friend of his joined them.
However, he soon found that his confidence was misplaced when the new member of the group failed to take his
side of the argument. She promptly remarked, “Yes, what God has forgotten, we stuff with cotton,” and added, “But it’s
our own business.” When another female joined the conversation Peeples gave up all hopes of getting in a word of
self-defense and resigned himself to a sound berating such as only the female tongue can administer effectively. Peeples says he
will remain ever grateful to a faculty member who dispersed the belligerent group with a few stern words. Stopping to
investigate the trouble, the faculty member had demanded, “Well, all right girls, if there’s something bothering you, get it off
your chest.”

U.N.C. Gets New Dorm

The Daily Tar Heel reports the passing of U.N.C.’s Quonset Huts. The quonsets, which were erected in 1946 as a
temporary housing measure, are being torn down to make way for a new dormitory. The State Legislature has appropriated $1,000,000.00
for the new dorm which will have 230 rooms including social rooms. The appropriation includes the cost of furnishing the
dormitory. Perhaps not without touches of nostalgia and silent curses, male students see the “tin cans” torn down, says the
Tar Heel. Thirty of the 36 huts on the Carolina campus served for dormitory space, housing 20 students each. The
others were used as shower-toilet facilities and for study rooms.

Freedom and Catholicism

(Reprinted From Daily Tar Heel)

By JOHN A. SULLIVAN

Last Sunday, February 12, the Carolina Political Union discussed the topic, “American Freedom and Catholic Power.” This is in fact,
the title of a recent book by Paul Blanshard. The discussion centered on an analysis of the book and its
possible ramifications. Blanshard’s book was based on a series of twelve articles that he wrote for the periodical, The Nation,
in 1947 and 1948. The book was published in March of 1949. It is Blanshard’s contention, as stated in the
prologue of his recent work, that the Catholic church represents a threat to American democracy. He is more specific when
for the misuse of church power rather than the Catholic people. He believes that the Catholic church is extending its
interests in the fields of education, medicine, censorship, science, and even foreign policy; and by so doing, the church is
encroaching on the American democratic way of life. To back up his arguments Blanshard uses excerpts from official Catholic publications.
Whether these charges are true or not is not half as important as whether we in this country, a free
people, can freely and openly discuss such a book. As would be expected this book has aroused violent reactions from
both Catholics and

(Continued On Page Six)
