PAGE SIX

“Duke For The Damsels” Solves Homecoming Housing Shortage

“Where, oh where, can my fair date stay; oh, where, oh where can she sleep?” you were singing as you walked past Mrs. Little's office in Watts one fateful morning. “Ah-hah-ha!” said the dormitory supervisor as she grabbed you by the ear and led you to a chair before her desk. “I have just the room for your girl. A beautiful little cubby hole in the basement of Duke should be dandy. Sign here, please.” Quickly you scrawled “Joe Collitch” on the proffered sheet of paper, and, surprised but happy, thanked the lady. It was not until then that she showed you the fine print which provided that your wench would have to stoke the furnace for two days. As you zipped up your jaw you learned that this was the latest solution to the old problem of where to house the fair ones during dance weekends. All the students in Duke had cheerfully volunteered to vacate their rooms to help out. (Come on out of that closet, Mac, it'll only be for a couple of days.)

You soon found that the “Duke for the Damsels” plan had repercussions, too. Early in the week the lucky guys on the east side of East dormitory started renting out field glasses, and by Friday afternoon dateless Davidsonians were forming all up and down in front of Duke to admire the pulchritude. All the closed drapes and quiet atmosphere (Hey, throw me my skirt, Gert) gave the place the appearance of a convent. This was Davidson going all out to make the gals at home. There was a rumor that a professor was sleeping in the bathtub so a couple of girls might use his room, and down at the College Pharmacy Hugo was renting sleeping bags and space in the store booths. Then you learned later that they were kicking guys out of Rumple to have more space. However, some joker with a warped sense of humor spoiled everything by putting a “Condemned” sign on the front door. The Pan-Hellenic detectives are still working on that case. You realize now, though, that everything is working out for the best. Except for the guys who are invading the wilderness of the old gym for the weekend, the situation looks fine for all. Vive la Spivak!

HOWE GREENE... (Continued From Page Two)

“Snake”, who approached Howe and Ellen with the confidence bred of experience. “You haven't introduced me to your queen, Howe,” he drooled. “Oh, Snake, I want you to meet Ellen White from Converse College, down in Sparkingburg. Ellen, meet ‘Snake’ Simmons.” “I am very pleased to meet you, Ellen,” he replied softly. “May I have the first dance after the figure?” “I'd love to, Snake... that is if Howe doesn’t...” “Snake” turned to Howe, “I’m sure Howe wouldn’t mind if I had one dance with his beautiful girl, would you Howe?” and his voice sounded a little sharper as he finished. By now the figure had come to an end, and everyone was again dancing. “Snake” led his conquest onto the floor, and drawing her up close, turned on all his charm. Howe had lost his date. Seeing how disastrously yesterday turned out for Howe, I wonder what will happen today.

EDITOR’S MAILBOX... (Continued From Page Two)

too. How about “guessed” for “sing.”, “Then I am happy, as for you I guessed.” No? Let us take another well-known verse, hardly comparable, but terribly out of line, according to Mr. Hansen's theories: Mary had a little lamb, Its fleece was white as snow. The tragedy here is that “snow” doesn’t rhyme with “lamb.” Of course, for “snow” we could substitute slamb, or cramb, or shamb, or damb, or some other word pertaining to college life. Better still, let’s make Mary shake off that lamb.

Dave Hamilton

WAX SCRATCHINGS... (Continued From Page Two)

orchestration and choral work which makes practically every number Victor Young does sure fire hit parade material. If someone ever bothered to take a lot of surface noise, record it, then play it backwards the results would very probably approach the conglomeration of baby talk and stuff (that’s the only word to describe it) you will hear on the new London release “Molasses, Molasses.” It undoubtedly is the worst thing I have ever heard on wax. All that talk about “Molasses, Molasses, it’s icky, sticky goo”; it's plain terrible. To make it worse all the leading recording companies have cut it too. If they're that hard up for material I think I'll write a song. In writing about the latest releases by Perry Como a few paragraphs back I overlooked several new tunes that I certainly should at least mention, (and besides I need enough material to finish out the column.) Perry and Betty Hutton combine talents to sing a fast moving discing labeled “A Bushel And A Peck.” It’s rather cute although “Gravel Throat” Hutton gets rather loud in places which doesn’t help the tune at all. Perry solos on “Marcheta” and the results are much more pleasant minus the aid of Miss Hutton.

FILM SOCIETY... (Continued From Page One)

confirmation announcement, both on the films to be shown and the use of Chambers Auditorium may be expected in a week or ten days. The five movies for this semester will be shown on October 27, November 10, December 1, December 15, and January 5, and if everything goes well, more numerous and varied films will be secured next spring.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MIND, MUSCLES... (Continued From Page One)

of the Wildcat backers, and another sign which labels the proceedings “General Rout.” Stepping next door to the home of the wearers of the White Cross, he finds that the Sigs cannot turn their minds away from their schoolwork, and are featuring as their theme “General Education.” The scene depicts a classroom and uniformed generals sitting at the desks. At the head of the class a Davidson player. Around the walls are blackboards on which are written various gridiron lessons which the Wildcats are to teach the Generals on Saturday afternoon, such as Lambeth + Gregg equals defeat for any opponent. At the next stop around the court, the Pika House, he finds another Wildcat, measuring 9’ by 12’ covering the entire front of the house, with his mouth open and from the roof of its mouth extending a swing. On the swing is seated a W & L General, with the Wildcats’ large eyes watching his every move. The background music (this sounds like the Stork Club) comes from a loudspeaker in the tree, and will feature the “W & L Swing.” Departing a little from the array of Generals and Wildcats roaming around the premises, the Pi Kaps are busy constructing a miniature train on an 8 by 12’ platform. Mounted on the engine is the figure of a Davidson player, and this engine is to move down the track to the W & L line, consisting of small men mounted on pivots, crash through, and an electrically operated scoreboard will register six more points for Davidson. Our visitor next finds that the...KA’s feature a rocket ship to the moon, and on the ship are the words “Davidson Football.” Coach Crowell Little is seated at the controls (no, globehead, a dummy of Coach Little) and the fuel for the ship is supplied by alumni support, athletic scholarships, etc.

CRIPPLE CREEK BOYS... (Continued From Page One)
Following him was “The Cattle-Call” sung by Louie Runge with a beautiful piece of yodeling which had the cows on nearby Hiawassee dairy going wild! Bowing to popular demand, the Boys did “Goodnight, Irene.” The rumor is that the next number, “Mama Don't 'low No Music Played ‘Round Hyar,” was presented for the benefit of Mrs. Little, who has had temptations to turn them out of the dormitories. “Fiddlin’ Flutch” Bright stepped into the spotlight with some fine fiddle imitations on the “Mockingbird Song.” Kenneth Smith gave his idea of how the banjo should be picked on “Watermelon Hanging on the Vine.” For an encore, the boys gave their version of “Over the Rainbow.”

The “Cripple Creek Boys” were a familiar group on the campus last year, playing at the Charlotte Country Club and numerous square dances and similar functions in and around Davidson. They have lost two regulars this year in the Haynes Brothers but have been strengthened with four new additions. The regulars are Bright, Smith, and Moses. Their immediate plans include a radio broadcast at Mooresville and providing the music for the fall square dances in this vicinity. They are ready and waiting for all invitations, provided they are given at least five minutes' notice.

HOMECOMING SKETCH... (Continued From Page Two)
A flag on the new flagpole and a new innovation. Open calisthenics will be presented on the drill field in the morning. The afternoon’s game will be witnessed by some 500 spectators on Davidson's own field. After last week’s defeat by Furman, the scrappy Wildcats, whose backfield averages 156 pounds and whose line averages in at 159, will try to break the long-standing 24-game win (or tie) record of the freshmen of N. C. State.

Tonight at 8:00 in Shearer Hall—a mixed crowd—there will be several presentations of stunts. The Glee Club will sponsor a chorus, quartet, soloist, jazzy and symphony orchestra, and the Guitar and Mandolin club. These stunts and musical arrangements will finish off a day which will be treasured in the hearts of the attendants for many months to come.

But what is the contemporary scene? Surely we can't lift a day, such as this, from history without examining the concurrent events. The local theatres are showing: at the Alhambra Cecil B. De Mille’s “The Ten Commandments,” while at the Imperial is “The Cost of Folly” starring Gloria Swanson.

COMPARE CHESTERFIELD WITH ANY OTHER CIGARETTE!
BEFORE YOU SMOKE THEM... you can tell Chesterfields will smoke milder because tobaccos that smell milder.
AFTER YOU SMOKE THEM... you have no unpleasant after-taste.
WHILE YOU SMOKE THEM you get more pleasure than any other cigarette can give you—that's why millions of smokers say: THEY SATISFY.

The Maxwell-Chambers Hotel announced in the Davidsonian that “They take pleasure in soliciting banquets and those college feeds,” whereas the “Stud” advertised “Freshy fruits, candy, sandwiches, milk and even cigarettes. It’s yours, why not patronize it?” The town paper stated that “A double-header freight passed through Davidson at noon. Only a few of the students and townspeople were present to witness the event; if we had known it was coming someone might have had the presence of mind to ring the fire bell.” The provinciality of the situation is struck in a joke: “Freshmen, if you think this place is dead, all we ask you to do is to take a trip to Mount Mourne; just one trip.” But how? A new road has just been put in allowing the free passage of automobiles. The editor of the Davidsonian commented prophetically “The day of bumming has passed. (courtesy riding). The new road opened last spring facilitates this ungentlemanly act. Of course, it’s all right to ask a stopped car, but to flag down a passing car only leads to trouble for both driver and rider. It is felt that the ease of riding to Charlotte has hurt spring training and the shape of the football team. Several train schedules have now been cancelled because of the loss of passengers.”

On this line in the advertising realm: “Fellows—we have several new U-push-’em Fords at your disposal. Prices reasonable. See us at any time. Henderson Filling Station;" “Now at Tate-Brown—gas bag shoes—‘C'llegiate’—light mellow tan—$8.00” or “Buy Victor records. Latest hit— “I’m Gonna Charleston Back to Charleston” by the Revelers—Price 75c.”

A news flash is “Women at the University of Oklahoma have begun to flavor lipsticks. The fad is fast spreading over the university town and great ingenuity is being used to get different flavors—which range from lemon to tutti-frutti.” The Victor theatre in Mooresville, N. C. has a programme on November 4 with Graham Prince and his orchestra—"The ‘Hottest Thing Since The Chicago Fire.”

One joke running around now is “Necessity knows no law; Bootleggers know no law; therefore bootleggers are a necessity.” There has been a move afoot to get up for women a post-graduate school to train in religious education and our editor comments in protest: “For if the students here have many more distractions to keep them from their studies, there will be a Homecoming Day established right after the first semester each year that will vie with Homecoming Day in the Fall.” This guy must be “off his nut.”

Our jokes are getting more sensuous (sensual) and less sensible: “He: Can you read lips? She: Only by the touch system.”

And the world situation is seen in flux as: “Whether the U. S. will cast her lot with the leading countries of the civilized world in the World Council of Permanent Justice, or will she continue her policy of aloofness from international affairs?”

Well, last year we tied State 10-10. “Under the tutorage of Younger and Tilson the Davidson Wildcats this year have risen from the ranks of mediocrity and now have an enviable position in football circles. Everyone knows that the name of Davidson is synonymous with that of sportsmanship?” Yes, listeners! Everyone knows who kept their goal line inviolate as they won a 9-0 victory on that first Homecoming day. What will be the outcome this year?

BANDS SHARE... (Continued From Page One)
At the Furman game in Charlotte, it joined with the Furman band in pre-game formations and gave an attractive half-time drill. In Clinton, S. C., for the P. C. game, it gave an unusual maneuver based on the Broadway hit South Pacific. The members formed a palm tree with lights on their shoes while the stadium lights were turned off and at the same time played “Some Enchanted Evening” from the musical.

Band director Moore, a new member of the music department faculty this year, is a graduate of the University of Illinois and Julliard School of Music, holding a master’s degree in music. Throughout his college career at Illinois, Moore played in the famous Illinois football band, gaining much experience which he is now putting to use at Davidson. Moore is married and has one nine-month-old child. Both he and his wife are musicians—he a clarinetist and she a cellist.

LEADING SELLER IN AMERICA’S COLLEGES
Copynght 1950, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.