FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1950 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Davidsonian Commemorates First Homecoming, 1923

Stunts Featured — Homecoming, 1923

Stunt night has made its bow to the students of Davidson, and the success of the occasion warrants its perpetuation
as an annual student body function. Stunt night is well qualified to fill the place of the deceased Senior Speaking.
It should be preserved as the biggest event of the Fall calendar, and made a nucleus around which a weekend
of social activity can be built.

At Davidson, a man is trained for mental and physical prowess. The courses of instruction, the publications, the literary organizations,
occasional lectures, sermons, the library, and campus expression all tend to make the Davidsonian an intellectual peer. The athletic teams,
gymnasiums, and R.O.T.C. strive toward the development of physical prowess. But what is done for the development of the Davidsonian’s
social being?

The Junior Speaking event in the Spring is the only social occasion spared since the abolition of Senior Speaking. Essential
in man’s preparation for life are those elements of social conduct the development of which the average man at Davidson
is deprived. These things seem to be forgotten in Davidson’s rush for scholastic and athletic attainment. The need is for
a big social event during the early months of the college year, and Stunt Night has offered a solution to
the problem. Stunt Night in the Fall! Junior Speaking in the Spring! A Davidson graduate should be an all-round man,
to take his place in the ranks of the world, socially as well as intellectually.

Such was Editor-in-Chief Liston D. Elkins’ editorial comment as The Davidsonian celebrated the birth of its child, Homecoming weekend. Then,
as now, The Davidsonian was “the livest wire on the hill,” according to its masthead, and the advent of the
new Fall social weekend was its latest triumph over complete intellectualism on the campus. Replacing the defunct Senior Speaking, the
new “Stunt Night” was coupled with the Citadel game on Saturday, October 13, 1923. These two events plus the dedication
of Richardson Field formed a program which amply satisfied every student's social cravings. The first Homecoming Dance probably came several
years later, when, after having dedicated all nearby fields, the college realized that it would soon run out of that
commodity and would have to throw in a replacement to keep the par value of the tuition up.

Stunt Night in the Fall! Junior Speaking in the Spring! A veritable merry-go-round of social engagements, well calculated to keep
the Davidson scholar out of the heretical depths of philosophical concentration. What a Stunt Night it was, too! The first
event on their thrill-packed program was the rendition, by the Jazz Orchestra, of three hit-parade tunes of 1923, “The House
of David Blues,” “Somebody’s Wrong,” and that tear-jerker, “Sobbing Blues.” Following these numbers, “Bevo” Davis, impersonating Ikey Morris, attempted to
auction off the college to a blushing young girl, D. B. Walthall, and a fruit vendor, J. M. White. Needless
to say, he was not very successful. 1923’s version of “Jealousie” scored a big hit with the students as Cupid
Love and Buffalo McKinnon filled the hall with that old spiritual, “Nobody Knows How Green I Am.” Available historical documents
do not reveal just how “J. O. Craig and the Earnest Brothers entertained the audience with a trio played on
ordinary carpenters’ saws.” There is some evidence that leads one to believe that they beat the so-called “Kiser Twins” to
produce the sound to the tune of “My Father's Comical Mule.”

During a visit to our office the other day, Pete Young remarked that the enforcement of prohibition had quite taken
his breath away. When a driver puts his hand out, remarked a New York traffic cop, you can be sure
of one thing, the window is open.

Preaching to an audience that filled the large Wesley Memorial Tabernacle in Atlanta to overflowing several weeks ago, Walt Holcombe,
a widely known Methodist evangelist, used the Davidson faculty as an exceptional example of consecrated college instructors in these days
of arrogant and impious denials of the divinity of Christ and of the immortality of the soul. Evangelist Holcombe had
taken his text from the second chapter of Revelation, wherein the evil and dangers of false teachings are emphasized. From
that, he launched into his excoriation of “those who claim to be teachers, preachers, and apostles in our country today.”
He referred several times to an advertisement which had previously appeared in an Atlanta paper over the signature of Davidson
College, under the caption, “The Faith of Our Faculty.” The advertisement concerned a questionnaire circulated among several thousand teachers of
science in American colleges. Two hundred and eighty-nine answers were received, of which number 53.7 percent declared their belief in
God, while 44.7 percent said they disbelieved in the theory of the immortality of the soul. “I was happy to
note that no such deplorable situation prevails among the faculty members of Davidson College, according to this advertisement; and regret
that

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Shows Start at 3 P.M.

Monday and Tuesday, Oct. 23-24
“TO PLEASE A LADY”
Clark Gable - Barbara Stanwyck
NEWS & SPORT

Wednesday, October 25
Howard Duff - Marta Toren
SPECIAL & SPORT

Thursday, Oct. 26
“THE CAPTURE”
Lew Ayres - Teresa Wright
BAND

Friday, October 27
“THE FIREBALL”
Mickey Rooney - Pat O’Brien
COMEDY & CARTOON

Saturday, Oct. 28
“COPPER CANYON”
Ray Milland - Hedy Lamarr
Featurette and Cartoon

Our movies include three classes of people—we, the students, the faculty and friends, and kids. Some years ago, a gentleman
would never smoke in any public building where there were mixed crowds, nor around ladies. Although smoking is quite the
fad among the women of some sections, it has not reached here yet. The town people object, the faculty does
not like it, and our friends, many of them, say nothing, but they must consider it bad taste. It is
bad for all three classes because it makes the hall very close on hot nights, it mars the clearness of
the pictures, and it is a nuisance to the students. We have to place our cigarettes somewhere, and those above
throw them down on those below. Those below naturally react, and it causes disturbances. It shows little courtesy for the
faculty or our friends. It is certainly to the discredit of our manners. No one could go into a decent
theatre smoking away on cigarette stubs. It sets the kids bad examples, and in attempting to follow us, they think
it is smart, and who knows but that on the quiet they are owing cigarettes and smoking them in the
dark. It is bad for those who don’t smoke, for some will have to inhale as much as the smoker
himself. Then, again, later on after the show, we have basketball games, class, scrub, varsity, and practice. The cigarettes are
all over the floor, and Charlie, even with his new broom, can’t sweep them away. The Freshmen have been forbidden
to smoke. We, who call ourselves gentlemen, have been kindly and tactfully requested to stop. No matter how great or
how far a man rises in the world, unless he is courteous and considerate of the little things, he never
will be a polished gentleman. Fellows, let's live up to the name by which we are called—a true Southern gentleman.
P.S.—Smoke just before you go in, between acts, or in the intervals, if you are such a fiend you have
to have your cigs. Go outside to smoke.

New Road Connects Davidson, Charlotte

The Davidson College Highway, formally dedicated to the service of the State on Monday of this week by Governor Cameron
Morrison, is an already important artery of trade, connecting two of North Carolina’s most important business towns and embracing a
number of smaller towns in which there is a great volume of business. The total cost of this asphalt highway
was $1,218,000, or about $32,000 per mile. The total length is 38.4 miles, the new highway effecting a saving of
4.7 miles distance between Charlotte and Statesville. The new way has eliminated nine dangerous crossings, thus helping to prevent many
accidents. The road itself is a masterpiece of the road builders’ art and is said to be the best road
in the state. It has a concrete base five inches thick and two inches of the best quality asphalt for
a top layer; this latter offering a firm, yet resilient tractive surface for all kinds of vehicles. The width, 18
feet, allows plenty of room for two vehicles to pass each other, even at a high speed.

Davidson’s 1923 Football Team which won the first Homecoming game

1923 Gentlemen Were Not Smokers Called Bad Taste in Local Flicker

The Davidson faculty welcomes to its membership Prof. Charles Kenneth Brown, A.B. Davidson; M.A., Carolina, who takes the position of
Prof. L. M. Currie in the Mathematics Department. Coming to Davidson in the Fall of 1917, Mr. Brown soon became
prominent, being best known in scholastic and oratorical circles. During his four years, he was a member of the Intercollegiate
Debating team for two years, president and critic of the Philanthropic Literary Society, a member of the Memir Society which
has been succeeded by Phi Beta Kappa, Honor Roll student, member of Y.M.C.A. Board of Control, and president of Le
Cercle Francais. As a climax to his scholastic work, he graduated as valedictorian of the class of 1921. During the
summer of 1921, Mr. Brown attended the University of Besancon, in France, from which institution he received the Certificat d'Etudes
Francais. Returning to America, he engaged in work for one year and entered the University of North Carolina in the
fall of 1922, where he held the position of Teaching Fellow and received his degree of Master of Arts. His
alma mater called for his services this year, and he has returned to teach in the halls in which only
two years ago he was the taught. All Davidson welcomes Professor Brown.

Student Body Sets Up Honor Store First Stud in Basement of Watts

As a result of an experiment made at Davidson last year, the student body will open a “Serve Yourself” store
in the basement of Watts Hall within the next few weeks. Were it not for the honor system, this plan
would be impossible.

Frosh Throw Water From Dorms In 1923

For the past several days, a peculiar and unique condition has existed in the new East and West dormitories. They
have at intervals gushed forth streams of water on the unwary visitor. But these two unkind buildings even emit fountains
and showers of “aqua” not only on visitors but on occupants of the building themselves. Watchful

College Men Cheer White--Only Sports

Washington and Lee University has earned the admiration of every college man in the South. Their refusal to participate in
the regular"More of our American colleges are unable to boast of the same type of instructors,” said Mr. Holcombe. “If
the agnostics, the liberalists, and the modernists have captured as many colleges as the showing indicates, give them seven years
to work in and they will capture the entire student body of our educational institutions. These students will go out
into the world and begin preaching and teaching the same arrogant and impious denials of the divinity of Christ and
the immortality of the soul—taking away humanity's only hope and refuge in the midst of change and death.

“By the year 1940 we'll have a full crop of loose-jointed liberals, makeshift modernists, and disjointed critics, that will soon
put us right where Europe is today, with all its confusion, lawlessness, and anarchy.

The scheduled game with Washington and Jefferson, because of the latter’s insistence on playing a Negro in the varsity line-up,
cost them a forfeiture, technically, according to the ruling of the referee. This action on the part of the Generals,
although it may mean a momentary defeat in the transient season of 1923, is a laurel on the brows of
the team from the Old Dominion. It is a victory in the fight the Southern colleges and universities are waging
against race equality in intercollegiate athletics. Stand behind the Generals, college men of the South! They are taking a step
which should be followed by every college in America. The Northern school has gone beneath the yoke, but it is
still the privilege of the Southern teams to preserve their honor and self-respect. Southern athletes are white from head to
foot, and it is impossible to believe that they will ever depart from that policy of excluding the blood of
Africa from their ranks. Washington and Jefferson is to be commended for their spirit in declining to accept the Virginia
school’s forfeiture. They prefer to have the game entered on the pages of football history as a canceled contest.

Indeed one must keep an eye toward the upper windows; and must have a good pair of pedal extremities. The
guard dragon of this organization is one of the tribe of McKinnon otherwise known as “Buffalo.” He directs his cohorts
on very unwary travelers, so that no one is able to escape his baptism of water. Usually, he contents himself
with directing his cohorts; but when an especially choice victim approaches, he takes an active part to the temporary detainment
of the victim.

In West Dorm another devotee of this peculiar art holds hourly sacrifice to the same god. He hails from the
tribe of McComb, but his name is “Red” because of his flaming thatch. This young man often vies with the
said “Buffalo” to see which can carry off prime honors in the ever-drench contest. The battle shifts as the moments,
one time sturdy “Red” will claim more victims, while in the next instance “Avoirdupois” Buffalo will have more scalps dangling
from his belt.

Even the once timid and retreating freshmen have taken up this sport of the ages. At first, horrified with the
awful consequences to the victim, they gradually became accustomed to the grueling spectacle; then becoming braver they even tried their
skill at this most engrossing game. Dazed by the power of which they suddenly became possessed, they have used this
power to the detriment of even the members of the upper classes.

Happiness is like a boomerang—give it to others and it will invariably fly back to you.

With the completion of Watts Dormitory and the advent of Dr. C. K. Brown's long and distinguished tenure of office
on the faculty, 1923 promised to be a big year in Davidson annals. And so it was. Governor Cam Morrison
ran a highway from Statesville to Charlotte, 38.4 miles of road builder’s masterpiece, which incidentally, passed by Davidson's already hallowed
portals; the student store was placed on the honor system; and the poor college president, then as now, added a
few gray hairs completing a campaign for funds to restore recently burned Chambers.

From our viewpoint, however, 1923 looms large on the horizon as the year of the first Davidson Homecoming. Twenty-seven glorious
Octobers have passed since then, and, with the exception of two war years, old D. C. has annually called back
its alumni to watch the Wildcats in action and relive old memories. The 'Cats were triumphant in five encounters, were
tied thrice, and as for the other seventeen—well, think of the moral victories!

An account of the first system now in effect at Davidson follows below:

Coach Younger's cohorts defeated the Citadel Bulldogs in a hard-fought game at Davidson last Saturday. Displaying a variety of plays
which the Citadel eleven could not solve, the Davidson Wildcats christened the new Richardson Field with a 7 to 0
victory over the hard-fighting Bulldogs. The lone touchdown came in the last few minutes’ play of the third quarter. Immediately
after the kickoff, an exchange of punts gave the ball to Davidson on Citadel’s 34-yard line. Hendrix called two plays
through the line for nice gains. The veteran quarter then uncorked a 10-yard pass to Baker, substituting at end for
Davis, who outfought the Citadel for 16 yards before being downed on Citadel's 6-yard line. Shepard fought right guard good
for one yard. Wick Black then made two pretty drives through the line from spread formation, carrying the ball over
for Davidson's only counter. Shepherd kicked the ball squarely between the uprights from placement, Black holding the placement. Davidson won
by a 7-0 margin over Citadel on the newly dedicated Richardson Field.

The Student Council, acting as the Board of Directors for this enterprise, have already begun to prepare for business by
electing C. A. Young as manager. An Honor Store has been long anticipated here, but did not become a reality
until a motion was placed before the student body last week for its action. The student body upheld the motion
creating the store by an overwhelming majority, only twelve votes being cast against it.

Stores of this nature are now being operated in many of the sister colleges in the country. Best known of
these stores is that at Washington and Lee, where all kinds of student supplies are priced, placed before the students
and the cash drawer left open for the student to make his own change. This store has been effectively operated
for several years and is an object of pride of every Washington and Lee student. It is the desire of
the authorities and the students at Davidson to make the Davidson Honor Store one of equal merit with that of
Washington and Lee. The proposition, instituted this year as a test, will become permanently established on the Hill if it
proves successful.

One of the most attractive additions to Davidson this year is the new Watts dormitory, which is rapidly being brought
to completion. The first and second floors have been in use since the first of school, but those who had
reserved rooms on the third floor and fourth floors have just been out of luck. However, within the next few
days these two upper floors will be ready for occupancy. The contractor states that by Monday, October 8th, he hopes
to have everything sufficiently completed for the boys to move into their new domicile. The floor-layers say that they will
be ready for the “elevated walkways” to be removed Friday, October 5th. The floors in the hallways are made of
a rubber composition. These floors can be easily damaged if used too soon, but if given time to dry perfectly
will last indefinitely. Work on the new building has been pushed forward as rapidly as possible, but it has been
impossible to get material in time to finish the building before the date promised.

North Carolina 314
South Carolina 56
Georgia 49
Virginia 18
Mississippi 17
West Virginia 9
Florida 23
Tennessee 25
Texas 6
Missouri 2
Alabama 3
Louisiana 10
Kentucky 4
Arkansas 2
Iowa 1
Maryland 1
District of Columbia 1
Japan 3
China 5
TOTAL 577

“Reliable is news service,” is one of the salient points advertised on the initial pages of the Charlotte Observer. Students
of Davidson College, and supporters of the Presbyterian eleven throughout the South, and we venture to say, free thinkers in
general, are beginning to wonder if this same policy of “reliability” has been drilled into Bailey Groome, of “One Man’s
Opinion” fame, and conductor of the Observer sport department.

Reliability to the nth degree is Groome, in one sense of the word, at least. We know that he will
string the Chapel Hill Tar Heels from one column to eight, and we can “rely” on his doing it every
week; we can rely, also, on his suppression of everything that tends toward Wildcat praise. “One Man’s Opinion” on a
one-horse sporting page! Duck shooting! Carolina! A stray local article! Tar Heels! Carolina! Now you have read the Bailey Groome
sport sheet!

Of the Davidson-V.P.I. game last Saturday, a contest which has as much significance in the race for state championship honors
as any game participated in by North Carolina teams, Mr. Groome says nothing, and probably for the reason that it
might reflect credit on the little Wildcat team. Of the P. C. game, two weeks ago, in Rock Hill, Mr.
Groome made a few comments which were by no means recognized as graceful to an athletic page, and which would
have been appropriate only as a grammar school essay on football.

Mr. Groome, are you just out and out antagonistic to Davidson? Or, do you mean well, but just can't arouse
the necessary punch and pep which is required to edit a creditable sport sheet? Or is it your love for
Carolina that dominates the page to the exclusion of live news concerning the Presbyterians?

As a result of the attitude taken by the Observer sport scribes toward the Davidson football team this season, over
one hundred Observer subscriptions were canceled this week in favor of the Charlotte News. Can you tell us, Mr. Groome,
why your prejudice toward the little Presbyterian College, the school which your home city has “adopted as a foster child”
(using the words of a prominent member of your Chamber of Commerce) is allowed to enter into your work of
serving the people of the South as a herald of news?
