The frost on the pumpkin having changed to the winter's first snow, Crowell Little and colleagues sat sprawled in the stands like sun-bathers, soaking up the bright warmth of Johnston Gymnasium, and watching fellow worker Boyd Baird whip his cagers through their last week of pre-season practice. Mr. Little, whose merits shout so loudly that he may be in demand for a coaching promotion despite the fact his first Southern Conference club wound up with a 3-6 record, was enjoying a few moments of leisure as rarely befall a football coach. He was not, however, adverse to talking football, and the subject, quite naturally, was, "Well, the beginning has been made. What next?"

We, for one, wondered what help the Cat coach could possibly expect from a freshman team which was walloped in two outings, nipped in a third, and managed but one win—that over a junior college team. "No," he assured us, "we aren’t disappointed in the material on this year’s freshman team. There are a lot of potential ball players in that lot, and a lot of potential help for next year. The freshman team did not receive the time on its game that it should have; it worked primarily as a scrimmage club against us, learning different plays and formations every week. There wasn’t time enough to devote to the molding of a well-organized unit among them."

It is encouraging to note that our skipper can see through with the trained eye where the average onlooker watches only the team and can see down the line where the frosh influx is going to pad his varsity. But even to the untrained eye, it wasn’t hard to see that boys like Boy Loy, Neale Graham, Malphus Bradbury, and Tex Coulter cannot be 46 points inferior to the best material Furman or N. C. State can boast. They simply boast three or four teams of the same. Also, Davidson wasn’t hurting for a "loaded" freshman team this fall, anyway. Not to say that we can't always use one, but the real recruiting drive need not come before this winter. Only nine of thirty-nine varsity members are leaving via graduation. Brandon, Carlton, Blanks, Kelly, Davis, Wilson, Lambeth, Leach, and Rogers are listed as seniors, but only six were playing starting ball, offensively or defensively. Little, then, can fill in where he needs to, and come up with a pretty nice little club. "The freshmen will give us a big squad to pick from," he pointed out, "and that is the only way we can hope to get any depth." That, as Hugo can tell you, is where we were lacking this year.

The only game Davidson went into this year in which she could have been called the favorite was the Erskine game. The Presbyterian contest was a toss-up at the most. Yet they came away with three wins, the most convincing the 39-0 trouncing of Richmond. "We could have won one or two more games, I believe," thought Little. He didn’t say which but you can guess possibly he meant the Furman game in which we blew them three touchdowns in the final period, and the Citadel game which with the payoff of a long drive we wouldn't have made a liar of our good friend Bill Stern.

CAT TALES By Bill White

"The squad didn’t quite come up to what I had hoped for," the Cat coach continued, "but the system was new and injuries didn’t help. A bigger school can lose two or three men and not feel it particularly. We lose two or three and they have to play crippled. Who is going to take their place? Jack Branch being hurt really hurt; McNeely responded to treatment slowly; C. L. was only at half strength the last half of the season; Auburn was hurt off and on enough to give him and us considerable trouble; and Hoopie Davis played a lot of ball with that hurt foot. An injured man just can’t put out at top strength."

"Then don’t forget we have three ineligible boys who will really help us next year." That trio would be Bill Stanley, Bill Rowland, and J. N. Golding. There’s not a man on the campus who needs to be impressed with Bulling Bill Stanley’s ball playing ability. His grades are slowly but surely and steadily rising and it appears that he will play a lot of fullback next fall. Bill Rowland needs no introduction, either. He’s a quarterback who had Jack Ruth sitting on the bench part of the time their freshman year, and it will be interesting to watch those two duel for the post. Golding is a junior college transfer who worked out with the freshmen all fall, and will come up seeking a spot at end.

PAGE FOUR

TRAPPING TAR HEELS—Mapping strategy for tomorrow night’s opener with North Carolina’s Tar Heels—or more probably posing for a picture—are three gentlemen on whose shoulders rest a great deal of the basketball fortunes for the Wildcats this winter. Speaking to his co-captains is Coach Boyd Baird, identifiable by the white T-shirt of authority. For the co-eds in the student body, that’s Tommy Haller on the left and Dutch Hengeveld on the right, both seniors.

Chesterfield Basketball and Handball Play

SPORTS QUIZ

1. Virginia's great fullback Johnny Papit set what record as his team unexpectedly crushed the University of North Carolina at Charlottesville last Saturday afternoon?
2. What teams—aside from the Big Four representatives—will participate in the Dixie Classic tournament in Raleigh in December?
3. Who was recently named the Southern Conference football player of the year?
4. Name the man whom Ezzard Charles KO'd in the eleventh round of his heavyweight title defense scrap Tuesday night.

Answers should be turned in to Dave Moylan in C-East. This week's winner will be announced in next week’s Davidsonian.

The Best Dressed Men At Davidson Wear Jack Wood, Ltd. CLOTHES

It Costs No More To Dress Correctly

Now that the bloody, back-breaking, head-busting football season is over, the Jolly Greeks have settled down to their winter program of interfraternity athletics which includes basketball and handball only until later on in the winter. The basketball season is yet young with only two games being played before the deadline of the paper. In the first tilt the Kappa Sigs edged out a rebounding Beta squad in somewhat of a grudge match to offset the earlier football defeat. The final whistle sounded with the score at 44-42 with Eric Clark netting 17 points for the winning Sigs. Jack Ruth sank 13 followed closely by Bob Nimocks with 12. The score at halftime was 25-16, with the Sigs in front. In the other game the Pi Kapps overwhelmed a comparatively weak Campus Club.Five by a record-breaking score of 102-31. Arnold Whisnant led the victors with 28 points, while Murray Remson helped the losing cause with 19. This game probably set a few records because of the high scoring. The handball tournament started Monday and has been progressing well. As yet no one has listed the results, so none are available at this time. The matches are played at 4 o'clock every afternoon and a single and double game is necessary for the match. This already looks like one of the best seasons in many years for intramurals with more interest being taken in the games, more familiarity with handball, and better organization and officiating. The basketball season promises to be one of many surprises and upsets. A little limb-clinging would be appropriate, so the Pi Kapps get a vote of confidence to be close to the top when the season closes. They have several veterans and are strengthened with several outstanding newcomers. The Kappa Sigs are nearly as strong as last year, but have lost the services of Al Fitzgerald to the varsity squad. The Phi Delts and the KA’s will (Continued On Page Five)

Tanks Take Plunge Into First Season With The Citadel

Davidson's first swimming team takes its plunge into varsity collegiate competition Saturday night, meeting the Citadel tankers in the Cadet pool at 7:30. Captained by Bill Ray, sprint specialist from Silver Springs, Fla., the Cat swimmers move into the sport against nine Southern Conference foes one short year after its inauguration on the Davidson campus. Paced by Ray in the 50 and 100, the Cat fish can boast some talented depth in Ken Taylor and Hugh Evans—both returnees, and newcomer Dan Heizer. The vastly improved performance of Francis Pepper, who has shaved some thirty full seconds off his best 1949-50 440 time, strengthens the Davidsonians at a point which Coach Dick Redding feared would be their weakest. Sharing the 220 and 440 duties with the Winston-Salem junior will be Paul Cole, Evans, and Jim Bryan. Local boy Ray Cunningham is looked to for big things in the 200-yard backstroke, swimming with (Continued On Page Six)

WILDCAT OF THE WEEK:

One year ago Davidson basketball fans were wondering what ever would happen to the Scrappy Cats when Mr. Scrap himself, Whit Cobb, had dribbled down the court for the last time. Tuesday night, the young man charged with the job of taking Cobb's place went a long way toward answering that question in an optimistic vein. That is why Malcolm (Mac) McLean is the Davidsonian’s first basketball Athlete of the Week. When N. C. State swarmed over the Wildcats in the opening minutes of the Cats’ season opener, they were enough to rattle a veteran traffic cop with their flailing arms and all legs whizzing around Boyd's Boys, but Mac refused to ruffle. He handled the ball with poise and finesse, worked on the receiving end of Dutch Hengeveld's long down-court passes wonderfully well, and as a result, the Pack soon gave up the pressing game. The Charlotte junior was also largely responsible for Davidson’s sticking so close to the out-of-this-stratosphere Wolfpack throughout the first half, bagging nine points before intermission. He added three in the second semester to take second high honors behind Bill Brooks. In doing so, Mac continued the vastly improved shooting which he began showing in the practice sessions with Catawba and Columbia Seminary. As a guard, he is becoming a top shot, but still knows the functions of his position. The unbelievers may check with State’s Hot-Sam Ranzino for verification. The zone got the overall credit for holding Sammy to way his lowest total of the season—10 where he had been averaging 31—but McLean was the big gun in defense. His first half was one of his best in college, and he seems capable of making that type of performance a habit.

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1950

TARHEELS HERE TOMORROW NIGHT

Johnston Gym Test Very Likely To Be High Scoring Tiff

You can be sure it will be a high-scoring game Saturday night in Johnston gym when Davidson's Wildcats clash with Carolina's White Phantoms in one of the early Southern Conference games of the season. Coach Tom Scott’s Tar Heels have played several exhibition games so far this year, and they have consistently been rolling up points. The Wildcats, although they have lost to State, scored fifty-three markers against the Pack, and they also will be out to continue their scoring ways. A return to form by Bill Brooks and Tommy Haller has helped the Cats immensely so far this season. Haller, playing only a portion of the game, hit for twelve points against Columbia Seminary Monday night. Mac McLean, who has taken over Whit Cobb's guard post, has looked good in both games, especially against State when he tallied twelve points. Dutch Hengeveld, not quite hitting with his usual accuracy, has nevertheless played very consistent basketball and has been one of the ace Cat rebounders thus far. If T. C. Coleman, Bill Proctor, Al Fitzgerald, and Bob Graham can reach their top form, the Cats could be most dangerous. Bob Turk, who missed the pre-season practices because of football, is finding his shooting eye, and guards Jim Smith and Don Lazenby are coming up fast with their fine passing and rebounding. The Cats have looked good defensively—one of their feats was holding State’s Sam Ranzino to ten points; they are also very fast. A usual lack in height is being made up for in spirit and hustle, and perhaps these could mean a win over Carolina. The Tar Heels have most of their squad of a year ago back, and they are fine marksmen with plenty of height. Hugo Kappler, one of the best forwards in the conference, will be out with a broken wrist, but the Phantoms will get plenty of support from guards Howard Deasy and Charlie Thorne and forward Vince Grimaldi. Thorne is the tricky guard who played so well against the Cats last year, and Grimaldi is a flashy soph from Philadelphia who was an ace on last year’s fine freshman team. The game will be a match between two high-scoring teams, but the difference will be made somewhere between the height of the White Phantoms and the scrap of the Cats. It will be an interesting night for any Southern Conference fan present.

MOORESVILLE, N. C.

DAVIDSON THEATER

Shows Start at 8 P. M.

Mon.-Tues., Dec. 11-12
‘ALL ABOUT EVE’
Bette Davis - George Sanders
LATEST WAR NEWS

Wednesday, Dec. 13
‘CHAMPAGNE FOR CAESAR’
Ronald Coleman - Celeste Holm
CARTOON

Thursday, Dec. 14
‘SUNSET BOULEVARD’
William Holden - Gloria Swanson
CARTOON

Friday, December 15
‘THE GREAT RUPERT’
Jimmy Durante - Terry Moore
CARTOON

Saturday, Dec. 16
‘DEVIL'S DOORWAY’
Robert Taylor - Lewis Calhern
COMEDY & CARTOON