BIG BRASS TO INSPECT INFANT INFANTRY

VOLUME XXXIX

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1950

NUMBER EIGHT

PRE-MARITAL TALKS TO BE GIVEN BY PROF. HILL

Touted UNC Marriage Professor Slated To Give Practical Lectures

A series of talks and discussions pertaining to practical...

Veteran of Two Wars To Inspect R.O.T.C. Dept

Colonel Redding F. Perry, Chief of the North Carolina Military District, will visit the campus Tuesday, November 21st for the purpose of inspecting the Military Department, according to information received by the Professor of Military Science and Tactics. Each year Colonel Perry performs at least one, and usually two, such inspections. In addition, of course, the Military Department undergoes the regular Annual Formal Inspection by several high-ranking officers late in the spring.

Colonel Perry is a veteran of more than 33 years of service in the Army. Born in Henderson, N. C., he attended the University of North Carolina. His military career began in 1917 when he was appointed a second lieutenant of Cavalry. He served in France and Germany during World War I as a member of the 80th Division. After the war, he entered upon a series of varied assignments with Cavalry units in the United States. Then followed a special assignment under General of the Armies “Black Jack” Pershing in writing the history of World War I.

When modern armor was being developed in 1937, Colonel Perry, then a major, was ordered to the Armored Center at Fort Knox, Ky., from an overseas assignment in China and the Philippines. He became G-4 (Supply Officer) of the 2nd Armored Division, then Chief of Staff of an armored corps training center in the southwestern United States, and then as a staff officer with supply headquarters in Washington.

During the Tunisian Campaign, Colonel Perry served as Chief of Staff of an Armored Corps again. Later, in France, he was a high staff officer with General Patton’s Third Army, and after the war commanded a Cavalry Group in Czechoslovakia.

When he came home from overseas late in 1945, Colonel Perry assumed command of all school...

(Continued On Page Six)

THOMAS WOLFE

The life and works of one of North Carolina’s most celebrated literary artists is being featured in one of the Davidsonian’s Room display cases. The material, collected and contributed by Pe Cumming, includes books, magazines, and newspaper clippings that illustrate Thomas Wolfe’s literary achievements in addition to interesting facts concerning his life.

Wolfe studied at the University of North Carolina and Harvard University. In 1924 he became a professor of English at Washington Square College of N.Y.U. It was while there that he focused the attention of the nation upon the mountains of North Carolina with the publishing of “Look Homeward, Angel,” a story of family life in the Great Smokies. When Wolfe returned from a European trip in 1931, he wrote “Of Time and the River.” Both of these novels included a great deal of apparent autobiographical material; and even after the author changed his hero’s name, there was no mistaking him for Thomas Wolfe.

According to Wolfe, one of his cousins attended “a Presbyterian college” and was “expelled for advocating free love and socialism while editor of the college paper.” The college was Davidson but the Davidsonian was not created until a few years later, and his cousin’s college career was greatly exaggerated. Today that cousin is an Asheville businessman who took a leading part in the college endowment campaign last year.

In July of 1938, Thomas Wolfe became a victim of pneumonia. Before he could fully recover, complications...

(Continued On Page Six)

STUDENT VOICE ON ATHLETIC COUNCIL

LEACH ELECTED TO COMMITTEE

The student body, who voted the first part of the week, has elected Wood Leach, a senior from De...

Prior to the present setup of this council, there were three separate and distinct committees which formed this council: (1) the Athletic Council of Trustees, (2) the Faculty Athletic Committee, and (3) the Alumni Advisory Committee. Under this system, there was no representation of the student body itself, and since the need was felt for such representation, it was decided that the student body add this to their list of elected offices. In its present formation, the three committees plus the student representative have been consolidated into one joint council, although the members of the council shall be composed of representatives from the three groups which were heretofore formed as independent committees. The powers of this council, as recently stated in the Davidsonian, are as follows: “... the council is the controlling board of athletic policy, and what it says goes, as far as collegiate affairs, subsidization, and coaching personnel are concerned. It does not have control over admission of students, scholarship requirements, or schedules, but even at that its powers are broad. If, for example, the football team is not doing well, this council will find out why and work to improve the situation.”

As yet, a date has not been set for the next meeting of the council, but it plans to meet about four times a year and whenever else it is deemed necessary. The committee consists now of Front’s Johnston and George Abernethy from the faculty, who are responsible for policies of physical education and student health; Ed M. Armfield and McAllister Carson, Jr., president and vice-president of the newly formed Wildcat Club, and representatives of the alumni; D. R. Lafar (chairman), Rev. Sam Hovis, and Dr. Oren Moore, members and representatives of the Board of Trustees; and Wood Leach, representative of the Student Body.

In speaking of Wood’s new responsibility, Randy Taylor, president of the Student Body, addressed these remarks to each student: “We want it understood that this office is representative—that is, it is simply the means by which the student body voices its opinions to the council. Each of you is urged to meet with Woody and voice your ideas and opinions to him about any phase of Davidson athletics in which you feel improvement is needed.”

Top Southern Editor Opens ‘50 Davidson Free Lecture Series

Hodding Carter, one of America’s foremost Southern newspaper editors, opened the 1950 Davidson College Public Lecture Series at 8:15 Thursday night in Chambers Auditorium. Mr. Carter chose as his subject “Toward a Progressive Democracy.”

Editor and publisher of the Delta Democrat Times in Greenville, Mississippi, Mr. Carter has been awarded both the Pulitzer Prize for editorial writing and the Guggenheim Prize for creative writing.

By relating several personal experiences in wartime, Mr. Carter dramatized the fact that our present democracy “is not producing peace.” From his position as a newspaper editor, he stated that he was able to observe defined changes in the once backward South. “External threats,” he claimed, “are making evident a need for even more basic changes.”

Using Main Street in Greenville to illustrate fundamental American privileges, Mr. Carter told how its newspaper office symbolized freedom of press and speech, its court building freedom of equal justice, and its City Hall freedom of representation in government. “However, there are shadows over this street, the darkest of which is that of the hammer and sickle,” he warned.

He described weak points in these freedoms, weak points which he thought are red meat to propaganda stormed Reds. He cited as examples such things as corruptness in some of our courts, the scant usage of libraries. Overshadowing these two is the negligence on the citizens’ part to exercise full power at the polls.

Although Mr. Carter feels that America is inevitably moving toward a social welfare state, he denounced those who are evading their individual responsibilities in the government.He re-emphasized the need for changes. “They are occurring, but— (Continued On Page Six)

Rabbi Tofield Will Speak on Judaism

The Philanthropic Literary Society will have as its guest speaker Monday, Nov. 20, Rabbi Aaron J. Tofield, of Charlotte. Rabbi Tofield will speak on “The Basic Conception of Judaism and How It Meets Temporary World Problems.” The lecture, beginning at 7:15 p.m. in Phi Hall, will be followed by a fifty-minute discussion period. The student body is cordially invited.

At Tuesday Drill

Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity on the campus, will tap eleven advanced ROTC students for membership at drill Tuesday, Jay Roberts, captain of this organization, announced today. The new members will be formally initiated when Scabbard and Blade takes charge of the cadet regiment, which will be formed in a parade for the occasion. Not until this time will the identity of the new members be revealed.

In order to be eligible for membership in the organization, a student must be at least a junior, have a “B” average in military science and an overall scholastic average of “C” and must have demonstrated outstanding leadership and efficiency on the drill field. Addition of the eleven men to be tapped Tuesday will increase the membership of Scabbard and Blade to 33. Colonel James L. Ballard, who himself became a member of the group while a student at Davidson, is the faculty advisor of the local S & B chapter.

‘COMMAND DECISION’

Notice

A Davidson alumni meeting of the Atlanta Chapter will be held at Columbia Seminary in Decatur, Ga., next Friday night, November 24. Rev. Donald Bailey, president of the chapter and younger brother of Dean John C. Bailey, will preside. Dr. Cunningham and Coach Crowell Little will speak at the dinner, preceding the Davidson-Georgia Tech game the following afternoon. It is expected that there will be about 135 alumni in attendance.

Chapel Schedule

The chapel calendar for this week is highlighted by the appearance of Edward H. Johnston, General Secretary of the Student Volunteer Movement. He will speak on Monday, November 20th, under the sponsorship of the YMCA. On Tuesday, Professor Lilly of the English Department will be in charge of the devotional period, with a student day program following. Wednesday, November 22, is the President’s day, and Dr. Cunningham will present the program at that time. Thanksgiving day, Thursday the twenty-third, a special Thanksgiving Day service will be given, with students and faculty members taking part. Friday, November the twenty-fourth, Professor Berg of the Music Department will be in charge of the devotionals, with a student activity program following.

Frosh Casualty Box

Last This
Week Week
Third Floor Georgia Freshmen 0 12
Walking on grass 2 2
No freshmen hats 8 3
Not speaking on campus 1 1
Breaking campus 0 1
Disrespect to upperclassmen 3 5
Total 14 24

TRADITION

The unwritten and undiscussed traditions of Davidson College are often the most respected. One of these is the assumption by our faculty that all students are gentlemen (unless they demonstrate the contrary) and are to be treated as such. A violation of this assumption brings quick protest from faculty and students alike.

Phases of marriage will be held at Davidson on February 14 and 15. Gene Regen, a member of the Senior Class, and chairman of the joint sponsoring committee, announced the round which will present Dr. Reuben Hill, of UNC, as principal speaker.

Band Plans March Through Georgia

Tuxedos as well as uniforms will be a necessary part of the luggage of Davidson Band members when the band leaves Friday morning, November 24, for Atlanta, to appear there over the weekend in a dual role. Friday night at eight-thirty the Davidson Symphonic Band will present its first concert of the current year in the auditorium of the North Fulton High School in Atlanta and their appreciation of fine band music is well-known to the Davidson musicians since this same auditorium was the site of the first concert on the band’s Spring tour last year.

On the following afternoon, Saturday, November 25th, the colorful red and black uniforms of the Wildcat Football Band will replace the tuxedos as the band marches into Grant Field to “back the Cats” against the Yellowjackets of Georgia Tech. At halftime, the band will join with the Georgia Tech band in presenting a special drill. Mr. Pfohl and Mr. Moore report that band members are working doubly hard in preparation for two unusually fine performances for presentation in the Georgia capitol.

Two of the Davidson musicians will be performing for the home folks when the band appears in Atlanta. Charlie Roper, who doubles as drum major of the football band and clarinetist in the concert band, and Owen Kellum, who plays the alto saxophone in both bands, are native Atlantans. Students who plan to be in Atlanta for the weekend will be interested to know that the Davidson Music Department expects to have tickets for the Friday night concert available to the student body after the first of next week. Those who desire tickets are requested to call by the Music Department.

NO DAVIDSONIAN THANKSGIVING WEEKEND

The Davidsonian will not be published next week due to the proximity of Thanksgiving holidays. It will, however, be distributed the following week.

MASQUERS RUN THROUGH GRUELING LAST WEEK REHEARSALS; CURTAIN DATE, 21st

The cast of the Red and Black Masquers’ production, “Command Decision,” is winding up its final week of rehearsal. This recent Broadway hit by W. W. Haines will be the Masquers’ first play of the season. It will be presented in Chambers Auditorium November 21 and 22.

Bill Pharr, a member of the junior class, appears in the role of Brigadier General Dennis. Bill, who hails from Belmont, N. C., is by no means a newcomer to the stage at Davidson. He will be remembered for roles in such Masquers productions as “Arsenic and Old Lace,” “The Valiant” and “The Man Who Came To Dinner.” Prior to coming to Davidson he appeared in numerous high school productions. Bill, a business major, is a member of the Red and Black Masquers, the Davidsonian and Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. In addition to his role in the play he is also the props manager.

General Dennis, whose role Bill is playing, is a forceful, possessing man of about 40. He is so preoccupied with the matters which are at hand that he appears to be slightly absent-minded. His primary objective is to bring the war to a conclusion as soon as possible—to him war is no fun but since there is a price to be paid for it—it is better to pay it now than to dribble it out. His attitude of the end justifying the means brings much criticism and objection by his superiors.

Appearing in the role of Major G. G. Kane is Alden Williams, a member of the freshman class from Montreat, N. C. Alden, who is majoring in English, is making his first appearance with the Masquers. In high school he had considerable dramatic experience, having appeared in such plays as “Our Hearts Were Young and Gay” and (Continued On Page Five)

This series, which will be similar to the recent Fall Services in form, is to include two chapel talks and numerous afternoon and evening discussions on student-chosen topics. Previous to Dr. Hill’s visit, movies will be shown which deal with childbirth, human puberty, and sterility, and phases of sociology and family relations.

Dr. Hill is professor of sociology and research professor in the Institute for Research in Social Science at UNC. His duties there include teaching and research in marriage and counseling of students with premarital problems. He has led family life institutes in several states. A co-author of three books on marriage and the family, he has had articles published in several leading magazines and journals.

For several weeks prior to the discussions, a group of faculty members will visit regular Thursday night fraternity meetings to hold smaller discussions. In these question and answer sessions, the group will attempt to clear up any basic misconceptions held by individuals on various phases of marital relations both physical and mental. Chairman Regen stressed the importance of these fraternity talks as paramount to a successful appreciation of the forthcoming series by Dr. Hill. Doctors Godcharles, Puckett, Douglas and Abernethy will make up this group. It is thought that a more effective selection of sex questions would be obtained by holding these discussions among small groups of closely associated students.

Held in conjunction with Dr. Hill's addresses and forums will be a large and comprehensive book display. All books will be briefly reviewed by students and available for purchase. Backed by the wholehearted support of nearly every campus organization, Chairman Regen believes the conference will serve a definite and painful need of a clearer understanding of what lies ahead in marriage for the Davidson student.

Unique Liberal Arts Course Initiated At Emory Univ., Atlanta

A program that liberalizes liberal education is found in the expanded division of the humanities at Emory University. The new program, which went into effect as the fall quarter opened, makes possible a general culture major without specialization.

According to Dr. Robert Scranton, chairman of the division, the humanities program is designed for non-professional students, and can be a substitute for the demands of department “majors” and “minors” as found in the usual A. B. subject matter schedule. “In the study we trace the growth of Western ideals and culture, include art, music, history, literature, language, Bible speech, philosophy,” explained Dr. Scranton. “Such a background is the ideal ‘liberal’ education.”

Climax of the new division is the humanities colloquium, a class that will be taught like no other on the campus. Modeled on “Great Books” courses, the colloquium will be an informal reading and discussion group. Dr. Joseph Conant, who left the Columbia University faculty to augment the Emory program, declares that students will read novels, drama, philosophy, and typical great works of the ages—Homer, Dante, Shakespeare, Goethe, Proust—covering about twenty books each quarter. The colloquium will meet one or two afternoons a week, and examinations will be oral.