PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1950

THE DAVIDSONIAN
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

By HENRY

Pat solutions are seldom as effective as they seem. Some time ago in an article entitled, “The Passing of an Era,” I roundly condemned socialism and anything connected with it. I did not suggest any simple pat solution but I did imply that one could probably be found easily enough. Now at a later stage in my own thoughts on the matter I am less sure that I was right but not any the more sure that socialism is. In this article I would simply like to present a few observations on the general topic and, most important, pose some questions to which I do not have the answers. Further, I would like to solicit answers in the form of letters to the editor to the questions which I propose to set forth.

Probably the best start would be to set forth the tenets of socialism. They are essentially these: All problems are basically economic in nature, solve these problems and all others will automatically disappear; this can be done by distributing goods and services equally among the people; the capitalistic system does not achieve this end; it creates those who have and those who have not; the second group is in virtual servitude to the first; the wealth of the “haves” should be distributed equally among all the people; the government will be the agency to do this; once this redistribution is accomplished, the government will relinquish the powers which it would have to assume to accomplish a task of such magnitude. The foregoing is, I believe, a fair statement of the main points of socialistic doctrine.

Now it is obvious that some of these facts are erroneous. The basic premise, the economic basis of all man’s ills, is not true. Investigations into the industrial strife which is so prevalent in this country reveal that the basic want of those fomenting such strife is not money. It does occupy a place of some importance in the value scale of people, but other considerations, such as recognition and a feeling of personal worth to industry rather than that of a mere expendable commodity in the maw of capitalism, indicate that money is not the basic cause of dissatisfaction, nor has more of it substantially reduced industrial strife in this country.

However, at this point, we are faced with the fact that some countries, notably the smaller ones such as Sweden and the other Scandinavian countries, have had much success with socialism. Why? One answer that appears to me is the fact that these are small countries and the socialistic plan is thus administered on a smaller and more intelligent scale. Granting the validity of this reason for success we could assume that if the present socialistic trend is to continue and succeed in its efforts in this country, then the states and necessary regional combinations of states should have the balance of power and the federal government should not be allowed to institute plans of socialistic nature. This would be states’ right in a new aspect of the term.

But let's examine this success in the light of some recent facts. In the February 6th issue of Time Magazine the following are presented: New Zealand's socialist labor party, in power for 14 years, lost the last election; the same thing happened in Australia after a tenure of eight years in office; in Italy the socialist party, in 1946 the second largest, is now split and ineffectual; in Germany last August the Social Democrats were nosed out by the Christian Democrats; in France the party is still the third largest, but its strength has declined; in Belgium, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, and Austria—the countries which have had the most success with socialism—the party has faded slightly or is just holding its own. We might conclude from these facts that the socialistic concept is at fault. To quote Time: “In short, doctrinaire socialism has lost converts as experiment shows up its defects; yet the socialist scar tissue continues to grow inside the other doctrines which have not developed sufficiently vigorous answers to the 20th century problem of want amid the possibilities of plenty.”

(Continued on Page Six)

FLICKER
BOB HOLLISTER
BILL HOUCK
EDITOR IN CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Chief Associate Editor ....-—----------------- ---, Doug Hix
Chief Associate Editor ------------------------ Lonnie Turnipseed
Chief Associate Editor ------------------------ Jack Hazard

MANAGING EDITORS—Annie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall, Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister, Randy Taylor.
Sports Editor—Gordon Scott
Make-up Editors — Dan McKeithen, Cherry Swibling.
City Editor—John Hobart
Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager ---....---.-.--- ----- Bill Casselis
Advertising Managers Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison.
Circulation Manager_.-.-....--..-.-----------------------> Huffaker
Asst. Circulation Managers —-~.-...... Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager .-.---......--.--------------------- John Loftin
Subscriptions Manager .......---.---------------------- Alex Goley

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

A Word Of Welcome

To those of you who have converged on our campus this weekend to pay us a long-awaited visit, we extend a very hearty and sincere welcome. For you who have never been to Davidson before and for you who are returning, we hope you will experience personally those things which we think exist in no other places so predominantly as they do here: namely, a spirit, a fellowship, a loyalty, and, more precisely, an ideal of individual friendship. These elements may be attributed to many colleges, but nevertheless we hope that when you leave you are as convinced as we that these things peculiarly and distinctively characterize Davidson. If you find it as such you will have had an enjoyable three days, which we hope will prevail in the years to come as your most memorable college weekend.

Cincinnati Symphony

Davidson College is indeed fortunate in being able to procure the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra, which is appearing in concert on the campus this Saturday evening, and we, of the student body, should feel grateful for the efforts of one who has made it possible for us to avail ourselves of the opportunity to hear such a fine musical group. Little do most of us realize that it is seldom possible to bring a group of musicians of this caliber to such a small town as Davidson. So to Mr. Pfohl, who has been a friend of Mr. Thor Johnson, Conductor, since high school days, and who is responsible for bringing Mr. Johnson and his group here, we direct our expressions of gratitude.

For those of us who do not already know, the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra is ranked among the six pre-eminent symphony orchestras in the country. No less renowned than the orchestra is the conductor, Mr. Johnson, who, though very young professionally, has already made a significant mark in the musical world. Attributable also to Mr. Johnson is the fact that he is one of the very few American-born symphony orchestra conductors ever to achieve fame and success and to reach the so-called “top” of the musical world.

Excellent Picture
Good Picture
Fair Picture

You raise your hand to knock, hesitate, then quickly rap twice. The few seconds that pass seem like hours. The knob turns, the door slowly opens and you are facing a man of six feet or more with dark brushy eyebrows, thin eyes, and a rather sensitive nose. He nods for you to enter. You quickly follow him through the dark passage to a small door at the end. He motions for you to go in. You step in and find yourself alone in complete darkness, except for the faint glow around a crystal ball in the center of the room. You prick your ears up, again you hear “thump, thump, thump, thump.” The palpitating sound increases gradually until your head throbs and you feel as if you are being suffocated under a huge living heart. As you begin to sink to the floor, a shrill scream seems to cut through the darkness and stab the pounding heart. The crystal grows red with heat as the throbbing gradually fades away. The red glow melts into orange and the orange freezes to a blue haze. You creep closer and peer into the crystal. You see the following information pass before you in teletype form:

With such a fine orchestra and conductor to entertain us for an evening with the best in classical music, another stride is being taken in the cultural advancement program for the students of the college. The knowledge of, the familiarity with, and the appreciation for good music is one of the most indispensable elements which comprise the formula for the development of the well-rounded classical, liberal-arts education. It is certainly axiomatic that the more extensive the knowledge and familiarity, the deeper is the appreciation for classical music. Many claim possession of a repugnant dislike for classical music, when more likely it is an embarrassing ignorance. Anybody, even he with the lowest sense of appreciation, can cultivate an appreciation for classical music with a little knowledge and understanding of it. Much in a man is to be measured by the breadth of his cultural background. In listening to the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra concert, we will have an opportunity not only to increase our knowledge of, familiarity with, and appreciation for classical music, for what that in and of itself is worth, but also to broaden the horizons of our cultural background.

Vereen Bell Award

Again this year Davidson students have an opportunity to submit their creative writing in competition for the annual Vereen Bell Award. Vereen Bell graduated from Davidson in 1932. He was killed in action during the recent world war and it was as a memorial to him that the award was established in 1947. It provides a fifty-dollar prize for the Davidson student submitting the best example of creative writing.

As the author of many well-received articles and short stories, including the famous “Swamp Water,” Vereen Bell set a high standard of literary achievement which challenges today’s students to develop their creative abilities to the fullest extent. In the effort to do this we could ask for no better opportunity than this commemorative citation now affords us. Any type of paper is accepted. The one qualification is that the writing must be creative. Regardless of the extent of our abilities, the effort we expend in producing a piece of creative work of this nature invariably yields rich rewards, in personal satisfaction, broadened perspective and invaluable experience in writing expressively—a talent we will find to be of ever-increasing usefulness long after graduation.

E. HANSEN

Monday and Tuesday

Jane Wyman and Dennis Morgan star in “The Lady Takes a Sailor.” As director from the Buyers’ Research Institute, attractive Jane Wyman represents truth and honesty to the American household. However, the wrecking of her sailboat by a strange underseas tank operated by inventor Dennis Morgan touches off a series of hilarious episodes in which Jane tries to prove to all concerned that such a craft exists, insuring her reputation for truthfulness. With the aid of her fiancé, Allyn Joslyn, and a backward private detective, she sets out on the trail of Morgan, who possesses rolls of film which could substantiate her story. He won't give them up because his amphibious craft is a military secret. Duckworth, her detective, turns out to be more a hindrance than a help and Jane acts on her own intuition.

Wednesday and Thursday

Gregory Peck stars in “Twelve O'Clock High.” Dean Jagger, a middle-aged American visiting in present-day London, bicycles out to Archbury, where a great, bustling American air base was located during the war. Now he finds it grown under and neglected. Memory awakens the sound and sight of Archbury as it was in the fateful fall of 1942, when Jagger served there. The 918th Bomb Group, launching daylight bombing of enemy positions, is undergoing heavy losses and depleted morale due to the over-identification of the commanding officer with his men. Gregory Peck sees this, reports to headquarters, and is made commander himself. He determines not to make mistakes of the last commander, so he busts his lieutenant, exacts iron discipline from his men, and is ruthlessly impersonal with his staff. The men, who had loved the last commander, resent Peck, who curtly tells them they have been feeling sorry for themselves, that they must shape up. “Consider yourselves dead,” he barks at them, “and it will be easier.” The pilots decide they have had enough.

All of a sudden the crystal goes blank and then suddenly comes back in view to reveal the following teletype form.

Friday and Saturday

Joan Caulfield, Billy De Wolfe, and Mona Freeman star in “Dear Wife.” This picture is a sequel to “Dear Ruth.” Mona Freeman plays the part of a mischievous teenager who gets all of her family involved in humorous situations through her civic-minded attitude. There is no plot worth discussing, but you will get many laughs from the situations Joan Caulfield and Billy De Wolfe find themselves in due to Mona's ingenious civic ideas.

The crystal begins to turn green and deep rumblings can be heard within. It starts swelling and as it becomes increasingly bigger, it becomes brighter. You turn and run out of the door to find yourself falling down, down, down, until you slowly drift down onto a div-Board suspended over a pool of beautiful girls. You open your eyes and find yourself on the floor looking up into your roommate's face.

MECK ON SOCIALISM

Article On College

[Is America Adrift On The Sea Of Finance?]

By PROFESSOR C. K. BROWN

By NEIL LEACH

The article on Davidson College given below is taken from the new Collier’s Encyclopedia (copyright 1950 by P. F. Collier and Son) which has recently been added to our library. The author of this elongated paragraph, Joseph I. Toven of New York University, has a long line of A.B.’s, A.M.'s, and Ph.D.'s after his name, but in spite of this fact, he seems to have missed some of the major factors in the life of the college. But first, here’s the article en toto; the criticisms follow:

“Davidson College, an accredited, Presbyterian-controlled men’s college of arts and sciences located on two hundred acres in Davidson, N.C., a community of 1,500 people, 20 miles north of Charlotte. Davidson College first offered instruction in 1837 and was chartered a year later. Degrees offered are A.B. and B.S. Among the required courses toward either degree are twelve hours of Bible study. Honors work may be elected by superior students, who must have initiative, power of organization, and broad background in subject matter. Military science is compulsory for freshmen and sophomores unless excused at the request of parents. There is a substantial scholarship and student loan aid, and special scholarships to ministerial students. Students not living in the community must live in residence halls.”

With the material content of the article, Mr. Toven of New York did a fair job; the main criticism comes when we realize all that he omitted—not just insignificant things, but facts of which the college can rightly be proud. If you don’t mind a pat on the back, just read some of the accomplishments of your college which certainly would have added more real value to Mr. Toven’s paragraph.

No mention was made of the fact that Davidson is accredited by the American Association of Universities. Not just any college can make that claim, for this association accredits a school through investigations into the comparative grades of its graduates in graduate schools. We have an active chapter of Phi Beta Kappa Scholarship Fraternity. The endowment of Davidson College at present is greater than that of any liberal arts college south of the Mason-Dixon line. In recent years the college has been chosen as one of the few to receive benefits from the coveted Baker Scholarship fund. It is not every college whose prospective students are carefully examined on the basis of scholarship before entrance. One of the truly praiseworthy attainments of Davidson students lies in the fact that eight (including Charlie Davis) Davidsonians have been chosen as Rhodes Scholars. We don’t want to forget to remind Mr. Toven in closing these remarks, that we also have a very distinguished faculty—whether the majority of the student body would realize this fact or not.

College Rags IN BRIEF

By BILL CUMMING

Emory S.A.E.’s Raided

The Emory Wheel reports that 30 unnamed vandals forced their way into the Emory S.A.E. house early last Sunday morning causing a “near riot” condition. Said Jack Hickman, chapter president, the 30 vandals were Tech students seeking “revenge” and made three visits to the S.A.E. house between midnight and 4 a.m. Sunday. The first action occurred about midnight when Tech boys allegedly began painting the S.A.E. lion, a lawn ornament. Before they could escape, S.A.E.’s captured one Tech man who was given a short haircut and made to clean the lion with paint remover before he was released. In the struggle over the lion three S.A.E.’s were hit with bottles, Hickman asserted. Later other members of the gang, evidently enraged by the haircutting, returned and forced their way inside the chapter house where they discovered five cans of paint and a can of shellac which they used to shellac the porch and pour on the lion. Using large stones found in the yard, the vandals began hitting the cast iron lion until its nose was broken. Hickman complained that numerous calls to Decatur police were unanswered. At the time of the raids only twelve members of the chapter were in the house, the invaders numbering about (Continued on Page Six)

The idea that we can avoid “saddling ourselves with higher taxes” (See Pepper as cited) simply by borrowing the difference between government income and outgo is one of the cruelest fallacies to which the human mind is subject. Yet in every generation there are those who have discovered anew this easy road. The debt is not really a debt, they say, because we owe it to ourselves. We would not be one penny poorer were the debt all cancelled. (One has an uneasy feeling that this is precisely what will happen if the debt continues to climb. Very probably it will not be cancelled by direct repudiation, but by the process of reducing its value through inflation of prices.) This is undoubtedly true in a certain sense, but some of us would be very much poorer, and the virtues upon which the system of private ownership and individual responsibility rests would be badly shaken. The question is not whether a debt can be cancelled without destroying any physical wealth. Everyone has always known that that could be done. The question is whether a society can commit an immoral act without weakening the foundations of its own existence. Who can say that the American people would not be poorer if the pledged word could be violated at will, if industry and frugality and providence for the future should promise no reward, while the labors of one man were consistently enjoyed by another? Here again we are face to face with the question of the kind of national life we wish to build. Until we answer this question, it is futile to argue over whether it is good or bad to go on running deficits. The deficit spenders should come out openly and honestly in favor of the kind of country that deficit spending will make out of us—is even now making out of us—instead of pretending that it will make no difference. In attempting to prove that it will make no difference, some of its advocates are led to utter amazing statements concerning monetary theory, such as the assertion that the volume of money is not a controlling factor in prices which “are established by directly operating factors” (See Pepper as cited). This sort of pronouncement hardly needs any repetition to intelligent people. If there is any one thing that is well established both in economic history and in monetary theory it is that the volume of money is a powerful force in determining these “directly operating factors.” Moreover, the attempt to disprove the relations between volume of money and level of prices by pointing out that prices do not move in direct proportion to changes in the quantity of money is to demolish a man of straw, for no reputable economist ever made such a statement. One doesn't have to know much history to know that deficit financing is almost always accompanied by an expanding volume of money and that a volume of money that increases faster than production will be followed by rising prices.

The mention of rising production furnishes a cue for those who find in deficit financing a means of promoting and sustaining a higher level of production than would otherwise prevail. They may call it stabilized production or full employment or some other name that implies a very desirable state of affairs. They have observed that when inflation is in progress economic activity seems to be at a maximum; therefore, they conclude, it should be kept at a maximum by continued inflation. Now the late Lord Keynes of England supported this idea with an elaborate economic theory which has gained the endorsement of a considerable proportion of the professional economists of the Western world. The gist of Keynes’ idea is that depressions occur when people do not dispose of their entire income either for consumption or for investment, but hold some of it on hand or use some of it for repaying bank loans and thus reduce the volume of money. When this occurs, the government should step in with deficit financing to make up the difference and restore full operation of the economic system. If and when the people go to the other extreme by spending for consumption and investment more than their money (the difference coming either from hoards or from new bank credit) the government should increase taxes, operate with a surplus, and reduce its debt. Now this is an attempt to deal with economic affairs in the aggregate and it may be doubted whether in a highly differentiated and complex economy such as ours the system will lend itself to control in this fashion. Certainly the attempts of the federal government to promote full employment by following Keynes’ program in the 1930s did not achieve startling success. There was more than a little truth in the political joke that it took a war to get us out of the depression. (Continued on Page Six)

“BIKO”

By KURT BIEDENKOPF

The purpose of this theme (the general idea of which has already been discussed in the last issue of the Davidsonian) is to point out the general development of the history of human society, at the present time the application of knowledge of this development to foreign policy. Moreover, an attempt has been made to point out the place that is taken by war and to introduce the idea of a substitute for war. The following theme consists of five parts:

I. The theory of the interruption of the steady development of history by collisions of extreme setups of human society. This theory will serve as the basis for the conclusions drawn in the next four parts.
II. The application of this theory to the present world situation.
III. The influence this present situation will have upon the form of war and the policy it requires.
IV. The form in which said development has already started within the setups of the more closely evolved nations.
V. The necessity of a substitute for war as arising from the discussion about the form and the place war will take in the development within the near future.

History has always been more to man than just an effort to find out what had happened in the past. It was an applied science that man used when trying to determine what will happen in the future. Thus man always tried to detect certain laws in the general course of history, which then in turn might be applied to make this determination possible. Whether it is possible thus to forecast in general terms the development of human society, which is history, does not necessarily have to be discussed. However, it may be said that no one can deny the existence of certain repetitions within the course of history. And it is the assumption of the existence of these repetitions on which the following theme is based.

The general course of human history now and then seems to be interrupted by forms of explosions or collisions, which then in return determine its further development. These collisions are caused by the existence of two extreme viewpoints as to what should be the ideal setup of human society. The extreme viewpoints may be of religious nature, as was the case shortly before the religious war in Europe from 1618-1648, or their nature may be concerned with the economic status of the individual within the society. In both cases, however, it will extend over the entire setup of society and influence completely the social and economic status of the individual.

It seems to be a fact that extremely different setups in the long run cannot exist side by side, but collide and form a new setup, which has features and faults of both the preceding ones. The collisions may express themselves in three different ways. First, if existing within a nation, they may occur in the form of a revolution. This was the fact in the French revolution, where two different and basic ideas collided. The one idea was that of the old French monarchy, an idea which was spread all over Europe, with the exception of England. The other idea placed the individual, which in the old setup was but taking a minor part, in the middle of interest. This movement, known as individualism, connected with all its different ideals concerning the freedom of the individual, the equality and brotherhood of men before God and among each other, could not possibly exist side by side with the old ideas of a human society consisting of classes with different privileges and social status. The result of this tension then was the revolution, and out of this explosion arose a new form of society and a new social status of the individual.

Second, if the extremes are placed within different nations, the collision may express itself in the form of a war. This was partly the case in the religious war in Europe, where, although mostly on German territory, different nations fought each other. It may, however, be seen more clearly if the breakdown of the Roman empire in 495 through the invasion of Germanic tribes is taken as an example. (Continued on Page Six)