BALLARD BEGS BOYS’ BLOOD

VOLUME XXXIX

HOMECOMING! ALUMNI ACTIVITIES ~-- MARCHING BANDS -- FRATERNITY DECORATIONS

Mind, Muscles, Material, Combine For Frat Homecoming Decorations

Any visitor to this campus toward the last of the week would doubtless have wondered about the mentality of the Davidson student, if he were to have passed through fraternity court and watched the loyal brothers hustling about with a hammer in one hand, some crayons in the other, and a large caricature balanced precariously on the head. He would no doubt have looked twice, scratched his head in amazement, and tried to decide just what phenomena was present to cause such a scene. Next, he might conclude, from the array of wild animals, that Davidson College had been converted into a zoo (with professors serving different purposes than those they now have), or that a movie company was “on location” for the newest Tarzan picture. Wiping these thoughts from his mind as a bit unreasonable, however, he might then just accidentally have remembered that this is Homecoming weekend and that all the Greeks are going whole-hog over this idea of winning the prize for the cleverest House decorations. Deciding to investigate this phenomenon further, our visitor turns the corner and comes face to face with none other than: Bugs Bunny, or a reasonable facsimile thereof, pointing to a tree on which is tacked a newspaper bearing the headlines: “Davidson hit by ATOm bomb!" Judging by the prominent first three letters of the word “ATOm” that this is the newly organized ATO club, he glances further to see a miniature football field underneath the tree, and, glancing up, spies a Wildcat, ATOm bomb in paw, ready to drop the dreadful weapon upon the field. Recovering from this terrible fright, he sees a W & L General leaning over with hands on ears, waiting for the explosion. Which all adds up to the fact that the W & L generals will inevitably be blasted, now that the ATOm bomb has arrived on the campus. Marveling over the apparent sign of genius among the Davidson ATO's, our friend slowly winds his way next door, when what to his wondering eyes should appear but two W & L Generals—one of them none other than General Robert E. Lee, (who appears on this program by special arrangement with U. S. Grant); fast ascending a tree, with added ventilation entering through a large jagged hole in the seat of his pants and with the culprit, a Wildcat, clutching said seat between his teeth. The other general (who else but George Washington, complete with hatchet in hand) is heading for the bushes to escape the wrath of the Mighty Wildcats. Leaving the scene of these escapades, the Beta house no less, our visitor proceeds to the Fiji house where the White Star shines down upon a large boiling cauldron, located conveniently in the front yard. A large Wildcat sits by this cauldron, holding in his mouth the dangling figure of a not-long-for-this-world W & L General. The SAE's proudly display a large Wildcat chasing one of the W & L Generals up on the roof of the house. From the Wildcat’s tail dangle signs bearing the names (Continued On Page Six)

Bands Share In Gridiron Glory

It may be Charlie Spivak and company on the dance floor this weekend, but it will be the Davidson and Lenoir football bands on the gridiron. Davidson's football band will make its third appearance of the season Saturday under the direction of its new director Kenneth R. Moore, who plans and directs the colorful half-time maneuvers. Led by Capt. James C. Harper, the Lenoir high school band, representing the visitors from Washington and Lee University, will also perform at Saturday's game with Davidson's band. This is a nationally famous high school band with approximately 60 pieces. Pre-game band maneuvers will be led off by Davidson with a short greeting for the visitors and alumni. After this, the two bands will join together for the Star-Spangled Banner. Lenoir will perform first during the half-time intermission with precision drill formations. The half will be concluded by Davidson's giving a salute to Washington and Lee—playing the Washington and Lee Swing and forming the letters WL. The last half-time maneuver will be a special homecoming salute with the band spelling out Davidson, one letter at a time, while playing “Oh Davidson.” The Davidson band will also furnish music Saturday morning at the pep rally scheduled for 11:00 in front of Chambers Building. In the football band’s two previous appearances this year it has done well, indicating the high caliber of Moore's instruction. (Continued On Page Six)

Spaniards Convene To Discuss Policy

Discussion of plans and policies for the coming year occupied the attention of the small number of members present for the first meeting of Sigma Delta Pi and the Spanish club. At this meeting, held on October 4, a project for policy was presented by the President, Mr. C. S. Lewis: the various points in the paper aroused quite a bit of comment. Because of the differing viewpoints of those present, it was decided that Sigma Delta Pi should hold a business meeting after further consideration and come to a decision. The meeting was held at the home of Dr. A. V. Goldiere. This year’s policy concerning meetings, membership, programs, etc., is to be announced at the next meeting.

ALENDA

The Davidsonian

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 20, 1950

NUMBER FOUR

KING JESUS LIVES BEGIN AT HOMECOMING!!!

GIGGLING GIRLS REPLACE GROSS GRUMBLERS

The recurrence of gorgeous October days has come to spell Homecoming at Davidson. It is my satisfying delight to extend the heartiest welcome to you—one and all—for this happy occasion. This greeting is extended on behalf of the entire Davidson family, resident here and working in and for the College. We are exhilarated by the coming of our friends and guests and stand ready to do all within our power to make your visit pleasant and rewarding. To the ALUMNI, we say “Welcome Home.” It is our desire that every former student should continue to feel a sense of at-home-ness here. The victorious conclusion of our Development Program which has claimed our attention at the last two Homecomings adds to the joy we feel in your presence today. May the renewing of the ties of friendship and the inbreathing of the spirit of this beautiful old campus prove a balm to your spirits. And to our Visitors, we are glad you have come. To Welcome you is a pleasure. We shall be happier in our own Homecoming because of your presence with us. Especially, to “the bevy of fair women, richly gay” would the Faculty and Student Body say “thrice welcome” as you join us in our festive season. May it prove a rare, happy time for us all.

JOHN R. CUNNINGHAM
President

Cripple Creek Boys Descend On Chapel; Classic Music Bows

All apprehensions regarding Friday the 13th were lifted last week when on that day the comparatively serene atmosphere of Chapel was shattered with the season’s first public appearance of the “Cripple Creek Boys,” one of the more spirited musical organizations on the campus. Sporting the latest in musical entertainment, the boys were received with wild enthusiasm by the student body. According to self-acclaim, the ringleader of the outfit is Ansel Moses; but quite naturally the rest of the boys disagree violently. Ansel hails from the capital of Tennessee, Lookout Mountain, and specializes on the banjo. Another boy from Lookout Mountain is Fletcher “Fidlin’ Flutch” Bright, who tears up the fiddle among other achievements. Next in line is the crooner of the bunch, Louie “Pretty Boy” Runge from Greenville, S. C., where he has a band of his own, “The Rungleers.” Aside from his singing, Louie does a little guitar playing, too. A second guitar specialist is the composer of the “Hogan Rag”, “Tiny Jim” Hogan from Lenoir, N. C. The fellow with the mean but mellow mandolin is Milton Craig, a stringbean from Mt. Holly. A man with considerable variety is Kennett “Uglier-than-I-am” Smith who picks the banjo, plays the harmonica, and tap dances (not all at one time). The last (but not the least important) is Bob “Kat” McPheeters who claims Greensboro as home. A music lover of the first water, “Kat” not only is an ardent Dixieland fan, but is a classical addict of Prof. Pfohl’s. However, he reaches his highest point sawing on the “Cripple Creek” doghouse (or bull-fiddle to the uneducated). The repertoire for Friday consisted of the following musical gems: “Lost All My Money But a Two Dollar Bill,” their theme song. Second was “Cotton-Eyed Joe” with Ansel chewing out the words. (Continued On Page Six)

President urges all upperclassmen

Programs Planned ByLe Cercle Francais plans to carry on a series of programmes dealing with French contributions to civilization in the field of art, music, architecture, and science. From time to time, outside speakers will be invited to lecture. In addition, members of the Cercle will present comedies and skits. A joint meeting with Queens or Limestone is usually the high-spot of the year.

FROSH CASUALTY BOX
1st 2nd
At the meeting for October, Jack Hunter and Stuart Shippey will report on their tour of Europe during the past summer. They will speak on such subjects as the Folies Bergères, Pigalle, and bus travel in the provinces.

The difference between life and love is that in life there is one thing or another, but in love there are two things after each other.

Girls Take Over Two Dormitories; Glamour Lends New Touch To Caves
A literary-minded young thing in Rumple was taking notes for a forthcoming novel. She claims it will make “Thirty Days in a Nazi Death Camp” seem like a children’s tale. This same girl awoke Saturday morning with a terrible cramp in her spine. Complaining to her date later, she was told she must have forgotten to put a brick under the short bed leg. The young ladies have indeed learned some new lessons in the art of existence (?). Many a frosh will gingerly touch his sack Monday muttering that a real, live GIRL slept here. And then again, maybe she didn’t sleep.

A sharp, piercing scream rang out, and the girl dashed out of Rumple. Sobbing, she told her bewildered date he must be confused—this couldn’t be where she was to stay. Mutely he nodded his head and was still nodding when she snatched up her suitcase and caught the next bus back to Salem. Not so with all of this hallowed building’s new occupants, although several got lost by inadvertently choosing the wrong door. By using pocket flashlights, they managed to find their way back to the outside world. They forgot to tell one girl about that tricky third step, but it’s not everyone who can go to a dance on crutches. Another date couldn't imagine why there were so many little nicks in her floor. It turned out they were where boys throwing knives at rats had missed.

As a special favor to the girls, Mrs. Little insisted that the college install hot water taps. The hot water itself is expected next year. In Duke, all the girls were afraid to leave their rooms for fear of never getting back in the right section. It seems the architect wanted to prove to his firm he could design a building with his eyes closed. As a matter of fact, that’s about the best way to get where you're going in the place. One ingenious lass unraveled a ball of string from her room to be sure and find it after the dance. When she returned, there were forty balls of string on the stair.

PHOTOGRAPHERS MEET
The Photo Club met last Tuesday night, October 17, for its regular meeting and demonstrated its theme, FUNDAMENTALS IN DEVELOPMENT. Under the direction of Dave Mathewes, the Club’s president, Allen Macy carried out the process of developing a film. Those who were new in the Club and young in the knowledge of photography peered through the darkness with interest as Allen worked the film up and down in the simple tray method of development. At the next meeting of the Club, November 7th, one of the members will demonstrate the fundamentals of printing, using both the contact and enlarging processes.

This year the Le Cercle Francais will run programmes dealing with French contributions to civilization in the field of art, music, architecture, and science. From time to time, outside speakers will be invited to lecture. In addition, members of the Cercle will present comedies and skits. A joint meeting with Queens or Limestone is usually the high-spot of the year.

Today's activities will terminate in Richardson Stadium when the ‘Cats meet Washington and Lee University’s Generals in a crucial Southern Conference battle. Capt. Jim Harper and the State champion Lenoir High School band will play for W & L. No rain is predicted, making for the best possible conditions today.

'Y' Plans Forum
In connection with its program on interracial action, the YMCA is sponsoring a forum on Christian Attitude Toward Race Issues on Wednesday night, October 25 at 7:30 in the Basement Lecture Hall of the Science Building. This forum, the first of three this semester, will offer a good discussion of viewpoints and ideas toward racial relations and present conditions. The discussion will be led by a panel of men well-versed on the racial issue. The members of this panel are: Dr. Samuel Hay, President of Stillman Institute, Rev. I. Harding Hughes, Chaplain of St. Mary’s College of Raleigh, and Dr. C. K. Brown, Dean of the Davidson Faculty, with Professor Raymond Tyson, Professor of Speech, moderating the discussion. After a five-minute presentation by each member, the panel will conduct a fifteen-minute discussion period with ideas toward the general racial outlook. Immediately following, there will be a thirty-minute period with the audience discussing the subject with the panel. All those interested in the betterment of the present status of racial relations are urged to attend.

Full Program of Events For College's 28th Homecoming
Today, for the twenty-eighth consecutive time since 1923, graduates of Davidson are returning to their alma mater. The day is chock-full of events, both of a business-like and entertaining nature. Heading the list will be a pep meeting at 11:00 on the “D.” Head Cheerleader Monty Hill will be on hand as a supplement to the freshmen.

Notice!
The Student Body is again reminded of the American Red Cross Blood Drive to be conducted in the basement of the College Infirmary between the hours of 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. on Thursday, the 26th. Colonel Ballard, who is chairman of the drive for the College and the community, states that plans are moving along well. More student response is needed, however, and it is hoped that many more appointment periods can be filled before the arrival of the Red Cross personnel. It is emphasized again that blood saves lives, and that a great deal of blood is needed in Korea for the fighting forces, and even, to a lesser degree, in the community around us.

Film Society Makes Plans for Expansion
Since the celebrated birth of the United Literary Society recently, the society, founded by Eu and hi to bring classical films to the campus, has grown by leaps and bounds; but it has experienced a few growing pains in the process. Irving Stubbs explained that the idea was conceived last spring while the two literary societies were searching for a worthy joint project. A committee consisting of Ken Gooupasture, Irving Stubbs, Watt Jeffries, and Jim Campbell, with Professors Roberts and Cummings, explored the possibilities of such a project, and their favorable report was accepted by both societies early in the fall. This committee worked long and hard to secure desirable films and select a time and place to show them. Their decision was to show five movies this semester on Friday nights in Shearer Hall. To avoid Federal tax, a sort of Film Society was set up, with $1.00 membership cards admitting students to all five films. The plan evoked enthusiastic support from the student body, and all tickets were sold within 15 minutes. This inspired the committee to find a larger theater than Shearer Hall (seating capacity: 250), and efforts are now being made to secure Chambers Auditorium. If these efforts are successful, tickets for the entire student body and faculty will be available; if not, the society will try to arrange for two showings of the film in Shearer Hall. The committee is still in the process of securing pictures and a (Continued On Page Six)