FROLICS QUEEN CONTEST FIZZLES

VOLUME XXXVI

Finding Actresses in ‘Boys’ Town’ Is Least a Play Director's Headaches

A play director’s lot at Davidson is not a happy one and Nancy Copeland, currently directing the Red and Black
Masquers’ Spring finale, “The Man Who Came to Dinner,” will attest to that fact. “The problems involved would put a
semester exam in Freshman math to shame,” said Nancy. First, there’s the matter of selecting a cast. Sure, there are
plenty of potential male leads about, but a play like “The Man” calls for at least seven feminine parts and
in ‘boys’ town’ that’s quite an order. Nancy filled it only after an exhaustive search through household, secretarial, and high
school ranks. The results were quite successful, however, for only two of the seven will be appearing for the first
time. The others are ‘repeat performers.’

It takes a lot of practice to knit a cast of two dozen or so into a competent group capable
of satisfying an opening night audience, and finding a place to practice every night has also furnished a problem for
Nancy. She has partially solved it by utilizing the old gym for work on individual acts, and using the auditorium
for full-length rehearsals when it is available.

Then, there’s always that old bugaboo of propriety. Deciding what is apropos to the Davidson stage is always a ticklish
problem and has caused considerable trouble in the past. However, only a minimum of lines from this play will be
deleted, and the lines of the worldly-minded Mr. Whitesides will be presented almost intact. “We’ve ironed out most of the
rough spots now,” said Nancy, “and this play should be one of the best we’ve put on, rivaling ‘John Loves
Mary’ for entertainment.”

Rather than dividing their time between a local performance and one away from the campus, the Masquers will concentrate on
Davidson, giving two shows on successive nights, May 4 and 5. The play will climax the observance of Arts Festival
Week here and is being planned in accordance with the committee on Fine Arts. “The Man Who Came to Dinner,”
since its introduction on Broadway in 1936, has been one of the most popular plays with college and Little Theatre
groups. It embodies a large cast, racy lines, and sophisticated wit, very appropriate.

(Continued On Page Six)

Sports and Dancing Fill Frolics Weekend

By JOE DUDLEY

Spring Frolics will come into full swing today with one day of frolicking finished. Yesterday, many went to see the
Freshman baseball team play Belmont Abbey. In the evening, Chambers Auditorium was choked with laughter invoked by the scintillating wit
of the “D” Club Foolies. Last night the first dance was held under the baton of Billy Knauff and was
chalked up as a success by those in a position to know. After the dance, most of the Davidson revelers
came in early so as to conserve their vigor for the wild soirees that will be in order tonight.

At 2:30 this afternoon, our varsity tennis team will go down to the courts to engage a strong opponent—University of
North Carolina. The Freshman tennis team will be down there also to meet Duke University’s star-studded frosh team—one of the
strongest in the Southern Conference. In addition, the freshman baseball team will play Oak Ridge in Richardson field at 3:00.
Visitors will not lack entertainment with so many athletic meets.

Tonight the orchestra will start playing at 8:00 to begin the formal dance. There the Beauty Queen of Spring Frolics,
who was chosen from a great number of photographs by three aged, senile professors, will be announced and crowned by
student body president Whit Cobb. The winner will be awarded an orchid and later wined (oot) and dined at the
Chez Montet in Charlotte. At intermission, the Pan-Hellenic Council will present a figure to introduce their members and the fraternity
presidents. The huge numeral 50 will be formed in honor of the senior class. The dance will then proceed until
its end at midnight.

Neil Leach (above), a Junior from De Funiak Springs, Florida, was elected President of the Y.M.C.A. this afternoon, defeating Don
Shriver, a Junior from Norfolk, Virginia. For the past year, Neil has served as First Vice-President of the Y.M.C.A. and
has been active in other extra-curricular activities. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.

Dr. Little Stresses God's Need Of The Unimportant Person

The Rev. Ganse Little, D.D., of Columbus, Ohio, spoke at Vespers last Sunday night on the importance of the individual
and his responsibility to God in his day-to-day undertakings. Dr. Little drew his topic from the scripture reading, the opening
of the Gospel according to St. John: “In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and
the Word was God.” And from the sixth through the eighth verses of the first chapter: “There was a man
sent from God, whose name was John. The same came for a witness, to bear witness of the Light, that
all men through him might believe. He was not that Light, but was sent to bear witness of that Light.”

Dr. Little proceeded to point out that John was not a “big” or “important” man; he was distinctly just an
ordinary citizen. His only distinction was his willingness to obey the will of God and to follow His purpose. He
became great only in his zeal to bear witness for God. It is not the great men, Dr. Little stated,
that make history, but the sum of all the little men. What significance, in other words, has the great “one,”
without a multitude of zeroes, meaningless in themselves, to multiply its power by tens and hundreds?

Having pointed out the great significance of the individual in history, Dr. Little hastened to add that the importance of
the individual, so emphasized in American society today, is only contemplated in the Bible where a man has dedicated himself
with God. Man as an individual is not important unless he is willing to bear witness for God. All the
sciences and all the arts have no importance without the small people who are able to translate them into terms
of everyday life, Dr. Little argued. Medical research is useless without the small country doctor going his weary rounds from
day to day. What better use can music have than that a mother should play a simple melody to her
children after a tiresome day?

It is the call of God to all of us, Dr. Little concluded, to bear witness to Him in small
ways throughout our lives, in all of our small, personal relationships with our fellow men. “There was a man sent
from God,” he said, “whose name was... yours.”

Frats Put Damper On Campus Politics; Survey Reveals

Survey Ind. — (LP.) — A recent survey of 44 colleges and universities on student governmental setups by the reorganization
committee at DePauw University reveals the following highlights:

1. Of all the colleges and universities surveyed, an average of 55 percent of all students voted in student elections.
In schools without fraternities or sororities, the average vote was 79 percent.
2. Thirteen schools used the senate system and 20 elected members of the governing group at large.
3. The average size of the governing group was 18.5 members, averaging by classes 1.6 freshmen, 3.2 sophomores, 5 juniors,
and 7.2 seniors.
4. Results indicated that the higher the percentage of Greek letter organization, the less politically organized the vote seemed to
be. Political parties were not in existence on 28 campuses and only 12 of the 44 schools answered yes to
the question of the existence of organized parties. Among those schools with more than two-thirds of the campus organized, only
one school had fixed parties.

STUDENT ART EXHIBIT

Paintings for the Student Art Exhibit, to be held in connection with the Arts Festival, May 1-6, must be turned
in by April 24, according to Wylie Smith, student chairman. The entries do not have to be originals, but if
copies, they are to be labeled as such. Oil paintings, watercolors, or sketches will be accepted. Judges for the exhibit
will be Mrs. Geo. Abernathy, Mrs. Peyton, and Prof. Hutchinson. No entries will be accepted after April 24.

Student Body Gives Taylor Top Office

Randy Taylor, pre-ministerial student from Milledgeville, Georgia. Randy is the retiring second-vice president of the student body and the President
of Kappa Sigma fraternity. He is a member of the YMCA cabinet and on the Board of Control of the
YMCA. Randy is also a managing editor of the Davidsonian, having been a member of the Davidsonian staff for two
years. He is a member of the Eumanean Literary Society and Sigma Delta Pi, national honorary Spanish fraternity. Randy was
president of the sophomore class. Tom Stockton was electedFirst Vice President and Mac Mclean second vice president, Tom was on
the cross-country team last fall and is on the track team now, running the mile and half mile. He is
a member of The Davidsonian.

ORTA LIBERTAS — DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1950 AU REVOIR NUMBER TWENTY-THREE

Phi Society Favors Functions, Diplomas

The Philanthropic Literary Society held its regular meeting last Tuesday night at Phi Hall. Bill Hamilton, librarian, reported on the
new books received at the library, emphasizing that all members should take advantage of them. Bill Harris, who has been
investigating a type of diploma, says that a diploma could be bought by the members of the society from the
Department of Archives and History. The diplomas, which emphasize that the graduate is also a member of the Phi, are
somewhat different from the Davidson diplomas and would be available in addition to them if the Philanthropic members so desired.

The society decided on a social function to be held on April 29 at Erwin Lodge for the members and
dates. So far the social committee has not fully decided on arrangements. Bill Whitesides, tenor, who was accompanied by Al
Newman, sang several German folk songs and English love songs. The society wishes to stress an appreciation of music as
well as literature.

Bill Hamilton discussed the adoption of a long-range literary project such as a joint research program on a present-day literary
trend. The members interested were called together after the meeting to discuss a theme and possibilities. The program would begin
this semester and be continued next term. This would be a fine outlet for the members interested.

Gamma Sigma Elects New President

At a business meeting held Monday night, the members of Gamma Sigma Epsilon elected the following men to serve as
officers for the coming year: Thad Monroe, President; Dick Patterson, Vice-President; Sam Joyner, Treasurer; Bob Hubbell, Secretary; and Craighead Alexander,
Reporter. The latest program sponsored by the group was a very interesting and informative talk on the atomic and hydrogen
bombs and the principles upon which they are based. Professor T. S. Logan of the Chemistry Department included in his
discussion the basic theories of radioactivity, mass and energy relationships, and critical mass. Dr. Logan also described the production of
artificial isotopes and the probable mechanisms of the atomic and hydrogen bombs.

This year the officers of the thirteen-man group were Jack King, President; Ed Parker, Secretary; and Graham Newton, Treasurer.

SENIOR CLASS DAY PLANS ARE MADE

Plans for Senior Class Day were brought to a climax by the election of the officers who will take part
in the program. Bill Currie was elected historian; Charlie Davis, poet; Melvin Sipe, salutatorian; Grover Lee, valedictarian; John Adams, orator.
The Senior Class Day will take place during Commencement weekend Saturday, June 3, at 4 p.m.

Joint Conference

Over the chilly weekend of April 14-16, three members of the student body attended the annual YM-YWCA Leadership Conference at
Camp New Hope near Chapel Hill. Neil Leach, Don Shriver, and Milton Clenseur joined with some sixty delegates from twelve
other North Carolina colleges to discuss such questions as: What needs of students can "Y" leaders meet? What can students
contribute to world peace? How can the "Y" act as a meeting point for various denominations and faiths?

Concrete results of the conference at Davidson are yet to be worked out by the Y Cabinet. Suggestions brought back
by our delegates include exchanging deputations with other N.C. schools, a world peace forum for next fall, and attendance of
a cabinet member at the YMCA Summer conference at Berea, Kentucky. Leach, Shriver, and Clenseur report that one valuable aspect
of the conference was contact with the Y programs on campuses quite different from Davidson. Various faiths and non-compulsory religious
services raise different problems for a YMCA. "Our YMCA has problems," Leach said, "but not in such baffling variety."

The Historical Society of North Carolina met on Saturday, April 15, on the Davidson campus. There were meetings in the
afternoon and night with a dinner in between. About forty members of the society were present. In the afternoon session,
Dr. E. W. Knight of Chapel Hill read a paper on "Southern Reaction to Northern Educational Influences in the Ante-Bellum
South" and Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson of Davidson read a paper on "Catawba Springs, Carolina's."

In the evening session, a paper was presented on "The Publication Program of the North Carolina Department of Archives and
History." The purpose of the society is the study of the history of North Carolina. The membership, which is composed
of college professors, newspaper people, and other persons interested in the subject, is by invitation only. The Davidson members are
Drs. Cum- mings, Brown, Davidson, and Johnson.

INTERFRATERNITY SING

On Thursday night, April 27, at 7:30 o'clock, under the sponsorship of Phi Mu Alpha, music fraternity, the seventh annual
Inter-fraternity Sing will be held on the steps of the Chambers building. Participating will be all social fraternities and the
Campus Club. Dr. Frontis Johnston, Professor of History, will be master of ceremonies. Judges for the contest, the winner of
which will receive a silver cup, will be Miss Virginia Smith, voice teacher at Queens College, Mr. Cecil Bradt, owner
of Brodt Music Company of Charlotte, and Dr. J. P. Harnsberger, College Physician at Davidson. The Sing is under the
direction of Paul Jenkins, Senior.

Leaders Attend

Climaxing an ingenious publicity campaign, the "D" club presented its annual challenge to the theater world, the "Foolies," in Chambers
Auditorium Friday night. Students and their dates howled at the antics of such comedy acts as that put on by
Howard Proctor and Vance Mizelle. One of the highlights of the talent-packed revue was an outlandish can-can performed by Stricklin,
McNeely, Henderson, Walker, Craven, and Kiser. Their innate grace seemed to add a vibrancy to this otherwise overworked dance as
yet unwitnessed by Davidsonians. Jinks Jervey lent an air of true romance by means of another of his priceless negro
sermons. Harry James himself would have no doubt blinked had he been able to hear Grier Williams and his fiery
trumpet. A serious note was added to the program by Rob Palmer who sang a very excellent interpretation of "Old
Man River." Not soon to be forgotten will be the esthetic tap-dancing of our own prospect for the Ballet Russe,
C. L. Runyan. A charming set of numbers was sung by the Andrews Sisters who shocked some students in the
large audience with their unchaste display of physical attributes. Other vocalists in Bill Davis' ample musical features included Jimmy Rodgers,
Bill Whitesides, and Bruce Pruitt. A real threat to the continued popularity of the men's chorus arose in the form
of a 30-man all-member glee club which gave their own versions of old favorites (until then) such as "Embraceable You"
and "Magic is the Moonlight." Led by Auburn Lambeth, a group of black-faced end men nearly caused a riot among
those present with their zany capers.

For the past four years, the "D" Club "Foolies" has been the entertainment extravaganza looked forward to by every student
as Spring rolled around. This year, as in the past, the "D" Club hasn't let us down. President Jake Wade
was quoted prior to the premiere as saying, "It will be a whale of a lot of entertainment for 50c."
President Jake was so very right. Plans have been made to arrange the "Foolies" for the Spring Dance weekend for
next year. The increased crowds attending Friday night led to such plans.

WHITESIDES ELECTED MALE CHORUS PRESIDENT

At its regular rehearsal on Monday evening, the male chorus elected the following officers for the 1950-1951 season: President—Bill Whitesides,
Canton, N. C.; Vice-president—Morgan Bailey, Rock Hill, S. C.; Secretary-Treasurer—Don Crosby, Pensacola, Fla. Two main events remain on the chorus's
calendar for this year: the annual Arts Festival the first week in May at which it is hoped that some
of the American numbers will be performed with orchestration; and the graduation exercises early in June. These performances will close
out this year which Mr. Berg feels is one of his most successful since he has been at Davidson.

Scene From "Man Who Came To Dinner"
