FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 1950 THE DAVIDSONIAN

BOBBY RIGGS AND TROUPE PLAY BEFORE PACKED HOUSE

Segura, Kramer Cop Singles Matches; Kramer and Parker Win Doubles

By JIM FARRAR

Wednesday night in Johnson gym, a packed house watched the five top tennis players in the world show their talent.
Bobby Riggs brought along with him on his tour, Frankie Parker, Jack Kramer, Pancho Gonzales, and Pancho Segura. This exhibition
of tennis was perhaps the best any of us have seen or will ever see. Even though some of the
players were not in their top playing condition, the crowd was able to grasp the greatness of these men in
their field.

In the first match of the evening, Segura played Riggs in what was possibly the best match. Riggs took the
first game of the first set, but Segura began to find the spots on the court where Riggs wasn’t and
was placing his two-handed shots with deadly accuracy. Segura went on to win the set, 6-3. Riggs came back in
the next set to play Segura on even terms. However, he dropped this set, and the match, 11-9. Segura won
the match, 6-3 and 11-9. Segura captured the crowd with his bowlegged walk, ready smile, and smashing two-handed shots. Riggs
featured a beautiful net game, winning most of his games from this position.

In the second match, Jack Kramer easily downed the youthful Gonzales. This win for Kramer made their match score, 69-20,
in favor of Kramer. The winner of this series of matches is to receive a $100,000 prize. This was perhaps
the most disappointing match of the night. Gonzales was off in his games, as was Kramer. Both men featured a
smashing serve that both had trouble in returning. Kramer took the first set, 6-2, and the second one, 6-1. Gonzales
couldn't hit the ball back for some reason.

At this point, Bobby Riggs gave away a wristwatch and tennis racquet to those persons holding lucky numbers. The watch
was won by Joe McDonald of Davidson, and the racquet was won by Tom Greer of Spartanburg.

The next match was the doubles engagement with Pancho Segura and Pancho Gonzales meeting Frankie Parker and Jack Kramer. Behind
the smashing serves of Kramer, and almost flawless floor play of Parker, the two Panchos soon found themselves on the
small end of a 6-4 set. The second set went to Kramer and Parker by a 7-5 count. This match
was featured by beautiful net play by Kramer, flawless floor play by Parker, the bustling smiling Segura, and the serves
and irritation of Gonzales.

Whit Cobb in Durham Practicing For Game

By BILL WHITE

Whit Cobb, captain and outstanding leader of Davidson’s Wildcat basketballers this past winter, is in Raleigh this weekend where he
will appear as a member of the all-senior Southern Conference all-star squad to oppose N. C. State’s loop champion Wolfpack
tomorrow night in Reynolds Coliseum. Yesterday and today Whit worked out with the all-star squad under the direction of Duke’s
Gerry Gerard, coach of the picked quint, in the Blue Devils’ indoor stadium. They play against the Pack tomorrow night
in a game designed by State’s Everett Case to keep his crew in trim for the coming Eastern NCAA tournament
in New York in which the Wolves will represent region three.

Possibly the finest defensive guard in the Southern Conference this winter, Cobb became the first member of the all-star five
to be announced. He and the other members of the team will be guests of State en route and returning,
and will be presented handsome watches as members of the team, in keeping with their amateur standings, Case has pointed
out. The selection to the all-star squad comes as but one more honor heaped upon the slight shoulders of the
slim Durham senior, who has made all-state and honorable mention all-southern honors for the past two years. Few doubt that
had Davidson produced a winning club this winter, Whit would have been granted an all-Southern berth. Three final games of
high point making rocketed Whit’s scoring total to a personal all-time high of 233 points in 26 games for an
8.9 average, the highest average in final Big Five standings for a guard.

Mooresville

Chesterfield Sport Quizz

1. Red Ralph is manager of what American League baseball club?
2. What famous shortstop is nicknamed “old aches and pains?"
3. What is the name of the Philadelphia Athletic’s home field?
4. Name the only regular Negro battery in the major leagues?
5. Where do the Boston Red Sox have spring training?

RULES
1. Print your answers clearly on the back of a Chesterfield wrapper.
2. Take your answers to Frank Perrin in 112 West.
3. No entries will be accepted later than 24 hours after the Davidsonian is circulated.
4. This contest is not open to members of the Davidsonian staff.

By CHARLIE HAWKINS

The first annual Red and Black game, concluding spring football drills, was played on Richardson Field last Saturday afternoon with
Jim Fasul’s Blacks overcoming Auburn Lambeth’s Red team, 27-14. The some 1,000 fans present saw a close and occasionally dull
first half, and then saw plenty of action the second half. The Blacks, coached by Dick Redding, had the power
both offensively and defensively, but gave away the speed to the Reds. The real “star” of the game was 185-pound
Ham Wade of the Blacks. The powerful soph fullback bulled his way for 114 yards on 16 tries and punted
four times for a 36-yard average. Auburn Lambeth of the Red team, which was coached by Ray Brown, connected for
six of twelve passes and 101 yards to lead both teams in that department. All the Red’s first downs came
in the first period, when they opened the scoring on a sustained drive of 46 yards in eight plays. Roy
White went over from the 2, Bowers converted, and the score stood 7-0. The Blacks came back, recovering a Red
fumble on the Red 45 and going down the field for a TD. Wade rambled for 25 yards for the
score.

WILDCAT OF THE WEEK

This is an off-season in athletics on the intercollegiate level here at Davidson, but a “friendly” battle among the members
of Crowell Little's gridders produced an outstanding performer who is chosen as Wildcat of the Week for his sterling play
— Ham Wade, of course. Ham was the big offensive gun for Dick Redding’s squad.and piled up the highest total
of yards rushing of any back on the field. Running from the fullback slot in the “T” formation, Ham proved
beyond a doubt that the Cats are set in this position next year. Wade's power and delayed bucks through the
middle ripped the Red forward wall apart and set up a couple of the Black’s four TDs. Ham is but
a sophomore this year and his performance last Saturday definitely marked him as a man to watch on the gridiron
for the next two years. On last fall's ill-fated squad, Ham ran from fullback but played under the shadow of
C. L. Runyan until the Gastonia plunger was injured. However, Ham did put in a lot of time as defensive
halfback. Wade packs plenty of power in his stocky frame. He tips the scales at around 185 lbs. and gets
off to an amazingly fast start. Once he plows past the line, his power and elusiveness make him a hard
target for the defense. (The Red squad will verify this). Ham calls Charlotte home, although his family now lives in
Chapel Hill. At Central High in the Queen City, he was outstanding in football and tennis as well as holding
campus offices. Ham is sure to keep the name of Wade alive at this school if his performance in Saturday's
squad game is any indication of things to come.

RECREATION CENTER
Davidson, N. C.
Fain & Crymes, Inc.
Creamery Sporting Goods
#18 S. TRYON STREET
GRADE “A” MILK PASTEURIZED
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
Mooresville Ice Cream Company
MAKERS OF Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.
Parker-Gardner Company

Jamerson Optimistic As Baseball Team Bats And Throws Into Shape
By BILL ADAMS

Dragging their bats and balls out of their winter hibernation, Davidson’s varsity baseball candidates got down to serious work for
a tough spring schedule that lists some twenty contests, while at the same time school officials were casting wary eyes
on the new Johnston gym windows and stray foul balls. Twenty boys have answered Coach Charley Jamerson’s call so far,
with a few others expected to turn out who haven't made an official appearance as yet. Coach Jamerson is counting
on the best team he’s ever had here at Davidson, but expects much tougher competition than in previous years. If
a few question marks are answered, such as C. L. Runyan's spring football hurt, and Charlton Torrence’s sore arm, the
Presbyterians could pull some surprises this year. The team appears strong everywhere except in pitching, and that position may not
be as weak as some have feared. Regulars returning are Bill Bird, at third, Charlie Pearson at short, Jake Wade
at second, Auburn Lambeth in left field, and Mack Erwin in right field, while boys like Percy Rice and Hal
Mapes have had plenty of experience. Others working out are Brady Osborne, John Jervis, John Guiton and Lee Talbert, all
sophs, while Coleman Poag, Red Wilson, Billy Houck and John Rose are among the upperclassman hopefuls. The pitchers are headed
by returnees Dutch Hengeveld, Torrence, Norm Whiteheart, and Lefty Hunter, and sophs Jack Branch, Harold Smith and Vic Taylor. The
Wildcats will be good, but whether they can keep up with their neighboring scholarship teams remains to be seen. Good
pitching could clear the way to a successful year.

The schedule:
March 24, 25, at Erskine; March 27, 28, at Newberry; April 1, UNC, here; April 3, at UNC; April 7,
Wake Forest, here; April 11, McCrary, here; April 13, State, here; April 15, at Clemson; April 17, at Furman; April
24, Furman, here; April 27, Duke, here; April 29, Clemson, here; May 2, South Carolina, here; May 4, at State;
May 5, at Wake Forest; May 6, at Duke; May 8, at Citadel; May 9, at South Carolina.

PAGE FIVE

Here are two big reasons why the Black squad won the inter-squad game last Saturday—Jerry Kiser and Jim Fasul. These
two huskies, both sophomores, held down the guard slots in the Black line and almost completely stymied the Red offensive
through the middle. Kiser weighs 225 lbs. and hails from Shelby, N. C. Fasul, who captained the Black squad, tips
the scales at 200 lbs. and calls Fayetteville, N. C., home.

Jimmy Rogers for 2 and then Wade went for 5, 3, and 4, and a touchdown. Kiser’s extra point made
it 7-7, and the half ended in that score. The Blacks opened strong in the third and fourth periods, and
shoved across 3 more TDs. A Red fumble on their own 21-yard line paved the way for the second Black
score as Johnny Guiton went over from the 2. Talbert’s kick was good, and the score read, 14-7. Both teams
scored in the last period. The Blacks rushed to two more tallies on smashes by Freshman backs A. C. Gregg
and Jack Ruth. Gregg’s 38-yard punt return featured one drive, and a Ruth quarterback sneak gave the Blacks their final
TD. Lee Talbert, Soph end, added both extra points. The second Red score came on a beautifully executed 53-yard pass
from Lambeth to end Dave Williams, up from the touch football league. Coach Little, who watched the game from the
grandstand, commented that the teams looked fairly good, but downfield blocking was a little weak. Maybe it’s a good omen
for the young Cats (the average is 19) that the game was so successful. Every player but five on the
squad has at least two more years of eligibility.

Mildness! Yes, Camels are SO MILD that of hundreds of men and women who smoked Camels—and only Camels—for 30 consecutive
days, noted throat specialists, making weekly examinations, reported NOT ONE SINGLE CASE OF THROAT IRRITATION due to smoking in a
coast-to-coast test.
