PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

Oscar Gant (above), college employee who received the Sidney Sullivan Award last Tuesday in Chapel. See story on page one.

KA’s Celebration Commemorates Resurrection of Rebel Customs

Third Manassas is on our hands! Once more the “Stars and Bars” fly over this here college and once more
states' wrongs have been converted to states' rights. By the orders of “ole Marse Rob,” the State of Carolina (both
South and that unmentionable one) will not carry Harry (those who do will please harikari) but will pass into secession
from the rest of the U.S.A. and establish the second Confederate States of America! This final secession came as a
result of a long series of strategically planned movements of the college wing of the Confederate Army in Raleigh and
Atlanta and now here. If it were not for the supply of Confederate costumes and flags being in the hands
of the damnyankees, we could muster a few more men and they would be ours within a fortnight.

In celebration of this here overwhelming victory of today, however, the cotillion club of Davidson (all members being gentlemen—K.A.’s) will
hold a dance on Saturday the thirteenth of May for all the gentlemen and ladies of Mecklenburg. Horseshoe pitching, riding,
speaking, debating, commemorating, and drinking will be on the agenda of cultural uplifting entertainment for the afternoon, while dancing and
spooning is in order after the banquet. Formal attire of the charming ladies and uniforms of the gents will add
color to the occasion, and after the feasting and dancing, K.A. songs and Dixie will close the day of celebration.

This report is submitted to all true southerners from your most humble and obedient servant: James Ewell Brown Williah. (Ah
say colored boy! Fetch me two mint juleps for me and my little southern kumquat here, and kick that lazy
hound dog off the front porch!)

Steel is sold at an average of less than five cents a pound by United States steel companies.

Rent a New Car at SCARBROUGH
Prewar Rates
Special Rates on Long Trips
DRIVE IT YOURSELF, Inc.
212 W. 4th St.
Phone 3-4513
Charlotte, N.C.

Visit THE STUDENT STORE For Your Needs

The Stalwart Sons of Kappa Alpha Primed for Old South Ceremonies

Wilson Talks on “England Today”

The International Relations Club held their last meeting of the year, and their first under the guidance of new President
Gray Hampton, at the Sigma Chi house Tuesday night. The guest speaker for the evening was Professor Wilson of the
Bible department, who spoke on “England As It Is Today.” Professor Wilson, who is originally from Scotland and has spent
much of his life working among the laboring classes in England, put special emphasis upon the life and geography of
England as it relates to the difference between the urban and agrarian classes of people. He also spoke on the
possibilities of war and the effects it would have on English society and business, in addition to England’s chances of
surviving another war.

During the business part of the meeting, the club voted to extend an honorary bid of membership to Professor Pinkney,
head of the political science department here at the college, to become an active member of the club. This action
closed out the year’s activities.

BU, PHI SOCIETIES... (Continued From Page One)

Should be Limited to 8 x 10 in the Davidsonian.”
8. Dave Miller — Phi — “College Authorities Should Dissolve Both Literary Societies.”
9. Tommy Langford — Eu — “Scripts and Pranks Editor Should Be Required to Take Fine Arts.”
10. Mac Bulgin — Phi — “The College Should Rebuild Frank's Place as a part of the Development Drive.”

Poetry was entered by:
1. Pat McGeachy—Eu.
2. Irving Stubbs —Phi. 3. Tom Abel — Phi. 4. Charles Davis — Phi. 5. Bill Trotman — Eu. 6.
Don Shriver — Phi.

DERRICK’S KNIGHTS... (Continued From Page Three)
6-2, 6-3. Kennedy (D) def. Bean (W&L), 6-0, 7-5; Palmer and Crosland (D) def. Rockwell and Bouldin (W&L) 6-2, 3-6,
8-6. Child and Kalogridis (D) def. Knudsen and Segar (W&L), 7-5, 2-6, 6-2; Kennedy and Wade (D) def. Dean and
Mohr (W&L), 6-4, 7-9, 6-2.

Literary Group Elects Shriver As President
Sigma Upsilon, the honorary literary fraternity on the campus, closed out its year’s work with a celebration supper-meeting at Erwin
Lodge Monday night. The faculty members of the fraternity served as hosts for the supper, which has become an annual
tradition with Sigma Upsilon.

The prime business of the evening, aside from the supper, was the election of officers for next year. Don Shriver
was elected president to succeed John Lyles, Irving Stubbs vice-president to succeed Charlie Davis, Hartley Hall secretary-treasurer to succeed Bill
Currie, and Bill Cumming feed chairman to succeed Liston Millis. These men will take charge of the fraternity at the
beginning of the term next September.

This meeting also served as an initiation for seven new members who were chosen at the last meeting. Those honored
by the society were Tom Abel, Shelley Beard, Jack Hunter, Pete Kalogridis, Dudley Pendleton, Stuart Shippey, and Professor Guerrant.

An interesting program was given after supper by several members presenting selections of their own. Members participating in this were
Arnie Covell, Boyce Kendall, George Adams, Bob Hollister, and John Lyles.

COMMENCEMENT (Continued From Page One)
specializing in liaison work. Mr. Rush left the army in 1946 as a colonel, and entered the State Department as
a United Nations expert. Then came a 10-month stay in the War Department, followed in 1947 by his return to
the State Department, where his rise was phenomenal. Although he had no diplomatic experience, his liberal arts background, keen, imaginative
mind, and indefatigable capacity for work stamped him as a “broad-gauge outsider with a fresh approach.” In February, 1949, he
was appointed assistant secretary for U.N. affairs, and later became a Deputy Undersecretary, assisting in coordinating all the department's work.
From this important post he was called in March of this year to the vital position of assistant secretary of
State for Eastern affairs, where he pilots our Pacific Policy.

Davidson commended Dean Rusk in a citation of merit in 1948, and has now honored him further by inviting him
to deliver the commencement address this year.

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE (Continued From Page Three)
water against Cobb; and Roddey against Duke’s Harold Lipton. This afternoon, the Taylor-Keesler victor met the Rice-Boys battle, and that
winner faced in tomorrow's finals the man who emerged on top from the scrap between the winners of Cobb-Atwater, Roddey-Lipton.
The finals tomorrow afternoon are slated to get underway promptly at 2 o'clock. With clear skies prevailing, a large crowd
is expected to attend the fight for the crowns.

POWERFUL WAKE... (Continued From Page Three)
Tiddy (WF) over Sloan (D), 2½-½. Galleger (WF) over Vernon (D) 2½-½. Best Ball: Wake Forest 2½; Davidson ½. Edens
(WF) over Cooper (D) 3-0. Harris (WF) over Dickson (D) 2½-½. Best ball: Wake Forest, 3; Davidson, 0.

FRIDAY, MAY 12, 1950

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.

Patronize Our Advertisers

WHEREVER YOU GO!

Remember this seal — it's your assurance of the best!

Patronize Our Advertisers

Withers Electric Company
Radio Repairs
Electrical Supplies
Light Bulbs
DAVIDSON, N. C.

It’s funny, with all this money spent on research, that the cost of living stays put.

1950 is a good year — it has fifty-three Sundays.

VISIT THE Charlotte Waffle Shop
“ACROSS FROM THE BURNING CORNER” ON WEST TRADE STREET

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT
BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST.
PHONE 2-2238
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

CHESTERFIELD IN AMERICA'S COLLEGES
WITH THE TOP MEN IN SPORTS
WITH THE HOLLYWOOD STARS
