<mz | QObe Dabidsonian | 2-=~. ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS VOLUME XXXIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 13, 1950 ~—___—UMBER THREE en Ballard Chairman (yma Record Homecoming Forecast; _ ~ fore ste t t Alumni Meeting Is Planned The American Red Cross will conduct a blood drive in very high order and splendidly the Davidson community Thursday. Bulletin ' Re Ceaninchane On pe resigent Jone a Py dey. October 26, between. the recurnting Gordon ray ab Pron McConnell and Dickson To Take . s ERY Be | . rR e . . e a ; | Posts As New Alumni Officers Homecoming this year will feature perhaps the most in- y =| —, teresting and widely appealing programs in recent years. The Alumni Office believes it to be a praiseworthy job of planning. oe . : , dispatch to the Davidsonian | North Carolina. This drive will be be part of » that there will not be a speci- Dr. Cunningham was among the national effort to raise blood for! fic theme for fraternity decora- |two-hundred sixty-four delegates emergencies. Over half of the] tions this homecoming. The de- | attending the ceremonies from uni- total is planned for use by the cision of decorations will be | versities and colleges both here Korean forces. left to the individual fraterni- {and abroad. Almost one hundred Dr. Cunningham has asked Col- ties, but they are reminded of | learned societies and national edu- onel Ballard to act as chairman of several themes that could be cational and professional organiza- the drive. Colonel Ballard has an used. Mr. Payne mentioned [tions were represented. nounced plans to appeal to the col.| 'W° facts which should be ta- At 11:00 a. m., Sunday, October lege student body as well as to all ken into account—this is mid- [the eighth, the Inaugural Sermon local civic groups. The local chap- century homecoming and Da- | was delivered at the Woman's Col- ter of Omicron Delta Kappa has vidson plays W. & L. in foot- | lege in Greensboro. William B undertaken to sponsor the solicita- all. ‘ Umstead, former United State: tion from the student body. Bill Klein also announced Senator, presided. De. Cunningham Appointments for specific hours] . that the idea of a circus will be | offered the morning prayer and th: will have to be made in advance by| "sed this year by the Pan. | sermon, “Light Incarnate and In- prospective donors. This is for the Hel for the decoration of the | visible,” was preached by Harold reason that a certain amount of ae for dances. The galety of jw. Tribble. An inaugural dinner . : ,| colors piayed and a | attended by cight hundred people time is required for each bleeding large cage-like platform will [| was followed from 8:30 to 10:30 and it is important that donor's time not be wasted by having the be used as the band stand. p. m. by a reception honoring Prese- dent and Mrs. Gray. donor wait unnecessarily. Appoint- . The Inaugural Convocations were ments for students can be made at] (ty/ ' e the office in the ROTC building. Y Cabinet Analyzes held on Monday, October the ninth. The Red Cross is not permitted . at the University in Chapel Hill. to draw blood from any individual Purposes At Retreat The morning session was presided under 2] years of age without the over by Chancellor Robert B. prior written consent of the stu- H ld In M ® dents’ parents. e ountains House of the University of North ‘ ‘ ; Carolina, and the afternoon meet- record room in Phi Hall available Students are requested to secure . . release forms for parents’ signa- The Y.-M. C. A. cabinet held its ing was under the guidance of carl all students and members of the W. Harrelson, Chancellor of North college community for listening to tures from Colonel Ballard, and to] 2Mual retreat last weekend, Oc- make appointments with him as tober 6-8, at Montreat, leaving here hours of 11 a. m. and 5 p. m. Mr. Payne announced in a | dent of the Greater University of fy | Kick-off event for the festivities will be a concert by Charlie [Spivak on Friday afternoon, Oetober 20, from 4-5 :30 p. m. Charlie is slated to play for a for- mal dance that night in the Johns. | Debating Team See ton gym lasting from nine til one. . Saturday's program commences Bright Year Ahead with a pep meeting in front of Chambers at 11:00 a. m. The start- re * . ; er's gun for a varsity cross country P - ~-—— _ ‘We are hoping for a brisk sea-| meet with the rival W. and L. har- _— son of first-class debating,” stated | ciers will fire at 11 also. Immediate- Professor Tyson, instructor infty afterward the baby Cats will run speech, when, asked his prediction! | ees.McRac over the two-mile for the 1950-1951 Debating Team.| course. Chambers Auditorium wilt Rryan Robinson, President of the be thé scene of a student concert by Forensic Council, and John Hunter.| ihe band and male chorus High manager of the Debating Team also spot of the morning will be an enthusiastically look forward to 4] alumni meeting at 11:45 in Cham- successful year of debating for Da-| hers Auditorium, Last year’s Presi- vidson’s team. dent John I. Smith will conduct the Eighty contests are scheduled} meeting which will include reports with about fifty different colleges.|on the Wildcat Club and W & I. them ready for public performance] among which are Yale; Harvard. game by Crowell Little, a report by at the V. M. I. football game in| Princeton, and Annapolis, thus, the| Dr. Cunningham, and the installa- Charlotte on, November 4. eam will have a busy season. De-| tion of alummi officers for 'S0-°51. ee J. WALTER DICKSON, JR. JOSEPH H. McCONNELL New Schedule Set Up For Record Library Scabbard and Blade To Shine In Public Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity, anounced this week plans for forming two crack drill platoons. It is hoped to have The Department of Music has announced plans for making the The drill platoons will be similar| bates with Elon and the University] These newly elected leaders are to those from V. M. I. and Citadel! of North Carolina are being ar- Joe H. McConnell, president, and which give exhibitions as part of] ranged. Such a variety of schools James W. Dickson, vice president. the half-time show at football] with which to debate should make} Mr. McConnell was recently named games at the two scliools. for an interesting year. president of the National Broad- Other plans which Scabbard and} Besides contesting at individual| casting Company in New York. Blade announced were an off-cam- schools the Davidson College De-| Rev. Dickson is pastor of the First pus dance to be held sometime iM [hating Team will enter the Grand| Presbyterian Church in Belmont, November and also the holding ot] National Tournament at Mary|N. C. A Barbecue lunch will be a Tap Day in November. Plans for Washington College, Fredricks-| served in South Court at 1:00 p. m. these two events are still in the! burg Virginia. This tournament| First event of the afternoon will be making by S. & B. members. will be held in March and is one|a grid battle in Richardson Stadium As released by ; Scabbard and of the highlights of the season. The} pitting the ‘Cats vs. Washington Blade Captain (President) Jay! team also has an invitation to par-|and Lee University of Lexington, Roberts one of the proposed drill ticipate in the Dixie Tournament,| Virginia. Action starts at 2:30. platoons will be composed of S &) 14 be held in Charlotte on Novem-| Capt. Jim Harper and the Lenoit R nrember's and the other made uP] yer 30, Although this is a pre-season] High School Band will play for of third and fourth year ROTC) iournament it should prove profit-{W. & L. during the football game. students. able to those teams entering. Many of the social fraternities arc Carolina State College. records. soon as possible. Friday afternoon and returning to On Tuesday, October tenth, the] A ‘egular schedule of hours has Inauguration Ceremony was held been arranged during which <aculty, No blood may be drawn from an| the campus Sunday afternoon. individual who is more than 6} The first meeting was held Fri- in Reynolds Coliseum in Raleigh. students, and others in the college Dr. Cunningham commented, “The family are invited to listen to the months less than 18 years of age] 42y evening, during which time at the time. discussion was devoted primarily presiding at the inauguration Tues- large assortment of recordings in Further information will be pub- to the purpose of the Y. M. C. A., day morning by Mr. William Car-| the college record library. . michael, Jr, Comptroller of the Scheduled periods each week will lished in next week's “Davidson- with special emphasis on Christian Peer) aith and an integrated program University, and a close friend of be devoted to three types of listen- jan Gordon Gray, was exceedingly ing. The majority of the hours will ° as the outgrowth of this faith. This| skillful and refreshing.” be for general listening and records discussion was held first in the three Commission groups (Christian Concerning the address made b played at these times will be chosen F m Pp f ss ‘ President Gray ‘on Tuesday De. to suit the tastes of those present. ormer Frotessor $ Faith and Heritage, Tommy Lang- : . 2 2 Books In Library ford, chairman; Community Proj- Cunningham stated, “His inaugural A second type of listening period ects, Irving Stubbs, chairman;. and address was characterized by a‘clear will be devoted to regularly sche- understanding of many of the great duled programs of music in three The library has recently received | Student Relations, Randy Taylor,{ issues which confront our world] neon Choral and Vocal, Or- books by former faculty members./ chairman) and later in a com-| today and by a sane, practical point chestral, and ( hamber Music. The Dr. Rene de Visme Williamson's! bined group, the latter bringing| of view in facing his duties as the| MU" OF ! hese programs wil be new book ‘‘Culture and Policy, The| together the pertinent ideas pre-} President of the Consolidated Uni- announced in advance and program United States and the Hispanic] sented in the commission meetings.| versity of North Carolina.” notes on the music to he played will World” was written to give the! Saturday morning, discussion was be available for those interested. eSerage citizen a background of directed toward analvzation of the The third group of listening pp- Spanish history and its effect on] commission and individual cabinet riods will be designated for Ahe Spanish civilization today. Dr. Wil-| post duties and functions. Project- playing of records for studentsSNfa liamson is now Professor of Po- ing from these discussions were ing specific music courses, litical Science at the University of | the detailed plans for the coming The tentative schedule of pro- Tennessee. months, with special emphasis, of grams and listening hours will he “From This Day Forward” by| course, upon current and immediate posted on the bulletin board in Phi Rey. Kenneth J. Foreman of Union projects. Hall, as well as on bulletin boards Theological Seminary is a readable! A combined meeting was again in Chambers ‘Building and Shearer interpretation for youth of the mar-| held Saturday afternoon. At. this Hall. riage vows. time the final commission reports It is hoped that a large number De, Samuel B.’ Knight, Professor) were presented and thoroughly of students and others who are in- of Chemistry of the University of} discussed. Following these reports, terested will take advantage of North Carolina, has just completed | much discussion was spent in con- this opportunity to enjoy music a book “Physical Chemistry. for| sideration of two vitalproblems: through records. The Music Department will welcome suggestions and requests for recordings to be played in connection with this listening schedule, and a suggestion box will be maintained in Phi Hall for this purpose. There will be a student in charge of the Record Room during all times when it is open.

The tentative schedule follows:
General Listening Hours: Monday, 7:30-10:30 p.m.; Wednesday, 7:30-10:00 p.m.; Saturday, 7:00-10:00 p.m.
Scheduled programs: Orchestral Music, Sunday, 3:00-5:00 p.m.; Choral and Vocal Music, Tuesday, 4:00-6:00 p.m.; Chamber Music, Friday, 7:30-10:30 p.m.

Athletic Council
The athletic policy of Davidson has been consolidated in an Athletic Council, which was appointed by the Trustees. This council supersedes the previously often ineffective three committees—the Council of Trustees, the Faculty Athletic Committee, and the Alumni Advisory Committee—by amalgamating the three committees into one. (The Faculty Committee, however, still handles the policies of physical education and student health). Under the new setup, the council is the controlling board of athletic policy, and what it says goes, as far as collegiate affairs, subsidization, and coaching personnel are concerned. It does not have control over admission of students, scholarship requirements, or schedules, but even at that, its powers are broad. If, for example, the football team is not doing well, this council will find out why and work to improve the situation.

The athletic council is composed of three trustees: P.D. R. Lafar (chairman), Rev. Sam Hovis, and Dr. Oren Moore; two alumni, Ed M. Armfield and McAllister Carson, Jr.; two faculty members: Frontis Johnson and George Abernethy; and one senior from the student body, who, although he should have been elected at the opening of school, has not yet been chosen.

The first college colors at Davidson were pink and blue. In December 1895 (about the time intercollegiate athletics began here) the student body voted to change the colors to crimson and black.

The first Davidson yell on record was: Raht Rah! Rah! Runt Run! Run! Pink and Blue, Davidson!

Trustees Authorize Commission
A commission was appointed to analyze the election system problem, and it was decided that a commission should soon be appointed to work in conjunction with the Pan-Hellenic Council in analyzing the social organization problem.

A weiner roast was given for the cabinet at Montreat College Saturday night. The business session having been concluded, worship took the remainder of the time on the agenda. Early Sunday morning an inspirational devotional was conducted on Mount Lookout; John Lyles, General Secretary of the “Y”, preached the morning sermon; and before leaving after lunch, communion was held.

Seabbard and Blade members will make up a 15-man platoon carrying 1893 model rifles, while a 50-man platoon of ROTC students will carry M-1 rifles. Members of neither of the drill platoons have been designated yet.

The question for National Debate this year is “Resolved—That Non-Communist Nations Should Form a New International Organization.” This question should produce many interesting debates. Since there are only eight experienced men returning from last year’s team, several vacancies exist. This year there are no seniors on the team that have debated before. The varsity team will consist of twelve members who will make the trips to various schools. Everyone who is interested in debating should watch for dates of tryouts. No experience is necessary and as many as possible are urged to try out for the team.

Alpha Epsilon Delta Announces Programs
Alpha Epsilon Delta, the national pre-medical society, is bringing to the Davidson campus this year a great new program, of interest not only to its members, but also to those who would simply like to know more about the general field of medicine. The primary purpose of AED is to serve the pre-medical students. This year the society is opening its programs to the entire student body. It plans to bring to the campus a series of programs that will be both interesting and stimulating. One of the most attractive features will be a series of motion picture films on such subjects as brain surgery, operating techniques, and hospital procedure. Many of these films were produced for exclusive release to doctors, hospitals, and medical schools, but, through a special agreement, the films have been made available to AED.

Besides the films, AED has planned such programs as speeches and slide lectures by outstanding physicians, discussions on surgical and medical procedures, and presentations of various medical topics of pertinent interest. Of special interest to the society is the subject of cancer, and several of the programs will deal exclusively with this disease. Many of the meetings will be of extreme interest to the psychology students—programs dealing with brain surgery and abnormal psychiatry. The society plans to bring one program to the campus every week throughout the year. It is stressed that anyone in the student body is welcome at these programs, whether pre-medical or not, and some of them should give business or other pre-professional students a better insight into the field of medicine.

Beta Theta Pi Host To Phi Delta Theta
In an effort to re-establish a precedent of Sunday night get-togethers between fraternities, Beta Theta Pi played host to the Phi Delts after Vespers last week. The Betas, originators of the idea several years ago, believe that this is the first of many such inter-fraternity feeds this year, and hold that these functions are of great value in cementing inter-fraternity friendship. Dick Barnwell, president of Beta, welcomed the visiting Phi Delts and invited them to make full use of the television set and ping pong table. After an hour of fun and relaxation, refreshments were served, and the feed ended with the singing of the Alma Mater.

Court Installs New Judges
Judge Hoopy Davis and the members of the Court of Control, wearing their traditional black robes, met before the student body Tuesday at chapel. The procedure of the court was explained, and the freshmen were charged with offenses. The meeting with the student body was for once serious. Could it be that the Court of Control did mean something or did have a purpose after all? Freshmen offenders were called from their seats, walked to the front before the court, listened to their offenses, and walked up the aisle to the front of the auditorium. The basic idea of the court is (1) to give the freshmen a taste of college life, (2) to give the upperclassmen an opportunity to rid themselves of their oft-outspoken tendencies toward the freshmen and their cockiness. Let it be known that the Court is not out to get freshmen, but all freshmen will be treated as mature individuals until they are proven otherwise. Charge slips signed by upperclassmen are used to report offenses so that the charges are in all seriousness. The Court still meets behind closed doors and does the basic good with man-to-man talks with the individual freshman. Nothing is accomplished by brow-beating.

Davidson College lost 83 men in the Civil War, 21 in World War I, and 155 in World War II. The percentage of alumni was highest for the Civil War.

This season four concerts will be given in the Chambers Auditorium. For anyone who appreciates fine music, these concerts present fine opportunities to further that appreciation. The first concert is to be held November 3rd. It will feature the nationally-renowned duo-pianists, Luboshutz and Nemenoff. The second concert presents the Robert Shaw Chorale and will be given January 3rd. On February 20th, a very fine concert is offered. Joan Hammond will play with the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra, which is directed by James Christian Pfohl, director of music here at Davidson. This attraction should prompt everyone to attend. The final concert will be given by the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra under the direction of Thor Johnson, March 17th. All these fine performances will be held in the school auditorium. The cost of a season ticket for students is included in the student activity fee. Tickets will be available in the Music Office within the next two weeks.

Here it is Saturday night again and you, Harry Hardup, are faced with the prospect of spending it at alma mater. After winning a mental fight with your stomach against that sack supper, you chase over to the Stud for their Saturday special—those same sandwiches—but toasted. Choking back a curse to a car full of gay lads speeding away to wine, women, and more wine, you stop off in Georgia to see if anyone wants to hit the flick. There doesn’t even seem to be anybody in Georgia. Ah sweet inspiration—you can go to the gym and work out. Winged feet come to a sliding halt before a prim little notice—“Gym will not be open Saturday night.” Bureaucratic, inefficient idiots! The TV set in your fraternity house is good for an hour with Kookla, Fran, and Ollie. You decide the time would have been better spent reading parallel. Wait—you forgot to check the P.O. before (ugh) supper. On the way, you stop to muse at the Cathedral and wonder what it’s going to be like when it’s finished. At the moment it reminds you of war pictures showing bombed-out buildings. Upon arrival at the lone outpost of your favorite uncle, you wonder how any box could stay empty that long. A second glance shows unbelieving eyes that something is in there after all! Having forgotten the combination since your last letter, you look like a crook trying to lift some sheep’s mail. Finally, the door creaks open and anxious fingers probe through dust for the precious parchment. Hope sinks when you see “Box holder, Local.” It reads “gives new strength to men, women, and children.” Leaving the P.O., you envy the mental peace of the insane. Just how lively can a place get? You could go to the “Y”, but when you see the pool table line extending out to Shearer Hall, it’s no soap. Back in your room, you wonder why you ever came here to spend the best years of your life when the radio's making soft and sweet music and that gal’s “pic” is staring at you. You've had it. You're frustrated—beaten. Might as well hit the sack, Jack, you ain’t at Carolina!