PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN \ FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1950

THE DAVIDSONIAN
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF .......... BILL HOLLISTER
BUSINESS MANAGER .... BILL HOUCK

EDITORIAL STAFF
Chief Associate Editor .......... Doug Hix
Chief Associate Editor .......... Lonnie Tu
Chief Associate Editor .......... Jack

MANAGING EDITORS: Arnie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall, Bill Hollister, Randy Taylor, Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim M.
Make-up Editors: Dan McKei-
Sports Editor: Bill Kien
Scott then, Cherry Stribling
City Editor: John Hobart
Exchange Editor: Watt Jeffries

BUSINESS STAFF
Bill Cassells
Assistant Business Manager: Huffaker
Advertising Managers: Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw
Assistant Advertising Managers: W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison.
Circulation Manager: Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager: John Loftin
Subscriptions Manager: Alex Goley

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

In last week's issue on this page appeared a portion of the piercing article, "Colleges in a Moral Fog," which
appeared in the February 1 issue of Christian Century magazine. The article was concerned with the plight of the American
colleges in intercollegiate football, particularly with references to the recent meeting of the somewhat hypocritical members of the National Collegiate
Athletic Association. An appeal was made for the church colleges to come to the "moral rescue" of some of the
weak-in-the-spine colleges and spearhead an offensive to eliminate the professionalism and "double-dealing" in intercollegiate football today. This forthright challenge to
church colleges merits no small amount of critical attention from Davidson College, which either has or is in the process
of reshaping its football policy. Davidson, no less than the other church-related colleges, must not shirk its ethical responsibilities. These
are, precisely, to analyze the general situation, to determine Davidson’s relative position in the over-all picture, to formulate an ethically
substantiated policy from the foregoing factors, and to make an intensified solicitation for support of this policy from other colleges
in the same relative position as Davidson, thus providing some of the leadership which is so desperately needed to guide
the American colleges out of this "moral fog."

Everybody is familiar with the situation: college football as an amateur, school-spirited-athletic event is on the decline, whereas college football
as a highly professionalized, money-making-inspired proposition is on the incline. The larger colleges are responsible for this latter trend and
are raking in the money; but the smaller colleges, many of whom compete with some of these larger colleges, are
finding it almost impossible to professionalize football, remain in competition with the larger colleges, and keep the football program out
of the red, all at the same time. This, in and of itself, poses no minor problem for the smaller
colleges. When added to the ethical and educational issues involved, it becomes of crucial significance. It is not, however, an
insoluble problem.

In order to arrive at a possible solution to the problem, the following proposals are suggested. (1) "Feel out" the
eight smaller colleges in the Southern Conference with reference to the formation of a Southern "Ivy League," which would not
condone or practice subsidization or professionalization of any form in athletic programs. These colleges would not be any worse off
than they are, because they are already suffering from loss of prestige in trying to compete in football with the
larger colleges. If they assented to the formation of such a conference, they would lose all their Southern Conference privileges,
at which point again must be injected the question of the relative significance between following ethical dictates and following alumni-pressurized
dictates. These smaller colleges would actually have more to gain from the formation of such a conference. (2) Along with
the formation of another conference, an agreement should be sought with the remaining members of the Southern Conference to permit
inter-conference competition in sports other than football where professionalizing does not have such noticeable effects, so as to allow the
continuance of traditional rivalries between some of the smaller colleges and larger colleges. This would enable some of the smaller
Virginia colleges to maintain their keen rivalries with the University of Virginia. They could still compete with Virginia in basketball,
tennis, track, etc., with a fair chance of winning, and with no jeopardizing of conference standing. This should hold true
for any large Southern Conference college with whom they might want to compete, discounting football. Davidson could still compete with
U.N.C., N.C. State, Duke, and others, in basketball, tennis, track, etc., with no jeopardizing of conference standing. There should be
no reason why these smaller colleges could not have a "pure" conference of their own, and at the same time,
compete with any outside colleges. (3) If the above proposals could be effected, these smaller colleges in the new conference
should then make an all-out effort to obtain the support of the other small colleges in the same predicament throughout
the nation. Church colleges alone would be sufficient in number and prestige when organized collectively to make "proposals with which
the entire collegiate world would be forced to reckon." There are doubtless many colleges wanting to get away from professional,
high-pressured football. St. Mary's College, which played Oklahoma in one of the recent Sugar Bowl games, has already unclothed itself
of this "bought" prestige. To bring about the same action among the others, only inducement and sound leadership needed. Why
can't schools such as Davidson provide this leadership? (4) If the first two proposals fail, there remain two alternatives: one,
to maintain the embarrassing position of status quo in the Southern Conference, which we, obviously do not want to do;
two, to launch a full-speed-ahead policy toward professional athletics in order to maintain "prestige" (even so, a losing cause for
small colleges in the Southern Conference who must compete in football with the larger and richer schools); and three, to
withdraw from intercollegiate athletics in order to preserve that bit of academic integrity which should characterize the small, liberal arts,
church-related college, to say nothing of the ethical issues involved in violating the N.C.A.A. ruling in the "sanity code."

What, then, should the small, liberal arts, church-related college do in alleviating this cancerous situation? How much emphasis should it
place on football in relation to educational responsibilities? Must it "follow the crowd" merely to maintain a winning football team
for fear of loss of athletic prestige? If "the crowd" is going in the wrong direction, should such a college
withdraw from "the crowd," take a definite stand, and induce some other members of "the crowd" to follow suit? If
maintaining competition in higher athletic circles involves athletic overemphasis, hypocritical practices, and unethical practices, should this type of college remain
passive to such things? Is courage lacking "to stand up to the victory demands of alumni"? Is the church-related college,
to whom the collegiate world looks for a solution to ethical problems, going to ignore completely the ethical issues involved
in this matter? (If the church college is to ignore them, then who is to heed them?) What, then, is
the intellectually honest position of a college such as Davidson, in view of all the factors involved?

These are only a few of the questions which must be answered by the small colleges in the near future
if any degree of educational and ethical integrity is to be maintained in the attempt to lift this "moral fog"
which enshrouds the American colleges today. Unless somebody is willing to take a stand, even, if need be, against the
tide, the fog will not be lifted. In view of the fact that information on the subject is "unavailable" (security
measures at Davidson seem to be air-tight), it would seem that Davidson at the present has no policy. What is
the stand of Davidson, a small, liberal arts, church-related college, going to be on this issue? —J.T.M.

Snapshots of Half Century at Davidson

By PROFESSOR E. J. ERWIN

A bugle sounded the assembly call. The excited crowd, which had been scattered over the campus watching the spectacular fire,
gathered about Dr. Martin. "My friends," he said, "this is a serious blow. Chambers lies in ashes. We must staunchly
face conditions. I am not cast down or discouraged.

"I hear a rumor that the College will be disbanded and that some are preparing to leave for their homes.
Nothing is farther from the truth. The College will not disband, and College exercises will continue without interruption.

"I now call the faculty to meet in my office at ten o'clock this morning to arrange schedules and recitation
rooms and to provide quarters for every student. I confidently rely on every member of the faculty and student body
to rally to the College in this day of her distress and support me in every effort to advance her
interests. I am confidently counting on every one of you.

"Chambers is no more. But I here and now pledge that, with God's help, before I quit, a finer and
more serviceable building shall take its place. The sun is just rising. A new day is begun. Let us face
a new and better day for Davidson."

The burning of Chambers Building was the most dramatic incident in the history of Davidson College. The date, November 21,
1921, almost the mid-point of the past half-century, may serve as a guidepost for some heterogeneous and fragmentary but more
or less chronological recollections.

In 1900 all classrooms, laboratories, dormitory rooms concentrated in Chambers Building... Rooms lighted by oil lamps... Open fires... Coal bins
in the rear of Chambers... Uncle Hiram, Holtzclaw, Enoch, who made fires and cleaned up rooms... Library, also in Chambers
Building, beautiful but unlighted and unheated; open two hours in the afternoon... Shower baths in YMCA Building, which was also
the gymnasium... Chapel at 7:40 a.m. Lake Wiley off and on. Dr. Shearer still giving lectures in defense of slavery...
Medical College... Philanthropic and Eumanean societies the most important organizations on the campus... Chief social events during the year: Junior
and Senior speakings, with a combination of oratory, girls, and receptions... No dancing... No card playing... No leaving the campus
at any time without permission... Commencements gala occasions; brass bands; big crowds; horse and buggy rented; dates made for after-breakfast,
before-supper, and after-supper drives; most popular boy drove a spanking two-horse team; most popular girl received the Chief Marshal's regalia,
which was presented by a friend with much form and ceremony... Athletic Field South of Chambers Building... Field Day consisting
of inter-class track events on the "D"... Tennis courts back of Chambers Building... Fraternity halls also in Chambers Building, beautifully
decorated.

Steady growth of Student Body and Faculty... Martin Chemical Laboratory, 1901... Shearer Hall, architectural monstrosity, but very useful, carved from
the old classic Chapel, 1902... Freshman Rebellion, 1903. First electric lights in new palatial Rumple Dormitory, 1904... Sprunt Field... Watts
Dormitory, 1906... Bobby Vail, who pitched in the New England League during the summer and at Davidson during the spring...
Library built from funds presented by Andrew Carnegie, 1909... Georgia Dormitory, 1909... D Club... Basketball... Golf course mowed by Dr.
Arbuckle’s sheep... The Davidsonian... Alumni Gymnasium... O. Davidson... O.D.K... Visit of Woodrow Wilson, 1916... Influenza Epidemic, 1918... S.A.T.C.... R.O.T.C... Barracks
built to house students after the burning of Chambers—East and West Dormitories, 1922... Campaign to raise funds for rebuilding Chambers...
Paved Streets instead of the mudholes of the town of Davidson; paved highways conducive to hitch hiking... Phi Beta Kappa...
Quadranglers’ Club... Dramatics... Moving pictures in the gymnasium... Miss Shaw’s History... The Magazine; The Chameleon; The Yowl... Scripts and Pranks...
Duke Endowment... Kelly report... Increase and reorganization of the Faculty... Electrification of the Faculty seats during Chapel in Shearer Hall...
The Suicide Club... Football team of 1926... Church service interrupted by the burning of Watts Dormitory... Metrophilian and Pandeinic Societies
short-lived... Watts rebuilt... New Chambers finally completed.

F.B.I. on the campus... Fraternity Court... Moving Picture Palace built in Davidson... Student speaker rebuked in Chapel... Elaborate Centennial Pageant
in 1937 rained out (my most poignant memory)... Financial campaign... Infirmary... Duke Dormitory... New Science Building... New Library... Moving books
from the old Library to the new... Another financial campaign to raise money for new Gymnasium and Church... Old Library
transformed into a Guest House... Music... Jaw-breaking names of Air Corps Cadets beginning with “K” or “L”... A.S.T.A.P.... Returning veterans,
many with charming wives... Cardboard Village... Dancing on the Campus... Memories of Davidson College... "Cloud over Catawba"... Still another financial
campaign of great magnitude nearing successful completion... New Gymnasium... Ground broken for new Church... Margaret Truman.

The ghost of Old Chambers, which appears during dry weather each summer, reminds us that Dr. Martin's pledge has been
fulfilled and urges us to make the new Davidson a better Davidson.

Is America Adrift on the Sea of Finance

By PROFESSOR C. K. BROWN
(FIRST OF TWO ARTICLES)
(By Permission of “The Charlotte News”)

It is well known that the expenditures of the federal government have increased ten-fold in the past twenty years, that
in all but two of the fiscal years since 1930 the treasury has operated at a deficit which to date
has aggregated some 240 billion dollars, and that the volume of bank deposits and currency has approximately tripled during this
period. Some portion of this record was due to deliberate design during the 1930's, some was more or less forced
upon us by the financial demands of the war and the wretched state of world affairs that has followed it.
So far as fiscal policy is concerned, we have been drifting since 1945, with no very clear agreement as to
the road that we should follow. It is difficult for us to reach any understanding because of the great confusion
that prevails in a large part of the discussion of this topic. TheAdvocates of what used to be commonly regarded
as “sound” fiscal policy are pretty generally united in favoring both smaller federal expenditures and a surplus in the budget
that would allow at least some modest reduction of the public debt. They would not, however, pursue this program in
such a way as to bring about any considerable reduction in the volume of money for fear that such reduction
would lead to a business depression. Instead, they would regard the inflated state of the money supply as a situation
already arrived at and one that ought not to be altered radically, but one that should be taken care of
gradually by allowing the volume of production and trade to “grow up” to the volume of money.

The advocates of looser or more generous fiscal policy frequently do not make it clear whether they favor simply a
high level of federal expenditure, or a budgetary deficit along with a high level of expenditure, or a budgetary deficit
so financed as to lead to a further increase in the volume of money. Those who desire a high level
of expenditure, but are willing for it to be financed by taxation, believe that the federal government can do a
great many things, such as equalizing educational opportunities and providing adequate housing, that ought to be done and that could
not be done as well, if at all, by smaller units of government or by private parties spending their own
income; or else they believe that they are in a position to reap benefits from federal expenditure that will exceed
their contribution to federal taxes.

So far as those who hold the latter view are concerned, the question may be raised as to how long
a happy and satisfying national life can be sustained if we insist upon running the country on the principle of
getting ours while the getting is good. If there is anything at all to the idea that the character of
the people is the only basis for a satisfying commonwealth, we ought to take care how far we undermine that
character. Moreover, people who are unwilling to submit their fortunes to the decision of a free market but prefer instead
to use their political power to secure largesse ought to know that they are playing with a two-edged sword. Political
revolutions, mild or otherwise, are not beyond the range of possibility, and the less self-discipline a particular bloc or group
has displayed, the less mercy can it expect if perchance it loses its political power.

If we raise the question of whether all the things that it is proposed for the federal government to do
ought to be done by anybody, the only answer that can be made to the other sub-group of high spenders
is that the present swollen activities of the federal government can be sustained or extended only at a cost in
terms of the loss of individual freedom and the reduction of the opportunity to deal with problems on a local
level that is too high to pay for the benefits involved. Here we come to the very fundamental question as
to how far we want to run our own lives instead of having things done for us. It may have
been a mistake, but this country was started with the idea that we would handle our own affairs and spend
our own incomes. We thought this would be more efficient in the economic sense, but whether it was more efficient
or not, we were for it. Observations of the waste and confusion that exist in the big governmental establishments that
undertake to spend a large proportion of the people's income lend support to the view that we were right about
the matter of efficiency. Even so, it is not at all clear that the American people want to run their
own affairs. The most productive people on earth are afraid to rely upon themselves; the richest nation of all time
is morbidly fearful for its economic security. If we cannot resolve to assume the responsibilities that go with managing our
own affairs, we shall have to face the hazards of having them managed for us by other persons. It is
an inflexible law that men cannot have security against everything. If we want the government to make us secure against
every untoward economic event, we shall have to give up security against everything else.

He Is My Brother...
By SCOTT VERNER

A colored person walked through the doors of the Methodist Church in Chapel Hill, N.C., on February 4, 1950. By
his side in mutual love and unbiased faith walked a white youth. Close behind them followed Negro girls, white girls,
a trio of colored boys and two white boys, a Negro preacher, Presbyterians, Methodists, Quakers, Baptists, Episcopals, members of 30
denominations, representative delegates from 35 colleges gathered into a homogeneous group, gathered to talk together, work together, eat together, listen
together, learn together. Their spirit was one which they hadn't quite understood, but the spark of its truth glowed in
their hearts. They had heard the word “ecumenical” used to describe the nature of the student conference they were to
attend. They read, perplexed, what the dictionary said of the term: “General, world-wide in extent, influence, etc.” But somehow their
inner beings told them that a deeper meaning was to be realized—yes, a universal attitude but also a nearness, an
understanding love and consecration.

The group moved into the chapel and sat in staggered design: a white boy planning to be a physician smiled
at his colored neighbor. They sang together their hymns, bowed their heads in a humble prayer, they listened as they
heard the voice of Him who nearly two thousand years ago taught mankind the lesson which was never learned but
never quite forgot: that there may be a realm where the least shall be heard and considered side by side
with the greatest; that we are members of one body, the Church. Leonard Morgan spoke to the group as chairman
of the Conference Planning Committee, and they heard him say that ecumenicity is merely Christian Fellowship. It does not try
to unite all the denominations; it is not a panacea for the ills of the church—but a spirit.

The students were amazed. Here was a dream come true—they were gathered without prejudice, without hatred, without malice, without segregation,
without bickerings of individual pride. Tuned to the kilocycle of ecumenicity, they heard Francis Pickens Miller speak as chairman of
the World Student Christian Federation on a subject which fed their searching minds. What is the task of the church
in the world today? To supply the need of the world? What is the need of the world? The world
needs a united Christian movement—a community giving its witness to the world. From God's standpoint, there is only one church
wherever there are Christians, a church composed of all the people. What the world is waiting on is for this
“Church of God” to become articulate. Thereby, the body of Christ will have a chance to express itself in this
world. What the Church needs is not a program, but instead it needs a belief—a faith. The reason a movement
fails is because its advocates do not believe in its content. If we don't believe, we don't act. If faith
does not lead to action, it is hypocrisy. What do we believe? The world waits to hear what the Christian
community has to say. We believe in God. But do we? Every human being has an existence beyond that as
a citizen—beyond race, religious group, citizenship. That existence determines what we are. We are responsible, then, for molding our faith
by this inner contact with God. Expressing this faith in a public policy is a need of the world. A
doctrine of man has been a basic element in other systems, but the space reserved for such in ours is
void. The tree of liberty so essential to our system grew out of soil of Christian culture enriched by a
faith in God. Erosion has taken place, and we must save our plant through our own enrichment. What do we
believe? Are we willing to act on it? Are we willing to dedicate our lives to that end?

Ready to live the religion they love, the students separated into vocational groups to have lunch, mingling with their bodily
assimilation health-giving mental food from boys and girls of different backgrounds. Afterwards, discussion emphasized the concept that a vocation should
be chosen by “sealed orders” manifesto, supplemented by a prayer for God's guidance. Gathered again into the homogeneous body, the
students heard John Deschner speak, representing the United Student Christian Council. In his opening words, he struck the keynote of
oneness, the unity of ecumenicity. He drew a word-picture of the ecumenical perspective, a series of relationships which gives meaning
to what we see. Yet the whole depends upon a certain point from which each line radiates. A picture in
which there are many points of perspective would be one of disorder, and such is the sad case of much
which compose our confused perspectives. We must place Christ as our central point for “from Him all things consist.” The
unity of ecumenicity does not mean that we should have one church; it means that we are one. And what
is the responsibility of the Christian student? We must face our deepest thoughts and doubts and fears about religion, face
all that we lack and all that we have in the light of Jesus Christ and let Him determine their
outcome. We must allow Christ in our way and accept the role assigned us in the drama of His Kingdom.
Secondly, we must look for the Kingdom and live for its glory.

Again the students left the chapel full of knowledge of purpose and need. After denominational meetings and supper, the boys
and girls left their newly-found friends of different race and creed. Handclaps of sincerity, goodbyes of Christian love and hope,
a Baptist minister, a white boy, two colored girls left together in a spirit of unity which they had derived
from the events of the day, the soul-stirring words of a colored student preparing for the ministry echoing in their
hearts as he said, “If we're going to be together in Heaven, why not get to know each other while
we're here?”

U. S. Foreign Policy
By HENRY E. HANSEN

During the Truman administrations, it has often been apparent that U. S. foreign policy has been, even within the confines
of these administrations, no policy at all but has resulted in hasty decisions and been influenced by rash and immoderate
statements from people who have had no business to say anything at all. Immediately there come to mind the amusing
vacillations of President Truman over several vital issues and certain statements of various individuals, notably the recent statement of one
individual concerning what Russia might expect were she sufficiently heedless to initiate an attack against this country.

The alleged purpose of any diplomatic efforts is, or certainly should be, to help in the reduction of international tensions
which so often lead to war. Americans in general, if they even take notice of foreign policy, have been amused,
dubious, or perhaps annoyed at such gross signs of lack of policy. But the seriousness of the situation has seemed
to leave them untouched. We have adopted an attitude of indifference for most of us feel that, whatever the State
Department may do, surely other nations will realize that we mean them only well and that they need have no
fear of us or of what we may do.

In addition to the attitude mentioned above, America is, as are most nations, enormously ethnocentric in its feelings. We feel
that we are always right, that our way is the best way, and we cannot understand the resistance which occasionally
appears most unexpectedly from other nations to our big brother attitude of taking them in hand and showing them the
way they should go.

In connection with these two points, it must be pointed out that: (1) other nations, to an astonishing extent, are
not aware of what we like to term our friendly but often inept attentions; (2) we must realize that our
way may not seem as desirable to other nations as it does to us and, indeed, may not be so
at all.

It must be evident from the points above that we must evolve a policy, that it must be a long-term
policy designed to reduce the lack of knowledge and to enhance points of possible agreement between ourselves and other nations,
and that it must be administered in terms of the value of absolute and not immediate advances in friendly relations
between ourselves and others. This last means that it must be a flexible policy, accommodating enough within its entirety and
its administration, to take cognizance of present considerations without destroying the overall plan.

What we need then is a nonpartisan foreign policy. This is one of the most important steps to be taken
in a program for peace. There are many others of equal importance but this is certainly one which we would
do well to institute as soon as possible.

We can rest assured that the nations of the world, particularly those for whose favor Russia and ourselves have been
contending, are subjected to an elaborate and skillful bombardment of propaganda both by us and by Russia. To these people,
frightened, suspicious, hungry, and restless, Russia has perhaps been more realistic and, most important, consistent than have we. Looking at
our policy from their point of view, we can easily see that our erratic and constantly changing policy must, in
itself, appear suspicious, and when this natural suspicion is reinforced by the pointing up of Russia of this lamentable condition
together with smooth and effective propaganda to the effect that any nation that changes its mind so much cannot be
trustworthy, is it any wonder that our efforts are greeted with no response or with the response of going over
to the opposite camp?

While the institution of such a nonpartisan policy will pose a national political problem of grave dimensions, it must be
attempted in the interests of peace.
