PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, MAY 19, 1950

MR. SPENCE

Davidson Has Well-Known Hotel Man in Mr. Spence

Mr. Earl Spence is one of those men around the campus whom we see little of but who nevertheless is a very necessary part of the college machinery. Planning the menu for the college dining hall and seeing that it is carried to completion is Mr. Spence’s job and he does it well.

Mr. Spence was born in Norfolk, Virginia, and attended William and Mary College. His vocation has assumed many forms and has taken him many places. For a time he was on a diner belonging to the Union Pacific Railroad. Later he was in charge of the private dining hall of the publishers of the New York “Times.” Here the “Times” staff entertained Edward, Prince of Wales, and other royal figures. At another time in New York, Mr. Spence operated over one hundred cafeterias for 30,000 employees of the American Telephone Company. He has operated hotels in Greensboro, N.C., and elsewhere, and has been president of the Southern Hotel Association and Vice-President of the American Hotel Association.

He came to Davidson during the war when an army unit was stationed at the college and has remained since that time in charge of the dining hall. (He claims to be one of the evils that came in with the army and has never left). He is very fond of Davidson and hopes to remain here. His only son was graduated from the college in 1934 and his daughter is serving now in Japan as a librarian with the army of occupation.

ODK RECOGNIZES...
(Continued From Page One)

ments; Sigma Upsilon; Westminster Fellowship; YMCA Cabinet, first vice president; next year's president of YMCA.

Bill Alexander tapped Bob Long: Senior class; Charlotte, N.C.; International Relations Club, secretary-treasurer; Scabbard and Blade; D Club; Cross Country, captain; Track; Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, YMCA Scouting; Community Citizenship Decoration.

Liston Mills tapped Randy Taylor: Junior Class; Milledgeville, Georgia; Davidsonian, managing editor in charge of copy; YMCA Cabinet; YMCA Board of Control; Eumanean Literary Society;

MUSICAL SENIORS ...
(Continued From Page One)

In addition to the concert, Mr. Pfohl presented awards to members of the Band and Male Chorus who have served in those organizations for three years.

Those receiving Band keys were L. D. Atkins, Jr., J. V. Larkin, A. J. Neuman, J. W. Campbell, J. G. Sink, and R. E. Brooks, Jr. Members of the Male Chorus receiving keys were M. A. Mills, C. E. Calcote, J. D. Whitener, D. P. McGeachy, II, W. P. Whitesides, R. E. Harris, W. W. Peters, and D. T. Lowman.

Nine of Davidson's staff of secretaries are resigning or already have resigned from their work here to become housewives, students, and general relaxers. Those leaving are: Miss Jane Lowe, Miss Mary Wells McNeill, Miss Katherine Malloy, Mrs. Joe Thigpen, Mrs. Ann Young, Mrs. John McDonald, Mrs. Stephen Lewis, Mrs. Ken Ritchie, and Miss Carter Patterson. Miss Lowe, a commuter from Concord, has spent two years on Davidson’s secretarial staff, coming to Davidson from St. Mary's College. Her plans for this summer aren’t definite. Miss McNeill worked here this year after previous employment with

BRAWN REPLACES...
(Continued From Page One)

yellow hat (?) 6-2. Slick’s famous between-the-legs return failed him in time of need, but his only comment was, “It was close.”

Soon after the tennis matches were completed, the results from the golfing events began to come in, and although all the individual scores are not available, the match ended in a tie — 7½ to 7½. Dr. McGavock and Ray Brown won their foursome, and the brilliant putting of Mumpsy Millar, teamed with the superb all-round golf of Bob Gilmer, brought them a victory over Dr. Woods and Chief Justice Pinckney.

In the volleyball event which followed, the brilliant play of the faculty’s team failed to stop the excellent net game of the Seniors, and the latter took the event in two straight games 21-7 and 21-9.

Last but far from least was the softball game, in which the seniors, led from in front of the mound by Smith and Dubose, and from the plate by Grover Lee, Dave Miller, and several other potential greats, sneaked by the faculty all-stars on a 9th inning rally by the narrow margin of 22-7.

And so the glorious victory was accomplished. Just as the Seniors walked from the field with their laurels, all was not sweetness and light for them, for several professors were heard murmuring to

DEVELOPMENT DRIVE...
(Continued From Page One)

$1,800,000 had been raised.

The backers of the campaign have been unceasing in their efforts. President Cunningham, who has been the inspiring spark throughout the drive, has made extensive speaking tours that covered the Southeast. Many Davidson alumni have given much of their valuable time in addition to their monetary contributions. Mr. Arnold said that, although success would require a lot of hard work, he was very optimistic about the goal’s being reached.

BATTALION TO MARCH...
(Continued From Page One)

and 3 companies. The length of the parade will probably be about 2 miles. It is expected that the cadets will be back on the campus by 4:30 P.M.

Bill Bird tapped Dr. Bernard Boyd, member of faculty in the Bible Department. Dr. Boyd came to Davidson from a professorship at Presbyterian College, where he graduated in 1932. He is a native of Mount Pleasant, S.C. Graduate work was taken at Princeton University and it was there that he conferred the degree of doctor of divinity. As a Marine chaplain, Dr. Boyd saw action at Guadalcanal, Guam, and Okinawa. At the latter, he was decorated with the Purple Heart.

Rev. McClure opened a spirited ten-minute talk with “I am caught in an ODK chain on my watch chain and—a double-breasted suit.” His delivery emphasized the fundamental and essential importance of recognizing leadership on the campus and in life. The eternal quality of Christian leadership was lauded. “A man’s soul disciplined, governed, lifted by that spirit about him to the highest ends of life” was to be strived for. The challenging leader to be cherished and followed.said Rev. McClure, was the “matchless Galilean, the Captain of all men’s souls.” The formal initiation took place in the faculty room, second floor of Chambers, at 5:30 Wednesday afternoon. The evening found the ODK group at the Guest House dining at a banquet prepared by Mrs. Caldwell, and being entertained by the speaker of the evening, Dr. Johnson.

TWO BOXER BULL DOGS FOR SALE
Full Registered
Call Davidson 3804

FOR COLLEGE MEN
Our direct selling proposition sets you up in your own work uniform business without investment on your part. You sell work uniforms to business houses. Write for full particulars at once.
Geo. Master Garment Corp.
Dept. 8
Ligonier, Indiana

Parker-Gardner Company
118 W. Trade St.
Phone 825

“Wait ‘till the 24th!”

They’re MILDER! They’re TOPS!
Copyright 1950, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Scribner's and Sons, Inc., in New York City. She graduated from Agnes Scott College in Atlanta, Ga. Her home is in Florence, S. C. Miss Katherine Malloy, from Laurinburg, N. C., went to college at WCUNC. She has worked here two years and plans to spend this summer at her home. Mrs. Joe Thigpen, wife of “Joe-Joe” Thigpen, who has been sports publicity director for the college for the past two years, has been a secretary here for a year and a half. She is from Hamilton, N. C., and came to Davidson from Raleigh where she worked with the 4-H Club. Mrs. Ann Young, whose husband, Paul Young, graduates this year, is from Beatrice, Nebraska. She met her husband while doing social work for the Northern Presbyterian Church in Puerto Rico. She has been here at Davidson one year.

College Secretaries Resign Positions As Vacations and Relaxation Call

Mrs. John McDonald, who has already left, lives in Hickory, N. C. She came here to stay for a year after graduating from Salem. Mrs. Stephen Lewis, wife of Sgt. Lewis of Davidson's ROTC unit, plans to go to Florida at the end of June with her husband. Mrs. Lewis is from Meriden, Conn., and came to Davidson with her husband from the U. S. Army of Occupation in Germany. Mrs. Ken Ritchie has also gone. After two years here at Davidson she left to be a housewife in Albemarle, N. C. Her husband was a student here. Miss Patterson, from Stony Point (near Scott, N. C.) will leave Davidson this year to attend the General Assembly's Training School for Lay Workers. This summer she will be employed at Montreat, N. C. Miss Patterson is a graduate of Flora Macdonald College.

Elections Board Suggest Revisions

Last Friday, May 12, Dave Miller, as chairman of the elections board, read to the student body a set of recommendations for improving the present regulations governing student elections. These suggestions were presented not as an amendment to the constitution of the student government, but only as a broad outline by which the amendment may be later created. The elections board formed these ideas from their own experiences in running the elections this year. They felt that the present system is unsatisfactory to most of the student body and that something should be done while elections are fresh in the minds of the student body. Therefore the student council suggested that the plan be presented to the students for consideration. However, no action will be taken until September, when the student council will go to work on the plan.

The board's outline as read in chapel is as follows:

I. NOMINATIONS:
(A) Student Body Nominating Convention (Tuesday). Nominations from the floor for:
1. Student Body officers.
2. YMCA Officers.
3. Cheerleader.
Announce Candidates for Editorships of Paper and Magazines.

(B) Class Nominating Conventions (Wednesday and Thursday). Nominations from floor for:
1. Class Officers.
2. Student Council Representatives.
Announce Candidates for Annual Editor.

CHANGE:
1. No Nominating Committees.
2. Any Student wishing to run for an office who is not nominated from the floor may do so by filing with the Chairman of the Board of Elections within 24 hours after the conventions.
3. A very brief statement of acceptance by the nominee would be necessary to validate a floor nomination.
4. As indicated above, all offices voted on by Student Body as a whole would be nominated the same day. Same for classes.

II. VOTING:
(A) Election Days would follow one week after each Convention. During that week open campaigning would be legal, within the limits (financial, etc.) set up by the Elections Board each year.
(B) Unsigned ballots would be used to ensure secrecy.
(C) Each student would vote at a prescribed precinct desk (alphabetically).
(D) A minimum of two days would elapse between each Primary (run-off). The purposes would be:
1. Information about and acquaintance with Candidates.
2. Knowledge of IDEAS for improvements held by Candidates.

PUBLICATIONS EDITORS
The Publications Board would SCREEN men nominated by retiring editors or applying for editorships by tests (on journalism, etc.) to determine their qualifications. All candidates for Editorships who qualified would be presented to the Student Body for election. The Publications Board would be composed of the retiring editors and business managers of the three publications, plus three faculty men. Another suggestion of the board, which by an oversight was not mentioned, is that the election of head cheerleader be as it has been in the past except that all nominees be required to have served one year as a Davidson cheerleader.

CAT GOLFERS... (Continued From Page Three)
Cooper was close behind with a 153, and Vernon completed the foursome with a 154. McLean and Brandon came through with a 155 and 163 respectively to complete the list of Davidson entrants.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
WEEK OF MAY 22-27
MONDAY - TUESDAY
“BACK TO BATAAN”
John Wayne - Anthony Quinn

WEDNESDAY - THURSDAY
“PLEASE BELIEVE ME”
Deborah Kerr - Robert Walker
June Haver - Gordon MacRae

FRIDAY - SATURDAY
“THE REFORMER AND THE RED HEAD”
June Allyson - Dick Powell

ZACHARY SCOTT
Famous University of Texas Alumnus, says:
“I have always smoked Chesterfields and I know that you'll like them, too.”
STARRING IN “GUILTY BYSTANDER”
A LAUREL FILMS, INC. EDMUND L. DORFMAN PROD. RELEASED BY FILM CLASSICS, INC.

ADMINISTRATION-LIBRARY BUILDING
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS

AMERICA'S COLLEGES WITH THE TOP MEN IN SPORTS WITH THE HOLLYWOOD STARS
*By Recent National Survey