PAGE SIX

Fraternities Enjoy Past Weekend At Their Annual Fall Function

On Saturday night, December 9th, five Davidson fraternities, Kappa Alpha, Pi Kappa Phi, Phi Delta Theta, Phi Gamma Delta, and Alpha Tau Omega, held their respective fall functions.

The Kappa Alpha semi-formal banquet-dance was held in the El Morocco Supper Club. Following dinner, “Cash” Jackson entertained the group by showing them how he makes money for the college. The brothers and their dates were also entertained by Roger Cornell, who gave a humorous dissertation concerning the next KA function. Forty couples danced in the Christmas-laden atmosphere to the music of Dan Ramsey and his orchestra. During intermission, the pledges gave a “Man on the Street” skit. The chaperones were Mr. Jackson and Mrs. Payne. Some of the alumni also attended the affair.

The Pi Kapps held their annual Founders Day Ball in the ballroom of the Hotel Charlotte. About thirty couples danced to the music of Fleet Green's orchestra. The function lasted from 8 to 12 and was chaperoned by Colonel and Mrs. Ballard and Prof. and Mrs. Mebane.

The Sinners Banquet-Ball was held at the Red Fez Club on the Catawba River. Each Phi Delt and his date came as some famous sinner. The winners were Ansley Moses and his date, who came as Adam and Eve. During the dinner, Jim Campbell entertained everyone, and afterward, Dr. Davidson spoke on “Fashions and Transgression.” Following the banquet, thirty couples danced to the sweet music of Doug Hill and his orchestra. The function lasted from 7 to 12 and was chaperoned by Drs. Guerrant and Davidson.

The ATO's held their formal dinner-dance in the Morris Field Officer's Club from 7 to 12. During dinner, Pat McGeachy acted as toastmaster. Prof. Tyson spoke to the group, comparing the founding of the local chapter of ATO with the founding of the Alpha chapter in 1865. The music for the function was supplied by Walter Hagan and his orchestra. Forty couples danced in the Christmas-filled air and were chaperoned by Dr. and Mrs. Goldiere and Mr. and Mrs. Boone Zimmerman. Mr. Zimmerman is president of the ATO alumni chapter in Charlotte.

The Phi Gams closed their fall season of activities Saturday night with a highly successful dance in the Selwyn Hotel, Charlotte. The dance was their annual Pledge Dance given in honor of their entire Pledge class. At intermission time, the pledges showed their appreciation by putting on three humorous skits. The first was a satire directed at the brothers. The second was a short play about entering college, and the last was a pantomime of “There's Nothing Like A Dame.” Chaperones for the function were Mr.

FOREIGN STUDENTS...

(Continued From Page One)

Pete Kalogridis, of the junior class, will lead the discussion group “Political Attitudes” in Phi Hall Saturday night. Hartley Hall of the senior class is to have charge of the discussion on “Economic and Social Attitudes” Sunday afternoon in the Faculty Room in Chambers, and Dieter Oberndorfer, special student from Bavaria, is leader of “Religious Attitudes,” to be held in the Quadwrangler’s Room in Chambers at the Westminster Fellowship Sunday night. Professor Iain Wilson will preach at Vespers that night on pertinent subjects.

At eight o'clock Monday night, Jan. 8, John McKnight, former Associated Press correspondent to The Vatican, will lecture on the “War of Ideas.” Although he has not yet confirmed his coming, a speaker who has just returned from an important State Department mission in Germany has been invited to speak to the student body at Chapel, Monday, Jan. 8.

A number of foreign countries will be here that weekend to take an active and important part in the forum. Each foreign student will be provided with a guide who will make his guest available for informal interviews. If any member of the student body has questions about contemporary world attitudes, he will submit them to Irving Stubbs of the senior class as soon as possible. These questions are to be catalogued and presented to the foreign students immediately upon their arrival.

CHRISTMAS VESPER...

(Continued From Page One)

Concerto Grosso No. 8, in G minor. The choir will sing several carols: “A Babe So Tender” (Old Flemish Carol), “Christians, Hark!” (Noel of the Bressan Waits), “Come and Adore” (Basque Christmas Carol). The band will play Christmas chorals and carols before and after the vespers program. Those students taking part in the program are...and Mrs. Watts and Mr. and Mrs. Corriher.

SOPHS CONQUER... (Continued From Page One)

back because “the crowd was too near the sidelines for a sleeper to be detected.” George Crane looked good in snagging a few passes for the freshmen, while Roland, Stanley, and Whisnant stood out for the sophs. During the half, both the other events—a tug o’ war and a relay race—were staged, and both were won by the sophomores. The freshmen won the first pull on the tug o’ war, but the sophs took the next two and also the relay race to ensure victory. Realizing this, most of the crowd left, and only a few disconsolate freshmen remained to cheer a losing cause. Judge Hoopy Davis remarked that the freshmen came closer than he anticipated, but all the rest of the student body could say was, “Where's your hat, freshman?”

DOES MAKE A SUIT, LOOK DIFFERENT!

One Good Solution to Christmas Shopping Problems
“Songs of Davidson” Gift Records
Davidson Band and Male Chorus
‘O, Davidson’ — ‘All Hail, O Davidson’ — ‘Men of Might’
All three on record, $1.00 only
On Sale Stud, Hugo’s, White Drug, Music Dept. Office

Stonestreet's Cafe
GRADE ‘A’ FOODS
418 South Main Street
Mooresville, N.C.
A GOOD PLACE TO MEET — A BETTER PLACE TO EAT

PICCADILLY GRILL
O. M. KONTOS
1416 East Morehead Street
Phones 4-2090 — 5-0990
Charlotte, N.C.

Possibly 10 students representing

PARKER 51 PENS—Were 12.75, now
PARKER 51 SETS—were 18.75, now
DAVIDSON JACKETS—were 2.50, now
ALL KINDS OF T-SHIRTS—Davidson or plain
RIBBED T-SHIRTS—were 2.00, now

TOBACCO GROWERS’ MILDNESS TEST
YOURSELF... “TOBACCOS THAT SMELL MILDER SMOKE MILDER”
LEADING SELLER IN AMERICA’S COLLEGES

YMCA Christmas Vespers are Neil Leach and Irving Stubbs. Neil will give the opening prayer and Irving will be the reader. Dr. Cunningham will pronounce the benediction. Because of the large number of friends and alumni from Charlotte and elsewhere who will want to attend the Christmas Vespers, attendance by the student body will be voluntary.

JIM MURRAY... (Continued From Page One)

There is a competition every year in every state. In each state there is a committee of selection which may nominate two candidates to appear before the district committee. Then the district committee selects from the twelve candidates not more than four men who will represent their states as Rhodes Scholars at Oxford. Other Davidson graduates who have won scholarships are Charles Davis (1950), W. P. Mills (1907), Dr. Ben R. Lacy (1907), Dr. S. T. McCloy (1919), J. McD. Richards (1923), R. F. Davidson (1926), Dean Rusk (1930), and Dr. Carleton B. Chapman (1936).

CHRISTMAS SALE
GIFTS FOR EVERY MEMBER OF THE FAMILY

YES ...Compare Chesterfield with the brand you’ve been smoking ... Open a pack... smell that milder Chesterfield aroma. Prove—tobaccos that smell milder smoke milder. Now smoke Chesterfields—they do smoke milder, and they leave NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE.

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1950

FORMER AP NEWS... (Continued From Page One)

Education section. He was discharged with the rank of major in August, 1945, for an AP assignment in the Pacific, but the Japanese surrendered while he was en route to Fort Bragg for discharge. Thereupon the AP sent him to Rome, where he supervised coverage of the 1946 papal consistories. At Davidson, McKnight was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Upsilon and Delta Theta Chi (shortly thereafter to become Phi Delta Theta) social fraternity. He was also active in the French and Spanish clubs, and was an assistant in Spanish. He contributed to campus publications, and served as his class poet and historian. He is a brother of Bill McKnight, ‘32, now in the U.N.C. Romance Languages Department, and of Pete McKnight, '38, editor of The Charlotte News.

In Superior, Wisconsin, the favorite gathering spot of students at the Superior State College is the Cafeteria because it is a cheerful place—full of friendly collegiate atmosphere. And when the gang gathers around, ice-cold Coca-Cola gets the call. For here, as in college haunts everywhere—Coke belongs. Ask for it either way ... both trade-marks mean the same thing.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO., OF CONCORD
© 1950, The Coca-Cola Company