PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN

Howe Green - THE — PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

Freshman Farce
By ARCHIBALD HAMENHASH

EDITOR IN CHIEF ------------------------- GORDON SCOTT
BUSINESS MANAGER --------------------- JOHN LOFTIN

EDITORIAL STAFF
Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall

“Are you going to stop, Joe? If I don’t get off quick, it’ll be too late.” This was the predicament in which Howe Green found himself three weeks ago when he and his friend Joe Stoop spent an afternoon at the Southern States Fair in Charlotte.

“I told you you shouldn't have eaten five of those mile-long hot dogs,” retorted Joe. “Four’s plenty.” His friend moaned, “Now you tell me. Cut out the gab and get me offa this thing.”

“But, Howe, I'm having fun. It’s perfectly harmless. This is just an airplane that goes over and over.”

“O-o-h, stop, Joe, I'm warning you!” But Joe heartlessly twisted the wheel, turning the plane completely upside down once again. Suddenly there was a loud crash, and Howe yelped: “Harmless, you say! I'll swear this thing dropped a foot then. It’s about to break off. HEY MISTER! Stop this thing! Lemme off! Hey, Mister, stop!” But the operator only waved back and stepped up the speed of the plane another notch, deciding to give those two boys in the red caps a ride they would really enjoy.

Finally, after three or four more minutes of agony that seemed like hours, Howe staggered off, his face white and his hands clutched to his still-twirling stomach. But Joe's eyes were gleaming as he stepped out, for directly across from him was a bold sign: “BABY DUMPLING,” and a barker was broadcasting the charms which no red-blooded American man could dare to miss.

“Come on, let’s go, Howe!” exclaimed Joe, grabbing his friend's arm and heading for the tent. “Heck; no, let’s go home! I'm sick.” “Go home? At a time like this? This is the opportunity of a lifetime.” And with that he stepped up and bought a ticket and disappeared inside.

A burst of boisterous masculine laughter from the tent was suddenly more than our hero could resist, however, and a moment later he blushingly joined his pal, claiming that he felt better and decided to come anyway. The show was just getting underway. In the center of a raised platform “danced” a gorgeous “Baby Dumpling!” Eagerly the innocent Davidson Freshmen crowded to the edge of the platform, thirsty for knowledge. Picture if you can this sexy stripper as she gradually displayed her wares to the straining crowd. As garment after garment fell limp to the floor revealing to its best advantage an ever-growing area of the female form divine, the tempo and movements of her dance became faster and bolder. And all pain was forgotten by Howe. When the last bounce was over, Howe looked at Joe with a grin, and said, “How about another hot dog?”

A High Standard

With the passing of each dance weekend, we have become more and more aware of the tremendous amount of planning, thinking, and hard work that are necessary to make a successful college dance set such as the one during Homecoming, just past. To a majority of the students and practically all of the dates, about the only part of the picture they are able to grasp is the finished product—the gaily decorated gymnasium, a famous band on the stand ... little thought is given to what forces made this picture possible; and so this week we would doff our hats to President Bill Klein and his Pan Hellenic Council for a job extraordinarily well done.

To the “old-timers” on the campus, the dance set last weekend was the best that has been held in recent years, certainly since the war; and of course Klein and his crew must receive a lion’s share of credit for its success. In the first place, the dances were certainly a success from a financial standpoint; the decorations in the gym were better than ever; and finally, the music of Charlie Spivak and his orchestra far exceeded the expectations of even the most optimistic.

The Pan Hellenic Council has, in a sense, put itself on the spot by promoting such a successful dance weekend for their first effort this year. It will be quite a task if they can equal or surpass this standard in future dances; but after considering for a moment we would be inclined to believe that Davidson students can look for first-rate dances as long as the present Pan Hellenic Council has anything to do with it.

Our Antiquated Cut System

During the last year at Davidson, there has been ample criticism of certain traditional college methods without much action in any specific cases. We should like to apply some of this criticism to one specific case with the hope that a more reasonable and satisfactory policy may result. We propose a complete revision of the existing absence regulations.

In allotting the same number of cuts to every student in a particular class, Davidson assumes that each man has an equal grasp of the subject and an equal capacity for study on his own initiative. Certainly, it is reasonable to assume that the man who has a thorough command of the material in a particular course will be better prepared to acquire for himself those points which have been covered in class than one who is struggling to keep above the failure line. Again, it is reasonable to suppose that the student who keeps his average high has the ability to organize his work for himself when given some freedom to exercise self-guidance.

Because we believe that students who are able to do high-quality work should be given every opportunity to develop their ability for independent study, we recommend a cut system based on the student's scholastic average. To outline such a system hurriedly, students whose averages fall below a C might be forbidden to cut at all, those in the C and B brackets might receive 3 and 6 cuts per class, respectively, while upperclassmen with averages of B+ or better might be removed entirely from the restrictions of absence regulations. Plans of this type are in operation at many of our outstanding colleges and have proved highly successful as a dual stimulus to high academic achievement.

To The Editors:

I was approached Tuesday night by the “Poll-Cat” with several questions concerning the recent weekend. One in particular seemed to be the main point of the “Poll”. This was “Is $6.50 too much to pay for a band like Spivak’s?” I answered “No,” because I sincerely believe that a band like Spivak’s is worth the price. But such a price is much too much for an inferior band that provides only a syrupy sweet ‘noise’ with little actual dancing or listening value. I refer by this to the sad aggregations dumped on this campus last year, Blue Barron, Tony Pastor (a great improvement over Blue Barron), and Billy Knauff. I want to have name bands here as much as the next guy, but I can see no gain in paying as much for some mediocre, corny, ‘mickey’ orchestra just because it has a “name”, as for a good name band. A more intelligent selection can surely be made from the bands available for our big functions, and this year seems to be looking up.

May I humbly submit at least a solution to the problem of too much money for the big dances? There is on the campus here enough experienced and qualified material to make the Davidson Student Body an effective force in the shaping of college policy if you will accept the challenge to action. Are you satisfied with our present cut system? If you are, the Editor’s Mailbox offers you the opportunity to express your support for the plan which is now in force and your objections to the scholastic average system. But if you are not satisfied, we urge you to express through the Davidsonian and your campus organizations the changes which you desire in the college absence regulations.—J.J.M.

DAVIDSONIAN’S PLATFORM FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
1. To abolish the double-cut system.
2. To change the existing system of giving cuts.
3. To make Physical Training non-compulsory for all seniors regardless of their age.
4. To improve the telephone arrangements in the dormitories and the college at large.
5. To change the system of student body elections.
6. To have more varied and interesting chapel programs and speakers.
7. To give praise where praise is due.
8. To criticize when it is felt that criticism will improve a situation.
9. To advocate Sunday night visitations to faculty homes.
10. To urge the clarification of student regulations to the student body.

“One Finger Melody” is one of the nicest new tunes of the day, and at present is best done by Frank Sinatra. Personally, I believe Mindy Carson could do a better job of it, as the tune and lyrics run along the same line as “Rainy Day Refrain,” the new tune she does so wonderfully. I don’t have a new release sheet from RCA, but I'll check on it and let you know what other arrangements of “One Finger Melody” to expect on the market soon. The tune is definitely pleasant enough stuff and the lyrics when done by the right person could make the song a sure-fire hit.

The ever-popular Paul Weston whose “Nevertheless” is becoming more popular every day has recorded a haunting new tune labeled “So Long Sally.” While not up to the standards of “Nevertheless,” it still has the makings of an extremely popular discing and should go places. This also holds true for the other side, an old standard number with a refreshing new arrangement, called “These Foolish Things.”

Any of you who saw the flick “Samson and Delilah” will undoubtedly remember the theme, “Song Of Delilah,” which was played all during the show. Mitch Miller has shaped the thing into popular etching with rather good results. The shellacking features Mitch on the oboe and Burt Taylor coming forth with some fresh new vocal sounds in front of a lot of choral oohing and ahing. On the flip side, “Autumn Leaves,” Mitch switches to his English Horn and has an all-male choir warbling this Johnny Mercer lyric. It's pretty, but probably will never amount to much.To very much, if you're looking for a good two-sided bet in the platter field, give a listen to Rosemary Clooney’s new waxing of “Remember Me” backed by “Where Do I Go From Here.” On the number one side, Rosemary adds another fine vocal to her collection; this one is a hit country ballad. It gets a countrified treatment and comes out top-quality wax. On the number two side, she uses her warm ballad style to fine advantage in her etching of this pretty new ballad.

“Dream Awhile” has been given an extremely smooth treatment by Richard Hayes and Kitty Kallen. In the past, I had not been too impressed by the teamwork of these two, but this new Mercury Recording shows that they will bear watching in the future. Flip it over and you'll see “Hall Of Ivy,” the theme for the Ronald Coleman network radio program. It’s a very melodious college song that may receive more effective treatment by one of the better orchestra-chorus groups.

Vic Damone does a good job on “Beloved Be Faithful” even though it's hampered by an over-balanced ork and chorus throughout the song. The flip is the standard “Take Me In Your Arms,” and it appears to be right up Vic's alley. He belts it out in forthright style, in spite of another poorly balanced etching.

Eileen Barton, the “I’d a baked a cake gal,” has cut the first and so far only popular rendition of “Baby Me.” Sooner or later someone may come up with a decent arrangement of the same, but in my humble opinion, Eileen’s version is a waste of good wax.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1950

GEECH’S GOULASH
By PAT McGEACHY

All columnists write about the chapel programs at one time or another, so we felt it would be better to go ahead and get it over with at the first of the year. Perhaps, if this subject repels the reader, he might try reading the column backwards, if only for the mental exercise involved. At any rate, there seem to me one or two points that should be discussed.

We had occasion to talk with a guest speaker shortly after he emerged, bloody and bowed, from an address to the student body. “It’s not as bad as when I was at Davidson,” he commented. “No one was reading newspapers, and although nobody laughed at my jokes, at least nobody hissed.” Rather a negative compliment, we should say.

There is no doubt, surely, in the mind of the average student that conduct in chapel is, you'll excuse the word, lousy. One professor has called it “an organized insult to the Almighty.” What then is the solution? That the Davidson student body can maintain order when it wants to is evident. Take the Court of Control days. The entire student body is at pin-dropping performance. Why is this so? Because Court of Control day is something that interests the student body. Obviously then, the usual chapel exercises do not interest the students, or they would respond with similar attention.

The solution is then simple. Either make the chapel programs interesting to all, or allow those who are not interested to cut. You cannot force a man to do or believe anything. If he wants to believe, he will, and if he doesn’t, he may sometimes be educated to want to, but he cannot be compelled. The very act of compulsion turns him against the desired end. No one is going to become religious through coercion. Religion, or Christianity, is an intimate, internal thing, and part of the individual. But it cannot be stuffed in; it must get there by the will of the individual himself. Obviously, the chapel services at Davidson are not educating the student to a point where of his own volition he will recognize the church as important. Then either change them, or allow those to leave who are gaining nothing themselves but are merely hindering those who wish to worship.

Non-compulsory chapel may be a big step, but as someone of considerable importance has said, “I would rather see a worshipful service for twenty-five than a thousand hyenas at their play.” There would be several technical difficulties in creating non-compulsory chapel, but these can be resolved in a way that we shall mention in a future column. Besides, they are insignificant (passing on of announcements, etc.) as compared to what happens to the religious atmosphere at Davidson. Right now, it is a bad apple, and if the core of the problem isn’t reached soon, the whole bucket will degenerate. What was it Alex Pope said about vice? Something about “__yet seen too oft, familiar with her face, we first endure, then pity; then embrace.” Well, that’s the idea anyway. A habit has started around here in regard to chapel. You can call it a tradition if you want to, but we call it a cancer. And somebody better call its bluff!

THE WORLD LAST WEEK

1) General de Gaulle has called on France to rearm in light of the present threat.
2) In the Vietnam fighting, the key fort of Langson has been evacuated by the French.
3) Atrocities in Korea were continued; sixty-six more Americans have been found.
4) In five years since the war, the U.S. has spent forty-two and a half billion on foreign aid, according to a joint congressional committee.
5) Robert C. Goodwin is now director of the new Office of Defense Manpower.
6) Western Germany’s credit allotment for a year’s period has been exhausted in three and a half months.
7) Fifteen alien communists have been seized for deportation under the new Internal Security Act.
8) Consumer prices in the U.S. rose one-half per cent in the month ending September 15.
9) Defense Secretary Marshall has ordered that reservists be released from the armed services.
10) In his U.N. anniversary address, President Truman stressed the necessity of disarmament and international control of atomic weapons.
11) There is a hint that the cabinet crisis in Israel is nearing an acceptable solution.

MUSIC WITH HANSEN
By HENRY HANSEN

Though it has not been my custom to make any response to the frenetic carping of injured auditors, I feel that two letters which appeared in last week's The Editor’s Mailbox demand a reply on my part, not so much because they have wounded my critical pride, but because both letters contained statements which either destroyed any validity the letters might have contained or failed to destroy the thought of my own article. Since the purpose of the two articles was evidently to make my own standpoint an untenable one, I feel called upon as a mere gentleman to point out to my two critics wherein they failed in doing this, not because of my article’s irreproachable logic but because of their own contradictory or nonsensical statements.

First, to a consideration of Mr. Bell’s letter. Mr. Bell was kind enough to point out the rhyme scheme of “O, Davidson” to me. I greatly appreciated this. Mr. Bell was also kind enough to mention the reason why this scheme is not apparent in the singing of the song. This is so, “because the music of the song is not written in this same order.” To Mr. Bell, I can only say that his excellent analysis of why “sing” and “everything” do not seem to rhyme, though they actually do, was and is one of the best reasons for changing “everything” to “every test.” Regardless of any rhyme scheme, especially one so unconventional as this one, we can see that to substitute “test” would provide sense to the ear even if it did violate the rhyme scheme. Doing this would be somewhat analogous to the ancient practice of the Greeks in architecture of curving long horizontal lines to make them appear straight to the eye of the beholder. The substitution of “test” as the curving of the lines makes sensory sense. If this offends the purists or the makers of rhyme schemes, we can only apologize and then proceed to do the sensible thing. Mr. Bell’s discussion of Hindu music, while interesting, is hardly applicable to the case. Further, to compare the song under discussion to Gershwin’s music is something not far short of sacrilege. Finally, the changing of “thing” to “test” does not, as I pointed out in the original article, pose any less high ideal for our efforts. We fall just as far short of winning in every test as we do in winning in everything, the only difference being that “test,” for reasons now, I believe, sufficiently well stated both by me and my critic, Mr. Bell, is the better choice. I would like to thank Mr. Bell for his help in clarifying my position.

To Mr. Dave Hanslick Hamilton’s effort, I will not devote so much space partly because it overlaps, to some extent, Mr. Bell’s letter and partly because it is deserving of less consideration than was Mr. Bell’s letter. I will mention only one statement. Mr. Hamilton says, “If he were to change ‘thing’ to ‘test’ not only would the sense and meaning of the verse be destroyed, but he would be faced with the absurdity of rhyming ‘test’ with ‘sing’—. . .” The absurdity has already been sufficiently discussed. But I would ask of Mr. Hamilton one question. How does he arrive (Continued on Page Six)

THE POLL CAT
By SLAYDON MYERS

Do you feel that $6.50 is too much to pay for a dance ticket with a good band like Spivak playing?
Yes—18 per cent.
No—82 per cent

Do you think that the Friday afternoon concert was worthwhile?
Yes—62 per cent.
Didn't hear it—41 per cent.
No—7 per cent.