FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1950 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Wax Scratching By BOB WHELESS

Probably not too many of you have heard of Ralph Martiere and his Orchestra. Chances are you will, though, when
their recording of two old favorites, “I Only Have Eyes For You” and “I'll Never Smile Again.” There hasn't been
any trumpet work that velvety waxed since the “Young Man With A Horn” album. Both sides are perfect for dancing
and what with a chorus, strings and wonderful trumpet work adding to the ear appeal of the platter it makes
for some mighty good listening too. This Martiere is destined to go places. Here’s hoping Mercury releases a new etching
by him real soon.

Doris Day has a sure winner in her latest waxing, “The Best Thing For You Is Me.” I'm always tending
to be rather partial to anything she records because I, and a few million other fellows, think she’s slightly terrific.
After you've heard this one I don't believe anyone will deny the fact that it wasn’t partiality that prompted me
to say that it’s one of the best numbers she’s made to date. It is without a doubt the best
arrangement of “The Best Thing For Me,” even overshadowing Perry Como’s scratching of the same. The flip side is another
“best,” it’s a swell, different version of “A Bushel and a Peck.” Be sure to give it a listen.

Gordon MacRae and Jo Stafford combine their talents to turn out a neat little wax package labeled “Yesterday.” It’s a
sentimental waltz that you'll be hearing quite frequently now that most of the disc jockeys in the area have it.
As a flip you'll find a sequel to “Let's Go To Church Next Sunday Morning.” In the latter case, it
looks like they're overdoing a good thing.

If you're looking for something different try Patti Page and Patti Page singing “Tennessee Waltz.” No, that was no misprint,
she sings a duet with herself by singing the first part on one record, the harmony on another and combining
them to obtain the finished product, which by the way is great. Ain’t science grand!!

Frankie Laine isn’t up to par on his discing of “If I Were a Bell.” If it scores it will
be because of his name, not his effort on this one. On the other side there’s a tune written in
the “Lucky Old Sun” tradition labeled “Sleepy Ol’ River.” Laine seems to go in for these “Ol” songs in a
big way. He gives it that same polished folk feeling that made “Lucky Old Sun” so popular, so don’t be
surprised if you see this one hit parade bound before long.

I was asked a few days ago what I thought about Judy Garland’s “Friendly Star” which comes from the “Summer
Stock” album, which in turn came from the sound track of the flick of the same name. That’s a pretty
dangerous question since quite a few fellows don’t think so much of Judy or her voice, but I'll go out
on a limb and say that I think she gives a nice rendition of a very nice tune. Those of
you who saw the flick will remember Gene Kelly's rendition of “Heavenly Music.” Actually, he was half of a duet,
but I can’t remember the other half’s name. I think it was Hal or something-or-other. Maybe one of you can
tell me. Anyway, to get back to the record, in the album they spoiled the song by not taking it
off the sound track and thusly omitting the howling dogs that were in it originally. What a letdown!!

Lesson number one in getting better acquainted with some of the musicians who play modern music. Get hold of the
Victor Album “Charlie Ventura plays Duke Ellington for Dancing” and listen to all the numbers a couple of times. This
lesson is intended to show the “squares” that even bop artists can play good danceable music. Once you hear Charlie
play “Solitude,” “Prelude To A Kiss,” “Sophisticated Lady” and all the other wonderful numbers in the album you'll be convinced,
and lesson one will be complete. Lesson number two next week will cover a few platters with a boppish tinge.
We'll go at this stuff gradually.

HOWE GREEN ... (Continued From Page Two)

of the first, Davidson received, and on the first play from scrimmage, Jack Ruth goes around right end for a
touchdown. Score 30-0. Before the quarter ends, Davidson racks up another two points to lead 32-0. The complete inability of
the VMI team to stop the rampaging Wildcats is annoying. They cowered like slaves before their masters. Davidson is once
more living up to All-American standards, and in the fourth quarter 14 more points are accumulated. Only in the last
minute does Davidson's fourth string let VMI complete a long pass for a touchdown. Final score, Davidson 46, VMI 6.
Howe and Joe return to school satisfied but not overjoyed, for Davidson College's football team ALWAYS wins!

MUSIC WITH HANSEN... (Continued From Page Two)

its special excellence, The Waltzes from Der Rosenkavalier by Richard Strauss. Summing up, the concert from the standpoint of technical
proficiency, was uniformly excellent. From the standpoint of interpretation, the two artists often left something to be desired. On the
whole, however, the concert should have satisfied both the technical and interpretative demands of the listener.

Electric lights first shone on Davidson Campus in 1904. The power house was a gift from Mr. John Love of
Gastonia.

In our last issue we gave considerable space to the antique carriages of the past that somehow manage to rattle
the students on in their merry way. In all fairness we must give some time and space to the transportation
system of the faculty. After a brief check of the parking lot behind Chambers, we can arrive at a few
conclusions and generalities. We find that the majority of the professors have finally given in and sold their pre-war cars,
but no doubt with considerable regret. Having strained the old family carriages to the limit, almost three-fourths of the professors
have cars that were bought within the last two years. Whether this fact points to greater post-war production or tighter
purse-string pulling to the bitter last, your reporter cannot say; but we can safely conclude that it was a well-worn
car that finally chugged into the used-car lot.

Of course, as always, there are exceptions to this generality, and that is where our interest is to be found.
There are a few die-hards among the group who are showing no mercy to their tired machines and refuse to
give them up. We hear that Jimmy Hogan has made some good offers, but they are still holding out. Mennonite
Causey is in a class all to himself; no one has ever seen him in a car, either old or
new. He is nattily outfitted with an English-style bicycle that has accommodations for either his small son or his pet
dog. The whole family has similar transportation and may frequently be seenCycling about the campus, there is little doubt where
the money of the College rests. Just ask who owns the new Buicks on the campus—President S.J. Cunningham, “Cash” Jackson,
and Coach Little. I won't venture a crack about that “coincidence.” Professor M. M. Eberhardt is the most versatile of
the car-owners. Last year he scooted around in a diminutive Renault; this year he is rocketing past in an Olds
88. We feel that many questions about the professors’ old pre-war cars can be answered with the story of one
of our faculty. Last June we left Prof. Martin of the Math Department riding in an old Chevrolet. This year
Capt. Martin of the R.O.T.C. department is riding in a brand new Oldsmobile. With information on only about half of
the faculty, our survey cannot be too accurate, but it can show generalities. As to the popularity of the different
makes, Ford and Chevrolet are out in front with Nash and Pontiac close behind. Prof. Causey's bicycle stands at the
bottom of the list. And so as the mechanized faculty goes past, we give hearty congratulations to those who made
it, luck to those who haven't, and a mournful plea for we who thumb.

Doug Rice, manager of the student store, announced this week the times at which the store will be open for
business. The store is open from 8:20 a.m. to 10:20 a.m. Monday through Friday, closing during chapel. Reopening at 11:00
a.m., it remains open until 1:00 p.m. when the noon meal necessitates its closing until 1:30 p.m. From that time
on, it serves customers throughout the afternoon until 5:30 p.m. After supper, its clerks go on duty at 7:00 p.m.
and remain until midnight. On Saturday morning, the store is open from 8:20 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Due to a
weekly mopping and general cleanup, the store isn't available to students until 3:30 p.m. If a home football game is
scheduled, the store doesn't open at all on Saturday afternoon. New this year is the practice of opening the student
store on Sunday night to sell food and soft drinks from 10:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. rather than delaying until
12:00 a.m.

Doug Rice, manager of the student store, asks for increased cooperation. He sincerely asks each student to throw papers into
cans provided and to replace empty soft drink bottles in their proper cases. Owing to a lack of display space,
Manager Rice regrets to announce that more clothes will not be accepted by the store. There is ample space for
used books, however, and boys who wish to sell their texts are invited to continue bringing these, properly marked, to
the shelf provided for them. This is for the benefit of the students, and Manager Rice firmly requests that no
one play the juke box. No deposit is now being charged for pop bottles because the return of the same
has been included among the official duties of the college janitors. Consequently, though, no refund will be granted to students
who voluntarily return these bottles.

The following, unearthed from the files of the Davidsonian of 1923, gives a contemporary picture of the Court of Control,
soon after the founding of this honorable body. The Court of Control has been working steadily with the freshmen. Many
new regulations have been adopted, one of the foremost being the adoption of the yellow cap to be worn by
those freshmen who are under penalty. This penalty has been added in order to make the other regulations more effective.
Since school opened this year, 12 freshmen have been called before the court, only three of this number being given
penalties which included distinguishing caps. As a whole, the freshmen have taken the actions of the court in the right
spirit, realizing that it is for the interest of the college as well as for their own interest. Very few
freshmen have yet been reported for specific cases of hazing, but the majority have been reported for “freshness in general.”
Heretofore, freshmen have come to college, seen the hazing, and after a few days, gone home again. Fewer freshmen have
withdrawn thus far than ever before. Those who may be doubtful as to the good of the Court of Control
would do well to lay their own opinions aside and judge from results. Following is a list of the members
of the court: Seniors: Lee McLean, Nappy Davis, Vic Brown, Gene Regen; Juniors: Pete Peters, Julian Briggs; Sophomores: Litch Hine,
Frank Hudson.

Princeton University grew out of the early Presbyterian college (called the College of New Jersey) founded by the members of
the denomination who cherished revivals and religious emotionalism of the 18th century. Davidson College began as a manual labor self-help
college (with a system for those who could not afford an education).
