PAGE SIX NEWS IN BRIEF... (Continued From Page 3)

School of Aeronautics in Tulsa, Okla. Fred Ransom McAlister wed Lillian (Burkhalter) of Charlotte, February 19, 1950. William Haywood Bobbitt, Jr., is engaged to Miss Harriette Carolyn Riley of Charlotte. They will be wed in April. Campbell Gilchrist Henderson is engaged to marry Miss Wyndall Grace Mason of Charlotte in June. Dick Baxter wed Helen “Woolie” Boyle of Charlotte last Dec. 17. James Alexander Briggs wed Doris Ann Cryer of Charlotte Jan. 1. John De Witt Yarbrough, Lt., U. S. Army, wed Eleanor Stanyarne, Oct. 29 in Washington, D. C. William Samuel Lander wed Betty Jean Higdon of Charlotte, Nov. 5, 1949. William Robertson and Bob Bumbarger were ushers. James Page Jackson wed Miss Jeanne Gregory Dungan of Salisbury, November 26, 1949. Henry Parks Neisler wed Miss Marilyn Biggers of Charlotte, Nov. 8, 1949. Charles Cunningham wed Miss Beverly Danforth Nov. 25, 1949 in Scarsdale, N. Y.

CHORUS... (Continued From Page 3)

arrangements, and selected Negro spirituals. The sacred program varies from the works of the sixteenth century masters to those of present-day composers. There will be solo work by Harrison Taylor, Bill Whitesides, and Rob Palmer. Also Paul Jenkins, the chorus’ accompanist, will render solos on the organ. Two years ago the chorus gave their annual spring concerts in Florida. Last year they visited Atlanta, western North Carolina, and Tennessee.

CUNNINGHAM... (Continued From Page One)

professors. Professor of Speech, Raymond I. the cost of educating each student

NEW TUITION RAISES WILL NOT COVER INCREASED COSTS

An increase of $100 in tuition and fees and an addition of approximately $15,000 to the scholarship program for needy students, both to be effective in September, were announced today by Davidson College officials. The new schedule of fees provides a $75 a year increase in tuition charges and a $25 a year raise in dormitory room rent, bringing tuition to a total of $375 and room rent to $125 a year. The Trustees of the college who authorized the increased rates stipulated that 20 percent — approximately $15,000 — of the new revenue be used to help needy, worthy students obtain education. This year the college paid approximately $43,000 in scholarship aids and $11,000 more for part-time jobs. The $25 boost in room rent is the first change in dormitory fees in approximately 15 years. During this time maintenance costs on the buildings have more than doubled. Tuition charges have been raised in the past ten years from $200 to $300, a 50 percent increase, while jumped 180 percent. Despite the increases, Davidson's charges are still low in comparison with other southern colleges. In announcing the changes, President John R. Cunningham said that “even with the new rates our tuition and fees will be as low as any college controlled by the Southern Presbyterian Church.”

DR. WATTS HONORED... (Continued From Page One)

of Dr. Lucius G. Moffatt, Head of the University of Virginia Department of Romance Languages. The Davidson College Alumni Association of Charlottesville was represented at the several events by its President, Dr. John Daniel of the class of 1928 and Mrs. Daniel.

THE DAVIDSONIAN RECEIVES... (Continued From Page One)

those who love to farm and garden merely for the sense of seeing things grow and of feeling the security of the soil. Tom McDonald, read a satirical paper entitled “Sophomores on the Grass at Last.” He humorously told of the extremes to which the sophomores go when they are freed from the shackles which bound them as freshmen. Bobby Walker gave a biographical sketch of Harry Houdini which did proper justice to that magician's amazing and incredible feats. Next Frank Wallace presented “An Incident in a Story” which told of a man’s waking up to bitter reality after a “high” night. Ted Carr read “The Development of One Aspect of Life,” a local color story of a boy’s father explaining why he knew there was a God through the use of simple examples there in the country which were well understood by his young son. Pat McGeachy read three very good poems; one was a highly ornamented Pindaric Ode which showed a degree of command of poetic verse. There were two other short ones entitled “Iwo Jima” and “A Cynic’s Soliloquy.” Lastly Dudley Pendleton read “Change Stop” which was a presentation of the realistic, hard thoughts of an impatient boy and how he was changed by an incident of kindness and appreciation. The society unanimously voted to receive all these men into its

FIRST MIAMI... (Continued From Page One)

each of the three fraternities then played several numbers after which Bill Trotman, Neil O'Neil, and Al Miller each presented an amusing feature number. The famous Beta W. Tyson will be a member of the faculty next year. A committee of Trustees has been formed to take action on the immediate plans of building the new Church and W. K. Belk dormitory which is called for in the development program. Official announcement of the naming of Dr. Carriere and Dr. Watts was made last October by the Ambassador of France, His Excellency M. Bonnet. The citation of the Davidson French professor read in part: “I am happy to congratulate you on this distinction well deserved which gives witness of the gratitude of the French Government for the eminent services rendered to the cause of French culture and the French language by your teaching and the indefatigable activity which you have never ceased to show as Secretary-Treasurer of the American Association of Teachers of French.”

Mrs. Watts accompanied her husband and attended the events of the day. Among the guests were Dr. W. Edwin Hemphill of the University of Virginia Library, a former member of the Davidson College faculty, and Mrs. Hemphill, the former Miss Susan Moffett, of Davidson. Dr. John R. Cunningham, President of Davidson College, sent official greetings to the President of the University of Virginia, Dr. Carriere, and the Cultural Counselor of the French Embassy.

OLDEST LIVING... (Continued From Page 3)

see, hills. He has appeared with Hal Haynes and Dave Blevins during many entertainment activities. Quincy picked up his D. as a wrestling manager; then was convinced that his training talents should be spread toall athletic teams instead of just the grapplers. A special ventilation system, similar to that used in tunnels under the Hudson River in New York City, is also planned. The tunnel will have one further international use. High tension electric power lines will pass through, protected from snow, to permit a freer distribution of electric power between France, Switzerland, Italy, and Austria.

One of these days, perhaps not too far in the future, the ECE’s already completed engineering designs may actually be serving those people and things which travel through Europe. A man then might be able to get on a train in London and reach his destination somewhere in the Balkans without leaving his coach. A parcel, or a carload of goods, could be sent directly and quickly from one end of the Continent to the other. The countries of Europe, experts avow, could not fail to strengthen the more subtle ties between the peoples of those countries, thus furthering not only better trade and commercial relations, but also the causes of peace and international understanding for which the U.N. was primarily created.

COL. PERRY CONDUCTS...
(Continued From Page One)
He is now chief trainer in the Johnston Gymnasium. If you step down to the gym for that plus a good bit of philosophy and humor, many he was in charge of all troop movement, transportation, and traffic for the Third Army. Following cessation of hostilities, he commanded a large cavalry unit in Czechoslovakia. Returning from overseas in 1945, Colonel Perry commanded a large number of troops at the Armored School, Fort Knox, Kentucky; he was also made a special consultant to the State Dept. The Colonel assumed command of the North Carolina Military District in July 1948. He has attended the following Army Schools: the Cavalry School, Chemical School, Armored Force College, and the Armored School. A much-decorated officer, Colonel Perry holds the Silver Star, Legion of Merit, Bronze Star Medal, Legion of Honor (French), Croix de Guerre with palms (French), and the Reconnaissance Medal.

The chorus rendered the three fraternity songs in somewhat varied style, and Davidson's “Andrews Sisters” performed in their own modest way. Fletcher Bright and Ansley Moses beat out several mountain melodies. Grady Spires then concluded the banquet with a few choice remarks.

The Miami Triad — so named as all three of the member fraternities were founded at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio — became a reality at Davidson in 1948 when the present chapter of Sigma Chi was founded. Beta Theta Pi has the distinction of being the first fraternity to organize a chapter at Davidson as they came to the campus in 1858. In 1928 the first representative chapter of Phi Delta Theta was organized here.

PEGGY DOW
Beautiful Northwestern Alumna, says: “My very first Chesterfield made me a Chesterfield smoker for keeps. They’re MILDER.”
“WOMAN IN HIDING” A UNIVERSAL-INTERNATIONAL PICTURE

OBERING LIBRARY
NORTHWESTERN UNIV.
By Recent Copyright 1990, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
National Survey

Pete Kalogridis made a short report concerning the programs for the future meetings. Lastly, Hartley Hall and Bill Hollister issued a challenge to debate any two on the subject of “Capital Punishment” which Pete Kalogridis and Jack Hunter accepted.

INN DWELLERS MOVED...
(Continued From Page One)
The Inn moved to the cardboard village; the other six moved into the various dormitories. During the remaining dance weekends of this semester, Mrs. Little stated that the Inn would be open to girls. Mrs. Little concluded that no plans have been made to remodel or rebuild the Inn in the future.

EFFECT OF RADIATION...
(Continued From Page One)
Every organism synthesizes the acid compounds which are incorporated in its own body. How are the compounds formed in these chromosomes affected by subjection to radiation? The bio-organic chemistry department helps in answering the above question by supplying compounds produced by living bodies which may be used in experiments to determine the effects of radiation on the chromosomes. Also, these compounds are distributed for cancer research throughout the country. The bio-physics department deals especially with the problem of photosynthesis. It also deals with the more general effects of radiation on soil and other physical objects. Ultra-violet radiation is absorbed through tanning of the skin in long waves. Nuclear acids formed by chromosomes absorb closer or shorter wavelengths of ultra-violet radiation to undergo certain changes. Shorter wavelengths will produce these changes. The protection of the ozone layer around the earth keeps man from absorbing these shorter waves of ultra-violet radiation given off by the sun. Our chief problem is to determine the percentage of survival of the cells after immediate radiation, and, if possible, to produce a means of defense from these radiations. In the exposure of organisms to radiation, the organisms survive at a greater percentage if they are immediately exposed to certain amounts of sunlight. The Paramecium is used widely in this type of experiment. The rate of mitosis is affected in a later stage by subjection to various amounts of radiation. Can a man take the same amount of radiation in one instance as he could take over a longer period of time? Due to the fact that a cell can repair itself from radiation during the subjection to radiation only up to a certain quantity of radiation, a man cannot take the same amount of radiation at one sitting that he could over a longer period of time.

BIKO
(Continued From Page Two)
A movement toward one great society of all people that would in its completion result in a social setup, not even requiring governmental institutions. It is interesting to notice that Hegel in his writing also discussed the historical theory that was mentioned in the first part. He, however, believes that this development will stop as soon as the ideal communistic society is established. This is in vital contrast with the conception, as discussed in this theme, because we see as a result from the Christian teachings, no end in this development until Christ comes back on earth to establish a certain stage in the cell.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1950

DIRECTOR TROTMAN...
(Continued From Page One)
“Five Pesos” will be equally divided between Dorothy Herring as “Berta” and Wylie Smith as “Fidel Duran.” An attractive brunette, Dorothy will have an opportunity to run the gamut of emotions as the fiery, temperamental and jealous, yet ever-loving sweetheart of Fidel. A graduate of Chevy Chase College in Washington, and a native of Winston-Salem, she is presently serving as secretary to Mr. Tfohl of the music department. “Berta” is her first role in a college production. Wylie Smith, a Charlotte senior, and set designer turned actor, is playing his first leading role. He has previously designed the sets for “Arsenic and Old Lace” and “John Loves Mary” and, as he puts it, “has done something in all the rest.” Check up another accomplishment for Wylie, alias Fidel Duran, as he plays one Latin heart against another and comes up with his hands full of “wild” cards in “Sunday Costs Five Pesos.” Taken separately or as a group these leads promise two nights of top-quality entertainment for Feb. 27 and 28.

WHEREVER YOU GO!
Remember this seal — it’s your assurance of the best!
IN AMERICA'S COLLEGES
WITH THE TOP MEN IN SPORTS
WITH THE HOLLYWOOD STARS