The most brilliant staged by a Davidson team of this or any other generation, Baird’s masterful strategy was carried out
to perfection under the calm and capable direction of Capt. Whit Cobb and his mates, who showed the howling assemblage
present something entirely new in the way of offense and defense. State’s head mentor, Everitt Case, doubtless added several grey
hairs to his silvery thatch in an effort to solve the complex defense which the Cats employed. For lack of
a better name, we will call it a “T” Zone defense, which describes it fairly accurately.

CAT'S “T” ZONE PUZZLES HOOSIERS

The defense, which had three men back, one in the front of the circle, and the fifth out front—a perfect
“T” shape—was obviously designed to slow down the Wolfpack’s heretofore uncanny shotmakers, namely Dick Dickey, Sammy Ranzino, and Paul Horvath.
As for the lanky Horvath, he was able to toss in only four points during the proceedings, and Ranzino, the
loop’s leading scorer, was held to a mere ten points. It was Dick Dickey who actually dealt the Cats the
death blow. The two-time All-American found the basket for seventeen markers, the majority of which came on push shots from
the corner. Dickey, who hasn’t exactly been burning up the nets thus far this year, finally found himself, as fate
would have it, against Davidson.

Except for Dickey’s scintillating floor play and shooting brilliance, N. C. State bore little resemblance to the highly touted kingpins
of the Southern Conference and the winner of the Dixie Tournament in Raleigh during the Christmas holidays. Davidson’s great fight
against State Tuesday night was another glowing testimonial to the ability and coaching “know-how” of Coach Boyd Baird. When Baird
was appointed to fill in as basketball coach following the resignation of Norman Shepherd, everyone knew that he brought with
him a wealth of spirit and determination, if not experience. But few would have conceded to him the success that
he has already enjoyed in the still-young basketball season. If Davidson had searched high and low for a coach with
an established reputation in the game, it is doubtful that one could have been found who could have gotten the
results out of the material at hand that Baird has. No doubt about it—Boydson Baird can easily lay claim to
the title as the South’s Most Promising Young Basketball Mentor.

EIGHT CONFERENCE WINS NEEDED

The loss to State Tuesday night leaves the Cats with a Conference record of one win and four losses, and
needless to say they are entering the crucial part of the schedule which will determine whether Davidson will play in
the Southern Conference Tournament in Durham. With thirteen Conference games yet to play—including last night’s tussle with Furman and tonight’s
game at Clemson—Baird’s charges will need to win at least eight of those remaining games for a .500 mark and
a probable slot in the tourney. Of course, on the other hand, they can’t afford to drop more than five
games.

A look at the remaining Conference games on tap shows what the Cats are up against—two games with Furman, two
with Clemson, one with U.N.C., one with Duke, two with U.S.C., one with V.M.I., Richmond and Maryland, and two with
The Citadel. So actually, the two games this weekend with Furman and Clemson may well tell the tale as to
Davidson’s tournament fortunes. Davidson is capable of beating any of the above-mentioned teams, but on the other hand, any of
them might level Davidson. It’s a wide-open race and will be interesting to watch.

CROWELL LITTLE ARRIVES ON CAMPUS

Crowell Little, recently named to guide the Red and Black gridders in the future, has arrived in Davidson, although at
present he is in New York at the NCAA meeting. Reports have it that he has received numerous applications for
assistant coaching posts, but no definite action has been taken yet. George Radman, backfield coach at U.N.C., has been prominently
mentioned for a job here, but the acute housing shortage in Davidson makes the whole situation indefinite. At present, Little
is living with his mother, the supervisor of dormitories, until a house can be found for him.

WHEREVER YOU GO!

DAVIDSON THEATRE

WEEK OF JANUARY 16-21

By WOODY McKAY

Coach Charlie Parker's Wildcat grapplers take to the mats on Saturday, January 14, for their second showing of the year.
The opposition for the Davidson wrestlers will be the University of Maryland at College Park, Md. The Terps team is
supposed to be strong this season, and the Davidson matmen expect a hard match; however, they will be trying their
best to get into the win column. The first match of this season was against Virginia University, and the Wildcats
lost by the score of 27-5. The Wildcat team this year has half of its first-string wrestlers with previous experience,
and the other half are new at the sport in varsity competition. With a little experience and continued hard work,
Davidson’s matmen should offer some good competition in the conference before the season is out.

Bill “Bull” Alexander should go far in conference competition if he can reach his last year's form. He defeated some
of the best last year, and if last season's performances mean anything, “Bull” will be a key man as the
season progresses. The boys wrestling against Maryland will be: 121—Bell. 128—Kelton. 136—Grissom. 145—Pendleton. 155—Haynes. 165—Price. 175—Alexander. Unlimited—McNeely.

The physician, after a patient died, went to the executor of the estate and presented his bill. “Do you wish
to have this sworn to?” he asked. “No,” said the executor. “The death of the deceased is sufficient evidence that
you attended him professionally.”

N.C. State

One of the most thrilling basketball games of this season and many others was played Tuesday night in Johnston gym
as the N.C. State Wolfpack was rushed by the fighting Wildcats of Davidson to win, 43-35. The red-jerseyed and red-faced
Wolfpack, the ninth-ranking team in the nation, had to break a 35-35 tie with only four minutes remaining to win
their second game of the season from the Cats. This spirited Davidson team was a far cry from the team
that lost by some 30 points earlier in the season to State.

The Cats got off to an early 6-2 lead on shots by Haller, Hengeveld, and Cobb, at the 3-minute mark,
only to have it tied a few minutes later on set shots by Bubas and Harard and a push by
Ranzino. Lazenby’s lay-up and foul shot gave the Cats a 9-8 lead that was bolstered when Cobb sank a hook
and a set shot, as Davidson went ahead, 13-8. Bubas’ long shot and Lazenby’s free toss made it 14-10 with
only three minutes remaining in the half. State fought back on a lay-up by Dickey, and a free toss by
Dickey to forge ahead 17-14. Just as it looked as if State was beginning to roll in their usual high-scoring
style, Coleman's foul shot and Brook's push gave Davidson three more points to stay in the game. Dickey’s foul shot
gave the Pack a slim and unexpected 18-17 margin at the half.

State jumped to a 22-17 lead with only three minutes gone in the second half, before Turk sank a hook
to keep the Cats in scoring distance. Two goals by Dickey and a driving lay-up by Brooks left the score
at 26-23 with five minutes gone. A long shot by Cobb and twoFoul shots by Brooks and one by Turk
knotted the score, 26-26, before Curtis and Dickey cashed in on three points to put the Pack back in the
lead, 29-26. However, the Cats weren't through yet. Turk’s long shot and Coleman's crip gave Davidson a 30-29 lead. Three
push shots by Dickey and a jump shot by Coleman changed the lead to 35-32 for State with only five
minutes remaining in the game.

By CHERRY STRIBLING

Tuesday night’s performance by Whit showed that the slender Durham boy is by far the best guard in the conference.
For the benefit of those not present at the N.C. State drama, Whit led the fighting Cats with a brilliant
floor game and hit his set shots with accuracy that reminds one of his high-scoring performances of previous years. Davidson
didn't win, but the huge crowd of over 3,000 roared its approval as Captain Cobb and his scrapping bunch raced
neck and neck with the nationally ranked Wolfpack down to the last few minutes of the game. The floor game
of Whit was marvelous to behold. He worked the ball with ease and finesse and often his clever faking and
sharp passes left All-American Dickey flatfooted. Davidson showed a new offense, designed to slow down State's running game and to
control the ball. It was anybody’s ball game when, with the score tied at 35-35 by Cobb's set shot, the
Wolfpack broke away for nine quick points and put the game away. The final score was 44-35, and State had
barely avoided another embarrassing defeat. Cobb again demonstrated a warning to the rest of the conference that they can expect
trouble from the fighting Cats.

By DICK LILES

The Davidson freshman basketball team absorbed a 61-27 defeat by the UNC frosh last Saturday night in Johnston gym. As
a preliminary to the Southern Conference tilt, the Kittens played a rousing first half, holding the Tar Babies to a
27-15 edge. Carolina wasn't able to score because of the cautious guarding and spirited play of Ray Brown's charges in
the thrilling first half of play. Bowen collected six points in the second quarter of the game. The second half
proved different as the classy visitors hit their stride. Grimaldi and Wallace led the attack with seven field goals each
for 15 and 14 points respectively. Bowen and Asbury poured in nine tallies each. Final score was 61-37.

The Tuesday night tilt turned out a bit worse. The rangy Hoosier

By BILL WHITE

From nearby North Carolina and far away Cornell College, Christmas came to Davidson late last month in the acceptances of
Crowell Little and Paul K. Scott of duties as head football coach and director of athletics, respectively, at Davidson. Little,
an alumnus and for the past two seasons freshman football coach at Carolina, comes to the first head coaching job
of his career, following the resignation of Charley Jamerson, skipper of the Wildcats for the past two falls. Jamerson immediately
was named head baseball coach and acting athletic director by Dr. John R. Cunningham in the holiday shake-up. Jamerson will
serve in the director's capacity until Scott arrives on the scene, probably as late as June 1.

Thus Davidson will open next fall under what is expected to be an entirely new football setup, although Dr. Cunningham
in his announcement emphasized the fact that the new appointments did not necessarily infer a change in athletic policy. Nevertheless,
Little will undoubtedly bring an aide with him, either from Carolina or from previous coaching associates. Scott, now director of
athletics at Cornell in Iowa, will give Davidson its first full-time athletic director since Norman Shepard resigned last spring to
move to Harvard as head basketball coach. James F. Pinkney, professor of political science and a former member of the
faculty athletic committee, served as acting director this fall.

Though a Carolina man since 1946 when he joined the UNC coaching staff on leaving the Army after five years,
Little is very well associated with Davidson. His mother is dorm director at Davidson at present, and Little himself coached
here in 1938-39 as a freshman coach. An all-southern quarterback and member of the Tar Heel squad from 1935-1937, the
Asheville native coached one year at Kings Mountain High School before coming to Davidson as frosh coach. He went into
the Army in 1940 and thence to North Carolina. He is married, a brother-in-law, by the way, of Duke’s basketballing
Dick Crowder, and has one son. Little reportedly plans nine weeks of winter practice for the 1950 Wildcats, beginning early
in February. Schooled in the single wing under Carolina’s Carl Snavely, Little may follow up Jamerson's plan to install the
T or split-T formation at Davidson this fall. A look at pictures and material is necessary, however, Little pointed out,
before any definite plan of offense is forthcoming.

Athletically, Scott will be coming east for the first time. A graduate of Cornell College where he excelled in football,
wrestling, and track, the 44-year-old father of one son coached at three high schools between 1927 and 1937, going to
Culver-Stockton College in Missouri in 1938 as athletic director. In 1941 he moved farther west to Cornell at Mt. Vernon,
Iowa, to become a member of the athletic staff there. Since that year, his wrestling and cross country teams have
been undefeated in the Midwest Conference. His 1947 team was the NCAA champion and his '48 and '49 teams finished
third in the national firing. Scott's cross country teams have been equally impressive, finishing high in the NCAA meet last
year. In 1946 Scott was president of the National Collegiate Cross Country Association. From 1946 to 1948 he was a
member of the National AAU Wrestling Rules Committee, and at present is chairman of the Iowa Association of the AAU.
Weighing 145 pounds, Scott holds an MA in physical education from Columbia. Reports earlier stated that he would report by
April 1. It is probable, however, that duties at
