CHALMERS DAVIDSON WRITES BIOGRAPHY ABOUT S. C. DOCTOR

Five years of intermittent work has culminated in the publishing of Professor Chalmers G. Davidson's new book, “Friend of the People: The Life of Dr. Peter Fayssoux of Charleston, South Carolina,” a biography of that illustrious Revolutionary patriot and “practitioner of physic” in Charleston.

The director of the College library gives a complete account of the life of Fayssoux, who was surgeon-general and chief physician for the Southern hospital in the era of the Revolution. The success of the patriots of Charleston in the fight for independence was greatly helped by this man, who also was the first president of the association publishing the story of his life. During Revolutionary times he was a leader of the forces which opposed the Federalist philosophy, one of the most controversial subjects of that period.

Although Fayssoux was an aristocrat and a highly successful practicing physician in a city which was known for its high society, he was known as a friend of the people and proclaimed by the French consul stationed in Charleston at that time as a great helper of the common cause.

Dr. Davidson first came across the story of Fayssoux while completing an assignment in a Harvard seminar during a period in which he was doing graduate work there. Later, while he was teaching at the Citadel in Charleston, he pursued the study of Dr. Fayssoux’s life with the aid of a Carnegie foundation grant.

That Dr. Davidson put a lot of time gathering the minute details which make his biography interesting is attested to by the ten pages of bibliography which list scores of manuscripts, books, pamphlets, newspapers, magazine articles, and other material examined by the author. However, the book is short, and makes for good reading. The author was obviously very interested in his work, and his finished product is quite an interesting tale.

Before his newest biography was published, Dr. Davidson’s most recent work was a novel published last year, “Cloud Over Catawba.”

(Continued On Page Six)

Rhodes Scholarships Exams Announced

The announcement of the competition for the Rhodes Scholarships at Oxford University this fall should be of special interest to Davidson students, since a member of the class of 1950, Charles T. Davis, has just sailed for England. Davis is the eighth Davidson Rhodes Scholar, the other seven having been appointed in 1907, (two that year), 1919, 1923, 1926, 1930, and 1936. These men are listed on page 111 of the catalog, where by mistake a sentence arising from the second world war still remains.

Possible candidates are referred to official bulletins on two bulletin boards. Applications must be in the hands of State Committees by October 28. Since there is considerable detail and red tape involved in the application, those interested should consult at once the members of the local committee, Professors Cumming, Lilly, and Vowles.

Final plans for the annual retreat to Montreat on October 6-8 and unanimous approval of the 1950-51 Y. M. C. A. budget were the main features of the Davidson Y. M. C. A. Board of Control's first two meetings of the school year last Monday and Tuesday. Mr. George Abernethy spoke on several subjects related to the Y. M. C. A. work in the College at the Tuesday night session. Preparations were also made at that meeting for the “Y” Cabinet’s annual retreat at Montreat this weekend.

Of special interest in the $11,750 budget was the use of the total $5,000 gift fund for the Community House project. Other divisions of the estimated expenditures include $3,555 for operating expenses and $2,695 to cover Cabinet expenses.

“The Y. M. C. A. Cabinet is pleased with the approved budget for this year,” stated “Y” Secretary John Lyles. “But the biggest item does not appear in the figures; that is the interest and active support of each student in the Y. M. C. A. program.”

Also on the agenda was the appointment of Bill White and Pete Kalogridis to fill Junior Class vacancies on the Board. The proposed fall and spring programs were then outlined by Don Shriver, Cabinet member in charge of special services.

Student members of the Board are Randy Taylor, Neil Leach, Tommy Haller, Ken Goodpasture, Johnny Kelton, and Tommy Langford. Faculty and administration members include Dr. J. R. Cunningham, Mr. F. L. Jackson, Dr. Cael R. Pritchett, Mr. H. A. Baumann, and Secretary Lyles.

The budget is as follows:

Estimated Income
Campus Tax .......... $4,000.00
College ................. $500.00
Vespers ................. $2,000.00
Gift Fund .............. $5,000.00
Summer Campus Tax .. $250.00
Total Income .......... $11,750.00

Estimated Expenditures
Operating Expenses:
Automobile ............ $250.00
Literature .............. $30.00
National YMCA ....... $500.00
Office .................... $200.00
Retreat .................. $125.00
Salary ................... $2,250.00
Outstanding debts .... $200.00
$3,555.00

Cabinet Expenses:
Boys Work ............. $300.00
Chapel .................. $178.00
Community Work .... $75.00
Deputations ............ $10.00
Interracial Action ..... $50.00
Publications ............ $1,100.00
Scouting ................. $35.00
Social Life .............. $200.00
Special Services ....... $350.00
Spiritual Development $150.00
Stewardship ............ $200.00
Sunday School Extension $50.00
$2,695.00

Other Benevolences:
Total .................... $500.00

Gift Fund Total ....... $5,000.00

Total Expenditures ... $11,750.00
Total Income .......... $11,750.00

Fraternity Council Begins To Function

The Honorary Fraternity Council, the all-important central coordinating office for the many honorary fraternities on the campus, began its activities of the current college year with its annual election of officers. Irving Stubbs was chosen president, with Warren Henson selected to fill the position of secretary-treasurer.

The Council is composed of the presidents of the various honorary fraternities, who are as follows: Bryan Robinson, Forensic Council; Bill Klein, Pan Hellenic Council; Auburn Lambeth, “D” Club; Neil Leach, Y. M. C. A. Cabinet; Dave Matthews, Photo Club; Bill Bird, Omicron Delta Kappa; Thad Munroe, Gamma Sigma Epsilon; Alfred Neuman, Delta Phi Alpha; R. L. Lewis, Sigma Delta Pi; W. H. Pritchett, Sigma Delta Psi; Warren Herron, Sigma Pi Sigma; Don Shriver, Sigma Upsilon; Alfred Neuman, Phi Mu Alpha; Eugene Regen, Alpha Epsilon Delta; Ken Wilson Jones, Le Circle Francais; Mac McLean, Beaver Club; Bob Gay, Red and Black Masquers; Foy Roberts, Scabbard and Blade; Ken Goodpasture, Eumanean Literary Society; Irving Stubbs, Philanthropic Literary Society; and Grey Hampton, International Relations Club.

(Continued On Page Six)

Impolite Neophytes Ignore Bumming Corner Traditions

In spite of the iron hand of the Court of Control, many members of the freshman class have failed to respect several of Davidson's more sacred and ancient traditions, one of the more important of which is the gentlemanly manner used by the students in “thumbing” or “bumming” to Charlotte, or other picturesque points of interest in the vicinity of Davidson.

It is reported that freshmen have been observed abusing the privilege of using the bumming corner, and it will be for the good of all concerned for them to heed an “admonitory” precaution from wiser heads than theirs.

The first rule of the bumming corner is, NEVER to bum out of turn. This doesn’t mean that freshmen must necessarily wait until all upperclassmen have rides, but it does mean that they must take their place in line until those who have preceded them are on their merry way. It seems that some of our more selfish neophytes have forgotten that even if they wait their turn, they are, and deserve to be, ahead of those behind them, and that jumping the gun is at its best impolite, and usually downright rude.

The second rule of the bumming corner is that no Davidson gentleman shall go above the Charlotte corner, or below the Mooresville corner in order to catch a ride. This rule is as time-honored as the first, and should be respected as such. It is perfectly all right to go down to the Esso Station, or up Main Street toward Albert's, but those who know usually find that it is quicker to bum from the prescribed locations.

It is hoped that this warning will not go unheeded, and that the freshmen will soon learn to conduct themselves as Davidson gentlemen in all times and all places.

New Facts Uncovered In Mysterious Death

Further investigation in the case of Reuben Pea, boarding house assistant who lost his life two weeks ago, has brought to light several facts which were not known at press time last week.

Investigators for the Southern Railroad have discovered that Reuben had an estranged wife, residing some forty miles from Davidson, with whom he had not lived for some time. Basing their motives on the premise that Reuben was killed by the train, the railroad contributed three hundred dollars toward funeral expenses, and received a signed statement from Mrs. Pea relieving it from any further responsibility. Thus, to all intents and purposes, the case of Reuben Pea is closed.

Public opinion still holds to the theory that Reuben met his death by some turn of fate other than the coincidence of his presence on the tracks at the time of the train’s passage, but since he was officially killed by the train, no further investigation is being made by the town of Davidson or Mecklenburg County law enforcement officials.

News Items!

The American Council on Education is holding a very important meeting in Washington, D. C. on Friday and Saturday of this week. The presidents of the leading colleges and universities of the entire country are to spend the two days conferring together with the governmental and military leaders regarding the present emergency and the subject of “Higher Education in the National Service.” This balancing of long-range and immediate needs is a stern challenge to all concerned. Dr. Cunningham will attend, October 8-10. He will participate Saturday noon in a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Association of American Colleges. Dr. Cunningham plans to attend the inauguration of Dr. Gordon Gray, new president of the Greater University System of North Carolina, October 8-10. He will participate in the exercises Sunday morning at Woman's College, Monday afternoon.Attend meeting and evening at Chapel Hill, and the inaugural ceremony at State College in Raleigh, Tuesday morning. Also attending from Davidson will be Dr. Watts, Prof. Porter, and Mr. Paul Scott, who will represent their individual alma maters.

Students Chosen By Honorary Fraternity

Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity on the campus, held its first meeting of the year in the Sigma Chi Fraternity house at 9:15 Thursday evening. Seven brothers from the faculty and ten from the student body comprised the group presided over by Don Shriver, president of Sigma Upsilon. The first part of the meeting following the opening preliminaries was devoted to a discussion of new members. Sigma voted to extend bids to Pete Milner, Watt Jeffries, Bill Beatty, Tom Mann, of the senior class; Bryan Robinson of the junior class, and Bill Trotman, Mac Bulgin, and George Basin of the sophomore class.

In connection with a project for the year, the members voted after discussion to accept a project in which the rebellion in modern literature against materialism, as evidenced by the writings of T. S. Eliot and others, be traced throughout the year. The remainder of the evening was given over to the program, which consisted of a short story by Bob Barron, “The Bargain,” which was read by Dave Hamilton, and an original poem on “Success,” written by Dudley Pendleton. Due to shortage of time, another paper by Professor Purcell was postponed until the next meeting.

ODK Elects Officers

Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity, held elections for officers this week. Auburn Lambeth was named president; Gordon Scott, treasurer; and Dr. Puckett, secretary. Other members of ODK are Sam Joyner, Randy Taylor, Neil Leach, Bill Byrd, Capt. Joe Martin, Prof. Frontis Johnston and Prof. William McGavock. Each year the society elects a faculty member to serve a four-year period, thus assuring the organization at all times of an experienced member. The purpose of ODK is to recognize leaders on the Davidson Campus.

Two Blind Mice Is Opener For Campus Theatrical Season

At the first meeting of the Red and Black Masquers, held Monday evening, October 2, at Phi Hall, the first play of the 1950-51 season was selected. The first selection of the Masquers, who last year presented “John Loves Mary,” two one-act plays, and “The Man Who Came To Dinner,” will be a three-act comedy, “Two Blind Mice.” The play, which starred Melvyn Douglas, was produced on Broadway during the 1948-49 season and just recently completed a successful Chicago run.

Named to be director of this forthcoming production is Robert Gay, a member of the senior class and director of last year’s opener “John Loves Mary.” Assisting with the directing chores will be Professor Tyson of the Speech Department who will act as advisor on all student productions. In addition to these two men, the Masquers selected their newly elected treasurer Bill Hollister, who succeeds Luke Hyman, to be business manager of the production. As yet no other production officials have been named but appointments will be made by Director Gay within the week. Casting for “Two Blind Mice” will begin next week and the exact time will be announced in chapel. All members of the student body are encouraged to try out if they so desire and those wishing to do stage work will be given an opportunity to sign up for that activity also. The tentative date for the production is November 13 with a second performance the following evening.

In making the selection of “Two Blind Mice” the Masquers have begun a year which will see three major productions, the beginning of a workshop in theatre arts, a play reading workshop which will be open to all students and members of the faculty and which will present play readings before various student and civic groups and also a radio workshop. In addition to these activities, the Masquers plan to conduct an original one-act play contest and present the winning play both here and as their entry in the Carolina Drama Festival at Chapel Hill early in April.

Davidson Students Preach At Churches

A number of Davidson students are preaching in neighboring churches this year. They find that by aiding these churches they are not only guiding the members spiritually but are gaining experience in their life work. Among those participating in this program are Gene Little, Pat McGeachy, Tommy Langford and Neil Leach. Gene Little, pastor of the Huntersville Methodist Church, and Tommy Langford, assistant pastor of the Central Avenue Methodist Church in Charlotte, are both licensed by the Methodist Conference. Neil Leach is supply pastor of the Elmwood Presbyterian Church, located eight miles north of Statesville. There are approximately thirty-five members of the Elmwood Church. Neil also teaches the Adult Bible Class in this church. Pat McGeachy is supplying the South Park Presbyterian Church of Charlotte. Besides preaching each Sunday, he also teaches a Bible class.

Episcopal Services

The Second Presbyterian Church Service of the 1950-51 college year will be held at the Phi Hall at 3 p.m., on Sunday afternoon. The Reverend R. B. Sherman of St. Mark's Episcopal Church of Charlotte will conduct the communion service. All students and faculty members are cordially invited to attend. Music will be furnished by Mr. Herb Russell of the senior class. The services are held every second (morning and evening prayer), and fourth (communion) Sundays, and are sponsored by the Episcopalian students of the college with the assistance of many interested townspeople. These services are never more than an hour in length, and often last from 30 to 45 minutes.

Scripts and Pranks Editor Voices Brazen Challenge

“The ‘Scripts and Pranks’ this year is out to show The Davidsonian what a real college publication can be!” Dave Hamilton, newly elected editor of the college humor (?) magazine, said Tuesday night. Dave also announced that the first edition of the magazine will come out soon after Homecoming. This first edition will be under the editorship of Don Shriver with Dave Hamilton as Associate Editor. But after the first edition comes out Don and Dave will exchange positions on the magazine staff. Don announced his resignation as editor Monday morning in chapel primarily because he was overburdened with studies and extra-curricular activities. He had a total of 45 extra-curricular points whereas the Student Body constitution allows only 40 points. He was elected in chapel Monday morning, having been nominated by the staff of the “Scripts and Pranks.” Dave described the election by saying that he “got the job by primogeniture and by courtesy of the ‘Southern Railroad.’” (you figure it out. Bill Hamilton, Dave's brother, was editor last year.)

Commenting on the general outlook for the magazine, Dave said that it had an excellent staff and a fine group of managing editors. He further stated that this year the magazine would be more representative of the student body; that is, more contributions coming from more people, not a large volume of material from a “select few.” Dave emphasized the important work of Gene Geer, managing editor, Jim Fickeisen, art editor, Hartley Hall and Don Shriver, associate editors. “Don will still be the strong man on the staff. He will mainly direct the policies of the magazine and do less of the actual work.” In closing his remarks, Dave wished The Davidsonian “the best of luck for this coming year.”

Nationally Famous Orchestra To Play At Homecoming Dances

Pan-Hellenic Council announced this week that Charlie Spivak and his orchestra have been signed for the Homecoming dances. The dances will be given on Friday and Saturday, October 20 and 21. A Spivak concert, to be given from 4-5:30 Friday, will precede the informal dance that night in the new gym. Friday's dance will run from 9 till 1, while Saturday’s informal will begin at 8 and be over at midnight. Tickets for the two dances will sell for $6.50.

Charlie Spivak, “The Man who Plays the Sweetest Trumpet in the World,” is the musician whose fresh and original idiom in trumpet playing is described as “honey in the horn.” He is the leader of an eight-year-old band which rocketed to top-flight stature so fast that it now ranks among the kings in the entertainment world. Notches in Spivak's musical belt are 20th Century-Fox’s “Pin-Up Girl,” starring Betty Grable and “Follow the Boys” for Universal and a flock of box-office records created at the Paramount Theatre in New York, The Hotel Statler, New York, the Palladium in Hollywood, and other top spots. Spivak’s music-making is so solidly established for its individuality that it can be identified whenever and wherever it is played as “indubitably Charlie's.”

Born in New Haven, Connecticut, Spivak got his first trumpet while still in grade school, a tiny instrument with the first valve practically on top of Charlie’s nose. He went to Hill House School in New Haven, studying the trumpet on his own time with George Hyer who is a member of the New Haven Symphony Orchestra. The fact that Spivak’s family had charted out a medical career for him didn’t alter Spivak’s decision to take to the brass, and when Paul Specht, then one of the country's outstanding bandleaders, offered him a job he signed up—and remained with the outfit for five years. He next joined the Benny Pollack Band, another number one outfit, and his next stop was the Dorsey Brothers Orchestra where he sat alongside such musicians as Glenn Miller, Skeets Herfurt, and Bob Crosby. When Ray Noble came to America, he asked Glenn to help him organize a band, and the first musician to be signed was Spivak. When Spivak left to try his musical wings on his own, he became the highest paid freelance trumpeter in radio, playing on the Ford Symphony Hour, Kate Smith and Fred Allen broadcasts. When he felt ready to organize his own band, a lot of encouragement came from Glenn Miller who told him he had all the ingredients necessary for a winning combination. Spivak got his first big engagement at the Glen Island Casino, jumping off place for more than a dozen of the nation’s top-flight bandleaders. He was so successful that the Casino, traditionally a summer spot, broke a precedent by keeping its doors open through the winter season.

Eu Literary Group Plans Activities

The Eumanean Literary Society began the school year on a spirited note as it enjoyed an hour of business and fun Monday night. President Ken Goodpasture predicted a banner year for the society, and outlined a few of the projects to be carried out. Among them was the United Literary Society sponsored by both Eu and Phi to bring classical movies to the campus. Besides this, Eu plans to bring outside speakers to the campus, both for Eu meetings and chapel programs.

Program chairman Pete Milner, with forms from the members on their interests, outlined the program possibilities for the year, and indicated that every member would take part frequently. Two impromptu speeches were given, one by Bill Hollister, “The Ukulele Should Be Replaced at Davidson College by the Hawaiian Nose-Flute,” and the other by Jim Campbell on “The Jail Conditions in Buelap, Idaho.”

Officers for this year are: president, Ken Goodpasture; vice-president, Pete Kalogridis; secretary, Larry Dagenhart; treasurer, Jack Hunter; parliamentarian, Shelly Beard.