PAGE THREE THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sec'y of Labor Tobin Gives Job Outlook For 1950 Seniors

With about 500,000 college students graduating this year — the largest number in our country’s history — the job outlook for the new college graduates is generally good. It is not, however, as good as in 1947 and 1948. The outlook is clouded by three factors: the large number of graduates who will be seeking jobs; moderate increases in the total number of unemployed persons; and the filling of war-created shortages of college graduates in some specialized fields by the large graduating classes of 1948 and 1949.

Basically, the economy of the country is strong and there is a general consensus that production and employment will remain high during 1950. However, the big problem facing the economy is that of constantly providing more goods and services and utilizing fully a labor force that is growing at the rate of 600,000 to 700,000 workers a year. Even if employment continues during 1950 at about the same level as last year, as it is expected to do, unemployment will increase and jobs will be harder to find.

Graduates seeking information on expanding industries or sections of the country need to remember this basic fact: most of the jobs taken by this year’s college graduates will be, as usual, those which have been vacated by other workers. Deaths and retirements at the top of the occupational ladder create the largest number of openings at the bottom. It follows that most of the openings will occur in the large industries and the areas where there are now the heaviest concentrations of employment.

To emphasize that most job opportunities occur as a result of turnover is not to belittle the number that arise through expansion. Growing markets, technological improvements, and the development of new industries and additional services all create job openings for inexperienced workers with the proper training.

Employment in certain parts of the country is growing more rapidly.

(Continued On Page Six)

YMCA Social Action Committee Handles Local Race Problem

The Social Action Committee is a relatively new member of the YMCA cabinet. It was given a place because cabinet members at that time felt that the student body should be familiarized with the different social problems of the day. The Social Action department has dealt almost exclusively with the race problem, which is probably the most pressing problem this semester. Dr. Batchelor and Rev. Bottoms were speakers in Chapel who gave us both sides of the question.

The Intercollegiate Council is the only active organization working under the direction of this department at the present time. It is a group which meets together approximately once every five weeks with students from two Negro colleges to hear speakers and have discussions.

IN THE SOUTH ...

“Since he wants to be a judge, my son Sam is keeping up with his law studies this summer. He’s already taken part in four lynchings.”

JOKES, JEST, JOY, JOLLITY MAKE HILARIOUS 1914 HIT

On April Fool’s Day of 1914, the Davidsonian made its debut to an eagerly awaiting student body. There had been many months of planning, name selecting, ad soliciting, and all the other labors of creating a great newspaper. Among the names submitted were “The Davidson Tornet,” “Life,” “Echo,” “Hummer,” “Spirit,” “Election,” and “Haka-Rana.” The faculty had submitted “Transcript” and “Blue Stocking.”

This primigenial newspaper was filled with the latest news of the day. D. C. President Martin had just visited President Wilson of D. C. to talk over the “good ol’ days” in the Presbyterian stronghold. The Davidson nine had downed Catawba 8 to 1, and the debate team was trying to decide whether or not the “United States should maintain a position as one of the three leading nations of the world.” Monsieur Morrison's Select Trio of Musicians had just furnished music for a stag dance presented by the German Club, at which “the Tango and all the latest dances were permitted.”

This issue might have been an April Fool's edition, but there was no attempt at pulling any smiles from its pious readers. Perhaps a few of the advertisements managed to provide a little entertainment: R. D. Mooney suggested that the reader “Buy Hardware from the Hardware Store,” and then slyly added, “There’s a reason.” He failed to give any reasons in his ad, but we'll take his word for it. Goodrum and Co. was offering International Harvester machines to the students and boasting the highest prices for cotton, while Brown-Knox Mercantile Company was flying a “full line of B.V.D.’s.”

Five weeks later the Davidsonian printed its first “joke.” An old Scottish gentleman who was a great enthusiast on the golf links, and a young man who was equally enthusiastic about the game, had spent the entire day in the field ... As they left for home, the old Scotchman remarked: “Hey, Mon, but it’s been a gran’ day!” “It has,” asserted the young man. “Think ye could come again on the morrow, laddie?” “Well,” answered the young man reflectively, “I was to be married, but I can put it off.”

That one must not have gone over so hot because it was not until the following fall that another attempt was made. This time the editors went “hog-wild” about the idea and presented four side-rippers — the most hilarious being—

Student — (in a burst of admiration) — Professor Gabby is a wonder as a linguist. What tongue hasn't he mastered?
Asst. Prof. — (dryly) — His wife's.

Thirty issues later some “die-hard” on the staff was still determined to get a laugh, so another witticism was tried,

Fresh. — Doctor, did they have automobiles in the days of Xenophon?
Prof. — Well, (probably stroking his goatee) I hardly think so, why did you ask?
Fresh. — Well my book states ...

(Continued On Page Six)on various problems of concern to both races. There is no membership in this council. All who are interested in getting together for such a discussion are invited. The last meeting was held at Barber Scotia College in Concord on March 18th. Chick Longnecker gave a talk on African missions and presented some pictures of Africa. The next meeting, which will be the last for this year, will be held on the Davidson Campus around the first of May. The exact date, meeting place, and speaker will be announced as soon as they are determined.

— Church Being Razed To Make Way For New One —

OLD CHURCH SITE MAKES WAY FOR NEW

The red-brick building which has housed worshippers for more than fifty years is falling under the hands of demolition workmen. The tearing down of the old church building is the first step in clearing the grounds in preparation for construction of the long-awaited new place of worship. There are now only a few workmen on the job, but the main construction crew will begin work as soon as the building steel is delivered.

—Patronize Our Advertisers—

WHEREVER YOU GO!

Remember this seal — it’s your assurance of the best!

EDITOR'S NOTE: Permission for reproduction of these cartoons from “Out of the Crocodile’s Mouth” by William Nelson has been granted the Davidsonian by the Public Affairs Press, 2153 Florida Ave., Washington, D.C.

The oldest existing varnish is the solution on ancient Egyptian mummy cases, some of which are much more than 2,500 years old.

—Patronize Our Advertisers—

North Carolina May Lose Congressional Seats After Census

North Carolina will probably lose a seat in the U.S. House of Representatives after the results of the 1950 Census are known — that is, if Census Bureau estimates of the State’s population are reasonably accurate. J.E. Dowd, chairman of the Chamber of Commerce Census Committee, explained today that this was one of the reasons his Committee is exerting every effort to see that no one in Mecklenburg County goes uncounted in the Census now underway. It is possible, Mr. Dowd said, that Census Bureau estimates are low for the State, and if we get a complete count we may be able to hold our eleven seats in the House of Representatives.

Although North Carolina's population has increased since 1940, the Census Bureau doesn’t think it has increased enough to keep it from losing a seat to one of the Western states, such as California, which has shown tremendous growth. The primary purpose of the 17th Decennial Census of the United States to be conducted in April 1950, Mr. Dowd said, is to determine the population of each state which is the basis for the division of the 435 seats in the House of Representatives. This is in accordance with Article 1, Section 2, of the Constitution. This section provides that representation in the House “shall be apportioned among the several states... according to their respective numbers” to be determined by an enumeration of the population. The Constitution provides that each State shall have at least one (Continued On Page Six)

FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 1950

PICTURE OF THE MONTH

By Charlie Burrus

“MONDAY”

THACKER’S, INC.
Private Dining Rooms for Parties and Banquets
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
Phone 25490
221 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.

WALTER HAGEN
For Your Spring Dances
1405 E. 4th St.
Charlotte, N.C.

Major Ed Wall
Harvard '40
“Flying Executive”

Born in Newark, N.J., he moved to Boston at an early age, graduated from the public Latin high school in 1936, entered Harvard the same year, where he majored in economics and government. Assigned to anti-sub patrol duty, he flew B-25's and B-17’s before going overseas in 1944, where he flew 30 missions as a B-24 pilot. Shot down over Germany, he was a prisoner of war for 3 months.

“Active on the campus” — he played football, earned his letter on the boxing team. He worked part-time in a variety of jobs from bouncer to baby sitter, received his AB degree in 1940. Back in the States with his English wife, he earned his Regular commission. Then he returned to Harvard under the Air Force college training program, receiving his LLB degree in 1949.

If you are single, between the ages of 20 and 26½, with at least two years of college, consider a flying career as an officer in the U.S. Air Force. You may be able to meet physical and moral requirements and be selected for training as an Aviation Cadet. If you do not complete Aviation Cadet training, you may return to civilian life or have the opportunity to train at Officer Candidate School for an important assignment in non-flying fields.

He enrolled in Harvard Law School, left at the beginning of the war to become an Aviation Cadet. In December, 1942, he won his pilot’s wings, received a Reserve commission as Second Lieutenant. Now, he is confident about his future and security. As a pilot and legal officer of Bolling Air Force Base, D.C., Major Ed Wall is a typical U.S. Air Force flying executive... with a challenging career.

Air Force officer procurement teams are visiting many colleges and universities to explain these career opportunities. Watch for their arrival — or get full details at your nearest Air Force Base, local recruiting station, or by writing to the Chief of Staff, U.S. Air Force, Attention: Aviation Cadet Branch, Washington 25, D.C.

U.S. AIR FORCE

ONLY THE BEST CAN BE AVIATION CADETS!