PAGE THREE

MIDWINTERS: PRINCES RUSH CINDERELLAS TO QUEENS; GET FULL WHAMMY FROM DEAN WHEN LATE

By PETE MILNER

Sing, oh Heavenly Muse, of all the local yokels who in twain Did rend my purse. Nay, lament the sad fate of all Davidson daters. As our half-track maneuvered about the tank traps and land mines, I felt myself slowly melting to the floor as my heart played Saint Vitus on my lower intestinal—fortitude. Trying to heal my misshapen nerves, I gaped, from my position on the floor, up at an inscription on the gate. “Let no man enter in on pain of death!” I finally collected my wits, however, by making several blasé passes at the rear-view mirror, from which I chose the most “Humphrey Bogartish.” Our open-air Buick rumbled to a halt; and after inspecting the lugs on our treads to ensure a quick getaway, we crossed the drawbridge upon which was an inscribed inlay. “This drive was put here by the efforts of the class of 1939. Barbed wire and pitfalls later generously added by our ever-watchful faculty.”

Trudging up the stairs, I opened the door and sauntered into Allswell Hall only to have my medulla oblongata neatly creased by a rubber truncheon wielded by one of the “students' friends.” Recovering some hours after the dance had started, I asked the dean to forgive my unannounced entry and queried the whereabouts of my date (with whom I had prenatally made this engagement). She explained that of course there were several forms that must be inspected. Mine happened to be the first. After checking my insulin, probing my right and left ventricles, and filling twelve wisdom teeth, I was given several shots of snake-bite, hoof and mouth, and rhizobium radicicola anti-toxin. Finally came a quiz. Was I a philogynist? Did my great-grandfather die with his false teeth on? How many sexagenarians were there in my family? Did I ever go barefooted or otherwise indecently exposed in front of girls? How many ranks did I advance in Junior Commando?

Quite satisfied with my honest intentions, the dean directed me to the locker-girl in South Catacomb. This abode turned out to be a crypt within which were the girls’ vaults, each a hermetically sealed time capsule opening only to allow girls to leave their books once every semester. After I secured my date, we proceeded to the chaperone room where the inmate, full of the bile of human kindness, consented to let us go as a congenial little coterie of ten honor-bound couples.

We arrived just before intermission and were surprised to find three or four couples there yet. At the risk of being tedious, I will say that everyone had a mellow time. Gentlemen with rented tuxes, gals with loop-the-hoop skirts, T. P. and his tribe, and many of the faculty all joined hands and allemanded left, cotillioned right, Johnson raged, box-stepped, and jitterbugged till at least one micromillimeter of gym floor was absorbed by the dancers' heels (of those borrowed, two-sizes too small, black shoes).

Slowing down to 70 m.p.h only once (that dear old Cornelius light) the Cinderella express sped rocket-like to get these wayward girls back to the nunnery. We made it with at least two seconds to spare.

I woke the next day at the crack of noon and hurried once more to the Drene City (whose theme song is “I must go where the Wildroot Goes”) to unshackle my date and make a bee-line to old D. C. Here we spent the rest of the day in comatose ecstasy at the wrestling match, concert, symphony, and dance. A more splendid and colorful schedule of one day could not possibly be planned in any other cosmos. (Exception please! Registrar's staff at D.C., N.C.). The wrestling was bully, the music par excellence, and the dance was superrissimo, light-hearted and gay until I was suddenly aware that Q (quieters) hour had come and I was not returning my damsel back to her manacles. We arrived just as the big second hand hit five till. The blinker system went on. We rushed for the gate. Just then the juice was turned on, thus preventing us from climbing over the fence. We squeezed through the gate and leaped up the stairs. There she stood, patting her foot, arms akimbo. Needless to say, my date was swiftly dispatched to the rack whereas I was given an injection of hemlock juice. Glasses steamed, purse lean, friends gone, I tried to remember the day and forget the night. As it goes: “In the spring a young man's thoughts turn lightly to a lean year and pocketbook.”

News In Brief From Scattered Graduates

News of the following members of the class of ‘49 has been received through the Alumni Office:

Herb Meza and Jack Payne are President and Secretary-Treasurer, respectively, of the Junior Class at Union Seminary. Charles Turner is the Director of Ecumenical Life at Union Seminary. Freeman R. Jones is Assistant Vice-President of the Bank of Commerce in Charlotte. Much of his time is devoted to public relations. Vernon and Anne McGehee had a baby girl, Patricia Ann, December 16, eight and one-half pounds. T. E. Hemby, Jr., is working in Atlanta at the First National Bank. Rev. J. E. Wayland is pastor of the Hopewell Presbyterian Church. John F. Williams has joined the Younts Realty and Insurance Corp. of Charlotte, and is project manager of the Plaza Terrace Apts. Dr. Monroe T. Gilmour was last moderator of Mecklenburg Presbytery. Randolph Ensign has gone into the manufacturing business with his father in Greensboro. They are making “Hobby Bobby” kits which provide materials for making many types of dolls, etc., very simply. H. Carter Bailey is in law school at UNC. His address is: 203 Grimes Hall, UNC, Chapel Hill, N. C. Jack Etheridge is with the Church World Service in Munich. His address is: Church World Service, Care IRO Admin. Sub-Unit, Munich, APO 407, U. S. Army. Cecil Hubert Keeter is a salesman for the Strietman Biscuit Co., of Charlotte. Charles Henry Reid is enrolled in the American Institute for Foreign Trade at Thunderbird Field, Phoenix, Arizona. Hugh W. Armstrong of Gastonia is studying at the School of Veterinary Medicine at the U. of Georgia. Charles O. Hadley is studying on a Fulbright Fellowship in France. C. Paul Marsh is a graduate student at N. C. State College and is a teaching Fellow in Rural Sociology. John McBride is studying Airport Management at the Spartan (Continued On Page 6)

VISIT THE DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT 142 E. Morehead — Charlotte

PROF. HOWARD THOMAS

Famous Art Professor Will Present Lecture At Davidson

Professor Howard Thomas of the University of Georgia Art Department will be on the Campus March 6 and 7. Davidson is indeed fortunate to have so accomplished a visitor as Professor Thomas, who has been the recipient of numerous honors in the field of Art: In 1938, and again in 1941 Professor Thomas received first prize for watercolors at the Wisconsin Salon of the University of Wisconsin. In 1945 he was given first prize for an oil exhibit. In 1946 he excelled again at the Association of Georgia Art in the field of watercolors and received a first prize in that year. He was appointed head of the Art Department at Agnes Scott College in 1943, where he remained until he accepted his present position. Since then, Professor Thomas has been carrying on serious research in grinding his own pigments which he gathers from the earth.

Professor Thomas is a native of Ohio. He studied at the Ohio State University and the Chicago Art Institute. After a period of study in Europe, he turned to art teaching and became Director of the Art Department at Milwaukee State Teachers College where he painted some of his most vigorous watercolors and oils. In 1936 he was awarded the Milwaukee Art Institute medal for his oil “Haymarket Square” and the painting was added to the permanent collection of the Art Institute. At the present time he and his wife, Mary Thomas, are currently circulating a joint exhibit of paintings through Eastern galleries. While at Davidson, Professor Thomas’ schedule is being arranged by the Committee on Fine Arts, which will include addresses to several meetings and a two-hour demonstration on painting a watercolor, which will be open to the public. Professor Thomas will be available for individual conferences.

Chorus To Depart On Annual Spring Tour

The Davidson College Male Chorus on its annual spring tour will give concerts in Waycross in south Georgia and in the northwestern part of Florida. The chorus will leave the campus on Thursday morning, March 2, and will perform that night in Waycross, Georgia. From there they shall go to Quincy, Florida, for a concert Friday night. Saturday night will find them in Pensacola for a special program of secular music. They will remain there to sing for the morning worship service at the First Presbyterian Church on Sunday morning and to hold a vespers service of sacred music there that afternoon. Monday the group will continue to De Funiak Springs and Tuesday they will move on to Clearwater, where they will conclude the tour. Wednesday they will return to Davidson.

In the course of the tour concerts of sacred and of secular music will be given. The secular concert in Pensacola will be a special program of music by contemporary American composers such as Randall Thompson and Cecil Effinger. It will include poems of Carl Sandburg and Walt Whitman set to music, several of Fred Waring’s (Continued On Page 6)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

United Nations Experts Map Highway Network For Europe

Geneva—Europe now has a plan for a continental highway system, its first since the fall of ancient Rome. The plan foresees a road network of 23 major and 61 feeder routes linking cities as far apart as Helsinki and Marseilles, Edinburgh and Rome. It was drawn up here by transport experts from10 European countries and the U.S.A., meeting under the auspices of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (ECE), believe that better roads will not only improve intra-European commerce and ease the way for travelers but will also help Europeans of different countries learn to understand each other better as a result of the freer flow of ideas, goods, and people from one nation to another. They point out that the highway plan for Europe is similar to the highly beneficial network worked out in the USA by the United States Public Roads Administration in cooperation with the states.

ECE has already laid down standards for improving existing European roads and building new ones. The standards cover road widths, crossfalls, gradients, alignments, curves, types of pavement, intersections, visibility, bridges, tunnels, and other important engineering questions.

Three categories of roads are provided for in the standards. The first includes two-lane highways approximately 23 feet wide—much broader than the average European roads. The second class covers ten-foot wide lanes separated by a central strip. The third category consists of three-lane roads, totaling 33 feet in width. In addition, cycle tracks and footpaths would be provided wherever traffic makes them necessary.

The second overall step in turning highway plans into reality is already underway. ECE sent a questionnaire to the countries involved, asking whether manpower, material, and equipment for road building would be available in the next ten years. Most countries have already replied that labor and material could be found. Many nations, however, lack some of the road-building materials and equipment necessary and, therefore, ECE is now studying financing methods.

Another great project involving roads, meanwhile, is also underway as the result of an agreement between France and Italy. This project—part of a much-needed general effort to eliminate natural barriers to automobile travel—provides for the construction of a tunnel through the Alps near Mont Blanc, the highest in Europe. (The perennial engineering dream of building a tunnel under the English Channel has also been discussed, but experts do not regard this as feasible yet).

The natural barrier formed by the 800-mile crescent of the Alps is important not only because it blocks Italy from the rest of Europe but also because it lies on the most direct route from Western Europe to the Balkan countries. The mountain passes, which from time immemorial have linked Italy and the Balkans with the north, are covered with deep snow much of the year and are frequent.

(Continued On Page 6)

ROTC Is Revamped Under Col. Ballard

From the time in September when Colonel Ballard assumed the leadership of Davidson's ROTC department, many changes have been brought about. This year's ROTC staff has worked steadily at making the course more worth the students' time. These men feel an obligation to Davidson and to the government. In carrying out their program, they have attempted to give each student individual attention to acquaint themselves with each man’s background, interests, and extracurricular activities. Thus they are better able to plan the progress of the four ROTC courses along lines which will interest students.

This year far more than ever before, moving pictures, pictorial devices, and the narration of combat experience have been utilized in the training program. Special presentations of all weapons have been made immediately after the study of weapons, for example, in order to tie together the subject as thoroughly as possible.

In addition to planning the instructional technique with greater efficiency and thought, the ROTC department has assisted in training the college band, in caring for the flag—raising and lowering it daily—and working with the Physics Fraternity, Sigma Pi Sigma.

Colonel Ballard organized and directed the Homecoming Parade of 1949 with notable success.

Forensic Council To Face Scott Saturday

For some time now, four members of the Davidson Forensic Council have been preparing themselves for the Agnes Scott tournament to be held in Atlanta over the weekend of February 24-25. The college debate topic for this year is “Resolved: That the United States Should Nationalize the Basic Non-Agricultural Industries.” The affirmative team will be composed of seniors John Lyles and Charles Davis, the negative team of sophomores Pete Kalaogridis and Jack Hunter. Both teams will debate seven times, beginning Friday afternoon and ending Saturday afternoon.

This tournament at Agnes Scott is an annual affair which attracts debating teams from nearly all of the leading southern colleges and universities. It is regarded by many to be the best debating tournament of the year held in this section of the nation.

Paralysis Campaign Ended; Benefits, Canvass Net $840

Boy Scout Troop No. 58, Dr. C. R. Pritchett, Scoutmaster
Collections at the Davidson Theater Week of Jan 23-28: $143.63
March of Dimes, Matinee Variety Show Chambers Auditorium Feb. 8: $31.56
$248.62
Union Asbestos & Rubber Co. 100 Percent Employee Participation: $85.25
U. S. Post Office: $94.00
House to House Canvass:
Mrs. C. B. David, chairman
Mrs. J. B. Woods
Mrs. J. B. Alexander
Mrs. J. J. Withers
March of Dimes Cans and Canvass of Business District: $179.25
Grand Total: $840.00

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
MAKERS OF Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.

Sporting Goods
415 S. TRYON STREET

JOHN QUINCY ADAMS
Oldest Living Ex-President Is Now Trainer; Guff Artist

He said for me to meet him in the training room any time during the afternoon. As I walked in, there was the oldest living ex-president, John Quincy Adams, perched on the table with one of his assistants putting a tape job on his ankle.

"What happened to you?" I asked. I knew he was all right when I’d seen him an hour before at lunch.

"There's nothing wrong with me, but this guy has got to learn on somebody," he answered. "Get that wrinkle out before you place that piece all the way on!"

Quincy is one of the oldest students at Davidson in point of service. His tour of duty started here with the Army Air Corps in 1945. After his discharge, he returned in January of 1945 as a pre-ministerial student and will take his degree in June in Biology. The ministerial idea faded along with a major in English and John is now headed for a career in Wildlife preservation. He plans to enter Virginia Polytechnic Institute next fall and get his Masters Degree in this field of game preservation. After that, he has a position with the wildlife division of the Maryland Foresters Service.

The tape job was finished so "Q" quickly called for scissors and cut it off. He then settled down for a chat when in hobbled a disabled handball veteran with shoe in hand.

"What do you do for blisters?" was the pitiful groan of "Mumpsy" Millar.

"Cut 'em off!" was the trainer's answer. So cut 'em off it was as patient Millar pulled himself up on the table and Dr. Adams went for his scissors and tweezers. This operation was spiced with a story of similar physiotherapy duty in the army.

"Ouch!" shouted Millar, "You're supposed to be cutting off the dead skin, not killing more of it."

"Pipe down, you want it fixed, don't you?" was his answer.

By the time this sufferer was lotioned, powdered, and taped, burly Jerry Kiser came in mumbling something about a madman who hasn't enough sense to get in out of the rain. As trainer Adams meticulously applied the tape to the footballer's swollen ankle, Kiser continued to bemoan the fact that practice would go on despite the rain.

"Q" thought he was through for the day, but in strode Hoopie Davis who evidently was in no hurry to get on the soggy gridiron.

"How about putting some heat on my chest, John?" was the query. Upon receipt of a cheerful okay, he doffed his shirt and stretched out under the lamp.

With this done, John returned to me and asked what I wanted. I told him I didn't know exactly what to write about him because most of it would be unprintable. So we settled on the above facts of time at Davidson, major (or majors), post-graduate plans, and post-post-graduate plans.

I suppose these facts could give a story of this week's campus character, but to know his cool wit and keen mind is the true story. He is one of the best speakers on the campus today. Last spring at the KA Old South Ball, Colonel Adams, ex-Confederate, had fifteen old ladies of the UDC shedding buckets of tears as he made his memorial speech to the Confederate dead at the Confederate memorial in Charlotte. He is slated for this honor again this year and I understand that the national president of the UDC plans to attend.

John's bridge game is above that of the average shark. His musical ability runs generally along the lines of his native Bristol, Tennessee.

(Continued On Page 6)

For Community, Colgate Government to Pay Third of Total Cost

Campus Store, Hamilton, N.Y.

Ask for it either way... both trade-marks mean the same thing.

In Hamilton, New York, the favorite gathering spot of students at Colgate University is the Campus Store because it is a cheerful place—full of friendly collegiate atmosphere. And when the gang gathers around, ice-cold Coca-Cola gets the call. For here, as in college haunts everywhere—Coke belongs.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY CONCORD BOTTLING COMPANY
© 1949, The Coca-Cola Company