VOLUME XXXVIII

MASQUERS CLOSE ‘THE MAN WHO CAME TO DINNER’

The bewhiskered figure in the wheelchair slowly surveys the attentive group surrounding him, and announces: “I may vomit.” Thus Sheridan
Whitesides, egomaniac, makes his entrance and starts a flow of vitriolic comments that run rampant throughout the course of “The
Man Who Came to Dinner,” to be presented in Chambers Auditorium, next Thursday and Friday at 8:15 p.m. Mr. Whitesides,
ably played by Bill Trotman, will dominate the action in the Hart and Kaufman satire, but there are others who
will come in for their share of attention.

For laughs, Vance Mizelle and Howard Proctor, comedy team from the late “Foolies,” have minor but very effective roles. Mizelle
is the world’s greatest authority on the cockroach, making a gift of ten thousand of them to Mr. Whitesides. Howard
Proctor is well suited for the part of Beverly Carlton, tweedy Englishman, who “cheerios” his way along in typical blimey.
Dorothy Herring adds a touch of sophistication as she plays the long-suffering Maggie and matches Whiteside’s sarcasm tit for tat.

See Picture On Page Four

Mary Wells McNeil, after playing nurse to the noted author, is driven to quit the nursing profession, declaring: “If Florence
Nightingale had ever nursed Sheridan Whitesides, she'd have married Jack the Ripper, instead of founding the Red Cross.” Bill Pharr
and Mrs. Ruth Hengeveld as Mr. and Mrs. Stanley come in for the brunt of the attack as their home
is taken over by the inimitable “Sherry.” They are not only subject to an enormous lawsuit, but are forced to
see their home turned into a guest home for Whitesides and company, plus escaped convicts, Chinese students, an octopus, penguins
from Admiral Byrd’s Arctic expedition, and a mummy from an Egyptian Khediva. Not even their children escape Whiteside’s touch. He
influences Richard and June Stanley to run away, bent for matrimony, and to make his stay a totally unpopular one
he tries to steal the Stanley cook when he leaves. Mary McGill, local high school student, will play June Stanley
instead of Jesse Carter as originally announced. Ed Parker heads the stage crew for this last Masquer’s play. Prof. Erwin
is in charge of the set construction and will also act the part of Dr. Bradley. Mr. Whitesides is the
Kaufman-Hart takeoff on Alexander Woollcott, with Beverly Carlton the counterpart of Noel Coward, and Lorraine Sheldon (played by Ellen Thigpen)
the image of Gertrude Lawrence.

Twin Pianists Give Concert In Chapel

Ernest and Miles Mauney, identical twin sons of Mr. and Mrs. W. K. Mauney of King’s Mountain, North Carolina, were
guest artists at Davidson's chapel program of April 24 which was held, naturally, in the college's Chambers Auditorium. The Messrs.
Mauney played, for their two piano concert: Tarentelle from a Rachmaninoff suite; Artist’s Life by Strauss; and Scherzo by Saint-Saëns.
The applause was loud and long, and the Mauney brothers would have played a second encore had not the time
allotted for the chapel program elapsed. The two Mauneys showed an interest in music at a very early age. When
nine years old they began studying with Miss Virginia Parsons of King’s Mountain, now Mrs. Ivan Rosenthal of Pleasantville, New
Jersey. At fourteen they became the pupils of Miss Dorothy Baldwin of Charlotte, and Mark Hoffman of the North Carolina
Woman’s College, making periodic trips to Greensboro for lessons. At the Juilliard School of Music in New York, where they
spent the summers of 1939 and 1940, they were taught by Arthur Newstead.

(Continued On Page Four)

Students Involved In Frolics Wreck

Tragedy in the form of an automobile accident involving cars driven by three Davidson students marred the Spring Frolics weekend
of those involved. The wreck, in which Rachel Scott, Frolics date of Bob Gibson, received a broken collarbone, occurred Friday
afternoon, April 21, at five p.m. three miles south of Mocksville. Three carloads of Davidson-bound students and dates en route
from Winston-Salem were involved in the accident. A. K. Owen was driving the leading car when a baseball from a
roadside game broke his windshield. Owen stopped to investigate, signaling Bill Neal, who was close behind, to stop also. Neal
pulled his ’50 Buick to the side of the road ahead of Owen. Bob Gibson behind Neal was unable to
stop, and his car sideswiped the Buick. Gibson’s Pontiac hit the rear fender of the Buick and was scraped down
the right side from the door to the rear fender. In hitting Neal’s car, the right door of the Pontiac
was forced open and Miss Scott was thrown out, breaking her collarbone. She was rushed back to Winston-Salem for treatment
and is now recovering satisfactorily. Damages were estimated at $150 for Gibson’s car, $50 for Neal's, and a windshield for
Owen. Settlement was made at Magistrate's court in Mocksville Saturday morning with no charges being made. Other Davidson students involved
were Bob Murray, passenger in Neal’s Buick, and Jimmy Rogers, riding with Gibson.

Erwin Takes Legion Medal at Inspection

The Annual Federal Inspection of the Military Department was conducted on April 17th and 18th. The Inspection Team, three senior
officers from Fort Bragg, N.C., and sent here by Headquarters’ Third Army in Atlanta, checked administration, facilities, classroom work, and
the afternoon drill. The official results of the inspection will not be made known to the Professor of Military Science
and Tactics until around the first of June. As a part of the program of activities for the occasion, a
formal (Continued On Page Four)

YEAR WITH Bill Klein Elected

The Davidsonian DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 1950

Pan Hel President

Last Monday night Bill Klein, Pan-Hellenic Council representative of the Phi Delta Theta Social fraternity, was elected president of the
Pan Hellenic Council for next year. Bill comes from Atlanta and is a pre-ministerial student. He is a member of
the Philanthropic Literary Society and the “D” Club. Bill runs the 440 on the track team. He is also a
member of the YMCA cabinet, serving on the Social Activity Commission. The purpose of the Pan-Hel Council is “to advance
the interests of Davidson College; to promote the general interests and welfare of the fraternities as a body, and to
ensure cooperation between them in their relations with the faculty, the Student Body, and the public in general.” As president,
it will be Bill's duty “to preside at all meetings; to call meetings at such times as he shall deem
desirable, to call meetings when requested to do so by three or more members; to represent the majority opinion of
the Council in all dealings with outsiders and to take no official action without the approval of a majority of
its members; to carry out and fulfill such other duties as may be delegated to him by the Council.”

Walker Takes Honors In Eumanean Contest

The Eumanean Literary Society's meeting this week centered its attention on a speaking contest held among its new members and
judged by members of the faculty. The judges panel consisting of Professors Boyd, Bauman, and Eberhardt, selected Bob Walker of
the Freshman class as winner from among six other contestants. Using a passage taken from one of Victor Hugo's compositions,
Walker showed a very powerful and effective speaking manner, combined with good enunciation and voice tone to completely hold the
audience's attention as he vividly described the horrifying thoughts and actions of a man caught in the death grasp of
quicksand. His selection was unanimously approved. Other speakers and their topics were Frank Wallace—"Non-Subsidization of the Basic Non-Agricultural Industries”; Dave
Moylan—“Mercy Killing”; George Basen—“The Brannan Agricultural Plan"; John Ottley—"A Christian View of Sexual Morality”; Pat McGeachy—“Why Are We Here?”; and
Jenks Jervey—"The Futility of Religion Among Small Children.” Each of these boys did a fine job of speaking and the
Eu Society feels very fortunate, indeed, in having so many good orators among its ranks. After the contest, a motion
was (Continued On Page Four)

MASQUERS PLAY ON 4th OF MAY

NUMBER TWENTY-FOUR

Kappa Kappa Petitions Alpha Tau Omega, Wins Approval Of North Car., Virginia Chapters

Pictured above are (left to right) Richard Johnson, Province Chief of ATO; Stuart Daniels, General Secretary of ATO; Dr. Cunningham;
Col. John MacGregor, National President of ATO; Mr. F. L. Jackson; Dean John Bailey; Dr. Lewis Schenck, Chairman of Faculty
Committee on Fraternities.

Archibald Rutledge Will Give Vereen Bell Literary Award

Mr. Archibald Rutledge, noted author, naturalist, and hunter, will present the annual Vereen Bell Award for creative writing this year.
Chapel, Monday, May 1, will be the scene of the presentation. As another aspect of his visit to Davidson, that
same evening Mr. Rutledge will deliver an address at 8:15 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium. Admission to this lecture is open
to the general public. Brought here under the auspices of the Public Lectures Committee, Mr. Rutledge is one of the
features of the Fine Arts Festival at Davidson, May 1-6.which, in addition, includes a student art exhibit, dramatic production, and
band and orchestra concerts, among other attractions. Having been invited to Davidson several times in the last dozen years, Mr.
Rutledge is both well known and well liked here. The poet laureate of South Carolina, he is the author of
over forty books. Many of these have a South Carolina setting, and the best known, such as Home by the
River, de-

(Continued On Page Four)

This week fifteen members of ROTC 32 were tapped into Scabbard and Blade, senior national honorary military fraternity. Qualifications for
membership in this organization include the following qualities: Leadership, patriotism, efficiency, good fellowship, and honor. Merit is the sole basis
for selection. Each year in the early fall and the early spring new members are tapped. Recommendations for membership are
made by the ROTC Department, but the final selecting is done by the organization itself.

With the men listed below as a nucleus with which to begin, Scabbard and Blade is looking forward to a
very successful year.

William Dysart Bacon, Jr.—Platoon Sergeant; Greenville, Mississippi; Phi Delta Theta; varsity track, Beaver Club.
Charles Armond Baldwin—Platoon Sergeant; Marianna, Fla; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Beaver Club, Davidsonian.
Robert Edwin Barron, II—Sergeant, 1st Class; Rock Hill, S. C.; Phi Gamma Delta, Sigma Upsilon, Philanthropic Literary Society; varsity track,
Scripts and Pranks.

LOFTIN, HUBBELL, GEER CHOSEN BUSINESS MANAGERS FOR PUBLICATIONS NEXT YEAR

Big business is a-booming next year. The Publication Board was glad to announce their appointments of next year’s business managers
for the Davidsonian, Scripts & Pranks, and the Quips & Cranks.

John Loftin is in the saddle next year as business manager of the Davidsonian. Gene Geer takes the reins for
the Scripts & Pranks and Bob Hubbell will hold the finances of the Quips & Cranks well in the middle
of the road during the 1950-51 year.

With their appointment, the Publication Board extends to these new leaders a vote of thanks for the immeasurable amount of
work done this year in financing their publications, which was not only a yardstick of their past achievements but an
indication of success for the coming year. To be a business manager for one of these publications is to invite
hours of toil, burdensome responsibility, little recognition, and a head of white hair. Hundreds of dollars pass through the hands
of these men who plan, organize, and budget the finances of their publications. The trust which lies in their hand
is that of the student body and the honor is one which should be duly recognized.

The Davidsonian's financier next year is at the present doing an excellent job as Collection Manager. John Loftin is a
Pi Kappa Alpha who hails from Thomasville, N. C. He came to Davidson after serving two years in the Army
to pursue a pre-business education.

The Scripts and Pranks business department is being led by Gene Geer, a rising Senior from Charleston, S. C. Gene,
better known as “Shifty,” might have been found this year either on the front porch or in room 12 of
Georgia dormitory keeping good books for the Scripts and Pranks. He is their assistant manager this year. Gene is majoring
in business at Davidson, and is an officer in his social fraternity, Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

Bob Hubbell will serve as the Quips & Cranks business manager next year. He has served on both the Quips
& Cranks and the Davidsonian editorial staffs and is now the assistant business manager of the former. Bob, a twenty-year-old
pre-med from Decatur, Ga., is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.

RISING SENIORS AT TAP DAY

Richard Armistead Boyd—Platoon Sergeant; Statesville, N. C.; Vice President of Pi Kappa Alpha; wrestling team.
Eugene Lee Burch, Jr.—Tech. Sergeant; Charlotte, N. C.
William J. Cassels, Jr.—Master Sergeant; Columbia, S. C.; President, Pi Kappa Phi; business staff of the Davidsonian, cheerleader, cross country,
sports editor, Quips and Cranks.
Thenton Lowell Davis, Jr.—Staff Sergeant; Palisades Park, New Jersey; Phi Delta Theta; football, D Club, Beaver Club.
Andrew Eugene Geer—Staff Sergeant; Charleston, S. C.; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Scripts and Pranks, Business Staff.
Fred William Hengeveld, Jr.—Platoon Sergeant; Davidson, N. C.; Kappa Sigma; Beaver Club; Baseball, basketball, D Club.
Isham Lamar Hinson, Jr.—Platoon Sergeant; Thomaston, Georgia; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Davidsonian, Eumenean Literary Society.
Auburn Cleatus Lambeth, Jr.—Platoon Sergeant; Decatur, Georgia; Phi Delta Theta; football, baseball, President Beaver Club, D Club, Student Council, Vice-President
Student Body.
James Vann Larkin—First Sergeant.

(Continued On Page Four)

Le Cercle Francais Gives French Play

Business managers of the various campus publications are (left to right): Bob Hubbell, Annual; John Loftin, Davidsonian; Gene Geer, Scripts
and Pranks.

Le Cercle Francais held its last meeting of the school year at the Goldiere’s Tuesday evening at 8:15 at which
time officers were elected. The following were elected to the bureau and will serve during the 1950-51 school year: Ken
Jones, president; Jack Hunter, vice-president; Bob Keever, secretary; and Dr. Goldiere, the permanent treasurer.

A short comedy, “Un Peu Exagere,” was presented with Dave Whitener playing the part of Monsieur, Bill Hart as Albert,
Ed Parker as Jean, Bill Long as Edouard, Bill Goodman as Paul, Jack Hunter as Charles, and Bob Keever as
Heure. Later in the evening Bryan Storey interpreted “L'Arlesienne,” a short story by Daudet. Le Cercle entire joined in the
singing of chansons francaises, after which Mrs. Goldiere served patisseries francaises.

These members were present at the meeting: Jim Murray, Bob Keever, Ken Jones, Bill Goodman, Ed Parker, Charlie Norwood, Jack
Hunter, Bryan Storey, Mac Doubles, Fred Best, Bill Hart, Bill Lord.

Kappa marks the first major hurdle

By LUKE SCALES

This week, all five chapters of Alpha Tau Omega in the Carolinas and Virginia voted approval to petition of Kappa
of Davidson. This marks the first major hurdle of the local group’s acceptance as a chapter of the A.T.O. fraternity.
The action followed a visit to Davidson's campus on the weekend of April 15 by National President John M. MacGregor,
Dean of New York Law School; National Secretary Stewart D. Daniels, of Champaign, IL; Province Chief Richard B. Johnson of
North Wilkesboro, and twenty students from chapters in this province.

The next step, now pending toward acceptance by A.T.O., is the approval of the fraternity’s high council, followed by designation
of the local group as an A.T.O. club. The final requirement before installation will be the vote of the 107
chapters of the fraternity.

The weekend visit of the national officials and members from neighboring chapters featured a banquet held Saturday night at 6
o'clock at the Kappa Kappa boarding house. The speakers for the banquet were Col. John McGregor and Mr. Stuart Daniels.

(Continued On Page Four)

Davidson Prepares For Fine Arts Week

During the week April 30 through May 5, the college will observe its annual spring Fine Arts festival. Several artists
will be brought to the campus, and will emphasize fine arts in the realm of music, art, and writing.

The festival opens Sunday afternoon at 4:30 p.m. on the front campus with a concert by the Davidson Concert Band,
James Christian Pfohl conducting. The Monday chapel hour will mark the presentation of the Vereen Bell award by Dr. Archibald
Rutledge, a native of South Carolina and a prominent contemporary author. At 8:15 p.m. of the same day, Dr. Rutledge
will be presented by the faculty lecture committee in a lecture in Chambers auditorium. Also taking place Monday at 4:30
p.m. is a student recital, featuring Henry Bridges, organist; Joe W. McLaney, baritone; Lawrence Atkins, clarinetist; Harrison Taylor, tenor; and
Eunice Berg, accompanist.

Tuesday the music department will bring Clerveses Sandresky, pianist, in an illustrated lecture-recital. At 8:15 p.m. in the evening the
male chorus and the festival Little Symphony Orchestra will be heard in a joint concert in Chambers auditorium.

In conjunction with the Festival, The Red and Black Masquers will present “The Man Who Came To Dinner” on Thursday
and Friday evening with 8:15 p.m. the curtain time for each performance.

The fine arts committee, composed of Messrs. Pfohl, Abernathy, Pietenpol, Davidson and Hutchison is displaying an exhibition of paintings by
Mary and Howard Thomas of the University of Georgia, a photographic exhibit in the dining hall, and a student art
exhibit in the Quadwrangler’s room. Dr. Abernathy, chairman of the faculty committee on fine arts, hopes that as many students
as possible will take advantage of the college's offering such an opportunity.

Scripts and Pranks Award Unannounced

The winner of the recent Scripts ‘n Pranks sponsored freshman writing contest has been chosen but will not be disclosed
until the publication of the last issue of the magazine, tentatively scheduled for release during exam week. In making this
announcement, Editor Bill Hamilton said that the winning entry had been selected from about a dozen papers submitted by the
editorial staff of the magazine. A cash prize of ten dollars will be awarded the winner.
