After absorbing their conference foes, the Davidson cagers’ chances for landing a tourney berth appear to be about gone. Their conference record to date stands at two wins and eight losses, which places them near the bottom in conference standing. One thing should be remembered, however. Six of those eight losses were dealt by State, Duke, and UNC.

By GORDON SCOTT

Even the most optimistic would have given Davidson no more than two wins from this group. The loss to South Carolina and the earlier defeat by Clemson hurt the Cats, for these two games were needed badly to raise Davidson stock for an invitation to the Durham tournament. Clemson’s win was just one of those games—it could have gone either way, and the loss to South Carolina wasn’t so bad in that the Gamecocks have no better than average quintet. Nevertheless, the fact remains that losses to these two South Carolina schools knocked the props from under Davidson’s playing in the tournament.

A look at the schedule of games for the remainder of the season reveals that the Cats have ten more games to play—eight of them conference fights. We’re optimistic enough to concede that Davidson still has an outside chance of making an appearance in the Durham classic. Of course, it’s no small order for a team, no matter what calibre, to win eight straight games, but at this stage of the game, it looks as though that’s what it will take. Davidson is one of the few smaller conference schools who tangle with State, Duke, and UNC twice each year, and conference standings to date show the effect it has had. The rough part of the schedule is over. The question now is whether Baird’s inexperienced but game crew can stay “up” enough to win from here on down the stretch. The Cats will be favored to win the rest of their games, with the exception of the South Carolina contest in Columbia, and there is a very possible upset in the making in this case.

WHERE’S THAT SPIRIT???

During the second half of the South Carolina-Davidson game Tuesday night, Davidson rooters had very little to cheer about. But there was certainly more to yell about than the amount of cheering that went on would indicate. When South Carolina started pulling away, the bottom seemed to fall out of not only the team but the student body as well. At times, the gym was so quiet that you could have heard someone blow his nose on the other side of the building. It would be a sad repetition of the past if the Davidson student body spirit is allowed to fall by the wayside just because the team loses a game. On the other hand, spirit among the players seemed to drop almost completely during the final stages of the game. If this happens then the cheering section will invariably follow suit, because in basketball, as probably in no other sport, the spirit and fight of the participants is greatly reflected in the cheering section. So it works both ways. Fans and players have a joint responsibility in seeing that spirit stays at a high pitch.

‘T’ MINDED GRIDDERS BUCKLE DOWN

Crowell Little, who had previously announced that he will experiment with the Diamond “T” in spring football sessions, lost little time in getting his backfield charges indoctrinated with a few fundamentals of the “T” formation in the preliminary practice Wednesday afternoon. Little put his backs through their paces while coaches Brown, Redding, Jamerson, and Buddy Chandler worked with the linemen. The weather was crisp and a cool wind kept the gridders dancing around to keep warm. The boys were dressed out in heavy equipment but there was no contact work. Chandler and Redding worked with some of the linemen on blocking fundamentals and used one of the mechanical blocking sleds. Jim Fasul charged the sled so hard on one block that he broke one of its big springs. Needless to say, that’s one bill the Athletic Department won't mind paying.

VISIT THE Charlotte Waffle Shop “ACROSS FROM THE BURNING CORNER” ON WEST TRADE STREET

THACKER’S, INC. Private Dining Rooms for Parties and Banquets “A GOOD PLACE TO EAT” Phone 25490 221 South Tryon Street Charlotte, N. C.

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER 126 W. TRADE ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C. PHONE 2-2238

Wildcat Sports FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1950 THE DAVIDSONIAN

PIKAS PACE LOOP

By C. D. STRIBLING

For his brilliant performances on the hardwood during the last week, we cite Fred “Dutch” Hengeveld as Wildcat of the week. In spite of a losing cause, “Dutch” has been the scoring spark in many of the recent games with his deadly set shot. Tuesday night against the University of South Carolina, Dutch was the high point man for the Wildcats with eleven points. He usually shoots set shots from behind the foul circle and has a really remarkable eye for the basket. Even without much time to get set, Dutch usually manages to swish through several baskets every game. He also garners a lot of points by way of the free throw line. Dutch is a guard but the way he gets in there and scraps for those rebounds one would think he was a 6’6” center. He looks as if he’s got springs in his legs instead of muscles and he’s a quick man on a fast break. Dutch is a junior and a member of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity. In the spring he is the top pitcher on the Davidson baseball nine. With one more year after this one, Dutch shows promise of developing into one of the best athletes seen around Davidson in a long time. Dutch is a Davidson boy and his father is College Registrar.

Little and Charges Begin Spring Drill

By BILL ADAMS

At 4 o’clock Wednesday afternoon, the first day of February, Coach Crowell Little and his staff began an intensive Spring football program with high hopes of laying a sound foundation for next fall’s football wars. An estimated squad of from 50 to 65 boys turned out in answer to Little’s call. Heading the list of candidates is Captain Auburn Lambeth and alternate-Captain Wood Leach with some 18 letter winners from last year’s squad and numerous rising sophomores from this year’s Freshman squad. Gone from last year’s team are 17 seniors including such worthies as Bob Sharpe, Buddy Chandler, Carl Eborn, Johnny Richards, Sandy Carnegie, Charlie Rimer, Jake Wade, Cliff Turner, and Jim Sifford.

Coach Little said he plans to continue the Spring practice until baseball season begins. After that he will continue to have informal practice for boys participating in winter sports and unable to take part in the regular spring sessions. A new system will definitely be installed. Little said he plans to work.

Carolina and Duke Drop Cats Again

Davidson’s cagers followed up a ten-day examination period by dropping two games to Southern Conference rivals, Duke University and the University of NorthCarolina. The Blue Devils of Duke got off to a fast start and took a seven-point lead in the opening minutes against the Wildcats. Held scoreless for the first four and a half minutes, Davidson finally stripped the net to get into the scoring column. By playing heads-up ball and capitalizing on the Wildcats’ mistakes, the Dukes surged forward to hold a 42-26 lead at the end of the first half. As the second half got underway, Davidson began to play a different brand of basketball and rapidly closed up the gap between the scores, getting within three points of the Blue Devils with less than four minutes to go. The closing minutes saw goals by all-conference “Cup” Youmans and Groat, and four foul shots by Hughes, while the Wildcats were held scoreless. The final score: Duke 69, Davidson 59.

Traveling to Chapel Hill for a game Saturday night, the Wildcats met with their second conference foe in as many nights, the University of North Carolina. The Carolina Tar Heels, paced by the good offensive play of Isantes, took the scoring lead about halfway into the first half and were never behind from that time on. Holding an eight-point lead at halftime, North Carolina began slowly to pull away from the visiting Cats and held an eighteen-point lead at one point during the second half. Davidson put on a final attempt to narrow their deficit late in the game, but the drive was stopped and Carolina claimed the victory by the score of 67-54. Isantes, with seventeen points, took high honors for the night with Patterson and Nearman following with 15 and 14 points respectively. Tommy Haller, who had burned in 22 points against Duke, teamed with Cobb for Davidson's high scorers with nine points against the Tar Heels.

Wildcat Of The Week

FRED HENGEVELD

exclusively with a diamond T for about 2 weeks, then possibly try out some other systems, all depending on how well the boys take to the diamond-T. He said it was difficult to give many details since he hasn't even seen his boys, but that his system would definitely be planned to fit his material. The diamond-T with Lambeth at quarter appears to be first choice at this stage. It is a variation of the split-T, with the fullback a little behind the halves and possesses all of the essentials of the split-T. Some player changes in position will almost certainly be made but none are certain yet. Coach Little ventured only one prediction for next season. He said, “We'll show up for all our games.”

Kittens Notch Win; Bow to Duke, Cadet

By DICK LILES

Parker High

The Freshman Basketeers entertained the high-flying Parker High team before exams and handed them a 52-45 defeat. The Frosh held a 37-23 lead at halftime in the thriller. Bowen collected 16 points followed by Graham with 10. The local lads swished the net for 24 points in the second quarter alone. Cox, younger brother of the South Carolina ace, grabbed 24 points for the losers.

Carolina

The Carolina Frosh were hosts Saturday night to the Wildkittens. They overpowered the locals 66-34, although the score at the half was only 22-16 in their favor. Grimaldi and Wallace threw in 15 tallies each as Asbury and Howell with 9 and 7 were best for the losers.

Oak Ridge

In a preliminary to the South Carolina contest, the Kittens lost a close thriller to the Oak Ridge Cadets by 59-50. The Cadets have lost only one game this season and that was to the Junior circuit leading Pfeiffer Juniors by one point. The Frosh led 26-24 at halftime, but faltered when flashy guard Montgomery and forward D. Cross began “putting on the steam.” Cross netted 13 and Montgomery 12. Graham and Vance led their teammates for scoring honors with 14 and 11 respectively.

FRATERNITY SCORES

Kappa Sigs, 25; Betas: 19.
Phi Delts 31; Independents 25.
SAE 35; SPE 24.
Sigma Chi, 35; Pi Kaps 25.
Phi Gams, 38; Campus Club 15.
Pikas, 45; Kappa Sigs, 35.

(Continued on Page Four)

Slaughter and Cox Combine Talents As Gamecocks Down Cats, 66-46

By CHARLIE HAWKINS

The Davidson Wildcats, fighting for a berth in the Southern Conference Tournament, suffered a reverse at the hands of Coach Frank Johnson’s Gamecocks of the University of South Carolina Tuesday night in Johnston Gym, 66-46. It was a hard one to lose for Coach Boyd Baird of Davidson and his boys, but the game did prove that the inexperienced Wildcats were gaining some much-needed court savvy. A zone thrown up by the Presbyterians to stop South Carolina's 6'11" center, Jim Slaughter, was effective for one half, but lost its punch later in the game. In putting two men on Slaughter, the Wildcats were open to shots from the outside by the Gamecock guards, and as a result suffered for it, for both South Carolina guards were making set shots with accuracy.

The game started off fast as Cox, who starred for South Carolina all season, sank a set shot to put the Gamecocks ahead, 2-0. After 4 1-2 minutes of play, the fighting ‘Cats had spurted to a 6-3 lead, as Hengeveld began to hit. From here on it was nip and tuck until 10 minutes had elapsed and South Carolina was ahead, 17-14. Hengeveld had cashed in on 5 more points, and Slaughter, who had begun to click, and Cox had scored 2 baskets apiece. A Hengeveld set shot and a follow by Brooks put Davidson ahead, 18-17, but it was quickly counteracted by 3 successive goals by the diminutive Gamecock guard, Don Cox. A set shot by Len Ekinof and a pivot by Slaughter, both of South Carolina, were matched by Holler’s push and Hengeveld’s set shot as the score moved to 22-27. A free toss by Lazenby moved the score to 27-23 as South Carolina began to try to protect the lead and at the same time pull Davidson out of the zone defense. A foul shot by Brooks of Davidson and a one-hand push by Prizioso of South Carolina gave the Gamecocks a 29-24 advantage at the half.

The second half began swiftly as Brooks, Haller, and Coleman collaborated for 6 more points for the ‘Cats. Open set shots and a Slaughter pivot shot brought S. C. a 36-30 lead. Slaughter hit for 3 more points and South Carolina spurted again to a 41-34, as Coleman and Haller had cashed in on 4 foul shots for the 'Cats. With only 8 1-2 minutes left, the Gamecocks tried again to bring the Wildcats from their zone defense, only to fail again. Slaughter hit for 6 more before fouling out.

(Continued On Page Four)

Camels, of course!

WITH SMOKERS WHO KNOW...IT’S

Yes, Camels are SO MILD that in a coast-to-coast test of hundreds of men and women who smoked Camels—and only Camels—for 30 consecutive days, noted throat specialists, making weekly examinations, reported NOT ONE SINGLE CASE OF THROAT IRRITATION DUE TO SMOKING CAMELS!