OCHEOK POLL . OAT SCOOP mc?” Bee 2 VOLUME XXXVIII OR ALENDA Poe 8 Ga’ & w BUX UB) The Davidsonian DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, MARCH 10, 1950 ~RNS AS SPREIG SPIAKER JONES DISCUSSES QUALITIES "An Ode To Optics’’ Presented Before f DAVIDSON'S OWN “SLIOK” EVANS REIGNS AS MAN OF THE WEEK NUMBER NINETEEN [MALE CHORUS WILL FURNISH SPECIAL MUSIC AT VESPERS SOUGHT BY BUSINESS FIRMS ‘*What Business Looks for in Young Men Today”? or briefly **How Do I Rate’’ was the subject of the well-delivered talk by Mr. A. H. Jones in chapel Tuesday. Mr. Jones is well qualified to speak on such a subject as he is very directly connected with Eumanean Society. The Eumanean Literary Society held its bi-weekly meeting at Eu Hall on Monday night of this week. President J. W. Campbell called dresses starting Sunday night the business world in his position as Assistant Vice-President of the American Trust Company of Charlotte. As a prelude to his talk, Mr. Jones declared the high regard his company holds for any Davidson graduates and especially for ‘our own Mr. Jackson.” In his smiling manner the speaker went so far as to say the “halo effect of Davidson men” must not be allowed to blind the business man when he directly evaluates a graduate’s abilities. Proceeding with his talk, Mr. Jones briefly outlined eight qualities of personality and character which most business men require of a prospective employee. Number one on his list was placed Honesty. This quality of personal honesty and integrity was assumed as basic. Next came friendliness — the ability to be courteous and sincere with all men. Reliability or dependability fit in third place. In number four place came individuality of thought — no parasitism in thinking. Mr. Jones placed the ability to work as one of a team in fifth place. The importance of off-the-job-living was numbered six. For number seven, the desire to seek and work things out for yourself was given emphasis. As his last point, Mr. Jones stressed the need of a sense or feeling of the principles which built our country and the real belief in the survival of America’s free enterprise system. In closing Mr. Jones expressed his belief in the capitalistic ideals of our country as the best for the best in business. Scabbard And Blade Completes Planning Plans for the Military Ball sponsored by Scabbard and Blade, and scheduled for 8-12 o'clock, March 18, at the Morris Field Officers Club, are nearing completion according to C. N. Childers, president of the military fraternity. Childers stated that student response so far has been gratifying, and the annual ball seems well on its way toward reclaiming its pre-war social status on a par with the Pan Hellenic Dances. Hilly Knauf’s popular orchestra, a figure with a saber arch for added colors, and a general military atmosphere will highlight the affair. The entire student body is eligible to attend, and may secure bids from any member of the military fraternity at the following prices: Couples, $2.10; stag $1.50. The dance is semi-formal, but ROTC members are encouraged to wear their regulation uniforms to heighten the military effect. I.R.C. Town Meeting To Reveal Plans Tuesday, March 14, the International Relations Club will conduct a “Town Meeting of the Air” program initiating its plans for the remainder of the semester of bringing not only to its members, but to the whole student body and faculty some important, current, controversial topics. On Tuesday the impending topic, “The Pros and Cons of a Labor Government” will be attacked by Professors Johnson and Pinkney on the “con” side, being opposed by Professor Wilson and Monsignor R. L. Smith on the “pro” side. The I.R.C. is pleased to have Monsignor Smith of Carlisle, England, visiting Professor Wilson, to speak on our program. The two became fast friends in Europe after the war when Professor Wilson was in charge of Protestant services and Monsignor Smith Roman Catholic services. The program will be held upstairs in Phi Hall and all who are interested in this highly debatable topic are cordially invited to attend. the meeting to order after which a brief devotional was given by Ken Goodpasture. Two papers for membership consideration were then submitted by Dave Mayland of the Freshman class and Pete Milner of the Junior class. Dave’s paper was a satiric essay on the lethargy of the Davidson students which showed a profound insight into the campus situation while Pete’s paper, “An Ode to Optics,” was on the lighter side and proved to be very entertaining, using our eyes and eye-glasses as a nucleus of its thought. Both of these boys were readily extended bids of membership to the society. After the roll call and minutes of the last meeting, Jim W. Campbell gave an address to all the new members on the ideals, purposes, and traditions of the society and welcomed them on behalf of the officers and old members. Students Carry On ‘Y' Extension Work On Sunday mornings when many of our industrious Student Body are still enjoying their dreams, there is a group of students, interested in extra-curricular service, who make their way through Mecklenburg at its quietest to teach Sunday school. About twenty arrive at the county sanatorium and at the Bethel Presbyterian Church to teach men and women. Young people as well, white and colored. They find their reward for the sacrifice of sleep and the time required for lesson preparation in the fruits of their service. They must share the problems of those whom they teach and they find rich experience in the counsel- Critic Bill Hollister proceeded to ing opportunities. They meet other give his general criticisms of the problems in teaching methods and neophytes’ papers and a short sum- class reaction. Recently a teacher mation of the criteria for criticism at the sanatorium went onto a to be used by the society this se- white man’s ward and attempted mester. a lesson but all save one refused Some minor business details were even to turn their heads to look attended to, after which a debate upon the intruder. The work has between Tommy Langford, affirma- its challenges too. tive, and Jim W. Campbell, nega- tive, on the question — Resolved: Shall Davidson Change to Three Chapel Devotionals a Week? — proved to be highly interesting and informative. The society then called upon Hartley Hall for an impromptu speech on “The Sewer System of Moscow” which hilariously reaffirmed Hartley's claim as Davidson’s leading bull addict and ended the meeting in a fashion only Hartley could achieve. Notice From Coach Barton! Coach Barton has asked that it be made clear to students that he will in no way share in the revenue gained by the Kramer-Gonzales match. Coach Barton makes this statement in view of the fact that some students have believed he had a financial interest in the contest. “Teeny” Lafferty Addresses pany Gest a —roe DR. FOREMAN YOUNG PEOPLE HOUSING WITH NOTICE!. It is important that all “Letters to the Editor” submitted to the Davidsonian for publication be signed by the author of the letter. No letters will be printed unless signed in full by the student submitting them. All signed letters, however, unless obscene or personally abusive, will be published. The Editors Students As “D” Club Initiates Repeat Oath football were Bill Acker, Jack Branch, Amos Camp, Hoopie Davis, Jim Fasul, Bill Freeman, Bob Gibson, Johnny Guiton, Jerry Kiser, Wood Leach, Grover Lee, Bill McNeely, John Rittenburg, C. L. Runyan, Bobby Turk, Bill Van- Story, Ham Wade, Bill Dubose, manager, and Charlie Mitchel, cheerleader. Cross country: Bill Lee, Dick Patterson, Dick Stockton, and Tom Stockton. Basketball: Bill Brooks, Tom Coleman, Don Lazenby, Mac McLean, Brady Osborne, and Charlie Norwood, manager. Wrestling: Bob Gay, Hal Hanes, David Lafar, and “Chuck” Kirby, manager. — Mr. Lafferty was introduced to Last Friday, March 3, the “D” Club held its formal initiation for new members in chapel. This ended three days of informal initiation for the thirty-three athletes. The highlight of the program was a talk by “Teeny” Lafferty, an all-time Davidson “great.” On Wednesday, the new initiates had to wear the uniform of the sport in which they made their letter; and the managers had to carry a towel and a bucket of water. Thursday night the initiates were subjected to a little “horse play” in the gym; and after the “horse play,” they were treated to a feast. Friday morning they took the “D” Club Oath and were presented with gold “D's.” Those men making letters in the student body by Jake Wade, president of the “D” Club. “Teeny” was one of the most outstanding students Davidson has ever had. He was president of the student body and captain of the football team. He won state wide fame by being placed on the all-State football team, and he won nation-wide recognition as Honorable Mention for All-American. He was a member of Phi Beta Kappa andODK as well as being cadet commander of the ROTC battalion. “Teeny” had a distinguished record in the Army during the last war; he was discharged as a major. “Teeny” is now vice-president of a hosiery mill in Concord.

Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman, professor of Doctrinal Theology at Louisville Presbyterian Seminary, will deliver a series of addresses terminating Wednesday morning. Dr. Foreman will speak at Vespers Sunday night; at chapel on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday; and Monday and Tuesday evenings in Chamber's Auditorium at seven-fifteen. Dr. Foreman will be available for conferences with students provided they have previously made an appointment through Bill Smith, secretary of the Y.M.C.A. Special music will be provided by the Male Chorus of Davidson on Sunday evening. On Monday and Tuesday, special music will be provided by members of the student body. Informal attire will be permissible for the later two of the night services.

Dr. Foreman’s home is Fort Edward, New York. He entered Davidson College as a member of the class of 1911. While at Davidson, Dr. Foreman proved to be a conscientious student. He assumed responsibilities in scholastic and extra-curricular fields. He was a member of Phi Beta Kappa and ODK, a national honorary leadership fraternity. Also, he was accepted into the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity and elected editor-in-chief of the Davidson magazine. After graduating from Davidson, Dr. Foreman studied at Princeton University where he received his A.M. degree. He went on to Princeton Seminary where he received his S.T.B. and S.T.M. degrees, and finally to Yale where he received a Ph.D. Later, Dr. Foreman was honored with a D.D. degree by Yale University.

Returning to Davidson, Dr. Foreman accepted a position on the faculty as a professor of Bible and philosophy. He has been well remembered by seniors who were familiar with his able teaching abilities and some of his unusual experiences while working with the Railway Mail Service. He was also held in esteem by the members of the faculty, as was expressed in the loss they felt at his acceptance of his present position with Louisville Seminary.

Dr. Foreman's ability to write as editor of the magazine possibly encouraged him to write many newspaper columns and pamphlets at a later date. He has written senior pupils' and teachers' quarterlies for the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.); sundry articles in the Union Theological Seminary Review, the Presbyterian Outlook, the Earnest Worker, and the Presbyterian of the South; and many tracts such as, “On the Enjoyment of God.” Perhaps his most important literary achievement is his weekly International Uniform Sunday School Lesson. This column is printed by sixteen hundred weekly newspapers on behalf of forty Protestant denominations. In view of Dr. Foreman’s writing ability, it is natural that he should be a member of several...

(Continued on Page Six)

Hutchison Talks To Photographers Club

Mr. J. S. Hutchison, director of the Mint Museum in Charlotte and instructor of fine arts at Davidson, recently presented a special program at a regular meeting of the Photo Club. Using a special exhibit of photographs prepared by the Museum of Modern Art of New York, Mr. Hutchison considered the functions of photography and the photographer.

“The faculty for inner-communication, man to man, has put man above the animals,” said Mr. Hutchison. “One of the earliest forms of this communication was the picture, upon which our alphabets have been built. And one of the newest forms of this communication is photography. It may be used merely to document life; or it may be used to convey the photographer's moods, feelings, and ideas to others through his pictures. When the camera is used in this way, its product, the photograph, is more apt to be classed as art than when it is used to produce a mere record.”

Continuing with a discussion of the types of pictures which can be created with a camera, Mr. Hutchison concluded with a discussion of composition forms and some helpful advice on pleasing composition. “Good pictures are made, not by the camera, but by the camera in the hands of a sensitive and capable photographer.”

TOUR NEGRO PRITCHETT

Dr. Carl Pritchett led the young people of his church on a tour of local Negro housing last Sunday afternoon. Composed of both boys and girls, a few parents, and college sociology students, the group visited every Negro community in the township. In this way, Dr. Pritchett was able to show both good and bad housing, forming a basis for comparing the two. The trip was climaxed by a detailed inspection of those homes in the rear of the business district. As in the recent town meeting, Reverend Pritchett desired only to expose the appalling situation existing in these places. By actually interviewing a number of the tenants and again stressing the health and fire hazards, he brought home to the youths the need for immediate action. “It was a chance for them to see one of the connections between church and community,” declared Dr. Pritchett.

Westminster Group Hears Mission Boys

According to a panel of seven missionary’s sons at Westminster Fellowship Sunday, the life on a mission post in China, Korea, or the Belgium Congo is not bad at all. The panel, composed of George McKee, Mercer Kepler, Bill Hamilton, and Ed Richardson from China, Al Miller and Sandy Shive from the Congo, and Ken Boger from Korea, gave answers to the group concerning their schooling in the foreign countries, their playmates, and their feelings toward mission work. Most of the panel felt that their schooling had been as good or perhaps better than what they would have gotten in this country. Those in China were able to attend a fairly good-sized American high school in Shanghai. In Africa also, there was a good-sized school in one of the larger stations. In both places, the students were offered a good curriculum and were able to play American sports like basketball, baseball, and tennis. Though some of them had been in larger stations with several American children for playmates, others had played almost exclusively with the Chinese children around their mission. All said that the native children had been among their good friends.

When asked if they considered it a disadvantage to grow up as a missionary’s son in a foreign country, the general consensus of opinion seemed to be to the contrary. Though they didn’t have drugstores or movies around, and they couldn't buy just anything they wanted, they didn’t know anything better, so they were satisfied. All felt that their schooling had been adequate. Although the conditions in the three areas were slightly different, all expressed essentially the same ideas. The last question asked them was whether there is a tendency for...

(Continued From Page Five)

...the missionary’s sons to return to the...

Le Cercle Francais Meets At Goldieres

At the home of the Goldieres on February 28, at 8:15 p.m., Le Cercle Francais held its regular monthly meeting. The soirée was dedicated to Dr. Watts who recently received the “Legion d’Honneur” from the French government as a recompense for his stimulation of French culture in America. Also, H. W. Barr read a paper on Honore de Balzac, marking the one hundred and fiftieth year of his death. The feature of the evening was centered around a descriptive trip to France. Seven members reported on various regions of France, giving a bit of their history and showing the highlights of their development. The following took part in the discussion: W. A. Goodman, E. C. Parker, W. L. Lord, F. W. Best, R. R. Hart, K. W. Jones, and J. R. Keever. After the program, Mrs. Goldiere and Mrs. Watts served refreshments non-alcoholic, and Le Cercle sang favorite French songs.

Three Tapped By Military Society

John Loftin, Charles Parker, and John Rittenberg were added last week to the ranks of Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity. Thomasville, N.C. is the home of John Loftin, a former member of Uncle Sam’s Quartermaster Corps, now a junior here at Davidson. John belongs to IRC, has served on the Davidsonian staff and Forensic Council, and is a member of Pi Kapp social fraternity. Charley Parker, a native of Asheville, is captain of Co. B, and a member of the honorary Spanish fraternity and Phi Delt social fraternity. He is also a crack marksman on the local rifle team. John Rittenberg hails from Tacoma, Maryland, and is platoon leader in Co. B, besides being an outstanding football player.