PAGE TWO

Scriptures Differ With Barth, Brunner

The distinction between the Scriptures and the “Word of God” and the experience of the Divine human encounter, ideas made famous by Karl Barth and his sometimes disciple Emil Brunner, were subjects of discussion at the second YMCA after-vespers discussion group last Sunday night. The discussion was led by Dr. L. B. Schenck and was held in his home. The group shared in a measure the great experience of Dr. Schenck who studied under Barth this past summer at the University of Basel in Switzerland and who has brought back a genuine enthusiasm in the challenging position of the renowned theologian. Dr. Schenck answered a question barrage after he had presented the distinguishing tenets of Barth and his variance with Brunner. A general discussion followed which continued in increasing controversy along the return paths to the dormitories.

When Lake Wiley, below the present golf course, washed away in 1897, the Davidson College magazine reported that we now had “a broken dam by a lake site but no lake by a dam site.” (Quoted in Miss Cornelia Shaw’s History of Davidson College, P. 226. Censor please note.)

The duties of the Davidson faculty in the 1840’s were listed as:
“To give faithful instruction.”
“To watch over morals.”
“To maintain wholesome government and discipline.”
“To assign rooms.”
“To frequently visit rooms and observe their condition...at any time of day or night.”

DEAN DEFINES TOP SOUTHERN EDITOR...
(Continued From Page One)

are slow in coming—our time is running out. Changes in community life and in public administration are needed to refute the Red Whispering campaign. This need for change can be directed at two trouble spots which are (1) our failure to educate, and (2) our failure to recognize the individual worths of differing factions. We must become world-minded.”

“The Reds were quick to jump at their opportunity to stuff starving and poverty-stricken eastern worlds with lurid anti-capitalistic propaganda. Those people distrust an imperialistic and sophisticated western world. People are falling for communism, and falling fast. Mr. Carter closed with the admonition that losing a war is terrible. “This,” he continued, “could happen if we maintain our cocksuredness. Our ability to change now, will make or lose the kind of country we want.

MASQUERS...
(Continued From Page One)

“My Sister, Eileen.” He has also appeared in several Little Theater productions. Here at Davidson Alden is a member of the Davidsonian and concert band. General Kane, a shrewd man of 50, is “tough but capable of a calculated amiability.” He approaches the political viewpoint of a good army officer. To him his job is more important than winning the war. He acts as the appeaser between General Dennis and the Washington politicians. Although he attempts to keep an even keel in the altercations, he is finally forced to a decision—a command decision. Tickets for the play will go on sale late this week. They may be obtained from any member of the cast or Masquers.

COLLEGE MAN
(From Wofford College)

Our versatile, humor-loving Dean Norton has done it again. Wednesday morning he presented to the student body a reading which he “just scratched off before chapel.” Following is his definition:

What is a college man? He is a man who lives in a beautiful park, surrounded by trees, shrubbery, birds, squirrels and college professors—in lovely surroundings. He is tempted to be a time-wasting loafer but, instead, he goes to the library and reads thousands of pages from books which make him the companion of the great minds of all ages.

What is a college man? He is a man who can go past a television set going full blast in the lobby of Greene Hall—he can pass it by knowing that it has four hours of programs in the offering—and he can go to his room and study for four hours.

What is a college man? He is a man tempted to spend three hours with one of the most vivacious little blue-eyed blondes in Converse Heights but, instead, he writes a fifteen-page theme on “Human Ecology as Revealed in the Bantu Kraal.”

What is a college man? He is a man strong enough to resist the temptation to clear off the campus at exactly 10:20 on Saturday morning with the idea of returning at 12:55 on Sunday night, but instead, he spends a good many weekends in reviewing his college work and spending Sunday in worship, reading and rest.

A COLLEGE MAN is one who looks far enough ahead to wisely budget his time so that he can afford a good show now and then, a bit of loafing on the campus when responsibilities are light and friendships are meaningful. He does spend an occasional evening with the vivacious blondes (or brunettes) in Converse Heights and he does spend a weekend with Mom and Dad occasionally but he is a man rather than an immature adolescent and his main business is getting an education.

Charlotte, N. C
Stonestreet's Cafe
GRADE ‘A’ CAFE
Fine Foods
418 South Main Street
Mooresville, N. C.

Where you meet your friends
Charlotte's Finest Restaurant
SHIP AHOY

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sigma Delta Pi and Spanish Club Meet

The joint meeting of Sigma Delta Pi and the Spanish Club was held at the K. A. House the first of November. The more serious part of the program was a sketch of the life of Juarez, great Mexican liberal of the nineteenth century, read by R. M. Wearn. Following this, those present tried their hand at a Spanish crossword puzzle. The group then joined in singing Spanish and Latin-American songs. On display were advertisements and selections from the daily newspaper of Havana, El Diario de la Marina; the library now subscribes to this paper.

On November 15 Sigma Delta Pi met at the home of Professor Roberts for the purpose of discussing a revision of the local chapter constitution. Ballots were cast for the election of national officers. Business dispensed with, the group enjoyed the showing of colored slides of various regions of Latin America, and then listened to recordings of Spanish music. Following this, refreshments were served.

Davidson College has its “ghost” but unlike most spectral apparitions it does not represent a person but a building. The tremendous columns of old Chambers building were so heavy that the ground beneath where they stood is packed too tight for grass roots. After a season of dry weather there can be clearly seen...

Degrade Students

State College, Pa. (IP)—The Pennsylvania State College recently directed the removal of bars from fraternity houses and other student quarters and expressly forbid the possession or use of alcoholic beverages on college property in a sweeping regulation announced by the administration. In a letter addressed to “all student organizations,” the college said...that rules have been openly disregarded. “Actually,” the letter points out, “more bars have been installed, more drinking parties have been held, and the regulations in regard to mixed drinking have been openly disregarded.” Noting that teenagers were replacing veterans on the college campus, thereby posing an environmental problem for younger students, the College appealed to student organizations for their active support in cooperative measures designed to “assist in the development of enduring habits.” The College said the new order was prompted in part by “proof that the public considers the presence of bars as evidence of drinking as part of fraternity and college life.” Openly disregarding the regulations of the Interfraternity Council and WSGA regulations, the letter states that “the bars set the pattern of social events and thus bring group pressures to bear on members and guests.”

WORKS OF CELEBRATED... (Continued From Page One)
complications set in, and the author died in September of that year at John Hopkins Hospital. Ballads and folktales spring up about some men, and Tom Wolfe is one of them. The mountains of Western North Carolina resound with stories of his prowess. Although one man can hardly hope to produce a book that fully expresses the American way of living, Wolfe came as close as any novelist.

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT
BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST.
PHONE 2-2238
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Hermie’s “Inn”
University of Nebraska
Lincoln, Nebraska
A favorite gathering spot of students at the University of Nebraska is Hermie’s “Inn” because it is a cheerful place—full of friendly university atmosphere. And when the gang gathers around, ice-cold Coca-Cola gets the call. For here, as in university haunts everywhere—Coke belongs. Ask for it either way... both trademarks mean the same thing.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO., OF CONCORD
© 1950, The Coca-Cola Company

WILDCAT OF WEEK... (Continued from Page Four)
uncanny how he would diagnose the Pack’s plays, then proceed to wreck them. What they didn’t know about this Marion, N. C. boy was that he wasn't even a regular fixture at the linebacking post. In high school and at Gardner-Webb Junior College, Dave played quarterback, holding down a halfback post when his team was on the defensive. This was his first attempt at the linebacking job, and he was doing a magnificent job. His debut was a beautiful sight to Wildcat fans, shivering up in the rain and cold at Riddick Stadium, even though it was in a losing cause.

CAGERS OPEN... (Continued from Page Four)
January 13—Univ. of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, N. C.
January 15—McCrary Eagles, Davidson.
January 26—Furman, Greenville, S. C.
January 27—Clemson College, Clemson College, S. C.
January 29—Duke, Durham, N. C.
February 1—Univ. of Maryland, Davidson.
February 3—The Citadel, Charlotte.
February 5—University of South Carolina, Davidson.
February 6—Furman, Davidson.
February 9—Clemson College, Davidson.
February 12—Duke, Davidson.
February 16—Washington & Lee, Lexington, Va.
February 17—M.M.I., Lexington, Va.
February 23—Washington & Lee, Davidson.

VETERAN OF TWO... (Continued From Page One)
troops at Fort Knox, until 1948. During this 3-year period, he also served as a special consultant to the State Department. He assumed command of the North Carolina Military District, with headquarters in Raleigh, in July 1948. Colonel Perry is a graduate of several army schools including The Cavalry School, The Armored School, The Chemical Corps School, and The Armored Force College. He has been awarded a number of decorations including The Silver Star, The Legion of Merit, The Bronze Medal, Legion of Honor (France), Croix de Guerre with Palms (France), and The Reconnaissance Medal (France).

DAVIDSON
Shows Start at 3 P. M.
Monday & Tuesday, Nov. 20-21
‘LET’S DANCE’
Fred Astaire — Betty Hutton
NEWS
Wednesday, Nov. 22
‘RETURN OF THE FRONTIERSMAN’
Gordon MacRae—Rory Calhoun
FEATURETTE & SPECIAL
Thursday, Nov. 23
‘WYOMING MAIL’
Stephen McNally - Alexis Smith
BAND & CARTOON
Friday, Nov. 24
‘PRETTY BABY’
Dennis Morgan—Betsy Drake
SPORT & CARTOON
Saturday, Nov. 25
‘WOMAN ON THE RUN’
Ann Sheridan—Dennis O'Keefe
COMEDY & CARTOON

ROBLEE FOR CAMPUS WEAR
Here’s one you will want. Style 858 is a rich brown suede with crepe soles. Also available in blue. $11.95
MANY OTHER STYLES TO CHOOSE FROM
Priced from— $8.95 to $15.95
Davis Co
Charlotte, N. C.

right out of the pages of Esquire... Air-Free* back gives free-swinging action
BANTAMAC
the jacket that’s so smart as all get out!
Wilson-Wright’s
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Exclusive Undergrad Charge Store in Charlotte
Davidson Representative: GEORGE KNIGHT

In the student lot of the old cemetery (Main Street) there is a tombstone to David Yonan, Class of 1900, who came to Davidson from Persia. He was drowned in the Catawba River while attempting to save a fellow student. His monument was erected by his Literary Society, the Eumanean, and bears the inscription: “Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friend.”

Starlite DRIVE-IN THEATRE
Salisbury-Landis Highway
WEEK STARTING NOVEMBER 16, 1950
Wednesday and Thursday
Vaughn Monroe in
‘SINGING GUNS’ in Trucolor
CARTOON
Friday and Saturday
Rex Allen in
‘HILLS OF OKLAHOMA’
also
‘DRUMS OF CONGO’
SERIAL - CARTOON
Sunday
‘SQUARE DANCE JUBILEE’
20 Variety Specialties! 25 Song Hits
CARTOON
BARBARA STANWYCK in
Monday and Tuesday
‘THELMA JORDAN’
CARTOON

Center Theatre
Mooresville
WEEK STARTING NOVEMBER 16, 1950
9c and 25c
‘THE GREAT JEWEL ROBBER’
David Brian
COMEDY
Friday and Saturday
‘BORDER RANGERS’
DON BARRY
Also
EAST SIDE KIDS in
‘FLYING WILD’
SERIAL - CARTOON
OWL SHOW SATURDAY
Monday and Tuesday
Glenn Ford - Evelyn Keyes in
‘MR. SOFT TOUCH’

State Theatre
Mooresville
WEEK STARTING NOVEMBER 16, 1950
Thursday and Friday
‘UNION STATION’
William Holden - Barry Fitzgerald
Plus Special Attraction
‘CASSINO TO KOREA’
Saturday
‘COVERED WAGON RAID’
Allan “Rocky” Lane
Also
‘DAVID HARDING, COUNTER SPY’
Willard Parker - Audrey Long
CARTOON - SERIAL
OWL SHOW SAT. NITE AND MONDAY
‘THE SKIPPER SURPRISED HIS WIFE’
Joan Leslie - Robert Walker
CARTOON
Tuesday and Wednesday
‘711 OCEAN DRIVE’
Edmond O’Brien - Joanne Dru