FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1950

100th SCIENCE ANNIVERSARY

Davidson College’s Science Department, an important part of the college despite Davidson’s overshadowing reputation as a classical institution, is celebrating this year its 100th anniversary. Although the purposes of Davidson’s science program are different from those of the large university research centers, work in the scientific fields during the past century has produced a surprising number of unique contributions to the world.

In 1896 the first x-ray picture made in America and the second ever taken was made at Davidson. Approximately 25 years earlier Dr. Paul Barringer of Charlotte established at Davidson the first pre-medical course of study ever offered in this country. His efforts led to the founding of the North Carolina Medical College, a famous old institution whose mark is still felt in Southern Medicine.

Interest in science at Davidson, which is 114 years old, quickened back in 1850 when Major Elias Rockwell was made the first full-time professor in the field. Prior to his appointment, math and natural philosophy, as science was then called, were combined. Since 1850 three presidents of Davidson have been scientists and under their direction the college has established a remarkable record in the scientific field. However, scientific work had been a recognized part of the curriculum since the college was founded. At one early period the scientists were able to outvote the classical faculty by a vote of 5-3. Today the department is staffed by fourteen professors.

The arrival at Davidson in the 1850s of Major Daniel Harvey Hill, who was later to become the brilliant and gifted Confederate general, was a boost to the sciences. A teacher of mathematics, Major Hill, a vigorous and decisive personality, had a lasting effect on the college. He married a daughter of Robert Hall Morrison, Davidson's first president, as did Stonewall Jackson, and now lies buried in the Davidson cemetery. During Major Hill's tenure Professor Carr taught chemistry and Professor Leland handled the natural philosophy classes, giving the college a well-rounded science department. At this time expense for a science student amounted to approximately $53 per year.

The decades of the 70s and 80s were the forerunners of today’s well-equipped science department. In 1870, Prof. William Joe Martin, who was later to become president of the college, developed one of the finest chemistry laboratories in the country. This was followed in 1887 by the appointment of Dr. Henry Louis Smith, also a Davidson president, as professor of natural philosophy. Dr. Smith immediately began work on a physics laboratory. It was through his research that on January 12, 1896 a group of students took the first x-ray picture made in America. Due to fear of faculty intervention the results were not immediately announced and there remains some question about where the world's first picture was produced. A German scientist’s claim that he made a picture in Germany about two weeks before the Davidson experiment is accepted by some scientists. Soon after their first picture, Dr. Smith’s students moved their equipment to Concord and produced the first pictures ever to show a foreign body inside a human. The plate was of a thimble swallowed by a child and an operation successfully removed it. Dr. Smith, who is living today in Greensboro, left the Davidson presidency in 1912 to accept a similar position at Washington and Lee, serving long and successful terms on both campuses.

A new era in Davidson chemistry began in 1900 when a fine laboratory was built and named for Col. W. J. Martin. Occupying the ground where the college library now stands, the Martin Science building remained in service until 1943 when the new science building was erected. The arrival of Dr. W. L. Porter, now professor emeritus, was the beginning of the Biology Department. When the medical college was moved to Charlotte in 1907, Dr. J. W. MacConnell was named professor of biology and occupied the post for a number of years, but his medical practice prevented his devoting full time to teaching.

Today, housed in the splendid Martin Science building, the Science Department is well staffed with fourteen full-time professors and well equipped to teach a variety of courses. Dr. John B. Gallent, Dr. Thomas S. Logan, Assoc. Professor Oscar J. Thies and Asst. Professor D. J. Bettinger handle the chemistry labs and teaching. Biology is staffed by Dr. Olin Puckett, Dr. Elmer E. Brown and Dr. Tom Daggy. In the Physics Department are Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, Professor H. E. Futcher and Asst. Professor Lacy S. Sellars. Dr. J. W. Reid teaches Geography and Geology and Dr. W. G. McGayock, Professor J. T. Kimbrough and W. N. Mebane are in Mathematics.

Perhaps the most valuable contribution which the Sciences at Davidson have made to the world can be measured by the quality of men trained in the college laboratories. More than a thousand doctors conducted their first experiments in the Biology and Chemistry departments at Davidson. The prominence that many have received is indicated by the position held by Dr. Harold M. Marvin, president of the American Heart Association, and Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, president of the Southern Medical Association. In a recent decade for which figures are now available, only 36 colleges or universities furnished more men for graduate study in physics. In chemistry, men earning doctorates stand in the 50th rank. In the last normal enrollment year Davidson sent to graduate schools 3.15 men for each hundred enrolled, a mark which is not surpassed in North Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Tennessee, or Louisiana.

Present day teaching in the sciences at Davidson is geared toward these specific objectives: (1) to help the student understand something about the universe and to give him a concept of the methods and materials of science; (2) to prepare men for graduate study at professional schools; (3) to prepare men to enter fields such as chemistry, biology, math and physics, and (4) to prepare men to teach in secondary schools. These aims are accomplished by use of the Martin Science Hall which houses biology and chemistry and includes lecture rooms equipped with audiovisual aids and modern laboratories with specially designed equipment. The Math and Physics departments are housed in Chambers Building where the Physics students have available complete laboratories and workshops.

GROSS OBNOXIOUSNESS!

That’s the only conclusion one can arrive at after doing historical research on the subject of “Freshmen.” Of course the evidence is at hand, but instead of trusting mere observation, the historical work entitled “Davidson College,” by Miss Cornelia Rebekah Shaw, former librarian, will be referred to erase any shades of doubt.

Back in 1902 things were different. But Freshmen weren't! As usual, they were trying to pull something spectacular. But as usual their efforts were foiled. Miss Shaw recounts the episode as follows: “During this year (1902-03) came the most serious student disturbance since the rebellion of 1885. As soon as Dr. Smith became president, he instituted a vigorous campaign for a larger number of students. By speeches and by writing he impressed upon the young men of the church the value of a college education. As a result, the class of 1906, entering in 1902, 

FRESHMAN OF ’50 IS “HOPE OF AGES”

his life makes when the operative word to the freshman of 1950. “He has bought a pipe, and although extraordinarily bitter things come out of its intermittent fire, he rather likes it.” So begins Charles Poore’s article on the Class of '54, which he calls a “new generation and a new hope.” Writing in the “New York Times Magazine,” Mr. Poore comments on the freshman class of all colleges as a whole. However, his ideas are not of the “bag-of-wind” variety which all college students had enough of before they were out of high school; it is a refreshing view of a man who has been through it all before and is now looking with pleasure at the group of young people whom he calls the “hope of the ages.”

Mr. Poore brings his observations close to home when he quotes a typical college freshman: “The Dean told us just to do our work here, and not to worry. Well, we're not worrying so much any more. We're just wondering how long it will last and when they'll put in those brown suits.” When, When? That is the word which concerns every phase of the freshman’s life. The uncertainty of Mr. Poore writes in a rather philosophical vein, but he goes not without a few touches of tongue-in-cheek humor. For example: “An unaccountably wide assortment of Big Wheels has told you that, if there’s Anything You Don’t Understand, If You Get Into Any Difficulties, You Mustn’t Hesitate to drop in for counsel and Advice: ‘My door is always open.’” And again: “Your roommate has a useful variety of clothes you can wear, if you're tactful about it, as well as the darndest collection of views you ever heard on love... on how to win good marks and influence coaches, onpolitics and religion and where to put that overstuffed chair you lugged all the way from home.” The writer comes up with one observation, which, although it may understandably startle a few of the class of '50, is certainly thought-provoking: “They are the hope of the ages, and they know it, without rancor and without vainglory, because they are not particularly sure that coming ages are going to be very tranquil, or that these passing days offer lavish grounds for hope.” The general theme—if you read between the lines—of the writer is one that has been preached to college freshmen thousands of times, only now its importance has been increased manyfold. “Make the best of the opportunity you have—the future of the world is in your hands,” says the whole article in effect. An old story, yes; but what could be more true in these uncertain times? Mr. Poore expresses the thoughts of every freshman in his conclusion, when he says: “All we know for certain is this: the world changes. But the freshman goes on forever, changing with the changing world. He hopes the planet will grow up some day. But he’s beginning to wonder whether it’s up to him to say when.”

Modern scientific equipment is by far the largest in the history of the college. The class of 1905 was small, both in numbers and in stature. Backed by tradition and precedent, the sophomores hazed the freshmen, though each man entering the college at this period signed a pledge to refrain from hazing. The freshmen defeated the sophomores in a class game of baseball and painted the score on the pillars of Chambers Building. The situation invited trouble. At the close of the annual sophomore banquet, the feasters found the front door of Chambers Building, then the only dormitory in use, barred. The rooms of the sophomores had been ‘roughed’ and the freshmen were found barricaded on the second floor of the Spence House, a freshman rendezvous. The leaders at the top of the stairs and the leaders at the bottom parleyed interminably. After several hours it was agreed by the freshmen (so states a member of the class) that in view of the fact that their object was not to be insubordinate, but to stop hazing to which they had been subjected for five months, they would submit to a punishment of “one lick around,” that to be the end of the hazing for the year. The committee of sophomores, so it was charged, did not keep faith. “The next evening the freshmen at a class meeting held during the supper hour, decided to leave in a body on a train passing through Davidson at 8 o'clock. To avoid trouble they walked to Cornelius, a station a mile away. All the money they possessed was divided, no man regarding what he had as his own. “In the meantime, the sophomores were in conclave in the Young Men's Christian Association rooms. President Smith conferred with them, while Professors Martin and Grey went to Cornelius to persuade the freshmen to return. The interview was made possible by the fact that the train was an hour late. The class returned with the understanding that class differences would be sympathetically discussed. One freshman, under the supervision of a senior, without the knowledge of his class, rubbed out the score on the pillars. The sophomores kept guard day and night for fear that someone else other than a freshman might erase the score. Evidence was secured that the young man who scraped the figures off had put them there without the sanction of his class.” So one can easily see that men may come and men may go, but freshmen are obnoxious forever.

Faithful Janitress Retires After Many Years of Service

Many of the services which go to make up a well-ordered and efficient college community are rendered to the students by persons they rarely see. For over thirty-five years Mrs. Percy Simolton Scales served the college library as janitress. According to Percy's recollections, she worked in the family of President Henry Louis Smith and raised his children for him until his resignation in 1912 to become President of Washington and Lee. Percy spent one year in Lexington with the Smiths and then returned to Davidson and began her work for the College. Percy was born and brought up near Davidson. The Simoltons were respected members of the colored community, noted for honesty and intelligence. Miss Cornelia Shaw, who was librarian for the College from 1907 until 1936, obtained Percy's services when the library was moved from old Chambers building to the new Carnegie Library, now the Guest House. Miss Shaw thought very highly of Percy and the library was notable for cleanliness and order. When the new Grey Memorial Building was erected in 1941 it was necessary to secure a man for the heavy work, but Percy stayed on as assistant until last summer. Her intelligence made her invaluable in putting up newspapers and similar work. Much of Percy's work was done from six to nine a.m. The students rarely saw her but they saw the results of her careful attention. She did part-time work in the day for the Devane family, for Miss Maude Vinson and Miss Orrie Steele. Without exception, those for whom Percy worked regarded her as a very superior helper. Not only was she thorough, well-bred, and honest, but she was also possessed of a sense of humor and good nature that was contagious. In her own community on Mock’s Hill, across from the Southern Railway station, Percy has been active in religious and educational work. Her home is a model of good housekeeping. One of her employers once remarked that anything you gave Percy always looked better in her house than it did in your own. After a series of illnesses during 1949 and 1950, Percy was retired last summer on part pay. She has been twice married and lives with her second husband in an attractive white cottage on the turn of the road on Mock’s Hill. For over thirty-five years she was a member of the College staff and there are few in its history who have rendered so long, so loyal, and so efficient a service as Percy Scales.