¢ VOLUME XXXVIII ul PASTOR The Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS ____ DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1950

VEREEN BELL MEMORIAL AWARD AWAITS BEST CREATIVE WORK

The English Department has set March 1, 1950, as the deadline for all entries for the Vereen M. Bell Memorial Award for Creative Writing. This award, a prize of fifty dollars, will go to the student of Davidson College who presents the best piece of original writing during the year. Vereen Bell was a student at Davidson and a graduate of 1932. Just prior to his enlistment in the Navy, he was recognized as one of the South’s most outstanding writers. “Swamp Water,” his first novel, was a best seller and later adapted into a movie. Both “Swamp Water” and “Two Of A Kind,” his second novel, were stories of outdoor life in his native Georgia. Many of his short stories and articles were published in weekly magazines such as Collier’s, etc. In 1944, while serving as Air Combat Intelligence Officer aboard the Carrier Gambier Bay, he was killed in a surprise attack by the Japanese in the Battle of the Philippine Sea.

The memorial award was established in 1947 through the founding of a fund by relatives and former college friends of the late author. Chiefly instrumental in bringing about this fund to further the creative writing of Davidson’s students were his father, Chief Justice R. C. Bell of the Georgia Supreme Court, and Mr. Grier Martin, former alumni secretary of the college and classmate of Bell. The fund contains $2,000 of which fifty dollars will be awarded to the most original writer. In 1948, Charles T. Davis was awarded the honor by Mr. Harry L. Shaw, class of 1926, member of Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa, former professor of English at New York University, and now serving as an editor associated with Harper and Brothers. Last year, Don Shriver’s “CN and Saunders” won the award. It was presented by Mr. Le Gette Blythe, author of “Bold Galilean.” The English Department urges full cooperation and participation in this Davidson memorial award for Davidson students.

(Continued on Page Four)

Development Drive Enters Home Stretch

With the beginning of a new half-century, the Davidson Development organization of over 1,000 alumni, parents, and friends is marching forward in a determined effort to complete the current $2,500,000 development program. 1949 saw a total of $2,150,613 secured for Davidson's building and endowment program. Campaign leaders are extremely hopeful that the remaining $349,387 can be raised during the weeks immediately ahead.

Challenged by a recent study which showed that several thousand alumni and friends of the college have not yet been solicited, Mr. J. Spencer Love and his top committees have worked out careful plans whereby all people not yet seen, including both alumni and parents, will be given a definite opportunity to help in the final victory push.

During the month of December, the “Davidson Story” was presented to almost all of Florida. The returns from that state, as well as from Asheville, Wilmington, Columbia, and other centers in the Carolinas, should do much to push the total upward toward the goal during the next few weeks. Several important but scattered regions have not yet joined in the Parade of Progress. Largely because of date conflicts and schedule difficulties, Davidsunians in such cities as Florence, Sumter, and Charleston in South Carolina, Statesville in North Carolina, and Tallahassee and Ocala in Florida, have not yet taken part in Davidson’s forward march. Likewise, there are large numbers of Davidson people in Washington, D. C., Tennessee, Alabama, Georgia, Virginia, West Virginia, and several other states who, as of January 1st, had not participated. Finally, there are hundreds of alumni whose homes are just beyond the geographic limits of the campaigns held during recent months.

In some cases, regional committees and special representatives will be able to present the appeal personally to the remaining groups. In many cases, however, these Davidson alumni, parents, and friends must now “solicit themselves” and mail their pledges directly to the college. Program leaders have indicated their concern regarding the seriousness and speed with which this “self-solicitation” is done, stating that this will determine whether or not Davidson will be able to carry through her program of planned progress.

Library Gives Rules For Overtime Books

At a meeting of the Library Committee in Grey Memorial Library on January 17, 1950, the rule was reaffirmed that faculty members only may keep books overtime without incurring fines. All other members of the college family are subject to the same circulation regulations as the student body; that is, notices will be sent when a book is overdue and fines are to be paid when the book is returned. Faculty members are subject to fines on seven-day books (which are rarely essential to their work) and are to return all books when notice of the annual inventory check-up is received.

ROTC Announces Appointments, Rifle Meet, Inspections

New promotions and a pending rifle meet were highlights of a recent announcement of the ROTC Department. The following were appointed: Battalion Commander Thomas H. Hall, IV, to Cadet Lieutenant Colonel; Battalion Executive Officer John C. Roberts, Jr., to Cadet Major; Christopher K. Hood to Cadet Captain, Intelligence Officer; Wilbur B. King to Cadet Captain, Plans and Training Officer; Charles D. Parker to Cadet Captain, Commanding Officer, Company “B;” Yunis B. Stroud to Cadet 1st Lt., Executive, Co. “B;” Gabriel L. Lowe to Cadet 1st Lt., Executive Officer, Co. “C;” James D. Deck, III, to Cadet 1st Lt., Executive Officer, Co. “D;” Benjamin M. Hamilton to Cadet 1st Lt., Executive Officer, Co. “E.”

Official word was received that an informal inspection of the ROTC unit will be held by the commanding officer of the North Carolina Military District (headquarters, Raleigh), Tuesday, Feb. 21. The formal Federal inspection will take place April 17 and 18.

This week the rifle team is engaged in firing the annual Hearst Trophy Match. The match, in which practically every ROTC Rifle team in the country takes part, is a competition for awards offered every year by William Randolph Hearst, through the Department of the Army. The Davidson team has always fared well in the final standings, especially in recent years. Davidson once won the championship for the Southeastern United States.

Student Conference To Be Held At UNC Saturday, Feb. 4th

A year ago this past Christmas some twelve hundred students from nearly all the states met at the University of Kansas for the first nation-wide ecumenical student conference sponsored by the United Student Christian Council. At that midwestern university, undergraduate and graduate students were introduced for perhaps the first time to the ecumenical reformation which is seizing and energizing the church. The students from colleges in North Carolina who met at the University of Kansas have been keenly aware of the growing value of that First Ecumenical Conference during the past year, and, as a result, they have planned a similar conference for students in North Carolina to be held on Saturday, February 4, at Chapel Hill. This will be the first such conference to be held in the State.

The students at the conference will represent a number of Protestant denominations, and together they will consider the theme, “The World Mission of the Church.” In complete disregard of denominational lines they will look at the Church Universal, its weaknesses, and its responsibilities to this twentieth-century world. Francis Pickens Miller, past chairman of the World Student Christian Federation and recent candidate for governor in Virginia, will address the conference on the subject, “The Task of the Church in the World Today.” Later in the day, John Deschner, executive secretary of the United Christian Council and an outstanding leader in the Ecumenical Movement among students, will speak on the subject, “The Responsibility of the Christian Student.” In addition to these main addresses, the schedule provides for vocational discussions and for denominational meetings. Davidson will be represented at the conference by Bill Harris, Bill Adams, Joe Waller, Charles Elliott, Milton Clenseur, Neil Leach, Watt Jeffries, and Curtis Harper.

Davidson Printing Company Occupies Adequate Offices

Recently the Davidson Printing Company, printers of The Davidsonian, moved into new quarters on Main Street. The new location, three doors down from Hatley’s Coffee and Soda Shop, affords plenty of room for the printing equipment as well as ample space for the office of The Gazette, north Mecklenburg.

Eleven Students Enter For Second Semester

With the opening of a new semester, the registrar's office announced that eleven students either entered the Davidson roster for the first time or re-entered to complete courses which were interrupted earlier. Those men who have come in for the spring semester are Bill Baxter, Dewitt Clark, Ted Robert Harviel, Donald H. Hawkins, H. E. Hilliard, Jr., Ken Johnson, Sam McDaniel, W. H. McEachern, III, Billy R. Rabb,J. L. Stays and Rabere M. Verner. Many of these men are planning to return also for the summer school session and several will need to attend for at least one semester next year in order to graduate. However, one or two hope to graduate with the class of 1950.

HUNGARIAN BOY HUNGRY FOR MAIL

On the West Chambers bulletin board appears an interesting note which might appeal to some. The Y Secretary has received word from a Hungarian boy of college age asking if there would not be an interested person in the college who would begin a regular correspondence with him. The eighteen-year-old lad is a member of the Hungarian Reformed Church. He reads and writes Hungarian, French, German, and English. If you're interested, drop by the “Y.”

DR. GUERRANT’S BOOK AVAILABLE AT STORE

The Davidson College Bookstore has some copies of Roosevelt’s Good Neighbor Policy by Edward O. Guerrant on hand. This volume lists for $3.59. Anyone desiring to have a copy mailed should add 20 cents for postage and insurance.

County’s newspaper. The building was formerly occupied by Wither’s Electric Company, which is now located next door to the town fire station. H. C. Broyles, owner and operator of the printing shop, is very pleased with his new quarters and has stated that he may expand sometime in the future by purchasing more equipment. Due to the shortage of store space in Davidson, Mr. Broyles had to use the back part of the building in which W. S. Henderson’s Jewelry Shop is located when he opened his business here. Now, however, he has an opening on Main street which makes it much more convenient for his customers. Mrs. Broyles is editor of the first newspaper to be permanently established in Davidson. The Gazette has steadily grown since it was established and is widely read throughout north Mecklenburg County.

PAN HEL PICKS PASTOR FOR PLAYING PURPOSES

NUMBER FOURTEEN

MIDWINTERS STILL SCHEDULED FOR FEBRUARY 17-18 WEEKEND

Tony Pastor and his celebrated orchestra have been scheduled for appearances at Davidson College gymnasium February 17 and 18. The famed vocal-instrumentalist is currently heading what trade observers have called the finest band in his long career. Pastor has long been a familiar item on the music scene.

The Student Organists Perform On Sunday

Paul Jenkins and Henry Bridges, members of the senior class, will present a joint organ recital Sunday afternoon, February 5, at 4:30 o'clock in Chambers Auditorium. Their program will include two of Bach’s major organ works, as well as other compositions by romantic and recent composers. The recital, a presentation of the Davidson College Department of Music, is open to the public, and faculty, students, and members of the college community are invited to attend.

Jenkins, who is from Rock Hill, S. C., attended Winthrop Training School there. He studied organ with Miss Jeannette C. Roth, of Winthrop College; Prof. James C. Pfohl and Robert Noehren of Davidson College, and is at present studying with Harold M. Frantz. Formerly organist of Dilworth Methodist Church in Charlotte, Jenkins was a contestant from the Charlotte Chapter in the Southeastern Regional contest of the American Guild of Organists held in Atlanta, Ga., in June, 1949. He plans to do graduate study at the University of Michigan.

Bridges, whose home is in Johnson City, Tenn., attended Mercersburg Academy and Princeton University before coming to Davidson. His organ training was with Dr. C. C. Loomis of Bristol, Va.; George F. Hamer of Mercersburg, Pa., and Robert Noehren, of Davidson College. He is at present studying with Mr. Frantz, and expects to attend Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., following his graduation from Davidson.

Compositions which will be played by Jenkins are: “As Jesus Stood Beside the Cross” (Scheidt), followed by “Come, Saviour of the Heathen” (Bach), Fantasia and Fugue in D minor (Bach), and Choral from “Symphony II” (Vierne). Bridges will play “Praise Zion" from “Cathedral Windows” (Karg-Elert), Sonata VI (Mendelssohn) and Prelude and Fugue in G major (Bach).

Dr. John Cunningham

Bad Weather Detains Work on New Church

Plans are complete for the construction of the new Davidson College Church and the work is scheduled to begin in the very near future. Weather conditions make the announcement of a definite date impossible, however, indications are that the construction will begin during the present month. The formal ground-breaking for the long-anticipated campus church was a highlight of the 1949 Homecoming weekend. Dr. Cunningham conducted the ceremony, assisted by Dr. James A. Jones and Mr. J. Spencer Love. Dr. Carl Pritchett, pastor of the church, announced that the congregation has voted to hold its weekly services in the auditorium of the Davidson High School while the new building is under construction.

Recently Elected To College Association

Dr. John R. Cunningham, president of Davidson College, was elected to the Board of Directors of the Association of American Colleges at its recent meeting in Cincinnati. He was also elected to serve as Treasurer of the Association for 1950. President Daniel L. March of Boston University was elected President of the Association. He is a close personal friend of Dr. Cunningham and serves with him on the Board of Directors and Executive Committee of the Presbyterian Ministers’ Fund in Philadelphia. Dr. March gave the commencement address at Davidson three years ago. Davidson was represented by Dean C. K. Brown at the Cincinnati meeting at which Dr. March and Dr. Cunningham were elected. Dr. and Mrs. Cunningham have spent the past month in Florida. Recent engagements have included a Davidson Day sermon at the First Presbyterian Church of Ocala and the launching of the Development Drive in Tallahassee. Dr. Cunningham returned to Davidson on January 31, and will be in his office for a good proportion of the coming weeks.

The versatile New Englander came into prominence as a member of the Artie Shaw orchestra, but long before that he had gained more than a fair share of acclaim in the entertainment business. His initial effort came with the old Commanders under the direction of Irving Aaronson and there quickly followed assignments with Joe Venuti and Vincent Lopez. Lopez was first to give Tony a chance to sing, but it remained for Artie Shaw to provide the really big chance. The Bluebird recording company listed “Indian Love Call” on Shaw’s waxing schedule. Pastor’s vocal style seemed to fit into the mood of the tune and so Shaw handed his ace saxophone and vocal star the arrangement. While “Indian Love Call” was in its “hot” stage in the retail stores it sold more than one million pressings. The catch, however, is that an unheralded arrangement of “Begin the Beguine” was put on the other side. It’s no secret that “Beguine” is the top popular seller of all-time. Tony regards that as his biggest single break. It gave him the chance to organize his own orchestra and after the usual trials and tribulations, he was a top name maestro with a tremendous worldwide following. During his career as a bandleader, Tony has been under contract to Bluebird, RCA Victor, Cosmo and is currently a leader in sales for Columbia. Though affiliated with Columbia for only a little more than two years, the Pastor aggregation has been responsible for five million retail records sales. Along with the fame and fortune that marks the music jackpot, Tony has endeared himself to the public to a far greater degree than the average personality. More than one million miles of travel plus countless personal appearances have brought him to nearly every town and city in the land as a personal introduction. The increasing sales of his Columbia releases and a marked rise in appearance figures clearly indicate that Pastor is now at the very peak of his career. Pastor is also one of the top songwriters in the nation. To his composing credit are some of the best-known jump instrumentals including “Wigwam Stomp,” “Helen of Troy” and “Jungle Stomp.” Ballads which came from the Pastor pen include “Blossoms,” “For Whom the Bells Toll,” “There's a Love Song in the Air” and “Sunday in Savannah,” the latter three done in collaboration with Hugh McKay. With drummer Johnny Morris, Pastor developed “Paradiddle Joe.” The press of work and a crowded (Continued on Page Four)

Dr. Alex Batchelor To Visit Campus In Behalf of Negro Work

Dr. Alex R. Batchelor, the chairman of the committee for Negro work in the General Assembly of the Southern Presbyterian Church, will be on the campus, Monday, February 6, 1950. Rev. Bottoms, a Negro minister who is assisting him in his work, will accompany him. Dr. Batchelor will speak about his work as chairman of the committee for Negro work in chapel Monday morning. From 4:00 to 5:00 Monday afternoon, he will be in the lounge of the “Y” for an informal discussion. Any and all persons who are interested are invited to attend. The discussion will not be limited to any one topic. If anyone desires an appointment with Dr. Batchelor, please see Jim Murray in 4 West or Bill Smith at the “Y.”