PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

GORDON SCOTT
EDITOR IN CHIEF

BUSINESS MANAGER
JOHN LOFTIN

Associate Editors
Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall

Features Editor
Shelley Beard

Managing Editors
Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George McMurray, Ed Richardson

Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Photographer—Raymond Lynch
Proofreader—Wallace Abbott
City Editor—Nat Daniel
Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen
Sports Editor—Bill White

Assistant Business Manager
Alex Goley

Advertising Manager
Manley McWilliams

Circulation Manager
Ansley Moses

Collections Manager
Jack Turner

Subscriptions Manager
Bill Hart

Faculty Advisor—Prof. Henry T. Lilly

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

No Excuses This Year

About this time each year, students have become accustomed to contributing money to the Y.M.C.A. Christmas Gift Fund drives; indeed, the response has been so good that in recent years the goal has been exceeded by a substantial sum. There is no reason to think that this year’s contributions will not go beyond the proposed goal of $5000.00.

The decision of the “Y” leaders to raise money this year to help the Negroes of Davidson help themselves to improve their housing conditions was a wise one and one which will leave no room for three major criticisms that similar drives had had in past years—

1. A number of students have not given as freely as they might have (some gave nothing) because they felt that it was senseless to give money to various overseas causes when there is so much need here at home.

2. Prior to this year, there were many veterans in the student body who found it difficult to so soon forget their horrible experiences with the Germans and Japanese and who therefore were not willing to contribute money which would be used to help these people. We are not saying that their attitude was right or wrong but mention it only because it is a fact.

Finally, some hesitated about giving money when it would be impossible to see the benefits which it made possible in some far-off land. It is true that pictures have been received showing improvements which were made in recent drives through the generosity of Davidson men, nevertheless there was no assurance of this at the time the money was actually collected.

Thus, it would appear that this year there is no good reason why Davidson students should not participate in this drive 100 per cent—the money will be used in this community, it will not aid persons with whom the United States has been at war, and the results of the campaign will be easily recognizable to anyone who will take the time to cross the railroad tracks in a few months.

Nothing needs to be said about conditions, etc., existing among the Negroes of Davidson—a wealth of material on these facts appears elsewhere in the paper. It is almost unbelievable to most of us that such conditions could exist not 50 yards from the campus. To obtain a full realization of this fact one needs to see for himself, and that is what we would urge each student to do sometime within the next few days.

Bone of Contention

In the closing weeks of school last Spring, it was announced by the President’s office that a committee had been selected from the faculty to study student-faculty relations, determine if these relations are all that they might be, and to recommend possible steps which might be taken to improve them. We assume that the committee is functioning and would like to give them a major bone of contention among the students to chew on.

There is a small element in the faculty, say 5 per cent, who take great delight in scheduling reviews and tests at inopportune times from the students’ viewpoint, such as the Monday after a dance weekend, or the day after a holiday, etc. This group may say that their schedules are set up so that these are the only possible times to review the brain power of the students. Others may say that a student is in Davidson first and foremost to get an education and nothing must interfere with the professors' attempts to see that they get one.

It is a fact that many of the professors do have their courses outlined far in advance, and when it comes time to give a review they feel that nothing should stand in the way of it. We cannot argue this, but we can bring forward the fact that 95 per cent of the professors seem to be able to schedule reviews at times which meet with the students’ approval. As far as being here to get an education goes, nothing needs to be said, for every student in Davidson chose to get an education, else, why would they be here?

If full-time reviews at undesirable times is a necessary evil for getting an education, then the student body will endure it uncomplainingly, but again, 95 per cent of the professors take the interests and desires of the students a little more to heart.

This situation has existed for years and was again evident last week when a professor announced a test for Saturday afternoon. The interesting part of it is that this professor is a member of the committee to study ways of improving relations between faculty members and students.

We may have stepped on some rather prominent faculty toes on this matter. We regret that it was necessary to appear so critical, but it seems that some study and subsequent action might be taken in this matter. The student body is in almost unanimous agreement in what we have said, and it is our hope that the remaining 95 per cent of the faculty will agree with our criticisms.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

IN SEARCH OF “DANGEROUS THOUGHTS”

NOTE: The F.B.I. announces that it has begun “loyalty” tests of 2,000,000 government workers. Senator Tenny, a member of the Committee for Investigation of Un-American Activities, urges that the U.S. also introduce the system of “thought control.” (Ed. Note: Permission for reproduction of this Russian propaganda cartoon from “Out of the Crocodile’s Mouth,” by Wm. Nelson, has been granted to the Davidsonian by the Public Affairs Press, 2153 Florida Ave., Washington, D.C.)

THE WORLD LAST WEEK

1) The U.N. General Assembly has approved a federal union of Ethiopia and the former Italian colony of Eritrea.
2) The Kiplinger Washington Letter for December 2 concurred with other spectators who say that Russia would overrun Europe in the event of a big war with China.
3) Chancellor Adenauer asked that more equality be the price of the part West Germany plays in western European defense.
4) President Truman's statement that an A-bomb will be used if necessary in Korea met with special opposition among French officials, as well as most U.N. delegates.
5) The newly independent nation of Libya has crowned its first king, Emir (four other names) Senussi.

GEECH’S GOULASH
By PAT McGEACHY

It is within the realm of remote possibility that the locale to be described in this week's tableau is beyond the circumlocutory route of the average student. For this reason, we thought that it might be of interest to some to introduce them to a part of the campus they may never have visited. We refer to the central heating plant, that dusty nucleus, engulfing its daily mouthfuls of bituminous coal, and expelling steamy energy into the wintry campus. We had never been there, and so we went there. We carefully squeezed between the laundry (if you will excuse the language), and the furnace building, tripped gingerly down a narrow flight of cement stairs, turned into a foreboding entrance.

The initial picture was one of surprise. We had imagined huge fiery maws, belching forth golden heat on the backs of sweating blacks, as they mechanically fed—well, you know what we mean. There are three cold furnaces at the moment; they have been in that state since this summer. It seems that the addition of the new gym had entailed an enlargement of the original heating system. So the clever engineers have managed to squeeze, between the old furnaces and the wall, one shiny new furnace and boiler which does more work than the original three. We were fascinated. Entranced, we opened a door in the side of a white brick wall. “Don’t go in there!” suggested a friendly voice. So we closed the door, which proved to be the entrance to the firebox. (Pause for sighs of relief by friends, neither of whom attend Davidson.) “You might have been killed. Although looking at you I regret my hasty words. What can I do for you?”

“We’re looking for material for our column, The Inspiring Reporter,” said we. “Know any facts?”

“Strange to say, yes,” the voice replied, and we discovered it belonged to the genial proprietor of a coal shovel. “I fill this stoker ever so often. The stoker fills the furnace. The furnace heats the water. The water turns to steam. The steam heats the buildings. On bitter days we burn three quarters of a ton of coal an hour. At eleven P.M. we shut down. We leave the fire banked at night. Twice a day we blow the soot off the pipes to keep them from corroding. Have a look at the furnace again now that I see who it is.”

“No thanks,” we thanked him.

“You're welcome,” he welcomed us. “As long as you're here, I may as well explain where all these pipes lead to, excuse the preposition. In a way I’m glad you dropped in. Lots of fellows go through four years here and never know where the heat is coming from. That is the steam heat.”

We spent an enjoyable fifteen minutes discussing the relative efficiencies of different heating systems. At least we remember his mentioning something about hot air, which the heating plant doesn’t use. At the end of the interview, we left with a cordial handshake. “There is philosophy in every walk of life,” we observed. “Thanks for this enjoyable visit, and thanks for saving us from the furnace.”

“Don’t mention it,” he advised, and then mumbled, “someone might find out.”

Have you paid your visit to the furnace?

The Metamorphosis of Howe Green
By ARCHIBALD HAMENHASH

Three months ago, when Davidson College opened its doors, I selected a typical incoming freshman in order to show to the world the way in which Harry High-School becomes Joe College, the gradual metamorphosis which occurs as he comes under the influence of a new, more mature way of life.

Recall with me the scores of foiblesHe blundered into his first few months, such as getting lost on the cake race and walking almost to Concord in a blinding rainstorm before he found out his mistake, and proving himself utterly incapable of getting an upperclassman's laundry correctly. Remember also his frightening experience on his first date at Queens, and his crude lack of judgment which resulted in him getting sick at the Southern States Fair. But perhaps the most obvious sign of adolescence occurred at the Homecoming Dance in Johnston Gymnasium when his girl was stolen from him by Snake Smith before he ever knew what hit him. But remember also that “Experience is the best teacher.” In these three months, Howe Green has become a man. He has been observant and acquired some of the finesse of his upperclassmen friends. The alchemy of college has changed the brass to gold.

This complete change of the freshman class will be proven conclusively Tuesday afternoon at the Freshman-Sophomore Day. This event, as you know, comes near the end of the first semester, and pits the freshman class against the sophomore class. It has been the tradition of the College that the freshmen shall try, through a series of contests, to establish themselves as worthy members of the Davidson Student Body. If they are able to beat the sophomores in these tests, they will have proved themselves worthy to remove their caps and be considered men.

MY PREDICTION OF THE OUTCOME of the Freshman-Sophomore Day is a Freshman victory. There will be three hard-fought events: a tug-of-war, a shuttle relay, and a football game. I PREDICT—the tug-of-war will go to the freshmen. This event will be judged by Hoopy Davis and Doug Rice. The freshmen will be able to muster more strength for this event. I PREDICT—the football game will go to the sophomores because of their fleet halfbacks and deceptive passers. The referees for this game will be Tom Fetzer, Johnny Guiton, J. B. Stroud, and Tom Alten. I PREDICT—that the entire decision will hinge upon the relay, which the freshmen will win in a thrilling climax. The outcome of the day will be in doubt until the final moment, but all doubts as to the maturity of the Freshman Class will be ended when they cross the finish line first in a tough test of stamina. I PREDICT—The Freshman Class will prove themselves the equals of the sophomores and will go home Christmas without their caps.

The Editor’s Mailbox

Editor, the Davidsonian:

The Negro problem in Davidson is acute, and we are all glad to find the “Y” inaugurating the program for better housing for these unfortunate individuals. But is this enough? How can one expect the Negroes to have fine homes when for a week's wages they are paid only $24.00 and from the supposedly most Christian element in the community! Only $24.00 a week, barely $1500 a year to support a family! And we speak of helping them out! It seems ironical to me that such a campaign is being carried out. How much money is needlessly spent on athletic scholarships to men who could afford to come here on their own initiative? The emphasis is maybe put on the wrong program.

Christmas is a fine time to think of the needs of others, but Christmas should not be the only time. The campaign for the betterment of society should be a 52-week-a-year job. I think action should come from authorities who could raise the incomes of some of the necessary and valuable help—we build a multi-thousand dollar church to pray for better conditions in and at the same time we let poverty dwell “across the tracks.” How can a person make a payment of at least $7.50, which is the least required payment under the “Y's” new housing project, on a new house when he barely makes enough to feed his family? The solution to the problem is clear enough to me—raise the income of the hired Negro help to reasonable amounts.

Thanking you very much, and hoping action will be taken soon, I remain,

Yours truly,
STEVE STEWART

College Kgs

Lawyer: It would be better if you had a good alibi. Did anyone see you at the time of the crime?
Client: Fortunately, no.
—Yale Record

Remember, your girl still enjoys candy and flowers. Let her know that you remember—speak of them occasionally.
—Yale Record

Little Betty: “Mamma, do all fairy tales begin with ‘once upon a time’?”
Mother: “No, dear, sometimes they begin with ‘Honey, I was detained at the office’!”

An American sailor bribed his way into a Turkish harem, and was amazed to see a fat, bored eunuch playing a hose on a line-up of bewitching ladies.
“A religious rite?” asked the sailor.
“Not at all,” said the eunuch. “Orders. When one of them sizzles, I send her in to the sultan.”

The office beauty was regaling her bored companions with the tale of her adventure on the previous night.
“This feller,” she said, “took me up to his apartment and showed me a closet that contained at least fifteen absolutely perfect mink coats. And what do you know,” she said, “he gave me one of them.”
“What did you have to do?” asked the skeptic in the audience.
“Just shorten the sleeves,” she said.

A man trying to stop a fellow from jumping out of the ninth-floor window of his office:
“Think of your wife!”
“Ain't got no wife.”
“Think of your mother!”
“Ain't got no mother.”
“Think of your children!”
“Ain't got no children.”
“Well, think of Robert E. Lee!”
“Who is Robert E. Lee?”
“Aw! Go ahead and jump, you dam-yankee!”

Overheard at Newberry game:
One girl said to another, after Coach McMillan replaced the defensive team, “I’m glad he took out that team. They haven’t scored a point all night.”

Another: “Mrs. Smith, how did you enjoy your first football game?”
“Oh, just fine, at first. The teams lined up so pretty, then some smart-aleck came up and kicked the ball and they started to fight.”
—The Erskine Mirror

He: “Before we get married, I have a confession to make. I have a wooden leg.”
She: “Oh! That’s all right, I have a cedar chest.”

Mother: Where have you been until 3 o'clock in the morning?
Mary: Walking, Mother.
Mother: For goodness sake!
Mary: Yes, mother, for goodness sake.
—The Lenoir Rhynean.

He: If I had a million dollars, do you know where I'd be?
She: You'd be on our honeymoon.
—Chase.

Junior: Mother, what does dehydrate mean?
Mother: To take the water out of something.
Junior: Well, my dog just dehydrated on the living room rug.

Wax Scratchings

After an absence of one (maybe two) weeks, Wax Scratching is back again. Having been asked why I have been skimping all the swell Doris Day recordings that have been released lately, I shall endeavor to make up for this foul deed by devoting an extra-long paragraph to the same. One of her latest is “I’ve Forgotten You,” and I might add that it's one of her best. It’s soft and smooth and has that wonderful ear appeal that has made her so very popular with record fans everywhere. Another of her newer platters is labeled “I Am Loved” and although I don't like it quite as much as the first side mentioned, you may. So give it a listen and see. Doris also has recorded a catchy little bounce tune called “It’s A Lovely Day Today” which you're almost bound to like. She gives it the light treatment that it has lacked in the arrangements of other artists cutting it. The flip sides of all these records are supposed to be plenty good too, but to be truthful about the matter I haven't been able to listen to all of them yet.

There may have been some mention of Mitch Miller’s Orchestra in this column, but very little. From the looks of things, you'll be hearing quite a lot from him from now on. If you've heard his new release called “My Heart Cries For You,” you will know what I mean. Guy Mitchell handles the vocal solo work, and believe me the guy is great. As a matter of fact, that adjective seems to describe the whole record better than any other. The orchestration is great (sounds a little like Hugo Winterhalter), the choral work is great, and so is the solo work. It is undoubtedly one of the best etchings of the season.

To speed up the tempo a bit, Louis Jordan and His Tympany Five have a new slice of shellac on the market. This one is labeled “Lemonade” and it isn’t a bad tune at all. My only objection is that it features an organ in addition to his regular rhythm section. In the lyrics, Louis bemoans the fact that he can’t find a gal that drinks nothing but lemonade. The flip side, “You Dyed Your Hair Chartreuse” has some of that good ole Jordan vocal and alto sax, but still is far from his best.

Anita O’Day has just made a rather cute discing labeled “Yea Boo.” Don't get me wrong, it isn’t anything to get excited about, but it's different and not bad for a change. Just in case someone is interested, it's a London Record.

Perry Como has done it again. His recording of “You're Just In Love” is one of his best to date. He is assisted in the vocal department by The Fontaine Sisters whom you may have seen on his TV show. This one is destined to go places, so if you haven't heard it yet be sure to give it a listen.

“Time Out For Tears” is Nat King Cole's latest contribution to the platter field. This is one of the few numbers Nat has ever made using an orchestra-choral background, and he has taken a song that has been around for several years and turned it into one of the most impressive ballads of the day. The flip side “Get to Gettin’” is a medium-fast riff number. It’s fair, but nothing extra.

Both Louie Prima and Kaye Starr have swell arrangements of “Oh Babe” one of the top bounce tunes in the nation. It’s seldom that one arrangement of a number isn’t head and shoulders above all others, but Louie and Kaye give such fine renditions of the tune that I'll say they're both slightly terrific and let it go at that. If you're looking for a recording of the same in a dance tempo you might like Ralph Flanigan's “Oh Babe.” It’s not up with the other two mentioned, but not bad.