PAGE SIX ~ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Photo Club Designates Picture Of The Month

The Photo Club has recently announced the beginning of a semester-long competition among its members for the selection of a “Picture of the Month.” This “Picture of the Month,” which is to be selected by Mr. Hutchison, instructor of fine arts at Davidson, and director of the Mint Museum in Charlotte, is to be picked from mounted prints submitted to him by members of the Club. One picture is to be selected each month, during the spring semester, and is to be displayed (through courtesy of the Administration) on the faculty and administration bulletin board in the south hall of Chambers building.

No restrictions are to be placed on subject matter, and the qualities on which prints are to be judged will be left entirely to the discretion of Mr. Hutchison. In selecting this monthly competition among its members this spring as a semester project, the Photo Club hopes not only to provide the student body with a glimpse of the photographic work which is carried on by some Davidson students, but also to stimulate an interest in the taking of salon-type pictures. It is hoped that the competition will be an incentive for the taking of better pictures by the Photo Club members and for the improvement of photographic technique by others in the student body who are interested in photography.

Full technical data are to be posted with the winning print each month so that all may know the conditions under which the picture was taken and the equipment used. The winning print in the first month’s competition, entitled “Morning Mist,” was taken on the Davidson campus shortly before Christmas vacation by Charles Burrus on a foggy Sunday afternoon.

INTERRACIAL GROUP...
(Continued From Page One)

...into the thoughts of all races. It was brought out in the informal discussion that one of the greatest fields of good done by the World Council was that of work with refugees and displaced persons. The World Council has also stimulated the individual churches in this country to participate in the refugee and L. P. work by furnishing physical aid. This program has led to instill in the minds of the individual church members a spirit of world responsibility. Also brought out in the discussion was the opportunity of future good that the World Council could do with the race problem on a larger scale.

There is no membership in the Collegiate Council. Anyone may attend the meetings. The purpose of the Inter-Collegiate Council is a tolerant and Christian attitude toward the race problem. It does not advocate race segregation or the overthrow of racial distinction.

CHRISTMAS WEDDING...
(Continued From Page One)

Tuesday afternoon, December 27, at 4 o’clock in the First Baptist Church, Albemarle, N. C., Miss Betty Jane Anderson of Albemarle, became the bride of John Newton Robertson, Jr., of Fayetteville. Dr. Samuel E. Howie, pastor of the Highland Presbyterian Church of Fayetteville, officiated.

Mrs. Robertson for two years attended Queens’ College where she was a member of the honorary business sorority. Mr. Robertson is the son of Mr. and Mrs. John Newton Robertson, Sr., of Fayetteville. He was graduated from Fayetteville High School and during the recent war served two years in the navy on Guam. He is now a senior at Davidson and a member of the YMCA cabinet. He is a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.

Bob Sharpe and Earl Groves were married during the holidays, but we were unable to contact them before the Davidsonian went to press.

WHO PULLED...
(Continued From Page Two)

...it? I think it’s up to us as students to push this sort of thing, get some more radical speakers, start a little controversy. We're not advocating mass revolution or anything like that, just the addition of a little spice of the mind to pep us all up and keep us from falling too deeply into traditional patterns, patterns which tend to stagnate—and die awfully smelly deaths.

INFORMAL BIBLE CLASS

In view of the approaching exams and the rushed schedule of students during this period, the YMCA Bible Class is planning informal meetings for the remainder of the semester. As is the custom, coffee and doughnuts will be served, beginning at 9:50 p.m. The attendance this year has been larger than in former years. Programs have included faculty members, students, and special programs.

“Y” Group Discusses Racial Relations

The first of a series of meetings dealing with various relevant problems took place in the Quadrangle Room on January 11 at 8:15 p.m. Sponsored by the YMCA, the gathering dealt with the question of race relations. Special emphasis was laid upon the Christian approach to the Negro-White question in the South.

The principal speaker was the Reverend Charles M. Jones, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Chapel Hill. In a brief talk he outlined four principles by which men may gauge their attitudes on race relations. He stressed right motives, broadness of viewpoint in all human relations, willingness to go the second mile, and the imperative quality of Christian morality. His principles were discussed and elaborated upon by a faculty panel composed of Dr. George Abernathy, Dr. Frontis Johnston, and Dr. W. A. McGavock. The discussion was then opened to questions from the floor. Charles Davis of the Senior Class acted as moderator.

Because of the nature of the program and the small room, the forum was necessarily limited in attendance.

DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(Continued From Page One)

...days after the Charlotte campaign when a Tommy Dorsey concert was presented in Chambers Auditorium, and the goal of $40,000 set by the students was exceeded.

The National Development Committee, which directs the general management of the campaign, has as its chairman Mr. Spencer Love of Greensboro, North Carolina. Mr. Love is assisted in his chairmanship by two vice-chairmen, Rev. James A. Jones of Charlotte and Mr. D. R. LaFar Jr. of Gastonia, N. C. Under this National Development Committee there are three other groups which handle the overall drive as directed by the national committee. These committees are as follows: first, the Corporation Support Council, whose job it is to approach corporations and foundations whose interest might indicate a willingness to support the campaign. This council is headed by Mr. William H. Neal. Second is the Church Cooperation Committee, led by Dr. Charles E. S. Kraemer of Charlotte. The Regional Organization comes next. Mr. John J. Smith directs this group of thirty-six men as they bring the Davidson Development Program to the home of interested people.

Some of the aims of this program of development are: (1) A new dormitory, (2) A new Davidson College Church, (3) The restoration of the “old” campus — that is, the reproduction of the old quadrangle with which President Woodrow Wilson was familiar when he was a student at Davidson, (4) campus improvements such as landscaping, road building, and heating plant improvements, (5) endowment, and (6) a student center to be used to house the activities of the YMCA and some fifteen other campus organizations.

ACADEMIC TRAVEL...
(Continued From Page One)

...convenient installments. Individual itineraries will be arranged for groups of 15 or more. For full information concerning these tours or a plan whereby a free tour may be secured, contact...Associate Editor, Doug Hix, Travel films and color slides of last summer’s tour may be obtained. Four words a day is the total speech allowed a mother-in-law in Budapest, when living in a son-in-law's house. She may say at the proper time “Good morning” and “Good night.” At other times she speaks only when spoken to.

Harvard Offers Aid In Business School

The second annual offering of scholarships under the nation-wide Regional Scholarship program of the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration was announced last night by Dean Donald K. David. Providing $50,000 in awards to a maximum of 55 men entering the school in September, the Regional Scholarship program is designed to ensure “that well-qualified students without sufficient financial resources will be able to continue their education in the graduate field of business administration.” Each region of the country is allotted its own scholarships under the plan and recipients are selected by competition on a regional basis. The regional scholarships are as follows:

Far Western (five scholarships): Arizona, California, and Nevada.
Mid Atlantic (five scholarships): Delaware, District of Columbia, Maryland, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia.
Mid Western (fifteen scholarships): Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Ohio, and Wisconsin.
Mountain States (five scholarships): Colorado, Kansas, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, and Wyoming.
New England (five scholarships): Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont.
Pacific Northwestern (five scholarships): Idaho, Oregon, and Washington.
Southern (ten scholarships): Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia.
Southwestern (five scholarships): Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas.

Dean David explained: “The Graduate School of Business Administration has always prided itself on keeping its doors open to men from all economic levels and from all parts of the country. If the School is to continue to serve the nation in the development of leaders to carry business responsibility, this policy must continue.” Under the Regional Scholarship program, the actual amount of the award to each scholar will depend directly on individual financial need. Selection of men to receive the scholarship will be made on a basis of aptitude for business training, without regard to financial need. In extreme cases, the scholarship may cover the entire cost of a man’s training for business administration.

The Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration has as its primary objective the training of men to become responsible businessmen: not students of business nor specialists who know about business, but men able to work in business and capable of developing into responsible executives. Applicants should write to the Committee on Scholarships, Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, Soldiers Field, Boston 63, Massachusetts for application forms and detailed information. The deadline for applications will be April 1, 1950.

MARCH OF DIMES ASKS HELP OF COLLEGE MEN

An alarming number of people in age groups that include college and university students were victims of 1949’s epidemics of poliomyelitis in this country, Basil O’Connor, president of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis declared in issuing a special, urgent call for organized March of Dimes campaign participation by college and university student bodies. Extensive research and educational programs are financed by the March of Dimes funds of the National Foundation, Mr. O’Connor explained. He added that virus research seeking a means of prevention or control of poliomyelitis has cost the National Foundation, from 1938 and through June 30, 1949, $8,212,855.50 while research for the prevention and treatment of after-effects of the disease have cost another $2,735,223.95. In urging all-out participation by colleges and universities in the 1950 March of Dimes, Mr. O’Connor stressed the importance of uninterrupted continuance of the educational and research programs of the National Foundation, despite the added patient-care burdens of the coming year.

FROSH CAGERS FALL...

(Continued From Page Four)

Hotshots proved too much for the frosh as they ran up a 99-43 score. The game was much more thrilling than the score would indicate for the local lads played a hard, fast game. The score at halftime was 36-16 for the State freshmen. Crull and Speight led the tall winners with 22 and 21 each. Crull and Kukoy both tossed in eight field goals to lead their mates. Howell and Asbury with 8 and 7 excelled for the hosts. It was a rather rough game in that 51 fouls were called by the officials. Twenty-nine of them were directed against the Kittens. The State frosh average in height over 6 feet 5 inches, and have beaten their big brothers on several occasions. The freshman squad journeys to Clemson to engage their frosh this Saturday night. Parker High of Greenville, S. C., will be our next visitor. This game will be a preliminary to the McCrary Eagles game of Monday, the 16th.

BOOK NOTES

(Continued From Page Two)

be resolved to accomplish deeds of everlasting worth. What is complete humanity? When neither of these two essential aspects is obscured, but each is asserted and developed; when they neither destroy each other nor drive each other to extremes, but blend in an evident unity replete with inner tension yet firm, imperilled, yet assured, limited, yet bound on an infinite voyage, this is a complete humanity; and a man is human in so far as he lives, consciously, willingly, and with a cheerful promptitude as a finite being in the midst of time, change, and the countless shapes of life — but at the same time strives to overcome all this flux and limitation in the eternity and infinity which transfigures them. A man is human in so far as he truly and humbly combines these two essential aspects. Herein lies the inexpressible charm of all things human — a mystery pregnant with pain and strength, desire and confident hope.”

FRIDAY, JAN. 13, 1950

Flicker Flashes...

(Continued From Page Two)

Payne, Sonny Tufts, and Ellen Drew. John Payne, amnesia victim, goes to Los Angeles to learn of his past and discovers that he was a henchman of a gang leader, Sonny Tufts. Ellen Drew, formerly Payne’s wife, falls in love with him again, although he didn’t remember her, and helps him get out of the frame-up Sonny Tufts tries to pull on him. For the outcome of this “one star” picture, see it.

MASQUERS ANNOUNCE...

(Continued From Page One)

respectively. The supporting cast is as follows: Mrs. Mae Holly as Salome and Mary Welles McNeil as Tania. The role of Celestinia has not been cast yet. The presentation of this evening of entertainment will be in Chambers Auditorium on February 27 and 28.

Parker-Gardner Company
118 W. Trade St.
Phone 8251

W. S. HENDERSON
Jeweler
EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING — CRYSTALS FITTED
Main St. Davidson

PATRICIA NEAL
Lovely Northwestern Alumna, says: “I’ve always preferred Chesterfields and I’m sure I always shall. They’re much MILDER.”

CO-STARRING IN “HASTY HEART”
A WARNER BROS. PRODUCTION

*By Recent National Survey

AMERICAS
WITH THE TOP MEN IN SPORTS
THE HOLLYWOOD STARS