CAMPUS COAL! TUITION TOWERS! SALARIES SOAR!

VOLUME XXXVIII

Dr. Cunningham Tells Students Of Annual Trustees Meeting

President States Tuition Increase Necessary To Carry On

Dr. Cunningham delivered an informal, within-the-family talk Tuesday morning after the chapel devotions. The fireside chat included reports on a
critical coal shortage, progress in building the new church and the dormitory, possibility of a student union building, increase in
tuition and room rent, and a raise in faculty salaries.

“The most immediate problem of the college,” Dr. Cunningham said, “is that of a critical coal shortage.” No more than
a week's supply was at that time available. It was hoped that Mr. Jackson would be able to find a
car-load somewhere, but in the meantime, it was requested that every effort be made to conserve heat in the dormitories.

A meeting of the Board of Trustees concluded Monday, giving Dr. Cunningham an occasion to speak of their election, duties,
and current report. The Trustees of Davidson College, composed of 51 men, is the largest board of Trustees of any
college of comparable size. The six Presbyteries of North Carolina and Florida elect a majority of the Trustees; the alumni
furnish twelve.

FINANCIAL SHORTAGE

Faced with an operating shortage of $80,000, Davidson College will raise its tuition $75 and dormitory rent $25 next September,
the President announced. The Trustees of the college who authorized the increased rates stipulated that 20 percent—approximately $15,000—of the new
revenue be used to help needy, worthy students obtain education. This year the college paid approximately $43,000 in scholarship aids
and $11,000 more for part-time jobs. The $25 boost in room rent is the first change in dormitory fees in
approximately 15 years. During this time, maintenance costs on buildings have more than doubled. Tuition charges have been raised in
the past ten years from $200 to $300, a 50 percent increase, while the cost of educating each student has
jumped 180 percent. Despite the increases, Davidson's fees are still low in comparison with other southern colleges. In announcing the
changes, President Cunningham said that “even with the new rates our tuition and fees will be as low as any
college controlled by the Southern Presbyterian Church.”

New salary raises for faculty members were quoted as being $2,500—$3,100 for assistant professors, $3,250—$4,250 for associate professors, and $4,000—$5,500
for full (Continued On Page Six)

Dr. Watts Honored In Ceremonies Held At U. Of Virginia

In elaborate ceremonies at the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va., Dr. Geo. B. Watts, Professor of French at Davidson College
and national Secretary-Treasurer of the American Association of Teachers of French, was inducted into the Legion of Honor last Thursday.
At the same time, the President of the Association, Dr. Joseph-Medard Carriere, received the same distinction. They were named Chevaliers
by decree of the President of the Republic of France on last Bastille Day. The Ambassador of France has named
his Cultural Counselor, M. Rene de Messieres, to come to Virginia to present the diploma and the cross of the
Legion d’Honneur to the two new Legionnaires.

The ceremonies started at the Farmington Country Club at noon, February 23, when the University of Virginia offered a complimentary
luncheon. This was followed by the Presentation Ceremony in the McGregor Room of the University Library. In connection with this
ceremony, there was an exhibition of rare French works dealing with the early history of Virginia, and the printed works
of the two recipients. At three P.M. there was a reception in the University Rotunda. At six, there was a
complimentary dinner in the Hotel Monticello, followed by a reception at the home (Continued On Page Six)

Col. Perry Conducts Informal Inspection

Colonel Redding F. Perry, Cavalry, commanding Officer of the North Carolina Military District, U.S. Army, with headquarters at Raleigh, will
arrive on the campus next Monday night and will inspect the Military Department on Tuesday, the 28th. The inspection will
be of an informal nature, consisting chiefly of inspection of records and administration, of classroom work and of the afternoon
drill. A parade is scheduled for the drill period. The district commander is required to make at least one such
inspection yearly.

Colonel Perry is a native Tar Heel of Henderson and attended the University of North Carolina. His military career began
in 1917 with his appointment as second lieutenant of cavalry. He served with the 80th Division in France and Germany
during World War I. Shortly after that War, he had a special assignment under General “Black Jack” Pershing writing a
history of World War I. Foreign service in the Philippines and China during the period 1935-37 preceded his assignment to
a mechanized cavalry outfit at Fort Knox, Kentucky, when the idea of modern armor was developed in the late '30s.
Colonel Perry was a division staff officer with the famous 2nd Armored Division from its formation until 1942, and then
served as an assistant chief of staff with the Desert Training Center in the California desert. He participated in the
North African campaign and the Sicilian campaign in the very responsible post of Chief of Staff of an armored corps
(2 or more divisions). Later, in France and Ger- (Continued On Page Six)

After the Fire!

SABBATH BLAZE LEVELS HOME: CLOTHES REQUEST ANSWERED

Sunday morning services were interrupted last week by the untimely wail of a fire siren. When the flames had finally
been quenched, John Lowery, his wife, and two small children were left homeless, losing practically everything they owned. Mr. Lowery
had arisen earlier to build a fire in the stove and had gone back to bed. He apparently fell asleep,
for he was suddenly awakened by an excited neighbor who had seen smoke from across the street, and realizing that
Mr. Lowery’s house was on fire, had gone to investigate.

The response of the fire department was excellent, for although the Lowery home was destroyed, the Davidson Volunteers arrived soon
enough to save the home of John Heath, Georgia Dormitory Janitor, and perhaps several others. Dr. Carl Pritchett soon made
an appeal to the townspeople and Davidson Student Body for clothes to outfit the homeless family. He later announced that
results had been excellent. The family, now living with relatives, has been well taken care of and now needs only
to find a new home—something difficult to obtain in the Davidson colored community today. (Ed. Note: See page 2 “colored
housing...”)

Effect of Radiation Explained to Students

At two o'clock in the Science Building lecture room, Dr. Alexander Hollander, director of the Biological Laboratories of Oak Ridge,
spoke on radiation and its effects on living organisms. Dr. Hollander, born of German parents, did both his undergraduate and
graduate work at the University of Wisconsin. For ten years prior to the war, he was associated with the National
Health Institution in Washington.

The main question with which Dr. Hollander dealt was, how much can man safely be exposed to atomic energy. This
work has been going on through the usage of rats, mice, and rabbits, with particular emphasis being placed on the
percentage of surviving animals. Dr. Hollander brought out the following points in his lecture. Before the war, man knew nothing
of the effects of radiation on living cells, so special laboratories were set up to study these effects. Radiation can
be judged in measure by amount and...in wavelength. This information was almost all they had at the beginning. The biological
division of Oak Ridge is a part of the National Laboratories Commission set up by the government to experiment in
atomic research throughout the country. Many scientists were brought in who were especially interested in the subject of radiation and
its effects. The Biological Laboratories at Oak Ridge are faced by three major problems, these being: 1. Cytogenetics. 2. Biochemical
change. 3. Pathology. Little is known in the way of experiments concerning the higher animals, man included. Due to the
risk of danger to human beings as well as the time element involved (500 years would be required for the
study of this cycle in man in contrast to only ten years in mice), mice have been used for most
of the experiments. The Oak Ridge Laboratories have 40,000 mice for use in these experiments. They are now making preparations
to keep 100,000 mice. (Continued On Page Six)

The Davidsonian

ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1950

QUEENS AND CAVALIERS OUT COLLEGIATE CAPERS

NUMBER SEVENTEEN

Queens Again Invade Campus In Renewal Of Traditional Function

Tea Dance, Basketball Game, Parties

Highest Averages Of Seniors Released

The Registrar's Office recently released the names of the members of the Senior Class with the highest scholastic averages. These
averages were compiled on the basis of grades earned through the first semester of the present school year. The list
released is as follows:

Groves, E. T.—3.085.
Lyles, J. S.—2.875.
Clapp, R. W.—2.864.
Davis, C. T.—2.862.
Storey, R. M.—2.841.
Storey, B. M.—2.841.
Burrus, C. A.—2.814.
Morgan, R. L.—2.750.
Kendall, R. D.—2.641.
Jackson, R. B.—2.617.
Bumbarger, R. B.—2.614.
Mebane, W. N.—2.586.
Spires, T. G.—2.584.
Goodman, W. A.—2.536.
Guthrie, A. N.—2.492.
Patten, R. C.—2.445.
Montgomery, F. F.—2.442.
Groge, J. E.—2.438.
Higginbotham, P. C.—2.370.
Kester, R. W.—2.370.
Parker, F. C.—2.335.
Peters, W. W.—2.308.

Inn Dwellers Moved To Dormitory Rooms

Students from Carolina Inn have been moved to the dormitories and to the cardboard village as several dormitory spaces and
several apartments in the village were vacated at mid-semester by students who either graduated, transferred, or failed out of school.
Mrs. Little stated that due to the spaces left vacant in the dormitories at mid-semester, and in view of the
coal shortage, Carolina Inn would be closed the rest of this year. However, when the enrollment of the college is
increased next fall, Carolina Inn will again be opened to the students. Twelve of the eighteen boys in (Continued On
Page Six)

WYLIE SMITH ... as Fedel in “Sunday Costs Five Pesos”

Director Trotman “Ain't As Long As Has Been”

Speaking in slightly undramatic terms, “it ain't as long as it used to be” and the Masquers are aware of
the fact as they make last minute preparations for their next production. Director Trotman called a dress rehearsal for Wednesday
night and is planning another for Saturday night complete with make-up in preparation for the curtain-raiser on Monday night, Feb.
27. This latest attempt will consist of two one-act plays, “The Valiant,” heavy drama, and “Sunday Costs Five Pesos,” definitely
on the lighter side. Co-starring in “The Valiant” are Tom Apperson and Thelma Boyd. Apperson appeared last as the narrator
in Thornton Wilder's “Our Town.” The suave, even-voiced, Hillsville, Va., senior will portray James Dyke, a condemned murderer, whose tight-lipped
anticipation of his electrocution forms the basis for the plot. Mrs. Boyd, a Richburg, S. C., native and graduate of
Winthrop College is probably better known as the wife of Dr. Bernard Boyd, popular professor of Bible. She will combine
her natural charm and simplicity to play the part of a small-town girl from Ohio, determinedly seeking to establish the
identity of the condemned man as that of her brother. Aggressive in a timid sort of way, if such can
be done, she is a very sympathetic character. Starring roles in “Sunday Costs (Continued On Page Six)

Whistles, shrieks, and wolf howls were Davidson’s answer to the announcement, made during Wednesday's chapel period, of the Queens-Davidson Day
to be held Saturday afternoon and night, Feb. 25, on the Davidson campus. Bill Klein, who made the announcement, told
reporters who asked him to account for the excitement of the student body that a possible explanation as to the
cause of this ebullition may be divined from the fact that one hundred twenty girls will arrive on our campus
tomorrow afternoon. Mr. Klein refused to make any other comment until a later date. These girls, who will come to
the Davidson campus Saturday afternoon at 3:00 o'clock are students at Queens College, and their visit here will mark the
first Queens-Davidson Day since 1945. The plans for the celebration are as follows: an informal dance in the old college
gymnasium from 3:30 until 5:30, a dinner date with the girls at the various boarding houses, a varsity basketball game
in the new gym, and entertainment at the YMCA until time for the girls to leave. The Davidson students will
meet their dates at the YMCA Guest House upon the girls' arrival here, after which the afternoon dance will begin.
This dance will be chaperoned by the faculty, and music will be provided by records. At 6:00 dinner will be
served to the girls at the boarding houses of their dates. The basketball game, after dinner, will be a contest
against The Citadel who defeated Davidson when the Wildcats met them in Charleston. After the ball game refreshments will be
served at the Y, and various types of entertainment will be given by both Queens girls and local students. The
Junior class of Davidson, working with the YMCA, will sponsor the dance. Bill Klein, in charge of the Social Life
division of the YMCA Social Activity Commission is making arrangements for the events of the Queens-Davidson Day with Dot Thomas,
Social Activity Chairman of Queens College. All students who do not have dates for the dance are cordially invited to
attend, and it is hoped that a large representation of the student body will be present to ensure the success
of the dance.

Eu Receives Twenty Men in Brotherhood

The Eu Society, having extended bids for more members the previous meeting, met Monday the 20th, with its customary enthusiasm
to hear the papers submitted by these prospective members. Vice-President Tommy Langford called the meeting to order in the absence
of the president, Jim W. Campbell, and Secretary, Bill Adams, called the roll and read the minutes of the last
meeting. Two new offices were created by Pres. Campbell: Critic and Parliamentarian which will be filled by Bill Hollister and
Jack Hunter respectively. Pete Kalogridis was appointed Sergeant-at-Arms for the meeting and introduced the prospective members to the society at
which time each read an original composition of some type. John Ottley, first, read “Do Ideals Pay Off” which was
a discussion of the importance of ideals in our lives. Carlyle Crenshaw next read a paper concerning a dreamed-of, ideal
Thanksgiving morning. Frank Hanshaw read “West Virginia Hillbillys” which was an interesting description and characterization of the typical hillbilly. Following
this paper Ed Montgomery presented his “Corporal of the Guard” which was a picture of realism of army life and
rugged conditions. Jinks Jervey read a negro sermon about Moses and the E.B.I. (The Egyptian Bureau of Investigation). His rendition
of this paper in the negro dialect proved to be very entertaining. Next Larry Dagenhart read “The Tug of the
Soil” in which he expressed the sentiments of all (Continued On Page Six)
