PAGE SIX THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1950

E.T.S. Announces Spring Date For Medical Admission Test

Princeton, N. J.—The Medical College Admission Test, required of applicants by a number of leading medical colleges throughout the country,
will be given twice again during the current calendar year, according to Educational Testing Service, which prepares and administers the
test for the Association of American Medical Colleges.

Candidates may take the MCAT on Saturday, May 13, 1950, or on Monday, November 6, 1950, at administrations to be
held at more than 300 local centers in all parts of the country. The Association of American Medical Colleges, through
its Committee on Student Personnel Practices, recommends that candidates for admission to classes starting in the fall of 1952 take
the May test. The results will then be available to institutions in the early fall when many medical colleges begin
the selection of their next freshman class.

The MCAT consists of tests of general scholastic ability, a test on understanding of modern society, and an achievement test
in science. According to ETS, no special preparation other than a review of science subjects is necessary. All questions are
of the objective type.

Application forms and a Bulletin of Information, which gives details of registration and administration, as well as sample questions, are
available from pre-medical advisers or directly from Educational Testing Service, Box 592, Princeton, N. J. Completed applications must reach the
ETS office by April 29 and October 23, respectively, for the May 13 and November 6 administration.

IS AMERICA ADRIFT...
(Continued From Page Two)

...curity against tyranny on the part of the government. The advocates of deficit financing are practically without exception free spenders.
Some of them simply find it inconvenient to raise funds by taxation to pay for all they would like to
do. Others claim to have discovered some economic principle that makes it positively desirable for the government to run a
deficit. Those who find it inconvenient and unnecessary to pay for things usually insist that the country has not suffered
any bad economic effects because of the continued deficits of the past twenty years. On the contrary, they assert, we
have enjoyed a rousing prosperity, at least during the latter part of the period. As one writer has phrased the
matter, “If Americans weathered this amazing climb in the national debt without any serious difficulties, nothing alarming is in sight
if an orderly and continuous increase marks the peacetime years ahead.” (Robert K. Pepper, “What's Good About The National Debt?”)

At least this is like saying if an automobile will take a curve at fifty miles an hour, it will
take it at fifty-five, and at sixty, and so on. There are doubtless some drivers who hold to that theory,
but their last words are apt to be, “We are getting along fine so far.” America is a wealthy land,
and such a land can stand a lot of financial nonsense without going over the brink of disaster, but to
assert that there isn't any brink is to convict oneself of complete ignorance of human history. There is nothing more
certain than that there is a brink and that nation after nation has gone over it. It would be much
more sensible for the advocates of deficit spending to assert that what others would regard as a catastrophe they would
consider a desirable state of affairs. This is, of course, the position openly taken by certain collectivists who would welcome
national bankruptcy as a means of destroying the system of private ownership.

It is clear that we should come to some understanding as to what we mean by a disaster. If by
disaster we mean such burdens of taxation as would make it impossible for the system of production under private ownership
to function or such an inflation of prices as would transfer the wealth of the industrious and the thrifty to
the indolent and spendthrift, then it can be definitely asserted that continued deficit financing will lead to disaster. We may
even question the assertion that this country has not already encountered “serious difficulties” on account of deficit financing during the
past twenty years. Whether the tremendous shifts of wealth and income that accompany even so moderate an inflation as that
which we have experienced are to be regarded as “serious difficulties” depends upon which side of the shift one happens
to have been on. Whether monumental levies on the people's income appear to constitute “serious difficulties” depends upon whether one’s
income has risen faster than the tax levies. Whether governmental interferences with markets seem to create “serious difficulties,” depends upon
whether one benefits more from interventions in his favor than he suffers because of interventions in favor of others.

Rip Van Winkle couldn’t sleep for 20 years nowadays. He would be up working on his income tax and then
getting ready for census enumerators.

Cabinet Considers YMCA Criticisms

Last Monday evening the meeting opened by Randy Taylor voicing the criticisms of “Y” work discussed at the Hall Prayer
Meeting. There were many criticisms submitted, the main one dealing with the lack of recreation facilities. The Cabinet feels that
this has partially been taken care of by the opening of the new gymnasium. No hope of any major changes
are expected until the plans for the new student union building are completed.

Curtis Harper brought back from Chapel Hill a report from an ecumenical conference he attended last Saturday. True Christian fellowship
between denominations as well as individuals was discussed. Ten Davidson men attended the meeting.

The members of the “Y” Cabinet and other men who had freshmen groups during orientation week were urged to again
visit these freshmen. Dean Bailey had mentioned the fact that these leaders would be of the same service in answering
freshmen questions the second semester as they had been the first.

Jim Murray gave very encouraging news on the interview Monday afternoon with Dr. Alec Bachlor and Rev. Lawrence Bottoms. Dr.
Bachlor is the chairman of Negro work in the Southern Presbyterian Conference, and Rev. Bottoms is Regional Director in the
Synod of the Syedecor Memorial Synod.

The Davidson YMCA gave a gift of $100 to the Davidson Negro Recreation Center to be used for renovating and
athletic equipment.

BIKO...
(Continued From Page One)

...would not have prevented a war but would have made it even more terrifying. As obvious as this statement is
I still shall try to show why I believe this.

Many people, when thinking of another war, still apply in their thoughts the idea of war and its picture as
it was known during recent history. They think of war to be a weighing-scale of the nations, a search for
power and domination, a fight for natural resources and for export markets. Also being familiar with the techniques of fighting
the homefront of a nation and thus adding the psychic factor in war technique, they still think of battles, armies
and strong airforces as being the decisive factors in a war. If going out from this viewpoint they might be
able to find some kind of justification in what Dr. Fuchs said to be his motives. But we have to
understand that this viewpoint no longer can be applied when thinking about the next war. And why can this not
be done? What will be the factors that will decide the next war if we should ever have one? Is
this to say that no armies will have any place in another struggle between the nations of this world? No,
but the reasons go deeper.

The next war will first of all be one of ideas and ideals. There will be a struggle between different
conceptions of what should be the setup of human society. And in a sense this war has started already, more
than that, it is going on ever since Karl Marx formed his communistic conception of human society. I believe that
the constant devel...Development of the history of human society is now and then interrupted by some kind of explosion or
collision, caused by the existence of two extremes, which then causes the birth or beginning of a new kind of
human society, a society with different ideas, values, and conceptions. For example, as Alexander the Great conquered the Persian Empire,
two different cultures collided and formed a new culture, which we still find today. And I furthermore believe that we
are about to witness another of these collisions. The Christian concept of the value of the human being and the
form of the society it should form, and the extreme that developed partly out of this concept and that is
known as capitalism, is one of the extremes. The individual with all its freedoms is the most important and decisive
factor in this society. The sense of a community life suffers through the extreme stress put upon the individual. On
the other side, we find the communistic form of society, in which the individual is nothing and the community is
everything. These two extremes cannot possibly exist side by side. We are about to see this more and more every
day. One of them, it seems, must win over the other. Whether this struggle is carried out by armies and
air forces or not is not that important. Because it cannot be decided by a military victory of the one
over the other. The only thing a war in its known sense could accomplish would be the total destruction of
our existing society. Thus human beings would be forced by the circumstances existing to form a society, which necessarily had
to be a new kind although it would contain parts of both of the former ones. This war could be
prevented if Dr. Fuchs’ assumption would be right. But it would not at all change the fact that some sort
of solution has to be found. It could prevent the total destruction of our existing human societies by force, but
would then leave the question open as to how it could be changed. Because we have to be aware of
the fact that the forms of society as existing right now in America and Russia are going to change. If
considering all this from the viewpoint of the general course of human history, I personally come to the conclusion that
the question as to what role the H-bomb is going to take in a future military war is not the
most important issue that has to be taken into consideration by the governments of all nations. Because doing this means
to assume that war will be inevitable and that it is only a question of what weapons will be used.
I think that the greatest task not only of our governments but of the entire human race is to find
a substitute for war. I do not know where we can find it. It might be found within the teachings
of Christ or somewhere else. But I believe that it will be found sometime, that it has to be found.
If I did not have this hope, I would not know what else to live for.

VISIT THE RECREATION CENTER
Davidson, N.C.

(Continued From Page One)
this semester are Paul Guthrie, Hugh Puckett, Charles Parker, Bill Brokos, Milton Clenseur, and Joe Parker. Bob Hollister stated that
any other students interested in working with the paper may do so by contacting him personally or through the mail.
A banquet at the end of the year for the entire staff is being planned, although details have not been
completed as yet. There will be guest speakers and some form of entertainment. Keys will be presented to the Managing
Editors in appreciation for their service. There will be twelve more issues of the DAVIDSONIAN this year. The new staff
will take over sometime in early May.

FIRST HALF...
(Continued From Page One)
school-boy with his satchel and shining (coffee-stimulated) morning face, creeping like a jet-plane, willingly to home-town.” Having traveled homeward on
the Greyhound some 8888 even times, Dave can vicariously (or sympathetically) experience the shock of a bus trip any time
a blue and silver vehicle (be it a garbage truck or velocipede) roars by him. He can hear the woman
with child (in arms) screaming. One, the woman, softly coos a falsetto baby tune while the other dates over a
soda cracker and bubble gum, drooling the former on the former and the latter on later arriving passenger’s hair. Too,
Dave can mimic the muffled T.B., and D.T., (tough, or the explosive smokers’ hack as if he had heard it
8888 even times. Just thinking over past trips, Dave can recall from memory all the station calls: “There will be
a one-half minute rest stop in Greenville-on-the-sewage-canal, change of drivers and babies at Soggyslacks, and mail stops at Faith, Hope,
and expectancy. We hope to arrive at Hollors-Burnt-Match (home-town) sometime within the next decade. Please — no sleeping in the
seats, spitting on women, nor loading of weapons. Fasten your pillows and foot rests. Board! Too, Dave can smell that
ambrosia aroma of popcorn, cigars, C.O., chewing gum, apple cores, and melted marshmallows. But come now, let’s not spy on
Dave while he is dreaming of home; for he is about to come out of a six (free) day sleeping
stupor in the library. Oh well! What's the reason for going home anyway? All you get to do is go
home, and leave Davidson, and go home, and leave Davidson, and go home, etc.

WHEREVER YOU GO!
So, Remember this seal — it’s your assurance of the best!

SOCIAL FRATERNITIES...
(Continued From Page One)
are: Bill Rankin, Mac Rankin, Ed Coleman, Ralph Holt, John Cathcart, Jack Hobson, Jim Eller, George Irvin, Yancey Robertson, Jack
Ruth, Garland Still, Sammy Hope, Chuck Elliott, Russell Garrison, Jim Boulware, Bob Tucker, Tommy Wooten, Sam Myrick, Dave Robinson, Bob
Walker, and Mike Myers. Sigma Phi Epsilon brought its initiation to a close with the induction of: Joe Parker, Harmon
Mauney, and Hunter Warlick. Other fraternities plan to hold their initiations at a later date.

(Continued From Page One)
can Chemistry Society, and national publicity through the Chemical Engineering News. The D. H. Howard Award, established in honor of
a former professor of Chemistry, Dr. D. H. Howard, and amounting to $250, is awarded annually to that rising chemistry
major who is judged by the chemistry staff to be the outstanding man in his field.

VARIETY SHOW...
(Continued From Page One)
hillbilly Sand then rendered a few familiar selections, two being “Old Mac Donald” and “Somewhere Over The Rainbow.” Last but
not least was the appearance of two popular alumni of Davidson: Bill Scruggs and Mac Upchurch, better known as the
“Merry Madcaps of Musical Murder.” They proceeded with their rendition of “The Three Bears,” “Frankie and Johnnie,” “Last Night on
the Back Porch,” and a new song written in their own words and style, “Clare The Goon.” With this, the
two-hour Variety Show was concluded.

TROTMAN NAMED...
(Continued From Page One)
dramas in American literature. It has been received with great enthusiasm by American audiences during the last three decades and
has received many honors for its excellence. Sets for both plays have already been completed.

When every family gets in that $12,000 per year income group, the task of compiling a sucker list will be
an easy matter. Margaret Truman’s income is said to be as much as her father’s. No wonder she has a
song in her heart. Old Dobbin had his faults, but they didn’t have to build safety islands to protect pedestrians.

W.S. HENDERSON
Jeweler
EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING — CRYSTALS FITTED
Main St. Davidson

Copyright 1950, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

FREE TO AMERICA’S COLLEGES
WITH THE TOP MEN IN SPORTS
WITH THE HOLLYWOOD STARS

HELENA CARTER
Charming Hunter Alumna, says: “MILDER... MUCH MILDER... that’s why I find Chesterfield much more pleasure to smoke.”

Miss Carter
CO-STARRING IN “SOUTH SEA SINNER”
A UNIVERSAL-INTERNATIONAL PICTURE
