PAGE THREE

VECTOR HURLING PROFESSORS AND EVEN SLIDING SAGES CAN BE HUMAN

By ROGER W. CLAPP, JR.

“If the vector v is the velocity of a rotating fluid, the curl of v, v x v, is twice the vector angular velocity of rotation, and the divergence of v, v·v, is zero.” (1?1). Ordinarily, the average advanced physics and/or mathematics major at Davidson is expected to swallow doses of this kind under threat of an “F” or because, if he fails to nod his head sagely, his professor will look upon him with withering contempt. But then, maybe the boys pictured here are not just “average” or “normal.” It has been mentioned that they are math and physics majors. Possibly, then, these suckers, er, uh, geniuses, are a little out of the ordinary, especially since they learn such things as that glib mouthing above without even being required to learn them. It is hard to believe, but true.

Yes, pictured on this page you see two of the scenes common to the voluntary Math-Physics Seminar in Vector Analysis that meets every other Friday night at the home of one of the professors. The idea of having such a group meeting was conceived in the hope that the Junior and Senior students might have a chance at real self-expression and also a chance to commit a coup d’etat by conducting a discussion with some of the professors as their students. The give and take is a man-to-man affair and the professor-student relationship is relegated to the background. It is most refreshing to see one of the boys tell one of the professors, whose classes he attends during the week, that the idea he has on that 27th problem is not so hot and here is the way it ought to be done.

Drop in any time between 8:00 and 9:00 P.M., at your own risk, and you will probably be hit squarely between the eyes with a sliding vector or nearly scalped with a diverging curl. Maybe Bruce Jackson will be trying to convince Bill Clapp that he has the wrong slant on that triple scalar product; or maybe Professor Pietenpol will be defending his point of view on the dynamics of a system of particles against the aggressive doubting of J. B. Stroud. At any rate, the blackboard, set up for the night on two antique chairs for which a use has finally been found, will be covered time and time again with symbols that might appear to most people to be something out of a Chinese secret code. And so the session goes on, with students and professors presenting problems in the vector notation, sections from the vector analysis text, and any unexpected idea which might arise.

Now if you are just a social butterfly and are not capable of holding up beneath the burden of thick-piled mathematical ideas, you had better take in a movie and then drop in about 9:30. By then, the chalk is usually wearing thin, and it is time for Warren Herron and J. B. Stroud, who are head cooks for the night (though often the professor's wife very competently takes things in hand), to hie off to the kitchen to get the coffee hot and the pie and ice cream combined in the proper proportions. Charles Burrus, Charlie Miller, and Prof. Martin waste no time relieving undue strain from the sagging refreshment table.

In the meantime, a cut-throat bridge game gets underway in the front room with Prof. Pietenpol and Alan Fanjoy bidding six spades and daring Prof. Fulcher or Bob McLeod to double. Naturally, they double. Prof. McGavock, of course, has by this time set up a chess board and has challenged one of those who aspire to play the pastime of kings to command the opposing forces. Warren Herron, who boasts a better-than-average chess game, as well as being one of the top bridge players in the college, accepts the challenge. Prof. Mebane dubiously looks in on the game and remarks that he had rather be a checker champ than a wood-pushing chess amateur. This immediately brings a challenge from Bill Clapp and out comes the checker board. Prof. Peyton, or rather part of him, momentarily distracts the attention of Prof. Sellars and the rest of the peanut gallery watching the checker game. Behind the checker board, J. B. Stroud grins as his horse, red, romps home a full length ahead of Otis Milner’s yellow. Prof. Fulcher, with a black cigar that proves he is still a man who can “take it,” has by now reached the detailed description of the 8th points not always straight line.

Seniors gather as students wade through chalk dust to plot structure of H-bomb.

Excess Legal Talent Forces Aspirants to Seek New Fields

Law graduates seeking employment this year will meet exceedingly stiff competition in most areas, according to a study made by the United States Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics. The legal profession was already overcrowded in 1949, when twice as many lawyers passed the bar examinations as in the years just before the war. In view of the unprecedented number of students now in law school, the number of new graduates will remain high for the next 2 or 3 years at least. Many young lawyers will probably be forced to turn to other fields of work in which their legal trainingmay be an asset. Top-ranking students, however, will continue to find openings with relative ease. Over the long run, the legal profession will probably tend to expand slowly, as a result of population growth and of numerous economic and social trends which tend to increase the need for legal services. Deaths and retirements of lawyers — which are roughly estimated at around 4,000 or 5,000 a year — will also create openings. The tendency toward overcrowding in the profession is likely to continue, however, unless legal services are made available to greater numbers of middle- and lower-income people through the extension of such plans as the legal aid society or the lawyer reference plan. Opportunities for specialists are often better than for lawyers in general practice. However, such positions are comparatively few in number, and are usually found only with big law firms in the larger cities. Specialties with relatively good prospects in the long run are: tax law (thorough knowledge of accounting is necessary and government experience helpful), patent law (scientific or engineering training is often required), administrative law, admiralty law, and international law. Legal training is becoming increasingly useful for many types of business, and for administrative positions in Government, it is also a great asset to people seeking public office. Best opportunities usually lie in medium-size and smaller cities, especially those with prospects of economic expansion. State capitals and county seats may also offer relatively good opportunities. The profession is especially overcrowded in the very large cities and in Washington, D.C. Information on how several thousand law school graduates of 1946 and 1947 obtained their first jobs is available from a survey conducted by the B'nai B’rith Vocational Service Bureau. The survey shows that about one-third of the 1947 graduates applied to only one prospective employer and that approximately the same number applied to 6 or more prospective employers. Veterans appeared to have only a slight advantage over non-veterans when it came to finding jobs. Half the 1947 law graduates had obtained employment in less than 2 months after graduation; however, 18 percent had to wait 4 months or longer for their first legal jobs. It took women much longer than men to obtain legal positions. It should be noted that the graduating classes of 1946 and 1947 were looking for jobs at a time when the employment situation was relatively favorable. The small number of law graduates during the war years had brought about an unusually large number of openings for new entrants. Excellent business conditions also contributed to the demand. Since 1947, competition for employment has greatly increased and it will probably become keener in the next year or two.

Parker-Gardner Company
118 W. Trade St.
Phone 9251

THE DAVIDSONIAN

He then joined a coated paper mill firm as research and control man. Pearl Harbor changed all that—Paul went to Maxwell Field to begin Aviation Cadet training. An excellent student at Middlebury College, Vermont, Paul found time to win the coveted All Sports Trophy in his senior year. He graduated in June, 1938. His big plane education was topped with 23 missions over the far-famed “Hump,” flying C-54 transports. After V-J Day, he stayed on in the Far East until March of 1948—specializing in Air Intelligence. Back home, after accepting a Regular Air Force Commission, Captain Buskey went to Air Tactical School, was there rated an outstanding student, and won assignment to Command and Staff school. If you are single, between the ages of 20 and 26½, with at least two years of college, consider the many career opportunities as a pilot or navigator in the U.S. Air Force. Procurement Teams are visiting many colleges and universities to explain these career opportunities. Watch for them. You may also get full details at your nearest Air Force Base or U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force Recruiting Station, or by writing to the Chief of Staff, U.S. Air Force, Att: Aviation Cadet Branch, Washington 25, D.C.

U.S. AIR FORCE

An outstanding Cadet, 2nd Lt. Paul Buskey was held over as an instructor after graduation. Then he was assigned as a pilot in the Air Transport Command. Today, Captain Buskey is an Air Intelligence Officer on MATS Headquarters Staff at Andrews Air Force Base near Washington, D.C. He looks forward to a rewarding future in the U.S. Air Force.

ONLY THE BEST CAN BE AVIATION CADETS!

Bring Your Date To The ST