FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1950 — THE DAVIDSONIAN — PAGE FIVE

KITTENS, WEEK FROM OPENER, PLEASE BAIRD

Frosh Plunge Into 5-Game Slate Against Bullpups Next Saturday

By DICK ROPER

“A hustling, scrapping bunch of boys,” Boydson “Boyd” Baird called the freshman football squad at the end of three and
a half weeks of practice. With their first game only a week off, these thirty-five grid hopefuls have been working
long and hard, scrimmaging the varsity four days a week in an effort to perfect a somewhat ragged offense.

Handling the quarterbacking duties so far have been Tim Gilley, a Welch, West Virginia boy, and Hershel Allen from Monticello,
Ga. These boys have been splitting the job of running the split-T formation installed by varsity coach Crowell Little. The
brightest spot in the frosh backfield, during recent scrimmages, has been halfback Johnny Gray from Statesville. Gray, a small (150
pounds) but flashy speedster, has gotten off some nice runs against the varsity, and will most likely be a starter
when the team opens their season here next Saturday against the Citadel frosh.

Coach Baird praised the defensive play of his club, which showed up best in a full-dress scrimmage against the varsity
two weeks ago. However, the squad is woefully short of tackles and guards and there are only two centers on
the active list. At the ends, too, material is short with only five flankers seeing service.

Injuries have taken their toll over the first few weeks of practice, and at present five boys are out of
action on this account. On the first day of practice Harry Yarborough, a Wilson husky, aggravated an old knee injury
and will not be able to play until he has had an operation. Bill Elliott, a center from Lincolnton, suffered
a broken collarbone several days ago and may not see action this season. Bill McAllister, an end, and Malphus Bradbury
and Carroll Gray, guards, are out with minor hurts.

Bradbury, incidentally, has been the standout in the frosh line in recent scrimmages. From his position at guard he has
thrown some vicious blocks and has also looked good on downfield blocking. Tackles Bill Putnam and Phil McGill have been
the defensive stars. McGill, a Darlington prep school graduate, whose home is only a few blocks off the campus, is
a short, chunky lineman who puts every ounce of his 204 pounds into his charge, and should give opposing teams
a rough time this season.

Coach Baird, who has been assisted in the coaching duties by Kirk Oglesby and former Wildcat star Jake Wade, does
not plan to name a regular starting eleven until after the opening contest with the Citadel. The frosh mentor plans
to use most of his squad in this game in an effort to test his material under fire. However, Baird
expects to field a regular line averaging at least 180 pounds, while the backfield should average only slightly less at
175.

The frosh schedule is as follows:
Oct. 14 Citadel Home
Oct. 27 Furman Away
Nov. 3 N.C. State Away
Nov. 10 Gardner-Webb Home
Nov. 18 Asheville-Biltmore Home

WILDCAT OF WEEK...
(Continued From Page Four)

163 pounds, this sophomore stands to be a Wildcat many weeks to come this fall and in the ones to
follow.

EARLY WILDCAT...
(Continued From Page Four)

...sing to set up all three touchdowns. Jack Branch, Jim Faust, Jerry standing in the line. They were backed up
nicely by C. I. Runyan and Jim Rogers, who both played a brilliant defensive game. The Cats looked impressive in
their opener and showed promise of coming around to be a winning bunch. The running attack has really blossomed forth
and with the steady passing of Lambeth to fall back on, this team should make P. C., Erskine, and even
State worry about the outcome of their matches. The team ventures to Clinton this weekend without the services (except moral)
of game, little Terry Wilson, who came out of the game Saturday with a broken wrist.

1950 Frosh Roster
Head Coach: Boyd Baird
Line Coach: Kirk Oglesby
Back Coach: Jake Wade

Fr. Name Pos. Age
Herschel Allen QB 17
W. A. (Nab) Armfield LG 17
Roy Beaty RH 18
Malphus Bradbury RG 18
Travis Coulter FB 18
A. J. Courts LE 19
Ben Craig RT 17
P. C. Davis C 18
Bill Elliott C 16
R. T. Gilley QB 18
J. N. Golding LE 19
C. R. Gray LG 18
Neale Graham LT 18
J. I. Gray LH 18
H. A. Greene LG 19
Rodney Harrelson RH 18
Lee Knott RE 18
R. D. Kramer RH 18
Bob Loy RT 20
Jim Moore LH 18
Dan McCall FB 18
P. B. McGill RT 19
Bill Nelson RE 17
Bill Noel FB 19
Bob Patten RG 17
J. R. Pope RH 19
B. H. Putnam LT 18
D. D. Reid LH 18
Howard Smith LE 17
Hallet Ward RT 17
Julien Weinberg LT 18
Preston Whitfield FB 18
D. M. Wilkins LH 18
George Crone RE 18
Bill Phipps C 18
Don Trent RE 19

Basketballers, Wrestlers, Netters, Tank Team Quietly Working For Seasons Yet Months Away

By CHARLIE HASSELL

When the question of sports arises this time of year, it invariably concerns football and cross country. Rarely does the
talk center around winter and spring sports. Nevertheless, there are four teams which are lined at work, eager to make
a good showing when their time comes.

Propped on a treatment table amid the pungent odors of ben-gay, tuf-skin, and analgesic balm, wrestling coach Charlie Parker deliberated
on the question, “How do things look for next season?” The pause was punctuated by the issuance of a thin,
solid stream of brown juice from the trainer's mouth that neatly centered the green linoleum trash basket between the two
treatment benches: “Johnny Kelton, Shorty Starr, Bob Gay, and Bill McNeely are the returning lettermen.” Kelton, who captains the team,
holds Davidson's hopes for the Southern Conference crown in his 128-pound class. Along with these will be Jim Grissom, Arnie
Raire, and T. O. Coleman. Coach Parker feels this is a basically good squad, as informal as it is.

The swimming team, under the direction of Coach Pat Redding, had just stepped out of the shower. Redding had high
hopes for the coming season. Whit Cobb and Bill Procter, a six-foot, three-inch transfer student, help to make the future
brighter. Highlighting the season will be a Christmas trip to the northern circuit, where the hoopsters will contest with four
teams, with a possibility of a fifth game. However, the hardwood boys are concentrating on practicing three nights a week
this month, with full-time drills beginning in November. Hallet Ward will captain the team. N. G. Stave, George Wright, Ray
Cunningham, and Vault Cole will probably be the stalwarts of the squad. Jerry Morrow and Dave Adams are also looking
forward to a good season. One bright spot is in the form of a freshman from Wilmington, Gene Craven, undefeated
in the 121-pound division. Coach Redding is anxious to have any boy, freshman or upperclassman, who will say they “can
swim” to “come on down to the pool.” Boys who say they “can’t swim” often break purely from perseverance and
self-sacrifice.First game on December 2nd. This year will afford Coach Baird Hengeveld the opportunity to sport the basketball team that
he has been building the past year. Twelve men report in advance for the opening practice. Among this crowd: Last
year’s team and are back: Mr. Non Hengeveld, Lavenby, line 4 Tommy twice from now on. Coach Bradley, Stockton, Lead
Runners: In Chase With State At Raleigh By MOODY SMITH Coach Pete Whittle’s Davis Kiser, and Walter Oakes were facing
what probably amounts to the toughest competition of the season when they meet their rivals, the N.C. State cross country
outfit, next Saturday afternoon on the latter’s course at Raleigh. The meet will be the first of the season for
Coach Whittle’s lads, and if they come through victoriously the general consensus of opinion is that they will have an
excellent chance to carve out an undefeated season. Last year’s Davidson team suffered its sole defeat at the hands of
N.C. State, so without a doubt the men of D.C. will be out for revenge.

Only seven Davidson runners in addition to manager Carl Garrison will be making the trip Saturday. They will be led
by their captain and number one man, Wake Bradley. The remainder of the group in the order in which they
finished this week’s time trials consists of Tom and Dick, the running Stocktons, Rob, Henry, sophomore and the youngest member
of the squad, Bill Lee, Dan McKeithan, and Dick Matherson. The N.C. Staters, though probably not as strong as last
year, certainly have plenty of good boys to contend with. Clyde Garrison, their outstanding runner, is very highly thought of
in this section: Garrison is rated second only to Bob Bahner of Maryland, who has been the Southern Conference cross-country
champion for the past three years. When questioned in regard to the outcome of the meet Coach Whittle refused to
offer any predictions except to state that “it should be a very interesting contest.”

While the two varsity teams are battling it out over a four-mile course their freshmen counterparts will be staging a
two-and-one-half mile race. The Davidson frosh will be sparked by three outstanding freshman cross-country runners: Gill Shipley, Bill Coe, and
Bob Graff. Although these boys have had little experience in long-distance running they are old track men and have shown
up extremely well in time trials. Johnny Smith, a sophomore who the team drafted after he made a good showing
in the freshman cake race, is currently running in the fourth spot. As to the freshman team of State, it
is of unknown quantity, although it is known to include at least two or three cross-country men with considerable experience
from prep schools in Virginia. Saturday’s meet will be the first of three scheduled by Davidson at Raleigh, the others
being the State meet and the Southern Conference meet.

RUSH WEEK FORUM (Continued From Page Two) fraternities be willing to make sacrifices. That the fraternities be willing to overlook
the differences that arise and to work them out with a spirit of respect for both the feelings of the
rushees and of the other fraternities. With the future of fraternities here as cloudy as now, we can hope to
survive only if we construct the spirit. No longer can fraternities seek only to express themselves in social functions, but
we must pray for a public that seeks a democracy and cultural progress that we can offer something beneficial to
the development of men and civilization.

Center Theatre Mooresville, N.C. WEEK STARTING King’s English is Sir Derrick Barton with a cold. In spite of his condition,
he could settle about his team, presented in his usually conservative board in the locker room, evidences how hard the
swimmers are doing. He regularly boosts and encourages their workouts in the golf courses. The only remaining men from last
year’s Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests Number 2... THE BLOW FISH “Shucks—I blew in when I should’ve blown out!” Johnny
Bremer, who is an outstanding player. Marvin Carpenter, from down Georgia way, is ineligible this year, but will probably play
next season and be around to help this year. There will be many men vying for berths on Davidson's winningest
team and the lineup will not be certain until late in the spring. Who is interested to records their senior
year. The overall perspective for these sports this year seems to be encouraging. None of the coaches seem to be
using the crying towel to any large degree, and three of them feel that this year’s team is stronger than
last year’s. With this sort of encouragement for the coaches, one of the strangest sounds in the air tends to
be “pretty good.” Allen Strand will hold the number one spot with the returning men, these teams should be on
the win side many a contest in their respective sports.

HARRIERS ENGAGE WOLFPACK TOMORROW By the poor Piscis! He’s been making all those trick cigarette tests you've been reading about!
He's taken one puff of this brand — one sniff of that. A quick inhale of cigarette “A” — a
fast exhale of cigarette “B” — and he’s still confused! Seriously, isn’t the sensible way to test a cigarette to
smoke pack after pack, day after day? That’s the test Camel asks you to make — the 30-Day Mildness Test.
Smoke Camels — and only Camels — regularly for 30 days. Your “T-Zone” (T for Throat and T for Taste)
is the real proving ground for any cigarette. After you’ve tried Camels as your regular smoke, you’ll know why... More
People Smoke Camels than any other cigarette!

BEAT PRESBYTERIAN

Wednesday-Thursday “BLOSSOMS IN THE DUST” Greer Garson Walter Pidgeon Friday and Saturday “NORTH FROM THE LONE STAR” Bill Elliott also
Musical Western “RUSTLER'S RANSOM” SERIAL - CARTOON OWL SHOW SATURDAY Monday and Tuesday “CONSPIRATOR” Robert Taylor Elizabeth Taylor
