PAGE TWO
THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1950

THE DAVIDSONIAN
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF ------------------ GORDON SCOTT
BUSINESS MANAGER ----------------- JOHN LOFTIN

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editors ---------------- Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Features Editor ------------------------- Shelley Beard
Managing Editors ---------------- Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George McMurray, Ed Richardson
Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Photographer—Raymond Lynch
Proofreader—Dick Roper
City Editor—Nat Daniel
Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen
Sports Editor—Bill White

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager ------------------------- Advertising Manager ---------------------- Circulation Manager ------------------------------ An fey Moses
Collections Manager ------------------------------ Jack Turner
Subscriptions Manager ------------------------------ Bill Hart
Faculty Advisor -------------------- PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY
Davidson, North Carolina

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

What About Our Magazine?

Is the Scripts and Pranks fulfilling its purpose as a college literary magazine on this campus? As a result of
the apparent dissatisfaction of many students, this is a question that has been for many years a topic of frequent
discussion. And, it seems to this writer that argument ensuing from the posed question has often been more irrational than
rational, more comical than sincere, more personal than objective, more unintelligent than intelligent, and projected toward “generating more heat than
light.” Further, this newspaper must accept much of the blame for such trivial conduct. So it may be said at
the outset that, contrary to some previous policies, this editorial, in the interest of better campus publications, is designed to
present a constructive analysis of the situation.

In answering the above question, we must define the purpose of the magazine. In the words of the Editor, the
purpose is “(1) to share with the student body the best literary works produced on the campus, especially short stories,
poems, humorous essays and drawings; (2) to provide insight - both serious and humorous into student thinking and student affairs;
and (3) to present to outsiders a creditable literary profile of the student body.” In commenting on the statement of
objective, we could say about the first that, while some writing that could be classified as “best” has not been
published in the magazine, for reasons both excusable and inexcusable, a major portion of the best composition has been printed.
Concerning the second objective, examination would prove that the writers have provided commendable insight into student thinking and affairs. And
of the third it could be observed that the literary aspects of the student body have been very well delineated.
Of course, there is always room for improvement upon any publication, and realizing this, we could summarize our comments by
stating that the magazine has well fitted the pattern of its three statements of objective.

Well, that answers the question but takes us back where we started. If dissatisfaction with the magazine is prevalent in
the student body, and if we agree that the magazine is fulfilling its purpose, then the dissatisfaction must exist for
a reason other than the non-fulfillment of purpose. This provokes a second question: Is the purpose of the magazine what
it should be? This, of course, is debatable, and for the purposes of our analysis, let us answer the question
negatively. Many dissatisfied students have expressed the desire for the magazine to confine itself to humorous short stories, poems, essays,
drawings, and jokes. Thus, the purpose would then be to share with the student body and outsiders creditable humorous and
entertaining literary works produced on the campus, deleting all so-called “heavy” writing. The writers for the magazine would then appeal
strictly to the “light” entertainment of the readers. If expressions in “bull sessions” may be taken as indications, many students
would like to see such a change.

Now this would leave us with only a humorous literary magazine on the campus. We should recognize the fact that
there is a need for publication of all types of literary works of the students, and since a strictly humorous
magazine would provide no outlet for serious writing, another type of literary publication would be necessitated. Thus, recognizing the existence
on the campus of those who, dissatisfied with the magazine, would welcome a change in its purpose, and recognizing the
need for an inclusive literary publication, we would make two suggestions:
(1) That the Scripts and Pranks confine itself to humorous literary composition, and,
(2) That the literary societies co-operatively edit and be responsible for the publishing of a literary review (either annually or
semi-annually), the purpose of which would be to make available to those interested students, faculty, administration, alumni, and other friends
of the college a “creditable literary profile of the student body.”

If such steps were taken, it seems that the cause of creative writing among the students would not be impeded
but greatly furthered, and the students would have a more generally acceptable magazine, without reducing its place to that of
a lowest common denominator.—J.T.M.

Howe Green Freshman Farce
By ARCHIBALD HAMENHASH

Slowly the door swings open, and a dejected figure walks in. Joe Stoop, sitting in the far corner at his
desk, looks up to see his buddy, Howe Green, standing in the doorway. “Oh, hello, Howe.” Without answering Howe sluggishly
drags across the room to Joe's side. “Joe,” he says, “I've had it! I just found out that I flunked
four out of the six subjects I'm taking. Joe, what will my parents say? I bet they won't even let
me come home for Thanksgiving.

“It’s probably not that bad, Howe,” answers Joe, pushing back his chair. “I wouldn't worry about it too much. I
didn’t do so hot myself. Dr. Logan gave me a D in chemistry, and I got two other D's and
three C's.”

“That’s still not like flunking four subjects,” laments Howe. “I bet I've got the worst grades in the whole school.”
This serious discussion breaks up when Howe's roommate comes in with bad news: “I thought I'd find you here, Howe,”
he says. “Dean Bailey wants you to report to him right away. He just sent a messenger to the room
looking for you.”

“For me?”

“Yes, and you'd better step on it, too. The ‘Dean’ doesn’t send a special messenger to everybody he wants to
see.”

“Holy Cow,” moans Howe, and he rushes from the room.

“Come in, Mr. Green. Have a seat. I'll be with you in a minute.” So frightened he couldn't speak, Howe
sits down and huddles back into his chair, trying to look as inconspicuous as possible. Dean Bailey finishes the paper
he is working on and looks up at Howe. “Mr. Green, your grades have just been brought to my attention,
and I thought a little personal talk was in order, knowing” (for such was the station of (Continued On Page
Four)

Gingerly the evening sun lowered its tired self into a bank of damp oaks, and the late mists began to
extend eerie pseudopods through the wet foliage. As the lights began to flicker on in the various campus buildings, a
solitary figure emerged from the front entrance of the library and began to thread his way among the bricks toward
dormitory row. The night seemed to enshroud him with a blanket of stealth, and for some curious reason, a strange
sense of uneasiness crept over him as he passed the massive facade of the Chambers building. The gaunt columns towered,
it seemed, to a point almost out of sight, and the cherubic figures of the maids seemed to be transfixed
in a glassy stare. Then suddenly, the figure stopped, his eyes riveted on the central door. A tall shape was
standing there—nearly as tall as the columns themselves. As the student passer-by stared, it became apparent that the phantom was
an elderly man, clutching with one hand the pillar beside him, and supporting his other with a gnarled cane. And
even as the vision materialized, the cane was raised as if to strike, and the apparition spoke:

“Hear ye, youth! Hear ye, Hell’s angel! What is the damnation that you and your breed have brought hence? It
is sacrilege. Not fifty years have passed since the strength of my youth adorned these halls. Not fifty years have
passed since the voice of my complaint set up the standards that thou hast desecrated. Where is the soul of
this college? What have you done with her?

“Where is the dignity of dress? Where is the dignity of speech? Where is the dignity of young manhood? I
see before me the whirl of automotive dissipation. I see the uncouth speech of youth, the desultory dress of infidels,
and the screeching of unmannered chimpanzees.” (Continued On Page Four)

GEECH’S GOULASH
By PAT McGEACHY

Music with Hansen
By HENRY E. HANSEN

Every person, of great renown or small, interested in the record industry has felt almost a compulsion to express himself
and add to the general barrage of words flying about the introduction by Columbia of the LP and by Victor
of the 45. Many have had to eat copious quantities of crow because of irresponsible statements. The present writer, unfortunately,
numbers himself among this benighted class of critics and commentators who, bewildered by what can only be termed mass produced
idiocy, made many an idiotic statement. My own contribution was, early in the battle, to come out strongly against LP.
Having been badly burned once, I retired, at least publicly, from the fray and waited for time to give perspective
to the chaos which ensued immediately after Victor’s proud offering of the 45.

Before going on let me say that I now stand firmly on the LP and face my 45 antagonists at
a constant speed of 33 1-3 revolutions per minute. Aside from the many considerations of economy, quality, and the sine
qua non-continuity, offered by the LP, I believe that this slower speed lends a gravity and scope to my utterance
which is lacking from the more dervish-like jabbering of my 45 friends. Personally speaking, I innovation which Victor, in its
venerable position of potentate of the record industry, sent out from Camden. When the 45 first came out I was
convinced that, however ridiculous the product might seem, surely RCA would distribute nothing without good and sound reason behind it.
In this I was wrong. I made the mistake, under the consequences of which many still labor, ofAssigning to their
engineering genius the same quality which stamps their recorded catalogue, I have throughout the whole affair tried to be fair
in my judgment of the sphere in which Victor reigns supreme. Out of all my personal discussion, I found one
person with one point which appeared to be, within its scope, a strong argument for the 45. The purpose of
this article is to dispose of this final support for the many-hued 45, and while I do not hope to
convince many (phonophiles are notoriously fanatic), there may still be a few who, confronting reason, will be moved to reconsider
even if this entails the retiring of a comely but still cumbersome piece of equipment—the 45 changer.

If you are a devotee of opera, contended my one logical objector, then the 45 is the only choice for
this reason: on LP, opera selections are commonly placed on a 12-inch record in bands, as many as six or
seven, and it is difficult, if not impossible, to play the one or two bands you may want to hear
at a particular time without damage to the pickup or the record or both. This was granted at the time
because Columbia had made available no changer to play their own records. Changers could be had at a much higher
price than the 45 changer, which would play all three speeds automatically, but their high price made the 45 the
logical choice to one who was primarily interested in selections from various operas. This objection no longer stands since Columbia
has made available a changer which will play all LPs, 12, 10, and 7 inches, automatically. In fairness, it must
be said that Victor’s opera catalogue is far superior both in quantity and in quality to Columbia's. From this last
statement comes the only reason, if you like opera exclusively or nearly so, for adhering to the 45. However, I
believe it is downright ignoble of Victor to force the purchase of the inferior system on those who be—

(Continued On Page Four)

THE POLL CAT
By SLAYDON MYERS.

Do you think that the present system of class cuts here at Davidson is an adequate one?
Yes—25 percent
No—75 percent

Do you feel that cuts should be governed by grades?
Yes—57 percent
No—43 percent

Do you feel that a B average should warrant unlimited cuts?
Yes—50 percent
No—50 percent

An Alumnus Gives His Homecoming Views

Editor’s Note: The following letter has been turned over to The Davidsonian by Mr. Payne for publication in order that
the Davidson students might have some idea of the impression which a Davidson Homecoming has on an alumnus returning to
the campus.

Atlanta 3, Georgia
October 24, 1950

Dear John:

Our trip to Charlotte, suburb Davidson Home-Coming October 21st, meeting some 50 ancient surviving friends, was a never-to-be-forgotten emotional experience.
Enclosed a small check to offset same and to be applied to the “Wild Cat” Fund supplementing the Living Endowment
subscription.

As Captain of the Scrub Football team at Davidson in 1912 and of the University of Alabama in 1914, I
got fed up on football and as the years accentuated old injuries, I came to hate the game. However, the
W&L-DC contest game of last Saturday restored an ancient enthusiasm. Not only were the coaching techniques obviously near perfect, but
the heady skill and raw courage was inspirational. Davidson, operating under handicaps of age, weight, injuries, etc., kept turning on
relentless pressure which reminded one of the spirit of the old Scottish Tournaments as described by Sir Walter Scott, late
of Edinburgh.

Of course, as an Atlantan, I took great pride in the spirited play of Robert Turk, especially in receiving short
passes, and Auburn Lambeth in stopping line bucks. In the old days before forward passes opened the game, a defensive
back met the runner after taking two or three steps. The impact was far less than now. By the way,
I met “Jessie” James, Class of ‘08, who broke three legs tackling runners in his Senior year, 1909. One of
said legs being that of the eminent Physician, Dr. McKay, now of Charlotte. I saw this happen in a practice
game while McKay was playing for the Charlotte Medical College. Later, in 1919, I met McKay just after he had
been run over by a taxi in London. He complained bitterly that its contact was worse than football.

Also, I met Judge E. M. Currie of Charlotte, 1915, who graduated (Militaire Certificat) with me at Sorbonne University in
Paris in 1919, where we took all the honors in sobriety, thrift, and modesty. It was good also to see
classmates Farriar, Matthews, Moore, all of 1912.

I wonder if the youth at Davidson realize what a privilege it is to live, even for a short time,
in a really friendly environment. As they live and experience the social climate of other institutions of learning which instill
everything but philanthropy, they will come to appreciate the durable satisfaction of becoming Christmen at Davidson, where competition is qualified
by cooperation.

Please pass a copy of this along to Coach Little. I believe he loves the privilege of handling Davidson teams
even under near penurious conditions. Regards to Brother Jackson and sympathy to him in the matter of “Budgets” in an
inflationary era. Hope to see all of you down here on November 25th when Davidson will show Tech how to
win the hard way. By the way, this Tech player, “Bubba” Sykes, can surely crowd back to the goal post
and bullet pass the ball all the way. Otherwise, their passing is of the soft variety. “DC” should score three
times, barring further disabilities.

Your friend,
J. L. R. BOYD

WAX SCRATCHING
By BOB WHELESS

Since this column began back in September quite a few fellows have stopped me on the campus to ask why
I write only about popular records. Everywhere I go I am greeted with jeers of “Knock off that commercial stuff
and write about some good progressive stuff by the lesser-known bands and artists.” Now that even my few remaining friends
sneer every time I come within speaking distance, I have decided to see just what type of music the student
body likes best. To determine same, I have taken a very comprehensive poll of the Davidson Student’s taste in music.
To prevent getting the reaction of only one element in the school, care was taken to assure that radical groups
were polled and that elements were included among the royalty of Duke, the bourgeois of East, and even the proletariat
of Rumple. Here is a summary of the results:

In answer to the question “What type of music do you prefer?”, popular music received 62 percent of the votes
cast; hillbilly, 12 percent; Dixie Land, 11 percent; progressive, 7 percent; and no preference, 8 percent.

When asked if they liked classical music, 62 percent voted “yes” and 38 percent “no.” Without having any definite figures
on hand concerning other colleges, I would guess that the affirmative percentage on that last question is much higher here
at Davidson than at most colleges or universities.

The next question was, “Do you like progressive music?” Progressive here includes everything from Stan Kenton’s progressive jazz to George
Shearing’s soft, smooth bop. To this, there were 44 percent “yes’s” and 56 percent “no's”.

To see just how familiar you fellows are with some of the more progressive artists, you were polled to determine
if you have heard of a few of the leaders in this field. As it turned out, only about 40
percent of those polled had ever heard of Charlie Ventura or Dizzie Gillespie, two of the best-known names in the
bop field. Less than one-fifth remembered ever hearing of George Shearing, one of the newer names in the bop field,
but good enough to be voted second-best small instrumental group of the year in the recent disc jockey poll, and
second only to the King Cole Trio.

Tommy Dorsey won the favorite orchestra poll with 28 percent of the votes cast. Ralph Flanagan came in second with
twenty-one percent and Sammy Kaye next with twelve percent.

“Who is your favorite male vocalist?”, brought an amazing variety of answers. Perry Como emerged victor to the tune of
33 percent of votes cast, Billy Eckstine number two man with 18 percent and Bing Crosby third with 13 percent.
You'll be glad to hear that Davidson's own Louie Runge received the same number of votes as Vic Damone in
this poll.

Doris Day walked away with top honors as “best female vocalist” receiving over three times as many votes as her
nearest contender, Jo Stafford, who had 18 percent, Mindy Carson who held down the number three spot with 11 percent.

The final question was “What orchestra would you most like to have for a Davidson weekend.” You might be surprised
to know that Charlie Spivak won with 25 percent, Tommy Dorsey followed with 23 percent and Sammy Kaye ended up
in show position having 15 percent.

If this poll proved any one thing clearly it is that there is no typical Davidson man when it comes
to taste in music. On the whole, it seems that the majority doesn’t care too much about progressive music, while
the ones who do care for it are fanatical about it. So to keep everybody happy, from now on this
column will contain, in addition to popular records, all the latest scoop on progressive music. Did I hear some “so
whats"? Well just stick with me and I'll write something you like yet.

DAVIDSONIAN’S PLATFORM FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

1. To abolish the double-cut system.
2. To change the existing system of giving cuts.
3. To make Physical Training non-compulsory for all seniors regardless of their age.
4. To improve the telephone arrangements in the dormitories and the college at large.
5. To change the system of student body elections.
6. To have more varied and interesting chapel programs and speakers.
7. To give praise where praise is due.
8. To criticize when it is felt that criticism will improve a situation.
9. To advocate Sunday night visitations to faculty homes.
