NATIONAL NETSTERS NIGHT MARCH 15 VOLUME XXXVIII

KRAMER AND GONZALES BRING TENNIS RIVALRY TO CAMPUS

The much-publicized appearance of Jack Kramer and Pancho Gonzales on the Davidson campus will mark the first exhibition match of
top-flight tennis professionals ever to be held here and it is the first in nearly fifteen years for the Charlotte
section of North Carolina. Before the construction of the Johnston Gymnasium such matches were impossible, but if the response is
good this year it is hoped that professional tennis champions may perform at Davidson each spring.

Kramer, who is former world champion, plays a careful, mechanical, well-worked-out game, and in the early part of the exhibition
tour gained a large lead over Gonzales. Pancho, however, has improved rapidly and seems to have gotten on to Kramer’s
game. For the past twenty matches Gonzales has been winning slightly more than his share. By the time they reach
here they should be playing on even terms. Gonzales has been American Amateur champion for the last two years and
turned professional only last October. He has a great deal of natural ability and a tremendous service. His play is
very colorful. Whatever their record is when they arrive at Davidson the spectators can be assured of an excellent match.

The date of the exhibition is Wednesday, March 15. Beginning at 8:15 there will be a match between former National
Champion Frank Parker, who has been rated among the first ten in the nation every year for the past fifteen
years, and South American Champion Pancho Segura. Segura is especially noted for his two-handed forehand shot. Following will be the
feature match between Gonzales and Kramer. A doubles match will conclude the program. Each match will consist of the usual
three sets. The pairing for the doubles match has not been announced, but it may include former Amateur World Champion
and Professional Champion Buddy Riggs, who is the promoter of the tour.

All seats for the match are reserved and are sold for $1.50 to students and $2.50 to the general public.
There is no set deadline for purchasing tickets, but the best seats are going fast. Tickets may be purchased in
the ticket office of the new gym. Any fraternity wishing to purchase tickets in a body may notify Coach Derrick
and he will bring the best available to their house for selling.

Dr. Walter Lingle Speaks In Chapel

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, President Emeritus of Davidson College, spoke to the student body at chapel Tuesday morning. Dr. Lingle
attended Davidson College where he received his B.A., M.A., and D.D. degrees, attending Union Theological Seminary where he later taught
Greek and Hebrew. He has held pastorates in Georgia and South Carolina and was president of General Assembly Training School
at Richmond. Dr. Lingle was President of Davidson College from 1929 to 1941, preceding Dr. Cunningham. He wrote Memoirs of
Davidson and contributes regularly to the “Christian Observer.”

Dr. Lingle talked on the world of tomorrow and the characteristics which will ensure success. “No matter how different tomorrow’s
world will be,” Dr. Lingle said, “four qualities will always be at a premium. They are character and personality, courtesy,
work, and purpose.”

“These four virtues,” he said, “were at a premium all during my life and even though we now have automobiles,
television, airplanes and other things beyond man’s imagination 50 years ago, these same qualities are still at a premium.”

The lesson of Christ on the primacy of character, courtesy, work, and purpose, was well learned by Dr. Lingle and
is still being exemplified in his life today. He takes literally the statement, “Practice what you preach.”

Spanish Fraternity Initiates Ten Men

Sigma Delta Pi, National Honorary Spanish Fraternity, held its annual initiation in the lounge of the College Guest House at
6:30 p.m. on Wednesday, February 22. Seven active student members and three honorary members were initiated at that time. Honorary
members initiated were Mrs. Katherine N. Knox, Head of the Department of Romance Languages at Mitchell College; Miss Nannie G.
Watkins, Professor of Spanish at Montreat College; and Mrs. Margery M. Macaulay, of Montreat High School. Student members initiated were
W. B. Boyd, J. M. Coble, W. A. (Continued On Page Six)

Town Meeting Forms Holding Company To Meet Local Problem

Led by Reverend Carl Pritchett, the citizens of Davidson met 350 strong in the High School Auditorium Wednesday night for
the purpose of correcting the overcrowded Negro housing directly behind the business district. Rev. Pritchett stated that the townspeople had
overlooked this jungle for too many years and it had grown increasingly serious until reaching today’s grotesque proportions. Making his
weapon the truth, he went on to give some of the shocking conditions that prevail in these homes and the
immediate area.

Stressing the danger to community health resulting from the lack of sanitation, Drs. Wood and Harnsberger were asked to give
technical information. Speaking first, Dr. Wood asserted that the outdoor toilets employed were much too close to the houses to
satisfy “even the most primitive health standards.” To this Dr. Harnsberger added, “we are fortunate that a serious epidemic of
typhoid has not broken out. The refuse piled under and around these houses is a perfect breeding place for rats
and other vermin. There is also a serious moral problem ensuing from the sleeping of three and four adults in
a single bed.”

Rev. Pritchett next called to attention the fire hazard which “aided by a moderate wind and a break- (Continued On
Page Six)

It was a typical Saturday afternoon in a small southern town. The usual collection of farmers in clean but worn
overalls and the more prosperous ones in their shiny blue serge suits lined the narrow tobacco-stained sidewalks. A short distance
away from the one main street, the green campus of the small college dozed in the thin February sunlight. In
front of the colonial type main building, a group of about fifty students fidgeted and smoked with an air of
nervous anticipation. These students, less fortunate than others who had left the campus for assorted reasons and places, had signed
up for dates with a neighboring girls' school. The girls were to travel the separating twenty miles that afternoon. No
doubt they were as bored as the boys, and had agreed to come by bouncing bus in hopes of finding
some new and more exciting activities than those of a usual Saturday afternoon.

The ancient yellow bus wound slowly up the tree-lined asphalt drive. The group of boys, gaining order, crowded around the
hand-smudged door. The door creaked open and girls, dressed in their next-to-best dresses and sport clothes, haltingly began to descend
into the midst of the boys. Slowly with a maximum amount of confusion, they paired off, and began to disperse
in groups of four and six about the campus. Except for a self-conscious question and a shy remark, the couples
seemed lost in their own thoughts. After a non-informative tour of the buildings and fraternity houses, the majority of them
headed for the old gymnasium building to dance to a none-too-loud phonograph. The shyness had begun to wear off, and
a comparison of subjects and teachers of the two schools had begun. The couples assumed the conventional positions; either too
far apart or, in the case of several overdressed youths, crushed together. After attempting several awkward maneuvers the majority of
the couples left the floor to drink cold cocoa and nibble at cotton-flavored cookies.

HOW DO I RATE?

On March 7th, Mr. Arthur H. Jones, Vice President of the American Trust Company in Charlotte, will speak in chapel.
He will discuss the qualifications business is seeking in young men, and his subject will be “How Do I Rate?”

'Y' Bible Class Aids Local Negro Church

With an increase in attendance, the YMCA Bible Class has begun this semester's program in fine style. Since the beginning
of the new semester a missionary from Brazil, “Grady” Spires and other members of the student body have participated in
the programs. One project of aid to the colored people’s church of the community has been undertaken.

Besides the regular worship program the Bible Class sponsors a light social get-together before class meeting. Coffee and donuts are
served and the happenings of the weekend discussed. This has proved to be a great aid in pulling the class
closer together. Now, Mr. Payne, of the alumni is leading what has proved to be a very interesting series on
“Famous Interviews of Christ.” The class is informal and the atmosphere of the Guest House lounge is relaxing and conducive
to worship. We invite you to join with us this coming Sunday at 9:50 a.m. for coffee and donuts and
at 10:15 a.m. for the class.

NUMBER EIGHTEEN

BILLY KNAUFF WILL FURNISH MUSIC AT OFFICER'S CLUB

Wednesday morning chapel services were highlighted by C. N. Childers' announcement of the Scabbard and Blade Annual Military Ball to
be given from 8 to 12 o’clock on Saturday, March 18th at the Morris Field Officers Club. Billy Knauff’s fifteen-piece
orchestra will supply music for the evening. The Pan Hellenic Council sanctioned the event.

SCABBARD AND BLADE TAPS NOTED MILITARY STUDENTS

On Tuesday afternoon, February 28, during the regular ROTC drill, Scabbard and Blade, the honorary military fraternity on the campus,
tapped fifteen men for membership. The ROTC battalion formed a parade in honor of Scabbard and Blade for the ceremonies.
The officers of Scabbard and Blade came to the adjutant’s position, commanded a disperse, tapped the men and brought them
to the adjutant’s position. The men were formed into a platoon and taken to the reviewing stand, where C. N.
Childers, the president, went through the formal tapping ceremonies.Other officers of Scabbard and Blade are J. C. Roberts, vice-president; L.
W. Cleveland, secretary; and J. G. Glenn, treasurer. The men tapped are as follows:

Thomas Hartley Hall IV
Hartley is a junior from Macon, Georgia. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta, social fraternity, Sigma Upsilon, honorary
literary fraternity, and of Eumarean Literary Society. He also serves on the editorial staff of Scripts and Pranks, of Quips
and Cranks, and of The Davidsonian, the latter in the capacity of managing editor.

James Gilbert Humphreys
Gilbert is a senior who hails from Ft. Pierce, Florida. He is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon, social fraternity,
of Phi Mu Alpha, honorary musical fraternity, of International Relations Club, and of the Davidson College Band.

James Sidney Hunter
Jim is a senior from Charlotte. Besides having played baseball his four years at college, he is a wearer of
the “D” and a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon, social fraternity.

Edwyn Taylor Bowen, Jr.
Ted is a member of the junior class and calls Decatur, Georgia, his home. He is a member of Phi
Delta Theta and served as a sophomore class officer and as a member of the student council, 1949-50. Also, he
has participated in varsity basketball and track.

George Washington Brown, Jr.
George is a senior from Gastonia, N.C. He is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon, social fraternity.

Cameron Faison
Cam is a Charlotte boy in the senior class. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, social fraternity, and
serves on the business staff of both The Davidsonian and Quips and Cranks.

William McIver Cameron, Jr.
Bill is a veteran, having served with the Navy during 1945-1946. At Davidson, he is a senior and a member
of Pi Kappa Alpha, social fraternity. Currently, he is serving as president of The International Relations Club. Bill is also
a member of The Honorary Fraternity.

Davidson Students Attend Pages Ball
The Daughters of the American Revolution held their annual state convention in Charlotte on March 1, 2, and 3. The
Hotel Charlotte served as headquarters for the convention. This year is an important one for them as it is their
Golden Jubilee. One of the main events was the Page's Ball given annually at the State Convention. The ball started
promptly at 9 p.m. and ended at twelve. Ziggie Herwitz and his orchestra played for the occasion. The Pages and
winners of the good citizenship award, representing most of the towns and cities throughout the state, served as dancing partners
for approximately one hundred and fifty Davidson students and Charlotte boys. A small receiving line greeted the guests as they
arrived.

Queens Dance In Old Gym; See Basketball Team Win In New Gym
With comments on such a ‘divine and wonderful dance, the students pulled their light and brightly colored coats tighter about
them and walked through the chilly twilight to the gym. As the game began, the students came alive under the
spirited onslaught of the home team. After it became evident that the locals would win over the blue and white
visitors, the cheers became a muffled roar with a few shouted outbursts now and then. At the end of the
game, everyone headed clamorously for the campus store, where, overheated and crowded, they drank cold pop for the cold night.
In the intervening minutes before the departure of the bus, a few of the boys tried, and some succeeded, to
kiss their dates goodbye, who were reluctant only for the sake of propriety. About ten o'clock, the bus, yellow headlights
gleaming, separated the bored students in a cloud of noxious exhaust smoke.

Omicron Delta Kappa Holds First Meeting
Davidson's Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary fraternity, met Feb. 22 for the first time this semester. The
meeting was called to order by Bill Bird, president of the circle, and Dr. Schenk, the secretary, read the minutes
of the last meeting. The highlight of this recent meeting was a discussion of the conduct of Davidson students during
chapel exercises. It was the opinion of several members of the ODK circle that Davidson's morning chapel programs are not
serving their purpose. An evidence of this, according to these campus leaders, is seen in students’ behavior during some of
our devotional periods. The ODK members decided upon certain measures that might be adopted so as to remedy this seeming
disinterest in our morning assembly periods. The following actions were suggested: (1) the abolishment of Student Day chapel programs, (2)
the enforcement of compulsory chapel attendance for only mornings each week. Several members of the circle later presented these proposals
to Dean Bailey and Dr. Cunningham, who suggested that a student committee be organized to plan Davidson's chapel programs for
the benefit and interest of the student body of the college. As a result of this conference with the dean
and the president, Liston Mills, John Lyles, and Doug Rice, all members of ODK, are soon to appear before Davidson
College's Religious Exercises Committee so as to reach an agreement as to how the college’s morning devotionals may be improved.
The Religious Exercises Committee has as its members: President Cunningham; Professors Abernathy and Boyd; Bill Smith, YMCA Secretary; and Rev.
Carl R. Pritchett. At ODK’s meeting, another discussion sprang from the question of the usage of Davidson's old gymnasium, but
no conclusion was reached. The circle’s members decided to push the issue of a decision by the college’s Building and
Grounds Committee, which is made up of faculty members.

Georgia Professor Lectures On Art
Professor Howard Thomas of the University of Georgia Art Department will speak in chapel Monday morning, March 6th. He comes
to Davidson from engagements at the University of Chattanooga and Maryville College. His visits are sponsored by the Fine Arts
Commission of the Association of American Colleges. The schedule arranged for Professor Thomas includes a lecture to Mr. Hutchison’s Art
Appreciation Class on Monday morning and an informal talk at the faculty coffee hour at four o'clock Monday afternoon. Tuesday
afternoon from 2:30 to 4:30 he will give a demonstration (outdoors near Phi Hall) of how to paint a watercolor.
Tuesday evening at eight o'clock in the Guest House Lounge, Professor Thomas will give an illustrated talk on his own
paintings. The public is invited to both affairs on Tuesday. The members of the Faculty Fine Arts Committee and their
wives will be at home in Guest House Lounge in honor of Professor Thomas Sunday evening after vespers. The members
of the Faculty Fine Arts Committee are Professors Abernathy, Davidson, Hutchison, Pfohl, and Pietenpol.

Tests Scheduled For Students Doubtful Of Future Careers
Davidson College is making available to as many students as possible this year batteries of vocational aptitude tests which seek
to give participants material which they can use as a guide in choosing their vocations. As explained by Professor Oswalt
in chapel last Thursday, almost a third of the students here have been unable to decide on any field of
business toward which they can work. An amazing point is that the 232 students undecided last fall were almost equally
divided among the four classes. In other words, there is an indication that many boys not sure at their entrance
into college as to their desires remain so until their senior year. In addition, a very large number of students
entertain serious doubts as to the wisdom of their choices. When we realize that the purpose of a school like
Davidson is to prepare men in the most practical way for taking their correct places in society, we can see
the dangerous wasted time being consumed by boys who go through college with no good criterion by which to choose
their courses — time which can never be replaced. In plain facts, 227 men have stated their intention to enter
the field of business; 139, medicine; 94, ministry; 52, law; 41, teaching; and about 60, other professions. Of these, many
were very doubtful. Listed as undecided were 77 freshmen, 52 sophomores, 49 juniors, and 54 seniors. Probably almost fifty percent
of the student body is unsure. As a help to those undecided and doubtful students, these tests have been arranged.
Because the number of tests available is this year limited, and because their need is obviously greatest, seniors will be
given first choice. Any remaining tests will be distributed among those of the other classes who wish and need them.
Professor Oswalt hopes to give 50 or 75 batteries this year, and possibly as many as 150 next year to
catch up the slack, and thereafter to keep up with the demand.
