THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF --------------------------- GORDON SCOTT
BUSINESS MANAGER ----------------------- JOHN LOFTIN

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editors ---------------- Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Senior Editors -------------------- Bill Cumming, Dan McKeithen, Bill Hollister
Features Editor ----------------------------- Arnie Covell
Managing Editors ---------------- Kalogridis, Tom Abel, Bill Adams, George McMurray, Ed Richardson, Shelley Beard
Sports Editor ------------------------------- Bill White
Photographs ------------------------------- Pete Ormsby
Asst Editor ------------------------------- Jim Fickeisen
Proofreader ------------------------------- Charlie Baldwin
City Editor ------------------------------- Nat Daniel
Columnist ------------------------------- John Hobart

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager ---------------- Alex Goley
Advertising Manager ---------------------- Manley McWilliams
Circulation Manager ---------------------- Ansley Moses
Collections Manager ---------------------- Jack Turner
Subscriptions Manager -------------------- Bill Hart

Can You Spare It?

Thursday week the Red Cross Bloodmobile will come to Davidson in an effort to obtain blood which will be used
in part here at home and in particular in Korea. Last year the drive was a dismal failure and Colonel
Ballard, in charge of the coming campaign, is sparing no effort to see that there is better response this time.
The need this year is greater than at any time since the end of World War II. It is a
need about which all of the medical and scientific know-how in our country can do nothing; the success of the
program rests upon the shoulders of Americans like you and me whose God-given bodies alone can produce the life-saving liquid.

The appeal for blood is not made only to the student body, but to the janitors who clean up Chambers
Building; the grocery store clerk on Main Street; the professor in the classroom; the widow on Concord Rd. Need we
emphasize the urgency of this appeal? All one needs to do is to review the sickening news which has come
from Korea this week. No, the war is far from over, and G. I. Joe has suffered the heaviest casualties
of the campaign in recent encounters with North Korean gooks. This means thousands of wounded men—men whose only hope for
life is the pint of blood which may come from your veins or mine.

No one who contributes blood on Thursday will receive a crisp, new ten-dollar bill as is the practice in many
hospitals in an emergency. But you will receive something far more valuable which could never be measured in monetary terms...
that inner peace and satisfaction that will be yours when you realize that your blood may bring home again the
kid down the street who got in the way of Commie bullets.

A Down-to-Earth Y.M.C.A.

The YMCA Cabinet has finally come down to earth, and many of you will say, "It’s about time." A single
indication is the fact that it has decided to investigate two vital campus problems: the fraternity situation and the election
system. But where did this new, directed interest spring from?

It began at the Cabinet retreat held in Montreat last weekend, when an inspired and zealous group resolved to attempt
one thing: working with you, to make Davidson YMCA what it should be in terms of both commitment and action.
Whether this is possible during the year, of course, remains to be seen. But you may assure yourself that if
any Cabinet was ever dedicated to its task, the present one is. Nevertheless, you ask, "How can any Cabinet achieve
its aims in one school year?" That is the crucial question which has confronted Davidson "Y" since its inception in
1879. You may think it’s relatively simple to answer. It isn’t. But the Cabinet hopes that it has discovered a
portion of the answer. It is this: if it is to be effective in planning and coordinating the "Y" program,
it must first be ingrained with the Christian faith which it is trying to infuse into that program. The Cabinet
is unanimous in this primary belief. From that point must flow relentless, arduous work. With these two principles, Christian faith
and work, the Cabinet feels that it has struck rock-bottom in digging for a foundation on which to build the
year’s activities.

The next question that you may pose is, "Precisely, in words that spell action, what is the YMCA Cabinet planning
to do?" In answering this question let’s take a look at part of the agenda. Accompanying the coming series of
Fall Services will be special forums and a book display. Plans have already been formulated for monthly open forums, encompassing
a wide range of topics. "Y" chapel programs are going to be more varied and interesting. And regarding social aspects,
plans for many appealing activities have been made. Though this is just a glimpse, it should provide a better view
into the total program of the "Y."

The two problems already mentioned—fraternity situation and elections—concern all of us. The latter primarily pertains to the election of "Y"
officers. In the discussions two schools were forcefully evident: those who believe the Cabinet should make the nominations, in a
manner similar to the publications; and those who defend the present system of "nominations from the floor." A commission has
been appointed to study the matter thoroughly, cooperating with the Student Council. The other problem is the one of social
organization on the campus, particularly with regard to the non-fraternity man. Many feel that the present system, or at least
its operation, is inadequate. Because it demands keen attention, a commission will be appointed shortly which will coordinate its study
with the Pan-Hellenic Council and the Faculty Fraternity Committee. In these two phases alone, the YMCA has the opportunity to
render some real service. Many other wells of opportunity are waiting only to be tapped. To do this and carry
out its current program effectively, the YMCA needs your participation and constant criticism. Thus, resolved in its purpose, committed to
intelligent, flexible, and sensitive thinking and planning, the Cabinet sincerely believes it has finally come down to earth—T.M.

THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE TWO

Wax Scratchin

THE POLL CAT
By SLAYDON MYERS

Do you favor having the Thanksgiving holiday on Thursday or Saturday?
Thursday—21 per cent; Saturday—79 per cent.

Do you feel that Thanksgiving is too close to Christmas to warrant a three-day holiday?
Yes—8 per cent; No—92 per cent.

Would you be willing to sacrifice one or two days of your Christmas holidays for Thanksgiving holidays?
Yes—41 per cent; No—59 per cent.

Campus Club History
By DICK ROPER

The Campus Club is three years old. The organization which was only a dream in the minds of two Davidson
independents back in 1947 celebrated its third anniversary last night in Eu Hall with a program highlighted by an address
from Dr. Ernest Arnold, assistant to the president of the college, and talks from several of the active members on
the history of the club. Six freshmen were accepted as candidate members—freshmen may not become active members until the second
semester—and plans were discussed concerning the program of the Club for the year.

It was exactly three years ago today that the Campus Club came into being. On October 13, 1947, a small
group of independents gathered to make the first truly democratic social organization on the Davidson Campus a reality. The Campus
Club did not, however, evolve as a direct effort to unite the non-fraternity men socially. The idea was born in
the spring of 1947 when Carl Eborn, then a junior, was discussing with Coach Heath Whittle the possibility of organizing
the independents in order that this large percentage of Davidson students might participate in the athletic program carried on among
the fraternities. Roy Thabet, a close friend of Eborn, became interested in the idea, so the two talked to Dean
Bailey to decide whether their plan was workable. The Dean liked the idea, but suggested that instead of banding together
solely for athletics, the proposed group might also offer an opportunity for social life to non-fraternity men. Thabet and Eborn
received the Dean's suggestion with enthusiasm, but school ended before they made any concrete plans.

At the beginning of the fall term, however, Thabet and Eborn went into action. They whipped up interest among the
independents, and soon there were enough men liking the idea to start the organizing work. The need for such a
group at Davidson was presented in Chapel on October 9 by Ernest Stricklin, who was later to become a prominent
member of the Campus Club. At this time a small group of students were formulating plans and framing a constitution
for the proposed organization. The official aim of this group was to "provide for all the non-fraternity men an organized
program for cultivating a well-rounded social, educational, athletic, and religious college life." Four days later the organization was officially recognized
on the campus by the students and the faculty. Seventy-two men signed the charter of what was to become the
Campus Club. Ernest Stricklin, then only a sophomore, was elected president, and Carl Eborn, also a soph, and Paul Horne,
a junior, were voted first and second vice presidents respectively. The group then began to hold regular weekly meetings, functioning
as an independent campus organization. A few weeks later the official title, the Campus Club, was decided upon. This name,
said the members, was "meaningful in that the aim of the organization is to give all non-fraternity men the opportunity
to indulge in the various college activities through fellowship with an organized group of students."

The achievement of which the Campus Clubbers are most proud is the winning of the interfraternity Sing Cup. In their
very first year of organization, the Club won the Sing. Then they proceeded to take it for the next two
years, thus giving them permanent possession of the trophy which was created for fraternities! The ranks of the Campus Club
were greatly depleted in the spring of 1950, when some 40-odd members broke away to form the Davidson Alpha Tau
Omega Club. Although there are only nine men left in the Campus Club, these few members are still carrying on
the organization which is the only really democratic social group at Davidson. Any student not a member of a social
fraternity is eligible for membership.

THE WORLD LAST WEEK

1. U.S. consumption of new rubber in August was an all-time high.
2. Three generals of the Western Allies are now authorized to help ensure West German security.
3. The drive into North Korea has the approval of the U.N. Assembly by a vote of 47-5.
4. The Marian Congresses have been planned for this month in Rome. All the cardinals are expected to attend, as
well as 1500 bishops.
5. Diplomat John S. Service has been cleared of Senator McCarthy’s charges by the loyalty board.
6. The Atomic Energy Commission has announced that the Navy is experimenting with ships powered by nuclear reactors.
7. Turkey has won the Security Council seat to be vacated by Egypt at the end of this year.
8. Bob Hope has left for an entertainment tour of the Pacific war zone.
9. James A. Farley arrived October 9 in Madrid to discuss an undisclosed matter with Generalissimo Franco.
10. French forces in Indo-China have been handed another great defeat.
11. The Supreme Court refused to interfere in the decision of Maryland's state court to give a Negro girl entrance
to an all-white nursing school.To abolish the double-cut system. A defense to the death has been ordered by the North
Korean FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON of giving cuts, non-compulsory for all seniors elections. To give praise where praise is due,
criticism will improve a situation. To advocate Sunday night visitations to faculty homes.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1960

By BOB WHELESS

The results of the Fourth Annual Disc Jockey Poll conducted by Billboard Magazine have just been published, and with the
fond hope that you may be at least slightly interested in the outcome, I shall throw together a few of
the more interesting features of the poll. First, let me say that this is not a critic’s poll, but a
popularity poll as judged by the disc jockeys of America.

The Nat King Cole version of “Mona Lisa” captured the prize as top platter of the year, racking up almost
twice as many points as any other record on the list. Gordon Jenkins’ arrangement of “Goodnight Irene” was voted number
two on the poll, while the number three spot was held down by Frankie Laine’s “Mule Train.”

In answer to the question, “Who is your favorite male vocalist?” Perry Como came out victor, Bing Crosby finished second,
and Billy Eckstine third. In the case of Eckstine, this was quite an accomplishment for, in addition to being a
relative newcomer to the recording field, he records for M-G-M, also a newcomer when compared to Victor or Decca.

Naturally, Doris Day led the parade in the female vocalists department. After her work in the albums, “Young Man with
A Horn” and “Tea For Two” there was little doubt that there could have been another selection. Most of you
could probably pick the runner-up; of course, it’s Jo Stafford. Sarah Vaughan received the third highest number of votes, proving
that she is at last getting the recognition she deserves so well.

The Andrews Sisters won out as Top Small Singing Group of the year, while the King Cole Trio took top
honors as the year’s top Small Instrumental Group. Second best instrumental outfit was the George Shearing Quintet who, considering that
they have been in this country only about two years, have really come up in the world.

In the top band department, Ralph Flanagan and Ray Anthony led practically every list. Ralph leads the list as current
all-around favorite followed by Ray Anthony second, Tommy Dorsey third, and Charlie Spivak twenty-sixth. In the leading “sweet” band, Flanagan
and Ray Anthony captured second and fourth positions respectively. In the “swing” band list, they came out first and third.
Ralph was first and Ray was second on the most promising new bands. So there can be little doubt about
which are the two leading bands in the land today.

Vaughan Monroe, whose new television show is now heard (and seen) every Wednesday night, has a hit in a new
ballad labeled “Could Be.” Vaughan handles the tune in that typical ‘I’ve got a bad chest cold” manner and the
finished shellacking is one of his most danceable tunes. If you like Monroe, you'll be sure to like this one.

“Orange Colored Sky” has been given a more soft-pedal subtle treatment by Doris Day, and the change isn’t a bad
one. It probably never will catch up with the King Cole arrangement, but nevertheless, it's terrific! The flip side is
called “A Load of Hay.” It’s a rather cute discing of a rather silly idea. The tune is taken from
an old melody called “Narcissus,” so you may recognize it.

The multiple Mr. Paul, playing the several guitar parts, could have a follow-up to his smash tune “Nola” with his
waxing of a corn-fed oldie called “Goofus.” Turn it over and you'll find that you have a little thing labeled
“Sugar Sweet” in which Mrs. Paul sings a duet with herself. The “sugar sweet” job she does on it should
give the catchy tune a boost.

Billy Eckstine opens his tonsils wide to drive home the rich new ballad, “Be My Love,” from “The Toast of
New Orleans” flick. Both this and the flip side “Only A Moment Ago,” which he sings in a rather tender,
subdued fashion should go places with Mr. B’s ever-growing followers.

Music with Hansen
By HENRY HANSEN

In casting about for a topic this week I found myself faced with a situation which is, to the critic,
almost unendurable—no one to criticize. There are always general topics which can be discussed, but textbooks seem more the natural
habitat of such topics and, in addition, they lack personal identification with us and our own musical activities. Thus it
is that this week I mark for derogation a subject I have left alone till now and a subject which
may bring even more repercussions than did Miss Truman last year. I can only hope that the person responsible for
the gross error I intend to criticize is either no longer with us, or barring that, far away.

Many are the times that we have sung, O Davidson! But like all much-used songs, the words are seldom thought
of, at least in a critical light. To refresh your memory:

O, Davidson! You are the best old college in the East or West;
You play a fair game, you play a square game,
And you win in everything—

One need go no further since here lies the fault. The last word of the first line is West, of
the second line, everything. Consider a moment. Not only does this not rhyme, but it means less than nothing. Everything
is one of those words like swell or marvelous or super—words which are the last refuge of the often delineated
but seldom envied low brow. Can we do no better than this? Let us hope that we can.

Before suggesting a remedy let me point out that either, as said before, the word has no meaning because it
is too vague and all-inclusive or it means literally what it says, a fact which even the most intrepid of
Davidson supporters would hardly argue for. As long as Rumple stands or writs are flunked, as long, in brief, as
we fall short of any goal, we have definitely not won in everything. Indeed so far are we from distinction
that using the word in that sense adds but another defection to Rumple or writs, that is, the one saying
the untrue of our worthy but like all earthly things, considerably imperfect alma mater.

Now this song generally appears in the context of some athletic event. What is an athletic event? Among other things,
it is a contest of skill. We could use the word contest but it would violate the rules of strict
meter. We can, however, shorten the word to test. Try the substitution and see how much more euphonious is the
sound, how much more harmonious the meter. By merely changing one word, we will have satisfied the laws or rules
of poetry. Needless to say, the statement will still be untrue. However, one wrong is better than two. Since we
cannot in the foreseeable future make the statement literally true and since such songs have the sanction of tradition and
can hardly be dispensed with, I feel that we should make the change.

In conclusion, this is not a frivolous proposal. Lest I have given that impression let me say now that I
endorse changing everything to test. It deserves serious thought since, by making the change, we can at least “win” in
the composition of a simple poem; this achievement can but bring us one step nearer to making us win, literally,
in everything.

SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN HOME

BILL HART — 10 DUKE

State Theatre
Mooresville
Week Starting October 11th

Thursday and Friday
‘COLT .40’
Randolph SCOTT
Ruth ROMAN
NEWS — COMEDY

Saturday
‘REDWOOD FOREST TRAIL’
Rex Allen
— Also —
‘ARMORED CAR ROBBERY’
Adele Jergens-Charles McGraw
CARTOON — SERIAL

Owl Show Saturday Night and Monday
“A KISS FOR CORLISS’
SHIRLEY TEMPLE
DAVID NIVEN
CARTOON — COMEDY

Center Theatre
WEEK STARTING OCTOBER 11th

Wednesday-Thursday
‘WHERE THE SIDEWALK ENDS’
DANA ANDREWS
GENE TIERNEY
NEWS — SHORT

Friday and Saturday
‘ARIZONA TERRITORY’
JOHNNY MACK BROWN
— Also —
‘FEDERAL MAN’
William Henry
PAMELA BLAKE
SERIAL — CARTOON

OWL SHOW SATURDAY

Monday and Tuesday
‘TARZAN and the SLAVE GIRL’
Lex Barker
Vanessa Brown
CARTOON — NEWS

Tuesday and Wednesday
‘THE OUTRIDERS’
JOEL McCREA
NEWS — SHORT
