CASTLE TO COO AS COLLEGIANS WOO

VOLUME XXXVIII

The Davidsonian

ALENDA BLUK USBI ORTA CIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1950

By KURT BIEDENKOPF

Looking for a penny in the stadium is a monotonous job. Your flashlight detects all kinds of things, yet no
pennies. And if you found one at last, it is bound to be the wrong one and you start all
over again. Well, it is fun after all and it leaves you a lot of time to think about things
different from a penny and except during initiation time also a little more important. (Which does not mean that I
am not aware of the great importance of the penny as the basic unit of the American monetary system).

Newspapers at recent times have been full of stories about the English scientist Dr. Fuchs who is supposed to have
given vital atomic secrets to the Russians. When questioned in court about his reasons for these acts, that might be
called treason, he is said to have answered that in his opinion he had done a right thing. He personally
believed that by enabling the Russian government to build the A-bomb and maybe even the H-bomb, he could help prevent
a war between Russia and America. Both nations would have the destructive weapon and thus not dare to attack each
other. Even assuming the fact, that these really were his motives, an assumption which is very debatable, Dr. Fuchs would
by no means have accomplished his purpose.

(Continued On Page Six)

Literary Society Dips 50 Years Into Past To Present Program

Philanthropic Literary Society meeting Tuesday night was held amid all the pomp and splendor of the past age which was
characteristic of this group in the year 1870. The presiding officer and a number of members dressed sportily in the
costume of that reconstruction period carried on the business of the group using the exact style and manner of speech
and action common in this emotionally aroused period in the south. The honor and integrity of two of the post-Civil
War members was threatened in oratorical expressions which stirred the sergeant-at-arms to action. The unique program, under the direction of
Don Shriver, brought to mind many interesting and enlightening incidents not uncommon to the time into which the program carried
the members. The firm foundations of truthfulness, integrity, and gentlemanly conduct upon which the Society was founded were made strikingly
clear to all present in a very interesting and enjoyable manner.

As the light switch was thrown by the order of President Dave Miller, the candles were removed along with string
bow ties and Phi Society slipped quickly back into 1950 for the important business of electing new officers to serve
for the second semester. As the meeting progressed the most honest of all voting machines pointed out that the following
members were elected to the following positions:

Charles T. Davis—President.
Neil Leach — Vice President.
Tom Stockton — Secretary.

The faithful officers who directed the Society for the past semester are certainly to be congratulated for jobs well done.
Pres. Dave Miller presided in a style which would make even the 1870 members proud. Vice-President Don Shriver, who served
as program chairman, is especially to be commended for his energetic services. To Bryan Robinson, who served during the past
few months as secretary, also is given the Society’s vote of gratitude. The installment of officers will take place at
a called meeting Tuesday night, Feb. 14, in Phi Hall. Consideration of suggested men for membership will be on the
agenda of the next meeting.

Adele Castle, Vocalist, Featured with Tony Pastor

TROTMAN NAMED DIRECTOR OF MASQUERS DOUBLE FEATURE

The director for the forthcoming production of the Red and Black Masquers will be Bill Trotman, a member of the
freshman class from Winston-Salem. Bill will be remembered for his brilliant performance in the role of Senator McKinley in the
Masquers first production of the season, “John Loves Mary.” He is also a member of Eumenean Literary Society. This is
by no means Bill's first experience in the field of play directing. While in his senior year at Reynolds High
School he wrote, directed and played the leading role in “Bluebeard,” a play for which he also composed the score.
The play was an outstanding success in Winston-Salem. In addition to this Bill has played parts in twenty-three other plays
before coming to Davidson.

This production, which will be presented at Davidson on February 27-28, will consist of two one-act plays, “Sunday Costs Five
Pesos,” and “The Valiant.” The former is a comedy with a Mexican background; the latter is a tragedy. It was
the desire of the Masquers in selecting this production to give the students something a little bit different from the
regular light comedies that have predominated in past Masquer history. Thus, these two plays were selected. “The Valiant,” the tragedy,
has taken its stand among the classic one-act plays.

(Continued On Page Six)

Ecumenical Meeting Historical Occasion

The first Ecumenical conference in the history of Southern Christianity was held in the First Methodist Church on Saturday, Feb.
4. The conference which began at 10:00 a.m. progressed until 6:00 that evening. This conference was an outgrowth of the
first international Ecumenical Conference held in Lawrence, Kansas, in December, 1948. Curtis Harper of the senior class represented Davidson at
this first conference. Curtis was the instigator of creating enough interest on the campus to persuade ten students to make
the trip to Chapel Hill for the most interesting and impressive program. Please see the Editorial page for more information
on this conference and the possibilities of such meetings in our region today.

Fearless Forensics Open Against Elon

Saturday night, February 11, the Davidson Forensic Council opens its 1950 season of debating by meeting Elon College and Randolph
Macon Woman's College in two rounds of debate. The subject this year is Resolved: That The Federal Government Should Nationalize
All the Basic Non-Agricultural Industries. This is a topic which is very much in the news at the present time.
The debating will start promptly at 7:00 p.m. in Phi Hall. A cordial invitation is extended to all those who
wish to attend.

The 1950 season will be one of the most extensive the Forensic Council has ever known. During the semester the
team will travel to Atlanta, Suwanee, Georgetown, Williamsburg, Lynchburg, Hickory, Charlottesville, and Fredericksburg. They will also make two tours through
South Carolina that will include the University of Georgia.

First Half Ends As Usual; Courses Hammed, Exams Crammed, Buses Jammed

By PETE MILNER

According to the ancient proverb of the ancient code of Taft-Hammurabi:

“The faculty has eaten sour exam dates,
And the Davidson students’ nerves are set on edge.”

So was it then; so is it now. Why? Let us project ourselves back to January 17, 1950. Adjusting the
giant 3x2 screen on our crystal television and time machine set, let us peer into the last-year-exam-filled dormitory hovel of
any pre-Exam (Davidson) student. Before him lies the insurmountable task of cramming arithmetic 12 A, Bobbsey Twins Reader 12, and
Spelling 22. Remembering the adage: “Out of sight, out of mind,” Dave Idson quickly closes his books and is off
to the show to break the ennui of 30 minutes of concentrated spotting. Dave is now confident that he is
adequately prepared: “Come hell or high grades.”

Eons drift by, evolutionary processes evolute, and empires rise, decline and fall. Still the exams continued (although the word exam

DAVIDSONIAN’S MAN OF THE WEEK: HENRY WILSON

NUMBER FIFTEEN

SOCIAL FRATERNITIES ADMIT PLEDGES INTO BROTHERHOOD

FEW FINISH FORMAL TRIALS; MANY FROSH STILL WAITING

Last Wednesday night, Feb. 8, Chambers Auditorium was the sceneHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and
punctuation:

---

of a Variety Show sponsored by the Mecklenburg Chapter of the March of Dimes. Hugo Sapp, Davidson drive chairman, with
the aid of Mr. Alonzo Squires, as master of ceremonies, “produced” the show for the town residents and college students
in order to raise funds for the campaign. The amount of money raised, being donated by those in the relatively
small audience at the show, was in excess of 50 dollars. The Variety Show, conducted by Mr. Squires, radio personality
who conducts the popular morning program “Breakfast With Squires” over station WAYS, in Charlotte, was begun with Fletcher of Jinks
Jervey, also a freshman, rendering his popular version of “Moses and the Peazel Tree.” Melvin Lipe, playing the violin and
accompanied by Al Neumann, followed next with a bit of a little serious music — “Ces Czardas,” by Monte. As
an encore, Melvin, who also is 1st violinist in the Charlotte Symphony, played one of his own compositions, a humorous
ditty, “The Rooster Takes A Stroll.”

The next performance was given by the emcee Alonzo Squires. Being famous for imitations of famous radio stars, he gave
forth with imitations of such stars as Major Bowes, Lowell Thomas, Boake Carter, “Amos & Andy,” Alan (Fatso) Reed, and
Fred Allen. He also voiced the 5th round of a boxing match between Joe Louis and Tommy Farr, broadcast by
Clem McCarthy and Edwin C. Hill. After this, Jerry Ball, piano virtuoso, who recently concluded a statewide tour for the
March of Dimes, exhibited his pianistic abilities by playing a few arrangements of his own, besides conducting a musical quiz.
Four students, Harry Hickey, Monty Hill, Grimes Thomas, and Jim Carr, participated in this little affair.

Hal Haynes, Henry Wilson, Ansley Moses, and the rest of their (Continued On Page Six)

DAVIDSONIAN REGRETS: The Midwinter’s dance schedule, printed on page four of the February 3rd Davidsonian, is incorrect. The Davidsonian was
in error in publishing the time at which the Cincinnati Symphony Concert will be presented. The editors regret this error
on their part.

has come to connote an eternal period of time; exam, when expressed in its archaic meaning, meant a testing of
knowledge or qualification.) Day after day, students enter classes 2 hours ahead of time, wear heavy leather gloves, and carry
demijohns of ink and myriad blotters and pens (the latter of which are guaranteed to write underneath volcanoes, in a
perfect vacuum or at absolute zero.) Likewise, day after day, students never finish three-hour exams in 5 hours, never fail
to raise at least two callouses on their writing finger (Gad, I wish I had a finger that could write),
never have enough ink and never use a ballpoint pen because they always fail to write under (6 sleepless months
of) pressure. As Dave snaps on his shroud, let us direct our T-V, T-M camera toward the scene of the
fatal last exam— “The point of no return.” “Surely he won't question us on material covered in class? Let’s see
now, Jeroboam and La Boheme ruled the North and South after the war, Er-Shalmaneser V was the fellow who lost
his strength when he had a crew cut. Oh! wait a minute, I’m confused. So silly. It comes back now.
Tiglath-Pileser. Now the books. Let’s see! Alpha, beta, Kappa, etc. It was Jehu, not Joash, who drove like a ball
of fire. Jehoshaphat is a curse word and “Manasseh's in the cold, cold ground.” Now if only I could remember
what our textbook was. Oh well! If I can remember who wrote it, I can recall the title. Cram time
is about up. Mustn’t be nervous. Here, just one more no-doze. If I only had memorized the Pentateuch like our
professor said. Well! As they say at Davidson: “Cram and the class crams with you, flunk and you flunk with
the rest of the class.” Let us now examine that happy parting scene. Dave is finally through. Through the photosynthetic
process of light given off by unintelligible gibberish on the blackboard or ink-blotted mimeographed sheets, our hero’s grey matter (of
brain and spinal cord) has been synthesized to water. Dave nonchalantly tosses his exam and cram material into a fraternity
file and moves ever homeward. Ah, yes! We see: “The whining (Continued On Page Six)

and S.P.E. fraternities have been inducted into brotherhood this week. Kappa Alpha Order held its initiation Tuesday night, with a
barbecue supper at Erwin Lodge following on Thursday night. The initiates were as follows: T. W. Aldred, Harris Asbury, Adrian
Bowen, George Cornelson, Carlyle Crenshaw, George Crouch, Neely Dixon, Allen Garrison, David Haynes, Robert Henry, Glasgow Hicks, George King, Angus
McInnis, Josh McMimms, John Ottley, Howard Proctor, Mac Richards, Luke Scales, Jim Speed, Tom Staley, Hugh Swan, and Allen Vance.

The Pi Kappa Pi fraternity plans its initiation for Friday, at which time the following men will become brothers: Lewis
Barnes, Kurt Biedenkopf, Lawrence Erwin, Jesse Fisher, Fred Holder, Jenks Jervey, Donald Menzies, Mitchell Patton, Jack Pierce, Robert Wheless, and
Arnold Whisnant. The new members of Pi Kappa Alpha, who were initiated Tuesday night, are: Fred Deaton, Jim Farrar, Frank
Hanshaw, Lee Harter, Charlie Hawkins, J. V. Howell, Avery Jones, Jim Smith, Rodney Howell, Harry Underwood, Bill Cooper, and Ben
Gibson. A formal ceremony and banquet on Thursday night ended the Beta Theta Pi initiation. New brothers (Continued On Page
Six)

Campbell Steers Eu For Coming Semester

The Eumanean Literary Society had its first meeting of the new semester on the evening of February 6 at Eu
Hall. The prime business of the evening was the selection of new officers for the second semester. J. W. Campbell
was elected president to succeed Chuck Kirby, Tommy Langford was elected vice-president to succeed Ken Goodpasture, and Bill Adams was
elected secretary to succeed Shelley Bard. J. M. Campbell will continue to serve as treasurer for the remainder of the
scholastic year. The new officers immediately took charge of their duties and proceeded to the next items of business. The
attendance at meetings was discussed and plans were laid to strive for better and more varied programs for the coming
year. The Eumanean is a literary society which tries to further good writing and speaking in its members. The new
programs will give members more active participation in these in addition to offering them an opportunity to become familiar with
the best in literature, declamation, and oration. The new programs seem to have already achieved one of their goals —
that of improving attendance at meetings — since only four members were absent from this meeting. The chapel program given
by the Society before Christmas was commended and Pete Kologvidis was given hearty approval for his competent direction in helping
to put this program over. Plans were also made for the selection of new members. Members are selected on their
past achievements in composition and public speaking and on their general interest in literary matters. Bids will go out this
week to those selected and initiation for the incoming members will take place at the next meeting of the society.
The Eumanean has high hopes of a very successful year under its new officers and also great expectation of receiving
the top literary men of the Freshman class as new members.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.
