PAGE THREE

ITALIAN PROTESTANTS SEEK RELIGIOUS FREEDOM

Americans are called upon to "compel" the Italian government to abide by the religious freedom clause of its peace treaty
in a resolution adopted recently by Protestants in that country and circulated in the United States by Dr. Frank B.
Gigliotti of Washington, D. C., author of the clause. Gigliotti said he received the resolution from the Rev. Anthony Caliandro,
director of the Evangelical Biblical Institute of Italy. Gigliotti is vice chairman of the Commission on Religious Liberties of the
National Association of Evangelicals. He helped write both the Italian peace treaty and the constitution of the Italian Republic.

The resolution was prompted by press reports quoting the Italian interior ministry as telling the United States embassy that American
Protestant activities in Italy often aid Communism. These reports developed from difficulties of American evangelists of the Church of Christ
headquartered at Frascati, near Rome.

Addressed to the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. embassy in Rome, and to "the American public in general," the
resolution reads as follows:

"Where The Associated Press reports in THE DAILY AMERICAN of Rome, of January 13, 1950, that the Italian Foreign Ministry
has told the United States Embassy in Rome that American Protestant activities in Italy often aid Communism... and that a
spokesman of said Ministry said that this view has been expressed to officials in Washington;

"And whereas the same spokesman is quoted as stating that Communists are about the only Italians who join Protestant cults,
and that these cults acquire political ends masking Communism with religion;

"Be it resolved that we, members of several Protestant churches in Naples and vicinity, assembled this 13th day of January
1950, to hear a lecture offered by the regular program of The Evangelical Biblical Institute of Italy, located at 162
Corso Garibaldi, Portici, Naples, Italy, having taken time at the conclusion of the lecture to discuss the accusations against Protestants
emanating from the Italian interior ministry, do hereby righteously protest against the untrounced, false, and malicious accusations intended to justify
ill-treatment and discriminatory laws against evangelical ministers, missionaries, and Protestant churches in Italy;

"Be it further resolved that we, as Protestants, proud of a glorious heritage, which through the centuries has been a
leavening influence for righteousness and progress in the life of Italy, notwithstanding untold persecutions, massacres, banishments, and social and economic
boycotts, do call upon all Americans to compel the Italian government to abide by, respect, and execute Article 15, Section
I, Part I, of the Peace Treaty signed in Paris on February 10, 1947, and which has since been ratified
by the governments concerned, which provides:

"Italy shall take all measures necessary to secure to all persons under Italian jurisdiction, without distinction as to race, sex,
language, or religion, the enjoyment of human rights and of the fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression, of press and
publication, of religious worship, of political opinion and of public meeting."

"And be it further resolved that we, as Protestants in Italy, do call upon the Italian people to see that
the rights and duties of citizens as provided by the Constitution of the Italian Republic be enforced. We, therefore, claim
as our rights, the guarantee which Article 19 of the Italian Constitution provides, that:

"Everyone has the right to (Continued On Page Six)

ROTC Rifle Team Completes Season

The Rifle Team recently completed a very successful season. With a team comprised chiefly of new men, 31 matches were
fired over the course of the season of 4 months. Of the 31 matches, 17 were won. This included 5
victories in 6 shoulder-to-shoulder matches. The remaining 25 matches were postal. The schedule fired included such institutions as Clemson, Universities
of Georgia, Alabama, Tennessee, Florida, and Montana, The Citadel, N.C. State, Wofford, Syracuse, Mississippi State, and the University of Mississippi.
High upperclassmen during the year were: W. W. Abbott, A. D. Groseclose, J. W. Leaycraft, A. S. Miree, C. D.
Parker. High freshman was G. F. Bason.

Two years ago last fall the Davidson campus was blessed with the appearance of the same timid, mischievous grin that
had come to the Haynes family of Bristol, Tenn., some 21 years ago. In both cases this grin was worn
by Hal Haynes, along with it came several accessories including a good hank of dark hair, a set of pearly
white teeth, and long, seductive eyelashes, which Hal used to trim in grammar school because the girls said they were
so pretty.

Back in Bristol Hal was quite an athlete. He played football three years, baseball two years, ran track two years,
and pole vaulted an eleven-foot six-inch city record, which still stands. Hal doesn’t know when he started boxing exactly, but
when he was ten years old he got plenty of practice when his family moved two miles out in the
country. Walking into town to the city school every day he had to pass by the county school. Probably there
were at that school several young athletes always eager for a chance to engage in pugilistics, for Hal got into
a fight almost every day. Later Hal's friends entered him several times in Golden Gloves contests, in which he has
won the middleweight championship in Bristol more than once.

For the past two years "The Brute" (the origin of this nickname is one of the guarded secrets of the
Haynes’ security files which cannot be released to the press) has been a member of the varsity wrestling team. Last
year he was held back by injuries, but this year he

HAL HAYNES

THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 1950

Early Search Answer

SARACENIC OPTOMETRIST

Out Of The Crocodile’s Mouth

If you are one of the few people who went to sleep last night, you probably woke up this morning.
Then what happened? Worn out from weekend dating, football practice, or parallel reading, Davidson students customarily awake (five minutes after
their first period class starts) sans use of senses, saving that of sight. Wonderful, isn’t it, that these optic senses
are ready to serve you from the time you sling your head into ice water until you sit down in
class. It is only through these ophthalmic organs that you can see the finer things of life. As the old
saying goes: “You don’t miss the water till the well runs dry.” Therefore, in order to more fully appreciate your
optics, you must hypothetically abolish the eye and all of its facets till the well runs dry.

Cast yourself into a world of darkness. Do you realize that no longer could you use the obsolete expressions: “Do
you see the point,” “The eyes have it,” “Look here, old boy"? etc. Do you feel that by the use
of Braille you could ever master The Kinsey Report or How To Win Friends and Influence People? You could no
longer observe holidays. What would be the center of a rifle target? No longer could children be seen and not
heard. Through what part of a needle would a rich man on a camel pass on his way to heaven?

But now the business side must be considered. No longer could ocu-

Hungry Graduates

Lawrence, Kan. — (ACP) — “If you're the June graduate who worries about the job hunt, you would do well
to organize a plan as to where, how, and when to look for a job,” says a feature writer of
the University Daily Kansan. Start right now. Make up a resume sheet about your qualifications, including experience, interests, references, activities,
skills, education, what kind of job you want, and when you could start working. If you are an artist, writeror
designer or anyone with talent to display, make up a single but attractive presentation book of your work. If you
want to strike out on your own and apply directly to a firm's employment office, write a short application letter
to the personnel head. Ask for an appointment if the firm is near. Enclose a resume sheet. The public relations
office can furnish you with up-to-the-minute information on employment conditions in your field. Private employment agencies will pave the way
for an interview, give the employer an honest picture of the employee's qualifications and the job-seeker an accurate account of
the firm. The private agency has the advantage over public agencies by offering more professional jobs. The fee for their
services is usually about one-half the first month’s (Continued On Page Six)

Adams
Aguado
Aichorn
Albert
Allen
American Job Series
Anderson
Anderson
Andrews
Baroja
Barry
Baruch
Bett
Blankenship
Blanshard
Branscomb
Bray
Brombert
Brown
Buber
Butts
Cantwell
Carritt
Cela
Chamberlain
Chew
Chodorov
Chodorov
Clark
Clark
Cleaves
Cohan
Cohen
Columbia Univ.
Costain
Creighton
Davidson
Davis
Davis
Dearing

Kind Lady overcame the handicaps of bad ankles and won his letter. This winter he was initiated into the “D
Club.” His athletic strength and agility can further be shown by the fact that he is a member of the
honorary athletic fraternity, Sigma Delta Phi.

Dostoevsky
To the student body Hal’s music
Douglass
De Roover lists
Oculists, opticians, optometrists live in rock houses (Continued On Page Six)

New Books Placed In Library During March...

and throw glasses. Now both beautiful and ugly women would be much sought after rather than those who are merely
sexy looking! Without the vivid imagination of our generation, the screen and T.V. business would soon expire. Ah! There's always
a bright side though. Women drivers (that's a misnomer. There are no women who can drive) would realize blindness as
only a slight inconvenience while driving, whereas basketball referees would not be hampered in the least. The seeing-eye-dog, cane manufacturers,
and radar business would flourish. Man could now appreciate Salvador Dali as well as the Davidsonian (i.e., feature articles). Easily
we see (meaning realize) then that to appreciate one’s eyes one must: (1) have eyes, and (2) appreciate them.

Along with appreciations, however, goes understanding. Let us peer back into the recorded annals of unrecorded time in order to
brace man’s sight up to the position in which it now finds itself — on women! Try to imagine the
sightless eolithic man emerging from his home of primordial slime, blind to the world, living in a complete sphere of
mystery and darkness. How he would have loved to see his contemporary world. A complete sphere of mystery and darkness.
Imagine his pristine chagrin as he blindly stumbles into a lava bed rather than his silt-down mattress on his colonial-styled
four-poster. What a jolt it must have been to casually stroll into an open dinosaur mouth and discover it is
not one's dream-case.

Degradation of the Democratic Dogma
Cuentos de Hadas Y de Viejos
Wayward Youth
Solid Analytical Geometry
Psychotherapy with Children
Monographs
Mystery of a Public Man
Economics and Public Welfare
Manufacturing Business
Familia, Infancia y Juventud
Philadelphia Story
New Ways in Discipline
Reality of the Religious Life
How to Conduct Consumer and Opinion Research
American Freedom and Catholic Power
The Gospel of Mark
Psychology and Military Proficiency
Criticism of T. S. Eliot
Toward a United Church
The Prophetic Faith
Cultural History of Education
Nathaniel Hawthorne
An Introduction of Aesthetics
Nuevas Andanzas y Desventuras
Teacher and School Organization
Plowshares into Swords
Junior Miss
Guideposts in Time of Change
Rural Press and the New South
Rock of Chickamauga
Seven Keys to Baldpate
Japan’s Economy in War and Reconstruction
Sampling Inspection
The Conquerors
Building for Modern Man
Hawthorne's Last Phase
Children of Bondage
Mr. and Mrs. North
National Transportation Policy
Gresham on Foreign Exchange
Why We Have Automobile Accidents
Diary of a Writer
Teaching in the High School
Emotions and Bodily Changes
Mozart: His Character, His Work
Comparative Lexicon of N. T. Greek
Organ, and Adm. of Guidance Services
Hist. of the Pre-Romantic Novel in English
History of Western Education
Aesculapius Comes to the Colonies
Enterprise in a Free Society
Square Planning For Young
Engineering Tools and Processes
Centers of New Life in European Civilization

ability is far better known. As a member of that now famous group of authorities on mountain music, The Cripple
Creek Boys, Hal usually picks the mandolin and of course does his share of the singing, but he also makes
music on the banjo and guitar as well. Brute doesn’t remember when he learned to make mountain music. He reckons
that he might have been born with a guitar pick in his hand. The first audience for whom he played
and sang was his fifth-grade class. In the middle of the song, he forgot the words, but that didn't matter.
He just made the rest of the verses up as he went along.

One of the better aspects of Hal’s musical ability is that he has been able to pass it on to
his younger brother. Early in his career, Hal persuaded the more financially solvent David to buy himself a mandolin. No
doubt his sole purpose was to educate Dave. However, David plays a bull fiddle, while Hal picks the mandolin. There
is something about this athletic music maker, as his brother well knows, that won't allow him to be commonplace or
colorless. He seems to have an innate talent for saying and doing everything (Continued On Page Six)

DOCTOR: “Your money or your life!”
NOTE: Medical care in the United States is so expensive the working class cannot afford it.
(EDITOR'S NOTE: Permission for reproductions of these cartoons from “Out of The Crocodile’s Mouth” by William Nelson has been granted
the DAVIDSONIAN by the Public Affairs Press, 2153 Florida Ave., Washington, D.C.)

Howard-Jones
Hoff
Hull
Hull
Hungerford
Husband
Investment Bankers Assn. of America
James
Job
Jones
Kaplan
Kasanin
Kayser
Keirstead
Keller
Kepler
Key
Kirk
Klein
Knox
Krasna
Labaree
Langer
Leiper
Leon
Leslie
Liddell
Lindner
Lindsay
Loos
McCleery
McGovney
McNair
McNemar
Magie
Malinowski
Manners
Manson
Marshall
Massermann
Matthews
May
Means
Menninger
Merton
Mikesell
Miller
Miller
Milne
Montemayor
Moulton
Mulhern
Muller
Munro
Myers
Neuschutz
Nicolay
Noble
N. C. Gen. Assembly House of Burgesses
Valbuena Prat
O'Neill
Osborn
Osterweis
Pahlen
Painter
Painter
Palmer
Peacock
Peers
Planck
Planck
Planck
Poffenberger
Pope-Hennessy
Applied Biophysics
Twenty Carriers of Tomorrow
Elementary Modern Physics
Hypnosis and Suggestibility
Wells Fargo, Advancing American Frontier
Modern Corporation Finance
Fundamentals of Investment Banking
Fundamentals of Photographic Theory
Therese
Development in Adolescence
Encyclopedia of Vocational Guidance
Language and Thought in Schizophrenia
Das Sprachliche Kunstwerk
Theory of Economic Change
Werke (8 vol.)
Contemporary Thinking About Paul
Southern Politics in State and Nation
Short History of the Middle East
Mental Hygiene
History of the U.S. Navy
John Loves Mary
Conservatism in Early American History
Philosophy in a New Key
Christianity Today
De Los Nombres de Cristo
The Psalms
With a Southern Accent
Rebel Without a Cause
An Introduction to Physical Statistics
Happy Birthday
Parlor Story
American Suffrage Medley
Problems in Marketing
Psychological Statistics
Source Book in Physics
Scientific Theory of Culture
Peg of My Heart
The Church’s Ministry
Mr. Jones
Meet the Master
Principles of Dynamic Psychiatry
Education in Arab Countries of the Near East
Tragedie Cornelienne, Tragedie Racinienne
Organ, and Adm. of Intramural Sports
Man Against Himself
Social Theory and Social Structure
Arabian Oil
American Labor and the Government
Pricing of Military Procurements
Dover Road
Los Siete Libros de la Diana
Grammar of N. T. Greek (vol 2)
History of Education
Kleine Goethebiographie
Arts and Their Interrelations
Handel's Messiah
Jobs for the Physically Handicapped
Lincoln's Secretary
History of American Education
Journal of the House of Burgesses
Novela Picaresca Espanola
Iceman Cometh
Organic Syntheses, v. 29
On Borrowed Time
Romanticism and Nationalism in the Old South
Music of the World
Studies in the History of the English Feudal Barony
William Marshall, Knight-errant
Tool Steel Simplified
Treatise on Algebra
Spain (rev. ed.)
Mechanics of Deformable Bodies
Theory of Heat
Theory of Light
Principles of Applied Psychology
Canon Charles Kingsley
