Davidson’s baseball team, after suffering four straight defeats at the hands of Newberry and Erskine, had the honor to be on top of the Southern Conference—for 48 brief hours—by virtue of their win over UNC at Davidson Saturday afternoon. Carolina promptly juggled the standings by thumping the local diamond men in Chapel Hill Monday. Anyhow, it looked good to see Davidson at the top in at least one sport, though short the time may have been.

CATS WIELD WEAK WILLOWS

Although the baseball season has just gotten into full swing, one thing has already become apparent—if Davidson is to post anything like the record expected of them in pre-season speculation, someone is going to have to inject some dynamite into their heretofore impotent bats. With six games behind them (through Monday's game with Carolina) the Cats have been able to garner a total of only 19 hits among the whole team. It doesn’t take much exertion of the brain cells to figure out that this is an average of just 3.2 hits per game. No ball team can win consistently on an average like that. Even in winning against Carolina, it was an unearned run in the bottom of the eighth that salted away the win for the Cats.

This failure to produce at the plate can be attributed partially to lack of practice. Rainy weather has of course kept the team indoors for a number of days, and even when the skies were clear, cold winds have prevented any hard work-outs. We don’t expect this batting slump to be long-lived, but then it immediately comes to mind that most ball clubs do their heaviest slugging in the first part of the season. Not a few of us will be anxiously following the Cats in the hope that they will upset this axiom before many more games have gone by.

CINDERMEN EXHIBIT WARES

About all that can be said concerning Saturday's track meet with Furman is that local fans got a glimpse of the potential of Davidson’s ’50 cindermen. In piling up 113 points in the meet the Red and Black trackmen completely dominated the scene with the exception of the 220, 440 and shot events. The Baptists forfeited three events, the pole vault, javelin and mile relay. Coach Whittle was hesitant about commenting on the meet. About all he would say was, “We hadn’t expected much competition from Furman, but we thought it would be more than this.” It was obvious that he was disappointed in the showing Furman made, but he hastened to remind us that football is king at the South Carolina school and that spring football drills had prevented a serious concentration on the cinder sport.

GOLFERS STILL UNBEATEN

Following Wednesday's win over South Carolina on the Charlotte Country Club course, Davidson's golf team remains undefeated. To date the linksmen have driven by Ft. Bragg, Catawba and South Carolina twice. This is particularly significant in view of the fact that golf is the only varsity sport at Davidson which doesn't have a coach from the Athletic Department. The record that these men have posted “on their own” is good in itself, but it’s interesting to speculate just how much better it would have been or will be if there was a regular golf mentor from the Athletic Department. At present there is no one particularly qualified to fill this vacancy, but it would be well for the administration to keep this need in mind when (Continued On Page Six).

Rebel Grill
University, Mississippi (Oxford)

The Rebel Grill is one of the favorite on-the-campus haunts of students at the University of Mississippi. That’s because the Rebel Grill is a friendly place, always full of the busy atmosphere of college life. There is always plenty of ice-cold Coca-Cola, too. For here, as in college gathering spots everywhere—Coke belongs. Ask for it either way... both trade-marks mean the same thing.

UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
BOTTLED Coca Cola Bottling Co. Concord, N.C.
© 1950, The Coca-Cola Company

PAUL SCOTT EXPECTED HERE MONDAY

Wildcat Sports

TOMMY, “DUTCH” NAMED CAPTAINS

PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 1950

FLORIDA BEATS CATS AGAIN, 6-3

Recently Selected Athletic Director To Assume Duties

According to a letter received by Dr. Cunningham this week, Paul Scott, new athletic director of Davidson College expects to arrive in Davidson on Monday, April 10 to take up his new duties. In his letter Scott stated that he was bringing his family and moving his household furnishings immediately, which is contrary to earlier reports about his plans. Scott revealed that after getting settled here in Davidson for two or three weeks, he would return to Cornell College the first week in May for spring matches in golf, track, and tennis which he apparently has a big hand in. It will probably be necessary for him to remain in Iowa for about a week and then he will return to Davidson to devote his full time to his new position.

Thus, Scott will be the first full-time athletic director at Davidson since Norman Shepherd resigned to take over the head basketball coaching job at Harvard University. He has been director of athletics at Cornell College in Iowa and in addition has coached cross country and wrestling teams which have been undefeated in the Midwest. Only last week, his wrestling squad placed second in the National AAU grappling meet. In 1946 Scott was president of the National Collegiate Cross Country Association and from 1946 to 1948, he was a member of the National AAU Wrestling Rules Committee. Davidson has been eagerly awaiting Scott's arrival and the Sports staff of the Davidsonian is glad to be among the first to extend a hearty welcome to Coach Scott, his wife and small son.

Cindermen Run Away from Furman In Initial Meet By 113-17 Count

By JIM FARRAR

The Red and Black of Davidson had very little trouble in running over the Furman track team Saturday afternoon by the huge score of 113 to 17. Furman had little or no track team, and it turned into more or less a workout for the track squad. The times for the events were over what they should have been. Of course, this may be blamed on the very cold weather and the lack of competition. The individual star of the day was Tommy Haller. Tommy got almost enough points to defeat Furman. He was high point man for the meet with sixteen points. Tommy placed first in the low hurdles, and second in the broad jump, pole vault and high hurdles. Perhaps the most exciting race of the day was between Thomason of Furman and Klein of Davidson. In the 440, Klein was behind over ten yards on the last turn. However, he caught Thomason and nearly passed him, but couldn't quite make it. The race had everyone on their feet. Much credit should be given to the Furman boys, who, hopelessly outclassed, never quit until they had finished their race.

The times:
Mile—T. Stockton and Bradley 3.57.5.

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT
BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST.
PHONE 2-2238
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Davidson's Co-CAPTAINS, 1950-1951

At the basketball banquet Wednesday night at Kuesters in Charlotte, Tommy Haller (left), and Fred Hengeveld (right), were selected by their teammates to serve as co-captains for the 1950-1951 basketball team. Haller, high-scoring forward, hails from Pulaski, Va. Hengeveld, deadly set-shot artist, is a local lad. Both are rising seniors.

Red-Hot Golfers Remain Unbeaten By Stroking Past U.S.C., 14-13

Dropping Thoren 2½, Monty remained the only undefeated member of the local crew. High winds were responsible for the high scores turned in by some of the participating golfers.The deciding factor in the match proved to be Davidson's superior putting. Hill, Cooper, and Vernon all sank long putts when the chips were down to give them their winning margin. In addition to Hill, other winners for the Presbyterians were Ben Vernon, Jim Sloan, and Bill Cooper who halved with Westerfield of S.C. Dickson’s low of 76 wasn't good enough to win, for his opponent was Dial, the medalist for the match. Summary: Hill (D) def. Thoren 2½-½; Dial (USC) def. Dickson, 3-0; Best ball: USC 2, Davidson 1. Vernon (D) def. Compher, 2-1; Cooper (D) and Westerfield (USC) halved 1½-1½; Best ball: USC 1½-Davidson 1½. Sloan (D) def. Jeter, 3-0; Spence (USC) def. Brandon, 3-0; Best ball: Davidson 2½-USC ½.

Playing in the face of a biting wind which swept over the Charlotte Country Club golf course, undefeated linksters made it four straight by shading the University of South Carolina team 14-13. Previous wins for the Cat golfers have been in matches against Fort Bragg, Catawba, and South Carolina last week. For the winners, Stuart Dickson and Jim Sloan toured the difficult course with a 76 each, but medalist honors for the afternoon went to George Dial of the Gamecocks who carded a 72—par for the course. In the number one match, Davidson's mighty-mite of the links, Monty Hill, stroked by the visitor’s ace, Thoren, who is Intercollegiate Champion of South Carolina.

In track, Davidson tied for first: Montgomery, Davidson, 3rd. 5:04.5. 440—Thomason, Furman, Klein, Davidson, Ballenger, Davidson. 53.4. 100—Goodpasture, Barron, Cobb, Davidson. 10.5. Hi Hurdles—Pritchett, B. White, Davidson. 16.1. 880—T. Stockton, Patterson, D. Stockton, Davidson, 2:12.5. 220—Sims, Furman, Goodpasture, Davidson, Cobb, Davidson. 24.1. Two Miles—Long, Anderson, and Lee, all of Davidson, tied for first. 11:45. Low Hurdles—Haller, Davidson, White, Davidson, Moates, Furman. 27.2. Pole Vault—Brown, Haller, Davidson. 11 feet. Hi Jump—Williams, Davidson; Henderson and Haller tied for second. 5’ 9”. Shot—Wham, Furman; Haller, Davidson; 40’ 2¼”. Discus—Vann, Davidson; Sharpe, Davidson; Wham, Furman. 133’ 3”. Broad Jump—Cobb, Davidson; Watts, Furman, 20’ 4¾”. Javelin—Miller, Davidson; Blanks, Davidson; Nickelsen, Davidson, 155’ 1”. Relay—Davidson (Patterson, Klein, Henderson, Ballenger).

By virtue of the brilliant hurling performance he turned in against the University of North Carolina last Saturday, Fred Hengeveld has been selected as Wildcat of the Week. In pitching the Presbyterian squad to their first win over North Carolina since before the war, the strapping righthander let down the Tar Heels with only six hits, struck out nine, and issued no free passes. Hengeveld relied on his fast-breaking curve slants to set the visiting sluggers down. After the initial innings of the game when the Carolinians were able to push across a pair of runs, Dutch settled down and had them biting out of his hands. Only once was he seriously threatened thereafter, when pitcher Henry Schacht led off with a triple. However, after striking the next batter out, Dutch saved his own ball game by throwing Schacht out as he raced for home after a slow roller had been hit to the left of the mound. Hengeveld is generally regarded as the ace of the Cat hurling corps and his early season exhibitions point to the most successful campaign of his career this season. In addition to his win over Carolina, Dutch pitched well on the club’s ill-fated trip over the holidays, holding Newberry to two hits in the five innings he toiled on the mound. Dutch is a junior this year. He has lived in Davidson all of his life, and as a local high school athlete, he starred in basketball as well as baseball and put in some time pitching Junior American Legion baseball. He has carried his ability as an athlete to Davidson College and during the past year averaged slightly over eight points per game.

Allan Fanjoy Only Singles Winner; Locals Rally To Take Two Doubles

Thursday afternoon was one of the most wintry days of the year and it was even more wintry to the Davidson tennis team. With the hopes of avenging a previous 5-4 loss, the locals fought well but were downed by the University of Florida by the score of 6 to 3. Davidson’s three points came from a victory by Allan Fanjoy in the singles and doubles victories by Fanjoy and Rob Palmer and “Bo” Roddey and Whit Cobb. The best matches of the day were the number one singles between Florida’s Ted Prior and our own ace, Roddey, and the number three singles. Prior, whom Bo defeated in their last encounter, had no trouble in breaking Bo’s service in the first match as he won 6-1. Practically every point was a long volley in the second set, but the sun-browned Floridian prevailed, 7-5. In the number three match, Teddy Keesler displayed very nice tennis as he played his usual ambitious game against Berney Segal, but the latter was too consistent for Teddy and finally won a hard-fought match in three sets. Roddey teamed with Whit Cobb, who extended his man to three sets in singles, to form a good doubles combination. After losing the opening set 6-4, they were in complete control and chalked up 6-1 and 6-4 sets to win. After the sun was pretty well gone and all spectators well gone, Fanjoy and Palmer got down to business. They capitalized on their opponents’ errors and played good enough tennis themselves to win in three sets. Allan Strand, Davidson number four man, found Leon Hilson too tough and bowed in straight sets. Gator Jack Borling brushed past Rob Palmer easily, but Warren D’Alessandra found Fanjoy improved as things progressed. The Davidson number six won out 4-6, 6-4, 6-1. As should be expected, Keesler and Strand, Davidson’s three and four men, couldn’t cope with Prior and Windham, Florida’s one and two, in the doubles. It was definitely too cold and windy for tennis and anything else outdoors. However, you can’t take anything away from these boys from Florida. It was just their day, but everyone who braved the weather agreed they can have it.

WILDCAT OF THE WEEK

FRED HENGEVELD

(Continued On Page Six)