FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 1950 PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF
BOB HOLLISTER

BUSINESS MANAGER
BILL HOUCK

EDITORIAL STAFF:
Associate Editor
Doug Hix

Associate Editor
Lonnie Turnipseed

Associate Editor
Jack Hazard

MANAGING EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall, Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister

Sports Editor—Gordon Scott

Make-up Editors—Dan McKeithen, Cherry Stribling

Art Editor—Bill King

City Editor—John Hobart

Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries

Photographs—Ed Richardson

Assignments Asst.—Watt Jeffries

Proofreader—Charlie Baldwin

BUSINESS STAFF:
Assistant Business Manager—Bill Cassels

Advertising Managers—Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw

Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison

Circulation Manager—Hugh Huffaker

Asst. Circulation Managers—Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown

Collections Manager—John Loftin

Subscriptions Manager—Alex Goley

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

Rushing... First or Second Semester

Recently there has been much agitation on the part of some to delay rushing until the second semester. The proponents
of this change have some very noteworthy points, as do its opponents. We shall attempt to present both sides of
the argument before expressing any views of our own.

The advocates of delayed rushing contend that scholarship would be aided to no little degree since the rushees would not
be hindered in their studies during the first week of school. Pointing out that the new men are already faced
with an entirely new environment, the backers of this plan stress the idea that the neophytes should not be confronted
with an additional problem upon the correct decision of which may depend the happiness of their entire college life. The
claim is also made that both fraternities and freshmen would benefit from this plan since each would have ample time
to "look over" the other, and fraternities would be able to choose men who would aid, rather than hinder, their
scholastic standing.

A third point which is stressed is the matter of class spirit. This is something which some seem to think
is at a low ebb at Davidson, and the proponents point out how much that intangible asset could be aided
by the close communion the freshmen would enjoy during a semester devoid of the "evils" of fraternity membership.

In reply, the fraternities have seen fit to support the system which was employed this year. Fraternity leaders are of
the opinion that their system of study halls conducted during the first semester may aid rather than hinder scholarship, and
that this would counter-balance any possible harm done during rush week.

The problem of "dirty rushing" also arises simultaneously with the discussion of delayed pledging. One of the outstanding assets of
fraternities at Davidson is the fact that the various chapters are noted for their congeniality and lack of animosity. It
is the feeling of the fraternities that if rushing were delayed, the tension and eagerness which would be built up
during the semester would tend to destroy the friendly atmosphere which now prevails on fraternity court.

Another strong point of fraternities at Davidson is the fact that the leadership among the chapters is a thing which
does not long remain in the same place. This is due mainly to the fact that each year the various
groups are able to secure some men who will be definite assets to the chapters. If rushing were delayed, these
men would, quite naturally, desire to join the group which was currently on top; thus strengthening the strong and further
weakening the less fortunate.

It has been the aim of this article to present the pros and cons of the rushing program only, and
not to dip into the realm of related problems which would automatically arise if second semester rushing were put into
effect, i.e., the possibility of several of the fraternity houses having to reorganize or even to close.

We realize that any rushing system has its advantages and disadvantages. However, during the school year 1948-'49, fraternity leaders met
with the Dean of Students in an effort to discover a system which would best suit the situations and conditions
which exist here at Davidson. After many weeks of discussion, they came out with the plan which was used this
past year. Therefore, it seems to us that since the system was devised by students who were having to suffer
these so-called hardships and scholastic difficulties, they should have been better able to discern what policy is best and which
rushing procedure is most advantageous for all concerned. We hope that the first semester rushing program they outlined will be
employed in the future as it was this past Fall.

Elections...

Democratic primary elections are rapidly coming upon us. In April and May voters throughout the South will go to the
polls to name candidates for the off-year Congressional elections next fall. In many cases, victory in the primary elections will
be tantamount to election for candidates.

There are now only a handful of students at Davidson who will be eligible to vote in these elections, but
we would like to urge all those who are eligible to be registered and vote. For many this will be
the first opportunity to exercise their franchise. For others it is an old experience. But for all it is a
duty and a privilege.

Aside from the congressional seats which turn over every two years, there are several important Senate races on tap in
this part of the country. In North Carolina, both senior Senator Clyde Hoey and the freshman Frank Graham must face
the voters. Hoey, the old line conservative, is facing the mayor of Winston-Salem. Hoey is the popular old picture of
a southern aristocrat. His conservative views have won favor with Tar (Continued On Page Six)

College Rags IN BRIEF By BILL CUMMING

Discrimination

The HEIGHTS DAILY NEWS of New York University has announced that all "discriminatory" clauses are to be dropped from the
constitutions of N. Y. U. fraternities. This action was taken by the University interfraternity council in an attempt to erase
membership restrictions based on race, religion, color or nationality. The council will refuse to recognize any campus organization including strong
local and national fraternities which has the so-called discriminatory clauses in its constitution.

Drinking

The Presbyterian College BLUE STOCKING this week reports that members of the Pan-Hellenic Council are intensifying their efforts to abolish
the partaking of inebriating and intoxicating beverages by P. C. students. The interfraternity council has announced a $25.00 fine for
any fraternity member who violates the drinking law which stipulates that there shall be no drinking on the campus. The
council further provided for a host of G-men including all faculty members, Pan-Hell members, and all fraternity members which should
"orgy-matically" turn in offenders. The action came as a result of a warning from the administration that should any drinking
arise, it must be immediately stopped. Those Davidsonians who recall the P. C. exhibition of the eve of Oct. 1st
here at Davidson may consider this the understatement of the week.

Spice

THE REFLECTOR of Mississippi State College this week announced that publication of the MIS-A-SIP, humor publication of the college, will
stop immediately. The MIS-A-SIP, recognized in college circles as one of the spiciest though not among the nicest college humor
magazines, has been published since last Spring in disregard of a ban placed upon it by the Board of Publications.
In a recent meeting of the Board of Publications with the Disciplinary Committee of the college and the Administrative Council
it was decided that the present owners of the magazine should immediately cease publication or face expulsion from college. The
situation was brought to a head by the widespread reaction to last month's issue of the magazine. Protests to college
officials and editorials in a local newspaper moved the college officials to take drastic action.

More Shocking Kisses

From the University of Kansas comes the startling word that the electric charge which you think you receive from kissing
your current flame is neither emotional nor imagined on your part. Reports say that scientists have discovered that the metallic
fillings in teeth, when brought together, may set up a current reaching one volt.

The Poll Cat By PAUL B. GUTHERY, JR.

QUESTION: Do you favor legislative non-segregation of the white and negro races?

Yes 7.2 pct.
No 77.0 pct.
No Opinion 15.8 pct.

TEN TIMELY TOPICS

"Man Is Responsible," Kermit Eby, The Christian Century, March 15, 1950.

"Thirty Years a 'Creditor'," Fortune, February, 1950.

"Point IV," Fortune, 1950.

"Profile of Red China," Doak Barnett, Foreign Reports, February 15, 1950.

"Science and Politics in the Twentieth Century," James B. Conant, Foreign Affairs, January, 1950.

"Theories of Socialist Imperialism," Lenore O'Boyle, Foreign Affairs, January, 1950.

"Congress Undertakes to Explore the Controversial Brannan Plan: Pro and Con," Congressional Digest, March, 1950.

"Labor Developments in 1949," Monthly Labor Review, February, 1950.

"World Disarmament," Millard E. Tydings, Vital Speeches of the Day, March 1, 1950.

It Really Gave Him Both

It is doubtless true that many people have been aware of the terrible conditions of negro housing for some time,
perhaps many years in some cases. It is also true, generally speaking, that little can be done by an individual
to alleviate this condition. And it is almost certainly true that the second statement has served for no one knows
how long as a very convenient stop to the proddings of an uneasy conscience demanding some action about the conditions
which Tom Abel summarized so effectively in the February twenty-fourth edition of the Davidsonian.

There is no easier or more pleasant way to escape just criticism than simply to agree with it, maligning yourself
all the while, producing a feeling of exuberant righteousness and, finally, to do absolutely nothing. It is evident that most
people fall into this class, those who agree and then do nothing. Some have even made statements that nothing can
be done since the whole situation is the fault of the negro’s lack of character—this is patently ridiculous. Place any
race in such surroundings and with limited cash and the result would be essentially the same—squalor, apathy, crime, and a
degradation of the human spirit. With such conditions, exhortation is not enough; there must be action.

Luckily enough, there are some in this community who have not been soothed by self-excusing statements. Specifically I think of
one individual who was not lulled into inaction but simply went ahead on personal initiative and built a house for
a negro, the servant of the individual in question. This house was not a gift—the usual come the conditions

Simply stated, an investment has been made, a cash return is being realized, but most important of all, by this
intelligent and unaided social action, a human being has been placed in surroundings which have had a desirable effect. This
is one instance of what can be done. And the capital required would not be, in many cases, prohibitive. Others,
it is understood, have learned of this and are seriously considering doing much the same thing. It is firmly to
be hoped that this consideration will reach a positive decision to go ahead with such a plan.

It is not particularly easy to overcome the conditions which confront us across the tracks. The most effective efforts, it
is true, could be made by a group of people. But something has beendone by an individual and it can
be done again. If every individual would place the responsibility where it belongs, at the individual level, there would be
no need for a holding company. That this condition has been allowed to exist for a hundred years in the
shadow of a Christian institution is an affront to that appellation and a personal disgrace to all those who number
themselves in a Christian group. The purpose of this article is only to suggest that the time for action is
now and that the responsibility for action lies with the individual. Something can and has been done by one person.
Why not, as individuals, examine the case and see whether or not our inaction has really been determined by a
personal lack rather than any insuperable difficulties? An honest answer would, in all probability, make the other side of the
tracks very little different from the more pleasing scenes on this side.

Mine Coal or Sell Oil?
By GABRIEL LOWE

The Great Coal Strike has ended, and a shivering nation and paralyzed industry are again receiving the vital fuel which
they have so long awaited. But certain principles remain unsettled which will continue to dog all labor-management relations in the
future, and may well lead to even more dangerous and devastating strikes. The first principle in question is: Can a
miner who is not willing to work prevent his job from being filled by a miner who is willing? This
question is closely tied to the principle of the union shop. The contract under which the coal miners worked last
year stipulated that they would work only when “able and willing,” and that no miner who was unable or unwilling
to work could be replaced by another as long as the contract was binding. By such an agreement the miners
were able to walk out anytime they saw fit, reducing or stopping altogether the production of coal. By this agreement
lengthy holiday periods in memorial of mine disasters had reduced coal reserves drastically; and by this agreement John L. Lewis
had reduced the miner’s work week to three days in order to raise the price of coal. But in no
case could a miner—union member or not—be employed to work more than three days each week or during these holiday
periods.

The edge of this extreme has been dulled somewhat by substituting for the “able and willing” clause in the new
contract a provision calling for the miners to work so long as there is mutual good faith between them and
the mine owners. There is still no provision, however, that would allow the owners to employ whomever they wish when
the regularly employed miners are on strike. The union shop is maintained, and though the business belongs to the owners
they are not free to run it within the law as they see fit. The second principle in question is:
Should the health, safety, and welfare of the nation be in the hands of one labor dictator who will jeopardize
them merely to satisfy his own ego? At the height of the recent strike practically all of the nation’s steel
industry was forced to shut down at great cost to the mill owners and great loss of wages to the
workers. Railroad operations were reduced as much as 50 percent in some sections, causing a heavy loss of wages to
those laborers, as well as considerable inconvenience to the general public. Most of the large cities of the North and
East were forced to “brown-out” as they had during the war; schools were closed; and homes were without heat in
one of the bitterest cold waves of the winter. All of the nation’s business and industry, as well as homes
and farms, felt the pinch. All because John L. Lewis was fighting for a principle—or lack thereof.

Through it all Mr. Truman remained benevolently indifferent. It is probably no exaggeration to say that the Administration today is
just as much owned and controlled by labor as that of Grant or McKinley was owned and controlled by big
business. In waiting until the nation was in a desperate crisis, and killing the nation’s only reasonably effective weapon by
applying the Taft-Hartley Act only under circumstances that were peculiarly conducive to its failure, Mr. Truman placed himself in the
same class with the man whom he was shielding. Be it said that the Taft-Hartley Act failed in practice because
the Administration wanted it to fail. The case against the union that was presented to the court in the injunction
proceedings could only be as strong as Truman wanted it to be. Consequently, the union was declared not guilty of
contempt.

DEFENSES OF PEACE... CONSTRUCTED IN THE MINDS OF MEN
By DON SHRIVER

“War begins in the minds of men.” So reads a quotation from UNESCO found in a recent statement, “Militarism in
Education,” endorsed by twenty-six American educators. These men protest against three trends in American universities and colleges: First, and primarily,
increasing military subsidization of science departments; second, military propaganda directed toward students and faculty; and third, expanding military training units.
The issues at stake are broader for us at Davidson than our R.O.T.C. Unit or the fact that Dr. Cunningham
was among the twenty-six signers, who included such men as Albert Einstein, Pitirim Sorokin, and Max Otto. Dr. Cunningham states
on page one that his stand is individual and directed less at the R.O.T.C. unit as at the trend toward
government control of higher education.

These twenty-six men make at least two assumptions: that control of college and university policies by the U.S. Government would
tend to strangle freedom of thought, and that one task of educators is to equip men's minds with the tools
of making peace. Both of these pose the question, Are the objectives of military preparedness compatible with the objectives of
higher education?

Professor Pinkney has recently expressed his answer to this question in a letter to the Charlotte Observer. Speaking of the
Political Science Department, Professor Pinkney challenges the assertion that the national military establishments are attempting to “penetrate and influence the
nation’s educational life.” Data included with the statement of the twenty-six educators, however, seems to indicate the contrary. First, concerning
government programs of research in the colleges and universities: Last year these programs involved 150 institutions and 440 graduate students
and scientists. Over $81,000,000 was awarded, an amount double that awarded two years ago. In one large university, “approximately 99
percent of the funds being spent on research are supplied by the Navy.” And the hand that pays the piper
calls the tune—each of these research programs is directed toward goals which the War Department specifies. In the words of
a certain Colonel Fink, “we want to be sure this research work gives us end items that will be used
by the field Army in the near future.”

An example of “military propaganda” is seen in a letter written to college presidents by Air Force General J. T.
Henley in 1948. The letter requests the help of the presidents in securing “unofficial liaison officers” who would “present the
Air Force point of view at faculty meetings... and secure publication in college and other newspapers of items released through
Public Information Officers, this Headquarters.” A further comment focuses the purpose of such activity: “Because the future molders of opinion
are now on your campus, we believe it is imperative that they be sympathetic with our program.” Of course, it
is the business of the U.S. military to believe in the imperativeness of their job. Shall colleges lend their weight
to such beliefs?

The third protest of the 26 educators is against the increase in military units on college campuses. This comes closest
home. At present, however, R.O.T.C. is so integrated into the life of Davidson that one seldom hears a murmur against
its existence except in terms of Tuesday afternoon. But in his “Memories of Davidson,” Dr. Lingle writes, “R.O.T.C. is not
in line with the objectives for which the college was founded and for which it has been supported all these
years.” For by the very presence of an R.O.T.C. on this campus, Davidson College is committed to the active preparation
of this nation for war. One can question if that is a function of a college, and of a Christian
college in particular. The energies of Davidson students might well be directed into more positive means of approaching the problem
of world peace.

Some will claim that the military approach is the only effective one. Professor Pinkney, in his letter to the Observer,
writes, “It is beyond my understanding how anyone can assert in effect that we hold the key to peace by
other than military preparedness.” I am no student of the international situation, but I wonder if that is the only
key. If it is, then the door to peace will surely never open to us. We have long tried the
negative approach to peace—preparedness, which now as never before is only a makeshift until some positive force can be brought
to bear in erasing war. Such a positive force, perhaps, is evident in the recent “world-wide Marshall Plan” of Senator
McMahon.

In brief, the extent of military influence in colleges all over the nation may inevitably direct the thoughts of students
into a deceptive acquiescence to “whatever the military big wigs decide is best.” So does war begin—“in the minds of
men.” And this is the concern of a college. As UNESCO continues, “Since war begins in the minds of men,
it is in the minds of men that the defenses of peace must be constructed.”

Letter to the Editor
“Thanks Dr. Cunningham”

Editor, The Davidsonian:

One of the most enjoyable social events of the year was spent on the Campus this past week. Dr. and
Mrs. Cunningham invited the Y.M.C.A. cabinet to their home Friday evening at 6:45 for a dessert party. Met by Dr.
Cunningham, each guest was first introduced to Mrs. Cunningham and then discussion began concerning every phase of campus life. Dr.
Cunningham discussed plans for the continuation of the development program, the proposed locations for the new dormitory, and possibilities and
concepts of a Student Union building. In the warm atmosphere of the meeting I seemed to sense one of those
qualities that make Davidson a more friendly school. In the discussion, it was evident that many improvements can and will
be made in the present system. But this was not so much a “discussion of progress” meeting as it was
an informal and sincere gesture on the part of Dr. and Mrs. Cunningham, in the midst of an extremely heavy
schedule, to get better acquainted with the student body. We tend to see many of the shortcomings of the administration
and faculty; but, with an understanding and courteous leader, Dr. Cunningham, we should feel more free to investigate and discuss
problems, rather than to doubt and complain. This is only one in a series of meetings that Dr. Cunningham has
with the president of the college. This meeting is only one of many types of contacts that the students have
with the president of the college. This is an expression of thanks to them and a recognition of their friendliness
and interest in us. I feel free to send this from the entire Y.M.C.A. cabinet as well as myself.—Robert C.
Gay.
