FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1950

Generals Possess Much of Material That Won Title

The Davidson wrestling team will open its 1950-51 season this Monday at 8:00 p.m. by playing host to Washington and
Lee, who have been Southern Conference wrestling champions for the last three years. The Generals will send practically the same
squad it has had since the 1947-48 season to the mat Monday night. Coach Charlie Parker will counter with lettermen
Johnny Kelton, Bob Gay, Bill McNeely, and Shorty LaFar. Gene Craven, Bucky Irvin, Mac Doubles, and Jerry Morrow move up
from the freshman ranks to aid the varsity.

Johnny Kelton, who placed third in the 128-pound class in the Southern Conference last year, will captain the squad, which
is almost certain to better last year's record of only two victories made during the entire year, both of which
were made during the spring season.

The probable lineup:
- Gene Craven, 123-pound class.
- Johnny Kelton, 130-pound class.
- Jim Grissom, 137-pound class.
- Bucky Irvin or Shorty LaFar, 147-pound class.
- Mac Doubles, 157-pound class.
- Bob Gay, 167-pound class.
- Jerry Morrow, 177-pound class.
- Lee Talbert, Heavyweight class.

Girls who give all their time,
To write a boring thesis,
May have to give up love and joy,
And be content with nieces.

State Theatre

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ATS, WRESTLERS OPEN WITH W. & L.

KA, Phi Delt, SAE, and Sigma Chi Post Victories In Second Week Of Interfrat Basketball Action

The basketball season rolled into its second week with some of the most rough and tumble play yet to be
seen. A fast break or a top-notch rebound team seem to be the essentials for a winner this year. The
Phi Delts and SAE’s appear to be running their opponents dizzy with their fast breaking, while some other top teams
have been controlling the backboards. Although only a few games will have been played before the Christmas holidays, it is
certainly apparent that this season’s play will be up to very high standards.

KA’s 34 - Pi Kappa 24

The KA’s, sparked by Dan McKeithan’s set shots, rolled easily to their second victory by beating a strong Pi Kapp
team 34-24. The Pi Kapps, who recently had rolled up a tremendous score in their opening game, were not able
to control the rebounds as well as the KA’s did and this was the margin of victory. McKeithan with 8
points and Nall with 7 were the high point men for the two teams.

Phi Delt’s 61 - SPE’s 22

A constantly moving fast break was too much for a bewildered SPE team as the Phi Delts went to an
easy victory. Bill Bivins and Al Cook tied for high point honors for the winners, while Yale Greer was high
for the SPE’s with 6.

SAE’s 54 - Phi Gams 35

The SAE’s came back from a first-half deadlock to literally run the Phi Gams off the court with their fast
break. The half ended with a 21-21 score, but the game closed in a far different way. For the winners,
A. C. Gregg was high point man with 14. For the losers, Hunter Strader got 8 points to lead the
way.

Sigma Chis 42 - Pikas 31

Graff of the Sigma Chis came through with 15 points in the second half to lead them to an apparently
easy 42-31 victory over the Pikas. The Sigma Chis were content throughout the night to play a waiting game, and
when their chance came, they drove in for points. Although Al Gaither garnered 11 points for the Pikas, it wasn't
enough to gain a victory.

CAT SWIMMERS...

(Continued From Page Four)

strokers including Ray Cunningham in the backstroke; divers C. L. Runyan and Ed West; Francis Pepper in the distance swims;
and George Cornelson in the breaststroke department.

“I was very pleased with the showing we made against the Citadel,” stated Coach Redding, flashing his well-known smile, “and
although I don’t think that we are strong enough to whip Duke, I do believe we will give them a
good run to the wire in all events, and especially in the relay and distance swims.”

After swimming against the Dukes, the Wildcats will return home to cut their teeth on the paddlers from the University
of South Carolina in the Johnston Gymnasium pool.

The results of last week’s Citadel meet are as follows:
- 200-yard freestyle: Cole (D), Evans (D), Duval (C). Time 2:33.
- 300-yard medley: Moore, Idean, and Hemphill (C). Mauze, Cunningham, Pepper (D). Won by Citadel. Time 3:43.2.
- 50-yard freestyle: Ray (D), Little (C). Time 25.5.
- Fancy Diving: McLaurin Wood (C), Runyan (D).
- 100-yard freestyle: Little (C), Ray (D), Hemphill (C). Time 58.8.
- 200-yard backstroke: Mauze (D), Moore (C), Ray (D). Time 2:50.1.
- 200-yard breaststroke: Ideman (C), Cornelson (D), Cunningham (D). Time 2:58.2.
- 400-yard freestyle: Pepper (D), McLean (C), Cole (D). Time 5:32.
- 400-yard relay: Hemphill,

WILDCAT OF WEEK...

(Continued From Page Four)

anywhere around the bucket. His lethal left pushes in those perfect shots and is his best friend on the floor.
He also is as tricky as blazes and breaks and drives with tremendous power and finesse toward the goal. His
work on defense is commendable also, and is best pointed out by the many times he practically steals the ball
from a man that was intending a shot toward his goal. It is a lot of spirit and scrap that
sends Bill through the full playing time at his top speed. He is a real scrapper and loves the tangles
under the basket where his height and thinness count for him.

O. K. BROWN CHOSEN...

(Continued From Page Three)

member institutions of the South-Little, Harvey and Duval (C); Taylor, Heiser, Evans, Ray (D). Time 4:25.3. MERRY CHRISTMAS (C).

The Southern Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools extends from Virginia to Texas and from Kentucky to Florida. The dean's
conference holds a one-day meeting annually at the time and place of the Southern Association meeting. During this meeting, problems
of education administration are discussed and ideas exchanged. Over 125 deans are members of the conference, and almost all were
present at the Richmond meeting.

“Are you the bull of the campus?”
“That’s me, baby.”
“Moo!”

PAGE FIVE

CATTAILS... (Continued on Page Four)

The purpose of the college. The purpose of any college is to train men in the field of their choice,
and also in the spiritual, cultural, and physical.

1. I doubt that money can be made out of football, my objection being on the ground that to get
better players you need more money, to get more money you need a bigger gate, a bigger gate will mean
a bigger stadium—it is a vicious circle. What's more, Davidson is in a keenly competitive area for the undertaking of
an economical gain from football, and I cite the nearness of the “Big Four,” etc., with Wake Forest coming even
nearer.

2. The statement that a winning (subsidized) team helps to get endowment funds is unfounded. Many schools not having a
program aimed at “big-time” have better endowments and larger budgets than Davidson College.

3. When it is stated, and it is a familiar quote by those proponents of the subsidy, that they want
to “bring to Davidson only those bright boys who would come to Davidson anyway,” they are only kidding themselves. We
have failed to make a success in football before with “bright boys” who “normally” came to Davidson.

4. They also say that they “just want to win our share, like we used to.” From 1896-1945 Davidson lost
46 percent of all its football games, tied 10 percent, conference and non-conference. For example, we have lost 63 percent
of our games with State and 63 percent of our games with Furman.

5. Subsidization places an emphasis on something not fundamentally a part of the purpose of a college.

6. Subsidization kills the sport for the boys who “normally come to Davidson.” The unrecruited athlete is overlooked in the
rush.

7. The financial part of this big-time business would do away with all home games on the campus. The stadium
wouldn’t hold the crowd.

8. More important than any of the points brought out before, a subsidized sports program will lead to a perversion
of the true purpose of education. Hence the problem becomes a moral one. This point of view is clarified in
“The Christian Century,” February 1, 1950. (Dr. Gallent brought out that a copy was available in the library for all
who wished to read it—Ed.)

9. There is no easy solution to the problem. Anyone attempting to solve the problem will have to be willing
to accept a certain amount of criticism, but in the long run, he will emerge an educational hero. The cold
truth of the matter is that few, if any, have made a determined effort to solve the problem. I would
offer in conclusion, two possible solutions:

Solution A: The coaches and administrative officers of a small group of small colleges begin to try to organize a
small conference. Even if it had only four schools playing each other twice a season on the home-and-home basis, it
would be a good start. This program would be unsubsidized.

Solution B: Drop out of intercollegiate athletics altogether.

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests

Mooresville

WEEK STARTING DECEMBER 14

Pi Kapps 2 0
Kappa Sigs 2 0
ATO 1 1
Betas 1 1
SPE 1 1
Sigma Chi 1 1
Phi Delts 0 2

WISHING YOU A MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR

THE MARSH HEN

James Stewart in “BROKEN ARROW”

Monte Hale in “RAIDERS OF THE RANGE”

Paulette Goddard and Pedro Armendariz in “THE TORCH”

Tyrone Power and Cecile Aubrey in “THE BLACK ROSE” in Technicolor

NEWS - SHORTS

We extend Christmas Greetings to all

Center Theatre Mooresville

WEEK STARTING DECEMBER 14

Wednesday-Thursday
Howard Duff in “SHAKEDOWN”

Friday and Saturday
Bill Elliott in “HANDS ACROSS THE ROCKIES”
Tex Williams in “WESTERN COURAGE”

OWL SHOW SATURDAY
Monday and Tuesday
“The Hidden City”

NEWS - MUSICAL

The Town and Campus Shop
