ODE TAPS TOPS VOLUME XXXIX

Rev. Ernest Arnold Selected For Post

Appointment of Rev. Ernest J. Arnold, who is assistant to the president of Davidson College, to the position of southeastern
director of the National Council of Churches of Christ in the U.S.A., formed last week in Cleveland, Ohio, was announced
this week. In this capacity, Mr. Arnold will supervise the entire program of the new National Council in 10 southeastern
states: North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Tennessee, Kentucky, Virginia, and West Virginia. Shortly after January 1, he
will leave for his headquarters office in Atlanta, Ga., where he will be actively in charge of the southeastern area
of the National Council. He will be concerned particularly with foreign missions, home missions, religious education, higher education, stewardship, and
evangelism.

A graduate of Presbyterian College, Clinton, S.C., Mr. Arnold received a B.D. degree from Yale University Divinity School, New Haven,
Conn. In 1939 he was li- (Continued On Page Six)

$5,000 Goal Set; Will Result In Better Housing

In an all-out effort to eradicate the community’s Negro slum housing, the annual YMCA Christmas Gift Fund drive for $5,000
was launched during Thursday's chapel service. Led by Johnny Kelton, a senior member of the “Y” Cabinet, the program presented
Hartley Hall, speaking for the students, Mrs. W. N. Mebane, representing the citizens of Davidson, and a statement from John
Heath, one of the first occupants of the new homes for Negroes.

Centering in Brady's Alley, a section of houses directly behind Main Street stores and bounded on another side by Depot
Street, this area has been a problem for many years. In 11 houses, 87 people were forced to live without
benefit of water, lights, or sufficient heat. The dwellings themselves are from 50 to 75 years old. Many of these
have paper and bits of wood serving as window panes. In order to maintain room temperature, their walls are lined
with cloth and rotting newspaper.

Toilet facilities in Brady's Alley consist of four or five outdoor privies. Constant moving of these toilets left half-covered pits
within 10 yards of grocery stores and restaurants. Some Negroes were forced to close their windows in summer because of
a nauseating stench from such privies. Lack of a sewage system forced citizens of the alley to slosh dishwater either
into their yards or street. Their chickens fed among Davidson's garbage pails and then were killed and eaten. Flies and
vermin go unchecked in the area. Dr. J. B. Woods, local physician, revealed at a town meeting that Brady's Alley
(Continued On Page Three)

PRACTICAL PROBLEMS: Chapel Hill Sociology Professor Will Lead Marriage Conference

Dr. Reuben Hill, of the University of North Carolina, will be on the Davidson campus in February to present the
first of a hoped-for annual conference pertaining to the practical phases of marriage. The conference will include two chapel talks
and several smaller discussion groups on the campus in the afternoons and evenings of the fourteenth and fifteenth of February.
In addition to these campus activities, Dr. Hill will speak to the P.T.A. and several other groups in the town
of Davidson.

Dr. Hill is professor of sociology and research professor in the Institute for Research in Social Science at the University
of North Carolina. He has had wide experience in the type of work he will lecture on in that he
has counseled with many students concerning premarital problems, and has written articles and books on marriage and the family.

The idea of having lectures at Davidson on the practical problems of marriage as it concerns the students was first
proposed by Dr. George Douglas of the Sociology Department. It was subsequently discussed by Omicron Delta Kappa and other groups
on the campus. Dr. Douglas has observed this type of conference held on other college campuses and expressed, along with
others, the desire to have such a program sponsored on the Davidson campus. It was decided that the conference should
be held, and the services of Dr. Hill secured. In order to make the discussions of interest to the student
body, a list was given out in chapel and boys were asked to select the topics they would like to
be discussed.

Contest and Meeting Feature Photo Club

The Davidson College Photo Club met last week with the Mooresville Camera Club in Mooresville. A print contest with entries
made by the Mooresville club was judged by the Davidson club, and a program of slides followed. The program was
closed with a discussion of the prints on exhibit, and the two clubs plan to meet together again in the
near future. Those in attendance from Davidson were Dave Mathewes, Allan Macy, Julian Hodges, Frank Purnell, Charles Elliott, and Ed
Hilliard.

At the meeting of the Photo Club on Tuesday, programs for the second semester were discussed. It was decided to
continue the present project of sponsoring the Photograph of the Month, and add to this a series of exchange programs
with the Mooresville Camera Club. The program for the night was put on by Mr. Lacy Sellars of the Physics
Department, who showed an advertising movie which he had made.

Y.M.C.A. Launches Xmas Gift Fund

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1950

NAPPA TAPS SIX

Drive. Walter Dickson Talks as ODK Adds

ODK INITIATES: Top row, left to right, Ken Goodpasture, Hoopy Davis; middle row, Shriver, Bill Klein; bottom row, Bill Cassels,
Col. J. L. Ballard.

New Officers Chosen In Off-Cuff Session, Johnson Says Church Schools Prostitute Education

The Phi Literary Society held its regular meeting on Monday, December 4. Two members spoke during the first part of
the meeting. The first, Bob Barron, gave a review of one of Ernest Hemingway’s books entitled “Across The River and
Into the Trees.” Following this review, Jim Speed read a humorous essay “Why Members Should Not Cross Their Legs at
a Formal Meeting.”

New officers were elected during the latter part of the meeting. Bill Harris was elected president of Phi Literary Society.
Jack Stevenson became the new vice-president and Herman Bell became the new secretary. The remaining officers of the society will
be elected at the beginning of next semester. The newly elected officers will be installed at the next meeting. Following
the election of officers, the meeting adjourned.

Initiates Eight

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, the national honorary chemistry society, has received just recently eight new members. The new members are: W.
A. Covell, C. R. Clark, A. F. Goley, J. H. Miller, F. D. Pepper, C. D. Rhodes, S. H. Shippey,
and W. L. Spivey. Membership in the Gamma Sigma Epsilon is based on scholarship in chemistry, with other subjects also
considered. C. R. Clark, one of the new members, represented Gamma Sigma Epsilon at its national convention in Chattanooga, Tennessee,
on November 30, and December 1 and 2 of this year.

The present officers of Gamma Sigma Epsilon are: Thad Monroe, president; Dick Patterson, vice president; Bob Hubbell, secretary; Sam Joyner,
treasurer; and Craig Alexander, reporter.

To interview Burgess Johnson, our lecturer of Monday night, is to take a lesson in interviewing itself. The reporter immediately
began to take notes when Mr. Johnson started talking, but Mr. Johnson soon stopped that. To him, note-taking is about
the worst thing that an interviewer can do. In his

Y Forum To Discuss Debated Topic Of Aid To Athletics

Phi Hall should rock on Tuesday night at 7:30 with explosions, major and minor, when numerous collisions of ideas take
place during the YMCA Forum on Davidson's Athletic Policy. Director of Athletics Paul Scott will present a survey of the
policies adopted by other liberal arts colleges, Professor Fulcher will defend the present policy and suggest further subsidization if necessary
to meet Southern Conference competition, and Professor Gallent will criticize the present emphasis on athletics. Two students will also be
on the panel and Professor Tyson will serve as moderator.

The object of this discussion is not to cause undue debate but to provide an opportunity for the expression of
a cross-section of ideas and opinions on this subject which is not only the concern of Davidson College but a
concern of most colleges in America today. The purpose of a liberal arts college, subsidization, unbalanced extra-curricular emphasis, a self-supporting
program, withdrawal from the SouthernConference and “Ivy League” competition will be some of the topics raised at this Forum.

TREE FALLS ON AUTO

A unique accident occurred in Davidson last week. A large tree on the campus side of Main Street fell, landing
across Main Street. The automobile belonging to Mr. C. S. Goodrum, which was parked in front of his drugstore, was
badly damaged. The tree fell of its own free will.

In a hurry to get down exactly what his subject is saying, the reporter often misses three-quarters of what is
said. Much that is important is left out and much of the trivial is included. Also, the person being interviewed
becomes too careful about how he is being quoted and often closes up. Mr. Johnson says that he has heard
some of the best editors tell their reporters to keep their notebooks out of sight and argue with the interviewee
if necessary. Do anything, they say, to stimulate the person into giving his real thoughts. The reporter abandoned his notebook
and tried to glean from the rest of the interview the significant ideas without worrying about details. This, of course,
was also under Mr. Johnson's directions.

In answer to the reporter's questions, Mr. Johnson said that he felt that the worst thing wrong with our system
of higher education today is that there is too much of a competitive spirit among our colleges and universities for
bringing in students. This, he believes, was started by the church-run schools. Not wishing to be misunderstood, he went on
to explain. Back in the days when most of our colleges were founded, the Methodist church, for instance, would found
a small denominational college in a certain area. This they felt would educate the youth to be better Methodists. Soon
the Baptists, not to be outdone, would establish a similar college in the same area. Sooner or later the Presbyterians
would do the same and before long there would be several colleges in one area. Each would be in stiff
competition with the others to get students to attend its own hallowed halls while in other areas there would be
no colleges at all to attend. Mr. Johnson wanted it to be distinctly understood that he was not speaking against
small, church (Continued On Page Six)

The Davidsonian

HILL TO SPILL TO JACKS AND JILLS

NUMBER TEN

5 Seniors, Ballard

The semi-annual tapping service of Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity, was held during the chapel period on Friday, December
8. Following a brief devotional conducted by Gordon Scott, and a talk by Auburn Lambeth, president of Davidson’s ODK chapter,
who summarized the qualifications and purposes of ODK, the pre-tapping address was given by Rev. Walter Dickson of Belmont, N.
C., vice-president of the Davidson College Alumni Association and a member of this ODK chapter. In his talk, the speaker
used as the basis the subject of “truancy,” in which he compared childlike truancy to truancy in later life, both
in our religious and personal lives. Just as we had the “so what?” attitude as children, we often find this
attitude pervading our outlook even as we grow more mature. We try “dovetailing” Christ's advice in the Sermon on the
Mount, hoping to avoid responsibility. We put too much stock in money and in material gain rather than in the
things of the Spirit, even though we know that what we individually do with our lives is the most important
decision we face.

Following the address by Rev. Dickson, the tapping ceremony commenced with the tapping of the gavel by the president, whereupon
some member of the organization went into the audience to select the following six men as new members: Bill Cassels,
of Richland, South Carolina, a candidate for the B. S. degree, is president of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity. Aside
from this, he is editor of the 1950-51 “Quips and Cranks,” chairman of the Publications Board, a member of the
cheerleading squad, and recently elected to “Who's Who in American Colleges and Universities.” Bill was tapped by Gordon Scott. Trenton
“Hoopy” Davis is best known, especially to the freshmen, as head judge of the Court of Control, but aside from
this, his activities, primarily athletic, consist of membership in the Beaver Club, varsity football squad, and the “D” (Continued On
Page Six)

Students Apply For Rhodes Scholarship

Hoping to follow the example set by Charles “Fuzzy” Davis, Rhodes scholar from the class of 1950, three Davidson boys
left last Monday in order to apply for this year’s Scholarships. These boys are: Joseph V. Hunter, Donald W. Shriver,
and J. James Murray.

The competition for Rhodes Scholarships is organized by states and districts. There are eight districts of six states each. Upon
recommendation by his college or university, a prospective candidate may apply either in the state in which he resides or
in the state in which he has received at least two years of his college education by the time of
application. Among the three Davidson candidates, Hunter is representing North Carolina, and Shriver and Murray are both representing Virginia. Following
the preliminaries, each State Committee may nominate two candidates to appear before the District Committee, who in turn will choose
four men from the twelve candidates before them to receive the scholarships from their district. The men chosen for the
scholar- (Continued On Page Six)

Frosh-Soph Day To Settle Hat Issue

Hoopy Davis, Judge of the Court of Control, announced final plans yesterday for the Annual Freshman-Sophomore Day on Tuesday, Dec.
12. Activities on this day will center around three athletic events in which the second-year men will pit their strength
and skill against the impatient frosh, who will be able to put aside their red caps if they can take
two out of the three events.

The big event will be a touch football game at 3:30 on Richardson Field. The sophomore squad will feature such
grid greats as Gordon Stuart, Arnold Whisnant, A. C. Gregg, Seymour Simmons, and Wes Pritchard. The frosh will try to
combat this with such proven gridders as Johnny Grey, Bob Loy, Bill Putman, Neill Graham — in short, practically the
entire personnel of this year's freshman squad. Auburn T. and Woody Leach will represent the sophomores and Ray Cunningham and
Kirk Oglesby will pilot the frosh. Between halves, a best two out of three tug of war will be staged
with fifteen men from each class to a team. In addition, a hundred-yard shuttle relay with eight men from each
class will be run off. To add to the color and spirit of the occasion, a band from the freshman
class has been lined up to perform, and head Cheerleader Harry Hickey of the sophomore class has promised some spirited
yells to keep the fans interested.

Fall Functions Found Festive For Fraternities

On the evening of December 2nd, the brothers of Beta Theta Pi, Kappa Sigma, and Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternities and
their dates attended their respective fall functions. The Betas held their affair, an informal banquet-dance, at the Red Fez Club
on the Catawba River. They enjoyed a delicious steak dinner and later danced to the smooth music of Ziggy Hurwitz’s
orchestra. After dinner, Dr. Davidson entertained the group by comparing the morals of 50 years ago with those of today.
Approximately 35 couples attended the function which lasted from 6:30-12:00.

The Policeman's Club at Morris Field was the location of the Kappa Sig affair. Approximately 50 couples attended the formal
dinner-dance. After dinner, they were entertained by Charlton Torrence, who acted as toastmaster. Later in the evening, everyone danced to
the soft music of Doug Hill and his orchestra. Mr. and Mrs. Derrick Barton were the chaperons.

The SPE’s had a banquet in the Chez Montet restaurant in the Hotel Mecklenburg which was followed by a Skid
Row Dance in the Officers Club at Morris Field. Walter Hagan’s Orchestra supplied the music for the affair. An interesting
side light is that Roy Palmer, a freshman here at Davidson, plays the piano for the group. The chaperons were:
Major Sample, Prof. Cheatham, and Dr. Goldiere. Bill Rabb was toastmaster and Alonzo G. Squire, local radio announcer, gave an
entertaining after-dinner speech.
