ALL SPORTS DAY COPS OR ROBBERS SEE P. 3 SEE P. 2 The Davidsonian ALENDA CUR O88) CGRTA LIBERTAS DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, MAY 4, 1951 NUMBER TWENTY-FOUR

Caesar Production Runs This Weekend
Commencement Senior Graduation Gift Masquers’ Play
VOLUME XXXIX

CADETS REWARDED FOR RECORDS

ANNUAL AWARDS—Receiving his scroll from inspecting Colonel F. E. Gailliard as highest ranking student in the Davidson ROTC regiment is Cadet Sergeant Angus McGinnis. Others decorated at Tuesday’s final inspection are, left to right: Cadet Captain Charles Norwood, best company commander; Cadet Lieutenant E. D. Morton, top platoon leader; Cadet Sergeant A. C. Gregg, best squad leader; Cadet First Sergeant T. W. Tucker, highest ranking student in ROTC junior class; Cadet Thomas Ligon, III, American Legion medal for highest proficiency in ROTC freshman class, Cadet Sergeant Aubrey Miree, outstanding varsity marksman; and Cadet John Thompson, outstanding freshman marksman. Lt. Col. James L. Ballard, Davidson PMS&T is at left; battalion commanders Cadet Lieutenant Colonels Hugh Leach and Harper Newbold are at extreme right. (Staff Photo—Simons)

ROTC Fine-Combed By Inspection Team

Monday and Tuesday of this week were red letter days for the Davidson College R.O.T.C. Department. On these days Colonel F. E. Gaillard and his associates, Major C. H. Hildreth and Captain W. I. Raccosin, put the unit to an inspection in all phases of its activity, both in the classroom and on the drill field. This official inspection is made every year to every R.O.T.C. unit to determine its rating as compared with the national standard. The inspection was climaxed by a parade in honor of the inspecting officers and military students receiving special awards.

Members of the inspecting team were present in both basic and advanced classes Monday and Tuesday mornings observing and asking questions. Tuesday afternoon at the regular drill period the entire regiment stood a rigorous inspection during the first hour in the football stadium. The regiment, mantled for the occasion in full dress uniforms, experienced probably its hottest drill this year. Sweating beneath their heavy blouses the units ran through squad, platoon, and company drill for the visiting officers.

After a short break the companies marched back on the field for the parade honoring the inspecting party and cadets who received awards at this time for Special Military Achievement during the past academic year. Cadet Captain Charles L. Norwood, Jr. and Cadet Lt. Eugene D. Morton received the Military Department Medals for the outstanding company commander and the outstanding platoon leader respectively. The Military Department Medal for the first year advanced student with the highest military academic record was awarded to Cadet Sgt. Thornton W. Tucker. Scabbard and Blade Society Medals were awarded to Sophomore Cadet Sgts. Angus G. McInnis and Alfred C. Gregg: McInnis for achieving the highest military academic rating in his class and Gregg for demonstrating outstanding achievement in military drill. Cadet Private Thomas J. Ligon, Jr. was awarded the North Carolina American Legion Medal for the highest military proficiency among the first-year basic cadets. The Military Department Plaque for the high varsity rifle team firer was given to Cadet Sgt. Aubrey S. Miree, captain of the rifle team. Cadet Private John P. Thompson received the same award for the high freshman rifle team firer.

Following the parade a tea was given by the officers of the military (Continued on Page Four)

AS THE COLONEL REVIEWED—Colonel F. E. Gailliard of the Alabama National Guard had high praise for the Davidson College ROTC regiment following the annual spring inspection Tuesday. Colonel Gailliard is shown here passing the first squad of the third platoon, B Company, first battalion. Cadet Lieutenant J. D. Whitener, platoon leader, accompanies the Colonel on the left. (Staff Photo—Simons)

Red Cross Course Ends This Week

Students at Davidson College have recently had the opportunity to take a course in water safety instruction. Offered by the Davidson Athletic Association, the course's purpose has been to train students to be instructors in swimming and life saving. A total of thirty hours of training are included. The first fifteen hours, which consist of preliminary training, were under the direction of Gant Carlton and George Knight. Mr. Marshall Upton, head of the safety services of the Red Cross chapter in Charlotte, has been the instructor for the last fifteen hours of the course. Cooperation between the college authorities and the Charlotte Red Cross has proved this program to be one of the most worthwhile projects carried out recently in the Mecklenburg area. This is the second consecutive year during which this instructors course has been presented, and it is the hope of officials that it can be offered during the spring term of every school year.

The course, which terminated Friday, included a review of life saving techniques, a review of the nine basic swimming strokes, and the four classes of swimming—beginner, intermediate swimmer, and advanced. Emphasis during the course was placed on teaching techniques, and new Red Cross instructional films were used whenever they were available. Those enrolled in the course were Lewis Baker, Arthur Balk, George Basop, Millard Coc, Dan Heizer, John Ottley, Bill Reese, and Allan Vance. Those renewing their instructors certificates were Ervin Ellis and Dick Kelly.

10 Most Popular Books Released

The library circulation statistics for the year have just been completed. According to these records the ten most popular books for the year, which are not on the required or parallel reading lists are as follows: (in the order named) Hemingway: “Across the River and into the Trees”; Fletcher: “Bennett’s Welcome”; Slaughter: “Stubborn Heart”; Eliot: “Cocktail Party” (religious play); Shute: “The Legacy”; Robinson: “The Cardinal"; Heyerdahl: “Kon-Tiki”; Shellabarger: “The King’s Cavalier”; Hemingway: “Farewell To Arms”; Haydn: “The Time is Noon”. Almost all of the above books were national best sellers for the year.

In the field of required reading (not on reserve), the most popular requirement, or the most effective, was again Shakespeare’s (Continued on Page Four)

In an exclusive release to The Davidsonian, it was revealed that Patrice Munsel, the youngest singer ever to sign a Metropolitan Opera contract and one of the Met's brightest stars, will give a special concert here Saturday, May 26, as part of the Alumni Day and Commencement Program at Davidson College. The concert by this pretty, young soprano is being given as a graduation present to the senior class at Davidson by Joseph H. McConnell, president of Davidson's Alumni Association and the National Broadcasting Company. Miss Munsel, now only 26 yet a veteran of eight years with the Metropolitan, has appeared in eleven starring roles. She has been starred on a number of radio and television programs and T-viewed recently on “The Voice of Firestone.” (Continued on Page Four)

NOTICE

In order to facilitate the seating at the All Sports Banquet Monday night in Chambers Dining Hall, Athletic Director Paul Scott urges that attending guests pay particular attention to the card denoting their places mailed them this week. Rows will be arranged west to east, numbered 1 through 7. Row No. 1 will be on the extreme left as one enters the hall.

AED ACHIEVES GOAL OF YEAR

Last Monday night in the basement lecture room of the Science Building, the final goal of this year’s development program of Alpha Epsilon Delta, the national pre-medical honor society, was reached. At that meeting, a film and slide lecture program on the occurrence, diagnosis, and subsequent treatment and-or cure of the dread “Cancer” problems, presented by Dr. McChord Williams, chairman Carolina Section American Cancer society an idea was started which, it is hoped, will grow and develop in the years to come to its proper place of importance in the life and thinking of this studentdent body. This occurrence was the attendance, for the first time, of a number of the people of the community and members of the administration and faculty of Davidson College. This, AED believes, was the inception of a type of program to appeal to the entire community as well as to the pre-medical students at large on the campus. The society welcomes visitors, and it is its expressed aim in the future to bring to the campus a series of programs that will develop a mature and cooperative attitude toward medicine and its functions in the minds of the people of this community, so that they may share their full responsibility as members of what may be called the “health team” of this nation.

Dramatic Climax To Arts Program
By ALDEN WILLIAMS

As a 1951 Fine Arts Week, Professor Raymond Tyson and a cast of twenty, headed by Bob Gay, will present Shakespeare's “Julius Caesar” in three acts tonight and tomorrow night in Chambers Auditorium. The festival climax is the result of a month's work by the staff and cast, and will be staged in the abbreviated Globe Theater production, eliminating the last two acts. Since the theme of the fourth and fifth acts is somewhat different from that of the first three, and most familiar acts, this procedure is common. Professor Tyson stated last week that he felt “dramatic and artistic justification” for the action.

Tyson stressed the fact that the presentation would be continuous with no intermission, and is expected to last about an hour and a half. Mentioning the obstacles that have presented themselves during the closing days of rehearsal, he implied that the shortening of “Julius Caesar” has allowed greater cooperation and concentration on perfection of minor parts. As Caesar, Gay will head an experienced cast which includes Dick Perkins as Brutus, Mac Bulgin as Cassius, and Tad Currie as Mark Antony. Nancy Copeland and Dorothy Herring will take the roles of Calpurnia and Portia respectively.

Asked to comment on any outstanding features of the play, supporting lead Mac Bulgin said, “Although in this play individual characters are of importance, the success or failure of the production is to a very large degree dependent on cooperation among the cast. This is especially true in the crowd scenes with a sense of common action and interchange among the characters. The core of the play, and the dominating spirit as I see it, is to be gained from careful execution of the mob and peasant scenes. To achieve the cooperation which we seek, I think that, in the main, careful directing is required. We have this in Professor Tyson.”

On the question of future productions of Shakespeare or any of the classical playwrights, Tyson expressed the hope that (Continued On Page Four)

March King Lauds dramatic end to the

TAD CURRIE ... Anthony
NAT DANIEL ... Roman Citizen
BOB GAY ... Caesar
MAC BULGIN ... Cassius

“Trail Which Led Over Mountain” Wins 1951 Bell Award For Wilson

Henry Wilson, senior from Morganton, N. C. was awarded the Vereen Bell Memorial Award for creative writing by Mr. D. Grier Martin, treasurer elect of the college and friend and fraternity brother of Vereen Bell, Thursday morning in chapel. Each year the award, established in honor of Vereen Bell, noted young Southern author and Davidson graduate killed in the second battle of the Philippines, is presented to that student submitting the best creative writing. Henry's entry was entitled “The Trail Which Led Over the Mountain.”

“The Trail Which Led Over the Mountain” is the story of a young mountain boy who had never owned a gun. The story tells of the boy's emotions when he got a gun and of his emotions when he killed a doe out of season. Henry got his idea for “The Trail Which Led Over the Mountain” by watching deer in the summer while he was fishing in a little mountain trout stream. Henry is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Upsilon, and Kappa Sigma. He has been doing honors (Continued on Page Four)

Praises Conductor

“This Davidson Band is one of the really outstanding college bands in the country,” said Dr. Edwin Franko Goldman, as he paused between numbers to address the large audience in Chambers Auditorium which had come to hear the concert last Sunday afternoon at which Dr. Goldman was guest conductor. “I heard this band two years ago at the meeting of the American Bandmaster’s Association in Charlotte,” he continued, “and I was very much impressed with them then. Once again they are giving a truly fine performance.”

The white-haired “March King” also had glowing words of praise for James Christian Pfohl, Director of Music at Davidson and conductor of the Davidson Band. He complimented Mr. Pfohl particularly on his selection of music which the Davidson Band plays, calling attention to the fact that three of the numbers played during the first part of the program were works written expressly for the band and played for the first time by the Goldman Band. Dr. Goldman spoke briefly of the work done through the Goldman Band of resurrecting works for band by the better-known older composers and of encouraging the best of modern composers to write for this medium. Citing his forty years of endeavor in this field, Dr. Goldman spoke proudly of the fact that all of the best modern composers are now writing for band as well as for orchestra, referring particularly to such men as Ralph Vaughan Williams, the contemporary British composer, and Gustav Holst. He called attention to the fact that under Mr. Pfohl's leadership the Davidson Band was playing the best of the music written for band.

Dr. Goldman captured the complete interest of his audience with his account of his early days as a musician, drawing an appreciative laugh by recalling that he had been discharged from the first band in which he had played and told that he was utterly lacking in musical talent. He spoke of organizing his own band, the now famous Goldman Band, to prove that a band could play just as musically as the finest symphony orchestra and concluded by inviting anyone in the audience who happened to be in New York this summer to the nightly concerts by the Goldman Band in Central Park.

During the concert Sunday, Dr. Goldman conducted the Davidson Band in playing five of his own marches including, at the audience's request, his most popular march, “On the Mall.” Also included in Dr. Goldman’s share of Sunday’s program were “Come Sweet Death” by Bach, the beautiful chorale “Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring,” also by Bach, the “Slow March from ‘Scipio’” by Handel and the majestic tone poem “Finlandia,” which Dr. Goldman had played under the direction of its composer, Jean Sibelius, during Sibelius’ first trip to America.

Mr. Pfohl has announced that the band will present two campus concerts during the remainder of the school year. The first of these will be presented on Tuesday evening, May 8th, in front of Chambers Building. These twilight concerts on the campus will revive a custom much enjoyed by the student body and the Davidson community in previous years. The concert Tuesday will begin at 7:30 p.m.

Tryouts To Open For Sigma Delta Psi Mon.

Each day next week tryouts will be held for Sigma Delta Psi, campus honorary athletic fraternity. Requirements for membership are posted on several bulletin boards around the campus. Coach Whittle or any other member of Sigma Delt is qualified to pass new members on the various tests. Students may work toward membership in Sigma Delta Psi throughout their four years at college and requirements may be passed at any time during the school year. Officers of Sigma Delta Psi this year are: President, Bill Pritchett; Vice-President, Ken Goodpasture; Treasurer, Joe Miller.