Fitz leaned back in his chair, quit grumbling about his cold eggs, and began grumbling about cold basketball teams. "I'll
swear we've won more half ball games to lose whole ones than any team in the country." And if this
were a betting school Al couldn't find many willing to put up a wager against him. A quick check proves
his post-breakfast basketballing accurate. Look a few over:

FINAL
McCrary Eagles 78
South Carolina 69

HALFTIME
Davidson 36
McCrary Eagles 36
Davidson 34
South Carolina 33
Davidson 39
N. C. State 34
Davidson 61
N. C. State 70
Davidson 22
North Carolina 21
Davidson 53
North Carolina 56

Toss in a second half against Duke which saw the Cats outdo the Devils themselves 44-41 but fail by 90-68
to close a first semester chasm. And there’s the first half Citadel score when we "rolled" to a 34-23 halftime
lead and then had to all but sit on our basket the final few minutes to grab a panting 55-52
win.

This isn’t a chiding of our boys who run with hoop horses. But it is interesting, to say the least,
to look at, and it gives rise to some question. Why the all-the-way-one-half stuff and no all-the-way-all-the-way stuff? You don’t
know. You expect to read it here. I don’t know so I ask Boyd Baird. He doesn’t know and can
tell you that referee Arnold Heft doesn’t either.

"Boy," says Boyd, "I never saw anything like our first half against Duke, and believe me I never want to
see anything like it again! We were awful! Terrible! But look at the second half. Played decent ball, outscored them,
looked good. After the game I asked Heft if he ever saw a team look as sloppy the first half.
He nicely pointed out how much better we looked the second half. But he couldn’t tell me why. 'Boyd,' he
said to me, 'If you knew why you’d be basketball's coach of the year.'"

Baird isn’t buying tickets to New York to attend any coach of the year banquet, but he has his ideas.
"You take our weave. I've told the guys and told them—when they’re weaving out front, HAND the ball to each
other. Naw, they throw it, and when they do the opponents step right between them and—Zip, he’s down the court
and in for a lay-up.

"Our passing just isn’t what it should be, but our defense has hurt us more than anything. Heck, we’re averaging
about 60 points a game (Through Duke game Monday night Davidson averaged 60.6, opponents 74.4—Ed.) but we’re not holding the
other team down. And you win games by scoring more points than the other team, not just by coming close."

Coach Baird's last statement is hardly deniable, and acting upon its truth we may say the Cats should win a
few in February. According to the prognosticators a home team has a three-point advantage to start with, and with eight
home contests in February business should look up. Last night’s Maryland battle, a Monday tiff with South Carolina, and a
Monday-week encounter with Duke are the stiffest tests. Others with Citadel (Saturday), Furman, Clemson, Washington and Lee, and McCrary’s remain
at home. VMI and W & L are the final road foes.

Prior to the Maryland game we had a 1-9 conference record. By winning nine of the remaining ten we could
split 10-10 with a chance at the tournament. Remote possibility? Yes, but Baird doesn’t quit till he’s counted out, and
he is noted for giant killing on his home floor. Whether T. C. will be in on the last half
stretch is questionable. Says Baird, "It’s up to him." The Kaintuck cutup has been hampered all winter with a bad
knee, favoring it to the extent of injury to his good one. Reserves (namely Joe Dudley, Jim Smith) will have
to work into the combination with the regulars if the Cats are to generate a payoff punch.

Sometimes you think maybe Baird is right "Maybe we just haven't got the manpower." But before you’re convinced, you always
find yourself looking at a halftime score and wondering all over again.

Gene Tangles With Loop Runner-Up When Mats Meet VMI There Tonight
By BILL MORRIS

Gene Craven, small but fast groaner on the Wildcat mat team, will tangle with the conference runner-up in his weight
division when the Virginia Military Institute wrestlers are hosts to Davidson tonight. Craven meets VMI’s Jordan, who has a clean
record this season with no losses, in the 123-pound weight class. Craven also sports a record not to go unnoticed:
he won his match against N. C. State, and had a draw with Howie Davis, unbeaten conference champ from Washington
and Lee, in Johnston gymnasium early last December. Bob Gay, who has won his only two matches this year by
pins, will undoubtedly make a good match out of the 167-pound division. Other grapplers to represent Davidson in what injured
wrestling.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1951

THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SECTION

Shhh! Cats Slight F-a-v-o-r-i-t-e-s
By CHARLIE HAWKINS

Coach Boyd Baird’s Davidson Wildcats take on The Citadel Saturday night in Charlotte’s Armory in a Southern Conference basketball game.
The Cats will be out to make it two in a row over the Citadel, having won the first game
65-62, but the Bulldogs may have other ideas. They have recently been a winning team and have undoubtedly improved since
their first game with Davidson. If the Cats are to win this one, they know they will have to play
hard all the way, since they blew a twenty-point lead in the last game to win by only three points.
Such a strong finish could mean the difference for either team Saturday night in the Armory.

The Wildcats look to be in very good shape for the game, but perhaps two hard games with Duke and
Maryland in five days could hurt chances for a win. Nevertheless, the old steadies Dutch Hengeveld, Tom Haller, Bill Brooks,
Al Fitzgerald, Don Lazenby, and Mac McLean, Bob Turk and Bill Proctor will be ready to go for the Cats.
Also look for three up and coming sophs in Bob Graham, Joe Dudley, and Jim Smith to make a good
showing Saturday. All three did particularly well against Duke Monday night, and all three seem to have found their scoring
ways just recently. Bill Brooks will be out to keep his place among the conference scorers; he also ranks sixth
in the nation in foul shooting percentage.

Certainly Davidson will have to show a better defense against the Citadel than they did against Duke Monday night when
the Blue Devils hit the nets for ninety points. The Citadel boasts two high scorers in forward Shumanski and guard
Freidlund. Shumanski is a 6’ 2” forward who has been their high scorer consistently this year. He is particularly adept
at shooting quick jump shots and one-hand push shots. Freidlund, although he has been out of action recently, is still
one of Bulldog’s high scorers. Only 5’ 10”, this guard is a very good set shot and could give the
Davidson defense a hard night if it were thrown up against him and his teammates.

Although both teams score consistently high, Davidson probably has a slight edge in that department. However, look for the Citadel
to finish strong to try to overcome this and go after a conference win Saturday night.

Chesterfield SPORTS QUIZ

1. Bob Feller, one of baseball's greatest pitchers, recently signed again with Cleveland for approximately $45,000-$50,000. 1951 will mark how
many years in the majors for the former kid sensation?
2. A breather. Name the principal school involved in the recent basketball-gambling rhubarb up East.
3. Name the sportsman accorded the honor of “The Greatest Comeback of 1950.”
4. Sam Ranzino may have hit 47 in the Southern Conference recently, but who tapped him this week with how
much?

All answers should be turned in to Dave Moylan, C-East (basement) with winner getting a carton of Chesterfields.

Profiting From Loss To Carolina, Tanks Move Against VPI Tomorrow
By CHARLIE HASSELL

The Wildcat swimming team, strange as it may seem, profited a great deal from its loss to the University of
North Carolina last Saturday. "You can’t be good until you play the best," was Coach Dick Redding’s explanation for this.
The Tar Heels, who are the present conference champs and will doubtless re-Cafe GRADE ‘A’ CAFE Fine Foods 418 South
Main Street

Team Captain Johnny Kelton terms “a hot match” are George Irvin, 130-lb. class (0-1); Jim Grissom, 137 lbs. (1-1); Johnny
Guiton, 147 lbs. (1-0); Mac Doubles, 157 lbs. (0-2); Jerry Morrow, 177 lbs. (0-1); and Bill McNeely, wrestling for his
first time this year, in the heavyweight class. Athletic Director Paul Scott has been working with the team this past
week while Coach Charlie Parker was ill with influenza. Mooresville, N.C.

Tain the title at this year’s conference meet, gave the Cats a number of valuable pointers; since that meet, the
Davidson swimmers are working much harder. This Saturday, the tank team goes to Blacksburg to oppose V.P.I., but their biggest
hope is to gain further experience. Captain Bill Ray, from Silver Springs, Florida, may win the fifty-yard dash. Against South
Carolina, he swam the length in 24.8, and against U.N.C. he turned in the winning time of 24.4. Although the
team is fairly good in the sprints, they need another good sprinter. Ray, Hugh Evans, Ken Taylor, and Dan Heizer
(all sprinters) make up the 400-yard freestyle relay; and three of these four will swim the 300-yard medley relay. The
team has a good group of distance men. Francis Pepper and Paul Cole are the 440-yard men. Cole has been
consistently bringing his time down. Hugh Evans, who was out of the Carolina meet because of a boil, will be
against the VPI 220-man. In the 200-yard breaststroke will be Ray Cunningham and George Cornelson, and Hampton Mauze and Gene
Regen will swim the 150-yard backstroke. Gene Regen is the sole entry in the diving class. Regen, however, is doing
better than was at first expected. The loss of Ed West from the diving ranks has hampered the team. Coach
Redding has the nucleus of a good freshman team but needs more men. Ben Gary, Ed Stuart, Bob Mims, and
Bob Buck (who has since left) managed to beat South Carolina. But if future teams are to bring home victories,
more men must try out for this year’s freshman squad.

V.P.I. received third in the conference meet last year, and its power has not diminished to a great degree, if
any. They beat State, who, by comparative standings, is more powerful than Davidson. Although the Cats' only win this year
has been from South Carolina, they hope to add at least three more to the list. But, as Redding states,
“V.P.I. will probably not be one of them.”

A couple was rescued from a desert island after 30 days and nights. The girl extended her hand and said,
“Charlie, thanks for being such a perfect gentleman. Too bad you didn’t know this gun wasn’t loaded.”

Typical INC. Charlotte, N.C.

Wildcat of the Week By DICK ROPER

The boy was doing pretty well for himself. He had just beaten North Carolina—boasting some of the best swimmers in
the nation—in the fifty-yard dash. As captain of Davidson's first swimming team, he was setting a pretty good example for
his teammates with a fine time of 24.4 for that event. The long, lithe body churning up all the spray
belonged to one Bill “Blue” Ray, a 22-year-old native of Ocala, Florida. Although this is his first season in competitive
collegiate swimming, Bill was in the pool in the new gymnasium almost every chance he had last year, sharpening his
turns, practicing his dives, and spending long, grueling hours on endurance work under the supervision of Coach Dick Redding. (It
might be added that Redding doesn’t have to use his whip on Ray, either—"Blue" is one of the most conscientious
workers the tank coach has ever had under his tutelage.) And, had Davidson had a swimming pool when Bill was
a freshman, he probably would have made the team that very year. But, since he is a senior, Ray seems
to be out to make up for every bit of the time he has lost. Undefeated in the 50-yard dash
going into today’s meet with V.P.I., Bill also swims the 100-yard freestyle and the 400-yard relay. In the South Carolina
meet a few weeks ago, he was one of the main reasons the Cats won that meet. He first won
the fifty; then, only a few minutes later, he was first in on the 100; and finally, he swam the
last lap of the 400-yard relay to put his team in first place in that event also.

Bill is human. He enjoys praise as much as anybody else. But he is modest to the point of tears.
So quiet and soft-spoken is this boy, he wouldn't even be noticed around the campus if it weren't for his
towering six-foot-three-inch plus frame. Yet there is nothing about Bill that would suggest the gangling carriage of the oversize basketball
player: “Blue” is all grace and rhythm as he glides up and down the pool, whether it be in a
sprint or one of the longer contests.

The class clown went out on a limb and tried to prove cigarette mildness by the quick-trick method! He tried
the fast inhale, fast exhale test—a whiff, a sniff—and they still left him up in the air! But then he
got his feet on the ground. He learned that there is a reliable way to discover how mild a cigarette
can be! The sensible test... the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test which simply asks you to try Camels as a steady
smoke—on a pack after pack, day after day basis. No snap judgments needed. After you’ve enjoyed Camels—and only Camels—for 30
days in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste), we believe you'll know why... More People Smoke Camels than
any other cigarette!

Davidson may have better swimmers on its teams in the future. But it will probably be a long time before
it can boast a better all-round performer or a more willing worker than Bill Ray.

Winter's Grid Drills Set To Open Monday

While the frosh eligibility rule and the consequential fate of football at Davidson hangs in the air, Crowell Little herds
his ‘51 fall beef into winter round-up Monday afternoon. The winter drills will run for six weeks, and incidentally will
mark Coach Crowell’s first anniversary as head man of the Cat grid staff. With a few exceptions for basketball, wrestling,
etc., Little will have his full squad at work.

KITTENS, CRUSADERS IN PRELIM SATURDAY

The Wildkitten cagers tangle with Belmont Abbey Junior College tomorrow night in the 6:15 preliminary to the Davidson-Citadel varsity game.
Probable starting lineup for Coach Ray Brown's Hoopsters is John Holt and Dennis Boyd at forwards, George Melton in the
pivot spot, and Johnny Gray and Eddie Adams on guards.

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests

Number 11... THE OPOSSUM

“Thereby hangs a tale!”

