USAN REED Painting Music Eclipses Career

By SHELLEY BEARD

With a warm lilting contralto, a red-headed young woman from South Carolina gives Davidson a rich taste of old folk tunes as she presents the second program in the current artist series tonight. Miss Susan Reed, although born and reared in Columbia, was the organizer of the Little Theatre.

Miss Reed began her career as a painter. Odd as this may seem, she only started to sing when the USO called for help in entertaining wounded soldiers. With her zither, she was able to sing at the bedside without the need for other accompaniment. The more she did, the more she felt she ought to do, and soon it became a full-time occupation. Now, whenever she gets a chance, she visits veterans' hospitals to sing to the men.

Being her own arranger, she travels in the summer throughout various isolated areas in search of tunes that the inhabitants have preserved for generations. This summer, she spent some time in Currituck County on the island of Wanchese near Manteo in search of material. She now has a large library of songs and ballads, many of which she has not had time to learn. In fact, the middle group of songs that she will sing with the instrumental trio is entirely new to the concert stage.

While she is not on tour or in search of fresh material, she spends her time in New York with her husband, actor James Carran, who appeared in “A Streetcar Named Desire” and is currently with a musical by the writers of “Brigadoon.” Her father opened Wednesday in Maxwell Anderson's new play, “Barefoot in Athens,” which is about Socrates. Her brother is also to open in about a week in a musical. With such a family, it is only natural that she feels at home in front of the lights, and as a singer, she has done numerous guest appearances on TV with programs hosted by such personalities as Faye Emerson, Kate Smith, Ilka Chase, and Arthur Godfrey. She has sung for the President and other leading figures, but Mrs. Roosevelt proved to be her most appreciative audience.

In her informal way, she spoke of the different personages and stars that she had met and worked with. “Some of them are really a disappointment, and you wonder how they got as far as they did. Most are just people with human problems.”

Besides painting and singing, there is one other interest which she pursues even while on tour, and that is antique collecting. Thursday, she went into Charlotte to visit the various dealers, but it seems their prices are higher than in New York. While mentioning the places she had been, Miss Reed said that it was particularly nice to work with Mr. Pfohl again, as she had opened the summer concert season at Brevard for him. “Every community,” she puts in, “should have a man that works as hard and as energetically as Mr. Pfohl.”

Miss Reed, although not one of the biggest names on the series, is one of the most interesting personalities. With her talent, she is not only adding to the enjoyment of many people but also helping to keep alive a quickly dying part of the national culture.

DEAN'S LIST (Continued From Page One)

Permission for the D Club to hold a dance open to both Davidson and State students in Charlotte after the Davidson-State game was not granted by the executive committee. President Ham Wade asked for an off-campus site, thinking that it would not appeal to the students to come all the way back to Davidson for the dance. “The executive committee might have acted differently if the dance had been limited to Davidson students and faculty,” commented Dean John Bailey.

Dean John Bailey was quoted as saying that it is the general feeling of the faculty that dances held here are not only less expensive but more conducive to the proper standard of conduct expected of Davidson men. “One must remember that if a student acts ungentlemanly away from school, it is not he but the school’s name that is remembered,” reminded Bailey.

“Many parents send their sons to Davidson because it does maintain some supervision over the social life of its students,” he affirmed. In reference to the oft-confused and discussed situation in which a group of individuals from a fraternity desire to have a party but are prohibited since it is deemed a regular function, Bailey noted that there was no written rule to limit this. “It has been the custom of the executive committee to forbid such a function if it seems an obvious attempt to elude the rule which bars fraternities from having more than two off-campus functions per year.” Bailey observed. He pledged to try to get the executive committee to issue a fairly definite statement of policy in dealing with this matter.

THACKER STILL... (Continued From Page Three)

If the Wildcat mentor can whip up another defense as effective as the one the Davidson club threw at W&L last week, the outcome could be surprising too. The Cats can look for no respite after tomorrow's fray. N. C. State and Georgia Tech top off the 1951 card.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ODK TAPS SENIORS

Looking over an ODK invitation scroll after being honored Monday by Davidson's chapter of the national honorary leadership fraternity are Pete Kalogeidis of Winter Haven, Fla., holding the scroll, with Dick Stockton and Jack Hunter of Winston-Salem, and Bill Adams of Seneca, S. C., looking over his shoulder. Also tapped were Dr. A. V. Goldiere of the Davidson faculty and Rev. J. Cecil Lawrence, associate pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte.

ODK TAPS... (Continued From Page One)

Dr. Goldiere is past president of the Lions Club and is now the district commander of that organization. He is president of the Men of the Church at the Davidson Presbyterian Church, is the chairman of the College Social Committee, past president of the Davidson PTA, and has performed many services to the college and the student body.

TOUTED BALLADEER... (Continued From Page One)

vania Music Camp this summer, liked them very much, and asked that they perform with her this evening. Probably the leading ballad singer in America, Miss Reed has been hailed by critics from coast to coast. All are unanimous in their praise of the young star, describing her singing as “effortless” and her own accompaniments as “masterpieces of musical art.”

THE REV. CECIL LAWRENCE LEADS ANNOUNCED... (Continued From Page One)

past and spends most of her time on stage in a sort of heavenly daze. Old Timer Mrs. Holly|. well acquainted with the work of Thespians at Davidson, having played in many Masquers productions in previous years such as “Our Town,” “Arsenic and Old Lace,” “The Man Who Came to Dinner,” and “Sunday Costs Five Pesos.” Thus are the old and new gathered together, and under the direction of Bill Trotman, “Ten Little Indians” should be one of the Masquers’ best.

FINE FOODS
STEAKS
CHICKEN DINNERS
FOUNTAIN SERVICE
Open Sundays
Phone 132
STONESTREETS
Grade A Cafe
418 South Main Street
Mooresville, N. C.

I drink when I have occasion and sometimes when I have no occasion and truly fitting to Cervantes’ Don Quixote: “Have a Coke!” It’s not only the answer to thirst, but a refreshing pleasure any time. Have a Coke!

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY CONCORD COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.
“Coke” is a registered trade-mark. © 1959, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Guerrant Speaks To Polit Group
Dr. Edward O. Guerrant of the Davidson political science department, is scheduled as a panel discussion leader on International Relations at the annual meeting of the Southern Political Science Association to be held November 8-10, 1951, at Chattanooga, Tenn. The papers to be presented before this panel are by the following persons: Dr. Frank L. Burdette, University of Maryland, “The Primary Enemy Is Soviet Aggression;” Dr. Carl M. Frasure, West Virginia University, “The Role of the United Nations;” and Dr. Paul Linebarger, Johns Hopkins University, “The Primary Enemy is Communism.”

APPENDICITIS...
(Continued From Page Two)
he can see his platoon leader at the other end. This is the way the Army makes a game out of drill. It is amazing what the Army can do. The smart soldier knows what the Army can do with drill.

QUESTIONS
1. Who are you?
(a) Yes.
(b) No.
2. What is rain?
(a) Hdq. Co., 3 Mortar Platoons, 1 Collecting Station.
(b) 2.36.
(c) One of these.
3. Does your platoon wear a raincoat?
(a) 1066.
(b) Purdue.
(c) Hitler.
(d) The “bread that makes men crazy.”
4. Do you wear a raincoat?
(a) No.
(b) No.
5. Do you carry a raincoat?
(a) Yes.
(b) Yes.

GEORGE IN PRINT
Davidson’s beloved George was featured in a picture recently in Bob Quincy’s sports column in The Charlotte News. Woe to the man who asks, “Who is George?”

LUCK DODGES...
(Continued From Page One)
They hardly had standing room and little to eat. For eight days they traveled until they reached a prison on the Baltic Sea. The main trouble in the camps was obtaining something to eat, for the Germans gave them very little food, and it was practically impossible to obtain extra rations. The Russians got pretty close to this camp and then began what is known as the German Death March.

Food In a Pig Kettle
The prisoners had to sleep out in the open in the cold and ice. Little was available to eat, except what they could beg, borrow or steal, or when they reached a farm where extra potatoes could be obtained. These were dumped in a big kettle, used usually to cook food for pigs, and cooked, dirt and all.

Here is what Capt. Leslie Caplan said about this march, “We were on the road for 86 days during which we marched, starved, froze, marched, scratched our lice, suffered in filth, and slept in barns or fields. We covered 600 miles. For food we averaged 770 calories a day (An American soldier gets 3,500 calories a day.) Our sanitation was nightmarish. The inevitable result was suffering, disease, and death.”

Of the nine in Doug’s crew, he and three others survived. The rest gave their lives in prison and on this march. Doug was one of the lucky ones. No one knows exactly how many made it and how many didn’t. He was liberated by the 10th Division of the Eighth Army, the “Terry Timberwolves.”

In 1946 Doug entered Davidson in the spring semester. He was vice-president of the “D” Club, a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity, and in Kappa Sigma Fraternity where he served as boarding house manager and vice-president. The freshmen of 1950 knew him very well as the Judge of the Court of Control. He graduated with a B.S. degree, majoring in Economics.

Doug played football, baseball, and wrestled during his college career. As wingback he was one of the spark plugs of the Davidson team. He won the praise of coaches and sportswriters alike and seemed about to become one of the finest of all Davidson football players.

Fatal Third Game
In the third game in 1947 he tore a cartilage in his leg which knocked him out of the remainder of the season. Next year he was robbed of his chance by an over-developed “charley horse.” After football season he went out for wrestling and a broken vertebrae kept him in a cast for six painful weeks. He came fighting back the next year, but a painful leg injury closed the door on his football activities.

Stud in Black
Doug is now managing the “Stud” and it is clearly in the black. He has a commission in the Army which he obtained through ROTC and is in the inactive reserves. For the future he only says that he has several irons in the fire. It’s doubtful they’ll be too hot for Doug to handle.

PROTESTANTS EASE...
(Continued From Page One)
for he believed that such a controversial issue should be settled by Congress. Chaplain Gripe, commenting further on the matter, said “Students and faculty members still doubting the gravity of this issue and the threat of the political power of the Catholic Church should read Paul Blanshard’s American Freedom and Catholic Power, a copy of which is in the library.”

THACKER’S INC.
PRIVATE DINING ROOMS for PARTIES AND BANQUETS
“A Good Place to Eat”
Phone 25-4900
Charlotte
221 South Tryon Street

LEE LEADS CATS...
(Continued From Page Three)
day, November 12, a plaque and medals will be presented to the winning team and the first 25 men to finish will win individual trophies.

RELUCTANT IKE...
(Continued From Page Two)
today (and technically he’s not really in it yet) behind whom the people would give unqualified support. And now, of all times, the President needs such support.

NEW CARS
DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF
Dial 3-4513
212 W. Fourth
Charlotte

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Shows Start at 3 p.m.
Monday-Tuesday, Nov. 5-6
“A PLACE IN THE SUN”
Montgomery Clift
Elizabeth Taylor
- NEWS - CARTOON

Wednesday, Nov. 7
“LEAVE IT TO THE MARINES”
Sid Melton - Mara Lynn
COMEDY - CARTOON

Thursday, Nov. 8
“FABIOLA”
Michele Morgan - Henri Vidal
SPORT - CARTOON

Friday, Nov. 9
“THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL”
Michael Rennie - Patricia Neal
CARTOON - NOVELTY

Saturday, Nov. 10
“MARK OF THE RENEGADE”
Ricardo Montalban
COMEDY - CARTOON

Chesterfield
Chesterfield
Chesterfield