& '® e o* ts ris ] ~ ss vr w & X Ba 2: Y : “mi cs #':
7 ‘< om we!

THE PLAY’S THE THING: Pictured above are the eight Davidson students who are eligible for membership in Alpha Psi Omega,
national dramatics fraternity, and Professors Tyson and Erwin, both already members. First row, left to right, Tad Currie, Bob Gay,
Ted Daniels; second row, T. W. Aldred, Bill Trotman, Woody McKay, Bill Pharr, Bill Hollister; third row: Professors Tyson and
Erwin.

War Casualty Revived Here; Dramatic Fraternity Meets

Eight Davidson students were honored this past week by initiation into the Iota Kappa chapter of Alpha Psi Omega, national
dramatics fraternity which was recently reactivated on the campus through the efforts of Professor Raymond W. Tyson of the Speech
Department.

As is probably not generally known, this organization had a chapter located at Davidson before the war, but, along with
so many other organizations and institutions, “folded up” as a result of the havoc caused on this and other campuses,
brought about by the war. Professor Tyson, himself a member of Alpha Psi Omega, recently carried on correspondence with the
national headquarters of the fraternity, and as a result this organization takes its place among the other honorary fraternities located
on the campus.

There are three prominent national societies of this type: Theta Alpha Phi, Alpha Psi Omega, and the “National Collegiate Players.”
Recent years, however, have seen Alpha Psi Omega continually rising as the leader of national college dramatic societies, with some
250 local chapters, some of which are located at Wake Forest, Furman, U.S.C., Clemson, William and Mary, and also, parallel
to the Davidson chapter, a recently reactivated chapter at Rutgers University.

When asked the purpose of his reactivating the chapter here, Prof. Tyson said that he felt that such an organization
would “give added incentive for work in dramatics.” He stressed emphatically that the fraternity “is not a substitute for the
Red and Black Masquers,” an organization long an integral part of the college, but that it is simply “an added
reward for outstanding work done in the field of dramatics.”

Eligibility for membership in Alpha Psi Omega is determined by a point system, the minimum number of points set by
the national fraternity with each chapter privileged to raise that minimum if they so desire. This minimum normally consists of
two major roles and four minor roles in major productions. In addition, the candidate for membership must display the attributes
of willingness, cooperation, a love for and interest in dramatics, and a sincere desire to further the cause of dramatics
especially in the school where the individual’s chapter is located. Satisfactory scholastic achievement is an important factor, and, on the
Davidson campus, membership in the Red and Black Masquers precedes membership in Alpha Psi Omega.

The actual reactivation was begun Thursday when eight Davidson men, all of whom have an admirable record in dramatics and
who have chalked up enough points to be eligible for membership, were given the formal initiation rites by Prof. Tyson.
These men are Woody McKay, Bob Gay, Bob Hollister, Bill Pharr, Ted Daniels, Tad Currie, T. W. Aldred, and Bill
Trotman. Gay, Currie, and Daniels are president, vice-president, and recording secretary-treasurer respectively of the organization. Professors Tyson and Erwin, the
latter of whom was a member of the original Davidson chapter, are fratres in facultate.

In commenting on the recent reinstallation of the chapter here, Professor Tyson said: “I sincerely hope that Alpha Psi Omega
will raise the standards of dramatics on the Davidson campus, and make dramatic art a more vital cultural influence of
the college community.”

Chapel Schedule

On Sunday, February 11, the evening vespers at 7:30 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium will present Rev. Paul J. Jones, D.
D., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in High Point, North Carolina. Chapel on Monday morning will be in charge
of Dr. W. O. Puckett, while Tuesday’s chapel period will mark the beginning of the long-awaited Marriage Conference, having Dr.
Reuben Hill as speaker. On Wednesday Dr. Hill will continue his program in chapel. Thursday will be regular Y.M.C.A. day
with the local “Y” Council having charge of chapel exercises. On Friday, Dr. William P. Cumming will conclude the week
by being in charge of that morning’s chapel program.

Army Will Give Gold Bars To 5

Five members of the Senior Class have been notified by the Department of the Army that they have been selected
for commissions as second lieutenants in the Regular Army, effective June 15. All five have indicated their intention, at this
time, of accepting the commissions. Four of the five are to be commissioned in the infantry, while one is to
be commissioned in the artillery. Infantry commissions go to: Fred Best, Lee Burch, John Loftin, J. C. Roberts. Artillery commission
goes to Woody Leach. These students are Distinguished Military Students who, because of that fact, were eligible last fall to
compete for regular army commissions. The five students were the only applicants from Davidson. The PMS & T has stated
that it is understood that more than twice as many applications were submitted as there were appointments throughout the country.

Prof. R. W. Tyson Is Instrumental In Reactivation

Drinking Contest? ... Well, not exactly. But you do have a chance to win $200 in a collegiate essay contest
on “Drinking: Personal or Social Responsibility?” Essay length: 500 to 800 words, so for first prize the rate of pay
is 25¢ or more per word. This contest, sponsored by the Intercollegiate Association, is an attempt to strike at the
roots of many of today's problems. The prizes (15 altogether totaling $1,700) are awarded not for the words themselves, but
the study and thought invested to produce the short statement. See John Lyles for details.

‘THEY DIED IN VAIN’

Somewhere among countless monuments there lies in the cemetery of past customs of man a small well-ordered plot discreetly walled
off in an inconspicuous corner. In this guarded nook the grass grows thick and ivy twines luxuriantly about the brick
walls and most of the monuments. Here death goes on completely undisturbed except for occasional wrinkled and bespectacled old men,
who merely come in, gaze meditatively at one of the markers for a few moments, perhaps chuckle softly to themselves,
and then quietly go. Such is the fate of the souls resting here, for in this unfrequented enclosure lies the
souls of departed collegiate traditions.

There are in this place a few large monuments bearing such words as: “Here lies the last remains of real
undergraduate scholarship,” and “Beneath this pile of granite rests amateur collegiate athletics.” Such as these however, are crumbling with age
and the ivy must be brushed aside to read the inscriptions thereupon. In fact only one stone out of all
the company proclaims its youth in its snowy whiteness. Upon this otherwise modest marble is engraved a profound, but complicated
epitaph in Greek. Literally translated it reads as follows:

“Beneath this stone there lies one whose life was noble and well-used. By this tradition many were the neophytes who
received their testing; then went on to become noble among the Greeks. Many were the late and early hours. Great
was the spoil and mysterious its origin. Great were the adventures and greater still the stories of them. Many were
the wise and witty Greeks who conceived additions to keep the tradition alive and thriving. Indeed life was ended in
its prime. Great was the mourning thereupon.

“Here lies Quests of Pledges whose life was treacherously snuffed out by the crude Practicality and stiff Reputation. Date of
birth—antiquity. Date of death—1951.”

‘Tis said the grief and resentment over this latest death and murder were immediate, loud, and resentful. There were gatherings
where voices and clenched fists were raised. Oaths were sworn and threats were poured forth into the empty air. There
were rumors of rebellion and revenge. But Practicality and Reputation, the authors of the deed, which indelibly stained their countenances
(though ’tis said they were not alone), won out again, and the storm subsided. New traditions would rise. Their seeds
were already planted. Soon they would sprout and blossom into maturity. But then, beside the new white marker and the
freshly spaded mound there lies in the shadows an empty space. Do the shadows fall from the grave digger and
his shovel?

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

VOLUME XXXIX

Negro Youth Caught Robbing Watts Dorm

A 17-year-old Negro was arrested a second time in two months for breaking into and stealing from college dormitories Monday
morning, February 5. The youth was Freddy Johnson of Davidson.

Early last Monday morning, Cop Linker was making his regular 3:15 inspection tour of the dormitories when he noticed a
student frantically knocking on the shop door where Cop's office is located. He shouted to the boy, asking him if
there was any trouble. Everett Brown, the boy, told Cop that there was a Negro robbing rooms in Watts dormitory.
Telling Brown to cover the rear door, Cop stationed himself in a position to watch the front. Soon after, a
face appeared for an instant under the light which illuminates the front door and immediately fled down the hall. Cop
recognized the countenance of Freddy Johnson, who had broken into Georgia Dorm a scant sixty days ago. Brown was caught
off-guard as the Negro bowled past him and out into the night. Cop, chasing him, fired three shots at the
fleeing figure. He then put in a quick call to Ptl. Joe Wally, Davidson’s policeman, and ordered him to patrol
Main Street in search of Johnson.

After calling Wally, Cop, Brown and Buddy Kendrick, who had joined them, returned to Brown's room to ascertain any loss
suffered. Brown's wallet was found to be missing. The two boys live in 412 Watts, the last room at the
end of the hall facing the stud. Cop noticed that the door of 312 was cracked indicating Johnson may have
been in several rooms before he awakened Brown. In fumbling for wallets or other valuables, Johnson had scraped a dime
onto the floor which aroused Brown.

Officer Wally called back to report he had not seen Johnson, so all four piled into a college truck and
sped to the miscreant’s home. He and his mother, with whom he shares his home, were there. He (Continued on
Page Three)

Cadets Honored, 15 Chosen DMS

Fifteen Davidson senior R.O.T.C. Cadets have been named “Distinguished Military Students,” by President John R. Cunningham. They will now be
eligible to compete.For Regular Army commissions. Based on excellence in military scholarship and leadership, the designation at Davidson is given
to less than one-fourth of the senior R.O.T.C. class. The fifteen cadets can take a competitive examination for a regular
army commission which will be awarded to successful candidates shortly after graduation. Cadets receiving the designation are Richard A. Boyd,
Marvin K. Brotherton, Eugene L. Burch, Jr., Thomas Craven, Jr., Richard E. Harris, James W. Jeffries, James V. Larkin, Hugh
U. Leach, Dan I. McKeithen, Jr., Charles H. Newbold, Kenneth R. Newbold, Coleman G. Poag, Frank M. Purnell, and Warren
M. Sims, Jr.

Dr. James S. Purcell Guest of Conference

On January 29, 30, and 31, Dr. James S. Purcell, associate professor of English, was the guest of Emory University
at the Conference on the Common Tasks of the Social Sciences and Humanities. This exploratory gathering of sixty Southern educators
interested in the social sciences and the humanities sought to determine the purposes which the two divisions have in common
and the points at which they might strengthen each other in the achievement, as well as to decide upon ways
in which these combined aims and points of view should affect teaching, educational planning, and research. Dr. Purcell worked with
the group concerned with the role of arts and letters in culture. Other groups examined the nature of man, the
role of religion in culture, and the prospects of an emerging world culture.

Davidson College, Davidson, N. C., Friday, Feb. 9, 1951 NUMBER FOURTEEN

Marriage Conference To Convene Here Tues. And Wed. of Next Week

In preparation for the lectures on Marriage and the Family by Dr. Reuben Hill, discussions will be held Sunday night,
February 11, in those fraternities which did not have discussions last Sunday. Professors leading the discussions are Brown, Daggy, Douglas,
Godcharles, Ostwalt, and Pritchett. Last Sunday night discussions were held in the following fraternities: Kappa Alpha, Kappa Sigma, Phi Delta
Theta, Sigma Phi Epsilon, Pi Kappa Alpha, and Pi Kappa Phi.

The program of the Davidson Marriage Conference, which was recently announced, is as follows:

Tuesday, February 13:
10:25—A talk in chapel by Dr. Reuben Hill of the University of North Carolina on “The Basis of Love and
Mate Selection.”
11:14—A discussion with high school juniors and seniors at Davidson High School on questions which they ask Dr. Hill concerning
marriage and dating.
3:45—Pre-ministerial counseling and open discussion with Dr. Hill. A movie “The Charming Couple” will be shown during the discussion.
7:30—Discussion on dating and courtship.

Wednesday, February 14:
10:25—Talk in chapel by Dr. Hill on “When are We Ready For Marriage?”
3:45—Pre-medical counseling and open discussion of the subject “Are You Ready For Marriage” and a movie by the same name
will be shown.
7:30—Concluding discussion in conference on the subject “Success in Marriage and What Holds It Together.”

During the conference, literature will be on display in Room 101 of Chambers on the subject of marriage and the
family. Books and pamphlets on display may be ordered from the publishers. The display will be open February 13-14.

Plans are now underway to set up a permanent organization which will sponsor conferences on Marriage in the future. This
organization, which will probably be called “The Davidson College Marriage Conference Organization,” will plan, sponsor, and secure speakers for the
conferences. Dr. G. A. Douglas of the Sociology Department has been instrumental in setting up this organization and especially helpful
in planning this year’s conference.

Palmetto Professor Judges Journalism

Chalmers G. Davidson, director of the Davidson College Library, is one of three native South Carolina authors with national reputations
who have been chosen judges for the 1951 Short Story Contest sponsored by the South Carolina Magazine for South Carolina
students. Davidson, a native of Chester, is author of “Friend of the People, Life of Dr. Peter Fayssoux of Charleston.”
The other judges are Elizabeth Boatwright Coker, of Hartsville, author of “Daughter of Stranger;” and George Coffin Taylor, of Columbia,
international authority on Shakespeare and his contemporaries. The judges will choose the prize-winning stories and three stories deserving honorable mention
from the manuscripts submitted to the contest editors.

Talented Pianist To Give Program

Eugene List, brilliant young American pianist, will present the third concert of the current Davidson College Artist Series on Tuesday
evening, February 20, at 8:15 p.m., in Chambers Auditorium. Mr. List was chosen by an audience vote at the last
Artist Series concert to replace Miss Joan Hammond, who has been forced by illness to cancel her American tour. The
Charlotte Symphony Orchestra, conducted by James Christian Pfohl, will appear on the same program and will provide accompaniment for the
selections played by Mr. List. Conductor Pfohl and the talented pianist have worked together many times before since List has
appeared as featured artist at both the Transylvania Music Camp and the Brevard Music Festival. Mr. Pfohl is Music Director
for both the Camp and the Brevard Festival.

A good number of the student body still have not picked up their season tickets for the Artist Series. These
tickets were paid for in the student activities fees and are still available at the Music Department office in Elm
Row.

Year's Alumni Gifts Surpass 1949 Mark

With an increase over 1949 of 116 percent, alumni and friends of Davidson College last year contributed $50,586.97 for general
operating expenses of the college, scholarship aid for needy students, and other causes. Overshooting the 1950 goal of $50,000, the
Alumni Fund almost doubled any previous year’s contributions. The highest previous total was $30,666 in 1947. In 1949 the fund
totaled $23,513.50. John L. Payne, alumni secretary, said that a total of 1300 alumni and 117 friends of the college
participated in the 1950 fund.

“The Alumni Fund,” Mr. Payne said, “is entirely separate from the $2,500,000 Development Program which was successfully concluded in June.
That money is to be used for endowment and for buildings. The money in the Alumni Fund is available for
immediate use by the college. A large number of Davidson alumni contributed to the Development Program and a great number
of them contributed to both programs.”

The Alumni Fund at Davidson was begun in 1939 by Treasurer F. L. Jackson. During that year a total of
$2,365.15 was given. Since then the college has received $233,633.18.

Town Startled By Attentive Pledge

It came, splitting the sleepy noonday air: the piercing wail of a siren. Heads jerked up and student eyes fearfully
searched the skies and then fraternity court. With great heaving sighs of relief, they saw it was a somewhat false
alarm. Uncomfortably seated atop his fraternity house crouched Davidson’s first evidence of a forward-looking town's Civil Defense Program. Phi Delta
Theta Pledge Jerry Witherspoon, though unequipped with radar, had conscientiously devoted his time to the conducting of a practice air
raid drill. This was peculiarly heartening to the college boys who were anxious lest their administration dally too long in
scheduling such drills. Witherspoon brought out the traditional attitude here at Davidson of looking ever forward. Even as he scanned
the heavens through field glasses in search of aircraft, one’s heart leapt up in recognition of a basic tradition—that of
looking up... into the clouds.

More spectacular were reactions by alert citizenry. More than a few phone calls were received by Mayor Beatty complimenting the
foresight demonstrated in this preparatory drill. Several solid citizens volunteered for specific jobs in case of a real emergency and
illumined a spirit of active interest in a training program. After the drill had proved its effectiveness beyond a doubt,
hizzoner personally requested its termination. It is thought that many orchids should go to the Mayor, Pledge Witherspoon’s unselfishness, and
to a genuinely prepared administration.

NOTICE

The Mecklenburg County Bloodmobile will be in Davidson on March 9, at the college infirmary. Local leaders of the drive
are hoping for 400 donors from among students, faculty, and townspeople.

Hall Selected By Eu Lit. Society

Election of officers for the spring semester and selection of new members were the two main items of a business
meeting of the Eumanean Literary Society last Monday night. Hartley Hall was elected to succeed Ken Goodpasture as president; Mr.
Hall has long been known for his ready wit, and his tenure of office is awaited with anticipation. Taking over
the office of vice-president from Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams is no stranger to Eumanean duties, having served as secretary last
year. The man with the real work to do is Frank Hanshaw, who succeeds Larry Dagenhart as secretary. Since the
treasurer’s job runs for the entire year, Jack Hunter will keep the post of treasurer. More than 20 names, mostly
those of second semester freshmen, were submitted for consideration by the society. A list of the new members accepted by
Eumanean will be released as soon as the names become available.

Cats Down Wolfpack In ROTC Gun Match On N.C. State Campus

The Rifle Team traveled to Raleigh last Saturday and defeated N.C. State College, on their home range, by the score
of 1783 to 1767, out of a possible 2,000. Each team fired 10 men, the high 5 scores counting. Davidson
also had high score for the 10 men of the team. The match was comprised of firing from 4 positions.
High shot for the Wildcats, and in the match, was Aubrey Miree, with 373 out of 400. Others in the
high five, in order of score, were: H. S. Ward, W. L. Morris, F. McCutcheon, and V. D. Clifton. The
other members of the team were: A. D. Groseclose, W. W. Abbott, J. L. Baker, L. B. Smith, and L.
B. Scott. Captain Hood and Sergeant Butts, from the Military Department and who are the team's coaches, accompanied the team.

During the week, the Rifle Team also won postal matches from Toledo University and Gordon Military College. Also, firing continued
on the Army Intercollegiate Match and the Hearst Trophy Match, both of which are nationwide. The former is fired in
4 stages, or series of positions. With 2 stages, or half the match complete, the Wildcats have scored 1940 and
1904 respectively, which are considered very high scores. Last year’s national winners scored but 1950 in the first phase. Hopes
are high for a total score which will place well up in the winners in both events. The next shoulder-to-shoulder
match scheduled is with Wofford College here on the 24th.
