WAL Dinner Is Climax To All Sports Day Planned For May 7

Wallace Wade, recently installed first commissioner of the Southern Conference, will be the principal speaker at a dinner climaxing Davidson's
first annual All Sports Day on May 7, athletic director Paul K. Scott announced yesterday.

The All Sports Day will be an enlargement on the athletic end of the annual awards day, held in chapel.
As in the past, many presentations will be made to athletes during chapel on the morning of the seventh, with
the banquet and further awards following that evening in the college dining hall.

Wade, of late head football coach at Duke University and one of the nation’s greatest grid heads, accepted the invitation
to address the sports assemblage in a letter to Mr. Scott early this week.

All athletes who completed the season on any Davidson team, varsity and freshmen, will be the guests of the Athletic
department at the gala affair. In the past, the football and cross country teams have held their banquets together in
the early winter, and the other sports at their own choosing. The new idea, Mr. Scott points out, enables all
the groups to get together in a first-rate program that is a fitting climax to the year. The program in
itself will be announced at a later date. Mr. Scott stated that some tickets would be available to interested students,
the exact number and price being released closer to banquet time.

Chesterfield SPORTS QUIZ

1. Who is the sensational young rookie rage of the N. Y. Yankee training camp the Bombers fear may be
reclassified and accepted by the army?
2. Cornelius Warmerdam set the world’s record in the pole vault on May 23, 1942. What is the height?
3. Who is the manager of the Washington Senators?

Answers should be turned in on a Chesterfield wrapper to Dave Moylan, C-East. Winners will receive a carton of Chesterfields.

ACE WADE SPEAKER FOR SPORTS

wildcat Sports

THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SECTION

PAGE THREE FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1951

CAT TALES By BILL WHITE

A couple of Sunday evenings ago, the Fat Roommate and I, nixing a sad offering on the Colgate Comedy Hour,
decided to strengthen faculty ties and satisfy that hunger peculiar to Sunday evenings with a call on Mr. and Mrs.
Ray Brown and their three (or is it four?) little Browns. We couldn’t have spent a nicer evening had we
been ON the Colgate Hour. Wisecracking Ray and beautiful Bracy are hard to think of as a couple of old
married people, and they accommodatingly never give you a chance to think of them as such.

The last time we'd socialized with the Browns had been our freshman year, down in their 2x4 in Cardboard Village.
Aside from a girl here and a boy there, they haven’t changed at all. Seems like they just got here,
both fresh out of college, and now they’re leaving us.

Ray says he loves coaching, but feels he will be happier, all factors considered, in the business world. As yet,
he is uncommitted but has several irons in the fire. “I resigned the morning of the Red and Black game,”
Ray recalled, “and I went out a winner. But I darn near jumped off the bench and tackled A. C.
Gregg there in the final minutes when the Blacks almost scored on that screen play!”

The good-looking former University of Virginia grid standout has been one of the most popular members of the college administration,
and he’s had a chance to be popular in many a sport. His first year here Ray was unofficial golf
coach. In addition to his backfield coaching duties, he has since been football scout, freshman basketball and track coach, and
even pinch-hitted as freshman baseball coach. In Gastonia Tuesday night, Ray handled the frosh nine for Boyd Baird. “Never saw
anything like it. They stole everything but the keys to my car. They tried to steal first, but I protested
and while I was protesting, they stole home!”

Frosh basketball furnished another good quotable on Ray. The Charlotte News’ Bob Quincy asked him how his boys came out
against Duke’s freshmen. “It was a battle from the start,” Ray asserted, “and then they wore us down in the
final 39 minutes!”

The jokes run on the playful pop. He’s a good funster, but never failed to let his clubs know when
the fun stopped and where the boss began. And though the odds are that the newest addition to the household
(Razorback Ray, no less), is the coming athlete in the family, the old man can still unthrottle on a 100-yard
dash for sixty or so yards, raise cain with a handball, play a mean game of half-court, and match golf
scores with Marvin Kelly.

Watching little Ray baptized here last Sunday, we couldn’t help thinking what a swell family the Browns are going to
make in some community. Davidson, at least the student body during Ray’s stay, will always have an interest in these
folks who organized their outfit right here. We hope they'll decide to settle somewhere nearby, where Haller can keep his
eye on Georgia and the rest of the fellows can compete for Virginia. Yes, we're going to miss the Brown
family. Guess it’ll be back to Hugo’s for the F.R. with Bracy’s gingerbread and ice cream gone.

PAGE THREE

Duke Nets Here Tomorrow

CINDERS OPEN WITH MERCER

Bears’ Jim Cowan Brings Strong Crew Against Old Coach

By CHARLIE HASSELL

The Davidson track team opens its dual meet track season this Saturday against Mercer University, with the field events beginning
at 2:00 p.m. and the running events at 2:30.

The Mercer coach, Jim Cowan, who was an outstanding three-letter athlete at Davidson a few years ago, will bring twenty-five
men with him who should give the Wildcat cinder men some stiff competition. Although Davidson has won every meet in
the series, the Macon, Georgia school always is represented by a good team.

Roger Cornell, heavily counted on for points in the broad jump, will be greatly missed; Cornell pulled a leg muscle
at the Carolina relays last weekend, and may be out for several weeks. However, to somewhat counterbalance this loss, Jim
Fickeisen has shown more improvement than any other man this year. In the time trials Wednesday, Fickeisen placed in the
high jump, the javelin throw, high hurdles, and the 100-yard dash; he would have placed in the low hurdles also,
had he not fallen. He will participate in all of these events, except the low hurdles, against Mercer.

Bill McNeely has shown well in the discus and shot events; and Bob Henry and Blake Bradley have been turning
in good times in the 880 run and mile run, respectively. Ken Goodpasture has been keeping his times down, and
hopes to do even better than the time that won him second in the Carolina relays in his event, the
100-yard dash.

WHITE BUCK TAYLOR-MADE

Perfection born of choice imported skins. The frosty, full nap, the firm fine texture readily identifies this shoe as a
leader. Deep red rubber soles give foot luxury and cool comfort. Very easy to clean. 13.95.

THE LABEL OF DISTINCTION

AFTER THURSDAY TEST

Conference Battle Cat Nine Braces For Return Visit/May Prove Toughest From Tar Heels Monday Afternoon

By DICK LILES

After absorbing their first two conference setbacks of the season last weekend in the hands of Furman and Clemson, Coach
Frank Packard’s Wildcat nine are looking forward to a return match with North Carolina’s powerful Tar Heel squad here Monday
afternoon. The Cats traveled to Carolina yesterday for the first meeting of the: Linksters Match Wake, N.C. State

Coach Packard will send Dutch Hengeveld to the mound against possibly Lefty Schacht, the Davidson (N.C.) boy who slings 'em
from the port side for Coach Bunn Hearn as one of his top-rate hurlers. Schacht is only one of the
fine hurlers that constitute the mound staff that Hearn can call upon. He also has a “death” outfield of three
fine hitters, and an equally fine infield. The team is well-balanced according to all reports, with no single outstanding star.
“Bunn Hearn always puts out a fine team” is the sigh-filled saying of other Southern Conference coaches. Coach Packard joins
in the praise of Hearn, but would like to show him, as last year when the Cats came through with
a win over the Heels, that spirit and “new blood” can win for you, too. Coach Packard is indeed pleased
with the spirit and hustle of his boys. Although he was handed a rather graduation-deleted squad, he has molded a
fine fielding and hitting team; a real team of teamwork and sport. All of the games so far have only
been lost by very slight margins except one and the decisive win over Boston U. earlier this season. If Hengeveld
is unable to take the hill Monday, on seeing service yesterday, either Tom Craven or Paul Eastman may be called
upon. Both own sore arms and so that game may also fall to “Ironman” Dutch Hengeveld. Also a loss for
the team is Auburn Lambeth’s inability to play this week due to a pulled muscle in his thigh suffered in
the Clemson game. Coach Packard will use Jack Branch in his place until Lambeth returns. Bill Rowland and Jerry Morrow
will round out the outfield. Two new switches have been made in the infield with Norm Whiteheart handling the catching
duties and Harold Smith covering the “hot corner.” The team is steadily improving and if Bill Roland keeps pounding out
a few hits and the infield is (Continued On Page Four)

Davidson golfers match strokes with the ever-rugged linksmen of Wake Forest College this afternoon on the Charlotte Country Club course.
Tomorrow Coach Elgin White's men travel to Raleigh to meet the State College team. Wake Forest has one of the
strongest teams in the Southern Conference, winning the championship for several years. Dick Tiddy, Wake's best, will be matched with
Monty Hill, Davidson’s number one man. In the match with State tomorrow, the Wildcats are meeting a stronger team than
they defeated, 18-9, earlier in the season, for Pete Smith, the Wolfpack's number two man who was ineligible at the
time of the first match, will now be able to play. Jim Baker, State’s number one man, shot a 68
on the Raleigh course earlier in the week and promises to give Hill tough competition. Coach White puts great faith
in Mac McLean’s handling Smith tomorrow. “If the boys show up as well this weekend as they did last when
they (Continued On Page Four)

Coach Boyd Baird's freshman baseballers made their first home showing here this afternoon when they tangled with Tech High of
Charlotte. Yesterday's test with Belmont Abbey, coupled with the debut walloping at the hands of Gastonia Tuesday night should have
the Kittens sufficiently seasoned for the Wolfpack this afternoon. Baird was expected to name Johnny Smith or Paul Davis to
open on the hill against the Queen City crew. In Gastonia, the Kittens were the victims of a one-hitter by
Roger Kendrick and Larry Hoffman, that a single by Tim Gilley. Their lone run came in the ninth inning against
the powerful Green Wave, schoolboy champs in North Carolina for the past several seasons.

Wildcat of Week: Ken Goodpasture

When Ken Goodpasture trotted onto Fetzer Field at Chapel Hill last Saturday, he had two things in the back of
his mind. One was redemption for jumping the gun twice to disqualify in the Indoor Games. The other was to
silence the ridicule of Horne, Inc., which found him inevitably introduced as “Goodpasture, 9.9, Davidson.” The chunky speedster jumped the
first time in the finals of the 100-yard dash at the Carolina Relays, and Pete Whittle turned a lovely lavender.
“Won’t that be something if he pulls this trick again?!” Whittle moaned. But Goodpasture held till the gun the next
time and barreled past all competition but UNC’s standout sprinter Dave Willis. Ken picked up his medal and shut up
his ridiculers. Taking second to a 10-1 was actually no great feat for Goodpasture. He hasn’t been above 10.2 (conceding
he ran that time at the Carolina Relays) this year. He turned in a 10 flat in time trials before
the spring holidays, and Wednesday clicked the century in 10.1. He simply had never had big company in which to
shake his times around. Last season, Ken was clocked at 9.9 to win the Wake Forest meet, and 10 on
another occasion. Strangely, however, last spring Goodpasture failed to place at Washington and Lee when 10.3 was the winning time,
and once again at South Carolina he took second to a 10.4. Ken’s explanation, “I didn't work hard enough to
be consistent last year. I feel that I have already worked harder this year than I worked all last spring
combined.” The story of Ken's discovery is a well-known one around the campus. He dropped by the track one winter
afternoon two years ago when a pair of hurdlers were working for the indoor meet, beat them on invited starts,
and was soon signed to Whittle’s dotted line. The Franklin, Tenn., senior will undoubtedly have a banner year on the
sprints. A hard worker on the books, the pre-law major is president of SAE, a member of the student council,
and ODK. Still ambitious, Ken wants very much to better 9.9 this year. “I hope he will,” Whittle adds, “Then
Horne will change that chant to ‘Goodpasture, 9.8 or 9.7, Davidson!’”
