PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF -------------------- GORDON SCOTT
BUSINESS MANAGER ---------------- JOHN LOFTIN

Associate Editors -------------------- Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Features Editor ---------------------- Shelley Beard
Managing Editors -------------------- Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George McMurray, Ed Richardson
Photographs -------------------------- Pete Ormsby
Photographer ------------------------- Raymond Lynch
Proofreader --------------------------- Wallace Abbott
City Editor ---------------------------- Nat Daniel
Art Editor ----------------------------- Jim Fickeisen
Sports Editor ------------------------- Bill White
Assistant Business Manager --------- Alex Goley
Advertising Manager ----------------- Manley McWilliams
Circulation Manager ----------------- Ansley Moses
Collections Manager ----------------- Jack Turner
Subscriptions Manager --------------- Bill Hart
Faculty Advisor ---------------------- Prof. Henry T. Lilly

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Dr. Abernethy’s Blast

When Professor George Abernethy appears on the chapel schedule, the student body has learned to look forward to an uncomfortable half hour. The self-styled critic of Davidsonian culture (or lack of it) stirred up another hornet’s nest with his Monday morning indictment of our “stewardship of mind.” In a group which had not quite returned to normalcy after Midwinters’ weekend, Dr. Abernethy’s comments fell on unsympathetic ears. One could sense the feeling of positive hostility which circulated among the students. It was not that the student body resented his emphasis on the importance of the intellectual life. Reading over his talk in retrospect one cannot help agreeing with the majority of his points. We realize how far we fall short of the ideal community of students. We realize that most of us barely scratch the surface of the course material and neglect sadly our numerous opportunities for broadening our education through the lectures, forums, and concerts sponsored by the college and the various campus organizations.

Why is it then that Dr. Abernethy’s speech should excite anger instead of remorse? There are two reasons. The most obvious, of course, is that he has touched a sensitive spot. We cannot deny that the probing needle hurts. But this in itself would not have provoked hard feelings. There is also a second factor. Professor Abernethy admittedly exaggerates for the sake of emphasis. His method is that of the shock treatment intended to jar the student from his comfortable rut. By drawing a caricature of the Davidson student vs. the “ideal” student, he hopes to lessen the distance between the two. Dr. Abernethy’s method, however, leads to unfortunate circumstances which defeat his own end. Although he emphasizes the fact that he believes in a well-rounded educational program, he leaves the student with the impression that his overdrawn caricature is the ideal. Perhaps this is the student’s fault, but it is nonetheless true. From Monday’s talk, the average student believes that Dr. Abernethy would have him studying continually, especially on weekends and holidays, with little time for athletics and none for social life. Dr. Abernethy would probably be shocked to find that he has been so far misunderstood, but this interpretation of his words is very near that of the average student and is responsible for the current ill will.

As an antidote for the misunderstanding and antipathy created by this and similar programs, we urge a more moderate policy for both speaker and hearer. For those who lead our chapel exercises, we advise the presentation of their ideas with less distortion of perspective. For those who listen, we advocate more critical attention to the speaker’s words and a more thoughtful evaluation of their content in an attempt to cut through to their essential meaning for our student society.—J.J.M.

Good Work, Gant

Few persons who went to the college dances last weekend will dispute the opinion expressed by so many that the decorations in the gymnasium were the best yet. The decorative theme, centered around Washington’s birthday, was cleverly carried out, and the spacious gym was overflowing with “atmosphere.” Gant Carlton was in charge of the decorating committee for the dance set. He and the representatives from the different fraternities merit a hearty thanks from the students—and dates—for a job exceptionally well done. It is no secret that scores of man-hours are always necessary in transforming the bare gym into a symphony of color, but we believe that the committee this time had more to show for their efforts. Gant and his fellow workers set a high standard with their decorations last weekend, and quite frankly, we don’t envy the person in charge of decorating for Spring Frolics who must attempt to equal or surpass this standard.

If you want a jolt, write down what you accomplished today.

Trousseau: The clothes the bride wears the first three or four years of her marriage.

All men are born equal, but some are better than others on the getaway.

What About Fraternities

A letter, in the “Editor’s Mailbox” two weeks ago, chastising the faculty Committee on Fraternities for clamping down on pre-initiation orgies, tapped lightly at the scab of a very sore problem: What to do with and about social fraternities? A more painful problem on other campuses than our own at the present, it nevertheless, if not treated reasonably by us now, may result in undesirable repercussions later. The purpose of this article is to question the validity of some of the statements in the letter and to answer them more generally by a discussion of several aspects of the fraternity system. Overstatement, misstatement, and naivete characterized at least six statements toward which one should throw some light and raise an eyebrow: (1) “... the faculty sank talons deeper into the soft flesh of the last vestige of student control;” (2) condemnation of the faculty for lack of concern for student welfare; (3) “few thinking students” would remain if all unwilling to accept faculty ruling left school; (4) fraternities are “live representation of total democratic system under which we live;” (5) scavenger hunts were previously the only form of barbarous initiation and that preventing them will invite worse practices; (6) the faculty ruling curtailed “student independence” and will impede “student preparedness for life.” (To compliment Messrs. John Ottley and Jack Stevenson, co-authors of the letter, their soundest statement was, “Public interest and financial support are indispensable to any school, ...” Wow!)

Coincident with this letter on the editorial page was an article clipped from The Daily Tar Heel, which pointed a finger at some inherent evils in the fraternity system, citing as examples “snobbery, inequality, discrimination, and personal abuse.” What a contrast to the implications of the letter in reference!

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By TOM MANN

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1951

(First of a series of three articles)

Any single question marks the extreme diversity of observations, which should serve to caution us to use a critical eye in analyzing this fraternity situation. Four assumptions must be offered to point up limitations involved in articles of this nature, and to help clear natural questions which might arise. First, the aspects to be discussed do not exhaust the problem. Second, this article is not performing as a loudspeaker connected with the college administrative and faculty offices. Third, any criticisms presented are not directed toward individual fraternity groups, but rather to the fraternity system as a whole. Fourth, the article’s intention is not to scorn cynically, but to provoke intelligent, critical thinking, which it is hoped will congeal into plans for constructive action.

Two aspects of the problem will be discussed: first, general characteristics of fraternities with particular reference to the rush system, “ball system,” Aryan clauses, informal initiations, and national headquarters’ affiliations; second, fraternity-college relationships, with emphasis on justifiable college concern for their activities, academic attainment, and school loyalty and spirit. The first will be discussed next week, and the second the week following.

As partial refutation of the aforementioned letter, and as food for thought in looking to the other articles, one might observe that fraternities are perhaps an unprecedented and unequalled admixture of democracy, collectivism, dictatorship, Ku-Klux-Klanism, pagan worship of any specific Greek gods and goddesses, Masonic mysticism, Christian idealism, orgiastic “informal initiations,” political skulduggery and abortive imitations of Medieval chivalry. Combining both the good and the bad, fraternities demand careful analysis in order to understand their proper relation to the educational institution.

Notable here is philosophical idealism.

Gags from College Mags

A shoulder strap is responsible for keeping an attraction from being a sensation.—Yale Record.

A little girl was talking to her mother. “Oh, Mamma, I saw the nicest man today!”
“Who?”
“The garbage man.”
“And why was he so nice, dear?”
“Well, he was carrying a can of garbage over his head to the wagon; and while he had it over his head the bottom came out and the garbage fell all over him, and he just stood there and talked to God.”

Dr. Cunningham: “I touched them rather deeply this morning, don’t you think?”
Mr. Jackson: “I don’t know. I haven’t counted the collection yet.”

“One thing I have learned in my long experience with the fair sex,” said the sly-looking one to his drinking companion, “is that you can't trust a woman with brown eyes!”
“Zounds!” exclaimed the other, “I've been married for two years and it occurs to me that I don’t know what color eyes my wife has.” He bolted from the bar and whipped home. His wife was in bed asleep. Creeping closer he lifted her eyelid. “Brown, by Gosh!” he roared. Brown crawled out from under the bed and said, “How the devil did you know I was under here?”

“My son’s home from college.”
“How do you know?”
“I haven't had a letter from him for three weeks.”

SAE: “Hello, is this the Salvation Army?”
Voice: “Yes.”
SAE: “Do you save bad women?”
Voice: “Yes.”
SAE: “Well, save me a couple for Saturday night.”

Dean: “Don’t you know you shouldn’t play strip poker?”
Sweet Young Thing: “Oh, it’s perfectly all right. It’s not really gambling.”
Dean: “What!”
S.Y.T.: “No; you see we get our clothes back.”

“Marie is getting quite modern! Some time ago she said when she got married she was going to have two children. Now she’s changed her mind.”
“What about, the kids?”
“No, about getting married!”

“Who's that?”
“Girl I used to sleep with.”
“Shocking! Where?”
“Physics lecture.”

The Southern father was introducing his family of boys to a visiting governor. “Seventeen boys” exclaimed the father. “And all Democrats but John, the little rascal. He got to reading.”

Wax Scratchings

After a quick look around I discover that last week I got a little ahead of myself and as a result don’t have enough records to scrape together a column on same. So if you don’t mind this time I'll fill my allotted lines with a brief sketch of one of my favorite recording stars (yours, too, I'll bet), Doris Day. After seeing Doris go through some of those difficult dance routines in “Tea For Two" it’s pretty hard to realize that when she was fourteen she was told by her doctor that she would never dance again as the result of injuries received in...a train wreck. She had been taking dancing lessons for quite some time before, and gotten quite good too. She must have been determined to get into the entertainment world, however, because at sixteen she began singing with various bands. You might like to know that her real name is Doris Kappelhoff. A label like that is a handicap in itself, you can’t blame her for changing it. When she came to Hollywood to look for a job in movies she thought the situation was hopeless. Her agent finally got an interview with producer Mike Curtiz. Instead of being poised during the interview she sobbed to producer Curtiz, “The only part I ever played was a duck in a Mother Goose play,” as her agent stood listening, dying a thousand deaths. In spite of her past “theatrical record” she got the job. Many of you will remember the first movie she made for Curtiz, “Romance On The High Seas,” and if not the movie, the song she sang so well called “It's Magic.” Even today almost three years later “It’s Magic” is still one of the most often requested songs in the country and also one of the select few to sell over a million copies. That’s a lot of records! When Bob Hope was thinking about adding a girl singer to his radio program Doris’ agent tried to sell him with the idea of using Doris. “Never heard of her,” said Bob and gave the agent the well-known brush. Then he caught a preview of “Romance On The High Seas,” and demanded the next day at radio rehearsal, “Why doesn’t somebody tell me these things? This Day girl’s terrific.” After her first appearance with him on his Swan Soap program Bob became one of her most enthusiastic boosters. Prospects look good for a new radio program to be known as the Doris Day show. It’s still in the formulative stage, but if materialized it would be about the best thing that ever happened to radio. Professionally Doris is as hot as ROTC drill in May. Her income is more than a quarter of a million dollars a year. Any record she makes sells like hot cakes, and are the source of the biggest part of her income. As already mentioned “It’s Magic” passed the million mark, so did “Love Somebody.” Her favorite song, however, “All The Things You Are,” she has never recorded. Doris is one of those rare singers who can sing a ballad as well as a jive tune. Just as Benny Goodman is known as the musician’s musician, Doris is a singer’s singer. A disc jockey put it neatly when he said, “When Doris sings you feel the freshness and youthfulness of her voice. I think these qualities—plus the intimacy of her style—are responsible for her popularity.” I've been saving the bad news for the last, so brace yourselves, fellows. Doris is getting married again in the near future. Tough luck?!

MUSIC WITH HANSEN
By HENRY HANSEN

On February 20 Eugene List, pianist, was presented in concert with the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra under the direction of James Christian Pfohl. The program opened with a trumpet prelude by Purcell. The brass work in this piece was not good and marred the otherwise delightful performance of a work which is a refreshing change from the usual overture as a concert opener. The orchestra next presented Mozart’s Symphony No. 40 in G minor. Speaking from an overall standpoint, the work was well performed from a technical view. The woodwinds were particularly excellent. Judging from past performances of the orchestra, this would seem to be their best section. The strings were also good and the work between string and woodwind sections was distinguished by its smoothness and perfect timing. The brass was again regrettable, particularly in the third movement where they play so large a part. They improved toward the end of the work, however, which contributed much toward the performance. The matter of interpretation must be judged differently. With the exception of the lovely Andante which was a miracle of lyric smoothness and suave performance, the other movements were unsatisfactory from the standpoint of tempo. The first movement was too slow. The third lacked the accentuation so necessary and the last, Allegro assai, very fast, was a pedestrian affair which dragged and palled. It may be that this is a purely subjective matter of personal preference. The performance certainly had an academic, scholarly character which showed a fine understanding of the work's structure. However, the 40th, like most Mozart, if dragged in performance, lacks that urbane sparkle which is his hallmark. For this reason, though the performance was really excellent from the standpoint of structural understanding, the spirit of the work, its gay sparkle, was absent, and I could not help but be disappointed.

The Franck Variations Symphoniques, new to me, was one of the most satisfying of the works on the program. The work itself is, like all of Franck’s compositions, characterized by its meticulous attention to detail and its glowing harmonic and tempo effects. The orchestra was at its best here as it was with Mr. List in their other work together. Mr. List himself was magnificent. The improvement he has made since playing here last is amazing and I could find no single fault with either his playing or the way in which he played. The only puzzling feature of the performance was that the orchestra should do its best in conjunction with Mr. List. Accompaniment is supposedly much harder to do well than solo performance and yet, the orchestra which fell many times below an acceptable level of performance when playing alone, was completely the master of weird tempos and difficult passages when paired with Mr. List. It may be that he was as much an inspiration to the orchestra as to the audience.

After intermission, Milhaud’s Le Carnaval d'Aix, Fantasie pour Piano et Orchestre, d'apres “Salade” was presented. Placing the work directly after intermission was an indication of the excellent program planning for it did much to enliven the somewhat serious mood of the Franck number which preceded it. It is difficult to understand how a man who wrote the Proteé Suite, an abomination in the ear, can write so delightfully. The spirit of carnival was rampant and Mr. List and the orchestra were fully capable of meeting its demands. Every one of the numbers was brilliantly performed and the orchestra and Mr. List displayed a rapport that was amazing. Mr. List’s three encores were perfect. In each he displayed marvelous control and dexterity. His dynamics and phrasing were excellent and his clarity, from forte to pianissimo is astonishing. Most enjoyable were the Bach Chorale and the Chopin Écossaise.

The last work on the program, the Liszt, Les Preludes was with the exception of the second movement of the 40th already noted, the best performed of any. The orchestra, including the brass, was really excellent and the performance itself was richly satisfying. A little more ritard might have been desirable before the final section but overall, it was played and performed magnificently. This concert was one of the most enjoyable we have had and it was really a privilege to hear the Charlotte Symphony. To those who did not know it before it gained its new conductor, it is almost impossible to realize the significant advances they have made. Given a little more time, and, when they have space, a few more players which would enable them to play works beyond their present size, they will certainly take their place with any of the fine orchestras of our major cities. As for Mr. List, any time he wishes to return, we can only welcome him.

Geech’s Goulash
By PAT McGEACHY

It’s no news, but spring has come, it seems. We went over to the (excuse the word) library, to do a Lilly assignment, and during a break for a smoke, wandered out onto the front steps, where the sun was just the right temperature. Just for fun we counted noses. There were twenty-eight similar break-takers lounging on the steps. In the process of what started out to be a five-minute rest, the crew changed a little, and over thirty-five people could be observed loafing within that little radius. After a little while, the siren wailed, and with unparalleled promptness, the fire-wagon chugged past on Concord road, right under our very noses. Now when Davidson students do not follow a fire engine, something is afoot. One example is to be found in a remark we overheard. “Can somebody see my watch from where you're sitting? I want to know if that was the five-thirty siren.” “It ain't,” said another, “If you were lying on your other side you'd have seen the truck go by.” “So soon? How did they get started so quick?” “Easy, it was a false alarm,” explained someone approaching from the direction of the fire. He looked as if intent on entering the library, but he too sat on the steps with the rest of us. It was quiet for a little while; then a freshman said, “I wish it would go down to ten below so I would feel like studying.” Nobody argued. Then we noticed a figure moving, just over our shoulder. It was a prominent member of Phi Beta Kappa, and he was going into the library. We asked him what for, and he said he was trying to write a short story, but that this was his fourth trip outside in the last hour. He plunged resolutely back into the building, and we mentally wished him luck. We must have dozed off for a while, because when we looked up, the shadow of the library had reached all the way across to the science building. It still wasn’t very chilly, however, and the crowd was still loafing there. We got into a conversation with a very good friend who was lounging comfortably between two dogs. “In the spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns, eh?” we asked glibly. “Ssszk,” he said, not unkindly. “Got a cigarette?” asked our inquisitive mind. “Ssszk - huh? Oh yeh. Front shirt pocket. Ssszk.” But we were too lazy to look in the pocket too, so we smoked one of our own, idly hoping that the Chesterfield man would come by. After a while the Phi Bete came out of the library. He was making his 10th voyage. For a long time, he stood like a mute figure-head watching the diminishing light on the science building. “Aw h—,” he said finally. “I'm throwin’ it in.” And away he walked into the dusk. Has anybody got a Lilly assignment done we could copy?

BRYAN WENTZ COMPANY
“Clothing For The Man”
205 South Tryon St.
Charlotte 2, North Carolina