KA’s BAG TAG LEAGUE TITLE See Page Three

ORTA LISBERTAS

The Davidsonian

ALENDA GUK UB)

A BUSINESSMAN REPORTS ON THE SMALL COLLEGE See Page Two

VOLUME XL DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

Davidsonians In Armed Forces

WILLIAM B. HUFFAKER, JR., now a lieutenant in the U. S. Army, graduated with the class of 1950. While at
Davidson, he studied chemistry. Bill was a member of the International Relations Club and Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. He was
selected a Distinguished Military Student.

WILLIAM D. WILSON, a member of the Air Forces, graduated year before last. While at Davidson, Bill was a member
of the Campus Club, and the Red and Black Masquers. He belonged to the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity.

DEVANT T. WILLIAMS graduated in the year 1949. He is now a 1st lieutenant in the Army. Devant was a
charter member of the Sigma Chi fraternity, and served a year as president. He was on the football squad, and
in the ROTC band.

LT. WILLIAM M. CAMERON, JR., 0-2204737, H and S Co., 522 Inf. Bn., Fort Sill, Oklahoma. Billy served as president
of the International Relations Club and as assistant business manager of the Annual. He was a member of Pi Kappa
Alpha fraternity.

1st LT. EARL P. SCHOENBERGER, JR., has already made the jump from second to first John. The KA of Class
of '51 entered the service this summer with an ROTC commission. He is stationed at Ft. Benning, Ga.

PVT. BILL PROCTOR, standout center on last winter’s basketball team and member of the Class of '52, is currently with
the Army Signal Corps in Georgia. The lanky Phi Delt was a summertime draft casualty.

Children’s Aid To Hear Chorus

On Monday, November 19, the Male Chorus will participate in a program given for the Crippled Children’s Aid, which will
be held at the City Auditorium in Asheville. The Chorus will appear as the highlight of the evening, following five
groups made up of voices from high schools in and around Asheville, and will present a program of sacred and
secular music. Plans are also being made for the Thanksgiving program, when the Male Chorus will give “Triumph! Thanksgiving,” by
Sergei Rachmaninoff, accompanied by Mr. Frantz, organist.

Mexican Emissary Will Visit Campus

It is tentatively planned, according to the PMS&T, that the Ambassador to the United States from Mexico will visit the
campus next Tuesday afternoon to witness the first parade of the year by the ROTC Cadet Corps. It is expected
that the Ambassador, in the company of Mr. Hugh Mitchell of Statesville, will arrive here at about 2:30 pm. A
unique feature of the parade will be the rendition by the band of four flourishes of music followed by a
national song of Mexico. This is the prescribed recognition of an official of a foreign, friendly government who has the
rank of ambassador. At an Army post on such an occasion, a nineteen-gun salute would be fired in honor of
the visitor.

Guest of Lions

Monday evening preceding his visit here, the Ambassador will be the guest of a regional meeting of Lions International, to
be held in Statesville. Mr. Mitchell is very prominent in this organization. In addition to being in honor of the
Ambassador, the parade will also be in honor of the Scabbard & Blade, which will have its annual Fall Tap
Day, and of cadets to be recognized for outstanding work in the ROTC at Fort Benning, Ga., this past summer.

Ballard Learns Of ROTC Changes

The PMST spent all of last week at the Infantry School, Fort Benning, Georgia, as senior representative of the Third
Army at the national conference of Infantry ROTC PMS&T’s. Two representatives of each of the six Army Areas of the
continental United States were present, together with one officer from Puerto Rico, one from the Department of the Army, and
one from Headquarters, Army Field Forces, Fort Monroe, Virginia. While it is not possible to divulge at this time any
of what was decided, it can be stated that a number of major changes in subjects were proposed, a greatly
increased use of training aids advocated, and a number of important administrative and procedural changes decided upon. Colonel Ballard has
indicated that changes will be announced as soon as official release is given.

Ga. Tech Concert Feature Of Next Band Excursion

The Davidson College Band will make a trip to Atlanta over the weekend to play at the Georgia Tech football
game, as well as a concert the night before. Conducted by James C. Pfohl, the concert will take place in
the North Fulton High School, Atlanta, Ga., at 8:30 Friday night, November 23. The program for the occasion is a
varied one composed of the following pieces: Slow March, Scipio, by Handel, Military Symphony in F, by Grossec, which includes
Allegro Maestoso, Larghetto, and Allegro. Then the Overture of Rossini on Ilkla Moor, by Eric Fenby, the Second Suite in
F, made up of the March, Song, Song of the Blacksmith and Fantasia. From the “London Suite” comes the Knightsbridge
March, by Coates, Clare E. Grundman’s Blue-Tail Fly, and the Gay Nineties Overture for Band, including Annie Rooney, The Band
Played On, Silver Threads Among the Gold, Comrades, Bicycle Built for Two, and the Man on the Flying Trapeze. The
concert will close to the strains of O, Davidson and All Hail, O Davidson.

World Premier

The early part of December should present an interesting schedule to the music-lover. On December 9, 1951, at 8:00 p.m.,
the world premier of a new composition for baritone soloist, mixed chorus and orchestra, entitled “A Canticle of Christmas," by
Vittorin Gianinini, will be given at the Myers Park Methodist Church in Charlotte.

New Rules Told For Erwin Lodge

Chaplain Alan G. Gripe has announced a new policy for the use of Erwin Lodge, stating that the reservation book
and the keys for Erwin Lodge are kept at the YMCA Guest House. Students, faculty, or other persons using Erwin
Lodge should make reservations at the YMCA Guest House, calling first the YMCA office at 3581, and if there is
no answer, then calling the Guest House number, 3781. The keys to the lodge must always be returned to the
YMCA Guest House immediately after a group finishes using the lodge.

President Guest At Williamsburg

Dr. John Rood Cunningham will be the feature speaker during the 50th Anniversary Celebration of the Nine Mile Presbyterian Church
in Williamsburg, Mo., this Sunday. Highlighting the occasion will be the morning worship service, a community dinner, and an afternoon
celebration. Dr. Cunningham spent five full days discussing many aspects of the ROTC program and its implementation. Prior to reporting,
each senior representative had obtained written views and ideas from all the senior ROTC units in his Army Area. Colonel
Ballard had thus obtained sixteen of these reports. Emphasizing the thought of having views brought out which were as representative
as possible, the fifteen officers were divided into three committees of five members, each with the widest possible geographical distribution.
Colonel Ballard served on committee number one, which included officers from Boston College, North Dakota State, University of California, Penn
State, and Davidson. Each of the three committees examined in detail a particular area of interest: One committee dealt with
curriculum, another with training aids, and the third with general matters. The last day or two was spent in a
full conference of the entire group, acting upon the recommendations worked out in the three committees. The final recommendations were
unanimously accepted by all participants and forwarded to Army Field Forces’ Headquarters. After being acted upon there, they will finally
be dealt with by the Department of the Army.

Violin and Organ Recital Coming

Elizabeth Frantz, violinist, and Harold Frantz, organist, will present a recital of music for violin and organ Monday evening, November
26, at 8:15 in Chambers Auditorium.

Vitali Opener

The program will open with the Vitali Chaconne in G Minor. It is interesting to note that Jascha Heifetz has
recently recorded this work with organ accompaniment. Other works for violin on the program will include two pieces originally written
for violin and orchestra: “Romance in F" by Beethoven, and “The Lark Ascending” by Vaughan-Williams.

Includes U. S. Music

American music to be played will include the Carnival Suite for Organ by Robert Crandall, and a piece recently written
by Mr. Frantz for violin and organ, based on a 13th century song.

Masquers With ‘Ten Little Indians’ Curtain Up In Chambers Tonight at 8:15

Several busy weeks of feverish preparation by the Red and Black Masquers will be culminated tonight when they present “Ten
Little Indians.” The presentation of the play will also climax Converse-Davidson day tomorrow. Written by Agatha Christie, it was first
published as “And Then There Were None.” It has been presented to the public as a book and a movie
besides having a successful run on Broadway.

THE “TEN LITTLE INDIANS” refer to the figures on the mantlepiece of a weird country house on an island off
the coast of Devon. The guests have never met one another or their host who invited them. When they first
arrive a voice out of the air accuses each one of murder, each a case which could not be proved
in court. As they are exchanging data on themselves and their host, one statue falls off the mantlepiece and breaks
and a character chokes to death on a drink mixed with potassium cyanide. One by one the Indian figures topple
off of the mantle and as each one breaks or disappears another person is murdered.

THE NUMBER of bodies increases and everyone is a suspect. The excitement starts early and never lets down until the
closing curtain, when the murder is revealed, much to everyone's surprise. Here is a brief sketch of the actors and
their corresponding roles. Gordon Hurst is an ex-army officer, Philip Lombard, who abandoned his starving men in the jungles of
Africa while he escaped.

BETTY BRADLEY REPRESENTS a secretary who permitted her boss's son to drown because of her love for the boy's uncle,
seeking to rid the competition for his brother's estate. A judge who sentenced an innocent man to death is portrayed
by Bill Pharr. Mrs. May Holly depicts Miss Emily Brent, a spinster, who made her servant commit suicide. An ex-cop,
acted by Howard Proctor, permitted a bank clerk to die on his evidence. Vance Mizelle portrays a wealthy young playboy
who ran over two children.

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1951

Ten Little Indians Open Season

The mystery thriller “Ten Little Indians” raises the curtain tonight on another season for the Red and Black Masquers. Pictured
above are the principal characters, drawn together in one of the high points of the moving action, eyes focused on
central figure Judge Wargraves, portrayed byBill Pharr. Others on stage are, left to right: Malcolm Williamson, Gordon Hurst, Howard Proctor,
Betty Bradley, Marthalee Hull, Tad Currie, and Vance Mizelle.

Holiday Offering Will Boost WSSF, Aid Needy Pupils

The “Y" Cabinet has voted to take up an offering during the Thanksgiving Day Chapel Service which will be given
to the World Student Service Fund. This offering will be designed to be a specific means of giving thanks on
this national holiday since the cabinet feels that the students would like to have some concrete way of expressing their
thankfulness other than the regular service of praise and worship. The World Student Service Fund is supported by such student
agen-
(Continued On Page Four)

Notice!

There will be no Davidsonian next week. With school holidays originally set Thursday, the Davidsonian had not planned to print
the following Friday, and thus committed itself to its advertisers and publishers. Particularly in so far as the latter will
not be operating Thanksgiving Day, The Davidsonian did not see fit to revise its schedule to coincide with the holiday
change. The next issue of The Davidsonian will appear November 30.

PAD Is Campus Nuisance To Unmounted Collegians

By MIKE MYERS

The little old lady pulled her thin shawl tightly about her shoulders, her bony hands red with cold. She nodded
her grey wrinkled head with all of the feeble animation she could muster. She had seen a crust of bread
on the other side of the road that might serve as her supper. She clutched the hand of the orphan
girl at her side and started to lead the tattered child to the other side. Slowly her crutch picked the
way for her stooped, tired form. She must hurry—the wind was getting colder and it would soon be dark. Seventeen
more miles to walk. A scroungy black dog dragged itself along at her heels. zzzuumm splat mmm! Only the little
dog made it to the other side. You see, this little old lady made the mistake of trying to cross
from Duke to the gym just before the supper hour. The student driving the car stopped long enough to paint
a fresh silhouette of a little old lady and an orphan child on the side of his radiator, then with
a screech was off on the second lap of the Little Indianapolis Speedway. Pit stop time: 1:37.

This fast-growing new sport is making a smashing hit all over the campus. I understand that in order to be
a real wheel here you must belong to the pedestrian-a-day club. To be a PAD you only have to pass
a simple beginners’ test and then follow 3 basic rules. Every prospective member must have a satisfactory qualifying time on
the one-tenth mile gravel speed course (oval) that doubles as Fraternity Court. Only charter members are allowed to take the
cut-off through the center. The skill comes in banking off parked cars while running over the minimum number of frat
lawns. Next come the club rules: (1) hem in at least 3 cars behind Duke five times a week. (2)
learn to make the “60-second-run” (from boarding house to P. O. after breakfast) blindfolded. (3) always time it so you
meet an on-coming car when going in or out at the eight ball (extra points for Mack trucks).

The PAD is no static organization. Members are constantly experimenting with the proper positions for sandbags in their cars so
they can take the Duke curve faster. Backing from a parking space without looking is a regular ritual. The PAD's
favorite weather is misty, gloomy days. Sometimes in such weather the pedestrian count may soar to an average of 1.3.
PAD justly lives up to its theme song, “I Go For You!” Relief doesn’t even come with nightfall. Trying to
sleep near a car under an acorn tree is about as hard to do as a tap dance in tennis
shoes—under water. In short it is my opinion the car isn't here to stay—it’s just a passing fad that will
never catch on. It will soon join the raccoon coat, goldfish swallowing contests and marathon dances in the pages of
old Life magazines.
(Continued On Page Four)

Richards, Hoey Sign For Forum

Replies to bids outstanding to Kerr Scott, J. Strom Thurmond, and J. K. Powell yesterday constituted the only hold-up to
final plans for the 1951 Y Forum on ‘Christianity and Politics.’ Forum Chairman Hubert Cannon stated. Already in the fold
for what promises to be one of the most impressive forums in some years are Senator Clyde R. Hoey (D-NC)
and Congressman Richards (D-SC), both of whom accepted despite a full December schedule.

Chairman Foreign Affairs

Richards, chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, will open the forum series Tuesday, December 11, in chapel. The Lancaster
legislator was recently named one of the three top Democrats in Congress. He has served the President as an investigator
in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, and was one of the four Congressmen to witness the signing of the peace
treaty with Japan. Just before coming to Davidson next month Richards will be in Central America studying construction of the
vast new highway which is to run through that area.

Hoey Thursday

Shelby’s Senator Hoey, long a Democratic spokesman in the Senate, is chairman of the subcommittee on investigation under the Senate’s
committee on expenditure in the executive department. He will speak Thursday morning, December 13, in chapel. Cannon hopes to fill
remaining dates: Wednesday, Friday, and the following Tuesday—with talks by Governor Scott, Ex-Governor Thurmond of South Carolina, and Powell, a
member of the House of Representatives from North Carolina. In addition to the chapel addresses, a forum on “Christianity and
Politics” is planned for Wednesday evening.

Y Directors Will Probe Puzzlers At Tuesday Meet

Second of the joint meetings of the YMCA Cabinet and Board of Directors will be held Tuesday night in the
Y Lounge, following up study of problems presented at the first meeting late in September. On the agenda are further
looks into the three main topics at the first meet, including: The present method of organizing religious activity on the
campus; How can existing methods of dealing with religious activity be improved; and Our affiliation with the national YMCA. The
joint meetings were fostered by Y President Allan Strand for a closer understanding between the Cabinet and its governing body.
From the first meeting there has already come the formation of a joint committee to in-
(Continued On Page Four)

NUMBER EIGHT

$300,000 Gift To Davidson All Untaxed

No taxes will be deducted from the $300,000 recently left to Davidson by the late Col. J. E. Johnston of
Baltimore. The colonel's will stated this implicitly. Dr. Cunningham was unable to assert when the money would actually be available
to the college, but said the time might range from six months to the year legally permitted for the disposal
of such moneys. He noted, however, that some gifts to the college have taken as long as one and one-half
years. Discrediting the myth of the old philanthropist who is pleased by a school and impulsively bequeaths it a fortune,
he pointed out the fact that Johnston's gift was no surprise to the administration. Davidson was not the sole educational
institution which benefited from Johnston's benevolence. Johns Hopkins University in his home city of Baltimore is due to receive an
equal amount of the estate. Though recommending the sum be used for endowment, Cunningham reported that the final decision will
be up to the trustees at their next meeting in February. His suggestion goes to the finance committee of the
trustees and then to the top ruling body itself. Members of the finance committee are Messrs. Thomas McPheeters, Ivey Stewart,
Harvey Moore, George Crouch and Dr. Cunningham.

Converse Maids To Adorn Campus In Gay Weekend

Tomorrow is the big day. All the lucky guys who were able to beat the stampede and sign up for
a date will be rewarded when approximately 120 girls from Converse College will be brought by bus to decorate the
campus for a day. Upon arrival at 3:30 the girls will be met by their dates in front of the
“Y,” and will proceed directly to the gym for refreshments and a get-acquainted tea dance, with music and entertainment to
be provided through the courtesy of the ‘Cripple Creek Boys.” When this period of fun has ended, the girls will
be taken to the boarding houses for supper, to be followed by a period of free time. At eight o'clock
the day will be climaxed by the Masquer’s latest production, “Ten Little Indians,” for which special admission prices have been
set to make it easier on those dating. Following the play the girls will be returned to their buses, and
a brief but enjoyable period of co-education will be brought to an end.

Profs. Pop Turkey Next Wednesday

The ROTC Department's annual Thanksgiving Turkey Shoot will be held Wednesday afternoon at 3:30 in the basement of the ROTC
building. Lt. Col. J. L. Ballard, in announcing plans for the faculty firing, stated that two turkeys are in the
pot for the top two marksmen. Refreshments will be served for all the adults, and movies with refreshments will be
shown to all the children while the old folks are playing their roles of breadwinner. All necessary equipment will be
furnished by the ROTC Department. ROTC personnel and their families will not be eligible to shoot for the prizes.
