PAGE FOUR

ROTC Deferments Explained Fully

A recent bulletin from Washington pertains to all ROTC students now under the deferment agreement or planning to sign. It
adds a new condition to the terms of the old agreement. Before the new provision, the deferment agreement stated that
the student promised (1) to take the advanced course if selected or complete it if enrolled (2) to accept a
commission in the ORC if tendered and (3) to serve at least two years on active duty if called by
the Secretary of the Army, but only if called. In return, the Government promised to leave the student in college
and to keep him free from the draft as long as he is enrolled in the ROTC and is under
the deferment. A student is technically enrolled in the ROTC for 120 credit hours at college provided he meets the
other requirements of his military science work.

The new agreement requires the above plus the additional stipulation that the student (if offered a commission) will keep his
commission for eight years as a reserve officer. He may be subject to call to two years’ active duty by
the Secretary of the Army at any time within those eight years. Freshmen who sign deferments must sign the new
agreements since they were not considered for selection by the quota list until after the new law was passed. If
a man now enrolled in the advanced course fails to sign the new agreement who has previously signed an agreement,
he will go on a status of temporary deferment, under the provisions of former regulations, pending clarification of the legal
aspects by higher authorities. It has been directed that the advanced course students see to the matter of their preference
in signing over the Christmas holidays and return prepared for a definite commitment. Sophomores who decline to sign will not
be immediately affected as they must first complete the basic course as per institutional agreement. Selectees from the freshman class
to sign the new deferment will be completed tomorrow. A quota of 185 has been allowed the ROTC Department.

Scouts Join Service Frat

Alpha Phi Omega, a national service fraternity, had its kick-off meeting on the Davidson campus on December 5, at which
time Earnest McCutchan was elected temporary president of the group. Fred Allen was chosen as secretary for the fraternity which
is the most recent on the campus. The first meeting was occupied with the problems of establishing an organization, but
realizing that they needed to have some project before Christmas, the members of the young fraternity joined with the scout
committee of the YMCA Cabinet in having a Christmas party at Erwin Lodge for the two newly formed Negro scout
troops in this area.

NEW CARS DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF Dial 3-4513 212 W. Fourth Charlotte

ROBINSON SLAMS... (Continued From Page Two)

trees. The main issue is whether or not it is right to exclude from our opportunities and company another human
being. With the Court of Control, the line of thought is different. Let me say that this in no way
reflects on Johnny Guiton and his boys. They have done the finest job with the Court that has been done
since I have been here. The Court has only one reason for existing. This reason is to help the freshmen
to get off to the proper start in college, and to instill the Davidson Spirit in them. We assume, by
the very existence of the Court, that the average freshman who comes here will need advice. I agree, but I
think there is a better way to give him this advice than through the Court. If we would treat him
like what we want him to become, instead of what we want him not to become, I think we would
come a lot closer to our goal. Let’s treat him as a mature individual whenever possible. As for the advice
part, if I were a freshman again I would much rather some upperclassman or group of upperclassmen come to me
and talk to me privately because they were interested in me personally. We duck this responsibility by creating a Court.
I think the Freshman Advisor should assume a large part of this responsibility, or at least be on the Court
to fulfill this task. The matter of instilling school spirit appears in the next paragraph.

Someone once said that school spirit is like a lady's virtue: you don’t begin to suspect it until someone talks
about it. This is true for the “Davidson Spirit.” I believe most of the talk about it is really an
attempt to prove the existence of something that doesn't exist, and we are ashamed to admit it. Let's face facts.
We don't have much school spirit. Brother Daniels says all we have to do is to win more ball games.
This is probably true, but he has missed the point entirely. I would like to see a school spirit around
here that is vibrant whether we win or lose. We should be proud of the boys who represent us, because
we know they want to play, and are doing their best. Victory comes.

Merry Christmas and a Happy Holiday Season To The Students And Faculty of Davidson

El Qloner From Eliza Cook

Hunger is bitter but the most accursed of Want’s fell scorpions is thirst. Yet, thirst asks nothing more than Coca-Cola.
If you’re sauntering along or racing your motor, start off refreshed ... have a Coke.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY Coca-Cola Bottling Co. of Concord “Coke” is a registered trade-mark. © 1951,
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

THE CABBAGE PLANTER (Continued From Page Two)

blood-caked black tie, gray flannel trousers and a white buck shoe on his left foot. His right foot has been
severed off just above the ankle. The shaft of a steering wheel extends through his chest and out his back.
They stumble over and

HIGH FIGURES SHOW...(Continued From Page One) third more accidents, the Salisbury road has four times as many speeding arrests. It
was concluded by authorities that the majority of accidents were caused by speeding on the Salisbury road, indicating that the
major portion of the Davidson highway accidents were due to other causes such as the condition of the road itself.
Road factors which greatly influence traffic accidents are curves, road surfaces, and the condition of the shoulders. On the narrow
Davidson road, it was found that most of the curves are banked according to seemingly outmoded engineering patterns. Indeed, 13
accidents have been recorded this year in the immediate vicinity of these “wrong-way” curves. Advertising, weeds, and other obstacles obstruct
the vision of the driver on these curves. Possibly the worst condition of all is the softness of the shoulders.
As the road is only 18 feet wide, when it becomes necessary to leave the road and go onto the
shoulder, the soft clay composition of the shoulder makes driving difficult. It is thought that these shoulders are the cause
of accidents by police officials.

In how you play, not in what the score is, maybe the answer is in dropping down to a league
consistent with our size and strength. I feel pretty sure that we are using poor psychology in making the freshmen
cheer. They should catch the spirit from us, and if we don't have the spirit, then we don’t have any
right to punish a freshman for not having it. Well, this has gone on long enough. I'll close this letter.
Thanks for the criticisms and opinions. And remember—Vive la trash cans!

BRYAN ROBINSON.

DAVIDSONIAN

(lean on Saint Peter’s desk.)

S.P.: Out with it, men. What's the beef?

College Man: Saint Peter, if you don’t mind, sir, I'd like to get inside and get cleaned up before manna.
But this... rabble here keeps insisting that he merits precedence because he died first... Which, incidentally, would make him the
millionth traffic fatality in the United States. Of course, sir, from what I can see through the gate, you people
don’t hold much honors up here, do you? But, returning to the point, I'm sure I died first, and I
must be right. You see, I'm almost through college.

(Turns back to college man)

Now, back to you, young’un. Disregarding this millionth fatality trash, what makes you think you can get in just because
you went to college?

C.M.: Oh, excuse me, sir. I don't blame you for misunderstanding. You see, I was at a church college, not
a university. Here's my YMCA card, sir.

(Gabriel slaps knee, bursts into roar of laughter, rolls on cloud, completely overcome with his hilarity.)

S.P.: (aside) Guess the Boss was right, after all.

C.M.: What's that?

S.P.: Oh, nothing. Sit down; we'll be back to you later. And now, I want to hear your side of
the story, Mr.... uh...

Bum: Nuckles.

S.P.: Yes, that’s it. Nuckles, Nuckles... of course, I should've known. What's your story?

Bum: Y’see, yr reverence, it's like ‘is. I'm standin’ on ‘is corner, y’see, mindin’ my own business. I ain’t doin’
nuttin’. I'm just standin’ ‘ere. Awlva sudden I seen ‘is car coming battin’ downa street. Me, I ain't doin’ nuttin’.
I'm just standin’ ‘ere. But ‘is car, it come battin’ downa street, y’r reverence, 'n awlva sudden BAM! The next
t’ing I know, ‘s guy inna pin strip drape is shootin’ questions at me and some guy widda horn is
sittin’ aroun’ shakin’ ‘is head. ‘S enough t’scare the life out of a guy.

(Saint Peter looks at Gabriel and frowns. Gabriel shrugs his shoulders)

And den, awlva sudden, I see ‘is collitch boy pop up t’roo the clouds. The first t’ing he says is,
“I'm right and you're wrong. I been t’collitch. I'm the millionth fatality.” O course, it don’t make no difference t’me,
but I figure for what it’s worth, I oughta get m'finger inna pie, like the fella says. So I figure
I'm nummer one million on accounta I'm already here when he hits ‘t telephone post onna corner. Besides, I...

S.P.: That’s enough. You forget that I knew it all before you came. Archie, Triple-Tongue, have you anything to say
before I tell these men where to go?

Arch and Gabriel: (together) No, Fellows, you know I'd like to help you, but it’s no secret what the trustees
can do to those who keep on sinning after they get up here. Now you, young’un, are a college man.

Bum: That's a sin, m’lud.

S.P.: I'm inclined to agree with you, friend. However, Nuckles, you have doubted the authority of a college man. Goodness
knows that's a sin.

C.M.: Sir, does that mean...?

S.P.: Yes, son, I'm afraid it does.

Bum (to college man): That ain't so hot, is it, kid?

Gabriel: (like lightning flash)... it ain't. (rolls on cloud, holding both sides from laughter).

S.P.: Just a minute, men. (Bum and College Man turn back. Saint Peter puts feet up on desk.) As for
that millionth fatality rot, like the College Man said, you all’s earth titles don’t hold much up here; I’m not
even interested enough to check and see who did die first. In fact, the title will have done all the
good it can do if it reminds those you left behind on the highways to take their time about making
the trip up here. There’s no need to hurry. Pshaw, we'll be around for a while!

RENT YOUR FORMALS — at the — American Beauty Florist 1515 S. Blvd. — Charlotte, — Phone 4-057, Night or
Day FORMALS FOR ALL OCCASIONS—30 minutes notice! Tails — Cutaways — Tuxedos — Dinner Jackets — Shirts Links and Studs
— Ties — Gloves — and Shoes Phone 4-0517 Charlotte, N. C.

A very Merry Christmas and a Happy Holiday Season to our customers.

W. M. & M. SODA SHOP “You'll Never Go Broke by Buying a Coke”
