PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF
BILL WHITE

BUSINESS MANAGER
ALEX GOLEY

Associate Editors
Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis, George McMurray, Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw, John Ottley

Photographs—Archie Neal
Photographer—Andrew Simmons

Feature Editor—Mike Myers
Exchange Editor—Ed Richardson

Managing Editors
Copy Editor—Pete Ormsby
Art Editor—Don Mahy
Sports Editor—Dick Liles
City Editor—Nat Daniels

Assistant Business Manager
Boo Northcutt

Advertising Manager
Jack Hobson

Circulation Manager
Bob Poston

Collection Manager
Bill Minter

Subscriptions Manager
Preston Chaney

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Is Executive Committee Policy On Dances A Well Founded One?

For years far below the prestige on this campus that similar organizations enjoy at colleges and universities throughout the land, Davidson’s D Club was blocked again last week in an attempt to lift itself out of oblivion. Appearing before the executive committee with a request to hold a dance in Charlotte November 10, following the N. C. State football game, D. Club President Ham Wade was given a “No” on the grounds that it was a policy of the College to have all dances on campus now. Such a policy, it seems, has been in effect since the completion of Johnston Gymnasium, and is, obviously, for facility of faculty control of them.

Wade's appeal for a Charlotte dance was two-fold: 1) The student body and dates will be in Charlotte anyway for the game, and 2) a change of ballroom would relieve the monotony of the gym for all big social functions. The faculty's contention, backing up its policy, was that the ‘wrong crowd” might make itself present in the form of rowdy outsiders. To call it a shovel—there would be drinking.

The Davidsonian is all for the D Club’s attempts to pull itself up by its bootstraps, and sees the Charlotte dance as a good social change and a feather in these monogrammers’ caps. If this group of boys—those whom we pride for the sportsmanship, character, and clean-living on athletic teams—cannot handle a private function in Charlotte, who can? Even the sub-deb set at Central High can have its private affair and control those present by invitation. Faculty members, of course, would be welcomed as guests and chaperones. To the best of our recollections, the Scabbard and Blade held an off-campus dance two years ago, Johnston Gym notwithstanding. What about the D Club's deal? It seems the student body is due an explanation of policy by the executive committee.

Administration Health Action Will Help, Not Hinder, Frats

An administration step toward corralling the fraternities back to the dining halls for meals was the prevailing attitude with which the news of the College's sanitation requirements was received this week along fraternity row. The control-shy Greeks were barking up exactly the wrong tree, this time, however. They read into the administration’s requirements of 1) separate milk containers, 2) passable garbage disposal, 3) health certificates for employees, and 4) certain specifications for washing glasses apart from the dishes, a motive to close down on the various boarding houses and force them back to Chambers.

While the College was doing so for its own reason (i.e., to save the College a whale of a black eye, for instance, in event of a very possible epidemic), it was merely staying a step ahead of the health authorities by making certain that Davidson's frat boarding houses indeed would be able to pass and not be closed down when the health department begins to check. State health authorities have been trying for years to reach boarding houses as they now do restaurants and cafeterias, but pressure groups have kept such a legislation from passing. The trend is more and more toward such a ruling, however, and a foresighted Davidson College administration is making certain its house is in order when the day comes. Many houses, under the corresponding requirements for restaurants and cafes, would be forced to close down now, should the law be passed applying to boarding houses. Far from a throat cutting, the ruling is a helping hand. Could be that some quarters are too blind to recognize one when it's extended.

Interfaith Talks Stirring Stagnant Pools of Thought

The series of Thursday chapel speakers telling of the beliefs of a non-Protestant or non-Christian people should have proved to this student body to be of great faith stimulation. After Father Graves opened the Y-sponsored series three weeks ago on Catholicism there was much talk created by his positive manner, his ability to speak at length in answer to any question concerning his faith, whether or not his quizzers were in agreement with what he said, to a man they admired him for his stand on what he believes. It made many wonder if they could speak for Protestantism with the same confident authority Father Graves used for Catholicism. Rabbi Herschfield, whose talk last week was one of the most well-received in chapel in some time, provoked further interest in what the other man believes with his plea for better understanding and tolerance among faiths. And yesterday, Dr. Sandy Marks told of how Christianity is received by those who have never known it before. These talks, at a school where Christianity is all but taken for granted, have stirred some stagnant pools of thought.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1951

The Pied Piper of Chambers

THE CABBAGE PLANTER: Gentry Swatches Way To Fame, Replaces Comics For Thinkers

On October 15, a new type magazine will be published. It will either elate the top 100,000 thinking men in this country or be a miserable flop. Frankly, we don't know which.
—Advertisement, Time, Oct 1, 1951.

It was not until long after I broke the Pablum habit that I realized Alice in Wonderland was a satire. And I had fidgeted my way through a good many Saturday cowboy matinees before some cruel adult told me that Gulliver was really not a giant, and that he really didn’t travel, and that I was a naive little dolt if I thought he did. Consequently, I have since called everything a satire and then gone back to see if it really was sort of like shooting first and asking questions second. Such was the case with a recent advertisement that appeared in Time, The New Yorker, and other Scripts ‘N Pranks imitators. Since I can't find any evidence to the contrary, I shall treat it as an honest advertising effort.

After the lead printed above, they went on to describe the prospective subscribers to Gentry: You... men... are a blend of certain characteristics. We don’t mean physically; nor do we mean wealth or mental qualities alone... These... men... have matured in their thinking; have reached a niche above the mass stratum; but, more important... are ever in quest of a better way to live. What observer, with perception, can take this to mean anyone but the Davidson student? Yet for the skeptic, still more conclusive identification follows: It is always, why, why, why, with these... men who... may do any kind of work, or no work at all, for their daily bread... This is, as we visualize him, the GENTRY reader; and if you feel... as he does... that you are literally surrounded by a forest of paper and ink, of which very little has true depth... then perhaps GENTRY will be a publication...

In the best Elliot Springs manner they then explain what makes GENTRY worth two dollars a copy, and why it is indispensable to every thinking man, i.e., Davidson student. It is hard to give a picture of GENTRY for there is nothing... when GENTRY prints a story on fishing, our technique calls for the swatching of an actual trout fly in the book... Or... it is quite natural for GENTRY to enclose a tobacco leaf to illustrate a point...

Effective, dynamic journalism, perhaps. But I can't help thinking that reading GENTRY in bed would be a mite uncomfortable, since a trout fly recently unswitched and dried tobacco leaf crumbs tend to lose their tactile appeal when between one and one’s mattress.

What’s In the First Issue?

There is a story (not too many words) on old automobiles. We must remember that GENTRY is for the 100,000 thinking, not reading, men in this country. Rather than do the ordinary in picturing them, we give our readers four tip-ons reproducing a 1904 Packard K Tonneau, a 1909 Thomas-Towner, a 1904 Surrey fringed top beauty and a 1908 Buick Rumbles. Each of these tip-ons (in pochoir colors on rich mat paper) is suitable for framing...

The philosophical potentialities of a pochoir Stutz Bearcat are beyond this reporter's intellectual capacity. Then there's the question of health and entertainment for yourself and your family. Do you know that for two or three thousand dollars it is possible to build your own private Finnish steam bath into your home? This article... will be interesting to almost everybody. Of course it will be. What thinking man do you know who doesn't want a Finnish bath? On the other hand, what thinking man do you know who doesn’t want two or three thousand dollars?

When GENTRY illustrates a new coat an actual sample of the fabric will be tipped alongside the photo to make it come to life.

(Continued On Page Four)

NAT DANIEL: Freudian Frustrations, Tensions Alleviated By Co-Education

Peculiar to most Free Enterprise educational institutions for men in our American society is an almost rabid pre-occupation with that subject which is much whispered about but seldom discussed openly among the pious Presbyterian pillars of Neo-Classic education—Sex. We talk about it in our bull sessions; we have private forums concerning it, we read it into almost everything anybody within our midst writes or says; we look for it in every conceivable aspect of our curriculum, in literature, art, history, and even economics; we hang up pictures over-emphasizing it, and even in our better moments we are always on the lookout for some mention, description, or reference to it. The mere sight of a skirt on the campus makes eyes bulge and mouths water, and the mention of the presence of a girls’ school or a dance weekend sends us, individually and collectively into a mild form of hysteria. In short, we're frustrated, thwarted and immature as far as it is con-cerned, and it's high time something was done about our psychoses according to Freud. The answer to all of these problems is simply this: Let’s make Davidson co-ed. Not only would this tend to help us individually, but it would also solve many of the issues the student body as a whole has become heir to.

The first effect of the co-educationalizing of Davidson would be in the improvement of manners. Our eating habits, our dress, our personal appearance, and our language would become overnight just about what Mother spent two futile decades trying to produce. Its second effect would be upon the morals of the Davidson student. I venture to say that the standard of our school as a whole would tend upwards instead of downwards. First, because girls of social, educational, and economic classes would be readily available, and secondly, we'd see what we'd been missing all these years.

The third effect of a co-ed Davidson would be the maturation of the male student's mental attitude toward sex. While here we grow up mentally, physically, and spiritually, if we had about 500 girls around, and could take the fact of the opposite sex’s existence for granted without having to look so hard for some examples, we would change our attitude to one of accepting and continuous enjoyment, and not feel like we have to cram the affections of a lifetime into two or three hours of heavy necking. It would be a lot easier on our dates, and a lot easier on our own nerves and physical well-being for the weeks preceding and following.

Psychology Finds Education

As college students progress in scholastic standing, they apparently reverse their attitudes toward religion, as indicated by a survey conducted by Milton D. Havron of the University of Maryland's psychology department. The religious aspect of the study was an incidental finding, as its main purpose was to determine the relationship between a person's attitudes and his verbal habits. Though the attitude toward religion was chosen, any attitude would have served the purpose. While the results indicate a trend away from religion as the student advances, it may also be indicative of merely a trend away from formal religious expression, Havron speculates.

Participating in the survey were approximately 600 students, representing all class standings, including those doing graduate work. For the purposes of the study, the students were classified as having either predominantly “religious” or “political-economic” attitudes. The “religious” person is characterized as being acquainted with biblical rules of conduct, is a church-goer, believes in personal salvation, ethical values, and in a final day of judgment. The “political-economic” person, on the other hand, thinks more objectively, keeps abreast of politics and economic trends, regards Sunday as a day of rest, believes that material welfare is primary to ethical values, and likes pleasure and luxurious living.

(Continued On Page Four)

Discovering America Cost Columbus $36,000; Today He Couldn’t Leave New York Harbor

NEW YORK — It cost about $36,000 for Columbus to discover America. His payroll for 90 men aboard The Santa Maria, Nina, and Pinta ran to 250,000 maravedis, or some $3,500 a month. Today, he wouldn't get out of a U.S. harbor for that if he picked up a crew here and tried to sail to Spain. The payroll tab would amount to as much every couple of days, all things considered, as the monthly did then.

Columbus himself didn't have to foot much of the bill, but today the Spanish cops might not be willing to put up that kind of dough. Oh, you didn’t know about the cops? Well, wise up. Don't believe that malarkey about Isabella pawning her jewels. She offered to, but didn’t. Actually, most of the money for the first voyage in 1492 was borrowed from the endowment of a police force called the Santa Hermandad. True, the crown later repaid it, but the cops ran the risk. Columbus, himself, invested 250,000 maravedis, which he probably borrowed.

When you stop to think about it—and this is a good time to think about it since Columbus was born just 500 years ago between August 25 and October 31, 1951—America was discovered by mistake and named by fraud. Any schoolboy can tell you that Columbus was looking for a shorter westward route to Asia. He was not trying to prove that the world was round. That wasn’t the big argument. Most of the experts at the time thought the world was round. Columbus was trying to prove that only a narrow ocean separated Europe from Japan and the gold and spices that old Marco Polo had talked about. Old Chris thought the distance was about 3,000 miles. He was wrong by about 8,000 miles. If old Isabella had known it was that far, she might have made old Chris stay home.

You don’t believe it? Look it up in the Pulitzer prize book, “Admiral of the Ocean Sea” by Samuel E. Morison. America was named after Amerigo Vespucci, who came over here, went back, and wrote a report which he pre-dated by two years. He said he sighted the mainland in 1497. Actually, he didn’t see it until 1499—about 500 years after the Norsemen, two years after John Cabot, and one year after Columbus.

Here are some more things you probably didn’t learn in school: For centuries, people have been arguing whether Columbus was Italian, Castilian, Catalan, Corsican, Majorcan, Portuguese, French, German, English, Greek, or Armenian. But there is no doubt, says Morison, he was an Italian, born in Genoa. Except now and then, he operated like a Philadelphia lawyer. The queen had promised a reward of 10,000 maravedis (about $140) to the first man who sighted land on the first voyage.

(Continued On Page Four)

RICK ROPER: The last good effect of the integration of the feminine element into our college life would be along matrimonial lines. With a good number of women in our midst, and though we might never learn how to handle them in times of tantrums, comfort them when they need it, listen to them when they have something constructive to say, and if you find your dream girl here, you'll have ample time to find out if you can live together under normal everyday operating conditions—and not have to base your judgments on a series of Saturday nights. Then, too, when you graduate, you'll be able to woo the boss’ daughter as well as run his business, thus assuring yourself of achieving your ambition as a $10,000 a year junior executive.

Gentlemen, our situation is serious! Let us take our problem openly and present it in words of wisdom and integrity to the administration and the trustees, and demand that in order for Davidson to continue to produce the gentlemen of high caliber who get letters each year from the alumni officers informing them as to how well off they are, that she must begin to produce a new phenomenon, the Davidson Lady, and the sooner she gets started, the better.

Proposal To Recognize Weakens Religion

Vatican May Go Hard With Truman in ’52

Mr. Harry S. Truman, who writes letters, calls nasty names, and is President of the United States, has done it again. A past master at the art of antagonizing people, the man from Missouri made all his previous accomplishments look small in comparison with the furore his recent naming of an ambassador to the Vatican has caused. In the past, he has practiced his hobby on such minor figures as music critics and newspaper columnists, but this time he has succeeded in arousing the ire of apparently the majority of American Protestants, which is quite a jump indeed.

In naming Gen. Mark Clark to the Vatican post, Mr. Truman got the disapproval of such high Protestant leaders as:

GLENN L. ARCHER, executive secretary of Protestants and other Americans for Separation of Church and State, who will ask the Senate not to confirm the appointment, “The action amounts to an effort to revolutionize the American form of government by abrogating its most fundamental principle—the separation of church and state.”

Unwise Proposal

BISHOP HENRY KNOX SHERRILL, president of the National Council of Churches of Christ in the U.S.A. (representing 32 million American Protestants). “I hope and believe that this unwise proposal will be opposed by the great majority of fair-minded Americans of every religious conviction and will be either withdrawn or defeated in the Senate.”

DR. CARL McINTYRE, president of the International Council of American Christian Churches (representing 1,500,000 Protestants in the U.S.), “Rome is selling her aid in fighting Communism for a price instead of freely giving what she has to the cause of the West. Truman’s purchase should be returned.”

PROF. HENRY P. VAN DUSEN, president, Union Theological Seminary: “I wish to add my personal voice to the storm of protest from loyal Americans who are justly outraged, both by the nomination of an American ambassador to the Vatican and by the time of its announcement.”

Status of Vatican

The issue seems to have boiled down to this: Our Constitution provides for separation of church and state. The Vatican is recognized as a church, and it is technically impossible for it to be both a church and a state. If this is true, the nomination of Clark as an ambassador violates the Constitution. If the Vatican is a state, on the other hand, rather than a church, a lot of Catholics have had the wrong idea for a long time. And, technically, if the Vatican is a state, it must assume the responsibilities of a state and register its leaders as foreign agents.

But the issue within the issue is Mr. Truman, who will only be hurting himself if he insists on the appointment being approved by Congress. If anyone knows that election time is near, it is Our Hero of 1946, and said politician must be aware that the Protestants of the U.S. can make or break him next fall. Why did he do it, then? A logical if improbable answer to this question is the one conjectured in a Greensboro Daily News story last Tuesday. In a special story from Washington, the Daily News’ Capital correspondent said the appointment of Gen. Clark “has been interpreted here as a definite indication Truman does not intend to run.”

Solon Explains Move

A North Carolina legislator unidentified in the Daily News story made these points: “President Truman made the appointment knowing the repercussions it would bring. He could have sent someone to the Vatican in a lesser post, or do as President Roosevelt did—name a personal envoy. But he named an ambassador to the Roman Catholic state.”

Judging from this report, it would appear that the regime of H. S. T. may end sooner than expected. But don’t count the man from Independence out of the 1952 race yet. Another whistle-stop campaign with a few plain, heart-warming speeches and Mr. H. S. (Forget It) Truman will have a chance to antagonize people for another four years.

SOUTH RISES AGAIN AT FURMAN WHERE FROSH REVERE BARS AND STRIPES

Upperclassmen at Furman have added a new (or old) twist to hazing. Obviously, the trend toward flying the old Confederate banner from Jersey to Georgia provoked it. A Confederate flag will be raised on campus each morning by specified freshmen. Rats passing the flag will remove their caps at a distance of five paces from the flag and “maintain this state of reverence” for five paces beyond the flag.