YMCA SPRING SERVICES BEGIN

The Davidsonian

ROPER RAPS RUARK ON EDITORIAL PAGE

VOLUME XXXIX

ALLEN STRAND TOPS ROBINSON

Scales, Cannon To Be Installed As YMCA V-Pres.

NICKELS DEFEATED IN VEEP RACE

Allan Strand, rising senior from Greensboro, was elected president of the YMCA in the final runoffs this morning. Strand defeated
Bryan Robinson for the post in a three-day race. Luke Scales and Hubert Cannon were voted first and second vice-president,
respectively.

A pre-ministerial student, Strand will be able to work closely with the “Y” cabinet in formulating the drives and aims
of that organization. In addition to serving as vice-president of the “Y” this year, Allan has served on the student
council and is presently a member of the Beaver Club and Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. He is currently holding
down the number one position on the tennis team.

Luke Scales, from Shawmut, Alabama, is a pre-ministerial who has been active in YMCA and Westminster Fellowship Work for some
time. Hubert Cannon, a sophomore from Lancaster, S.C., is a member of Phi Gamma Delta, the Forensic Council, and the
football band.

As the new president, Strand will step into the position held this year by Neil Leach, while Scales will take
over Strand’s old post. Cannon will succeed Bryan Robinson. In today’s election, 615 votes were cast for the “Y” presidency
and 1169 for the two vice-presidential offices.

PHILANTHROPIC SOCIETY TO BE CHAPEL LEADER

The Philanthropic Literary Society held its first meeting of the month on April 2. After the usual business procedure, Mr.
Lyman Kiser, new initiate, presented a sketch of his farewell address to his senior class in high school. Mr. Kiser’s
reading brought back vivid memories of days dear to the hearts of all.

Mr. Bob Crutchfield brought before the group a paper entitled “Sweet Chariot.” It was the touching story of a Negro
caught in the toils of circumstance and condemned to death. Through no fault of his own, this man was swept
away by the brush of fate to a destiny of innocent suffering and death.

Presented next was a publication of a series of letters discovered by Mr. Henry Hansen. They had been written by
an intellectual gentleman from Atlanta. This long-lost civilization, now existing at the South Pole, was seeking to learn as much
about America as possible. Thus, the letters were, in the main, comments on the faults and motives of the American
way of life.

Mr. Howard Proctor then gave a preview of the chapel program to be presented soon by the society. Included in
the preview was one complete portion of the tentative program admirably done by Mr. Proctor himself.

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

SUNDAY NIGHT RESUSCITATED REBELS RECTIFIED BY RECALCITRANT WRATH

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1951

Allen Strand

Phi Delts, Betas, SPE's, ATO's “Whoop It Up” With Functions

Highlighting social activities last weekend were the functions of four of the fraternities on the Davidson Campus. Phi Delta Theta,
Beta Theta Pi, Sigma Phi Epsilon, and Alpha Tau Omega had their spring functions in Charlotte last Saturday, April seventh.

At the Woman’s Club, dancing to the strains of Dan Ramsey and his orchestra were the Phi Delts enjoying their
annual Blue and White Ball. All the girls were dressed in either blue or white evening dresses, while the boys
wore white dinner jackets in honor of the fraternity colors. Present at the dance was Miss Dot MacLeod, the Chapter’s
Blue and White Sweetheart. A Queens junior, Dot is president of the student body and a member of Alpha Delta
Pi. From New York, she is pinned to Bill Klein. Faculty representatives were Dr. and Mrs. Causey and Sir Derrick
and Lady Barton. The affair was in honor of the seniors. The pledge class honored Pledgemaster Hartley Hall, IV with
a piece of luggage, in which it is hoped he can contain his hot air.

At the Officers’ Club at Morris Field was the Bowery Ball of the Betas. The prize for the most original
girls’ costume went to Miss Ann Stewart of Queens, escorted by Jim Boulware. Tom Allen was the most originally dressed
boy, escorting Miss Rose Ellen Bowen of Winston-Salem, Phi Alpha’s Sweetheart. Bill Knauff played for the dance, which was represented
from the faculty by Dr. and Mrs. Davidson. This is the first year of the Bowery Ball, and it is
hoped that it will become an annual affair.

The newly installed Epsilon Omega brothers of Alpha Tau Omega held their Spring Dinner Dance at the El Morocco Supper
Club, with Ray Barrier supplying the music. Dress for the dance was on the theme “What you were, are, or
will be.” Chaperones were Dr. and Mrs. Godcharles and Coach and Mrs. Redding.

The SPE’s held their Queen of Hearts Ball at the Policeman's Club, Morris Field. A banquet was held before the
dance. Bill Robbins supplied the music. Chosen the Sig-Ep Queen of Hearts was Miss Barbara Hatcher, of Wilmington, N.C., escorted
by Morgan Bailey. Maid of Honor is Miss Grace Moore, of Winthrop College, escorted by Perry Daniels. Representing the faculty
was Dr. Paul Cheatham and Dr. and Mrs. Reid.

Officers Will Inspect ROTC

Details of the Annual Formal ROTC Inspection by the Government have been announced by the PMS&T. The inspection will take
place on Monday and Tuesday, April 30th and May 1st, respectively, and will be performed by a team of 3
officers from Headquarters, Third Army in Atlanta. The ranking officer will be a colonel. As in previous years, the inspection
will include such things as classroom work, records, drill, and appearance and spirit of the Cadet Corps. For the Tuesday
afternoon drill period, plans call for an inspection of the cadet corps in ranks, squad drill, platoon drill, company drill,
and a formal regimental parade.

“Y” RUN-OFF

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NUMBER TWENTY-ONE

Dr. Harry Moffett WILL HEAR GEN. HUNT

(Charlotte Junior Will Lead Series)

A Texan has accepted the Davidson College YMCA's invitation to lead Spring Services here April 15-18. He is Dr. Harry
Moffett of the University Presbyterian Church, Austin, Texas. Assigned counselors will actually live in the dormitories to lead discussion each
night of the services’ duration.

Opening the series will be Dr. Moffett’s message at Sunday Vespers, April 15. He will speak Monday through Wednesday at
chapel and deliver a talk each of these evenings at 7:15.

A recently converted Catholic Priest, Mr. J. H. Lansinger, will lead a discussion titled “The Catholic Becomes a Protestant” at
8:15 in the Y Lounge Monday. “A Christian Philosophy of Sex” will be discussed simultaneously in the Y Parlor. A
one-time battalion commander on Guadalcanal and two ex-chaplains will head a panel discussion concerning the religious breakdown in many men
upon entering the armed services. This will be at 8:15 p.m. April 17 in the Faculty Room.

Mr. Lansinger will take over the rostrum in Bible 32 to illustrate “The Catholic Concept of Salvation” Monday in Room
201 during the fourth hour. “The Christian Understanding of History” will be Dr. Moffett’s theme as he speaks before History
42 at the same time in Room 302.

Dormitory counselors will meet with interested men at 10:30 each night to either enlarge on that day’s chapel talk or
discuss freely any question which may arise. They will also be available for conference for the most part of each
day. Dr. Moffett will be on hand for chats especially between the hours of 2 and 4 in theY. Working
with the services are Tom Stockton, Bill Russell, Kirk Oglesby, Pat McGeachy, John Guiton, Al Davies, Gene Craven, Ted Bowen,
Mac Bulgin, Dick Hobson, Tom Mann, John Gibbs, and Fred Holder. Don Shriver is special services chairman for the Y.

AFTER-VESPER TALKS

On April 22, Dr. Jay Ostwalt will lead a discussion on the topic, “American Influence in the Far East.” Those
students interested in taking part in these discussions should contact Irving Stubbs. Dr. Harry M. Moffett, the speaker for Spring
Services, comes to Davidson from the University Presbyterian Church in Austin, Texas. Dr. Moffett is not, however, as far removed
from Davidson life as this would seem to indicate, for he is himself a graduate of Davidson College and his
father, the Reverend Dr. Harry Moffett, had his final pastorate at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. While at Davidson, Dr.
Moffett was active in the Red and Black Masquers and was a member of the Beaver Club, Sigma Upsilon honorary
literary fraternity, and the track team. He is a member of the Kappa Alpha order. After graduating from Davidson in
1931, Dr. Moffett entered Union Theological Seminary in 1932. He received his B.S. degree there, and, since that time, has
received honorary D.D. degrees both from Austin College in Sherman, Texas, and from Davidson College. Dr. Moffett was ordained by
Holston Presbytery in Tennessee, serving a group of three churches at Jefferson City, Strawberry Plains, and Rutledge, Tenn.

On Saturday night, the Charlotte Alumni chapter of Phi Gamma Delta is sponsoring one of the largest banquets for the
undergraduates yet to be held. The banquet is to be the annual Norris Pig Dinner, which is a tradition in
all Phi Gam chapters throughout the country. For the last several years, the local chapter has held successful banquets, but
this year’s is to be something extra-big and extra-grand. This year’s Pig Dinner will be held in Charlotte at the
Selwyn Hotel. Not only will the local undergraduate chapter be there, but there will be many distinguished alumni from all
parts of the country. Among the imposing array of alumni to be present will be Lieut. General Leroy P. Hunt
of the Marine Corps. As General Hunt is to be the leading speaker at the banquet, a short resume of
his illustrious career is indeed necessary. He was born in Newark, New Jersey, shortly before the turn of the century.
From New Jersey, his parents moved to California, where he attended public school and went on to attend the University
of California. It was at the University that he was a Phi Gam. He was commissioned a second lieutenant in
the Marine Corps in March of 1917 and joined the Marine barracks, Norfolk, Va. In August of that year, he
sailed for France where he participated in four of the major engagements of the first World War. In 1942, he
became commander of the Marine Regiment. In this capacity, he led the Regiment in the seizure and capture of Guadalcanal.
Besides this operation, he participated in the campaigns on Saipan, Tinian, and the capture of Okinawa. At present, General Hunt
is Commanding General, Fleet Marine Force of the Atlantic. In addition to the Navy Cross, D.S.C., Silver Star with two
Oak Leaf Clusters, Legion of Merit with Clusters, Bronze Star, Purple Heart and Oak Leaf Cluster, Presidential Unit Citation, Japanese
Occupation Medal, French Croix de Guerre with two Gilt Stars and one Palm, Nicaraguan Medal of Distinction, and French Fourragere.

Band And Crooners Practice For Interfraternity Sing On April 25

Phi Mu Alpha honorary music fraternity announced recently that the annual Inter-Fraternity Sing will be held on Wednesday evening, April
25th, at 8:15. Phi Mu Alpha sponsors this event each year and it has gradually become one of the most
eagerly awaited and enthusiastically entered events of the year. Last year, the cup was won for the third consecutive time
by the Campus Club which, by the rules of the contest, now owns this cup permanently. A new cup will
be awarded to the winning fraternity this year by the music department. With the formidable opposition furnished by the Campus
Club removed by their winning of the cup, each fraternity has an equal chance to establish a trend which will
culminate in ownership of the cup. At this year’s event, the Concert Band will present a program of music beginning
at 7:30. The rules have been altered slightly toward de-emphasizing any tendency to judge the groups on a professional basis.
Copies of the rules have been sent to each fraternity. Phi Mu Alpha wishes to enlist your cooperation and promises
an evening of good entertainment.

Jefferson City was the seat of a small denominational college and it was here that Dr. Moffett had his first
experience as the minister of a college church. Since that time (Continued On Page Four)

Dr. Harry M. Moffett

MOFFETT EXPERIENCED IN COUNSELING YOUTH

his first experience as the minister of a college church. Since that time (Continued On Page Four)

Best Kalogridis For Editor's Post

In the final run-off this morning for the editorship of the Davidsonian for 1951-62, Bill White came out victorious over
Pete Kalogridis. The election of White climaxed a lightning quick election which saw the field of candidates for the post
narrowed from an original seven men on the ticket Wednesday to the win by White today. During the past year,
White has been Sports Editor of the Davidsonian, and for the two years prior to this, he has written for
the sports staff. For a number of years, White has written copy for newspapers all over the South and during
his years at Davidson, he has been the right-hand man of the College sports publicity director. A native of Charlotte,
N.C., White is a member of the track team, the Kappa Sigma social fraternity, and the Cumanean Literary Society. Pete
Kalogridis, White’s opponent in the election, is from Winter Haven, Florida. During the current year, he has served ably as
a Managing Editor for the Davidsonian and has been a prominent member of the Forensic Council. He is a member
of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. It is expected that White will take over the reins of the paper within
the next week and edit the few remaining issues this year. In the balloting for the editorship of the paper
today, a total of 608 votes was cast out of a possible 776. In previous elections this year, the voting
has averaged about 675 each election.

Sumter’s Fall Calls Students To Rebel In Righteous Wrath

April 14, 1861—Thursday at 4:30 a.m. Fort Sumter was bombarded by the militia under Beauregard around Charleston Bay. After red-hot
cannon balls set fire to the wooden building which covered the esplanade of the fort, Anderson and his men were
driven from the embrasures into the casements by the stifling smoke. They (the enemy) worked feverishly and with gallantry as
the magazine’s powder was thrown into the sea to prevent an explosive conflagration, but resistance of any kind was wisely
deemed futile. Then, after some parley, the third of the surrender demands was accepted by Colonel Anderson. Any ignominy was
avoided and Anderson’s evacuation of the fort was conducted with the usual honors of war. A final salvo of 50
guns before the northward departure occasioned the only fatality and this was a soldier who was killed by a fragment
of a gun which exploded in saluting the Federal flag. It was seen that the fall of Fort Sumter was
received by the people of Davidson with transports of joy and the student body is now redoubling their preparations to
succor the secession movement already afoot in the Confederacy as evidenced by the re- (Continued On Page Four)
