PAGE 8

University Of Oslo Offers Summer Courses For American Students

The annual Summer School for American Students at the University of Oslo, in Norway, has been announced by University authorities.
The 1951 session will be the fifth consecutive one and will be held in Oslo from June 23rd to August
4th. Once again, all arrangements will be handled by an American committee, and applications for entrance can be secured from
the Oslo Summer School Admissions Office at St. Olaf College in Northfield, Minnesota. As in past years, some 250 American
students will be admitted. All applicants must have completed at least two college years by June of 1951. Applications must
be received at the Admissions Office no later than April 1st. Notification of action on the application will be mailed
shortly after that date.

The University of Oslo will provide lecturers and guarantee the educational standards of the courses, which will be conducted in
English. The main emphasis this summer will be on courses pertaining to Norwegian culture: geography, history, language, literature, music, and
art. There will also be courses offered on the social, economic, and political situation in the Scandinavian countries. Numerous courses
will be offered from which the student can choose, with a 6-week orientation course, "The General Survey of Norwegian Culture,"
required of all students.

The faculty for the session contains the names of many prominent men, known not only in their native land of
Norway but recognized throughout the entire world. Many of the leading lecturers from the regular sessions of the University are
included, as well as prominent men in the Norwegian government. Halvard Lange, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Haakon Lie, Secretary of
the Norwegian Labor Party, Dr. Karl Evang, Surgeon-General of Public Health, Christian S. Oftedal, Editor-in-Chief of the "Stavanger Aftenblad," and
Dr. Francis Bull, Professor of Scandinavian Literature at the University, are but a few of the many that will be
on the Summer School staff.

Six semester credits may be earned during the six-week course. The University of Oslo will award a certificate to everyone
who satisfactorily completes the Summer School course. Prospective students who wish to transfer credits from Norway are urged to confer
with their faculty advisor or registrar. The University will issue official transcripts of students' records showing the number of hours
devoted to lectures, laboratory and field work, and the results of examinations taken. A limited number of scholarships will be
awarded.

The Summer School session has been approved by the United States Veterans’ Administration. American veterans may thus receive subsistence of
$75 per month if single; $105 if married; and $120 if married and with additional dependents. In addition, of course,
the Veterans Administration will pay the tuition fee and probably the student fee.

Classroom and laboratory activities of the Summer School will be conducted in the new Science Building of Oslo University. Located
at Blindern, ten minutes by electric car from the center of Oslo, this building has pleasant natural surroundings and commands
a sweeping view over the Oslo fjord and the hills around the city. The lower rates established last year will
again prevail. The tuition for the six-week term is $80; the student fee, which includes health insurance, is $10; and
the excursion fee, $20. Two hundred berths in Tourist class have been reserved on the ships of the Norwegian-American Line,
which will sail from New York on June 13th and return from Oslo on August 8th. The round-trip fare is
$360.I have always been of the opinion that you were never equipped for any radio work more demanding than chopping
liver on the Chicago Round Table.

BOB: Football season. That’s a sports term meaning, “I can’t make a touchdown, coach. My draft beer’s waiting for me.”
Bob and Bing on radio: Bob on NBC every Tuesday night and Bing every Wednesday night on CBS.

Classes are reserved for the Oslo Summer School students on the Norwegian American Line’s SS STAVANGERFJORD, sailing from New York
on June 13. The round trip fare in this class is $360. Other means of transportation are somewhat higher. Application
blanks should be requested without delay by all those interested. They may be obtained from the Oslo Summer School Admissions
Office, St. Olaf College, Northfield, Minnesota.

Mary had a little lamb, But the boys gave her no tumble. Now Mary's grown and has two calves That
make all the boys mumble.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Crusade for Freedom Gets Strong Support Of Loyal Americans

General Lucius D. Clay, National Chairman of the Crusade for Freedom, today made public the results of the recent Crusade
for Freedom campaign. Although contributions and signatures are still continuing to come in to National Headquarters in the Empire State
Building, Clay announced that the number of signatures of Americans on the Freedom Scroll have passed the 15 million mark—and
that total contributions exceed $1,268,000.

“I wish to thank most sincerely, the thousands of Crusade workers throughout the country who have made this accomplishment possible,”
Clay said in a letter to field chairmen. “Radio Moscow sneered that the American public was being forced to pay
to join the Crusade. All contributions, of course, were completely voluntary. The great bulk of the total came from small
contributions of under one dollar. Since all campaign expenses were borne by the National Committee for a Free Europe, the
entire amount contributed is being used to expand the operations of Radio Free Europe, the American people's ‘freedom station’ in
the shadow of the Iron Curtain.”

And pie-eyed Pete thinks the meanest guy in the world is the restaurant proprietor who goes around pinching the waitresses’
tips.

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT
BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST.
PHONE 2-2238
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Where you meet your friends
Charlotte's Finest Restaurant

SHIP AHOY

DON A. READE: U. OF MAINE ‘51

MAKE THE TOBACCO GROWERS MILDNESS TEST YOURSELF... YES... Compare Chesterfield with the brand you’ve been smoking... Open a pack... enjoy
that milder Chesterfield aroma. And—tobaccos that smell milder smoke milder. So smoke Chesterfields—prove they do smoke milder, and they leave
NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE.

READING SELLER IN AMERICA’S COLLEGES

(Continued From Page One)

All arrangements made. The time of the pictures this semester will be 7:00 p.m., until daylight necessitates a later hour.
There will be an unlimited number of membership cards available, since Chambers Auditorium is to be the site of all
the playings. Cost of membership will again be one dollar.

There was a knock on the door of the dormitory room. “May I come in?” said a male voice. “It’s
the room I had when I went to college here.” “Yes, sir,” he continued in reverie. “Same old room. Same
old furniture. Same old view of the campus. Same old closet.” He opened the closet door. There stood a girl
looking terrified. “That's my sister,” said the occupant of the room. “Yes, sir,” he replied. “Same old story.”

Press of Inc. From the Gaylord Bros.,

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Shows Start at 3 P.M.

Monday-Tuesday, Jan. 15-16
‘MISTER MUSIC’
Bing Crosby - Ruth Hussey
NEWS

Wednesday, January 10
‘KILLER THAT STALKED NEW YORK’
Charles Korvin - Evelyn Keyes
Musical Western & Cartoon

Thursday, January 18
‘BRANDED’
Alan Ladd - Mona Freeman
COMEDY

Friday, January 19
‘EMERGENCY WEDDING’
Larry Parks - Barbara Hale
March of Time — Pacemaker Cartoon

Saturday, January 20
‘PYGMY ISLAND’
Johnny Weissmuller - Ann Savage
Sport - Comedy - Cartoon

THURSDAY, JANUARY 13, 1961

Bargain: A transaction in which each party thinks he has managed to cheat the other one.

Mooresville Creamery
GRADE “A” MILK
PASTEURIZED
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

RENT A CAR AT THE U-Drive It
Charlotte 4th St.

State Theatre
Mooresville

WEEK STARTING THURSDAY, JANUARY 11

Thursday-Friday
Burt Lancaster
Dorothy McGuire
—in—
‘MISTER 880’
NEWS - COMEDY

Saturday
Charles Starrett
—in—
‘RAIDERS OF TOMAHAWK CREEK’
with Smiley Burnette
—also—
‘HOT ROD’
SERIAL - CARTOON

Owl Show Saturday Night and Monday
Robert Mitchum
CARTOON

Tuesday - Wednesday
Bette Davis - Anne Baxter
Celeste Holm
—in—
‘ALL ABOUT EVE’
NEWS - SHORTS

Copyright 1991, Lacare & Mien Toten
