PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF ................. BILL WHITE
BUSINESS MANAGER ............. ALEX GOLEY

Associate Editors ........ Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis, George McMurray
Managing Editors ........ Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw, John Ottley
Photographs—Archie Neal
Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Feature Editor—Mike Myers
Exchange Editor—Ed Richardson
Boo Northcutt
Jack Hobson
Copy Editor—Pete Ormsby
Art Editor—Don Mahy
Sports Editor—Dick Liles
City Editor—Nat Daniels
Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager .......... Bob Poston
Collection Manager .......... Bill Minter
Subscriptions Manager ........ Preston Chaney

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Newcomer ATO Pioneers Path For Frats Toward Greek Week

It was so with the western states of America just prior to the turn of the century, and Alpha Tau Omega is proving it applicable on Davidson's campus today. The newcomer is the pioneer who points the way to progress and improvement. The reforms of the initiative, referendum, and recall, direct election of senators, woman suffrage, and other points in the progressive program of some 50 years ago were received first by the new states of the union, not bound by the out-moded practices of a past day.

Monday afternoon ATO, not yet a year old on the campus, got the jump on ten older fraternities and showed that they meant to do something more than debate the admitted merits of a Greek Week. Under the leadership of President John Whitfield, the pledges of ATO, plus five brothers, spent a work-day at the Alexander Home, a Charlotte orphanage, doing jobs long neglected on the grounds in the children’s home. So unusual was this sort of help project coming from a group of fraternity boys that The Charlotte Observer saw fit to give it prominent display in its Tuesday edition, not—we think—without hope that it would stimulate other fraternities into like projects.

While a Greek Week, proposed in many quarters last spring as the program to supplant the high-schoolish pranks of a nonsensical “hell-week,” has not been outlined definitely for Davidson adoption, such a work by ATO certainly would be included among the events. Similar tasks could be undertaken here in the Davidson community, where much is to be done—either by individual frats or by them collectively. It is hopeful that the Pan-Hel will take steps toward such a program as soon as it gets its big dance weekend safely tucked away.

Story of the Anti-RED Feather

There's a Red in this October air that Joe Stalin would liquidate on the spot if he could do it. That Red is the Red Feather of your Community Chest. For the Red Feather could only happen in a land where the “haves” show concern for the “have-nots” with real, material, heartfelt aid, the results of which are felt long after the gift’s giving. Unlike Communism which enslaves and dominates its “benefactors” after winning with small grants, the Red Feather gift continues to lift a down fellow up with funds and services to meet his needs. It is, indeed, a Red, white, and Blue Feather which is one of the best counter-measures against Communism we have.

Besides the financial aids to those in pecuniary straits, the Red Feather services go out to the youth of our land through the YMCA, Boy Scouts, and Girl Scouts, training them in the democratic ways of freedom and fair play, clearing away ugly ignorance and prejudice in which the Kremlin crop grows so well. In Davidson alone, the scout troops receive annual appropriations of upwards to $200.00 apiece.

There are 21 different funnels through which the Community Chest pours your money into areas of need. Unable to see these spots yourself, the Chest is set up to do it for you. Monday morning the Community Chest drive kick-off in Davidson, continuing through Thursday, October 25. The larger your gift, the bigger the blow we can land for Americanism. If we drop a quarter where we could easily have given $5.00, maybe Joe is right. It'll make his “capitalist swine” baloney almost digestible to a people who now look to America as the land of the helping hand.

“Man of Destiny” At Our Helm

On another Homecoming Day ten years ago, with the clouds of war looming just over the late autumn horizon, Davidson College installed its thirteenth president, John Rood Cunningham, A.B., B.D., D.D., LL.D. Tomorrow officially completes Dr. Cunningham's first decade of service to Davidson College, and Davidson's Decade of Destiny.

The period in which Dr. Cunningham launched his presidency proved the gravest in the 115-year life of the College. Yet, despite the demands of war, Dr. Cunningham carried on with the building program begun under Dr. Walter Lingle, seeing the Grey Memorial Library completed in 1942 and the Martin Science Building two years later. There followed Johnston Gymnasium in 1949, and now the College Church is expected to be completed by the first of the year. The student union renovation is now under way and W. H. Belk Dormitory is on construction plans for the immediate future.

A two and one-half million dollar addition to Davidson's now $6,000,000 endowment; an increase in student body size by one-third; an improved student-faculty classroom ratio; the addition of many new curriculums; and the maintenance of Davidson's high scholastic and Christian ideals are achievements less obvious to the eye but nonetheless vital to the life of this institution wrought by our president. Today, Dr. Cunningham will be honored by the board of trustees, alumni, and friends at a special ceremony on the Homecoming agenda. We, too, would add our tribute to one of our nation’s outstanding churchmen and educators. But above all, we would thank God that such a man is at the helm this day to enter a second decade, which—by its clouds—may be stormier than the first.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

“GOSH, GEORGE — ISN'T THE HOUSE BEAUTIFUL?”

THE CABBAGE PLANTER: Winchell, Pearson, Alsops Taken To Task For Poor Style Morals

Dear Critics, whose verdicts are always so new!—
One word in your ear. There were Critics before...
And the man who plants cabbages imitates, too!
—The Ballad of Imitation.

It was with no little trepidation that I accepted a critic-columnist post for the Davidsonian this year. When first approached, my immediate reaction was refusal, since a column implies writing, and writing, dignity, and dignity, big words. There's the rub. I can’t spell most of the words I'd want to use, and don't know what they mean anyway. But as Zeuxis said about 2300 years before Dorothy Parker repeated it, “criticism comes easier than craftsmanship.” So, armed with a dictionary and a deadline, the Cabbage Planter, next week will start on its rows: some to be hoed, and some to be raised.

Those readers who are fans of the syndicated columnists will no doubt expect the Cabbage Planter to conform to the standards already established along Weiner-Schnitzel Way. There are any number of reasons besides natural inability that make this impossible. For instance, burdened as I am with a high school education and a quasi-sense of decency, any Walter Winchellian prose from this typewriter would be atrociously pure, truthful and dull. On the other hand, having neither a B. W., an appetite for olives nor time to make up lost sleep, I can't emulate Earl Wilson.

Since I’ve never had a husband who was president, nor a daughter-in-law who was Faye, I'll leave it all to Eleanor to syndicate My Day. And along the line of bad poetry, surely no one will argue the point that the field of deathless iambic tetrameter has been, if not killed, then quite exhausted by those traffickers in trivia, Edgar Guest and James Metcalfe.

Pearson, Sokolsky, Brown, Pegler, Alsop, Elder and Younger: all good men, of a sort. But after all, they look for such a lot of sin, while, for our purposes a peccadillo or two a week can be easily exaggerated, and by its very insignificance can be responsible for a surplus of spurious sound.

Which leads us to the final criticism of a critical column. Whereas Pearson, et al., have such productive dens of iniquity at their disposal, where, in the world on the Davidson campus, can one find enough that’s wrong to make it worthwhile to feel self-righteous about not having any part in it? Though, and I quote from Saintsbury, criticism is the endeavor to find, to know, to love, to recommend, not only the best, but all the good, that has been known and thought and written in the world, practically all the good that has been known and thought and written on the Davidson campus is either in the library, the catalogue or the alumni bulletin.

The Cabbage Planter is neither a picador nor a matador. Single-pointed pins merely tickle the bull; a sword through the heart often kills a lot of good bull for the sake of a little bad bull. Most everything we meet is either good or bad. I shall describe the circumstances surrounding these meetings. Then it is up to you to decide whether the good was good enough, or the bad, bad enough. Above all, let discretion be our guide, and may it someday be said of us both as of the Squire at Vauxhall: “He praised the thing he understood; ‘Twere well if every critic would.”

THE EDITOR’S MAILBOX: Moore Hits Tag Football Ambiguity, Advocates Rules Revision Session

Dear Sir:

Since the beginning of the inter-fraternity tag football games, I have been interested to see what the effect of the new type play would be on the athletes and on the entire inter-fraternity sports program as a whole. As a referee, I feel as qualified as any student to speak on the sport’s relative values. It is impossible to say what the ultimate effect will be, but generally the variation on the traditional sport we are now playing seems to be well accepted by most of the players as well as the interested spectators. The greatest drawback to this type of play is its apparent lack of exciting play and that bullishness which are characteristic of the game as it was played before. Those participants who have found the true message of the game—"skillful players win”—realize that the more ingenuity expressed, the greater agility and spirit shown, the better the chances are for a winning team.

In order that tag football be put into its best use here, the players, the onlookers, and the referees will have to acclimate themselves and recognize the sport’s shortcomings. The biggest drawback at this time is the lack of well-defined and workable rules. The department of Intramural Sports has distributed the rules of the game, but these rules are so ill-defined that the final judgment is left either to chance or to the discretion of the referees and the captains of the team while they are playing. If one will consider the various interpretations that are possible with so many teams and so many referees, he will see the potential chaos.

To cite a few of the discrepancies in the rules as they now stand: No mention is given on the action after a safety or a touchback; no indication is given concerning the timing of the game in certain situations, i.e., after a score or while a penalty is being enforced; and no definition is offered on what actually constitutes charging or blocking. My purpose is not to attack the situation and leave it little more than agitated.The system is new and so there are faults in it, but the present rules must first be enforced and secondly put into common use. It is an opinion shared by many of us that the rules are not readily enforceable and need an overhauling. The main principles of the game are understood; however, there are enough loopholes to make them a mockery. To rectify the situation, a conference among the sports managers, the referees, and the faculty heads of the intramural sports program should begin at once. A set of rules should be formulated and adopted which would leave no room for question. Whether or not we eventually accept or reject tag football is not the principal question, for it has already been decided to adopt the game itself; the least we can do is to give it our very best. In carrying out this desire we must devise the best rules system it is possible to have; from existing evidence, we have not reached that goal.

JIM MOORE.
NAT DANIEL:
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1951

Incoming Damsels Given Scoop For Gala Homecoming Weekend

Welcome, Ladies, to a dance weekend at Davidson. For some of you, it is the same great adventure with your very special guy and his friends. For others, it is unique as a college dance in that it is your first at Davidson, but for many of you, it is a completely new experience. You old hands have once more been welcomed into the fellowship of your date’s friends and their dates. You who are new to Davidson have been welcomed with a warmth and sincerity peculiar to Davidson, and you for whom this is a completely new experience have already found yourselves a part of us.

All of you have made new acquaintances, and met old friends, and gotten into a corner of a fraternity house, and enjoyed a “Do you know...” session, accompanied by the usual wisecracks, insults, laughter, and compliments concerning mutual friends, either absent or present. You have visited the boarding houses, and have unknowingly witnessed the metamorphosis of manners—for chairs are pulled back from the table for you, and everyone stands for grace, and you get your tea poured, and the biscuits are passed instead of thrown, and the meal takes about twenty minutes instead of the usual nine or ten. You've admired the decorations at the fraternity houses, unaware of the gosh-awful mess that disappeared only minutes before you arrived. You didn’t notice the dark circles under the eyes of the decorations chairman, but only the gleam of pride in them which he so justly deserves to have.

You'll attend a concert tonight, in keeping with Davidsonian cultural traditions, and afterwards, as the first strains of Lawrence’s theme stimulate the cool air, Davidson’s Homecoming dances will begin. Tomorrow you may take a walk around the campus; maybe your date will show you a few points of interest, and at 2:30 you'll find yourself in Richardson Field, where the wounded but willing Wildcats go into action to defeat the Blue Hose of Davidson's country cousin in Southern Presbyterian Education—Presbyterian College. And so the hours speed by—banquets, parties, feeds, and finally, the informal dance. Then, before you know it, the last notes of the theme have faded, the lights go up, the decorations come down, you push for the lobby to get your coats and start for the after-the-dance activities planned by your guy, and as the dawn breaks over the eastern horizon on Sunday morning, and focuses first on the golden cross atop the new church spire, Davidson's Homecoming, 1951 version, becomes for you only a happy memory of good times past foretelling of better times to come.

Commander Uses Personal Visit For Tragic News

The most tragic message a mother, father, or wife can receive in this day and time begins, “We regret to inform you...” It goes on to tell the addressee that a beloved one has been killed, missing, or wounded while fighting in the service of his country. Recently there has been one man who thought that this impersonal way of the War Department of breaking such grievous news was not enough. Lt. Gen. Henry S. Aurand, commander of the United States Army in the Pacific, has instituted a program in the Hawaiian Islands of having an Army officer personally notify the next of kin of war casualties. The thirty men assigned to the grim job admit that it’s the toughest duty they have ever had. Gen. Aurand, a soft-spoken, fifty-seven-year-old soldier from Tamaqua, Pa., has delivered 1,372 such messages in person. Of these, 182 have been death notices. The reactions of the receivers of the tragic news vary from stunned silence to frenzied violence. One mother in her shocked frenzy slashed a messenger’s shirt with a butcher knife. Later she offered to sew it up. “We never know what to expect,” says Maj. D. W. Legoullon, of Honolulu, who has delivered death messages to 170 families. “We try to help them as best we can. I feel sure they appreciate it. “Mothers are usually more stable in their reactions,” says Maj. Legoullon, “than wives. Wives are difficult to handle, especially young wives.” The Army officer helps the family settle such matters as allotments, insurance, back pay, disposition of personal effects, and legal complications.

DICK ROPER:
Hear Atlee & Co., Moaning? Britain Just Lost Her Oil

It should take no expert on international affairs to realize that Great Britain has been acting like a spoiled child in more than a few aspects of the recent Iranian crisis. They like to sing that “Britons never will be slaves,” but in the light of their recent actions, it appears that they'll never be less than downright imperious. Instead of trying to appease the sorely antagonized Iranians, who wanted a greater share of the profits from their oil, Britain did just the opposite. When it saw its oil technicians threatened with expulsion from Iran, Britain retaliated by blocking the Iranians’ 4 million pound savings account in London. The British government also forbade the sale to Iran of scarce goods: the very goods which Iran most needs, such as sugar, iron and steel, non-ferrous metals, and alloys. Nor will Britain permit Iran to convert its sterling into dollars in order to buy supplies in the United States.

The British explained these restrictions by saying that Iran had been favored as an importer while it sold so much of its oil to countries of the Commonwealth, but now that no more oil was forthcoming, that country had fallen from grace. Now the British have lost everything, at least for the present. With all their technicians pushed out of Iran last week, they will find themselves without enough oil to keep their navy in operation, which is to break the main defensive element of the nation. Of course, the whole proceedings delight the men in the Kremlin. If the Tudeh (Communist) party can manage a revolution in Iran, Uncle Joe will have enough oil to roll across Europe without too much trouble, and soon we will hear our friends on The Island hollering for more lend-lease.

Britain may have hope of regaining Iran’s resources, say some observers, if the voters put Winston Churchill back into power in the October 25 election. Churchill, who accused Prime Minister Atlee of “inadvertence, indecision, and final collapse” in Iran, may be old but from all reports is certainly not doddering. The aged statesman should realize, if none of the other powers that be have realized, that Britain is not in the position to browbeat countries like Iran into submission. The really bad thing about the botched Iranian situation is this: Now that Iran has succeeded in flouting Britain, the whole Middle East, including Iraq, Saudi Arabia, and Egypt, may see some hope in rising against the West. The oil output of all these countries is so vital to Western nations that loss of it would leave them virtually defenseless in the event of a new world conflict. The mess-up in Iran was certainly not entirely Britain's fault. But a little more diplomacy wouldn't have hurt them.

“The more I think of it,” said Ruskin, “I find this conclusion more impressed upon me, that the greatest thing a human soul ever does in this world is to see something, and tell what it saw in a plain way. Hundreds of people can talk, for one who can think; but thousands can think, for one who can see. To see clearly is poetry, prophecy, and religion all in one.”

YMCA Works On Revitalized Program For Thursday Chapel

(Ed. Note: The following article is the first in a series on the work of the YMCA as a student organization, explaining its many activities on and off the campus.)

With the desire that chapel programs will be better this year, Tony Tucker, taking over the direction of the weekly “Y” day, has already begun to work down his schedule for 1951. Tony hopes to present programs that will be stimulating and interesting to the student body. Thursday saw the first of three speakers in an inter-faith series that is designed to give a view of the minds of other religions. The second speaker is to be a Jewish Rabbi, and the third will be a Presbyterian Minister who once was a Catholic priest. Some of the programs will be followed by an open discussion at the Guest House.

Another phase of the “Y” chapel schedule was begun by Bill White last week. This was the first in a series of talks by student leaders. The purpose of these is to give the frank viewpoints of men, other than pre-ministerial students, who have thought through what they believe. Various other speakers are being contacted from all over the state and an effort is being made to invite any prominent persons who might be in the vicinity. Student delegates, deputations, and musical programs as well as the introduction of Fall and Spring Services, will take up the remaining weeks of the semester. Several forums are being worked on by the YMCA and these will be introduced in chapel.

Again this year a comprehensive study is being made of each program. Two professors are asked to criticize each chapel service and student opinion is blended with this to give a picture of success or failure. The chapel programs this year are being designed to help the Christians and the non-Christians alike on the campus. Some programs will encourage non-Christians to examine Christianity more carefully, and other services will enable the Christian to deepen his faith. The “Y” wishes to let it be known that it will welcome all recommendations on the improvement of chapel programs.

PROFESSORS SPEAK AT LOCAL CHURCH

Dr. W. G. Workman of Davidson College will be the guest minister at the Davidson Methodist Church next Sunday morning in the absence of the pastor, who has been ill for the past several weeks. Dr. Henry A. Bauman filled the pulpit at the Methodist Church last Sunday morning.

“Sorrow is God’s last message to man; it is God speaking in emphasis. He who abuses it shows that he can shut his ears when God speaks loudest. Therefore heartlessness or impenitence after sorrow is more dangerous than intemperance in joy; its results are always more tragic. Men abuse sorrow by mistaking it, and they abuse sorrow by defying it."—Sir George Adam Smith.