PAGE FOUR

Four Social Fraternities Elect Heads For Next Year

Four of the social fraternities on the campus making preparation for their activities in the coming school year have elected
their fraternity officers for the 1951-52 year. Sigma Phi Epsilon, Phi Gamma Delta, Alpha Tau Omega, and Beta Theta Pi
are the fraternities which have held elections since spring holidays.

Gene Little of Charlotte will be presiding over Sigma Phi Epsilon at Davidson next year. Vice-President and rush chairman will
be the SPE’s representative on Pan-Hell and sports manager. Jack Arnold received the office of secretary, Morgan Bailey treasurer, and
Alvin Cain Historian.

In the elections at the Phi Gam house, Hubert Canon was elected president and Wallace Abbott treasurer and sports committee
chairman. Carol Camp is the new recording secretary with Sam Cumming corresponding secretary. Bill Freeman captured the historian’s post, Jim
Fickeisen Pan-Hell representative, and Dick Liles rush chairman.

Top man for the ATO’s next year will be John Whitfield while Bob Grigsby as vice-president assists him. Roland Englehart
takes over as secretary, Dick Perkins treasurer, and Bob Boyd Pan-Hell. John Neisbett will guide the ATO’s in intramurals as
sports manager.

Pete Kalogridis takes over the Betas as president for 1951-52. Stuart Shippey is second in command at the vice-president’s post.
Francis Pepper got the nod for Pan-Hell with Jack Leacraft as treasurer and Bob Walker secretary and rush chairman. Ed
Stuart steps in as recorder.

DURHAM POLICEMAN FINED FOR CLUBBING

After a four-month legal battle, the Durham Superior Court fined two local police officers $50 plus court costs from $225
to $250 for the jail beating of Duke student Brackett Crady. Three Durham policemen were dismissed from the force and
arrested because of the beating of Crady after he had been taken to the Durham Police Station for attacking two
officers, resisting arrest, and interfering with an officer, following a pre-Carolina game pep rally near the Center Theater.

The two officers, who were fined, and the other, who was acquitted because of his dazed condition at the time
the beating took place, appealed their cases to the Superior Court after having been fined $25 each in Recorder's Court.
Crady, who was also fined $25 and costs in Recorder’s Court for his part in the attacks, took the stand
only as a witness. George Crady, brother of Brackett, proved to be a surprise witness in the case. He testified
that he had been “slapped around” by police officers while on his way to visit his brother in the police
station.

Judge Hatch, who presided over the trial, said of the whole incident, “There has been a lot of talk about
this case and the actions of young men of Duke University. It is a rather dangerous situation when 50 or
100 or maybe 300 men get together. They create a psychology of mob violence.”

Preacher: “If there is anyone in the congregation who likes sin—let him stand up.” One member of the congregation stood
up.

At Oswalt’s Home

The after-vesper discussion group for this Sunday, April 22, will be led by Dr. William Harris at the home of
Dr. Oswalt. The subject is “American Influence in the Far East" and will be discussed primarily from an educational point
of view. Dr. Harris is quite qualified for such a discussion in that he was the director of a mission
school in Siam for forty-one years. When he first came to the school, there was only one four-room building and
two small dormitories. Now pictures of the campus show fourteen well-kept buildings with a beautiful and spacious campus. The school
has an enrollment of over nine hundred boys. Dr. Harris is the father of Mrs. W. H. Kneedler and has
now retired here at Davidson. His home is filled with many hand-carved tables, caskets, and bric-a-brac that provide an Oriental
air of Siam.

“CAESAR”, PFOH!. OPEN...

(Continued From Page One)

of the Mint Museum of Art in Charlotte. On both Friday and Saturday evenings, the Red and Black Masquers will
present Shakespeare's “Julius Caesar” in a specially arranged version adapted and directed by Raymond W. Tyson. With the exception of
the Phi Beta Kappa Address, which will be given in Phi Hall, all the above events will be held in
Chambers Auditorium. During the week special art exhibits, displaying the work of outside artists as well as of Davidson students,
will be held in Chambers Building. All events of the week will be open to the public and there will
be no charge for admission except to the performances of “Julius Caesar", tickets to which will be fifty cents.

The Arts Festival is being planned and carried out under the direction of the Faculty Committee on Fine Arts, with
Prof. Chalmers G. Davidson as chairman. Other members of the committee are Professors George L. Abernethy, Earl F. Berg, Edward
J. Erwin, and others.

NEW TREASURER AS...

(Continued From Page One)

the Lions Club, Vice-Chairman of the Board of Deacons of the First

THE DAVIDSONIAN

In its regular meeting held last Tuesday, April 17, the Davidson College Camera Club elected the following officers for next
year: Allen Macy, President, and Andrew Simmons, Jr., Secretary-Treasurer. After the election, color slides were shown by several of the
members. Retiring president Dave Matthews urged all the members to enter several prints in the Fine Arts Exhibition to be
held in May.

STARS DOFF SPIKES

(Continued From Page One)

My Way” Guthrie, and Carl Sims, who will be remembered for his interpretation of the “Holy City” for the Easter
chapel service. The minstrel program then got under way, and featured one of the most spectacular events ever to be
seen around here—the lights go completely out, and all that can be seen by the audience is a great number
of hands swinging.Back and forth in front of its eyes, keeping time with the music. This is done by having—oh
well, why spoil the fun? It is something entirely new and different, and should prove a high spot of the
entire program. At the completion of this part of the show, a full-scale minstrel just like grampa used to see
down at the local burley-Q-house, your reporter, weak with laughter, was carried into the hall for a breath of fresh
air and a shot of Hadacol, whereupon he returned to the auditorium, expecting any moment to see Slick up on
the stage playing the washboard. He took his seat, the lights dimmed, the curtains opened, and lo and behold what
to his wondering eye should appear but a perfect replica of an old-fashioned barroom. This reporter sat dumbfounded at the
talent and capability of the entire cast. Among other campus notables were such persons as Vance “Pavlova-has-had-it” Mizelle, and Co.,
gracing the stage with their interpretation of the “Ballet Red Shoes”; Neal “Look, Ma, I'm Dancin’” O’Neal with a specialty
number; the Sigma Chi quartet, composed of former missionary Allen Macy named to lead discussion, camera club head swim patches.
Through the courtesy of the Red Cross and the Davidson Athletic Association, thirteen boys have completed a seventeen-hour course in
Senior Life Saving. The boys who completed the course are: Phil Blatt, Bill Bristow, Bill Dobbins, Bob Graham, Charles Hull,
Mercer Kepler, Sandy McGeachy, Bob Owens, Bill Reese, Don Shriver, Alan Vance, Harry Wood, and Jim Campbell. The course covered
personal safety in swimming, elementary forms of rescue, artificial respiration, and safety in boating and canoeing. The swimming rescues included
carries and releases from holds. George Knight and Gant Carlton were the instructors. They were assisted by John Ottley and
Jim Bryan. These instructors did the work entirely without compensation. Starting Thursday, April 12, there will be a 30-hour Red
Cross instructor’s course for boys who have completed Senior Life Saving and desire to go further in the work of
life saving and instruction in life saving and swimming. Mental combo featuring Tom Mann, Bob McPheeters, and Grier Williams; and
the finale, “Slaughter on Tenth Avenue” featuring three local sex-boxes, Bill Trotman, Monk Miller, and Gant Carlton. In commenting upon
the coming event, director Lambeth said: “I think everyone will be surprised at the talent and really good voices among
that bunch of beat-up athletes, and I'm really hoping for a big turnout, because I feel that it’s going to
be well worth it. Tickets will be available at the door at a cost of twenty-five cents stag, fifty cents
couple. The Foolies start at 7:30, before the informal dance, and I'm hoping to see everyone there.”

Sultan: Bring me a girl.
Servant: Very good, sir!
Sultan: Not necessarily.

RENT A CAR AT THE U-Drive It Week Starting Saturday, April 21

Starlite DRIVE-IN THEATRE Salisbury-Landis Highway WEEK STARTING Friday and Saturday “STAGECOACH KID” Tim Holt — also — “MAN WHO COULD
WORK MIRACLES” Roland Young SERIAL - CARTOON Sunday “BLUE GRASS OF KENTUCKY” Bill Williams - Jane Nigh Ralph Morgan Monday
and Tuesday “TRIPOLI” Maureen O’Hara - John Payne Howard da Silva

DAVIDSON THEATRE DAVIDSON, N. C. Mon. & Tues., April 23-24 “ROYAL WEDDING” Fred Astaire - Jane Powell Latest News &
Cartoon Wednesday, April 25 “COUNTERSPY MEETS SCOTLAND YARD” Howard St. John Amanda Blake March of Time & Cartoon Thursday, April
26 “SEPTEMBER AFFAIR” Joan Fontaine - Joseph Cotten Colored Cartoon Friday, April 27 “THE FLYING MISSILE” Glenn Ford - Viveca
Lindfors Variety View & Cartoon Saturday, April 28 “SIERRA PASSAGE”

FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 1951 State Theatre Mooresville Week Starting Saturday, April 21 Saturday Roy Rogers in “THE HEART OF THE
ROCKIES” also “HUNT THE MAN DOWN” Gig Young - Carla Balenda James Anderson CARTOON - SERIAL Owl Show Saturday Nite
and Monday “EMERGENCY WEDDING” Larry Parks - Barbara Hale Tuesday & Wednesday “HIGH LONESOME” John Barrymore, Jr. Chill Wills

Center Theatre Mooresville WEEK STARTING Week Starting Saturday, April 21 Friday and Saturday “FACE OF MARBLE” John Carradine — also
— “MYSTERIOUS RIDERS” Buster Crabbe Serial & Cartoon Owl Show Saturday Nite Monday & Tuesday “HIGHWAY 301” Steve Cochran -
Virginia Grey

Indeed, stranger than Truth is to astonish. Presbyterian Church, and Director Harold M. Frantz, Joseph H. Vance Mizelle, Joe Poole,
Phil Sellars, and Neal O'Neal; an instrumental combo featuring Tom Mann, Bob McPheeters, and Grier Williams; and the finale, “Slaughter
on Tenth Avenue” featuring three local sex-boxes, Bill Trotman, Monk Miller, and Gant Carlton. In commenting upon the coming event,
director Lambeth said: “I think everyone will be surprised at the talent and really good voices among that bunch of
beat-up athletes, and I'm really hoping for a big turnout, because I feel that it’s going to be well worth
it. Tickets will be available at the door at a cost of twenty-five cents stag, fifty cents couple. The Foolies
start at 7:30, before the informal dance, and I'm hoping to see everyone there.”

Preacher: “What's this, Brother Pete; you like sin?”
Brother Pete: “Pardon me, I thought you said gin.”

LIKE THOUSANDS OF AMERICA’S STUDENTS— MAKE THIS MILDNESS TEST YOURSELF AND GET WHAT EVERY SMOKER WANTS

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER 126 W. TRADE ST. PHONE 2-2238 CHARLOTTE,
N. C.

Duke University Durham, North Carolina In Durham, North Carolina, the “Y” on the campus is a favorite student gathering spot.
At the “Y” —Coca-Cola is the favorite drink. With the university crowd at Duke, as with every crowd—Coke belongs. Ask
for it either way... both trade-marks mean the same thing. BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY Coca-Cola Bottling
Co., Concord, N. C.

MILDNESS NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE 1500 PROMINENT TOBACCO GROWERS SAY: “When I apply the standard tobacco growers’ test to cigarettes I
find Chesterfield is the one that smells milder and smokes milder.” A WELL-KNOWN INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATION REPORTS: “Chesterfield is the
only cigarette in which members of our taste panel found no unpleasant after-taste.”
