FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 1951

Basement
A PUG: Pons
TABLE @ SiWARDS
C KITCHEN, ETC.

JOHNSON RETURNS.
(Continued From Page One)

It is said that if an appraisal were made of the monetary value of the complete ensemble of instruments, the
figure would pass the quarter million mark. For instance, Emil Heerman, of the first violin section, plays a Stradivarius. And
speaking of Mr. Heerman, any composition by Johannes Brahms serves to stir up fond memories of the master for him,
because when Heerman was a boy, Brahms was a frequent visitor to his home to see his father, Hugo Heerman,
also a distinguished musician. While in his home, Brahms many times would seat himself at the pianoforte and accompany Emil,
then a ten-year-old violin virtuoso.

Johnson, who became music director of the organization in 1947, follows a long line of distinguished musicians who have conducted
Cincinnati concerts. Among the past conductors are Victor Herbert, Richard Strauss, Arturo Toscanini, Andre Kostalanetz, Leopold Stokowski, Walter Damrosch, John
Philip Sousa, Jose Iturbi, and a host of others.

Born in Wisconsin, Johnson moved to Winston-Salem, N.C. as a child, later attending the University of North Carolina. Following further
study at the University of Michigan, and in Europe, he rose to prominence in American music. He was awarded an
honorary degree by Davidson College in 1947. The 37-year-old conductor still spends his summers in North Carolina and is a
loyal supporter of state musical projects. During the last summer, he appeared as conductor of the faculty symphony orchestra at
the Transylvania Music Camp in Brevard, N.C.

During the season, 1948-49, Johnson conducted 100 concerts, and two years ago received the $1,000 Ditton award from Columbia University
for “distinguished services in the cause of contemporary American music.”

The program to be given this Saturday night in Chambers Auditorium will consist of the following works:

HADLEY: “In Bohemia” Overture, Opus 28.
DELIUS: “The Walk in the Paradise Garden” from the opera “A Village Romeo and Juliet.”
ELGAR: Variations on an original theme for Orchestra (“Enigma”), Opus 36.

INTERMISSION:

ENESCO, GEORGES: Romanian Rhapsody No. 2, in D Major, Opus 11.
SATIE: Messe des Pauvres:
I. Prelude.
II. Priere des Orgues.
III. Chant Ecclesiastique.
IV. Priere pour les voyageurs et les marins en danger de mort, a la tres bonne et tres auguste Vierge
Marie, mere de Jesus.
V. Priere pour de salut de mon ame.
Edited, arranged, and orchestrated by David Diamond.
WAGNER: Excerpts from Act III, “Die Meistersinger von Nurnberg.”
I. Vorspiel.
II. Tanz der Lehrbuben.
III. Aufzug der Meistersinger.

Davidson's Lounge
POWDER ROOM
DINING ROOM, First Floor
TELEPHONES
ELEVATOR
Student Information
SURGICAL OFFICE
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Second Floor
YMCA Sec.
UNASSIGNED
Student Council
STUDENT STORE
BALLROOM
UNION DIRECTOR
DISPLAY CASES
MUSIC ROOM
ART DISPLAY
SCRIPTS
DRAWING
SNACK BAR
WOMEN'S WASH ROOM
CHECK ROOM
DINING TERRACE
LOUNGE
GAME ROOM
ORGANIZATION MEETING ROOM

Union Varsity Athletic Manager Leads Rugged Life Caring For Players’, Coaches’ Whims
By WOODY McKAY

Most people think he just goes along for the ride, but they aren’t in the know. The job of chief
nose-wiper or manager of an athletic team is more than it seems. If you doubt this statement, take a gander
at the rest of this article.

One of the main duties of a basketball manager, which is more in my line, is to keep tab on
the coach. A coach is one of the most evasive fellows that exists. On trips, he knows all the shortcuts
by which he can evade the rest of the team which is following in another auto. Of course, this never
happens when the followers are in familiar territory, but always when they are hundreds of miles from home.

Next, a manager must always be in an agreeable mood. When the team loses, he must not speak to the
coach for a short time unless he wants to draw back a nub of a neck. When the team wins,
he must joke with the coach and tell him how well-coached the team looked. While around him, he must laugh
at the coach's jokes and keep him in a good mood. Finally, when at a game, the manager must keep
the coach from hitting the referees and from injuring himself in some moment of emotion when he tries to portray
an acrobat. By adhering to these methods, the manager is usually a cohort of the coach and is able to
alert all players when the coach plans to “unexpectedly” check the boys’ rooms the night before a big game. (Another
job of the manager is often unknown to even the coach. This job is reporting to the mentor’s wife any
misdemeanors of her husband following a trip.)

And then, there are the players. As the season lengthens from weeks to months, the manager realizes he is a
member of a group which portrays the hairiest and horniest specimen of manhood, namely, the Davidson gentleman. He must be
a scholar in the field of physiological study (called “sex” in the most inclusive pulp magazines) by the time the
team has missed five consecutive weekends without access to girls of the female type.

A card shark can usually become a very respected manager. Whether it is “spank-tail hearts” or “five card show-down,” he
must know how to handle those cardboards. A good sense of humor should accompany this last talent.

A wealthy dowager invited about fifty soldiers from a nearby camp to her home during World War II. At about
4:00 she served cookies and lemonade. At 5:00 she served more cookies and lemonade. Around six she stood up and
asked, “I have just 4 more cookies left. Now what shall I do with them?” Immediately a Lieutenant stood up
and said, “The first guy that answers that question gets the guardhouse for a week!”

A cannibal chief and his brother,
Went calling one morn on their mother;
When they got there,
The cupboard was bare
So they simply ate up each other.

A young lady climbed up Pike's Peak
And sat on the top for a week,
She had a deep freeze
From her chest to her knees
What a pitiful waste of physique!Therefore, to put it in a few words, a manager must be a card, deal
with cards, or be dealt with as a result. The taste-buds of a managerial tongue cultivate the esthetic longing for
poached eggs and toast, unbuttered bread, Irish potatoes, hot tea, and oranges. A taste for many types or brands of
chewing gum is suggested. Anything else he must pay for himself. Let me emphasize the desire for oranges. He must
love them so much that he can sit down and cut dozens of oranges at one time without tiring in
any way. This opportunity should be taken whenever possible because it is the most he will cut up during his
term as head manager. The average person knows that the manager takes care of the uniforms, warm-up outfits, balls, medicine
kit, and a couple of other minor details such as the A. A. car. This becomes routine after a few
weeks, and he learns to fold up easily during that time. But, there are many things learned on this tour
of duty as a manager. To mention a few of these, I would say he learns all the scenic (and
otherwise) parts of the cities to which he travels, how to juggle figures with the opposing scorekeepers (note to prospective
junior bank executives), to leave a small amount of space in his overnight bag for hotel soap, stationery, and other
necessities, how to deal with “Doc” White, and he learns to covet the experiences he had in traveling with a
swell bunch of boys. Any volunteers?

EUROPE 53-day student tour, leaving New York June 28, 88 GEORGIC, all-expense, $1040. Also Popular and DeLuxe Tours and Independent
Itineraries. Contact Thomas G. Abell, 16 Limehouse St., Charleston, S. C.

In Los Angeles, California, a favorite gathering spot of students at the University of California at Los Angeles is the
Student Co-op because it is a cheerful place—full of friendly university atmosphere. And when the gang gathers around, ice-cold Coca-Cola
gets the call. For here, as in college haunts everywhere—Coke belongs. Ask for it either way... both trademarks mean the
same thing.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY Coca-Cola Bottling Co. Concord, N. C.

Brunette (introducing herself to a blonde at a party): “I’m Mr. B’s wife.”
Blonde: “I’m his secretary.”
Brunette (arching her eyebrows slightly): “Oh, were you?”

1st Student: About how far were you from the right answer to that last question?
2nd Student: About three seats.

“They must think I don’t have enough sense to get out of the rain!”

Frats At Duke Whoop It Up Tad Too Much

Three Duke fraternities received social probation status when the IFC executive council ruled that they had violated University social rules.
Lambda Chi Alpha, Phi Delta Theta, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon were found guilty of holding illegal parties Saturday night, Feb.
17, immediately following the close of fraternity rushing. The executive committee placed Lambda Chi on social probation until May 1,
SAE until April 15, and Phi Delt until April 1. University rules which the three fraternities violated state that a
fraternity function must be signed up with the university and chaperones must be present and that no drinking shall be
allowed at a fraternity function.

Jack Blackburn, IFC president, explained that the executive committee levied the penalties in view of an IFC regulation that fraternities
shall abide by University social rules. Blackburn, in announcing the decisions of his group, stated, “It is evident that a
number of people on our campus don't feel the rule is satisfactory. However, none of these people made an effort
to change the rules before breaking them; and when a rule is broken, we have to enforce it as long
as the rule stands.” In commenting on the outcome of the situation, SAE president, A. J. Brock said, “It is
unfortunate that there are not enough establishments in Durham and Chapel Hill to take care of 20 fraternities. It was
either a question of going to an illegal place or not having a party. I believe IFC should revamp the
rule distinguishing between a fraternity party and a fraternity function.”

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests

Number 15... THE LONG-WATTLED UMBRELLA BIRD

It made L. W. madder than a wet hen when they asked him to judge cigarette mildness by taking one
puff, one huff, one whiff, or one sniff. Our common sense friend enjoys a good smoke too much ever to
settle on any brand in such a snap-judgment way! For him and for millions like him, there’s only one convincing
way to test cigarette mildness. It’s the Sensible Test... the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test, which simply asks you to try
Camels as your steady smoke—on a pack after pack, day after day basis. No snap judgments needed! After you’ve enjoyed
Camels—and only Camels—for 30 days in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste), we believe you will know why...
More People Smoke Camels than any other cigarette!

NBC Declares Boys “Sang Beautifully”

The Davidson Male Chorus has received high praise from the National Broadcasting Company for its excellent choral program which was
broadcast to a nationwide radio audience over NBC last Saturday afternoon. In a letter to Dr. Cunningham, Mr. Ernest LaParade,
NBC's Director of Music Research, expressed his regret that Dr. Cunningham was unable to be present for the broadcast to
deliver his personal message to the radio audience as was originally intended, and he said he thought the boys “sang
beautifully and reflected great credit on their Alma Mater.” In conclusion, Mr. LaParade said that NBC is looking forward to
future opportunities to present the Davidson Male Chorus to the radio audience.

Sinfonians Announce New Bulletin Board

Phi Mu Alpha, honorary Music fraternity, will maintain a portion of the bulletin board on the North end of Chambers
which will contain information concerning all musical events in this area. This is being done to keep students who read
the announcements posted as to any event of interest that will take place in this area around Charlotte and Davidson.
Phi Mu Alpha hopes that the student body will find these announcements interesting and helpful.
