It was kinda like seeing Be Happy without Go Lucky, seeing Acker-the-Backer back on campus after Christmas minus the Schnozz. Another look and you noticed that another sizeable addition of the student body was conspicuously absent. No tobacco stains on Chambers’ window panes evidenced that C. L. would miss no more from his seat in Starnes’ Eco 41. It took no close interrogations to find out whither these huskies had taken themselves—another outfit was offering more, and with no homework at night. Yes, the war was beginning to “hit home.” That is, we were beginning to feel its effects in the lighter ways first. Sports were going to suffer. John Smoot actually was our first casualty last August when he reported to the Air Corps instead of pre-season practice. Then Jim and C. L., both as good material as coaches can want these days—when they wanted to be; both starters; both counted on for heavy duty next fall. Reportedly, Acker and Branch are leaving after the semester, but say it may not be until this summer. Doubtless several other gridders will be gone after this semester terminates, and even more will thin the Thin Red Line ranks as a strong draft makes this summer the chilliest the present generation can remember. We aren't in too bad a way with ROTC returnees. Kiser, Wade, Turk, McNeely, Reynolds, Freeman, Gibson, and Perkins are all in the advanced course and slated for returnal. There are sophs and frosh, also, whom the deferment agreement may protect—the sophs if they make it into the advanced course, and the frosh if they pass the tests this month. And unless they take veterans sooner than we think, ex-Marine Bill Stanley will go a long way toward making us forget there’s a war on where fullback is concerned. Nevertheless, we are going to be hit hard. We don’t have to draw you the picture to put it across. When old D. C. loses one or two key men on mere injuries, she is rockin’ on her crutches. This time we’re losing more than one or two key men, and they won’t be “back in action in time for Saturday's tiff.” Thus the prompting of Coach Crowell Little’s announcement that unless the Southern Conference comes through with eligibility for ’51 freshmen, we may have to lay ours down by the riverside and study only war once more. While Coach Crowell and staff are out in Texas, where undoubtedly something will be said concerning freshmen playing in this and that part of the country, let us raise the plea that we have football next fall. Better said, let us echo the plea that the Southern Conference allow the wearer of the beanie to become a wearer of the varsity headgear. Taking a quote from “Quote, unquote” in Sandy Grady’s Charlotte News Billboard, we see where Gordon “Chubby” Kirkland, Catawba athletic director, says: “Catawba College will play football as long as there are eleven men to put on the field... Service calls are wrecking one of our most potential teams in years... But we discontinued football for one year last time and were sorry we did.” We would hardly want to see it carried to that extreme—playing 1951’s schedule with eleven men, or with 22 men. But even if the “we’re going to be brighter” prospects for next fall are dimmed by the military gloom, let's make a go of it if at all possible. For this reason. Since this mess started there has been creeping into college life the cold soberingness of uncertainty, disruption of future plans, worry over what to do—and when, and a general trend to screw ourselves up into a distraught knot by letting the business get us down. Most of us were not close enough to the last war to really worry about interruption of our lives, etc., and fortunately we kept right on going in the happy-go-lucky routine of our high school lives. We are, I believe, the better for it, because undue worry did not hit us. This is not to suppose that we take this business lightly and give it little thought. We will go in time—be doggone sure of that!—and must give a certain amount of thought to it. Until then, let’s continue as best we know how in the pattern of our everyday lives, doing as much as possible the things we enjoy and want to accomplish. In college, sports play a major part in that pattern—for the participator and for the spectator—and football is probably the king of them all with its weekends, etc. To see it snuffed out would see one more bright side of life’s parade of events coated with olive drab, and one more emphasis placed on the grim fact that a jumbled world is really shaking all over. Let’s don’t look at the future through any rose-colored glasses, but let’s not look in the dark all the time, either. What was it MacArthur said about “On the fields of friendly strife...”?

By BILL WHITE

THACKER’S, INC.
Private Dining Rooms for Parties and Banquets
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
Phone 25490
221 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Stonestreet's Cafe
GRADE ‘A’ CAFE
Fine Foods
Mooresville, N. C.
418 South Main Street

PAGE THREE

Wildcat Sports
THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SECTION

WILDCAT OF THE WEEK: HENGEVELD? BLUE RAY?

FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 1951

WARM CATS MEET CRIPPLED UNC
Boyd's Boys Showed Their Mettle
Flushed With History's First Win, In Nip & Tuck Tiff With Wolfpack
AFTER LOSS (Catfish Invade Clemson Tomorrow)

Davidson’s scrappy ’Cats, who proved they were scrappy against State Tuesday night, journey to Chapel Hill to play Carolina’s White Phantoms Saturday night in their last conference game before the second semester. It will be the second meeting for the two teams, Carolina having taken the first contest by a score of 72-69, and since then the teams have met with only mild success. Thus this game could mean the turning point for either team in loop warfare.

The Wildcats played one of their best games of this or any other season Tuesday night against State. They astounded every onlooker by running up a 14-point margin over the Wolfpack early in the game only to see it cut and State forge ahead in the last half to win, 70-61. The Cats played like no one had ever seen them play before, and the outcome was never sure until the game was almost over. Another game like this one could possibly mean a victory over the Tarheels, who nosed the Cats out in the last minute of play earlier this season. Since then the Cats have won from Loyola College of Baltimore, Geneva College,and the Citadel, while dropping six games, three of those to Southern Conference teams. The team should be in top shape for the contest with Dutch Hengeveld, T. C. Coleman, Tom Haller, Bill Brooks, and Don Lazenby, the heroes of the State Meet. Lazenby, a good sub down game, ready to go against Carolina. Coach Tom Scott's Tarheels have lost eight straight games since whipping Davidson in December. Injuries have been an important factor in the Tarheel slump, with three or four regulars being out alternately most of the season. Ace forward Hugo Kappler and soph center Bud Maddie have only just recently returned to the lineup. It has been sophs Jack Wallace and Vince Grimaldi, together with vets Howard Deasy and Charlie Thorne who have been spearheading the Phantom cause all season. The Tarheels lost two heartbreakers to N.Y.U. and Temple just in the past week, and they suffered three defeats in the Dixie classics at Raleigh recently at the hands of Duke, Navy, and Tulane. If they can get their regulars in shape and get a taste of victory, Carolina could be a most dangerous team. So it will be a clash between two victory-starved teams at Chapel Hill Saturday night. A win for either team could mean both the end of a slump and perhaps a turning point to a successful season.

With Kelton Sidelined, Craven, Gay Lead Grapplers To Raleigh
By CHARLIE HASSELL

Tomorrow afternoon the varsity wrestling team will weigh in for their Southern Conference match with N.C. State minus the services of Captain Johnny Kelton. Nevertheless, the matters hope to win their first match since last year’s opener with Citadel. In their pre-Christmas opener, the Cats suffered a double loss to Washington and Lee, conference champions for the past three years. For not only did they lose the match by a score of 23-10, but they also lost Kelton, when he left the mat with a separated collar bone. Coach Charlie Parker is certain that Kelton will be back for the match with V.M.I. on February 2nd, but he is just as certain that Johnny will spend tomorrow night on the bench as a spectator. State, who defeated the Cats in their match last year, will be gunning for their second victory this year. Earlier in the season, the Wolfpack mat team beat West Carolina. They have two particularly good boys—Reggie Buie in the 123-pound class, and Howie Martin in the 145 or 155-pound class. State coach Al Crawford will have a good team, for along with these two are a number of matmen that have graduated from last year’s freshman squad. The lineup for Davidson will be practically the same as against W. and L., with the exception of Kelton. Gene Craven will wrestle in the 123-pound class. Gene showed excellently against W. and L., tying the present conference champion. George Irvin, who also did well in the opener, will oppose the 130-pound man. Jim Grissom will be in the 137-pound slot. Jim pinned John Doherty of W. and L. in that match. Johnny Guiton and Mac Doubles take on State's men in the 147 and 157 classes, respectively. Bob Gay, who also pinned his first opponent this year, or Jerry Morrow will be in at the 167 spot, depending on Parker's choice. But the one who does not wrestle in that class will take the mat in the next one, the 177-pound class. Lee Talbert, in the heavyweight class, completes the lineup. As to the prospects for a win, Coach Parker says dryly, “It'll be a good match.”

Tuesday night, Coach Brown's underdog Wildkittens took the floor against a highly touted squad from N.C. State. It was a runaway as the more experienced cagers from State showed too much hot ball handling for the Kits to cope with. The Kits held State to a 37-26 halftime lead, but it was a different story in the second half, as State made a surge and left the Kittens in the dust. Lacking height, except in George Melton, 6'6” center, it was very seldom that a Wildkitten came off the boards with the ball. When the final buzzer sounded, State was on the long end of the score 81-49. The Kittens’ record, which is not one to be ashamed of now, shows two losses to State, a loss to North Carolina, and a victory over Belmont Abbey. They still have another crack at Carolina coming and they hope to make it even-steven with the quintet from Chapel Hill.

He: Are you afraid of the big bad wolf?
She: No, why?
He: Just wondering, all the other pigs were.

By MOODY SMITH

Davidson’s Catfish take their final pre-examination plunge tomorrow afternoon when they meet Clemson in the Tiger pool. Taylor, Davidson won its first Intercollegiate Swimming meet last Monday afternoon when the Cat Swimmers defeated the University of South Carolina 47-27. Davidson, which entered the intercollegiate swimming field for the first time this year, lost its first two matches. Bill Ray was the standout performer against South Carolina, winning the 100-yard freestyle and the 50-yard dash. But Francis Pepper, crack 440 swimmer, was disqualified. Had he swum, he would have most probably won, for he has bettered by a considerable margin the time—6:1.5—in which South Carolina's Smith won that event last Monday.

The Results:
300-yard medley relay—1. Davidson (forfeit).
220-yard freestyle—1. Smith, S.C., 2. Cole, Davidson; 3. Evans, Davidson. Time: 2:41.9.
50-yard dash—1. Ray, Davidson; 2. Davidson; 3. Allison, S.C. Time: 24.7.
Diving—1. Lamb, S.C.; 2. West, Davidson.
100-yard freestyle—1. Ray, Davidson; 2. Heizer, Davidson; 3. Crepeau, S.C. Time: 58.3.
200-yard backstroke—1. Lamb, S.C.; 2. Winder, S.C.; 3. Mauze, Davidson. Time: 2:43.
200-yard breaststroke—1. Cornelson, Davidson; 2. Cunningham, Davidson; 3. Koluch, S.C. Time: 2:54.9.
440-yard freestyle—Smith, S.C.; 2. Cole, Davidson; 3. Winder, S.C. Time: 6:1.5.
400-yard freestyle relay—1. Davidson, (Taylor, Pepper, Evans, and Ray). Time: 4:7.2.

The sudden rash of quick-trick cigarette tests

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests
Number 10... THE PANDA

“Let’s get down to bear facts!” may have caused panda-monium on the campus—but our scholarly friend was unperturbed. He pondered the facts of the case and decided that one-puff or one-sniff tests... single inhale and exhale comparisons are hardly conclusive. Proof of cigarette mildness doesn’t come that fast! And that’s exactly why we suggest...

The sensible test—the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test which simply asks you to try Camels as your steady smoke—on a pack after pack, day after day basis. No snap judgments needed. After you’ve enjoyed Camels—and only Camels—in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste), we believe you'll know why...

More People Smoke Camels than any other cigarette!