THE LAGE FIVE Netters Hit Springfield Tuesday; Frosh Launch Practice On Monday

Hampered by a hard rain and a sudden cold snap, the tennis team.

FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 1951

DAVIDSONIAN

BEST AMONG THE GREEKS!—Selected by the votes of the fraternity sports managers, these six men were this week named to
the 1951 Davidsonian All Interfraternity Basketball team. Six were selected instead of five since the Sigma Chi’s Tyler Berry and
Phil Blatt tied with the exact number of votes for first place and points for votes for second and third
team recognition. The team. From left to right the team members are: Phil Blatt, Sigma Chi; Al Gaither, Pika; Tyler
Berry, Sigma Chi; Bill Bivins, Phi Delt; Bobby Nimocks, Beta; and Jimmy Miller, SPE. There were no repeaters from the
1950 club on this year’s team. All are sophomores except Bill Bivins, Bob Nimocks, Al Gaither, Jimmy Miller, Tyler Berry,
and Phil Blatt.

Make All-Fraternity Basketball Selection A Sextette

By WALLACE ABBOTT

This year's All-Fraternity Basketball first team is as representative as any could possibly be; the team is comprised of players
from five different fraternities on the campus. The vast number of fraternities represented on the All-Fraternity Basketball team, as a
whole, shows the enthusiasm and interest that has been garnered on this campus by the intramural program. There is no
dominance of players from one fraternity on the first team or all the teams combined, but rather there is a
mixture of all the groups.

The captain of this year’s team, selected on the basis of the most votes, is Bill Bivins. Bill received a
total of nine first team votes out of a possible ten, therefore he lacked only the support of one team
to have made him unanimous. The other members of the first team in order of votes polled were Bob Nimocks,
Al Gaither, Jimmy Miller, Phil Blatt, and Tyler Berry. As will be noted, there is a slight discrepancy in the
fact that there are six players mentioned here and not the customary top five. The cause of this unusual situation
is the fact that two of the boys, Tyler Berry and Phil Blatt, polled exactly the same number of votes.
Both of them were quite deserving as can be evidenced by their play this season, so no reason was seen
for discriminating between them.

The voting this year was conducted through each fraternity's sports managers. Each of the managers was asked to select three
teams from the members of the opposing teams that they faced. If a player was selected for the first team
he received three points; two for being put on the second team and one for the third team. In other
words, each fraternity selected an all-opponent team and this was combined to give the composite All-Fraternity team.

Bill Bivins, Phi Delt

As could be seen by the large number of votes which he received, Bill Bivins was the outstanding player in
the fraternity loop this year. Bill gained his importance not only because of his excellent shooting, but also because of
his tricky ball handling and playmaking. His fine playing helped lead Bill’s team to a top place in the league.

Bob Nimocks, Beta

Bob made an unusual switch this year when he transferred from the varsity ranks to the intramural floor, but he
certainly proved that he was capable of playing either type of ball. Although Bob's team was not too successful this
year, nevertheless he proved his worth and on the basis of his point making and rebound work he was selected
for the top team. Bob was a junior this year, so he still has another year to make it rough
on his opponents.

Al Gaither, Pika

Al Gaither came forward again this year, after a fine season last year, to prove that he is one of
the top players in the fraternity league. Al's short hook and push shots were a constant menace to the Pikas'
opponents and also aided Al in piling up a large number of points for the season. Al is another sophomore
who has two more years of eligibility remaining, so he should make it hard on all other teams for the
next couple of years.

Jimmy Miller, SPE

Jimmy is the walking example that a short man can still play basketball; for although Jim is very short he
still managed to play such jam-up games that he couldn't be neglected in selecting the first team. Jimmy led his
team throughout the year and was seldom out of the double figures in the scoring column. This was Jimmy's last
year of ball, but he will always be remembered as a little man with a lot of hustle.

Tyler Berry, Sigma Chi

Tyler was one of the leading players in the league last year, and once again showed his ability by being
selected again. Tyler was one of the top rebound and push shot artists on the Sigma Chi team, a team
that went undefeated in the standings for the year. Tyler is another one of those sophomores who will be back
for two more years to deal the other fraternities a lot of misery.

Phil Blatt, Sigma Chi

Tyler's teammate, Phil, is quite naturally a teammate, so it is sort of “poetic justice” that they should end up
tied for a position on the All-Fraternity Basketball team. Phil gained his special recognition this year for being a leading
playmaker.

1951 All Frat Basketball

FIRST TEAM
Name - Fraternity - Class - Vote Points
Bill Bivins - Phi Delt - Soph - 28
Bob Nimocks - Beta - Junior - 25
Al Gaither - Pika - Soph - 25
Jimmy Miller - SPE - Senior - 24
Tyler Berry - Sigma Chi - Soph - 23
Phil Blatt - Sigma Chi - Soph - 23

SECOND TEAM
Dan McKeithan (KA) - 18
Jim Sloan (KS) - 17
Eric Clark (KS) - 16
Henry Truelove (KS) - 13
Al Cook (Phi Delt) - 11

THIRD TEAM
Fred Spach (KS) - 10
Bill Adams (KA) - 10
Chuck Elliott (Beta) - 7
Dorsey Pleasants (SX) - 6
Manly McWilliams (KA) - 5

HONORABLE MENTION:
McMurray, SAE; Plummer, Sigma Chi; Whisnant, Pi Kapp; J. Crosland, Kappa Sig; Abbott, Betas; Cassells, Pi Kapp; Champion, Phi Gams;
Lambeth, Phi Delt; Monroe, Betas; Bowen, Phi Delts; Blanks, Phi Gams; Eastman, Sigma Chi; Nall, Pi Kapp.and rebound man for
his team. The interfraternity selections with points received are as follows:

First Team—Bill Bivins (Phi Delt) (28), Bob Nimocks (Betas) (25), Al Gaither (Pikas) (25), Jimmy Nimocks, a junior, and Miller,
a senior. (Davidsonian Sports Photo by Andrew Simmons).

Chesterfield SPORTS QUIZ is still trying to assume a semblance of preparedness for its season opener here Tuesday with Springfield
College. For the past week, the team has been engaging in ladder challenges to determine who the starting six will
be. Although the most outstanding feature of Tuesday’s match with Springfield is uncertainty in the lineup, positions have been tentatively
settled. In the first four slots will probably be Captain Allen Strand, Peyre Kennedy, Bill Child, and Dewey Keesler. The
fifth and sixth positions, as yet undetermined, are being battled out between the remainder of the squad, with five men—Tom
Staley, Joe Dudley, Bill Bivins, John Crosland, and Rob Walker—being the leading contenders. Little is known in this sector of
the Springfield tennis team. They, along with the baseball team, are making a tour of southern schools.

Until I heard the doctor tell "There's danger in a kiss," I had considered kissing you the closest thing to
bliss. But now I know biology and sit and sigh and moan. Six million mad bacteria and I thought we
were alone!

Knute Rockne, Notre Dame's immortal football coach, died 20 years ago the 31st of the month. How did he die?
Who was golfdom’s leading money winner for 1950?
What city claims captains of two Davidson College spring sports teams?
Who is the new welterweight champion of the world?

Answers should be turned in on Chesterfield wrappers to Dave Moylan, C-East. Winners receive a carton of Chesterfields.

Second Team—Dan McKeithan (KA) (18), Jim Sloan (Kappa Sig) (17), Eric Clark (Kappa Sig) (16), Henry Truelove (Kappa Sig) (13),
Al Cook (Phi Delt) (11).

Third Team—Peck Spach (Kappa Sig) (10), Bill Adams (KA) (10), Chuck Elliot (Beta) (7), Dorsey Pleasants (Sigma Chi) (6), Manly
McWilliams (KA) (5).

Honorable Mention: George MacMurray, SAE; Stuart Plumber, Wallace Abbott, Phi Gams; Louis Owen, Betas; Bill Cassells, Pi Kapps; Larry Champion,
Phi Gams; Auburn Lambeth, Phi Delts; Thad Monroe, Betas; Ted Bowen, Phi Delts; Dick Blanks, Phi Gams; Paul Eastman, Sigma
Chi; Jerry Nall, Pi Kapps.

For your Spring and Summer needs, we now have SUITS, SLACKS, and SHIRTS for your inspection. Also, Bucks and Cords
are in order. Come in soon.

Wilson-Wright
Davidson, N.C.

Starlite DRIVE-IN THEATRE
Salisbury-Landis Highway
WEEK STARTING MARCH 15

Friday and Saturday
‘BLAZING TRAIL’ with Charles Starrett and ‘THE MARK OF THE GORILLA’ with Jungle Jim
SERIAL - CARTOON

Sunday
‘BLOSSOMS IN THE DUST’ with WALTER PIDGEON and GREER GARSON
CARTOON

Monday and Tuesday
‘COPPER CANYON’ with RAY MILLAND
CARTOON

Patronize Our Advertisers!

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT
BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST.
PHONE 2-2238
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

COLLEGE GIRLS CHEER HADACOL

Hadacol May Relieve Cause of Troubles When Due to a Lack of Vitamins B1, B2, Niacin, and Iron, that Interfere
with Fun and Studies!

The marvelous benefits of HADACOL, today’s great nutritional formula, are equally helpful to young and old alike who are suffering
from a lack of Vitamins B1, B2, Iron, and Niacin. Here’s what these two pretty coeds, who may have been
suffering from such deficiencies, have to say:

“We are two college students writing you this letter. Before taking HADACOL we were nervous, restless, and unable to sleep
at night. We found we were foggy all day and ached all over. Now after taking only 3 bottles of
HADACOL we are different persons. We are full of life and energy and our aches have completely disappeared. Thank you
for your wonderful discovery of that remarkable product, HADACOL.”

Senator LeBlanc has been in public life since he was quite a young man and has always advocated the cause
of the oppressed and downtrodden. It was he who introduced the law in Louisiana that gives every deserving man and
woman in Louisiana a pension of $50.00. It was he who introduced the law creating the office of Service Commissioner,
the duties of which office is to see that every deserving ex-soldier and veteran receives his just reward from the
Federal and State Government. It was he who has consistently fought the battle of the school teachers in the halls
of the legislature. He worked untiringly for the farmers and the laboring man. You can place your confidence in a
man who has by his past activities demonstrated to you that he is your friend.

If you are suffering from deficiencies of Vitamins B1, B2, Niacin, and Iron, don’t hesitate, don’t delay, buy HADACOL today.
