This column should be getting the dubious honor that has been bestowed on Life magazine in the past few years. It seems everything the magazine would print would come out a few weeks later as either not being true as a standing fact or would fall into a miserable situation. Such a thing happened when they printed the picture of the presidential "victor" Thomas Dewey in a joyous mood as if he had just won the election. A day later that whole page had to be scratched when Bro. Truman came through with colors.

GREAT TEXAS TEAM OF THE EARLY '40s

Another time when they slipped up was an issue they played up the Longhorns of Texas as the nation’s best that year. A week after publication the team lost to Texas A.&M., the worst fate for any Texas team, and then SMU polished them off the following Saturday. Of course, no one can predict these things as an early column hinted, and it did look like the best in the nation. The correlation between "Life" and this column is purely coincidental and incidental, but it does seem that the writer has really pulled some ‘cool’ ones this year. Take last week for instance. The prediction was that the cross country team would come in fourth or fifth in the conference meet. They ran well and the Stockton combo looked well, but they came in seventh out of nine teams.

FOOTBALL HAS BEEN HECTIC TO PREDICT

All through the season, we've been plugging for an upset and sometimes came right out with a prediction of a win. Like last week when we all hoped for an upset. We really thought there was a possibility of the team’s winning, but the State team was too powerful and we made too many mistakes. Everyone thought that Presbyterian would be a pushover. Maybe that’s why we absorbed the licking! It has been a long and rough Fall for all concerned with football. We'll make one last prediction about the Georgia Tech game. The Davidson Wildcats will visit the Yellow Jackets in Atlanta this year for the last (let's hope) game of a two-game series. The game will be played in "warm" weather. This is really getting into Dr. Cunningham's territory!

"FAT-JACK" SHINES ON DEFENSE

The man who played a game last Saturday that is beyond reproach from any quarter is the only man who has made Wildcat of the Week twice this season. How could you keep a guy down that played his heart out in that game and in all the games this season? Jerry Kiser is by far the hardest-playing footballer that Davidson has seen in several years. No man can overlook a fellow who got up off the bench with a hard-hit head and a cut-up nose and went out to tear up the opposition’s backfield with such determination and fight. You gotta admire a chubby senior who has been taking the knocks for four years, receiving more than his share of the injuries, and yet still be willing to give his all for his team and his school. It was phenomenal how Jerry made several vicious tackles from both sides of the line and yet could hardly see much less remember his defensive assignments. When the season is over and Jerry Kiser has played his last collegiate game, he should be awarded with an All-Southern berth. Although he played for a losing team that has struggled through a season with one win, he stands out as a player who deserves all the credit you might give him. His opposition has praised him more than his own schoolmates and coaches from several schools came out with "he’s the best we've been up against" or the like.

FROM THE SPORTS WORLD OF YESTERYEAR

In 1943 on this weekend, Sid Luckman of the Chicago Bears completed 21 passes for 433 yards and a victory over the New York Giants. No other passer can make that statement. A record crowd of 112,912 persons witnessed on this weekend in 1929 the Irish of Notre Dame squeeze by Southern California 13-12 at Pasadena. Bobby Jones, the world’s greatest amateur golfer and the only holder of the four "Grand Slam" major golf titles retired in 1930 at the age of 28. Bobby has lived on to become the patron saint of the game.

ALL INTRA-FRAT TEAM

The intramural football season is over, and the KA’s are the new champions. These are the words that emanated throughout the campus this past week, as the KA’s went through their entire season with only one defeat, and thereby became champions for this year. Not only did they end up on top, but they were in first place or tied for first place, during every week of the campaign. The KA’s record of 10 wins and one loss cannot be attributed to the play of any one man, but is consequently, the result of some excellent team play. Agreeably, this sense of team play, instead of individual standouts, is one thing that makes the game of tag football more interesting for the participants. In second place, we see the Kappa Sigs hanging on to a hard-fought-for position. They, too, were up among the leaders during the entire season and as a result, they came out in the first division, and in second place. The third place team in the standings is a team that has not been up in quite that high a position until the final week of play. It was the Betas’ victory over the Pi Kapps in the last week that put them in ahead of the other teams for third place. Finally, the rest of the first division is rounded out by three teams in a fourth-place tie. They are the Phi Gams, Sigma Chi’s, and Pi Kapps.

The opening session of wrestling practice which began this past week, was characterized by a healthy turnout of 25 men, including a nucleus charged by four returning lettermen. Gene Craven, who captured the 1951 state A.A.U. 123-pound title, has recently been elected captain of the 1952 Cat matmen. He competes in the 130-pound division this year. Other experienced grapplers returning from last year's team are: Jim Grissom, George Irvin, and M. F. Vail. George "Bucky" Irvin who was slated for a berth in the 137-pound class, is inactive at the present time because of a nose operation this summer. Jim Grissom will hold down the 137-pound class while M. F. Vail will probably move up from the 137 to the 147-pound division. Another returning veteran of the collegiate mats will be Bill McNeeley vicing for the heavyweight spotlight. Among this year's promising prospects is Peter Peck, an experienced grappler, who will take over the 157-pound spot. Battling it out for the 123-pound class will be Bob Walker and Bobby Joe Key, neither of whom is experienced.

AN OBSERVATION—B. C.

A pleasant companion reduces the length of a journey. —Publilius Syrus

And what better companion could anyone have than a handy picnic cooler filled with delicious Coca-Cola. It’s a sure way to travel refreshed.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.OF CONCORD, © 1981, The COCA-COLA COMPANY

Grapplers Drill For Coming Season

Now that the football season is completed, the sports managers are grooming their respective athletes to be in shape for the wrestling tournament on November 26, 27, and 28. Immediately following that will come the swimming meet on December 5 and 6.

Results
Phi Gams 45 - ATO's 20
Kappa Sigs 19 - SAE’s 6
Sigma Chi's 31 - SPE’s 13
Betas 19 - Pi Kapps 7
KA’s 27 - Phi Delts 6
Pikas 38 - Marriers Finish Final Standings With 2-3 Record
KAS 10 - 7
Betas 8 - 3
Phi Gams 7 - 4
Sigma Chis 7 - 4
Pi Kapps 7 - 4
SPE 6 - 5
Phi Delts 4 - 7
Pikas 4 - 7
SAEs 2 - 9
ATOs 1 - 10
CC 0 - 11

Placing seventh in the annual Southern Conference meet, the Davidson cross country team rounded out the 1951 season. The scoreboard shows a record of two wins, three losses, third place in the State meet, and seventh in the conference. This is not an inspiring record to look at, but when one considers the type of competition encountered in the first two meets, the picture takes a different light.

The Cats opened the season at home against arch-rival N.C. State, and followed with the University of North Carolina, both times absorbing defeat by rather wide margins. Then they moved into the win column with successive wins over Washington and Lee and University of Richmond. In their final dual meet, Coach Pete Whittle’s charges were edged by Virginia Military by a five-point margin. November 5 found the locals in Raleigh for the State meet and finishing third behind State and Carolina. Last Monday the harriers journeyed to Durham to bring back seventh place honors in the Conference meet.

By far the brightest light for the Wildcats has been senior co-captain and number one man, Tom. Tom took first in four of the five dual meets, defeated only by State and Conference champion Clyde Garrison of N.C. State, and set records on two consecutive weekends against U.N.C. and Richmond. The Winston-Salem native crossed the line third in the State meet and fourth in the Conference setto. Pushing Tom all fall have been co-captain and twin brother Dick Stockton, Bob Henry, Bill Lee, and Bill Shipley. Stuart Plummer, Johnny Smith, Paul Alexander, and freshmen Floyd Feeney, Joe Caudell, and Bob Charles have been matching strides to round out the squad. The loss of the Stocktons and Lee will be a big one for the Cats, but the steady improvement of Henry and Shipley is expected to take up the slack for those returning next year.

One has only to look back on the Wildcats grid record this fall to know how true the words of Coach Crowell Little were last winter when he said, “If the Southern Conference does not allow freshmen to compete in varsity football, I hardly see how we can field a team.” With the draft or fear of it taking key men and graduation grabbing others, the Cats would have been woefully lacking had not the fledgling been allowed to play with his upperclassmen this season. Green: Bob Amos, Dick Babbington, Leroy Fargason, Henry, Brown, and Charlie Rankin. Not pictured were: Wallace Pate, Jim Thacker, Harold Peterson, John Buxton, John Archer, and Dean Edwards.

Your share right now, if all the gold in the world were distributed equally, would be $21.39.—American Magazine.

Patronize Our Advertisers—It Pays!

Wildcat of Week . . . . Kiser

By BOB OWENS

“I was certainly glad when Kiser left the game; he is the only guy who has knocked the H— out of me this season.” Those were the words of N.C. State’s All-American candidate, Elmer Costa, praising the work of Jerry Kiser in Davidson’s game with N.C. State last week. Although the final score stood 31-0 State, this was no indication of the type of game Kiser played. He put his 5’ 9", 235-pound frame to good use in treading through the big Wolfpack line and downing plays before they could get started. This is the second time Jerry has been honored as Wildcat of the week, and, truly, if anyone ever deserved it, he does.

Davidson's line coach, Buddy Chandler, considers Kiser the best defensive guard in the south; not only from local sources but also from past opponents does this same praise appear. Coach George Barclay of Washington and Lee praised Kiser in this manner: “He is one of the finest defensive guards we have played against this season. Time after time he broke through our line and broke up our plays.” Coach Quinn Decker of The Citadel had this to say: “I think Jerry Kiser is one of the best linemen we have faced this year.”

Winning honors such as this is nothing new to Jerry Kiser. In his senior year, he won all-state honors at Shelby High and played in the Shrine Bowl classic at Charlotte. Kiser, who is alternate captain of the Wildcat eleven, played four years of ball for Shelby, serving as captain in his last season.

This sporty student really teed off on a long tirade when he found himself stymied on the “single puff” and “one sniff” cigarette tests. “They're strictly for the birdies!” said he. He realized that cigarette mildness requires more deliberation than a cursory inhale or exhale. Millions of smokers concur—there’s only one true test of mildness and flavor in a cigarette. It’s the sensible test . . . the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test, which simply asks you to try Camels as your steady smoke on a day-after-day, pack-after-pack basis. No snap judgments! Once you've tried Camels for 30 days in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste), you'll see why . . . After all the Mildness Tests... Camel leads all other brands by billions.