FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1951

Improving Catfish Swim W. & Unbeaten KA’s, Ray, Pepper, Cunningham Set Pool Records as Team Tops USC, 55-19

Although a club with only two wins and five losses, Coach Dick Redding's swimming team will carry with them an
impressive chain of five shattered records when they vie with William and Mary’s Indians at Williamsburg, Va., Monday. They won't
be Southern Conference marks, just five pool records set against South Carolina Wednesday as the Cats lowered the Gamecocks for
the second time this season, 55-19.

Catfish captain Bill (Blue) Ray, the water-knifing Floridian with the dream shape, cracked two of the Columbia pool marks, Francis
Pepper snapped two others, and Ray Cunningham set a fifth in the 200-yard breaststroke. Ray’s records came in his specialties,
the 50 and 100. The big black-haired senior remained undefeated in the 50 with the fine time of 24.5s and
cut through 100 yards of water in 56.6s. Pepper, cutting almost one half minute off his previous best time, turned
in a 5:33.8 minute performance on the 440 to bag top honors there along with his 2:31 win in the
220.

South Carolina captured only two firsts, both by Doc Lamb, in the 200-yard backstroke and in diving. The Gamecocks were
considerably weakened by the illness of two of their top performers, Nick Koluch and George Crepeau, and were forced to
forfeit in the 300-yard medley and the 400-yard freestyle relay.

Prior to Ray's record in the 50, freshman Ed Stuart had cracked the pool mark, only to have Ray undercut
him moments later. With meets with N. C. State and possibly the Citadel remaining at home after the William and
Mary match, the swimmers stand a pretty fair chance of winding up their first full collegiate varsity season with a
5-5 record. Losses to date have come from good clubs. North Carolina and VPI boast two of the top clubs
in the South, Duke is a perennial pool powerhouse, and Clemson and the Citadel edged the Cats by slim margins.

Although backstroker Hampton Mauze has left school for the armed forces, the Catfish found themselves strengthened by the return of
two of last winter's lettermen Hugh Evans and Aubrey Miree. In their first action this year against South Carolina, Hugh
bagged a third in the 220 and Aubrey a third in the 200-yard backstroke. Redding expects both to improve within
the week, however, and considerably add to the power of the club.

Depth is found in the sprints in Ken Taylor and Dan Heizer, with Miree and Evans now added talent. In
the breaststroke George Cornelson gives big Ray Cunningham competition of almost equal caliber, and Paul Cole is always a strong
contender in the 440 and the 220. Gene Regen is handling diving duties vacated suddenly by C. L. Runyan and
Ed West, and is at present the leading backstroker.

For individual honors, Ray stands a chance to grab a meet title at the big Southern Conference water games in
Raleigh two weekends hence. The man he fears most is Duke’s 50-yard entry who did not compete when the Cats
met the Blue Devils early this year. Ray’s time has consistently been outstanding, however, and he will be a rugged
customer to come home ahead of. Pepper is another Davidsonian who will rate well in conference rankings, particularly after his
2:33.8 time of Wednesday. The Southern Conference meet will close down the season for the Catfish.

Results of the South Carolina meet:
220-yard freestyle—Pepper (Davidson), Winder (USC), Evans (Davidson); 2:31.
50-yard freestyle—Ray (Davidson), Taylor (Davidson), Roberts (USC), 24.5 seconds.
Diving—Lamb (USC), Regen (Davidson).
100-yard freestyle—Ray, Heizer (Davidson), Winder; 56.6 seconds.
200-yard backstroke—Lamb, Regen, Miree (Davidson); 2:44.8.
200-yard breaststroke—Cunningham (Davidson), Cornelson (Davidson), Huerta (USC); 2:41.1.
440-yard freestyle—Pepper, Winder, Cole (Davidson); 5:33.8.
300-yard medley and 400-yard freestyle relays—forfeited to Davidson.

PACE SETTER—Undefeated in seven meets to date, Captain Bill (Blue) Ray set a pool record in his 50-yard specialty against
South Carolina Wednesday and also cracked the 100 mark. The outstanding sprinter will lead the Catfish against William and Mary’s
Indians at Williamsburg Monday.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
MAKERS OF Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.

VISIT THE DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
142 E. Morehead — Charlotte

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Whittle Grooming Nine Tracksters For Indoor Games At Chapel Hill

The Southern Conference Indoor Games, advance guard of spring for Davidson’s tracksters, will probably see nine Wildcat entrants in eight
events at its annual running February 24th at Chapel Hill. Coach Heath Whittle’s tentative contingent includes seven varsity participants and
freshman Bill Shipley. Shipley will run in the freshman three-quarter mile race.

Heading the thinclad list is captain Bill Pritchett who will enter the 70-yard high and low hurdles. One of the
leading outdoor hurdlers in the conference, Pritchett will be hampered at Chapel Hill by lack of workout facilities but should
give a good account of himself. Ken Goodpasture, who turned in a :9.9 on the 100 last spring, and Roy
White will be outstanding representatives in the 60-yard dash. White, Tommy Wooten and Roger Cornell are entered in the broad
jump, Cornell also high jumping and Wooten in the 60. White is slated to run the lows with Pritchett and
Jim Fickiesen with Bill White in the highs with Pritchett. Andy Horne is the lone weight man, putting the shot.
Cold weather has kept the Cats indoors, working by improvisation in the gym and Chambers Building.

Almost A Deacon

Now buzzing as one of Boyd Baird’s leading performers, Center Al Fitzgerald came pretty close to playing for Wake Forest's
Demon Deacons. So close, in fact, that he enrolled there his freshman year, but saw that he wanted to make
the switch so wisely went out for no sport there. The Baptists’ loss is the Presbyterian’s gain. All intramural last
winter, Al is a junior with another year’s eligibility.

GRIDDERS START KNOCKING HEADS

The Wildcat football team started winter practice last Monday afternoon and will continue to have practice sessions for the next
six weeks. The gridders will work under the careful eyes of coaches Crowell Little, Ray Brown, and Dick Redding five
days a week, if the weather permits. Backfield coach Tom Fetzer has entered the University of North Carolina to get
his degree in physical training, and Henry Wilson is helping with the backfield.

Mooresville Creamery
GRADE “A” MILK
PASTEURIZED
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N. C.N. CG Chesterfield SPORTS QUIZ

1. Who is the newly-appointed head football coach at Duke University, succeeding Wallace Wade, and where did he coach last
fall?
2. February 2, aside from being Groundhog Day, held particular significance this winter for the National League. What was it?
3. Name two major football teams (not High Point College, etc.) who have given up football for the coming fall.
4. This week’s breather. Charlie (Choo-Choo) Justice will do what next fall?

Winner: Albert Last week's Farmer. Answers should be turned in to Dave Moylan, C, East. Winners get a carton of
Chesterfields.

The coaching in his place. The backs have been practicing ball-handling and timing the last few days while trying to
round into shape. Coach Little has eight of his fourteen backs from the '50 squad back out. The Cats can
boast some fine speedsters in Roy “Whizzer” White, Johnny Guiton, Gordon Stuart, Clay Evatt, A. C. Gregg, and Ham Wade.
To handle the quarterbacking chores in place of Auburn Lambeth will be talent galore in the presence of Jack Ruth,
Dave Pecler, Bill Roland, and freshman Dan McCall. Also expected to help out at either quarterback or halfback will be
speedy Johnny Gray, who did very well on last fall’s Cat freshman team.

Sixteen of last year’s twenty-five linemen are back out and have been drilling hard the past few days on fundamentals
and new blocking assignments. With the addition of Bob Turk after the basketball season is over, Coach Little will have
five of nine ends back from last season. Dave Williams, Dick Kelly, John Painter, and Walter Oakes are the flankmen
out now. The team's strength will be at the tackles where five veterans hold forth in Bob Tucker, Gene Pierce,
Bill Freeman, Bill McNeely, and Bill Reynolds. All five are hefty and well experienced. The guards will have four of
six returnees in George Cornelson, R. G. Gibson, Jerry Kiser, and Ted Gutherie; here is more power for the Cat
line, which has great possibilities for next season. The center position is again strong with George Nickels, Bill Acker, and
Arnold Whisnant back to snap the ball and back up the line.

Although the draft may have some effect on the squad for '51, the Cats look to have a chance for
a good season. There are several that are assured of returning under the ROTC deferments, and some that may be
deferred for other reasons. Also, the freshmen will be allowed to play next season under the new conference rules, so
barring injury and ineligibility, the Cats could have a good season.

PAGE FIVE

Monday Sig Chi Tied At Mid-Point

LEADERS BOAST 4-0 RECORD IN LEAGUE PLAY WHILE PHI DELTS AND KAPPA SIGS TRAIL WITH 4-1

This year’s intramural basketball campaign reached the halfway point this past week and found only two teams that remained undefeated,
the Sigma Chis and the KA’s. Upsets seem to be the rule of this year's play and it now seems
evident that there will be very few teams who will have a decent record when the season is completed. The
victors in this past week's games showed a decided edge over their opponents and consequently there were very few closely
played games.

Phi Gams 49 - SPE’s 29
The Phi Gams reportedly strong team got in the win column this past week with a win over the SPE's.
Neither team produced any startling point-getters but both teams played a good “team” game. For the winner Larry Champion had
12 points and for the losers Stowe had 10.

Sigma Chis 37 - Pi Kapps 23
The unbeaten Sigma Chis continued their victorious ways with a victory over the Pi Kapps. As the score would indicate
neither team was able to get much of an offense going, but nevertheless, the Sigma Chis' slow, deliberate style of
play finally won out. Eastman got 9 for the winners and Cassels 6 for the losers.

KA’s 56 - SAE’s 28
Dan McKeithan went on a one-man scoring spree and garnered 17 points to lead the undefeated KA’s to another victory.
It was a high-scoring game in which the KA’s accuracy accounted for the difference in score. A. C. Gregg and
George McMurray both got 8 points for the SAE’s.

Phi Delts 39 - Betas 28
Although Bob Nimocks put in 15 points for the Betas it was still not enough to overcome a strong Phi
Delt squad. The Phi Delts who have only been beaten once kept the ball moving at a very rapid pace
and eventually ran down the Beta team. Bill Bivins accounted for 12 points to lead his team to victory.

Kappa Sigs 55 - Phi Gams 25
In one of the most rough and tumble ball games played so far, the Kappa Sigs were able to “bang”
their way to victory. Jim Sloan led the winners' scoring with 14 points while Spach and Truelove both got 11.
For the Phi Gams Camp and Abbott were high with 7 each.

Pikas 59 - ATO’s 29
Al Gaither came through with a magnificent 22 point splurge to lead his team to an impressive victory over the
ATO’s. The outcome of the game seemed never to be in doubt after the opening whistle, nevertheless, the ATO’s gave
a good battle all the way.

Pi Kapps 35 - SPE’s 34
In the closest fought battle of the year, the Pi Kapps were able to eke out a close victory in
the closing moments of play. It was the Pi Kapps who got the breaks and thus in the end were
the winners. Jerry Nall got 12 points for the Pi Kapps and Jimmy Miller got a like number for the
SPE’s.

(Continued on Page Six)

Number 12...THE MOURNING DOVE.
“Some of them are pretty sad!” By WALLACE ABBOTT

Metancholy and dejected, this gloomy miss found little to titillate her in the recent deluge of quick-trick cigarette tests! She
was not enthralled by the idea of judging cigarette mildness with just a fast puff or a single sniff. But,
joy of joys! ... happiness came to her when she discovered one test that left no doubt in her mind.
It was the sensible test! ... the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test, which simply asks you to try Camels as a
steady smoke — on a pack after pack, day after day basis. No snap judgments needed. After you’ve enjoyed Camels
- and only Camels — for 30 days in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste) we believe you'll
know why... More People Smoke Camels than any other cigarette!
