The recently-held wrestling tournament in which the fraternities participated and which was introduced as an addition to the intramural athletic
program was a huge success from all aspects. It was the first time that anything like this has been held
at the college in recent years and only accentuated the growing attention to the ancient gladiatorial sport. Coach Scott, in
conjunction with Charlie Parker, is responsible for this new surge of interest in wrestling as a spectator sport, and this
was proved overwhelmingly by the crowds at the latest tourney and the ones last spring that brought some nationally and
internationally (the Japs and their Judo) famous wrestlers to the campus.

GOOD TALENT EXPLODED

Back to the intrafraternity tournament, it was a success because it was so new and the fraternity men themselves were
interested in seeing their brothers “hit the mat” and also because of the expedient manner in which the tournament was
held. The coaching staff contributed freely to the success and also the wrestling team and coach. It went off well
considering the newness of the thing and the fact that there were so many entries from the various groups. The
surprising thing was that a great deal of talent came out of the tourney from boys who had never wrestled
before or never been out for wrestling. Most observers would probably have gone down there those three nights just to
laugh at their buddy who had been crazy enough to try it out. However, many a guy was surprised to
find that there were some good wrestlers or at least competitors in the tournament that they had no idea could
grapple in competition.

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE COACH'S MEET

When the aggregation of Southern Conference coaches meet on December 14, one of their most perplexing and most vital questions
that must be settled is the one of whether to continue cooperating with the various bowl game committees when it
comes to furnishing teams for January 1 play. There has been made only a “suggestion” in favor of forbidding post-season
play by any of its members. It was made by a committee and almost immediately Jim Tatum accepted a Sugar
Bowl bid for his Maryland powerhouse. The real basis of the problem seems to be whether to start deemphasizing with
a move to cut out bowl participation or continue on the liberal basis as before. The writer is prone to
think that the rule should go into effect for the coming calendar year and that if teams like Maryland, etc.,
want to continue with their “power” football, they should be dropped from the roster of Southern Conference Schools.

DEFINITE TREND TOWARD DE-EMPHASIS

The trend seems to be going definitely toward less emphasis on sports and Wallace Wade's office seems to be the
coming seat of closer controls. Already a committee of college presidents and coaches are studying the matter and are presenting
new ideas daily on the national front. Davidson will most surely profit by these controls and thus be able to
remain in the conference if the teams are put on a more equal basis. And so not only from the
standpoint of the principle against “big-time” football, but also by the fact that one’s school will profit should lead one
to support this drive toward less freedom in hiring players, name coaches, and the big-time financial aspect of bowl-game participation.

SPORT SHOTS

This week in 1945 Dan Topping quit Brooklyn to join the All-American Football Conference and bought the football Yankees. In
1925 the colossal Madison Square Garden was dedicated with the running of the six-day bike race on this weekend.

Brooks Leads Cat Scoring; McLean, King Follow Up

Forward Bill Brooks leads Wildcat scoring on the hardwood with a total of 39 points through Tuesday’s contest with N.C.
State. It’s a long drop, however, to the scoring runner-up Mac McLean who has canned 19 points in the season's
only two games so far. Freshman Gerald King is next in the scoring parade with 14, followed by Don Lazenby
and George Melton. In the personal fouls department, aggressive forward T. C. Coleman is at the top of the list
with 9; Al Fitzgerald and Brooks follow with 8 and 7, respectively. In two games Coach Baird's hoopsters have lost
24 points in free throws missed, hitting only fifty percent in this department.

Player Field Goals Free Throws Pers. Fouls Total Points
Brooks 15 9 7 39
McLean 8 3 4 19
King 5 4 4 14
Lazenby 4 3 5 11
Melton 4 1 4 9
Fitzgerald 4 0 8 8
Coleman 2 1 9 5
Turk 1 1 2 3
Smith 1 0 0 2
Howell 0 1 2 1
Dudley 0 1 6 1
Keith 0 1 1 1
Weeks 0 0 0 0
Bowen 0 0 0 0
Totals 44 25 52 113

Free throws missed: Brooks 2; Fitzgerald 1; King 3; Melton 4; Coleman 2; Lazenby 3; McLean 4; Smith 1; Dudley
2.

Wildcat Sports
THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1951

Something New Added Wrestling Shares Basketball’s Limelight

PAGE THREE

Wrestlers Ready For Tar Heels Tomorrow; Furman Is Visitor In Cage Preliminary

Hurricanes Show Improvement Over Last Year's Losing Squad

By BOB HAZARD

Out to better their present 1-1 record, the “scrappy Cats” of Coach Boyd Baird will entertain Furman University’s Hurricanes Saturday
night in the Johnston Gymnasium. Game time will be 7:30 instead of the usual 8:15 being held at 9 o'clock.
Not too much is known of the Greenville, S.C., squad. One imposing member, however, is six foot, six inch Neill
Gordon, a transfer from Wingate Junior College, where he was one of the leading scorers in the Carolinas Junior College
conference for two years. He also was selected for Junior College All-American honors at the national tournament in Kansas. In
his debut against N.C. State last Saturday night, Gordon topped his mates with 18 points, and also led in rebounds,
though the Wolfpack dropped them 89-53. Also outstanding and up from the frosh ranks is Selvey, who led the Furman
freshmen last year. Captain Bill Brooks is presently leading the locals in the scoring department with 39, and is followed
by Mac McLean with 19, and Jerry King with 14. Brooks is out to break hisLast year's mark of 345.
Nine of his 39 markers have come via the charity route, in 11 tries, and it looks as if he
will retain the high national ranking he held last year in this department. The hardwood Wildcats played a losing cause
Tuesday night in entertaining the N. C. State team. The Raleigh Raiders, as usual, had too much height and finesse
and walked away with a 74-48 decision, their second Southern Conference victory, the other being over the Presbyterian cagers’ Saturday
foe, Furman. In comparing scores, State topped Furman by 36 points and Davidson by 26—if comparisons mean anything. Last year,
Davidson overpowered Furman twice in their five conference victories, and it is hoped, naturally, that this “streak” will continue. The
starting lineup will probably find Brooks and Al Fitzgerald at forwards, McLean and Don Lazenby at the guards, and either
Joe Dudley or T. C. Coleman at center.

Chesterfield SPORTS QUIZ
1. Who was last to win the batting championship in the National League with a .400 average?
2. Who won the 100 meter dash in the last Olympic games?
3. Who won the first National Open in golf immediately following the last war?
4. Who took the heavyweight boxing championship away from John L. Sullivan?
5. What is the brother combination of the Maryland football team?

Write answers on the back of a Chesterfield wrapper and turn in to Doug Rice at the Stud. The first
entry with the correct answers will receive a carton of Chesterfields.

Gifts For Dad, Brother, or Cousin
SEE THESE SHARP SPORT SHIRTS
TIES
BELTS
CUFF LINKS
PAJAMAS
GOLF JACKETS
SWEATERS
* * WE GIFT WRAP AND MAIL THESE FOR YOU
“Collegiate Fashions” Davidson

Uncle Sports Mirror
1 year ago last week: Cold Helps Georgia Tech. Wreck Davidson, 46-14, Auburn Lambeth closes out brilliant career by completing
6 of 15 passes.
5 years ago last week: Riverside Defeated by Davidson, 35-0.
10 years ago last week: Cats Upset Citadel, 24-14. First win of the year. Classy Citadel completely outclassed.
15 years ago last week: Iron Men Rout Wake’s Deacons, 19-6: Ed Armfield scores on opening kickoff of second half
by going 95 yards.
20 years ago last week: Duke Freshmen Down Wildkittens, 7-0. Brumbach scores for Duke.
30 years ago last week: Furman Defeats Davidson, 28-0. After Wildcats tied Richmond, State and Carolina.

Cats Want A Better Season, Ready To Down Blues Again
The victors of the current three-day trials will be rewarded with starting berths against the powerful North Carolina grapplers tomorrow
night at Johnston Gym. The trials which will end this afternoon climax three weeks of grueling work by the bouting
Cats. For the past several days Coach Paul Scott and Charlie Parker have been matching the contenders in each weight
class in order to determine who will face the Carolina grapplers. Although a few members are seemingly assured of positions,
most of the starting berths will be uncertain until the final outcome of the team competition is disclosed today. Two
very promising freshmen, Bobby Joe Key and Peter Peck, have little competition to contend with in the 123 and 157
pound classes respectively. Captain Gene Craven will again be called upon to spark the grapplers. Gene finished an impressive individual
season last year by copping the 1951 State A.A.U. 123 pound title. This year he will be grappling for laurels,
but in the 130 pound field. As yet George “Bucky” Irvin has not been able to enter the wrestling competition
due to a nose operation done this summer, but indications are that he will return to the team sometime this
season. Football season being over, trainer Charlie Parker has returned to his previous position as wrestling coach. Paul Scott, who
has been tutoring the team during Parker’s absence, will continue to assist in the coaching of the matmen. The unheralded
Cats may be well on their way to another dismal season, but the spirit is high among the team members,
and contrary (Continued On Page Four)

Hyneria reigned from the moment he heard the details of those quick-trick cigarette mildness tests. First he giggled... then he
guffawed... wound-up rolling in the aisle! He knew that the “single sniff” test or the “one puff” test didn’t prove
anything! Millions of smokers have reached the same conclusion — there’s just one test that really proves cigarette flavor and
mildness! It’s the sensible test... the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test, which simply asks you to try Camels as your steady
smoke — on a pack-after-pack, day-after-day basis. No snap judgments! Once you’ve enjoyed Camels for 30 days in your “T-Zone”
(T for Throat, T for Taste), you'll see why... After all the Mildness Tests... Camel leads all other brands.
