ARTS FESTIVAL WEEK APRIL 29 - MAY 5 VOLUME XXXIX

The Davidsonian

ALERBDA UK OBS CGRTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1951

NUMBER TWENTY-THREE

“A CHALLENGE GROWS IN DAVIDSON” Editorial Page 2

FAMED CONDUCTOR WILL OPEN FINE ARTS FESTIVAL

Edwin Goldman, Sousa Title Heir, Shares Baton With Pfohl Sunday

Edwin Franko Goldman, considered the greatest band composer since John Philip Sousa and the rightful heir to his title, “dean of American bandmasters,” will continue his recent efforts toward furthering band music on collegiate levels as he shares the podium with James Christian Pfohl in a concert opening the Davidson College Fine Arts program this Sunday. Goldman will conduct the second half of the 4:00 program, directing not only some of the best-known of his more than a hundred marches, but also some more serious classical works. “On the Mall,” perhaps his most famous composition, will be included, along with “Grand March, University,” “Kentucky,” and “The League of Composers.” On the more serious side, he will direct two by Johann Sebastian Bach, “Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring,” and “Come, Sweet Death,” and Jean Sibelius’ “Finlandia.”

During the first half of the program, Pfohl has scheduled Paul Creston's “Legend,” Bach's “If Thou Be Near,” “Provence,” by Milhaud, and “Trauersinfonie,” by Wagner. Goldman’s career in music has been a long one, beginning with his study of the cornet in New York when he was eight. By the time he was seventeen, he was soloist with the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra, having played and studied under such figures as Toscanini, Mahler, Mancelli, Hertz, Mottl, and Dvorak. His dream, however, was to assemble a band which could equal any orchestra in symphonic character. Through much effort, he was able to raise nearly fifty thousand dollars, necessary for his first season with a hand-picked group. This enterprise was an immediate success, and since 1924 the concerts have been sponsored by the Guggenheim Foundation, being heard each summer in New York City.

Two Davidsonians will be featured soloists in the last of this season’s concerts by the Little Symphony Orchestra in (Continued on Page Four)

Male Chorus Sings On Arts Program Monday Night

On this coming Monday night, the male chorus directed by Professor Berg will make their contribution to the Fourth Annual Fine Arts Festival at 8:15 in Chambers Auditorium. The group has been practicing at 7:00 every morning in order to make this performance one of their very best. This will be a well-rounded concert of interest to all.

On April 21, the Male Chorus left the Davidson campus to make an abbreviated tour of the southeastern portion of the state. The trip included performances at Raeford, Sanford, and Fayetteville. Saturday night, the chorus sang at the Presbyterian Church in Raeford. After this program was completed, the group was entertained at a social function held in their honor. The Davidson group, housed overnight in Raeford private homes, enjoyed the citizens’ hospitality. On Sunday, the chorus sang at the First Presbyterian Church in Sanford and the Highland Presbyterian Church in Fayetteville. Both of these programs were broadcast over local stations.

T. S. Eliot Topic At Cumming Home

This Sunday evening, immediately after vespers, the YMCA is sponsoring a discussion of T. S. Eliot at the house of Dr. and Mrs. W. P. Cumming. Eliot is one of the most influential as well as one of the most controversial of modern writers. His religious play, “The Cocktail Party,” has had a long and successful run on Broadway. The discussion will probably center around this much-talked-about play. Anyone who wishes to read in preparation for this discussion is advised to choose from among the following works of T. S. Eliot: “The Cocktail Party,” “Murder in the Cathedral,” and possibly “The Family Reunion” among the poetic dramas: “The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock,” “The Hollow Men,” “Journey of the Magi,” “Sweeney Among the Nightingales,” and “The Waste Land” from his poems. Books by and about T. S. Eliot are on reserve in the library.

Tom Stockton

Cancer Specialists Will Warn Students Of Disease Threat

Cancer's recognition, treatment, and cure will be Dr. McChord Williams’ subject when he addresses AED and interested students Monday at 7:15 in the science building lecture room. Dr. Williams is a graduate of the Harvard Medical School and a member of the American Board of Surgery, American College of Surgeons, Southeastern Surgical Congress, and the Cancer Research Foundation. A technicolor-sound film illustrating phases of spotting, treating, and/or curing cancer will be shown. (Continued On Page Four)

Davidson Movie To Be Refilmed

Cameramen from a Washington film company will be on the campus during next week to film a new publicity movie of college life at Davidson. The film is to be shown at alumni meetings and other such gatherings. American Film Services Co. of Washington is undertaking the college-sponsored production. It will be cut to a twenty-minute showing time and is to be made in technicolor. Shooting will commence Monday and is expected to continue through Friday in this attempt to bring all the old films of its kind up to date. Classroom shots will be made as well as views of the campus buildings and prominent personalities.

Army Colonel And Party To Review ROTC Unit

A three-man inspection team, headed by Colonel F. E. Gaillard of the Alabama National Guard, will look for improvement or decline in the splendid record of the Davidson College ROTC regiment at the annual spring inspection Monday and Tuesday. Col. Gaillard, accompanied by Major C. H. Hildreth and Captain W. I. Iaccosin, will make a complete tour of military classes, the cadet unit on the parade ground, and other phases of the department’s operations. Colonel Gaillard is an instructor in the Alabama National Guard. He served 31 years in the army, 45 months of which was overseas. A graduate of V.M.I., Colonel Gaillard served as Battalion Commander, Regimental Commander, and U. S. Army Observer during his army career. Among medals which he holds are Legion of Merit, Croix de Guerre, World War I and II Victory Medals, and Bronze Star medal. He served in the Rhineland, Northern France, Central Europe, and Ardennes-Alsace. Capt. Raccosin served in the Pacific during World War II. He is now acting adjutant of the 745th A. A. Gun Bn. at Camp Stewart, Ga. He was born in Washington, D. C. and attended the University of Maryland. While serving nine years in the army, Capt. Raccosin was awarded the B.S.M., Philippines Liberation Ribbon, American Defense and World War II Victory Medal. 42 months of his war service were spent overseas. Major Hildreth is a Regular Army officer and has been a platoon leader, company commander, and battalion S-3. He was overseas 50 months, 11 of which were spent in combat. For the past few months, he has been on National Guard duty in this army area. During the drill inspection, 7 cadets will be given awards for military excellence. Five awards will be given to outstanding cadets from the four classes and 2 awards to the outstanding marksmen of the rifle team.

By JOHN OTTLEY

Drawn-out voting last week resulted in naming the following undergraduate class heads: Tom Stockton, president of the rising senior class; Jack Ruth, president of the rising junior class; and Max Devane, president of the rising sophomore class. George Irvin and Herschel Allen were cast in the vice-presidential roles. Bill Buckey, Stuart Plummer, and Charlie Johnson will serve as secretary-treasurers for their respective classes. Eric Clark edged Francis Pepper this morning in the junior class vice-presidential race, after the two had tied in yesterday’s voting. Bill Buckey, Jerry Kiser, Kirk Oglesby, and Ham Wade are yet to be run-off for next year's Freshman advisor.

Tom Stockton hails from Winston-Salem and is a member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity. He holds down a key slot on Pete Whittle’s track team and foots it with the cross country boys come fall. Secretary of Philanthropic Literary Society, he occupies a like office on the Student Council. Tom plansto enter the missionary field and is working for an A.B. Degree. He is a member of the Beaver Club, an honor society for undergraduate athletes.

BULLETIN

With a total of only 477 votes cast, Jim Fickeisen, Phi Gam junior from Bluefield, W. Va., was elected to the 1951-52 editorship of “Scripts and Pranks” on the first ballot this morning. Fickeisen, noted for his cartoon work in the Davidsonian and Scripts and Pranks and his subtle wit, won over Shelley Beard and Dudley Pendleton. The new editor is a member of the varsity track team, the student council, Beaver Club, and was vice-president of the Class of '52 his sophomore year.

Bill Buckey calls Charlotte home and is a candidate for the ministry. He is a member of the Kappa Alpha Order and serves on the Student Council. He expects to receive an A.B. Degree this May.

Jack Ruth is looked to as the man to fill Auburn Lambeth’s quarterback berth on Coach Little’s '51 grid team. This Kings Mountain sophomore intends to enter business. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi and anticipates receiving a B.S. Degree.

George Irvin is the letterman whose mat career Charlie Parker's been intently following. He is from Forsyth, N.C. and is also a member of Beta Theta Pi. George is a (Continued on Page Four)

ART EXHIBITION TO OPEN SUNDAY

With the Fourth Annual Arts Festival beginning April 29, opened by a band concert that afternoon, a feature to be included in the festival, and of which is to be of interest to the artistic minded will be the annual Student Art Exhibit. This exhibit will include paintings, drawings, and photographs by various students of the college talented in these fields. The entries will be shown in the Quadrangle room on the third floor of Chambers building. This student art showing, which is in its tenth year, is designed to exhibit the artistic talent of Davidson students to visitors and guests. The exhibition is to last from April 29 to May 9.

Jack Ruth

Julius Caesar Cast Pushes Rehearsals For Play Next Week

The performance of Julius Caesar will be presented May 4th and 5th in conjunction with Fine Arts Week. The play is under the able direction of Professor Raymond W. Tyson. The leading characters are Julius Caesar, Bob Gay; Mark Antony, Ted Currie; Brutus, Dick Perkins; Cassius, Mac Bulgin; Casca, Bob Crutchfield; Flavius, Bill Phifer; the soothsayer, Vance Mizelle; Calpurnia, Nancy Copeland; Portia, Dorothy Herring. The performance will be held in Chambers Auditorium and admission will be 50 cents.

ATO, CONDUCTOR COP FRAT SING

Alpha Tau Omega sang its way to victory Wednesday night to take first place in the annual Interfraternity sing. Bill Whitesides won the Conductors Cup for his outstanding work in directing the group, which rendered “All Hail, O Davidson!”, Bach's “God's Loving Kindness,” the A.T.O. fraternity song, “Our Jewels,” and, “There is a Tavern Near The Town.” The Inter-Fraternity sing is sponsored each year by Phi Mu Alpha, national honorary music fraternity. The first cup awarded went to the Campus Club, which has won the event for the past three years. The Conductors Cup, awarded to the outstanding conductor, is donated by Mr. James Christian Pfohl, head of the Davidson department of music. Judges were: Miss Doris McGuinn, voice instructor from Charlotte, Mr. Dan Marshall, Charlotte business executive, and Reverend Harley Williams, pastor of the Davidson Methodist Church.

Dr. Louis B. Wright To Address PBK

After the Phi Beta Kappa initiation on May 3rd, Dr. Louis B. Wright will speak to new members and the general public in Phi Hall at 8:30. His topic will be: “The Vitality of Shakespeare.” Dr. Wright is director of the Folger Shakespeare Library in Washington, D.C. and head of the Guggenheim Educational Foundation. Dr. Wright is a native of South Carolina and has his doctor’s degree from the University of North Carolina.

Preceded by this afternoon's tennis match with Georgia and the D Club Foolies for 1951 tonight at 7:30, the final big weekend of 1950-51 kicks off at 9:00 to the music of Claude Thornhill and his orchestra at the annual Spring Frolics dances. Tonight's dance was originally planned as formal, but a switch in costume was made due to the fact that the Foolies will immediately precede tonight's dances, and many will wish to go straight from the performance in Chambers Auditorium to the dances. This year's Foolies director, Auburn Lambeth, is extremely enthusiastic about the show, and promises a real treat in the way of original entertainment. Others in the cast of the Foolies include Jinx Jervey, Rob Gibson, Vance Mizelle, Neal O'Neal, Bill Trotman, and a host of other noted campus celebrities. After the Foolies, the first and informal of the two big dances will be held in the Johnston Gymnasium. Claude Thornhill is regarded by many as having the finest dance organization on tour today, and this will add to the pleasure of the weekend. Contrary to previous years, this Friday's dance will be informal, and will be followed by various fraternities functions in Charlotte and surrounding areas, most of them planned as after-dance breakfasts. On Saturday night comes the big formal dance, again to be held in the gym, and the music of Claude Thornhill and his orchestra. The highspot of the evening will be the presentation of the fraternity presidents and Pan Hellenic members and their dates in the figure which will take place, as usual, during intermission. Tomorrow afternoon, with varsity baseball and golf teams away at Duke and N.C. State, respectively, the top entertainment athletically-wise will be the Davidson-Wofford track meet, with field events getting underway at 1:30. Following the track meet, at approximately 4:00, there will be a concert-tea dance in the gym by Thornhill. The weekend dances mark the end of the social functions planned for the current school year and the termination of the offices of this year’s Pan Hellenic council and its president Bill Klein. Pan Hel president Klein this morning reiterated his request that decorations be left untouched during tonight’s dance, leaving them intact for the formal dance tomorrow night. Particularly did he emphasize this in connection with the fraternity signs. Klein also reminded the student body that smoking is forbidden on the dance floor or in the basement.

MR. BONES AND FRIENDS—Tonight at 7:30 this scene from a past D Club Foolies production will be reproduced in Chambers.