THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER
OSIRIS SOUSA

Associate Editors
Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis, George McMurray
Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw, John Ottley

Photographs—Archie Neal
Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Feature Editor—Mike Myers
Exchange Editor—Ed Richardson

Managing Editors
Copy Editor—Pete Ormsby
Art Editor—Don Mahy
Sports Editor—Dick Liles
City Editor—Nat Daniels

Assistant Business Manager—Boo Northcutt
Advertising Manager—Jack Hobson
Circulation Manager—Bob Poston
Collection Manager—Bill Minter
Subscriptions Manager—Preston Chaney

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Take Half Hour To Give A Pint; It May Save A Kid A Lifetime

We who have been spared the blood of battle get our chance to pay a little down on our great debt to those whose blood has run freely for us. The Blood Bank is open for our deposit Monday from 11 a.m. until 5 p.m. There will be little longer waiting than there is in any teller's line, and the nice part about it is that you'll never miss what you've paid out. Before you know it, you've earned that amount back, without laying out a bit of effort in the earning.

Last year, the community of Davidson set a Mecklenburg County record with 400 pints of blood donated in one day. Of an approximate 850 total, that’s better than 450 of the student body not contributing. Our guess is that over 75 men at the most are unable physically to give a pint of blood. The town of Davidson and the student body ought to top 800 pints. It can be done, and easily, if the student body will take the time to sign up for a donation period and then give about thirty minutes of his time to go by the gym and contribute. A half hour of your time will mean a lifetime for a kid just your age—or younger—halfway around the world.

To Rise To Cultural Occasion One Should Be Properly Attired

When the Davidson gentleman goes calling on his first lady, chances are he’s attired for the occasion. But when one of the first ladies of the theater appears in Chambers Monday night, chances are that same gentleman will drift into her presence in a tee-shirt, wranglers, and fatigue jacket. Time was when a concert or appearance of a public dignitary before an audience of Davidson men meant an equally dignified appearance on the part of that audience. Some say the vets did it, bringing the casual dress of the outdoor USO show into the cultured atmosphere of a college artist series. At any rate, Davidsonian dress for such events has slipped to a point below that which one would want to see at a pep rally.

This isn’t to pan the dress of the Davidson man in class, at a dance, or a ball game. He'll be enplumed like a fashion plate if the occasion requires, or dressed as comfortably as the next cowpoke when he desires. But at an evening performance where the principal is formally attired, and ushers in tux, and outside guests present, the Davidson man blots the picture when he shows up looking as if he just dashed over from the boarding house after washing dishes. It's easier just to drop in on the way to the library and continue on your way afterwards. Dressing’s a bother. Certainly, but no more so than for any other social event. Our social immaturity begins to show through when it looks as if we don’t know when the time has come to slick our hair down. How about it. Put a tie on to impress a lady?

Apologizing, Davidsonian Gives True Side of “Speaker Screen”

A news story in the November 16 issue of The Davidsonian concerning the formation of a Young Republican party—the Hurry Harry Home Club—carried with it the unintended implication that the executive committee had discriminately attempted to thwart the progress of such a club by ‘screening’ any speakers that organization would intend to bring to the campus. This confusion of the true picture of the club’s grant of origin from the executive committee was clouded by The Davidsonian in that it obtained only a one-sided report of the story, an unpardonable journalistic sin for which The Davidsonian would like to editorially apologize.

The executive committee granted Lining Burnett, a sophomore, and Malcolm Williamson, a freshman, permission to organize the political group, with Dean John C. Bailey advising the men that they should clear their speakers with either Dr. Cunningham or himself before issuing speaker invitations. Such is the practice for all organizations on the campus, not having a faculty advisor. Dean Bailey's remark was advice aside to Burnett, and was not even recorded in the committee minutes. Particularly with a political club does it seem sensible to have a faculty or administration clearing house. A political club on a small campus at Davidson would hardly be outstanding enough to stand as the “Young Republican Club of Davidson College,” and thus have the public know that that particular group had invited a certain speaker, rather than the College at large. The speaker's presence would be associated with the College: and small politician—and there exist such—might well use a Davidson invitation as a mark of prestige on his record. Also, there are many members of either party who might be invited who could hardly give a clear presentation of that party’s national platform. The College, then, with a great deal at stake in such a venture, certainly reserves the right to protect its name and the interest of the student body at large.

Red Front Uses Legal Jargon To Slyly Hide Poor Grammar

Pleased to the last he crops the flower food,
And licks the hand just raised to shed his blood.
A. Pope.

For the uninitiated and transfers, Monday will be a terrifying and in some ways different day, for on Monday, “young blood must have its course, lad, and every dog his day.” The world will, once again, come to Davidson. And when day is done, the world will retreat into its corner, enriched by what? Knowledge, discretion, honor, wisdom? Nay, brethren, the world will float away on the crimson, surging waves of the Davidson gentlemen’s blood, said waves neatly and unpoetically packed in pint bottles, labeled as to color and consistency.

A word of orientation is in order. Prerequisite for minors to such a sacrifice is an authoritative signature on a release. Essentially, this cheerfully titled slip of paper says that it’s perfectly all right with your parents for you to get blood poisoning. However, it's not exactly this; actually it’s a lot more binding. A closer inspection of its stipulations might be rewarding.

My (Son) (Daughter)
This is why you have to send it home. Your parents check the right one, and if you're neither, there’s a space to tell just what you are.
has my permission to voluntarily make
A smart organization wouldn’t try to trap a college man into endorsing split infinitives.
a donation of blood to the American Red Cross and for that purpose
What purpose?
may, at his or her own risk
Meaning they don’t much care what you are anyway.
submit to the tests, examinations and procedures customary in connection with donations of blood.
Actually very simple. A big kindly man in a white coat snips off the end of your finger and drops it in a bottle of green ink. If it floats, you can give blood. If it doesn’t you still can. All it does is to release the tension.
We agree that neither the American National Red Cross
You have to watch them carefully. That first one, the American Red Cross, is on the up and up, but this American National Red Cross is a Communist front and uses the blood to paint the flags with.
nor any surgeons, physicians, technicians, nurses, agents or officers connected with any of them.
The agents are revenuers in case they find alcohol in your blood.
who may be participating otherwise in this work
Four men earn seventy-five cents an hour walking in the front door and out the back with a big grin, rolling down their sleeves and saying how much fun it was.
shall be in any way responsible for any consequences to him or her resulting from the giving of such blood
Such blood indeed. No matter what they think, they can at least keep their comments to themselves.
or from any of the tests, examinations or procedures incident thereto.
Just that finger-snipping business again.
And we hereby release and discharge each and all of them from all claims and demands whatsoever,
The smart student will see how he can get out of writing home regularly.
which we, our heirs, executors, administrators or assigns have.
As we say, cheerful from beginning to end. Chapel Tuesday ought to be a humdinger.
or may have
This means you won't have to write home next year, either.
against them or any of them, by reason of any matter relative or incident of such donation of blood
Doesn’t mean a thing. You're not supposed to read this far.
and we agree that the above-mentioned organizations
Here is where they try to sneak the Communist in.
may use in any way they deem advisable any balance or residue of the blood.
Here they are talking about what overflows and runs down the table leg while the nurse is out for a cigarette.

Actually, there is nothing to this blood-donation business. The tables are metal, so there’s no danger of being pinned down when the needle goes through your arm. It just bends it and takes a little longer to pull out. Conditions are pleasant, too. You may read until you lose consciousness, and you're excused from vespers until you wake up. Just as they promise, within forty-eight hours your body has adjusted, you can walk and talk again and already the color has started to come back into your face. Moreover, if you aren’t satisfied after it’s over, they'll pour it all back in the little hole in your arm if you have time to wait. So you see, seriously, there's nothing to it. It’s the very least we can do. And it might be well to end on a not often enough quoted note that holds as much truth as exaggeration: some of us may be over there in time to use it ourselves.

Where Does The Davidsonian Stand On Controversial Student Issues?

Dear Sir:

There seems to be a growing need for certain issues to be objectively analyzed and discussed in the editorials and columns of the Davidsonian, where all the facts can be presented and the issue then evaluated by student opinion. The view is fast becoming prevalent on the campus that you are not fulfilling this obligation to the students. “Criticism is the price one pays for leadership.” How much more honorable it would be if the Davidsonian could be criticized for what it said, rather than for what it does not say.

I would like to offer the following analysis for your consideration:

1. Your editorials do not discuss “live” issues. Why not present student versus administration views on the cut system, holidays, chapel, compulsory vespers, rush week, and hell week? It would not be necessary for you to be an advocate of either side on an issue; however, it is important that you submit the facts and views for student evaluation. By some two-fisted editorials you could create an active interest in the paper, provoke student thought and discussion, and become

FROM THE EDITOR’S MAILBOX:

1951 Y. M. C. A. Gift Fund Entails Major Changes

As director of the Christmas Gift Fund, I feel that I should announce to the student body at large the principles upon which the Gift Fund will be organized. There will be several major changes. First, I shall send no publicity releases to any newspapers. In the past, the Charlotte, Greensboro, Winston-Salem, etc., papers have given us space and publicity. This will not be the policy this year. Those who give in order to be seen by men, already have their reward. The general public shall not know about this Gift Fund.

Second, the pressure put on the student to give shall be reduced. There will be an adequate statement of the need, the projects will be presented, and after that, it is up to you. There will be no emotional appeals, and no deluge of posters and the like. I feel that every man here is mature enough to think out whether or not, or how much he should give. If you decide against giving, that’s all right. The important thing to avoid is to place you under such influence and pressure that you would give because of this pressure in spite of your inner feelings. You have then compromised yourself, and that damages values far above what you might give.

The drive will open Friday, December 7th, in chapel. The projects will be presented by some member of the student body. That night the Davidsonian will have a front page spread on the Gift Fund, giving full facts and details. A small pamphlet will be put in the room of every student. This pamphlet is for you to keep during the week so that the need and facts will be right in front of you. This is substantially all the organized publicity that there will be.

Our goal this year is $6000. Of this, $3000 is to be given to Caswell Training School in Kinston, N.C., to build a recreational area for over 600 mentally and physically handicapped boys and girls. $1500 will go to the Negroes here in Davidson to help build a colored YMCA forTheir children, who now have no place to go, even to hang out. The remaining $1500 will be sent to India, through a reliable organization, to help in the development of a pilot project (the first of its kind). A power dam is being built near a mountain village, and the economy of the village and surrounding area is being disrupted. This project is a model project to modernize an entire area at one time. There are about 800 of you in the Student Body. Each man’s portion of the goal is $7.50. The method of collecting the money will remain unchanged. Each hall will have two canvassers. You may give cash, check, or pledge that you will pay by January 10. Your pledge can then be counted in the total collected. The drive will close Friday, December 14.

BRYAN W. ROBINSON

An instrument to prod apathetic student organizations into action. A good paper could do much to mend broken school spirit.

2. In your eight issues only two “letters to the editor” have been printed. Since you are now the only paper on the campus you have the responsibility to print student criticism of yourself. If you have received letters and not printed them, then you have not accepted your responsibility. If, on the other hand, you have received no letters, then it is indicative of the students’ interest in the Da.

3. Many of us question your policy in regard to Nat Daniels and Mike Myers. The Davidsonian got credit for their fine articles on football. However, when an alumnus writes an unfavorable evaluation of the articles, Mike and Nat are (Continued On Page Four).

ODK SPEAKS:
By BRYAN ROBINSON

Last week I outlined what I conceived the principles and purposes of ODK to be. I dwelt at some length on its motivating beliefs and, in general, how they should be applied. This week I am prepared to put some teeth into the program. I am neither naive nor simple, and I realize that any organization, to be effective, must translate its ideals into everyday life. There must be something concrete there, something to align yourself with, or to fight against. There must be something that challenges the mind, as well as the heart, the soul, and the hand. If stimulation is not provided, if opportunity for experimental and courageous living is not presented, we have not lived up to the name of Omicron Delta Kappa, and, on a broader level, have failed you as members of the human race.

The program I will outline below, therefore, may be characterized in the following way. Every point on this program does not necessarily have the approval of every member of ODK, but enough are interested in that particular point to justify its inclusion. We are in dead earnestness in presenting this program. It is not merely academic. We would like to see it made flesh. Some of the points, however, are manifestly included for the purpose of stimulating thought, and of checking up on the status quo. We are not interested in tearing down the status quo for the sake of tearing it down, but we feel that this student body is long overdue a justifying of the status quo. If we don’t know why we act and believe as we do, we have made a mockery of man’s most precious possession, the thinking mind. We do not feel that God gave us minds and self-consciousness unless a dynamic growth were intended. If the status quo cannot be justified, it must be changed. This point cannot be overemphasized. We are under the moral law of the universe to promote goodness, beauty, and truth to our utmost.

I will content myself this week with a simple statement of the program. Next week, and during the rest of this year, each topic will be discussed in detail in the Davidsonian.

1. To organize and initiate the changeover from Hell Week to Help Week. This has already been started. We are working hand in hand with the Pan Hell. Bill Adams, Pete Kalogridis, and Prof. Schenck are laying plans and studying the problem.
2. To sponsor the Red Cross Blood Drive in December. This, too, has already been started, with Bill White working with Col. Ballard and the ROTC Department.
3. To study the traffic and parking situation in the boarding house area. A committee has been appointed, and is working with Dean Bailey on this. Something definite should result in three or four more weeks.
4. To examine the oath that every full professor of Davidson is required to take. Two of us are working on this, and it will be the subject of the next few articles.
5. To create or discover new cheers and “pep methods” for football season.
6. To make a critical analysis of the student government, the honor system, and the student body regulations.
7. To promote non-segregation in athletics, and such activities as the lecture and concert series, and to agitate for the admitting of a Negro student into the student body.
8. To take a long look at the YMCA set-up on the campus, with special reference to compulsory membership.
9. To draw up some form of a statement of what the student academic ideal should be, and to attempt to re-emphasize what a college should be for.
10. To study the present cut system in comparison with the cut systems of other schools, especially double-cuts.
11. To abolish the Court of Control and the Freshman Regulations.
12. To obtain more trash cans for the campus.
13. To examine the loss of this thing called school spirit, and to suggest remedies, such as more class competition, less intercollegiate sport, etc.
14. To act as hosts for the prospective Baker Scholars who visit the campus in the spring.
15. To try to halt the booing of the referees during the basketball season.

That is quite a list. It is a list that any organization could be well proud to sponsor. If anyone in the student body or faculty wants to work on any of these projects, please see me, and I can promise you more work than you can handle. I received some ten or twelve replies to the letter that was sent out recently to fifty-six of you. If anyone has anything to suggest to us, please see me as soon as possible.

NAT DANIEL:
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1951
PAGE TWO
THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE CABBAGE PLANTER:
Is International Relations Club Falling Ineffectively Short?

In an era when the peoples of the world must learn to live together if mankind is to survive the age of the exploding atom, it seems imperative that every possible means be utilized to bring about harmonious international relations, especially in the realm of higher education of which Davidson is a part. We have had on the campus for the past several years an organization known as the International Relations Club, whose main purpose seems to be to evoke cries of “Ink, ink” in chapel, meet now and then, and take up a couple of pages in the annual—complete with pictures. Last year under the leadership of President Gray Hampton, IRC started a rejuvenation program which in theory sounded like the organization was finally getting on the ball, but which in actual practice, soon seemed to fizzle out. There was a plan to enforce membership controls to eliminate a good bit of the dead wood that floats along with so many campus organizations; there was a plan to get new, interested members, and a third plan to get some overall constructivity done in a field which needs the competence of well-informed, active leaders, now as never before.

The trouble which affects entirely too many of our local organizations, seems to affect IRC also—there are too few people doing too many things, and conversely, too many people doing absolutely nothing. They go to class, to the boarding houses, to fraternity meetings, study a little, and live the rest of their lives completely disconnected from the campus; at the movies in Charlotte, Mooresville, etc.—any of a dozen places but here at Davidson taking an active interest in what goes on in the college community, and making their contribution to campus life. This attitude of inertia foils not only the higher aspirations of IRC, but many other campus organizations as well.

Let's be idealists, now for a minute, and imagine an active and effective IRC. At least every two weeks it would publish in The Davidsonian a notice concerning the problem to be taken up at the next meeting and invite interested students to attend. At least once a month it would hold a panel discussion, a debate, or invite in an outside speaker to discuss particular aspects of international relations problems. At least once a semester it would sponsor a chapel program to present world problems, and make an attempt—although, with the indifference prevalent among us, I dare say, it would be futile—an attempt, at least to create an active interest among students concerning world affairs, so that when their time comes to take over their responsibilities as world citizens they might have some idea of what that responsibility entails.

The challenge is clear: IRC, if it is to deserve the name and position it sometimes claims, should become an active, growing, interest-drawing organization, with its basic principle the theme that through knowledge of the world today we may be better prepared to live in the world of tomorrow.

MacArthur’s Aide Flays Press, Leaves Self Open For Criticism

The trials and tribulations of General Douglas MacArthur have been brought back into the public eye in the past few days via an article in the December issue of Cosmopolitan magazine, written by MacArthur's chief of intelligence during the Korean war. The article accuses biased newspaper reports of causing the split between Washington and Tokyo (i.e., Truman and MacArthur). In a lengthy beef which is splattered over several pages of the periodical, Major General Charles A. Willoughby in effect accuses five well-known journalists and three widely circulated news magazines of being virtually in league against MacArthur and his advisers. He accuses all of generally misrepresenting the facts during the war and of giving “aid and comfort to the enemy.”

It would seem that Gen. Willoughby has lodged a combat boot in his mouth which may prove difficult to remove. One of the newspapermen lambasted by Gen. Willoughby is Hanson W. Baldwin, military analyst for the New York Times, who wrote an article which appeared in the Saturday Evening Post at the beginning of the Korean War criticizing the armed forces of the United States. Baldwin found the U.S. forces woefully lacking in many departments.

Mr. Baldwin's article was a cool, factual report to the American people on how their armed forces stacked up against those of the rest of the world. It was written before the Korean war ever broke out, many months before as a fact for the record. Mr. Baldwin therefore could not have had the Eighth Army (arm in Korea) specifically in mind when he wrote the article.

The remainder of Gen. Willoughby’s article sounds much like the whining of a bitter old man. He names such distinguished correspondents as Homer Bigart and Hal Boyle as aiding and abetting the “campaign” to discredit the military authorities in charge in Korea. Both of these men, each winners of the Pulitzer prize for distinguished correspondence, work for employers who could not afford to tolerate inaccurate or biased reporting. Bigart works for the New York Herald Tribune, which is widely regarded as the greatest newspaper in America today. Boyle is employed by the Associated Press, a news service whose veracity is seldom doubted.

Mr. Bigart replied to Gen. Willoughby’s charges in a statement which anyone who read the papers back at the beginning of the Korean war will see to be true: “General MacArthur and his tight little circle of advisers have never been able to stomach criticism, whether from a war correspondent or the President of the United States. In an attempt to silence criticism, they have adopted the line that anyone who questions their judgments is ‘inaccurate, biased, and prejudiced’ and that any criticism of them involves some slur on the whole army.”

General MacArthur was, of course, fired for exceeding his (Continued On Page Four).

ODK President Enumerates Multi-Point Program In Organization’s Translation Of Ideals To Action

9. To study the present cut system in comparison with the cut systems of other schools, especially double-cuts.
10. To abolish the Court of Control and the Freshman Regulations.
11. To obtain more trash cans for the campus.
12. To examine the loss of this thing called school spirit, and to suggest remedies, such as more class competition, less intercollegiate sport, etc.
13. To act as hosts for the prospective Baker Scholars who visit the campus in the spring.
14. To try to halt the booing of the referees during the basketball season.

That is quite a list. It is a list that any organization could be well proud to sponsor. If anyone in the student body or faculty wants to work on any of these projects, please see me, and I can promise you more work than you can handle. I received some ten or twelve replies to the letter that was sent out recently to fifty-six of you. If anyone has anything to suggest to us, please see me as soon as possible.