DEM BONES! ALENDA LUX UBJ The Davidsonian ORTA CIBERTAS VOLUME XXXIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, APRIL 6, 1951
NUMBER TWENTY McLEAN ELECTED STUDENT PRESIDENT, THORNHILL SIGNED FOR FROLICS: To Play for Dance Set April 27-28 Early this week,
Bill Klemm, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, confirmed rumors that had been circulating around the campus to the effect that
Claude Thornhill and his 15-piece orchestra will furnish the music for Spring Frolics on April 27 and 28. Thornhill played
for Mid-Winter dances three years ago and proved to be a popular song stylist with the students and dates. Thornhill
has a set up that includes five reeds, six brass, and four rhythm, paced by the leader’s eloquent piano. Most
unusual of all CLAUDE THORNHILL is the fact that in the six brass, there is a French horn. The horn,
which is usually identified with symphonic orchestras, is being used to blend with the colorfully harmonious arrangements of the leader.
Two vocalists round out the group. Thornhill plays the piano with casual ease, his fingers gliding over the ivories with
an effortless grace that belies the difficulties of the arrangements. His piano is heard to telling effect in the beautiful
theme of the Thornhill band, “Snowfall,” which he composed and on virtually all of the distinctive Claude Thornhill arrangements that
have made this band so outstanding. Claude Thornhill received his basic training in music at Cincinnati’s FRATERNITIES NAME OFFICERS FOR
NEXT YEAR Election of next year’s officers was the business of the week for at least two Davidson fraternities, at
the last regular meeting before the Spring Recess. On March 15th both the Kappa Sigs and the PiKA’s met in
their respective chapter houses to cast their ballots. The new officers for each of the two fraternities who will be
installed for next year are as follows: Kirk Oglesby is the newly elected president of Kappa Sig, John Guiton and
Fred Spach will take over as vice-presidents, Larry Dagenhart becomes treasurer, and Billy Bob Purcell becomes secretary. Dick Stockton will
represent Kappa Sig on the Pan Hell. Tom Stockton and Edgar Richardson take over the respective duties of Rush Chairman
and House Manager. The PiKA’s elected as their president for next year Jack Turner. Besides being elected to the office
of vice-president, Frank Hanshaw also assumes the duties of Rush Chairman for next year. The respective offices of Secretary and
Treasurer will be filled by Lee Harter and Harry Lee Underwood, while Tom Rose becomes Pan Hell Representative. Ben Gary
is Chapter Historian for next year, Bill Sladge is Pledge-master, and the house management duties fall to Bill Hart (Chapter
House Mgr.) and Dick Boyd (Boarding House Mgr.). Conservatory of Music and the Curtis Institute. From there, he went into
the practical field as pianist and arranger. He has worked with such musical greats as Bing Crosby, Benny Goodman, Charlie
Spivak, and the late Glenn Miller. Maxine Sullivan will long be in his debt for his arrangement of “Loch Lomond,”
with which she soared to fame. The other richly colored band arrangements are all written by the maestro. Thornhill has
a big advantage over most of the current bandleaders in being able to com- (Continued On Page Four) Concert Band
Tour April 16 After several changes and some uncertainty as to their schedule, Davidson College's concert band is making final
preparations for a week's tour of North Carolina and Virginia starting Monday, April 16, announced director James C. Pfohl. High
point in the five-performance series will be two concerts before the Southern Conference Music Educators Association in Richmond, April 18
and 19. The fifty-member company is scheduled for the curtain-raiser at 10:45 on Wednesday, and will play again Thursday afternoon
at 4:00. The delegates, representing eleven Southern states, have requested the band to present several newly published numbers in addition
to their regular repertoire. While in Richmond, the baton-men are to appear before Davidson alumni and their friends Tuesday night.
Other concerts include the tour’s opener for the student body of Reynolds High School in Winston-Salem on April 16, and
one that night at Appalachian State Teacher’s College in Boone, North Carolina. Arrangements for a pair of appearances in Lynchburg
and Charlottesville fell through, putting the music-makers back on the campus Friday, April 20. Sigma Chis Hold Sweetheart Ball The
Sigma Chi’s held their annual Sweetheart Ball at the Red Fez Club, March 31st. The festivities began at 6:30 with
a banquet. Bill Harris, master of ceremonies, presented the outstanding pledge award to Charlie Johnson. Bob Crutchfield rendered a selection
on his musical saw. The dance began at 8 o'clock with the music of Fleet Green's orchestra. The highlight of
the formal affair came with the pinning of Miss Dotty Law as the Sweetheart of Sigma Chi for ‘51. Miss
Law was pinned by the 1950 sweetheart, Miss Eugenia Harris, a student at Queens. Dotty, a native of Greenville, S.
C., is now a freshman at Sweetbriar College and was escorted by Mr. Charles Johnson. In addition to the sweetheart
pin, Dotty received a Sigma Chi cross, a design of white roses. The two runners-up for sweetheart, Miss Ann Jones
of Charlotte and Miss Nan Wilkinson of Rocky Mount were presented with arm bouquets of white roses. The outgoing sweetheart
was given a place setting in her silver. Commie Speaker/Brown Chosen Spurs Invite To Discussion The Communists in North Carolina
were interested in our forum on Communism last weekend! The chairman of the Communist Party in North Carolina, Junius Scales,
wrote three letters, one to Jack Hunter, one to Pete Kalogridis, and one to Randy Taylor, offering his services as
a speaker. Part of his letter appears below. “However, as far as I can determine, there is no one scheduled
on your program who can speak with the slightest authority on the history, ideology or program of the Communist Party.
In fact, I would venture a guess that if any one of the ‘honorable gentlemen participating were not anti-Communist, he
would lose his job in view of the anti-red hysteria currently prevailing. In other words, they have a stake in
showing Communism and Communists in an unfavorable and one-sided light.” “If you students have anything to say about your program
and if you are objectively seeking the truth and want both sides of the question, let me suggest that my
participation as Chairman of the Communist Party in this state could prevent this from becoming simply a war-mongering jam session
by people who profit from the misrepresentation of Communism.” OPS Economist Dr. C. K. Brown, dean of the faculty here
at Davidson College and one of the South's leading economists, has accepted appointment as the chief economist of the Charlotte
office of Price Stabilization. Ben E. Douglas, director of the Charlotte office announced Dr. Brown's appointment on March 31. Dr.
Brown has scheduled time in order that he may continue full-time work at Davidson and still lend a considerable amount
of time and energy to the Charlotte OPS office. His position is one of the top assignments on the Mecklenburg
staff. In the near future Dr. Brown will have assistants to aid in the gathering and comparing of facts related
to the economic matters of concern to the Charlotte office. This information will be used not only by the local
authorities but also by the regional and national OPS economists. Davidson Alumni Given Fellowships Four fellowships for graduate After his
letter, which was written on March 28, was received, heUnion Seminary in Richmond, Virginia, was immediately extended an invitation to
attend the discussion as a speaker on the Communist view. However, Saturday afternoon, Jack Hunter received the following telegram: “Thanks
for invitation. If closer, would attend simply as spectator, however urge that meeting be arranged for me adequately to present
Communist view to students in coming week,—Junius Scales.” It is too bad Mr. Scales couldn't attend as a spectator since
he had offered to appear as a speaker; and we are sorry we couldn't at least have listened to his
opinions. The Forum on Communism last weekend was a great success with a large number of students attending all sessions.

These fellowships go to students representing colleges and universities throughout the South, with some students drawn from other areas of
the country and from abroad. Of the four fellowships awarded, three were received by Davidson Alumni. These three are William
S. McLean, President of the Seminary Student Body this year and “Y” Secretary at Davidson three years ago; Samuel D.
Maloney of Knoxville, Tennessee; and LaMar Williamson, Jr., of Monticello, Arkansas. Each of these men has a fine record of
activities while at Davidson. (The fourth fellowship was awarded to James T. Womack, an alumnus of Hampden-Sydney.)

MAC McLEAN

Baker Scholars Chosen From Score of Candidates

The Baker scholarship committee announced last week that six winners have been selected from the 21 finalists who were on
the campus last weekend for a series of tests and interviews. The six are: Charles E. Lambert, Princeton, West Va.;
champion extemporaneous speaker of W. Va., American Legion award winner, and president of the Key Club; Thomas C. Dove, Monroe,
N. C.; student council, class officer, Civil Air Patrol, chairman of Presbyterian Youth Fellowship Council, football, and basketball; Dunbar Ogden,
III, Stanton, Va.; literary magazine and annual editor, Hi-Y president, Boys State, and various church organizations; Thorne Winters, III, Atlanta,
Ga.; varsity football and track (4 years), student council, Key Club president, Captain in ROTC, and varsity basketball; Thomas F.
Kepler, Mt. Ulla, N. C.; missionaries’ son, born in China, track, cross country, choral groups, and student council; J. Leighton
Green, El Paso, Tex.; president of student body, tennis team (no. 1 and captain — 3 years, national ranking, 28
trophies in 4 years of play), National Honor Society, president of regional PYF. The Baker scholarships were founded in 1949
by the George F. Baker Trust of New York. The Trustees specified that the scholarships should be awarded to secondary
school seniors who were outstanding in three respects: scholastic records, leadership, and personality. The committee at Davidson has adopted (Continued
On Page Four)

SONS OF NEY RECEIVE BONES

On Saturday afternoon at 3 o’clock, March 31, the Ney Memorial Association, Inc., met in the Guest House. The occasion
was the presentation by the Association of two original and authentic bones of Peter Stewart Ney. For sixty-four years the
bones had remained in obscurity but were recently brought to light through the research efforts of the Association and added
to the unique collection of Ney relics in the College Library. These now include Ney’s flute, his compass, a plaster
cast of his skull, and many priceless manuscripts.

There was some uncertainty as to the exact skeletal location of the bones, which were only a few inches in
size, but it is believed they originally formed a part of the support for Ney’s head. The meeting was opened
with prayer by Bishop Howard E. Rondthaler, President Emeritus of Salem College. There followed a discussion concerning the missing shorthand-code
manuscripts of Ney which are claimed to hold the clue to the mystery of his identity, but no new light
was thrown on this subject. They are still missing. Mr. J. Weston Clinard of Hickory then formally presented the bones
to Professor Chalmers G. Davidson, custodian of the Relics for the Ney Association, amid the flashing bulbs of the student
photographer. Professor Davidson accepted the relics with a graceful response in which he stated that Ney occupied a unique place
in the affections of the students of Davidson College and that the bones would be venerated by this institution as
long as “Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas” was remembered. It is regretted that a conflict with the Communist Forum prevented
a larger number of students from being present at this impressive ceremony.

Win Veep Posts

CRUTCHFIELD, DeVANE, KISER IN RUNOFF FOR SEC.-TREAS.

In balloting today for the top student office on the campus, Mac McLean, rising senior from Charlotte, N. C., defeated
Allen Strand, a Greensboro, N. C. native. The win by McLean climaxed a week of voting to determine student body
officers for next year. On the same ballot, George Nichols and Larry Dagenhart were chosen first and second vice-presidents, respectively,
for 1962-'52. McLean, a pre-med major, has been prominently connected with numerous activities on the campus during his three years
at Davidson. For the past two years, he has been a member of the Student Council by virtue of his
being President of the Sophomore Class and Vice-President of the student body. In addition to his work with student government
at Davidson, Mac is at present President of the Beaver Club—honorary club which recognizes leadership among underclassmen—a member of the
basketball and track teams and the Kappa Sigma social fraternity. McLean is with the golf team in South Carolina today
and couldn’t be reached for comment following his election. George Nichols polled the most votes in the vice-presidential race and
will serve as First Vice-President next year. Nichols, a Bristol, Tennessee product, is a member of Phi Delta Theta social
fraternity, the Beaver Club and during the past year was a standout as defensive center on the football team. Dagenhart,
a Baker Scholar from Fayetteville, is at present sophomore representative on the Student Council. Recently, he was elected Treasurer of
the Kappa Sigma Fraternity. In the race for Secretary-Treasurer, no candidate received a majority of the votes with the result
that Bob Crutchfield, Max DeVane, and Lyman Kiser will be in a run-off for this office on Monday of next
week.

EU SOCIETY TO COMPETE WITH PHI APRIL 30

The Eumenean Literary Society has been completing plans for the annual joint-meeting with Philanthropic Literary Society to be held on
April 30. President Hartley Hall discussed plans for an evening full of highly competitive literary writings. On March 19 the
society took part in a varied program including the initiation of eighteen new members; a brief history of the society
by Mr. Ken Goodpasture; an impromptu debate, Resolved: Wages being tantamount, a job on a whaling boat from Nantucket is
a better summer job than working with a construction company in Alaska. On the affirmative were Messrs. Pat McGeachy and
Bill Adams, on the negative Messrs. George Bason and Frank Hanshaw; an impromptu talk by Mr. Hugh Swan giving an
account of a big game hunting experience in Africa; and the first in a series of stories on The Life
Sketch of Linwood Sweddy by Mr. Pete Milner. On April 2 the program included the reading of a poem from
Cassius with different interpretations of reading by Messrs. Ben Gary, Brown Dennis, and Scott Downs; an impromptu talk on “Antidisestablishmentarianism”;
and Mr. Bob Merrell read Chapter II in The Life Sketch of Linwood Tweddy.
