PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF -------------------- GORDON SCOTT

BUSINESS MANAGER ---------------- JOHN LOFTIN

Associate Editors -------------------- Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall

Features Editor -------------------- Shelley Beard

Managing Editors -------------------- Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George McMurray, Ed Richardson

Photographs -------------------- Pete Ormsby

Photographer -------------------- Raymond Lynch

Proofreader -------------------- Wallace Abbott

City Editor -------------------- Nat Daniel

Art Editor -------------------- Jim Fickeisen

Sports Editor -------------------- Bill White

Assistant Business Manager -------------------- Alex Goley

Advertising Manager -------------------- Manley McWilliams

Circulation Manager -------------------- Ansley Moses

Collections Manager -------------------- Jack Turner

Subscriptions Manager -------------------- Bill Hart

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Davidson’s Election System

With another election period under way on the campus, the yearly comments, ranging from downright gripes to seemingly well-thought-out suggestions, have been made in favor of instituting drastic changes in our elections system—namely open-campaigning and the use of campus parties. Apparently, many students have believed all along that the Davidsonian, in advocating a change in the system of elections, favored this type of campus "politicking." Such is definitely not the case. This paper believes that the prevailing plan—complete with several important new changes and additions—is the one which is the most satisfactory at Davidson.

To be sure, the new idea of voting in chapel and depositing the ballots in boxes at the different exits will ensure the largest vote turn-out in history and thus give the school leaders who have the mandate of the vast majority of their fellow students. The new method of nominating candidates by writing out the nominations in chapel is basically a good idea. This was conceived in the hope that the number of nominations would be cut down, but it seems that this end will not be achieved if we use Tuesday’s endless list of nominations as a criterion for the future. And finally, the mimeographed election extras which the Davidsonian started this week should quiet those who claim they know nothing of a candidate's qualifications, etc.

It is not difficult to imagine the result that open campaigning on this campus would bring about. There would be a certain amount of mudslinging, somebody would get hot under the collar, fraternities would line up in groups against each other and before long everybody would be mad at everybody else. And don’t say this couldn’t happen at Davidson. If it wouldn’t, then Davidson is vastly different from other colleges in this respect. On this campus, a man is elected to an office because he is a good man and a well-qualified one. On many other campuses, a man gets elected because he’s a campus politician with a block of fraternities behind him; and he is not always what one might call a good guy. At Davidson, the student body is too small and the students are too close to each other to get entangled in such a situation. For this, among other reasons, we hope that the Davidson students will sincerely consider the merits of the election system under which students here are now elected to campus offices, as opposed to an open campaign with its accompanying undesirable results.

On Knowing Our Enemy

(From the Charlotte News)

It is, we confess somewhat regretfully, a revealing commentary on our times that a private educational institution like Davidson College can do what a State-supported university would hardly dare to do—conduct a forum on the history, economics, propaganda, and techniques of Communism.

In the specific case of Davidson College, that venerable North Mecklenburg adjunct of the Presbyterian Church, the institution is of virtue unsuspect. Using its own talented faculty members and students, plus an outsider or two, it was able without fear of public criticism, to sponsor last weekend a three-day discussion of the greatest problem facing civilization today—the struggle between Russian totalitarianism and world democracy—and do it with complete objectivity and uncompromising realism. It could even distribute to the students hundreds of printed programs emblazoned with a flaming red hammer and sickle, and decorate the campus and administration building with clever and provocative posters advertising the event. And it could do all this without the paralyzing fear that some legislator, casting about for votes, might seize upon the happening and, using the techniques of a McCarthy, distort it into something entirely different.

The key to the Davidson forum was found in the quote from Dr. Grady Gammage printed below the Soviet emblem on the program cover: “In every instance in history, subversive movements have suffered, not profited, from being brought out in the open.” How often the people of America forget that in their unreasoned fear and repugnance of Russian Communism! We shall never defeat Communism by ignoring it, or running away from it. Communism must be brought out into the open and subjected to logic and analysis if it is to be combated successfully. If the present world struggle ends in war, our chances of victory will vary directly with our knowledge of Russia and Russian Communism. If, we hope, the end of the struggle is peace, even though it be an uneasy peace, our chances of preserving the peace will vary with our knowledge of the present enemy’s homeland and our understanding of his philosophy and techniques.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Draft Prospects Brighten

By DICK ROPER

By sticking to their books and sweating it out, one million male college students have finally been rewarded. The long-awaited student deferment plan, approved by President Truman last Saturday, should allow at least this many men to continue their studies at institutions of higher learning. But now that the plan has been announced, these students will have to work just as hard, probably harder, to graduate.

The responsibility for carrying out the new program rests with General Lewis B. Hershey, Selective Service Director, who will spare no effort to make sure that only the smartest and most persevering of students be allowed to remain in school. In order to take advantage of this plan, a student must either stand in the upper brackets of his class scholastically, or make a high score on a national aptitude test to be given in May and June. The class standing system will work like this: To be deferred, a freshman will have to be in the upper half of his class; a sophomore, in the upper two-thirds of his class; and a junior, in the upper three-fourths of his class. Thus a freshman class at Davidson of 150 would be reduced to a sophomore class of 75; the sophomores would be cut to 50 as they rose to become juniors; and when this class graduated, there would be only about thirty-eight left. (These figures for a mythical class do not, of course, take into consideration the number of pre-ministerial, pre-medical, and ROTC students, and other men who are deferred or otherwise exempt from the draft.)

Therefore, if a student isn’t in the upper brackets of his class scholastically, his only recourse is to take the aptitude test, which will be of the intelligence quotient type. All draft-registered students wishing to take this test should get an application card from their local draft board, fill it out and mail it immediately to the Educational Testing Service, Princeton, N. J. This testing service, which is conducting the examinations, will undoubtedly allow Davidson students to take the test on this campus, since Davidson is one of the 28 centers in North Carolina at which it is to be given. The passing grade on this test will be 70. No student 26 years of age or older is eligible to take the test, nor will any collegian be allowed to take the test more than once.

The new plan will also defer a great many seniors who have been accepted in a professional school of medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, osteopathy, or optometry. Other seniors wishing to do graduate work must be in the upper half of their class or make a score of 75 on the aptitude test.

Students should remember that this deferment plan can be superseded at any time. At the time it was announced, General Hershey stated that the standards of the two criteria “would be raised or lowered to either increase or diminish the number of students in training, as the national interest may require.” However, General Hershey's job is to look out for the welfare of the country, and he has recognized the need for college and professional school graduates to help in that end. He recently told Congress that “since we cannot hope to match the Iron Curtain countries in manpower, our advantage lies in our superiority in scientific and technical know-how.” Which brings the responsibility squarely down to America’s colleges and universities.

The most important thing about this “deferment” business lies in the meaning of that word itself. Students who are deferred, no matter how long, will eventually have to serve in the armed forces. The student deferment plan is merely a means to allow what the armed forces term “the cream of the crop” to finish their education; Uncle Sam and General Hershey mean to see that they put in at least 26 months at one time or another in the service of their country.

Gags

College Rage

Little Girl: “Mummy, coming home from school I walked through the cemetery and read all the words on the tombstones and what I want to know is, where do they bury all the sinners?”

Professor: “Ahbhhhh.”

Doctor: “Tongue looks all right, but why the stamp?”

Professor: “So that’s where I left it.”

“Yep,” said Grandpa, “newspapers are just like women.”

“But, Gramp,” questioned his college grandson, “I don't get it. What do you mean?”

“Well, son,” said Grandpa, “it's like this. They both have forms, back numbers are not in demand, they always have the last word, they are well worth looking over, they have a great deal of influence, and every man should have one of his own and not borrow his neighbor’s.”

Visitor: “To whom are you writing that letter?”

Lunatic: “To myself.”

Visitor: “What are you telling yourself?”

Lunatic: “How do I know? I haven’t received it yet.”I know? I won't get the letter until tomorrow.” He was hopelessly lost and hip-deep in snow. Just as he was about to give up hope, he saw coming toward him a big St. Bernard with a flask tied around its neck. “At last!” he gasped. “Here comes man’s best friend and a dog!”

Victims of an accident in Scotland were still lying about the road. Along came a native and said to a man lying on his back: Has the insurance man been ‘roon yet? Injured: No. Scot: Ah, weel, I'll just lie doon aside ye.

Mrs. Whoosit: “Doctor, I wish you would see my husband; he blows smoke rings from his nose, and I’m terribly frightened.” Psychiatrist: “Well, that’s a bit unusual that he blows them from his nose, but nothing to be alarmed about; many smokers blow smoke rings by the hour.” Mrs. Whoosit: “I know, Doctor, but my husband doesn’t smoke.”

If a WAVE is a lady sailor and a WAC is a lady soldier, what is a WOC? A WOC is what you frow at wabbits.

A doctor asked his woman patient her age. “I never tell anyone my age,” she answered coyly, “but as a matter of fact, I've just reached 21.” “Indeed,” said the doctor, “what detained you?”

Wax Scratching

Les Paul has scored another hit. This one is labeled “How High The Moon,” and it's one of his best to date. As usual, the guitar work is dubbed, as are the vocals by his wife, Mary Ford. Admittedly, this version could never be called “gone” by the followers of Kenton, Dizzy Gillespie, and other bop artists. But as a pleasant, novel arrangement of this oldie, the version by Les is hard to beat.

Nat King Cole seems to have a sure-fire hit in his discing of “Always You.” This tune is strictly hit parade material and my guess is that you'll be hearing lots more about it in the weeks to come. Nat also has recently released a pleasant number called “Too Young.” It’s fair, but not up to par with most Cole waxings. Nat handles it well, but the material was a little weak in this case.

In the last column, I told you about the Margaret Whiting recording of “Lonesome Gal.” Since then, I have heard the same tune by Dinah Shore and Dinah gives the ballad the lift it’s been needing. She does a wonderful job on it, by far the best on the market.

“I'll Never Know Why” is Hugo Winterhalter’s latest contribution to the platter market, and a fine contribution it is, too. The chorus and orchestra combine efforts to produce one of the prettiest tunes of the day. Hugo also furnishes the orchestration for Eddie Fisher’s “Bring Back The Thrill.” Fisher is the young fellow who in only a few months has climbed to one of RCA Victor's top recording spots. Unfortunately (for him as well as his followers), he is being drafted this month.

You won't want to miss Perry Como’s new arrangement of the oldie “Without A Song.” It’s done in that casual, easy-going Como style that can turn most any song into a hit. With his voice and a song like this, how could a record go wrong? You might like to know that Perry recorded four numbers last year which sold over a million copies each. He has gotten off to a good start this year with “If,” which will hit the million mark any day now.

Many of you will want to latch on to a copy of the new George Shearing discing of the oldies “For You,” backed by “Little White Lies.” Personally, I think Shearing is the greatest thing to hit music since the invention of the piano. He could play “Old Black Joe” with the music turned upside down and it would still sound great. But for some of you less avid fans, give it a listen and I'm sure that you'll agree that he’s one of the top keyboard artists in the nation.

Woody Herman has just cut two sides for M-G-M. One is labeled “Ninety-nine Guys” and reminds you quite a bit of “Caldonia,” although it will never be that popular. On the flip side is “Searching.” Woody croons an adaptation in both English and the original Italian and the results aren't particularly impressive. He has done a fair job on a mediocre tune.

My selection for tune of the week goes to Doris Day’s “I'll Be Around.” It’s one of these soft, smooth, and sentimental tunes which Doris does so well and no adjective that I might bestow upon it could make you appreciate it half as much as listening to it once. Flip it over and you'll find “I Love The Way You Say Goodnight.” On this one, she is given a choral background and the instrumental end of the tune is handled by the Buddy Cole Quartet. It has a bouncy beat that makes it a pretty good bet for you guys who like to shag. There's no denying it, both tunes are terrific.

FRIDAY, APRIL 6, 1951

MUSIC WITH HANSEN
By HENRY HANSEN

The Davidson College Artist Series is over. The present dearth of musical activities will not be lifted till the Annual Inter-Fraternity Sing and the Spring Arts Festival. A period of such relative calm can produce no diatribes; it is good, in short, for little more than reflection and the gaining of some perspective.

The conductor of a symphony orchestra is always faced with the problem of striking a balance between the great works of the past and the would-be great ones of the present. The problem is seldom solved to the complete satisfaction of that most diverse group—the concert-goer; however, the difficulty of solution seldom mitigates the urgent necessity of making some steps toward one. The desultory conductor is apt to include one modern American or other work, usually a first-rate mediocre composition, and let it go at that. Even the eminent Arturo, goaded at last into cognizance of the fact that even the peerless NBC must recognize the modern work, did not manage to do much better than recording such works as the movie scenario Grofe’s “Grand Canyon Suite.”

The conductor who has probably done the most for contemporary music in that his musical taste is most excellent is Koussevitzky who, with the help of the Boston Symphony, has managed to foster a great amount of superior contemporary music.

Last year when the Cincinnati Orchestra played here it was notable that Thor Johnson was leaning more than gently toward the left in his programming; that is, his program included more than the average amount of contemporary works. This in itself is not objectionable. It becomes so when it goes too far or when the quality of works played is low. When these two factors combine, the result is even worse. Combined they were in the last concert of the series. The Cincinnati Symphony presented this year a concert which was remarkable in that no work on it was older than 100 years; most were considerably younger than that. The program was thus distinctly unbalanced. This might have been excusable if the works presented had been on the level of the excellent Vaughan Williams job of last year. The keynote was not, unfortunately, on such a level. The one work of the program which promised much, the Satie Mass for the Poor, was unaccountably dropped in favor of the facile, shallow, one-idea Gillis. Though the subject was Tom Wolfe, we might have been listening to “Ranch House Party” or “Saga of a Prairie School,” for the same weird combinations of sound and rhythm which constitute, for Gillis, the zenith of musical composition (they must for they appear in every work) were here present to mar an otherwise excellent text.

This, then, is in the nature of a plea for a little sounder sense in programming. The modern work admittedly must have a place. But let us select works that deserve the place reserved for them. Finally, let us not forget that Beethoven, Brahms, and Bach are still a good long way from being either trite or uninspiring. When this is forgotten, as it was in Mr. Johnson’s program, the result may be interesting, but musically speaking the balance of old and new is destroyed. The net result of such a program can only be what it was—a vague sense of dissatisfaction, a feeling that, in the words of Dean Brown, we have dined on the salad course and omitted the entrée.

THE WORLD LAST WEEK

1) The fourth crossing of the parallel in Korea was accomplished under the authority of the U.N., as announced in London and Washington.
2) The National Council of Churches announced a membership gain of 51.6 percent in the large church bodies from 1926 to 1949, as compared to a 30 percent U.S. population growth.
3) Tito reported that Albanian refugees are being parachuted into Albania to oppose the Soviet-backed government.
4) A special court to handle narcotics cases was opened in Chicago. It is the first of its type in the country.
5) French Admiral Lemonnier was appointed Eisenhower’s deputy for naval forces.
6) John Foster Dulles, who is in charge of drafting a peace treaty with Japan, last week outlined a “peace of reconciliation,” the terms of which promise to be a great act of statesmanship.
7) Resurgent French forces in Indo-China have organized commando-parachute groups and have made new landings in Communist-held territory.
8) A Charlotte Observer editorial commended Davidson for its Communism forum.

Coca-Cola Bottling

In Chicago, Illinois, a favorite gathering spot of students at Loyola University is the Union Lounge because it is a cheerful place—full of friendly university atmosphere. And when the gang gathers around, ice-cold Coca-Cola gets the call. For here, as in university haunts everywhere—Coke belongs.

Ask for it either way... both trade-marks mean the same thing.

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
Coca-Cola Bottling Co., Concord, N.C.