THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1951

THE DAVIDSONIAN
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF................. BILL WHITE
BUSINESS MANAGER........... ALEX GOLEY

Associate Editors: Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis, George McMurray, Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw, John Ottley
Photographs: Archie Neal
Photographer: Andrew Simmons
Feature Editor: Mike Myers
Exchange Editor: Ed Richardson
Managing Editors: Boo Northcutt, Jack Hobson, Bob Poston, Bill Minter
Copy Editor: Pete Ormsby
Art Editor: Don Mahy
Sports Editor: Dick Liles
City Editor: Nat Daniels
Assistant Business Manager: Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager: Collection Manager
Subscriptions Manager

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Opponents Quick To Point Out Church Too Large, Expensive

As the construction work on Davidson's new church heads into the homestretch, debate may readily be had by one attempting
to justify such an investment at this time by the College. First off, it is asserted by many opponents to
the present construction that many other building needs were more pressing on the College campus—a new dormitory, the student union,
possibly additions to the library or science building. It seems that this argument hardly holds water. Certainly on a campus
where Christian education is the chief end, the plant wherewith to do the job should receive first consideration. It did
not. There came first the library and science building (indeed, are there any complaints of cramped quarters here?) and the
new gymnasium. A relic of a church waited too patiently for her new building.

But the main complaint of the dissenter is that the new church is too large and too showy for a
college and community the size of Davidson. To treat this latter issue in reverse order, isn't the word “showy” a
little harsh? As handsome an addition to our physical plant as this new Cornerstone of the Campus hardly is “showy.”
Attractive is the word, and attractive is the purpose of its architectural layout. What merchant is chided for displaying his
wares in comfortable, well-lighted, eye-pleasing surroundings? The church is in the business of the Lord. It is keeping pace with
the forward strides of its “competitors,” one might say. As for size, we lack full knowledge as to what future
demands shall be brought on this church, and the better the facilities, the better the church's ability to meet the
growing spiritual needs of the college and community and to become a center of life in Davidson.

This treatment of the discussion, while most superficial, The Davidsonian feels is essential. It is hopeful, and The Davidsonian suggests,
that a good explanation of the plans and future of this church will be made before the student body in
chapel at an early date.

“Scripts ’N Pranks” Chooses Sanity Over Suicide In Policy

Despite Scripts & Pranks' vain attempt to project itself a year ahead of the other campus publications, The Davidsonian was
able to catch up with a copy of the fall edition this week. Possibly flushed with pride that he should
choose our art editor for much of his work, or maybe because he touched a subject so close to all
of us, we extend to Jim Fickeisen and staff a congratulatory hand. Not so much from the entertainment angle, as
from the policy stated, does our orchid stem. In making no pretense or apology over the censored content of the
humor mag's material, Fick truthfully told of the type of publication we can expect. Any attempt to emulate the sordid
sex manuals of some campuses would be as unsuccessful as it would be undesirable at Davidson. In this connection, no
attempt is better than a poor one. Better to direct efforts freely down non-restricted avenues than try to strain an
article through a street flashing with warning signs.

All in all, the 1951 debut with the 1952 cover was well received, we think. To those who complain that
it wasn't racy or risque enough—down, boy, you're straining at your leash.

Business Men-Led Discussions Emphasize Christ In Vocation

An excuse often given for a “Sunday kind of religion” is that religion—and Christianity in particular—simply isn't practical enough to
fit into our impersonal, rapid-moving, dog-eat-dog business world. Despite their constant exposure to the teachings of Christ and the truism
that only by applying His word to everyday life can religion become “practical,” many in our midst are from Missouri.
They have to be shown it’s so. Such will be shown. The Fall Services, which begin at Vespers Sunday night,
are developing the theme, “Christ in Vocation.” In addition to Mr. John Oliver Nelson, who will lead the Services, ten
men representing ten fields of business will head discussion groups to talk on Christ in their vocation. All ten men
are wholly competent as Christians and leaders in their field to talk on such a subject, and each student will
have the opportunity to hear two such lectures by men from his favored two fields.

Tom Stockton and his Y commission on special services have hit on a fine means of bringing the future and
Christ together in the student mind. The following week should prove one of spiritual awakening and enrichment for every man
with any thought whatsoever as to where he goes from here.

BOSTLE HOLDER CONTAINS EXTRA CLUGS FOR Battle rations, Song? UGG> GREAT, OTT ClUGs on BUTT. EVOLUTION 0 use. FOOD we
QuMBLE SEAT. F THE PRACTIC HISTORICAL survey BX SqT. Mm $0.84, Sonn fost Sooper: CARRIED PROVISIONS AD CC MicUS, HAEC,
HOCo, PROVISIONS WE RYMEIIO?” PARDEDOESLUE PRON Sit VERSANLE, CORN TORE 1 on eny Trn.2” AL UNIFORM . ge AD. $s
EXTRA ARROWS W Low ~ SLUNG Quiver ry TET a NEVER FENRS EXTRA ARE FOR RAKE PROTECTION. @ WHAT’S YOU
SEE BALLARD Wt A BUSTLE -* BALLARD Wt A BUSTLE? THE CABBAGE PLANTER: Appendagitis Epidemic Among Smart Soldiers Sweeps Corps

These excerpts supersede those portions of TS5S-9, Leadership, Courtesy and Raincoats, 4 July, 1776, and render obsolete all regulations in
PDQ123-5, Dress, Right and Dress, 29 February, 1954.

1. A raincoat is a raincoat. This designation is not static. Static is something the careless soldier gets over his
walkie-talkie in rainy weather. Regulations are not bound by tradition. When, for instance, it was found in Tunisia that rifles
added to the esprit de corps of a unit, a rifle platoon was added to every Raincoat Division.

2. Raincoats fall into three divisions: spare parts, appendages, and accessories. Sizes 22 through 28 are spare parts, 30 through
38 are appendages, and 40 through 56 are accessories. The smart soldier knows what his is.

MISSION: The mission of the heavy rubber raincoat is to give continuous close support to the infantry soldier, to establish
and hold his position, and to hold the cartridge belt tight so it won’t slip down and look messy.

LIMITATIONS: When planning the use of raincoats in accomplishing his mission, the commander in addition to considering their capabilities, also
takes into account their limitations. Limitations in the use of raincoats can be classified into two categories: inherent, or olfactory,
factors, and other factors.

The inherent factors which influence the use of raincoats are the weight, size, silhouette, noise, smell, and restricted mentality of
the wearer. The other factors are the weather and the number of cuts on record in the dean’s office.

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

Section 1. GENERAL.

1. GENERAL.
a. All generals wear raincoats. They have to because they promised their mothers they would. Generals are nice. I would
like to be a general, wouldn't you?

2. RULES GOVERNING EXECUTION OF MANUAL OF RAINCOATS:
a. When the recruit enters the Army, he folds his raincoat according to regulations. Flat on the ground, the soldier
folds the arms across the sleeves, the front around the back, the back diagonal to the middle, and then he
snips the button off the collar since this always sticks out. This is wrong so he unfolds it and starts
all over again. Flat on the ground, the soldier folds that part over here, this part along the side, both
flaps right next to it and tucks in the sleeves. Once folded, the raincoat is never again unfolded. THIS IS
MANDATORY. Besides that, you have to do it because it’s nice.

Section 2. EXECUTION

a. The basic command in the manual of raincoats is ray-hun-coa-wuhts ON. The smart soldier will already have his on
so he can be doing something more important. Ray-hun-coa-wuhts is the command of preparation, ON is the command of execution.
At the word ON, the squad leader will execute everybody who forgot his raincoat.

b. For moving short distances or on long hikes, the command trail, RAY-HUN-COA-WUHTS is given. At this command, the soldier
grabs the little cloth duohickey on the collar and drags his raincoat along beside him. If the man in back
of him trips, it is not the platoon leader's fault. To align the raincoat in front of him, the man
in back of him says “Doohickey RIGHT” or “Doohickey LEFT,” whichever he likes better.

c. When marching, you may hear the command, sling RAY-HUN-COA-WUHTS. At this command, sling yours as far as you can,
and pretend you forgot it.

MANUAL OF RAINCOATS

1. VOICE COMMANDS.
a. Volume is necessary. In this case, volume six of the Smart Soldier's Five Foot Shelf of Field Manuals.

b. Deep breathing exercises develop the diaphragm and refresh the entire body. Besides, they help you swim better. The Army
is not being silly when they ask you to bring your diaphragm to drill. The smart soldier does this without
being told. He knows that all voice commands are given orally.

c. Philology is confusing. For purposes of command, raincoat will be spelled ray-hun-coa-wuht. Not all raincoats are called ray-hun-coa-wuhts. The
smart soldier knows what to call his.

Army’s College Deferment Plan Not Confusing, Replies Educator

Ann Arbor, Mich. (I.P.)—Confusion and misunderstanding are chiefly responsible for the criticism directed at Selective Service’s college deferment plan. This
is the belief of E. Lowell Kelly, professor of psychology at the University of Michigan who is a member of
one of the scientific advisory committees that helped Selective Service draft the plan. He answered that he considers the major
arguments advanced by critics.

1. He pointed out that college students deferred under the plan are still liable for service after the period of
educational deferment. In fact, the committees recommended that the period of vulnerability be extended by the number of years of
deferment. Thus a student deferred four years would be liable for service up to the age of 30 rather than
26.

2. He contended that critics who brand the plan as anti-democratic could use the same argument against the armed services
who refuse to accept persons who make a low score in the general classification tests and at the same time
limit advanced reserve officer training to only the most intelligent.

3. The charge that the plan would leave us with an “army of stupid people” also is unsound, he declared.
The number to be deferred would only be about the same size as the superior group already deferred to complete
reserve officer training. He estimated that the 180,000 to 210,000 of the 300,000 college students subject to the draft compares
favorably to the 200,000 college students already deferred to complete reserve officer training.

d. To stack raincoats. On the command stack RAY-HUN-COA-WUHTS, the man on the left of the stackman re-grasps his raincoat
at the armpit, raises it to the vertical, and passes it to the platoon leader. The platoon leader already has
one of his own, so he passes it to the stackman. The stackman throws it between his feet and ties
the right sleeve to the left leg.of the man to his right, and the left sleeve to the right leg
of the man to the left. Then the stackman burns his and his buddy’s, everybody does an about face, and
the command inspection arms is given.

e. Inspection arms. At the command inspection HAHMS, the soldier raises his raincoat to eye level and looks down the
sleeve until (Continued On Page Four)

Editor's Mail....

Dear sir:

The pledges from several of the fraternities have been working recently on the grounds of Erwin Lodge. Members of the
Campus Club first cleared the banks of the stream near the fireplace. Under the able direction of Tyke Ellis some
of the Kappa Sig pledges then prepared the ground for planting, and others will set out the Dutch Iris given
by the Eighteen Club of the town. Several fraternities have offered to help, and their pledges will plant—on the hillsides—the
daffodils given by the Book Lovers Club, also of the town. Day lilies will be planted by the others. The
grounds at Erwin Lodge can be made very beautiful, so we deeply appreciate this labor.

THE ERWINS.

NAT DANIEL: The Challenge To Fraternities: Construction Or Extinction

American college fraternities are being criticized today as never before as being definite liabilities in their influences on college life
where they are a part of the campus picture, and on the lives of individual members who belong to these
organizations. The general gist of these criticisms is that fraternities lower the grades of their members by too great an
emphasis on social life, make relations with the administrations difficult by attempting to “buck” or change regulations and through various
pranks, usually instigated during Hell Week, make relations with the public outside the college community extremely difficult, both for the
local chapters, the national offices, and the colleges where the chapters are located. (A pledge caught stealing a road sign
will usually mention his college before he says anything about his fraternity.) The net result is a general clamping down
by college administrations all over the country, and the national leaders of many fraternities, fearing the loss of local charters,
have backed up the regulations set forth by college administrations in their effort to rectify the situation, which has so
long been a weak spot in our fraternity system. Under pressure, of course, the fraternities are responding, and are discovering
that the new concept of a fraternity’s place in a community is much more helpful to them than the old
system of badgering the pledges into wasting time and energy performing the adolescent pranks heretofore imposed upon them, (ref. Readers’
Digest, September 1951, “The Metamorphosis of Hell Week.”)

To descend now to the local level, here at Davidson the fraternity system is about as democratic and free from
inter-fraternity antagonism as it could possibly be, but we, too, have been subject to the same criticisms which have been
applied time and time again to Greek letter organizations on other campuses, and often not unjustly. The situation came out
from under wraps last spring when the administration clamped down on road trips for the pledges. The first reaction was
an embattled, “They can’t do that to us,” but they certainly could, and did, very effectively. As soon as they
could, however, the administration, working directly and through national offices, tossed the ball to us. We accepted it rather half-heartedly,
because we had to, but the real challenge is still ours, and as yet unfilled, and though it may deflate
our egos to turn copycat, and follow the good example of Alpha Tau Omega, if all the fraternities would turn
out to get some constructive work in among ourselves and in the community at large, and call the public’s attention
to these things through the newspapers of this area it would give the individual fraternities a lot of good publicity,
it would make the task of answering criticisms concerning the system as a whole a lot easier, and it would
improve public opinion concerning Davidson and consequently public opinion concerning Davidson College.

Reluctant Ike May Soon Get Call To Enter Fifty-Two Race

Who'll it be in fifty-two? We've already witnessed one hat being thrown into the ring. Mr. Taft is making his
fourth bid for the Republican nomination. And President Truman is playing it coy and cautious, but he seems on the
verge of entering the race. But there is one hat which grows more conspicuous every day by its absence. And
it is no secret that this is the olive drab one belonging to a general by the name of Dwight
D. Eisenhower.

It is not hard to understand why Gen. Eisenhower is reluctant to take the big step and announce himself as
a candidate for President in 1952. In the first place, he is not at all sure that he could get
even the nomination in either the Republican or the Democratic party. Mr. Taft, by announcing his candidacy more than a
year before the elections take place, has already made a strong bid for many electoral votes. And Mr. Truman, although
he is playing it coy and cautious, seems to have the inside track on the Democratic nomination. Second, it is
doubtful whether Gen. Eisenhower can decide where he is most needed. He is doing a good job as NATO chief,
and a successor there could hardly expect the respect and the resultant cooperation that he has earned. Third, he must
realize that if he were to get the nomination from one of the parties he would not be able to
conduct himself in the manner which politicians of the present day are accustomed. It is hard to visualize the hero
of the European War floundering around in the muck and slime of a modern political campaign. He would have to
fight fair, and political aspirants do not seem to get very far by playing it clean in this day of
mud-slinging campaigns. Fourth: General Eisenhower is probably afraid that, were he to get the nomination and then lose the election,
he would lose much of the prestige and some of the popularity that he now has. It is much nicer
to think one might be President if he wanted to, than to have run for the job and lost. The
man and the hero would still remain, but much of the glamour would be gone.

There are those, and they are not a few in number, who say that it is vital to the country’s
welfare that Gen. Eisenhower run. Mr. Taft, who will surely get the Republican nomination if Gen. Eisenhower doesn't offer himself,
is a pretty good man as far as national government is concerned, but the Ohio politician is notorious for his
stands on foreign policy. Mr. Truman does not seem to be capable of finding the way out of the maze.
He certainly wasn't any inspiration to the 82nd Congress, which passed only 180 of more than 9500 bills and resolutions
introduced before it. Could the General do any better? An editorial in the New York Herald-Tribune gives the best answer
to this question:

“General Eisenhower's qualifications for the Presidency are unique. He led an immense coalition of armies to victory in the war.
In the uneasy peace of today he has set on foot in a new alliance the armies of the free
nations of the West.

“These have not been the tasks of the military alone. They have required the vision of the statesman, the skill
of the diplomat, the supreme organizing talents of the administrator, and humane sympathies of the representative of the people.

“All these gifts General Eisenhower has shown in abundance.”

The General seems to be the only man in the political picture (Continued On Page Four)

“Treat The Negroes As Individuals” Dr. Workman Urges In Chapel Address

An experience which could prove of profit to all was that told by Dr. Workman Tuesday morning in a rather
unprecedented slant on a situation of quite familiar bearing. It is a pity in this “great melting-pot that is America,
that we should be so continually sluggish in our approach to this problem. The light of Dr. Workman's experiences is
indeed appreciated, particularly in view of his earlier prejudices from a section perhaps characteristic of our South. A valuable point
was made in that if we are to progress, it must be done with the realization that the Negro is
an individual and desires to be treated as such, rather than with the label of the group. If we are
to progress “we must,” as once said, “carry about with us a store of the current coin of knowledge ready
for exchange on all occasions, else we are helpless when the opportunity for action occurs.”

This opportunity we ourselves can provide, but the continual difficulty has of course always been in knowing how fast to
move. Others have adequately proved that our fear of too rapid advancement in such areas as segregation has too often
been grounded in a provincialism that we placidly accept. Opportunity has been provided within the program of the “Y” for
your expression in the problem and it is your participation that can enable, not ennoble, success. The community work among
the colored people here in Davidson includes such things as the showing of educational and entertaining movies, planning ways in
which they can have better social functions, working with the kids in their athletics and games, and also discussion groups
between the students and the colored adults. Another means of understanding Negroes, especially of our own age, is in student
interracial discussions with Johnson C. Smith and Barber Scotia college, in which common ideas and experiences are brought forth. Another
means is Scout work. There are others, but these are activities that demand time and consecrated workers. These workers are
seeking to help the colored toward solutions of acute problems and the attainment of real goals. There seems to be
one great stumbling block in seeking to know and do the will of God; and a man named Gay pretty
well hit the nail on the head: it is to character, like the attic to the house—the highest and generally
the most empty.

Nickels. fraternities.
