EIGHT SRS. AND ONE JR. ELECTED TO PHI BETA KAPPA

Eight Davidson seniors and one junior accepted offers of membership into Phi Beta Kappa this week. The men were Arnie Covell, Dick Harris, Sam Joyner, John Kelton, Ralph Lewis, Thad Monroe, J. B. Stroud, Kenneth Wilson-Jones, and Jack Hunter. A brief resume of each man and his recent collegiate achievements is as follows:

ARNIE COVELL
Hailing from DeFuniak Springs, Fla., Arnie is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. He plans to enter the field of medicine after completing his education. A member of Sigma Upsilon literary fraternity and Alpha Epsilon Delta, Arnie was managing editor of the Davidsonian last year. He gave his efforts to the Cat grapplers in that same year.

DICK HARRIS
A teacher-to-be, Dick sings with the Male Chorus. He is an Alpha Tau Omega brother and resides in Asheville, N. C. While taking ROTC he was named to the honor of Distinguished Military Student. He is also a member of the honorary German society here, Delta Phi Alpha.

SAM JOYNER
Sam is connected with Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and also a member of Phi Literary Society. He was president of his class both in junior and senior years. He plans to be a doctor and calls Kernersville, N. C., home.

JOHN KELTON
Captain of this year's wrestling team and active worker with the Y Christmas Gift Fund describes but one man. John Kelton is also a member of Sigma Chi social fraternity and the Spanish Club. He is a past member of Eumanean Literary Society and is on the D Club's roll. When holidays are declared, John takes the shortest route to Port Tampa City, Fla.

RALPH LEWIS
Planning to enter business, Ralph finds his social fraternity connections with Sigma Alpha Epsilon. For outstanding work in Spanish, he was tendered a bid to Sigma Delta Pi. This Greensboro senior anticipates receiving a B. S. Degree in June.

THAD MONROE
Thad, who is from Fayetteville, N. C., is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. A pre-med, he joined Alpha Epsilon Delta last year. Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity, extended him a bid also. Thad is working toward a B. S. Degree.

J. B. STROUD
Also a Beta, J. B. plans to enter the field of teaching upon graduation. He is associated with Sigma Pi Sigma, an honorary physics fraternity founded on this campus.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY

Johnson Returns With Famed Ohio Orchestra

The famous Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra, directed by Thor Johnson, one of America’s leading musicians, will present the third program in the Davidson Artist Series, on Saturday, March 17, beginning at 8:15. The orchestra, now on a nationwide tour, combines the talents of 78 high-ranking musicians, and is generally recognized as one of the finest symphonic ensembles in the world. With a background of fine musical traditions dating back to the beginning of the nineteenth century, it came into being in 1895 in response to the demands of musical Cincinnati for a permanent orchestra of the first rank which would give frequent interpretations of the best in the musical literature of the world. The first complete series of symphony concerts in Cincinnati was given during the season 1895-96, and since that time, the orchestra has striven to include in its personnel artists of the very highest rank, and to program concerts only of the very best in music, in which the most promising of the modern works is given a hearing together with the enduring works of the masters. Some of the most valuable instruments in the world are in the possession of the Cincinnati players.

(Continued On Page Three)

Robinson, Davies Made Frat Heads

Highlighting fraternity activities of late are the election of officers of the K. A.’s and the Phi Delts and the initiation of pledges of Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Beta Theta Pi. In a recent election Bryan Robinson, of Thomasville, Georgia, was elected president of Sigma chapter of Kappa Alpha for 1951-52. Other officers elected were: Pan-Hell representative, Bill Adams, of Seneca, S. C., Vice President Bill Buckey, of Charlotte, N. C., and Secretary Tony Tucker, of Laurel, Mississippi. The offices of Corresponding Secretary, Historian, and Treasurer are filled by appointment and will be so in the near future.

The North Carolina Gamma chapter of Phi Delta Theta has elected Al Davies as president for next year. Others elected at the same time were: Pan-Hell Representative Ken Taylor, Reporter Bob Posten, Treasurer Ed Sutton, Alumni Secretary Pete Ormsby, Recording Secretary Allen Strand, Warden Don Lazenby, Chorister Fletcher Bright, Librarian Bill Bacon, and Chaplain George Nickels. Also appointed Rush Chairman was Bob Posten.

The boys wearing sackcloth and going about with upraised hands are the pledges of S.A.E. Johnny Stiefel is president of the pledge class of sixteen to be formally initiated Friday night, March 16. Saturday night the new members will be present at a banquet and dance.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN P. McKNIGHT

McKnight, Former AP Newsman To Explore Communism Here

John P. McKnight, who will speak Sunday April 1 at 4:00 p.m. on the subject “Ideology of Communism,” has spent most of the last twenty years abroad as an Associated Press correspondent. Mr. McKnight, a graduate of Davidson, class of '28, spoke here last January 8 on the “new isolationism” and “attempts to halt communism.” Having just recently returned from a five-year trip in Europe most of which time was spent in Italy as A. P. Correspondent to Rome, he is completing a book that was born out of Italian newspaper experiences. The book is a critical study of Pope Pius and the Papal position in light of the world situation today. While in Rome he witnessed the crucial 1948 election which saw the thumping defeat of the strong Italian Communist movement. He is well qualified from first-hand reports to speak on the communist movement from his experiences in Italy.

Mr. McKnight has had a long varied newspaper career working for the Shelby Star, the Wilmington Dispatch and the Charlotte News before joining the Associated Press in August 1929. He was sent to Cuba in 1930 to cover the revolution and served in other positions in New York, Miami, Mexico City, Lisbon, Madrid, Rio de Janeiro, Santiago (Chile), San Juan and Puerto Rico. Given leave of absence for military duty in 1942, he was commissioned a captain for intelligence work. He spent 33 months in the Antilles department, the last 15 months as head of its Information-Education section, and was discharged with the rank of major in August, 1945. From here he was sent to Rome, where he supervised coverage of the 1946 papal consistories.

At Davidson, McKnight was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Upsilon, and Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, and was active in the French and Spanish Clubs. He also contributed to campus publications and served as his class poet and historian.

Cats Outshoot Wofford Team

The Rifle Team traveled to South Carolina last weekend, to fire against Clemson on Friday and Wofford on Saturday. The Wildcat rifle team lost to Clemson by the close score of 1827 to 1821. The match was not decided until the very end. Both scores are considered very good. High firer for Davidson was Aubrey Miree. Saturday afternoon the team defeated Wofford by a wide margin, 1797 to 1668. High scorer in this match was J. P. Thompson. Firing continued during the week on the finals of the National Intercollegiate Match for which the team qualified in February. The first of four stages has been completed with a score of 1949 out of 2000. This score is 9 points ahead of the score fired in the qualifying match. Firing is scheduled to be completed on the match by 31 March.

NOTICE
Due to the spring holidays, the Davidsonian will not be published for the next two weeks. The next issue will appear on the campus April 6.

BULLETIN
Griffith G. Levering, resident vice-president of Lumbermen’s Mutual Casualty Co. in Philadelphia, awarded Gordon Scott, editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian, a check for $250 in chapel.Today, the check is in recognition of the Davidsonian's winning second place in a recent traffic safety contest sponsored by Lumbermen’s. Guy Peters, special agent for Lumbermen’s, and George F. Jones of Westbrook Insurance Co., also participated in the ceremony. Open to both daily and non-daily college newspapers, the contest was held in an effort to reduce the death rate among college-age drivers.

WILDCAT CLUB TO HEAR COACH

Davidson's Wildcat Club will meet to hear reports on its first year of activity at eleven o'clock Saturday in Chambers Auditorium. Members will hear an initial financial summary, a review of the past football season and prospectus for 1951, and an overall report on the general progress. F.B. L.L. Jackson will announce that a total of $27,055 in cash and pledges was collected in the first year of solicitation. A goal of $37,000 was set but discontinued when it was found that the present figure would be more than sufficient to meet the need for athletic scholarships. Next speaker will be Coach Crowell Little who is expected to review last season's grid outfit. The members will be presented with his plans and prospectus for next year. His report is to cover Davidson football.

Ken Wilson-Jones

Former president of Le Cercle Francais, Ken is also a member of the Spanish Club. He plays in the band and attends meetings of the International Relations Club. When the roll is called at Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity meetings, Ken is present. He expects to be awarded an AB Degree.

Jack Hunter

Representing the Kappa Alpha Order in this group is Jack Hunter from Winston-Salem, N.C. He was a prominent member of the Forensic Council this season and a member of the Scripts 'n Pranks staff. Jack is a member of Sigma Upsilon and a member of Le Cercle Francais. Last year, as a sophomore, Jack was chosen parliamentarian of Eumenean Literary Society and is treasurer of that group this year. All but two of these men are North Carolinians and three of the nine plan to enter medicine. Three will be teachers, one a businessman, and one a lawyer. Generally, Phi Beta Kappa stands for liberal scholarship, the humanities, and intellectual freedom which it believes to be the basis of a cooperative humanity in a world at peace.

Ballard Applauds A 400 Pt. Blood Mark

The Red Cross Blood Drive, conducted at the College Infirmary last Friday, was highly successful, breaking all records for a single day's collection in Mecklenburg County by a Bloodmobile. A total of 292 pints were donated during the actual operation at the infirmary. It is estimated that well over 100 would-be donors were turned away because of lack of time. In addition to the figure of 292, blood was given on two special occasions by groups of students going to Charlotte. On Tuesday afternoon, March 6, the Male Chorus and the Rifle Team, both of which were going to be away from the campus on the donation day, both went to Charlotte, largely on their own time. On Tuesday afternoon, the 13th, the Wrestling Team and other students and townspeople, numbering well over 50, went to the Blood Center. These additional contributions will all be counted in the final Davidson figure, which should be in the vicinity of 400. It is believed that there could have been many more, had there been time. Also, there were quite a number of students whose release forms did not arrive in time or who didn't obtain the release form through a misunderstanding. Colonel Ballard, chairman of the drive as he was in the first drive conducted in October, wishes to express the deep appreciation of the American Red Cross and the Military Department of the College for the superb response of the college students, faculty, and townspeople to this worthy enterprise. So great was the response that many people willingly stood in line for long periods of time. The result of the total effort was that the previous record for the county was exceeded by nearly 100 percent, it is understood.

REPORTER RAPS RUSSIANS

NUMBER NINETEEN

Profs., Guest Join Students in Talks Fri, Sat, Sun.

The Y.M.C.A. is bringing “Communism” to light with a forum on the Davidson College campus the weekend of Friday, March 30 through Sunday, April 1. Mr. John P. McKnight, AP Correspondent to the Vatican, will be the guest speaker and Professors Johnston, McGeachy, Brown, Guerrant, Holloman, Wilson, and Lt. Col. Ballard will each talk on some phase of Communism. Introducing the forum “Communism” on Friday morning, March 30, Dr. Frontis Johnston will present in chapel “The History of The Communist Party.” That evening at 7:30 p.m., Dr. John A. McGeachy, Jr., will discuss “The History of Russia,” while Lt. Col. James L. Ballard, Jr., will review “Russia As A Military Power.” A film on Communism will also be shown. On Saturday afternoon, March 31 at 4:00 p.m., Dr. C. K. Brown will talk on “Economics of Communism.” That evening at 7:30 p.m. there will be a debate on either the inevitability of war or formation of a non-Communist world organization with Dr. E. O. Guerrant and Mr. Jack V. Hunter opposing Prof. C. R. Holloman and Mr. Pete Kalogridis. Sunday afternoon, April 1 at 4:00 p.m., Mr. John P. McKnight, guest speaker, will talk on “Communist Propaganda Tactics.” At 6:30 p.m., Westminster Fellowship will be devoted to the subject “Christianity and Communism” with a discussion led by Prof. W. I. Wilson. The Y.M.C.A. feels that the various phases of this subject which will be discussed should be of vital interest to Davidson men in view of Communism’s direct effect on their lives in this chaotic world situation. The committee in charge of the forum consists of Hartly Hall, Thomas Mann, Bryan Robinson, Frank Hanshaw, Hugh Puckett, Stuart Shippey, Palmer Shelborne, Hubert Cannon, Irving Stubbs, Prof. B. D. Thompson, and Prof. R. W. Tyson.

Forced Chapel Hotly Debated

The Forensic Council was in charge of this last Tuesday's chapel and presented a short mock debate on compulsory chapel. The query, “Resolved: That Davidson should have voluntary chapel,” was defended by Owen Kellum and Hubert Cannon, while the negative team was composed of Dave Moylan and Pete Kalogridis. Even though the arguments were limited to four-minute constructive speeches and no rebuttals, many of the prevalent views of the student body were brought to the open. The debate was prefaced with the statement that the arguments presented by the debaters were not necessarily their personal convictions, but that the debate was given for the sole purpose of presenting two opposing views. Following is a brief summary of the debate.