PAGE SIX DUKE MAGAZINE SATIRES ENDOWERS; PRES. EDENS GROANS, EDITOR QUITS

The Duke and Duchess, student humor magazine at Duke University, has been suspended by the Publications Board under orders from
University officials because of a satirical and off-color series of articles on the Duke family, endowers of the Durham institution.
Walt Wadlington of Biloxi, Miss., editor of the magazine at the time of its final effort, was told personally by
Duke President Hollis Edens that “This is the greatest crisis of my educational career.”

Edens had good reason to be worried. First, the magazine not only satirized the Dukes but probably libeled them, although
that would be up to a jury. Secondly, Edens has been president of the school at Methodist Flats for scarcely
more than a year. Just five writers besides Wadlington worked on the issue of the mag, which was devoted from
cover to cover to the Duke (alias Littleworth) family.

The magazine, scheduled for publication prior to Christmas holidays but not released until shortly after, traces the Littleworth clan from
the first Duke and Duchess of Littleworth Scurvey and Godiva, across the Atlantic to colonial America and up to Diane
Littleworth (who makes not the feeblest pretense at being anyone but Doris Duke). The magazine was completely distributed on campus
and through the mail, but don’t go running to Duke planning on picking up a stray copy. As a Duke
Chronicle reporter by the name of Nick Something-or-other said Tuesday afternoon, “I’m holding onto mine for dear life.” And so
is everyone else.

Editor Wadlington was called into Hollis Edens’ office when the administration first took note of the contents of the issue
of The Duke and Duchess. Wadlington put on the squeeze and said he would blow the whole mess sky-high in
the press if he or anyone else involved in the publication were tossed out of school. His bluff wasn't called
but he didn’t keep his job long. The Publications Board met on Tuesday, January 23, voted to “accept his resignation,”
then approved the suspension of the magazine.

WILDCATS SHAKE... (Continued From Page Four)

weak team and this year is no exception. Clemson has one of the smoothest-working offenses and some of the best
screening and breaking in the business. Coach Baird is confident, however, that if the boys will continue in their rejuvenated
strain and sparkling play, they will upset one of the members of the top ranks sooner or later. Sooner could
be Clemson, and later could be Dook Monday night.

LEADERS BOOST... (Continued From Page Five)

Betas 49 - SAE’s 23

It is quite evident that the SAE’s are not the same since the loss of Bob Bennett at mid-semester and
therefore haven't been too successful so far this season. In gaining a victory for his team Chuck Elliott garnered 12
points, but was closely followed by several others.

STANDINGS
Team L
KA’s __21w..- eee wenn ne 4 0
Sigma Chi’s ...-....--.--- 4 0
Phi Delts ..........-.--.. 4 1
Kappa Sigs .---...-.----- 4 1
Pikas ...... eeeec cece eens 2 2
Pi Kapps ----..------.-.. 2 2
Betas ............-.------ 2 3
SPE’s .....-----------.--- 1 3
Phi Gams ~__-.-2------_- 1 4
SAE’s ...-.-------------- 1 4
ATO’s _--....-..-.------- 0 5

Where you meet your friends
Charlotte's Finest Restaurant

DAVIDSON GENTLEMEN... (Continued From Page Two)

if not explicitly, it seems inevitable that if we students don’t soon do something about our conduct, the administration and
faculty will; and it is almost certain that one thing they will not do is forsake a traditional weekday group
devotional chapel for a rip-snorting, steam-letting student-day chapel. Certainly nothing constructive can be done, outside of administration and faculty coercion,
without resourceful, forceful, student leadership. This is primarily a Student Council function and responsibility. Lately, we have heard nothing from
them concerning this matter. It could make a forceful and probably successful effort to improve chapel conduct. Where has our
Student Chapel Committee been all year? One would think that it is related to the Ursidae (bear) family, some of
whose members have the peculiar habit of hibernating from Fall to Spring. The responsibility for planning student programs, and also
making suggestions to higher authorities certainly rests partially with them. Part of the responsibility rests with Dr. Cunningham in planning
interesting programs on his day. The final part of the responsibility rests with us students to be cooperative with our
leaders, sympathetic for the tremendous responsibility and difficulty involved in providing good programs, and initiative in making suggestions for program
improvement, and, above all, reverent during devotions and religious talks, and courteous to everybody on the platform. Then, and only
then, will we have even a partially legitimate claim to the now delusive term, “Davidson gentlemen.” If we do not
initiate some constructive action among ourselves, we had better be prepared to take the consequence of any action the administration
and faculty may decide to enforce!

The motivating factors of our chapel conduct involve another aspect of this subject which does not permit developing. However, it
might be suggested that a large part of the motivation lies, perhaps, in certain aspects of reactions to student-faculty and
student-administration relations, which topic will have to be saved for another time —J. T. M.

SHIP AHOY
Phones 42090 — 5-088c
A GOOD PLACE TO MEET — A BETTER PLACE TO EAT
PICCADILLY GRILL
O. M KONTOS
1416 East Moorehead Street
Charlotte, N. C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Education Concept In America Receives Much Modification

New York, N. Y.—(I.P.)—The American concept of education and its application are undergoing a revolution which started a full century
ago and has reached its climax in the past five years, according to Dr. Oliver C. Carmichael, president of the
Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. Writing in the Foundation’s 45th annual report, Dr. Carmichael points out that “No
consistent, clear-cut philosophy of American higher education has yet been formulated. The British conception which largely dominated up to 1850
has been rejected. The 19th century German model in research and graduate work has been generally adopted, but the fundamental
purpose of education as a social enterprise has never been clearly stated. That is the reason for the current confusion.”

The trend toward a more flexible curriculum, through the elective system, promoted by Harvard’s president, Charles W. Eliot, during the
last quarter of the nineteenth century, is regarded in the report as a major educational reform. But “this revolutionary idea”
has produced growing “confusion,” Dr. Carmichael stresses. The expansion of the curriculum and the wider freedom of choice for students
“opened the way for the proliferation of courses,” which attracted “unprecedented numbers to college.” Through the elective system, “the intellectual
tone of colleges and universities has undoubtedly suffered losses, and the public has been thoroughly confused by the lack of
distinction between education and training.” But the questions it raised, Dr. Carmichael concludes, forced thoughtful educators after decades of complacence,
to “reconsider the aims and purposes of higher education and to revise the content and methods of instruction.”

Study Abroad Made Easier

BOB-BING ALONG THE AIRWAVES WITH BING:
Sure, Ken... Bob sent me a ft from Jovan... the makings for a Kimo beautiful sil! ne.
KEN: Oh, did Bob send you a few yards of material?
BING: No... just two silkworms in a matchbox.
BOB: You took me to a Burles show when I was only a baby?
BOB'S “FATHER”: Son, your very first burp blew a Bubble Dancer right off the runway.
ESKIMO: Me have three sons in America. One go UCLA, one go USO,one go VASS BOB: VASSAR! That's a girl's
school!

ESKIMO: No wonder he never comes home for vacation.

PAUL DOUGLAS: You know the average Yale man from my class is married, earns $26,000 a year, owns his home,
and has two and one-third children.

BING: That's a clever trick even for a Yale grad.

HY AVERBACK: You know this year Bing was chosen to be Santa Claus on the Chesterfield carton. How come they
didn’t pick us? We're a natural for the part.

MARILYN MAXWELL: Why did you bring the Crosby records to Alaska, Bob?

BOB: I sold them to the Eskimos. I find Bing’s voice to be the perfect one for the female walrus
call.

BOB: You know my voice has been described as having rippling tones.

MARILYN: Maybe it starts out in rippling tones, but then it forms in puddles.

Enjoy Bob and Bing radio: Bob every Tuesday night on NBC and Bing every Wednesday night on CBS.

The Institute of University Studies Abroad announced last week that arrangements had been completed with five famous European universities to
ease summer school registration for American students. In the past, Americans interested in combining summer travel and study abroad had
either to write to the universities for information or trust to their luck and apply for admission on arrival. As
most universities limit enrollment in their summer schools, students coming from the United States were likely to be refused admission
because quotas had been filled. By facilitating advance registration, the Institute of University Studies Abroad guarantees that much past confusion
can now be avoided. In 1951 there are to be Summer Schools at the Sorbonne (Paris), Madrid, Fribourg, Oxford, and
at the University College, Dublin. Oxford is holding a series of residential lectures under the general title of “Arts in
England in the Seventeenth Century.” The University of Fribourg in Switzerland is answering a dilemma of our times and calls
its course “Divided World,” offering a series of courses in history, philosophy, sociology, political science, and economics, while its Pedagogical
Department is inaugurating a course on “Unity in Education.”

The Institute is making every effort to see that Americans will be able to get to the courses and that
they will not be stranded for lack of proper transportation. It has approached the regular transatlantic carriers asking them to
make as many spaces available as possible to students who have registered with the Institute. Together with a well-known travel
agency, the Institute has prepared a series of tours in connection with the summer schools in Europe, thus helping the
students get a background knowledge of Europe and its current problems. Information may be obtained concerning study abroad, from the
Institute of University Studies Abroad, 1346 Connecticut Ave., N. W., Washington 6, D. C.

Portland University Introduces Courses In Eng. Composition

To design a course in freshman composition that is of greatest value to incoming students with varied interests and backgrounds,
the English department at the University of Portland has undertaken the following program this year, according to Alexander Scharbach, assistant
professor in charge of freshman English:

1. To learn from the heads of all departments and schools of the university what specific skills and knowledge they
want their students to gain from freshman composition.
2. To give objective tests to entering freshmen to determine how well prepared each freshman is to master the skills
and knowledge agreed upon by the responsible heads and the English department. At present, two standard tests are given so
that the student and his advisers can learn how he compares with students in other colleges and universities.
3. To discover through these tests, the most able students and to give them instruction suited to their capacities. The
incoming freshmen with poorer backgrounds are also thus noted and from the first week on their English instructors have an
objective analysis of the strength and weakness of each student.
4. To ensure a degree of uniformity in both learning and instruction by giving departmental semester examinations to all sections.

“With the assistance of the department of education,” Professor Scharbach said, “we are now making two additional studies and surveys:
one to determine the effectiveness of instruction in freshman composition, and the other to learn the reading habits and tastes
of all the male students of the university.”

SMARTING FROM... (Continued From Page Four)

School at 8 o'clock in the Piedmont Junior High School gym in Charlotte. The boys from Rome, Ga., have racked
up 10 straight wins this year against no losses, and can floor a starting team averaging over six feet, three
inches tall. Davidson, winners over Oak Ridge Military Institute, one of the leading junior college cage teams in the state,
promise to be strong competition for the towering Georgians. Earlier this week the junior hoopsters of Davidson put the bee
on the experienced Cannon YMCA team of Kannapolis, 76-58. Monday Davidson plays Duke, the freshman team that beat State, here
at 6:15 as a preliminary to the varsity match. The junior Blue Devils found the Kittens easy prey earlier this
season when they stabbed the locals 90-55 in the Duke Indoor Stadium.

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT
BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST.
PHONE 2-2238
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The Best Dressed Men At Davidson Wear Jack Mond, Ltd. CLOTHES
It Costs No More To Dress Correctly

Monday and Tuesday, Feb. 12-13
Kirby Grant . Elena Verdugo
Featurette . Comedy - Cartoon

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1951

BRYAN WENTZ COMPANY
"Clothing For The Man"
205 South Tryon
Charlotte 2, North Carolina

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Shows Start at 8 P. M.
KING SOLOMON'S MINES
Stewart Granger, Deborah Kerr
NEWS

Wednesday, February 14
SNOW DOG
Thursday, February 15
STORM WARNING
Ginger Rogers - Ronald Reagan
SPORT . CARTOON

Friday, February 16
BLUE BLOOD
Bill Williams - Jane Nigh
COMEDY & CARTOON

Saturday, February 17
ROCKY MOUNTAIN
Errol Flynn - Patrice Wymore
Pacemaker - Special . Cartoon

Starlite DRIVE-IN THEATRE
Salisbury-Landis Highway
WEEK STARTING THURSDAY, FEB. 8

Friday and Saturday
BILLY THE KID OUTLAWED
Bob Steele and JUNGLE SIREN
Buster Crabbe
SERIAL . CARTOON

Sunday
REFORMER AND THE REDHEAD
Dick Powell June Allison
CARTOON

Monday and Tuesday
BOB HOPE —in— FANCY PANTS
CARTOON

Center Theatre
Mooresville
WEEK STARTING THURSDAY, FEB. 8

Friday and Saturday
HILLS OF OKLAHOMA
Rex Allen and THE YANKS ARE COMING
Henry King and His Orchestra
SERIAL - CARTOON

Owl Show Saturday Nite and Monday and Tuesday
DELINQUENT DAUGHTERS
Sensational!
CARTOON - NEWS

State Theatre
Mooresville
WEEK STARTING THURSDAY, FEB. 8

Saturday
I SHOT BILLY THE KID
Don Barry
Robert Lowery
Wally Vernon
Tom Neal
also EXPERIMENT ALCATRAZ
John Howard - Joan Dixon
CARTOON - SERIAL

Owl Show Saturday Night and Monday
MRS. O'MALLEY AND MR. MALONE
Marjorie Main and James Whitmore
CARTOON

Tuesday . Wednesday
PAGAN LOVE SONG
Esther Williams
Howard Keel
Color by Technicolor
NEWS . SHORTS

RENT A CAR AT THE U-Drive It
4th St. Charlotte

Brooks Student Store
Oklahoma A & M College
Stillwater, Oklahoma

Meeting the gang to discuss a quiz —a date with the campus queen— or just killing time between classes —Brooks
Student Store at Stillwater, Oklahoma is one of the favorite gathering spots for students at Oklahoma A & M College.
At Brooks Student Store, as in college campus haunts everywhere, a frosty bottle of Coca-Cola is always on hand for
the pause that refreshes— Coke belongs.

Ask for it either way... both trade-marks mean the same thing.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO., OF CONCORD
