PAGE FOUR

First Semester Exam Schedule

Monday, January 21
A.M.—Open.
P.M.—Mathematics 10, 11.

Tuesday, January 22
A.M.—Sixth period Monday, Wednesday, Friday.
P.M.—Second period Wednesday, Friday, Monday.

Wednesday, January 23
A.M.—Open.
P.M.—Second period Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday.

Thursday, January 24
A.M.—Fifth period Monday, Wednesday, Friday.
P.M.—Fourth period Thursday, Saturday.

Friday, January 25
A.M.—Open.
P.M.—First period Monday, Wednesday, Friday.

Saturday, January 26
A.M.—First period Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday.
P.M.—Fourth period Monday, Wednesday, Friday.

Tuesday, January 29
A.M.—Third period Monday, Wednesday, Friday.
P.M.—Second period Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday.

Wednesday, January 30
A.M.—ROTC 11, 21, 31, 41.

Classes of the semester end at 12:10 p.m., January 19th. Morning examinations begin at 9 a.m. Afternoon examinations begin at
2:00 p.m.

Electrician Russell Trouble Shooter

There has been a good bit of confusion in the dorms when hall lights and bathroom lights are burned out
or when fuses are blown on certain halls. Bill Russell, the student electrician, is in charge of these matters and
makes his check once a week. However, sometimes situations arise when a fuse must be replaced or a burned-out switch
must be changed. If these emergencies do arise, Bill will be glad to fix these matters if they are reported
to him at 234 Duke, or a telephone call will suffice. In the past, many students have thought that the
student electrician furnishes students with light bulbs, but this is incorrect. Each student is responsible for the lights in his
own room.

FRATS OK... (Continued On Page Four)

Refund from Student Store $20.00
Total Receipts $3,553.80

Disbursements
Band $2,000.00
Interest on loan from bank $6.00
Rental of Full Dress Suits $60.00
Decorations $130.67
Band stand $22.08
Spotlight $2.00
Envelopes, Invitations, and Tickets $16.70
Football Tickets for Band $22.50
Rental of Piano $25.00
Thomas A. Johnston (Electrician) $15.00
Shorty Goodrum, services rendered $5.50
Payment for Maid Service $16.00
Refund to H. Alexander $5.50
New Books $6.64
Flowers $151.20
Expenses for wires, gas, etc. $12.75
Rush Week expenses $28.89
Total Disbursements $2,526.93

Receipt for dance quota $3,235.60
Disbursements related to dance $2,340.20
Profit on dance $895.40

Receipts $3,553.80
Disbursements $2,526.93
Balance $1,026.87

J. M. RICHARDS... (Continued From Page Two)

assessed against them. (One penalty of five yards for backfield motion was declined by Tech). That is a record which
has been equaled by very few teams at any time. Altogether, I feel that the game was a credit to
the players, to the coaches, and to the college, and that it was worthy of the finest athletic traditions of
Davidson. Speaking as one alumnus, I want to say that I was proud of the team, and that I believe
my feeling was shared by many others who attended the contest.

Sincerely yours,
J. McDowell Richards

$6000 GOAL... (Continued From Page One)

of public health, the projects waiting to be served are almost innumerable. Education, in a land where illiteracy, adultery, castes,
and general ignorance and superstition prevail, will receive a large share of the help. Also, village industries and emphasis on
village participation and civic responsibility will be aided as points under the Friends’ program. The American Friends Service Committee, representing
the religious Society of Friends, for more than thirty years has accepted as a guiding policy that it should attempt
to relieve human suffering wherever it is found. It has tried to reach the needy without regard to their nationality,
their race, their political affiliation, or their religious beliefs. It has come to their attention that India needs help in
raising the poverty-stricken people to a higher social level and in improving all living conditions. The committee would like to
give $1,500 of the total to this project. The drive will begin on December 7 and run through December 14,
with two canvassers to each hall. Robinson is depending upon the student body to come across with donations because there
will be no outside publicity to this drive.

HOEY AND SCOTT... (Continued From Page One)

best dressed men in Charlotte, Mayor Victor Shaw also is recognized as a businessman of no mean ability. Having been
in public service for a number of years, Mr. Shaw is also a church leader, being a Deacon in the
Myers Park Presbyterian Church. When quizzed as to the origin and the nature of the forum's topic, Jesse Fisher, a
forum representative, said that it was obtained through a questionnaire survey of the Y Cabinet, members of the Committee on
Forums and After-Vesper Discussion groups, and other students. The planning of the forum has consumed several months’ time and necessitated
a great deal of thought and effort on the part of the members of the committee. A pamphlet explaining the
purpose, function, and giving all details of the forum is to be published and distributed.

BUS TO CARRY... (Continued From Page One)

the chorus, who did not give Monday because of events coming up that night, would probably take advantage of this
opportunity. But, he added, inasmuch as the bus is a 37-passenger one, a total of 74 persons can be transported
Tuesday. Students who could not give Monday and who wish to, Ballard reminded, must have release forms and should report
to the ROTC department by this weekend or Monday.

BATTLE GIVES... (Continued From Page One)

Cenegy, Gary Barton, Frank Mitchener, Don Landers, Tom Hancock, and Diehl Sluss. Freshman cheerleaders will be Stratton, Sterghos, Shorty Sfaelos,
and Dick Babington.

Soph Look Strong

Many observers expect the sophomores to continue their winning ways of the past couple of years. Not since the present
senior class turned the trick in their first year at Davidson have the freshmen won the Field Day. The sophomores
will field an especially strong relay team in Tommy Breedon, Bill Shipley, Bill Morris, Buddy McKay, Don Reid, and Ken
Brown. Soph footballers will be Johnny Grey, Herschel Allen, Ray Clark, Bob Southwell, Andy Courts, Johnny Smith, Dan McCall, Corky
Johnson, Charley Johnson, Fred Stowe, Hal Davis, Max DeVane, Sam Clare, Bob Mitchell, Buddy Marable, Bill Nelson, Bob Owens, and
Howard Smith. The tug-of-war team will be composed of Nabby Armfield, Paul Davis, Neil Graham, Phil McGill, Scott Downs, Bill
Avera, Tim Gilley, Angus Hagins, Bob Patton, Homer Phifer, Ben Craig, Bill Glidewell, Bob Loy, Julian Weinberg, and Johnny Ashby.

Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville Ice Cream Company
Mooresville, N. C.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Shows Start at 3 p.m.
Mon.-Tues., Dec. 10-11
Friday, Dec. 14
“HIGHLY DANGEROUS”
Dane Clark
Margaret Lockwood
Saturday, Dec. 15

LLOYD PAYS UP... (Continued From Page One)

for only a brief moment. A German .31 cal. machine gun spat out from nowhere and caught him squarely in
the thighs—six slugs worth.

First Miracle

It clipped his legs right out from under him and as he lay there he saw the machine gun level
off at his back. Then occurred the first of four minor miracles. A brief moment before the first gunfire, Lloyd
had noticed a young-looking lad from Alabama at his side. The soldier was obviously weary, near exhaustion, and the heavy
radio on his back didn’t help matters. Lloyd lightened his load by strapping the radio to his own back, and
it was this radio that now absorbed 24 German bullets as he lay there helpless. Lloyd didn’t lose consciousness, thanks
to miracle No. 2—the deep snow. For six days the men nearly froze, but it was this fact that now
numbed his pain, and he was able to call to the medics for help.

Tank Support

But only No. 3 allowed the medics to reach him. The unauthorized order had been caught at battalion H.Q., and
supporting tank fire arrived at that moment, spraying machine gun fire and quieting down the Nazis before their mortars could
make a statistic out of Lloyd. Back behind the lines the fourth and biggest miracle took place, the miracle of
a blood transfusion. Or four of them, to be more exact. “We had been called off the line once before
to give blood when it was needed badly, but you can’t quite understand its importance until you receive some. You
mention blood transfusion to a student here and it has no real significance or meaning. But wait ‘till you receive
it once—then they will never have to give you a donor pep talk.”

GIANNINI CANTICLE... (Continued From Page One)

Quest for Beauty

In speaking of his new work recently, Mr. Giannini revealed that his goal for the Canticle was “an unrelenting quest
for the beautiful with the humble hope that one may be privileged to achieve this goal if only for a
moment and share this precious moment with one’s listeners.” Organist Eugene Craft will conclude the program with two Mozart Sonatas
for organ and orchestra. The concert will be open to the general public without an admission charge.

COCKER SPANIEL PUPPIES
2 monthsOld Plump & Registered Blonde to Brown
Will hold until the holidays
Phone 5331

THACKER’S INC.
PRIVATE DINING ROOMS for PARTIES AND BANQUETS
**A Good Place to Eat**
Phone 25-4900
Charlotte
221 South Tryon Street

For Coca-Cola is everywhere
There the hermit slaked my burning thirst
Tennyson: Holy Grail
Could be he found Coke at the hermitage.
...and everywhere it has the same delicious and refreshing quality.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF CONCORD
Coca-Cola is a registered trade-mark. © 1951, The Coca-Cola Company

DAVIDSONIAN

O.D.K. PROGRAM ...
(Continued From Page Two)
imaginable and I also firmly doubt that one could be found that would agree to enter Davidson. The picture of
ODK members working out football cheers besides being slightly laughable is far from the realm of sentiment molding. I also
find it difficult to imagine ODK members placing trash cans in various parts of the campus. As for abolishing the
Court of Control, etc., I think you would be doing the incoming freshmen of future years a great injustice. The
court has put a stop to more serious practices and also serves as an effective indoctrination body. By ending the
Court the door to serious hazing would be left wide open. It seems to me that instead of acting as
a body for the direct initiation of action, ODK should integrate and appraise the various activities of the college. It
should serve as a critical body that examines the purposes and accomplishments of various organizations with a view to suggesting
better methods or with a view to spreading the efforts toward a goal among many agencies.

Proposal number 6 in the program seems to be the ideal of what ODK is suited for. A critical analysis
of the student government, honor system and student body regulations is recommended. This analysis along with suggestions for changes should
be submitted to the Student Council which can act on them as seems fit. Situations which need the cooperation of
all or several organizations can be handled through ODK and in this way duplication and conflicts can be eliminated. I
believe that ODK as a separate body should not take part in campus activities. I feel that this would cause
duplication, since there are organizations on the campus which can handle all activities. And as an integrating body it will
be more effective. Whichever program ODK decides to initiate will not overshadow the more important fact that an awareness of
the great potentialities of the organization has finally been reached. This is a definite step forward and if it is
not allowed to die on the vine it could be one of the most important happenings in the life of
the college for a long time.

CATS WANT...
(Continued From Page Three)
to prospective, believe a successful season might follow. A good indication of the team potentialities will be evidenced by the
outcome of tomorrow night’s clash with the hardened Tar Heel aggregate. Last year the Cats won a decisive victory over
UNC, the only win of the 1951 campaign.
Shelley Beard.

CABBAGE PLANTER ...
(Continued From Page Two)
Christmas tree lights come in bunches of thirty-two, which, when unraveled and laid lengthwise on the living room floor, become
four strings of eight sockets apiece. The bulbs that break while in storage are green and blue, while the replacements,
in a brown paper bag behind the kitchen stove, are white, with an occasional burnt-out red one. A socio-historical note
mightn’t be out of order. Home life was happier before electricity? Why was home life happier before electricity? Home life
was happier before electricity because our forefathers used candles on the trees, the trees always burned down, no one had
to finish trimming the tree, everyone got to bed earlier on Christmas Eve, and consequently everyone was happier not only
on Christmas Day but throughout the year. When the trimmer has placed the lights symmetrically on branches, with another dexterous
movement of the lips, he finds that there is no wall socket at the top of the tree where the
plug is and arranges them again, this time from the top down, blue and green alternating for three feet and
giving way to a solid streak of white lights toward the base. Just after the ladder has been folded and
taken out to the garage, the silver star or angel, according to the trimmer's taste, is found and must be
put on top of the tree. The average trimmer will argue that it looks just as good on the mantelpiece,
but will be outvoted by his wife and children, causing another trip through the snow for the ladder and subsequent
mud on the rug. While the star is being placed, it is the children’s cue to run over, shake the
ladder with Daddy on top and beg for permission to hang tinsel. This, Daddy grants, and goes upstairs to wrap
presents. When he wakes up three hours later, the children are in bed and his wife is standing by the
tree, idly repositioning some of the tinsel, all of which has been hung on the firescreen, the couch, the floor
and the bottom three branches. Together they wonder if it’s worth it, agree that it is, and seven hours later
have finally lain down for a well-deserved hour and a half of sleep. When the house is quiet and the
family sleeps, the children dream of Christmas Day; their parents, eight hours sleep on Christmas night.

NEW CARS
DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF
Dial 3-4513
212 W. Fourth
Charlotte
Phone 4-0517

RENT YOUR FORMALS — at the —
American Beauty Florist
1515 S. Blvd. — Charlotte, — Phone 4-057, Night or Day
FORMALS FOR ALL OCCASIONS—30 minutes notice!
Tails — Cutaways — Tuxedos — Dinner Jackets — Shirts
Links and Studs — Ties — Gloves — and Shoes

Charlotte, N.C.
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1951

NAT DANIEL ...
(Continued From Page Two)
push which was so successful last Monday. Last week the YMCA cabinet met and discussed plans for doing away with
automatic membership, and despite opposition from certain quarters in the administration, it is seriously considering the idea as a working
beginning of a revitalized YMCA. Here again, the organization directly concerned is about three jumps ahead of Robinson, in that
it has already “taken a long look at its own set-up with special reference to compulsory membership,” without the assistance
of Omicron Delta Kappa, or of Bryan Robinson in the capacity of president of that organization. The fourth instance concerns
the point on entertaining the Baker scholars. Last spring the prospective Baker scholars were entertained effectively and more than adequately
by those gentlemen most qualified to do so—our own Baker scholars, and for ODK to usurp their job seems absurd,
besides being impolite. Mr. Robinson’s last glaring faux pas was the simple process of making mountains out of molehills. In
the matter of student parking, the solution is simple: park in the spaces provided between fraternity court and Richardson field.
It won't hurt to walk a few hundred feet further. The whole problem of school spirit, sportsmanship, pep, etc., could
be alleviated amazingly by a few victories in our major intercollegiate sports schedules. In three words — win ball games!
The only good this writer has been able to envision in Mr. Robinson’s program when taken as a whole, is
that by the use of the shock treatment he has cleaned out cobwebs in the minds of many of the
students. More threats to write letters to the Davidsonian have been heard since the publication of the article than ever
before, which is a good sign, for the average student seldom wakes up to the everyday issues which confront him.
In closing his article, Mr. Robinson asked for suggestions, so my advice is to carry out point 12 in his
program, get a few more waste cans for Davidson, and cram the rest of his program as he has rather
muddily envisioned it into the most convenient one. Then take out a new sheet of paper, and with the members
of ODK as an advisory committee and sounding board, plan a well-organized, original, more conservative and more practical program for
an active ODK and a better Davidson before presenting it to the public.

Christmas by GREYHOUND
Asheville ................ $3.45
Augusta .................. 4.20
Greensboro ............. $2.20
Atlanta .................... $6.00
Winston-Salem ........ $1.60
Birmingham ............ $8.50
Richmond ............... $6.35
New Orleans ........... $14.30
Washington ............. $8.20
Jacksonville ............. $8.85
New York ............... $12.70
Miami ..................... $14.95
Bluefield ................. 4.70
Columbia ................. $2.85

WHITE DRUG CO.
C. S. Goodrum, Agent
Davidson, N.C.

For a very merry Christmas visit our floor of holiday-minded fashions.
