TIME EXAMINES YOUR FELLOWS See Page Four The Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS INGLEHART SEES FOOTBALL AS VALUE TWISTER
See Page Two VOLUME XL Davidsonians In Armed Forces

LT. ALBERT W. COOK, Class of '51, now stationed at Ft. Benning, Ga., will be married in Charlotte November 17
to Miss Betty Ann Clontz. A former cheerleader and member of the basketball team, this Decatur, Ga., Phi Delt entered
the service in July.

CAPT. JOHN M. ROSE, JR., Class of '50, and former president of Phi Gamma Delta, is now serving with the
Air Force at Ft. Knox, Ky. His present address is: Capt. John M. Rose, Jr., 156 Fit. Sqdrn., Goodman Air
Force Base, Ft. Knox, Ky.

LT. HUGH (WOODY) LEACH, Class of '51, has recently reported to Ft. Bragg for further work in artillery. Leach, co-captain
of Davidson’s 1950 football team, goes to Bragg following a four-month training course at Ft. Sill, Okla. He spent last
weekend on the campus visiting his brother Dan.

PVT. FRED SPACH, first member of this year's student body to be drafted out of school, is taking basic training
at Camp Gordon, Ga. A member of the Senior Class, Spach entered the Army October 25 and was assigned to
the military police branch at Gordon.

John Ford Film On ULFS Screen

“Long Voyage Home,” the third film of the ULFS series will be shown Friday night at 7:30 in Chambers. Directed
by John Ford and starring Thomas Mitchell, John Wayne, and Barry Fitzgerald, “Long Voyage Home” is an epic story of
men who live by the sea. “The SS Glencairn and its lusty, rum-soaked crew depart from the Caribbean, sailing to
London in a ship loaded with ammunition.”

Sail to Better Land

“It is a voyage toward a land which they all think is better than the sea on which they drift;
but a land, in every case, that receives them cruelly and forbiddingly,” —Bosley Crowther, New York Times. The film, capturing
the overpowering pathos in the lives of these men, is free of all emotional sham and mock heroics. Tickets for
the three remaining films are sixty cents and may be bought before the movie Friday.

Laundry Revenges Self By Lousing Satirist’s Duds

When Don Mahy, cartoonist for the laundry-slamming Scripts 'N’ Pranks, opened his laundry package early this week, a sight worse
than usual greeted his eyes. Two white dress shirts were now a splotchy blue, unpressed, and completely bereft of every
button. As a final insult, X877 was written in pencil all over the shirts. Two sheets, a pillowcase, socks, towels,
T-shirts, and underwear were equally maltreated—dyed a nauseous baby blue and inscribed everywhere with X-877. Muttered Mahy mournfully: “The dyeing
vat is mightier than the pen. My wardrobe cannot withstand continued warfare with the laundry. I surrender.”

Arriving at the laundry, Mahy was greeted with a howl of derisive laughter. The entire staff had joined in the
desecration of his clothing and awaited his baffled protest. At length, a peace was arranged—the laundry will replace buttons, wash
out blue dye, and respect future laundry. Still wearing baby blue T-shirts and underwear, Mahy cheerfully admits the laundry has
a powerful and imaginative sense of humor.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1951

Ten Indians Jackson Honored Minor Roles (By “Y” Directors Are Revealed By NAT DANIEL

In the Red and Black Masquers presentation of “Ten Little Indians,” as in every production, there are those who carry
the brunt of the plot along—the leading characters. There are also the supporting roles, which though perhaps not as significant
to the plot as are the leads, are still indispensable in the structure of a play. The supporting cast of
“Ten Little Indians” consists of Tad Currie, Ethel Beach, Vance Mizelle, Howard Proctor, Alden Williams, Mac Williams, and Bill Phifer.

Currie Again

Familiar to us all as an actor is Tad Currie, who plays the part of Dr. Armstrong, a nerve specialist
who has accidentally let a patient die and as a result has become a neurotic himself. Tad’s name has appeared
in the program of every play since he came to Davidson—in “John Loves Mary,” as property man for “The Man
Who Came to Dinner,” as director of “Command Decision,” and as Mark Anthony in “Julius Caesar.”

Miss Beach, who is Dr. Cunningham's secretary, plays the part of Mrs. Roberts, the butler’s wife, who is mysteriously poisoned
one night on Indian Island. Vance Mizelle, who has appeared in “The Man Who Came to Dinner” and "Julius Caesar,”
portrays Philip Marston, a playboy with a sports car and speed mania who has accidentally killed two children.

Proctor, Ex-Con

Howard Proctor, who played a leading supporting role in “The Man Who Came to Dinner,” is cast as William Blore,
a cockney ex-convict whose record is far from lily-white. T. Alden Williams, in his second appearance on the Davidson stage,
plays a retired army general who supposedly murdered his wife, and who has gone completely off his rocker. Alden was
cast in the role of General Hanes in “Command Decision.”

Negligent Butler

Mack Williamson, a freshman, plays the part of Roberts, the butler, who with his wife, accidentally let a man die
from neglect. This is Mac's first appearance on the Davidson stage, but more may be expected of him in the
future. Bill Phifer portrays a sea captain who brings all the guests over to Indian Island, and remains only (Continued
On Page Four)

Frank Lee Jackson is a true gentleman who has put Davidson College and service to others first in his 38
years here. No story of Davidson or the Southern Presbyterian Church can justly be written without inscribing his name near
the top of the scroll. For services rendered YMCA, Mr. Jackson yesterday was presented an embossed resolution of thanks by
the Y Board of Directors.

Mr. Jackson's first college duties were typical of his entire career. In 1913 he became the first full-time business officer
in a southern college. Since then few have exceeded his reach in any field he has entered. Example: Who's Who
lists him as an accountant, and at that the first C.P.A. in a North Carolina college.

To the Gastonia Native

Jackson became a native North Carolinian of Gastonia in 1882. He graduated from Walton School of Commerce in Chicago, IL,
taught high school in Belmont and immediately after World War I taught accounting for eight years. He was president of
the College Association (both Eastern and Southern).

ODK National Head

Presidency of the National ODK befell him as did various boards of the Church, Court positions, N. C. Synods Council,
Trustee of the Presbyterian Church U. S., and Presbyterian Foundation, Inc. To get an even fuller picture add to this
list Committee of Officers of the General Assembly, Trustee Directors and Mountain Finance Committee, Montreat, N. C. The three and
one-half inches Who's Who devoted to Mr. Jackson (Gov. Kerr Scott and Willis Smith only get two and three-quarter inches)
gave him president of the Davidson Building and Loan Association which has made strides in granting low-cost housing loans to
better living conditions in this area.

Prolific Speaker

For many years many fraternities thought first of “Cash” when searching for an after-dinner speaker at their functions. His genuine
high-caliber humor made him a favorite at young people's gatherings all over the state. As mayor, since his resignation as
college treasurer of the town of Davidson, Mr. Jackson has instituted a flurry of physical improvements. Since his inauguration large
signs have been placed showing highway route numbers leading out of Davidson and sidewalks have been replaced opposite fraternity row.
He is a director and vice-president of the Bank of Davidson, director of Davidson Cotton Mills, vice-president of the National
Committee on Standard Reports for Institutions of Higher Education of the American Council of Education.

Other Honors

A member of the Motion Picture Panel of the American Arbitration Association, he is also a member of Phi Beta
Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade. Jackson has achieved the 32nd degree as a Mason and is affiliated with
the Shrine.

Wake Debating Meet To Season D.C. Teams

Two teams of freshmen debaters will enter a pre-season tournament atWake Forest on November 17. Professor Raymond Tyson, debating coach,
announced yesterday. Work of the Forensic Council is already well underway. Some good material has been uncovered during tryouts, especially
among the freshmen, and an active program of both off-campus and on-campus debating has been set up.

Question Briefer

The Wake Forest tournament should provide invaluable speech experience as well as an introduction to this year’s query, which is
concerned with a permanent system of wage and price controls in the United States. Professor Tyson went on to say
that plans are shaping up for participation in the nationally-recognized Florida tournament in December.

Tryouts Available

“Although it has a nucleus of capable debaters,” Prof. Tyson concluded, “the Forensic Council is still on the lookout for
good material.”

(Continued On Page Four)

J. E. Johnston Passes, Leaves 5% of Estate

Executors of the will of the late Col. J. E. Johnston have informed College officials that five percent of his
net estate, which amounts to approximately $300,000, has been willed to Davidson.

Col. Johnston was an alumnus of Davidson, being graduated with the Class of 1914. While a student here he was
a member of the Eumenean Literary Society and played football for his class team. Johnston took an A.B. Degree upon
graduation. He has made many gifts of major proportions to the institution and served as a member of the board
of trustees for a period. Listing him as a brother in the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, the 1914 volume
of Quips and Cranks is complimentary to his ready sense of humor.

Johnston died last week at his Baltimore home, at which time he was a director of the Safe Deposit and
Trust Company of Baltimore and a member of the board of directors of the Kate Macy Ladd Fund of Newark,
New Jersey. In World War I, Johnston served with the First Division overseas. He held the rank of lieutenant and
was an officer of the Fifth Field Artillery Battalion. Called back to the colors in the Second World War, Johnston
worked with military intelligence with the rank of colonel. For his work in coordinating the handling of British and American
prisoners of war, Johnston was called to the British Embassy in Washington to receive the Order of the British Empire.
He was decorated by his own country with the Legion of Merit medal. He was the first chairman of the
board of directors of the American Management Institute. This organization was established to study the problems of industrial management in
this country and to analyze the quality of American management. Johnston has held the position as assistant trust officer at
the Wachovia Bank and Trust Company.

(Continued On Page Four)

NUS WILLS $300,000 TO DAVIDSON

NUMBER SEVEN WRITES OF NAMESAKE

CHALMERS DAVIDSON

Fourth Book Out By Davidson Prof.

Professor Chalmers G. Davidson has scored again through his latest book, Piedmont Partisan. It is the life of General William
Lee Davidson for whom this college is named. This is not a eulogy to a departed ancestor, but a plain
unvarnished tale of a plain unvarnished era. The book has the distinction of being the first one printed in Davidson.

General William Lee Davidson lived about three miles north of the present town which bears his name in the Centre
Church community. He grew up in this section and became its foremost “partisan leader,” as the militia generals were called.
It is recorded that he was the most beloved man in western North Carolina and his death on the Catawba
River while opposing the crossing of Lord Cornwallis was a serious blow to American morale. General Davidson was only thirty-four
years of age when he was killed. He left four sons and three daughters, all under twelve years of age.
Davidson College was named for General Davidson in 1835, 54 years after his death on the Catawba River. The campus
was originally a part of the plantation of William Lee Davidson II, the largest ante-bellum contributor to the College endowment
with the exception of Maxwell Chambers.

Tribute to Donor

The book is published by Davidson College as a tribute to the memory of B. L. Baxter Davidson, Esq., of
Charlotte, who died a few years ago and left property valued at over one-half million dollars to Davidson. Mr. Baxter
Davidson was an alumnus of Davidson and a constant supporter throughout his long life. The Faculty Room in Chambers building
is also named in his honor and contains his portrait. From time to time, he turned over to Davidson many
valuable books and publications which had been handed down in his family, who were residents of this vicinity since its
first settlement.

Professor Chalmers G. Davidson wrote this book as a Ph.D. Thesis at Harvard in 1942. He explained his main work
since then has been to take the Ph.D. out of it so normal people can read it.

Work of Scholar

When interviewed he was quoted as saying “Piedmont Partisan is the work of sound scholarship; a credit to the institution
but a disappointment to my friends.” Dr. Davidson has written several other successful books which include Major of Rural Hill
(1943), Cloud Over Catawba (1949), and Friend of the People (1950).

Ballard Top Rep From Army Area

Lt. Col. James L. Ballard Jr., PMS&T of the Davidson ROTC Department, this week has been attending the annual Infantry
ROTC Conference at Ft. Benning, Ga. Col. Ballard, accompanied by Major John Swaringer of Clemson College, is top representative from
the Third Army area infantry ROTC units to the Conference. As such he has this week been expressing the criticisms
and suggestions of PMS&T's throughout this area. The conference is a clearing house for views on ROTC instruction, and is
intended to give the ROTC staffs the very latest in instructional equipment and methods. Col. Ballard has been at the
meet since Monday and will return to the campus tomorrow.

Court Orders Frosh Parade

Freshmen who thought it imperative to leave the campus last weekend are finding it much more important that they be
absent tomorrow. Approximately 100 members of the Class of '55 tendered excuse for exodus last weekend to break the Court
of Control imposed campus. Consequently, the frosh will be quite conspicuous in their presence in Charlotte tomorrow. Judge Johnny Guiton
yesterday instructed the campus-jumpers that they will follow the band through the Queen City tomorrow en route to Memorial Stadium
for the N. C. State-Davidson game. Each is to be equipped with sign, banner, poster, or similar expression of enthusiasm.
The campus was placed on the Freshman Class by the Court last Wednesday week as a gross arrogance on their
part was climaxed by the painting of “55” on the water tower.

List Hot Topics For ‘Y’ Forums

Six controversial and provocative subjects have been released as topics for this semester’s Y-sponsored after-vesper discussions. News of a big
forum dealing with Christianity and politics and featuring at least two federal legislators was reported by Hubert Cannon, Y chairman
of forums this year. Sunday night Dr. Workman will serve as chairman of a discussion on the right and wrong
of petting among youth. The session will get underway at 8:30 in the YMCA Lounge. Greek Week, second semester rushing
and an improved Pan-Hellenic Council were anticipated as probable queries at an open discussion of Davidson fraternities at Professor Bauman’s
residence, November 18. Davidson is thought to be the only school in America to have compulsory YMCA membership in that
a sum is taken out of every student's tuition fee to be allocated to Y use and thus enrolling the
student in its ranks. This will be the subject of a group meeting at Professor Abernethy’s home on November 25.
After his trip to the Middle East, Professor Eberhardt has been quoted as saying the only form of government which
will work in that sector of the world is an absolutist form either of an autocracy or a benevolent rule.
This and other observations on that “hot corner” will be made at Eberhardt’s house, Sunday evening, December 2. After what
has shown itself to be an indicative grid season, Dr. Puckett and Coach Crowell Little will hold open house December
9 to student opinions as to what is the best course for Davidson to plot in coming years. Chaplain Wilson
will lead a group in the discussion of Labor and Capitalism December 16. It was hoped by Cannon that Dr.
C. K. Brown would add a hand by defending socialism in a three-way controversy, but Brown's decision was not available
at press time.

Gobblers Nip Cats In Gun Meet Here

The Davidson rifle team held their first shoulder to shoulder rifle match last Saturday against the Virginia Tech Gobblers. Davidson
scored 1295 points to VPI's 1380. Lewis Baker was the high scorer for the Davidson team with a total of
271 points.
