PAGE FOUR

ERNIE PYLE'S LIFE, COSTAIN NOVEL, TIBETAN MOUNTAIN TRIP IN LIBRARY

The library has just received seven popular new books. One book which would be of interest to fans of the
late Ernie Pyle is a biography by Lee G. Miller entitled “The Story of Ernie Pyle.” This book contains a
good deal of Pyle’s private correspondence to his friends, bosses, and especially to his wife.

“The New York Confidential” by Jack Lait and Lee Mortimer will be of interest to anyone who ever plans to
go to New York. This book gives the lowdown on the big town as gathered by two newspapermen. The authors
preach no moral; they simply point out how to get into or stay out of trouble. The appendix contains a
list of choice restaurants, nightclubs, and amusement spots. Could be a very useful book when in New York.

Two novels, “Son of a Hundred Kings” by Thomas B. Costain and “Joy Street” by Frances P. Keyes, are among
the new books just received. The first novel is a story of a young boy and a Canadian town during
the “gay nineties.” The second book is the story of a young couple who live on Boston’s famous Beacon Hill.

“Little Britches” by Ralph Moody is one of the most enjoyable books of the century. Mr. Moody describes his boyhood
on a Colorado ranch. This book has received the highest praise by such magazines and newspapers as “Reader’s Digest,” “Chicago
Tribune,” “Boston Herald,” and “Los Angeles Times.”

Another of Cornelia Otis Skinner’s books, “Nuts in May,” is among the recently received seven. This is a very instructive
and useful book although it is not very serious. “Nuts in May” contains a personal private interview with Dr. Kinsey.
Miss Skinner leads her readers into various predicaments which are very amusing. After reading this book one should be a
wiser and better person.

“Out of This World, Across the Himalayas to Forbidden Tibet” by Lowell Thomas, Jr. contains adventure of the highest type.
In this book, Lowell Thomas, Jr. describes the dangerous journey he and his father made from India over the towering
Himalayas into the forbidden land of Tibet. The reader will enjoy this book not only because it is a story
of daring adventure but because it gives one an insight into important political events in the making.

Quirks and Comments

The Daily Texan reports overhearing a co-ed remark to a passing couple, “It’s a shame, I understand they HAD to
get pinned.”

According to the Hastings Collegian, a student at that college decided to see if professors actually read all the term
papers required in a course. He inserted a paragraph in his term paper stating he didn’t believe teachers read what
pupils write, and asking the professor to underline that paragraph if he read it. The paper was returned—unmarked.

Akron Buchtelite, University of Akron, reports a new way for modern educators to knock down formal barriers between profs and
students. Fashion experts, says the paper, suggest the faculty dress more casually. For instance, a prof who has an eight
o'clock class should show up once in a while attired in a smoking jacket or a bathrobe.

From the Ursinus Weekly, Collegeville, Pa—
“Prognostication Shows Alteration of Future Strife in College Life.”

From the Hoya, Georgetown University—
“Should the day-hops who find it necessary to remain on the Hilltop after dark for evening meetings of student activities
be allowed to eat with the boarders?”
Ed. Note: Sure. Those day-hops should be famished after that long climb in the dark.

From the Idaho Bengal, Pocatello, Idaho—
“Shakespeare will make a triumphant entrance into ISC dramatics Tuesday ... when the combined efforts of Alpha Psi Omega and
the ISC Players’ Club will bring the ‘Comedy of Errors’ to Frazier stage.”

Or an anatomy instructor could wear a tie with a digestive tract painted on it.
Ed. Note: This Shakespeare guy is nothing but a grandstander.

Center Theatre Mooresville
WEEK STARTING FEBRUARY 15

Starlite DRIVE-IN THEATRE
Salisbury-Landis Highway
WEEK STARTING: THURSDAY, FEB. 8

Friday and Saturday
‘CORREGIDOR’
Otto Kruger
Eliza Landi
Ronald Woods

Friday and Saturday
BILL ELLIOTT and ‘PIONEER MARSHALL’
Monte Hale
SERIAL . CARTOON

Sunday
‘SMART GIRLS DON'T TALK’
Virginia Mayo
Bruce Bennett
CARTOON — ‘A Monogram Picture
SERIAL . CARTOON

Owl Show Saturday Nite and Monday and Tuesday
‘ASPHALT JUNGLE’
Sterling Hayden
Louis Calhern
Jean Hagen
CARTOON . NEWS

Monday and Tuesday
‘LADY FOR A NIGHT’
Joan Blondell
John Wayne
CARTOON

Stonestreet's Cafe
GRADE ‘A’ CAFE
Fine Foods
Mooresville, N.C.
418 South Main Street

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT
BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST.
PHONE 2-2288
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

University and college enrollment for the spring semester has declined, but many schools reported today that the draft so far
has had less effect than anticipated. College registrars queried by United Press said some decline in February enrollment is normal.
Most schools reported this year's decline greater than normal, and attributed it mainly to the draft and to military enlistments
by students who wanted to join the service of their preference instead of being drafted without a choice. Another factor
was the graduation of World War II veterans.

Some of the decline was attributed to the greater availability of jobs as a result of the defense program. Most
schools reported no increase in tuition fees or reduction in faculties or curriculums. Some schools, however, planned tuition increases next
fall. A spot check showed the following trends:

Duke—Officials said there was “no effect at all so far,” and that “the announced policy of letting studentsStay to the
end of the year and still choose their branch of military service has ‘calmed fears.” Vanderbilt — No noticeable draft
effects were reported, although enrollment for the winter term was 2,974 compared with 3,229 for the same period last year.
A few instructors had left for military service. From the Eastern State News, Eastern Illinois State College— “One of the
tragedies in this age of unreason is the plight of the 4-F, the man who because of some physical defect
finds it impossible to become a member of one of the armed forces.”

BASKETBALLERS MEET (Continued From Page Three)
In the shank of the season, Coach Baird is confident of his boys and they are looking forward to a
winning weekend in Virginia. The boys are ready for some wins, too.

Duke Frats Plan April Greek Week
All new and old Duke fraternity men will celebrate a gala Greek Week, complete with banquets and dances this spring,
April 4-7. C. P. Deal, chairman of the Greek Week Committee, announced a program of activities in which all fraternities
will participate, and also suggested activities that fraternities can engage in individually. Individual activities were recommended. Deal said, “in order
to allow each fraternity to fulfill its own objectives during Greek Week, and in which only certain activities are stressed.”

Religious Pledges
All fraternity men and pledges are invited to attend a chapel service Wednesday, April 4. On Thursday there will be
a banquet in the Union for pledges, pledgemasters, and presidents of fraternities. A special feature of the program this year
will be a “Community Day” in which pledges will work on a playground for the children at Edgemont Youth Center.
Tools for the pledges will be supplied by the businessmen of Durham. Saturday, the last day of Greek Week, pledges
will vie against each other in Field Day competition. That night all fraternity men are invited to the Greek Week
Dance in the West Campus Gym.

VISIT THE DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT “A GOOD PLACE TO EAT” 142 E. Morehead — Charlotte

AS IT MIGHT BE SEEN IN LIFE
TULANE MILDNESS TEST, THE
OPEN A PACK of them with the 1991, Lancers & Aévis Tobacco Co. CHESTERFIELDS leave NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE. CHESTERFIELDS are
milder, and they make Chesterfields brand "Ideas Being Urged Compare you’ve been smoking. —they THE DAVIDSONIAN

Spring Enrollments Decline
Draft Causes Little Effect
Revision in Student

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Shows Start at 3 P.M.
Monday-Tuesday, Feb. 19-20
“KIM” Dean Stockwell, Errol Flynn
NEWS
Wednesday, Feb. 21
“CAGED” Eleanor Parker, Agnes Moreland
Tom and Jerry Cartoon
Thursday, Feb. 22
“HOT ROD” James Lydon, Art Baker
Musical Western - Stooges Cartoon
Friday, Feb. 23
“THE WEST POINT STORY” James Cagney, Virginia Mayo
CARTOON

By Natl. Executive
Young Americans will have to take a longer look at their career plans these days, according to Carl A. Sauer,
assistant to the president of the American Institute for Foreign Trade. “We Americans will have to come to a personal
philosophy and adjustment to possible eventualities without losing sight of our individual careers and life-plans,” he said in a memorandum
issued recently to students. This can be done, he added, pointing out that Europeans for generations have been doing it,
with the result that in spite of major debilitating wars, Europe is still the “prime factor which must be reckoned
with in any consideration of the world’s moral, cultural, and economic problems.” Sauer said that the students’ “best (if not
only) attitude is a realistic but not fatalistic one: to pursue his career objective with calm and be ready to
accommodate in his plans a period of service when, where, and if he is needed. This is not ‘business as
usual’; it is a long-term assurance for the continuous development of the nation’s intellectual, professional, commercial, industrial, and military manpower
resources.” Sauer told students that “out of the welter of discussion and confusion, a national manpower policy is slowly being
forged. Only the broad outlines are discernible now, but the final plan will no doubt include some of the following
elements: apportionment of young men to the Services, industrial production and the professions—or ‘leadership of brains’; postponement of military service
in order to keep our institutions of higher learning feeding manpower into the professions.” Continued schooling, Sauer said, would give
a young man that much more “educational capital in his personal career account.” The individual student is best advised when
he decides to get all the education he can possibly get, now, particularly the kind of career-preparation we offer at
AIFT.”

Phones 4-2090 — 5-988c

“EASIEST TEST IN THE BOOK
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1951

State Theatre Mooresville
WEEK STARTING FEBRUARY 15
Saturday
“LIGHTNING GUNS” Charles Starrett, Smiley Burnette
also
“SENSATIONS” Dennis O’Keefe, Eleanor Powell
CARTOON — SERIAL
Owl Show Saturday Night and Monday
“WATCH THE BIRDIE” Red Skelton, Arlene Dahl, Ann Miller
CARTOON
Tuesday - Wednesday
“TO PLEASE A LADY” Clark Gable, Barbara Stanwyck
NEWS — SHORTS

Send The Davidsonian home to your parents each week. They will enjoy reading it!

A GOOD PLACE TO MEET — A BETTER PLACE TO EAT
PICCADILLY GRILL
C. M. KONTOS
1416 East Morehead Street
Charlotte, N.C.

TOBACCO GROWERS TEST YOU CAN MAKE YOURSELF
SMELL CHESTERFIELD'S milder aroma. Prove—tobaccos that smell milder, smoke milder.

PHOTOGRAPHS TAKEN ON CAMPUS
