PAGE FOUR

N. C.-State Students Put On Trial For Scalping Student Game Tickets

Last week the Campus Government of N. C. State College scheduled a trial for three students accused of scalping tickets
at the State-Duke basketball game and postponed action in the case of three other students charged with allowing non-students to
use their athletic books. Seven Council members and two faculty members were appointed to a jury to try the scalping
offenders whose names were turned over to college authorities after City, County, and State plainclothesmen allegedly caught them in the
act of selling tickets above Athletic Department prices. Names of defendants in both cases will be permanently withheld for their
protection.

Action in the cases of the owners of the three athletic books was postponed until the Investigations Committee determines the
exact nature of the alleged violation. It was not clear whether the students were charged with selling their athletic books
or whether they only allowed the non-students to use them free of charge. The Prosecuting Attorney and two Jurors went
on record as disqualifying themselves for jury duty if they were scheduled to try the athletic book cases. The Prosecuting
Attorney declared that he would be forced to withdraw because “I always take my girl to basketball games on student
books.” One Juror said that he could not consciously convict a student for transferring his athletic book because he thought
the “students have been given a raw deal on seating.” The second Juror stated he would withdraw only if the
trial involved the use of a student’s book by another student. He did not think it would be fair to
punish three students without punishing “all 4,000 violators (the entire student body).”

The trial of the scalping defendants, which will be secret, is set for Wednesday, February 21. The Court will return
the verdict to the Campus Government Council with a recommended penalty. The Council cannot change the verdict, but in the
event a defendant is found guilty, it may alter his sentence. President McCracken reports that this is the first time
a scalping case has been presented to CG. James R. Stone of Bailey was arrested at the same time the
three students were turned over to college authorities. He was fined ten dollars and costs in City Court Monday when
he pleaded guilty to “selling tickets above their marked price.” Roy Clogston, Athletic Department head, said that Stone had 16
tickets on his body when he was arrested Saturday night.

Chesterfield SPORTS QUIZ

1. A golfer who almost quit the game two weeks ago for lack of funds this past week won the
Houston Open. What's his name?
2. Tommy Byrne, dickering with the Yankees over his 1951 pay, formerly schooled at what Southern Conference institution?
3. Who are the newcomers to Davidson's grid card for ’51?

Turn in answers on Chesterfield wrappers to Dave Moylan, C-East.

Two girls met for lunch and were discussing their marriage prospects. “I hear your boyfriend graduates from law school next
month. I guess you'll get married then?” “Oh, no, not right away,” answered the other, “I want him to practice
about a year first.”

DAVIDSON THEATRE - Shows Start at 8 P.M.

MON. & TUES., MARCH 5-6
‘OPERATION PACIFIC’ - John Wayne, Patricia Neal

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 7
‘VENGEANCE VALLEY’ - Burt Lancaster, Robert Walker

THURSDAY, MARCH 8
‘CHAIN GANG’ - Douglas Kennedy, Marjorie Lord

FRIDAY, MARCH 9
‘THE ENFORCER’ - Humphrey Bogart, Jeff Corey

SATURDAY, MARCH 10
‘BELL LE GRANDE’ - Vera Ralston, John Carroll

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT
BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST
PHONE 2-2236
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Where you meet your friends
Charlotte's Finest Restaurant
SHIP AHOY
418 South Main Street
231 South Tryon Street

Stonestreet’s Cafe
GRADE ‘A’ CAFE
Fine Foods
Private Dining Rooms for Parties and Banquets
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
Phone 25490
Mooresville, N. C.

The Davidson College Concert Band, conducted by James Christian Pfohl, will present its first concert of the current semester on
Wednesday evening, March 8 in Chambers Auditorium. The band will play the program which it will use on its annual
tour later in the Spring. This program includes, among other selections, the gay, provocative “Carnival Suite,” which interprets musically the
gala spirit of Mardi Gras, one movement from the “Suite Francaise” by the modern French composer, Darius Milhaud; and the
“Commedian’s Gallop” by Kabalevsky, a number which proved very popular with audiences here last year. The concert will begin at
8:15 p.m. Students and friends are cordially invited to an evening of what Mr. Pfohl promises will be varied and
most entertaining band music.

NOTICES

See or drop a card to Irving Stubbs if you are interested in attending any of the following After Vesper
Discussion groups:
March 4 — Dr. C. K. Brown, “Study of the Liberal Arts Curriculum.”
March 11 — Dr. G. Abernethy: “The Objectives of an Education.”
March 18 — Dr. Puckett, “Faculty - Student Relations.”

Pan-Hell president Bill Klein reports that the dances were a substantial financial success and that the excess will be used
to bring a bigger name band whose fee would be higher here for Spring Frolics April 27th and 28th.

Send The Davidsonian To The Folks at Home!

RENT A CAR AT THE U-Drive It Charlotte 4th St.

DALE CARNEGIE.... (Continued From Page One)

Co-Captains Elected
Bill Ray, captain of the swimmingteam, interrupted the procedure to present Coach Redding through the year. Ken Taylor and Francis
Pepper were unanimously named to captain next year's Catfish. Both men will see their last year of service next year
swimming one-hundred and four-hundred-forty yard distances respectively.

TENNIS TEAM
(Continued From Page Three)
March 27: Georgia Tech—there.
March 28: P. C.—there.
March 30: Kalamazoo—here.
April 3: William & Mary—here.
April 4: Harvard—here.
April 5: Harvard—here.
April 14: Duke—here.
April 18: P. C.—here.
April 20: State—there.
April 21: U.N.C.—there.
April 27: Georgia—here.
April 30: Yale—there.
May 1: Lehigh—there.
May 2: Temple—there.
May 3: Virginia—there.
May 5: Country Club of Va—there.
May 26: Florida Southern—here.

SWIMMERS GRAB
(Continued From Page Three)
Last Tuesday night, the team unanimously elected Ken Taylor and Francis Pepper as co-captains for next season's team. At the
same meeting, the team presented Coach Redding with a sport coat, slacks, and a matching tie.

Patronize Our Advertisers!
VISIT THE DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
142 E. Morehead — Charlotte

F. L. SMITH
(Continued From Page One)
The plant facilities and endowment were doubled; the teaching force was greatly increased; the entrance requirements were standardized; and Davidson
became one of the leading denominational schools in the South. From 1912 until 1930 Dr. Smith was president of Washington
and Lee. During this period a gym, museum, chemistry building, and several other buildings were constructed. Dr. Smith at one
time was president of the North Carolina Teachers’ Assembly and president of the Association of Virginia Colleges. He wrote five
books and made extensive lecture trips.

Acclaimed as one of the great heroes of World War I by President Woodrow Wilson, Dr. Smith devised a method
whereby the Allies could flood Germany with pamphlets that were destined to undermine the morale of the German people, cause
riots, and “shorten the war by months.” By the use of regulated gas balloons, 27,000,000 leaflets were carried into the
Reich. In 1921 he headed an official mission to England to present a bronze replica of Houdon’s statue of George
Washington to the people of Great Britain. The group was received by the King, Queen, Prince, and various other dignitaries.

Dr. Smith was a distinguished member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Academy of Political
and Social Science, Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, Kappa Phi Kappa, the Rotary Club, and the Executive Club. He
was an Elder of the First Presbyterian Church in Greensboro.

Dr. Smith married Julia Lorraine Dupuy, daughter of a local physician in Davidson, on August 5, 1896. He is survived
by Mrs. Smith and six of their seven children: Miss Helen Smith, a Greensboro businesswoman; Raymond D. Smith, personnel director
of the Vick Chemical Company; Miss Julia Smith, a resident of Ann Arbor, Michigan; Mrs. Louise Smith Merritt, a Greensboro
resident; Dr. O. Norris Smith, a Greensboro physician; and Frank S. Smith, a Greensboro businessman.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
MAKERS OF Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N.C.

FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 1951

Local Frosh Receives Interesting Letter
Brown Dennis of the Freshman Class has a very interesting French friend who is a student at a French university.
Brown met John Aulaurai while he was a student in Lanier High School, Macon, Georgia. John is now studying law,
a prerequisite for the French diplomatic service, which is his chosen profession.

BLYTHE
(Continued From Page One)
and was baseball coach at a prep school in South Carolina for two years. It has been said that Blythe
has attended more athletic events than any one man in the vicinity, and one can scarcely attend any sort of
athletic event without seeing him rooting for the home team. When asked his plans for the future, Blythe said that
he desires very much to buy a few acres of land near Davidson, build a house there, and settle down
to peace and comfort. He plans to spend the majority of his time hunting, golfing, and perhaps trying his hand
at some fishing. He breathed a sigh of relief as he said; “I won't have to grade papers every night.”

As to his feelings about leaving Davidson, Blythe says: “I am looking forward to the chance to rest, although I
hate to leave my friends. I will never lose my love for Davidson College.” To Professor Blythe goes our sincere
appreciation for a job well done. He has set a real example both in his classroom and in his personal
life which all men, faculty and students alike, will do well to pattern.

In his recent letter, besides conveying messages of personal interest, John describes the French reaction to the visit of General
Eisenhower. The Communists have lost much of their influence. The French, according to John, are further from the rule of
Moscow than ever. He expresses the regret that Americans must sacrifice men in Korea, but reminds us that the French
have been called upon to do the same in Indo-China.

Patronize Our Advertisers!

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
MAKERS OF Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N.C.

GRADE "A" MILK
PASTEURIZED
Daily Deliveries
PHONE 206
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

A GOOD PLACE TO MEET — A BETTER PLACE TO EAT
PICCADILLY GRILL
C. M. KONTOS
1416 East Morehead Street
Phones 4-2090 — 5-9336
Charlotte, N.C.

ALWAYS Buy All THE STRAIGHT FACTS ON CIGARETTES For You

PROOF of MILDNESS
“When I apply the standard tobacco growers’ test to cigarettes I find Chesterfield is the one that smells milder and
smokes milder.”
Statement by hundreds of Prominent Tobacco Growers

PROOF of NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE
“Chesterfield is the only cigarette in which members of our taste panel found no unpleasant after-taste.”
From the report of a well-known industrial Research Organization

IN AMERICA’S COLLEGES
