WILLIAMS HITS ROTC "BUSTLES" Page Two ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS The Davidsonian VOLUME XL Davidsonians In Armed Forces (Students
or faculty members having news or change of address of a Davidsonian in the service should turn the information in
on card or paper placed either in the dorm announcement boxes or the Davidsonian box in the faculty mail room.)

PVT. G. P. SCOTT, RA. 14429277, Class of '51 and last year's editor of The Davidsonian, is winding up his
fourteenth week of basic training as a part of Service Battery, 28th Field Artillery Battalion, at Ft. Jackson, S. C.
Scott hopes to go from Jackson to Counter Intelligence Corps school in Baltimore.

A new address is in for PFC. J. SCOTT McFAYDEN, AF 14408518, Kappa Sig of the Class of '51, is
now a member of the 3466 School Squadron at Central State College in Edmond, Oklahoma. Bearing out rumors that he’s
getting his basic in the Hawaiian Islands is PVT. WILLIAM W. BOWER, US 53102802 overseas postal address. Letters going to
this ex-Cat gridder and would-have-been Class of '52 should carry the tag plus: 33rd Co, 30th HN. H. I. T.
C. (Could be Hawaiian Is. Training Command) APO 957, care P. M., San Francisco, Cal.

AIR CADET WILLIAM K. CHILD, JR., AD 14-418-892, writes from Hondo Air Base that the Air Cadets’ business after basic
is passed is all it's cracked up to be. This ex-standout for Derrick Barton's netters is in Class 52-G, Hondo
Air Base, Hondo, Texas.

Dr. Touted Balladeer, Susan Reed Sings Tonight At 8:30

Miss Susan Reed, the South Carolina native who put the zither into the masses’ music vocabulary, will appear in concert
tonight at 8:30 in Chambers Auditorium, the second standout in the Music Department’s Artist Series Concert. In her first appearance
at Davidson, Miss Reed deviates from her usual program format in that she will be accompanied by three musicians from
Davidson. As a rule, she sings her ballads accompanied only by herself on the zither, harp, or a little lute-like
instrument which she calls the “ever-lovin’.” Tonight, however, Mrs. Harold Frantz on the violin, Mrs. Kenneth Moore on the cello,
and Mr. Kenneth Moore on the clarinet will accompany her selections. Miss Reed first played with her accompanists at Transyl-
(Continued On Page Four)

Luck Dodges Doug But Stamina Wins

DOUG RICE . . . hero, athlete, stud manager By MAYNARD BELLAMY, JR.

He has had more than his share of hard luck, yet fortitude, stamina, and just plain guts have pulled him
through. In the Air Force he was shot down over Berlin and went through untold suffering including the Death March
in Germany when 8000 prisoners were marched up and down the country. The Germans were about through but they tried
to keep their prisoners from being liberated as long as possible.

Football Injuries

While at Davidson he was active in campus life and on the football field he was a hard-luck guy who
wouldn't say quit even though he was plagued by serious injuries. Doug Rice is originally from Bennettsville, South Carolina. After
completing high school he served thirty-four months in the Army Air Force as a belly gunner on B-17's.

Nine Captured

Two months after the invasion of France his plane was shot down over Berlin and its nine crew members were
captured. First, the Germans took them to a lot of big cities and showed them the damage the Yank bombers
had done. Doug said that they had really messed up the place. Then thirty-six prisoners, including Doug, were sent to
the border of France to start a new prison there. When the Americans drove across France two weeks later, they
were literally stuffed into boxcars, fifty-three to a car. (Continued On Page Four)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1951

Vocation Talks, Film On Agenda

Dr. John Oliver Nelson of Yale Divinity School will open Fall Services Sunday night at Vespers, keynoting the theme of
“Christian Vocations” or “Your Work and your Religion” for the November 4-7 series. A graduate of Princeton, Chicago and Yale
universities, Dr. Nelson was named head of the Department of Student Relations, Presbyterian Church, U.S.A, after a five-year pastorate. He
organized and led the commission on Ministry for the Federal Council of Churches, and in the fall of 1950 he
began his career as Field Work Director and Christian at Yale Divinity School. Dr. Nelson will speak Sunday and Monday,
at 7:30 p.m. and Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday morning in chapel. In all of these services his aim and that
of the YMCA will be to assist the students in making their choice of professions in the light of their
Christian lives and faith. On Sunday night an excellent film, “Crossroads,” will be shown immediately following Vespers. It is about
a typical farm boy who makes his decision for a Christian vocation. Dr. Nelson will meet the faculty at the
coffee hour on Tuesday afternoon, and he will be available for individual conferences throughout his stay on the Davidson Campus.
Any man wishing to make an appointment may do so by stopping in at the YMCA Guest House. On Tuesday
night, November 6, Dr. Nelson will not speak formally, but there will be discussion groups in eight open-house fraternity houses,
concerning eight different fields of work. There will be two similar one-hour discussions, from 7:30 until 8:30, and from 8:30
until 9:30 with outstanding men from various fields as leaders of these groups. These men will present their views on
the different phases of their work, opportunities, hardships, and, most important, the Christian attitude to the different problems that arise
in their professions. Mr. Phil Howerton, affiliated

Bailey Outlines Faculty Policy On Student Hops

What are the off-campus dance rules at Davidson? The faculty has the trustees’ permission at the present to rule on
off-campus dances held by fraternities and other student groups. It is their policy to ask student leaders to hold all
dances here after receiving many petitions from parents, alumni and students to limit off-campus functions held in a different environment
from that of the college. It was also complained that excessive and dangerous driving was involved in attending off-campus dances.

None Here Until 1941

Overall social rules are made by the trustees and it was not until 1941 that the on-campus ban was lifted
under the request of the faculty who saw no reason for the dances to be held legally in Charlotte, but
not here. When the rule was changed the trustees stated that dances could be held here at the discretion of
the faculty and with their chaperonage.

Only One Request

Since the construction of the Johnston Gym, only one request has been made to hold an off- (Continued On Page
Four)

Vocation Professor Leads Services

President Truman is not going to appoint General Clark without the approval of Congress, for now the issue is placed
where it belongs - in the hands of the American people.

DR. J. O. NELSON with the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company, will come from Charlotte to discuss Insurance at the
SAE house. Discussing Medicine at the Pika house will be Dr. Parker Reamer, Head of Admissions at the Wake Forest
School of Medicine in Winston-Salem. Law as a profession will be analyzed at the KA house by Mr. Charles Holloman
of Raleigh, a member of the Davidson faculty last year. Dr. Cecil Thompson, from Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur, Georgia,
will come to the Sigma Chi house to speak on the Ministry. Mr. Hall N. C., will describe the Textile
profession at the Beta Theta Pi house, and Mr. John Otts, from nearby Charlotte, will deliberate Robert of Belmont, Phi
Delt house. Mr. William Neal from Wachovia Bank and Trust Company in Winston-Salem will talk about the Banking field at
the Pi Kappa Phi house, and Mr. Roy Palmer of Duke Power Co. in Charlotte, will be the speaker for
those interested in Salesmanship at the SPE house. Eight student discussion leaders have been named by special services head Tom
Stockton to preside over the Tuesday night sessions. They include Ernest Barry for insurance, Jim McFarland in medicine, Robin Hinson
in law, Buddy McNeil for the ministry, Mac Bulgin in textiles, Gene Craven in teaching, Buddy Lamon in banking, and
Sandy Morton for salesmanship. High School Teaching to a group at the Nelson Opens Fr YMCA Fall Services: Protestants Ease
Pressure, Clark Retained In U.S.

Indignant Protestants were somewhat appeased this week by the announcement that General Mark Clark would not receive a recess appointment
as ambassador to the Vatican. Chaplain Allan Gripe, a key figure in a local discussion of the move, asserted, “I
am gratified that President Truman is not going to appoint General Clark without the approval of Congress. Now the issue
is placed where it belongs - in the hands of the American people. Now all American people, Catholic and Protestant
and others, will have a chance to express themselves in the matter. Citizens must take action to see that American
tradition is not betrayed by any short-ranged political maneuvering by our elected officials.” President Truman decided not to make Clark
a temporary ambassador mainly because the four-star general wishes to retain his military status. To let an ambassador retain militaryRank
Would Require a Special Act of Congress, Clark Is Glad

General Clark, himself, stated that he was glad that President Truman had made this decision.

(Continued On Page Four)

30 Area Scholars Slate Meeting Tonight At YMCA

More than 30 delegates from the Southeastern area of Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholastic fraternity, are expected to attend
a two-day meeting of the organization at Davidson this weekend. Meeting at Davidson upon a special invitation by President John
R. Cunningham, the delegates will represent 19 institutions from the Southeastern area. Professor R. E. Loving of the University of
Richmond, the district chairman, will preside. They will arrive in time for a complimentary dinner. President J. R. Cunningham will
welcome the delegates tonight, and after a short meeting to decide the agenda, they will attend the Susan Reed concert.
Saturday morning the meetings will continue until 11:30 p.m.

TAKE INDIAN LEADS BEARD INTERVIEWS

Pictured above are the two members of the administration and two students who will share leading roles in “Ten Little
Indians.” They are, top row, Gordon Hurst and Mrs. F. W. Holly; bottom row, Bill Pharr and Miss Betty Bradley.

Leads Announced For Coming Play

By NAT DANIEL

When the curtain goes up on the Red and Black Masquers’ production of “Ten Little Indians” on November 16th, many
of the characters of the play will be acted by old hands in Davidson dramatics, but, as in every production,
there will be a few new faces.

Coming to Davidson from Bristol, Virginia, as secretary to Mr. Marti, is Miss Betty Bradley, who plays the part of
Vera Claythorne, a friendly and cooperative secretary who has allegedly permitted her boss's son to drown while he was swimming.

Visiting Indian Island

She, as are the other characters, is visiting a home on Indian Island for an enjoyable weekend as house guests
of the owner. And so, from a nonentity backstage in her high school senior play to a bright spot in
the Masquers' footlights, comes Miss Bradley, who adds the feminine and romantic touch to the play with all the enthusiasm
and convincingness of an experienced actress, and much is expected of her in the future.

Another newcomer, making his Davidson stage debut in “Ten Little Indians,” is Gordon Hurst, a freshman from Durham, N.C.

Led Drama Club

A leader in dramatics at Durham High School, Gordon was active in productions during the four years of his career
there, and during his senior year was president of Durham High's dramatic club. He also assisted the Durham Little Theatre
in various phases of production. Gordon plays the part of Philip Lombard, an ex-army officer who, in a daring feat
of personal bravery, left his men to die heroically of starvation, while he escaped to tell the story.

Sir Lawrence

Supporting these newcomers in their roles will be such stalwarts of the Masquers’ ranks as Bill Pharr, a McAdenville, N.C.,
senior, as Sir Lawrence Wargrave, who comes to the island as a guest to relax from his pressing duties as
an English court judge. Pharr has appeared many times before on the Davidson stage, his most notable performance heretofore being
that of General Dennis in “Command Decision.” Last, but far from least, is Miss Mae Holly, who plays Emily Brent,
an ancient and eccentric religious fanatic, who holds a questionable...

(Continued On Page Four)

REED

Page Four

NUMBER SIX

Debaters See Promising Year, Speech Fraternity

Investigation of the possibility of bringing an honorary speech fraternity to the campus is among the Forensic Council's plans for
what promises to be their best season of debating in many years. Professor R. W. Tyson, speech coach, also announced
that plans for debate tournaments have already been made, adding that the team has been greatly strengthened with the support
of some excellent speakers from the freshman class.

Frosh Try Out

These freshmen held their tryouts for the debating team this past Monday night. The men that presented their speeches were
J. Roy Davis, Dick Gregory, John Snyder, Al Ormand, Malcolm Williamson, Howard Wall, Fred Allen, Dunbar Ogden, Clark Reed, and
Phil Lewis. The national subject for debate is “Resolved, That the Federal Government Should Adopt a Permanent Program of Wage
and Price Control.” While this will be the subject of the majority of the debates for this year, many other
topics will be debated.

Upperclassmen interested in debating are asked to present their tryout speeches this coming Tuesday in En Hall at 7:15. These
five-minute speeches may be on any...

Cercle Francais Elects 12 Men To Membership

At its first meeting of the year, the Cercle Francais took twelve new members into its organization. These new members
include F. C. Alexander, C. K. Brown, R. S. Crutchfield, H. A. Davis, T. A. Haywood, N. M. Johnson, H.
V. Lamon, C. R. Oliver, Holmes Rolston, D. M. Smith, T. A. Williams, and I. J. V. Lindmarker. The meeting
was held at the home of Dr. G. P. Watts. The new members were in charge of the program in
which short sketches of French literary works were presented. After the singing of some French songs, refreshments were served by
Mrs. Watts and Mrs. Goldiere. Then followed a period of recreation, all in French. Club officers this year are Jack
Hunter, president; Mac Bulgin, vice-president; Hubert Cannon, secretary, and Dr. A. V. Goldiere, treasurer. Le Cercle Francais or “French Circle”
is a national honorary organization whose purpose is to promote interest in, and an ability to use with correctness and
facility, the French language. It has as a second goal the increasing of interest in France herself.

Cartoon, Writer Contest Slated

On the heels of their Monday announcement of the annual Freshman Writing Contest, Scripts 'N Pranks editor Jim Fickeisen revealed
this morning plans for a cartoon contest—open to all students—with a deadline of November 13. Fickeisen stressed the fact that
the cartoon contest, first of its kind for the humor magazine, was not confined to the freshman class but was
open to upperclassmen as well.

“It was sort of a spur of the moment decision,” Fick confided, “but there are virtually two weeks before the
deadline. The prize of $5.00 won't keep anyone in India ink for life, but we'll undoubtedly get a good cross-section
of this student body's humor wit put forth in some pretty good cartoons.”

The Scripts 'N Pranks suggests that drawings be done on paper approximately six by eight inches in size. Efforts should
be turned into Fickeisen in 133 Duke, the editorial staff serving as judges.

As announced in the fall edition of the magazine which appeared earlier this week, the Freshman Writing Contest is officially
open now, with a deadline of December 11.

Ante Upped

The ante is upped to $10 for the best effort from fledgling writers, who also are to turn their copy
in to 133 Duke. Again, the editorial staff of Scripts 'N Pranks will serve as judges. The winning selection will
be run in the March or Spring issue. Any form of writing is permissible.
