With the close of school approaching and the weather getting awfully hot and humid up on "the hill," the sports scene seems to be settling down to a slow preparation of its ultimate death for the year. The golf team closed its season Monday after dropping to Carolina for the second time. The Whitemen only have to wait now for the White Sulphur Springs jaunt and the Southern Conference Tournament to be played there. Derrick Barton's lads are now finishing up their Northern tour and will return to Davidson to get ready for the Southern Conference play, which is to be held here starting Thursday. The racqueteers have a job on their hands in defending the title won last year. Allen Strand stands in a good position to hold on to the cup that Bo Roddey won last year with his stellar play. At the time of writing, the Cats had a 1-1 record on the tour, dropping to Yale and defeating Lehigh. They meet the Country Club of Virginia tomorrow and then return home. Coach Packard’s diamond nine are seeking to break into the win column after a long lay-off with games at Clemson today and Furman tomorrow. The last game of the season will be played at State next Friday, the 11th. The Cats dropped a heartbreaker to the University of South Carolina, Tuesday, by 5-4. Hengeveld pitched a fine game, the hitting was good, and the errors didn’t come so thick and fast, but one or two bad errors and the inability to hit in the clinch of the big eighth spelled a one-run deficit when the ninth rolled around. Coach Whittle announced that he will lengthen his track schedule (which was cut down considerably by cancellations earlier in the year) to include a match with N.C. State next Saturday afternoon, May 12th, on the local cinders. The boys trounced Wofford last Saturday with the mile relay team breaking the school record in that event. The cindermen travel today to Clemson where they will meet Clemson College in the last dual meet away from the home campus. Davidson's First Annual All-Sports Banquet comes off Monday night in the college dining hall. It promises to be one of the highlights of the sports scene here at Davidson. We heartily hope that a "tradition" will spring up from the precedent that will be set when the athletes get together for awards and addresses Monday night. The highlight of the evening will be Commissioner Wallace Wade’s talk. Several coveted awards will be given at this time, among which are the Ed Armfield Blocking Trophy, Tommy Peters Award, and Merchant Track Trophy. These awards were won last year by Johnny Richards, Whit Cobb, and Tommy Haller, respectively. Down in Florida, the sun-drenched peninsularites stood with mouths gaping as a young Davidson Sophomore toured the 880-yard cinder path with an amazing 2:01.8 minute time. Against Wofford, this same young fellow ran 440 yards on the mile relay team faster than the regular 440-yard dash was run, and set the pace for the fastest mile relay ever run at Davidson. Steadily, Bob Henry has been improving since he hit Davidson as a Freshman last year. In the fall, he has been active on the Cross-Country team and this has helped him immensely in getting good form and into good shape. Coach Whittle has high hopes for Bob in his track work at Davidson before he leaves here. He expects Henry to break two minutes in their meet with Clemson tomorrow because he thinks Bob has not reached his best time for the year in the 880. The Soph KA from West Virginia ran the first lap in the mile relay last Saturday in 52.8 seconds, a full second faster than the winning time for the 440. Next week Bob will get his final chance to break the records when the team meets State.

By DICK LILES
By CHARLIE HAWKINS

Davidson will again be the host school for the Southern Conference Tennis Tournament this year. The tournament will be held the weekend of May 10, 11, and 12, with participation open to all schools that are members of the Conference. It has been decided by the schools of the conference that the limit of the number of players from each school will be eight for the singles, and four teams for the doubles. Trophies will be awarded to the schools of the players who win in the singles and doubles, and there will also be individual winners and runner-up prizes. Mr. Oliver Roddey, Sr. of Charlotte will be the official referee, and all matches will be the best two out of three sets for singles and doubles until the semi-final and final matches, which will be the best three of five sets. Although most of the schools in the conference have not answered the bid for the tournament yet, a good many schools are expected to participate. Also, no seedings have been made yet, but a host of stars will probably be present and seeded such as William and Mary's Tommy Boys, Duke's Henfjing, Carolina’s Heath Alexander, and Davidson's own Alan Strand. Of course, Davidson will be out to win the honors in singles and doubles as they did last year through the fine playing of Bo Roddey and Whit Cobb, so this has all the makings of a good tournament.

Tracksters Travel To Meet Clemson

Husky Bill McNeeley, Davidson's top shot and discus heaver, meets his toughest competition tomorrow in R. W. Hudson when the Wildcat trackmen have their fourth dual meet in Clemson. McNeeley, who set a discus record for the Florida State University track two weeks ago, will find trouble putting the shot as far as Hudson's 45 ft. 10 in. Hudson also threw the discus 130 ft., 5 in. Clemson barely defeated a strong Presbyterian College squad 66½ to 64½ last week, with Hudson scoring 16 points for the winners. In the track events, the times run by the 'Cats in their 93-38 win over Wofford Saturday are faster than those run in the Clemson-PC meet, so the locals probably have Davidson's mile relay team, Bob Henry, Dick Stockton, Blake Bradley, and J. V. Howell, set a new school record at 3:42 Saturday. The former record was 3:35. The local cindermen leave Davidson tonight around 7 o'clock and will spend the night in Clemson, S.C. They will return tomorrow night after the meet. The Frosh also have a meet with the Clemson freshmen tomorrow.

After several very misleading statements concerning intramural volleyball, the column this week...will be devoted to straightening out the situation. This year's intramural volleyball champions are the Phi Delts who show on paper a 10-0 record for the year. However, there is a different story to be told concerning the standings, for in reality the Phi Delts have been beaten, and that was done by the Gams, KA’s, Betas, and ATO’s.

Final Standings
Team W L

Baseballers Hit Road For Return Games
By JACK EFIRD

Coach Frank Packard's squad travels into South Carolina for return engagements with Clemson and Furman today and tomorrow. In the first series, the Cats lost to both teams.

For today's game with the powerful Tigers from Clemson, who have been running away with the championship with twelve wins in thirteen conference games, Packard plans to start pitcher Tom Craven. If Craven runs into difficulty, Taylor will probably relieve. For Saturday's game, Paul Eastman will take the mound for the Cats with Jim Smith held in readiness. Dutch Hengeveld will again take over the shortstop duties for both games as Chuck Elliott is ineligible for games away from Davidson.

Last week the Cats were soundly trounced by Duke 14-5. In that game, the Cat infield committed seven errors. Tuesday the errors were cut down to four and subsequently the marginal difference in runs was reduced to one with South Carolina winning 5-4.

Although the three Carolina pitchers limited Bill Rowland to only one hit, a double, the hard-hitting outfielder came through with a great exhibition of base running reminiscent of Ty Cobb. In the last half of the fifth inning, Rowland walked, stole second, then stole third, and finally stole home on a double steal with Jerry Morrow, who had walked, taking second base.

In the Duke game on Saturday, the slugging outfield of Rowland, Morrow, and Auburn Lambeth accounted for five of the Cats' hits. If this hitting continues over the weekend and if the Cats keep the errors down to a minimum, the team may come through with a victory or two. The present season record is two wins in eleven games.

Kittens Close Out

Tonight the Wildkitten cindermen journey to Clemson for their last scheduled meet of the season. The meet is slated to begin at 2 p.m. tomorrow. The Kittens have been highly successful in their two previous meets, taking Mars Hill 74-42 and Central of Charlotte 78-44.

Bill Shipley and Tommy Breeden have been the big guns in the two previous meets, and they will be relied upon to bring home the bacon tomorrow. Breeden and Shipley garnered 26 of the Kitten’s 78 points against Central, and if they can pull a repeat performance tomorrow, chances will be good for an undefeated season; a rarity in Davidson athletics. Bob Loy and Toto Williamson will carry the brunt of the weight division while Bill Coe and John Holt will run the mile.

Bartonmen Return From Northern Jag Set For Tournament
By WALLACE ABBOTT

Our own Davidson Wildcat tennis team rolled into Lexington, Va., today where they will take on Washington and Lee's strong varsity tennis team. The Wildcats have been having themselves quite a trip as they journeyed through the East playing some of the top schools in that part of the country. The first meeting of the trip was with Yale last Monday, in which the racqueteers lost by a score of 7-2. However, in their next encounter of the trip, they fared much better, overcoming a strong Lehigh team by a score of 8-1.

After this afternoon's match, the team travels on to Richmond, where they will engage the Country Club of Virginia team. Both the Country Club team and W&L were played by last year’s Southern Conference Championship team, and they provided two close contests, so Coach Barton and his boys will have their work cut out for them today and tomorrow.

Wade To Speak
By DICK ROPER

Invitations have been extended to more than 230 student athletes for the first annual All-Sports Banquet Monday night, Athletic Director Paul Scott announced today. The event, to be held in the Chambers Building Dining Hall, will be a three-hour affair, climaxed with a talk by Southern Conference Commissioner Wallace Wade, former Duke University football coach.

Those athletes extended invitations have completed the season in their respective sport or sports, and will receive at the banquet a certificate to this effect. Certificates will be awarded for participation in ten different sports (football, basketball, baseball, track, golf, cross country, swimming, tennis, wrestling, and rifle teams). In addition, several awards of special recognition will be made, including the highly coveted Armfield Blocking Trophy, the Merchant Trade Trophy, and the Tommy Peter's award.

Director Scott has invited several sports writers and reporters to the banquet, the first of its kind to be held at Davidson, along with a few other sports dignitaries. If the event is successful—and Mr. Scott has high hopes that it will be—it is planned to make it an annual affair, highlighting the athletic scene at the College.

Professor Frontis Johnson will be the toastmaster of the banquet, which will include the invocation by Dr. Pritchett, a talk by Dr. Cunningham, and remarks by the coaches of each of the sports. The climax of the occasion will be the talk by Wade.

LIGHT LESSON

“What did she say when you told her you knew practically nothing about kissing?”
“Turn out the light and let this be a lesson to you.”

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests
Number 20...THE BALTIMORE ORIOLE

A man on the baseball nine, this slugger doesn’t like to reach for ’em...wants it right over the plate. And that’s the way he likes his proof of cigarette mildness! No razzle-dazzle “quick-puff” tests for him. No one-whiff, one-puff experiments. There’s one test, he’s discovered, that’s right down the alley! It’s the test that proves what cigarette mildness really means.

THE SENSIBLE TEST...the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test, which simply asks you to try Camels as a steady smoke—on a pack-after-pack, day-after-day basis. After you've enjoyed Camels—and only Camels—for 30 days in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste), we believe you'll know why...more people smoke Camels than any other cigarette!