There was once a fellow named David. Now in his day David knocked around the leagues, traveled in the top
sports circles, been a leading figure in the big time—big as it was in “his day.” Then came the days
of bonus players, farm clubs to draw from, vast lots of newcomers with hustle and talent, and David found he
wasn’t increasing his talents any with age. He began to slip a little. That is, for a while he may
have slipped in the big time, but he didn’t slip one whit in the Big Game. His gentlemanly conduct, wonderful
sportsmanship, and fair play became almost a legend in the big league parks and the surrounding countryside. David continued to
be what the newspaper and radio men liked to call “cleancut,” and his dogged fight and scrap held him in
equal stead many a time when he otherwise would have fallen before this new talent. There was even a trophy
established to be given to the athlete most typifying his character and conduct on the field. Yessir, David was high
type. He was colorful—good copy, and the crowd loved him. Teams used to look forward to playing David's little club.
Little, yes, because they couldn't compete on the high-priced material market, but David and his teammates were never looked on
as soft touches. No, the opposing clubs liked to run into guys like David because the encounters always seemed to
send them away with a new sense of fair play, imparted by David’s fair and square game. And the fans
in the cities from whence the other teams came grew to wish their boys could be more like David even
though they never said it in so many words. David, then, stood as a final member of a once fine
order now about to dip over the sports horizon for good but still casting his light strong enough so that
other competitors knew the cleanness and true sport of the game still lingered. David, his teammates, and his backers didn’t
seem to mind losing a few now and then to the better-stocked clubs. It tended to throw the emphasis on
their clean play and never-say-die spirit against stacked odds. They liked to read in the newspapers the fine play about
their fine play. Those phrases of “outmanned but not outfought” and “making up in fight what they lacked in height”
built up a pride in David and the mates on whom his influence rested. Everyone pulled for the underdog. They
were very often the underdog, and they minded not too much. Things rocked along this way for a pretty good
while. Then David and his boys went into a season in which the league was loaded with strong clubs. Three
teams had ball players ranking among the nation’s leaders. The rest were almost as hard to beat. Well, David and
his team took the knocks on the road, but they were hard to beat in their home park. They started
losing some mighty close ones to these favored joes. You know, the ninth inning kind. It got hard to take.
Their pride in their praise of fair play changed to self-pity. David couldn’t understand the losses. Hadn’t he been a
good church-going boy, hadn’t he? And what about the boys on the team? Weren’t they clean living fellows? Well, cleaner
than them bums we play. Weren’t they? “Hell,” David swore one night after a close loss, “what does this clean
stuff get you? Nothing! That’s what. Nothing!” Doesn't sound much like our David, does it? But that isn’t quite all.
In one particular game recently, David forgot himself on the playing field as well. First, an opposing player was knocked
flat on his back, the wind knocked out of him. He lay there, too, until he got up on his
own. Yes, David had knocked him there, the same David who once was known to have laid down a scoring
opportunity to help an injured foe. Also, there are rules, of course, in the game that a player can be
banned for too many infractions. Well, this same night, David overstepped his quota and was told to leave the game.
Out of courtesy, the outstanding player on the opposing team—they’d been playing opposite each other—came and grabbed David's hand. “Good
game,” he panted with a pat on Dave’s back. David stormed off without once looking back to acknowledge the shake,
grumbling instead about poor officiating. It had spread to David's supporters, too. They began harassing opposing players when the chips
were down on a 3-2 pitch instead of giving him the equal quietness they granted David and the boys. They
booed officials, complained, and cursed. Yet they still, like David, thought the team was being cheated out of too many
close ones to be as fine a bunch as they were. And to their minds and David's, the opposing teams
grew to be superior in strength maybe, but inferior in man-for-man character. Sort of an inferior superiority complex. It was
hard to see David change like that. Soon those who had looked to him so long as the last guard
of true competitive spirit would turn their heads in disillusion. It seemed that in losing his shirt David also thought
himself justified in losing his soul.

Where you meet your friends
Charlotte's Finest Restaurant
SHIP AHOY

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1951

Sports: THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SECTION

AAU Wrestling Here March 9-10
SIG CHIS GRAB BASKETBALL LEAD

Appalachian, Lejeune, Cherry Point Basketballers Meet

(Edge KA’s To Remain Undefeated And Claim Undisputed First Place Among Early Entrants To Tourney) W & L In Lexington;

By CHARLIE HAWKINS

It was announced this week by the Davidson Athletic Department that the annual Carolinas AAU Wrestling Championships will be held
in Johnston Gym on March 9-10. Also, Athletic Director Paul K. Scott, who is in charge of the tournament, has
announced that three teams besides Davidson have already accepted the invitation to participate. Those teams are Appalachian State, the Camp
Lejeune Marines, and the Cherry Point Marines. Appalachian State, last year’s tourney winner, will be the strong favorites for the
event, but Davidson’s aggressive grapplers could be dangerous, especially in their own backyard. Under the coaching of Charlie Parker, the
Cats have been improving rapidly lately, recently beating UNC only to lose a heartbreaker to the Citadel, 15-11. Although the
Cats will be without 137-pounder Jim Grissom, who was injured in the Citadel match, Johnny Kelton, Gene Craven, Shorty Lafar,
Mac Doubles, Lee Talbirt, Bob Gay, George Irwin, and big Bill McNeely will be in good shape and ready to
throw their weight around. Preliminary entry letters have been sent to N. C. State, Duke, UNC, Western Carolina Teachers College,
Greensboro High School, High Point High School, Jamestown High School, Presbyterian College, the Citadel, Appalachian State Teachers College, the Cherry
Point Marines, and the Camp Lejeune Marines.

Blue Ray On Sick List As Catfish Bucked N. C. State This Afternoon

By CHARLIE HASSELL

When the Wildcat swimming team entered their meet with N. C. State this afternoon they had won two meets and
lost six, and in trying to better that mark they faced the possibility of being without the services of their
captain and leading sprinter, Bill Ray. Captain Ray has been flu all week and it was doubtful that he would
be able to swim against the invading State tank men. Flu seems to be providing a real menace, for Hugh
Evans was sidelined with a case just prior to the meet with William and Mary last Monday. Had he been
able to swim, the Cat-fish may have won the meet; as it was, they lost—38-37. Ray, who had been defeated
only once in the fifty, lost his second 100-yard dash in a close and disputed finish. The next meet will
be with Citadel, who comes to the campus next Tuesday with high hopes of a repeat performance of their first
triumph this year, when they handed the Wildcats a 40-25 licking in the Citadel tank. But Davidson's swimmers are much
improved and the Citadel team may have a harder time dunking the Cats. Davidson’s greatest strength lies in their distance
men. Paul Cole and Francis Pepper continue to bring their times down; Ray Cunningham and George Cornelson are also improving
their breaststroke times. Sam Myrick and Gene Regen handle the backstroke chores, and Regen doubles as a diver. Quality, but
not quantity prevails in the sprinter ranks. The addition of one more man to fill the gap in the relay
team would have balanced up the record for the year. The freshmen have won two meets, beating South Carolina twice.
Standouts for the freshman fish are Ben Gary and Ed Stuart. Gary, a distance man, has made good showings all
year, and Stuart, whose specialty is the sprints, has followed suit. Both boys are good varsity material.

CORRECTION

The Davidsonian last week incorrectly reported that Aubrey Miree had returned to the swimming team, and credited him with points
against South Carolina. Sam Myrick should have received the credit. Myrick, who has been out all winter long, swam this
afternoon as well.

Blue Devils Trim Parker's Chargers

Duke’s Blue Devil wrestlers pinned Davidson's Wildcats with their fifth defeat of the season here yesterday afternoon 17-11, in a
close match. Five of Duke’s points came in the 167 class when doctor’s orders forced the Cats’ Jerry Morrow to
forfeit. The Duke freshman tripped the Kitten grapplers, 22-8. Gene Craven and Johnny Kelton blanked their foes 4-0 and 5-0
in their respective 123 and 130-pound classes, and big Bill McNeely pinned Duke's highly regarded heavyweight Bill Britt in 1:18
of the second round in the afternoon finale for the Wildcats.Cats’ points. Buck Irvin dropped a toughie, 4-2 to Southern
Conference king Gallagher in 137, and Shorty LaFar and Mac Doubles also lost close ones to the Orzana brothers, 4-2
and 2-0 in the 147 and 157 classes respectively. Duke’s Harrison decisioned Bob Gay 6-3 at 177 pounds. Lone frosh
able to scratch against the Duke Imps were Bill Dobbins, a 10-4 victor at 130, and Bob Loy, who pinned
his heavyweight opponent in 2:02 of the second. Stan Topple’s match with Huntsman ended in a 2-2 tie, the Dukester
taking the win on riding time, 3-2.

221 South Tryon Street
THACKER’S, Private Dining Rooms for Parties and Banquets
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
Phone 25490

VMI There Tomorrow
By DICK LILES

While the guys and dolls are busy dancing to the music of Bill Clark this weekend, another probably equally gay
group will be “dancing” to the music of Boyd Baird and his “Torrid Five.” Baird takes his quintet up Virginia
way and specifically to Lexington for a pair of games with Washington and Lee and V.M.I., two of the league’s
supposed weaker sisters. The Cats tackle W&L first and it will be by far the tighter of the two games.
The Generals have been improving all the time and even beat Maryland and went on a scoring spree against West
Virginia recently. News of this somewhat dampened the Wildcat’s outlook toward a sweep series this weekend. Although the General’s record
is nothing to brag about they are somewhat of the “scrappy Cats” variety having been closed out in some close
ones and playing with the pep and will to win of a state champion. This will be the first meeting
of the two teams and so nothing really is known from personal observation as to how the two will stack
up to each other for the weekend fray. Only the record and the preview of facts build up to the
fact that they're going to be hard to handle unless the Cats continue their present brand of play and improve
on their scoring abilities. The Gens stand close to the bottom of the league, but could easily step up a
notch if they win this one. V.M.I. has had a much worse season than W&L and at present holds the
16th spot in the Southern Conference. Even below the Cats, who are looking forward to a relatively easy Saturday night.
The Keydets have not been impressive in the least, but still must be given credit for upholding the old “V.M.I.
Spirit.” The Cats meanwhile have a six-game home stand, winning 3, losing 2 by only a few points, and getting
pretty well whipped by a strong Duke University five. It was a bad ending to an almost perfect (although not
in win) home stand. The boys were not up to the par they had exhibited at Clemson and U.S.C., but
the officiating was sadly lacking and Groat was great. A pair of wins this weekend would certainly bolster Davidson’s record
and assure us of a place almost half-way up the golden ladder of Southern Conference basketball fame. The rest of
the season consists of only a return match with W&L, one with the McCrary Eagles, and a possible game at
Furman, none of which seem to be anything like the competition which was met with earlier this season. All in
all Davidson could close out this year in somewhat a blaze of glory by whipping all of the above-mentioned teams
since it would be far from impossible and somewhat expected. At any rate they can boast of an almost miraculous
“comeback” and improvement.

Continued On Page Four

By WALLACE ABBOTT

The KA’s went down to defeat at the hands of the Sigma Chi’s last week and thereby lost hold on
a first-place tie. The lead is now securely held by the Sigma Chi’s who possess a 7-0 record. This past
week Bert Downs was uncovered as a new scoring threat and aided the leaders in gaining three victories. However, even
though the Sigma Chis lead the field the KA’s and Kappa Sigs are close behind only waiting for the leaders
to falter.

Pikas 48 - Phi Delts 42
Even though Bill Bivins put in 18 points his team, the Phi Delts, was still unable to gain a victory.
This was a closely fought game in which the Pikas led from the start only to have the Phi Delts
overtake them, and see the game go into overtime. Al Gaither was the Pikas leading scorer with 16 points.

Phi Gams 50 - ATO’s 17
The Phi Gams showed an exceptionally fine defense in holding the ATO's to 17 points. Not only did their defense
click but their offense, led by Champion, Strader and Camp, also was strong. The ATO's were able to get plenty
of shots but evidently their shooting eyes were off.

Kappa Sigs 57 - Pi Kapps 41
Jim Sloan and Eric Clark, with 12 and 11 points respectively led their team to a victory over a strong
Pi Kapp team. The Kappa Sigs continued to dominate play with their fast break and teamwork under the backboards. Bill
Cassels and Bob Erwin both got 8 points for the Pi Kapps.

Sigma Chis 47 - SPE’s 11
The Sigma Chis uncorked one of the most potent defenses seen lately, to completely halt the SPE’s and thus gain
a 47-11 victory. The SPE’s despite their hustle just never got started and consequently they went down to a shattering
defeat.

Phi Delts 52 - Phi Gams 43
The Phi Delts came back from what seemed a first half deadlock to outscore the Phi Gams in the second
half and go on to victory. Poindexter had 14 points to lead his team to victory. Despite their team's loss
Wallace Abbott and Larry Champion scored 14 and 13 points respectively to keep them well in the game.

Pi Kapps 60 - ATO’s 20
Arnold Whisnant scored 22 points and Bob Erwin got 18 to lead the Pi Kapps to a sound victory over
an ill-fated ATO club. The ATO's have never appeared to get going during the season and this game further illustrated
that point.

Pikas 52 - Phi Gams 47
Although the Phi Gams closed with a tremendous rush the Pikas were able to hold on and eke out a
victory in a very close, hard fought game. For the winners Gaither had 16 points and Larry Champion pushed through
16 for the losers. The Pikas continued to use their very successful zone defense in chalking up another victory.

SPE’s 54 - SAE’s 30
The SAE’s continued to run into trouble in the basketball loop as they went down to a 54-30 defeat at
the hands of the SPE’s. Jimmy Miller pumped in 22 points and Horace Ball got 20 for the winners. Perhaps,
the SAE’s need to start playing coach T. C. Coleman.

Sigma Chis 44 - Betas 18
The all conquering Sigma Chis made one more notch on their victory belt as they rolled over the Betas by
26 points. Bert Downs was once again the high man for the Sigma Chis with 11 points. A reasonably strong
Beta offense was never able to get started as the Sigma Chis pressed them closely.

KA's 39 - SPE’s 25
The KA's were able to stay near the top, in the struggle for the interfrat loop championship with a victory
over the SPE's. Bill Adams pushed through 14 points to help lead the KA’s to this win. Stowe, with 8
points was the leader for the SPE’s.

Pikas 45 - Betas 31
Farmer's 14 points and Gaither’s 13 proved almost enough by themselves to defeat the Betas. However they did have some
good teamwork by the other Pikas so that they didn’t have to go it all alone. Chuck Elliot was able
to pump through 15 points to keep his team in the game up to the final quarter.

Sigma Chis 31 - KA's 27
In a battle that may well have decided the final outcome of the loop standings, the Sigma Chis fought down
to the last minute to eke out a win over a powerful KA team. Both teams went into the game
undefeated but it was the Sigma Chis alone who remained that way at the close. Phil Blatt got 18 points
for the winners while Bill Adams got 16 for the KA’s.

STANDINGS
Sigma Chi 7 0
KA’s 6 1
Kappa Sigs 5 1
Pikas 5 2
Phi Delts 5 2
Pi Kapps 3 3
Betas 2 5
SPE’s 2 5
Phi Gams 2 6
SAE's 1 6
ATO's 0 7

Mooresville Creamery
GRADE “A” MILK
PASTEURIZED
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
