PAGE FOUR

Vets Wounded In Korea Will Get Free Education Under New Program

Dr. Bernard Boyd To Give Lectures At Georgia School

Five addresses by Dr. Bernard Boyd, chairman of the Department of Religion at the University of North Carolina, will head the program for Religious Emphasis Week at Georgia Teachers College here Sunday through Friday. Using the theme “What Does God Require of Us?" Dr. Boyd will speak in the college auditorium on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday nights and on Thursday and Friday mornings.

Dr. Boyd, a Presbyterian minister, formed the Department of Religion at North Carolina last fall after serving as professor of Bible at Davidson College. He has studied at Princeton University and the University of Edinburgh. The week will open with a vesper service Sunday night and will include in addition to Dr. Boyd’s addresses, morning and evening watches and twilight worship Monday through Friday. John W. Swint, educational director of the First Baptist Church, Statesboro, and Baptist Student Secretary at the college, will lead the twilight services.

The observance is sponsored annually by the college Student Christian Association, which rotates the speaking assignment among ministers of denominations represented on the campus. Sanford V. Brown, Dawson junior, is president of the association.

VISIT THE DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT “A GOOD PLACE TO EAT” 142 E. Morehead — Charlotte

Mooresville Creamery GRADE “A” MILK PASTEURIZED Daily Delivery PHONE 205

Regulations outlining conditions under which veterans, disabled after fighting started in Korea, may be entitled to Public Law 16 rehabilitation training, have been issued by the North Carolina Veterans Administration Regional Office.

Training Extended

The training, previously limited to World War II veterans, was extended to many veterans disabled on or after June 27, 1950, by Public Law 894, signed by the President late last year. Most of the policies and procedures set up under Public Law 16 have been carried over to the new training program, the VA said. In fact, the newcomers apply for training on the same forms used by disabled World War II veterans.

Under Public Law 894, a veteran must have been disabled after the Korean conflict began and prior to a date yet to be fixed. The new law requires that the disability be such that the VA may pay compensation at full wartime rates. Such rates are paid for disabilities or injuries resulting from armed conflict, or during extra-hazardous service, or while the United States is engaged in war.

Nine Years

Under the new law, the July 25, 1956 deadline for Public Law 16 training will not apply to the newly-disabled veterans. Instead, they will have nine years from the end of the current emergency in which to train. Public Law 894 states that veterans who already had GI Bill or Public Law 16 training, as a result of their World War II service, may be entitled to additional training, if found necessary because of new disabilities.

In determining whether such a World War II veteran needs training, and what type he should get, the VA will consider his previous records of advisement and training as well as his current medical record. The reason, the VA said, is that previous training may be capitalized to the fullest extent practicable.

In the case of a veteran who interrupted Public Law 16 training to re-enter the armed forces, the VA also will evaluate his past training record and present medical file, to determine whether he still is able to go ahead in the same employment objective.

RENT A CAR AT THE

Local Polio Drive Nets Nearly $2,000

Hugo F. Sapp, better known to most of us as “Hugo,” and chairman for the 1951 March of Dimes drive in Davidson, has announced that the drive which came to a conclusion recently was a huge success. One of the main factors in making the drive such a success was the different groups who participated. The drive, a raising of money to be used to combat infantile paralysis, was divided into certain days for certain groups.

On January 23, the mothers of Davidson marched on Polio. A grand total of $920.66 was collected. Those taking part were: Mrs. C. B. Davis, Chairman, Mrs. F. W. Holly, Mrs. L. S. Sellars, Mrs. H. H. Schacht, Mrs. Tom Daggy, Mrs. Z. K. Justice, Jr., Mrs. R. C. Penland, Mrs. Boyd Baird, Mrs. J. R. Withers, Jr., Mrs. E. M. Hicks, Mrs. W. B. Mayhew, Mrs. Otto Williams, Mrs. W. F. Withers, Mrs. Derek Barton, Mrs. Olin Puckett, Mrs. Fred Hartness, Mrs. A. G. Griffin, Mrs. Hugh Barger, Mrs. J. T. Kimbrough, Mrs. George Hampton, Mrs. J. B. Alexander, Mrs. J. B. Caldwell, Mrs. C. J. Pietenpol. Colored, Mrs. Willie McClain, Mrs. Nora Caldwell, Mrs. Mary Reid Johnson, Mrs. Virginia Lowry, Mrs. Lela McCorkle.

On the same day the Carolina Asbestos Co. contributed $100.85, Mr. James Fortner, Chairman said. Then on January 9 a blanket was passed among the spectators at the N. C. State - Davidson basketball game by the “D" Club. Lambeth, president of the club, announced that $171.95 was contributed. Later at the South Carolina-Davidson game $53.50 was given.

Dr. C. R. Pritchard, Scout Master of the local scout troop here in Davidson reported that the scouts had collected $75.78 on January 25 and January 30. On January 25, a square dance sponsored by the North Mecklenburg Post No. 86 of the American Legion was given at the high school. Mr. S. T. Stough, chairman of that group, reported that $190.28 was earned from a sale of tickets.

Fraternities and the College Dining Hall contributed $197.19. Several of the frats have given more than twenty-five dollars. Those are Alpha Tau Omega, Sigma Chi, Beta Theta Pi, Kappa Sigma, Kappa Alpha, Sigma Phi Epsilon. The College Dining Hall also contributed more than $25.00. The total for the drive was $1891.25. This surpasses last year's amount by $1000.00. Mr. Sapp has expressed his greatest appreciation to these various groups and to Professors Ostwalt and Reaty.who assisted in the drive. In Lubbock, Texas, the Texas Tech MOORESVILLE, N. C. 4th St. Charlotte TD College Book Store is a favorite student gathering spot. In the Book Store — Coca-Cola is the favorite drink. With the college crowd at Texas Technological College, as with every crowd—Coke belongs. Ask for it either way... both trade-marks mean the same thing.

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS!

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Shows Start at 3 P. M.
Monday and Tuesday, Feb. 26-27
‘HALLS OF MONTEZUMA’
Richard Widmark
Walter Palance
NEWS

Wednesday, February 28
‘711 OCEAN DRIVE’
Edmond O’Brien
Joanne Dru
CARTOON

Thursday, March 1
‘HIT PARADE OF 1951’
John Carroll
Marie McDonald
SPECIAL AND CARTOON

Friday, March 2
‘HIGHWAY 301’
Steve Cochran
Virginia Gray
COMEDY and CARTOON

Saturday, March 3
‘CALIFORNIA PASSAGE’
Forest Tucker
Adele Mara
BAND & CARTOON

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
Coca-Cola Bottling Co., Concord, N. C.

The Best Dressed Men At Davidson Wear Jack Wood, Ltd. CLOTHES
It Costs No More To Dress Correctly

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1951

TOP TAU... (Continued From Page One)
Correspondent, Roland Englehart; Pan-Hell Representative, Joe Morton; Calvin Baird, Bob Boyd, Jr., George Brinkley, Ralph Brooks, Jim Brown, Bob Burroughs, Brownie Caldwell, Don Crosby, Leonard Douglas, Scott Downs, Jr., Carl Garrison, Bob Grigsby, Dick Harris, Bob Inman, Owen Kellum, Parker Ledbetter, Dick Little, John Livingston, Bill McCrary III, Frank McCutchan, Jr., Harold McDonald, Jr., Pat McGeachy III, Sonny Marlette, Jr., Buddy McNeill, Herb Middleton, Jr., Kent Mitchell, George Morton, Jr., John Nisbet, Ken Parks, Dick Perkins, Fielding Russell, Jr., Jim Shuping, Andrew Simons, Jr., Joe Sink, Graham Smith, Bill Smith, Bob Summitt, Marvin Thompson, Zan Turner, Jr., David Whitener, Bill Whitesides, Jr., John Whitfield, Ken Jones, and Jim Winters. Also charter members will be the following alumni who return for the initiation: Dave R. Koonts, J. Malloy Owen, III, S. Yorke Pharr, Jr. and W. Dan Wilson. Charter members from the faculty will be Professor Raymond W. Tyson, of the Speech Department, and the Rev. Ernest J. Arnold, Southeastern Director for the World Council of Churches.

Pledges of the local group, who will automatically become Alpha Tau Omega pledges, are: Tim Gilley, Sandy McGeachy, Henry Efird, Chuck Mallard, Robert McClure, and Bill Reeves. The local club began its plans for petitioning Alpha Tau Omega in 1949, when a group from the Campus Club felt that another national fraternity was needed on the campus. This group formed the local Kappa Kappa, which entered its formal petition on March 27, 1950. After acceptance by the chapters of Province IV (North Carolina, Virginia, and South Carolina), and the High Council, the group was chartered an ATO club on May 15th. Then word received last week that the Club’s petition had been “overwhelmingly approved” by the undergraduate chapters of the fraternity touched off preparation for the Formal Installation which is now in progress.

NOTED SINGER... (Continued From Page One)
singer, has improved with age. Mr. Niles who was originally from Kentucky used an instrument which is called the dulcimer of which he had three that he made himself, each in a different tone. Mr. Niles used his subtle wit to its utmost advantage in telling of the history and origin of the ballads. From the morals of several ballads he offered advice and many helpful hints about the different situations of life. It is interesting to note that he has a collection of 65 ballads of local origin, and this collection is the largest of its kind in the Western Hemisphere. Mr. Niles presented a program that was not only very interesting but also very entertaining. —John Stiefel

PHI SOCIETY HEARS NEW MEMBERS
An ancient body received new blood last Monday evening when the Philanthropic Literary Society welcomed six new members whose entrance papers proved them to be excellent additions. Don Mahy read his “Seven Stevedores,” a tear-jerking episode of departures from the Philippines. Bob Crutchfield’s poem, “Reflections Upon Greatness” was pure quasisocratic brilliance. Hunter Strader’s “Single Shot” was a tale of war. “Down Under” by Howard Proctor might have been termed quaint, realistic, and inclining toward the guttural.

ST SIGS JOIN.... (Continued From Page One)
The question as to the desirability of such a move aroused considerable discussion, but the members finally voted to join with the national under certain specified conditions. The program continued as Bill Trotman presented an original one-act play entitled Phi Bete. The play tells the tragic story of a young college student who, under pressure from his parents to make “Phi Bete,” but unable to make the necessary grades through honest work, finally resorts to cheating. As the play nears a climax, the boy is caught cheating on a final examination. Unable to face his parents in disgrace, he takes his own life in utter despair. The program concluded with two other readings—a paper by Neal Leach entitled “Georgia Incident,” which was read by Hartley Hall, and finally a short story by Bob Barron.

STUDENTS GRACE ... (Continued From Page One)
pointed to study what changes could be made to the constitution. According to Article XIV of the Constitution, regarding amendments and revisions, amendments must first be passed upon by the Student Council. It shall then, after being presented to the student body, lie on the table for ten days. A vote of the student body may then be taken, and a two-thirds majority of those present and entitled to vote is necessary for the proposed amendment to be adopted. It then immediately becomes a part of the constitution.

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests
Number 13...THE OCELOT
Our feline friend may not be from Missouri, but she sure likes to be shown! She saw right through those thin, quick-trick, cigarette tests and realized you couldn’t fairly judge a cigarette’s mildness with a mere one puff or a swift sniff. Right on the spot, she decided they weren't fur her! Sophisticated, but shrewd, she knew what she wanted. The Sensible Test... the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test, which simply asks you to try Camels as your steady smoke—on a pack after pack, day after day basis. No snap judgments needed. After you’ve enjoyed Camels—and only Camels—for 30 days in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste), we believe you'll know why...

More People Smoke Camels than any other cigarette!

“I don’t mean to be catty—but I hate pussyfooting!”