PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF
BILL WHITE

BUSINESS MANAGER
ALEX GOLEY

Associate Editors
Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis, George McMurray

Managing Editors
Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw, John Ottley

Photographs—Archie Neal
Photographer—Andrew Simmons

Feature Editor—Mike Myers
Exchange Editor—Ed Richardson

Copy Editor—Pete Ormsby
Art Editor—Don Mahy
Sports Editor—Dick Liles
City Editor—Nat Daniels

Assistant Business Manager
Boo Northcutt

Advertising Manager
Jack Hobson

Circulation Manager
Bob Poston

Collection Manager
Bill Minter

Subscriptions Manager
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Library, Like The Classroom, Defeats Purpose With Hot Air

As a retreat for those who wish to read and study, Grey Memorial Library is a pretty good flop. Unlike
most flop shops, this one exists due to—rather than in spite of—the fact that the “heat’s on.” Some students actually
claim they can pick up more sack time in the Reference Room than in their own beds. Our library, in
short, is kept too warm for comfort. The heat at times is stifling to the mind, and its drying air
is scarcely conducive to good health. Seldom is there so much as a slightly cracked window allowing a bit of
fresh air circulation. One can almost see drowsy Morpheus floating through the halls (self-propelled, not drifting with any breeze) tapping
heavy heads and robbing from them precious moments of work. And comfortably settled with a full meal under their belts,
the subjects offer little resistance. The library can slice its fuel bill while upping the per hour study output of
the student body if it will tone down its thermostat. Goodness knows, there’s enough hot air to contend with anyway.

Davidsonian But One Group Deep In Debt To Mr. Jackson

Yesterday's presentation to Mr. F. L. Jackson of an embossed resolution recognizing the former College treasurer's devoted service to the
YMCA was only an outward manifestation of what many a campus organization—chief among them The Davidsonian—feels in its debt to
him. Among his multitude of activities, Mr. Jackson served as a member of the Publications Board. As such, he rendered
a great service to Quips and Cranks and to Scripts and Pranks, but to The Davidsonian he was a deeply
interested savior. In the early postwar years of 1945-46, The Davidsonian teetered precariously on the brink of extinction. Its copy
had to be toted a week early to Charlotte for publication, it was a veritable leech on the funds of
the college, and in general, a headache to all concerned. There was even talk of abolishing the paper. Mr. Jackson
would not hear of such action, however, when Mr. H. C. Broyles came to Davidson to open the Davidson Printing
Company, Mr. Jackson arranged for the local printing of The Davidsonian, whereby costs could be cut and newsworthiness increased. He
advised on advertising improvement and helped the business department through the financial straits. Steadily, the paper has gained in climbing
from the red to the black, until this year it seems that it will be able to meet all of
its obligations without borrowing from the college. His “retirement” is hardly slowing Mr. Jackson's active interest in the town. As
mayor of Davidson, he is as busy now as ever he was in the role which earned him the affectionate
nickname “Cash.” Our greatest wish could be that the community benefit from his untiring efforts as much as did his
alma mater.

Business Front Foliage Axed As Shade Yields To Sidewalks

The woodsman’s axe rang along Main Street this week, and its reverberations were heard in every corner of the campus.
As limbs toppled along the main thoroughfare from Depot Street to Concord Road, head-shaking protests began over the defacing of
the business district. The trees with their overhanging branches, said the nature lovers, are a part of any village picture,
adding to the quiet and simple beauty of a sleepy settlement. True, trees do enhance the picturesque setting of a
small town, but to face the facts—progress has come to our adopted town. As in all growing communities, the vegetation
in the heart of the town gives way to stone, concrete, and asphalt as man pushes nature back to make
room for his own activities. Specifically, the trees felled in Davidson this week were to make way for an extension
of sidewalks all the way to the street, doing away with the park strips. The project has been one pushed
by the Lions Club and various civic groups in town for some time now, and is a part of the
improved paving works which are also in evidence on Concord Road, and farther down Main by the Methodist Church. The
job is not without some cost, local officials point out, but also not without long due need. The trees, to
recess the Joyce Kilmer school, were dead anyway.

A clergyman, upon hearing that liberalism was creeping into the churches, remarked: “If that is true, I hope it strikes
the contribution box.”—Sunshine Mag.

Gossip is a cancerous disease of character. Unless a person checks upon himself frequently, the illness may reach an almost
fatal stage before he knows he has it.—Cleveland Plain-Dealer.

“WHAT? TOO COLD?? NONSENSE WE PLAY TENNIS IN WEATHER LIKE THIS!”

“SPORTING MISCELLANEA”
BY PANCHO

THE CABBAGE PLANTER: “Lavender In The Windows, 20 Ballads Stuck About The Wall”

Once upon a time there was a little girl who lived all alone in a gray stone castle. Now this
castle had a moat around it and great high walls so that no one could come or go. The little
girl, whose name was Susan, lived way up in the top of the castle, where she could look out over
the high gray walls and see all the people walking about in the town that grew along the edge of
the moat. Susan used to make her dolls walk around the way the people did, and pretended that she was
in town and that the dolls were real, for you see, she had a lot of pretty dolls, all sizes
and shapes, expressions and natures. Now you would think that any little girl with so many dolls and such a
big castle and so wide a view of the town would be happy, but Susan wasn’t happy at all. For
you see, little Susan had a wicked old stepmother who wouldn't ever let her leave the room on top of
the castle. Susan didn’t mind being locked up as much as you think, because she wasn’t sure that she would
like to live with all the people she saw; in fact, sometimes she became quite tired of looking at them,
and for days would neglect her dolls. She did wish, though, that she could have, perhaps, two or three real
live people to talk to, so that she could be happy, and sing, and show off like the people that
lived in the town that grew along the edge of the moat. So at night when the people were quiet,
and the stars came out, Susan would wish and wish for just a little bit of the village to be
brought to her. One night, as she was wishing especially hard, she saw a light appear over her bed, and
felt a soft, gentle hand on her shoulder. Susan knew that something extraordinary was happening, because her wicked old stepmother
never came up to the top of the castle after the people were quiet and the stars had come out.

A PERSONAL OPINION: Should Davidson College Drop From Southern Conference?
By R. S. ENGLEHART

As a preface to my remarks here, I would like to call the reader's attention to the fact that what
I am about to say is no more than an expression of my own personal opinion as to the present
status and future possibilities of football and other sports at Davidson College, and is to be construed only as such.
Over the entire nation today we hear continually a widespread and growing criticism of the institution of college athletics with
the emphasis upon the particular sport of football. To many thoughtful Americans it seems apparent that this peculiar manifestation of
the American way of life has quite outstepped its bounds, and has, in so doing, become a dangerous influence upon
the code of ethics which is characteristic of our culture. It is pointed out that such activities as subsidization, importation
of athletically talented young men for the purpose of playing football, and the agitation of both alumni and public for
winning teams are presenting a situation which is detrimental to the moral integrity of the players themselves, the college authorities,
and the public in general. I would like to concur with this view, as I have here expressed it. In
my opinion such incidents as the West Point cribbing scandal and the basketball fix scandal are not merely isolated and
meaningless events. They are symptomatic of a more extensive and deep-seated disbalance in the college sports scene. They are superficially
indicative that something is definitely wrong with the basic attitudes by means of which the athletic situation is approached in
too many of our colleges and universities. Recent articles in our leading magazines and our daily newspapers seem to lend
credence to the belief that Americans in general are supporting college athletics with a set of unhealthy motivations. It appears
that one of the basic reasons for the present situation is the existence of an attitude and desire on the
part of the American people to win at all costs. Everything else of merit is subordinated to the ideal of
competitive superiority. This American “win psychology” is at the root of the pernicious effacement of ideals of academic attainment on
the part of many institutions of higher learning. Emphasis upon sports, produced by a terrific pressure from the alumni, is
detrimental to the proper purpose of educational institutions which is the education of youth. In addition, the moral standards of
talented athletes, caught in the web of college athletics, are subverted by the knowledge that something can be had which
isn’t deserved. Colleges and universities, finding that the only way to gain public attention is to produce winning teams, cater
to the lowest form of public morality. The competition to create winners grows continually in a vicious spiral which seemingly
never reaches its top. The underlying difficulty with this type of thing is that only one team can emerge victorious,
and that for every winner there must be a loser, with the consequence that the losers strive to become winners,
while the winners endeavor to retain their favored positions as winners. Here at Davidson the status of football and other
sports is at present and has been in the past (Continued On Page Four)

she became

Soon Susan saw what was making the light, and she saw whose hand it was, and she gasped. For standing
beside her was a beautiful lady in a long white gown, holding a wand that shimmered and seemed to move
almost like a row of the brightest stars. “I am your fairy godmother, Susan," said the beautiful lady, “and I
have come to make you happy. You may have three wishes, but you must choose carefully, for I can never
come again.” Susan was so surprised that she did not know what to say for a moment, but she had
read fairy stories by the brothers Zola, Lewis, Shaw and Caldwell, so she knew that her fairy godmother was on
the level. She thought of wishing for a million dollars, but that wouldn't be right, since Zola’s hero would steal
his million; next she began to wish for a trip to the village, but she remembered that Lewis’s hero tried
that and wished that he were in a castle. Since she very much wanted Shaw to keep on writing fairy
tales, she was careful not to wish for the millennium, and she steered away from birth control, because Caldwell’s hero
would never have forgiven her. “Ah my,” she sighed, “whatever in the world shall I do?” But suddenly she remembered
how much she wanted to sing, and show off like the people in the village below. So her first wish
was to be (Continued On Page Four)

O. D. K. SPEAKS: NAT DANIEL: FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1951

Christian Concepts Applied: “Let Us Love Our Neighbors”

Oftentimes in Alumni Journals, in speeches at fund-raisingbanquets, and from the platform in Chambers, we hear the term, “Christian gentlemen”
used synonymously with “Davidson students.” This flattering appellation has been tacked on to us pretty frequently since 1837, either by
those who don’t know all of us very well, or those who want to keep us unspotted in the eyes
of potential philanthropists. But are we really Christ-like and gentlemen? Do we, in every aspect of our lives, attempt to
approach the standards which He preached and exemplified on earth? Do we try with all our physical and spiritual strength
to grow toward the perfection which His life symbolizes? Of course, we can never achieve this perfection in this world,
but Christ, unlike the natural world, accepts good intentions accompanied by faithful striving, but He expects no less than this
from us. Now one of the basic principles of Christ's teachings was what He designated as the second great commandment,
“Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself,” and it is in this particular that the Davidson student body seems to
be sadly lacking at times. One of the many aspects of the humorous, according to philosophy, is that type in
which an attempt is made to approach a standard, and we laugh at those who fail in the attempt because
we feel superior to them, so from a strictly philosophical point of view, the substandard behavior on the part of
our fellowmen might be considered funny. But would Christ have laughed? I doubt it. We see our friends or associates
doing the wrong thing, and making public asses of themselves, but do we try to help? Usually, the answer is
“No.” We laugh at the wayward fellow man, and we gossip about him, we use him for entertainment, and we
smile with a wicked grin, but we don’t really try to help him. Of course, your answer and rationalization of
this attitude will be the stock-in-trade, “But that kind of a person can’t be helped. If talked to, he won't
listen, if reasoned with he only rebels, and any effort would be just a waste of time.” In our American
society today this sort of thinking probably relieves a good many pious Presbyterians’ conscience, but would Christ have talked about
his brothers—his people like that? He remembered something we are prone to forget—the person concerned is a human being, and
we all have the same Creator. And so we go on our merry way—having a good time, laughing with the
rest of the crowd and forgetting about the existence of others besides ourselves and yet with a perfectly clear conscience
go right on hearing ourselves referred to as “Christian gentlemen” without ever stopping to think about what the term really
means.

Mr. ‘T’ at D.C. Is No ‘Square’
By F. D. PEPPER

Is there a definite fashion or style at Davidson or is it purely a matter of personal preference as to
the types of clothes we wear? To tell the truth I don’t believe anyone knows exactly but there does seem
to be two well-defined paths which are followed. First of all, there is no set rule on what you have
to wear—that is within certain limitations. From this freedom, we get the typical campus outfit, consisting of overalls or khaki
(not to be related with ROTC) pants and a tee-shirt with a sweater thrown in for colder weather. Take these
two and throw in brogans or unwhitenable bucks and you have it. Of course, there are the more conservative now
and then who stick to stiff-collar shirts and regular flannel or woolen pants. When the weekend rolls around, however, we
notice a decisive change in attire. If it’s suits they are usually of the darker colors and are mainly single-breasted.
Economy plays a big role in this due to the fact that you have a sport coat merely by switching
trousers. Sports coats are as popular as usual with plaids and checks in lighter colors prevalent. Cashmere sweaters (at $18.50?),
button-down roll-collar shirts in light pastels, argyle socks, plain or two-tone belts, chords both plain-toed and wing-tipped, and of course
the ever-handy “Repp” tie are mainly the weekend trench except for those lost souls who date during the week. Having
some doubt in my mind as to the authenticity of the past few statements I will close with just the
following: “As to matters of dress, I would recommend one never to be first in the fashion nor the last
out of it."—(J. Wesley.)

DICK ROPER: 5000 People Homeless In S. C.; Town Is Destroyed By H-Bomb

It has been nearly a year since the Federal government told some five thousand people in the vicinity of Ellenton,
South Carolina, that they would have to move. The Atomic Energy Commission wanted their land, and every last one of
the five thousand were confronted with expulsion from their homes and severance of land ties generations old. A few days
after the news broke an attachment to one of the Ellenton city limits signs appeared which expressed the feelings of
the stunned South Carolinians. Crudely lettered on rough boards, it was an impressive sign of the times. It read: “It
is hard to understand why our town must be destroyed to make a bomb that will destroy someone else's town
that they love as much as we love ours. But we feel that they picked not just the best spot
in the U.S. but in the world. We love these dear hearts and gentle people who live in our home
town.” It was touching, to say the least. To many, it was heart-rending. But, said people, it was all for
a good cause—to make parts for a new super-weapon which would give us the upper hand and make aggressors think
twice before they attacked us. So the people of Ellenton and the surrounding areas packed their belongings, sold their land,
and got out. And now, one year later, what is the situation at the new H-bomb plant? Waste, labor racketeering,
and lack of security, according to a report corroborated by Congressman Wheeler of Georgia, who has actually been to the
new plant, dressed in overalls and pretending to seek a job. He said he was told he would have to
become a union member and pay dues before he could get work, and that he found many of the workers
loafing on the job. He also reported that he roamed the area without being stopped by guards. It is fortunate
that North Carolina’s Representative Graham A. Barden has decided to conduct a congressional investigation of conditions at the billion-dollar plant.
What Rep. Barden will find, if all unofficial reports made so far are to be believed, is a situation of
corruption which seems only typical of the present times. The thanks the people of Ellenton are getting for their sacrifice
is the undermining of the economy of the region surrounding the plant brought about by illegal labor doings. The assurance
they are getting in the way of being protected is that the new plant could evidently be blown up by
saboteurs without too much trouble. The people of Ellenton, however, are only representative of the whole American tax-paying public who
are seeing their money poured down rat-holes, watching corruption in government grow to alarming proportions, and helplessly letting minority groups
ruin their economy. What is so appalling about the whole situation is that it seems to grow worse every day.
The investigators investigate, and then someone investigates the investigators, and nobody seems to get a whole lot done.

Silent Tap Day Puzzles Students, Ires Members.....
By BRYAN W. ROBINSON

A good many people stopped me after ODK tap day the other day, and wanted to know why something wasn’t
said about what was happening, that the freshmen didn’t know what was coming off. A few freshmen stopped me and
asked me what were the boys tapped for, what did it mean and so on. I expected this reaction. The
program was planned as it was presented, and here is why. I have been on this campus now a little
over three years, I have yet to see ODK act as if it were made up of a group of
leaders. When I came up here, I was advised to try to make ODK rather than Phi Beta Kappa, for
ODK represented the real leaders, the well-rounded students in any student body. I came to Davidson pretty green and was
awed by the ODK’s I met... but not for long. The organization was ineffectual, lazy and did not even attempt
to lead student opinion on various issues. Last spring when I was tapped, I swore to myself that while I
was in it, ODK was going to get a new lease on life. Here was the greatest potential molder of
student opinion on the campus. We were chosen for our leadership, and we are going to use those talents. ODK
is in a unique position here. A strong voice is often needed, worthy projects that affect the whole student body
need initiating and organizing. So, the silent tap day was doubly symbolic. Its silence signified ODK in the past. The
fact that the freshmen did not immediately know what was going on bears out this accusation. They should have ODK
so well in mind that they know before they come here what ODK is and what it means to be
tapped into it. Omicron Delta Kappa was founded December 3, 1914, at Washington and Lee University by fifteen student and
faculty leaders. In the tradition of the idealism and leadership of George Washington and Robert E. Lee, the founders formulated
the idea that all-around leadership in college should be recognized, that representative men in all phases of college life should
cooperate in worthwhile endeavor, and that outstanding students and faculty members should meet on a basis of mutual interest, understanding
and helpfulness. The motives which guided the founders sprang from a desire to bring together in one body for the
general good of the institution all leaders in the various forms of college activities. They had the conviction that such
an honor society would afford student and faculty leaders abundant opportunities and experiences in cooperative effort for leadership and service
in the institution for the maintenance and improvement of the unity and democracy of learning and of the art of
democratic living. The ODK society has three purposes. First, to recognize men who have attained a high standard of efficiency
in collegiate activities and to inspire others to strive for conspicuous attainments along similar lines. Second, to bring together the
most representative men in all phases of collegiate life and thus to create an organization which will help to mold
the sentiment of the institution on questions of local and intercollegiate interest. Third, to bring together members of the faculty
and student body of the institution on a basis of mutual interest and understanding. ODK recognizes and encourages achievement in
scholarship; athletics; social and religious affairs; publications; and speech, music, and dramatic arts. ODK places emphasis upon the development of
the well-rounded man both as a present member of his college community and as a prospective contributor to a better
society. The Society believes that while good scholarship and intellectual development are the chief objectives of the college years, the
life on the mind is not the only life students will have to cope with as the result of their
college experience. It is not enough to be merely a “scholar;” other indispensable qualities have to be cultivated also. Students
and faculty members have more clearly to understand that the self is truly a composite of the hand, the heart,
and the spirit as well as the mind. Omicron Delta Kappa believes that the real search for truth, the promotion
of good will, the development of consideration and understanding, good taste, and a sense of honor, learning how to get
along and cooperate with others and the assumption of duty and responsibility, are important lessons and personal qualities which one
learns and develops through an integrated program of academic and extracurricular education. The Society further believes that progressive and intelligent
development in campus citizenship requires the opportunity and freedom to engage in purposeful activities carried on by students with friendly
counsel and association of faculty members. ODK posits five indispensable qualifications for membership: character, leadership and service in campus life,
scholarship, fellowship and consecration to democratic ideals. (Continued On Page Four)
