One thing on the campus that is grossly overlooked and not supported is the cross-country team. There really isn’t much
opportunity for a spectator to view this track-type endurance test except on the finish and starting lines, but there seems
to be no interest whatsoever in the outcome of their meets and their standing. Their season unfortunately runs parallel with
the football season and the big-spectator sports.

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1951 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

CATS VS PACK

By BOB OWENS

The beautiful thing to me about this sport is that the boys are somewhat on their own to get in
shape and make a good showing for their school and for themselves. Sure, they get a lot of good coaching
from Pete Whittle, but it is up to them to grind away every afternoon on the golf course, because there
would surely not be anyone running behind them to make them run the full course or keep the pace up.
It is up to the individual Tom, Dick, or Harry (no reference inferred as to our present team) to trot
out the three or four miles and not to sit behind a tree hiding from some overseer.

Now that the football season is approaching its final week, the fraternities are beginning to look forward to three other
sports in the near future. Basketball is the next major sport on the agenda, and it will get started as
soon as the football season is completed. Also, the swimming and wrestling tournaments will be starting in the near future.
It looks as if we have a lot of interfraternity sports to keep everyone interested and let everyone get in
some good wholesome exercise.

SOME RECORDS, SOME OUTSTANDING PACERS

This year the team has been outstanding although their record will not hold me up at a glance. They have
won 2 and lost 3 and placed third in the recent State meet, beating out Duke by a considerable margin.
Their latest loss was only 5 points and that was to V.M.I. last week. The meets at the first of
the season proved to be the downfall of the thin-clads as they were invaded by the great teams of both
State and Carolina. State’s aggregation, that this week copped the state crown and are expected to gain the conference one
also, was too potent with Garrison and the Sophomore-star Shockley leading the Pack and setting a new record in the
meantime.

Over the past season a new star arose over the horizon around Davidson and his brilliance has shone for the
past few weeks. Our Wildcat of the Week last week placed third in the state meet only 16 seconds behind
Shockley and Garrison, who tied for the lead. He has come in first in four of the five regular meets
of the season, getting licked only by the team that beat him last Monday. Tom Stockton has also set two
course records. One came the week after the Garrison-Shockley combo set the record on this course. The other was a
University of Richmond course record the very next weekend. Dick Stockton came in tenth in the state meet and also
captured a nice trophy. He has been consistently in the first 7 or 8 places this season and has been
running better all the time. Bill Shipley has shone well as a Soph this year and should really improve as
the seasons come. Bob Henry has helped the squad and also the addition of several Freshmen, notably Floyd Feeney and
Bob Charles has strengthened us along down the line. Bill Lee, the unheralded pacer, has been consistently in the first
four or five finishers and has been improving steadily.

CONFERENCE MEET AND MORE LAURELS

With the conference meet in Durham this coming Monday, Coach Whittle hopes to prove that he has a good squad
and aspires to at least fifth or sixth position among the conference greats. State will probably cop the meet as
they annexed the State title and Carolina should finish strong with such teams as Maryland and West Virginia fighting for
the first three or four places. This is where our own squad should and can show up if they can
beat out that pesky VMI bunch that squeezed out a win last week.Week. JUST A WORD ABOUT STATE COLLEGE

This week finds us in the midst of the traditional battle between this little church school and the technical and
agricultural college of the state. Although neither they nor our Wildcats have met much success on the football field, both
teams are really better than they have shown and both teams have played a rough schedule in proportion to the
sizes of the respective institutions. State College has never considered Davidson as much competition as you might think even with
that win in '49 and a darn good scare in '50. This year could be an ‘impressionable’ one.

Billton must have peered into a crystal ball to write these lines. How else could he have foretold the delicious,
refreshing goodness of Coca-Cola?

The Davidson Golf team has compiled a wonderful record for a college of this size, and its schedule is constantly
dominated by the strongest teams of the Southern Conference. A golfing trip to Florida, during which the team matches strokes
with some of the strongest schools in the nation, highlights the season’s activities. The prospects are looking bright.

The Cats haven't been able to get up a full head of steam since they defeated VPI 32-20 in their
second contest of the season. The injury-plagued squad has had one bad break after another all through the season, and
haven't played a game since the Citadel contest without several key players on the sidelines nursing hurts. But the tussle
with State is the big one, and if the Cats can ever be counted to put out for all they're
worth, it'll be in tomorrow’s fracas. The 20-14 upset win over the Wolfpack in 1949 still stands out vividly in
the minds of the senior members of the Cat squad, and they would dearly love to do a repeat performance.
The Raleigh boys squeezed by in last year’s tilt, 15-7. Despite the loss of their past five games, the Cats
have displayed a desire to win all season. They held powerful Washington and Lee to a scoreless tie in the
first half of that game and last week led VMI 7-0 at the end of the first quarter, though they
lost the game eventually, 34-13. It was the same story every time—too many injuries and not enough depth.

Arnold Whisnant, offensive center for the Wildcats, came into his own up in Lexington last week when we played VMI.
By virtue of his performance in the games he has played, he is a strong contender for the coveted Armfield
Blocking Trophy. Plagued by a mid-season knee injury, Arnold has missed a couple of the games, but in those that
he has started he has shown himself to be the best center on the squad. His return, along with some
of the rest of the numerous injured, will greatly enhance our chances of victory over the Wolfpack of N. C.
State. The game will be played in Charlotte and should be the thriller that it has been for the last
two years. When Arnold was out, his presence was greatly missed in the center of that forward wall, and N.
C. State will find it even tougher to crack with “Whiz” in there.

Arnold's athletics are not confined to the football field. In the spring he changes uniforms and covers first base for
the Wildcats. Though only a Sophomore last year, he was No. 1 in his position and lettered under Coach Packard.
He bats left-handed and is an able and adept hitter. With the return of warm weather, he will once again
return to the infield. During his high school days, he played football for the Morganton team. Even then his ability
was recognized. He was chosen for All-State honors, consisting of an invitation to play in both the Shrine Bowl and
the Optimist Bowl, which are the highest honors that can come to an athlete in this state. He was unable
to play in either of these classics due to a knee injury which has continued to bother him in his
college years. While Morganton isn’t noted for its powerhouse football teams, a few years ago it was stronger, and one
of the factors contributing to its success was Arnold.

“Whiz” is just a junior, with another season of eligibility. He is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity
and a member of the D club. He is also enrolled in Advanced ROTC, which assures his return to Davidson
for next year, when, undoubtedly, he will continue to play a bang-up good game of ball. Being Wildcat of the
Week is just one way of saying that Arnold is long overdue for the praise that he deserves on that
football field.

The world is full of ideas. What we need is more individuals who can take ideas out of the area
of emotional belief and hotly argued faith, and detachedly put these ideas to work to prove their validity or to
expose their inadequacy.—Weston La Barre.

No. 26 THE ROOSTER

More than one-fourth of all privately financed nonfarm homes in the U. S. in '49 were built by the owners
themselves. Some 272,970 persons built houses for their own families, acting as their own contractors and in many cases doing
part of the work themselves.

You have to get up early in the morning to put one over on this cock-of-the-walk! When it came to
making “quick-trick” experiments of cigarette mildness, he stated flatly, “That’s strictly for clucks”! How ’ya going to keep ’em down
on the farm—when they know there’s one convincing way to prove cigarette mildness! It’s the sensible test... the 30-day Camel
Mildness Test, which simply asks you to try Camels as a steady smoke—on a day after day basis. No snap
judgments. Once you’ve enjoyed Camels for 30 days in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste), you'll see why...

CAMEL CIGARETTE QUALITY
