PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 1951

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF .......... GORDON SCOTT

BUSINESS MANAGER JOHN LOFTIN

Associate Editors ........ Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall

Features Editor Shelley Beard

Managing Editors ........ Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George McMurray, Ed Richardson

Photographs—Pete Ormsby

Photographer— Raymond Lynch

Proofreader—Wallace Abbott

City Editor—Nat Daniel

Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen

Sports Editor—Bill White

Assistant Business Manager ........ Alex Goley

Advertising Manager ........ Manley McWilliams

Circulation Manager ........ Ansley Moses

Collections Manager ........ Jack Turner

Subscriptions Manager ........ Bill Hart

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Crest Finis

With this issue, we turn over the editorship of the Davidsonian to Bill White and bow as gracefully as possible
out of the picture. In looking back over the past year, we recall many happy and satisfying experiences, both in
our efforts to give to Davidson a worthy newspaper and in our associations with the members of the staff. If
the Davidsonian accomplished anything this year it was due to the undivided loyalty and support of the staff at large.
Publishing a college newspaper is not—nor could it be—a one-man proposition and in this final editorial, we would like to
recognize the men behind the scenes who have contributed so much to the paper.

The editorials of Tom Mann, Hartley Hall, and Jim Murray need little recognition from this corner for their excellence has
been apparent to readers of this column. The Managing Editors, Bill Adams, Shelley Beard, Pete Kalogridis, George McMurray, Nat Daniels,
and Ed Richardson—have served in such a way that any editor would be proud to be associated with them. Our
sophomores, Frank Hanshaw, Pete Ormsby, John Ottley, and Larry Dagenhart have proved their mettle and will give Editor White much
cause for rejoicing next year. It goes without saying that in Bill White, the Davidsonian had a “big league” sports
Editor who could make the grade with any newspaper in the country, college or otherwise. It is trite but true
that “reporters are the backbone of any newspaper” and the efforts of our reporters—the list is too long to name
them individually—have certainly borne out this axiom.

Invaluable aid and contributions have from time to time come from various members of the College Administration, faculty and the
student body at large; but we would like to single out “for service above and beyond the call of duty,”
Colonel Ballard of the ROTC Department, Messrs. Payne and McLean in the Alumni Office, Dr. Chalmers Davidson, Dr. Cunningham, Professor
H. T. Lilly, our faculty advisor and Raymond Lynch, the paper’s photographer.

To Bill White we extend our heartiest congratulations—or condolences, depending on the way you look at the job—on his election
and wish him Godspeed in his efforts to publish a newspaper that will be a credit, not only to himself,
but to our favorite institution, Davidson College.

YMCA Scores Again

For the unusual forethought and planning which have been displayed in this year’s Spring Services, the Davidsonian would like to
give a “well done” to Don Shriver and the other members of the YMCA who have been contributors. We should
like especially to congratulate them for the new departure in the realm of counseling. Having the counselors with us in
the dormitories has proved to be one of the most stimulating experiences of the year. It enables those with questions
and a desire for discussion a chance to follow through on the inspirational addresses of the principal speaker. Here in
our dorm we have heard the nightly bull sessions range from sex to predestination, from current politics to the origin
of the human race. The discussions were carried to fraternity court as the counselors moved down to eat with the
various groups. Such intimate associations must necessarily have their effect on the tone of campus life. Here is a leavening
element for Davidsonian routine.

One of the great dangers of the life of Davidson is the tendency to let custom and tradition take the
place of intelligent pioneering into new fields of thought and action. This danger is all the more insidious in the
religious practices of the college since it is a fault which is likely to receive small criticism. We hope that
our YMCA officers will constantly be seeking new ways to inject a freshness and vitality into the religious life of
the college as they have done in their Spring Services.

—J.J.M.

By HENRY HANSEN

The word “vital,” like many another in this day of hyperbole, is often overworked. It is used in reference to
books, people’s actions, and occasionally a movie. The word is seldom applied to Davidson in any respect except in house
organ publications, after dinner speeches, and by old grads who have been away long enough to know. There would seem
to be a feeling among the student body, especially those decadents who constantly yawp loudly against student body, administration, and
faculty, that the only thing vital in the local scene is the vegetation—the rest is so much dead wood. For
this reason I would like to single out for strong commendation those men, members of the YMCA cabinet, who have
made this year what may honestly be called a vital contribution to the Davidson scene and particularly the student body.

Throughout the year it has become more and more apparent that we have, in this cabinet, a group of men
whose ideas have been wedded to the practical know-how necessary to get them across. A long list of well-done jobs
stretches behind them and this week’s Spring Services has placed the capstone on a series of activities which have been
characterized by the intelligence of their conception, planning, and execution. Congratulations and thanks are due—it is refreshing and inspiring to
know that such a group has been active not in the good old days but here and now. It is
reassuring to realize that we can still apply to some aspects of the Davidson contemporary scene the word which keynotes
this praise—vital.

We are aware that our library is not perfect. Many books it should have are lacking. In connection with this
it might be cogent to note the presence of a box in the north alcove, first floor, whose purpose is,
oddly enough, to receive suggestions for books we want. The bright and vicariously acquisitive student, if active enough in stuffing
this box, may get quite a high percentage of books ordered on his suggestion, perhaps even ten per cent. Why
not let the library know its woeful lack by using the box more and complaining less.

The recent move for Victorian Elegance would seem to have been squashed. Though the hallowed scroll of 1840 was my
choice also, nevertheless it must be observed that here, as in other fields, we were too little with too late.
It might have caused less consternation in high places if we had decided to be reactionary sooner. We might even
have gotten our wish in the matter. There are two sides to every coin—this one is no exception; however, perhaps
our tardiness in this matter did play a significant part in the retention of the odious 1930 style.

The Red and Black Masquers saw red when their last production was vetoed on moral grounds. The arts must not
be shackled to 19th century Victorian prudery. It was rumored with dark looks and low mutters that things were going
to be changed. We’d like to see some change ourselves. Where are they? For that matter, where are the Masquers?
Committees await your petitions and your manifestos. Let us then petition and make manifest. Meanwhile, the best luck in once
more doing unto death the many-lived Caesar.

LAST WEEK

THE WORLD

1) France signed a new trade agreement with Tito’s government whereby Yugoslavia will get arms aid.

2) Public opinionPolls in West Germany indicated an increase in feeling favoring rearmament and economic cooperation with Western Europe.

3) The worst spring floods in eighty years drove thousands from their homes in Sweden.

4) University of Penn. archeologists in Iran have discovered a cave containing the first known agricultural tools and earliest evidence
of the domestication of animals.

5) President Peron of Argentina has signed a bill killing La Prensa, the largest newspaper in the Spanish-speaking world and
his bitterest literary critic. A commission had found that it used the United Press as its main source.

6) The worst crisis in five years shook Iran last week as Red efforts to secure the leadership of the
oil nationalization program resulted in riots and other serious disturbances.

WAX SCRATCHING By BOB WHELESS

This week Billboard Magazine published the results of its annual College Music Poll. To determine what artists are tops among
collegiate groups, two mailings to 907 colleges and junior colleges throughout the country were made, and the following are the
results that were obtained. Ralph Flanigan was voted the most popular band by a two-to-one majority over Stan Kenton. Ray
Anthony, who didn’t place in the last poll, was hot on Kenton’s heels in earning the third slot. Kenton's concert
jazz idea has received its greatest acceptance at the collegiate level and has been a long-standing favorite of the campusites.
Flanigan also ranked as top sweet band and also came in number one as most promising band. Fourth place, Les
Brown, held that same slot last time out. Brown's popularity still is based on a combination of records and his
weekly showing on the Bob Hope radio program. Vaughan Monroe, who in the previous poll swept dual honors as top
all-around and sweet band, took a big slide down to fifth most popular band and did not show at all
in the sweet band polling. It could be significant that Monroe has not hit the road since his TV series
began in October and that he hasn’t had a hit disc in quite a while. Runners up in the all-around
category include Elliot Lawrence, Tommy Dorsey, Harry James, Tex Beneke, Sammy Kaye, and Woody Herman.

In the Most Popular Male Singer poll, Billy Eckstine took the title away from last year’s winner Bing Crosby, who
fell to third place. Perry Como, who was second place previously, retained his hold on the number two position. Mario
Lanza made so substantial an impact via his movie work and on the strength of his smash hit “Be My
Love” that he was polled into fourth place. Frankie Laine, for some years a key favorite on the campus, moved
into fifth place this year from his seventh position in the previous polling.

As the most popular female singer, Doris Day outdistanced second place winner Sarah Vaughan by almost a three-to-one majority. Sarah
moved into the second slot from number six last year and in so doing edged Jo Stafford from the two
to three spot in the listings. Patti Page, whose fabulous record streak is still blazing, zoomed into a fourth place
tie with Kay Starr. The runners-up this year included June Christy, Dinah Shore, Peggy Lee, Margaret Whiting, and Mindy Carson.
Mindy led the field in the most promising female vocalist and could easily be a contender for one of the
top spots in the popularity field next year.

Mario Lanza’s choice as most promising in the pop singing department is based largely on his movie work. The second
place winner, Eddie Fisher, capitalized on a couple of hit discs, “Thinking Of You” and “Bring Back The Thrill.” Likewise,
third place winner Don Cherry moved into contention overnight as the result of his hit “Thinking Of You.” The George
Shearing Quintet copped a three-to-one majority to sweep the honors from the King Cole Trio, the champs last time out.
Shearing rose to popular eminence after enjoying several years in a leading position in the jazz field. His popular acceptance
was assured by the warm reception accorded his group on the recent tour he made with Billy Eckstine. Top vocal
group was the title won by the Mills Brothers. The power of the disc is reflected in the rise from
out of nowhere eighteen months ago to second most popular vocal group of the Ames Brothers. The Ink Spots, whose
work in the past years actually has focused on the solo stints of Bill Kenny, held down third place. Previous
vocal group champ was the Pied Pipers who slipped badly this time up.

THE POLL CAT By SLAYDON MYERS

Do you read the Davidsonian regularly?
Yes—96%
No—4%

If you do read the Davidsonian or parts of it, which page do you read most thoroughly:
Front Page
Editorial Page
Sports Page

GEECH’S GOULASH

The gilded face of Old Sol hung tantalizingly between the zenith and the horizon, lending to the air of absolute
stillness that permeated the campus. Even the usual afternoon breeze made only a fitful appearance, almost a sigh, and the
thermometer appeared unwilling to disturb itself into a change of even a few degrees. The only activities at the moment
were the unnoticed ripening of a million buds, and the careful deepening of the green in the grass. After a
while, a dog arose, shook himself awkwardly, and set off at a leisurely pace toward a nearby tree. He did
not make it, but sat down in an ecstasy of fatigue, panting fitfully, an expression of infinite peace filling his
large brown eyes. In a few twinklings of the eye of Spring, he was asleep. A pastoral scene, no less,
fraught with boiling sap and thickening blood. Cares of a trouble-torn world slipped into a little-used recess of the mind,
and a compassionate warmth enveloped all wakeful hearts. Spring’s red-breasted harbinger sang lazily but cheerfully from a great oak—icy, breathtaking
notes, slicing the moist air on a horizontal cleavage plane, challenging all ears to awake and dream and hope. Then,
like the gentle handshake of death, a slight shadow darkened the scene, and a faint pit-pat began to cool the
tortured pavement of the walks. Quickly the sprinkle became a shower, and the shower a torrent, but the rays of
the sun continued to pierce the scattered clouds, turning each raindrop into a tiny, sparkling diamond, to fall shattered on
the thirsty foliage. And the green deepened measurably to the green of a polished emerald. As if disturbed by the
cold compress of the rain, the thermometer cleared its throat and dropped a degree or so, making sure first that
no one was looking. But its action did not pass unnoticed. The very air seemed to revive from its coma
with the loss of humidity, and the breeze stirred itself once again. And as quickly as it had come, the
rain stopped, leaving behind only the cool refreshed feeling that comes only after a spring rain. The robin emerged from
his sheltered bower, and poured forth afresh his song of joyous welcome. The dog disentangled himself from a damp bush,
and shook himself, not unhappily, growling peacefully at a passing leaf. Then the long grey fingers of the evening reached
out to entwine with the deepening rose of the sunset, and a restful tenderness poured itself out on the campus,
many layers thick, like slow molasses. But before the darkness came, a student emerged from one of the dormitories, a
trifle unkempt from an obvious nap. He paused on the steps of the building, took a dissatisfied drag on his
cigarette, and a disinterested breath of the evening air. His countenance did not brighten, and his shoulders remained a little
hunched, as if he was fighting to stay in an uncomfortable position. Carefully he flicked the cigarette in a long
arc into a wet bush, inserted his hands in his pockets and set off down the walk. “Nuts,” he said
to himself.

Where you meet your friends
Charlotte's Finest Restaurant

SHIP AHOY
A GOOD PLACE TO MEET — A BETTER PLACE TO EAT

PICCADILLY GRILL
1416 East Morehead Street
Phones 6-2000 — 5-088
Charlotte, N.C.
