THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1951
PAGE FOUR

Young GOP's Review Plans

A PINT OF BLOOD MEANS MORE TO A PEACEFUL COLLEGE TOWN.

Several members of the club distributed copies of the North Carolina Young Republican News to the student body following chapel on Wednesday.

Those interested in learning more about Young Republicanism should contact Lining Burnette, Tad Currie, or Malcolm Williamson.

A group of Davidson Young Republicans, led by Burnette, went to Greensboro on Thursday for Senator Taft's address at Greensboro College and to confer with the Ohio Senator and with other State Young Republican college leaders.

SERVICE COLUMN
(Continued From Page One)

PVT. BOB McPHEETERS, JR., Class of ‘52, from Greensboro, N. Car., is now stationed with Fleet 2292, 37447 Trng. Squadron at Sheppard A.F.B, in Wichita Falls, Texas. A B. S. major, Bob was very interested in scouting work, having made an outstanding record as an Eagle Scout.

CATS IN FIRST TEST...
(Continued From Page Three)

is on a leave of absence doing graduate work, and also departed is Larry Graham, high scoring ace of the Catawbas. When asked to comment on the game, Baird replied, “All I know is that they will wear blue jerseys so we'll wear our white uniforms. We had a pretty good scrimmage with Cramerton Mills Monday night and the boys looked okay except for a few spots on defense. Catawba is always a hard bunch to handle so we're looking for anything to happen and hope we can handle it.”

SEEK NEW RECORD...
(Continued From Page One)

THE DAVIDSON COMMUNITY holds the Mecklenburg County record for donations in a single day, approximately 400, which was established at the drive on March 9, 1951, and it is sincerely hoped by all the ROTC Department, which is sponsoring the drive, that a higher record may still be set on December 3, 1951.

Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity was the first fraternity on the campus to pledge that all of its members would donate blood to the drive, and Shelton’s Boarding house is giving a steak dinner to all donors who board at that house. It is hoped by the PMS&T that many of the other fraternities of the campus will also pledge 100 percent donations. At the ROTC drill this past Tuesday the PMS&T announced that a worthwhile reward will be given to those units having the most members to donate blood in the campaign.

EDITOR'S MAILBOX...
(Continued From Page Two)

Why should the praise be given to the paper, while criticism is pushed off on the individuals? I understand a paper's first responsibility is to stand behind its writers on the staff. It is often apparent you are straining to find material to write about. Why not come down off the superficial level? Take the pulse of the student body on basic issues; look in your own backyard and I predict you will find it alive with newsworthy material.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Coes Sis - A WOEALWTURITUM Pee Thursday, Dec. 6

SLANTED MOVIES... (Continued From Page One)

He read of a UN pilot not only violating the Kassong neutrality area, but machine-gunning buildings within. Gee, anyone could make a mistake in navigation he conjectured, but those awful Reds were unquestionably rude and hostile. They really didn’t want to effect a cease-fire as did our emissaries. As the lights flicked on, John found he was glad the ROTC Department pictures had made him really hate Russia and eager to fight the Communists who were such wholly evil people. He saw now with a relish that there could be no real peace until the President had every right to twist the facts or bias any of his reports.

Joseph Alsop, also of the Herald-Tribune, lashed in Gen. Willoughby’s article. Alsop is a learned man. He writes a daily column, which is not noted for any type of sensationalism. There is no reason to believe this coolheaded reporter would have known something about the Chinese intervention in Korea before it came. That is its job. When things go wrong, says the General, intelligence becomes a convenient whipping boy. It seems only right that it should, at least until proved innocent. And, though Gen. Willoughby tries to relieve his department of any blame, the intelligence should have known something about the Chinese intervention in Korea before it came. This could go on, but it seems senseless to do so, because Gen. Willoughby’s sensational article will be recognized as full of holes by anyone with an open mind who takes the time and trouble to investigate the situation thoroughly.

PHI DELTS WIN... (Continued From Page Three)

NEW CARS
418 South Main Street
Mooresville, N. C.
Dial 3-4513

177 pounds—Freeman, Phi Gams 1st; Myrick, Betas 2nd.
191 pounds—Wade, Kappa Sig 1st; Bryson, Phi Gams, 2nd.
Heavyweight—Bailey, SAE, 1st; Sutton, Phi Delts, 2nd.

Tournament Standings
Place Fraternity Points
1. Phi Delts 35
2. Phi Gams 33
3. Betas 19
4. SAE's 18
5. Kappa Sigs 18
6. KA’s 7
7. SPE 9
8. Pikas 8
9. Pi Kapps 7
10. ATO 6
11. Sigma Chi 2
12. Campus Club 1

STUDENT PAPER... (Continued From Page One)

Myers made it clear that there was no intention for the Student Mirror, as it may be called, to be any sort of underground organ, but just a device to make sure that all information available to the student body on principal questions is made so. There will be no charge for the tabloid, and it will be run by independent financial assistance. Publication date of the first issue was not known, but the staff seemed to be in hopes of making a good showing at an early date.

RENT YOUR FORMALS — at the — American Beauty Florist 1515 S. Blvd. — Charlotte, — Phone 4-057, Night or Day FORMALS FOR ALL OCCASIONS — 30 minutes notice! Tails — Cutaways — Tuxedos — Dinner Jackets — Shirts Links and Studs — Ties — Gloves — and Shoes Phone 4-0517 Charlotte, N. C.

FOR THE BEST IN RECORDS DAN RAMSEY RECORD BAR 127½ W. Trade — Charlotte

...where the hermit slaked my burning thirst Tennyson: Holy Grail Could be he found Coke at the hermitage. For Coca-Cola is everywhere... and everywhere it has the same delicious and refreshing quality.

MILDNESS — NO UNPLEASANT AFTERTASTE *From the Report of a Well-Known Research Organization COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF CONCORD

AND ONLY CHESTERFIELD WAS IT! "Coke" is a registered trademark; © 1951, The Coca-Cola Company. Copyright 1951, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.