FRIDAY, MARCH 9, 1951 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Hang Your Hat At Hugos
By NAT DANIELS

Our dissertation this week could be more appropriately titled “Nat's Nook,” or some similar designation, in that it has a little to do with the embellishment of or detraction from the civic pride of the town of Davidson. Due to a certain feeling of repulsion at putting out another “satirical” column so close on the heels of last week’s defense of the Post Office, I decided to break into a trend and just spout off in general.

CAMPUS PERSONALITIES

THE CYNIC

In wandering over the campus for the past two and a half years, I have stopped laughing at my own attempts at humor and attracting the attention of my betters long enough to notice that there exists at Davidson a type of individual whose personality can best be summed up and described in a single word—cynicism. Cynicism as a personality factor can be found in small doses in the best of us, in somewhat larger amounts in the worst of us and in varying degrees in the rest of us. However, it seems to express itself most freely in the type of person commonly described as being a—well, a cynic, or from the cynic’s point of view, a realist.

Life, for the cynic is rather discouraging. He is convinced that all the faults of the world around him are incurable, that any attempts at such cures are absurd, and that the situation of things in general should evoke no more response from the “thinking” person than a bitter chuckle. In short, manners, ethics, and morals are only figments of mankind's wildest dreams. About here, the typical cynic will cackle sarcastically and say, “that’s not cynicism, but objective and realistic thinking.” It may be pointed out that the main difference between a realist and a cynic is that the realist is able to see his own faults and weaknesses as well as those of the institutions and individuals within his environment.

The first of two types of cynics which I have noted is the disillusioned idealist, or one whose standards have been set so high that nothing within his earthly environment can meet up to them, because of certain weaknesses inherent in human nature, and human nature controls, to a certain extent, that environment. Take for a familiar example, the student who, when he enters Davidson, is convinced that all is sweetness and light on the campus, and that gambling, drinking, sex, and similar evils don’t exist in such Christian atmosphere. His mother is probably relieved to know that her little son will be sheltered from the cold, cruel world for four more years, (And she is partially right). The net result is that his first poker game, and his first invitation to visit Iredell County, shatters his faith in men and morals with such a jolt that he makes the mistake of believing that because his old ideals are shattered, no others are good enough, and flexible standards don't exist. He gets disgusted with the piety of his mother, his preacher, and his more religiously-minded friends, becomes convinced that it is only a front, and believes that an inveterate, but open and honest sinner is a much more noble character than the nominal Christian. He should remember that, as C. S. Lewis once said, “We shouldn't want to be either.”

The second type of cynic I have noticed is the individual with few ethics, few morals, and practically no inhibitions. His cynicism is the hardest to uproot, and the only things that prevent me from saying it is inherited are the fact that no parents that cynical themselves would have ever gotten married in the first place, and the influence of certain environmentalists in the Psychology department. No matter how worthy a cause is, or how much effort has been put into a seemingly futile attempt, how beautiful the day, or how good looking somebody else’s date is our friend can always find an appropriate and cheering word, and he vents forth without hesitation. He may point out that the advocators of the cause plan to use it for their own benefit (as he would do in their position), that the attempt was absurd in the first place, that the warmth and sun only serve to turn the campus into a sea of grassy mud, and that he knows and dates plenty of girls, with more brains, more personality, and most important of all, more money.

Very similar to, but not closely related to the forms of life so far described is the pseudo-cynic, and he, I believe really predominates in our student body. He has high but not unattainable ideals, broad, but unbreakable moral standards, and a sense of values—the only trouble is, he hates to admit it. Maybe he thinks he’s being different, when actually he looks ridiculous, or maybe he thinks he can become identified with some of the true cynics and achieve a certain distinction as a typical iconoclast. However, it must be said to his credit that when the going gets tough, the chips are down, and the enemy is closing in, he digs in, plays his cards straight, throws down his flimsy shield and pulls out his bayonet.

And so the cynics and their fellow travelers wend their sad way down the road of life, oblivious to the beauty of the world about them, the humanity of man, and the majesty of God.

College Quirks

A professor of English at Northwestern University reports that more Northwestern women smoke than do men. A survey revealed that 60 per cent of the girls smoke, as opposed to 52 per cent of the men. A further increase in women smokers, warns the professor, will drive the American male, who is sensitive about his masculinity, to cut plug and marijuana.

The “bed check” also proved that out of 176 girls in one dormitory, 13 sleep in nighties, while the rest prefer pajamas. No one was reported to sleep in her slip or birthday suit.

First Accurate Life Of Madison Received This Week In Library

Dr. Chalmers Davidson, college librarian, announced the arrival of five new books recently. These include the first two volumes of Irving Brant’s authentic life of James Madison. George Allen’s Presidents Who Have Known Me, and two novels: A Breath of Air and Unto These Hills round out the list.

Brant, in attempting to compile an authentic life of Madison, has undertaken a monumental task. First of the two volumes received, James Madison, Father of the Constitution, 1780-1787, deals with Madison's vital relation to the Constitution and Bill of Rights. Brant treats Madison’s putting the Federal government to work under the Constitution and establishing a Democratic Party. Contemporaries of Madison are not dealt with as demi-gods, but as men innocent of selfishness, yet swayed by political and economic pressures. We receive a clear insight into the framing and ratification of our Great Constitution in James Madison, the Nationalist, 1787-1800. Madison here emerges as the master strategist of the Continental Congress and as a great Virginian who put the founding of a strong central government above all. This second book throws much light on the American type of government. It spotlights information which was hitherto either misunderstood or haphazardly recorded.

Presidents Who Have Known Me is an unprecedented mixture of good humor, shrewd political analyses and inside stories. We get a quick look into the inside political workings of our government. It’s hard to quit laughing, but once one has, one can learn a lot about the government.

Too Much Profanity Observed By Editor

There’s entirely too much profanity around here. This was the opinion of the Contraband, student newspaper of McNeese State College, Lake Charles, La. The Contraband complained, “Too often, as one walks down the halls of M.S.C., he hears a word or phrase which gives him the feeling that something is lacking in the speaker's culture. The use of profanity implies that a person does not have a vocabulary sufficient for expressing himself . . . When visitors on campus hear objectionable language, it may give rise to unfavorable comment regarding McNeese students in general.”

BRUNO

“I Deserve a Cup”

I had been told trying to get Bruno Frye to talk about himself was about as hard to do as a tap dance in tennis shoes—underwater. He simply wouldn't do it. “Aw Mike, some of the boys around the house could tell you more about me than I can.” The more I stuck around the more I realized this must be true. By looking around the room at his books I could tell he was a senior from Asheville taking an A.B. in Psychology . . . but little more. I was getting nowhere and not even very fast. I tried everything but still we sat staring at each other. I made one final effort.

“Well, I guess I can’t tell ’em about your missing teeth.” I started toward the door. It worked! I had found his weak spot, yet his pride and joy! In a flash he slammed the door, whipped out several scrapbooks and started chattering like a ticker-tape machine. “You can’t leave out the teeth angle,” he said flipping them skillfully with his tongue so I'd know they weren't his. “At ROTC camp when it was hard to get anyone for pictures they would ask Major Sample whose picture to put in the papers and he would say ‘simple, Bruno is the man’ and all because I didn't have any teeth.”

FRYE

The Great Grabs Glory Sitting Atop Hogshead Throne

Dick Groat added “Man of the Year” tobacco leaves to his All-American basketball laurels when he ascended his hogshead throne at the Pan-Hellenic Council's “To-"Bacco Ball" in the Old Gym. Despite the uncertain world situation, students may continue to study in foreign universities, the Council on the Junior Year Abroad reported at its annual meeting in New York. Under the present program, which has operated since 1923, students in American colleges and universities are enabled to take their third year of college abroad, attending universities in France, Switzerland, Germany, Italy, and Mexico. These supervised study programs, open to qualified students from any college or university in the United States, cost approximately $2400. Information may be obtained from the Institute of International Education, 2 West 45th St., New York City.

He: “What's a chaperone?”
She: “That’s an old maid who never made the first team but who still wants to intercept a few passes.”

Wheeled in on a tobacco warehouse truck, decorated red and white for the occasion, Groat shortly after midnight received his crown from Marge Olds, Pan-Hel president. Jack Blackburn, IFC president, had just introduced Groat’s eleven competitors, each escorted by the sponsoring sorority’s representatives on the Pan-Hel Council. A favorite from the beginning, Groat showed his ability to pile up votes (as well as record-breaking field goal and free throw totals) in the week-long promotion campaign which came to an end last Monday night when East Campus voted by dorms.

During the previous week, numerous posters had appeared throughout the campus—in the Dope Shop, on blackboards, and in secluded corners—requesting votes for favorite candidates. Using Parliament cigarettes as their medium, Alpha Delta Pi pushed Groat’s familiar No. 10 to an easy victory.

I was beginning to think the comma should have been left out of the preceding sentence. “Some camp that was. Never will forget...” Now I was trying to edge in a word. “But how?” 
“How? Playing football. Played for Asheville—that's where I'm from you know—wonderful town Asheville. Never played quite 1st string. One day I was warming up in practice, tripped over a water bucket...” I moved my chair nearer the door which I preferred to have open. He went on reminiscing about the ‘good ole football days.’ How he did this and that, then paused briefly for a gasp of air. I was alert and had my word ready. I grabbed the break and shouted “fraternity?”

“Best sports manager SPE ever had. Grover and I—Grover’s my roommate, you know—we sorta got a little competition going for Sports Manager of the Year. The fraternities ought to give a cup for the best manager anyhow. Don't know where I'd put it though. Yes sir, the football boys have their ‘cruel Crowell’ but the SPE’s have their brutal Bruno. I never will forget the game when—”

“ROTC camp?” We were off to the races again. “Nobody there will ever forget the time we had a fire drill and I was taking a shower, had to balance that towel and carry an M-1 in one hand and a fire extinguisher in the other. Then the towel began slipping. I knew if I dropped that M-1 to grab the towel it would mean clean-up duty in the latrine. What a situation. I flipped a coin mentally, ‘heads’ or ‘tails.’ It was ‘tails’ so I grabbed the towel just in time to cover my southern exposure and took the ‘head’ consequence.”

I thought it time to change the subject so shouted “school work?” Here he quieted down. The purple in his eyes faded into their natural pale green. The foam left his lips. “You know,” he started calmly, “I like Davidson. I like it a lot. In fact, the other three children in my family went to Carolina.” Forgetting where I was, I hissed. “But a minister back home told me about Davidson (I'm going to Union Seminary next year, you know). Still, I don’t think I’ve ever looked forward to anything like I'm looking forward to this June. I live for graduation day.” I could tell he was dead serious. “But I’ve had a lot of fun here. Particularly the firecracker club. Yes sir, Bo (Simmons) 'n Phil (Davis) and I were behind it all and we don't mind admitting it. We were well organized too. Had meetings and even mock council meetings where we would make little figures of council members, stick pins in ‘em, then burn them in effigy. Poor Phil is gone now, though. Probably now in a higher league like fixing basketball games or something. But he can always say he got his start in ole Bruno's room.”

I could tell by the catch in his voice he wouldn't be able to go on much longer. There were other incidents in this man’s life: his falling in love with ROTC Sgt., being the Gussie Moran of the tennis courts, Phenix City nightclub—but now they all seemed too trivial to bring up. He stared blankly at a paraffin-covered bottle. I knew his soul was with Phil and Bo and the club. Reverently I slipped out of the room of the boy ‘who wouldn't talk about himself.’

Alpha Epsilon Delta Commemorates Historic Silver Anniversary

Alpha Epsilon Delta, national premedical honor society, will celebrate twenty-five silver years of service to premedical students according to Gene Regen, Jr., President of the North Carolina Alpha Chapter at Davidson College, this month. Growth from an organization of a few for intellectual and social recognition and satisfaction to a national organization with broad educational programs for the many is the history of AED. To achieve maturity and to make a contribution of worth to education and to society, any organization has to grow. That Alpha Epsilon Delta has done in these twenty-five years. AED has grown in numbers and in service.

The goal and the achievement of AED has been and is its contribution and encouragement to students and to the advancement of premedical education. A number of national projects promote this goal, this objective. The First National Conference on Premedical Education was held in cooperation with the Association of American Medical Colleges at Lake Placid, New York, in October 1950. Three regional conferences have highlighted AED activity in different sections of the nation, these conferences being held at the University of Louisville, University of Colorado, and Syracuse University. American Association for the Advancement of Science and the American Chemical Society have gladly sponsored national symposia and discussion groups at various meetings. These different occasions on which educators in all areas of premedical education have been brought together by Alpha Epsilon Delta to meet with medical educators to discuss and perhaps solve many mutual problems reveal the development of the program of service by AED leaders in these recent years.

State-wide meetings for premedical students have helped to implement a primary purpose of the Society: the binding together of students of similar interests; the bridging of the gap between premedical and medical students and schools; and the provision of a means of recognition for students of high scholastic attainment and character. Established in 1926, Alpha Epsilon Delta is now a nationally recognized honor society of highest rank with a membership of nearly ten thousand in approximately 60 student chapters. It is an affiliated society of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, an associate member of the American Council on Education, and a member of the Association of College Honor Societies. The N.C. Alpha Chapter was installed on this campus in 1936.

The strength of Alpha Epsilon Delta lies in its local chapters, in active student participation. Every chapter has an educational program with the promotion of the educational advancement and recognition of premedical students as its goal. Chapter activities include meetings with distinguished guest speakers, dinner forums, showing of films of medical nature, and trips to hospitals and medical schools. Founded in the South, Alpha Epsilon Delta will meet in the Ninth National Convention at the University of Alabama, home of the mother chapter, to celebrate this silver anniversary in March 1951. The theme of the meetings will be the importance of premedical education as an integral part of the training of the future physician. The commemoration of AED's founding will be an event at which the Society will take stock of the future as well as the past. Alpha Epsilon Delta must prepare for new responsibilities, must bend every effort to realize its potentialities, must prove itself ready for a golden future.

RIFLEMEN COP THIRD IN SEC

Information has been received from Third Army Headquarters stating that the Davidson Rifle Team placed fourth among 25 institutions in the southeast in the recent Intercollegiate Rifle Match. By placing in the top third, the team is eligible to shoot in national finals. Firing is now being conducted on the finals, which are to be completed by March 31. Last Saturday the rifle team was defeated by VMI in a match fired in Lexington. High score for the Wildcats was posted by J. L. Baker. This weekend will find the Wildcats visiting Clemson College for a match. During the week, postal victories were recorded over St. Thomas College and the University of Pennsylvania.