BROOKS PACES CAGE STATISTICS (See Page Three)

VOLUME XL

Davidsonians In Armed Forces

PVT. JAMES DAVID WHITENER, Class of '51, entered the service last year and is now with Co. G, 28th Infantry Reg. at Fort Jackson, S. Car. His hometown is Monroe, N. Car.

JOSEPH C. ARMSTRONG, '52, Naval Hospital, San Diego, California. Joe is from Columbia, Missouri. Before being called into the service, his course was Arts and Sciences.

2nd LT. EDWARD T. WEST, '51, Co. D, 28th Infantry, 8th Infantry Division, Fort Jackson, South Carolina. Ed hails from Johnson City, Tennessee. He attended Culver Military Academy before entering Davidson in 1947. While on the campus, Ed was a member of the track team, Kappa Alpha social fraternity, secretary of the Pan-Hellenic Council, secretary of Scabbard and Blade, and a member of Sigma Delta Psi.

MORTIMER D. HEIZER, '53, Co. 818, Reg. 10, Batt. 104, USNTC, Great Lakes, Ill. This Rawling, Virginia boy was a pre-med student before being called into the service. While here at Davidson, he was interested in glee club work and swimming.

Battle Gives Frosh Chance To Vindicate

Plans for Freshman-Sophomore Day, to be held Tuesday at 3:30 p.m., are nearing completion, Johnny Guiton, head of the Court of Control, announced today. Competition will be in three fields: football, tug-of-war, and a six-man relay, and the freshmen are expected to form a cheerleading unit as well as a band.

Discard Caps

Should the freshmen emerge victorious in two of the three events, they probably will be allowed to discard their caps and forget the Freshman Regulations; but Judge Guiton pointed out that “Freshman spirit has to be excellent even to win, but if it isn’t top-notch, the Freshman Regulations will stay as they are, even if the frosh do win.”

The freshman band, led by Budd Montgomery, will practice Monday afternoon, and on Tuesday will march from Chambers Building to the stadium, followed by the cheerleaders and the freshman class, amply supplied with banners and signs.

Frosh Gridders

The freshman football team, under the capable tutoring of Bill Freeman, will consist of John Archer, Bobby Amos, Corky Clark, Eddie Powe, Ronnie Wilson, Harry Applewhite, Henry Brown, Ronnie Whitson, Dean Edwards, Walt Moore, Dickie Davis, Ken Partin, Lacy Keesler, John Flintom, and Hugh Gramley. The team will practice Monday at 4:00 on the varsity practice field, and no cleats, in this or any other events, may be worn.

The tug-of-war team for the freshmen, to meet down front after chapel Monday, is made up of Fred Walsh, Walter Yates, Ralph Williams, Charlie Rankin, Bill Green, Jim Valentine, George Easley, Wally Pate, Stoy Bailey, Charlie Cousar, John McGee, Ralph Petree, John Buxton, Monty Littlejohn, and Gene Davis.

Relay Practice

Bob Henry, Coach of the freshman relay team, has called a practice for 4:00 Monday at the track. This team is composed of Frank (Continued On Page Four)

Rifles Drop Two; Hit VMI Tomorrow

The rifle team visited VPI and then VMI last weekend and dropped a match to each opponent. The scores were: VPI 1815, Davidson 1792, and VMI 1857, Davidson 1792 (out of 2000 possible). Against VPI, the team captain, Raymond Lynch, fired Davidson's high, 366 out of 400. Against VMI, the Cats’ high was again 366, fired by Bill Morris. The VMI team will fire a return match here this Saturday morning.

“Then You've Given Before?”

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.,

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1951

THE EDITOR WRITES A LETTER (See Page Two)

NUMBER TEN

Hoey & Scott Listed Among Six Speakers

Tuesday morning, Congressman J. P. Richards of Lancaster, S. C., will speak to the student body.

3-Goal Gift Fund Hopes For $6000

With a goal of $6,000 embracing a three-fold purpose, the annual YMCA Christmas Gift Fund campaign kicked off this morning in chapel. The Gift will be split among needs on a local, state, and foreign plane. $3,000 is earmarked for Caswell Training School, with $1,500 scheduled to go toward the Davidson

The Red Cross’ examining medical officer had to ask again when Lloyd Hale, right, from Gastonia, answered the routine pre-blood donation question that this was the ninth time he had contributed. The Davidson junior was wounded severely by machine gun fire in France in 1944 and received six transfusions before recovery. Lloyd figures he’s just paying them back with interest. (Photo-Simons).

Lloyd Pays Debt

Davidson Set Made In France Blood Record

By MIKE MYERS

Last Monday Lloyd Hales was, for the fifteenth time, a factor in a blood transfusion. But this time a cute blonde nurse replaced the battlefield medic, and this time the blood was flowing out instead of in.

The Gastonia junior doesn't talk much about it now, but that winter day in 1944 still sticks only too vividly in his mind, “Gradually the mist in my eyes began to lift. I blinked and tried to shake my head but someone was holding it down. Then slowly the cobwebs in my mind began to clear. Looking up from the table I saw a white blot before me that actually was the face of the medic. He was putting the finishing touches on the dressing.

Plasma Saved Him

“You'll be O.K., Sergeant, You'll be O.K. But you've got that to thank.” He nodded his head to my right. There life was flowing into my arm. All at once I felt good inside. Brother, that blood plasma looked mighty good! Now I knew I'd be O.K.”

During the next 129 days following the above incident Lloyd had plenty of time to think. But during those days in the hospital it was perhaps painful to recall the breakthrough at the Bulge by the 3rd Army. Lloyd was company runner, so he had been at battalion headquarters that afternoon when his C.O. was given his orders to take a hill bordering a small German town.

“Star-Eyed” C. O.

The next morning they struck—but then the C.O. “got stars in his eyes. Or maybe he was on the line too long and was slap-happy” but he ordered the town to be taken. An Army order is an Army order, so armed only with infantry hand weapons the advance was started. Through the snow, yard by yard, the group advanced, and dwindled. (Final count: 35 out of 150 survived.) For six days I don't believe I got over one-half hour sleep at any one time.” Much of it was hand-to-hand combat. The sixth morning, they had started to work at 6:00. At 6:45 Lloyd, then platoon sergeant, rose from his prone position to urge the men forward. But he rose (Continued On Page Four)

Frats OK Spivak For Mid-Winters

Last week all but three fraternities voted unanimously to sign two name bands, Charlie Spivak and Ray Anthony for Midwinters and Spring Frolics, respectively. Spivak has been signed for Midwinters on February 15 and 16, but Anthony, who had previously said that he would be available, had already signed an engagement for the Spring Frolics dates.

In the voting the fraternities agreed to pay seven dollars for each dance in order to have the two big bands. Dick Stockton, president of Pan-Hel, says that if a band comparable to that of Spivak or Anthony can be signed for about the same cost, then the price of the tickets will be the same. However, if a big name band cannot be signed, the price will be announced later.

Treasurer Joe Miller this week released the Pan Hel financial report, with a balance of $1,026.87. Miller’s report:

Receipts

For dance quota:
CC ........................................ $ 66.00
Phi Delts ............................ 324.00
ATO ..................................... 244.00
Phi Gams ........................... 321.30
KA ....................................... 306.00
SAE ..................................... 258.00
KS ....................................... 357.00
SPE ..................................... 186.00
Sigma Chi .......................... 360.00
Beta ..................................... 348.00
Pikas .................................... 246.00
Pi Kapps ............................ 219.30
3,394.00

Flowers—All Fraternities @ $13.20 ........ 158.40
3,394.00
Cash, Sept. 1 .......................... 47.83
Collection for Decorations ........ 38.97
Payment for flowers from last year $3.00 (Continued On Page Four)

For District

The Davidson community established a new record for the twenty-seven counties served by the Blood Donor unit, when 446 pints were donated at the blood drive last Monday. This exceeded the old record by 46 pints, but fell short of a 500-pint goal. So great was the response that 30 people had to be turned away due to lack of time. In the six hours allotted for the operation, the Red Cross procured blood at a rate of just slightly under 75 pints per hour. Officials of the Red Cross, in heaping praise on Davidson for this, were quick to point out that the 446-total represented more blood than the City of Charlotte usually contributes in half a month.

Lt. Col. J. L. Ballard, Jr., chairman of the drive, gave special attention to the fine work done in sponsoring the drive in the student body and to the great support given by the social fraternities. Three fraternities, Phi Delta Theta, Phi Gamma Delta and Pi Kappa Phi subscribed their entire membership, with most of the other fraternities close behind.

In addition to the fine work of the student organizations in making the drive so successful, the Davidson Civic Club, comprised of many ladies of the town and headed by Mrs. Frank W. Frederickson, largely provided the supporting staffs.

Notice

The following request came this week to The Davidsonian from Chaplain Alan Gripe: “All persons or organizations wishing to use the YMCA lounges for meetings should make a reservation well ahead of time for the particular room they want. All reservations should be made with Miss Shinn of the Guest House or with Mr. Gripe at the YMCA.”

Chalmers Davidson Given Historical Society Award

Professor Chalmers G. Davidson of Davidson College, author of the Piedmont Partisan, was recipient of a Charles A. Cannon Award at the North Carolina Society for the Preservation of Antiquities dinner in Raleigh Thursday night. Dr. Davidson was honored for his research and publications in the field of North Carolina history. The awards are given annually at the Society’s meetings in recognition of outstanding achievement in literature and history and in promoting the objectives of the Society in North Carolina. Donated by Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Cannon of Concord, a sterling loving cup was presented to Dr. Davidson by Dr. Archibald Henderson of the University of North Carolina.Most recent book, Piedmont Partisan, is a biography of the Revolutionary general for whom Davidson College and Davidson County were named. Professor Raymond Tyson marking the beginning of the Y. M. C. A. sponsored forum on "Christianity and Politics." Congressman Richards’ speech will start a series of chapel addresses which will also include talks by Senator Clyde R. Hoey and Governor Kerr Scott. THE TWO-PRONGED arrangement of the forum will have the chapel speakers and a panel discussion. The panel will be held in the Y lounge Wednesday night at 7 p.m., December 12, and will be composed of Mayor Victor Shaw, Representative William Pope, Mr. J. Caldwell McDonald, with Professor Tyson serving as moderator. All students are invited to attend. It has been pointed out that these six men represent virtually all legislative levels of government: Shaw represents city government, McDonald stands for county government, Pope for state legislative government, Scott for state executive government, Hoey for national government, Richards for international. THE MAIN PURPOSE of the forum is to point out the Christian approach to government through generating interest in government at all levels by showing what private citizens can do to help improve morals in government, and by presenting some insight into the responsibilities of the citizen to his government. Strong emphasis has been laid on attendance by a large number of students at the panel discussion. Toward this end, a great deal of effort has been expended in procuring speakers who would provide a wide variety of interest to the students. WILLIAM POPE, the youngest member of the panel, having graduated from Davidson in 1940, should prove a case in point. He was a Lieutenant in the Navy in the last war and was awarded the Air Medal and the Distinguished Flying Cross. He has served in the state legislature only one term, but in that time he introduced an important bill designed to keep bootleggers from buying back souped-up cars taken in liquor hauls. J. Caldwell McDonald is another Davidsonian (Class of '15) active in politics. For many years he has served on the Mecklenburg County Board of Commissioners and also has been an active member of the Charlotte YMCA, having served in several important posts there. Acting as general chairman of the Davidson Development Program in Mecklenburg county, he contributed largely to the success of that campaign. KNOWN AS ONE of the ten (Continued On Page Four) Lewis Flushes; Adams Blushes; No Beauty Judge This time, the laugh isn’t on Jerry Lewis. The nation’s No. 1 comedian was named in an article in last week's Davidsonian as judge for the annual beauty contest sponsored by the Quips and Cranks. Due to a small technicality—a studio ban on such activities by their stars—Lewis will not even take a look-see at the maps which guide the Davidson man’s future. Quips and Cranks editor Bill Adams expressed regret over the premature announcement and took full blame for the release himself. Announcement as to the judge for the contest will be made at an as yet unannounced date. Negro YMCA and the India food shortage. The total amount raised will be announced on the final day of the drive, December 17, chairman Bryan Robinson announced. Robinson stated that no one will be forced to give any money if they desire not to, but that those who do give money should do it by check or cash. The money is payable at the time of the visit of the canvassers to the halls, or if it be the will of the contributor, he may pledge to pay it by January 10, 1952. The Caswell Training School, located in Kinston, has 1,019 patients at the present time, 600 of which are able to exercise. This training school is not a reformatory, but rather a hospital for people who are mentally and physically retarded due to destroyed brain tissues. At the present time this school has one basketball floor which is the remains of a chicken coop with the top taken off. The floor is cracked and there is a drop of six to ten inches on every side where the water from a small but flooding creek has eroded the soil. There is one baseball field which is too small, and there is one piece of driveway 30 or 40 feet long used for skating. This driveway is the only one of the athletic facilities that can be used at night. The Christmas Fund Committee would like to help this school build a 120 by 120 cement floor with sixteen floodlights for all-weather athletics. There would be no cost of upkeep on the floor which would contain two basketball courts or three tennis courts, or six volleyball courts. The amount of the $6,000 goal to be used for this purpose would be $3,000. Here in Davidson there is a great need for some meeting place for the Negro teenagers. The committee proposes to contribute $1,500 to help the Negro community get a start in a fund drive to build a brick veneer building on a lot next to the school to be purchased on completion of the drive. The house would have rooms including an office, a game room, and a parlor. The lot would be wide enough for baseball, horseshoes, tennis, and volleyball. The Indian aid, as outlined by the American Friends, includes five realms of life. In agriculture, the money goes toward the introduction of improved crop methods, better tools, and the like. In the field (Continued On Page Four) Giannini Canticle Appears Monday The world premiere of Vittorio Giannini’s “A Canticle of Christmas” will be given at Davidson College Monday at 8:15 o'clock in Chambers Auditorium. Baritone Andrew White, supported by seven musical organizations, will be featured in the principal role. Conducted by James Christian Pfohl, director of music at Davidson, the groups include the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra, the Myers Park Methodist Adult and Young Choirs, and the Myers Park Presbyterian Adult and Young Choirs of Charlotte, the Davidson College Male Chorus and Chapel Choir. Outstanding Composer Vittorio Giannini, who is at present on the faculties of the Julliard School of Music, the Manhattan School of Music, and the New York College of Music, is the composer of many outstanding operas and symphonies. His opera “Lucrezia” was produced at Munich in 1934; his symphony “In Memoriam” was commissioned for the dedication of the New York State Theodore Roosevelt Memorial; his operas “Beauty and the Beast” and “Blennerhasset” were commissioned by the Columbia Broadcasting System for broadcast, and his “Concerto for Trumpet and Orchestra” was commissioned by the National Association of Schools of Music. The text of “A Canticle of Christmas” is taken from St. Luke and the Carol “Come All Ye Faithful.” The music is based partly on the Carols “Silent Night,” “Gloria in Excelsis,” and “Come All Ye Faithful.” (Continued On Page Four) Reports IFC Meet To Pan-Hel Men Bill Adams represented the Pan-Hellenic Council of Davidson College at the National Inter-Fraternity Conference held this past week at Old Point Comfort, Virginia. Mr. Adams will make his report to the Pan-Hellenic Council this week and the Davidsonian will carry a complete account of the results next week. This conference, made up of representatives from college inter-fraternity organizations and representatives of the national fraternities, meets annually to exchange ideas and develop cooperation among the college Greek letter institutions. This body has no legislative power of its own, but finds its strength in the unity and uniformity that it gives to the national fraternities. Delegate Adams did comment that the term Pan-Hellenic Council is used to refer, for the most part, to women’s Greek letter organizations and that Davidson was one of only two institutions represented that used the name Pan-Hellenic. The usual and now preferred term is simply Inter-Fraternity Council. Holiday Workers Get Single Cuts Dean John C. Bailey has announced that students who work full-time for pay from Monday, December 17, through Saturday, December 22, may secure single cuts for December 18 and 19 if they present to him upon their return after the holidays a statement from their employers certifying that they have met the conditions stated above. Richards’ Talk Tuesday Opens Political Forum Freeman Wins Sports Board Student Post BILL FREEMAN In the recent run-offs Bill Freeman defeated Kirk Oglesby for student representative on the Athletic Committee. The position is an important one to the students, as there is only one student member on this committee. Acting as intermediary in athletic matters between the Board of Trustees and the student body, the committee is instrumental in carrying out the athletic policies set forth by the trustees. Bill, more widely known as “Bull,” has had much experience in athletics, being presently captain of the football team. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta, and treasurer of the YMCA Board of Directors. Alpha Psi Omega Taps Six Actors Six new members of Alpha Psi Omega were initiated at a recent meeting of the local chapter of the national honorary dramatics fraternity. Those initiated include Courtney Hill, Jack Pietenpol, Tink Taylor, Dick Perkins, Bill Grymes, and Vance Mizelle. Courtney was stage manager for “Ten Little Indians,” the most recent stage play given at Davidson. Pietenpol was lighting director for the presentation. Taylor is treasurer of Alpha Psi Omega and Perkins is vice president. Vance, secretary of the fraternity, spent the summer with a professional stock company. Bus To Carry Tardy Donors Over Tuesday Attention attracted by Davidson's record-breaking contribution to the Charlotte Mobile Blood Bank Monday brought donation by an anonymous person in Charlotte of a bus to carry to Charlotte Tuesday afternoon all students who for some reason or other were unable to give at Davidson. In a call to Lt. Col. J. L. Ballard, Jr., Davidson blood drive chairman, the Red Cross office in Charlotte yesterday told that two trips would be made by the bus, one leaving the campus at 1:30, the other at 3:30. The bus will make the brief trip over, wait for the donation and refreshment of its passengers and return immediately to the campus so that no time will be lost by the donators. Col. Ballard opined that the basketball team and wrestling team, and possibly members of (Continued On Page Four)