RUBLES RATTLE AS GRIER GRINDS

VOLUME XXXIX

Comment Favorable To Recent Spring Services

Cutting into the heart of the student body, The Davidsonian has attempted to print a cross-section view of student opinion
concerning the Spring Services which terminated Wednesday. Below are the results:

ERIC CLARK
“Having the different ministers in dormitory discussion groups this year has given everyone a better chance to participate in Spring
Services. It has given all participants some real thoughts on basic Christian philosophy.”

CHARLIE NORWOOD
“Our enthusiasm in religion runs in a kind of cycle—from high to low. Naturally, then, we need an experience from
time to time to raise this enthusiasm. The Spring Services has been that kind of experience for me.”

DICK SOWERBY
“In my opinion the most interesting topic of discussion is the classification and connecting of certain conflicting ideas presented in
the Bible.”

MAC McLEAN
“The addition of the preacher-in-the-dorm method in the Spring Services has made the three-day period much more fruitful than in
former years.”

TOM LIGON
“The counselors and bull sessions in the dormitories were a welcomed aid in finding the answers to questions which had
arisen before and during the Spring Services. I hope that this will act as a precedent and that these groups
will be continued from year to year.”

STUART PLUMMER
“This year’s Spring Services have been a profound joy and inspiration to me. I have received a fuller understanding of
Christian faith and Christian witness.”

DAVE HAMILTON
“The discussion groups in the dorms let you get your questions out into the open instead of mumbling ‘Oh, Yeah?’
at a distant pulpit. Nobody's trying to shove anything down your throat.”

PHIL MITCHELL
“These Spring Services with the discussion groups in the dorms are among the best and most thought-provoking things that have
happened during my stay at Davidson.”

CHARLIE HAWKINS
“I think the Spring Services are among Davidson's best traditions. Not only are they timely, but something every student can
take part in and benefit from.”

FRANK SHAW
“I believe that the hall discussions have helped to develop and strengthen our beliefs by discussing and solving those problems
which deal with our everyday life.”

HERMAN BELL
“Some people can live in prayer and yet hesitate to boast that they're totally Christian, because they can’t honestly prove
it. Is it better (1) to hide this uncertain position and to give the world the impression that we are
sure Christians, or (2) to be perfectly frank, not to assume any ‘blessed assurance’ we haven't got, and to let
any interested person know that our Christian faith is a calculated risk based on experience and evidence? Some say that
doubts are a man’s personal problem, that voicing them weakens other Christians. Dr. Moffett’s theory is that being perfectly honest
with ourselves and all interested is the best way to grow and is our most effective Christian witness.”

MAC DOUBLES
“Although I was dubious about the possibilities when first told that a preacher would stay in our room, I can
say honestly now that I would not exchange these past few days for anything which has happened to me in
recent years.”

Student Union Plans Finally Completed

Architect’s plans for Oven’s Student Union will be ready by the end of this month. Plans, permitting the contractors Thompson
and Street to proceed with preparation of steel, will be in hand this week. It is expected that construction can
begin by July 1. It will require six to eight months for the work, unless there are unexpected delays. A
committee of Faculty members and upperclass students is being appointed to consult with reference to detailed planning of the building,
uses of same, and study of personnel to be employed when construction is completed. The architect is Mr. Michael M.
Hare of New York. He is retained by the Student Union Association of America and is familiar with the best
procedures in Unions for various types of institutions. Supervising the plans is Mr. Porter Butts of the Wisconsin Union and
Faculty.

ALENDA CUR UB) The Davidsonian ORTA LIBERTAS DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 1951

Notices

NOTICE TO SENIORS
The Graduate Record examination will be held Wednesday and Thursday, April 25th and 26th. The general examination takes place Wednesday
morning (8:50-12:00) and afternoon (1:50-5:00). The examination on the major will take place Thursday afternoon (1:50-5:00). The Seniors will go,
as indicated below, to the same room for all three sessions: Business and Economic majors to 310; Biology and English
majors to 305; Chemistry and History majors to 206; all other majors to 209.

NOTICE TO SOPHOMORES
Those Sophomores who will take the Transfer Examination will report to the Lecture Room in the Science Building, Wednesday, April
25, at 1:50 p.m.

Stars Doff Spikes, Don Grease Paint For Frolic Foolies

Perhaps the high spot of the year, so far as entertainment goes, is the annual D-Club Foolies, an occasion which
gives Davidson athletes a chance to take off their gym trunks and uniforms, and don a little greasepaint instead. This
year, the Foolies will be held on the Friday night of Spring Frolics, April 7 to be exact, and the
boys are now hard at work preparing songs and dances, acts and stunts with which to entertain the spectators, and
maintain the high reputation which the Foolies has acquired over the years. Director Auburn Lambeth, with assistants Bill Trotman, Bob
Gay, Ham Wade, and Wood Leach, was quite high in his praise of the fine cooperation and spirit evidenced among
the cast. Each night, the boys get together to rehearse and re-hash songs and dances and dialogue in preparation for
the big event. One evening this week, your reporter was given a chance to be present at a sneak rehearsal
of the event. Such oldies as “Good Old Summertime,” “Carolina in the Morning,” “On the Banks of the Wabash,” “Swanee,”
and many, many more were emanating from one corner of the room, while in another, end men Jinks Jervey and
Bob Gibson were kept busy quipping back and forth at one another, trying to distract singers Ted “If I Had
(Continued On Page Four)

A.E.D. INITIATES CHARLOTTE SURGEON

On Wednesday night, April 11th, the North Carolina Alpha Chapter of Alpha Epsilon Delta, a national pre-medical honor society, added
three new members to its active membership of the group. Frank M. Purnell and Clyde L. Taylor were initiated into
the group and Dr. Thomas D. Sparrow was given an honorary membership. This society recognizes outstanding work in the pre-medical
curricula and allied studies and the possession of such personal characteristics as it believes to be indicative of success in
the medical profession. At the same time it seeks to recognize extraordinary accomplishment in the medical and surgical fields by
the conferring of honorary degrees to those elected by the group. It was by this token that Alpha Epsilon Delta
decided to extend to Dr. Sparrow the honorary membership in the Society. Dr. Sparrow is a graduate of Davidson College,
and took his graduate work in medicine at the University of Maryland. He has been a surgeon in the City
of Charlotte for the past 29 years and in that time has endeared himself to the hearts of those who
know him as few have before. He was Chief-of-Surgery at Memorial Hospital in Charlotte for six years, and has made
many contributions to the field of plastic surgery by original research work. Dr. Sparrow is probably known better to the
Davidson students as the guardian of Chuck Kirby, a last year’s graduate now at the Presbyterian Theological Seminary; and as
a member of the Board of Trustees.

JULIUS CAESAR AND LIKES HER NUMBER TWENTY-TWO

Bill Adams Named Editor Of 1952 Quips and Cranks

Rigorous Work Ahead At Camp For ROTC Men

The PMS&T has received information concerning the ROTC Summer Camp to be attended this summer by all rising ROTC Seniors.
Unlike last year when the Davidson group was divided between Fort Meade, Maryland and Fort Benning, Georgia, the entire group
this summer will attend camp at Fort Benning. The Summer Camp will be six weeks in length. Students are to
arrive by noon,Saturday, June 16th. Camp will end Friday, July 27th. No orders have been received yet as to which
or how many of the officers of the Military Department will attend camp with the group. The prescribed training will
be conducted on a 48-hour, 5½ day week schedule. Within 48 hours after arrival, students will be given a complete
physical examination and issued individual clothing and equipment. Area assignments and other administrative arrangements will also be made by that
time. The last day of summer camp will be devoted to issuing travel pay, turning in equipment, and closing exercises.
The summer camp period is intended to be a fairly rigorous application of much of the training taken up in
the classroom during the regular school year. Considerable work will be done with the various weapons, tactics, movements, and fortifications.
There will also be periods of drill, parades, and ceremonies.

Notice
The after-vesper discussion groups have been announced for the next three Sundays: April 22, “American Influence in the Far East”
led by Dr. William Harris at the home of Dr. Ostwalt. April 29, “Cocktail Party and other Writings of T.
S. Eliot” led by Dr. Cumming at his home. May 6, “The Davidson Church, Church School, and the Davidson Student.
What can they mean to each other.” led by Dr. Pritchett at the home of Dr. McGavock. All students interested
in attending these discussion groups should contact Irving Stubbs.

BILL ADAMS

Movie Society Lays Plans For Coming Year's Program
“Crime and Punishment,” which was shown on April 20th, marked the end of the series of films sponsored by the
United Literary Film Society. This last movie was a French production based on the novel “Crime and Punishment” by the
Russian novelist, Dostoevsky. Although the film was produced in French, English subtitles were supplied. During Fine Arts Week two movies,
sponsored by the United Literary Film Society, will be shown as bonus films. The movies, “Man of Aran” and “Ballet
Russe” are scheduled to be shown on May 4th. Plans are now being made for next semester’s program. Five movies
have been ordered, one British, one Russian, two American, and one French. Members of next year’s executive committee are Stuart
Shippey, Jack Hunter, and the presidents of the two literary societies. They will take over the duties of this year’s
committee which is made up of Watt Jeffries, Ken Goodpasture, Irving Stubbs, and Jim Campbell. Mr. Campbell has served as
General Secretary of the executive committee for the past year. Faculty advisors to the U.L.F.S. are Dr. Cumming and Professor
Roberts. Students who have served as projectionists for the Society are Stuart Plummer and Ed McClure. Professor Sellars has been
technical advisor for the Film Society. Irving Stubbs, who has served ably as a member of the executive committee, made
this statement when asked about next year’s plans, “There has been sufficient favorable response from the members of the Society
to encourage the Planning Committee to make plans for a similar series next year.”

New Treasurer Assumes Work
On Monday, April 16, the new treasurer of Davidson College, D. Grier Martin, started work. Mr. Martin graduated from Davidson
in 1932 and while a student he was editor of The Davidsonian, president of the International Relations Club, and member
of O.D.K. He served as Alumni Secretary from 1933 through 1936, but left Davidson to work for the Camel Coal
Company in Atlanta. From the Camel Coal Company Mr. Martin transferred to Bristol, Va., where he worked for Grey Hosiery
Mills. In Bristol he was President of (Continued On Page Four)

Tops Pepper In Redhot Class Race
The senior class yesterday voted Bill Adams editor of the college annual, Quips and Cranks, for the school year 1951-52.
Adams, a rising senior from Seneca, S.C., defeated Francis Pepper for this post in a race requiring three runoffs. The
new editor has taken part in many phases of school life. This year he has served as a managing editor
on the staffs of both the annual and the Davidsonian, and is a member of the Eumenean literary society. He
has helped direct the religious programs on the campus as a member of the YMCA cabinet, while also taking an
active interest in intramural athletics. He is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Pepper, last of six candidates
to be eliminated from the race, is a rising senior from Winston-Salem. An outstanding performer on the Wildcat swimming team,
Francis will serve as co-captain of that club next year. He also participates in intramural athletics, and is a brother
in Beta Theta Pi. This week's election will decide the holders of next year's class offices. Complete results will be
announced next week in the Davidsonian.

Notice
The Photographic exhibit to be displayed during Fine Arts Week, April 29 - May 4, is open to all students
and faculty members. Prints may be any size but must be mounted. Awards will be made to the best prints,
and the best photograph in the show will be entered in the Camera Magazine’s Print of The Year contest from
the Davidson College Camera Club. Turn in prints to Allan Macy or Bob Johnson. Deadline: April 27.

CHAMBERS WILL BE SCENE OF “Y” COMMUNION
The first service of holy communion held in six years in Chambers Auditorium will be served at the regular YMCA
evening vesper program Sunday, April 22. Presiding will be Dr. John R. Cunningham and Rev. Carl Pritchett, minister of the
Davidson College Presbyterian Church. They will be assisted by Professors Wilson and Schenck of the Bible Department and the session
of Dr. Pritchett’s local church. Communion service items have been borrowed from both the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte and
the College Presbyterian Church. Answering student requests and in realization of Dr. Cunningham’s hope, plans were laid for a communion
service last year, but never carried to completion. John Lyles, local YMCA secretary, seemed to think this would be the
last service of its kind ever held in Chambers due to the new church's being ready for worship services in
the near future. Mr. Lyles also requested all men attending the service to be in their seats promptly. “Reverence upon
entering and leaving the sanctuary is necessary,” he observed. Mrs. Elizabeth Frantz will serve with the Chapel Choir in providing
spiritual music for the program. Men from the student body will be requested to aid in the administering of the
holy sacrament. It is thought that each fraternity will be asked to recruit a specified number of men.
