It was plumb un-Davidson like. Here it was the second day of baseball practice, and it hadn’t rained yet. What's
more, the gentleman wore a black baseball cap with the red D afront—the un-DO athletic staff, yet claimed he didn’t
even have the word “lose” in his vocabulary. This is not to brand the remainder of our coaching staff defeatists.
But most of them will admit they list “lose” among the words they’ve had to use now and then at
some time in the past. As a matter of fact, isn’t a good baseball coach supposed to quip as regularly
as the spring’s first robin, “Wal, we'll win some; lose some; and we'll have some rained out.”

Frank Packard hasn’t as yet had any rained out, and he is not planning to lose any. This is the
man who has been given the job of giving Davidson a baseball team this spring, a job which he seems
on sight every bit capable of handling. His frank, friendly face looks like that of a major league skipper, and
he walks and talks like a baseball coach. That’s the surface dope, and it all speaks well. But his zest
for the game and for winning is what should make the DC nine a little meaner on the foe this
year.

“I’m really glad to get back in the game,” the Charlotte postal employee led off with. “My last time out
was at High Point back in '39. The club was a member of the old Carolina league. I was player,
manager, and owner. Had to hustle in those days!

“It is, of course, too early for me to know anything about this team. Haven't been with the fellows but
yesterday and today and can’t tell what’s what quite yet. I’m really waiting for some real warm weather to let
these pitchers begin to bear down so I can see what they’ve got. Yes, I hear a veteran infield cleared
out last year at graduation. Might have a job of rebuilding to do there.

“The main thing I’d like to shake out of this team is any defeatist attitude they may have before the
season starts. Boy, I don’t like that word lose. That's an ugly word to me. Don’t even keep it in
my vocabulary. I’ve always played with a winner, and I’m not wanting to change over now. We're going to hustle
this spring. Anybody who doesn’t hustle just, well they just won’t be playing ball. And these fellows do seem to
want to play ball.”

The confident, determined, assertive way in which Packard spoke is another reason for betting he can do the job. The
manner reminded us of the same, sure way Crowell Little spoke last spring about his fall club, and who would
deny the improved spirit and performance of the Cats on the gridiron this fall. Not world beaters, no, but that
listlessness was almost completely gone. That is what must go in baseball. In light of the opposition to be faced,
Packard probably has better material to build with than did Coach Crowell, though it’s close. But Packard doesn’t have the
time. He launched practice on the fifth and the first game is here March 19, one week from Monday with
Springfield.

“We have two with Springfield and one with Boston in three days,” Packard explained. “They have been to Florida on
an extended tour, and they'll really be hot on their way home. And here we'll be just opening the season.”
Nevertheless, with good weather Packard thinks he can whip the club into decent opening shape within the week and a
half period. After the Boston game on the 21st, he has until April 2 to get the Cats ready for
their first Southern Conference test with Duke here.

Packard plans to move his forces onto the new diamond permanently as soon as possible, and he is not as
concerned with the size of the outfield as have been third base box seaters in the student body. “No sir,
nothing wrong with that outfield! With a good board fence running around there, anybody who puts one over it is
going to earn himself his extra bases!”

And Mr. Packard knows plenty about extra bases. In 1931, playing in the Piedmont League, he led in seven hitting
departments—.366 batting average, 145 runs scored, 185 hits, 17 doubles, 21 home runs, 123 RBI, and 21 sacrifice knocks. He
also led his league in 1927 while at Greensburg, Pa., with a .385 stick mark, which in turn led Frank
to the Pittsburgh Pirates. He also saw action with Buffalo, Baltimore, Portland, Albany, Cumberland, Columbia, and later Gastonia, High Point,
and Mount Airy. During the last war Packard was a Chief Specialist in the Navy athletic program, stationed at Duke
for nearly three years.

Linksters Tee Off 13 Match Slate Against N.C. State Next Friday

The Davidson Wildcat Golfers, coached by Sports Publicity Director Elgin White, tee off against the N. C. State linkmen, in
the opener of a season which promises to bring them in competition with some of the top teams in the
South, at the Charlotte Country Club, Friday, March 16. The following day the ’Cats match strokes with the UNC golfers
on the same course. Coach White is banking on Monty Hill, Mac McLean, Cecil Brandon, and Jim Sloan as his
top men against teams like Duke, Wake Forest, Rollins, Florida State, and the University of Florida. If the local stickmen
measure up to White's expectations, they should rank “as good as any team in the Southern Conference.”

The complete schedule for the 1951 season as announced by Mr. White is as follows: March: 16, N. C. State;
17, UNC; 23, Naval Base of Charleston, there; 24, open; 26, Rollins, there; 27, Univ. of Florida, there; 28, Florida
State, there; 31, Duke, Charlotte. April: 6, Univ. of South Carolina, there; 7, Furman, there; 13, Wake Forest, Charlotte; 14,
N. C. State, there; 27, Duke, Durham; 28, UNC, Chapel Hill.

Twelve Swimmers Awarded Letters

Twelve members of the 1950-51 swimming team, plus manager Lewis Nelson, have been awarded letters for the first full season
of Davidson's participation in the sport on a varsity collegiate scale. Coach Dick Redding announced that monograms have been presented
to captain Bill Ray, Jim Bryan, Paul Cole, George Cornelson, Ray Cunningham, Hugh Evans, Dan Heizer, Bob Merrill, Sam Myrick,
Lewis Nelson, Francis Pepper, Gene Regen, and Ken Taylor. Taylor, Heizer, Bryan, Pepper, Cole, Myrick, and Cornelson will return next
winter.

Wildcat Clubbers

Be spring though it may, football very much still holds a place of prominence in Wildcat sports, and next weekend
a Wildcat Club meeting will witness an intra-squad full dress scrimmage with all the trimmings of mid-fall. The occasion is
the annual Red and Black Game, slated for Saturday next at 2:30 on Richardson Field. As usual, the game will
climax the winter drills, but Coach Crowell Little expects to continue working some while after the scrimmage, even if on
an anti-climactical scale.

The Wildcat clubbers will be on hand to get a look at what they may expect on the grid from
the Wildcats next season. They will not, however, get a complete look, in that freshmen will be allowed to compete
in the Southern Conference this autumn, and Little plans to use them unsparingly. It is a matter of necessity. Had
the expected returnees from the 1950 club all remained in school, the Cats would have fielded an improved club. But
the armed forces have already taken four key men—one a veteran—and threaten to deplete the ranks even more this summer.
Guard Jim Fasul and fullback C. L. Runyan, both counted on for starting duty, left during Christmas, with Bill Acker
and ex-Marine Bill Stanley following suit several weeks ago. Little had been banking on Stanley, non-draftable and now eligible after
two years of wrangling with the books, to fill very capably Runyan’s vacated fullback slot. Ham Wade now remains the
top plunger with ex-end Bob Turk converted to reserve fullback. Wade and Turk are ROTC protected.

The Red and Black game, then, should feature a few surprises in the way of new or converted talent. Turk
may surprise a folk or two at fullback also. He was elected the outstanding back in the city of Atlanta
his senior year in high school.

Hengeveld Performs For Stars Tomorrow Against N. C. State

Fred (Dutch) Hengeveld, Wildcat basketball co-captain, joins a team of Southern Conference all-stars which meets N.C. State’s Southern Conference champions
in Raleigh tonight. Hengeveld, who along with Tommy Haller, led the Cat band of juniors and sophomores on the court
this year, was a set shot sensation throughout the season. As a guard he frequently played with little relief and
turned in a sterling performance in his every outing. The senior from Davidson twisted his knee against McCrary’s Eagles, a
knee that has troubled him in basketball and baseball in the past. He has, however, been able to shake the
injury successfully again, has been working out for baseball for a week, and is ready for hardwood action once more.
Aside from the honor of selection to such an all-star aggregation, Dutch will receive a handsomeGold watch as a gift
from N. C. State, sponsors of the now annual post-season classic. This is the second year of the affair. Whit
Cobb, last year’s captain and outstanding guard, represented Davidson at the initial contest which N. C. State won last winter.

Another survey, this one at Idaho State College, showed that almost half of the coeds there sleep with teddy bears,
pandas, or other stuffed toy animals.

Convening To Watch a Wildcat Sports

THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SECTION

Gene Craven will be showing before his old teacher here this weekend when he wrestles for Davidson in the 128-pound
division of the Carolinas AAU wrestling meet. A native of Boone, Gene learned most of his pre-college wrestling from Appalachian’s
Coach Red Watkins by hanging around the App workout room. Undefeated last year as a freshman, Gene this week won
the consolation title in the 121-pound division of the Southern Conference meet.

Craven Wins Consolation Crown For Lone Cat Honors at Mat Meet

Gene Craven, Davidson’s mat-wise little sophomore, claimed the only honors Davidson garnered in the Southern Conference wrestling tournament at Washington
and Lee Tuesday and Wednesday of this week. Craven won the 123-pound consolation finals, defeating Reggie Buie of N. C.
State, 2-0, for the honor, equivalent to a third-place finish in competition. Craven had previously eliminated the Citadel's Ed Laney,
7-1 in the consolation preliminary round.

George (Bucky) Irvin, a soph who has been grappling everywhere but in his proper 137-pound weight this winter, came through
the consolation preliminaries with a 5-2 decision over Tom Murphy of West Virginia, but lost in the consolation finals to
Nobbs of N. C. State.

Other Davidson results were all in the preliminary consolation rounds: 147 pounds—Ed Brown, (VMI) pinned Morley Vail, 3:13; 167 pounds—Bill
Venable (VMI) pinned Jerry Morrow, 4:52; Unlimited, Jerry Jack (W&L) decisioned Lill McNeely, 7-4. Venable, knocked during the first round
of his match unconscious with Morrow, came back strong in a remarkable recovery to pin the Cat matter.

VMI outscored neighboring Washington and Lee, 29-23 to take the title away from the Generals. Davidson finished in a tie
for seventh in the ten-team meet.

A Nebraska coed complained to a bookstore owner that it was unfair to make students buy books at such a
high price, and then get hardly anything back for them on the used book market. “But,” explained the bookstore owner
calmly, “you couldn't buy a dress at a shop downtown and then take it back and get the same price
for it, could you?” “Well,” she retorted, “at least I’d get some use out of the dress.”

Pi Kapps Win 1950 Handball Play With KS, ATO Knotting for Second

By JACK EFIRD

The Pi Kapps won the 1951 handball tournament by compiling a record of nine victories in ten games. The race
was tight all the way with the two second-place finishers, the ATO's and the Kappa Sigs, close on the heels
of the winners with identical records of eight victories and two defeats. Except for the ATO defeat by the Phi
Gams and the Kappa Sig defeat by the Betas, all the defeats of the top three teams were administered by
each other. The Pi Kapps defeated the ATO's, the ATO's defeated the Kappa Sigs, and the Kappa Sigs defeated the
Pi Kapps. Until the last two rounds of the tournament, the Kappa Sigs had an undefeated record. However, the Betas
beat them in the next to last round to knock them out of a first-place tie. At the end of
the season, the Pi Kapps had compiled a record of seven straight victories to pull the championship away from the
Kappa Sigs.

Standings:
Pi Kapps 9-1
Kappa Sigs 8-2
ATO's 8-2
Sigma Chi’s 7-3
SPE’s 5-5
SAE’s 4-5
Phi Gams 3-7
Phi Delts 1-7
KA’s 1-7
Pikas 1-8
Betas 5-5

Missing games—KA-SAE, Pikas-Phi Delts, KA-Phi Delts.

76 Wrestlers Start For Honors In AAU Tourney Trials Tonight

SPRING SPORTS TO GET UNDERWAY FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 1951

Appalachian Still Rates Favorite To Retain Carolinas Championship

By DICK LILES

Appalachian State Teachers College brings 5 wrestlers and the A. A. U. crown to Davidson this weekend for the A.
A. U. Carolinas Wrestling Championships. Coach Red Watkins’ terrible grapplers have won national honors and intend to add this one
to their long string. Up until time for press, a total of 76 wrestlers had entered their names entitling them
to compete in the matches. Eight teams have entered including Coach Charlie Parker’s Varsity and Freshman squads, North Carolina, Camp
Lejeune Marines, Cherry Point Marines, Appalachian, Albemarle Y, Western Carolina, and High Point Y. Also, two men are coming down
from Chapel Hill, formerly wrestlers at Carolina. They are Oscar Gupton and Phil Kemp. Camp Lejeune has a little man
that should show up well in the meet. He is Cpl. Bill Norris, 212-pound heavyweight A.A.U. champion from Pennsylvania. Norris
has a long string of honors to his record and has been outstanding on his Marine team for several years.
Camp Lejeune has another man to watch in the 147-pound class. He is Pfc. Hal Hampson, who has been successful
in several campaigns in the last few years. Coach Scott says that the weighing-in process will take up most of
Friday morning and that the real action starts in the afternoon. The matches will continue with the semi-finals and quarter-finals
Saturday morning and the finals that afternoon. Individual medals will be given to the first four men in each class
and team trophies to the winner and runner-up teams after the last match Saturday afternoon. General opinion is that Appalachian
will again take the meet, but the service teams cannot be overlooked. They're plenty tough and most of them have
had plenty of experience before their Marine days. Many of the wrestlers have previous records on the A. A. U.
books and many more have produced some real fine high school records. Since this is not a regularly scheduled event
as far as Davidson College is concerned, a slight admission will be charged of Davidson students for this meet. Fifty
cents will let you see all the matches, while each would cost 25c. This is due, of course, to the
expense involved in the putting on of such a meet.

ENTRIES CAROLINA AAU WRESTLING TOURNAMENT

115 Pounds
Westbrook, J. W.—Appalachian State Teachers.
Baird, Bobby—Appalachian State Teachers.
Adams, D. J.—Camp Lejeune Marines.
Barnhart, C. T.—Camp Lejeune Marines.

121 Pounds
Learned, Robert P.—Cherry Point Marines.
Waynich, Frank—Appalachian State Teachers.
Lyons, Archie—Appalachian State Teachers.
Daniels, Jerry—High Point, N. C. (unattached).

128 Pounds
Monty, Kenneth—Cherry Point Marines.
Ward, J. C.—Appalachian State Teachers.
Kielpinsk, R. L.—Camp Lejeune Marines.
Haire, Pat—Albemarle YMCA.
Craven, Gene—Davidson College.

136 Pounds
Glueck, Richard—Cherry Point Marines.
Croyle, James M. (Unattached—Cherry Point Marines).
Hallyburton, Bobby—Western Carolina Teachers.
Hudson, Glenn—Appalachian State Teachers.
Crissman, Bob—Appalachian State Teachers.
Jones, D. J.—Camp Lejeune Marines.
Hampson, H. W.—Camp Lejeune Marines.
Causby, George—Albemarle YMCA.
Irvin, George—Davidson College.
Grissom, Jim—Davidson College.
Reid, D. D. (Freshman)—Davidson College.
Kelton, John—Davidson College.
Dobbins, Bill—Davidson College.

145 Pounds
Van Wyck, Harold—Cherry Point Marines.
Morgan, Ray—Appalachian State Teachers.
Gabriel, Steve—Appalachian State Teachers.
Hess, R. T.—Camp Lejeune Marines.
Hartman, E. W.—Camp Lejeune Marines.
Stokes—Univ. of North Carolina.
Farber—University of North Carolina.
Vail, Morley—Davidson College.
Topple, Stan (Freshman)—Davidson College.
Mims, Leroy—Davidson College.

158 Pounds
Hartnett, Vincent D.—Cherry Point Marines.
Finger, Neil—Appalachian State Teachers.
Jolly, Paul—Appalachian State Teachers.
Dobbeck, A. J., Jr.—Camp Lejeune Marines.
Moore, L. E.—Camp Lejeune Marines.
Garlinghouse—Camp Lejeune Marines.
Stoker, Bob—Albemarle YMCA.

165 Pounds
Bolger, Edward J.—Cherry Point Marines.
Werntz, Orrin B. Jr.—Unattached—Cherry Point Marines.
York, Wayne—Appalachian State Teachers.
Shrum, Ray—Appalachian State Teachers.
Wood, Chippy—Unattached—High Point.
Morris, Bill—Albemarle YMCA.
Kemp, Phil—Unattached—Chapel Hill.
Kenny, Gene—Univ. of North Carolina—Unattached.
Morrow, Jerry—Davidson College.

(Continued On Page Six)

Frat Track Meet Runs Next Week

The annual interfraternity track meet will be held Wednesday and Thursday afternoons of next week and plans for the meet
were disclosed by intramural program director Heath Whittle yesterday. As has been the case in past years, each team will
be limited to two entrants in each event. Trial heats in those events in which the number of entrants necessitates
such will be held Wednesday afternoon. All finals will be run off Thursday. The events are the 100, 220, and
440-yard dashes, the 660-yard run, the three-quarter mile run, the 120-yard low hurdles, the high jump, broad jump, discus, and
shot put. Kappa Alpha is the defending champion.
