PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1951

THE DAVIDSONIAN
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF ...... BILL WHITE
BUSINESS MANAGER ...... ALEX GOLEY

Associate Editors ...... Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis, George McMurray, Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw, John Ottley
Photographs ...... Archie Neal
Photographer ...... Andrew Simmons
Feature Editor ...... Mike Myers
Exchange Editor ...... Ed Richardson
Managing Editors ...... Copy Editor ...... Pete Ormsby
Art Editor ...... Don Mahy
Sports Editor ...... Dick Liles
City Editor ...... Nat Daniels
Assistant Business Manager ...... Boo Northeutt
Advertising Manager ...... Jack Hobson
Circulation Manager ...... Bob Poston
Collection Manager ...... Bill Minter
Subscriptions Manager ...... Preston Chaney

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Dear Governor: This One’s Been Forgotten

The man who brought better roads to North Carolina missed one when he came in the back door to Davidson Wednesday. Had Governor Kerr Scott swung his executive auto around by way of Charlotte and battled his way up Highway 21 to Davidson, The Honorable—as a country boy—would have recognized a country road masquerading as a first-class highway. And being the man of action he is, Davidson students would probably have departed South for Christmas holidays on a reconditioned road.

But as no such doings came to pass, the Davidson student, the Charlotte commuters from Huntersville, Cornelius, Davidson, Mooresville, Statesville, and outlying communities, the bus and truck drivers, and the businessmen traveling from Charlotte and points South northward to West Virginia and above, must continue to play the part of “Hell-Drivers” on a hazardous layout. They must steel themselves for the unexpected from blind hills and curves; they must continue the tortuous task of tight-rope driving down the thin ribbon between soft shoulders and crumbling roadsides on the one side, and a passing vehicle which pretty well fills the other. Too, there's to be tested the skill of the driver on old Death Curve, where a wrong-way bank threatens to pitch you over into a Burma-Shave sign, literally at every turn. The signs haven't even been changed in five years.

We're sorry we missed talking to Governor Scott. We honestly believe he would have taken our case to heart. But we're sending this issue of The Davidsonian along to him with the hope that he’ll look it over. His modesty to the contrary, we know there's something an old N. C. State ag major can teach us preachers about safety.

Quo Vadis May Have The Goods Hidden Down Between Its Lines

Like the picture of the same name, Quo Vadis showed itself first in preview, promising that newspapers are going to be better than ever. It is questionable whether the publication qualifies as a newspaper in its overemphasis on the essay: it filled itself with apologies for failure to say anything and with promises to say something in the future; it vowed its non-competitive state with The Davidsonian, and yet has since boasted orally of its mail count outdrawing this paper's.

But for all its misgivings, the work of Brinkley-Crutchfield-Hope-Hunter-Stuart did not go unnoticed—completely. While the mimeographed form hardly lent itself to complete readability by the average leaving-chapel-going-to-class Davidson man, it made him aware that something new was in circulation. For that reason many read in part, and though not understanding in full, were stimulated to thought. And thought in fields long since deserted by hopelessness or complacency.

The organization is backed by some good minds with, we think, good intent. Last Friday’s advent of Quo Vadis along with the give and take over ODK’s program created a campus interest of the nature seldom seen in these parts. May we expect the full-length showing after the holidays?

Christmas Gift Fund Offers Spirit Of Giving Expression

“Merry Christmas and God bless you all,” shouted Charles Dickens' beloved little character, Tiny Tim. When Christmas time rolls around and another year totters towards its end, our thoughts quite jubilantly melt into the spirit of good cheer. It is time for the hearty handshake, colorful Christmas cards, and it is a time for heart-warming melodies of traditional carols to permeate the air. Christmas is a time of giving and receiving. But inevitably, every Christmas brings with it its Scrooges. There are always those who look forward to Christmas as just another worry. Just another shopping list to be marked off, another financial hardship, another annoyance—this is Christmas to the shrinking, cringing, commercial creature of today that scoffs at the celebration of the birth of our Savior.

Giving? What does giving mean to the modern Scrooge? He doesn’t know the meaning of Christian benevolence. Consider the broad Christian outlook which the gift fund embraces. Our gift is earmarked as a gift which is interracial. It is a gift which will do good in our own town of Davidson. In North Carolina’s Caswell Training School it will aid a group of people who are physically and mentally unable to help themselves. Our gift is international in scope. It sends aid abroad to a people who are in desperate need.

These purposes are truly Christian purposes which are worthy of attention this Christmas season.—G.H.Mc.

Scene One

(The scene is that of a high, golden-hued arch, resting on a vari-colored cloud, with its keystone a large, triangular piece of pecan pie. Across the top of the arch in ornate old-English lettering are the words, HEAVEN, U. S. Just to the right and below the gates is a large oaken desk; clear, except for a book of catechism and two wicker baskets labeled “In” and “Out.” Behind the desk stands a vertical file of four drawers. They are also labeled in old-English: Committees on Getting In, Committees on Getting Out, Committees on Committees, and Christianity and Miscellany. Saint Peter is sitting at the desk, his brow furrowed piously, his busy hands shifting the “In” papers to the “Out” basket and back again to the “In” basket. Assorted angels surround the desk, each straining to kiss his own elbow. From stage left an archangel in a natty blue pin-stripe suit and conservative tie enters.)

Arch.: S. P., I've got a couple of fellows I'd like you to see for a moment, if you don't mind.

S.P.: Archie, I've told you a thousand times not to bother me in December. With all the hypocrisy on Earth this month, it’s as much as a man’s worth to know whether a human's a sincere hypocrite or not. What do you think I assigned all those recruiting sergeants to you for anyhow? They know the routine.

Arch.: Oh sure, and I’m not looking a gift horse in the mouth, either. But, you see, this is one of those celebrity cases. Both of these men claim they were the millionth traffic fatality somewhere down there, and they're right het up about who died first. Claim you're about the only person who'd know.

S. P.: Oh yeah? Blast their conceit, anyway! That's the way it is with all these humans we get up here; think we have nothing else to do all day but sit around and watch them make mistakes. Pshaw! It's enough that we know beforehand when, where and how they're going to make them; have we got to sit around and applaud them just because they follow The Plan? Where are these men from?

Arch.: One of them’s a bum; from almost anywhere, I guess.

S. P.: Well, that’s nothing against him. We've got quite a number of them here. How about the other one?

Arch.: He's ... (hesitates) ... he’s a college student. A church college.

S. P.: (turns to Gabriel) Judge not et cetera, Triple-Tongue. And knock off that simple-minded head shaking. You don't know what a shock that gives some folks coming up here for the first time. After all, just because so many college people have trouble, it doesn’t mean all of them are necessarily Lost. Why, I remember just the other day one passed the Board without a hitch. You remember him, don’t you, Archie? Short fellow, tousled hair, piercing eyes ...

Arch.: Yes, I remember him. Fine fellow, all right, but you're wrong about the college; he quit after his freshman year when he saw that he wasn't getting anywhere.

S. P.: He did?

Arch.: That was the main reason he passed the Board.

S. P.: (frowns, regains composure) Well, bring those two fellows in. And remind me to get a definite ruling on these college students. All this confusion hurts morale.

Arch.: You know what the Boss’ll say.

S. P.: Yes, I know. But with so many people going to college these days, we can’t keep them all out, standards or no standards. (Archangel exits down left.)

Scene Two

(The lights dim; black and white clash in jagged patterns as “Coming in on a Wing and a Prayer” is heard in the background. Two men enter with Archangel. The first is the bum in blood-stained rags, holding his head with his hands, his hips crushed, and ...)

THE EDITOR’S MAILBOX: Brinkley Blasts The Davidsonian For Evasion Of Issue

Dear Editor:

May I first congratulate you on reviewing your record as a student newspaper editor. Despite the fact that it took a few well-aimed statements by one of your critics to get you to look at yourself even from a prejudiced viewpoint, I am glad to see some reaction. Although you dismissed it as coming from an uninformed non-reader, you obviously considered Mr. Hope's letter important enough to merit full editorial comment. In my opinion he was just trying to stimulate a little thought on the subject and seems to have accomplished his purpose well, judging from the length of last week's “public letter.”

I should also like to question your interpretation of a “live” presentation of issues. I would be the first to agree with you that live issues have found their way into the paper, but they are almost never given a live presentation. Except for a few exceptions you have failed to offer anything but a casual mention. On the question of the D Club request for a dance in Charlotte you merely asked the question: “Is executive committee policy on dances well-founded?” Now here’s an issue which could well affect every one of us. Most of us could see the committee’s side of it. The general conclusion among the student body was that they couldn’t do something, but they didn’t know why. Rulings like that aren't pulled out of a hat—inform us. You jump up and down and pat yourself on the back for some simple, insignificant thing like getting the heat cut back two notches in the library, and then you completely ignore problems like our election system, the lack of adequate scholarship funds, closer participation of faculty and students in joint projects. Last year the ball was set rolling to study the problem of rush week, but where is it now? Did somebody fumble? Bryan Robinson has demonstrated what interest merely stepping outside our homogeneous shell can arouse.

Why can’t we exercise our mental faculties outside the classroom a little more and not only express sincere opinions, but defend every man’s right to do the same? The Davidsonian should be the organ of that free expression which isn't afraid to take criticism and benefit from it. You have obviously tried to cover up point by point everything Sam suggested without really taking his suggestions seriously. In your first point you suggested that your ...

THE CABBAGE PLANTER: Innocence Abroadside; A Tragedy In One Rash Act By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

S.P.: (frowns, regains composure) Well, bring those two fellows in. And remind me to get a definite ruling on these college students. All this confusion hurts morale.

Arch.: You know what the Boss’ll say.

S. P.: Yes, I know. But with so many people going to college these days, we can’t keep them all out, standards or no standards. (Archangel exits down left.)

Scene Two

(The lights dim; black and white clash in jagged patterns as “Coming in on a Wing and a Prayer” is heard in the background. Two men enter with Archangel. The first is the bum in blood-stained rags, holding his head with his hands, his hips crushed, and ...)his legs jutting off at crazy angles from the knees down. The College man wears the remains of a blue, crest-emblazoned coat, a (Continued On Page Four)

NAT DANIEL: The First Christmas Message; Our Forgotten Responsibility

The streets and store windows have been decorated, the Santa Clauses hired, the advertising programs begun, and once more the jingle-jangle of cash register bells usher in Christmas—the American Winter vacation. In these days of bathtubs and television sets, getting seems to have replaced giving in our minds and hearts, and the intangible something known as the Christmas spirit is tucked away in a dust-laden corner and forgotten. But Christmas should mean more to us than a season of getting gifts, entertaining the right people, and keeping up with the Joneses. It wasn't established by the American businessman to promote mid-winter sales. Christmas has remained with us throughout the centuries to remind us that Christ was born in Bethlehem to be the Savior of the world and was the most generous of all gifts—God's gift to His wayward and stubborn children.

The song the angels sang to the Judean shepherds, and the star the wise men saw were not meant for them alone, but were the first Christmas greetings. In the moment they appeared, the simple peasants and the oriental sages became the whole of humanity, and though centuries have passed since they knelt before the manger, mankind is still groping in darkness, though light has been provided. The Shepherds and the Wise Men, having received the Heavenly messages, brought to the Child gifts—the first Christmas gifts. They brought them because they loved, honored, and respected the Christ child, and not in hopes of receiving anything in return. And they gave these gifts from their hearts. As these first gifts were given in generosity, respect, and love, so should our gifts be, for later Christ said, “If ye have done it unto the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me.”

The wise men and shepherds were also the first Christmas celebrators. They did not, however, dance with joy and throw a big party, but bowed before the manger and worshiped, praising God for bringing into the world in the person of His son, Hope, Love, and Peace to a troubled world. And so the Christmas spirit is a spirit of joyful, thankful, and humble worship. Despite the wars and famines and destruction which have more than once attempted to destroy all that is good in man, the spirit which Christmas symbolizes lives on though the modern American seems to have forgotten that fact. Nothing can grow without nourishment, and today, as never before in history, we are challenged to let the spirit that is in Christmas become the important influence in our lives in order to prevent atom destruction from without and a moral disintegration from within. And so as we go home to parties, friends, and families, let us not forget the real significance and the true promise of Christmas:

For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given: and the Government shall rest upon his shoulder: and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace. ~Isaiah 9:6.

FROM THE EDITOR’S MAILBOX: Robinson Slams Beard And Daniels; Asks Where Is Davidson’s School Spirit?

Dear Shelley and Nat:

Before defending the ODK program in general and in particular, there are several points of fact that I should like to clear up. You, Nat, in criticizing the program made several statements that simply are not fact. I will take them in order.

“He (I) is guilty of jumping on somebody else’s bandwagon.” You accuse me of doing this in four instances: Hell Week, the Blood Drive, the YMCA project, and the Baker Scholars project.

(a). Hell Week to Help—Here you say that I am attempting to horn in on the glory after the dirty work has been done. I was aware last spring that all this was going on, since I am a fraternity president. I talked to Dick Stockton early this fall and asked him if ODK could work with the Pan-Hel on this project. He agreed, saying that we could probably help best by acting as advisors, and by simply letting it be known that we were behind it. I'll admit that the project read as if we, the ODK, had done the work, and this was corrected in last week’s paper. As for horning in on the glory, I suggest that you go talk to Dick and see if he will corroborate this.

(b). The Blood Drive—Fairly early in the fall, Col. Ballard, an ODK member, asked if ODK would sponsor the Blood Drive in the student body, as it had done last year. We agreed, and Bill White handled this for us.

(c). Compulsory Membership in the YMCA—Here again I am accused of being behind, this time by three jumps. I have been a member of the Y Cabinet for two years and am aware that this issue was being raised. I asked Allen Strand, prior to the article being published, if ODK could work with the Y on that project. He agreed.

(d). Acting as hosts for the Baker Scholars—“for ODK to usurp their (the present Bakers) jobs seems absurd, besides being impolite.” I will now quote from a letter written by Prof. B. D. Thompson, chairman of the Scholarship Committee: “ODK has rendered the college a valuable service in each of the past three years by assisting the Baker Scholarship Committee with the finalists who come to the campus in the spring ... I shall welcome the cooperation of ODK again this year.” I received this letter prior to the article.

Have you ever leaned back, Nat and Shelley, in your chairs, and envisaged a student body and faculty that was truly interested in the educational process? What would be different about them, as compared with us? There would be at least two important differences. First, they would realize that they are now in the stream of life, that life is not something that we begin to live after we graduate from college. Every issue is a moral issue, worthy of discussion and of serious thought. Second, they would be vitally interested in student life, in all sorts of issues, and in thinking out for themselves the solutions to the various problems that we are presented with every day. With us, however, there is a decided apathy to many live issues, and we reduce the educational process to a sort of gentleman's game, in which the best player is he who does as little work as possible while “shooting” the professor on reviews and exams.

An attempt to overcome these differences was the broad background for our program for the year. It is always difficult to translate ideals into concrete realities. We had much rather work with other groups on the campus than to do their work for them. But, sometimes, it is impossible to integrate or appraise a group that does nothing. I'll admit that a Negro student on this campus would not be a happy person, judged by ordinary standards. I would not like to see one come, unless he knew exactly what he was stepping into. He would know that he would be snubbed, that various social problems would present themselves, etc. He would come prepared to give up most of his social life. He would do this because he would be working for a cause that was more important than his own pleasures. Sure, there would be problems, but let’s not lose sight of the forest for the (Continued On Page Four)

“hope that the new (chapel) program would meet continued success” was enough to adequately present the issue. Of course, we all were glad to see the recent progress, but that doesn’t mean the issue is settled or that further consideration isn't merited. I’m not trying to suggest that we keep needling ourselves with thorny issues, but one article of “hope” is hardly an adequate presentation of any issue.

On the second point, I believe you missed the purpose of ATO's work with its pledges. ATO as a national fraternity has long urged the abolition of the so-called Hell Week tactics, but to my knowledge, the local chapter has not backed any Greek Week plan at all. Understand I am not saying that any fraternity would not back Mr. Adam’s plan, but I believe you have read into ATO’s action more than you were justified in doing. As a member of ATO, I wholeheartedly back an intelligent use of fraternal brotherhood, but ATO has not arbitrarily aligned itself behind anybody's plan.

On the question of holidays, I ask if you really consider being told that an article is unnecessary warrants dropping the issue. I believe Sam had in mind the all-inclusive subject of holidays and not just the past Thanksgiving. Naturally, the question of holidays is tied in very closely with that of cuts. Yet a critical analysis of either is virtually unknown. In both instances, we are treated like little boys whose parents are afraid we will come home at the wrong time. Maybe that policy is expedient for freshmen, but the maturity of four years’ education surely must be worth more than eight cuts. If a senior in college must be told how many cuts he should take, there is something wrong with either the senior or the system. Surely there are other possible systems that can be considered seriously, such as a basic minimum number of cuts with additional cuts earnable on a bonus system for grades. Not only would that produce incentive for better grades, but it would make the student work harder to budget his time to his best advantage. Why can’t you discuss such alternate plans instead of sitting back on your laissez-faire haunches like a contented cow and letting the same old issues float glibly by every year?

We are all sick with indifference, but you're the sickest because it's your duty to keep us awake and alive to what’s going on. This very attitude is what makes most of us so immature compared to students in northern or western colleges. You are quite right that your lack of letters could be because of a lack of interest in “affairs d'college.” But then who should try to stimulate interest if not the Davidsonian? Is it to be left to an independent group of writers who must finance their own paper to get the issues presented? To my knowledge, Quo Vadis has received more letters from its one issue than the Davidsonian has all year. These letters to that paper prove that there is genuine student and faculty interest if someone will just bring it out. It’s true you have printed articles, but have you presented issues? I don’t know what the situation is between you and the staff, but couldn’t you put to work the good talent in many of those who are doing nothing and replace those who are not qualified for what they are trying to do? Why not remove some of that rehashed news and invite more faculty comment? We can read the Charlotte papers for a qualified account of world events; our paper, paid for by us, should bring to light everything it possibly can about the college, its professors, administration, students, and those things relevant to our life here. Several of the faculty visited other nations recently; others have done special work in interesting and pertinent fields, which would have not only interesting, but informational and enlightening value for us. The recent British election could have been the occasion for using this advantage. The field is wide open, and I am confident it is willing to be exploited. Instead, you let an inexperienced student who isn’t in the least qualified, tackle a problem ten couldn't handle.

Finally, I should again like to offer compliments for what I hope is your new turn. I would extend my congratulations to a few of your writers who have done a good job of keeping their eyes open. The second page is better than in any previous year I have known. But please don’t let this long-needed enthusiasm die here. It shouldn't take outsiders to prod you on. With the proper use of your staff, you can make the Davidsonian the finest paper of its class.

Yours very truly,
GEORGE BRINKLEY.