ATO INSTALLATION FEBRUARY 23, 24, 25

Local ATO Group Receives Notice Of Acceptance

After many months of preparation, the announcement was received Saturday by the ATO Club of their acceptance as the Epsilon
Omega chapter of Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity. Plans for the official installation are now in the making and it will
occur on February 23rd, 24th, and 25th. The club first entered its petition to Alpha Tau Omega on March 27,
1950. On April 10, a delegation from the chapters of Province Six arrived on the campus along with many national
officers for an inspection of the local fraternity. The official charter as an ATO club was received on May 15
following the unanimous approval of the represented chapters and the High Council of the Fraternity. On December 28, the petition
was presented to the national chapter through a brochure prepared by the club. The successful result of the voting was
first made known in a telegram received on January 27 from Steward Daniels, National Secretary of the Fraternity, “It is
a genuine pleasure to officially advise you chapters have approved your petition overwhelmingly. Arrangements are being completed for your installation
February 23 and 24 at which time you will receive most cordial welcome into our ATO family as North Carolina
Epsilon Omega Chapter.”

SAMPLE LEAVES ROTC DEPT; WILL SERVE IN ATLANTA, GA.

Mr. Ernest Arnold Leaves College For Important Position

Appointment of Rev. Ernest J. Arnold, who was assistant to the president of Davidson College, to the position of southeastern
director of the National Council of Churches of Christ in the U.S.A., formed in Cleveland, Ohio, was announced last December.
Mr. Arnold left for Atlanta, Ga. for his headquarters office Wednesday where he will be actively in charge of the
Southeastern area of the national council. He will be concerned particularly with foreign and home missions, religious education and higher
education, stewardship, and evangelism. In his new office, Mr. Arnold, who already possesses a record of many distinctive attainments in
the field of religious leadership, will have exceptionally large responsibilities and opportunities.

A graduate of Presbyterian College, Clinton, S.C., Mr. Arnold received a B.D. degree from Yale University Divinity School. In 1939
he was ordained as a Presbyterian minister in Granville Presbytery. From 1939 to 1948 he was executive secretary of the
North Carolina Council of Churches with offices at Duke University. He became assistant to the President of Davidson College in
1948. “It is with sincere regret,” President John R. Cunningham announced in chapel Wednesday, “that we assent to Mr. Arnold’s
severance of his connection with the college community. He rendered a signal service, especially during the period of the Davidson
Development program. He and his delightful family will be missed by the entire community.” Following Dr. Cunningham's brief remarks, Mr.
Arnold was applauded by the student body Wednesday in chapel, in appreciation for his past service to Davidson.

Seagle Takes 1951 Chemistry Award

Lee M. Seagle, son of L. M. Seagle, 1012 9th Avenue, Hickory, N.C., received the 1951 departmental award from the
Davidson College Chemistry Department for his excellent scholastic record in introductory Chemistry. The award, an inscribed copy of the “Handbook
of Chemistry and Physics” is given to the freshman each year who makes the highest average in first-year chemistry. Other
chemistry prizes include the $250 D. H. Howard award for the senior judged by the department as the outstanding man
in the field, and the Gamma Sigma Epsilon prize which goes to the best junior chemist.

She: “You say you make up these jokes yourself?”
He: “Yes, out of my head.”
She: “You must be.”

Major Charles W. Sample, assistant professor of Military Science and Tactics, has been ordered to a new assignment, in the
personnel section of the staff of Third Army Headquarters in Atlanta. He plans for Mrs. Sample and their two small
daughters to remain in Davidson until he is settled, probably in March. Major Sample, a Davidson graduate of the class
of '39 arrived for duty at the College in the summer of 1949. His assignment was scheduled to be for
a minimum of 3 years. However, the expanding strength of the Army as a result of the Korean situation has
resulted in this reassignment of a number of regular army officers to positions associated with the expansion. The reassignment of
one of its 3 regular army officers was not expected by the College. Orders for Major Sample’s reassignment came last
week. While at Davidson, Major Sample has proven an able popular member of the faculty: always interested in the students
and in their instruction, and character. He has also been very active in community life, and in the work of
the church. Major Sample has been replaced by Captain Charles M. Hull, a graduate of Illinois College in 1940. Captain
Hull has done graduate work at the University of Illinois. He is a reserve officer and comes to Davidson from
Headquarters, Third Army. Captain and Mrs. Hull, and their 7-year-old daughter, are residing with Professor and Mrs. Erwin while awaiting
a housing vacancy.

Enrollment Figures Show 8 Pct. Loss

Enrollment figures announced Wednesday in chapel by Dr. Cunningham show only an 8 percent decrease in students since September, a
figure which he said was “approximately normal.” School opened in September with a total enrollment of 863; enrollment for the
present semester totals 794. Dr. Cunningham said that this decrease is “decidedly favorable” when compared with other men’s colleges. Davidson
officials, however, are reluctant to predict what the enrollment for next year will be. Prospective students may be heavily affected
by the proposed 18-year-old draft and new regulations will probably change the status of students now in college.

Miss Spence Serving As Staff Librarian

Miss Laura W. Spence, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Earl H. Spence, Davidson, has been assigned to the Special Services
Section, Headquarters Southwestern Command. Formerly a staff librarian with the Special Services Section, Headquarters 1st Cavalry Division, Miss Spence is
now employed as a staff librarian by the Department of the Army. She arrived in the Far East in October
1946.

(Continued To Page Four)

The Davidsonian

ALCLENDA LUX UB

VOLUME XXXIX ORTA LIBERTAS DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1951

PRE-MINS, TAKE NOTE!!

NUMBER THIRTEEN

Yance Plans Revealed

MARRIAGE POWWOW HERE SOON; WILL INCLUDE MOVIES, TALKS

Dr. Reuben Hill, Ph.D., professor of sociology and research in the Institute for Research in Social Science at the University
of North Carolina will be the guest speaker for the Davidson College Marriage Conference to be held February 13-14. Dr.
Hill is nationally famous as an authority on marriage and the family. He is a widely sought-after individual on college
campuses. Besides holding a professorship at the University of North Carolina, Dr. Hill directs the University’s graduate training program of
the family. He has taught at the University of Wisconsin, the University of South Dakota, Iowa State College and Teachers’
College and Columbia University. Dr. Hill is the author and editor of a number of books among which are “Marriage
and the Family,” “The Family, Marriage and Parenthood,” “When You Marry” and “Families Under Stress.” His articles have been featured
in The Readers Digest, Parent's Magazine, McCalls, Better Homes and Gardens and many other magazines.

Dr. Douglas of the Davidson Sociology Department has known and worked with Dr. Hill for many years. The Southern Council
on Family Relations of which Dr. Douglas is president, has as its 2nd Vice-President, Dr. Hill. Through the efforts of
Dr. Douglas, Dr. Hill was obtained to conduct a series of discussions on marriage here at Davidson. After talking with
members of ODK, Dr. Douglas received their enthusiastic support of presenting the marriage conference. A committee of which Gene Regen
is chairman was chosen to plan the conference. Serving on this committee with Gene are Randy Taylor, Neil Leach, Gordon
Scott, Bill Bird, Sam Joyner and John Lyles. This committee has planned a series of pre-conference movies and discussions. On
Wednesday, February 7, several movies on Marriage and associated subjects will be shown in Chambers Auditorium. The time for the
movies is 7:30 p.m. Next Sunday night, February 4 and on the following Sunday night, fraternity discussions on marriage will
be held by members of the faculty. Through the efforts of Bill Klein and Bill Bird the following professors have
been engaged to lead the discussions: Daggy, Douglas, Brown, Oswalt, Puckett, and Godcharles.

NOTICE

All seniors interested in locating jobs through the Placement Bureau should fill out registration blanks before next weekend. Forms can
be obtained at 104 Chambers Building.

Ray Cunningham Receives Award

At a meeting on Friday, January 26, the Davidson College Alumni Chapter of Mecklenburg County awarded to Ray Cunningham the
annual Mecklenburg Medal. This award is presented each year to the Davidson senior from Mecklenburg County, judged most outstanding in
college activities. The medal was presented by Ernest Hunter, a previous recipient of the same award. Last year’s honored student
was Bo Roddey. A committee of five students makes the selection of the medalist. The meeting was held at Myers
Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, where Dr. John McSween, pastorof the Fourth Presbyterian Church of Greenville, South Carolina, spoke to
a group of two hundred on the crisis facing today’s Christian world. Further participation by Davidson students at the meeting
was of a musical nature, furnished by the “Cripple Creek Boys.”

Open Meeting on Gambling Produces Varied Opinions

Around 30 students attended the open meeting of the Constitution Committee of the Student Council in Eu Hall Wednesday night
to discuss the issue of gambling at Davidson. While nothing definite was to be decided, the discussion brought out several
points for the committee to consider in deciding what gambling is and how it should be punished. Chairman Ken Goodpasture
emphasized at the beginning that the scope of the discussion should not include gambling as a moral issue in all
life but only gambling in relation to the Davidson College campus.

There were three main bodies of opinion on the subject of gambling. Individualist Jim Murray stood for repeal of the
gambling law since a Davidson student is old enough to care for himself and can decide for himself whether or
not he will gamble. Bill Brooks asserted that Davidson is a Christian school and must try to attain the Christian
ideal; that gambling was taking something of value without working for it; that any game where “an external device is
used to determine the winner” was gambling and should be prohibited. Several boys took positions in between, trying to draw
the line between organized and unorganized gambling, and saying that unorganized gambling, whatever that is, should not be against the
rules.

Although a few people suggested that specific forms of gambling be enumerated in the constitution, the main body of opinion
felt that a general definition of gambling would provide fewer loopholes and leave the student council more at liberty to
exercise its judgment in each case. As for punishment, it was generally thought that if the student council has the
duty of defining gambling (which it now has, since the constitution makes no attempt to do so), it should also
have the right to impose whatever penalty the seriousness of the offense justified (the penalty now is automatic shipping). There
should, however, be upper and lower limits to the penalty.

These main conclusions, then, were reached:
(1) There should be a law against gambling at Davidson.
(2) A more definite, but still not a specific or detailed, definition of gambling should be inserted in the constitution.
(3) The Student Council should have the power to define gambling (using a general definition in the constitution as a
guide), and to decide the seriousness of the penalty to be imposed.
(4) The Student Council members should be given a better understanding of the nature of their duty before accepting nomination
for office.

As the reader can see, there are many knotty problems yet to be solved on the issue of gambling. The
constitution committee, composed of Ken Goodpasture, Ray Cunningham, and Larry Dagenhart, will appreciate any assistance on this matter from any
source.

THE GREAT CROSSED CROSS PROVIDES MYSTERY

The crowd below was watching breathlessly. The two mighty cranes strained, slowly, ever so slowly, hoisting the mass of metal
and gold leaf to its perch 149 feet above the ground. Gradually the cone-shaped object came into contact with the
hands of waiting workmen, then was lowered into place. The spire of the new Davidson College church was mounted! The
eight-foot gold cross was majestic up there in the sky. But then, lo and behold (or rather, alas and alack!)
it was noticed that the cross was facing in the wrong direction. Wasn't it supposed to face north, the same
direction that the main entrance of the new building faces? It was. But now it was facing toward Main Street,
toward the West. Why so?

On that gloomy January 12 afternoon, over two hundred spectators saw a freakish mechanical miscalculation which has since become a
minor mystery to Davidson students, alumni, and townspeople. Letters have been pouring in to many of the officials of the
College inquiring if the cross is to be left in its present position. Someone even wrote Dr. Cunningham, while the
president was in Florida, to find out the answer to this question. The answer is no. College treasurer F. L.
Jackson explains that the cross could have been turned the same day that the steeple was erected. However, within the
next few days, it will definitely be turned. The solution: About five minutes work by two or three workmen. It
will be as simple as that.

Mr. Jackson, in explaining the Great Mystery of the Wrong Way Cross, added that if work proceeds according to schedule,
the construction of the new church should be completed by Homecoming of next year, and will be dedicated at that
time.

Bill Clark’s Men Will Make Music For Pan-Hel Set

Bill Klein announced this week that a series of mid-winter dances, under the sponsorship of the Pan Hellenic Council, will
be given Friday and Saturday, February 16 and 17. These dances will be held on the campus in the Johnston
Memorial Gymnasium. Ticket prices have yet to be decided upon, but Klein thinks they will be around five dollars. Bill
Clarke and his orchestra will furnish music for the three dances.

Beginning the trio will be a formal dance on Friday night lasting from nine until one o'clock. President Klein and
the members of the Pan Hellenic Council request that students follow the custom of not giving flowers to their dates.
Refreshments for the dance as well as for the informal dance Saturday night will be sold in the basement of
the gym from a concession stand. On Saturday afternoon a tea dance will be given from four until five-thirty o'clock.
It will be followed that evening by an informal dance which will last from eight until twelve o'clock in the
Johnston Gym.

Bill Clarke and his orchestra will travel from Atlanta, Georgia where he entertains a full schedule of playing dates throughout
the year. His men have been richly applauded at many Atlanta clubs and hotels. He has played consistently at The
Piedmont Driving Club, The Biltmore Hotel and at the several colleges in and around Atlanta such as Georgia Tech, Emory,
and the University of Georgia. In addition to these, he is a great favorite with the numerous high school fraternities
and sororities there. A friend of Klein's, Clarke has promised to play “only what the students want.” Klein says “this
doesn't include novelty tunes.”

A patriotic note finds its way into the theme of these dances which will be George Washington’s birthday. This will
prompt an ample number of bright red cherries, hatchets, and red, white, and blue streamers. An additional event to the
weekend’s entertainment list will come in the form of a swimming meet Saturday afternoon in the home pool. Davidson's tank
men will vie for top honors with a highly-touted swim team from N. C. State. This will be the eighth
meet for the ‘Cats, who have splashed to a 1-4 record so far in their present season.

In an effort to avoid any possible legal difficulties, the Pan-Hel Council asks any student who plans to have his
date stay in Davidson or vicinity refrain from paying for her room. This is socially correct and to do otherwise
might foreseeably lead to complications.

Pre-Ministerial Students Receive 4D Classification

After a very careful study of “Theological School Enrollments” the National Headquarters of Selective Service has authorized a 4D classification
for anyone who is under the care of Presbytery and is pre-enrolled in a Theological Seminary (Selective Service Regulation Par.
1622.19). That means deferment until completion of his theological training. This ordinarily applies to candidates now in college; but if
the candidate is actually under the care of Presbytery, he might even pre-enroll in Seminary while still in High School.
No one would want a student to hide behind any provision in order to avoid military service. The above course,
however, is one approved by the Government itself in its overall manpower policy. It provides for a ministerial candidate to
complete his chosen course of study and be ready to serve where he may feel he is most needed at
that time—in the pastorate or chaplaincy.

Recognizing the need for educated men in every field, Selective Service has provided that the induction of any man now
attending college may be postponed until the end of the present academic year. Further deferment may be made possible after
this scholastic year. If so, it will be based upon the current year’s scholastic standing. All R.O.T.C. students are deferred.
Students in Seminary or in college and under the care of Presbytery, and who hold commissions in the line,—if called
to active duty, should ask immediately for a six months’ delay. Such request, if granted, can be renewed.
