PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

22 Students, One Faculty Member Tapped Into Scabbard and Blade

Twenty-two students and one faculty member were tapped into Scabbard and Blade Honorary Military Fraternity at its Spring Tap Day
ceremonies during ROTC drill Tuesday. Capt. B. F. Hood was initiated as an associate member. Student initiates are Hooper Alexander,
Ernest Barry, Bill Brooks, Larry Dagenhart, Sib Dorton, R. F. Ferguson, Bill Freeman, Frank Hanshaw, Charlie Herion, Joe H. Miller,
Jim McFarland, Kirk Oglesby, Francis Pepper, Bill Reynolds, Cecil Rhodes, T. B. Rose, Ed Sutton, Tony Tucker, Bob Turk, and
Ham Wade. Also tapped were Dewey Keesler and Pete Kalogridis.

Evolution of Davidson Freshman Sees Fear Changed to Confidence

On September 7, 1950, Erastus arrived at Davidson, North Carolina, to begin his education at Davidson College. Erastus, full of
anticipation and fear, duly registered, paid his fees, and settled down in 14 Duke, spent several hours trying to find
his room which he stupidly presumed to be on the first floor, when it was actually on the third floor.
After getting his room in fairly good shape, Erastus sat down on his newly-made bed and thought to himself: “I
will have to get out all of my suits and ties first, so I can dress well like the Davidson
Gentleman. I guess I should not have brought my red pants and purple shirt, too ‘loud.’ I think I had
better watch my language, and... oh... I better get my Bible out so I will be sure to study it
and learn to be as good as all the Davidson upperclassmen. I wonder if I can get my books early?
I think I will need an early start if I expect to make a B-plus average like all the other
students here. I will try not to cut any classes and I will attend only one picture show a week—on
Saturday nights.”

From the thoughts of Erastus, any Davidson student can see that Erastus was, as Woodrow Wilson, destined to become at
least president of the United States. Just as a matter of course, let's look in on Erastus and see how
he is making out in his second semester of college. As all freshman regulations are ended and “Hell Week” is
over, Erastus is free to express himself as he pleases. Oh, Erastus is entering 14 Duke now. He uses the
west side entrance to avoid any trouble finding his room. He is wearing red pants, a purple shirt, and a
hat with all the colors of Joseph's coat. He greets his roommate in a friendly manner, though it is not
the policy to print the language he used. He, absent-mindedly blows the dust off the Bible on his dresser, and
sits down on the easy chair he bought, so he would be comfortable while reading newspapers, comic books, etc. He
is on probation for overcutting classes, and he did not have a high enough average to get a formal initiation
into his fraternity. As he is not very sleepy, he decides to go to the “flick.” He wonders why he
is not sleepy; he hasn’t missed a movie all week. It seems that he has forgotten that he spends his
time in class by sleeping on the back row. Thus Erastus, an ordinary freshman, has become a mature, wide-awake, and
pardon the expression, a “Davidson Gentleman.”

Fishing And Ballet Featured By ULFS

The United Literary Film Society’s contribution to the Fine Arts Festival will be 2 movies, “Man of Aran” and “Ballet
Russe,” which will be shown next Wednesday night in Chambers Auditorium. “Man of Aran” is a Robert Flaherty drama of
man against the elements—in the barren, stormy Aran Islands, hardy fishermen snatch their existence from “the teeth of the wind
and the crest of the waves.” From the windswept Aran Islands the program switches to the Russian stage, from which
comes three outstanding films on Russian ballet featuring several world-famous artists, among them Marie Semyonova in Tchaikovsky's “Swan Lake Ballet.”

A GOOD PLACE TO MEET — A BETTER PLACE TO EAT

PICCADILLY GRILL
O. M. KONTOS
1416 East Morehead Street
Phones 4-2090 — 5-9886
Charlotte, N. C.

CANCER... (Continued From Page One)

AED President Gene Regen believes Dr. Williams’ subject is “timely due to its ever-present danger and in light of the
huge amounts of research completed on cancer yearly.” Davidson men, it is thought, by their position as potential family heads
should be able to instantly suspect if not detect cancer symptoms. Regen illustrated the consequences of failure to know cancer
signals by the pitiful number of people who come seeking cure, yet have let cancer get a head start. “There
is little hope then,” he reflected, “even in immediate operation.” It was further pointed out by Regen that though medical
science is on the verge of solving the cancer puzzle, quick and accurate diagnosis of symptoms on the part of
each individual is yet the most effective way of ensuring timely treatment. The American Cancer Society has spent thousands advertising
and otherwise publicizing the warning signs cancer gives. They are simple enough to guard against once it has been firmly
established in each individual’s mind exactly what to look for.

ELECTIONS .... (Continued From Page One)

candidate for the B. S. 2 Degree. Stuart Plummer plans to enter the ministry as a life's work. Sigma Chi
lays claim to this Buncombe, N. C., boy’s fraternal bonds. He sings with the college chorus and plans to be
awarded the A. B. 2 Degree. Max Devane, Jennings, Florida, recently pledged Phi Delta Theta fraternity. At Jennings High School
he participated in football, basketball and baseball. He was also a class officer. Herschel Allen is another Phi Delt. His
home is Monticello, Georgia. At Monticello High School he was a five-sport man and held a spot on the debate
team. Last fall he quarterbacked the kitten grid team and is a potential diamond threat.Charlies Johnson was student body president
at Greenville (S.C.) High School last year. He played football, baseball and was president of his class.

“What did she say when you told her you knew practically nothing about kissing?”
“Turn out the light and let this be a lesson to you.”

Joe: “How do you like your job as a salesman?”
Jim: “Oh, it's dandy. You meet some fine fellows at the hotels and have lots of fun in the evenings,
but what I don’t like is calling on all those store managers.”

Center Theatre Mooresville
Week Starting Saturday Apr. 28

Saturday, April 28
“MAN FROM SONORA”
Johnny Mack Brown
- also -
H.G. Wells’ Mystery Story
“THINGS TO COME”
SERIAL AND CARTOON
Owl Show Saturday Nite

Monday & Tuesday
“SO YOUNG, SO BAD”
Paul Henreid
NEWS & CARTOON

(Continued From Page One)
Chambers Auditorium, 8:15, Tuesday night. Mrs. Kenneth Moore, wife of the assistant music professor, will play Haydn's “Cello Concerto.” Mrs.
Moore, before coming to Davidson, studied at the New England Conservatory of Music, the University of Illinois, and Juilliard Conservatory.
Sophomore Allen Garrison, who spent the summer of 1948 at the renowned Interlochen Music Camp, will be heard in a
“Concert Piece for Bassoon and Strings,” by Berle Phillips. Other numbers on the program, under the baton of James Christian
Pfohl, are the first movement of Haydn's “Symphony Number 4," or the “London Symphony,” and “Village Music,” by Douglas Moore.

Louise Nelson Pfohl, pianist, will present a piano recital Monday morning at 10:25, playing Chopin’s “Ballade in A Flat” and
“Nocturne in F Sharp”; Ravel’s “Piece en forme de Habanera,” and Poulenc’s “Caprice Italien.” Monday evening, at 8:15, the Davidson
College Male Chorus, under the direction of Earl F. Berg, and an Instrumental Ensemble directed by Kenneth R. Moore will
present a program of unusual music. Works to be performed by the Chorus include the “Mass for the Poor” by
Erik Satie, with Harold M. Frantz as organist; and the “Credo” from a Mass by Schubert. Three works by American
composers will be a feature of this concert. Samuel Barber's “A Stopwatch and an Ordnance Map” will be performed by
the Male Chorus and Ralph Roberts, tympanist. Gail Kubik's choral profile “Oliver De Lancey” will also be sung by the
Chorus. William Bergsma’s “Suite for Brass Quartet” will be played by the Instrumental Ensemble, which will also be heard in
“Sonata Pian e Forte” (Gabrieli); “Divertimento No. 5” (Mozart) and “In Modo Religioso” (Glazunov).

James Christian Pfohl will conduct the Davidson College Little Symphony Orchestra Tuesday evening at 8:15, with Jean Morlan Moore, cellist,
and Allen Garrison, bassoonist, as soloists. Mrs. Moore will play the Haydn Cello Concerto with the orchestra, while Mr. Garrison
will play “Concert Piece for Bassoon and Strings” by Berle Phillips. The Orchestra will open the concert with the first
movement of Haydn's “London” Symphony, and conclude it with the “Village Music” Suite by Douglas Moore.

Concluding musical event of the week will be a performance Wednesday morning, at 10:25, of Mozart’s Trio for Clarinet, Viola
and Piano. This work will be played by Kenneth R. Moore, clarinetist; Elizabeth S. Frantz, violist; and Eunice Plann Berg,
pianist.

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Test
Mooresville Creamery
GRADE “A” MILK
PASTEURIZED
Daily Delivery.
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

State Theatre Mooresville
Week Starting Saturday Apr. 28

Saturday, April 28
“BUFFALO STAMPEDE”
Randolph Scott
also
“NAVY BOUND”
Tom Neal - Wendy Waldron
CARTOON & SERIAL
Owl Show Saturday Nite and Monday
“LAST OF THE BUCCANEERS”
starring Paul Henreid
CARTOON & SHORT

Tuesday and Wednesday
“FATHER'S LITTLE DIVIDEND”
Spencer Tracy - Joan Bennett
Elizabeth Taylor

FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1951

RENT A CAR AT THE
St. Charlotte

VISIT THE
DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
142 E. Morehead — Charlotte

Salisbury-Landis Highway
Week Starting Saturday Apr. 28
William Holden - Coleen Gray

No wonder he blew his stack! All this double talk about quick cigarette tests was a flagrant infringement on his
patent rights! They couldn’t fool this character with “one-puff”—“one-whiff” experiments. Millions of smokers have reached the same conclusion—there’s just one
real way to prove the flavor and mildness of a cigarette. It’s the sensible test—the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test—which simply
asks you to try Camels as your steady smoke... on a pack-after-pack, day-after-day basis. No snap judgments needed! After you’ve
enjoyed Camels—and only Camels—for 30 days, we believe you'll know why...

More People Smoke Camels than any other cigarette!

Starlite DRIVE-IN THEATRE
Saturday, April 28
“HORSEMEN OF THE SIERRA”
with Smiley Burnette
The Bowery Boys as
“THE LUCKY LOSERS”
SERIAL - CARTOON

Monday & Tuesday
“DEAR SECRETARY”
Loraine Day
