If you weren't in Atlanta last weekend, you probably reached for the Sunday paper with the thought—“Wonder how the ‘Plucky
Cats’ came out against Tech.” After you read the 34-7 score, you probably thought that it wasn’t too bad at
that. But if you read the way the Georgia papers wrote it up, you might think that it was another
State game or several of the others. “Georgia Tech Cakewalks by Davidson” or “Coach Bobby Dodd announced over the loudspeakers
during halftime for a B-team quarterback to report to the dressing room and dress out for the remainder of the
game, bringing the total number of quarterbacks to five.”

NOT EXACTLY A WALTZ

This may have been true about the quarterback and it is true that Dodd used a great number of reserves
and failed to play Darrell Crawford, the All-Southern and All-American candidate at the quarterback post for the Engineers. I don’t
know how good a coaching point it was, but it appeared rather unsportsmanlike when Dodd sent his first team along
with Crawford to the showers at the close of the third quarter. But the fact remains that the game still
wasn’t a runaway and that Crawford probably couldn't have done much better than his Freshman understudy, who completed better than
half his passes and pitched about five straight without a miscue. Also, the fact looms that Tech found it somewhat
difficult to break through the tough defensive Cat line and they made most of their 216 yards on the ground
on the three long plays, one of which was the 40-yard jaunt that Hardeman took off on early in the
second half.

ONE OF BEST GAMES

The Cats played one of their best games of the season against the best team they played all year. Someone
remarked that it was the “smartest darn bunch of football players” he had ever played against. Tech had a light,
rangy bunch of boys who really knew their business and did it. The Cats didn’t find much trouble with the
first-team defensive line in the first half and got off to some notable gains. Henry Brown, who played a whale-of-a-game
at offense and defense, broke through for several long gains right through the line. The passing was harder, but Dick
Kelly and Harpo Turk brought in several of Ruth's heaves. The outstanding thing that was lacking was that old pass
defense, but their long ends could have caught passes in any pass defense. Well, another football season is down the
track and better prospects of more and different sports are on the agenda. One last look at the season and
the prediction of last issue... it was warm for the game!

ORCHIDS TO THE STURDY THIRTEEN

Playing their last game for the Davidson Wildcat football team, was quite an array of guys that will be sorely
missed when next fall rolls around again. Both Co-captains Jerry Kiser and Bull Freeman will be lacking in that defensive
line which was about the most outstanding thing about the Cats this year. Kiser and Freeman both have been stalwarts
since they first hit the campus and certainly in their last year.

Betas Bag Two

Selected by the votes of the fraternity sports managers, this year’s Davidsonian All-Fraternity tag football team is as representative as
any that has been selected in many years. Of the seven available positions on the top team, only the Betas
have the distinction of claiming two of them, while the others are divided among five different fraternities. This year tag
football was introduced to the intramural fields for the first time and was a great success. Below are the top
seven stars who were chosen to represent the 1951 All-Fraternity tag football team:

T. W. ALDRED, KA

T. W. proved to be one of the finest running and passing backs that the intramural fields have seen for
many seasons. A member of the champion KA’s, his excellent passing and running, combined with his versatile ability to do
anything right, earns him the honor as one of the outstanding players of 1951.

JIMMY SLOAN, KS

“Slimy,” as Jim is called, gains his starting berth largely because of his superb passing and booming punts. A member
of the runner-up Kappa Sigs and a repeater from last year’s All-Fraternity team, Jimmy did most of his team’s ball
handling and was a constant threat on every play.

TYLER BERRY, Sigma Chi

Tyler was the big threat for this year's strong Sigma Chi team. A good passing arm and plenty of speed
featured his reliable ball handling and made him capable of keeping any opponent on the alert throughout the complete game.

Bob Turk and Dave Williams, who failed to see the end of the season in uniform because of an injury,
will not be back at the end posts next year. Also, Walter Oakes at his defensive end position, will pass
on to graduation. Branch and McNeely also will be absent in the middle of the line. Bill Reynolds is another
offensive man that will be absent when the picture is made next year. Two men who haven't seen much action
and are leaving are Bob Gibson and Bill Purcell. In the backfield only three men will be lost, but they
are key men and have stood out well for two years. Dave Peeler has been outstanding all year as a
defensive backer-up of the line. He has been unsung, but nevertheless has been a demon for the defensive team that
has racked so many dreams of TD's. Johnny Guiton, whose heart and fight is as big as he, will graduate
in the spring along with plunger Ham Wade. Ham has been dependable and ready for three years and has come
into his own this year at the fullback post and later at halfback.

Tuxedos for Rent

For Your Fraternity Functions, let us outfit you with “America’s First Name in Formal Wear” an “After Six” Tuxedo

Wilson-Wright's “Collegiate Fashions”

By BOB OWENS

CHUCK ELLIOT, BETA

Chuck has the habit of creating a name for himself in any athletic circle, and he came through again this
year to lead the Betas to a most successful season. He is a good runner and field general, and not
soon to be forgotten, were his accurate passes, aimed usually at Roy Davis.

ROY “WHIZ” DAVIS

Roy gains his starting position on this year's team not only for his fine pass receiving but also for his
defensive line-backing work. One of the outstanding receivers of the season, Roy caught an amazing percentage of Elliot’s passes for
wonderful gains and certainly deserves his spot on the team.

WALLACE ABBOTT, PHI GAM

Wallace's fine passes and leadership of a strong Phi Gam team rate him among the top seven.Halfway job, Wallace's passing,
running, and defensive ability was the cause of defeat for many teams this season and the principal reason for the
successful record of the Phi Gams.

HORACE BALL, SPE
Horace was the big threat for the SPE’s this season and the main reason why they finished with such a
good record. He is a cool operator, a good passer, and very capable of going the distance on every play.
Horace and Wallace Abbott finished in a deadlock for the sixth and seventh spots on the All-Fraternity selections.

Below are the first and second team selections with votes polled and a list of the honorable mentions.

Tankmen In Early Drills
Men are Co-Captain Francis Pepper, Paul Cole, and Al Ormond; sprinters are Captain Ken Taylor, Aubrey Miree, Pete Hairston, Swain
Loy, Ed Stuart, and Robert Mims; back-stroke men are John Stifel, B. Ballenger, Jim Bryan, Sam Myrick, and Stan Topple.
Rounding out the squad are Harry Applewhite, B. Montgomery, Charles Hull, Don Southern, Bob Beamer, and Wallace Pate. The prospects
for the '52 swimming season are good and if the improvement of Cole, Pepper, and Ormond spreads to the rest
of the team, Davidson should be proud of its '52 version of Dick Redding’s Catfish.

Wildcat Sports
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1951

Cats In First Edge Out Fijis
CATAWBA INDIANS ARE BASKETBALL FOE PAGE THREE

PHI DELTS COP WRESTLING TOURNEY
GREEK DREAM TEAM By 35-33; Hoop Tilt With Key Is Outstanding Grappler Catawba Crew

By BOB HAZARD
Coach Boyd Baird will lead the 1951-52 edition of the Davidson basketball team to the North Charlotte YMCA gym Saturday
night to open the season against the Indians of Catawba College. The likable young mentor listed his probable starters as
Captain Bill Brooks and Al Fitzgerald at forwards, Joe Dudley at the pivot post, and Don Lazenby and Mac McLean
at the guard spots. All are seniors except the towering Dudley, who is a junior. Also slated to see a
good bit of action are guards Jim Smith and Adrian Bowen, center George Melton, and forwards T. C. Coleman and
J. V. Howell. Freshmen Jerry King and Edyson Weeks may also see some action.

Shown above are the men voted the best of frat gridders. They are, left to right (first row): Chuck Eliot,
Beta, T. W. Aldred, K.A., Horace Ball, SPE, and Tyler Berry, Sigma Chi. Standing, left to right are: Jim Sloan,
Kappa Sig, Whiz Davis, Beta; and Wallace Abbott, Phi Gam.

All-Frat Squad Picked; Represent Best In Tag Play

First Team
Total First Votes Votes
Aldred, KA .......... 22 11
Sloan, KS ............ 22 10
Berry, Sigma Chi .... 20 9
Elliot, Beta .......... 18 7
Davis, Beta .......... 14 7
Abbott, Phi Gam ..... 13 5
Ball, SPE ............ 13 5

Second Team
Erwin, Pi Kapp ...... 11 5
Clark, Kappa Sig .... 11 4
Adams, KA .......... 10 3
Whitfield, ATO ....... 8 3
Max Devane, Phi Delt 7 2
Tucker, KA .......... 6 2
Groseclose, Phi Gam.. 5 0

Honorable Mention
Harry Wolfe, Sigma Chi; Ben Townsend, KS; Avery Jones, Pika; “Pappy” Fowle, KA; Fred Stowe, SPE; Bob Wearn, Phi Delt;
Don Lazenby, Phi Delt; Corky Clark, Kappa Sig; Lewis Barnes, Pi Kap; Bert Downs, Sigma Chi; Bob Mitchum, Sigma Chi;
Phil Sellers, Sigma Chi; Mike Myers, Beta; Bill Russell, Beta; Bill Bacon, Phi Delt; Lefty Vance, KA; Henry Howe, SPE;
Watt Moore, Phi Gam; Mitchell Patton, Pi Kapp; Ray Clarke, Pika; Mercer Kepler, Campus Club; Dewey Keesler, Kappa Sig; Bruce
Ballenger, SAE; Frank Warren, Phi Delt; Chuck Mann, Sigma Chi; Ray Lillie, SAE.

Chesterfield SPORTS QUIZ
Who is the only active player to be elected to the Football Hall of Fame recently?
What present Stanford fullback won the decathlon championship in the last Olympic games?
What title did Tony Zale hold from 1940-1947?
What basketball team does Dick Dickey now play for?
Who set the record of completing the most passes in a college season?

Write answers to quiz on the back of a Chesterfield wrapper and turn in to Doug Rice at the Stud.
The first contestant with the correct answers will receive a carton of Chesterfields absolutely free!

“You are very run down,” said the doctor to his patient. “I suggest you lay off golf for a while
and get a good day in now and then at the office."—Evening Mail.

Very little is known about Catawba, but it is an acknowledged fact that the Indians always field a tough aggregation,
and are always hard to beat for the North State Conference honors. About all the information available on the visitors
is that their coach, Earl Ruth, (Continued On Page Four)

By WALLACE ABBOTT
The first annual intrafraternity wrestling tournament went down to the next to last match before the Phi Delts were able
to edge out the Phi Gams for the championship by a score of 35-33. It was in the bout between
Ham Wade and Bill Bryson, when the crowd began to realize that if Ham won the Phi Delts would automatically
slide into first place and take the championship. And that is just what happened, for Wade edged out Bryson, 1-0,
and thereby the Phi Delts took first place.

Despite the fact that the Phi Gams were beaten out for the championship they still were able to boast the
outstanding wrestler in the tournament, Bobby Joe Key. Bobby Joe, who wrestled in the 123-pound division, was selected by vote
of the judges for this honor. Despite the fact that he had never wrestled before coming to Davidson, he was
able to win each of his three matches by pinning his opponent.

For the Phi Delts it was obviously a team victory, because they only took one first place out of the
entire nine weights. However, their wealth of reserve strength paid off in the end as they took two second places
and four third places. The third place in the meet went to the Betas, who edged out the SAE's and
Kappa Sigs by one point, 19-18. They gained this high position largely by virtue of their three second place winners.
For even though the Kappa Sigs and SAE’s each had one division champion, and the Betas had none, it was
still the strong reserve strength that paid off.

Results
123 pounds—Key, Phi Gams, 1st; Walker, Betas, 2nd.
130 pounds—Sanders, SPE, 1st; Shiopey, Betas, 2nd.
137 pounds—Murray, Pi Kapps, 1st; Witherspoon, Phi Delts, 2nd.
147 pounds—Flintom, Phi Gams, 1st; Ottley, KA’s, 2nd.
157 pounds—Andrews, Phi Delts, 1st; Underwood, Pikas, 2nd.
167 pounds—Peck, KA, 1st; Armfield, Kappa Sig, 2nd. (Continued On Page Four)

P. Grand Master pudding. Especially mildness! A “quick puff” and a “single sniff” left him hungry for facts. Smokers everywhere
have tried the same tests and discovered the one true test of cigarette mildness! It’s the sensible test... the 30-Day
Camel Mildness Test, which simply asks you to try Camels as your steady smoke, on a day-after-day, pack-after-pack basis. No
snap judgments. Once you've tried Camels for 30 days in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste), you'll see
why... After all the Mildness Tests... Camel leads all other brands by billions.
