FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1961 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Hang Your Hat

NEW PROFESSORS GRESHAM AND HAYWARD REPLACE PRODIGALS CAPTAIN JOE MARTIN AND DR. EBERHARDT

At Hugos By NAT DANIELS

The dignity of the United States Post Office has been grossly insulted by the audacity of certain well-meaning but befuddled
authorities on the campus of Davidson College, and we, in a sense of patriotism and respect for the kindly Uncle
who protects us all, demand an apology and some action. In the plans for the new Student Union, the administration
and architects have seen fit to remove the student mailboxes from that magnificent marble-facaded structure on Depot Street and place
them in the Student Union, a typical Davidson conglomeration of the old and the new, and it immediately behooves us
to see to it that a congressional committee be appointed to fully investigate the matter and in the light of
the following report, indict the institution named above for Contempt of Post Office.

There are three main reasons which we shall discuss, which refute from all practical points of view the wisdom of
moving the mailboxes.

First, it would lower considerably the amount of mail received by each student each week. How would it feel to
look into our mailboxes and actually find them empty when usually, as the situation now stands, there are loads of
letters, cards, etc., in each box? How could we get along without reading every day that the “Encyclopaedia of Sexual
Truths” is now at a new low price of $3.98, that the J. W. Woods Seed Co. has developed a
new type of spinach, that Bahia’s is having a clearance sale in lingerie, or that there will be a square
dance tonight in the Mt. Mourne gym? What would the typical Davidsonian do without this amazing compilation of pertinent information
at his fingertips? Would he resort to the library and read Life or the New York Times—heaven forbid, for with
such self-degradation and consumption of misinformation and propaganda, one of the facts of the true Davidsonian’s spirit would be utterly
destroyed.

Second, the new student union's location is another decided disadvantage which would be brought on by the re-location of the
student mailboxes. A certain element of excitement would be lost in traversing the 300 or so yards to the Depot
Street structure twice a day, and especially on rainy mornings after chapel when wading for such a short distance as
the old gym would be uncomfortable instead of exciting.

Last, but not least, can the college afford to install in the Student Union a mail dispersal unit constructed with
the efficiency which is one of the earmarks of our fine post office? Can we afford to pay the hundreds
of clerks, operate and maintain the electrical sorting, stamping and postmarking equipment, keep the grass cut on the front lawn,
and all the other conveniences, such as cuspidors and free taxi service which the United States government has so kindly
included in its Deficit Spending Program for small college town post offices?

And so, fellow students, let us rise up and fight with all the strength we can muster the socialistic form
of mail distribution which we are being forced to accept, for convenience sake, if for no better-founded reason, for the
old Post Office is much closer to the bumming corner and much, much more accessible en route to the nightly
home of the Davidson Student Body—The Theatre. (Fooled you.)

Literary Efforts Not Unrewarded

Four writing awards are available each year to members of the Davidson student body. Two are open to all members
of the student body: the one-act play contest, sponsored by the Red and Black Masquers, and the Vereen Bell award
for any type of creative writing. This second award is sponsored and judged by the staff of the college magazine,
Scripts ’n Pranks. The other two awards are limited to smaller groups of contestants. The Willa Cather award is given
to that member of Sigma Upsilon, National honorary literary fraternity, who composes the best literary work of the year. The
third award is presented to the winner of a freshman creative writing contest, available only to members of the freshman
class. This contest is also sponsored by Scripts ’n Pranks.

THE OLD ORDER CHANGETH—New members of the college faculty: Mr. Bryan Gresham, left, and Dr. Harold Hayward, are shown chatting
in the alumni office soon after their arrival on the campus.

DR. McKAY BELIEVES MEDICINE HAS BEEN FOUND WANTING

In November of last year Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, a former Davidson student now practicing in Charlotte, presented the President’s
Address to the Southern Medical Association which was meeting in St. Louis, Missouri. This address appeared three months later as
the lead article of the Southern Medical Journal. Somewhat later it appeared again as reprints in various parts of the
country. The reason that this speech had been so widely read stems from the fact that it discusses frankly and
intelligently a problem or rather a situation that has built up between the people and the doctors. The situation lies
in the field of public relations and Dr. McKay begins by illustrating the strides that all phases of business have
made in this direction. He continues by pointing out that although American medicine has made great progress it is being
weighed in the balance and found wanting. There seems to be something radically wrong between the people and the doctors,
and three areas are suggested in which immediate beginnings toward improvement should be made.

The first area is education in the art of human relations. Many doctors fail to take an interest in community
affairs and try to remain aloof from their duties as citizens. In the business end of his work a doctor
is often at a loss as to how to organize an office or keep books. Another area is in professional
self-discipline. Courts of medicine should be set up to deal with individuals who practice neglectful and slovenly methods. The last
area is in the medical practice acts which in many states permit doctors to carry out procedures, operative or otherwise,
for which they are neither trained nor competent.

The purpose of the address as a critique on American medicine is well done and although it is not too
thorough it is probably true. Dr. McKay brings into the speech, somewhat obliquely, a thrust at socialized medicine in which
he brings out the point that if reforms are not made by the doctors themselves the people will resort to
political action to see that they are carried out. The doctors must straighten up their own house before it is
done for them. Political control of medicine is an anathema to Dr. McKay as it is to nearly all doctors
and he feels that such a loss of freedom would be an “American tragedy.” Perhaps this address does not hit
all of the ideas concerned with government medicine, but it brings out one significant point: no matter how important a
doctor may be and no matter how valuable his services are, he has a certain responsibility and makes concessions to
it he will continue to have freedom of action. But when he neglects this duty it will be compelled by
law. Dr. McKay places the responsibility for the preservation of free medicine squarely on the shoulders of the doctors and
says that they can win the fight for free medicine with hard work, sacrifice and devotion. “Above all else,” he
states in conclusion, “it means that liberty is possessed only by those who earn the right to be free and
employ that freedom in such a fashion as to maintain and enhance the respect and confidence in which the physician
is held by his community.”

Hunter Kalogridis, a former Davidson student now practicing in Charlotte, presented the President’s Address to the Southern Medical Association which
was meeting in St. Louis, Missouri. This address appeared three months later as the lead article of the Southern Medical
Journal. Somewhat later it appeared again as reprints in various parts of the country. The reason that this speech had
been so widely read stems from the fact that it discusses frankly and intelligently a problem or rather a situation
that has built up between the people and the doctors. The situation lies in the field of public relations and
Dr. McKay begins by illustrating the strides that all phases of business have made in this direction. He continues by
pointing out that although American medicine has made great progress it is being weighed in the balance and found wanting.
There seems to be something radically wrong between the people and the doctors, and three areas are suggested in which
immediate beginnings toward improvement should be made.

The first area is education in the art of human relations. Many doctors fail to take an interest in community
affairs and try to remain aloof from their duties as citizens. In the business end of his work a doctor
is often at a loss as to how to organize an office or keep books. Another area is in professional
self-discipline. Courts of medicine should be set up to deal with individuals who practice neglectful and slovenly methods. The last
area is in the medical practice acts which in many states permit doctors to carry out procedures, operative or otherwise,
for which they are neither trained nor competent.

The purpose of the address as a critique on American medicine is well done and although it is not too
thorough it is probably true. Dr. McKay brings into the speech, somewhat obliquely, a thrust at socialized medicine in which
he brings out the point that if reforms are not made by the doctors themselves the people will resort to
political action to see that they are carried out. The doctors must straighten up their own house before it is
done for them. Political control of medicine is an anathema to Dr. McKay as it is to nearly all doctors
and he feels that such a loss of freedom would be an “American tragedy.” Perhaps this address does not hit
all of the ideas concerned with government medicine, but it brings out one significant point: no matter how important a
doctor may be and no matter how valuable his services are, he has a certain responsibility and makes concessions to
it he will continue to have freedom of action. But when he neglects this duty it will be compelled by
law. Dr. McKay places the responsibility for the preservation of free medicine squarely on the shoulders of the doctors and
says that they can win the fight for free medicine with hard work, sacrifice and devotion. “Above all else,” he
states in conclusion, “it means that liberty is possessed only by those who earn the right to be free and
employ that freedom in such a fashion as to maintain and enhance the respect and confidence in which the physician
is held by his community.”

A Popular Figure

When the Secretary of State Dean Acheson is far and away the most popular figure in the Administration, according to
the students of the University of North Carolina, and, the article states, ex-President Hoover’s “Operation Gibraltar” stand has been widely
rejected.

A general falling off in the quality of classroom work is noticeable at Princeton and elsewhere. In fact, at this
Ivy League school the standard greeting has become, “Where“d’ya stand?,” meaning in responsibility to the people he serves. As long
as he recognizes this responsibility, the draft,

Student Poll Reveals No Tears For War

The University of North Carolina student body is convinced now that cherished plans for the next few years are gone
with the wind of a third world war, and most of them, including a lot of the more mature co-eds,
expect to be in some kind of uniform before the next 12 months have ended. This, says the issue of
Look magazine released Tuesday, summarizes the attitude toward the draft it found on the campuses of four representative colleges: California,
Northwestern, Princeton, and North Carolina. The vast majority of students, the article reveals, would prefer to serve in the Navy
or Air Force. The Infantry and Marines are regarded as “having mighty little future.”

There is little hoopla on the campuses, and not much flag waving. While the students agree Russia is to blame
for the current world situation, President Truman has lost their confidence, and dissatisfaction with Washington leadership is general. As one
campus leader at Northwestern put it, “If the foreign policy were more intelligently handled or at least more clearly and
cleanly handled I’d be more confident.”

There is a realistic acceptance of the future by our young men and women, Look concludes. Today’s young student is
ready for “blood and sweat—but no tears.”

Winners of these contests will be announced in the near future.

Two new professors have come to the Davidson campus this semester to fill the vacancies caused by the transfer of
Capt. Martin to the R.O.T.C. department and the leave of absence of Dr. Eberhardt. Professor Bryan B. Gresham, Jr., has
taken a position in the math department teaching trigonometry, algebra, and refresher algebra. Dr. Harold D. Hayward, who is commuting
between his home and Davidson three times a week, is teaching in the Bible department.

Although Professor Gresham is proud of the fact that he was born in the mountains of Western North Carolina (Asheville),
he likes it to be fully understood that he has lived the better part of his life in the nearby
city of Belmont. Five days after he graduated from Belmont Abbey Junior College, he started a career under Uncle Sam
that was to last thirty-three months. As a field artilleryman, Professor Gresham was carried to Europe and later to the
Philippines. Upon his discharge from the Army, he decided at first upon an engineering career and entered N. C. State,
but later changed his mind to math and transferred to the University of North Carolina. After graduating from the university,
he did some graduate work there and became a part-time instructor. He is a member of Pi Mu Epsilon, honorary
math society, the Elisha Mitchell Scientific Society, and Tau Beta Pi honorary engineering fraternity. It was from this part-time instructorship
at Carolina that he came to Davidson.

Professor Gresham said that it was much too early to state opinions about Davidson, but that he was very well
impressed with the friendliness of the students. His career is decidedly teaching, and he considers marriage a necessity to the
fulfillment of that career. At the present, he is rooming at the Lore’s on Concord Road and taking his meals
at the Guest House.

Dr. Hayward has led a very interesting life spending a total of eighteen years outside of the United States. Born
in Brooklyn, New York, he attended Ridgewood (N.J.) High School, and graduated from Pennsylvania State. He was in Officer's Training
School four months and had just received his commission when the first world war came to an end. After being
discharged, he went to the University of Washington where he received his B. S. degree. Dr. Hayward has done an
abundant amount of graduate work having studied at Cornell University and the University of Edinburgh, and having received additional degrees
from the Northern Baptist Theological Seminary of Chicago (R. E.), Princeton Theological Seminary (Th. M.), and the Biblical Seminary of
New York (Th. D.).

Dr. Hayward and his wife have spent fourteen years in the Far East as missionaries. In 1940 they were forced
out of the country by the Communists and began the hazardous journey back across the desert and mountains to Shanghai.
After six months of traveling in cart, on horseback, and across the “Roof of the World” by R. A. F.,
they finally reached their destination. He has done a great deal of study on these sections of Chinese Central Asia,
Northwest China, Tibet, Mongolia, etc., writing three theses concerning them and his work with the people. He has also contributed
to the “Moslem World” and the Royal Central Society Journal.

In the last war, Dr. Hayward served four years as a Chaplain in the Army. He moved with his unit
from North Africa through Italy and later through France and Germany. It will also be of interest to note that
he has taken part in various athletics and is a member of Scabbard and Blade, and Pi Kappa Alpha. Pinch-hitting
for Dr. Eberhardt, his old friend of twelve years, Dr. Hayward will remain with Davidson only this semester. He and
his wife are now living out Providence Road near the old Mecklenburg Church where Dr. Hayward is pastor.

Debate In Tourney

The name of Davidson College was carried into hitherto unexplored territory during the past week by two of its debaters,
Jack Hunter and Pete Kalogridis, who attended the Azalea Debating Tournament in Mobile, Alabama. This tournament was sponsored and conducted
by the Portier Debating Society of Spring Hill College, beginning Thursday, February 1, and ending Saturday, February 3. Twenty teams
attended, representing approximately eleven colleges and universities, ranging from Notre Dame to Kansas State.

In the actual debate, the Davidson squad won two rounds by decision, one by forfeit, and lost three, being eliminated
in the last day of the tournament. Victories were over Millsaps, Mississippi State, and Kansas State; defeats to other teams
of Millsaps, Kansas State, and to Wichita. The topic was: “Resolved: That the Non-Communist Nations should Form A New World
Organization.” By the rules of the tournament, each team is required to debate both affirmative and negative during the various
rounds. Wichita College emerged victor of the tournament in the final debate with the team from Notre Dame.

NEGRO YOUTH CAUGHT (Continued From Page One)

denied having been in the dorms. Cop had found Johnson's shoes and hat in Watts, and used these as additional
evidence. Leaving his shoes at the entrance of a building which he plans to rob is a “trademark” of Freddy's.
He was partially identified by Brown whose testimony, when added to the positive identification by Cop Linker, proved to be
sufficient evidence for conviction. Brown's wallet was also found in Johnson’s home. Monday afternoon Johnson was taken to Charlotte and
the County Recorder's Court with a charge of first-degree burglary, a capital offense in North Carolina. From there he was
bound over to Superior Court where he may be sentenced to life imprisonment.

On December 5, Johnson was apprehended by Eddie Adams in Georgia Dorm. He pleaded innocent and was released by Adams.
Johnson was granted a five-year suspension of an 18-20 year prison term under the conditions that he would (1) hold
a steady job for five years, (2) refrain from the consumption of alcoholic beverages, and (3) stay completely away from
the college campus. In his earlier youth, he had been taken into custody for petty theft and had served terms
in the state reformatory.

Leadership Fraternity

The Davidson College Chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity, is the Delta Chapter, being the fourth established
in the United States.

TAKE NOTE PLEASE!

Approximately 90 percent of the Student Body is concerned with a controversy which has been initiated by the Fraternity Committee
of the Faculty. The problem of Greek Week (better known as Hell Week to many of us) is being discussed.
This is a personal invitation to that committee to explain the measures which they wish to invoke and the reasons
for them.

GEORGE H. McMURRAY, Managing Editor

You need not inhale to enjoy a cigar! CIGAR INSTITUTE OF AMERICA, INC.

“Diamonds Are a Girl's Best Friend” from “Gentlemen Prefer Blondes”
