PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF ----------------- BILL WHITE
BUSINESS MANAGER -------------- JOHN LOFTIN

Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis, George McMurray
Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw, John Ottley

Photographs—Archie Neal
Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Feature Editor—Mike Myers
Exchange Editor—Ed Richardson
Associate Editors
Managing Editors—Ewan Seoooe
Copy Editor—Pete Ormsby
Art Editor—Mahy
Sports Editor—Dick Liles
City Editor—Nat Daniels
Proofreaders: Wallace Abbott and Dick Roper.
Business staff pending appointments by Publications Board.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

No Highbrows Here

According to Chalmers Davidson we have just seen the making of a new tradition on the campus. As far as
student reaction is concerned this new addition to the local totem pole is an unfortunate one. Of course, the response
of the student body should not be the sole criteria in judging the Art Festival but it must be one
of the dominant ones. It is difficult to evaluate a program which does not have an explicit purpose and the
present one does not seem to have any objective other than a display of highbrow talent. That would be acceptable
before a group of highbrows, but most of the students of Davidson are not highbrows and only a small number
of them can begin to appreciate the higher forms of art. To present such a group with a concentrated helping
of material that they cannot even chew much less digest is a tremendous waste of effort and only serves to
create a mental block of positive antagonism to anything faintly resembling higher art. Nobody enjoys hearing a thirty-minute recitation in
a foreign language which they do not understand. Likewise no one enjoys listening for thirty minutes to a program based
on music which he does not understand and cannot enjoy. The principle of art is aesthetic enjoyment or rather pleasure
from the beautiful. If an object of art does not give pleasure to the beholder or listener it is not
beautiful. Of course, what gives pleasure is an individual problem with an individual solution, but there are certain works of
art that are more acceptable to a wider number of people than others. Therefore it seems that an Arts Festival
at Davidson should do at least one of two things. It should make highbrow art interesting and enjoyable or it
should select art that is on a level that the average student can appreciate. To carry out the first objective
it would be best to base the entire observance around the life of a painter and a composer. In this
way continuity of interest could be given to each performance or program and the audience, knowing the artist and the
occasion of each work, would have a more personal interest in what was being presented. Also student performers should be
called upon as much as possible. To carry out the second objective it would be necessary to call in members
of the student body to help plan the programs. The result would probably be an observance based on semi-classical and
contemporary music and photographic art with some classical paintings. Either change would be an improvement on a worthwhile program which
so far has been backed by a great deal of work and very little student interest.

—N.S.B.

$50.00 ... One and All!

The past week was not one in which to rub the Davidson student the wrong way. He was at his
low ebb mark after the Frolics’ weekend, exams were looming just over the last review, and an increasingly uncomfortable sun
was raising tempers along with temperatures. Least of all, the Davidson student was in no mood for a tangle with
John Law. But that is what several of them got. And like the old mule who had taken about all
he could take, he kicked. The long arm of this particular law was only seven miles long, reaching down from
Mooresville through its Iredell domain to the border just this side of Franks’. The pinch was for speeding, and the
fine was $50 plus court costs, first offense or no. At first the Davidson defendants were quick to holler discrimination,
but the judge of the Mooresville recorder’s court offered to open his books in order that the unbelievers might see
that such was the standard fine for all violators, be he collegian, clem, or cosmopolitan. They are all speeders. All
being speeders, then, there is no discrimination against the Davidson student, but what about the speedsters themselves. The Mooresville judge
is said to have had a $25 fine in existence, only to have to raise it to $50 when he
had so many repeaters. That seems justifiable for second offenders—with some stretch of the imagination, but why should it be
standard for all violators, particularly first offenders, just because some pedal pushing racer wants to violate and pay time and
again? While well within the limits of the law of this state, Mooresville’s charges are woefully excessive of most of
those with which we are familiar. Graduated fines certainly seem the just manner in which to reprimand repeaters and at
the same time give fairness to first offenders. Also, by some strange doings of the recently elected N. C. legislature,
any request at Mooresville for trial by (Continued On Page Four)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

TENNIS

RESS LASS

Wax Scratching

By BOB WHELESS

Billy Eckstine’s “I Apologize” is becoming more popular day by day, and rightly so, for it is definitely one of
the top recordings of the day. Billy is at his singing best, and for a man who has turned out
as many hits as “Mr. B” that’s saying something. The flip side “Bring Back The Thrill” is good, but not
nearly so well suited to Billy's style as “I Apologize.”

“The Syncopated Clock” has been treated to excellent arrangements by both David Rose and Percy Faith. The song is a
rather unusual one as to subject matter, timing and tune. Early trends seem to indicate that it’s destined for better
things.

The coffer of RCA Victor is filling rapidly thanks to the success with which Ralph Flanigan’s latest waxing “Slow Drive”
has met. It’s done up in that inimitable Flanigan manner that makes any song a hit, or at least gives
it a head start on a less fortunate etching.

Mindy Carson has just cut a nice little hunk of shellac for Victor labeled “Gotta Find Somebody To Love.” Could
be that this melodic rendition is all this oldie needs to stage a comeback. Flip it over and you'll find
“When You and I Were Young Maggie Blues.” Incidentally, this side features the clinker of the year as made by
Stan Freeman, an outstanding recording pianist. I guess it was done on purpose, or possibly they left it in there
for kicks after Stan slipped up.

It seems a week can't go by but what a new King Cole number is released. This time it’s that
oldie “Red Sails In the Sunset,” and Nat does his usual smash up job on it. When you think of
Nat these days most fellows immediately think of “Too Young,” which I consider the greatest number he has ever made.
I’m sure many of you will agree with me.

It’s difficult to comment on “The Hot Canary,” one of the up and coming novelty tunes of the day. About
the only word that describes it is “different.” Paul Weston has one of the best arrangements of same, which features
solo violin work by some fellow named Paul Nero. No, I don’t know if any of his relatives came from
Rome.

The flip side of Les Paul’s “How High the Moon” is finally receiving some attention. The song, “Walkin’ and Whistlin’
Blues” is only mediocre and sounds like something Les cooked up on the spur of the moment to fill in
the space on the other side of a very good tune.

The new Rogers and Hammerstein show “The King and I” has produced three very pretty songs. Perry Como has recorded
two of them, “We Kiss In A Shadow” and “Hello Young Lovers.” Doris Day has waxed the former number also,
and backed it with what I consider the top tune of the show, “Something Wonderful.” Whether done by Perry or
Doris all three are hit parade material. You'll be hearing lots of them from now on, and liking them too.

The new jump tune “Pretty Eyed Baby” as done up by Jane Turzey is finding a home in practically all
the juke boxes these days. Many a nickel will be spent on it this summer when the beach bums hit
the pavilion at O. D. and Myrtle.

Several weeks ago I picked Dinah Shore’s “Lonesome Gal” as a future hit. Well, as it turned out the “gal”
fizzled out, but the flip side “Too Late Now” seems to be going great guns. It’s a sad, slow ditty
from the flick “Royal Wedding.” Gary and Bing Crosby have combined talents to make a revamping ofthe old favorite, "Moonlight
Bay," a very pleasant tune that seems to be catching on quickly. What with all the teenage fans of Gary
and the all-age ones of Bing, the tune is bound to catch on.

FRIDAY, MAY 4, 1951

THE POLL CAT
By SLAYDON MYERS

1. Which band did you like the best this year?
Thornhill

2. Do you think the tickets were fairly priced at the last dance for the quality of music?

THE POT BOILS
By HENRY HANSEN

Ad infinitum, ad nauseam, articles on chapel conduct pile up. It would seem that their effect is dubious since, as
is often the case, those who should read them don’t. Nevertheless, it would be a breach of duty to let
such behavior as occurred in chapel Wednesday morning go unnoticed. In defense of the students, we can say two things:
first, chamber music is admittedly not everyone's dish—even the musically initiate sometimes display a surprising antipathy to it. Secondly, it
might be very plausibly argued that such music is definitely not suited to the barn-like proportions of Chambers auditorium. However,
when every allowance has been made, there still remains a residue of outright boorishness in the collective behavior of the
“Davidson Gentleman,” which is rather discouraging in its proportions.

Let us say of this residue, considering every extenuating circumstance, that it still remains what it is—downright crude, discourteous behavior.
We do not plead here that every student should become an ardent devotee of the arts—far from it. What we
ask is that a little mutual forbearance be displayed by groups whose basic interests are conflicting. The asking of this
is admittedly a compromise at best. Behind all this pleading for courtesy in the presence of the arts, religion, or
any other activity connected remotely or directly with the supposed purpose of Davidson as an educational institution looms the startling
fact that the purpose, as stated in the catalogue, seems to be remote indeed from the purpose as evidenced by
such behavior.

Place a few thoughts on these facts. It matters not what the activity; so long as it is non-athletic, we
can expect no more than a bare ten or fifteen percent of the student body to evince enough interest to
actually attend any function not devoted to athletics or to display ordinary courtesy where attendance is compulsory. Even at such
a relatively mundane affair, culturally speaking, as the Goldman band concert, not more than a hundred students were present. Any
day or night an inter-fraternity sports event can draw the bulk of the student body away from any other activity,
regardless of its purpose or relation to education—that seemingly lost cause at this and many another institution. In common with
a much castigated and perhaps even more misunderstood member of our faculty, we take no soapbox stand on the platform,
“down with athletics,” far from it. Athletic activities do have a place in college life. Nevertheless, if it comes to
a choice between the two, then our course is clear. If Davidson is really an educational institution and not a
physical therapy club with pleasant and innocuous educational overtones, we must choose the educational function to the complete exclusion of
the athletic, if that be necessary. We do not believe that such a point has been reached. We would naturally
prefer a natural and normal balance between the two purposes, the educational and the athletic. We are also convinced that,
whatever the basic reasons, the athletic monopolizes far more time than it should on this campus. Such a monopolization cannot
but hurt the college as an educational institution.

Let’s get back to the basic goals that were in mind in organizing this or any other place of learning.
Davidson is an educational institution. Insofar as an athletic program can maintain that goal, a sound mind in a sound
body, it is a desirable facet of a college program. But any extension of its purpose beyond this goal is
inevitably injurious to the primary purpose of a college or university. Certainly, the conduct in chapel was atrocious on Wednesday
and on numerous other occasions. Certainly, feelings were hurt in some quarters, and tempers flared explosively in others. But let
us cease applying salve to something which is more than likely merely a symptom of something far more serious and
deep-lying. Let’s dig right down to the roots and determine whether or not the present outlook of the college is
really sound. With traditions falling right and left and the Davidson gentlemen behaving in a definitely ungentlemanly manner, we really
begin to wonder if something isn’t wrong; wrong in a basic sense. If it is, then it’s high time we
began to correct whatever evils are present. Tomorrow will very probably be too late.

THE WORLD LAST WEEK

1) The British Parliament defeated 305-292 a Conservative Censure motion on the raw material shortage.

GEECH’S GOULASH
By PAT McGEACHY

Jose Rodriguez enlisted in the navy and went away to fight in the Spanish-American war. However, before he had been
in action three days, a stray Spanish shot demolished his right leg, and he was rushed to a state-side hospital.
There he made a valiant effort to recover, but the doctors were forced to amputate the leg, and fit him
out with a peg. This would have broken a lesser man, but Jose had a lot of salt and determined
to make something of the remainder of his life. He went to college and learned all that he could of
politics and government, and diplomacy and then set out to campaign for governor. He made some very convincing speeches, for
he was pleasing and had a good political background, but no one listened to him. It was really too ludicrous
for a one-legged man, and a Spaniard to try to run for governor. No one attempted to learn of Jose
Rodriguez's abilities and worth, nor of his bravery and patriotism. And this is understandable. Nearly everyone laughed uproariously at the
whole idea, and some even threw vegetables at him; especially those who had not listened to his speeches. It was
unthinkable that a man of his kind (and one-legged to boot), could lead a democratic state. It was really a
colossal joke, and the newspapers began to speak of “Wyzona’s One-legged Governor.” Some people nicknamed him “Long John,” after Stevenson's
character. All this hurt Jose and his friends very deeply, but there was nothing they could do, of course. So
Jose was laughed out of the running, and defeated by a very large margin. The humor of the situation was
long remembered in Wyzona politics.

A group of highly talented musicians worked very hard, once, to give something worthwhile to a group of college students.
They had a difficult task ahead of them, for the music they wished to present was 18th century, and not
many of the students understood this type of music. But they did a marvelous job. Most of the students, of
course, were a great deal more interested in their own quips and cranks than in Mozart, and they did not
give a “tinker” for those who were, so they laughed. It was really too ludicrous for a concert, and especially
a classical one, to try to appeal to students. No one attempted to appreciate the music’s worth, nor the industry
and skill of the artisans. And this is understandable. Nearly everyone laughed uproariously at the idea, and some would even
have thrown vegetables, if they had had them; especially those who would not try to listen. It was unthinkable that
a program of this kind could appeal to a bunch of regular fellows. It was really a colossal joke; some
people began to call the clarinet player “squeaky.” All this hurt the musicians and their friends very deeply, but there
was nothing they could do, of course. So they were ignored out of the running, and only about 1 percent
of the students enjoyed the concert, because only a few of those who wanted to listen could hear. The humor
of the situation was long remembered, but the situation itself was forgotten as quickly as possible.

Frankly, aren’t you good and tired of going to high school?

2) The Big Four deputies agreed on something last week—not to meet on May Day.

3) Viet Minh forces in Indo-China have pulled back further under pressure of the French attack.

4) The Iranian Senate completed action on the nationalization of the oil industry as Mohammed Mossadegh became Premier.

5) Bevan's resignation as British Foreign Minister replaced the MacArthur controversy as the matter of concern in Europe.

When you feel in the mood for a GOOD T-BONE STEAK come on down to the College Restaurant
Depot St. Davidson, N.C.
