Dr. Cunningham Is Victor As Dog, Decorum Clash

An unspoken but deep-running pride of the Davidson student body stems from the fact that they have never seen their president without the fullest of composure on all occasions. As speaker, arbiter, minister, group discussion leader, Dr. Cunningham has always been the epitome of all the fine qualities required of one in that particular role. Never has he fumbled for words or action in any situation. Tuesday, however, his decorum was challenged.

A midsummer round-up of stray pups was intended to thwart any such possible occurrence this fall, but apparently, it made no impression on faculty pets. A big, black and white fireside fixture who might have once been kin to a collie ambled on stage to join Dr. Cunningham, Charlotte Observer editor and publisher Ralph Nicholson, and Observer associate editor Ruppert Gillette. The latter two gentlemen being from Charlotte where “cats” abound, it would never do to have a dog promenading on the platform. Dr. Cunningham, while his student body watched wonderingly, rose to the occasion and evicted the visitor. Indeed, it was a “peculiar” pleasure.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

VOLUME XL

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1951

PRIZE PLEDGE IS PINNED

Masquers Outline Plans For 1951-52

Under the leadership of President Ted Daniel, the Red and Black Masquers met Monday night and outlined a program of plays, progress, and prosperity for 1951-'52. President Daniel first undertook to present to the membership some of the goals selected by the executive committee and pointed out that only through the cooperation of all concerned with dramatics at Davidson could these goals be achieved. Foremost in the minds of the Masquers, and the keynote for the meeting, was a renewed attempt to interest a wider range and larger number of students and faculty members in the dramatic arts. Vice President and program chairman Tad Currie stated that plans for a play reading to be held at the first November meeting of the Masquers had already been laid and that interested parties from both groups would be invited. The Play Selection Committee reported that several plays are under consideration for the fall production, and that the dates of November 14, 15, and 16 have been chosen for its performance. The following were issued invitations to become members: Wallace Abbott, Bob Crutchfield, Courtney Hill, Tink Taylor, Dick Perkins, Jack Pietenpol, and Bill Phifer. Requirements for membership in the Masquers entail participation in some useful capacity in two plays, and anyone interested should watch out for tryout notices which will appear in the Davidsonian at a later date. Advisor Tyson added that any students with speech impediments who were seeking help should contact him. He plans to form informal classes if there are enough men interested.

More Than Half Freshmen Must Take Basic PT

More than half of the freshman class has been placed in basic physical training classes, Athletic Director Paul Scott has announced. Twenty classes of the program included 160 frosh who failed to pass the college physical fitness test given at the opening of school. The PT classes for the first quarter have been organized and are now running on schedule. There are 26 class meetings, made up of 82 sections receiving instructions weekly. Only 27 men must be taught swimming. When these non-swimmers show proficiency in the water, they are free to select another phase of the program.

Chapel Schedule

Monday—Lt. Col. James L. Ballard Jr.
Tuesday—Dr. Frontis W. Johnston.
Wednesday—Prof. Ernest A. Beaty.
Thursday—Y.M.C.A.
Friday—Dr. S. R. Spencer, Jr.

Tradition has it that freshmen pledging fraternities at Davidson will do so by coming up the walk of the fraternity of their choice on the day of pledging. The Pi Kapps pledged and pinned one all in one day, and they went to Charlotte to do it. The ex-pledge, now Rose of Pi Kappa Phi, is glamorous TV star Faye Emerson, shown above receiving her pin from Pi Kapp president Sib Dorton. Looking on longingly is Mitch Patton, who made the trip to see that all was properly attended.

218 Frosh Plus TV’s Faye Taken In By Fraternities

Though 218 freshmen walked up 11 fraternity walks last Saturday in one of the Pan Hel’s biggest pledgings, the Pi Kappa Phi's got the prize pledge of all. President Sib Dorton pinned glamorous Faye Emerson, First Lady of TV and Southern States’ Fair sponsor, and she was named “Rose of Pi Kappa Phi” for the Epsilon Chapter.

Riflemen Begin Practice; New Movie Idea Adopted

Action flared on the ROTC front this week with the rifle team launching its work, area officers visiting, and the installation of something rather unique in the way of visual education. The rifle team, with ace sharpshooter Aubrey Miree as its captain, begins practice for the season this week. A number of lettermen are expected back from last year's very strong team which finished 27th in the nation. Although the schedule has not been completed, it is expected that the team will fire nine shoulder-to-shoulder matches and several postal matches, plus the National Intercollegiate matches in the spring.

Hidden Projector

Emphasizing the Army teaching system which includes a large usage of visual training aids, PMS&T Lt. Col. J. L. Ballard Jr. has indicated that a new method of presenting films and slides has been set up in the ROTC building. The idea is that the movie projector is placed in a room immediately beyond the classroom. The film is there projected against a mirror and the image reflected against a frosted plate glass which has been substituted for a portion of the blackboard. Two advantages result: (1) the noise of the projector is eliminated, and (2) a much clearer, sharper image appears on the frosted glass, so much in fact that it can actually be easily seen without darkening the room.

Officials Visit

The Military Department was visited Friday morning by the new Chief of the N. C. Military District, Col. Walter C. Buie, in company with Lt. Col. Anderson, who is the officer on Third Army's staff for ROTC matters. Both officers were making an informal tour of the ROTC units in the state.

The pinning of Miss Emerson will be featured in the national magazine of the fraternity, Stars and Lamp, next month. Miss Emerson was also presented the traditional dozen of American Beauty roses.

Phi Delta Theta led the numerical list at Davidson with 28 new men. The others in order were KA, 26; Betas, 26; Phi Gams, 25; Sig Chis, 24; Kappa Sigs, 20; Pikas, 20; ATO, 13; Pi Kapps, 13; SAE, 13, and SPE, 11.

By individual fraternities are:

Phi Gamma Delta

Jack Bolen, John Boyett, James Burns Jr., Hawkins Cook, Cam Cridlebaugh, James Roy Davis, John Flintom, Charlie Freed, Tom Hancock, Bill Hefner, Philip Howerton, Bobby King, Hardin King, Ken Lewis, Montgomery Littlejohn, Richard Luttrell, Walter Moore, Alexander Ormand, Harold Riley, Phillip Stauber, Joe Sugg, Anton Wallner, Joe Wheliss, Hill Womble, and Walter Yates.

Kappa Alpha

Angus Hagins, John Lindmaker, Madre Bell, Jack Pope, Peter Peck, Jim Helms, Jim Peoples, Stein Wilson, Bill Hestor, Charles Cunningham, Raymond Skidmore, Dave Fowle, Sandy Jeanette, John Fite, Joe Caudell, Dave Jones, Swain Loy, Allen Calcote, Dexter Evans, Wilson Starr, Fred Allen, Allie Cone, Ernest McCutchan, Ed Schoenberger, and Cortez Cooper.

Sigma Chi

John Archer, Johannes Miedema, Don White, David Freeman, Mark Lenhart, Dick Williams, David Gordon, Jim Zigler, Bo Tynes, Harry Applewhite, Dunbar Ogden, Budd Montgomery, Don Southern, John LaMotte, Diehl Sluss, Tom Shaw, Ralph Williams, Cliff McLeod, Jack Letts, Vereen Bell, Jim Brading, Albert May, Dan Glenn, and Ken Partin.Alpha: Roddy Cameron, Jim Vanstory, Dick Holland, Tommy Thompson, George Easley, Morris Waddell, Jack Archer, Bill Hanna, Theo Field, Ted Andreas, John Handley, Joe Jenkins, Ricky Benton, Dick Hensdale, Donnie Parker, Donald Tucker, Bob Allison, Joe Knox, Fred Summers, and Sam Sells.

Kappa Sigma: Ronnie Whitson, Dickie Davis, Bob Amos, John Buxton, Herb Smitherman, Zeb Bradford, George Pressley, Jack Huffaker, Gordon Hurst, Jim Sasser, Lacy Keesler, Eddie Powe, Ben Townsend, Stebbins Ingram, Floyd Feeney, John McGee, Corky Clark, Dave Chittum, Leighton Greene, and Bill Greene.

Beta Theta Pi: Dean Edwards, Charles Rankin, Joe Campbell, Tim Cooper, Hob Dalton, Jim Thornton, Stratton Sterghos, Shorty Sfaclos, Jim Faucette, Jim Hamilton, Ed Douglas, Martin Foil, Dick Gregory, Zack Kilpatrick, Frank Shaw, John Howie, Hugh Gramley, Tom Lambe, Roger Little, Will Little, Tommy Taylor, Jim Valentine, George Thomas, John Dabbs, Bill Phillips, and John Gordon.

Pi Kappa Phi: Frank Cenegy, Bob Crawford, Grier Robinson, Charles Babcock, Charles Haigh, Bill Gordon, Jim Thacker, Leroy Farqueson, Bill Lowe, Willis Briley, Ben Jones, Garnett Henson, and Bob Hayes.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Tom Beard, Henry Brown, Gene Scarborough, Gayle Averyt, Tom Humphries, Mike Hadge, Wallace Pate, Spencer Eaves, Jim Allen, Aubrey Tuggle, Johnny Ward, Story Bailey, and Chick McClure.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Henry Brockman, Charlie Butler, Jesse Lockaby, Joe Lowrance, Fred Walsh, Roger Wright, Bob Stevenson, John Warlick, Billy Mc- (Continued on Page Four)

...fields chosen by student ballot recently. Nelson is Director of Religious Field Work in the Divinity School at Yale. It is his job to supervise all church-related extra-curricular tasks done by Yale divinity students as a necessary part of their ministerial training.

Exponent of Theme: He took his present position after heading a self-organized commission on the ministry of the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America. A graduate of Princeton and the universities of Chicago and Yale, he has always emphasized the theme of the services to be held here. Two hour-long vocational discussions will be held as an integral part of the services. It was thought this would allow students to attend discussions of two fields they had indicated on a recently distributed ballot.

Leader Asked: Typical of the leaders asked to give discussions in their field is Dr. Cecil Thompson of Columbia Theological Seminary in Atlanta. It was hoped by Y Special Services Chief Tom Stockton that Dr. Thompson would be able to discuss student problems and clarify any confused points concerning Columbia to interested men. Dr. Herbert Vann of Bowman Gray Medical School in Winston-Salem has been asked to talk over the field of medicine with those men so inclined. The discussion leaders will try to outline what education is needed for each of their fields, how interested students should spend their future summer vacations, and answer any questions within their scopes. In conjunction with the talks, a film on selecting one’s vocation will be shown by the college Y.

Professors' Duty: A group to discuss the Christian duty of college professors, which may be held for professors here, is under consideration by the Special Services Commission. Stockton's schedule showed that the services themselves will follow the general pattern of those of former years. There will be a special vesper service Sunday evening, November fourth. Chapel services through Wednesday morning will be devoted to the program. The vocational discussions are to be held Tuesday evening.

Tucker Heads Phi Lit Group: Tony Tucker, a 20-year-old senior from Laurel, Mississippi, has been elected president of the Philanthropic Literary Society. He was chosen at a brief meeting Monday night. The son of a Presbyterian minister, he plans to enter the ministry himself. Tucker is an AW major specializing in English. Secretary of the social fraternity, he was vice-president of Delta Phi Alpha honorary fraternity last year. He was also tapped by the Scabbard and Blade last summer. Kappa Alpha Tucker has the job this year of planning YMCA chapel programs. He has worked in various Y capacities since entering Davidson. Other Phi officers are Jim Speed, vice president, and Bob Crutchfield, secretary.

NUMBER TWO: Will Pay Off: The Court of Control held its first session last Wednesday night at 8:30, at which time several freshmen were charged and tried. Judge Johnny Guiton said that the penalties rendered were exceedingly light, due to the fact that it was the first meeting of the court and the ignorance of rules was taken as a partial excuse for some infractions. But Guiton was quick to add, with a tone of warning, that “It’ll be a different story from now on.” The attitude of a few of the offenders was very good, but there is room for improvement in most, according to the court members, who held a short meeting after the court session was closed. They are all in complete agreement that the penalties must become heavier if the effect is to be the one sought for. Ever since the inception of its program last fall, the court has steadily improved and will continue their far more effective scheme. The court members, however, desire greater cooperation from the upperclassmen, particularly during the chapel proceedings and in turning in offenses. The complete effectiveness of the court is dependent upon the complete cooperation of all upperclassmen.

Critics Acclaim Ex-Frosh’s Book: William Styron, a freshman at Davidson in 1943, has had his book, “Lie Down in Darkness,” published, and it was reviewed last week in the Charlotte Observer. It is hailed as the greatest modern novel since Thomas Wolfe's “Look Homeward, Angel,” published in 1929.

D-Club Vends Pillows, Programs: In their first meeting Monday night, the D Club officially got underway for the year. Already the members have been selling football programs and stadium cushions at the opening football game. The officers of the D Club are Ham Wade, president; Ken Taylor, vice-president; and Jack Ruth, secretary-treasurer. Under their leadership, work for the coming year has already begun. Other immediate projects are a club dance for the lettermen and much later in the year, the annual “Foolhies.”

Weekend Ministers: Big Year Seen For Deputations: It looks like the biggest year ever ahead for Davidson's Y deputation teams. Every weekend, volunteers in teams from the student body at large go out to lead various meetings at churches and schools in this area. The teams are prepared to conduct morning or evening services, prayer meetings, Sunday Schools, and similar services. Often they carry men for special music presentations. This year there are more calls for deputations than there are boys to staff them, according to George Knight who heads this department of the Y. All men interested in serving on deputations this year, regardless of ability, are strongly urged to see Knight in 32 Georgia. Sometimes the groups go as far as 60-75 miles from the campus. “It is one way we extend the hand of service to the community off campus and keep the Y at Davidson from being centered on too narrow a sphere,” explained Knight.

BULLETIN: There will be a pep meeting tonight in front of Chambers in preparation for tomorrow's game with The Citadel, head cheerleader Francis Pepper announced today. This will be the second night pep meeting of the 1951 season and follows in the tradition of other years.

Freshmen, Plan To Open Faculty Homes: Sixty-five members of the Davidson faculty and administration are scheduled to hold open house at one of four Sunday nights during each month of the new school year, according to a schedule released today by the College Social Committee. The schedule is as follows:

First Sunday: Dean Bailey, Chaplain Gripe, Coaches Little and Redding, Professor Abernathy, K. B. Brown, Cortiher, Cumming, Gallient, Moore, Morton, Puckett, Reid, Spencer, Trakas, Tyson.

Second Sunday: Colonel Ballard, Professors Daggy, Erwin, Goldiere, Guerrant, D. G. Martin, McCutchan, McGavock, McGeachy, Mebane, Ostwalt, Purcell, Schenek, Thies, Coach Fetzer, Athletic Director Scott.

Third Sunday: Dean Brown, Professors Beaty, Davidson, Eberhardt, Johnston, Lilly, Logan, Plott, Ratliffe, Vowles, Watts, Coach Baird, Mrs. Little, Auditor McGill, Coach Parker, Alumni Secretary Payne.

Fourth Sunday: Professors Bauman, Causey, Krantz, Griffin, Hathorn, Ives, Kimbrough, Pfohl, Pietenpol, Shewmake, Thompson, Wilson, Workman, Coach Barton, Captain Hull, Captain Martin, Major Jones.

There will be no open house on the fifth Sunday.