The day Derrick Barton’s boat from Britain docked at Davidson, things began to happen in our tennis world. Fast on the heels of The Broad-A One came the touring troupe of the nation’s top netters—Riggs, Gonzales, Kramer, etc.; we began to play host to the Southern Junior and Boys tennis tournaments each June; and we landed the Southern Conference tennis tournament. Davidson came to be known as one with a wide swing in the tennis racket.

Just last April Paul Scott automobiled in from Iowa, and already things have begun to happen in our wrestling world. A man who has coached several national wrestling champion teams, served on the national AAU wrestling rules committee, served as chairman of the Iowa AAU Wrestling Association, and lived with the sport most of his life is naturally going to drag some of the soil with him when he is transplanted.

It was hard for Athletic Director Scott to restrain wrestling Coach Scott this fall when the Wildcat grapplers began grunting into shape. But a good man in Charlie Parker was at the helm so Mr. Scott contented himself with wrestling with schedule problems and dropping down once or twice a week to workout with the matsmen, pointing out a hold here, a new trick there. He even got a full week of coaching in when Parker was ill with the flu, the first he’d done since early fall when Charlie was busy as football trainer.

But Scott’s dealing with Davidson wrestling comes in a more indirect and yet a more far-reaching manner than coaching. He is going to lift wrestling off the mat, give it a few new holds, and attempt to make a real competitor out of it. First, he dressed up the sport a bit. New warm-ups for the varsity, a new mat for matches, introduction of the grapplers before each match. To get folks interested, he figured, you’ve got to get the sport out in the daylight where they could look at it, and he knew they could be interested. He had seen full fieldhouses of interested folk out West and elsewhere where the old Greek game is really reeled off.

Mr. Scott found out this winter that vaulting wrestling from bottom to top can be no overnight feat. Nor did he expect it to be. But match results hidden like obituaries on the sports pages, never a wrestler’s mug breaking the monotony of basketball pans on the pages from December to March—no wonder the going is tough. To get interest then, one needs publicity. Publicity is on its way now, thanks to step two in the Scott program for revitalized wrestling.

What started out to be the Carolina AAU wrestling tournament and which may end up as a national district junior AAU meet is going to be held in the house Scott now calls “home away from home,” Johnston Gym. “A friend of mine who is athletic director at Iowa State is the national AAU wrestling commissioner,” Scott explains. “When I wrote and told him of the Carolina AAU meet we were planning here (Scott is Carolina AAU wrestling chairman already) he asked if we wouldn’t like to have the district junior tournament. I naturally told him that we did want it, because it would be a much bigger tournament, but I replied with reservation.

“If we hold the national junior meet for this district, the national AAU will have to allow for entrance fees to be used in payment on the AAU trophies which we will award. We were going to buy the trophies and defray other expenses with entrance money for the AAU meet. Also, I wish they’d let me know the size of this district (of which Scott is also now commissioner!). Generally it includes the area from the District of Columbia, down to southeast Florida, and west to the Alleghenies. But we'll have to get a little more explicit than that!”

By BILL WHITE

The junior meet is for any wrestler who has never won a first, second, or third in an AAU national match before. Hence almost every man entered to date in the Carolina meet will still be eligible for this bigger contest which replaces it. The March 9-10 tourney should be a shot in the arm to wrestling in this area, and Davidson should be proud to promote it. Certainly it is going to promote Davidson.

As Scott points out, wrestling throughout the Southern Conference is far below the national level. The reason simply is the lack of pre-college training in the high schools such as they get in Pennsylvania, Iowa, Oklahoma, Illinois, and Indiana. Interest needs to be drummed up among the youngsters, and what better way than by the colleges seeking their talent in later years.

“Wrestling is a wonderful sport,” Scott emphasizes. “It gives many a boy who hasn’t the weight or height to play, say, football or basketball, a chance at a real sport. There is team spirit prevalent, too. If you don’t believe it, watch the eyes of the team as the heavyweight grapples in the final match for points which will mean victory or defeat.

“I'd like to see wrestling installed in our intramural program, too, holding it before the varsity season begins. You can turn up talent that way. Yes, I think it would be a fine substitution for boxing which many high schools have had to drop. That’s where it’ll have to start.

“I remember back in 1946 I watched a wrestler in the national meet at Stillwater, Okla. He didn’t place but he was good. And I remembered him because he was a Southerner. He was Ted Brothers of Davidson. I little dreamed of ever going where he’d come from, but I always remembered him because he was so very outstanding for a Southerner.”

If Mr. Scott has his way, and he has a mighty powerful and able will that says he can, in the future they'll be remembering the Southern wrestler because he was a Southerner.

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT
PHONE 2-2338
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1951

Sports — THE DAVIDSONIAN

“440 Francis” --- After S.C. Honors At Raleigh

Francis Pepper, caught cutting the water in a recent workout, is representing Coach Dick Redding’s Catfish in the Southern Conference swimming meet at N. C. State this weekend. Pepper is entered in the 220 and 440 yard freestyles, and is rated a top contender in the 440 distance, his specialty. Pepper has shaved better than a full half minute off his time since the season began in December. A junior from Winston-Salem, he has another season in the swim.

Wildcats Close Home Season Against W. & L. Cagers Tonight

By DICK LILES

The Davidson Wildcats close out their hot and cold basketball season here tonight with the Generals from Washington and Lee University. Jay Handlan and crew will probably hit the campus with their heads stuck high in the air after their decisive victory over the local five last weekend, but Boyd Baird et. al. have other plans for them.

Wednesday night, the Cat hoopsters killed off Furman 71-51 in one of their best showings of the season. Coach Baird cleaned off his bench right down to Lt. Love (the bus driver) after the starters got things started and Brooks and Haller had hit for 18 and 17 points respectively. Coach Baird was well pleased with the work of his subs and their scoring ability and heaped this praise on them: “The further down the bench I went, the better they looked; what we want now is W. and L.”

Sure enough the team is ready for this victory and it seems like everything is working toward just that goal. The home-court psychology still holds well for the Cat quint and they still show the fire they possessed in their recent successful home stand. The loss of Dutch Hengeveld through an injury to his knee in the McCrary game has somewhat dampened the spirits, but Mac McLean has filled his shoes well with his great floor play. Beside that, the team is in great shape and raring for a win.

The boys are gunning for Handlan and probably will give him the treatment suffered by Ranzino and Slaughter. Handlan stands high in the national scoring parade and still leads in free throw accuracy, although his team did not have such an impressive season. At any rate aReal game is on tap for this Friday night down at the gym.

Wrestlers Lose Two
Coach Charlie Parker's Wildcat wrestlers became the victims of the University of Virginia matmen Wednesday in Charlottesville by a score of 22 to 2. In gaining their sixth victory of the current season, the Cavaliers won every match except the 177-pound class where Bob Gay gained Davidson's points by drawing with Jack Gwaltney. In a simultaneous match, the Virginia freshman team whipped the Cat frosh club, 33-2.

Chesterfield SPORTS QUIZ
1. Name the four Long Island University basketball players arrested for the alleged “fix” of LIU basketball games.
2. The name of Notre Dame’s head football coach is a snap. Who is the new cage mentor of the Fighting Irish?
3. Bill “Blue” Ray, dolphin-fast captain of the Davidson tankers, set a new 50-yard dash record in the Davidson pool Tuesday. What was his time?

Answers must be turned in on a Chesterfield wrapper to Dave Moylan in C-East. Winners will receive a carton of Chesterfields.

Blue Ray, Francis Gunning For Titles At S.C. Swim Meet
Undefeated Captain Bill (Blue) Ray led Davidson’s swimming contingent into the Southern Conference meet at Raleigh this weekend, with the odds for the Florida fish to emerge among the league's finest. With a new pool record of 24.3s registered against Citadel Tuesday, Ray is one of the favorites in the 50-yard dash. He also stacks up well in the 100, where he has been defeated but once this season. Ray Cunningham in the 200-yard breaststroke and Francis Pepper in the 220, 440, and 1,500 meters are other leading Cat hopes. Pepper also hit his best time of the season Tuesday, covering the 440 in 5:25. Sprinters Ben Gary and Ed Stuart top the Cat frosh entries.

Eight Cindermen In Indoor Games
Eight of track mentor Pete Whittle's best Wildcat cindermen will participate in the annual Southern Conference Indoor Track Meet to be staged tomorrow at Chapel Hill. The events will start at 1:00 p.m. and are scheduled to end by 10:15 p.m. The Southern Conference Indoor Meet, known as the “Classic of the South,” is divided into four parts: the Southern Conference division, strictly for conference members; the non-conference division; the freshman division; and the Scholastic division, which consists of regional stand-outs in high and prep school competition. Last week Coach Whittle announced the members of the Davidson team who will participate in tomorrow's meet. This group consists of Bill Pritchett and Bill White, who run both the low and high hurdles; Jim Fickelson, a low-hurdle man; Roger Cornell, who competes in both the broad and high jump; broad-jumper Tom Wooten; shot-putter Andy Horne; and Ken Goodpasture, who will run in the 60-yard dash.

Sigma Chi's Still Hold To Lead As Season Wanes; Kappa Sigma Knocks KA’s Out Of Tie For Second
By WALLACE ABBOTT
For the second straight week, the Sigma Chis continued to dominate the intramural basketball loop, as they garnered another victory to remain undefeated. However, a very strong Kappa Sig team gained two more victories to gain a tighter hold on second place and give them an opportunity to catch the leaders at any time.

Phi Delts 32 - Pi Kapps 31
In the closest game to be played in the league this past week, the Phi Delts were able to edge the Pi Kapps in the closing minutes of play. Bill Bivins' 13 points for the Phi Delts was just one more than Arnold Whisnant's 12, but in the end, it proved to be the margin of victory.

Betas 35 - Phi Gams 25
The Betas finally gained their third victory and kept the Phi Gams from gaining theirs as they beat them out 35-25. Bob Nimocks proved to be the whole show for the Betas as he pushed through 14 points. It was a rough and tumble game which saw the two teams separated by only one point at the half.

Pikas 48 - Pi Kapps 40
Farmer and Gaither, who scored 15 and 13 points respectively, proved to be the winning margin as the Pikas edged out the Pi Kapps in a close, bitterly contested game. Bob Erwin’s 12 points kept his team in the game until the final quarter, but they didn’t prove enough to win the game.

Kappa Sigs 38 - KA’s 31
The two second-place teams in the league tangled this past week and it was the Kappa Sigs who continued to remain in that place. Henry Truelove hooked through 16 points to assure the Kappa Sigs a victory. Knott, for the KA’s, garnered 11 points to pace his team.

Sigma Chis 44 - SPE’s 33
The number one team in the league continued to remain in that position as they gained their eighth straight victory at the expense of the SPE’s. Phil Blatt paced his team to victory with 16 points, while Jimmy Miller was able to get 12 for the losers.

Kappa Sigs 54 - SAE's 45
The Kappa Sigs produced two individual stars as they downed the SAE’s 54-45. Eric Clark was the leading point-getter as he pushed through 19 points and Slimy Sloan was second with 16. George McMurray's 12 points was high for the SAE’s.

STANDINGS
Team W L
Sigma Chis 8 0
Kappa Sigs 7 1
Pikas 6 2
Phi Delts 6 2
KA’s 5 2
Pi Kapps 3 5
Betas 3 5
SPE’s 2 6
Phi Gams 2 7
SAE's 1 6
ATO's 0 7

SPORTS SECTION
FAREWELL TO DUTCH AND TOMMY TONIGHT

PAGE THREE

Wildcat of The Week: Tom Haller
By DICK ROPER
The headline might have read “Hoop Hurts as Hot Haller Pours ’em In,” had the sports desks of the daily papers been alliteratively inclined last Tuesday. For on the previous night, Wildcat Forward Tommy Haller established himself as the top scoring hoopster of all time at Davidson. Against the semi-pro McCrary Eagles, “T” scored a record-breaking 31 points, breaking the old mark of 30 established last year by teammate Bill Brooks. In the lingo of the sports fan, Tommy has been “due” all season for a really good night. But up until his scoring spree against the Eagles, “T” had been kept pretty well bottled up by his opponents who were either clued in on his ability in advance or else learned the hard way at the beginning of a game.

As for his performance Monday night, he will leave an indelible mark on the record books here. It's noteworthy that Haller didn’t make much of a splash as far as his basketball ability was concerned when he first came to Davidson. As a freshman, he was something less than sensational. As a sophomore, on Coach Norman Shepherd's club, Tommy still didn't play even enough to earn his letter “D.” But Coach Shepherd had noticed in the gangling Pulaski, Va. youngster a spark of real talent. “That Haller,” he said, “is one of the most natural basketball players I have ever seen.” Last year as a junior, Tommy surprised everyone by going like the proverbial ‘house afire.’ He stepped into the ranks of the regulars with no difficulty at all, and he looked plenty good for the rise. When the 1950-51 season rolled around, Coach Boyd Baird saw right away that Tommy was not going to be kept off the starting lineup. This season, as said before, “T” has often been held in check by zealous opponents doing their best to pin him to the floor. But Tommy has usually been able to get his share of the points and look very good while doing it, even though at times his brilliance has been equalized by the uncanny set shots of Fellow Co-Captain “Dutch” Hengeveld and the aggressiveness of fireball Bill Brooks. Tommy runs hot and cold, but when he's “on,” there's rarely a fan in the house who won’t holler for Haller.

TOM HALLER
Highest for Season, career.

Gabardine makes good news
The old favorite makes news in styling for Spring. There's less padding and more comfort in the shoulders. There’s less suppression and more flattery in the waistline. This two-button patch pocket model makes value news, too, at $60.00 up.

J.O. JONES
Hart Schaffner & Marx Clothes
CHARLOTTE, N.C.