PAGE SIX

BOB: I hear we're going in the Dog Food business, Bing.

BING: Yep... ARF... You know, food your dog can look for by name. We're going to make the only Dog
Food.

JACK KIRKWOOD: I'd like to show you a picture of my Dad... Old Gonif Kirkwood.

BOB: Very interesting... why is he sitting in the electric chair holding a highball in his hand?

KIRKWOOD: Simple... boy... that was the day he was chosen “Man of Extinction.”

BOB: Bing... you've been playing teacher’s pet with our sponsor long enough. Imagine wearing shorts made out of Chesterfield wrappers!

BING: Not so fast, Bob... How do you explain making bats musicians lie on the lawn so their bodies spell
out “They Satisfy.”

BOB: So you won't go out with me tonight... you'll be sorry... I'll just call up Mauna Loa... Miss Hawaii,
you know... Let's see, the number is...

MARILYN MAXWELL: But Bob, Mauna Loa is a volcano!

BOB: I'll get that Crosby... I gave him $6 for that telephone number... He said it was the hottest thing
in the Islands!

BING: Me a penny pincher? Look Scrooge... I happen to know you line the insides of your trousers with money.

BOB: That's a great big lie.

BING: Don't tell me... I’ve seen you in the locker room... and the flap on your underwear has a serial
number.

PEGGY LEE: Mornin’ stranger... Welcome to the Gopher Hole Hotel.

BING: Thanks Ma'am. My name's Bing Crosby. Have you got a vacant room here at the Gopher Hole?

PEGGY: Yes Sir... and believe me it’s a pleasure to have an “Ace” in the hole.

DOCTOR: Before you can go overseas I want to put this stethoscope on your chest and listen to your heart.

BOB: Go ahead.

DOCTOR: Amazing... Arthur Godfrey’s got a show in there too!

Enjoy Bob and Bing on radio: Bob every Tuesday night on NBC and Bing every Wednesday night.

SCHOLARSHIPS (Continued From Page One)

Candidates from each school will then be invited to appear at Chapel Hill before the Central Committee, probably in May.
Application blanks for the scholarships may be obtained from Dr. Cunningham’s office. No candidate not recommended and nominated by the
committee of his school will be considered for a Morehead Scholarship.

FORCED CHAPEL (Continued From Page One)

Affirmative: Voluntary chapel has been effective in many other schools and could be at Davidson. This success can be accomplished
through better chapel programs and more publicity given to those of special interest to the student body. Just as you
can lead a horse to water and cannot make him drink, the student body is led to chapel but it
cannot be made to sincerely participate; especially is this true in the religious part of the programs. The atmosphere of
the volunteer hall prayer meetings is much better than that of the chapel programs. Even though the voluntary programs might
not have one hundred percent attendance from the student body, at least they would have one hundred percent support of
those attending.

Negative: If you eliminate compulsion from chapel, you eliminate chapel. This fact can readily be seen in the attendance at
band concerts, lectures, and other interesting programs on a voluntary basis. We come to college to be educated and if
that educational process needs compulsion, then it is a necessary regulation. Through chapel we meet, and become close friends with,
many students whom we might never have met had it not been through chapel; this institution is an integral part
of the Davidson Spirit. Even though we are sometimes doubtful of the true worth of chapel, the alumni write back
in overwhelming majorities that it remains in their minds as one of the highlights of their college careers.

Good Friday Service

In the sanctuary of the Davidson Methodist Church on Good Friday, March 23, will be held a service of worship
commemorating the passion and death of Christ, followed by the administration of the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. The service
will begin promptly at 8:00 p.m. For several years this service has been a most significant phase of the series
of Lenten services of the church and community. This service, to which the entire college community is invited, will consist
of a spoken meditation by the minister, familiar hymns, and special music by the congregation and choirs of the Davidson
College Presbyterian Church and Methodist Church. These choirs will present selections from “The Crucifixion” by John Stainer.

Easter time is coming... better get going by GREYHOUND

Save Coming and Going... with Low Round Trip Fares

SPARTANBURG ........ $2.70
COLUMBIA, S.C. ........ $4.00
GREENVILLE ............ $3.90
SAVANNAH ............. $9.35
ATLANTA ............... $9.90
BRUNSWICK ........... $12.35
GAINESVILLE ........... $7.95
WINSTON ............... $3.18
COLUMBUS ............ $13.70
GREENSBORO .......... $3.60
WASHINGTON, D.C. ... $14.80
RICHMOND ............ $10.75
JACKSONVILLE ........ $15.05
DANVILLE .............. $5.35
MIAMI .................. $26.05
NEW YORK ............ $22.90
TAMPA ................. $22.05
PHILADELPHIA ........ $19.85

GREYHOUND TERMINAL
418 W. Trade
Phone 4-1661
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Baker Scholars To Visit Campus For Final Tests

Selection of finalists in the third annual Baker Scholarship competition has been completed by the Baker Scholarship Committee, Professor B.
D. Thompson announced today. Twenty-two candidates have been invited to Davidson for a two-day program of testing and interviews on
March 30-31.

The Baker Scholarships were founded in 1949 by a grant from the George F. Baker Trust which administers a large
educational foundation established by the late eminent banker, Mr. George F. Baker, of New York City. The scholarships are awarded
for four years to outstanding high school seniors whose records in high school and community activities give great promise of
leadership in both academic and extra-curricular work. Candidates are selected by a faculty committee solely on the basis of merit.
Need of assistance is not a primary consideration, although the value of the scholarships does vary from a minimum of
tuition to a maximum of all expenses.

Thirteen Davidson students now hold Baker Scholarships: George F. Bason, Jr., W. Herman Bell, Larry J. Dagenhart, Alan K. Garrison,
Robert M. Henry, Mitchell Patton, and James O. Speed, all of the Sophomore Class, and Robert S. Crutchfield, L. Maxwell
DeVane, Harry V. Lamon, Paul Buford Price, D. Moody Smith, and T. Alden Williams of the Freshman Class.

Contestants this year, Professor Thompson noted, were drawn from a more varied list of schools and from a more extensive
geographical area than in past years. The finalists who have been invited to Davidson for further consideration are: Eugene P.
Bargeron, Savannah, Ga.; Thomas C. Dove, Phillips Andover Academy, Andover, Mass.; Monroe, N.C.; Kirk Terry Dornbush, Atlanta, Ga.; Edmund William
Farrar, Macon, Ga.; Floyd F. Feeney, Charlotte, N.C.; John D. Fite, Sanford, Fla.; John Leigh-ton Green, Jr., El Paso, Texas;
Frederick M. Hudson, Miami, Fla.; Robert P. Hyatt, Cherokee, N.C.; David R. Jones, Durham, N.C.; Thomas F. Kepler, Mt. Herman
School, Mt. Herman, Mass.; Mt. Ulla, N.C.; Charles E. Lambert, Princeton, W.Va.; James Robert Murphy, Shreveport, La.; Owen L. Norment,
Jr., Asheville, N.C.; Dunbar Ogden, III, Staunton, Va.; Herman Postma, Wilmington, N.C.; William F. Scholl, Jr.; Charlotte, N.C.Farley W. Snell,
Eau Gallie, Fla.; John W. Stackhouse, Dillon, S. C.; Lavette C. Teague, Jr., Birmingham, Ala.; Malcolm R. Williamson, Waynesville, N.
C.; Thorne S. Winter, III, Atlanta, Ga.

General Ridgeway Answers Questions

The following recorded statement by Lt. General Matthew B. Ridgeway, Commanding General, Eighth Army, was broadcast on the Department of
Defense radio program “Time for Defense” over the American Broadcasting Company network recently.

“In my brief period of command duty here I have heard from several sources, chiefly from the members of combat
units, the questions, ‘Why are we here?’ ‘What are we fighting for?’

“What follows represents answers to those questions:

“The answer to the first question, ‘Why are we here?’, is simple and conclusive. We are here because of the
decisions of the properly constituted authorities of our respective governments. As the Commander-in-Chief, United Nations Command, General of the Army
Douglas MacArthur said publicly yesterday: ‘This command intends to maintain a military position in Korea just as long as the
statesmen of the United Nations decide we should do so.’ The answer is simple because further comment is unnecessary. It
is conclusive because the loyalty we give, and expect, precludes any slightest questioning of those orders.

“The second question is of much greater significance, and every member of this command is entitled to a full and
reasonable answer. Mine follows:

“To me the issues are clear. It is not a question of this or that Korean town or village. Real
estate here is incidental. It is not restricted to the issue of freedom for our South Korean allies, whose fidelity
and valor under the severest stresses of battle we recognize; though that freedom is a symbol of the wider issues,
and included among them.

“The real issues are whether or not the power of Western civilization, as God has permitted it to flower in
our beloved lands, shall defy and defeat Communism; whether the rule of men who shoot their prisoners, enslave their citizens,
and deride the dignity of man shall displace the rules of those to whom the individual and his individual rights
are sacred; whether we are to survive with God's hand to guide and lead us, or to perish in the
dead existence of a Godless world.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WILDCAT CLUB... (Continued From Page One)

football from the angle of the boys grouped as a team. Presiding over the meeting will be Ed Armfield ’37
who was chosen to lead the club at its initial meeting in March of last year. He will illumine how
far the club has progressed in light of its aims. Mr. Armfield resides in Greensboro.

After lunching at one in the college dining room, the attending members will gather at Richardson Stadium to watch an
intra-squad game whose teams will be composed of the men who have participated in spring football drills. Begun March 11,
1950, the club now has a total of 853 members. Its stated purpose is “to better intercollegiate athletics at Davidson
by providing scholarships to worthy students (in need of financial help) to secure a college education.” It is estimated that
some $30,000 will be required in 1951 in order to continue the present plan of enlisting athletic aid among high
and prep school men. Contributing members have the option of paying direct cash, making a pledge or making extended contributions
over a four-year period thus making it possible to help an individual throughout his entire college career. Over 100 men
have joined the ranks of the latter plan. Money given to the Wildcat Club is actually a part of the
Davidson College Alumni Fund. A contributor may earmark his gift to any particular branch of athletics. One man has consistently
sent checks each year of $100 to be used for the soccer team. Officers of the club were forced to
inform him that there is no soccer team and the money would be used in connection with football unless otherwise
specified.

It is presumed that new officers will be elected at the Monday meeting. Incumbent leaders are President: Ed Armfield of
Greensboro, Vice-President: Hugh Query, Gastonia and Secretary-Treasurer: McAllister Carson, Charlotte.

DAVIDSON THEATRE

Shows Start at 3 P. M.

Monday-Tuesday, March 19-20
‘BEDTIME FOR BONZO’
Ronald Reagan - Diana Lynn
Also News and March of Time

Wednesday, March 21
‘THE GREAT MANHUNT’
Douglas Fairbanks, Jr.
Glynis Johns
also Cartoon and Variety View

Thursday, March 22
‘PRIDE OF MARYLAND’
Stanley Clements
Peggy Stewart
also Three Stooges Comedy and Cartoon

Friday, March 23
‘EDGE OF DOOM’
Dana Andrews
Farley Granger
also Cartoon

Saturday, March 24
‘TARGET UNKNOWN’
Mark Stevens
Robert Douglas

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
MAKERS OF Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.

Democracy starts here...

THE WAY I SEE IT, when you're a father you're automatically a Founding Father, too. It’s up to you to
found America in the heart and mind of every young citizen you add to the census. Because a nation isn’t
history—it’s what's going on right now in your own children’s minds and spirits. Totalitarian countries do a top-flight job of
founding their philosophies, their nations, in the hearts of their youngsters. I think what they give them is faith—faith in
false gods, as we see it—but a burning, positive, dynamic faith which permeates their lives.

Notice

Men having extra copies of their sophomore English literature survey books are requested to donate them to Japanese students of
Shikokou College. A Davidson alumnus, missionary of the college church and former member of the College Bible Department are in
charge of Shikokou. Books may be brought to the YMCA and will be sent to Japan in time for the
soon forthcoming April term. This request is made in light of the fact that there is no time for the
foreign students to purchase second-hand texts.

Patronize Our Advertisers!

RENT A CAR AT THE
Charlotte

where you meet your friends

Charlotte's Finest Restaurant
SHIP AHOY
A GOOD PLACE TO MEET — A BETTER PLACE TO EAT

PICCADILLY GRILL CO.
M. KONTOS

FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 1951

Sal: “I’m making myself a new dress, but my heart isn’t in it.”
Sue: “Hmmm, rather low cut, isn’t it?”

Mooresville Creamery
GRADE “A” MILK
PASTEURIZED
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

VISIT THE DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
142 E. Morehead — Charlotte

1416 East Morehead Street
Phones 4-2090 — 5-8836
Charlotte, N. C.

PHOTO RICHARD BEATTIE

Some folks think we can challenge that faith simply by being against it. But that’s like scolding an atom bomb.
The only force which can conquer faith is a greater and a deeper faith. When I watch my boy and
girl in church singing the grand old hymns ... when I think how they're growing up with the great faith
in their very blood ... when I multiply them by all the church-going children in the country ... there's a
lump in my throat and a psalm in my heart. A psalm of thanksgiving that in them democracy is a
spirit and invincible because it comes from God. A psalm of hope that they may one day make their faith
the faith of all their generation in every land on earth.

Find yourself through faith and come to church this week.
