IFC Files Report On Greek Week

(Following is the Interfraternity Council Report on Greek Week. It is made after considerable study by a committee headed by
Bill Adams and composed of Bob Boyd, Pete Kalogridis, Joe Miller, Sandy Morton, and Kirk Oglesby.)

I. GREEK WEEK

A. WHAT IS IT?—Greek Week is the channeling of fraternity energy toward constructive endeavor, with particular interest in promoting greater
cooperation among fraternities and better preparation of pledges for fraternity life.

B. WHAT ARE ITS PURPOSES?
(1) To promote acquaintance and good feeling among chapters.
(2) To best prepare pledges for membership in their own fraternity, and brothers.
(3) To achieve solidarity within each chapter respecting its pledges.
(4) To better justify fraternity existence.
(5) To put fraternities in a better light before the public eye by means of constructive projects.

C. WHO SUPPORTS IT?
(1) The National Interfraternity Conference.
(2) The National Headquarters of every fraternity we have been able to reach.
(3) The Undergraduate Conference of Interfraternity Council representatives.
(4) Fraternity men all over the country.
(5) The Davidson Administration.
(6) The Davidson Faculty Committee on Fraternities.
(7) The public at large.
(8) This Committee.

D. IS IT SUCCESSFUL? Yes, it is, in a majority of the cases.

E. Is it more in keeping with the aims of fraternities in general than the old-fashioned Hell Week? To our
minds ... yes. At the University of North Carolina, their Interfraternity Council called Hell Week ... “a direct violation of
the campus code, adolescent and a waste of time.” The Carolina fraternity presidents voted unanimously to do away with it.
This action at UNC is illustrative of general trends. More than 100 colleges already have Greek Weeks and the number
will grow impressively this year. Hell Week is immature and out of step with the times. Fraternities originally made no
room for Hell Week ... it crept in. Now fraternities are anxious to do away with it. This Committee heartily
endorses their feeling.

F. WOULD IT BE BENEFICIAL AT DAVIDSON? There would be no point in submitting this report if we did not
feel that Greek Week would be beneficial.

II. RECOMMENDATIONS

A. GENERAL:
(1) That the Davidson fraternities agree on a week in which to give the Greek Help Week suggested below a
trial, preferably to be the second full week of the second semester, February 11-16.
(2) That no pressure whatsoever be put on any individual fraternity as to when or in what manner it handles
its individual initiation. Participation in Greek Help Week would not necessarily keep a chapter from pre-initiation practices of its own,
though it is hoped and urged that childish and harmful practices will be curtailed.

B. SPECIFIC: We suggest and recommend that the following Greek Help Week be instituted and carried out by the Davidson
fraternities during a week agreed upon by them, preferably February 11-16.

Monday Afternoon—An all-pledge community project to make the Davidson business district sanitary, to attempt to beautify it as much as
possible, and to paint the colored school building.

Monday Night Supper—Half of the pledges of each fraternity will be the guests of another pledge class, with the other
half of the class remaining at their own boarding house to help entertain their visitors. Lots will be drawn to
determine which house each pledge group will visit.

Tuesday Night—That a program to be called the Greek Week Varieties be presented. This will consist of twelve skits, one
by each pledge class and appropriate awards will be made to the winning groups.

Wednesday Afternoon—That the pledge groups on the campus unite themselves into one medicine ball team and engage in friendly combat
with the medicine ball against another team to be composed of brothers from each fraternity, and that a suitable prize
be awarded the winning team.

Wednesday Night—That the second pledge interchange dinners be held, enabling those pledges who stayed at home Monday night to visit
another boarding house for supper. Same procedure as for Monday night supper.

Thursday Night—That all of the presidents eat at one house and then have a joint meeting to discuss problems common
to all of them; that the same procedure be carried out by the boarding house managers, the sports managers, the
rush chairmen, the scholarship chairmen, the pledge chairmen, the treasurers, and the presidents of each pledge class; that these meetings
take the place of fraternity meetings for this night; and that the eating place of each group be decided by
lot.

Say Play Down Grid Emphasis

Definitely aiming to de-emphasize inter-collegiate football in the Southern Conference, a Davidson delegation is in Richmond, Va., tonight meeting with
officials of all conference schools. The Davidson policy is in line with the desires of at least two major institutions,
Duke and Carolina, according to delegate chief Dr. J. R. Cunningham. Eight points up for discussion are recommendations made by
the assembled presidents of the conference colleges at a preliminary meeting September 28 at UNC. The solons, including Dr. Cunningham,
voted to try to utilize four specific resolutions made by the National Association of Collegiate Commissioners and four of their
own.

The four NACC suggestions are:
(1) To recognize the need for a sane balance in the students’ life and to reaffirm that he is a
student primarily and an athlete incidentally.
(2) To restrict or eliminate out-of-season practice sessions especially in football and basketball.
(3) To curtail schedules so as to prevent overlapping seasons.
(4) To preserve institutional control over athletics free from outside pressure such as that of alumni groups.

The remaining four points to be under fire were raised by the presidents themselves at the September preliminary meeting. They
are as follows:
(1) No freshman will participate in conference varsity competition after next September.
(2) No post-season contests will be permitted with or without permission, effective this season.
(3) No transfer will be permitted to play the sport in which he engaged at the former institution and no
other sports until one year of residence has been accomplished.
(4) College admission standards should be of a standard caliber to all prospective entrants.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

THE EDITOR RECEIVES A LETTER (See Page Two)

VOLUME XL DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1951 NUMBER ELEVEN

Gift Fund May Fail Goal For First Time

For the first time since its inception, the YMCA Christmas Gift Fund may fall short of its goal. That was
the word from drive chairman Bryan Robinson this afternoon. Robinson, while declining to release the amount reported to date, said:
“There is a good possibility that we may not reach our goal of $6,000. I'm afraid some of the freshmen
don’t realize that this is an annual gift which we have never failed to back to success. We have tried
to conduct the drive without outside appeal this year, hoping that this will be a purely within the student body
gift. Pledges can be made now, and paid after Christmas.” The fund total, which would require an average contribution of
$7.50 from each man in the student body, will be announced Monday in chapel.

Field Day Sees Eager Frosh Bow To Strong Sophs

The freshman’s chance to doff their dinks permanently and be relieved of freshmen regulations was erased Tuesday afternoon when they
lost the touch football game and relay of the annual “Freshman-Sophomore Day.” The sophomore’s football team clearly outclassed the frosh
all the way, pulling through by a score of 24 to 12. From the very first the sophomores showed their
superior strength and teamwork by running up a lead of 18 points in the first half. During the second half
the freshmen ran up two tallies while the sophomores eased up a bit and did not cross the goal but
once more. Corky Johnson and Max DeVane led the sophomores to victory. Max was especially outstanding as passer for the
team. Two freshmen who showed up well were Watt Moore and Ronnie Whittson. The high spot of the day from
a freshman's viewpoint was the “tug of war.” Here they took advantage of superior weight to win the first two
pulls and take the event. From the start of the relay, the sophomores forged ahead and were never in danger
of losing. This event was won hands down from the freshmen. Judge Guiton thought that the freshmen showed excellent spirit;
the best which has been shown for a long while. Although the frosh put their hearts into it, they were
defeated, and red hats will still be visible for a while yet, and neophyte regulations abided by.

27 Donors Boost Red Cross Total

A group of 23 students voluntarily went to Charlotte Tuesday afternoon to add their blood donations to the total of
446 gathered at Davidson in the Blood Drive 10 days ago. The group made the round-trip in a bus which
was graciously donated by the Queen City Coach Company of Charlotte. A county policeman moved ahead of the bus to
speed the trip. At the Blood Center the students were joined by four others, so that a total of 27
donations were made. The donors were comprised largely of members of the basketball team and of the wrestling team whose
schedules did not permit donations at the regular time. The athletes were joined by a number of other students. Colonel
Ballard, chairman of the Drive, wishes to express appreciation to the entire group of 27 for generously giving both of
their time and blood.

A HIGHWAY’S HAZARDS -- AND ITS HELPS

Common faults in the Charlotte-Davidson Stretch of Highway 21 are brought out in four of the pictures above. Top left
photo shows clearly an example of crumbling of the side of the road, where both macadam and the concrete baseare
giving way to wear. Top center photo has caught a car moving at only normal speed around a curve with
reverse bank. Notice the lean and the way the automobile must hug the center of the highway. Top right shot
typifies the narrowness of the road, particularly in the long stretch outside Cornelius. Lower left pictures a drop-off to the
shoulder, custom-built for throwing vehicles into ditches. The lower center and lower right pictures are illustrative of improvements which have
been made. The shoulder improvement with pavement and the reflector sticks curve indicator make for safer driving on the highway.
(Photos, Simons.)

A_DAVIDSONIAN EDITORIAL: Highway 21 Continues Its Toll While Awaiting Overdue Repairs

Despite a $200,000,000 road bond issue which has enabled the North Carolina farmer to come to town, the vast expenditure
still has failed to fix it so that the college boy can go to town—safely. The path which leads over
the hills to Charlotte has stood for years as the gap rather than bridge between Davidson and the Queen City,
has a good chance to stand a bit longer in its present state, according to a comment by Dr. Ernest
Beaty, Mecklenburg County Commissioner. “We've been after the state for years to repair the Charlotte road,” Beaty declared, “but it
seems to be a year or two off at best. The folks in Raleigh tell me that they’re due to
work on our road (North 21) as soon as work is completed on 49 and 29. But how long can
we wait?

“Bus drivers who come through here now tell me—probably not without some exaggeration, but still with a good deal of
meaning—that this highway is the worst stretch they travel from Detroit to Miami.” The average Charlotte-Davidson traveler draws his own
opinion of the point's exaggeration. Badly in need of resurfacing, the 20-mile stretch is seriously a safety menace. The crumbling
edges of the pavement serve as bevels to smooth a tire’s slip from the narrow way onto the soft shoulders
at the side, at some points no more than five feet wide. After the brief five feet slide? Outside of
Cornelius telephone poles border the shoulder, and as they move out to a safer distance, a snaring ditch moves in
to take their place. “Slippery When Wet" applies to the macadam strip along the entire route until it terminates in
the concrete this side of Charlotte. Repair strips make the road a hodgepodge of scattered tar “banana peels” in the
lightest rain. The legendary “wrong-way” banked curves, the blind hills and curves, and the narrowness of the few straightaways mark
the highway an engineer's as well as a motorist’s nightmare. Passing has become a feat only the brave (or reckless?)
dare try. While truckers and buses are bound to the road by schedules, the businessman forsakes what would be the
most direct artery from Charlotte to West Virginia and farther north to swing by way of Newton or around by
Concord. Unfortunately, it is the only way open between Charlotte and Davidson. To describe the road’s condition is at best
woefully ineffective. One must drive it to know that America’s millionth accident well could come on Highway 21! It could
well be a Davidson student. But that millionth traffic death is due THIS MONTH, not two or three years hence.
Highway 21 needs immediate attention. The Davidson student has the opportunity during Christmas to put the word to his representative
to the state legislature. Four words will suffice: “It’s action or accidents.” —W.A.W., Jr.

Makes First 100 On Paris Island Marine Ed. Test

Leroy Carlton, who recently withdrew from Davidson in his third year, has established a new record at the Paris Island
Marine Station. He is the first recruit from North Carolina ever to make a perfect score on the test given
all new men to determine their educational qualifications. The test is administered by all services. Capt. C. E. Brandon, head
of Marine recruiting for the state, said that the test has been given to thousands of enlistees since 1948 and
Carlton was the first ever to answer every question. Carlton received preparatory training at Fishburne Military School where he led
his class and twice was presented Scholastic medals. He is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Leroy Carlton of Greensboro.

Red-Faced Adams Pleads IFC Title

A red-faced Bill Adams this week pleaded successfully for changing the name of Davidson's intra-fraternity board from Pan-Hellenic Council to
Inter-Fraternity Council. Custom has it that Pan-Hellenic is a name applied to inter-sorority councils and IFC to fraternity men. This
was emphasized when Adams arrived at a national IFC meeting and found himself billeted with a girl.

Beaver Club Urges Help Clothe Europe

The annual Beaver Club Clothing Drive as briefly outlined in Chapel Monday will extend through next Tuesday. Especially needed are
warm clothes such as sweaters, jackets, gloves, coats, scarves, and caps. These clothes after processing will be rushed to Europe.
Students are requested to bring clothes back from the holidays and these too will be included in the drive. “Let's
start living the Christmas spirit,” exhorted President Bob Henry.

High Figures Show Accident Total Up In Past Two Years

According to county police records, there will be more traffic accidents this year on the Davidson-Charlotte highway than ever before.
With 52 accidents, including three fatalities, already reported in 1951 and the bad-weather month of December still to go, the
number of accidents seems certain to pass last year’s total of 54. Accidents on the Davidson-Charlotte route have risen from
a level of 39 and 38 in 1947 and 1948 to 43 in 1949 and thence to last year’s high
of 54. The largest single cause in traffic accidents in America according to a survey made by the Pennsylvania Safety
Commission is speeding. Ten more accidents were listed on a 10-mile stretch of the Charlotte-Salisbury highway than on the less
traveled Davidson route, but the Salisbury road recorded 543 speeding arrests as to 133 on the Davidson highway. Thus, though
it has only one- (Continued On Page Four)

Barium Stirs Deep Feeling In Past Years

By HUNTER STRADER

Christmas will come to the Davidson campus Monday night in all the true meaning of the word. Barium Springs night
is one looked forward to by the students for more reasons than one. Not only do several score of children
receive Christmas presents and get a trip that promises entertainment and a break from regular routine, but several hundred boys
get a “shot in the arm” so to speak. Many a Davidson student can truthfully say that the real spirit
of Christmas first struck him as he watched these children enjoying themselves—saw the expressions on their faces when Santa walked
into the room—or sang Christmas carols with some six-year-old on his knee. Rev. McClure, Superintendent of the Orphanage, has informed
the YMCA officials that the children will arrive at 7:15 p.m., Monday night in several buses. There they will be
met by representatives of the various groups and escorted to the houses where the festivities will take place. There will
be approximately 160 of various ages, ranging from six to 14. Each of the 12 groups will be composed of
both boys and girls if possible. During the two-hour visit the children will be playing various games under the direction
of the boys, will be fed, and finally each will receive a gift. Each group will be visited by Santa
Claus. All students should wait until after the guests have seen St. Nick before voicing their own requests. When the
sound of voices, both young and old, can be heard on fraternity court and in Eu Hall singing those Christmas
carols, which have become dear to their hearts, everyone will know that Christmas is here—that it is an active, living
thing that brings joy and gladness to all who participate. And when those same voices are saying “Good-night” and “Thank
you,” every Davidson student will have something inside him to carry through the holidays and make this truly a season
of “peace on earth, good will toward men.”

Christmas Carols Vesper Theme Of Yule Program

The annual Christmas Vesper service will be held Sunday evening, at 7:30 o'clock, in Chambers Auditorium. A traditional feature of
the evening is the antiphonal playing by brass choirs of Christmas carols before and after the service. Norma Heyde, soprano
soloist for the Christmas Vesper program, is a voice instructor with the University of Michigan Music Department. She received her
Master's Degree in music at the University of Michigan where she took leading roles in many concert and opera productions.
This lovely lyric singer appeared as soloist in “The Blessed Damozel,” by Debussy, on the 1950 Brevard Music Festival, and
was soloist again on the 1951 Brevard Music Festival's production of Mendelssohn's “Elijah.” This will be Miss Heyde’s first visit
to the Davidson campus. Special numbers on the program will include “I Wonder as I Wander,” solo by Miss Heyde,
accompanied by the Davidson Male Chorus, and “Come Unto Him,” from Handel's “Messiah.” The Davidson Male Chorus and Chapel Choir
will sing traditional Christmas carols. These two organizations are under the direction of Donald Plott, who joined the staff of
the Davidson College Music Department in September of this year as vocal instructor. Harold Frantz will be at the organ.
The Davidson Little Symphony, conducted by James Christian Pfohl, will play during the service.
