FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1951 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Powerful Bulldogs Here For Test With Wildcats
Citadel Seeks Win After Two Defeats
By DICK ROPER

One of the most powerful Citadel teams in recent years will invade Richardson Field tomorrow afternoon to tangle with Coach
Crowell Little’s Wildcats in what shapes up as the biggest “Cat and Dog fight” in the state. Although the Bulldogs
have absorbed lickings from Florida and South Carolina, they still boast one of the most potent attacks of the smaller
Southern Conference schools.

The Wildcats, with last week's 32-20 victory over VPI fresh in mind, are spirited but crippled with injuries. The Cats
looked impressive in winning last Saturday, improving noticeably on downfield blocking and timing. "We made many mistakes against VPI," Coach
Little admits, “but on the whole the team played a good game. We had more spirit and determination than I
have seen a Davidson team exhibit since I have been head coach.”

If Jack Ruth, A. G. Gregg, and Jim Thacker perform as well tomorrow as they did at Blacksburg, the Keydets
will have a rough time of it. But with such key men as Bob Turk, Roy White, Arnold Whisnant, and
Johnny Guiton on the injury list, the Cats’ chances are considerably slimmed.

Citadel standouts for the Cats to watch are Muddy Friedlin, Curtis Bozeman, and Jack Chandler. These fancy steppers have been
fairly well bottled up in the Bulldogs' first two games but are touted as a couple of the best in
South Carolina.

Chesterfield SPORTS QUIZ
1. Against whom did Joe Louis make his first title defense?
2. What is the major league record for strikeouts in one game by one pitcher? Who holds it?
3. In what year was the first Kentucky Derby held? Who was the first winner?
4. What is the highest number of home runs hit in one season by a right-handed hitter?
5. In what years was Pancho Segura the National Collegiate tennis champion?

Answers to last week's quiz:
1—Bobby Doerr,
2—Jerry Barger,
3—Warren Giles,
4—Sh, ‘be, ‘“fb.—S ‘xx Auf Bsoquaassy = yUeEY =? gs—t ‘sapusuy *SZBI—-£ ‘S212 VOU *8I—Z £66) ‘sseq Auiu0L—]

Wildcat Of The Week

No one could tell for sure last Friday when the football team left for VPI just how the game would
finally end. There were rumors that the Gobblers were out to win more than one game this year and they
thought Davidson would be a good dish to start their streak. It took only sixty minutes of a football game
on Saturday afternoon to show them how wrong they were and Virginia papers couldn’t help but smile a little as
they mentioned his “G-Men” and their rather disastrous effect on the VPI team which had counted so hard on winning
the game.

The “G-Men" who so devastated the Gobblers were A. C. Gregg and Johnny Guiton and it was Gregg who stole
the show, gaining a total of 135 yards in rushing and scoring on a plunge from the one-yard line to
make himself and the Wildcats six points. This was really no surprise for many, for everyone has been waiting for
him to break loose and show his heels to many a Wildcat opponent. Last season A. C. lugged the pigskin
63 times, picking up 318 yards and in doing so averaged a cool 5.0 yards per carry. He also tallied
three touchdowns for 18 points during last year’s campaign.

While A. C. can’t be classified as a big fellow, he takes advantage of his 5-10, 158-pound frame and reels
off some mighty tricky, twisting runs. Just as last Saturday proved to be.

Sports Managers Decide For Tag In Interfrat Play
By JACK EFIRD

This fall a new type of football will be introduced onto the intramural fraternity gridiron. Because of numerous injuries incurred
last year and in past years, touch football has been dropped from play and tag football has been substituted. Both
President Cunningham and Dr. Woods have forbidden the continuance of the old type game. Monday night the fraternity sports managers
met and passed on the new tag football rules. The transformation of touch to tag football has been spreading throughout
the American college campus in the last few years so that now practically all intramural football is of the tag
type.

A few of the rules are that blocking is forbidden whether in the line of scrimmage or in the open.
Players are, however, granted the same privileges in tag football of screening as are allowed in basketball. The tag of
the ball carrier must be made between the waist and the neck. Undue severity in tagging will result in a
penalty of one-half the distance to the goal line and a first down at that point for the offensive team.
If at any time the ball is fumbled during scrimmage, after a lateral pass, after a kick, or after a
run, the ball is dead and belongs to the team that fumbled at the spot of the fumble. A five-yard
penalty is given for players using their hands on opponents other than the ball carrier. Tag football will now minimize
the value of the slow, big player and magnify the importance of the fast, shifty player. Also, more passing and
less running will probably prevail.

Generations ago there were many things to worry about, but teen-age drug addicts wasn’t one of them.his best game to
date, so should this year prove to be the best season the Wilmington halfback has ever had. One thing is
certain: the man to stop if the Wildcats’ opponents want to win may well be A. C. Gregg.

CURTIS BOZEMAN (above) will plunge for Quinn Decker’s crew here Saturday.

Whittle’s Harriers Open Season Meeting Old Rivals N. C. State
Chandler, Fetzer Return as Coaches

In adding two men to his already potent staff of coaches, Coach Crowell Little couldn't have picked two of any
higher calibre than Buddy Chandler, who is a newcomer to the collegiate coaching scene, and Tom Fetzer, who returns to
aid in the coaching duties as a regular assistant.

Buddy Chandler had just recently signed a pact with the professional Washington Redskins and was already in camp when his
alma mater called on him for help in molding a new era in Davidson football. Chandler came to Davidson out
of high school where his school won the Virginia State Championship for several straight years. It was “Wild Bill” Storey
who coached him through his brilliant prep days and also brought him to Davidson when a coaching position opened up
in 1946. Buddy was an outstanding tackle for the team through 1949 when he graduated and entered the high school
coaching profession. Two years straight, he was mentioned for All-State honors and was always right in the midst of the
fight.

Tom Fetzer is no stranger on this campus, since he helped with the backfield men last season also. He alone
had a large part to play in the team’s being able to switch to the T-formation after a long history
of single-wing teams. He especially worked with Auburn Lambeth and Jack Ruth under the center and his work certainly has
shone out through the brilliance of these two men’s work. Fetzer hails from Reidsville, N. C., but reached his football
glory at Wake Forest under “Peahead” Walker. He played regularly as a tailback before being shifted to the T-quarterback with
the advent of the T formation in Walker's camp. His outstanding play as an offensive man barely shadows his prowess
as a safety man on defense, where he was the best in the conference. Both men are about the best
to be so young in their league and they certainly are showing great promise in collegiate coaching.

By BILL BRADFORD

This Saturday the Davidson Cross Country team opens against a powerful squad from N. C. State. With greater depth and
a more well-rounded team than last year, the Wildcats should have a better win-loss record. Paced by the excellent running
of co-captains Tom and Dick Stockton and backed by a strong contingent from the lower classes, it should be a
great season for this long-winded sport. A man to be counted on heavily this year is Bill Shipley who came
in second in the time trials Wednesday. Showing great ability for a sophomore, he will add to the chances of
a clean slate. Making up the nucleus of the team along with the above will be lettermen Bob Henry and
Bill Lee, both of whom have shown skill before and will assuredly continue on this year. Five other men round
out the squad; they are Stuart Plummer, Johnny Smith, Bob Charles, Joe Carpenter, and Floyd Feeney. Feeney, a member of
the freshman class, has already shown himself well adapted to this sport as he placed first in the cake race
held for the frosh. Plummer and Smith, both newcomers to this sport, are doing fine and will do much towards
rounding out the team.

The State team will show up here Saturday with one of the strongest teams the Wildcats will face in a
dual meet. Captained by Clyde Garrison, the best long-distance runner in the Southern Conference, they will be strong contenders for
the State meet. Garrison, as a sophomore last year, was first in the state meet and also came across first
in the Southern Conference meet. Bob Leonard, another member of the team, placed second in the state meet. State has
been working out two weeks longer than the Wildcats and will make the going rough Saturday.

The remainder of the schedule is as follows:
Oct. 12—U.N.C., here.
Oct. 22—Richmond, there.
Oct. 27—W. and L., there.
Nov. 3—V.M.I., there.
Nov. 5—State meet, Raleigh.
Nov. 12—Southern Conference meet, Durham.

PAGE THREE

takes pride in presenting WORSTED-TEX in the famous British Lounge Model

An inspired men’s wear collection: the outstanding line of Worsted-Tex suits and topcoats in their new, smart 2-ply 100% virgin
worsteds, enhanced by the British Lounge Model—the exclusive construction that adds tallness, slimness, and trimness to a man’s appearance. We
welcome you to see our Worsted-Tex collection—and to see yourself in the British Lounge Model. We know you'll doubly enjoy
the experience.

A. 2-ply 100% Virgin Worsted Glo-Tone Gabardine
A rich, distinctive pattern with a soft sheen. Carefully tailored, correctly styled in the popular British Lounge Model. $69.75

B. 2-ply 100% Virgin Wool in the classic Shetland pattern
Ideal for town as well as country wear... enhanced by the popular British Lounge Model construction. $69.75

C. 2-ply 100% Virgin Worsted Suit and Topcoat
A perfect combination for Fall and Winter wear. Both are highlighted by smart styling and proportioned sizing. Suit in British
Lounge Model. $69.75
