PAGE TWO | THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF .......................... GORDON SCOTT
BUSINESS MANAGER .................. JOHN LOFTIN

Associate Editors ........ Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Features Editor .......................... Shelley Beard
Managing Editors ........ Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George McMurray, Ed Richardson
Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Photographer—Raymond Lynch
Proofreader—Wallace Abbott
City Editor—Nat Daniel
Art Editor—Jim Ficketsen
Sports Editor—Bill White
Assistant Business Manager ........ Alex Goley
Advertising Manager ................ Manley McWilliams
Circulation Manager .................. Ansley Moses
Collections Manager .................. Jack Turner
Subscriptions Manager .............. Bill Hart
I. T. Lilly, Faculty Advisor

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Workable Solution

Next week, the student body will be asked to vote on a change in the Constitution concerning gambling. The proposed
change was read to the students in a closed meeting last Friday, and according to the Constitution, all proposed amendments
must lie on the table for ten days before voting takes place. A special committee from the Student Council was
appointed to study the matter after the recent episode in which a student was caught playing poker for money. This
committee recommended that a new section be added to the Constitution to read as follows: "Every student found guilty of
violating Section 3 shall be punished in accordance with the seriousness of the offense and may be subject to dismissal
from college."

Section 3 states: "No student shall be guilty of gambling," and a later section stipulates that any student found guilty
of violating this section will be dismissed from school. We are not convinced that this new section will completely drive
away all of the fog that has enshrouded the question of gambling on the Davidson campus, but it does seem
to be as workable an answer to the problem as will likely be found. For that reason, and for others
that we will enumerate, the Davidsonian stands solidly behind the Student Council in its efforts to add this new section
to the Constitution.

A number of people have attacked the proposed change on the grounds that the new section is still too vague
and not specific enough; that the Student Council of one year may feel quite differently about gambling from the Council
of the year before. One Council might interpret matching for a coke as gambling and the next might completely overlook
it as such. These opinions are perfectly valid; however, one thing must be said in answer to them. A look
at the membership of the Student Council for the past few years is all that is needed to bring to
light the fact that in the vast majority of the cases, sophomores and juniors who serve on the Council are
elected again the next year. While this, of course, is not always the case, it is the practice often enough
to assure the student body that at least some of their chosen representatives are familiar with the policies of the
Councils of years before with regard to defining gambling and punishing the offenders. Thus, it would seem to us that
the interpretation given the new Section by the Student Council next year will set the pace for years to come.

Other students have voiced the opinion that "dismissal from college" should be deleted from the new section. We must, however,
take issue with this opinion and urge the section’s adoption as presented to the student body. We do not believe
that gambling, as most students interpret it, or gambling such as has been going on here at Davidson is of
such a serious nature as to be punishable by dismissal from school; and what is more important, the Student Council
will not either unless gambling gets out of hand. This does not preclude the possibility that at some later date
a more distasteful form of gambling such as bookmaking might invade the campus; and for that reason—unlikely as it may
seem now—we believe it would be wise to let the new section stand as it now reads. Dismissal from college
for being engaged in gambling of this nature could hardly be called unreasonable or unfair.

Whether they realize it or not, the student body trusts the judgment of the Student Council on the drinking and
cheating provisions of the Constitution. Sometimes it has proved difficult to pin down an exact definition of just what is
drinking or cheating. It will be the same way with the question of gambling, but there is no reason why
the Student Council can’t handle this new trust as effectively as they have handled others in by-gone years. If the
Student Council of Davidson College had a reputation for being wishy-washy, insincere, incapable, and prejudiced, then every student could be
expected to view with skepticism the thought of giving them the power to interpret and mete out punishment for gambling.
However, thank the good Lord, such is not the case, for the Council at Davidson has always proved its ability
and faculty for serving with complete devotion to the College. Everyone can rest assured that their handling of this new
power would be just as effective.

The committee of Larry Dagenhart, Ken Goodpasture, and Ray Cunningham which studied this problem spent many hours in trying to
draw up a section that would be workable and be acceptable to the students whom it affects. In the interests
of providing a solution to the muddied problem which we now have and of giving Davidson a stronger Student Council,
the Davidsonian urges every student to vote in the affirmative for this new section in the Constitution.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Queen Guinevere Just Gave Me The Swatt

Gaga yeom College Rigs

Wood: "Here's an article in the paper about a girl being buried in a snowdrift for 18 hours with her
boyfriend."
Abie: "Humph! If my girlfriend and I were buried in a snowdrift, we'd be swimmin’ in 20 minutes."

Reporter (interviewing castaway): "And you and this lovely South Sea maiden lived all alone on this island for seven years?"
Castaway: "Well, we did for the first year."

"I like lectures when they're not over my head."
"That's the way I feel about pigeons."

A lady got on a bus and took the only empty seat, next to a harmless looking drunk. Soon she
opened a map of Manchuria and began to study it. The drunk gazed at the map for a while and
finally addressed the lady in an interested tone: "Sure you're on the right bus?" he asked.

Prof. Puckett: This is the skull of a man who was shipwrecked for 2 years on a desert island with
5 chorus girls.
Sleepy: How did he die?

They were sitting in a hammock in the moonlight. For half an hour not a word had broken the stillness
of the night. Finally she asked, "If you had money what would you do?" And he replied: "I would travel."
He felt her warm hand slip into his... and then she was gone. In his hand was a dime.

"Did you have a good time on that date last night?"
"No."
"Whassamatter?"
"Did you ever enjoy a book with the last chapter missing?"

An eagle-eyed mortician noticed an old crone shuffling away from a funeral service at his parlor and asked her how
old she was.
"One hundred and one," said the old lady.
The mortician answered gravely, "Hardly worth going home, is it?"

A young lady oyster had just returned from her first date with a lobster and was telling her oyster girl
friends about it. "He was simply marvelous," she said. "First he looked deep into my eyes. Then he put his
arms around me. Then he..." A look of horror came over her as she clutched her throat and cried out:
"My gawd! My pearl!"

"Did you know what the two morons did on their honeymoon?"
"No, what?"
"Nothing."

A Maine logger, fresh from the big woods, was watching a store clerk open a package of gaily colored men’s
pajamas.
"What's them?" he asked.
"Pajamas."
"Pajamas?" echoed the logger. "What are they for?"
"Why, you wear them nights," the clerk explained. "Want to buy a pair?"
"Nothing doing," said the logger. "I don't go nowhere nights except to bed."

What About Fraternities
By TOM MANN
(Last of a series of three articles)

Last week we discussed the pros and cons of the fraternity system as a whole, coming to the conclusion that
there is enough validity in the criticisms at least to warrant continued analysis of the degree in which fraternities approximate
not only their own ideals but the ideals of the college. This whole controversy started over a letter condemning the
administration for meddling in fraternity affairs. And that brings us to the subject of this article, college-fraternity relations.

The first question that comes to mind is, how fraternities come into existence on a college campus, and, what are
the accompanying responsibilities? Fraternities are born on most campuses (perhaps all, and at least at Davidson) by permission of the
trustees. The trustees invest in the faculty responsibility for surveillance of all campus organizations. Thus, in that sense, the existence
of fraternities hinges on the will of the faculty. The chain of command, so to speak, is: the students, the
faculty, the trustees. When the question of law is concerned, this chain would be extended to the state, by grant
of whose power trustees are incorporated.

The question, then, of responsibilities of fraternities hardly needs mentioning, it being obvious that they should relate their ideals and
actions to the goals of the college. What are the goals of the college? One is to graduate learned, thinking,
adaptable, and socially competent men. In order to accomplish this, the college must necessarily concern itself with as many phases
of a man’s campus life as possible, which means that if fraternities, or any other campus organizations, become a hindrance
to the realization of the college’s goals, it has the right to demand cooperation. It may even abolish organizations inconsistent
with college aims. Thus, in regard to fraternities more specifically, the college should concern itself with academic, character-building, and total
personality influences, to mention a few. If hazing is regarded with ill feeling, it can be prohibited, at least in
rule. A decision of this sort was made long ago on this campus and many others. A college doesn’t want
to put aman in a mold for four years in hopes that he will come out in the right form,
but it does want to and should concern itself with campus influences, maintain those that are good and try to
correct those that are bad. The relation of the students to such affairs is that they should be on their
toes in trying to beat the college to the draw. It would seem that the problem from the college’s point
of view is not necessarily the fraternity system in and of itself, but rather the broader problem of the relation
of fraternities to campus social activities and social organization. The fraternities are primarily social organizations. Do they provide the best
means for organizing social activities and group fellowship? If they don’t, how can you organize differently and more effectively? If
they do, how can fraternities best serve the purpose of social organization and not only maintain at a minimum but
improve to a maximum the proper relationship with the college?

There are doubts in the minds of some and convictions in the minds of other college officials that fraternities cannot
justify their continued existence on the basis of the last question. If we do not think the case is a
strong one, let us at least not provide material evidence to give it strength. Let us be aware of not
only the problem on this campus but its more serious manifestations on other campuses. It is very complex and should
not be passed off lightly. While there are undisputed merits in the fraternity system, let us not refuse examination of
its shortcomings. The faculty and administration are concerned with the problem—perhaps more than we—and rather than assail them for enforcing
a hazing rule that could have been enforced long ago, let us work cooperatively with them in answering and doing
something concrete about the question: “What to do with and about fraternities?”

FRIDAY, MARCH 9, 1951

MUSIC WITH HANSEN
By HENRY HANSEN

The other day a student asked me just how he could form an appreciation of what is generally called classical
music without taking any courses in music appreciation or receiving any other formal instruction. To me this was flattering because
I am in no way an authority on the subject and have nothing to offer in answer but my own
experience in acquiring a taste for serious music. My experience in the matter has been average, but this very mundane
quality makes it possible for me to give to him, and to any others who are interested, a loose and
flexible reply in answer to the question he asked.

Certain principles of aesthetics are at the base of all courses which try to foster an appreciation of serious music
and, given a personal desire, it is as easy to apply them on a personal, non-formalized level as it is
in the classroom. It is not necessary to understand these principles to apply them; for that reason I will make
no mention of them in this article.

What then are the steps in learning to appreciate serious music? First, get a record player, preferably a three-speed one,
but if this is out of the question for financial reasons, then the safest and most satisfactory purchase would be
an LP player. These are inexpensive and are most apt to provide a safe and valuable investment. Having purchased a
player, we come to the heart of the matter—what records should I buy; what music should I listen to first?
Generally speaking, the music which will make the most appeal to the uninitiated will be the music which is short,
tuneful, and not too complex. Filling this list of requirements admirably is a host of overtures, short orchestral works, by
such composers as Rossini, Von Suppe, Verdi, in fact, almost any operatic composer. An excellent album would be Rossini Overtures
by Rossini, Victor-DM-1037. One word of advice is needed. It is possible to buy hundreds of such records, but maturing
taste almost always finds this type of music little short of boring. For this reason it would be wise to
keep actual purchases of such records at a minimum. Try to listen to someone else’s rather than buy your own.

From this type of music it is an easy step to the romantic school of music. This school insisted that
content was more important than the form of any particular composition and they make easy listening. Some composers of note
in this school are: Schumann, Schubert, Mendelssohn, Liszt, von Weber, Wagner and, finally, Beethoven. From this point one might move
to the works of such composers as: Brahms, Tchaikovsky, Franck, Saint-Saens, Dvorak, Grieg. In listing these composers we are gradually
moving away from composers whose works are mainly emotional to those whose works are mainly formal and, therefore, more difficult
to understand. It is, of course, neither necessary nor completely desirable that one follow any such listing, including this one,
rigidly.

Next on the list would be such composers as Handel, Bach, Mozart, and Haydn. These are all classicists and, generally
speaking, they are somewhat harder to appreciate than those who have preceded them in this list. From these we move
into the field of contemporary composers. Such a list might include Sibelius, Richard Strauss, Debussy, Ravel, Stravinsky, Rachmaninoff (who is
somewhat of a reactionary and can thus be taken earlier), Mahler, Bruckner, Ralph Vaughan Williams, Prokofiev, Shostakovich, Respighi, Schoenberg and
many others. From this point on you are on your own; there are many out of the way corners which
your own taste will want to explore and about which no one has any right to make any pronouncements.

Such an article as this must necessarily be much too brief. In closing, there are a few more things which
should be said. First, the purchase of a book such as the Modern Library edition, A Guide to Great Orchestral
Music by Sigmund Spaeth will be of immense help in deciding what to buy. A book which will be helpful
in showing you how to listen is Hearing Music by T. M. Finney. Irving Kolodin’s New Guide to Recorded Music
will prove of value in aiding you to select the recording you want from the ones available and, since Kolodin
is a consistently sound critic of the phonographic medium, will be of help in developing critical standards for yourself. Finally,
if you can’t afford the necessary outlays for record playing equipment and the records themselves, then avail yourself of the
music which is broadcast on the radio, played at concerts, and available for listening in such places as the record
room in Phi Hall here on the campus. One can do almost as much this way as by building a
personal record library. Certain advantages are, of course, lost, but many are still available to anyone who really wants to
open to himself a field of enjoyment and enrichment which is inexhaustible and comparable in what it has to offer.

Geech’s Goulash
By PAT McGEACHY

There are different responses to the alarm clock. We shall deal with four. The first type awakens at the first
tinkle, springs lightly from bed and departs, singing, to breakfast. That is about enough about the first type. He is
a little too nauseating to merit further discussion.

The second type is equally colorless, but far more common. He invariably arises with the last dying gasp of the
faithful alarm, performs his morning ablutions, in a manner to which necessity has inextricably conditioned him, attends classes, and awakens
immediately upon entering that unholy bedlam called, for want of a better name, chapel.

The third type is unfortunately afflicted with a most irritating somnambulistic ability. If his alarm is placed near his head
he is all right, because he does not have to get up to turn it off. However, if it is
placed across the room he must either patiently await the cessation of the unnerving cacophony or emerge from his pallet,
swaddled in bedclothes and extinguish the din. In either of these events, he immediately returns to the blissful state of
his previous repose. Thirty or thirty-one minutes later he wakes up. This is not such a very good thing as
his alarm is invariably set at 8:24. And speaking of invariables, he is on Freshman cuts.

Perhaps the most fertile ground for discussion may be found with our fourth example. His is a sad story. But
entertaining. We were unable to interview a typical specimen from this group, there being no coherent representative extant. However, largely
from curious observation, we have culled a comparatively accurate reproduction of a typical morning.

Scene I, Sound: Alarm No. 1, located on desk. Brrrrrrr, etc.
Voice: Grnftz, qoornt.
Alarm No. 2, mingled with No. 1. Brrdongrrdongrrdong, etc.
Voice: Grnftz.
2nd Voice: All right, Schmoe, if you don’t do it, I'm gonna shut ‘em both off!
3rd Voice: (measurably irritated) KNOCK IT OFF!
1st Voice: Grnftz.
Sound: Silence, as the two alarms are cut off by the owner of Voice No. 2.

Scene II (30 minutes later).
Sound: 7:45 Bell; full minute of unbearable peals.
1st Voice: Grnftz.

Scene III (30 minutes later).
Sound: 8:15 Bell; full of same.
1st Voice: Aw to grnftz with it.
Further sounds: Dressing, etc., etc.

Scene IV (30 minutes later).
Professorial voice: Well, Good-morning, Mr. Schmoe. Too bad that the faculty prefers that we give cuts to those who arrive
more than ten minutes late, eh?
1st Voice: Grnftz.

Had enough? There are others. There is a fifth type (you will note that we have spelled out the number
that all may absorb its significance). He is on a hangover from last semester, and does not get up at
all. When he finally awakens he will discover that his name has been carefully eradicated from the college rolls by
the executive committee. But he isn’t even worth a grnftz.

There is also a moral to this deal, but we have no Greek type so we can't print it. As
a matter of fact they wouldn't let us print it anyway. As a matter of fact, since we are writing
this at 2:00 a.m., they probably won't print any of it. No tears please. Grnftz?
