PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF .......................... GORDON SCOTT
BUSINESS MANAGER .................. JOHN LOFTIN

Associate Editors .......... Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Features Editor .......... Shelley Beard
Managing Editors ........ Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George McMurray, Ed Richardson
Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Photographer—Raymond Lynch
Proofreader—Wallace Abbott
City Editor—Nat Daniel
Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen
Sports Editor—Bill White
Assistant Business Manager .......... Alex Goley
Advertising Manager .......... Manley McWilliams
Circulation Manager .......... Ansley Moses
Collections Manager .......... Jack Turner
Subscriptions Manager .......... Bill Hart

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Platform Boxscore

In one of the early issues of the Davidsonian last fall we published for the first time a platform for
a better Davidson. From time to time, editorials plugging for these different planks have been written; but in looking back
over the box score, we must confess that only a few scratch hits, a number of strikeouts and nothing approaching
a home run have been made.

Let us consider the hits.

1. There has been some change made in the system of elections this year. While it is still far from
perfect and smooth-running, changes for the better have been made and should continue to be made as the future demands.
2. As a whole, chapel programs have been better this year. True, there have been a few so-so ones which
tend to stand out in everybody’s mind, but the overall caliber has been improved.
3. Student regulations have been made clear to the students on all occasions when there might have been any cause
for misunderstanding. This of course has been largely due to the efforts of Randy Taylor and the Student Council who
have been untiring in their efforts to interpret and clarify muddled rules and regulations.
4. We have not hesitated to give praise when it was deserved by persons or organizations.
5. When it seemed to be justified, we have likewise not hesitated to criticize in an effort to improve undesirable
situations.

Among our strikeouts may be included the cut system, double cuts, and improved telephone arrangements in the dormitories. There has
been nothing written about relieving all seniors from PT, because it was discovered that it was not necessary to do
so. The Davidsonian can blush only modestly for the hits and apologize for the errors. Regardless of the final score,
at least a start has been made in opening the minds of students and faculty to some of the needs
at Davidson.

The thing that has been most discouraging to us has been the lack of student interest in our efforts. A
poll among the students would without doubt be overwhelmingly in favor of changing the cut system, of doing away with
double cuts, of having improved telephone arrangements—and countless other changes which were not in the platform. But there it ends.
The majority would then sit back enshrouded in their customary air of complacency and wait for a miracle from above,
which of course never comes.

A newspaper, college or independent, cannot in itself bring about changes. All it can do is present the facts and
make a few suggestions. Then it is up to individuals or organizations to continue the ball rolling. The least that
one can do is to voice an opinion in the Editor’s Mailbox column of the paper. A look back over
the past issues of the Davidsonian reveals that students seem to be so satisfied with everything at Davidson that fewer
than half a dozen letters have been written all year long. Obviously, such is not the case, but it would
appear to be so to an outsider.

Far be it from the Davidsonian to get the reputation of being a gripe sheet or a chronic fault finder.
What we have editorialized about has come as the result of a great deal of sincere and soul-searching thought. In
spite of our love for ole D. C. we are aware that she is not perfect, and this love for
our school has been made manifest in our attempts to make Davidson even better through the editorial column. We believe
that we as a newspaper have done our part. The students must come to bat next.

We would strongly urge students who want to see changes made next year at Davidson to become organized in their
efforts. Petitions signed by a large number of students cannot be overlooked entirely by the powers that be. The backing
of student organizations such as ODK, Phi Beta Kappa, and the Literary Societies would be invaluable. Then, the Editor's Mailbox
in this paper is always ready to receive and publish student letters. The opportunity is clearly before us as it
has always been. The big question is whether students next year will become actively interested in making a better Davidson
or wake up this time next year and realize that all they did was to gripe and mutter under their
breath about what should be done.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

GEECH’S GOULASH
By PAT McGEACHY

Once upon a time, shortly after the Industrial Revolution, the tiny country of Misereria, a small dot of land along
the Rhine, decided to become a democracy. This seemed to be okay with the king, so they set about to
elect some rulers—presidents and that sort of thing. Since Misereria had a very small population, it was felt that everybody
knew everybody else well enough to choose a government without any campaigning. And they did manage to elect a government
of pretty fair people, except most of them were not too enthusiastic about it, as they weren't much interested in
politics.

Then there was a considerable war, and Misereria just about doubled its population. The election system began to grow a
little inadequate, but no changes were made, as a bunch of die-hard conservatives were running things, and they were a
little afraid of moving things around too much. The people, however, because they no longer knew the candidates very well,
became pretty well disinterested in the whole thing and took it very lightly. As a matter of fact, they even
began nominating village characters and athletes who didn’t give a rap about public responsibility.

Eventually it got so bad that the king, who had very little to do under this democratic set-up, decided to
call a meeting of the country’s leading citizens to decide what was to be done. Basilov Smith, a wine merchant,
suggested that they let those who wanted to run for office, do so if they felt they could do a
good job. They would also be allowed to form a party, set up a platform, and campaign. But this method
had never been tried before in Misereria, so the die-hard conservatives were not in favor of it.

John Karamazov, a clergyman, carefully explained to Smith that he had heard about other countries, such as America, where they
had open campaigning, and he knew how nasty it was. No, they could never inflict an evil such as this
on chaste little Misereria. The status quo was doing all right—why change horses in the middle of the stream?

So things went along about as usual, except that the elections became more and more of a farce until finally,
the king, realizing that his beloved country was about to go to pot, executed a benevolent coup d’ grace, and
appointed the government himself. This was much better. The king was pretty wise and appointed pretty good governments, and it
was oh so much easier on the poor people, who might have had to think if open campaigning had been
adopted.

It is interesting to note that the king appointed Basilov Smith as the new president, and he did pretty well,
in spite of the fears of his conservative congress. We may, I think, draw one or two parallels from this.
It takes a lot of guts to do anything worthwhile, and it takes a lot of honest work to stand
up for your rights. Each of us is really like one pot, on a shelf with many pots. If one
pot starts rolling, a few may get broken, but at least they will get somewhere. And if they don’t get
anywhere, pretty soon the gardener will come around and fill up the pots with dirt and plant cactus and things
in them. You see?

THE POT BOILS

In the March 16 issue of the Davidsonian there appeared on the editorial page a short review of “The Mind's
Adventure” by Howard Lowery. The reviewwas aimed specifically at those whose interest (in Davidson and in education generally) “is more
than lukewarm.” The book itself dealt with whether religion can be a part of higher education or can education itself
be called “higher” if it excludes religion. These questions might be said to be of interest only to educators and
theologians. If having an interest more than lukewarm is the criterion for interest in this subject, then it is quite
possible that the two groups named above are the only ones who would be interested in the book. However, on
being questioned by several students as to why a book having such a limited appeal was reviewed in the paper,
it seemed to me that the questions the book poses should be seen in a broader aspect. How much broader?
Broad enough to eliminate interest, lukewarm, hot or cold. For whether or not you are interested in the specific questions
posed by the book as they relate to education, you are going to answer them in their broader aspects, thinkingly
or unthinkingly, in your own life. Why are these questions necessarily to be answered regardless of interest in higher education
and religion? For the simple reason that behind this somewhat academic question stands an increasingly sharp conflict between the materialistic
and the spiritualistic or, if you will, the Christian view of life, what is important in it, and what makes
it meaningful to educators, theologians, and to you and me. If anyone doubts the existence of the conflict, let him
consult Wylie’s “Generation of Vipers” or, if as it likely will, inertia prevents the trip to the library, look at
any magazine. Very well represented will be the battle forces of materialism, drawn up in an imposing array of advertisements
whose main purpose it is to show the vital necessity of using “Arrid,” driving a Cadillac or the buying of
this or that without which you can hardly expect to be happy, loved, or respected. One has to look harder
to find the combatant, spiritualism. Too often, perhaps, it is badly represented, but more and more often today it is
drawing to its aid intellect and ability sick with disgust at the doctrine of things as the sine qua non
in life. Interesting as the observation of the battle may be, we must not forget that every man chooses, at
some point, the banner under which his life will be lived. As stated before, this may or may not be
done consciously; certainly it should be done thinkingly. Why? Because materialism at first glance is admittedly much more attractive in
its presentation and, if no thought is expended, will more often than not capture the young mind in search of
a way of life. Once having decided in favor of the materialistic outlook, it is often too late to turn
back, for the disillusioned mind finds it hard to accept anything, even the opposite to that which has caused the
disillusionment. For these reasons, then, it is urged that the choice be made thinkingly. For the same reasons it is
urged that facile derogatory criticisms of Davidson and schools like her be analyzed well before acceptance. For the same reasons
it is proposed that, though adverse criticism of Davidson may be right on specific points, nevertheless she stands, behind all
her Neo-Classic trappings and elegant ways, for the spiritualistic force which, alone, is an effective foe of materialism. Implicit in
all of this is the assumption that what Davidson stands for is right. Is there disagreement? Let me say that
it was expected, but don’t make the choice unthinkingly. Don’t let Cadillac and Jewels by Van Cleef and Arpels lure
you unthinkingly into the ranks of materialism. Lowry’s book is called the mind’s adventure. A book dealing with the implications
of what he says might well be called The Imperative Necessity of the Mind’s Adventure.

FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1951

“PRIVILEGED CASTE”? HARDLY!
By DICK ROPER

Leave us hang our heads for shame, men. Overnight we have become a bunch of lawful draft dodgers, Alger Hisses,
and members of a new “privileged class” which spends its time chasing coeds around fraternity drinking rooms. Since the new
student deferment plan was announced a couple of weeks ago, editorial writers, columnists, and many other observers have been having
a field day taking pot shots at us and shouting where is our country’s democracy. Two of the most notable
of these attacks have come from the New York Times and Mr. Robert Ruark, the two of whom are just
about as far apart as possible in the field of journalism. The venerable, conservative Times attacks the deferment plan on
the grounds that its standards are “ridiculously low,” and asserts that there is no “sacred cult of college men in
this democracy” who are not liable to military service. Mr. Ruark, the outraged defender of democracy, told his readers (his
column fills up white space in dailies all over America) that “lo, behold, and forsooth, we now have a poor
man’s war... and a brand new caste system in the country”; that we “draft the Al Smiths and exempt the
Alger Hisses”; and that “this block deferment of students and smart guys is an insult to every cross at Anzio,
and to every civilian who presently wears the uniform of his country.”

On all but one point, we beg to differ with both the Times editorial and Mr. Ruark. In the first
place, we do not believe that the plan for deferment is “ridiculously low,” as the Times says; on the contrary,
in the next few years it should give rise to a small army of Phi Beta Kappas. As it was
shown here last week, a student attempting to take advantage of the class standing provision of the deferment plan will
find it increasingly difficult each year to return to school. After four years only 25 percent of an original freshman
class could graduate under this provision, which, even after taking into consideration the number of pre-ministerial, pre-medical, and other specially
deferred students, leaves quite a few other young Americans available for cannon fodder. As for the other provision, it should
suffice to say that the passing grade of 70 on the special examination could not be made by more than
16 percent of the general public, including both men and women holding college diplomas.

In his usual facetious style, Mr. Ruark has enlarged on the Times’ comment on the “sacred cult of college men”
that the new plan supposedly would create. He even uses the word exempt in the vitriolic comment above. We wish
that once and for all, the public would understand that a deferred student eventually has to serve just as long
as anyone else, whether he be a playboy or a beach bum. It will be argued that by the time
these students who are being deferred graduate, the present crisis will be over. To this we can only say that
from all sides we are being bombarded with warnings and prophecies that we will be engaged in World War III
by 1954, or as soon as Russia feels like officially entering this little “police action” we have been reading about.
Should this come to pass, several hundred thousand of the “Alger Hisses” graduated in the meantime would have plenty of
chances to get in their licks with M1 rifles and bayonets.

Finally, we would like to say that, the honorable columnist’s remarks to the contrary, we suspect that there are colleges
in this country that don't leave too much time for such activities as chasing coeds around fraternity drinking rooms. We
know little about Mr. Ruark (University of North Carolina, class of '35) and less of his views on education, but
we do believe that the large majority of college students have higher interests than becoming brothers in Alcoholics Unanimous.

On anything as all-inclusive and far-reaching as the student deferment plan, there will be those who will try to take
advantage of the authorities’ good intentions. Naturally there will be slackers going to college for no other reason than to
evade the draft. But we wish that people who want to attack the new deferment plan would not insult the
honor and integrity of the hundreds of thousands of students who honestly want to go to college to get the
benefits of a higher education. One whisker doesn’t make a bluebeard—but Cigars are a Man’s Smoke! You need not inhale
to enjoy a cigar! CIGAR INSTITUTE OF AMERICA, INC.
