PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF .......... BILL WHITE
BUSINESS MANAGER .... ALEX GOLEY

Associate Editors
Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis, George McMurray
Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw, John Ottley

Photographs— Archie Neal
Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Feature Editor—Mike Myers
Exchange Editor—Ed Richardson
Boo Northcutt, Jack Hobson
Managing Editors—Copy Editor—Pete Ormsby
Art Editor—Don Mahy
Sports Editor—Dick Lites
City Editor—Nat Daniels
Assistant Business Manager—Bob Poston
Advertising Manager—Bill Minter
Circulation Manager—Preston Chaney
Collection Manager—Bill Minter
Subscriptions Manager—Preston Chaney

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Outstanding Lecture Series Tribute To Spencer’s Ability

Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., has been at Davidson in his capacity as assistant to the president such a short time that the majority of the student body has not yet met him, but he has already come up with a job well done that stamps him a go-getter. Exactly, Dr. Spencer and the lecture committee have come up with a lecture series line-up which looks to be the finest in years.

The series leads off with Hans Olav, Norwegian assistant secretary of state, speaking on Norway's feelings as a nation in the Atlantic Pact, caught between Russia and the U.S. Few topics could be more timely and few men are better qualified to talk on the subject than Olav.

Cornelia Otis Skinner, the lone trooper known throughout the theater world for her monologue performances, offers a program of six of her own sketches on December 3.

America’s No. 1 woman columnist and news analyst Dorothy Thompson, a gal who is known to say what she feels no matter whose toes she's treading on, will speak on the world’s spot, the Middle East and Palestine in March.

A top musical team of pianist Leonard Eisner and New York Times music critic winds up the series on April 21 with a dual lecture “Ideas Behind Music.” Certainly the lecture committee is to be congratulated on such a brilliant array of speakers. It is a tribute to Dr. Spencer that his first year has begun in such a fine fashion.

There Is No “Two-Hour Rule”

Let’s get something straight. There is no such thing as a “two-hour” rule on dance weekends. For the past week the rumor has been making its way across the campus that such a rule has been slapped on those students who would keep their dates in Davidson homes on social weekends. The “two-hour” business stems from the fact that this “rule” requires dates to be returned to their respective hosts or hostesses within two hours after the attended function ends.

Following a meeting two weeks ago the various fraternity social chairmen informed their respective groups that a clearing board of rooms was being rigged up among local residents, to be handled by Mrs. Little. A letter going out to Davidson citizens asking them to contact Mrs. Little if they would be interested in keeping girls on dance weekends also included the statement that girls staying with them would usually be in within “about two hours after the event.”

Such a statement should have been superfluous. It was only an assurance to those kind enough to take the responsibility of taking a girl into their home for one or two nights that she and her date did have the decency to come in at a respectable hour, that they would behave as the obligated guests which they are. No, there's still no rule, nor will there be. There was just the simple reiteration by your social chairmen that a Davidson gentleman knows the meaning of the word. So long as he does, he hasn't got to worry about the townfolk backing down on a traditional and wonderful hospitality.

Mirror of Student Expression

One of the axioms of journalism is that a newspaper is no stronger than its readers. From that truism stems one of the chief weaknesses of THE DAVIDSONIAN. For years THE DAVIDSONIAN has served well as a reporter of past, present, and future events; it has expressed the sentiments of its editorial staff through these columns; it has afforded temporary entertainment on its arrival; it has served as a clipping source for fraternity scrapbooks and the alumni files. But in its one great function THE DAVIDSONIAN seems never to have reached its potentialities—that of mirroring student opinion.

Few schools can boast the 100 percent subscription as can THE DAVIDSONIAN, and possibly it is a good thing—those who do subscribe are interested readers. But with this complete campus penetration, THE DAVIDSONIAN becomes the leading medium for ideas on the campus, or rather, it potentially becomes this leading medium. Its failure to fulfill can, for the most part, be laid at its readers. Much cussed and discussed affaires de campus never amount to a row of pins simply because they don't get out of 213 West or 201 Duke. They die right there—and many of them are darn good ideas.

The means to expression lies in Letters to the Editor in THE DAVIDSONIAN. If something's bothering you, take a poke at it. The ban on obscenity is the only one we use. It doesn’t have to be long, but what you say may stimulate others, and stimulation leads to action. Take pen in hand, and maybe we'll do away with the talk that this student body is faculty-administration dictated to.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

“IT'S NOT A DEAD RAT — IT'S MY ROTC RAINCOAT.”

Man Proves DICK ROPER: Dollar A Day Wage Enough

There’s a man up in Rock Gap, West Virginia, whom John L. Lewis, Walter Reuther, et al, would not like very much. In fact, they wouldn't get along with him at all. The man is big, muscular Joe Miller, an easygoing individualist with an amazing list of skills. Joe is an expert blacksmith, butcher, veterinarian, machinist, farmer, and carpenter, and has plied these trades for thirty years. But in all those years he has never accepted more than one dollar a day plus his meals for his wages.

A newspaperman asked the sixty-year-old Miller if he was trying to carry on a one-man battle against inflation. “Not exactly that,” the robust farm hand explained. “I'm fighting to keep my integrity. It's a matter of principle. I don’t believe a man is worth more than a dollar a day.”

To Miller, a day is no soft eight-hour shift. “Miller butchered seven hogs for me one day last year,” one farmer recalled. “He worked from 5 a.m. until 10 p.m. He killed the hogs, dressed them, cut them up, made the lard and sausage, canned pounds and pounds of meat and then tidied up the yard. All for a dollar a day and meals.”

Miller sticks to his principles, too, even if an employer tries to force more than his standard wage on him. The same farmer quoted above told how he tried to make his valuable hand take more money. “He looked at me and said: ‘One dollar is my price. Keep your extra money. D'you want to make me angry with you?”

But how does he live off such a ridiculously small wage? “Most people have only one job and that's all they do and can do,” says Mr. Miller. “Left to themselves most would starve to death.”

For his one dollar a day, Mr. Miller, in addition to the previously mentioned trades, builds barns and houses, operates and repairs threshing machines, tractors and wagons, sharpens saws and scythes, treats sick cows, horses, hogs and chickens, shears sheep, tans and cures hides—in fact, just about anything that his farmer employers in Maryland, West Virginia and Virginia want done.

To supplement his meager earnings, Mr. Miller raises chickens, hunts, trades with farmers, and shoots hawks for the bounty—“the only way a man can take money from his government without blushing.” Since he eats all his meals on the job, food is no problem.

“A man ought to work first for pleasure and pride in a job well done—not just for money, money, money,” says the old bachelor. “Living is a matter of government. And good government begins with self-government. If men would try to govern themselves, the country would be on its feet in right smart time.”

A question which more than a few denizens of the dorms are concerned about at the present, is, “Now that I'm back, just how long will I be able to stay here?” This is a very interesting subject, its pertinence being enhanced greatly in the last few weeks by the controversy on the subject of draft deferments. The most logical way to keep up to date on the matter is by reading the papers and listening to the radio, and those collegians who attempt to stay so informed probably saw this story, which appeared in newspapers all over the country September 11: “Draft-age youth in college this fall can look...Back on the confusing days of mid-1950 with an air of relative certainty about their future prospects, educators and draft officials alike agree that today's student is better able to line up his chances of staying in school than at any time since the Korean War began. This was nice to know since it is somewhat nerve-wracking to be trying to make good grades while wondering at what time General Hershey is going to pull the chair out from under you. Very reassuring to those who were planning to get a wonderful start in the new school year. Then, the very next day, September 12, this bombshell was dropped, in the form of an Associated Press story with a Washington dateline: “Assistant Secretary of Defense Anna Rosenberg recently told the Senate Appropriations Committee that the Selective Service system is being asked to set aside next year the draft deferment now granted students.” The bottom really had dropped out then; it was a signal for the faint-hearted to forget the books and enjoy the bright lights. The ink had hardly dried on the presses which rolled out this bit of misery when another AP story came into the newsrooms of the nation’s dailies. On September 13, the tune again changed as evidenced in this report, which many papers front-paged: “The defense department has not recommended that college deferments be abolished nor does it plan to do so unless there is a substantial change in the size of the armed forces. There is no change in plans for the coming academic year.” So it looks as though the collegian will continue to sit precariously on the edge of his chair and try to get some studying done, while outraged defenders of democracy make their snide remarks and draw cartoons depicting him as one of the newly-privileged aristocracy. If, however, anybody is looking for assurance that he will be allowed to finish college, he had just as well forget it. Because it seems fairly obvious from the contradictory reports cited above that nobody, but nobody, knows what is coming off from one minute to the next.

Tar Heels Hit Segregation

(Ed. Note: The following article is reprinted from Wednesday’s Daily Tar Heel, University of North Carolina student newspaper. For the past several days the paper has featured the protest of the student body against segregation rulings against Negro members. This summer the University became one of the first institutions in the South to grant Negroes admission to the State university. It is encouraging to note that the UNC student body, chided several years ago for possible taints of Communism, is exploding that nonsense with true American democracy.)

By Walt Dear

The Student Legislature and the Monogram Club both passed resolutions last night protesting the segregation of Negro students in Kenan Stadium. The solons passed the measure 27-14 while the athletes passed their resolution unanimously. Calling on the administration to “respect the rights of every student with equal privileges and responsibilities for all,” the legislators asserted that action taken by the administration was an affront to every student in the University. The statement by athletes, with 20 out of 28 members present said, “The Monogram Club of the University of North Carolina protests segregation in the student section of home athletic contests.” The legislative resolution, introduced by Ed Stevens, UP member, said, “It will be tragic if we at the University allow, without vigorous protest, any action that threatens to undermine the proud record that is ours.” The legislators, meeting for only 50 minutes, heard members take sides in a quiet but suspense-filled session. Dick Murphy, making his initial speech before the Legislature, pointed out that “a student's right had been abridged. If the segregation goes unprotested, it puts the right of all students in jeopardy,” he declared. Dick Kennebrew, UP floor leader, said that he voted no because the students he represents believed that Negroes should not be admitted to the cheering section in Kenan. In a poll he conducted in Whitehead dorm, composed of medical, dental, and public health students, he said that “70 don’t want Negroes in the section” while 36 do and 18 abstained. The Monogram Club resolution introduced by Barry Farber, vice-president, was announced to the legislature two minutes before a roll call vote was taken.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1951

NAT DANIEL: Frosh Status Elevated As Liberalism Prevails On Campus

A little less intelligent, and (if I may be so bold) probably not the ball of fire he'll turn out to be. So when the freshman carries your laundry, thank him; when he asks intelligent questions give him the straight dope, when he seems stupid look first at yourself, when he is really trying to improve, give him a word of confidence, but when he turns out to be a (unfit to print at Davidson) give him a little constructive hell. From the junior's point of view, the freshman and the sophomore are surprisingly similar and only then does he realize that a sophomore is only a freshman who is no longer restricted from doing the things he wanted to do last year, but couldn't.

Each year at the beginning of school, writer after writer, on the staff of the Davidsonian fills up column after column with unadulterated drivel concerning those select high school graduates who comprise Davidson’s freshman class. I myself, even, in my less mature moments, have concocted a sound and fury which only served to waste newsprint, lower my already dubious reputation as a pen-pusher, and generally defame, insult and malign our freshmen. After four years, though, it has finally come to my attention, that despite the arguments to the contrary offered by the sophomores that more than anthropologically speaking, even, the freshman is a human being. It is admitted by the writer, however, that the second syllable of the term is a misnomer; “freshboy” being a much more accurate description of the creature which we must remodel into a Davidson gentleman.

The junior uses the freshman for shoe polishing, laundry carrying, etc., but seldom turns him into the court, tries to scare him to death or make him feel like a nonentity. He classes the freshman as human, but never forgets as such he is most insignificant. I do not refer here to the less mature junior, whose attitudes, actions, and intelligence are about equal to that of the average sophomore. The better junior should be reminded, however, that some of the freshman’s time is his own; that he must live with him when he becomes a sophomore, and therefore it is imperative for the sake of his own health and nerves to do everything in his power to make boy into man with as short a transitional period as possible.

At last we come to the senior. He, as does the junior, uses the freshman, but in general his attitude is that of a benign father gazing fondly upon his young but potentially capable son who must grow up, or of a master scratching his dog behind the ears and giving him a bone. So remember, friends, the freshman is growing up—he’s too big to spank now. Let us bear with him patiently, help him whenever possible, discipline him when necessary, but remember that he is a fellow Davidsonian, a citizen of these United States, and a human individual, and as such is entitled to all the rights, privileges and responsibilities with which such a position is blessed.

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests

No. 23

This classy campus caper-cutter got his snootful of cute cigarette tests. It didn’t take him long to dig out the fact that cigarette mildness can’t be determined by a mere single puff or quick-sniff experiment! Millions of smokers, on and off the campus, have discovered there’s only one true test of cigarette mildness, IT’S THE SENSIBLE TEST... the 30-day Camel Mildness Test, which simply asks you to try Camels as your steady smoke — on a day-after-day basis. No snap judgments. Once you've tried Camels for 30 days in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste), you'll see why... After all the Mildness Tests — Camel leads all other brands by millions.