PAGE SIX

POST ARTICLE FEATURES STATE BASKETBALL GROWTH, SUCCESS

North Carolina State College's famed basketball team and its coach, Everett Case, will be featured in the March 10 issue of The Saturday Evening Post. Accompanied by two illustrations, the article is entitled “Basketball Bug Bites Dixie.” The magazine will go on sale at the nation’s newsstands on Wednesday, March 7.

The story, written by Sports Editor Harry T. Paxton of The Post, will trace N. C. State’s rise to national fame on the cage courts. Attendance at the Wolfpack games during the 1949-50 season, Editor Paxton explains in his article, was the biggest in the United States. In his feature, Editor Paxton tells about State College’s work in obtaining Everett Case as its basketball coach, outlines plans which culminated in the construction of the mammoth 12,000-seat William Neal Reynolds Coliseum, mentions the institution's brilliant athletes, including Sam Ranzino, and offers comment by Dr. H. A. Fisher, chairman of the N. C. State Athletic Council.

He reviews Coach Case's amazing record as a coach, describes the crowds which turn out for State College's home games, and tells of the soaring interest in basketball throughout North Carolina from the backboards which have been erected on barns and trees in the rural areas to the thrilling contests held in the Coliseum. Writer Paxton also turns his attention to State College's other sports programs and briefly reviews the institution's colorful history and the educational philosophy which motivates its vast teaching and research functions.

Abolition Of Bull-Sessions In Favor Of Dorm Room Discussions

By BILL ELLIOTT

As a result of nightly discussions of the lack of facilities for entertainment on the campus, a very pertinent question has arisen. Is there any reason why one cannot entertain in a dormitory room? After pondering and musing over the subject for several evenings, this writer was prompted to investigate the possibility further.

After examination of the existing regulations, I am reasonably sure that good, wholesome entertainment is possible and permitted. Perhaps, the in-bred rules of propriety in the Davidson student have kept this practice from becoming common on the campus, if anyone has even thought of this aspect of campus life before. It is now my belief that it would be the most novel and best means of entertaining. At least until the Student Union becomes a reality, the idea offers great possibilities. It opens up a vast field which is undoubtedly unexplored by the socially inclined. Just think how delightful is the possibility of having friends dropping in for an evening of informal discussion and stimulating talk. The intellectual life of the campus would receive a tremendous shot in the arm. An intelligentsia would flourish in these conditions. Even modest furnishings such as easy chairs, lounges, and a serving set would be a boon to the movement. Eventually, such groups with chosen subjects and selected participants might replace the vulgar bull-session.

The reputation that Davidson has gained for its friendliness and hospitality would be even better if this practice should become a tradition to take its place along with other unique traditions found here. On such occasions as dance weekends, the facilities of the school would be greatly increased. Of course, the usual rules of propriety would be observed and in keeping with the policies of the institution, a curfew would be enacted. This custom is common on other campuses and definite results are evident. Certainly, if it were begun here, marked changes would be noted in the social and intellectual life of the school. Perhaps, this is the answer to the problems of stimulating the intellect and drawing us all together in intellectual companionship while inducing students to remain on the campus more.

He: “Every time I kiss you it makes me a better man.”
She: “Well, you needn't try to get to heaven in one night!”

“So, he’s teaching you to swim? How much have you learned so far?”
“That he’s twenty-one, single, and has a good job.”

DAVIDSON THEATRE

Shows Start at 3 P. M.

Monday-Tuesday, March 12-13
‘DALLAS’
Gary Cooper - Ruth Roman
NEWS & CARTOON

Wednesday, March 14
‘CALL OF THE KLONDIKE’
Kirby Grant - Anne Gwynne
Musical Western - Cartoon

Thursday, March 15
Loretta Young - Barry Sullivan
‘CAUSE FOR ALARM’
COMEDY - CARTOON

Friday, March 16
‘THE COMPANY SHE KEEPS’
Dennis O'Keefe - Jane Greer
Featurette - Cartoon

Saturday, March 17
‘ROGUE RIVER’
Roy Calhoun - Jane Liddell

State Theatre Mooresville

WEEK STARTING MARCH 8

Saturday
REX ALLEN in
‘UNDER MEXICALI STARS’
also
‘THREE DESPERATE MEN’
Preston Foster - Virginia Grey - Jim Davis
CARTOON - SERIAL

Owl Show Saturday Nite and Monday
Joseph Cotten - Valli in
‘WALK SOFTLY STRANGER’
CARTOON

Tuesday - Wednesday
‘THE NEXT VOICE YOU HEAR’
James Whitmore - Nancy Davis
NEWS - SHORTS

A GOOD PLACE TO MEET — A BETTER PLACE TO EAT
PICCADILLY GRILL CO.
M. KONTOS
1426 East Moorehead Street
Phones 4-2080 — 5-083c
Charlotte, N. C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

“COMICS BE USED IN SCHOOLS” ADVISES EDUCATOR IN THESIS

BOB-BING ALONG THE AIRWAVES WITH BOB:

The Japanese consider Bing Crosby the funniest comedian in the movies. They think he’s got his pants on over his rickshaw.

BING: (To Judy Garland about Bob) You shoulda seen him, kid, when he didn’t have a sponsor this summer. He was beside himself—and a more unattractive couple you've never seen!

BOB-BING version of “Goodnight Irene:”
Sometimes she sleeps in pajamas
Sometimes she sleeps in a gown
But when they're both at the laundry
Irene is the talk of the town.

BOB: (Apropos his new golden-brown sport jacket) I'm glad you like it. The Chesterfield people like it too. It’s made of tobacco leaves.
BING: Well, it’s appropriate. You've got the pouch for it!

BOB: You know, in Japan hissing is a national custom...On a quiet night you'd think the whole nation had developed a slow leak!

BING: (To Claudette Colbert) You know Bob and I are going to make a picture in Paris. The only thing that’s holding us up is a script. Wait a minute, that never stopped Paramount before!

Enjoy Bob and Bing on the radio: Bob every Tuesday night at 9 on NBC and Bing every Wednesday night on CBS.

SALEM-DAVIDSON DAY.. (Continued From Page One)
Blade will wear their uniforms, but other students are only requested to come in uniform. Dan RamseyCharlotte has been secured to furnish music for the affair. It is thought that the Salem girls will be permitted to remain on the campus until the dance’s end. Departure at that time will allow them to reach Winston-Salem around two a.m.

RENT A CAR AT THE U-Drive It 4th St. Charlotte that combines

TOBACCO GROWERS MILDNESS TEST YOURSELF... YES... Compare Chesterfield with the brand you’ve been smoking... Open a pack... enjoy that milder Chesterfield aroma. And—tobaccos that smell milder, smoke milder. So smoke Chesterfields... they do smoke milder, and they’re the only cigarette MILDNESS with NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE.

Comic books should be used in American schools, an educator, Hubert G. Williams, believes. His recommendations are made in a thesis accepted at Bowling Green State University in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of master of arts. “Comics are an integral part of our culture and consequently cannot be ignored by educators,” declares Mr. Williams, who is head of the English department at Lawrence Institute of Technology. “The comics provide a basis for learning history, geography, and science in a natural and personal setting.”

How can comics be used effectively in the classroom? Mr. Williams answers the question by listing these fields and making these comments: Reading readiness—Animal comics offer a wide and varied library at small cost; Remedial reading—Since the interest level of the comics is high and the vocabulary level low, they would seem to contain all the qualifications for material in this field; Creative writing—Comics help the young pupil familiarize himself with organization and the idea of a central theme. “The advantages of better books can be shown,” he adds. “There should be careful guidance to better forms of children’s literature. Incorporation of comic books in the educational material does not mean a lowering of our standards, any more than the use of the primer or nursery rhymes represents the ultimate in reading taste.

“The evils of the artwork in comics cannot be mitigated. The artistic approach and technique and the content material can only be bettered by education and greater art appreciation.” Forbidding comics enhance their glamour and promote interest in them, Williams quotes students of children’s literature as having said. Comprehension and enjoyment of the comics are at the fourth-grade level, according to his study of two copies each of Superman, Batman, Detective Comics, Action Comics, Star Spangled Comics, and Boy Commandos. The thesis writer points out that the Falk School of the University of Pittsburgh admits comics as textbook material in all grades from the first to the 12th.

BREAK TWO RECORDS... (Continued From Page Five) 36.2. Record of 34.5 set by Crone in trials. 50 yard Freestyle: 1 King (Phi Delt), 2—Shipley (SX), 3—Boulware (Beta), 4—Hairston (Beta). Time 28.4. Individual Medley: 1—Hampton (SX), 2—Spach (KS), 3—Stiefel (SAE), 4—Gould (SPE). Time: 51.5 (New record). 200 yard Relay: 1—Phi Delt, 2—Sigma Chi, 3—Pike, 4—Beta. Time: 1:58.2.

Hickey: “Why is it you fat fellows are so good-natured?” Sutton: “We have to be. We can’t fight and we can't run.”

Where you meet your friends Charlotte's Finest Restaurant

SHIP AHOY JAM ON CAMPUS FRIDAY, MARCH 9, 1951

APPALACHIAN STILL (Continued From Page Four) Armfield, W. A. — Freshman — Davidson College. 175 Pound Gregory, Miles C. — Cherry Point Marines. Gupton, Oscar W. — Unattached —Chapel Hill. Hartley, Joe W. — Appalachian State Teachers. Privette, Ed — Appalachian State Teachers. Burleson, Bruce E. — Western Carolina Teachers. Saban, M. M. — Camp Lejeune Marines. Burris, Arthur — YMCA Albemarle. 191 Pound Walsh, Richard F. — Cherry Point Marines. Cleary, Bill—Appalachian State Teachers. Everage, James — Appalachian State Teachers. Bumgarner, Clyde — Western Carolina Teachers. Patterson, Ed — Albemarle YMCA. Gay, Bob — Davidson College. Heavyweight Trulax, Marvin — Cherry Point Marines. Wilson, Jim—Appalachian State Teachers. Norris, W. G. — Camp Lejeune Marines. Morton, Hamilton, Jr. — Albemarle YMCA. McNeely, Bill — Davidson College.

Cobb Presented Athlete’s Cup Whit Cobb, captain of the Davidson basketball team last winter, sharer of the Southern Conference doubles tennis championships, and all-around Wildcat athletic standout, was presented his plaque for last spring’s selection as Southern Conference Athlete of the Year for 1950 between the halves of a game in the Southern Conference tournament last week. While at Davidson, Whit was president of the student body and a member of ODK in addition to his athletic accomplishments. He lettered in basketball, tennis, and track, often competing alternately in the latter two on the same day.

PHOTOGRAPHS LEADING SELLER IN

Fordham Institutes Honors Courses For Brainy Sophomores The College of Arts and Sciences at Fordham University has instituted an Honors Program which begins in the sophomore year and carries through to graduation. The program leads to a special honors degree. It is provided for those students who have shown great ability and maturity in their first year at college. According to the plan, the highest averages are creamed off the top of the class at the end of the freshman year. From them, the Honors Students are chosen after an intensive program of tests and interviews. During the sophomore year, these outstanding students are obliged to attend, in addition to their regular courses, three hours of lecture weekly on the History of Art, as well as a weekly seminar on the great literatures and the determining movements that have shaped the civilization of the West. Seminar lectures are conducted by experts in the fields of literature, philosophy, politics, and the social sciences. The teaching staff of the Graduate School and College contributes its services to keep these seminars on a high intellectual level. Students are obliged to read on the topics treated, and quarterly papers written by them are used as an index of the development of their critical faculties and their powers of assimilation. In the junior year, the student is excused from all except certain required classes and is put directly under the care of the mentor. It is hoped that arrangements may soon be concluded by which Honors Students may spend a year abroad with full college credit.

VISIT THE DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT “A GOOD PLACE TO EAT” 142 E. Morehead — Charlotte

AMERICA’S COLLEGES Copyright 1991, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.