PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR.

EDITOR IN CHIEF .......... BILL WHITE
BUSINESS MANAGER ....... ALEX GOLEY

Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis, George McMurray
Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw, John Ottley
Photographs—Archie Neat
Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Feature Editor—Mike Myers
Exchange Editor—Ed Richardson
Associate Editors
Managing Editors
Copy Editor—Pete Ormsby
Art Editor—Don Mahy
Sports Editor—Dick Liles
City Editor—Nat Daniels
Assistant Business Manager—Boo Northcutt
Advertising Manager—Jack Hobson
Circulation Manager—Bob Poston
Collection Manager—Bill Minter
Subscriptions Manager

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

ODK and Pan Hel Join Forces To Investigate A Greek Week

Last week ODK President Bryan Robinson expressed the purposes and aims of that organization, stressing that this year Delta Circle at Davidson meant to be an organization of activity rather than one of recognition alone. Simultaneously, the honorary leadership head revealed to The Davidsonian that the group's plan to undertake—in a joint project with the Pan Hellenic Council—the investigation of the possibility of bringing Greek Week to the Davidson campus as a replacement for Hell Week.

As was The Davidsonian’s expressed hope some weeks ago, the Pan Hel is appointing a committee to study the matter with ODK's representatives. The Pan Hel would, of course, be the administering body, with ODK the advisory board behind them. That is, Pan Hel would be an administering body in so far as the fraternities wanted them to be. One objection to the whole Greek Week program is that a fraternity tends to lose its individuality, and certainly we should not want to see Pan Hel as a central control over the frats. They would act as a liaison between the combined committee and the fraternities.

The hypothetical Greek Week which was presented to the Greeks last winter was fairly well received in most quarters—provided they could adjust it to suit the Davidson scene and their individual cases. Two voted against the program for fear it would do away with similar systems for initiation weeks currently in use by them. Last year’s query served some indication as to how the fraternities here feel about Greek Week, and the ODK-Pan Hel committee should keep these in mind while drawing up their proposed program for Davidson. That program will be much better received for this consideration.

Warmed by Critique’s Comments, Davidson Trims Library's Heat

Chalmers Davidson felt his ears burning from the critique’s sweet words on Piedmont Partisan last week and ordered the heat wick trimmed in his book-lined sanctuary. The Library did, indeed, become a pleasant place of study this week as the thermostat was dropped, per The Davidsonian request, to a point of comfort from its hot house-like high mark. Lower temperatures seemed to raise heads from drowsy semi-slumber, and student and browser alike agreed that vital part of our little world was a better place in which to live.

Writers Voice Own Opinions

Leading candidate in the field to succeed the late Dr. Oren Moore of Charlotte as Davidson's leading grid supporter is Dr. James P. Hendrix of Durham, an ardent backer of the Cats who lets the boys know he's all for them. Via a good luck letter to Ham Wade last week, Dr. Hendrix asked that The Davidsonian be thanked for Dick Liles’ Cat Tales column of two weeks ago in support of the crippled Cats’ performance at Washington and Lee and VMI. He added that after previous articles by Nat Daniel and Mike Myers, he was beginning to wonder about the intentions of The Davidsonian. It was good to have the news passed on to us. Good to know of Dr. Hendrix's interest in the team, this paper, and Davidson; and good because it brings to the front “the intentions of The Davidsonian.”

As was stated in an editorial on general policy when this administration assumed control of the paper last spring, The Davidsonian does not, on its editorial pages, attempt to mold campus thought. It attempts to mirror it. The opinions of writers on this page, outside the editorial columns themselves, are not necessarily those of this paper. Readers are free to, and invited to, take issue with them. If a man, not a staff member, wishes to use the medium of The Davidsonian for expression, he may do so. Above all, however, The Davidsonian doesn't stand behind every word of those who write under by-line of this page. While obviously having to serve as censor, we do not want to play the part of stifler. Our stand is taken through the columns which you are reading now.

Trouper Pharr In Last Season

Those who know their theatre will tell you that even the veteran troupers collect abdominal butterflies when the house-lights dim. If so, Bill Pharr should have run the gamut from caterpillar to beautiful winged creature. The senior who struck his fame in “Command Decision” has been a Masquer standout since his freshman days. As central figure in tonight's play he should go a long way toward making “Ten Little Indians” a great success. And as “the grand young man” of the Davidson stage starts this final season, we'll wager he makes it one of the best.

THIS BIRCH-BARK TELLUM ABOUT THE Ps AND SPEAKING OF INDIAN TRIBE

THE CABBAGE PLANTER: Olav Sells Norway As NATO Theme Takes Second Place

With all the skill of a Fuller Brush veteran, Norwegian assistant secretary of state Hans Olav stuck his foot in the door with the North Atlantic Treaty, and then went on to sell Norway with the Treaty thrown in, as he opened the Celebrity Series Monday night. Norway could not have chosen a more able emissary, or as you will, traveling salesman. Increasing his stock-in-trade immeasurably through his fluent use of colloquial American English, Mr. Olav cleverly used the widely known North Atlantic Treaty question as a funnel through which he poured his sales talk, and a shield behind which he hid on occasion with diplomatic deftness.

Before scratching one’s head over any obscure significance in his harmless banalities on the NATO, it is well to note the main theme of his address: the indomitable courage of plucky little Norway in the face of big bad Russia just over the border. Referring often to their common border line of 122 miles with the Soviet Union, Mr. Olav made it quite clear that Norway was all for freedom, at which point he threw light upon the nice difference concerning Russian demands for peace as opposed to the West's desire for freedom.

But his speech was not in the tone of the dirty-faced villagers who greeted the conquering Allied armies waving American flags and shouting, “Me no Nazi! Me for democracy! Me in underground! Me hope 'Merica win all time! You got chocolate, Joe?” Norway paid dearly during the last war. Thousands of her finest men were imprisoned in Germany, and her backbone, the merchant marine, was reduced by fifty-one per cent. But, as he said, “You cannot crush a nation.”

Concerning Russia, though, Norway was eager to act as a bridge between the East and the West, and it was not until after Jan Masaryk’s suicide in Czechoslovakia that Norwegians began to see the Soviet designs. “The handwriting was then quite clear,” he said. “The turning point can be traced almost by the calendar to May 10, 1948.” And so after her attempts for a Scandinavian league had failed, Norway was ready to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organization with eleven other nations in 1949.

Moreover, Norway saw clearly, perhaps more clearly than the benign and preoccupied United States, the problems that lay ahead in such a union, “one of the greatest ventures ever undertaken by man.” There would be jealousy, intrigue, economic rankling, confusion over material allocation, and differences over new members. Despite these sore points, he said, the question is not, “Can the Atlantic Pact defend us?” “It is already defending us... It has defended us since its inception. Whether it can finally defend us is unknown.”

Mr. Olav’s visit here was valuable not for what he said about the North Atlantic Treaty. He said little along that line that could not have been gained through a couple of hours’ work in any library. His visit did, however, bring to Davidson a man who has played a tremendously important, though comparatively silent, part in world affairs, and who spoke as the personal representative of a country that we would do well to know more about, since its destiny, as well as ten; and presently twelve, other destinies are inseparably linked to our own. Since practically any disaster in Norway will literally affect each of us personally, either militarily or economically, we should have insisted on this sales talk before we signed that multi-copy agreement in 1949. It would be wise to call the hands of some of the other players around the table.

Nevertheless, Mr. Olav sold this reporter. Not for sentimental reasons, understand. An etching-backed trey won't scratch when you need a nude-backed ace. But first, because we have no choice. And second, as the diplomat himself...

(Continued On Page Four)

Business Man Backs Small Christian College As Best Builder Of Future American Leaders

(Following are excerpts from a graduation address at William Jewell College by Hubert Eaton, president of the American Security and Fidelity Corporation. At a time when America’s political and economic morals seem to have been thrown to the winds, he finds hope for the future in the leaders produced, not by the great universities, but from the small Christian college. The Davidsonian prints much of his message here—a must reading for every Davidson man—Ed.)

Business today has but one problem. This is personnel. Indeed, this is the major problem of America. If business and our nation have the properly trained individuals to whom authority can be delegated, all our problems will be satisfactorily solved.

Business has a right to expect that a university-trained man or woman whom it employs will have a certain fundamental knowledge. These young people should have a good understanding of our economic system and the forces that make it work, and appreciation of our American competitive enterprise system and its achievements as compared with other nations. We're not interested in “walking encyclopedias.” We have business libraries to supply that kind of information ready at hand. What we do want and need is men and women who can think and use their knowledge constructively. Business needs, and so does America, employees who have not only personal integrity but mental honesty. They ought to have, above all, an open mind, one which searches for facts and, when once these facts are seen, draws conclusions from them irrespective of previously held opinions. Education should at least train them to think.

We are speaking mainly of the graduates in general education. The vocationally or specially trained graduates immediately fit into the pattern of business life. Business, however, has learned to look to the men and women of broader education for executive material. Vocationally trained employees advance further than those educated in liberal arts until about 30 years of age. After that, it is the man or woman possessing the broader education who forges ahead.

Businessmen Dismayed

Recognizing the critical personnel problem, business heads and their personnel departments all over this land have long been dismayed at the lack of qualifications of the majority of young graduates of colleges and universities who come knocking at industry’s door for employment. These applicants expect much and have little to offer in return. These young people show an appalling lack of even elemental education—the “three R's,” readin,’ ritin,’ and ‘rithmetic, and they cannot spell. There used to be a dictionary in the office, now there’s one...on every desk. They have little acquaintanceship with good literature. They evidenced a deplorable lack of understanding of American history and economics and therefore cannot explain Americanism. Good ideas are worthless to these young people because, lacking training in literary and grammatical composition, they cannot convey them persuasively to other people in either the written or spoken word. Apparently, no one taught these young men and women that manners and courtesy are the handmaidens of success and are positively necessary in their struggle for a livelihood. The majority of them appear to give little thought to religion. It is true most of them can properly be called “believers in God,” but their belief appears to be merely “passive acceptance of a fact that is presumably established in our culture.” According to their applications for employment, few make any pretense of regularly at- (Continued On Page Four)

NAT DANIEL: O.D.K. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1951

Leadership Or Thought Restriction?

In October 1948, Omicron Delta Kappa held its first tap day in the presence of the class of 1952, who had probably not learned any more about that organization before they entered school than any other freshman class before or since. However, a replica of O.D.K.’s key was hanging from the rostrum, and an influential leader in a chosen field made a short address concerning leadership, so that when the time came for the tapping, both the old and new members of the student body had a pretty good idea of what the whole thing was all about.

O.D.K.’s responsibility, ideally, seems to be to recognize leadership and “achievement in scholarship, athletics, social and religious affairs, publications, and speech, music, and the dramatic arts.” As far as the first four are concerned it is reasonably accurate in determining leadership, with certain tendencies, perhaps, to overemphasize the athletic and religious aspects of college life, and in the fields of publications and speech, it makes many selections which cannot be questioned in the least. But not since 1948, at least, have leaders in the fields of music or dramatics been considered as such as far as O.D.K. has been concerned.

It would also seem, that though a member of O.D.K. has certain responsibilities to his honorary fraternity, that his first responsibility is to the job for which he was selected by students and faculty, and for which he achieved the honor of membership in O.D.K. He may, by the very nature of his position be able to mold public opinion, but his first task is to be a good editor, or president, athlete or fraternity man.

Besides, O.D.K., like the Davidson student body is an extremely homogeneous group—its members are from the same kind of homes, and environments, and except in a few cases where true qualities of leadership outweigh religious differences, they don’t disagree too vehemently with John Calvin. In other words, public opinion at Davidson is molded too much as it already stands and the banding together of a very influential minority to make us think certain things could develop into a further restriction of what little freedom of thought and expression we are permitted on the Davidson campus.

Lastly, I would venture to say that most of O.D.K.’s members possess the qualities outlined in last week's Davidsonian to a marked degree, and I believe that even if O.D.K. didn’t exist, that its members, along with other students, would be considered as leaders in their chosen fields of endeavor.

Former Michigan Football Guard Slams The Game

Allen Jackson was a first-string guard at the University of Michigan. He won his letter on three championship teams and played in the Rose Bowl. His football and college career ended, Jackson took a long, penetrating look backwards, and decided that football these days is hardly worth the effort. In this month's Atlantic Monthly he states his case.

Jackson estimates he spent about 1350 hours on the football field in his four years at Michigan. By contrast, he spent about half that much time studying for and attending history classes. He also finds fault with the “bigotry” in football: “At Michigan one of those bigotry-fostering, tradition-conscious pre-game speeches which were impressive to sophomores but tiresome to seniors was to this effect: “The men whom we were about to play would be battling Michigan; they would as a result be intimidated; and we should take advantage of this fine opportunity to dominate them.” But just in case Michigan doesn’t win, there is a slogan to fit the occasion: “When Michigan loses, someone has to pay.”

“This slogan,” says Jackson, “not only implies that Michigan shouldn’t have lost, but it also suggests that the loss was caused by something wrong somewhere—perhaps something shady on the part of the other team.” “The point of view suggested by this slogan becomes positively unchristian in its implication that revenge will be sought at the expense of next week's opponent.”

Jackson says that the idea of team spirit has been perverted by big-time football. He blames this on increasing specialization, too much publicity and fierce competition for individual berths on the team. “So,” concludes Jackson, “after four years of seeing everything (Continued On Page Four)

Western Nations Disarmament Is Counter Propaganda Measure

The plan for world disarmament proposed last week by President Truman on behalf of the Western Nations was indeed a noble, Christian gesture. It is too bad that this plan will not work. It will not work because it is no more than an idealistic pipe dream which could not work in any other than an ideal society and an ideal world.

To see why the disarmament plan is so impractical, it is necessary to examine the two main points as set forth by President Truman:

(1) A continuous inventory of all armed forces and armaments would be undertaken. This inventory would take place in every country having substantial military power, and it would be checked and verified in each of those countries by inspectors who are nationals of other countries, working under the United Nations. These inspectors would have authority to find out what the real facts are.

(2) While this process of inventory and inspection is taking place, the nations would work out specified arrangements for the actual reduction of armed strength.

Obviously, any nation subscribing to this plan and adhering strictly to its principles would have to be perfectly honest with the rest of the world. It would have to abandon any plans of aggression and become a peaceful, cooperative nation. This description would not fit the Soviet Russia of today very well.

President Truman, however, thinks that Russia may eventually see the light. “As (our own armed forces and those of our allies) increase in size and effectiveness, they make it plain to an aggressor that he can have no hope of quick and easy conquest. As the Kremlin comes to see that its aggressive policies cannot pay off, it may abandon them and join in reasonable settlements of world problems.”

The Kremlin evidently doesn’t see it that way. In Paris, Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Vishinsky dismissed the disarmament plan as ludicrous, trifling and spurious. “I could hardly sleep all night last night because I could not keep from laughing,” he said. “Even from this rostrum I can't hold back my laughter.” Instead, Mr. Vishinsky proposed a four-point resolution which he said would pave the way to peace, but which, translated from the Communist double-talk, would open up new areas to Communist aggression and occupation.

But even had Russia accepted the plan, it is seriously doubtful that it would have worked. It might set them back a few years in their plans for world domination, but eventually they would come up strong and ready to take the world while the other nations would be weak and without sufficient protection. To hit the issue squarely, it is hard to believe that a nation with aggressive designs would be stopped with any kind of disarmament plan. It seems more than probable that any country could hide its arms somewhere, no matter how diligent, persevering and honest any inspectors might be. And history shows us that there will always be Napoleons and Hitlers and Stalins, men whose ultimate aim is to rule the world. The facts are hard to face, but they are inescapable.

Viewed from a more practical point, the proposed disarmament plan seems little more than a counter-propaganda measure. Until this proposal was made by the Western Big Three (The U. S., Britain, and France), Communist-inspired peace plans were the only ones being made and these were designed to aid Russia in her plans of world domination. The West had to make some sort of gesture to prove to the world that it is just as much in favor of peace and is not the coalition of warmongers that the Communists would have everyone believe.

Faculty Members Now Tested By Students In Turn About Rating Of Performance

Iowa City, Ia—(I.P.)—Faculty members are now being “tested” by students at the State University of Iowa. Such rating plans are not new in teaching, but this is the first large-scale use of them on this campus.

The faculty rating plan being used in the College of Liberal Arts under the direction of Dean Dewey B. Stuit calls for the students to rate their instructors on the basis of their teaching methods, knowledge of subject, classroom personality, helpfulness, interest in the subject and testing procedure. Students are asked to think of five of their other college teachers—or high school teachers, in the case of freshmen—and to rank them in order from the best to the poorest. Then the students compare their present teachers with this standard, ranking them from one to five according to their performance.

By using this comparative scale it is not necessary to consider a number one professor as perfect, but simply as good as the best the student had had. Similarly, the number five teacher is not unfit for teaching, but compares with the poorest the student has had.

The rating tests are voluntary with the instructors. After the students have checked the test, their responses are recorded electrically and results are given to the instructors. No report is made to his superiors or to the university administration, and no one else sees the tests. The electric scoring machine also tabulates the total responses, so the teacher can compare his ratings with the averages of all those who were rated.

The faculty rating procedure is used as one means of improving the quality of university teaching. It places the responsibility for improvement with the individual instructor, on the basis of his students’ opinions of him. A primary benefit of the plan applies to new teachers who have no idea of how they are getting along with their classes. Other teachers will probably use the tests every few years to chart their progress.

Studies made in other universities show that students are quite serious in analyzing their instructors and courses. Although the tests here are not signed by the students, signed tests have been given at other universities where surveys showed that there was no significant correlation between a student’s standing in class and his evaluation of the instructor. This would indicate that the better students do not tend to rate their instructors highly while the poorer students rate them at a low level.

Robinson's Second Article On ODK Appears Next Issue

The second of the series “O.D.K. Speaks” by Bryan Robinson, president of the Davidson Delta chapter of the national honorary leadership fraternity is not appearing this week. Robinson, planning to present a definite program ODK intends to follow through with this year, wished to withhold release until after the next meeting of ODK. “ODK Speaks” will appear, then, in the November 30 issue of The Davidsonian.