CHALMERS CHEERS AS REIGNER RAINS! VOLUME XXXIX The Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY,
MARCH 2, 1951

REIGNER WILL AID BOOK BUYING HERE WITH YEARLY GIFT

Dr. J. H. Cockburn, left, who this week completed the Otts Lecture series, is pictured above with Dr. Chalmers Davidson,
college librarian and noted Southern novelist. The two are shown in conversation following a tour of the Davidson College library
by the two scholars. Dr. Cockburn, who arrived in the United States only last week, plans to spend three months
in this country, visiting points of interest and lecturing mainly in the Southern states. (Photo by Allen Macy).

COCKBURN SAYS U. S. “OPENLY FRIENDLY;” FINDS AMERICAN STUDENTS “LESS MATURE”

Having amiably agreed to the taking of several newspaper photos, he settled his big six-foot-five frame down into a seat
and presented himself for quizzing. His white hair grew almost in the shape of a wig and his half-squinting eyes
looked from right to left as he talked. Who’s Who lists this learned Scot as “The Very Reverend James Hutchinson
Cockburn.” It also announces he is Director of the Council for Reconstruction and Inter-Church Aid of the World Council of
Churches. When off duty as Chaplain to King George, he serves in the capacity of retired minister at the Cathedral
of Dunblane, Scotland.

“Your people exhibit much more warm friendliness in their demonstrations than mine,” he mused when asked to compare Yanks and
Scots. “We do not get as excited as you Americans and have a tendency to take things more in our
stride.” Dr. Cockburn thought that English college students are much more mature than those in America. They are from a
more select group due to a smaller number of colleges there. Summarizing his brief look at our student body, he
said that he had never met with so warm and cordial a reception and was “greatly encouraged.” Another of his
thoughts on education here in the U. S. was that the best of our colleges compared favorably with those of
England.

When asked about various current events, he crushed a cigarette and launched vigorously into a discussion of the eminence of
World War III. “My people,” he exclaimed, “know there is no such thing as a preventive war.” In their typically
staid manner, the Scots are going ahead with cool heads and continue to believe that an open and world-wide conflict
is not “inevitable.” The Scots join with all England, it seems, in renouncing socialism. “It is especially unbearable in the
fields of coal mining, electricity, steel production, and medicine.” In relation to the standard of living in Scotland, the average
family’s income is not far from that in this country. “Dockworkers and laborers in general often draw much more than
preachers over there, too.” Dr. Cockburn was quick to assert the fact that the Scot’s idea of “success” is much
humbler than that of the American.

“Our churches adhere more to the established trends in worship services than yours. You people are much keener on attending
church than ours and your services are more psychologically moving,” he explained. He was triumphant in claiming that the BBC
programs are “very much more educational than those of the U. S. commercial radio.” Commenting on sectional differences among American
peoples, Dr. Cockburn thought southerners were more “homogeneous” than their northern neighbors. “You are more leisurely and manage to escape
many of the tensions of northerners.” Mrs. Cockburn then entered the room and conversation, saying how impressed she was by
the variety of colors in the student body assembly. “English boys dress so much more drably, wearing browns and blues
to excess.”

Dr. Cockburn plans to continue his present tour of the country which will take him through the eastern states. Eventually,
he will return to his native soil to complete a history of Dunblane Cathedral which has been his ambition for
many years.

H. L. Smith, Former Davidson Pres. And X-Ray Pioneer in South, Dies

On February 21 in chapel, Dr. Cunningham announced the passing of Dr. Henry Lewis Smith, former president of Davidson College
and more recently president of Washington and Lee. Dr. Smith is well remembered by those members of the community who
were here during his tenure of office as an energetic and brilliant personality. Born in Greensboro July 30, 1859, Dr.
Smith was the son of a Presbyterian minister, Rev. Jacob H. Smith. After attending public school in Greensboro, he became
a student at Davidson where he graduated in 1881 with an A.B. degree. Upon receiving his M.A. degree from Davidson
in 1886, Dr. Smith was elected professor of physics and astronomy. While serving in this position, he became the first
to organize laboratory work for students in physics and geology. Not long afterward, he was elected vice-president of the college.

The attention of the medical profession was centered upon Dr. Smith when in 1895 he took the first X-ray photo
south of Baltimore and shortly after became the first to use X-ray procedure in surgical work. Having attained his Ph.D.
at the University of Virginia in 1891, Dr. Smith in 1901, at the urgent request of his predecessor, Dr. John
B. Shearer, was elected president of Davidson College. During his administration, the student body increased from 122 to (Continued On
Page Four)

NOTICE

On March 9, men of Davidson are asked to show their appreciation for the privilege of living as civilians. The
Red Cross Bloodmobile will be at the infirmary to accept donations of blood. Can we pass this chance to offer
material aid to American soldiers? They need blood to live.

Recently, the Davidson Library received a letter from Dr. Charles G. Reigner in which Dr. Reigner stated that $500 will
be sent each year to the library to purchase books. The library has already received the first $500, and the
Library Committee has been at work on lists of books to be published from this fund. Dr. Reigner is president
of the H. M. Rowe publishing company of Baltimore, Maryland, and is author of many books for the use of
students of Business Administration. A Presbyterian, Dr. Reigner is a member of the board of managers of the Maryland Bible
Society. Mr. Reigner is also active in civic and business organizations.

In his letter notifying the library of his donation, Dr. Reigner states: “I should like to have the books which
will be purchased to have cohesion, that is, to be in a field or fields of Christian education that would
have some bearing on the work of boys who are preparing to enter the Seminary.” A factor which influenced Dr.
Reigner in making this request is the fact that one of his six children is a Presbyterian minister. In the
books purchased by Mr. Reigner’s gift, a special book plate will be placed. The book plate will include the Peter
S. Ney seal of the College and “The Charles G. Reigner collection.” These books will eventually be stamped on the
cover “Charles G. Reigner Collection.” An order has been placed for approximately 200 books to be purchased with this year’s
gift. These books should be ready for circulation in less than a month.

Besides the donation to the Davidson Library, Dr. Reigner has presented collections of books to: The Library of Union Theological
Seminary, Richmond, Va.; West Baltimore General Hospital; School of Christian Education, Princeton University, N. J.; Princeton Theological Seminary; and Hampden-Sydney
College Library.

Two Received By Delta Phi Alpha

Delta Phi Alpha, national honorary German fraternity, met last Wednesday evening at the home of Prof. E. A. Beaty. Alfred
Neumann, president, welcomed Bryan Robinson and Max Stolberg into the group. The possibility of obtaining a German film was discussed,
and shingles were presented to the new members of the organization. After the business meeting was concluded, Max Stolberg and
Dieter Oberndorfer answered many questions that were put to them from the other members of the group.

HAUSER HOWLS! NUMBER SEVENTEEN

PLANS FOR AQUATIC CLUB ARE DISCUSSED

Thirteen varsity swimmers met with Coach Dick Redding Tuesday night in Davidson’s Johnston Gymnasium for the purpose of forming an
aquatic club. Such a club's general aim would be to “promote interest and excellence in swimming and water sports” on
the campus. It was thought that this club could participate in other campus activities such as properly conducting inter-fraternity swimming
meets, producing a water show in conjunction with Chapel Schedule.

Plans Completed

As the chapel schedule for the week of March 5-9 begins on Monday with the assembly program under the leadership
of Dr. Frontis Johnston of the history department. On the following morning, Professor Bradley Thompson of the history department will
present the chapel meditation. Dr. Cunningham will have his regularly scheduled program on Wednesday and the “Y” Cabinet will be
in charge of Thursday's assembly. The week's schedule will be completed on Friday when Professor Ernest A. Beaty will present
the program.

Music Masters Meet

The Gamma chapter of Phi Mu Alpha, honorary music fraternity, held its regular meeting last Monday night. Arrangements were completed
for the presentation of Eleanor Bryson in Chapel Friday. Plans for a music bulletin board were discussed as well as
the setting up of a broadcast system from the record library. Ushers for the list concert were selected from those
present, and plans for the annual new member's program were discussed. The group adjourned to meet again in two weeks.

Dale Carnegie Prodigies Split Even In Trip

Representing Davidson College in the annual All Southern Debate Tournament, Carlisle Crenshaw, Hubert Cannon on the Affirmative team; and Buddy
Lamon and Shelley Beard on the Negative team returned from Atlanta with a record of seven wins and seven defeats.The
tournament was held February 23-24 on the campus of Agnes Scott College with approximately eighteen schools present. The first round
of debating began at 12:30 Saturday with two other rounds ending at 5:30. After dinner, an informal reception was held
in Murray-Candler Hall for the visiting teams. Saturday morning, the fourth and fifth rounds were held beginning at 9:00 o'clock.
After the final two rounds beginning at 2:00 and ending at 5:30, a banquet was held in the Agnes Scott
dining hall to present the awards.

The tournament was run on a point basis with each team getting a certain number of points for its initial
victory; and for each win thereafter, the points of the defeated team were added to the winner's score. After each
round, the judges’ ballots were noted and for the next round, winners were paired with winners and losers with losers.

This year the debate topic is Resolved: That the Non-Communist Nations should form a new international organization. In defending this
query, the affirmative team won four out of seven debates while the negative won three out of seven. This is
the third tournament that the debate team has entered this year, the other two being at Sewanee and the University
of Alabama. The records for these were one and five and three and three.

Men desiring to enter the aquatic club would probably be required to pass certain swimming tests. For those men unable
to swim well and interested in the managerial side of swimming, it is thought that a stringent written test would
be provided. This would probably include the knowledge of timing a swimming meet and similar details relevant to the technical
end of swimming.

Immediate plans were made to secure the job of conducting the forthcoming inter-fraternity swimming meet. As the first members of
this club would be those men who swam for this year's varsity, it was thought they would be more capable
officials than students with less experience. It was decided that for the club to function properly and have long life,
only men who showed especial interest not only in joining but in swimming itself would be admitted by the three-fourths
vote required. Diligent application to passing the tests would be the other entrance requirement.

Five men were named to a committee which will draft a constitution this week and present it to the charter
members. Copies from other schools having similar clubs are to be obtained to aid this group in their work. To
maintain interest in the club was considered of paramount importance by the charter members. A provision like that of the
“D” Club for dropping any man who missed a specific number of meetings was to be included in the constitution.
Several men suggested that entrance tests be based around those set up by the American Red Cross for swimming and
life-saving.

(Continued On Page Four)

Blythe To Retire As 29th Year Approaches

Sunday’s Charlotte Observer revealed the first published notice of the resignation of Professor Fred Leroy Blythe from the Davidson faculty
to be effective at the conclusion of this semester. In his twenty-eight years of service to the school and the
community, Prof. Blythe has endeared himself to the hearts of all those who have come into contact with him, and
his absence will be sorely felt by both faculty and students alike. “But,” according to Prof. Blythe, “You can't teach
all your life,” so he plans now to just sit back and enjoy life, gaining a much-deserved rest from a
busy lifetime of learning and teaching in the field of foreign languages.

Born and raised near Huntersville, Prof. Blythe attended Davidson from which he received the B.A. degree in 1907. While at
Davidson, he studied Latin for four years, taking also Greek and French. Since Spanish was not included in the curriculum,
Blythe and two other persons received tutoring in a special summer school course which crammed a full year's work into
three weeks. From Davidson, he went to the University of N.C. where he received the M.A. degree in Latin, and
following this, he went to Columbia University to further pursue his studies in Spanish. After a five weeks Spanish course
there, which gave him a total of eight weeks of Spanish all told, he began teaching the course in high
and prep schools. He pursued his studies in that language for two more summers at Columbia, then went to the
University of Chicago for two summers, and back to the Old North State at the University of North Carolina for
another summer's work. The next summer he attended the University of Virginia, then spent other summers touring Mexico, Spain, South
America, Cuba, and other Latin-American countries, attending the National University of Madrid and other famous Latin-American schools.

Between summers, Prof. Blythe taught principally in High Schools and Preparatory Schools of the Carolinas, coming to Davidson for two
years in-between as a professor of Latin and Greek. From Davidson, he taught at Bailey Preparatory School in Greenwood, S.C.
In 1923, he returned to Davidson where he has remained for the past twenty-eight years.

Professor Blythe loves to talk at length about athletics — any phase of athletics from croquet to cricket. His love
for baseball, especially, stems from his college days when he was an outstanding member of Davidson’s team. He goes to
every game he possibly can and claims the Philadelphia Athletics as his favorite big-league team. He played a great deal
of baseball in and around Gastonia.

(Continued On Page Four)

Tar Heel Pens Impressions Of Davidson

Sunday’s Charlotte Observer revealed the first published notice of the resignation of Professor Fred Leroy Blythe from the Davidson faculty
to be effective at the conclusion of this semester. In his twenty-eight years of service to the school and the
community, Prof. Blythe has endeared himself to the hearts of all those who have come into contact with him, and
his absence will be sorely felt by both faculty and students alike. “But,” according to Prof. Blythe, “You can't teach
all your life,” so he plans now to just sit back and enjoy life, gaining a much-deserved rest from a
busy lifetime of learning and teaching in the field of foreign languages.

Born and raised near Huntersville, Prof. Blythe attended Davidson from which he received the B.A. degree in 1907. While at
Davidson, he studied Latin for four years, taking also Greek and French. Since Spanish was not included in the curriculum,
Blythe and two other persons received tutoring in a special summer school course which crammed a full year's work into
three weeks. From Davidson, he went to the University of N.C. where he received the M.A. degree in Latin, and
following this, he went to Columbia University to further pursue his studies in Spanish. After a five weeks Spanish course
there, which gave him a total of eight weeks of Spanish all told, he began teaching the course in high
and prep schools. He pursued his studies in that language for two more summers at Columbia, then went to the
University of Chicago for two summers, and back to the Old North State at the University of North Carolina for
another summer's work. The next summer he attended the University of Virginia, then spent other summers touring Mexico, Spain, South
America, Cuba, and other Latin-American countries, attending the National University of Madrid and other famous Latin-American schools.

Between summers, Prof. Blythe taught principally in High Schools and Preparatory Schools of the Carolinas, coming to Davidson for two
years in-between as a professor of Latin and Greek. From Davidson, he taught at Bailey Preparatory School in Greenwood, S.C.
In 1923, he returned to Davidson where he has remained for the past twenty-eight years.

Professor Blythe loves to talk at length about athletics — any phase of athletics from croquet to cricket. His love
for baseball, especially, stems from his college days when he was an outstanding member of Davidson’s team. He goes to
every game he possibly can and claims the Philadelphia Athletics as his favorite big-league team. He played a great deal
of baseball in and around Gastonia.

(Continued On Page Four)
