There is something about the comparatively comfortable familiarity of the frying pan that makes one reluctant to make the leap
into the fire, and final columns are certainly no goad to go on and jump. Nothing ever looked as blank
as the first sheet of a final yarn by the soon-to-be-late Sports editor. Other columns never were as much trouble.
If they were bad, you always figured you could make it up the next time. Not so now. What's more,
you feel people expect more in the final spin, maybe something prophetic, profound, or at least sentimental. But it’s hard
to follow any of these channels because each one opens so many avenues. Hence, before being buried, let us treat
in pure middle-of-the-year sloppiness the matter of a friend long since with one foot in the grave. Our candidate for
daisy food has been on our mind for some time now, and even a violation of journalistic tradition seems in
line to deal with his cause before we vacate. This cemetery timber in reference wears baseball togs. He is, in
fact, our baseball team. The poor guy’s been told so long that he's sick, looks like the devil (though not
Blue) himself, and just to get along the best he can, everyone would understand. As long as we’ve known him,
that’s been his case. Anemic through three long springs, he just wasn’t expected to rise again. They gave our boy
a doc this spring in Frank Packard, and the very thought of somebody being interested in him had the kid
up and about again. But the disease wasn’t completely gone. Something more was needed. The doc probably knows, and maybe
he has recommended it. It’s exercise. The fellow needs to get out and do more. He plays sixteen baseball games
where the average college in his league is getting out about 25-28 afternoons in the spring. Three games one week,
one the next, two a week later. He might get warmed up enough that first week to win the third
one, but what about the cooling period before that next one? Good idea, you agree, but what about the money?
Well-I-l, that is liable to step on the toes of his country club cousins. Meaning his tennis and golfing springtime
contemporaries who swing to Florida for four or five days to get ready for spring.

By BILL WHITE

THREE CAT CLUBS SEE ACTION

After Taking P.C., Barton Netmen Wildcat of Week Frosh Tennis Team Baseballers Hosts Hit NCS, UNC

By DICK LILES

Bases loaded, last of the ninth, two outs, score tied—the most dramatic situation in baseball—confronted Arnold “Whiz” Whisnant as he
stepped into the batter's box here last Monday against North Carolina. This was a fine spot for a slugger, sure,
but Whiz hadn’t even gotten a scratch hit that day. While the crowd waited breathlessly, Whiz ran the count to
two balls two strikes. Then the Wildcat first baseman got hold of the pitch for a clean single and that
was the ball game. Whiz had come through in the toughest spot of all, and the Cats had a victory
over one of the best clubs in the Southern Conference. Although he hadn't hit previous to his game-winning knock, Whiz
had been instrumental in carrying out the spectacular triple play earlier in the game, and did a more than adequate
job of covering the initial sack. Whiz has also made a name for himself as the first-string center on the
Wildcat gridiron eleven. Whether he'll get the call from Uncle Sam this summer is one of the main worries of
both the football and baseball mentors.

To Wolfpack Today

By CHARLIE HAWKINS

Coach Frank Packard’s baseballers swing back into action this afternoon after a Monday victory over Carolina’s Tarheels to meet N.C.
State’s powerful Wolfpack. This game should be one of the toughest of the year for the Cats, with the Wolfpack
already holding wins over Carolina, Duke, and Wake Forest. Monday's game with Carolina showed that the young

Today, Tomorrow

After turning it on the defending South Carolina State champs 8-1 Wednesday, Coach Derrick Barton’s Wildcat netters get back into
Southern Conference competition this weekend against State and Carolina, both there. Both these teams should impose much stronger competition for
the Cats than the Presbyterian visitors of this week. The “cousins” from Presbyterian College could only garner a single win
in the doubles matches with their combo of Dodd and Montgomery easing past the duo of Kennedy-Child by 6-4 and
8-6. Allan Strand and Dewey Keesler continued their undefeated season as a port-sided doubles team to rap on Spears (P.C.’s
No. 1 man) Bradley by scores of 6-3 and 6-4. In the singles matches, Keesler, Kennedy, and Child all salted
their matches away in two sets, but Strand, Dudley, and Staley had to go the limit of three sets to
insure their victory. Allen Strand showed a bit of fine tennis in defeating a strong man in Frank Spears. Spears
burned up the Palmetto loop last year and plays a whale-of-a-good game. Recently he sprained his wrist badly and played
Wednesday with a complete tape job on his left hand. Fortunately for him, he swats the fuzz with his right
and hits a mean ball, to boot. Coach Barton and the Bluehose's Track Team In Triangular Test With FSU, Emory
At Tallahassee

By BILL MORRIS

The Wildcat cindermen meet Florida State University and Davidson's freshman tennis team opens its '51 season next Tuesday afternoon on
the local courts when it meets the power-laden Charlotte Central outfit. The Kitten netters will be definite underdogs in this
fray, since the Charlotte team is generally considered to be the strongest high school aggregation in this section. Central’s team
is sparked by Lacy Keesler, of the tennis playing Keeslers, who is the current North Carolina State high school tennis
champion. Lacy’s brother Dewey, incidentally, is the number two man on the Wildcat varsity. An ex-Central star, Corky Johnson, is
now playing in the number two berth for the Davidson frosh, and will be out to make trouble for his
erstwhile comrades. Another likely lad who will be out to upset the dope-bucket on Charlotte is Johnny Bremer of Wilmington,
N. C. Bremer has something of a rivalry afoot with Lacy Keesler, which will certainly be renewed with vigor when
the two meet in the number one singles match. Each of the coaches praised the abilities of their opponents after
the matches, and to be sure, the matches were closer than the net outcome would indicate. Jim Leighton arranged two
matches for practice earlier this season, but both were rained out. Coach Barton is naturally pleased with his team and
predicts good matches this weekend. The team is ready for two more important victories and these could be the ones.
The Cats take on State Friday and then on to Carolina for a Saturday fray. The Carolina team seems to
be very evenly matched all the way down. Heath Alexander (with his bum interfraternity football knee) is the No. 4
man and will be hard to handle. Although the Tar Heels haven't been able to completely replace Clark Taylor, they
have a pretty good man in Buddy Agar, a transfer student from Harvard, who will probably be the competition for
Allen Strand and Dewey Keesler.and hustling Wildcats have the ability to play good ball and are well capable of getting
in on some conference wins. Gaining much-needed experience every game, the Cats showed Monday they have good potential with an
uphill 8-7 win that included a triple play and some fine hitting. The Cats go up against a strong State
team Friday, but as Coach Packard puts it, “if the boys will only settle down and play the ball they
are capable of, we can make a good showing.” Coach Packard planned to pitch Dutch Hengeveld again today with Paul
Eastman, Tom Craven, and Jim Smith in reserve. It is doubtful that left fielder and co-captain Auburn Lambeth will play,
having re-injured a pulled muscle against UNC. If he doesn’t play, Coach Packard plans to use Jack Branch in left
field, Bill Rowland in center field, and Jerry Morrow in right field. Marriage is like sitting in a bathtub. After
you get used to it, it ain't so hot.

Emory University tomorrow afternoon in a triangle meet in Tallahassee, Florida. Coach Pete Whittle and his men left Davidson Thursday
afternoon, spent the night in Macon, Georgia, and then when it gets here go North for the season to New
York, New England, and points that way, and bunk at flop shops like the Greenbrier Hotel at White Sulphur Springs,
W. Va. Somewhere, it certainly seems, these crews could curtail their scenic tours (either North or South) and throw this
sick brother enough to enable him to get out a little more often, possibly arrange a Florida trip for him
once in a while. The important thing, however, is to give him more to do. Time hangs heavy on a
club’s hands, particularly in the business where practice can go only so far. That’s the last gripe, but one we
feel is justified by the need and one which we would like to see taken into serious consideration by the
athletic department in its planning next spring. As per the opening column last spring, we’ve tried to praise, criticize, and
just plain opine when due. In conclusion, we'd like to wind up with a slight shout for athletic director Paul
Scott for the wonderful, invigorating boost he has brought this year to Davidson athletics. His interest, too, in the Davidsonian’s
sports has been a help greatly appreciated. Next year should see even more from Davidson in the way of athletics,
prodded by the man from the outside who seems to have caught on to “our” way better than we ourselves.
The year has been fast and fine, and that frying pan wasn't as bad as it was cracked up to
be. They say the fire’s not so bad, either—burns out impurities. But it sure looks hot from here.

Kitten Cindermen Meet Mars Hill In Season Opener This Afternoon

Coach Ray Brown’s Wildkitten track squad takes on Mars Hill Junior College tomorrow afternoon at 1:30 in Richardson Field for
their first meet of the 1951 season. Last year the Mars Hill squad defeated the Davidson group for the locals’
second loss in two years. Twenty freshmen are out for the squad this year, most of whom will be used.

Courts On Hill For Frosh Today

Field events, which begin at 1:30, have Bob Loy and Toto Williamson as mainstays in the shot-put and discus departments,
with John Holt also heaving the plate. Easy By BILL SLEDGE This afternoon the Kitten nine journeyed to Charlotte where
they met Harding High, the third and last of the three Charlotte schools. Henley is the only high jumper and
Sandy McKelway seems to hold the Wildkittens’ hopes for the pole vault. Distance man Bill Shipley, number-one cross-country runner last
fall, has shown good speed and form in the 440 and 880 in time trials. Rod Reed also showed promise
in the 880. Buddy McKay bettered the varsity time in the 220-yard low hurdles in time trials last week. McKay
also places high in the 100-yard dash in the frosh time trials. Last Wednesday Breeden clocked off a 24-flat but
has run a 23.7 in that event. Although Bill Morris placed first in the 100-yard dash time trials this week,
he, Breeden, and McKay always finish close together in that race, and went on to Tallahassee Friday. They will return.

The Florida meet promises to be a difficult one for the ‘Cats. Florida State boasts three excellent men in the
100-yard dash. These three men placed in the first three places against Mercer running against Bob Reeder whom Ken Goodpasture,
crack Cat sprinter, beat last Saturday. Bill Pritchett, number-one high hurdler here, and Bill White, back in the running after
a long lay-off with a pulled leg muscle, promise to show a tough race to the strong hurdlers of FSU.
In the distance events, Rob Henry in the 880, Blake Bradley in the mile run, Bill Lee in the two-mile
run, and J. V. Howell and Al Reese in the 440 have clocked good times in their respective events. Bill
McNeeley, who took firsts in the shot put and discus against Mercer last week, will be counted on by Coach
Whittle to place in those events. Don Lazenby promises to back up McNeeley. Dave Williins and Jim Fickelsen will perform
in the high jump tomorrow, while Roger Cornell remains inactive because of the muscle he pulled in the Carolina Relays
two weeks ago. No reports have been received here about the material had by the Emory squad.

Number 18...THE RACCOON

Shades of the roaring 'Twenties! All duded up in his ancient benny — but he has modern ideas on testing
cigarette mildness! He’s tried every “quickie” cigarette test in the book — and they’re not fooling him one bit! He
knows for dang-sure that cigarette mildness can’t be determined by a cursory sniff or a single, quickly-dispatched puff. He doesn’t
have to go back to school to know that there is one real test — a test that dispels doubt,
fixes fact. It’s the sensible test... the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test, which asks you to try Camels as your steady
smoke—on a pack-after-pack, day-after-day basis. No snap judgments needed. After you’ve enjoyed Camels — and only Camels — for 30
days in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste), we believe you'll know why...

More People Smoke Camels than any other cigarette!

JOE THACKER’S, INC.
Private Dining Rooms for Parties and Banquets
Phone 25490
221 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.
