FRESHMAN EDITION

Alumni Gymnasium Virtually Clear For Beginning Of Conversion Job

Conversion work begun this summer on Alumni Gymnasium should have the 34-year-old structure readied as a modern functioning student union in time for the fall term in 1952, according to Dr. S. R. Spencer, Jr., assistant to the president. One of the most long-sought needs on the campus development program, the student union, will be housed by the “shell” of Alumni Gym, the foundation, walls, and roof being kept intact. The interior, however, has been completely cleared away in work this summer. All inside floors and partitions have been removed, leaving the infamous Crackerbox nothing more than one large room, three stories high. About the only thing of value to be salvaged from the interior demolition work, Dr. Spencer said, will be the hardwood floors from the basketball court. Improvements will, of course, be made in the superstructure where necessary, but there is no large job there. Several changes are planned for the immediate exterior, however. Where there is a short front porch now with a fairly lengthy tier of steps, the ground out front will be built up considerably so that only three or four steps are necessary and the porch is to be extended beyond the pillars some distance in the direction of Chambers.

To the South side of the building, an area which is part of a parking lot now will be used as a terrace, with tables and chairs for eating and socializing. A large oak will be left in its present position and will serve as a patio centerpiece. Doors to the cafeteria (present basement) will be cut in the South side so that dining may be done on the patio. The dining hall, which eventually will replace that in downstairs Chambers, will be located in the southwest corner of the basement floor with the kitchen and storeroom in the northeast. To the building’s front on the basement floor will be a large recreation room with ping pong, billiards, cards, etc. The Student Store will be located between the recreation room and the cafeteria, generally in the center of the basement floor. Future plans include a bowling alley to run across the front.

Principal room on the main floor will be the ballroom, located in the southeast corner, generally where the old basketball court was, but extending farther to the front of the building and not all the way to the north end. To the left, upon entrance, or in the northwest corner will be a student lounge, equipped much in such a way as the present Y lounge. There will also be a room for meetings, corresponding to a room of similar size on the basement floor which will be used for small banquets and meetings. Upstairs the upper reaches of the ballroom consume about one-third the space with a walkway around the edge for those who want to watch and talk. The majority of the third floor will be taken up with rooms for the various organs of the student government—The Quips and Cranks, The Scripts and Pranks, The Davidsonian, the campus chaplain’s office, and similar groups.

Spencer said that the work would take about nine months, thus assuring the student union of a September, 1952, opening date. Alumni Gymnasium was completed in the winter of 1917-18 and deemed wholly adequate at the time. Davidson and basketball grew, however, and by the late twenties, it was already apparent that the structure was too small to serve the needs of the school. To the Southern Conference basketball world, Alumni Gym was “The Matchbox” or “The Crackerbox,” and all big games, such as those with Duke, North Carolina, and N. C. State, were moved to Charlotte’s Armory. Charles Worth Johnston Gymnasium, dedicated at Homecoming in 1949, brought to an end the usefulness of Alumni Gym as an athletic plant. It then figured into the plans for the student union.

ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 14, 1951

CLASS OF '99 WELCOMES ORIENTATION PERIOD

SPENCER SAYS STUDENT UNION READY BY COUNSELORS GET INSTRUCTIONS FROM CHAPLAIN

Caught on the steps of the Y shortly before their departure for Montreat and a three-day retreat were the members of the YMCA Cabinet, serving now as counselors in orientation, and Davidson's first college chaplain, Rev. Alan Gripe. Rev. Gripe is on the left. On the steps are, first row: Hubert Cannon, Stuart Plummer, Bill Gripe, freshman adviser, and Jim Speed; second row: Bert Downs, George Knight, Malcolm McLean, and Bill Lee; third row: Tom Stockton and Dave Adams. Behind Gripe at left is Tony Tucker; opposite him are Luke Scales, left, and Allen Strand.

First Quarter P. T.

A Message From Your ROTC

Frosh Get Reminder

(In the light of the present world situation, with young men’s minds all focused on the military service, The Davidsonian asked Col. Ballard to prepare the following message for the Class of '55—Ed.)

The Military Department welcomes you to Davidson College. Our unit of the Army Reserve Officers Training Corps is one of the oldest in the country, having been established in 1921, shortly after the ROTC program was set up by the National Defense Act. In the light of existing world conditions, the role of the ROTC is even greater than it has been. Our government feels that the continuous reinforcement of the Regular

Courses Are Listed

Athletic Director Paul K. Scott today released the schedule of physical training classes and instructors which will be offered to the student body during the first quarter of the department's year. The courses and their instructors include: Tennis, Derrick Barton; volleyball, Boyd Baird; basic conditioning and skills, A. Heath Whittle and Buddy Chandler; flickerball (modified touch football), Tom Fetzer; wrestling, Charlie Parker; and swimming—beginner and intermediate, Dick Redding. Sports to be offered later in the year include squash, badminton, basketball, archery, handball, tumbling, gymnastics, and golf.

YMCA's Twenty-One Student Orientation Counselors Representative of Every Phase of Campus Activity

Orientation for freshmen and transfer students, sponsored by the YMCA, got underway yesterday with a preliminary meeting of student counselors. These student counselors are under the direction of Bill Buckey of Charlotte, advisor to the Freshman Class, and Dean Bailey, faculty head of the orientation program. Around 300 freshmen have been registered, assigned to one of 21 groups, and will be guided during their first days here at school by the following group leaders.

STUART PLUMMER, lanky Asheville native, is a Sigma Chi and serves on the YMCA Cabinet as Hall Prayer Meeting chairman.

GEORGE KNIGHT, from Charlotte, is active in “Y” work and is vice-president of Westminster Fellowship besides managing Mrs. Copeland’s boarding house.

TONY TUCKER, a Kappa Alpha from Laurel, Miss., runs the chapel programs on Y-Day for the YMCA Cabinet.

LUKE SCALES hails from Shawmut, Ala., and is president of Westminster Fellowship.

GENE CRAVEN is a Phi Delt from Boone, N. C., is on the “Y” Board of Directors and is one of Coach Parker's ace wrestlers.

HUBERT CANNON, a Lancaster, S. C., boy, and a Phi Gam, is another loyal Y Cabinet member.

JIM SPEED, KA from Birmingham, is president of the Sunday School.

JIM FICKELSON is a native of Bluefield, West Virginia, is a Phi Gam, and edits the Scripts and Pranks this year while he isn’t attending Student Council meetings. Get someone to tell you about the cartoon he drew.

TOM STOCKTON, a Kappa Sigma from Winston-Salem, is OD and president of the Senior Class, besides being an outstanding track man.

LYMAN KISER is from Raleigh. He is secretary-treasurer of the Student Body and is a Kappa Sig.

MAX DEVANE, a Phi Delt from Jennings, Fla., is president of the Sophomore Class.

BOB CRUTCHFIELD, Orangeburg, S. C., boy who wears the cross of Sigma Chi, finally landed on the Student Council after a close race for Student Body office.

BILL LEE, from Warrenton, Florida, is Coach Whittle’s pride and joy in track and cross country. He is also active in YMCA work.

BRYAN ROBINSON is president of ODK, Kappa Alpha and Phi Society, and calls Thomasville, Ga., home.

PETE KALOGRIDIS, Beta from Winter Haven, Fla., is on the Y Board of Directors, edited the Freshman Handbook, and is associate editor of The Davidsonian.

FRANCIS PEPPER, a Beta from Winston-Salem, is a standout in swimming and will also stand out as head cheerleader this fall.

JOHN ALEXANDER, a soft-talking native of Atlanta, has won all sorts of awards in chemistry and is a Phi Delt.

BOB HENRY, Huntington, W. Va., KA, is a track star and is on the Court of Control.

DAVID ADAMS is a Phi Delt from Nashville, Tenn. He is on the Y Cabinet, vice-president of the N. C. Synod of Westminster Fellowship.

BILL ADAMS, a KA from Seneca, S. C., is editor of the Quips and Cranks and is on the Y Cabinet.

LARRY DAGENHART, a Kappa Sig from Fayetteville, N. C., is a managing editor of The Davidsonian and second vice-president of the student body.Army and the Organized Reserve Corps with well-trained junior officers from the ROTC is an essential factor in national security. Young men preparing for a professional or business career need to learn cooperation with others and the intelligent solution of problems which arise in personal and civil life. International tensions being what they are, young men must also be prepared to serve their country against the foes of democracy and freedom. To discharge these duties and responsibilities, it is only fitting that students should choose to include in their study a carefully designed and administered program in military science. No matter what you expect your life's career to be, the ROTC offers fine training in developing the essential qualities of leadership required to achieve success in that career. And the very survival of our nation may depend in large measure upon those young men of your generation who are capable of fulfilling posts of leadership and responsibility. The military personnel on duty here will always be anxious to help you in any way they can. And they wish for you every success and happiness in your life as a student of Davidson College.

JAMES L. BALLARD, JR.
Lieutenant-Colonel, United States Army,
Professor of Military Science and Tactics.

Chambers Building Gets Touch-Up But Good—500-600 Gallons Worth

The Class of ‘55 and the transfers now entering orientation period are the first beneficiaries of a touch-up job which took place during the summer months. All offices, hallways, and classrooms were treated to a coat of paint in a two-month operation which began in July. Painters and summer school students played checkers with classrooms as the job progressed through July and August. The biggest part of the work was completed by the first week of September. Mr. F. D. Hobart, superintendent of grounds and buildings, said that between 500 and 600 gallons of paint went into the Chambers application. In addition to the Chambers paint job, the dorms received paint treatment. The floors of Chambers were given a new coat of varnish and new rubber matting laid to replace the worn carpeting.

About Regulations From Judge Guiton

Johnny Guiton, Judge of the Court of Freshmen Control, reminds all that they should obtain their caps and list of freshman regulations from the student store as soon as possible. Guiton particularly stressed the importance of regulations two and nine, requiring the freshmen to know college songs and yells by the seventh day after school opens, and requiring freshmen to wear their YMCA nameplates until October 10. The sooner the Class of ‘55 learns the songs and yells, Guiton brought out, the sooner they can and will enjoy the Davidson spirit. The wearing of the nameplate at all times will aid in their becoming known and knowing the members of the student body and faculty.

Following are the freshmen regulations:
1. Freshmen shall show respect to upperclassmen at all times.
2. Freshmen must know college yells and songs by the seventh day after school opens.
3. Freshmen must wear at all times, the caps prescribed for them by the Court of Control.
4. Freshmen shall not walk on the grass on the campus.
5. Freshmen shall remain in chapel seats until all upperclassmen have cleared the room.
6. Each freshman shall have his own placard with his name inserted in the proper place, hanging in a conspicuous place in his room throughout the year.
7. Freshmen are required to attend all pep meetings and be there on time.
8. Freshmen are required to attend all major athletic events fifteen minutes early, sit together, and remain through the entire contest.
9. Freshmen are required to wear the YMCA nameplates until October 10.
10. Freshmen must carry to all athletic contests and pep meetings the megaphones prescribed for them by the Court of Control.
11. Freshmen are required to speak to all men they meet on the campus and tip their hats to members of the faculty.

FIRST ISSUE APPEARS

Mr. Hengeveld explained that the belief that the selective service program would tap the upper classes this summer much heavier than it did had led the administration to look for vacancies among the upper classes which could be filled by freshmen. However, calls weren’t as heavy as had been anticipated, and total enrollment is expected to be about what it was last year, according to Mr. Hengeveld.

ROTC SWELLED

Colonel James L. Ballard, Davidson College ROTC PMST&T, stated that the incoming Class of ‘55 plus those upperclassmen who last spring expressed a desire to remain in ROTC due to the world situation should swell the department to its largest size. Col. Ballard’s present plans are for two battalions of four companies each, plus the band, as opposed to the 1950-51 setup which called for only three companies per battalion. Approximately 675 students are expected in this year’s regiment.

Of the group now beginning orientation, 24 are transfer students who will commence the fall term as upperclassmen. Two foreign students are among the freshmen—Lindstrom from Sweden and Johannes Miedema from Holland. The Stateside frosh farthest from home are students from Ohio and Texas.

A fall program today ushered in orientation. This morning was taken with psychological testing under Professor J. H. Oswalt, group discussions, and talks by Dr. Carl Pritchett, pastor of the Davidson Presbyterian Church, student body president Malcolm McLean, and Col. Ballard. Physical examinations, chest X-rays, and library tours constituted the afternoon's discussions, and tonight's program.

DANCE TOMORROW

A lighter card is slated for tomorrow, topped off by the traditional reception to new students by the faculty and a dance with the freshman class at Queens as guests. The latter social event is a departure from the procedure in the past whereby the frosh's first social function usually was a trip to Queens for a dance given in his honor.

Sunday the YMCA Bible Class will hold its first meeting of the year in the lounge of the Guest House, and Dr. Pritchett will conduct the regular 11 o'clock service at the Davidson Presbyterian Church, meeting in the high school auditorium until completion of the new structure. A program of music is planned Sunday afternoon at 3:30 in Chambers, and vespers at 7:30 conclude the scheduled program. Rev. J. Walter Dickson of Belmont, vice president of the Davidson Alumni Association and one of the most popular speakers with the student body, will speak. Afterwards, faculty counselors will have open house for their respective groups.

Monday is another full day of testing and talks on various phases of college life, terminating with group conferences from 9:00-9:30.

PHYS ED TESTS

Tuesday is a half day, consisting of swim tests with the physical education department and drawing of ROTC equipment. Lunch at one o'clock concludes the orientation period. Paul W. Scott, director of athletics, announced that only swim tests would be given Tuesday. The four-hour physical fitness test will be given Friday afternoon between 4 to 5 o'clock. The test will include the standing broad jump, medicine ball put, parallel bars, sit-ups, and 250-yard shuttle run, and will be run off on the floor of Johnston Gymnasium.

First Office Of College Chaplain At Davidson Filled By Alan Gripe

Rev. Alan G. Gripe of New York has assumed his duties as first Davidson College chaplain, a position created last spring by the Y Cabinet and Board of Directors. Assistant to the cadet chaplain at West Point during 1950-51, Mr. Gripe will also act as YMCA secretary at Davidson, succeeding John S. Lyles of Chester, S.C., who has entered Union Theological Seminary in Richmond.

Mr. Gripe comes to Davidson from advanced study at Union Seminary in New York. He was graduated from Lake Forest (Ill.) College, received his B.D. degree from Princeton Theological Seminary, and taught for four years at Silliman University in the Philippines. This summer he served in the East Harlem Protestant parish in New York.

The new chaplain returned to the campus today from Montreat where he has been on a three-day retreat with the Y Cabinet. On the retreat Mr. Gripe and his new cabinet outlined plans for orientation week and the coming year. He is expressly happy with his new duties here at Davidson and anxious to meet and know the student body. Although single at the present, this member of bachelorhood won't be for long. He plans to be married the latter part of this month to Miss Elizabeth Howell of Elmira, N.Y.