PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

Guest Ministers of Spring Services Provide New Features As Individual Counselors

This year’s Spring Services bring an innovation in religious emphasis new to the Davidson campus. There will, of course, be
the usual chapel and evening services, led this year by Dr. Harry M. Moffett of Austin, Texas. In addition to
these regular services, however, there will be a system of individual hall counseling under the supervision of various ministers from
the University of Texas and Union Theological Seminary. During the past war, he served as an Army chaplain in the
South Pacific theater. His hobby is music; his class honors consist of the ranking of salutatorian in college and a
fellowship while in seminary. He has had considerable experience as a youth counselor. (Cardboard Village.)

From the Presbyterian Church in the surrounding area, it is hoped that this plan will lend a personal emphasis to
the services, an emphasis which in the past has perhaps been lacking. There will be eleven counselors, all of them
men especially interested in the problems of youth. These counselors will live in the dormitories, will help supervise informal evening
bull-sessions, and will be available for individual counseling. These bull-sessions will supplement Dr. Moffett’s talks and will furnish an opportunity
for the discussion of student religious problems. The counselors themselves will be rooming in the dormitories with YMCA committeemen as
their hosts. Evening bull sessions will be held at 10:30 in the halls and will be similar to our usual
prayer meetings, with worship and discussion led by the counselors. Such get-togethers are planned for Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday nights.
The counselors will be available at other times for personal advice and discussion.

Following is a list of the counselors, with brief notes on their pastorates and backgrounds:

Mr. George E. Staples comes to us from the Highland Presbyterian Church in Winston-Salem. His preparation for the ministry was
received at Presbyterian College, Bristol, Tennessee. There he has served not only as a pastor, but also as a counselor
for the students at King College. His training consists of study at Davidson and at Union Seminary. He saw service
as an Army chaplain in Europe during the last war. (Georgia.)

Mr. Sherril B. Biggers received his preparatory training at Emory; his theological work was done at the Duke and Yale
Divinity Schools. At present, he holds a pastorate at the Kilgo Methodist Church. The valedictorian of his class in junior
college, he has served as a chaplain in the Army Air Force. (West, upper two floors.)

A graduate of Davidson and of Union Seminary, Mr. Albert B. McClure is presently working with the Presbyterian Orphan's Home.
For three years he was the Davidson YMCA Secretary. Among his collegiate honors is an ODK key, and he is
especially interested in counseling for youth. (Rumple.)

Mr. Robert C. Lasater has had a great deal of experience with student religious work. He graduated from Wake Forest
and took his theological training at the Southern Baptist Seminary. A member of Phi Beta Kappa, he is a man
of wide interests—photography, carpentry, and sports. He has taken part in programs similar to our own Special Services at Clemson
and at State. His home is Raleigh. (East, upper two floors.)

Mr. John Murphy Smith, pastor of the Faison and Calypso Presbyterian Churches, saw service in the last war as a
chaplain, both in the Atlantic and in the Pacific areas. A member of the Army Reserves, with the rank of
Lieutenant Colonel, he is a graduate of Davidson and of Union Seminary. He has taken special courses in counseling and
in psychology, and should be quite well-fitted for his work with us at Davidson. (Duke, third floor.)

Rifle Team Completes Season; Final Record Stands At 18-7

The Rifle Team last week completed a highly successful season, in which 18 matches were won and only 7 lost.
In addition to these matches, the team placed 4th among 28 competing teams in the 3rd Army Intercollegiate match. It
fired in the National Intercollegiate and also in the Hearst Trophy Matches, results of which have not yet been announced.
However, it is felt that the scores which are believed to have been fired by the team in those matches
will compare very favorably with the high-ranking teams. The team also fired in the Charlotte Rifle Club Matches, winning 6
of the 10 first place medals offered.

The regular season matches consisted principally of postal matches; however, there were 5 shoulder-to-shoulder matches. In these, victories were scored
over N. C. State and over Wofford, while 2 close matches were lost to a strong VMI team and a
match to Clemson by the very slender margin of 1821 to 1827.

The Captain of this year’s shooting Wildcats was Aubrey Miree, who was also high scorer, and the team was coached
by Captain Hood, of the Military Department staff, assisted by Sergeant Butts. In addition to the team captain, other members
of the team were: Wallace W. Abbott, John L. Baker, George Bason, Shelby Bridges, Vernon Clifton, E. H. Coleman, Robert
C. Garrison, Alan Groseclose, Raymond Lynch, William L. Morris, Frank McCutchan, Kenneth Parks, Lincoln B. Scott, L. Duncan Smith, John
P. Thompson, Hallet S. Ward. As none of its members graduate this year, it is expected that the Rifle Team
will have an even stronger season next year.

MOFFETT EXPERIENCED... (Continued From Page One)

His ministry has been conspicuous in its service to college students. In 1940 he was called to Liberty, Missouri where
his pastorate among college students was continued at the William Jewell College. In 1941 he became pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church of Columbia, Missouri. This church served the University of Missouri, Stephens College, and Christian College. Dr. Moffett left
Columbia to become the pastor of the University Presbyterian Church in Austin, Texas. This church serves the University of Texas
and it is the seat of the largest concentration of Presbyterian students in the Southern Church. Its student program is
outstanding in both its activity and its scope and has been the model for the programs at many university churches.

Dr. Moffett’s interest in the youth work of the church has been made manifest in activity during his entire ministry.
He was the Synod’s chairman of Young People’s Conferences for Appalachian Synod, one of the leaders in the youth conferences
of the Synod of Missouri and since coming to Texas he has been director of Young People's Conferences for the
Synod of Texas for three years. He is in constant demand as a speaker for youth conferences because of his
clean and challenging mode of speaking. His sermons and his lectures are spiced with a brilliant wit, and he is
well acquainted with the problems of college students.

SUMTER CALLS... (Continued From Page One)

...quest that a convocation of all men of this spirit be present today at Fraternity Court at 1:00 to prepare
to throw themselves onto the very crest of this movement. Rumor has it that if secession is adopted, immediate action
will be taken to quell any resistance on the part of all federal authorities at Davidson’s “Union” outpost.east side.) Dr.
William C. Neil’s hobbies are tennis and gardening. He is pastor of the Lowell Presbyterian Church and has received degrees
from Davidson, Union Seminary, and the Yale Divinity School. His student honors are a Phi Beta Kappa key and a
fellowship while in seminary. The war saw him a Navy chaplain attached to the Marine Corps. (East, lower two floors.)
Mr. Herman J. Womeldorf is at present pastor of the Routh Memorial Presbyterian Church in Spartanburg. His hobby is stamp
collecting, and he has degrees from Washington and Lee and from Union Seminary. He has had considerable experience in youth
counseling. (West, lower two floors.) While at Duke University, Mr. Robert M. Bird was captain of that school's track team
and a member of ODK. A Mason and a Shriner, his hobby is tennis. His theological training was taken at
the General Theological Seminary in New York City; he is at present rector of the All Saints’ Episcopal Church of
Concord. He has worked with summer youth conferences. (Watts, lower two floors.) Our own Dr. Carl R. Pritchett is also
to serve as a counselor for the Spring Services. His training consists of work at Davidson and at Union Seminary.
While at Davidson he was President of the student body, Captain of the basketball team, and a member of ODK
and of the “D” Club. He was the Davidson YMCA Secretary for two years following his graduation from college and
is a very competent youth counselor. (Watts, upper two floors.) The pastor of the Smithfield Presbyterian Church, Mr. Joseph Lansinger,
is unique among our list of counselors; for his early training was received at Catholic seminaries in Maryland. However, in
1940 he left the Roman faith to take up work at Union Seminary preparatory to ordination as a Presbyterian minister.
Mr. Lansinger has had a wide experience in youth work, is interested in music and church architecture as hobbies, and
has served as a chaplain during the last war. (Duke, west side and middle.) A notoriously nagging wife relented and
bought her husband two neckties for his birthday. The husband finding them on his dresser, donned one and made a
grand entrance to breakfast. “Hummph!” snorted the nagger when she saw him. “So you didn't like the other one, eh?”
Patronize Our Advertisers! The Best Dressed Men At Davidson Wear College Receives Valuable Material From Collection of Dr. Lafferty The
family of the late Dr. Robert H. Lafferty, 1899, have recently presented the College Library with a valuable collection of
“Davidsoniana”. In the collection are early magazines, annuals, invitations, clippings, etc. relating to Davidson College. Such material is particularly welcomed
as there is no source from which it may be purchased. It is the Library’s policy to keep duplicate copies
of all college publications—student, faculty and administration. Some years ago when the old Lafferty house on North Main Street in
Davidson was purchased by the College, the family gave the library a number of rare publications which had accumulated in
its hands over the years. There is no family more thoroughly identified with Davidson than the Laffertys. Dr. Robert Lafferty’s
father was the Rev. James S. Lafferty, class of 1876. In the generation before him, the Rev. R. H. Lafferty
was a trustee of the College beginning in 1850. In the present generation are the two sons of Dr. Robert
Lafferty: Robert H., Jr., Class of 1937 and John O., Class of 1938. It is from such long-standing loyalty to
the institution that Davidson College draws its warmest support, and it is from such loyalty that it must depend for
the preservation of its traditions and ideals. Concert Band Leaves Monday For Virginia On Monday, April 16th, the Davidson band
will leave for a concert tour of North Carolina and Virginia. The first concert will be at R. J. Reynolds
High School in Winston-Salem, Monday morning. Boone, North Carolina is the next stop on the tour. There the band will
play for the Appalachian College student body Monday evening. The Southern Conference of Music Educators has honored the Davidson band
by inviting it to play in concert in Richmond. On Tuesday the band will play for a public performance in
Richmond. Wednesday and Thursday the Davidson band will give two performances for the Southern Conference of Music Educators. Thursday the
band leaves Richmond for Charlottesville, Virginia, where it will play in concert Thursday evening. The Davidson College Band will return
to school on Friday, April 20th. Mother: “What makes you think our baby is going to be a politician?” Father:
“He says more things that sound well and mean nothing than any human being I ever saw.” VISIT THE DRIVE-IN
RESTAURANT “A GOOD PLACE TO EAT” 142 E. Morehead — Charlotte Jack Wood, Ltd. CLOTHES It Costs No More To
Dress Correctly LINKSTERS MATCH.... (Continued From Page Three) we should take these two matches,” says Mr. White, “The boys in
the four, five, and six positions are beginning to come through, and that should help us. Louis Barnes, who has
been a little shaky lately, is coming through, although he has one or two bad holes, around.” Mr. White’s hopes
are high for more wins by the locals, especially with the playing of Hill, McLean, and Cecil Brandon which have
been “holding up” lately. CONFERENCE BATTLE... (Continued From Page Three) William and Mary and Kalamazoo, the Wildcats have shown a
lot of promise and have been rapidly gaining that much needed experience. The big question for Saturday is whether or
not the Cats have gathered enough experience to outplay the veteran Blue Devils, who look from all angles to be
fully “loaded.” Send The Davidsonian To The Folks at Home! RENT A CAR AT THE U-Drive It Charlotte 4th St.
FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1951 Carolina Dreadnought could be halted. Anyway, they'll have two OAT NINE BRACES... (Continued From Page Three)
as tight as ever, ‘ole Dutch could mighty good chances this week and fling over a few fast ones and
the next. Super crepe soles by Crosby Square that are thicker than thick! Rugged, but in an “easy going” manner
that assures many miles of carefree comfort. Good looking, too! Select yours today! WILSON-WRIGHTS DAVIDSON, N. C. Campus Interviews on
Cigarette Tests Number 17... THE OWL —so what ?’’ “So I’m a wise guy wl A — Speotyto cunicularia” —
Spec, for short, majors in the classics. But in this case, he’s dropped his Latin leanings and slings American slang
with the best of them. He comes right out “cum loudly” whenever he voices his opinion on these quick-trick, one-puff
cigarette tests. They’re a snub to his high I.Q. He knows from smoking experience there’s just one intelligent way to
judge the mildness of a cigarette. It’s the sensible test . . . the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test, which simply
asks you to try Camels as a steady smoke — on a pack-after-pack, day-after-day basis. No snap judgments needed. After
you’ve enjoyed Camels — and only Camels — for 30 days in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste),
we believe you'll know why More People Smoke Camels than any other cigarette!
