PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF .......................... GORDON SCOTT
BUSINESS MANAGER .................. JOHN LOFTIN

Associate Editors .......... Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Features Editor .......................... Shelley Beard
Managing Editors .......... Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George McMurray, Ed Richardson
Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Photographer—Raymond Lynch
Proofreader—Wallace Abbott
Alex Goley
City Editor—Nat Daniel
Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen
Sports Editor—Bill White
Assistant Business Manager .......... Advertising Manager .................. Manley McWilliams
Circulation Manager .................. Ansley Moses
Collections Manager .................. Jack Turner
Subscriptions Manager .................. Bill Hart

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Faith On The Campus

The Y.M.C.A. has once more completed a worthy project in the printing of devotional booklets for distribution among the student body. This booklet, titled Faith on the Campus, is a collection of contributions by various members of the student body and was made available at the hall prayer meetings Wednesday night. We sincerely believe that the net effect of these booklets on the lives of those who will faithfully use them each day will be enriching. None of us is too old to follow a good example or to fail to be impressed by the attitude of those with whom we associate daily concerning the issue of a vital religion. As Tommy Langford, who edited the booklet, stated in the preface, “... we find that many times the most helpful assistance is a friendly word of encouragement or a thought-provoking sentence that is offered by someone we know personally.” We heartily commend Tommy and all the men who had a part in the formation of this devotional series, and the Y.M.C.A. which again demonstrated its interest in the spiritual growth of the students.

Apologia

This week the members of the Davidson student body were privileged to hear a series of talks by a churchman of international stature, both intellectually and ecclesiastically. The talks were scholarly and thought-provoking, and for the most part were not too well received by the student body—perhaps due to the fact that they were scholarly and thought-provoking. The very fact that a series of lectures such as this, delivered by a figure of such prominence, could be borne as a burden by so large a segment of the student body—and completely ignored by another large segment—seems to indicate that something might be basically wrong with our general educational outlook.

To begin with, many students complained that the lectures were hard to follow. Granted. They were. This fact, however, is hardly an excuse for our not trying to follow them. Learning, contrary to popular belief, does not come easily—nor does it follow that an education is a necessary corollary of the college diploma. The old adage that “anything worth having is worth working for” is certainly applicable here. The thinking student surely realizes that the age-old question of the relationship between the Church and the State, and the relation of the individual to each of them, is not on any counts a simple matter. Its comprehension has posed a problem for scholars from the time of Plato down to the present. The lectures were by their very nature bound to be hard to follow, and this feature should have been a challenge to the student rather than an excuse for cutting chapel.

It has also been said that the lectures were read instead of spoken freely, as we are accustomed to receive information. In the continental educational system, however, lectures from manuscript—or even the printed page—are the common practice. Moreover, a conscientious speaker could hardly trust himself to the recall of such a lengthy series of addresses—particularly when the communication of involved concepts is so dependent upon careful word selection and phraseology. A well-read talk should be equally as appealing to the attentive listener as the words of a radio commentator, and it is certainly to be preferred to the repetition, the vague verbosity and the “soul-searching” that is all too prevalent among Davidson speakers.

Finally, there are those on the campus who, admitting the scholarly accomplishment of the lectures, wish only that their topic had been more pertinent to our Piedmont Carolina locality. This feeling of “What has this got to do with us?” shows perhaps more than anything else that many, perhaps even a majority, of our students fail to grasp the implications of the struggle in which we find ourselves today. We have a fight on our hands in Korea, to be sure, and it’s a real, life-and-death affair. We also have another fight on our hands—a struggle of ideas, of philosophies, and of creeds. It too is a very real fight, for it is through ideas that men’s actions are motivated. We lose this first fight and we lose a few miles of an Asiatic peninsula, important strategically as it may be; but lose the second fight and we may well knell the toll of western civilization and all that it means to us—even here in the Piedmont Carolinas. The Otts Lecture Series brought forth with graphic clarity the essence of the type of ideology, with its implications, against which we are pitted today. We sincerely hope that the student body managed to absorb enough of these talks to give them an idea of the forces against which many of them will take up arms in the near future. Those who did not absorb have missed a great opportunity to learn for themselves from the bitter experiences of others.—T.H.H.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

What About Fraternities

After further thought and discussion concerning the subject, an alteration of the procedure of the next two articles, as outlined in last week's introduction, will be made. The discussion this week will consist of some of the prominent merits and demerits of the fraternity system, while discussion in next week's article will be concerned with general college-fraternity relations.

Most members of fraternities and many outsiders would agree that there are many merits in the fraternity system. Four seem to be rather manifest and of some intrinsic worth, which, of course, is not to say that there are not others. First, to use a broad term, “fellowship” is one of the more immediate experiences of the fraternity man. This can be both good and bad. Certainly in terms of stated fraternity goals, fellowship is supposed to be a vital, pulsating, character-building force. At a minimum, fellowship, with its concomitant adjustment of personality to personality, is an educational experience in the life of the fraternity man.

A second good feature is that fraternities provide both organized social activities, and means for encouraging individually initiated social activities. They provide not merely an outlet for more socially inclined men, but also a stimulus and outlet for less socially inclined men. Under proper circumstances, this certainly makes for social health on a college campus.

Third, fraternities inculcate certain idealistic concepts in the minds of many members. The expression of Christian and other high ideals has a prominent part in many fraternity rituals—the ideal of brotherhood, the search for truth, good scholarship, and strong character, to mention a few.

Fourth, many personal contacts are effected in fraternities, many times opening doors to lifelong friendships, business associations, and marriage, etc. The continuing value of contacts after graduation has often been exaggerated, but it can be said that the stage is set for the formation of valuable personal relations among fraternity brothers.

Although many of the salient features mentioned would exist on a college campus even if fraternities didn’t exist, we could conclude that these do characterize the fraternity system in varying degrees of universality and intensity.

Since the war, particularly, much censure has been directed toward fraternities. To illustrate the complexity of the controversy, features most vehemently attacked by the critics have often been obversely heralded as inalienable and most precious by the defendants. What the former has termed as anti-democratic practices, anti-intellectual tendencies, indignant hazing, unhealthy and impeding national headquarters affiliations, and school loyalty distractions, the latter has termed as democratic practices, intellectual tendencies, man-making hazing, healthy and beneficial national headquarters affiliations, and school loyalty contributions. Indeed, much of the wrangling has consisted in distracting question-begging, term quibbling, which does not invalidate the criticisms, but rather leaves them unrefuted. Let us discuss the above-mentioned disapprobations in order.

That fraternities are undemocratic is a charge coming from many educational quarters. Democratic in exercising the right of voluntary association, they are undemocratic in their own organic structure, as witness selective rushing, the ball system, and the Aryan clauses. Democracy, with its stress upon equality and majority, could not, it seems, encompass discrimination on grounds of race, creed, color, and personal whim. Thus, it would seem that fraternities have exercised a democratic right in the organization of an undemocratic, and even theoretically unchristian, institution. Because of this fact, in 1946, an alumni group and a faculty committee of Amherst College recommended that the trustees abolish fraternities. In a compromise, the fraternities were allowed to continue existence, but only with drastic reforms. Recently at Brown University, after a student had died of head injuries received during an inter-fraternity raucous, the president announced that fraternities would survive only with reformed conduct and if they could represent in their membership the majority of the student body. At the University of Virginia, former state governor and now President Darden recently made it clear that he was on the warpath of the “expensive, restricted, and ingrown” fraternities. In 1949, the National Inter-fraternity Conference strongly urged that fraternities remove all discriminatory clauses from their constitutions. So it would seem that the anti-democratic charge is growing stronger.

“Anti-intellectual” certainly in many cases is synonymous with the term “fraternity.” Sometimes organized study programs and rules are formulated and enforced, but this must be the exception. The best academic influence in a fraternity is upper-classman example, and this at Davidson is often pitiful. In fact, one who studies even reasonably consistently is often called a “grind,” and sneered at, so that any academic ambitions a neophyte fraternity man may have can soon become lowered by these hammering external pressures. (The fraternity houses I have visited and others that I have heard about are anything but conducive to intellectual attainment.) At one New England college, the non-fraternity group has won the scholarship award eighteen times since 1918. And that is not an exceptional example. “Anti-intellectual” may be too strong a term to apply universally, but in too many instances there seem to be no positive stimuli in fraternities for intellectual growth and achievement.

Indignant hazing characterizes many fraternity groups. Hazing is generally understood to include any pledge activities other than those practical and constructive duties connected with pledgeship, which create the possibility of bodily injury, cause undue embarrassment, infringe illegitimately on the pledge’s time, and involve public or private damage and stealing. That hazing exists on most college campuses needs no proof. Actually hazing is unconstitutional according to most fraternity regulations. It is also a violation of the state laws of North Carolina, and other states, and in most cases a violation of college regulations. Thus, from three angles fraternities are subject to discipline. To move

FROM THE EDITOR

To the Editor:

Last Friday, February 23rd, the student body of Davidson College should have been pleased to have Miss Elynor Bryson, soprano, as guest entertainer for the Chapel service. But — — — . In my opinion (and I think the analogy very fitting for the occasion) the infected boil of ungentlemanly crudeness came to a head and burst in all its cankerous and corrupted nature. If that is too rough for the aesthetes, I’ll put it this way: the student body has lowered itself, through its practices of plain inconsideration, to a sub-standard no better than heathenism. It seems that a proportionally large number of individuals, having lost their status as individuals in the student body gatherings, derive some sordid pleasure from the discourteous and often irreverent treatment now invariably given those who are trying sincerely to lead or entertain in Chapel. This condition has come to the point now, and I do not make this statement unadvisedly, that those individuals who are trying to get something of value from the services

By TOM MANN (Second of a series of three articles)

us discuss the above-mentioned disapprobations in order.

That fraternities are undemocratic is a charge coming from many educational quarters. Democratic in exercising the right of voluntary association, they are undemocratic in their own organic structure, as witness selective rushing, the ball system, and the Aryan clauses. Democracy, with its stress upon equality and majority, could not, it seems, encompass discrimination on grounds of race, creed, color, and personal whim. Thus, it would seem that fraternities have exercised a democratic right in the organization of an undemocratic, and even theoretically unchristian, institution. Because of this fact, in 1946, an alumni group and a faculty committee of Amherst College recommended that the trustees abolish fraternities. In a compromise, the fraternities were allowed to continue existence, but only with drastic reforms. Recently at Brown University, after a student had died of head injuries received during an inter-fraternity raucous, the president announced that fraternities would survive only with reformed conduct and if they could represent in their membership the majority of the student body. At the University of Virginia, former state governor and now President Darden recently made it clear that he was on the warpath of the “expensive, restricted, and ingrown” fraternities. In 1949, the National Inter-fraternity Conference strongly urged that fraternities remove all discriminatory clauses from their constitutions. So it would seem that the anti-democratic charge is growing stronger.

“Anti-intellectual” certainly in many cases is synonymous with the term “fraternity.” Sometimes organized study programs and rules are formulated and enforced, but this must be the exception. The best academic influence in a fraternity is upper-classman example, and this at Davidson is often pitiful. In fact, one who studies even reasonably consistently is often called a “grind,” and sneered at, so that any academic ambitions a neophyte fraternity man may have can soon become lowered by these hammering external pressures. (The fraternity houses I have visited and others that I have heard about are anything but conducive to intellectual attainment.) At one New England college, the non-fraternity group has won the scholarship award eighteen times since 1918. And that is not an exceptional example. “Anti-intellectual” may be too strong a term to apply universally, but in too many instances there seem to be no positive stimuli in fraternities for intellectual growth and achievement.

Indignant hazing characterizes many fraternity groups. Hazing is generally understood to include any pledge activities other than those practical and constructive duties connected with pledgeship, which create the possibility of bodily injury, cause undue embarrassment, infringe illegitimately on the pledge’s time, and involve public or private damage and stealing. That hazing exists on most college campuses needs no proof. Actually hazing is unconstitutional according to most fraternity regulations. It is also a violation of the state laws of North Carolina, and other states, and in most cases a violation of college regulations. Thus, from three angles fraternities are subject to discipline. To moveOn to the next criticism, national headquarters affiliations can become an impediment to the fulfillment of local chapter interests, and even college administration interests. It is an inherent weakness in organized national headquarters supervision over chapters that adult national officials, by the very nature of their not being or living at the chapter level, cannot possibly be sensitive to and respond to local needs as one actually experiencing them. This, coupled with the natural desire for self-perpetuation in office, can blind national officials to the undulations of chapter needs and pertinent local college administration attitudes. To a report that some college administrations were becoming anti-fraternity in attitude at a recent national fraternity convention, a national official dogmatically replied, “We believe that much can be done to change anti-fraternity attitudes of these college administrations; or, failing in that, to change the personnel of such institutions.” In the recent trial for supposed misconduct of a local chapter of a national fraternity, the officers of the national executive council (adults) acted as the prosecution, judges, jury, and, even in cases of procedure, as a court of appeals. These few men permanently abolished the chapter, even though its actions had not violated their constitution in either letter or spirit. So along with prestige, national headquarters affiliations also carry some difficult problems. Concerning school loyalty, let it merely be said that any college organization which demands as much loyalty as fraternities necessarily distracts or subtracts from potential school loyalty. It might be added that this would also have a detrimental effect on individual class loyalty. In conclusion, it appears upon introspection that the preceding criticisms, and possibly others, possess some validity and justification. The ranks of the critics and reformers include more than college officials and faculties. When a chapter at Amherst College recently stood trial before a national executive committee for pledging a Negro, 80 percent of the chapter alumni favored pledging and initiating the boy even at the expense of losing national affiliations! The unethical, unchristian, and undemocratic methods that were employed by the national officials to expel this chapter have entered the pages of fraternity history as one of its greatest disgraces. If we really believe in improving human relationships, there is enough truth in a statement by E. B. White the essayist, “‘fraternities’ are the antithesis of fraternity,” to motivate us to continuous and rigorous re-evaluation of the fraternity system. As was mentioned at the beginning of this article, the subject next week will deal with college-fraternity relations. Special attention will be given to the manner in which fraternities come into existence on the college campus, or the right by which they exist, and the groups to which they are responsible.

TOR’S MAILBOX

and entertainments are so greatly provoked, embarrassed, and distracted by the alternating hisses, boos, or horselaughs rising from the students, that we are desperately seeking any measure which will curb the present situation of conduct at our Chapel services. In past years we have heard everything from mild and well-meant suggestions on how to improve “Chapel conduct” (which phrase has almost become a tradition) which were promptly and (it seemed) purposely disregarded, down to and including strong threats of the fate which awaited the student body if it did not take its own steps to improve this “Chapel conduct,” which were viewed with no more than an apathetic disgust. The important thing though, is that with all the suggestions and threats, nothing concrete has been done about the situation, and the conduct has continued to course its usual vulgar ways. Now, we have seen what the student body is and has been able to do about the conduct in its own Chapel exercises, - - - nothing! Therefore, if the faculty is really interested in an improvement, recognizing the inadequacy of the student’s effort in this matter, they can and should take steps in the form of regulations; regulations affecting all of us, regulations which would deprive us of something that we want more than the opportunity to disrupt Christian worship, regulations which would hurt! We are tired of suggestions, discussion, threats, and appeasement - - - the time has now come for concrete administrative action! If compromise through deprivation we need, then let’s have it; but for the sake of Davidson College and common decency, let’s have something!

Respectfully and sincerely submitted,
Gene Regen, Jr.

(Ed. Note: In a meeting a few weeks ago, the faculty gave the Executive Committee full power to deal with the problem of chapel conduct in any manner in which they see fit. Your guess is as good as mine as to what action they may take.)

FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 1951

THE POT BOILS
By HENRY HANSEN

Whoever mentioned the lack of light on the rear of the gymnasium has a hearty second from this quarter. It seems strange that such oversights invariably occur and that their nature is always so simple that it hardly seems credible that they should occur. At any rate, whoever is responsible should add some sort of lighting before a serious accident occurs. While we're on the subject of the new gymnasium, what about the ventilation fans? They're excellent fans, but they do very little good when they are most needed, that is, on cold nights when all the windows are closed and the gym is packed with active spectators. Under these circumstances, when the fans are on they labor valiantly but ineffectively to produce a vacuum. This result has not yet been achieved; were it ever to happen the results would be highly interesting to the physics department and to those in the gym. It would seem rather obvious that stale air can be expelled and fresh air drawn in by providing an inlet through which it can come. With windows closed and lobby sealed, there is no inlet. Since the architects failed to take care of this little matter, perhaps some arrangements could be made to open some doors somewhere and let in a little air. Moving from the gymnasium to Chambers auditorium we find a ceiling full of little holes designed to make a boiler factory sound like a sewing machine. Their effect on a symphony orchestra or any other musical activity is equally great but not nearly so desirable. The senior class usually has to invent some way to spend their money in the annual gift, such as the floodlights on the South Court which while aesthetic, are not particularly useful. Why doesn’t some Senior class, preferably this one, invest a small amount of money in having the ceiling painted with a special plastic paint which would effectively seal the holes and restore some of the tone quality and “liveness” to an otherwise “dead” hall. Such a gift would be at the same time useful and aesthetic in that it would contribute much to musical performances in Chambers. Another gift which would be more appropriate than the usual fountains would be a new PA system for Chambers auditorium or equipment for the Red and Black Masquers. Another gift that could be made would be the commissioning of some composer to write a work connected in some way with the college. This has been done by other schools and serves, in addition to the value of the work itself, to effectively advertise the school itself. The above are but a few suggestions as to how the funds usually allocated to plaques and such might be more effectively spent than they are at present.

THE WORLD LAST WEEK

1) General Bradley said this country “must supply the kind of leadership necessary for this global struggle for freedom’s eternal survival.”
2) The threatened rail strike in Britain was stopped by pay increases, which will be accompanied by higher passenger and freight rates.
3) The Schuman plan for merging Western Europe’s heavy industry continued to lack support in France and Western Germany.
4) John Foster Dulles expressed his confidence that a Japanese peace treaty is forthcoming.
5) India and Pakistan signed a trade agreement, thus ending their long commercial squabble.
6) A half million immigrants have been added to the half million people the State of Israel had at its formation in 1948.
7) At Buenos Aires, Olympic visitors were welcomed with flags and banners. The first Pan American Olympic Games will be held on twenty-one sites.
8) The Communist Party purge in Czechoslovakia was not viewed by informed sources as being weakening to the party.

Geech’s Goulash
By PAT McGEACHY

One day in early spring Appleton Ass was gambling precociously about the corral, frightening the Gila-monsters and sniffing wisely at the tumbleweed as it passed. He seemed playful enough at the time, but suddenly he stopped and gave a disgusted snort. “Here comes the ole’ man,” he grumbled. “I can tell by the look in his eye that he’s about ready for another of these heart-to-heart talks.” This was indeed true. Appleton’s father, Angus, was a wise old ass, well versed in the ways of life. And now he was approaching with a dignified clop, ready to pass on more advice to the naive Appleton. “Son,” said he, “I want you to pay close attention to what I have to say, as it may save your life someday.” Now Appleton’s ears were plenty big enough to hear, and he was plenty smart enough to understand what his father had to say, but these heart-to-heart talks sort of went against his grain. So while Angus talked, Appleton closed his mind to everything. You would have thought that he was asleep, and indeed this was quite true. But the old ass went on. “Son, one of these days you're going to be moved out of this corral, and hitched up to a mule train. And you will have to work your head off. But asses were made good and strong for work, so you won't mind that. The only thing that bothers me is that you are still pretty ignorant of life yet, and one or two things might come up unexpectedly and you would be ruined. For example, if you're pulling a cart down the street, and a car horn startles you, for goodness sakes don't jump violently to the other side, because you may get run over by a steam roller or something.” Well, Appleton naturally paid absolutely no heed to this advice, simply because he hadn't been listening when it was given. And if he had been listening he probably would have forgotten it right away. But he ought to have listened, because sure enough, after a few weeks, Appleton was taken out of the old corral and hitched to a garbage wagon. This didn’t bother him very much, because asses are made good and strong for work, so he pulled the garbage wagon to and fro through the busy streets. One morning, however, before he was fully awake, he was passing one of the city's biggest intersections when the horn on a very large Olds Rocket sounded violently on his left. Appleton was so violently startled that he jumped suddenly to the right, completely upsetting the garbage wagon. But to make matters even worse, especially for Appleton, a steam roller was passing just at that moment on the right, and it ran over him, killing him. He was without a doubt the flattest ass you ever saw. Witnesses say that they carried Appleton on a flat car back to the old corral, and there buried him under the Western skies. And as the Gila-monsters and the tumbleweed play about over his grave, old Angus stands to one side sadly wondering if the youth of his day has gone to the prairie dogs. And I can’t say as I blame him.

DAVIDSONIAN’S PLATFORM FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

1. To abolish the double-cut system.
2. To change the existing system of giving cuts.
3. To make Physical Training non-compulsory for all seniors regardless of their age.
4. To improve the telephone arrangements in the dormitories and the college at large.
5. To change the system of student body elections.
6. To have more varied and interesting chapel programs and speakers.
7. To give praise where praise is due.
8. To criticize when it is felt that criticism will improve a situation.
9. To advocate Sunday night visitations to faculty homes.
10. To urge the classification of student regulations to the student.