¢ PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF ------------- BILL WHITE

BUSINESS MANAGER -------- MANLEY McWILLIAMS

Associate Editors ----------- Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis, George McMurray

Managing Editors ----------- Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw, John Ottley

Photographs—Archie Neal

Photographer—Andrew Simmons

Feature Editor—Mike Myers

Exchange Editor—Ed Richardson

Boo Northcutt

Copy Editor—Pete Ormsby

Art Editor—Don Mahy

Sports Editor—Dick Liles

City Editor—Nat Daniels

Assistant Business Manager ---------------

Advertising Manager -------- Jack Hobson

Circulation Manager -------- Bob Poston

Collection Manager --------- Bill Minter

Subscriptions Manager ------ Preston Chaney

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Class Of 51, Cum Christ

For the second time within the decade, America’s collegiate graduate crop lies ripe for the Great Reaper of war, a fact which understandably makes them even more reluctant on leaving for good the comfortable niche of life they have carved for themselves on the campuses. If the 1951 graduating class has more misery than the normal (are there such things?) years bring in the now slightly hot proverbial cold, cold world, they also have the company which misery is supposed to love. For unless there is a vast lot of undiscovered genius rampant in the white buck brigade, there will be many underclassmen joining their elder brothers in the service come summer.

Jokingly as it may be dismissed on the surface, the subject is cause for deep personal planning and concern for the individual student faced with military selection in the very near future. Not a few feel as if the bottom has dropped out of everything they had hoped for—summer jobs, permanent jobs, homes, vacations and the like. There is a void and empty feeling within.

We have had it told us that this whole struggle that has so disrupted our plans is a basic one between Christianity and Communism, and that we are fighting for our Christian heritage. Are we? Or are we just fighting against Communism? If we truly believe that our service is to protect our Christian ideals and the Christian lands of the world, the disruption of our planned lives seems of lesser consequence. For the man who is fighting for this purpose, positively and not negatively, has Christ as the goal of his desires, and as long as he is in His service, he is happy, full of courage to do the task, and confident of victory.

Dr. Lingle once said that a man had as much religion as he could summon up in a crisis. Certainly the world has known no greater crisis than it knows at the present day. That religion is not principally one to comfort but one to give strength to rise equal to the task. As Christians we are confident of ultimate triumph. As Communists, that group is confident of ultimate triumph. The men which we send forth to meet them, more really—those which go forth from Davidson and the other colleges of the nation this summer, must be Christian in heart and life, for their own quiet peace within and for the peace of the world. Make no doubt about it, therein lies the only solution.

“Peace I leave with you; my peace I give unto you; not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let it be afraid.” Do we really believe this?

Look Prof., No Shoes

It was O. A. Overstreet who came out with the obvious that the mature person is one who is ever maturing—a definition which, when twisted enough, leads to a justification that man can always be a boy again without feeling a loss of dignity or esteem.

Poets down through the ages have labored over lines to express their desire to be a child again, just for a fleeting moment, a day. And his is inevitably a wish to be a child again in the summertime, undoubtedly motivated by that tickling, sole-scratching sensation that comes only from walking in cool, plush green grass, stark naked from the ankle down. The cynic describes such practice as a cold provoker and invitation to stubbed toes and cut feet. For the cynic there are shoes, however, and for the advocator of freer toe-rein there is the healthy, growing young Davidson practice (to comply with Dr. Davidson's definition of tradition) of Barefoot Day, established three springs ago and observed the day before exams commence each spring. This Tuesday is no exception. Just remember the rules: Pants legs rolled two turns and keep your feet off the prof’s desk in class.

At Last... Action

As welcome as would be a 30-hour day these last work-filled weeks were Dr. Puckett’s words which fell on ears of eager acceptance in chapel Wednesday morning. At last the much-talked-about, little-done-about problem of chapel conduct was brought to a tangible head. Dr. Puckett’s report from the committee studying chapel conduct gave the student body some facts and figures that it could sink its teeth in, and more importantly it gave proposed solutions that weren’t generalizations. They were clear-cut steps which deal with the very heart of the problem. The Davidsonian will not attempt in this brief space (Continued on Page Four)

ROPER SEES: THE DAVIDSONIAN

Britain: Get That Dollar!

We have now truly seen everything. We have heard a lot of strange tales in our few short years, but this one tops them all. It seems this is the way the story goes:

(1) The United Nations is fighting a Police Action (i.e., a small-scale war in which the U.N. have incurred some 235,000 casualties) in Korea against a Communist aggressor. Great Britain and the United States are members of the U.N., and are also signatory nations to the North Atlantic Peace Pact. Therefore, Great Britain and the U.S. are allies, fighting together in a common cause.

(2) At the present time, Great Britain is in dire financial straits. The British are doing everything possible to increase their supply of dollars, while letting as little money as possible get out of the country.

(3) Britain's main method of making money for the last three or four centuries has been by trade. Britain has almost always advocated free trade, since the laissez-faire policy has usually been to their own interests. Since trade, then, is practically their bread and butter, they are willing to deal with any and everybody who will allow British ships in their ports.

So now we have this situation: Britain, who is nominally the enemy of Red China, is now trading peacefully with that nation, supplying them with munitions and war supplies. The first effect that the realization of this fact has on the average American is that of outraged indignation. How could an ally betray us so underhandedly for their own aggrandizement? Did we provide them with millions of dollars worth of lend-lease equipment during World War II to avoid having their country overrun by the ruthless Axis powers, only to have them turn on us? First Russia, now Britain? But the crowning blow, the staggering fact which seems still to be generally unnoticed is that the very war supplies which Britain is shipping to Red China are enabling the Communists to kill, wound, and maim their own kinsmen, the British contingent of the U.N. fighting in Korea.

So now we have the picture of the great John Bull sitting in his counting house, raking in the profits from a slant-eyed gentleman, while he consciously avoids looking over his shoulder where his own countrymen as well as his American allies are being shot down with his own products. It is indeed an odd situation in which we call people “friend” while they shoot us and their own brothers from behind. We don’t know whether this situation has any precedent, but no matter what the outcome, it should go down in the history books as a study in calculated cold-bloodedness.

THE POT BOILS

Though a critic or a would-be critic seldom wishes to do so, it occasionally becomes necessary for him to admit that he is hardly qualified to render any particularly authoritarian judgment of some production. Such is my position in reference to the Red and Black Masquers’ production of Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar. Many playwrights can be approached fairly confidently and even criticized in the same vein with little knowledge; Shakespeare is definitely not one of these. For this reason, in my comments on this production, I shall limit myself to those which do not bear on interpretation, that is, the effectiveness with which the cast gave dramatic life to what Shakespeare actually intended. I have heard comments on both sides of the fence—some felt that Shakespeare certainly turned over in his grave at the slaughter done to his play; some felt that he could not but have been pleased—by people who, presumably, should know whereof they speak.

First of all, the set was certainly excellent. It was not inferior to similar Broadway sets and, when it is considered that the knotty problem of authentic backgrounds with the limited means of the Chamber’s stage was thus disposed of, the use of such a set shows not only imagination but intelligence as well. The lighting, too, certainly deserves favorable mention. It was, throughout the performance, very effective, particularly in the scene which was lighted from the back and presented the characters only in silhouette. Generally speaking, there were times when the faces of the actors were not clear but here againThe fault must be ascribed to lack of equipment rather than skill. The only fault in the overall production was that such a high intensity of feeling was achieved so early in the play that it was both difficult to maintain at that point and tended to make the high point of Anthony’s operation somewhat weak in contrast. This reaching of a premature climax with the noted subsequent effect was the most serious fault of the production. Certain of the actors deserve particular mention either for the particular excellence of their acting or because their prominence in the play necessitates it. Bob Gay as Caesar was adequate and it was evident that a great deal of serious effort went into his part. Robert Crutchfield’s Casca was one of the best performances of the evening. It was well played with sparkle and wit and was doubly appreciated for that very reason since some of the intended humor failed to come forth in the parts of various others in the cast. Both the women’s parts were adequately played. Shakespeare might have been interested in the fact that his lion was now weeping instead of whelping in the streets but this can be overlooked. Mac Bulgin’s Cassius was a bit overwrought at first but descended to a more acceptable level of emotionality as the play progressed. The part was certainly done with intensity and feeling. Vance Mizelle’s Soothsayer was excellent. Undoubtedly the best acting was done by Tad Currie as Marcus Antony. Hardly less excellent and an excellent foil for him was the performance of Richard Perkins as Brutus. So much for individual mention. Finally, let it be remembered that the Masquers are not a professional group and further that they labor under peculiar and extended difficulties which are already too well known to mention here. When these things are taken into consideration as they must be in a consideration of their performances, it is amazing how well they appear relative to the excellences of any other comparable group. The production of Julius Caesar is a step in the right direction for the Masquers. There is a great field of dramatic literature open to them in the classical realm which can be effectively done, as this one was, without fear of too much censoring, or too intricate staging problems. In this connection Professor Tyson is to be commended for his adaptation and direction and for the general influence he has already had for the better in the short time he has been here. We are fortunate to have him and, since this play was as well done as any in the past, it is obvious that we can expect greater things from his work with the Masquers in the future.

GEECH’S GOULASH

And so the evening sun dips behind the silhouetted oaks and elms, clutching with waning red fingers at the buildings and trees. But it clutches in vain. The hue of the sky deepens—grows red—grows gray—and the unrelenting shadows envelope the silent walks. But lo! like a lonely star in a winter sky a cross still shines—clear and golden—and long after all other colors have quitted the scene it still glows, calmly surveying the vanishing landscape. Then as though it were the spark that touched them off, a hundred pinpoints of light begin to dot the village, and life lives on—undisturbed by the coming night. Perhaps you will pardon this unpardonable bit of conceit. But somehow there is something really moving about these Spring sunsets. There is always something moving about the closing of a day, or of a year, or of a life. For some of us, we close a four-year period, and soon it will slip into the back of our minds, probably to hold a place of sentimental pleasure—possibly mixed with a few disappointments. But when you are away from Davidson, something will cling to you, like that cross hangs on to the light after the sun has set. There are a lot of wonderful things that have happened to you here. You are four years older—and a deuce more mature. Little things don’t mean as much to you as they once did—you’re a little more patient, a little more intelligent, and a little wiser, and you’ve got a lot more friends. You aren’t yet perfect, but you will never be that—not in this life anyhow. If you never learned a word or a number, you’re wiser. If you never joined a fraternity you still have more friends. If you always lose your temper, you still have more patience. Why it is that college affects you is a debatable question. Maybe it’s just four years of normal maturation, in a protected place, away from the cares of life. Some people say it is. But somehow, as the fourth year draws to a close, there are very few who look back sadly and wish they had not come to Davidson. It isn’t such a bad school. There are a lot of uncommendable things about it. It’s snobby and prejudiced. It’s conceited. It is childish in some ways. But it’s old and faithful and loving and warm, and you won’t forget it. For if you do, whether you know it or not, you will have forgotten the most important part of your life. We’re always talking too much, confound it. But then this is the last of the year and everybody likes to blow off at least once or thereabouts. We’ve enjoyed it. If you have, more power to you. If not, don’t let it throw you, you’re only normal. Come and see us sometime in our little rose-covered shanty in ol’ Shantytown and chew the fat. And if anybody remembers three consecutive words out of this article there will be a liberal reward offered. Don’t take any wooden bus tokens; keep your teeth clean and bright with Griffin All-White; and remember me, I’m the one who loves you. We’ll be still kicking when you pass into the great beyond, for as you may have heard, “Old columnists never die, they just tirade away.” Be good, and send my remains to my old mother in Pittsburgh. She was always a good kid. As the French say, “Olive oil!”

Turntable Interpretation

The best news to come this way in a long time is the announcement by Victor that they are re-releasing some of the best-known oldies under the title “The 25 All-Time Best Sellers.” Among the 25 included, all of which will prove a blessed addition to any record fan’s collection, are four of Glenn Miller’s numbers, the top one of which is his waxing of “In the Mood” and “String of Pearls.” Also included in this group are platters by Duke Ellington, Fats Waller, Benny Goodman, Vaughn Monroe, and many others. Victor made this announcement last month, so by now they are probably available at almost any music store. Sonny Fontaine’s “Syncopated Clock” and Spike Jones’s latest Slaughter “Il Baccio” (all lovers of classical music stay away) provide two of the best novelty numbers on sale, while the “When You and I Were Young Maggie Blues” gets a thorough going-over by Bing and Gary Crosby for Decca, and Margaret Whiting and Jimmy Wakely for Capitol.

PROM—FRIDAY, MAY 11, 1951

The Editor’s Mailbox

Editor of The Davidsonian
Box 218
Davidson, N. C.

Years ago, when the dormitory janitors received somewhat less than their current wage of $24.00 per week, the custom of generous and frequent tipping by students was more widespread than at present. Nowadays, we tend to adapt the custom chiefly to Christmas holidays and summer vacation. But the rise in wages is not excuse enough to eliminate the Christmas and summer gesture as well. Many of us seem to have eliminated it. From fifty-five men in his dormitory last Christmas, one janitor to my knowledge received a total gift of $22.00. It seems rather unlikely that those men who did contribute averaged only $0.40 per man; a number of men must have neglected to make any gesture at all. If there is any real neglect here of a still-good tradition, the neglect is probably due to honest ignorance of the tradition. At any rate, some of us down our end of Dormitory Row want to suggest that, as all of us leave the campus for summer vacation, we remember the janitors.

DON SHRIVER

THE WORLD LAST WEEK

1) In Ireland Prime Minister John Costello’s coalition government was dissolved, and an election called for May 30.
2) Pulitzer prizes in journalism, letters, and music were announced by the trustees of Columbia University. Carl Sandburg won his second poetry award.
3) A severe earthquake shook El Salvador.
4) The new queen in Egypt is seventeen-year-old Narriman Sadek, who succeeds Farouk’s divorced wife, Queen Farida.
5) The Syria-Israel conflict continued without the probability of settlement unless outside mediation is employed.
6) Count Turf won the seventy-seventh Kentucky Derby at Churchill Downs. Jockey Conn McCreary remarked, “I think every race is written in a book.”

Men’s Clothing — ACADEMY

Gabardine sheen gabardine was born to lead a double life. Smart for dress-up occasions, it doubles for sportswear—the patch pocket jacket as a sport coat... slacks. And the silky lustre is handsomely enhanced by the distinctive styling and rich hand-tailoring of Eagle Clothes.

SUITS BY EAGLE

Regulars, Shorts, Longs, Extra Longs

Patronize Our Advertisers