WINSOME WOMEN WASTE WAMPUM

The Davidsonian

VOLUME XXXIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, MARCH 9, 1951

Salem Girls Due Here Saturday

HALL HAPPY AS STUDENTS JOIN

More new life was added to the Eumanean Literary Society Monday evening with an entertaining program of papers by new
members, and the antics, jestings, and loquaciousness of Hartly Hall, president. Gene Little, "Pain and Tears"; Bob Mitchell, "Hollywood Production";
Moody Smith, "The Terrible Testimonia"; Buddy Lamon, "Life"; Scott Downs, "A Man With The Rake"; Bell Hood, "South Fork"; John
Stiefel, "Closer To God"; Jimmy Burnet, "The Republican Party and The Future"; Ben Gary, "Spring Robin"; Woodie McKay, "A Thanksgiving
Thanks."

Mr. Hall announced that Master-entie for this semester would be Pete Milner, the Parliamentarian would be Pete Kalogritis, and the
program chairman would be Bill Hollister. Formal initiation ceremonies will be held on March 18, at which time eighteen members
will be initiated into the brotherhood of the Eumanean Literary Society.

Speed, Robinson Top Phi Docket

The Phi Society held its regular meeting on March 5. After the business was completed, several members read articles which
they had written. Bob Gay and Bryan Robinson with their creative talent added extra distinctism to the meeting. Jim Speed
read Mr. Gay's two stories and poem. Perhaps the tale of Dog and Kitty was the masterpiece of the three.
Bryan Robinson probed into the intricate cosmos with its protons whirling and “whistling.” The effects of this description were fiercely
debated. Alexander, newly joined to the ranks of the society, read a mysterious and provoking opus entitled “The Cross-Scratcher.”

Union Deputation To Include Old Grads

Davidson will be host this Sunday and Monday to a visiting deputation team from the Union Theological Seminary of Richmond,
Virginia. Four Davidson graduates of recent years are included on the team. They are Curtis Harper ‘50, Jack Payne '49,
Tommy Clark ‘49, and Frank Lemmon '49. The team will have charge of the YMCA Bible class on Sunday morning,
and Jack Payne will preach at the college church during the regular Sunday morning service. Before returning to the seminary,
the entire team will take over the Monday chapel program.

Starts Afternoon

Saturday, March 10 has been designated Salem-Davidson Day for 1951. Under the mutual guidance of Miss Ann Hobbs, Social Chairman
at Salem College, and Tommy Haller, Social Chairman of Davidson’s YMCA, some sixty girls will arrive in buses at 2:30
Saturday in front of Chambers. Chief forms of entertainment will consist of a wrestling match Saturday afternoon and an informal
dance that evening.

Giving such “days” in honor of nearby girls’ colleges has become a time-honored practice at Davidson. As in the past,
a list of girls to come was posted and each boy desiring a blind date was asked to sign his
name beside that of the girl he deemed most worthy of his attentions. It was hoped that no horseplay would
be encountered such as that which forced Haller to care for thirty girls at Davidson-W.C. Day. Haller seemed to think
this stemmed largely from boys signing other boys’ names to the list without informing the alleged signee of this fact.

At three o’clock in the Johnston Gym, top-flite inter-collegiate wrestling is on tap as the AAU district tournament draws to
a close. Masters from all over the state together with several service teams are expected to enter and a fast-moving
set of matches is predicted. Attention will again be focused on the gym when the Scabbard and Blade will present
its yearly Military Ball. Lasting from eight until twelve, the dance is classified informal. Tickets will be priced at $1.00
for stags and $1.75 for men who escort girls to this dance. Members of the Scabbard and Blade will present
the dance.

PRES. WILL MEET CHORUS IN PA.

Dr. Cunningham will journey to Philadelphia this week (Friday, March 9), where he will speak at a dinner to be
given that same evening by the Philadelphia Alumni Association. The dinner will be held at the Ardmore Presbyterian Church, where
the pastor is Dr. Allan Frew, an outstanding Davidson Alumnus. The Davidson campus will also be represented by the Male
Chorus, who will present a concert in the main sanctuary of the church following the dinner. The president of the
Philadelphia chapter of the Alumni Association is Bob Phillips who graduated from Davidson in 1949 and who is now a
medical student at the University of Pennsylvania. The meeting will draw alumni from much of the surrounding area, including such
points as Princeton University.

Now BOYS. Elizabeth Taylor Has Stolen Bust Awarded Her By Harvard Editors

Editors of The Harvard Crimson want to know what Elizabeth Taylor is doing with their bust. Miss Taylor, here for
a Red Cross rally, was presented with a bust of “Fabian Fall” before she left by air for Hollywood today.
The award was made by the editors of the undergraduate humor magazine, The Lampoon. But when editors of The Crimson,
the Harvard Daily, learned about the presentation, they announced that “Fabian” was theirs. The bust, they said, was taken from
a room in the Crimson offices sometime during the night.

The trouble began last month when The Lampoon awarded Miss Taylor a “Roscoe” for “so gallantly persisting in her career
despite a total inability to act.” Then, in an apparent gesture at reconciliation, the Lampoon editors met her at the
airport today and presented her with the “Fabian Fall Award” for being “the actress who has shown the greatest improvement
as a result of the previous receipt of the Roscoe.” Miss Taylor said, “It's very sweet of you boys.” The
Crimson said, “We want it back.” Fabian Fall, the editors said, was president of The Crimson in 1909 and the
bust was kept in a room given in the youth’s memory by his family. “We are working to bring about
its return,” the editors said.

Announcement has been made that Mr. Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., a graduate of the Davidson class of 1940, will fill
the position vacated by Mr. Ernest J. Arnold, assistant to the president. While a student at Davidson Mr. Spencer was
president of the student body, a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Upsilon, a Lt. Col. in
the ROTC, and a member of Scabbard and Blade. In addition to this he was a member of the Eumanean
Literary Society, Le Circle Francais, the Student Store Board of Control, the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet, was Managing Editor of the Davidsonian,
Assistant Business Manager of Quips and Cranks and was vice-president of the student body.

After graduating from Davidson in 1940 Mr. Spencer took a position in the advertising and sales department of Vick Chemical
Company. He then served five years in the United States Army, being discharged with the rank of major. For two
of these years he was a member of the ROTC department here at Davidson. From January, 1946 to June, 1946,
Mr. Spencer was an assistant in the Public and Alumni Relations office at Davidson. He has done graduate work at
U.C.L.A., received his MA in history from Harvard, and is planning to complete his work for Ph.D. in history this
summer. Mr. Spencer is married and has one son.

Notice

The Red and Black Masquers will hold the tryouts for the authentic production of “Julius Caesar.” The tryouts will be
held Monday and Tuesday nights from 7 till 9. This year's play will be under the direction of Professor Raymond
Tyson, speech and dramatics department head.

Off For New York

Invited To New And Nationwide Radio Broadcast

AED Programs

Plans have just been completed for the semester programs to be presented by the North Carolina Alpha chapter of Alpha
Epsilon Delta, National Premedical Honor Society. The aim of the chapter this semester is to offer interesting and informative programs
to its members and other interested students.

March 14th—Initiation.
March 16th—Tour through Statesville Hospital with “Stag Dinner” afterwards.
March 28th—"General Practitioner” defends his position. Mooresville doctor.
April 4th—“Specialist” defends his position. Charlotte doctor.
April 11th—Dr. Sparrow will speak on the social, moral, civic, and religious phases of a doctor's life with many of
the humorous incidents he has.faced. April 20th—Tour through Shriners’ Orthopedic Hospital in Gastonia, N.C. April 25th—"Cancer” - Charlotte doctor and
films. May 4th—Social for AED members and their dates. May 9th—“Heart Diseases” - Charlotte doctor and films. The meetings on
March 28th, April 4th, 11th, 24th, and May 9th will be open to the student body and will be announced
in chapel.

On Wednesday night, February 28th, Dr. Woods presented a very informative and interesting talk on “Missionary Medicine” after a film
entitled “So Forth.” At 8:30 this past Thursday morning, a red and yellow Trailways bus, stuffed with thirty-odd sleepy Davidsonians,
pulled away from the back of Shearer Hall and the Davidson College Male Chorus was off on its 1500-mile tour;
a tour which includes a weekend of singing in New York, a thirty-minute nationwide broadcast, and concerts in Pennsylvania and
in Virginia.

Thursday evening the chorus sang a concert in the Bethel Presbyterian Church of Staunton, Virginia. Murphy Williams, who was secretary
of the Davidson College YMCA several years ago, is now serving this church as pastor. A Davidson alumni banquet held
at the First Presbyterian Church of Ardmore, Pa. was the scene of the chorus's Friday evening concert. Saturday morning will
find the singers on the road to New York City with a thirty-minute NBC broadcast scheduled for 3:00 p.m. that
afternoon. This broadcast will originate in the Radio City studios of NBC and will be aired on a coast-to-coast “hook-up.”
Davidsonians across the land will be listening in for “Davidson on the Air” from 3:00 to 3:30 p.m., Saturday afternoon,
March 10.

On Sunday the Male Chorus will sing for the morning service at the Brick Presbyterian Church on Park Ave. and
for a vesper service that afternoon at the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church. Monday afternoon will bring a farewell, probably a
reluctant one, to the Big Town as the chorus heads for Bethlehem, Pa. and a concert in the First Presbyterian
Church there that evening. A Tuesday night concert winds up the singing tour, with the long trip back to Davidson
in store for Wednesday.

Earl F. Berg, who has been directing Davidson choruses since 1941, will conduct the Male Chorus on its tour, and
Harold M. Frantz, college organist and organ instructor, will serve the group as accompanist. Mr. Berg said before leaving that
he felt sure that the chorus would present some fine concerts as they carried Davidson musically into New York and
beyond. Don't be surprised, then, if you see a familiar face on some TV show Saturday night or if someone
lends you a book of matches next week from the Stork Club. Herb Russell even promised the Davidsonian he would
bring back the straight story on the basketball “fix.”

The Davidson Week
Mon — Recover from last weekend.
Tues — Make arrangements for next weekend.
Wed — Lull between weekends.
Thurs — Get ready for weekend.
Fri — Leave for weekend.
Sat and Sun — Weekend.

NUMBER EIGHTEEN

Paper Wins $250 Runner-Up Prize In Safety Contest
By JOHN OTTLEY

The Davidsonian received a wire Tuesday afternoon, March 6 announcing it had won a second place prize of $250 in
a contest sponsored by the Lumbermen’s Mutual Casualty Company of Chicago. Four sections devoted to contest entry of the December
15 issue were: a feature story by Shelley Beard, a cartoon by Jim Fickeisen, an editorial by Gordon Scott, and
a news-feature by John Ottley. Open to college daily and non-daily newspapers, this contest is an effort to reduce the
death rate among college-age drivers. It was given for the third consecutive year during 1951. Use of the prize money
will be decided at a later date. It is thought that a portion will be given to the four contributors
and the remaining sum donated to improving the Davidsonian’s office in the new student union building.

Lumbermen's Mutual Casualty Company, contest sponsor, annually awards $2,000 to the college papers which do the best editorial jobs of
promoting safe driving by students during the Christmas holidays. Chairman James S. Kemper, who announced the winners here, praised “The
Davidsonian” for its active editorial aid in impressing the hazards of holiday traffic on young drivers. “The accident rate of
college-age drivers is especially high during the Christmas vacation period,” he said.

Contest judges were Mayor Martin H. Kennelly of Chicago; Ned H. Dearborn, president of the National Safety Council; Ralph Rudd,
chairman of the Chicago Transit Authority; Franklin Kreml, director of the Northwestern University Traffic Institute; Wesley T. Nunn, director of
advertising for Standard Oil of Indiana; and Carl Kesler, chairman of the executive committee of Sigma Delta Chi, professional journalism
fraternity.

First prizes went to “The Daily Trojan,” University of Southern California (daily) and “The Aztec,” San Diego State College (non-daily).
Second prize for dailies went to “The Battalion,” Texas A&M. “The Montana Kaimin,” Montana State University (daily) and “The Fax
Reporter,” Temple University (non-daily) received third prizes. Individual prizes for the best safe driving editorial, feature, and cartoon went to
“The Bucknellian,” Bucknell University, “The Loyola (Chicago) University News,” and “The Daily Northwestern,” Northwestern University.

Chapel Schedule
March 12 — Union Theological Seminary Team.
March 13 — Prof. Roberts.
March 14 — Dr. Cunningham.
March 15 — YMCA.
March 16 — Dr. McGeachy.

BIG TIME: The Davidson Male Chorus, pictured above, will arrive in New York City Saturday morning for three concerts, featured
by a nationwide radio broadcast over NBC at 3:00 Saturday afternoon. The chorus, under the direction of Mr. Earl Berg,
will leave New York Monday and give two more concerts before returning to the campus on Wednesday.

AFRICAN NOVEL REVIEWED FOR SIGMA UPSILON

Sigma Upsilon, Davidson's national literary fraternity, opened its meetings for the month of March last Thursday evening at nine fifteen.
The group met in fraternity court at the SAE house, where for an hour and a half the program ran
the gamut from short stories to discussions. Don Shriver, president of the local chapter, opened the meeting with further discussion
of last week's decision to join the national Sigma Upsilon organization. As was reported in last week's Davidsonian, the parent
organization has recently been reactivated, and Davidson has received an invitation to join with it. The question raised was that
of whether Davidson would actually benefit from such a juncture.

The literary contributions to the meeting were made by George Bason and Dave Hamilton. Bason presented an original short story,
based on that age-old favorite of story writers, “young love.” It involved the usual triangle: girl falls in love with
boy who is already in love with another woman. After reading his story, Bason “cast it to the lions,” where
it provided “meat” for further discussion. Dave Hamilton brought the meeting to a close, as he took his turn at
the fraternity’s project for the year, “The Revolt of Contemporary Writers Against Materialism.” He furthered the project with a study
of “Cry, the Beloved Country,” Alan Paton’s novel about the racial tensions in South Africa.

Price of Tickets Cut For Concert

Date tickets at the reduced price of $2.00, including tax, have been placed on sale for the concert of the
Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra, here, on Saturday evening, March 17. The price of these tickets represents a reduction of $1.00 to
Davidson students from the regular general admission price of $3.00.

This concert by one of America’s oldest and finest orchestras is the last of this year’s Davidson Artist Series concerts.
Students and faculty will recall the concert by the Cincinnati Symphony here last year as a highlight of last year’s
series. This old orchestra is conducted by a young and brilliant figure in the American musical scene. Holiday magazine, in
its last issue, picked Dr. Thor Johnson as one of the top ten conductors in America. He will demonstrate the
brilliant interpretive powers, sound musicianship, and inspiring conducting technique which have earned for him so distinguished a position as he
conducts the Cincinnati Symphony here next Saturday evening.

The concert will be held in Chambers Auditorium and will begin at 8:15 p.m. Students wishing to take advantage of
this opportunity to purchase date tickets at the reduced price are urged to come by the Music Department Offices in
Elm Row as soon as possible since the anticipated demand for seats for this concert is quite large.
