CONGRATULATIONS ATO! VOLUME XXXIX

Royal Chaplain To Give Lectures

The 58-year-old Otts Lecture Series at Davidson College beginning Sunday night features this year five addresses by Dr. James Hutchison
Cockburn, outstanding Scottish minister and theologian. The former moderator of the Church of Scotland will speak on “The Church and
State in Europe” during Feb. 25-28. Emile Calliet, French Scholar,

J. H. COCKBURN

delivered the tenth and most recent lectures in the series in 1946. Other recent speakers have been Dr. John R.
Mott in 1940 and Dr. John A. Mackay in 1942. The series was opened in 1893 by Dr. J. M.
P. Otts. The 1951 speaker was invited partially because of his world-wide experience in Christian service. Until recently he was
director of the department of Reconstruction and Inter-Church Aid of the World Council of Churches and his duties took him
to eighteen countries in Europe, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand.

Dr. Cockburn, (pronounced “Co-burn”) who is also chaplain to King George VI, will arrive in America this month, and plans
to travel through the South, Eastern Seaboard, and Mid-West. He has visited America before, receiving the honorary degree of Doctor
of Divinity from Yale University in 1948. Dr. Cockburn spent four months in America last winter filling a speaking schedule
which covered the country from the East Coast to the West Coast. He spent three weeks in Florida as a
leader on the Chain of Missionary Assemblies and led preaching missions in Lynchburg, Virginia, and Hagerstown, Maryland. He also delivered
lectures at a good many colleges and seminaries.

The trip which brings Dr. Cockburn to Davidson will carry him also to other points in the South, Mid-West, and
the Eastern Seaboard. He will be in the United States from mid-February until mid-May. Dr. Cockburn’s warmth of manner and
genial personality, as well as his striking presence and distinction as a speaker, have made him a welcome guest in
whatever part of the world he has visited. Few men would have better right to be called “Ambassador of Goodwill.”

SIG UP JOINS NATIONAL FRAT

Sigma Upsilon, Davidson's national honorary fraternity recognizing student literary talent, held its regular meeting last Thursday evening at nine fifteen
in the Phi Gam house. Don Shriver presided over the meeting, guiding the main discussion, which dealt with the issue
of whether the Davidson chapter should rejoin the national organization of Sigma Upsilon. The chapter received its original charter as
a member of the national fraternity, but when the parent organi-

Student Council Cracks Gambling

Next Tuesday, February 27, the student body will meet to discuss a proposed amendment to the Constitution of the Student
Body with respect to gambling. Because of complications in dealing with a recent case of gambling on the campus, the
Student Council has acted in proposing an amendment to the constitution. A special committee of Student Council members, composed of
Ray Cunningham, Ken Goodpasture, and Larry Dagenhart, have met and discussed this matter, and their proposal will be presented to
the student body next Tuesday. As the constitution now stands on gambling: Article VIII, Student Body Regulations, Section Three, “No
student shall be guilty of gambling.” This can be interpreted to mean any type of gambling whatsoever, and in a
recent student body meeting, it was proposed that a group be ap-

(Continued On Page Four)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1951

STUDENTS HAVE CHANCE TO AID MEN IN KOREA

The American Red Cross will conduct a Blood Drive in Davidson Community on Friday, March 9th, between the hours of
11 a.m. and 5 p.m. Place: Basement of Davidson College Infirmary. This is the second such drive conducted in the
last few months, the other having been October 26th. The March Drive is particularly important because of the large number
of casualties sustained recently in the intense fighting in Korea. A greatly increased blood quota has been assigned Mecklenburg County
for this particular reason. It has been indicated that there is a critical shortage of blood for the fighting forces
especially. It is planned to call upon the Student Body, all Civic groups of the town, individual citizens, and college
personnel for support. The national college leadership fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, intends to give active encouragement to the Student Body’s
participation. Those persons who desire to donate blood will be given a convenient appointment hour. Solicitors will have appointment blanks
with them at the time of their calls. Appointments may also be made directly with the ROTC office at the
College, phone 2791, between the hours of 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. It is intended that, by close adherence

(Continued On Page Four)

THUMP THOSE DULCIMERS! NOTED BALLAD SINGER, NILES, PRESENTS ENJOYABLE PROGRAM

P.C., G.M.C. Victims Of ROTC Rifle Team

The Wildcat Rifle Team defeated Presbyterian College and Gordon Military College in a postal match this week. Scores were: Davidson,
1868; Gordon Military College, 1858; and Presbyterian College, 1800. Ten men fired for each team, the high 5 scores counting.
Possible team score was 2000. High scorer for the Wildcats was W. W. Abbott with 379 out of 400. The
other four students who placed were, in order of score: A. S. Miree, F. McCutchan, J. P. Thompson, and W.
L. Morris. The victories gave the local team a season's record of 15 matches won and 4 lost. Two postal
matches remain on the schedule, both to be fired at an early date: with St. Thomas College and a return
match with Gordon Military College. Three shoulder-to-shoulder matches also remain on the schedule, as follows: VMI, at Lexington, on 3
March; Clemson, at Clemson, on 10 March; and Wofford, at Spartanburg, on 16 March. The scheduled shoulder-to-shoulder match here with
Wofford Saturday afternoon has been cancelled, due to the fact that the Wildcats will be firing an invitational match in
Charlotte on that date.

Last night, Chamber's auditorium echoed with fine tones of the dulcimer and the male alto voice of John Jacob Niles,
the world-renowned ballad singer. The program he offered was composed of many different types of ballads. He asked the audience
never to forget that a ballad is a song that tells a story. Before he sang each ballad he related
the history and origin of each. Most of the ballads he used were either of English or local origin, although
even the text of many local ballads was English. Some of the better-known ballads he rendered were “I Wonder as
I Wander,” “Barbara Allen,” “John Henry,” “The Sea Witch,” “The Black Jack Gypsy,” and many other entertaining selections. He also
sang and gave the history of several English carols which are religious ballads about Mary and Jesus. Mr. Niles, who
has sung in Paris, Mexico City, and many other famous cities of the world, comes from a long line of
musicians. On his father’s side, ballad singing goes back five generations, and his mother is a descendant of a long
line of musical instrument makers. He started singing ballads when he was fifteen years old, and he told the audience
that his voice, which is extremely high for a male

(Continued On Page Four)

NOTICE

The PMS&T has been informed by Headquarters Third Army that the annual formal inspection of the Military Department will be
conducted by the Government on Monday and Tuesday, 30 April & 1 May, respectively. Such an inspection is given every
ROTC unit toward the close of each school year, and is normally made by a party of at least 3
officers, all of whom have the rank of at least major. Normally the officer in charge has the rank of
full Colonel. The inspection will cover all phases of the ROTC work: classroom instruction, administration and records, facilities, condition of
equipment, drill, appearance, and esprit de corps.

D-Clubbers Still On Job, Still Plugging

The boys who stay “with the ball” during the athletic year have been “on the ball” lately in other activities
on the Davidson campus. The D Club's members have been taking up ducats and ushering at all home basketball contests.
These guardians of Davidson's athletic powers have been faithfully guiding the spectators to their respective seats on the east side
of the gym and in the balcony. At the recent Mid-Winter's dances the cloak room was under the care of
the D Club withBill Lee directing the exchange of coats, checks, and change. The convenience offered by this service was
one integral part of the proper functioning of the dances. A matter of interest to those members of the student
body who are athletically inclined is the fact that the lettermen have been investigating the possibilities of a physical education
major here at Davidson. The club members have been attempting to work out a plan with the faculty, whereby the
college would be able to offer such a course. The problem of setting requirements for a physical education major is
being worked out, and it is hoped that in the near future such a course will be possible.

Chapel Schedule
Monday, Feb. 26—Otts Lecture: J. Hutchison Cockburn.
Tuesday, Feb. 27—Otts Lecture: J. Hutchison Cockburn.
Wednesday, Feb. 28—Otts Lecture: J. Hutchison Cockburn.
Thursday, March 1—Y.M.C.A.
Friday, March 2—Dr. G. B. Hathorn.

RIFLE TEAM ENTERS CHAMPIONSHIP MATCHES
The Davidson College Rifle Team has accepted an invitation to enter state-wide rifle championships in Charlotte tomorrow. Two four-man teams
will be entered to represent the college.

The Davidsonian
FORTA LIBERTAS

ATHLETES VIE FOR CHAMPIONSHIP!
NUMBER SIXTEEN

Top Alpha Tau Omega Men, Initiation Groups Will Install New Chapter Here
This weekend marks the culmination of plans for the ATO Club of Davidson College, as they become the 110th chapter
of Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity. The Club will be officially installed on Saturday afternoon at 2:30 as North Carolina Epsilon
Omega. Visiting officials, initiation teams, and friends of the fraternity have converged on the campus for the ceremony. Throughout tonight
and tomorrow morning, members of the local club are being initiated by visiting teams from the chapters at Duke University,
the University of Virginia, the University of South Carolina, and the College of Charleston. At twelve-thirty on Saturday, the National
Officers will be guests of Dr. John R. Cunningham, President of the College, for a luncheon. Installation of North Carolina
Epsilon Omega will take place. Installing officers of the chapter are J. Frank Wilkes of Charlotte, N.C.; J. Sam White,
of Mebane; and Richard B. Johnston, North Wilkesboro, district officer of the fraternity. From 5:00 to 6:00 on Saturday evening,
open house will be held at the chapter house by the newly installed chapter. All friends of the fraternity among
the student body and the community are cordially invited to attend. Refreshments will be served for the guests as part
of the reception for the new chapter. At 7:00 Saturday evening, the Installation banquet will be held in the college
dining hall. Honor guests at this function will be Dr. J. R. Cunningham, Dean John C. Bailey, Dean C. K.
Brown, of the administration; Dr. Lewis B. Schenck, Professor A. G. Griffin, Mr. F. I. Jackson, and Mr. F. W.
Hengeveld, of the faculty committee on Fraternities; Randy Taylor, President of the Student Body, and Ed West, representative of the
Pan-Hellenic council. Principal speaker at the banquet will be John W. Vann of Atlanta, Worthy Grand Chief of Alpha Tau
Omega Fraternity. Special music will be provided and a program of interest. Representative Ed West of the Pan-Hell will welcome
the new chapter, and Bill Boand, Worthy Master of Epsilon Omega, will respond. On Sunday morning at 11:15, members and
their guests will worship with the congregation of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, as part of the tradition of ATO
installations. Presiding at the church service will be Rev. Eugene L. Daniel, Atlanta, Ga., who has just recently returned from
Korea where he has been serving as a Presbyterian missionary. He is a member of Alpha Tau Omega’s Georgia Tech
chapter and a close personal friend of President Cunningham of Davidson College. During World War II, Mr. Daniel served as
an Army chaplain and was a prisoner of war for 26 months following his capture in the North African campaign
when he remained behind in the burning desert with American and German wounded. For his heroism, he received the Distinguished
Service Cross. Earlier he had won the Silver Star for serving as a courier between commands during the landings. These
experiences earned for the chaplain the name of “the fighting parson.” Mr. Daniel was ordained a Presbyterian minister at Columbia
Theological Seminary in 1936 and he held pastorates in Georgia before becoming an Army chaplain in 1941. Alpha Tau Omega,
now headed by John W. Vann, was the first fraternity founded after the Civil War. Three Virginia Military Institute cadets
formed the fraternity in Richmond. The first chapter of ATO was at V.M.I. Today the fraternity has 109 chapters in
all but six states and a membership in excess of 56,000. 57 members of the ATO club will become members
of Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity, while the club’s pledges will automatically become Alpha Tau Omega pledges. The Charter members of
the new chapter will be: Worthy Master, Bill Boand; Worthy Chaplain, Tom Lowman; Secretary, David Cowan; Treasurer, John Whitfield; Sergeant
at arms, Joe Armstrong; Pledgemaster, Bob Keever; Palm (Continued On Page Four)

1837 Eumanean Key, Eight Men Accepted
At the Eumanean Literary Society meeting Monday evening, President Hartley Hall presented a drawing to the society of the original
1837 Eumanean key. The society voted to purchase the key, which consists of a half-crescent on which is engraved “Eu
1837” suspended from a triangular solid chain. Eight new members were taken into the society after reading papers. They were
Everett Blake, Dilemma; Hugh Swan, Below the Surface; Ernest Berry, Life Insurance in the Little Man; Brown Dennis, School Day;
Paul Guthery, Education; Nat Daniels, Campus Personalities (The Cynic); Charles Williams, Astronomy; Charlie Hassells, The Bridge. Several other papers will
be read at the next meeting on March 5.
