PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF ------------------- GORDON SCOTT
BUSINESS MANAGER ---------------- JOHN LOFTIN

Associate Editors ........ Tom Winn, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Features Editor -------------------- Shelley Beard
Managing Editors ------------------ Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George McMurray, Ed Richardson
Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Photographer—Raymond Lynch
Proofreader—Wallace Abbott
City Editor—Nat Daniel
Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen
Sports Editor—Bill White
Assistant Business Manager -------- Alex Goley
Advertising Manager ---------------- Manley McWilliams
Circulation Manager ---------------- Ansley Moses
Collections Manager ---------------- Jack Turner
Subscriptions Manager -------------- Bill Hart
Faculty Advisor—Prof. Henry T. Lilly

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Welcome, Dates!

A week ago, we laid our books on the shelves, and began upon a vicious two weeks of sleepless nights:
a week of premeditation (may not “the best laid schemes o’... men Gang aft a-gley”), and, a week of “re-meditation.”
A female weekend is such a rarity here that the Davidson gentlemen are apt to be somewhat unequal to the
occasion. Nevertheless, let us not be mistaken in our desire to make this dance weekend for each girl the most
enjoyable of her life. With this thought, we welcome our dates to another set of Davidson dances.

Someone has said that “to love (a woman) is a liberal education.” The word “liberal” having many definitions and connotations,
it is not for us here to discuss that aspect of the statement; how liberal the education is debatable in
each instance and somewhat dependent on the whims of the parties, of course, but, surely, we all agree that love
is part of a liberal education. Our hopes are that more followers of Plato than Schopenhauer emerge Monday morning.

Someone else has said that, to love, you must have somebody to put your arms around. If that is true,
look out, girls! You are that “somebody,” and any similarity between the multi-armed octopus and the hungry Davidson wolf will
be only too coincidental! But do not despair: your hope lies in the fact that in reality the Davidson wolf
is a completely harmless creature. He assumes vicious proportions only in his imagination.

A final word for fellow students. If any of us twentieth-century-ites has become so mechanized as to find himself floundering
for words, Shelley about a hundred-twenty-five years ago proposed the following approach:

“See the mountains kiss high heaven,
And the waves clasp one another;
No sister flower could be forgiven
If it disdained its brother;
And the sunlight clasps the earth,
And the moonbeams kiss the sea:
What are all these kissings worth
If thou kiss not me?”

—T. M.

Conference Compliments

To Dr. Douglas and the planning committee of the Marriage Conference we extend a hand for initiating and steering an
exceptional conference. Dr. Reuben Hill, the guest speaker, was competent and well-informed. A precedent has been set which we hope
will never be discarded, for as the conference proved, many of us possess obsolete and misinformed attitudes which need reconstructing.
Also validated was the fact that much of marriage demands plain, common, horse-sense.—T.M.

Needless Hazard

It is unfortunate that we have to mention something that is badly needed in Johnston Gym when $750,000 was spent
in an effort to give Davidson the best physical education plant in this section of the country. Be that as
it may, an additional $30 or $35 should have been spent to provide lighting for both the rear exits leading
from the main floor. Until very recently, we had been unaware that there was such a need for our fine
plant, but after groping around in the dark in an effort to descend the winding stairs after two or three
games, it became apparent that a definite safety hazard exists which should be corrected immediately.

In mild weather on a moonlight night the danger of accidents is bad enough, but on cold, icy nights such
as those we have had in the past few weeks, the possibility of injury is even more apparent. It is
a needless hazard which a few dollars and an electrician could dispense with in a very short while. Indeed, the
expense will be far less than a suit against the College in the event a visitor on the campus were
injured trying to make his way down the unlighted steps. Even though basketball season is virtually over, there will be
other events in the gym and the need for lighting for the rear exits will be just as great as
it is now. We strongly recommend that the powers that be take immediate action to remedy this dangerous situation.

THIRST YE AFTER KNOWLEDGE

If she looks young, she is camouflaged.
If she looks old, she is young but dissipated.
If she looks innocent, she is fooling you.
If she looks shocked, she is acting.
If she looks languishing, she is hungry.
If she looks sad, she is angling.
If she looks back, FOLLOW HER.

Confucius say: Modern woman putting up such a false front, man never knows what he is up against.

She stepped out of the bathtub and onto the bathroom scales. Hubby came in the back door and walked past
the bathroom door. He observed what she was doing and inquired, “How many pounds this morning, honey?” Without bothering to
look, she answered: “Fifty, and be sure you don’t leave your tongs on the back porch.”

The scene was a large public library in one of the reading rooms. A saintly looking man was reading birth
and death statistics. Suddenly he turned to the man on his right and said: “Do you know that every time
I breathe a man dies?” “Very interesting,” replied the stranger, “Why don’t you try chewing gum?”

The doctor came out of the bedroom to the anxious wife. “Frankly,” he said, “I don’t like the way your
husband looks at all.” “I don’t either, Doc,” the wife replied, “but he’s nice to the kids.”

“My heart is in the ocean,” cried the poet. “You've gone me one better,” said the seasick friend taking a
firmer grip on the rail.

A farmer's wife objected to her husband's parrot. To keep peace in the family, he decided to get rid of
the feathered chatterbox. The next time he took a crate of chickens to town he also loaded the parrot on
the wagon. About halfway there he heard his chickens squawking and the parrot screeching. Finally, he looked back and saw
all his chickens walking in the road behind the wagon and the parrot marching back and forth on the tailboard,
screaming in frustrated anger: “Any you girls changed your minds yet?”

Teacher (warning her pupils against catching cold)—I had a little brother seven years old, and one day he took his
new sled out into the snow. He caught pneumonia, and three days later he died. Silence for ten seconds. Voice
from the rear—Where's his sled?

Having been married 20 years, a couple decided to celebrate by taking a trip. While talking over their plans one
evening, the husband now and then glanced into the next room where a little old lady sat knitting. “The only
thing is,” he said in a hushed voice, “is that for once I'd like to be by ourselves. I'd like
to take this trip without your mother.” “My mother!” she exclaimed. “I thought she was your mother!”

THE POT BOILS
By HENRY HANSEN

The plight of the Red and Black Masquers is indeed a sad one. On an organizational basis, they are deserving
of adverse comment. There are certainly ways in which the organization could be improved in this respect. On a performance
basis, they must certainly receive condolences because of the difficulty, first, of finding a play which will meet with the
approval of those who judge such matters; and secondly, of actually staging and producing a performance which is artistic out
of the shambles which is generally left by the censors involved.

Several things might be done in regard to making the organization more effective on an internal basis. First of all,
the Masquers should take cognizance of the existence of the college calendar of events in planning their plays. It is
becoming increasingly difficult to find a place on this calendar and, in view of this fact, they should make every
effort to have dates for production agreed upon and approved well in advance—this actually means that such dates for the
coming year should be decided upon, approved, and entered in the calendar by the end of the present year. This
would greatly reduce conflicts involved in the use of Chambers Auditorium.

Secondly, as to the selection of plays, subject of course to the difficulties of finding a suitable one, they too
should be selected well in advance and if this could be done this year for next year’s season, much trouble
might be avoided. There would seem to be a great deal of politics involved in what plays are going to
be produced and this should certainly be greatly reduced or eliminated if the Masquer group is to function as a
mature organization. The foregoing are a few suggestions as to how the group might function more effectively. If it were
necessary to characterize the activities of the Masquers succinctly, it might best be said that they are largely a last-minute
organization which leaves too many loose ends untied until too late.and has had, a decidedly bad effect on several productions
in the past. These suggestions naturally must be carried out with due regard to such factors as dates for the
Artist Series (which must be given priority until a fine arts theatre is constructed), for review period, and for the
calendar of events itself. Difficulties could be minimized, however, by early attention to production dates and plays to be produced.
The Masquers’ next play was to have been “Angel Street.” Due to plot-killing censoring and other difficulties, this play will
not be produced. It seems a pity that a school which calls itself a liberal arts institution must be subject
to influences so Puritanical that no play of recent years can be produced. It is true that there are many
plays, fine ones, which are relatively innocuous and which might be produced. It is also true that there are as
many, if not more plays, also equally fine and artistic which are now barred from production. Deducing from the nature
of plays that have been rejected in the past, I can only assume that the reason for this has been
an idea, on the part of those who judge, that immoral situations pictured in such plays will inevitably lead to
immoral actions on the parts of those who see such productions. If this is so, then there is a far
vaster segment of literature, dramatic and otherwise, which would be barred from use here. Among this large group would have
to fall many of the plays of Shakespeare, certain portions of the Bible, and most of the novels studied in
our English department. If there is any validity in such a viewpoint, then it should be hewn to throughout college
activities and not show its results purely in what amounts to a crippling of Masquers efforts to produce plays. If
not, then the Masquers should be allowed as much freedom in the selection of plays as is the English department
in the selection of novels. One more word might be said in regard to this matter. If such plays can
safely be produced anywhere, then here is the place where they are most apt to be viewed with the perspective
which will render harmless any immorality contained in them. An atmosphere such as Davidson’s must surely provide a view of
the situations mirrored in such plays which will be sane and intelligent. If this is not the case, then there
is little point in protecting something which is non-existent. The character of the Davidson student, in other words, will not
be undermined by “play acting.” If he has no character, then he is far more apt to be participating in
immoral activities himself than watching them over the footlights.

Wax Scratching
By BOB WHELESS

One of the best of the many new releases is “Would I Love You” with Patti Page holding down the
vocal department. Patti never sounded better and that plus the fact that she had a wonderful tune to work with
combine to give you a mighty neat platter package. Les Paul, the man of many guitars, has made another waxing
in which a multiple dub is made of both the guitar and the fem voice. The voice is that of
his wife, Mary Ford. Maybe it's just that I don’t care for Mary’s voice, but I think that in all
of Paul’s past etchings he has proven much more effective in his purely instrumental efforts. Remember “Nola” or more recently
“Little Rock Getaway?” If you are even slightly interested in popular music chances are that you do; but how many
of the records he has made with the aid of Mrs. Paul can you recall? Both Ella Fitzgerald and the
Ink Spots have cut the new “Little Small Town Girl.” In both cases the vocal work is good but they
didn’t have much of a song with which to work. The tune isn’t too bad, but with those words it
will never see even the bottom rung on the ladder that reaches to the top spot on the hit parade.
Ray Anthony has a mighty good thing in his “Columbia The Gem Of The Ocean.” It's definitely one of the
most potent swing instrumentals since the old Glenn Miller patriotic numbers. I'm predicting that this one will be around for
quite a while. Another new vocalist has entered the recording field. First it was Don Cherry, then Guy Mitchell, and
now it's Champ Butler. Champ’s first release is “Dear, Dear, Dear” and while admittedly not bad, I don’t see that
either the song or Champ are anything too outstanding. Maybe he needed a different type song to really show his
stuff. Anyway you look at it he’s going to have to do plenty of improving before he’s a “Champ” in
anything but name. For all you guys who like to shag, about the only number issued recently which bears mentioning
is a rhythmic tune called “Teardrops From My Eyes.” It definitely is far from tops, but Ruth Brown has done
a nice job of it for the Atlantic label. Has a pretty good dance beat.

THE WORLD LAST WEEK
1) President Truman asked Congress for one million tons of grain as a gift for India and a million more
to be authorized whenever it is needed.
2) The Navy disclosed that the “flying saucers” reported during the last few years were balloons used for studying cosmic
rays.
3) The French government approved reforms for the protectorate of Tunisia which will give it more self-government and thereby relieve
prevalent tension.
4) A new and very heavy drive was begun by Red forces in Korea, ending some of the debate about
crossing the thirty-eighth parallel.
5) The Czechoslovak government decreed that doctors must practice where regional national committees tell them.
6) Governor Dewey spoke against the “right” of Congress to limit the sending of troops to Europe.
7) The Labor Party in Britain is badly strained by internal disagreements about such topics as German rearmament.
8) Albanian, Roumanian, and Bulgarian diplomats in Paris were told that their movements will be restricted as reprisal for similar
action in their countries against French envoys.

Geech’s Goulash
By PAT McGEACHY

All columnists, it seems, are obligated to publish percentage data on the accuracy of their predictions. We are batting an
ice cold 1.000 at the moment, having made no predictions. In order to facilitate the prediction percentages, perhaps it would
be a good idea to predict some things. Exclusive: It will rain like hail during, around, and immediately preceding the
Mid-Winter’s festivities. This does not include areas off of the Davidson Campus, nor will it affect those areas not traveled
by Davidson students during the weekend. The sun will come out just in time for ROTC drill on Tuesday. The
Koreans will begin to get irritated if the United Nations don’t quit tracking destruction up and down their living room
floor. Of course it is not all our fault, but I'll bet they are tired of guessing whose side they
will be on next week. The Davidson Wildcats, for obvious reasons, will be voted into the first half of the
Southern Conference Basketball Tournament. The people investigating the problems of Chapel services will not do anything about them in particular.
Always sit on the status quo, even if it is about to float away. The Spanish-American War will not interfere
with collegiate football in any measurable way. It will be revealed soon that the president of the student body has
inadvertently stated that the ROTC department has the best publicity staff he has ever heard of. This will not be
true, but don’t let that fool you, as rumors are much easier to spread than the truth. Never believe a
fact on the Davidson Campus, as the old adage goes. The Photo-Club may decide on hydriotaphia. Eighty-three percent of the
ripe juicy plums in the senior class will be plucked, on or before June 30, 1953. But it is better
to be a ripe juicy plum than a lemon any day. Fraternities will be required to organize Heck Weeks, and
will encourage fraternal spirit by excavating the front campus walk. Bodies of all persons found buried there will be identified
and sent to their respective families. Yeh—the frats will have to start doing something constructive, there’s altogether too much fun
around here. The male chorus will not come back from New York. They will wise up and hang around for
some real learning. Spo-dee-o-dee! The philosophy department will start giving cuts on February 3, 1988. Rejoicing aesthetes will have to
be curbed. Only by then the conscience-stricken student council will have chickened out of enforcing any of the rules, and
celebration of any kind will be permissible. Lloyd’s of London will definitely not insure the writer of this column. But
we have to say something, or resort as others have, to scaring people away from Hugo's. Television will never be
installed in Rumple. They are afraid it will collapse, and don’t want to injure valuable cathode ray tubes. Students are
expendable. Education is on the way out. Who has to know anything to push buttons? Nobody but the proofreader will
manage to get this far in this column. So there!

THE POLL CAT
By SLAYDON MYERS

DO YOU FAVOR:
a. Compulsory chapel every day? 24 per cent
b. Compulsory chapel three days a week? 46 per cent
c. Non-compulsory chapel for those who wish to attend every day? 23 per cent
d. No chapel at all? 7 per cent
