By BILL WHITE

Into the embarrassing emptiness which stands behind the door marked “Prophy Room” in Johnston Gym went a new fixture this
past week, symbol of the second Southern Conference championship for Davidson in as many years, and third in her history.
Ere long, a photo of Bill Ray and Coach Redding holding the loving cup for the winner of the Southern
Conference 50-yard freestyle championship will be hung beside the pictures of Bo Roddey and Whit Cobb, of late tennis players
of some note, and that’ll be the celebration for our titlist. Unfortunately, the Otts Lecture series cancelled all announcements so
they were knocked out of chapel plaudits. And the meet was in Raleigh, not on the Davidson campus as was
tennis last spring, so the enthusiasm for his victory was at no fever pitch. But the championship stands every bit
as genuine. And the champion is every bit genuine, too. For a man who turned in the fastest time in
the Southern Conference all winter long in the 50, beating in final competition the only man to lick him all
year long, Blue Ray is as tight-lipped modest as he would be with his head under water. Believe me, he’s
a team captain.

What about his swimming background? Being from Silver Springs with his folks running that resort, one figures Blue started pretty
early. “I just started early. That’s about all, I guess,” he hastily recalled and hurried on to: “I wish the
team could get the praise it’s due. Boy, Pepper and Cunningham really did great at Raleigh. And our freshmen did,
too.

“You know, Ray was sick up there. He still had a deep cough and cold, but he placed first in
the medalist division of the 100-yard breaststroke. Yeah, the medalist division is comprised of the second-best five men, in other
words the sixth through tenth finishers. But Ray would have been even higher had he been in good shape. “Pepper
was fourth in the 1500 meters, first time he’d swum it this winter, and he placed in the medalist of
the 220 and 440. You couldn’t enter but three events, and Pepper placed in every one of his. Our freshmen,
Gary and Stuart placed in medalist of the 100. In fact, Ed got first in the freshman medalist.

“Now here’s something you'll like. You know, Francis would have done a darned lot better in the 440 and 220
if he hadn’t swum that 1500 first. That’s 65 laps and really a pull. He said he just kept singing
‘Onward, Christian Soldiers!’ over and over in his mind until he got through. Man, you need something like that to
pull you through that long grind.

“And Coach Redding really deserves some credit. He was busy with football at the same time, you know, and a
lot of times he would come down at night to help us. I wish he’d gotten more credit for his
work with us. He really did a good job.”

Indeed Mr. Redding did do a good job—a great one. One title and six other odd medals the first real
year of varsity competition is no little accomplishment. And don’t let anyone tell you it was all his material.

“My first championship?” Blue repeated, “Why, this one. It’s the first time I’ve ever swum in competition.” As simple as
that. Bill Ray has been swimming about as long as he can remember. He worked for his folks at Silver
Springs, sometimes as a lifeguard, sometimes diving underwater “when people just wanted to take pictures of somebody underwater,” and later
teaching lifesaving. Just a sport for relaxation or a trade to help run the resort. No thought of competition at
that stage. That’s why the good-looking black-haired boy with the V-shaped torso is so inwardly happy over the title. It’s
mighty good to know that what you’ve been doing naturally, aided by the right coaching, can beat the best of
those who have been working under timepiece and gun since high school days.

Bill’s winning time at Raleigh was 24.7, four-tenths slower than his 24.38 Davidson pool record of three days earlier, and
three-tenths above his Southern Conference trials time of 24.4, which was incidentally the fastest time of any heat all day.
Coasting through with a 24.9 in the semis, Blue would have undoubtedly bettered 24.7 in the finals, but caught his
arm on the lane rope. “Shoot, I was lucky to win that one. Just hit my turn right, and I'd
gotten a good start. That’s about all.” Pretty fair formula, isn’t it, for a Southern Conference crown?

Tennis Team Swings Into Workouts; Twenty Matches Already On Slate

With spring weather in evidence once again it should not be long before tennis Coach Derrick Barton has his racket-swinging
charges practicing on the outdoor courts. The varsity has been working out indoors for the past two weeks now, and
as soon as the courts can be whipped into playing shape the freshman players will join them.

This year’s edition of the varsity should be able to hold its own against the top-flight college competition that it
will face, but the loss of such outstanding men as Bo Roddey, Ted Keesler, and Whit Cobb will certainly make
it difficult for the Davidsonians to equal or even approach the record of last season's title-holding squad. Not that there
aren’t some good tennis players left to defend the record and reputation of Davidson College in the intercollegiate tennis world.
Lettermen Dewey Keesler, Bill Child, and Peyre Kennedy, plus Captain Allen Strand should be capable of making life miserable for
Wildcat opponents. All are experienced in tournament and intercollegiate competition and will constitute the nucleus of this year’s varsity squad.

As yet the varsity schedule is not complete. However, the following matches are definitely on the docket:
March 20: Springfield—here.
March 23: University of Tampa—there.
March 24: Florida Southern—

FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 1951

Undefeated Record For Victors Rarity In Inter-Frat Play

By WALLACE ABBOTT

With still one week remaining to play in the basketball league we find that this year's loop champion has already
been decided. For the Sigma Chis have won their first Intramural Basketball championship. This is quite a feat for that
fraternity for they have only recently entered into intramural competition here at Davidson. This feat is doubly interesting for they
have gone through the season undefeated and that is something that has not been done in this league in the
past few years.

Kappa Sigs 41 - SPE’s 40

The Kappa Sigs eked out a win in the closest game to be played all week as they won an
overtime game from the SPE’s. High point man for the Kappa Sigs was Clark with 15 points and for the
SPE’s Ball was the leading scorer.

Sigma Chis 33 - Kappa Sigs 25

The Sigma Chis sewed up the league championship this past week as they defeated their only remaining contenders, the Kappa
Sigs. The game was nip and tuck throughout, but the Sigma Chis put on a closing burst of accuracy to
win. Dorsey Pleasants was high point man for the Sigma Chis and Sloan and Spach led for the Kappa Sigs.

Betas 30 - Pi Kapps 24

The Pi Kapps made a gallant fight of it but they were unable to overcome the Betas' superior accuracy as
they went down to defeat. Monroe and Craven led in scoring for the Betas and Brandon was high for the
Pi Kapps.

KA’s 31 - Phi Delts 28

Although the Phi Delts made a close game of it throughout they still were no match for the KA's, who
came back strong in the second half to gain a victory. Al Cook led the Phi Delts with 8 points
and Knott and McWilliams led the KA’s with 10 apiece.

Betas 55 - SPE’s 49

Thad Monroe's 15 points were enough to lead his team to a victory over the SPE’s 55-49. However, Stowe with
14 points and Jimmy Miller with 13 made a close game of it and kept their team near the top
throughout.

STANDINGS
Sigma Chi .......... 10 0
Kappa Sigs ........ 8 2
Pikas ............... 6 2KA’s ---------------- 6 2
Phi Delts ------------ 6 2
Betas ---------------- 5 5
Pi Kapps ------------- 4 6
SAE's ---------------- 2 6
Phi Gams ------------ 2 8
SPE's ---------------- 2 8
ATO's ---------------- 0 8

Track Schedule Hit By 3 Cancellations But Adds FSU, Emory
By DICK ROPER

A dozen lettermen plus a promising frosh crop and other reserve talent from last year’s track team which won five
and lost two meets will give Coach Heath Whittle ample material to weld into his 1951 track team. Having worked
out for several weeks already, the cinder club faces many more days of stiff work before their first meet sometime
in April.

Actually, Coach Whittle doesn’t know exactly when the first meet will be held. Furman was carded to open the season
on April 1, but had to be erased when the Presbyterian and Baptist spring holidays interfered, Furman not returning to
the campus until the day of the scheduled meet. South Carolina, to whom the Cats were to have been hosts
on the 7th, and the Citadel, an April 21 foe in Charleston, have withdrawn because of inability to field a
team this spring. Washington and Lee is scheduled to come to Davidson on April 28, but Coach Whittle says that
he understands that Washington & Lee, one of the two teams to beat Davidson last spring, may not field a
club on the cinders. As it looks now, Wake Forest, moved from a mid-week date of April 18, will probably
open the Davidson schedule on April 7 now. A triangular affair with Florida State and Emory in Tallahassee fills the
Citadel cancellation on April 21. Meets with Mercer and Clemson remain unchanged. Coach Whittle is attempting to schedule Richmond for
the finale May 12. He also hopes to be able to send a small contingent to the Carolina Relays on
April 7, the same day of the Wake Forest meet.

Carolinas’ Mat Meet Opens Here Friday, 14 Teams Invited

A unique sports event is in store for Davidson College and the vicinity on the weekend of March 9th and
10th when teams and individuals from all over the two Carolinas meet to vie for the Carolinas A.A.U. Championships in
wrestling. Athletic Director Scott, who is the Carolinas committee chairman for this event announced this week that Davidson had been
awarded this tournament and that several dozen schools, clubs, and service teams had already been invited to participate in the
tournament.

So far only two teams have definitely accepted to compete. The tough Camp Lejeune Marines and Coach Charlie Parker’s Wildcat
grapplers were the early entrants as complete teams, but Coach Scott is sure that at least five or six teams
including some entrants from the University of North Carolina and the entire team from Appalachian State Teachers. It is interesting
to note that the Apps have a widely known wrestling team as to their interest and long winning streak, and
that they are the defending champions of this tourney. All indications are that they stack up to past years, having
again copped the North State Conference title.

Other teams invited are the high school teams from Statesville and High Point; service teams from Parris Island, U.S. Mine
Forces and U.S. Naval District teams from Charleston, and Cherry Point; and the collegiate teams of Citadel, Duke, and Western
Carolina. The Y.M.C.A. team from High Point also has been invited.

Depending upon the number of entries, the bouts will start either Friday afternoon or night. They will continue on until
Saturday afternoon when the champions are declared. The contestants will be seeded and paired according to past performance, making sure
the two best are arranged so as not to meet in the earlier bouts. Medals will be awarded to the
first, second, third, and fourth man in each class, and in addition trophies will be presented to the first and
runner-up teams. Also to the most outstanding wrestler of these two top teams goes a trophy. As an added attraction,
a man gets a trophy for the quickest fall he can maneuver. Consolation bouts are arranged for the boys who
meet the first and second man in each weight.

This tournament is A.A.U. sanctioned and run. The rules will be those of the A.A.U. which differ somewhat from the
usual collegiate rules. They tend to make the game tougher and more wide open and nearer like the Olympic style.
At least 6 or 8 teams are expected to meet in Johnston Gym to compete for these championships and so
a lot of good wrestling will be on tap for the Davidsonians and vicinity. The service teams and the defending
champions from Boone should add somewhat to this attraction and should display some good hard tactics on the mat.

Swimmers Grab One Conference Title, Five Medals At S.C. Meet; Pepper and Taylor Captains For ‘51

By CHARLIE HASSELL

For a team that won only three out of ten meets for the season, the Davidson swim team brought home
more than its share of trophies and medals from the Southern Conference meet in Raleigh last weekend. Standout for the
team was Captain Bill Ray, who copped the 50-yard dash crown, touching the finish line about one second ahead of
V.M.I’s Dick Tafner. His winning time was 24.7 seconds, but his qualifying time was 24.4—far better than any other time
turned in at the meet. For winning the championship, Ray gets the large Emil Hilker trophy, which is rotated to
the winning school each year and presented annually by Bill Ward, an ex-State sprinter. He also gets a miniature of
the trophy for himself and a conference trophy for the win.

Francis Pepper received three medals for placing in the medalist division. He swam the 1500 meter (65.6 lengths) swim in
22:27, which brought him fourth place in that event. He also got second place in the 440 yard medalist race,
and third in the 220 medalist. Ray Cunningham was hampered by recent illness, but nevertheless managed to wind up first
in the medalist class with a time of 1:09.1. This was .7 seconds better than the last place in the
trophy division, and had his qualifying time been good enough to place him in the trophy division, Davidson might have
had two new trophies instead of the one.

In the freshman meet, Ed Stuart placed first in the medalist division with a time of 5:58. Ben Gary took
third in the 440 medalist division with a time of 58.5. Biggest heartbreak of the meet for the Cats was
Paul Cole. Tuesday before the meet, Cole turned in a time of 23:51 against Citadel. But in the qualifying heat
at Raleigh, his time was an unimpressive 25:21, which put him out of competition.

Davidson will lose Ray, Cunningham, Gene Regen, and Hugh Evans when the senior class graduates this spring. They must have
more swimmers. Anyone interested in swimming next year should contact Coach Redding soon, for swimming through the spring is anticipated
for those that wish to be on the team next year.

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests
Number 14...THE BEAVER

“How eager can they get?”

Once in his life, our fervent friend admits that eagerness can be overdone! He’s alluding, of course, to all these
quick-trick cigarette tests—the ones that ask you to decide on cigarette mildness after just one puff, one sniff, one inhale
or one exhale! When the chips are down, he realizes cigarette mildness can’t be judged in a hurry. That’s why
he made...

The sensible test... the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test which asks you to try Camels as your steady smoke—on a pack
after pack, day after day basis. No snap judgments needed. After you’ve enjoyed Camels—and only Camels—for 30 days in your
“T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste), we believe you'll know why...

More People Smoke Camels than any other cigarette!
