PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

Exclusive Interview Lays Sordid Trail Directly To Local Gambling Syndicate

In an exclusive interview with Frank Costello, your Washington correspondent gained valuable information relating to the prevalence of collegiate crime in North Carolina. This report has been as widely doubted as Kinsey's and just as avidly read. Up till now, however, due to political pressure from the godly as well as the ungodly, a virtual blanket of righteous smog has cloaked the facts in the swirl of the unmentionable. Conscience, or whatever else psychologists call parental repercussions, won out and this interview is being released.

Naturally, in a publication of this size and in order to give space to other news of interest such as who won the Nobel Peace Prize, we are limited to excerpts from the interview. This interview was taken in shorthand by our Washington Bureau’s private secretary and translated into five different languages. In presenting the following dialogues, we will refer to Mr. Costello as Frank and to the interviewer as Int. The dialogues will be a series of questions and answers taken at random from the report.

Int: Mr. Costello—
Frank: Listen Buddy, don’t get personal.
Int.: Who do you think you are, Harry Truman?
Frank: Listen Bud, leave his name out of this. Harry's a personal friend of mine.
Int.: Sorry, I'll rephrase the question. Once more—who do you think you are, the Secretary of the Treasury?
Frank: Not so loud, he’s got enough on me now without no perjury charge.
Int.: Would you mind shedding a little light on your alleged connections in the State of North Carolina, particularly among colleges and universities?
Frank: Well, you know how it is. With the heat on and everybody squawking about fixes, there ain't much doing. We’ve even had trouble down there with people trying to muscle in on the take.

MASQUERS TO PRESENT “JULIUS CAESAR” IN MAY

In connection with Davidson College Fine Arts Week, the Davidson Red and Black Masquers will present Shakespeare's “Julius Caesar,” under the direction of Professor Raymond Tyson, of the Speech Department. Performances will be held on May fourth and fifth, and will be given in costume.

The title role of Julius Caesar will be portrayed by Alden Williams of Montreat, North Carolina. A member of the freshman class, Alden is a Baker scholar, and was highly successful in the last play, “Command Decision.” Others appearing in major roles are Mac Bulgin as Casca, Bill Hollister as Cassius, Dick Perkins as Brutus, and Tad Currie as Antony. Others appearing in the production will include: Bill Phifer, Tink Taylor, Bob Gay, Sandy McGeachy, Nancy Copeland, Dorothy Herring, Vance Mizelle, Bob Mims, Wallace Abbott, Phil Libby, Slaydon Myers, Joe Mattison, Woodie McKay, Dave Moylan, Jim Bryan, Nat Daniel, Bill Crymes, Coleman Poag, Bob Crutchfield, and Don Reid. Tad Currie is Production Head, and Bob Gay is Business Manager. The performances will take place in Chambers Auditorium at 8:15 on the dates mentioned. Tickets will sell for seventy-five cents.

$100.00 is yours if you can NAME our New Shop for Young Men

Get out your pad and pencil and start thinkin'! When our New Store for Men opens this fall, we'll need a name for a shop catering to young executives and college men... send in as many entries as you like! Contest closes April 15th, 1951. In case of a tie, duplicate awards will be made. Mail all entries to: Jack Eiseman, c/o Rich's, P. O. Box 4236, Atlanta, Ga.

My entry is:
Name
School
Address
City, State

All entries become the property of Rich’s to be used as they see fit. Remember, contest closes April 15th!

For instance, my southern director told me about somebody trying to run a book in Davidson. It seems that that territory hadn’t been too fruitful until recently when the ban on gambling was lifted slightly. Now that things are booming, some foreigner named Hugo or Adolph has gotten a race wire and is running a parlay on the conference basketball games. Just to show you we don’t believe in force except in tough cases, I sent the college a large donation to build a student union. In that way, nobody will bother to go by this other guy’s place and pretty soon he'll go out of business. Of course, the donation was given in somebody else’s name and we doubt that he'll deny it.

Int.: Mr. Costello, how do you manage to maintain headquarters near colleges?
Frank: Most of these college treasurers like to see us around. We probably finance more education and more government than income taxes and the Duke endowment. For instance, down there at Davidson I got to know some guy named Jackson—me and him got together and I told him, “Cash—that’s what I called him—look-a-here, you keep them preachers off my neck and as far as money is concerned I'll keep them off of yours.” That worked all right until the Student Council started some kind of investigation. They almost upset the apple cart until I had a little heart-to-heart talk with the President after which the case was dropped. Now things are a little more in the open and we're not worried about that portion of our enterprises at the moment.

The full report can be procured by petitioning theexecutive committee or by contacting Frank Costello, whichever finds out who wrote this first.

RENT A CAR AT THE U-Drive It 8th St. Charlotte

LEADING SELLER IN AMERICA’S COLLEGES

THORNHILL SIGNED... (Continued From Page One)
combine a classical background with the current trend of popular music. The result is music that bears a distinctive Claude Thornhill stamp. Complete details of the weekend festivities will be made public within the next week or so.

SIX BAKER... (Continued From Page One)
leadership successful participation in all types of extracurricular activities, such as student government, athletics, debating, dramatics, music, and the like. The committee believes that the men selected this year have demonstrated unusual qualities of scholastic ability, leadership, and personality.

PHI DELTS NIP... (Continued From Page Three)
Reese (Phi Delt); 3 - Howell (PKA); 4 - Greer (SPE); Time 3.38 min.
High Jump: 1 - Tucker (KA); 2 - Owens (Beta); 3 - Tie between Murray (Pi Kapp) and Turk (Kappa Sig); and Oldenburg (Phi Delt); Height 5.6 feet.
Discus: 1 - McNeely (SPE); 2 - Williamson (Kappa Sig); 3 - Pierce (Phi Gam); 4 - Pepper (Beta); Distance 121’ 1”.
440 yd. dash: 1 - Kelton (Sig Chi); 2 - Tie between West (KA) and Carlton (Beta); 3 - Reece (Phi Delt); Time 56.7 sec.
220 yd. dash: 1 - Breeden (Kappa Sig); 2 - Crawley (Phi Gam); 3 - Leach (Phi Delt); 4 - Bowen (Phi Delt); Time 24.1 sec.
Broad Jump: 1 - Bacon (Phi Delt); 2 - Shipley (Sig Chi); 3 - Pfaff (Kappa Sig); 4 - Spach (Kappa Sig); Distance 19 feet, 10 inches.
Relay: 1 - KA; 2 - Phi Delt; 3 - Phi Gam; 4 - Kappa Sig; Time 1:43.3 min.

Recent Meeting Of Phi Mu Alpha Features Musical Talents of Initiates
Last Sunday and Monday evenings the new members of Phi Mu Alpha presented their required annual program to the old members of the fraternity. Vocal soloists were Morgan Bailey and Pat McGeachy. Clarinet solos were given by Raymond Lynch and Harold Gilliland. Allan Garrison played a Bassoon solo, while Jesse Fisher and Ralph Roberts performed on the trombone and drums respectively. Bill Crymes presided at the piano.

Music Department To Feature Students In Piano Recital
The Music Department will present four students in a recital of piano music, Wednesday evening, April 11, at 8 p.m. in the piano studio in Oak Row. Students who will play at this time are Perry Daniels, Alfred Neumann, William Porter, and Ed Stuart. The first three are studying with Mrs. James C. Pfohl, while Stuart is a pupil of Mr. Frantz. The program Wednesday evening is the first of a series of concerts featuring music students which will be given during the semester. Later programs will include one to be played by organ students on Monday evening, April 23, and another by voice students on May 14. Faculty, students, and members of the college community are cordially invited to attend these programs.

Gibbs, Dick Harris, Harry Hickey, and Ramon Hart gave talks on these respective topics: “The Status of Verdi’s Requiem in church music”; “Humorous jokes and misconceptions about Music”; “Can Music and Art be produced by the Laws of Science?” and “The Affairs of George Sand and Frederick Chopin.” Following the programs, the new members were highly applauded and commended for their fine presentations. It was the opinion of the old members that these two programs were the finest that have been presented in many years. Alfred Neumann, president, then presided over the business meeting. He urged the members to read the new music bulletin board on the North End of Chambers frequently. He also announced the possibility of having the chapter at Carolina come here and present a program. Then arrangements were made for the coming Inter-Fraternity Sing which is sponsored by Phi Mu. Plans were also made for the first annual Phi Mu Alpha Music Banquet to be held early in May. This is designed to bring together the three musical organizations on the campus for an evening of entertainment. Herb Russell offered the proposal for Phi Mu to buy a number of L.P. recordings for the record room in memory of those Brothers killed in World War II. After the new members had received their new pins, shingles, and song-books, the group adjourned. The next meeting is set for Monday night, April 23, at 9:30 in the Frantz Studio.

VISIT THE DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT “A GOOD PLACE TO EAT” 142 E. Morehead — Charlotte

ORIENTAL RESTAURANT BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER 126 W. TRADE ST. PHONE 2-2238 CHARLOTTE, N. C.

A GOOD PLACE TO MEET — A BETTER PLACE TO EAT PICCADILLY GRILL O. M. KONTOS 1426 East Morehead Street Phones 4-2090 — 6-9886

THOUSANDS of students all over the country are making this test—proving for themselves Chesterfield smells milder, smokes milder than any other cigarette. THEY KNOW TOO... Chesterfield gives them more for their money... Chesterfield leaves no unpleasant after-taste! That's right, More-for-Your-Money... MILDNESS NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE

AMERICA’S #1 BANDLEADER gives the famous Chesterfield “OPEN 'EM—SMELL 'EM—SMOKE 'EM” TEST to Los Angeles City College Students.