CLARKE CROONS TO CLAMMY CROWDS

VOLUME XXXIX

New York Trip Set For Male Chorus

The Davidson College Male Chorus, under the direction of Earl Berg, will make a tour northward during early March which
will include a visit to New York City and a coast-to-coast broadcast over NBC. The chorus will leave Thursday, March
eighth, and that night will be in Staunton, Virginia, with a concert for nearby Mary Baldwin College. On Friday, a
performance is scheduled in Ardmore, Penn. at the Ardmore Presbyterian Church. The group arrives in New York Saturday for a
two-day stay. Saturday afternoon they will be on a half-hour, coast-to-coast broadcast over the National Broadcasting Company. Two appearances are
scheduled for Sunday, March tenth. In the morning the chorus will be on the program at the Brick Church on
Park Avenue, and in the afternoon will give a concert at the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church. The trek back to
Davidson starts Monday, March eleventh. That night the Male Chorus will perform in Bethlehem, Pa., home of steel mills and
the Moravian Church, and the next day will be in Westchester, Pa. The Male Chorus is due back in Davidson
on Wednesday, March fourteenth.

LIST, “POTSDAM PIANIST,” WILL PERFORM TUES.

Eugene List, who will appear with the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra in the third concert on the Davidson College Artist Series
next Tuesday evening, won the musical nickname of the “Potsdam Pianist” in 1945 when he played for the Big Three
conference in Potsdam. A native American, List is one of the United States’ most brilliant concert stars. His Carnegie Hall
debut in 1935, when he was only 17, established him as one of the finest young pianists in the country.
His success continued until 1942 when he volunteered for the army. After the Potsdam appearance, he was a celebrity. Since
then he has twice toured Europe and this country, playing to capacity audiences everywhere he went. In addition to his
reputation as a pianist, he is known to Carolinians as the husband of violinist Carrol Glenn, formerly of Chester, S.
C. In addition to accompanying List, The Charlotte Symphony will play several additional selections during Tuesday evening's program. James Christian
Pfohl will conduct the orchestra. The concert will begin at 8:15 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium. Tickets are on sale at
the Music Department office on the Davidson campus and at Brodt Music Company in Charlotte.

THREE-YEAR PLAN RENEWED

War Prods Return Of Old Speedup For New Freshmen

Davidson, N. C., Feb. 17—Under a war-accelerated program announced today by President John R. Cunningham, new students at Davidson College
will be invited to begin their work in June instead of September. Degrees may be won under the program in
three calendar years instead of four. Although the acceleration program begun in 1942 has continued in operation since then, special
emphasis is being placed this year on the optional three-year course. An expanded summer session is planned for this year
to answer demand for accelerated education. President Cunningham said that no changes are being made either in entrance requirements or
in requirements for graduation. “Students must continue to pass the same number of courses and there will be no relaxation
of standards,” he said. The program simply offers more time for study by covering 12 months each year instead of
the usual nine. The summer session in 1951 will open in June with science courses beginning June 4 and others
on June 12. The second term will cover the period from July 23-Aug. 28.

Sigma Delta Pi Adds Nine Men

At a recent meeting of Sigma Delta Pi and the Spanish Club, held at the A.T.O. House, Dr. H. L.
Halverstadt, Chairman of the Charlotte Parks and Recreation Commission, made a very interesting talk on his recent trip to Mexico
and Central America with special emphasis on the local customs and characteristics of the people whom he saw. During a
special meeting of Sigma Delta Pi after the joint meeting, the following were elected to membership: C. B. Baird, J.
M. Coburn, J. H. Kiser, J. F. Miller, W. D. Reynolds, R. B. Walker, R. M. Wearn, R. W. Jones,
A. J. Yorke. These new members will be initiated during the early part of March.

PHI Debates Calling Marriage Conference ‘Sex Emphasis Week’

To get the second semester underway the Philanthropic Literary Society installed the spring officers and elected new critics and supervisors
in their meeting Monday evening, February 5. Bill Harris was installed as president, succeeding Irving Stubbs. Jack Stevenson received the
office of vice-president from Bryan Robinson and Herman Bell was inducted into the job of secretary, following Mac Bulgin. Tony
Tucker remained as treasurer which is a two-semester position. After Mr. Harris’ inaugural address, Bill Buckey and Howard Paul were
elected as supervisors, Henry Hansen and Bryan Robinson as critics. New members were voted in and a list of them
will be released at the next meeting. The question was raised as to whether the Marriage Conference should be called
“Sex Emphasis Week” or “Biological Emphasis Week,” whereupon a long and serious debate arose. Mr. Harris, anxious to prove himself
a model president, took the stand for the “Biological” title saying that no Victorian would ever say the other word
anyway and positively never allow it to be put in print so that posterity might see it. The opposition argued
that the term was not just since biology took in both animals and plants. It was decided to call the
conference “Sex Emphasis Week” in order to distinguish humans from plants.

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1951

Dr. John R. Cunningham, right, and Dr. Reuben Hill of the University of North Carolina, are shown here following Dr.
Hill’s initial lecture during the first Davidson Marriage Conference. Dr. Hill, professor of sociology at U.N.C., was featured speaker during
the two-day program.

Family Man Directs Students In Marriage Lecture Series

By SHELLEY BEARD

For a man to be married sixteen years requires a great deal of patience and self-assurance; for that same man
to be the father of four children requires an even greater amount of faith and endurance; but for that man
to be a successful authority on marriage requires either tremendous hypocrisy or an almost miraculous trust in himself and his
ideas. The man of course is Dr. Hill who recently concluded a marriage conference on the campus. He says that
his children are just about old enough to start challenging his instructions and asking if they are really what he
believes. This tends to cause minor friction but seems to be a healthy treatment of ideas and keeps him on
his toes. Dr. Hill began his marriage during the slump of the depression and spent his honeymoon in graduate school.
At the time he had an appointment which paid $250 a year. With this and what he had saved from
R.O.T.C. camp he managed to survive. As assistant director of the Union at the University of Wisconsin Mr. Reuben Hill
began his career with a background in psychology and sociology. During this time he was asked to draw up plans
for a marriage conference similar to the Davidson program which was to be given on the Wisconsin campus. Out of
this conference came a petition from eleven hundred students asking that a permanent seat for a marriage professor be set
up. President Dykstra recommended that the faculty submit a name of a man to take this seat and Hill was
nominated. In order to hold the position Dr. Hill had to study psychiatry, anthropology and advanced phases of psychology. Out
of this study came many papers and the first of his books that have labeled him as an expert on
marriage and family relations. At the present time he and his staff are working to find out what effect the
removal of the father from the home has had on the family. The most rewarding aspect of his work and
perhaps the most interesting is watching the growth and change of students who come to him with a full set
of answers to every question. It is necessary to challenge these preconceived ideas and start the student to thinking. Due
to modern advertising, popular literature and family notions the task is somewhat difficult; but by taking advantage of the pertinent
parts of this material and by weaving in other tested theories a useful pattern of thought can be obtained. In
his trips all over the country and to all types of schools Dr. Hill has found that response to his
lectures is universal. Coed schools do not seem to have any edge in representation over other types of colleges. The
explanation seems to be that the desire for information on marriage is prevalent among all young people regardless of the
circumstances. The purpose of his visit...like that of his visits to other schools, is not to present a one-shot course
in marriage and family relations, but to leave a nucleus for further thought and action toward a permanent department devoted
to preparing students to face family problems. After all, Dr. Hill observed, marriage requires preparation just as a profession, and
Davidson students should realize this.

SE Banquet Will Mark a Campus Frat. Union

At 6:30 on Friday night in the college dining hall, Phi Delta Theta, Beta Theta Pi, and Sigma Chi will
join hands to observe the second annual Miami Triad banquet to be held on the Davidson campus. Howard Paul, an
affiliate of Sigma Chi, will act as master of ceremonies, and the entertainment for the evening will be furnished by
representatives from the three fraternities. These three fraternities, founded at Miami University in Ohio, are generally known as the Miami
Triad. Each of them has established chapters in more than one hundred colleges. Their system of organization and administration has
been adopted and adapted by most nationally recognized fraternities. The Miami Triad became a reality at Davidson in 1948 when
the present chapter of Sigma Chi was founded here. Beta Theta Pi has the distinction of being the first fraternity
to organize a chapter at Davidson when they came to the campus in 1858. In 1928, the first representative chapter
of Phi Delta Theta was organized on our campus. This banquet is a historical occasion in the fact that it
is one of the first such functions of the joint members of the Triad to be held at Davidson.

NOTICE

Anyone interested in attending one or both of the following After-Vesper Discussion groups contact by postal card or see Irving
Stubbs:
February 18—Professor Fulcher, Astronomy and Religion.
February 25—Professor Wilson, Discussion of Otts Lecture Vespers delivered by Dr. J. Hutchison Cockburn, Scotland.

A columnist for the Student Life at Utah State College recently got fed up with sorority schmaltz. He declared: “If
you want to watch an intriguing display of mass-emotion, just drop over to the Commons building today or tomorrow and
watch the would-be sorority gals take out their Preference banquet bids. The weeping, wailing, and gnashing of teeth that prevails
every year at the conclusion of sorority rush season is enough to tug at the heartstrings of even the most
hardened melodrama fans.”

SYMPHONY REHEARSAL OPEN TO THE PUBLIC

Mr. Pfohl announces that the rehearsal Monday night of the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra and Eugene List will be open to
the public. It will take place at 7:45 P.M. in Chambers Auditorium.

The Northeastern News, at Northeastern University, Boston, recently offered a few tips to students who want to be a success
at college. Tips included: “Look alert, take notes. If you look at your watch, don’t stare at it unbelievingly and
shake it.” “Bring the professor newspaper clippings. Demonstrate diary interest and give him timely items to mention in class; bring
in any clippings at random.” “Laugh at his jokes. You can tell... If he looks up from his notes and
smiles expectantly, he has made a funny.” “Ask for outside reading. You don’t have to read it. Just ask for
it.”

Sanford Weiner of Long Beach, California, editor of the school paper, commented: “We have one of the finest language departments
in the country, but unless our language training is put to practical use in our non-academic life, it loses its
full effectiveness.”

DELICIOUS DATES, MANLY MATES

NUMBER FIFTEEN

Dances, Swim Meet With Wolfpack Calendared For Gala Weekend Here

Students will find several social and sporting events have been arranged for this mid-winter weekend, February 16 and 17. Three
dances, a swimming meet, and various social fraternity functions are to be presented within these two days. Heading the calendar
of events is a fast swimming meet which will pit Davidson’s catfish against North Carolina State College. Only one point
separated the tank group from last week, Capt. Bill Ray and Co. came within one point of defeating Williamsburg, Va.
Coach Redding expects a top performance from his vastly improved squad.

Friday night at nine, a formal dance will be given in the Johnston Gymnasium under the sponsorship of the Pan-Hellenic
Council. Bill Clarke and his orchestra from Atlanta are to provide dance tunes for this affair. Ticket prices have been
set at five dollars for admission to this and the Saturday night dance. The theme of this dance will be
George Washington's birthday. Students are requested by the Pan-Hellenic Council not to present flowers to their dates. Clarke will discontinue
his music at one a.m.

Saturday will be ruled by the faculty until 4:30 p.m. when Bill Clarke will again be in the spotlight playing
for a tea dance in the Gym. The afternoon affair will terminate at five in order to allow sufficient time
for the serving of the evening meal at fraternity boarding houses. Official festivities are to be renewed at an informal
dance which is billed to last from eight until twelve.

An outstanding fraternity function of the weekend will be found in the second annual observation of Phi Delta Theta’s, Sigma
Chi’s, and Beta Theta Pi’s Miami Triad. Brothers and their dates will gather in the college dining hall at seven
Friday evening for a big feed and original entertainment. These three fraternities were founded at Miami University in Ohio during
the period 1839-55 and are linked together under the heading of Miami Triad.

Kappa Alpha plans to hold its annual pledge party at Erwin Lodge Saturday afternoon. Members are anticipating the enjoyment of
barbecue and a social hour. Bill Clarke, who will play for the three dances, travels from Atlanta, Georgia. There he
is in constant demand for college and high school dances alike. He has played at several colleges and universities in
and around Atlanta including Georgia Tech, Emory, and the University of Georgia. Bill Klein, an acquaintance of Clarke's, has it
straight that Clarke will play “what the boys want.”

Food Mixes With Port. and Span.

Student leaders at the American Institute for Foreign Trade, sparked by the campus newspaper, “Thunderbird,” have launched a vigorous campaign
to increase the use of foreign languages in everyday school life. Fluency in foreign languages is one of the principal
results of a year’s training at AIFT and this fluency, student leaders believe, can be enhanced by continual use. To
implement their campaign, students have arranged to set aside all but two tables in the dining hall for linguistic practice.
At these tables, conversation in Spanish or Portuguese will be mandatory. Faculty members will cooperate in the program and special
films will be shown weekly in Spanish and Portuguese, and these languages will be used during social events on the
campus.

ATO BIGWIGS HERE FEB. 23 FOR CEREMONY

On the 23rd, 24th, and 25th of this month, the formal installation of Epsilon Omega chapter of Alpha Tau Omega
will take place here on the Davidson Campus. National fraternity officials, guests, and the visiting initiation teams will convene in
the ATO house on Friday afternoon at 2:00. Then the initiation of local members into the fraternity will occur Friday
evening and Saturday morning. At 12:30 on Saturday, there will be a luncheon given by Dr. Cunningham for the National
officers and invited guests. Formal installation and presentation of the charter will begin at 3:00 that afternoon, and from five
until six that evening, open house will be held by the newly installed chapter. All students, faculty members, and interested
friends are invited. At seven Saturday night, a formal banquet will be held in the college dining hall. The main
speaker will be Mr. John W. Van, of Atlanta, Worthy Grand Chief of the Fraternity.

At 11:15 Sunday morning, brothers and their guests will worship with the congregation of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church for
an Installation Church Service. The Rev. Mr. Eugene Daniels, an alumnus of the Georgia Tech chapter, will deliver the morning
sermon. Rev. Daniels was a Chaplain during the last war and has recently returned from his work as a missionary
to Korea. He will speak on the Korean situation. Alumni of the local chapter who will also be initiated as
charter members of the Epsilon Omega are: Malloy Owen, David Koontz, Dan Wilson, and York Pharr. Also initiated will be
Professor Raymond W. Tyson, of the speech department, and the Rev. J. Ernest Arnold, former Assistant to the President at
Davidson, now Southeastern Director for the National Council of Churches.

Battle Report Of Gray From Korea

Lt. John E. Gray of Barber, graduate of Davidson in 1949, was wounded three times in four days of Korean
fighting in the Chosin Reservoir area, according to word received recently. He has now recovered and has apparently rejoined his
outfit, the 31st Infantry. A letter received by Lt. Colonel Ballard described the bitter fighting during the epic retreat. Gray
was wounded on November 28, 29, and December 1. Although wounded in both legs and his right arm, he continued
to use his pistol with his left arm and killed a North Korean who was coming in at close range
to finish him off.

Chapel Schedule

The chapel schedule for the week of February 19-23 begins on Monday with a program presented by Professor George Abernathy.
On Tuesday, Professor A. G. Griffin will be the faculty speaker. The trustees of the college will present the Wednesday
program in Chambers Auditorium while Thursday’s assembly will be, as usual, in the hands of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet. The week’s
programs will be concluded on Friday when Col. James L. Ballard, Jr., will be in charge of the assembly.
