ODK PROBES TORRID ISSUES | (See Page Two) VOLUME XL The Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1951 Davidsonians In Armed Forces

PFC. GEORGE PATRICK THORNBURG, Class of ‘54, was taken out of school by the army last spring. This Lenoir, N. Car. freshman was taking a straight A. B. course. His present address is: Squad 3731, Lackland Air Base, San Antonio, Texas.

PVT JAMES WILLIAM BIRD, Class of '50, is now with the 5th Infantry Division at Indiantown Gap Military Reservation, Penn. Bill hails from Fredricksburg, Virginia, and was an outstanding campus leader, being president of Pan-Hellenic Council and ODK, and a member of the Beaver Club, D Club, and Student Council. This popular KA was an outstanding baseball player, being co-captain his senior year and played semi-pro ball with the Richmond, Indiana farm club of the Detroit Tigers his senior summer.

PFC. JAMES H. THOMPSON, Class of '51, was a Political Science Major, member of the D Club and Cross Country Team. The present address of this Waynesboro, Georgia, boy is A.F. 14430325, Box 417, Keesler A.F.B., Mississippi.

(Continued On Page Four)

Debaters Tie Wake, Duke

At a recent pre-season debate tournament held at Wake Forest, Dick Gregory and Roy Davis tied with affirmative teams from Duke and Wake Forest for first honors. Phil Lewis and Dunbar Ogden, though not in the top scoring, made good records. Roy Davis tied with a speaker from Duke for number two affirmative position in the individual ratings of speakers. Thirteen teams representing eight schools took part in this tournament designed to give practice to students who had never participated in collegiate debating.

Lynch To Captain D. C. Rifle Team

Raymond Lynch was elected team captain for the rifle team last week, and during the week the team won one postal match and lost one. A victory was scored over Marion Institute by a score of 1842 to 1701, out of a possible 2,000 points. St. Bonaventure College defeated the Wildcats 1853 to 1842 out of 2000. High man for the 'Cats was Wallace Abbott with the score of 373 out of 400. The rifle team will fire against VMI in Lexington this Friday afternoon. Major Jones and Sergeant Butts, team coaches, will accompany the ten men who will make the trip.

Dec. Seek New County Record In Monday Blood Donation

Gov. Kerr Scott Joins Forum List

With hopes for 500 pints, the American Red Cross will conduct a Blood Drive in the Davidson community on Monday, December 3, between the hours of 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. This particular blood drive is especially important because urgent appeals are being made by the Government for more blood for the Korean casualties. Therefore, a greatly increased quota has been assigned, and Lt. Col. J. L. Ballard, Jr., has stated that the great majority of the blood donated will be promptly dispatched, by air, to the Korean conflict areas.

THE RED CROSS is calling upon the college student body, all civic groups, the churches, and individual citizens for support in its drive. The ladies who are to staff the operation are largely from the Civic Club, a local organization, and also O.D.K., led by Bryan Robinson, is giving active encouragement in the student body's participation. Persons wishing to make appointments may do so by seeing a solicitor, who has the necessary appointment blanks; appointments may also be made directly with the ROTC office at the college.

PERSONS UNDER 21 years of age who wish to contribute blood must secure a written parental release prior to the donation. These forms are at the ROTC building and with the solicitors. The donors are asked to enter the gym by the rear, or north entrance, the one facing the tennis courts, for facilities will be set up in that end of the building. Immediately upon entering the gym, the donor will register; after this he will be placed in one of the first two handball courts, where the donation will be given. THE LAST HANDBALL court will be made into a coffee room, where donors may receive refreshments after giving their donations.

(Continued On Page Four)

D Club Will Sponsor Fund For Aid of Ailing Jim Thorpe

A man called “the world’s greatest living athlete” lies ill in a Philadelphia hospital. Davidson's D-Club is sparking a drive among the Big Five to help Jim Thorpe. A committee composed of Johnny Guiton, Bill White and Ham Wade plan to contact the letter clubs of Carolina, State, Duke, and Wake Forest, inviting them to join and give funds as a group. Thorpe is now in his seventies and has been hospitalized for a long while, following a cancer operation. The old Carlisle All-American sold the movie rights of his life story for practically nothing during the depression. Several clubs and individuals have launched fund drives for his financial recovery, and it is to one of these larger national groups that the D Club-backed contribution will go.

The 39 Steps Will Appease “Low Brows”

In a sweeping change of policy, the United Literary Film Society's showing for this Friday night, November 30, at 8 o'clock, will be the mystery, “The 39 Steps.” Starring Madeleine Carroll and Robert Donat, the director is Alfred Hitchcock. Commenting on the selection, Stuart Shippey, secretary of the film society said, “The low brow Philistines around here ought to be able to appreciate this one. Some of the others have been too high brow. It is a good film and will hold the interest of the students.” However, the possibilities of the plot are interesting as it places the traditional spy story in various complications, with the hero finding a dead woman in his apartment, and numerous hair-raising adventures before he proves his innocence and exposes the spy ring.

The film is called one of Hitchcock’s best and the appearance of the now-deceased Madeleine Carroll on the Davidson screen should prove satisfying to those who followed the star's career when she was living. Robert Donat is best remembered for his role in “Goodbye, Mr. Chips.” In reviewing the policy of the film society for this semester, Shippey had this to say: “We are trying to have a well-balanced program for the semester. We had a foreign film (French), a comedy, an American film, and now a British production.” Notice was also given that tickets will be on sale in the lobby of Chambers before eight and that the price for the remaining two films is forty cents. The final film for this semester, “Ivan The Terrible,” will be shown December 7.

Rodgers And Hammerstein Is Troupe’s Charlotte Theme

“Little bit of New York's Great White Way” will be in Charlotte on Thursday evening, December 6, when the Great National Concert Touring Company will present a “Rodgers and Hammerstein Night” performance at the Armory Auditorium, at 8:30 p.m. Music from such Broadway hits as “South Pacific,” “Oklahoma,” “Carousel,” “Allegro,” “The King and I,” and the film “State Fair,” will be presented, starring Leigh Allen, soprano, from the New York cast of “South Pacific”; Carol Jones, mezzo-soprano, from the “Robert Shaw Choral,” Earl William, tenor, from the New York cast of “Courtin’ Time,” and Andrew Gainey, baritone, from the New York cast of “Kiss Me Kate.” Noted Conductor Crane Calder, who since 1948 has been choral arranger and conductor of all Rodgers and Hammerstein symphonic programs touring the country, willbe conductor. An orchestra of 30 pieces will play, and the chorus will be made up of 14 voices. The touring “Rodgers and Hammerstein Nights” has proved to be one of the most popular entertainments being presented today, as shown from enthusiastic press accounts of performances throughout the country.

Billed Yale Bowl
Twenty-one thousand people attended the “Rodgers and Hammerstein Night” performance held recently in New York's Lewishohn Stadium. At the Yale Bowl in New Haven at a recent performance, 15,000 persons were present. The songs of Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II need no introduction to the people of America, as they are whistled on the streets, hummed in the home, played on millions of phonographs and juke boxes throughout the nation. Tickets for the performance are on sale at Andrews Music Company on North Tryon Street, Charlotte. Mail orders will be filled by writing to the Rodgers and Hammerstein Box Office, Andrews Music Company in Charlotte. Reserved seats are $3.00 and $2.50. General admission tickets are $1.50. Checks or money orders should be made out to the Charlotte Symphony, Inc.

By MIKE MYERS
Professor Puckett started it. Snookie was only indirectly responsible. Prof. Puckett knew Snookie was from South Africa when he assigned that histology lab... to get liver tissue from an ant—but where could you find an ant at Davidson? And that is where fate entered the scene. A cablegram notified Snookie of the sudden death of his mother and father by earthquake. In fact, Snookie’s whole village had been swallowed from the face of the earth by the face of the earth, for the face of the earth. The executive committee, of course, graciously granted him all necessary cuts to clear up his domestic matters (provided he didn’t take over two and would accept double cuts in every class that met on Tuesdays that came on the 22nd of the month). But that is getting away from the story. The important fact is when he came back to Davidson he brought a South African ant with him for his histology lab. Thus came the first ant to Davidson. That was a scant two weeks ago. Now the dorms are overrun by these hymenoptera, all descendants from Snookie’s one ant. (Don't get wise... Snookie brought a she ant that was—uh—in a delicate condition.) Once here there was no stopping them. They appear to be trying to rule the campus and look on humans with contempt. The ones in our room are clever. They know just when Mother sends me cookies and usually beat me down to the P.O. to wait with drooling mandibles. I sometimes think they are intercepting her postcards. (If Mother is reading this I would like to say that lately the ants haven't had much of a chance to eat any cookies.)

Snookie hitchhiked home, cleaned up his affairs, then went to see African Alice, a girl who—but that (Continued On Page Four)

IS L.R.C. FAILING PURPOSE? (See Page Two)

NUMBER NINE

Scott Clears Skinner To Give College Stand
Athletic Director P. K. Scott moved this week to clarify the erroneous assumption that Davidson College is sponsoring the First Annual Basketball Tournament in the spacious Armory, December 28 and 29. The Charlotte Symphony Society is sponsoring the event with Davidson only an interested participant. South Carolina, Auburn, and Georgia Tech will complete the field. Scott emphasized that while Davidson is giving full support to the tournament, the College is in no way connected with the tournament organization. Coach Boyd Baird added that the Davidson Cagers, when the question arose concerning holiday participation, voted unanimously to cut short their Christmas vacation in order to play in the tournament.

Med Interview Cuts Get Nod
Pre-meds draining their allowed cut quota by attending interviews at med schools got some relief last week when the executive committee voted them limited unexcused absences. If a man has “reasonable assurance” of being accepted to med school within 12 months he may apply for free cuts after the first interview involving three or more class absences. The first three class absences, however, must come out of the student’s allowed quota. Each man can then ask for free cuts not to exceed five if he finds additional interviews necessary.

Greek Functions Begin Celebrating Yule Merriment
In line with the seasonal December merriment, three fraternities and the Campus Club will be celebrating Saturday night with social functions. The KA's, dressed in costumes representing characters of history and fiction, will enjoy themselves at the Woman's Club in Charlotte with a banquet and masquerade ball. Concord will also get a glimpse of Davidson's way of celebrating as the Kappa Sigs observe their annual Black and White formal Saturday night. Neither will Statesville feel neglected this weekend since the Pikas will follow their pledges to the Statesville Lions’ Club where the group will be entertained by the brother-to-be with a buffet supper and dance. On the campus, a mountaineer spirit will prevail at Erwin Lodge. The Campus Club members and their dates will spend the evening square dancing to the tunes of old-time barn dances.

Cornelia Otis Skinner will present a series of her famous dramatic monologues Monday night, Dec. 3, at 8:15 p.m., in Chambers Auditorium. Because her most successful performances are achieved with the mood of each audience in mind, Miss Skinner will choose and announce the sketches at the time of the performance.

Typical Program
One of her standard programs consists of six sketches, including “Being Presented,” “Homework,” “Times Square,” “Hotel Porch” and “Nurse’s Day Off.” Miss Skinner, like many other actresses, began her career with many secondary parts in secondary plays. But such dull fare was not for long. She decided to go out on her own. Her success with monologues won her the title of “the greatest single attraction in the American theatre.”

First Fame
She first gained international fame with her presentations of "The Wives of Henry VIII,” “The Loves of Charles II" and “The Empress Eugenie.” Then she wrote and performed the first of her character sketches—in the beginning for her friends and later professionally. These sketches were so popular that soon she was making tours across the U.S., to Canada and London.

Here Monday
CORNELIA OTIS SKINNER
Miss Skinner, who is the second speaker of the Davidson Celebrity Series, has won wide acclaim for her two novels, “Family Circle,” and “Our Hearts Were Young and Gay.” Alpha Psi Omega is planning to have a reception for Miss Skinner at the YMCA Guest House following her performance.

Unissued Ballots Delay Election
Failure of “about half” of the sophomore class to receive ballots at chapel this morning necessitates the holdover until Monday the run-off election between Bill Freeman and Kirk Oglesby for student representative on the athletic council. Vice-president Lyman Kiser, in charge of the election, said that due to the program’s length, ballots did not reach about half of the sophomore class, hence giving them no voice in the election. President Mac McLean said that ballots already returned would be kept until Monday, at which time they will be tabulated along with those of the sophomores who did not have the opportunity to vote today and who will do so Monday. Other student government action today saw the student body vote in the amendment whereby the three editors and three business managers of the campus publications will automatically form the student representation on the Publications Board.

Notice
Permission has been granted to Davidson to remove the federal tax from the price of the Celebrity Series tickets. General admission tickets are $1.50 rather than $1.80 and date tickets are $1 rather than $1.20. No refund is due on student tickets. Students who have not gotten their tickets may get them at 113 Chambers or in the lobby at Chambers before Miss Skinner's lecture.

Student Paper Mirrors Views
Student opinion at Davidson will have a less-choked outlet in the near future according to a small group of students who plan to publish an independent newspaper. Of tabloid size, it will be primarily devoted to divulging facts which have not been “properly emphasized” regarding controversial issues in the student body. Though there will be no regular publication dates, the paper will be given out when its staff decides there is more to be said concerning some important student business. According to Mike Myers, a key figure in the organization of this paper, those writers who have been definitely signed are Stuart Shippey, Buddy Lamon, Jack Hunter, Ed Stuart and Sam Hope. George Irvin is to serve as business manager. At the time of announcement, the paper was planned to be mimeographed, but Myers said that if demand was sufficient the editors (Continued On Page Four)

Slanted ROTC Movies Spread UN Propaganda Thick at D.C.
By JOHN OTTLEY
Well into his third year at Davidson, John Puremind was rather proud of himself. In various courses here his intellectual character had been more or less developed so that he could wear with confidence the semblance of a sneer which he exhibited toward frosh. John most of all was genuinely appreciative of a sense of tolerance toward ideas and the persons who sponsored them. Only the other day his philosophy professor had emphasized tolerance as a vital point if one would see life more realistically. Then one rainy Tuesday afternoon John P. was invited by the college ROTC Department to view some war films in lieu of the regular drill. Though purporting to be news films of a UN counterattack and an unbiased account of the first peace talks, John’s pure mind quickly saw the movies had a special meaning for him and his classmates. Shown him first was the pictorial reporting of a victorious UN counter-drive northward smashing in lightning fashion the Communist “iron triangle” base at Chorwon. With a rash of exploding high explosives and shots of smiling infantrymen happy at their work, John was positively convinced that newspaper reports of UN soldiers brokenheartedly bashing at the triangle for days must have been inaccurate if not false. He couldn't really see any Communists “being slaughtered,” but the confident and almost shouting voice of the commentator proved indubitably that the films weren’t taken in the California mountains and lifted from a “B” movie. Surely the philosophy prof must have been mistaken, thought young John as he watched the mean Reds maltreat our truce team. They had no right to threaten UN delegates with fully loaded weapons. Slipping momentarily through John’s memory came the time (Continued On Page Four)