The “young” fellow pictured on this page is receiving a commendation for his long and unheralded work in the athletic department of the college. The fellow giving the honors is the man we're going to be talking about this time. When Auburn Lambeth trots out on the field up at State College today and takes up his familiar post out in left field, it will be the last time he will be playing in an athletic contest representing Davidson College. For four seemingly short years, Auburn's name has been synonymous with athletics at Davidson. On the football field and the baseball diamond, he has starred individually and as one of the greatest team players in the history of athletics here. Many times he has given more than his share of hustle and spirit and taken more than his share of the knocks and bruises. Always he has given his all and has exemplified the Davidson spirit in every sense of the word.

Aubie has won too numerous honors to be repeated here, but just a few can hardly be passed by. In his sophomore year, he led the nation in passing for the first three or four weeks and ended up high in the list of national passers. Johnny Lujack and Bobby Layne were only two of his competition. Despite the weak team of '49, he still placed high in passing and was again mentioned for All-State and All-Conference honors. This past year was a fitting climax for an outstanding career, for he was named on the second team All-Conference and was first team All-State choice of the Greensboro Daily News. He also entered a select circle when he completed 217 passes for a three-year college career. In baseball for the last three years, he has been a dependable fielder and a consistent hitter. Although plagued by an old thigh injury since mid-season, he was right in the game. Coach Packard had high praise for Auburn during the entire season and depended on him greatly to help mold the young team into a smooth-working outfit. We'll borrow a much-used term of the present time and say that “old athletes never die,” and that can be dittoed, for long after he has made his place in the world, Auburn Lambeth will be remembered for his feats and spirit while wearing the old red and black.

“AND MORE ORCHIDS”

While we're on the subject, it would only be fitting and proper to mention a few of the outstanding senior sportsmen that won't be with us next year. Davidson College will certainly miss these boys, because the crop this year is unusually outstanding. Dutch Hengeveld closes out his career as an outstanding cager and baseballer when he gets his sheepskin in June. Dutch has played all his four years and has been a very stellar pitcher for the baseball set and a very effective and aggressive guard for the court fives. Next to Whit Cobb, he ranks as one of the best basketballers in many years. Playing right with Dutch in the winter was Tommy Haller. Tommy has also been a two-sport man, dividing his time between track and basketball. He was an outstanding forward on Coach Baird’s cage teams and won the Merchant Trophy last year for most points scored in track. Tom is a real competitor at heart and although he didn’t come out for track this year, he realized his great love and played for his fraternity in volleyball and softball. He was past co-captain of the cage team along with Hengeveld.

Coming along, Bill Pritchett and Blake Bradley close out their athletic work in the track paths. Pritch has done some outstanding hurdling and Blake has been hot on the long distance and on the cross-country team. Ken Goodpasture always comes through on the 100 and was recently second in the Carolina Relays. He always is close to the 10-second mark. Coach Whittle will certainly miss these boys, along with the student body. Bill Ray also departs with the coming of June, but he leaves the honor to Davidson for the winner of the 50-yard dash in the Southern Conference meet at Carolina. It is the first time that such an honor has been won by a Davidsonian in a long while. He certainly will be missed for his great swimming ability. Last and least in stature, but not in spirit and ability, is Monty Hill. The “Flower” has been touring the links a long time for ole Davidson, and he has always been right at the top. He is one of the finest little golfers in the Southern Conference and the place he vacates will take a lot of filling to say the least.

FRIDAY, MAY 11, 1951

THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SECTION

Cinders End Season By Meeting State Crew

By BILL SLEDGE

Tomorrow afternoon the Davidson cindermen play host to the strong Wolfpack squad from N. C. State in the final meet of the season. Davidson, after losing to Clemson last Saturday by the slim margin of six points, would like very much to complete their season with a victory. Blake Bradley should find State's mile competition very tough, since the Wolfpack boasts the Southern Conference champion in the mile run; they also have excellent weight men, but Bill McNeely, Don Lazenby, Andy Horne, and Gene Pierce should prove to be a good match for them. Coach Whittle’s squad seems to be in good shape and very eager to come out on top tomorrow. Some of the boys—Ken Goodpasture, Blake Bradley and Bill Pritchett—to mention a few—will be running for the last time at Davidson. Ken Goodpasture was nosed out last week at Clemson. He lost to 9.9 seconds in the 100-yard clash, running a 10-flat 100 himself—his best time of the year. Bob Henry, the leading 880 man, has come very close to bettering 2 minutes in that event and is banked on to do so tomorrow. With a fast track and no injuries, Davidson should manage a victory in their last meet.

Frat Softballers Closing Out Season

The interfraternity softball league swings into the last week of action this week with the Sigma Chis and Betas tied for first place with 7-1 records. They are followed closely bythe Kappa Sigs with a 7-2 record. With the addition of two new diamonds on the golf course, five games are played each day, and the softball schedule is being run off much quicker this year. So coming into the home stretch, it will be the Sigma Chi teamwork and the Beta and Kappa Sig batting power fighting it out for the title. The standings through round 9 are:

Team W L
Sigma Chi 7 1
Kappa Sig 7 2
SPE 5 3
Phi Delt 4 3
KA 3 4
Pi Kappa Phi 2 4
Pikas 3 5
Phi Gams 2 6
SAE 1 6
ATO 0 7

“How did the Smith wedding go off?”
“Fine, until the parson asked the bride if she’d obey her husband.”
“What happened then?”
“She replied, ‘Do you think I’m crazy?’ and the groom, who was in a sort of daze, replied, ‘I do’.”

The Best Dressed Men at Davidson Wear Jack Wood, Ltd. CLOTHES
It Costs No More To Dress Correctly

THANKS, AUB!

Athletes Hear Wade; Get Letters, Awards
By WALLACE ABBOTT

On Monday night, May 7th, the Athletic Department of Davidson College sponsored the first All-Sports Banquet, and from the comments of the students in attendance, it was a tremendous success. This all-sports banquet is something new for Davidson, because in the past, they have had separate banquets for each sport.

Guest of honor for the banquet was the new Commissioner of the Southern Conference, Wallace Wade, and he spoke on a subject of interest to all college sports participants, “The Influence of College Athletics on Citizenship.” One of the most important phases of his talk was the statement that college athletics extend their influence, not only to the athletes themselves and their close followers, but to the entire world.

The first speaker on the program was Dr. Cunningham, who issued a cordial word of welcome to all guests, both from the student body and adjoining towns. Following Dr. Cunningham's remarks, Mr. David E. LaFar, Chairman of the Athletic Council, spoke a few words of welcome and commendation to the students in attendance.

The next point of interest on this very extensive program was the presentation of awards to the students who were invited. Among the more notable of the awards that were presented was the Acme Blocking Trophy, given to the member of the football team who, in the opinion of the coaches, was the best blocker. The Trophy this year was awarded to Jim Fasul, but was accepted by Johnny Guiton, since Jim is in the Armed Forces.

Other awards were presented to the members of athletic squads who attained either state, conference, or national fame. Auburn Lambeth is to be presented with a trophy for his achievements as a passer. Auburn, as is well known, is listed among the ten best passers of our time. The other trophies presented went to Bill Ray and Francis Pepper in swimming and to several members of the wrestling team.

The very gala banquet was closed when Auburn Lambeth presented Doc White with a gift certificate for $50 on behalf of the D Club, for his loyal service and devotion to the athletes of Davidson College, both present and past.

Teacher: “Billy, what is a flood?”
Billy: “A river too big for its bridges.”

Daughter: “Should I marry a man who can take a joke?”
Mother: “That's the only kind you'll get.”

Son: “Dad, I think I will settle down and raise chickens.”
Father: “Better raise owls. Their hours will suit you better.”

Neighbor: “When is your sister thinking of getting married?”
Little Brother: “Constantly.”

Wildcat Sports

NCE TOURNAMENT BEGINS
By Barton's Cats Defend Tennis Title Against Seven Strong Contenders

BILL BROOKS ELECTED BASKETBALL CAPTAIN

PAGE THREE

By DICK ROPER

Sir Derrick Barton's Wildcat racqueteers were eliminated from the singles division of the Southern Conference tennis tournament in the first day of play yesterday afternoon. Allan Strand, number one man on the Cat net team, was defeated by John Tapley of Duke, 7-5, 6-3, in a semi-final match. Strand was the last Davidson netter to be eliminated.

In the doubles division, however, local hopes were kept alive by Strand, Dewey Keesler, Ham Wade, and John Crosland. Strand and Keesler, who was also eliminated from the singles division earlier in the afternoon, defeated a duo from West Virginia in a twilight match. Wade and Crosland earlier won a match from Duke by scores of 6-3, 6-3.

Those remaining undefeated at the end of yesterday’s play were Del Sylvia, University of North Carolina; George Larkin, William and Mary; Keston Deimling, Duke; Ronnie Barnes, William and Mary; Buddy Agar, U.N.C.; John Tapley, Duke; and John Ross, Duke. Both doubles and singles events were continued this morning at 9:00. The final matches will be played tomorrow.

Other conference teams besides Davidson to be eliminated in the singles division were N. C. State, West Virginia, and Maryland.

BULLETIN—Davidson was still in the running for the doubles title in the Southern Conference Tennis Tournament at noon today. Allan Strand and Dewey Keesler defeated Charles Kehoe and Walter Childs by scores of 6-3, 6-2, in a match played this morning. Strand and Keesler and the other Wildcat duo remaining in the doubles race, John Crosland and Ham Wade, were expected to play semi-final matches this afternoon.

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests
Number 21... THE PELICAN

Our easy-going, big-billed friend has learned to say “No” to these hurry-up, one-puff, one-sniff cigarette tests! “Why,” says he, “they don’t even give you time to finish the cigarette before you’re supposed to decide which is mildest!”

Millions of smokers have come to the same conclusion—there’s just one real way to test the flavor and mildness of a cigarette! It’s the sensible test... the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test, which simply asks you to try Camels as a steady smoke—on a pack-after-pack, day-after-day basis. No snap judgments needed! After you’ve enjoyed Camels—and only Camels—for 30 days in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste), we believe you'll know why...

More People Smoke Camels than any other cigarette!