! OVENS COMES THROUGH

Mr. David Ovens Makes Gift Of $100,000 To D.C.

A $100,000 gift to Davidson College by Mr. David Ovens of Charlotte was announced early this week by Dr. Cunningham.
Dr. Cunningham, in expressing his gratitude on behalf of the college, commended Mr. Ovens on his wisdom in donating the
money while he can see the results of his gift. The money will be applied toward construction of the new
$220,000 Student Union Building which will bear the name of Mr. Ovens.

Mr. Ovens’ gift is his second major contribution to Christian education in less than a month. In December he gave
$250,000 to Queens College in Charlotte. His gift is the largest amount given to Davidson since the $2,500,000 Development Program
which was concluded last June.

The Ovens Student Union will include office space for the Davidsonian, Scripts ’n Pranks, Quips and Cranks, student government, a
snack bar, banquet hall and several private dining rooms, game rooms and music listening rooms. Construction on the building will
begin in the near future and will be completed before the 1951-52 term opens in September. Located directly behind Chambers
Building, the Ovens Union will be readily accessible from dormitories, classrooms, and fraternity houses.

For a number of years, Mr. Ovens, Vice-president of J. B. Ivey and Co., has been prominently connected with church
and civic affairs. Last year, he was named the Charlotte News’ “Man of the Year” in Charlotte.

Eugene List Named To Replace Soprano

Eugene List, renowned young American concert pianist, has been named to replace Joan Hammond, soprano, for a concert February 20
with the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra. Mr. List won over Robert Weede, Metropolitan Opera baritone, in balloting by those present at
the Robert Shaw Chorale Concert Wednesday night. The concert will be the third in the 1950-51 Davidson College Artists’ Series.

DUKE SETS UP 3-YEAR PLAN FOR FRESHMEN

Duke University President Hollis Edens announced this week that the institution will accept freshman students in June to begin a
“national emergency” college program that will permit them to graduate in three years. Under the accelerated war program, a high
school graduate entering Duke in June, 1951, can graduate in June, 1954.

“While the details of such a program will have to await action from Washington,” Edens said, “the University deems it
essential to provide opportunity for high school graduates to begin their college training at the earliest possible date.” The Duke
president continued, “This program is in line with the advice of national leaders and high school counselors who are urging
young people to begin their college work as soon as possible, because of the imminence of military service.” Moreover, Edens
pointed out, students now in college are being urged to complete their work as quickly as they can. “The University
is thus making provision,” he said, “for accommodating as many students as wish to accelerate their college career.”

Duke officials said recent developments in Korea have had little effect thus far on enrollment, but a number of students
are expected to leave for the armed forces at the end of the first semester which comes soon. Some 37
students out of an enrollment of 5,000 have entered the service since September.

President Cunningham announced this week that Dr. Charles Eberhardt, Professor of Bible, has been granted a leave of absence for
archeological research in the Holy Land. Dr. Eberhardt will sail January 17 for a six-month trip to Europe and the
Near East; he will return to Davidson on July 1. He will spend two and a half months with an
expedition excavating ruins in Jericho. From there Dr. Eberhardt will move on to Moab for further probing into the remains
of the ancient civilizations.

Dr. Eberhardt, who is receiving a financial grant from the Carnegie Foundation, is accompanying the expedition at the special invitation
of the American School of Oriental Research. On Easter Sunday morning Dr. Eberhardt will meet four other Bible professors at
the tomb of Christ and go with them on a tour through Assyria, Mesopotamia, Turkey, Egypt, and the Mediterranean Islands.

Dr. Eberhardt said that the members of the expedition do not expect to make any startling discoveries. They will carry
on routine investigation and examination of the life and times of people living in Biblical days. From February 1 until
about April 15 their work will center around the ruins of a palace built by the son of Herod the
Great. Dr. Eberhardt will work with ten or fifteen other Bible scholars in classifying, recording, and interpreting the results of
the excavations. A professor who will teach Dr. Eberhardt’s second semester classes will be announced at a later date.

SHAW, CHORAL CONDUCTOR, GIVES SIDELIGHTS ON WORK

By SHELLY BEARD

I talked to a man Wednesday night for about ten minutes. He is a famous man in a way. He
is conductor of the best choral group in America today. Robert Shaw probably would shy away from such a positive
statement, but this is not the first time it’s been made. I'm sure Mr. Fred Waring would agree and perhaps
Mr. Toscanini would too. As for the audience that heard the concert there is no doubt.

From the stage Mr. Shaw looks and acts like a well-fed junior executive. But, from across a table the character
of the man can best be seen in the deeply cut lines of his face, the blood-shot eyes, and the
mobile mouth. It is easy to see that here is a man who has not had enough sleep or relaxation
for a long time. His hands and eyes are very still betraying a sort of coiled impatience. This impatience seems
to stem from an awareness of the shortness of life. For this reason Shaw feels that he is wasting his
time when he is working on anything but serious music such as the “Requiem Mass” that his group performed last
night. His greatest rewards come from completing a performance of great music. Because of this deep desire for the best
in music he quit show business, where he got his start, and organized his choral group.

Robert Shaw didn't start out to be a musician and had no college preparation in music. He began, however, in
his first year after graduation to build Fred Waring’s Glee Club and remained to help arrange and rehearse programs. Real
notice did not come until he organized and conducted a choral group of one hundred and thirty voices. From this
beginning he has risen to national importance in his field working with some of the top musical figures and ensembles
in the world including Arturo Toscanini and the Pittsburgh Symphony.

Shippey Blasts Psycho Jargon

The Beta Theta Pi house was the meeting place for Sigma Upsilon on January 4. Irving Stubbs called the meeting
to order. Following the usual business, Dr. Johnston presented an article entitled “Education in Ante Bellum South.” Professor Johnston brought
out the fact that education at that time was for the leaders or Aristocracy rather than for commoners. He also
stressed the fact that religion was the best ally of education at that time. After Dr. Johnston's story, Irving Stubbs
read “O Davidson” written in Milton’s style of writing. Next, S. H. Shippey presented an article entitled “Psychological Jargon.” This
essay on the language used by psychologists brought out the fact that the average person cannot understand many words used
in psychology. The last article of the meeting was a poem written by Hartley Hall. It was a self-portrait of
a man presented in verse. Following this poem the meeting adjourned.

Mr. Shaw does no composing of his own, he said that he wished that he could. He does most of
his own arranging for recordings and broadcasts. The actual details of his work take most of his time. On tour
it usually takes 16 hours a day of continuous work to keep the Choral going and at its peak. Mr.
Shaw said that he enjoyed performing before a college audience more than any other kind. He said you could do
the serious stuff and get response and then do the light stuff and still be appreciated.

Temperament doesn’t seem to bother the choral although it is composed of fifty musicians supposedly the most unpredictable people in
the world. Of course in its trips over the nation the usual mishaps occur. Once the podium split in the
middle of a high note and Shaw disappeared from sight for a short while, but returned in time for seven
encores. Another time the soloist got laryngitis and had to eat Vaseline before her voice returned. The man with the
long hair will probably be enjoyed by audiences such as ours for years to come. He has the personality, the
talent and the determination to reproduce good music that is loved by everyone.

Chapel Schedule

Because the week of January 15-19 is during the semester examination period, the regular chapel period for that time has
been shortened to fifteen-minute periods each day and will be at 12:00. On Monday, January fifteenth, Dr. McGeachy will be
in charge, and on Tuesday the devotional will be under the direction of Professor Roberts. Mr. Paul Scott will lead
Wednesday’s Chapel. Thursday is Y.M.C.A. Day and on Friday, January nineteenth, Professor Erwin will lead the program.will not be required
to attend chapel during the examination period.

World Public Opinions Vigorously Expressed

One of the most interesting and enlightening events of the school year came to the campus last weekend (Jan. 6-8)
in the form of the Y.M.C.A. forum on contemporary world attitudes. It is the purpose of this article to acquaint
the reader with some of the highlights of the forum and the issues which were brought to light during this
extensive survey of our world in the opening weeks of 1951.

The forum had its initial meeting on Saturday afternoon in the form of a March of Time movie on “Sweden.”
Following this came similar films on China, Italy, and India in that order. That night at 7:30 p.m., the first
actual discussion group centered their thoughts on the subject “Political Attitudes,” led by Pete Kalogridis, with the forum composed of
Tomihiko Kambara, a Buddhist from Tokyo, Japan, now a graduate student of political science at Duke University; Miss Janet Murdock
from England, a senior at Duke; Mr. Mansoor Ansari, from Meshed, Iran, a Moslem and a junior at Duke; Miss
Lia Petrovskis, a displaced person from Latvia, now studying at Queen's; Mr. Gunnar Alksnis, also a displaced person from Latvia,
now at Catawba College; and Mr. Dieter Oberndorfer, a Lutheran pre-ministerial student from Munich, Germany, now at Davidson under the
sponsorship of the Sigma Chi fraternity.

The principal topics for discussion consisted of the rearmament of Germany and Japan, and the attitudes of individual countries represented
towards America. Following this were informal discussions among those in attendance, including members of the forum. The Sunday morning Bible
class was led by Tally Athsnis from Latvia, and at 3:00 p.m. a discussion group on “Economic and Social Attitudes”
was conducted by Hartley Hall with the panel composed of the same foreign students as mentioned above. Throughout this discussion,
England remained on the defensive through discussions such as English recognition of China, economic independence of Iran, and the presentation
by Mr. John McKnight, recent Associated Press correspondent to the Vatican, of comments on the influence of Communism on present-day
Italy. Ansari made various acute observations ranging from attractive blondes in America and his country and handsome features of typical
Persians to female foot-binding in Japan. His injection of humor from time to time proved one of the highlights of
the forum. Also discussed were reparations and movement of German industrial machinery.

At the Westminster Fellowship hour that evening, the topic “Religious Attitudes” was discussed by the foreign students with Dieter Oberndorfer
as leader. The general area of discussion concerned religious responsibility in a dynamic world, in which a picture was presented
of what the church is doing and failing to do in Europe. At the regular vesper hour, Rev. Iain Wilson
of Scotland, now professor of Bible on the Davidson College faculty, gave the address using as his subject the idea
of the universal church as the common bond of believers and the only hope for complete unity in the world.

The Monday schedule began with the chapel address by Prof. Charles (Continued On Page Four)

JANUARY 12, 1951

IT WON'T BE LONG, BOYS! NUMBER TWELVE

MALE DECLINE IN COLLEGES MAY BE 80%

Atlantic City, N.J.—An 80 percent drop in male college enrollments next fall was predicted Wednesday by Dr. Guy E. Snavely,
in a statement read before the 37th annual meeting of the American Association of Colleges. Educators from 675 colleges and
universities heard the statement and wrestled with what may be a life-and-death problem for many of their small institutions. Delegates
to the meeting expressed deep concern over the effects of Selective Service on their student bodies and faculties. Snavely said
the meeting would work toward a united front for presentation to Congress. He said there were a number of opinions
among educators on what students should be deferred and on the methods of determining students for deferment. A number of
educators expressed the opinion small colleges would be hurt so much by the draft they would be forced to close
down.

DRAFT JITTERS GRIP STUDENTS AS TEN ENLIST

An announcement from Dean Bailey’s office this week revealed that the current world crisis is the cause of more than
a little draft jitters, for ten Davidson students entered the Armed Forces during the Christmas holidays or shortly thereafter. None
of the group was drafted but enlisted rather than face the certainty of being called. As might be expected, all
of these men were underclassmen—five juniors, three sophomores, and two freshmen. Three of these students, Juniors R. G. Bernhardt and
C. L. Runyan and sophomore Glasgow Hicks, withdrew during December. The others, juniors B. G. Ballenger, J. S. Fasul, J.
E. Parker III, sophomores H. P. Johnson, R. S. Smith Jr., and freshmen L. T. Runge and A. Z. Whitfield,
have withdrawn the first two weeks of the new year.

The consensus of opinion among most Davidson men of eligible draft age seems at present to be that if they
want a choice of services, their best bet is to enlist before being drafted. A few feel that their academic
grades do not warrant a deferment and are afraid of being taken from school anyway. Just how many men will
join the ranks at the end of the semester is anybody's guess, but a large number of students have expressed
their intention to enlist. However, the recent strict quotas set up by the Air Force, which most of the men
seem to favor, will doubtless have an effect on some enlistments. Fraternity boarding houses, particularly in the smaller fraternities, have
already felt the effect caused by a reduced number of paying members, and further loss of men may pose a
serious problem to them.

NOTICE

Hugo Sapp, chairman of the local March of Dimes Drive, announced today that $171.95 was collected at the Davidson-N.C. State
basketball game Tuesday night.

Bulletin!

Hoopy Davis, Judge of the Court of Control, announced this afternoon that freshman regulations have been lifted, effective immediately. Davis,
in an exclusive interview with the Davidsonian, said, “The fact that no freshmen have been reported since Christmas holidays seems
to indicate that upperclassmen are about ready to accept the frosh as an equal class.” Davis expects to make a
further statement in chapel the first of next week.

NEWS ITEM

Dr. John R. Cunningham attended the thirty-seventh annual meeting of the Association of American Colleges. Dr. Cunningham is the treasurer
of this organization whose meetings were held in Atlantic City, N.J., January 8-10. The Association’s theme for this session was
“The Colleges in This Crisis.” The main speaker of the session was the Honorable Warren Austin, U.S. Delegate to the
United Nations.

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE - JANUARY 1951

Monday, January 15
AM—R.O.T.C. 11, 21, 31, 41.
PM—Sixth hour classes of Monday, Wednesday, Friday.

Tuesday, January 16
AM—Second hour classes of Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday.
PM—Fourth hour classes of Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday.

Wednesday, January 17
AM—Fourth hour classes of Monday, Wednesday, Friday.
PM—First hour classes of Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday.

Thursday, January 18
AM—Second hour classes of Monday, Wednesday, Friday.
PM—Third hour classes of Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday.

Friday, January 19
AM—Third hour classes of Monday, Wednesday, Friday.
PM—First hour classes of Monday, Wednesday, Friday.

Monday, January 22
AM—Political Science 21.
PM—Fifth hour classes of Monday, Wednesday, Friday.

Tuesday, January 23
AM—Mathematics 10, 11.

Classes of the semester end at 12:15 p.m., January 13th.
Morning examinations begin at 9:00 a.m.
Afternoon examinations begin at 2:00 p.m.

Quartet First In Schedule Announced By Flick Society

With its fall schedule drawing to a close tonight with a triple-header of art, music, and architecture shorts, the United
Literary Film Society this week announced its spring semester series of films. The six-picture program promises to be even better
than the fine schedule offered this semester. Encouraged by the great enthusiasm shown by students and faculty towards the efforts
of the Society, the steering committee has already planned the following program:

January 26: “Quartet.” The much-requested award-winner that played for months in New York. Four of Somerset Maugham's short stories. English.

March 2: “Grapes of Wrath.” Henry Fonda in John Steinbeck’s relentless story of the “Okies.”

March 16: “Jane Eyre.” Orson Welles and Charlotte Bronte’s unforgettable novel of 19th century England.

April 6: Double-feature, “The Mad Queen” presented in conjunction with the Spanish department. A highly recommended Spanish film produced by
the same company that produced “Don Quixote.” This picture is in Technicolor. And “Rembrandt,” a short film on the history
of painting produced in cooperation with the Holland government.

April 13: “The Stone Flower.” A breathtakingly beautiful Russian color picturization of an old folk legend. Awarded First Prize for
color film at the Cannes International Festival.

April 20: “Crime and Punishment.” Again a much-requested picture. The great psychological novel by Dostoevski. Produced in France.

This is not a tentative schedule. Because of the uncertainty of the response to their program, the society last semester
necessarily was unable to contract for the intended pictures early and consequently was able to get only one of the
announced films. The above schedule, with the exception of “The Mad Queen,” has been confirmed and (Continued On Page Four)
