Starting out on something new is bad enough just “as is”; if it has anything to do with newspaper work,
it is an added headache; but if it is succeeding one who has gone before and has done some excellent
work, it can be classified as pretty much of a job. It is in this capacity and situation that we
start into these last few issues to fill up the sports page of “The Davidsonian.” Bill White, as he steps
up to the post of editor, leaves a mighty fine reputation as a sports editor on the pages of its
history. He has set the mark very high. As much as any other one person, he has helped to bring
about and typify and promote Davidson’s improved athletic program to the point that it is at its height in the
history of athletics at Davidson, due to its vast and improving resources. Bill has accomplished this through his ideas and
thoughts expressed in his weekly columns. Many times he has been on the inside and could give a clearer picture
of the situation and a lowdown that would otherwise remain obscure. His knowledge of the “behind the scenes” stuff and
his clear and concise way of getting it over made his articles read and respected all over the campus. They
were the objects of much discussion, some of which was adverse, but that was good because it created an interest
in the subject or sport discussed. Someone remarked about White’s columns that “they tell a story or teach you something
every week.” Among his greatest accomplishments was his work on the Davidson ‘spirit’ (Little David), and his article on the
immortal Tommy Peters. Besides the good journalism entailed in them, there was a story and a moral. “Whitey” has been
a swell sports editor and you can bet he'll make a good editor of the paper. He has the “know”,
besides a lot of talent and is highly qualified for the job.

HERE AND THERE

With four varsity and frosh spring sports going on at once, it’s hard to keep up with any one of
them not to speak of all four. However, school is drawing nigh to closing and most of the sports activities
on the campus come to a close in the next two weeks. Coach Elgin White’s golfers wind up their season
this weekend with a match at Duke today and another with Carolina tomorrow at Chapel Hill. The linksters boast an
8-4 season's record for all matches, and a 5-2 conference tally. The two losses were in the hands of the
two hosts for this weekend's play. With the improved play of “Slimy” Sloan and Cecil Brandon, who shot a record-breaking
31 on the Mooresville course this week, they have a fine chance of taking Duke and Carolina this weekend and
of a shot at the conference crown now held by the weakened Wake Forest crew. Coach White predicted such a
thing and it looks like he’s out to prove it. Both track teams meet Wofford and Central respectively tomorrow on
the home cinders. Coach Frank Packard hits the McCrary Eagles here today and then travels to Duke to take on
the Groatmen tomorrow, and Coach Barton entertains the University of Georgia tennis team today before tracking off to Yale for
a Monday match. Along with the track meet, the lovely weekend guests will get to see Coach Boyd Baird’s Kitten
baseballers take on the Salisbury High nine. After getting off to a slow start, Coach Baird’s understudies met with great
success in Charlotte and are now looking forward to an improved season.

“THESE MEN SHALL NEVER DIE”

Over the weekend, several boys typified “the highest Davidson tradition” by bringing honor on themselves and on their Alma Mater
on the field of sport. In Florida Bill McNeely broke the Florida State shot put record and Blake Bradley flashed
his old form to garner 10 points in the meet in which Davidson placed second to the host in a
three-way meet, being only 7 points behind Florida State University. On home ground Bill Rowland uncorked a 4-run homer against
State in a losing cause last Friday. He had just belted one in the Carolina game a week before with
one man on base. Jerry Morrow also lashed a bases-empty round-tripper later on in the last innings of the State
fray. They can’t all be Wildcat of the Week, but they all certainly deserve it.

POLICY

If there is to be any policy for this page, it is to bring before the students an unbiased picture
of the sports world at Davidson. We want to print the news and an outlook of future developments as connected
with athletics. We are open at any time for criticism, suggestions and comments. Today in 1926, Mel Ott, at the
age of 17, started playing on his long career with the Giants. He managed the Giants from ’41 to ’48.
On April 28, 1949, Ted Williams promised his first home run of the season to a 14-year-old polio victim in
Staunton, Neb. Needless to say he belted one on the next day.

Wildcat of the Week: Bill Rowland
By DICK ROPER

Wildcat Sports
THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SECTION
FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1961

FLASH! TELL YOUR FRIENDS PHI DELTS WON! PAGE THREE

CINDERMEN SET FOR WOFFORD

Cat Nine, Following Eagle Scrap Go To Duke For SC Test Tomorrow
By JACK EFIRD

This afternoon, Coach Frank Packard's nine meet the power-laden McCrary Eagles on the home diamond. The Cats will probably start
Tom Craven on the mound for this contest. The team will be looking for revenge, after losing Tuesday’s game to
South Carolina in the last half of the ninth inning 6-5. This victory was South Carolina's second of the season
in twelve games. On Saturday, the team travels to Durham to play the Duke Blue Devils, who were thoroughly trounced
in their last game with North Carolina 14-0. Dutch Hengeveld will probably pitch in the first game with Duke this
season. This game was scheduled as the second of the season between the two teams, but the game here was
rained out. The Cats’ overall season record is two wins and six defeats. Their conference record is one win and
five defeats. The slugging outfield of Bill Rowland, Jack Branch, and Jerry Morrow is still providing the hitting power. Auburn
Lambeth, who has been hobbling around on a bad leg, may see action. The major concern of the Cats is
to stop helping the opposition with errors. The team has been handing out runs lately by untimely bobbles. Otherwise, the
season’s won-lost record would be much better than it now is.

Kitten Tracksters Meet Central High

The Wildkitten thinclads met Central High School this afternoon in their second meet of a three-meet track season. The Frosh
defeated Mars Hill Junior College last Saturday, the first time in three years. Central's Wildcats brought with them Desmond Marsh,
who promised to give Tommy Breeden plenty of competition in the 220-yard dash. Breeden won the 220-yard dash against Mars
Hill with a :23.7 and took the 100-yard dash with :10.5, scoring 10 points for his first track meet. Bill
Shipley was high point man for the Kittens last Saturday with 13 points. He won the 440-yard dash and the
half-mile run, and placed second in the broad jump. Davidson swept the broad jump and 100-yard dash events from Mars
Hill by taking the first three places in both events.

The sad truth about money is that a pocketful of it — ample and reassuring as it is — usually
melts away like a cake of ice in the sun.

Golfers End Season, Meet Devils, Heels: Frosh Here Today
By BILL SLEDGE

Today and Monday the varsity golfers conclude their regular season matches before going to White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia, to
compete in the Southern Conference tournament the first week in May. Davidson will meet Carolina and Duke, both having strong
teams, and both holding early season victories over the Cats. Elgin White has stated that there is a good chance
to win these two matches and end the season with a 7-2 conference record. The team as a whole has
shown a great deal of improvement since their first meetings with the clubs from Chapel Hill and Durham. This week,
Cecil Branden of Winston-Salem, set a new record on the nine-hole course at Mooresville when he toured the nine in
31 strokes. His eighteen-hole total was 68, which is excellent in any man’s league. Jim Sloan is playing a much
better game than at the first of the season. These two along with Monty Hill and Mac McLean could easily
prove to be a winning combination against Duke and Carolina. For the other two slots to be filled, Al Gaither,
Al Fitzgerald, Lew Barnes and Lawrence Erwin offer excellent material to choose from. The Cats’ present season record is 8-4
and theirConference record is 5-2. Two wins this weekend would probably give Davidson a seeded position in the Conference Tourney
and the confidence they need to be Southern Conference Champs.

Kittens Active

The Wildkitten golf team, bleeding after two defeats at the hands of Central High School of Charlotte, will be seeking
their first win of the season today against Salisbury High. Bobby Brannan and Graham Keith lead the Kitten golfers with
Bob Owens, Ted Oldenburg, Harry Yarborough, and Rod Reid holding down the other four positions in that order.

For That BEACH TRIP See Our Selection of Jantzen Swim Suits

Things weren't looking too good for Coach Frank Packard’s Wildcat baseballers last Monday afternoon on the local diamond. It was
the third inning, and the opposing N. C. Statesters had an appreciable 4 hung up on the scoreboard, compared to
2 very round zero for the Cats. But then things began to look up just a little. One, two, then
three men got on base for the locals. And finally the man representing the tying run, in the person of
one Bill Rowland, stepped up to the plate. Without any further ado, Mister Rowland tagged the pitch to his liking
and circled the bases with a home run. As easy as that. Even though the Cats lost the game in
later innings, Rowland’s four-master was easily the outstanding feat of the day.

Hitting long balls and playing good center field is an old story for Bill Rowland. In high school back in
Gastonia he played for Russ Bergman on some of the championship teams that coach turned out so consistently. Bill, always
a good athlete, was recognized by Coach Bergman as one of the most natural ballplayers ever under his tutelage. Although
Rowland’s big, stocky frame appears a little incongruous in center field, he never looks more at home than at his
fullback position.

(Continued On Page Four)

“T” Shirts Ked Canvas Top Shoes WILSON-WRIGHTS DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Racqueteers Ramble Above Mason-Dixon To Seek More Wins

By MOODY SMITH

Refreshed after a week with only one match, but still stinging from the nine-love shellacking hung on them by the
University of North Carolina, Davidson's varsity tennis team leaves tomorrow for a week-long tour through the northern states. The Wildcat
racket-swingers doubtless hope to improve their very respectable season's record, which prior to the match today with the University of
Georgia stood at 8 wins against 5 defeats. After departing from Davidson Saturday the team will spend one night in
New York and then move on up to Yale for a match there Monday. Following the Yale match the team
travels down to Pennsylvania to take on Lehigh, and from there to Washington where a match with an Army team
from the Pentagon building will be played. Thursday has been set aside as a day of rest after which the
Cats travel to Charlottesville, Virginia for a match with the powerful University of Virginia team. On Saturday the tour will
be concluded with a match with the Virginia Country Club, and on Sunday the team returns to Davidson.

Making the trip will be Captain Allen Strand, Dewey Keesler, Pete Kennedy, Bill Child, Joe Dudley, Tom Staley, John Crosland,
and either Ham Wade or Bill Bivens, together with Coach Derrick Barton and Manager Eric Clark.

Frosh Tennis Team Tackles Duke, UNC

After tying the strong Charlotte Central team in a match called on account of darkness, Tuesday Davidson’s Freshman tennis team
left town on Thursday for a match with the Duke Frosh on that day and another with the North Carolina
Freshmen at Chapel Hill on Friday. The Kittens return Saturday for a match that afternoon with Reynolds High of Winston-Salem.
On the following Tuesday the Freshmen play host to Central in a return match.

In last Tuesday’s match, the singles had been concluded with each team pulling out three victories, and the doubles were
well under way when darkness descended on Freedom Park tennis courts, necessitating the cessation of hostilities. Virtually all the singles
matches were closely contested and the doubles gave every indication of being just as tight. The number three doubles teams
were beginning their twenty-first game in the first set when the darkness came.

Chesterfield SPORTS QUIZ

1. Who is the manager that replaced Burt Shotton as head of the Brooklyn Dodgers?
2. Name the National League ball player who was recently affected by the Federal Wage Freeze.
3. Who was the runner-up in the recent Master's Tournament?
4. Where are the Ryder Cup matches to be played this fall?

Answers should be turned in on a Chesterfield wrapper to Dave Moylan, C-East. Winners will receive a carton of Chesterfields.

Advertisement in a Manitoba, Canada, paper: “Farmer, aged 38, wishes to meet a girl around 30 years old who owns
a tractor. Please enclose picture of tractor.”

“How is the second-hand car you bought?”
“I've just realized how hard it is to drive a bargain.”

Wildcats Favored To Take Measure Over Terriers Tomorrow Afternoon

After an abbreviated tour of the sunny state of Florida, the Wildcat track squad encounters Wofford in a dual meet
here this Saturday, with field events starting at 2:00 p.m. and the running beginning at 2:30. Davidson participated in a
triangular meet with Florida State and Emory University last week, and came in second, with 73 1-6 points, just seven
points behind the winners, Florida State.

This is the first year that Davidson has met Wofford in a dual meet, and the contest should provide an
interesting afternoon for spectators and participants alike. The only spot on the picture is the fact that Roger Cornell may
be held out of the broad jump event; he is still hampered by a leg muscle pulled at the Carolina
Relays. Blake Bradley and Bob Henry are expected to show well in the meet; Blake ran his fastest mile since
coming to Davidson, and Henry turned in an equally good time in the 880 run. Bill McNeely, who broke the
Florida State University discus record, is also being heavily counted upon. After coming in second behind an excellent winning time
of 9.8 seconds in the 100 yard dash, Ken Goodpasture hopes to get back the first place slot.

The remainder of the lineup will probably be:

Shot Put: McNeely, Lazenby, Horne.
Discus: McNeely, Lazenby, Pierce.
Javelin: Miller, Fickeisen, Blanks.
Pole Vault: Poston.
High Jump: D. Williams, Turk, Fickeisen.
Broad Jump: Wooten, Goodpasture, Cornell (?).
100 Yard Dash: Goodpasture, R. White.
220 Dash: Goodpasture, R. White.
440 Run: Howell, D. Stockton, Reece.
880 Run: Henry, Bradley, Greer.
Mile: Bradley, T. Stockton, Patterson.
2 Mile: Lee, Stockton.
High Hurdles: White.
Low Hurdles: Pritchett, Fickeisen.
Mile Relay: Reece, Howell, T. Stockton, D. Pritchett, B. Henry, Crawley.

Patronize Our Advertisers! It Pays!

Co-op University of Arizona Tucson, Arizona

Carnival in Tucson, Arizona, the Co-op on the campus is a favorite student gathering spot. At the Co-op—Coca-Cola is the
favorite drink. With the college crowd at the University of Arizona, as with every crowd—Coke belongs. Ask for it either
way... both trade-marks mean the same thing.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY Coca-Cola Bottling Co., Concord, N. C.
