PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

Business Man Backs Small Christian College | Survey Shows Hershey Explains As Best Builder Of Future American Leaders

(Continued From Page Two)

One cannot dismiss these young people with a shrug that it’s “too bad” because these young people will tomorrow decide the fate of America. The way they think will be the way America thinks. Their failure will be America’s failure. However, thank God, this picture of America is not entirely gloomy. Fortunately, there is among those applying for employment a very considerable minority that, whereas they have many of the lacks of the larger group such as reading, writing, and arithmetic, do, however, possess manners, courtesy, and evidence to the personnel examiner qualities of moral stamina, a willingness for hard work, and a sense of personal responsibility. This minority also appears to have experienced a moral and physical discipline entirely different from the great majority.

Personnel departments throughout the land became intrigued with this minority because they realize that leadership and executive material must possess integrities of discipline, mind, and soul. Research developed two facts: first, that the great majority of this minority come from the small, liberal arts, Christian colleges; and, second, that the vast majority of the leaders in American life have always come from such colleges.

The magazine Good Housekeeping recently issued an annual report of several pages concerning these small colleges, more than 100 in number, each one of which enjoys high academic standing and was on the final accredited list of the Association of American Universities. This report proceeds to evidence that one of the greatest tributes that can be paid to the soundness of the small, liberal arts, Christian college education is the achievement of the people whose names are enumerated in a long list beginning with Presidents Thomas Jefferson and James Monroe down to the present day. Included are the names of the leaders in every walk of life—educational, political, business, scientific, judicial, et cetera.

The graduates of the small colleges listed in the 1949 edition of “Who’s Who in America” outnumbered the alumni listed of the large universities in the proportion of three to one.

Size and Religion

In view of these astonishing statistics, one immediately wonders why it is that the vast majority of leaders in American life have come from small liberal arts, Christian colleges. It cannot be because their educational equipment is exceptional. The larger private and state institutions have more money and therefore greater facilities, more extensive curriculums, and pay more money to their teaching staff. America is finding out the sad fact, however, that all these things do not necessarily mean a better-educated boy or girl. Research leads us to believe that the supremacy of the small, liberal arts, Christian college lies mainly in two things—its smallness and its religious basis.

There is so much to be learned in college not contained in books. The smallness of the liberal arts college enables the student to become better acquainted with the instructor. The fewer students to the professor, the more knowledge and benefit to the student. The small college gives to each of its students an opportunity to come into individual relationships with unusually significant personalities and get the benefit of their instruction, inspiration, and association. This is the most precious gift these institutions have to offer.

The Christian college does not have a liberal arts course that differs materially from that in any other college. The difference is that, along with its teaching, the Christian college aims definitely at developing in each student a Christian life and character. Naturally, some colleges are more Christian than others, but all have the same goal—the development of intelligent, trained, all-around, well-developed Christian leadership. There is nothing of which the nation stands in greater need.

I like most of all this religious influence that is thrown around the students in these Christian colleges. Exclude religion from education, said Charles Eliot, and you have no foundation upon which to build moral character. Without religion, we cannot have morality; without morality, we cannot have social safety; without social safety, we cannot have civilization. It was a businessman, James Hill, the great builder of railroads, who said the small Christian college is the hope of America. Character is essential to statesmanship, and these colleges are vital factors in the development of sterling character. The members of the faculty of these colleges are godly men and women consecrated to their task of creating Christian boys and girls and educating them for the highest type of citizenship. The students must attend chapel, which is at least spiritual in character; the Bible is taught in all of these colleges, and in many of them, at least one year of Bible study is required of every student.

God Ruled Off Campus

This coin I hold in my hand is from the mint of the United States. This coin has engraved upon it, “In God We Trust”—the reason being that our forefathers founded this country on God. They wanted to worship God in their own way and believed other men should have the same right, but they intended that all citizens should worship God. Most of our great state universities comprising hundreds of thousands of youth of America have no such requirement. On the contrary, we find ourselves in the peculiar position that through an extraordinary tolerance and consideration for all religions, God has been ruled off the campus of our state institutions.

Without religion in education, our boys and girls will amount to little in this world or the next. Education is a flame when borne in the hands of the faithful, but a firebrand when carried by the heretical. Only by strengthening the Christian colleges can America have the leaders it needs to survive.

Kind of Leaders Needed

What kind of leaders does America need? We need leaders in public life religiously educated but practically trained, good but not dumb, honest but clever; Christian leaders who have studied economics as applied to human behavior and consequently realize that the enslavement of a people when done economically has the same results as though some tyrant had done it physically.

Education Overhauled

We need leaders in our educational life to see that the educational system in our public elementary and high school institutions is overhauled. Colleges have been blamed too long for educational delinquencies that should have been corrected in the grade schools. Someone has well said that we need leaders who believe that an education should first of all enable one to satisfactorily perform all the duties of life, to be a competent mother or father, maintain a home, do a job of work as well as it can be done, and view public affairs at least with common sense and exercise his franchise to do something about them. After all, the greatest purpose of education is to enable man to get along with his fellowmen.

FINE FOODS STEAKS CHICKEN DINNERS FOUNTAIN SERVICE Open Sundays Phone 132 STONESTREET'S Grade A Cafe 418 South Main Street Mooresville, N. C.

DAVIDSON THEATRE Shows Start at 3 p.m. Saturday, Nov. 17 “IRON MAN” Jeff Chandler - Evelyn Keyes COMEDY - CARTOON

Monday-Tuesday, Nov. 19-20 “ACROSS THE WIDE MISSOURI” Clark Gable - John Hodiak NEWS - CARTOON - MUSICAL

Wednesday, Nov. 21 “THE RACKET” Robert MitchumLizabeth Scott
COMEDY - CARTOON
Thursday, Nov. 22
“THE TANKS ARE COMING”
Steve Cochran - Philip Carey
PETE SMITH SHORT
BUGS BUNNY CARTOON

Friday, November 23
“YOU NEVER CAN ‘TELL’”
Dick Powell - Peggy Dow
COMEDY - CARTOON

Saturday, Nov. 24
“CROSSWINDS”
John Payne - Rhonda Fleming
SPORT - CARTOON

Student Body Exemption Tests Well-Varied

Business and medicine are the most popular professions among the student body at Davidson College, according to statistics released by Registrar F. W. Hengeveld. Almost 200 students are interested in a business career, while more than 135 are contemplating careers in medicine. The ministry and music were also among the leaders in the 27 professions listed.

Some other interesting statistics revealed in the report show a total of 828 students registered at the Presbyterian college from 25 states, one territory, and one foreign country. North Carolina is represented by well over half, 457 of the student body, with South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, and Virginia leading the out-of-state contingents. Davidson has 16 religions represented in the student body. More than 450 of the students are Presbyterian, with the Methodist, Baptist, and Dutch Reform faiths having the next largest representations. The largest class on the campus is the freshman with 277 members, followed by 211 sophomores, 180 juniors, and 152 seniors.

CABBAGE PLANTER
(Continued From Page Two)

Self-admitted, “Ours is a small nation... one can see right through it.” For this reason, I am convinced that in this age when deceit is apparently a virtue, and ignorance, the only sin, we have necessarily chosen for our partner one who will find it hard to deceive us, despite our ignorance. Undoubtedly it will be good, and perhaps it will be our salvation, when a maturing America has shed the swaddling clothes of inconsistency and indecision, to have as a friend, one who has openly stated, “For good or bad we have taken a stand... We don't want to be pushed around!”

Sixty-three percent of the 339,000 students who took the Selective Service College Qualification Tests last spring and summer made a score of 70 or better, Major General Lewis B. Hershey, Director of Selective Service, reported this week, and he also reminded college students that the deadline for submitting applications for the December 13, 1951 test is approaching. The new series of tests will be given Thursday, December 13, 1951, and Thursday, April 24, 1952, by the Educational Testing Service of Princeton, New Jersey, at more than 1,000 different centers throughout the United States and its territories. The blanks may be obtained by the registrant at any local board office. General Hershey stressed the importance of all eligible students taking the test and indicated that those who do not have test score results in their cover sheets may have a “very difficult time indeed” in convincing their local boards that they should be deferred as students. Application blanks for the December 13, 1951, test must be postmarked not later than midnight, Monday, Nov. 5, 1951. Applications for the April 24, 1952 test must be postmarked not later than midnight, March 10, 1952.

To be eligible to apply for the test, General Hershey pointed out, a student must: (1) Intend to request deferment as a student (2) be satisfactorily pursuing a full-time college course; (3) must not previously have taken a Selective Service College Qualification Test. The criteria for deferment as a student is either a satisfactory score (70) on the Selective Service College Qualification Test or satisfactory rank in class (upper half of the freshman class, upper two-thirds of the sophomore class, upper three-fourths of the junior class). Seniors accepted for admission to a graduate school satisfy the criteria if they stand in the upper half of their classes, or make a score of 75 or better on the test. Students already enrolled in graduate schools may be deferred so long as they remain in good standing. These criteria are guides and the local board are not bound to follow them.

General Hershey remarked that when the Selective Service college deferment plan was first announced last spring, objection was heard that the plan gave preferred treatment to the comparatively small number of “bright boys” who could afford to go to college. He said he believed that virtually all of the opposition on this ground has been dissipated, since there is now a general understanding of the fact that the purpose of the plan is to select those most fitted to pursue college educations and that a large proportion of college students are “working their way through college,” either partly or wholly. He cited a recent survey made by the United States Office of Education which showed that fewer than 25 percent of college students are solely dependent upon their parents.

FORMER MICHIGAN
(Continued From Page Two)

There is to see in big-time college football... of being known as a ‘football player’ rather than a human being... of having my natural desire for physical exercise corrupted and commercialized, I have decided that big-time football is a poor bargain for those who play the game.”

Y DIRECTORS
(Continued From Page One)

Investigate the setting up of a YMCA constitution, embracing both the Cabinet and the Board of Directors. Today there exists no document clearly outlining the important relationship between the groups.

HOLIDAY OFFERING
(Continued From Page One)

Cies as the YMCA, the United Christian Council, and certain Hebrew organizations. It is an international organization that aids needy students all over the world. It gives scholarships to refugees and worthy students and has supplied aid to students with tuberculosis. Many other deserving projects are supported by this fund.

Socialism is turning on a water faucet and expecting milk and honey to flow from it.—Roebling Record.

You cannot control war; you can only abolish it—Gen. Douglas MacArthur.

BOB-BING ALONG THE AIRWAVES

WITH BOB: It's wonderful to be here, Bing. This is your first program of the season, I presume?
BING: No, Bob. This is my third.
BOB: And you've just called me in?
BING: Well, you wouldn't expect a coach to start the season off with the scrub team, would you?

BING: Say, Bob, I'm coming out with a new group of items called “Bing’s Things,” and I'm looking for a line of children’s toys. What did you play with when you were a little boy?
BOB: Little girls.

BING: I wish you could have been with me when I caught that swordfish.
BOB: Why so, Bing?
BING: I wouldn’t have had to harpoon him. He could have looked at you and jealous’d himself to death.

BOB: I want to thank you for that big smoked salmon you sent me from Canada.
BING: Oh, you got the salmon all right, huh?
BOB: Yes, and when I first opened the box I thought it was you. But really, it was wonderful. What did you smoke it with, Bing?
BING: Chesterfields! What else?

Hear Bob on NBC Tuesday Nights, Bing on CBS Wednesday Nights. See Bob on “Chesterfield Sound Off Time” on NBC-TV Sunday Nights.

NEW CARS
DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF
Dial 3-4513
212 W. Fourth Charlotte
THACKER’S INC.

PRIVATE DINING ROOMS for PARTIES AND BANQUETS
“A Good Place to Eat”
Phone 25-4900 Charlotte
221 South Tryon Street

CHESTERFIELD