I read an interesting article in The Rotarian, official magazine of that civic club, which would be quite alarming to
you gamblers and point specialists on football games. It was "Don't Bet on Football" and was written by Norman L.
Sper, who is one of the country’s best and well-known sports writers and predictors. He stated that he had spent
all his life going around the country gathering up information on football from coaches, players, or from just observing or
statistical research. He had a lifetime average on predictions of about .750 per cent, which is good for any sort
of batting average. Why is it that he warns against betting? Because of the numerous things that influence teams and
coaches that are never known by the average bettor. He mentioned several instances that proved that ‘comparative scores’ predictions are
all wet. We all know this from the very numerous times unusual outcomes have come about between teams that were
completely "settled" on the parlay cards. But we also can't stand to pass up a "sure" bet when the points
are good.

"UPSETS ARE DOWNFALLS FOR SHARPIES"

Sper mentioned how upsets were produced from alumni pressure, unusual spurts of fight in the team, coach's grudges, rumblings of
the press, and student pep. How about last Saturday’s big upset on the Pacific Coast. I can just imagine (with
some knowledge of the past situation) that the Trojans of Southern Cal were sparked on to victory from a combined
pressure by the student body which was used to winning football until the last couple of years, and by their
coach who is in a “win or else” position, since the students control the job and were becoming uneasy again.
That was not taken into consideration by ‘Pappy’ Waldorf and his Golden Bears of California who were resting in the
No. 1 spot in the country and had 38 league wins under their belt.

One of the most interesting sections of this article was the story of how a little Georgia Tech team rose
up and defeated the dreadnaughts of Centre College in the days when Bo McMillan had the little college on top.
It seems the team was traveling back from a game with Pitt and another miserable defeat, and Tech's coach was
in the club car ‘consoling’ himself when a young fellow started a conversation with him. The boy asked if the
man liked football, to which the coach, tired of the thought of the game, answered that he was a traveling
salesman and knew nothing about football. Somewhat egging the boy on at times, he learned that he was Centre's sub-quarterback
and was going home to his sick mother. Before he got off the train, he had ‘explained’ football to Tech's
coach and in the meantime had given away every play he knew. When Georgia Tech beat the powerful Centre team
the next week 39-0, the boys didn't understand how their coach had "scouted" them so well.

SANDRA WINS BIG ONE

You can't help mentioning the "Great Game"—the only game in the last few years, Davidson's upset victory over State in
1949. Several factors were important in the win. It was the last year of playing together for a number of
boys who had come down here from high school in Virginia, we had always fought State with all our might,
the students were behind the team 100 per cent, but in my own opinion, a pretty pinkish, warm, and brand-new
little baby girl was the deciding factor. I may be completely out of my head, but Buddy Chandler and the
boys on that team will back me up I’m sure. The game was rocking along with Davidson ahead, but precariously
so. Then at the halftime period, it was announced that a baby girl had been born to Sandy Carnegie, one
of the outstanding linemen on the team. From then on it was for “Sandy's little girl,” and when little Jake
Wade hauled in a pass in the closing minutes and dashed for pay dirt, and a win, it was all
for a little girl, and the bookies had not known anything about this aspect of the upset.

ALL-AMERICAN Eddie Price Tulane picks TRENT

Tailored like a dress shirt with Henley button-down collar, chest pocket and shirt tails, in soft, flannel-like woven Purella flannel.
Fully washable, 4.95 to 7.95 Wilson-Wright's “Collegiate Fashions”

Wildcat Sports

THREE SET PACE IN TAG PLAY

THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1951 PAGE THREE

CATS AT W. & L. TOMORROW

Potent Generals 3 TD Favorites

By DICK ROPER

“Name a player,” said Coach Crowell Little. “Any player. Two to one he’s hurt.” That’s the situation that prevails again
this week as the Wildcats invade the home grounds of Washington and Lee’s defending Southern champions. Davidson will go into
the contest at Lexington the underdogs by at least three touchdowns. Although many of Little’s squad are still on the
injured list, quarterback Jack Ruth, who sat out last week’s 25-6 loss to Richmond, should be available for tomorrow's encounter.
Center Arnold Whisnant, out for several weeks with a bad knee, should be back in the starting lineup to strengthen
the offensive line.

“The team is in good spirits considering our losses,” Little said yesterday. “We have set up some special defenses for
the game and hope we can curtail their strong running attack to some extent.” The greatest threat the powerful Generals
boast is razor-sharp passer Gill Bocetti, who was instrumental in defeating the Cats last year. Bocetti, defended by one of
the best lines in the Southern Conference, has turned in some sparkling performances this season in a bid for All-Southern
honors.

With the Wildcat backfield still in poor physical shape, Coach Little has been doing some fancy juggling in order to
field a combination with a scoring punch. The backfield will line up tomorrow with Ruth at the signal-calling post, Ham
Wade at right half, Jimmy Thacker at left half, and Henry Brown at fullback. Leroy Fargason, sidelined for the past
two weeks with an ankle injury, should also see some duty at the power slot.

Brightest spot in the Cat backfield again last week was freshman Jimmy Thacker, whose hard, slashing running has already won
him several nominations for State Freshman of the Week honors. Jerry Kiser turned in another excellent performance at his defensive
guard post against the Spiders. Little called the rotund Shelby, N. C. lineman “Our best defensive lineman all year.”

The Richmond fiasco was the last game of the current season in which the Wildcats are rated even. After W&L
come VMI, State, and Georgia Tech. But the tattered Cats are far from ready to throw in the towel on
any of these contests. Though they will be anywhere from three to six touchdown underdogs against these remaining foes, Little’s
team is setting their sights on at least one of their remaining contests.

CATISTICS

Results to Date
Brown 23 0 Davidson 7
Lenoir Rhyne 21 20 0 Davidson 32
V.P.I. 20 5 0 Davidson 14
The Citadel 34 9 0 Davidson 12
Presbyterian 14 Davidson 6
Richmond 28

Games to Play
Washington & Lee, V.M.I., N.C. State, Georgia Tech.

Punt Returns
Team Statistics
Davidson Opponents
First downs, rush 36
First downs, pass 13
First downs, pen. 2Gregg 2 25 60... - Total first downs -... 51
Williams 1 2 922.... Yards rushing .-.. 730
Brown 1 0 310 ..-.- Yards passing ----- 646
Kickoff Returns 1232.... Total net yards --..1366
74..... Passes attempted .--. 62
Thacker No. Returns yds TD
31.... Passes completed --.. 30
White 2 22 0 8... Passes intercepted -.- 4
Gregg 3 39 0 Me Fumbles lost ----.- 10
Wade 4 0 38._..- Number punts ----- 40
Smith 1 14 0 32.6.-.. Punting average ---- 37.1
Williams 1 1 0 129.--. Yds. punts ret. --.- 128
Gray 1 2 0 26_...-- No penalties .--.-- 30
218... Yds, penalized -.... 300

Individual Scoring
Individual Rushing
Name Carries Gain Loss Net Avg. TD XP FG TP
Fargason 1 350 0 35 35.0 0 0 0 0
Thacker 57 349 11 338 6.3 2 0 0 12
White 31 147 7 140 4.6 1 0 0 6
Gregg 43 248 16 232 5.5 1 0 0 6
Brown 10 36 0 36 3.6 0 0 0 0
Guiton 31 105 29 76 2.5 0 0 0 0
Ruth 2 7 8 -1 -0.5 0 0 0 0
Archer 8 1 38 -37 -4.6 0 0 0 0
Peeler 3 0 17 -17 -5.2 0 0 0 0

Individual Passing
Name No. Comp. Int. Yds. TD
Thacker 24 23 3 3
Peeler 5 22 0 0
Guiton 1 1 0 2 0
Brown 1 1 0 25 0

Individual Receiving
Name No. Caught Yds. TD
Kelley 5 48 2
Thacker 7 51 1
Williams 5 4 0
Gregg 2 25 0
Edwards 4 45 0
Turk 2 43 0

N.C. Mid-Season Sees KA, KS, Pi Kapp Out Front In Race

Staving off a last-minute scoring bid by a determined Pika Club, Kappa Sigma yesterday moved into a three-way tie with
Kappa Alpha and Pi Kappa Phi in the interfraternity tag football league. The previously unbeaten KA’s were knocked off earlier
in the week to give them a 5-1 record, and the Pi Kapps won a playoff dilly with the Phi
Delts, after the regular time contest had ended in a tie.

Undoubtedly the best game the season has produced was the battle between the Phi Delts and the Pi Kapps. After
many near scores and goal line stands, the game ended in a 7-7 deadlock. This bears out the fact that
although the newly adopted tag football is played with loose rules, it certainly is not a wild scoring game as
everyone had predicted before the season had begun.

Standings
KA
Kappa Sig
Pi Kapps
Sigma Chi
SPE's
Phi Gams
Phi Delts
Betas
Pikas
SAE's
ATO's
Campus Club

WHITTLE IN FOR CHEER-UP; SCOTT TAKES TEAM TO W&L

A. Heath (Pete) Whittle, assistant director of athletics and head track and cross country coach, is now a patient in
Presbyterian Hospital with a small stomach disorder. Whittle was admitted to the hospital Wednesday morning, principally for check-up purposes, and
is not expected to be confined long. Director of athletics Paul K. Scott traveled today with Whittle’s harriers to Lexington,
Va., where they meet W&L tomorrow.

Offensive Giant

JACK BRANCH (above) has been an outstanding tackle on the offensive team all year. He will be a stalwart in
tomorrow’s line against W.&L.

Chesterfield SPORTS QUIZ

1. What two former All-American basketball stars at Kentucky were arrested recently in connection with receiving bribes?
2. What former UCLA basketball, football, baseball, and track star is now a Brooklyn Dodger standout?
3. What professional football team does Charlie Trippi play for?
4. What team defeated California, last week’s number one team?
5. Who was voted this year as “manager of the year?”
6. Who is the new manager of the Boston Red Sox?

Answers:
1. Alex Groza and Ralph Beard.
2. Jackie Robinson.
3. Chicago Bears.
4. Southern California.
5. Leo Durocher.
6. Lou Boudreau.

Baird's Loopsters Work, Prospects Looking Bright

By BOB OWENS

As the gridiron wars near completion, all eyes are beginning to turn towards another season of basketball. In early practice
sessions, Coach Boyd Baird's charges have made it clear that they are out to improve on last year’s record of
seven victories in twenty-six starts. Approximately fifty-five boys reported for early practices, about thirty-five of these were freshmen; however, Coach
Baird has cut the squad to about thirty-seven at present and will have to cut it even further before the
opening game on December 4, with the mighty Wolfpack of N.C. State College.

Some of the lettermen returning from last year’s squad are Bill Brooks, who finished the past season with the top
average of 13.2 points per game and is captain of this year’s squad; Mac McLean, T.C. Coleman, Al Fitzgerald, Bob
Turk, Don Lazenby, Joe Dudley, Jim Smith, and J.V. Howell. In addition, several fast-improving players, including 6'7" George Melton, are
expected up from the frosh ranks of last year. Coach Baird has also indicated that there are several outstanding freshmen
who will undoubtedly see a lot of action this season.

The absence of Tommy Haller, who set a new Davidson scoring record for a single game of 31 points last
season, and Fred Hengeveld, who was honored by being named second string All-State by the Charlotte Observer and played with
the Southern Conference Senior All-Stars in the post-season game against N.C. State, will be sorely missed. Bob Graham and Bill
Proctor, both of whom were counted upon for heavy service this season, failed to re-enter school.

Great spirit and determination have been displayed by the team, and the prospects are looking up. With team-captain Bill Brooks
expected to put forth his best year, all indications are that a much better season is in store for the
Davidsonians here in Wildcat Hollow.

Stockton Leads Harriers Into W. & L. Meet Sat.

By MOODY SMITH

After soundly trouncing the University of Richmond last Monday 19-43, Davidson College’s cross-country team runs up against the Generals of
Washington and Lee tomorrow afternoon at Lexington, Virginia. Coach Pete Whittle’s charges are hoping to even their season’s record at
2 wins and 2 defeats after early season losses to N.C. State and U.N.C.

Monday’s victory over Richmond found Davidson’s squad taking 8 out of the first 10 places and Tom Stockton setting his
second course record in only a little over a week. The fleet-footed Senior from Winston-Salem covered the distance in 23:31,
eclipsing a mark set the week before by Munger of William and Mary. Last week, against North Carolina, Tom established
a new record at the local course with a time of 21:30. This clocking upset the mark also set only
a week before by Garrison and Shockley of N.C. State.

(Continued on Page Four)

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests

This little gee-gee was all at sea. It was enough to upset his equine-imity. He’d been reading about those rush-rush
cigarette tests—the quick sniff, the fast puff. “Hardly the scientific approach,” he said in his confusion.

But then he realized that one test is an equine of a different pigmentation—a thorough, conclusive test of cigarette mildness.
It was the sensible test... the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test, which simply asks you to try Camels as your steady
smoke—on a day-after-day basis. No snap judgments! Once you’ve tried Camels for 30 days in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat,
T for Taste), you'll see why... After all the Mildness Tests, Camel leads all other brands.
