PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

Just In From Holland ... (State Department Announces Exams Are “‘Too Alike’’)

In order to discover outstanding college seniors and graduate students with backgrounds in foreign affairs and related fields, the United
Nations Department of State has announced its fourth intern program—the foreign affairs intern program—to colleges and universities throughout the United
States.

Johannas Likes Cars and Truman
By MIKE MYERS

Charming, I think, is an undesirable word to tag on a boy. Yet no other adjective better fits Johannas Miedema,
a foreign student studying at Davidson. Johannas’ personality is overpowering, his broad smile contagious, and his friendliness leaves you with
mixed emotions of warmth and humility. I've never had an easier time talking to anyone. As we sat chatting on
the library steps in the blazing Indian summer sun, Johannas’ thoughts drifted back to his native Steins, Holland. I learned
Steins is in the northernmost portion of Holland, ten miles from the coast.

“I'm going to miss our lovely winters. Ice skating is one of my favorite pastimes,” he said, but I told
him about Reynolds Coliseum and the skating done there. Johannas immediately perked up. “Now isn’t that just like Americans. Ice
skating indoors in the summer! I was in New York five days and never have I seen such people as
you Americans or such a place as N.Y. Nothing but iron, steel, and glass—yet not so pretty as Paris.” I
couldn't argue with him. I hated to ask such an unoriginal question, but I knew it would come sooner or
later. He replied without a minute's hesitation. “What impresses me most about America is the cars—everywhere cars. In Holland, it
is the cycle. I can’t even drive. I guess the students here think I am a smoe.” Now where did
he get that word?

Johannas left his father (a farmer and potato exporter), mother, and two younger brothers in Holland to come to Davidson
for a year's study of economics, history, geography, physics, and English. Then he will take up his number one pleasure,
camping, and travel around the world. His reason, in his own words, is “to meet people, make friends and improve
international relations so I won't have to meet them later with weapons.”

Monday he did something I was too lazy to do. He went to Winston to hear Truman speak and was
impressed with the president’s unostentatious manner. Then Johannas bashfully added he also went up to see a Swedish Salem girl
he had dated at homecoming. The tall blond Dutchman is grateful to Sigma Chi fraternity for sponsoring him here in
Davidson. He has no plans upon his return to Holland, but he wants to eventually live in America. “When I
get back home maybe the army will have an invitation for me.” I hope not, Johannas.

Tap the Davidson student market with your ad. See Jack Hobson, Advertising Manager.

The foreign affairs intern program, which will begin in September 1952, will include 50 members selected through a screening process
designed to secure a highly qualified group of people who show promise of developing into top administrators for years to
come. As was the case last year, the department will select trainees for the foreign affairs intern program from the
register of those who pass the Civil Service Commission’s junior management assistant examination. This examination will be announced by the
commission in October. Applications must be on file with the Commission by November 13 so that the applicant may be
certified to take the examination when it is given, in all parts of the country, on December 8. It is
of the utmost importance that students who wish to be appointed in the department file for, and take, this junior
management assistant examination. The Civil Service Commission will send announcements to John P. Dillon, in the college placement office and,
in addition, the announcements will be posted in all first and second class post offices.

Students wishing to be considered for the foreign affairs intern program must also be nominated to the Department by the
Department of State nominating board which has been established by the faculty. Dr. Cunningham has appointed a Department of State
nominating board at Davidson consisting of Chairman E. O. Guerrant, Frontis W. Johnston, and A. G. Griffin. Selections made by
the nominating board must be received by the Department not later than December 1, 1951, that is, about one week
before the junior management assistant examination is given. The Department has found that the correlation between those nominated by their
colleges and those passing the junior management examination is very close, so that students selected by their college boards have
an excellent chance of being selected for the foreign affairs intern program. Students should get in touch with their faculty
advisers or the chairman of the nominating board as soon as possible and ask to be considered for nomination to
the Department of State.

Foreign affairs interns will receive nine months of specialized on-job training which will include courses at the Department's Foreign Service
Institute, periodic conferences and seminars, and both observational and work assignments in the various operating divisions. The foreign affairs intern
is given the unique opportunity of observing how the Department of State seeks to discharge its responsibilities for promoting the
national interest and welfare through the conduct of business with the more than 70 nations with which the United States
has diplomatic relations.

CASHMERE
In class . . . on the campus, in fact just anywhere you'll be comfortably and correctly dressed in a
Cashmere Sweater by Altman. Available in maroon, blue, green.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.which the United States has commercial and political relations. The intern will find the answers to his questions from
the people who are in positions of responsibility, and perhaps most important of all, will discover, through actual experience, the
type of work which will best suit his training and aptitudes.

Camera Club Wants Members

The Davidson College Camera Club has changed its regular bi-weekly meetings to Wednesday nights at 7:15 p.m., instead of its
former Tuesday night meetings. The Camera Club cordially invites everyone who is interested in photography, or who would like to
learn the hobby, to attend its next meeting this coming Wednesday night, October 24, at 7:15 p.m., in the Physics
classroom, north end of Chambers. The club’s dues are nominal, and they go towards buying more equipment for the Club’s
darkroom, located in the basement of Watts Dormitory. Allan Macy is president for 1951-52, and Andrew Simons, Jr., is secretary-treasurer.
The faculty sponsor is Prof. John Pietenpol. As in the past, the Club will sponsor a monthly contest, the “Photo
of the Month,” which is selected from entries submitted by its members. The group also has an exhibit during Fine
Arts Week, held near the end of school.

Dear Editor:

It was with extreme skepticism that I read the announcement on Chambers bulletin board today, stating that all student body
members would be required to wear blue blazer sport coats and black knit ties for their picture in Quips and
Cranks.

Some Joke

Surely, I thought, it was some sort of joke that Bill Adams was playing on the student body. He couldn’t
mean what he said, I knew, but I was oh, so wrong for this very same morning an announcement was
made in chapel to the same effect. Now, I’m not sure what Bill had in mind when he made this
decision, but I can assure him that whatever it was, it doesn’t meet with the whole-hearted approval by the student
body. Perhaps if this were a military school or a reform school or even “boys town,” this arrangement would be
appropriate, but not here at Davidson. I for one, don’t want to look like a convict in my annual picture,
simply because of some idiosyncrasy of the editor. What does he plan to do, put a number under each picture
so that we can distinguish one inmate from another? It is my opinion that the clothes a boy wears are
a means of showing his individuality and possibly his personality. But when it gets to the point where a student
cannot wear the type coat or tie he wants, for his picture in the annual, something ought to be done.
I would agree with the editor on one point, this type of picture would add uniformity to the annual. Indeed,
it would be quite appealing to thumb your way through an annual where everybody looked alike except maybe for the
way he combs his hair!

Not the Place

Seriously, though, I want to say that I don’t think our annual is quite the place for this uniformity of
dress. What about the rest of the student body?

Sincerely,
WALLACE ABBOTT

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1951

LOSS OF RUTH...

(Continued From Page Three)

be helped from the field with a leg injury. Knee ailments made the running of Guiton and White virtually ineffectual,
and on defense they were woefully impotent. White showed last week that he has snapped back in fine style, but
Guiton remains on the sidelines. Finally, the injury Little feared most—that to his lone experienced quarterback, Jack Ruth, has come.
An ankle twisted in Monday’s practice may keep the chunking junior out of action Saturday. It’s not so hard to
take, Little confides. He'd sort of been expecting the crowning blow before now.

HINES. FLEAS...

(Continued From Page Two)

combo that she felt she needed for accompaniment, with an up and coming pianist named Lawrence, Elliot Lawrence. This was
needless, since there were seven or eight hundred offers to accompany her anywhere she wanted to go. Reliable sources have
it that she wrote ahead offering to tint her hair to match the school colors, but balked when she found
the gym was to be blue and white. Would have been an interesting experiment, though. As for the music offered
up, any interested reader will have to check Billboard or Variety. No one, including this reviewer, heard a thing that
was played.

EU LITS...

(Continued from Page One)

and a challenge to the Philanthropic Society to a debate on December 3. The debate will be a general “matching
of wits” upon subjects ranging from prose to public speaking. New members of the society will be initiated at the
next meeting.

Save a letter to the folks back home! Send them the Davidsonian each week. Subscription only $2.00 for the year.
See Bob Poston, subscription manager.

...and pines with thirst midst a sea of waves

Homer: Odyssey

Homer wrote about ancient times—before Coke. Nowadays there’s no need to pine with thirst when Coca-Cola is around the corner
from anywhere.

DRINK
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
CONCORD COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.
© 1951, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Copyright 1951, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
