What about the Presbyterian game? Are we in shape to take it home for the various visitors, dates, and loyal
alumni? Elsewhere on this page, you will find a “Bloodshed Boxscore” of the casualties suffered by the team in the
past few weeks, some of them serious enough to warrant loss of the player for several games, but others just
for this all-important tilt with the Blue Hose. The Cats have shown that they have the stuff against both VPI
and the first half against The Citadel. In both games, the lack of reserves resulted in the weakening of the
team in the second half of each game. Especially against Citadel with the weather more like the beach type, did
the team show a definite need for strong reserves. However, in the two mentioned games, the team was without the
services of several important links in the starting eleven. Roy White was missing for the VPI game and saw only
limited action against The Citadel. Arnold Whisnant was injured in practice and missed the Bulldog scrap, and Johnny Guiton with
two bad knees saw only limited action in Saturday's tilt. Bobby Turk, the Defensive Demon and Pass-Snagging Friend for the
Cats, has missed both tilts with his sprained ankle and perhaps left the biggest hole on the team.

CITADEL TOOK THE BIGGEST TOLL

However, it was the Charlestonian crew that took the biggest toll. The most crippling loss was that of last week's
Wildcat of the Week, A. C. (Ace) Gregg, for the rest of the season. Gregg suffered a fractured thigh while
making a tackle late in the second quarter. A. C. was eighth in the Conference rushing this year before his
untimely injury. The Bulldogs also inflicted an awful blow when Dave Williams came out with an injured knee (which is
the most frequent and numerous injury). Dave was most valuable for his pass-nabbing ability and will be lost for at
least this week. He is very responsible for Jack Ruth's fifth position in passing in the Southern Conference. Also on
the sick list for bum knees are Bill McNeely and Dave Peeler. George Nickels sprained his ankle and there were
several cuts which required stitches on various members of the team.

HOPE SPRINGS ETERNAL

Several of the injured will be ready for the game, especially the boys with the cuts, in addition to several
others who have been out for some time. Johnny Gray, out with separated ribs, is a possibility at halfback, where
the position is weak with reserve strength. Johnny Guiton and Roy White should be in the best shape they've been
in for the past two weeks. Bobby Turk is almost back to full speed and should fill in the big
gap there. And so the team with all its aches and pains does have a chance and should put up
a good fight. They want to win this one for many and various reasons. Ace certainly would be happy to
see the boys rack up a healthy score against the Blue Hose, not to speak of the Wildcat Clubbers, families,
and dates. It shapes up to be quite a fine time to even up our standings in the win-loss column.
The team has the stuff and barring unforeseen further setbacks, PC could mean another victory for the Cats. They haven't
the finest team in years, but are always a scrappy crew and would especially like to knock off their “big”
cousins. A real scrap is on tap for tomorrow with both teams needing a victory badly.

EARLY PRACTICES FOR TENNIS & BASKETBALL

Coach Barton is holding informal practices for his racqueteers during the early fall days in preparation for perhaps his best
season since losing Bo Roddey and Whit Cobb two years ago. Coach Baird has called for candidates for his cage
team on the 15th of this month and expects the largest response in many years. Only three men were lost
by graduation and to the army, these being Captains Tommy Haller, Dutch Hengeveld, and sub-center Bill Proctor.

Let’s Beat P. C. Back Those Cats Come In And Get that Davidson Tie and show whose side you’re on.
With our Oxford Grey Flannels, they look fine. Wilson-Wrights “Collegiate Fashions”

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1951

CRIPPLED Gridsters Face Homecoming Tilt Gregg, Nickels, Williams Out By TAD CURRIE

As the crowd flows into Richardson Stadium Saturday afternoon, there will be but one question on the minds of the
faithful followers of the Wildcats who have once more descended upon the oak-shaded campus of the old Alma Mater for
what is, “Can they win?” To this, many a senior will answer, “They have to, after all, they haven't won
a Homecoming game since I've been here.” It was, or so it seems, back in the dark ages when the
Wildcats last won on Homecoming, but the crowd that will make the annual pilgrimage on Saturday may be the lucky
viewers of a Homecoming victory. There can be no minimization of the fact that to produce a victory over always
tough Presbyterian College with an injury-ridden team will be a tough job, but it can be done. Coach Little is
shifting his personnel like a chess player, trying to find replacements for injured ends Dave Williams and Bob Turk, centers
George Nickles and Arnold Whisnant; linebacker Dave Peeler; tackle Bill McNeely; backs Roy White, Johnny Guiton, and A. C. Gregg,
whose stellar playing in last Saturday's game against Citadel was terminated by a broken leg in the second quarter after
which the team fell apart.

It will be a Freshman-dominated Davidson squad that goes against Lonnie McMillian’s Blue Hose Saturday. Although P. C. hasn't racked
up a terrible record this year—losses being to Clemson and Furman and a tie with Western Carolina—the Blue Hose are
always a tough caper for the Wildcats, for a P. C. victory would make the season a success for the
South Carolina institution. Top on Crowell Little’s list to spark the attack Saturday is freshman Jimmy Thacker who has been
called by many the outstanding newcomer to Southern Conference football. If Jimmy continues to play the way he has in
the past two games, he will be a hard man to stop and could spark the injury-riddled Wildcats to a
victory. Others who will see plenty of action are Bobby Amos and LeRoy Fargason. With a team made up of
unknown qualities, it’s anyone’s guess what the outcome will be, but a win would be welcomed and somewhat of a
tribute to A. C. Gregg, whose absence will be felt in more ways than one. With a desire to win
and a non-defeatist attitude, the Wildcats could bring the bacon home on Saturday and really make Homecoming a happy occasion.

Greeks End Week Of New Tag Game

The first week of Davidson College’s experience with tag football, whose only resemblance to actual football is the ball, ended
yesterday with twelve victors for the first two rounds, leaving practically all participants in the game in complete bewilderment. This
combination football with basketball rules, begun here this year to check the number of injuries sustained by players of the
old touch game known in earlier years, has been popular at Carolina for some time. Despite the confusion of this
first week of play, a number of teams took to the win column. Here's the way the scores read Wednesday
night as The Davidsonian went to press, with Thursday’s games yet unplayed: Sigma Chi 20, SAE 0; SPE 6,Pika 0;
Kappa Sig 26, Phi Gam 6; Pi Kap 26, Campus Club 0; KA 3, ATO 0; Phi Delt 19, Beta
14; Sigma Chi 13, Pika 0; Phi Gam 27, SAE 14; and Pi Kap 8, SPE 7. The schedule for
next week with games Monday through Thursday is as follows: Monday—Sigma Chi vs. Phi Gams, Pi Kaps vs. Pikas, and
KAs vs. SAEs. Tuesday—Phi Delts vs. SPEs, Betas vs. Kappa Sigs, and the ATO vs. the Campus Club. Wednesday—Pi Kaps
vs. Sigma Chis, Phi Gams vs. KAs, and the Pikas vs. the Phi Delt. Thursday—SAE vs. Beta, SPEs vs. ATOs,
and the Kappa Sigs vs. the Campus Club.

Chesterfield SPORTS QUIZ
1. Gil McDougall was the second Yankee to ever hit a World Series grand slam homerun. Who was the first?
2. Who is the leading ground gainer in the Southern Conference this year?
3. Who was recently named as manager of the St. Louis Browns for the coming season?
4. Who led the American League in homeruns and runs-batted-in this season?
5. What former West Point half- (Continued On Page Four)

Wildcat Of The Week
By WALLACE ABBOTT

In the third game of his college career, Jim Thacker was voted Wildcat of the Week for his stellar performance
against Citadel. The unusual thing about that statement is the fact that Jim is just a freshman this year. Despite
the fact that Davidson went down to defeat last week, Jim was so outstanding as to draw favorable comments from
both sides of the playing field. Even Coach Crowell Little made the statement that “Jimmy Thacker played his best game
for us today,” and this is certainly a noteworthy comment.

Jim came to Davidson this year after having played ball for Darlington for the last few years. It was there
that he also made quite a name for himself in prep school circles. When you go out to the game
Saturday and spot Jim Thacker on the field, you will find that he certainly isn’t the largest halfback that ever
played football, for Jim weighs only about 160 pounds. However, you will also see that what he lacks in size
he makes up for in determination and hustle. His fine hustling spirit was quite in evidence last Saturday when he
scored the (Continued On Page Four)

Wildcat Sports
THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SECTION

'51 Cats Go After Win As '26 Team Celebrates Championship

PAGE THREE

WILDCATS HIT P. C.

GIVING INSTRUCTIONS

Jack Ruth is shown getting last-minute instructions from his tutor, Coach Fetzer before tomorrow's game with Presbyterian.

Tennis Aspirants Have Early Drills
By MOODY SMITH

It may be a long time until spring and their first match, but Davidson’s varsity tennis team is already staging
daily practice on the local courts. Three official practices are being held each week with voluntary sessions on the two
remaining weekdays. This practice schedule will be followed throughout the fall months.

At present, prospects for the 1952 season look very good. Only three lettermen from last year’s team, which compiled a
record of 10 wins against only six defeats, have been lost through graduation. Returning from last season's varsity are Captain
Allen Strand and Dewey Keesler, who played numbers one and two respectively, plus Joe Dudley, Tom Staley, Bill Hivins and
several others. Up from the freshman team are sophomores Johnny Bremer and Corky Johnson.

The key to the Wildcat tennis prospects, however, may lie in the hands of several freshman candidates who could well
land top berths on the squad. Most potent of these are Leighton Green, former Texas state high school champion; Lacy
Keesler, winner of many high school and junior net laurels in this state; Corky Clark and George Snead.

Long-Winded Cats Tackle UNC Today
By BO TYNES

Coach Pete Whittle’s charges, although displaying a decided improvement, will have to take the underdog’s role as they meet the
highly-touted Tar Heel cross-country team this afternoon. The general inference around the track seems to be that the Red and
Black will have to go a long way to down the Chapel Hill aggregate.

The Carolina team is rated on even terms with the N. C. State Harriers who toppled the Wildcats 17-46 last
Friday. The greatly improved Tar Heel group sports a freshman running in first position while their last year's captain has
moved back to fifth position.

The Wildcats, led by Tom and Dick Stockton, although facing a tough schedule, display strong possibilities for the ensuing season.
The present Cat lineup by position is as follows: Stockton, T (co-capt.), Stockton D (co-capt.), Shipley, Henry, Lee, Feeney, Charles,
Alexander and Caudell.

The Davidson harriers will next face Richmond, Washington and Lee and V.M.I. on the following consecutive weekends, winding up their
schedule with the State and Southern Conference meets.

State Football Champions Of '26 Will Have 25th Anniversary Fete

Davidson College's first and only State Football Championship Team, the 1926 squad, will hold its 25th anniversary reunion as one
of the feature highlights of Homecoming on the campus Saturday. The members of the squad will be honored guests during
the alumni program Saturday morning and will be introduced at halftime of the Homecoming game with Presbyterian College. They will
be introduced to the '51 Wildcat team and each of the reunion class players will receive personalized souvenirs.

The 1926 squad chalked up five victories and one tie to win the state championship, 25 years ago. The team
downed Elon and Guilford by identical scores of 26-0; squeezed by N. C. State 3-0; stopped North Carolina 10-0; trounced
Duke by a 20-0 count; and tied Wake Forest, 3-3. A season record of seven victories against two defeats and
a tie was registered by the squad. Outside of the state, they defeated Wofford and Presbyterian, losing to V.M.I. and
Hampden-Sidney.

Coached by Monk Younger and S. D. Tilson, the team rolled up a total of 122 points to the opposition’s
33. The 36 living members of the squad include James W. Grey, W. Olin Nisbet, Jr. and R. Edward Wilson,
all of Charlotte; C. F. Ritchie and Sam L. Black, Concord; Hugh M. Arrowood, Shelby; Lucian W. Bells, team captain
of Teachey; Richard Grey, Jr., Asheboro; Wade H. Legette, Winston-Salem; William M. Black, Burlington; Rev. C. Grier Davis, Asheville; Paul
R. Maulden, Kannapolis; J. P. Harmon, Warsaw; Archie B. Carter, Mount Airy; Arthur W. Baker, Valdese; Joseph T. Kerr, Wilson;
Col. James F. Pinkney, Washington, D. C.; Joseph H. McConnell, New York; Ralph L. Lincoln, Marion, Va.; Rev. G. R.
Sims, Anniston, Ala; Robert E. Kell, Bristol, Va.; Dr. H. G. Goodykoontz, Louisville, Ky.; Dr. F. Stafford Wearn, Long Island,
(Continued On Page Four)

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests

“I should have kept my big mouth shut!”

Fresh out of Bivalve, N. J., he arrived on the campus all bug-eyed and his big mouth hanging open. He
was immediately sucked into a “shell game” and found himself making all the quick-trick cigarette tests. But his native instinct
told him that such an important item as cigarette mildness couldn’t be tossed off lightly. Millions of smokers everywhere have
discovered, too, that there’s but one true test of mildness. It’s the sensible test...the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test, which simply
asks you to try Camels as your steady smoke...on a pack-after-pack basis. No snap judgments! Once you’ve tried Camels for
30 days in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste), you’ll see why...

CAMEL LEADS ALL OTHER BRANDS BY BILLIONS
