PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF .......................... GORDON SCOTT
BUSINESS MANAGER .................. JOHN LOFTIN

Associate Editors .......... Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Features Editor .................. Shelley Beard
Managing Editors ........ Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George McMurray, Ed Richardson
Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Photographer—Raymond Lynch
Proofreader—Wallace Abbott
City Editor—Nat Daniel
Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen
Sports Editor—Bill White
Assistant Business Manager ........ Alex Goley
Advertising Manager .......... Manley McWilliams
Circulation Manager .......... Ansley Moses
Collections Manager .......... Jack Turner
Subscriptions Manager .......... Bill Hart
Faculty Advisor—Prof. Henry T. Lilly

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Mr. Ovens’ Contribution

It was indeed good news to all of us here at Davidson to learn of the gift of $100,000 to the College from Mr. David Ovens, vice-president of Ivey’s in Charlotte. This contribution to Davidson marks the second large sum that he has given to colleges within recent weeks, for in December, he gave $250,000 to our sister college in Charlotte, Queens.

The decision to apply this money toward constructing the new student union and the subsequent decision to name the building David Ovens Student Union will meet with overwhelming acceptance. The new Student Union will contain, among many other things, music listening rooms and facilities for extra-curricular activities, particularly along cultural lines such as art and dramatics—areas in which Mr. Ovens has had a lifetime of interest, devotion, and service.

It has not been many weeks since the announcement was made that the new auditorium in Charlotte would be named for Mr. Ovens, whose efforts were largely responsible for making this dream of Charlotteans a reality.

The fact that Mr. Ovens is not a Davidson man, nor has he had any prominent connection with the college in past years, makes his gift all the more appreciated by students, faculty, and friends of Davidson throughout the country. We feel that Dr. Cunningham adequately phrased the feelings of us all when he wrote to Mr. Ovens: “Those of us with whom you have shared your estate will surely wish to do our work so well and handle the trust you place in us so conscientiously that you will have nothing but joy and satisfaction in your gift.”

Exit Fireworks

It was a surprise to no one that the Student Council earlier this week swung into action and campused four students and evicted one from his dormitory who had been convicted of shooting firecrackers in dormitories. It was only a matter of time until the axe would fall. The regrettable thing about it all is that only a handful of the offenders were caught and punished; and they must, in a sense, take the punishment for the whole group.

Be that as it may, it will certainly be a welcome relief to be able to sit in your room without having to endure the shock of a firecracker exploding outside the door or window, and to go to sleep at night assured that you won’t be rudely awakened by a firecracker’s nerve-shattering explosion under your sack.

Year of Decision
(From the Daily Tar Heel)

Along with the rest of the world, the University is faced in the new year of 1951 with an uneasiness and insecurity that seems to have no immediate solution. With total mobilization becoming a reality, the futures of many students seem to be dark with the prospect of military service, and there is a general attitude of hopelessness and “what the hell” type of thinking. Truly, the situation is one of uncertainty.

But we would like to think that the situation will not be worsened by the type of attitude described above. If there is any time when clear heads and resolute action is needed, it is now. And that goes for college students just as it goes for political leaders and people generally. The year 1951 should be a real “year of decision” for college students as well as for others, and we believe it will be for students at the University.

The proper decision should be clear to everyone. Our course is one of making the most of a bleak situation, and doing our proper job for our country. And right now our job is to put to good use the opportunity that has been granted us for gaining education and training at the University. Our leaders have recognized the great need for college-trained people by making it comparatively easy for collegians as far as military service is concerned. But we can only deserve such an opportunity by using it in the manner for which it was granted. That is our job in the immediate future and that is what we owe to ourselves and others. To do less is falling down in our part of the total effort.

University students and University administrations have always faced up to bleak situations with a determination and resoluteness that has been encouraging to see, and, what is more important, has been successful in its purpose. The situation of today, and the situation of the immediate future, is one that requires such determination and resoluteness.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 1951

THE WORLD LAST WEEK
MUSIC WITH HANSEN
By HENRY HANSEN

1) At a conference in London, British Commonwealth ministers agreed that “war is not inevitable.”
2) After losing the key town of Wonju, U.N. troops drove back to within two miles of it and in general moved ahead.
3) The U.S.S.R. agreed to resume talks on its eleven billion dollar lend-lease account.
4) American shipments of supplies to Chiang Kai-shek on Formosa have been resumed.
5) Mt. Etna in Sicily began erupting again on a large scale.
6) French forces in Indo-China fared much better last week against the Communist Vietminh troops.
7) General de Gaulle of France urged the arming of Spain and Germany for European defense.
8) Truman's State of the Union Message argued for a build-up of strength sufficient to discourage Russians from further aggression.
9) The French Assembly gave definite approval to a bill providing for twenty armed divisions by 1953.
10) People the world over despaired at the actual and potential crises, and some were hopeful that we would not merely resign ourselves to what we consider inevitable.

GEECH’S GOULASH
By PAT McGEACHY

Occasionally you may hear a mild expletive or two used in connection with that vanguard of defense, the Reserve Officer's Training Corps. Curses may arise anew, ‘tis true, but universal military training is no new thing. If in this peaceful age we find no logical grounds for such a toilsome institution, pray observe the sage words of John Milton, of whom you may have heard. The old boy was writing on education, describing a day in the life of an ideal college. In the afternoon it seems, they listen to music (ukuleles mayhap) until about two hours before supper, they are, by a sudden alarum or watchword (usually flat), to be called out to their military motions, under sky or covert, according to the season (inclement weather is quite common in jolly old England), as was the Roman wont, first on foot (basic), then, as their age permits, on horseback, to all the art of cavalry; that having in sport (we differ here), but with exactness and daily muster (we differ here too), served out the rudiments of their soldiership, in all the skill of embattling, marching, encamping, fortifying, besieging, and battering, with all the helps of ancient and modern stratagems, tactics, and warlike maxims (unprintable, unfortunately, with the exception of “Geronimo!”), they may as it were out of a long war come forth renowned and perfect commanders in service of their country.

Yea, verily, there is nothing new under the sun. Can you not imagine the young cadets, parading briskly across the commons, shouting crisp commands and wheeling with pinpoint precision from station to station, or here and there clustered beneath the shade of a friendly yew learning to dismantle crossbows and how to wear their mail. (In those days, mail call was a cry for the quartermaster to replace a rusty vest). Baggy armor was the style, designed with heavy bucklers and shields for summer wear, with light pantaloons for use in winter. The cry was “Company! I say there! Snap to!”, to which the alert cadets would reply with a negligible shifting of heavily spurred feet. Truly we are not an advanced age after all. So why be pessimistic? Why be like the cynical bugler who always played “taps” instead of “assembly?” Let us just shrug and say, “They did it in 1600, 1700, 1800, 1900, etc. and more than likely our anthropoidish descendants will be doing it in 2000, taking special care to avoid radioactive corpses as they drill.” Beastly, isn’t it? But then there is no point in using rose-colored glasses unless you want things to appear rose-colored. We don’t think there’s any connection between Milton's UMT and Paradise.Lost, by the way. So if on Dreary Tuesday you should pause to think that back in the “good ole days” they used to drill every day, rain or shine, maybe you won't feel so bad. O.K. then? Chin up! Chest out! Gut in! Straighten up those lines! Talyonn-Ten-hut! Howard—Har! (This is not out of the Field Manual, but it is merely demonstrative of the attitude that should be taken in regard to this business. Didn't you sign those deferment papers? And as for ROTC, shucks, you'll never get rid of the — — —, no matter what you do.)

THE POLL CAT
By SLAYDON MYERS

1. Do you read the Davidsonian regularly?
   Yes 68 per cent
   No 32 per cent

2. Do you read Scripts and Pranks regularly?
   Yes 62 per cent
   No 38 per cent

3. Do you read a daily newspaper each day, either hometown or one here (Charlotte, etc.)?
   Yes 83 per cent
   No 17 per cent

Although it has been my pleasure at various times this year to announce the renascence of music at Davidson, and in years past to herald its coming, it now becomes my painful but inescapable duty to proclaim that one of its chief ornaments, the presentation of Handel’s Messiah, was notable only by its absence this year. This presentation of the Messiah has become a tradition here. Its performance, aside from the technical excellencies or deficiencies of chorus and soloists, has been characterized by an understanding of the not so obvious, and often, surprisingly missed religious implications of the work. This is not to say that the performance has in any one year been mediocre from the purely technical standpoint—it has always been a good performance, often surprisingly so considering the amount of time which was available to its preparation—it is rather, to say that there has always been evident a deeper feeling of the work indicating a more than superficial acquaintance with it.

It is entirely possible that there are excellent and very practical reasons why the work was not presented this year. Limitations of time or difficulties in securing soloists may have made a cancellation of the work sensible. Nevertheless, it might be suggested that there are certain situations involving, as this one does, more than the actual presentation of a work. There are certain values involved in the way the work has been done here which would tend to overcome so-called practical considerations. The presentation of the work at Duke has also become something of a tradition. Upon learning that if I was to hear it at all in live performance this year, Duke offered the one chance of doing so, I managed by dint of much effort to get up to Duke to hear the Messiah. In comment on their performance I can only say that the reason for its being traditional is far from apparent. Though they have a larger chorus than ours, it sings not nearly so well. In addition, they used organ instead of orchestral accompaniment which detracted considerably from the effectiveness of the work. Finally, even had the performance been better technically than the ones which have been given here, which it certainly was not, there was lacking completely the awareness of the spirit of the work which has always made performances here so excellent.

In conclusion then, if the reason or reasons for the non-performance of the Messiah this year are completely overwhelming, then tradition and those who enjoy it must be satisfied with the practical reasons for the Messiah's omission. If, as seems more likely, the reasons were not so weighty as they at first seemed, then we can at least hope that next year we will once more see and hear the performance of the Messiah which we desired to have this year. Architecturally speaking, Duke is more impressive than Davidson. (Messianically speaking, the competition is poor indeed.) It is to be hoped that next year the Messiah will once more be presented at Davidson.

DAVIDSONIAN’S PLATFORM FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
1. To abolish the double-cut system.
2. To change the existing system of giving cuts.
3. To make Physical Training non-compulsory for all seniors regardless of their age.
4. To improve the telephone arrangements in the dormitories and the college at large.
5. To change the system of student body elections.
6. To have more varied and interesting chapel programs and speakers.
7. To give praise where praise is due.
8. To criticize when it is felt that criticism will improve a situation.
9. To advocate Sunday night visitations to faculty homes.
10. Clarification of student regulations to the student body.

She was only the coalman’s daughter—but, oh, where she had been. She was a moonshiner’s daughter, but he loved her still!

First Moron: “How late do you usually sleep on Sunday morning?”
Second Moron: “It all depends.”
First Moron: “Depends on what?”
Second Moron: “The length of the sermon.”
—Field and Stream

PROM... BE PREPARED

To: The Editors:
Maybe this is a bit early to begin discussion on the system of elections here at Davidson, but I believe that something should and must be done and done soon enough to be effective this year. As I remember, some talk was made last year, but no action was taken. That is, or seems to be, rather characteristic of us. But anyone, with a little realistic and intelligent consideration, can see that our system defeats its real purpose. As I have been led to believe, college is a preparation for our life on the “outside” after college days are over. The present set-up not only misses this completely, but also brings each year a number of men who, though perhaps well qualified, are almost unknown to the student body in general. This way many good men are passed up.

“Coalitions, Mud-slinging, Dirty Politics,” etc., are rather unpleasant words, and I am just as ready to admit this as anyone. But, that appears to be the way elections are carried out on the national, state, and municipal programs, and these are the ones that some of us are already voting in and the rest of us soon will. It is the duty of each man in this country to enable himself to vote intelligently and to understand the way these elections are conducted. This is one of the responsibilities of education! Yet here we sit, indifferently allowing a condition to go unchecked and for the most part unquestioned that is in direct opposition to such obligations to both ourselves and our countrymen.

May I ask those in power just what has been done in respect to changing the present system? What has come of the discussions of last spring? Have any other procedures been investigated? What is the defense and/or reason for such a system? What are the proposed changes? Is this the “DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT” described on page 35, paragraph 2, line 13 of “The Wildcat Handbook” of Davidson College? What is democratic about our system? No speeches, no campaigning, not even intelligent discussion about the candidates. Is this democratic? Just read these election regulations in the Handbook, starting on page 39, No. 6 (‘secret’ ballot), Nos. 8, 9, 10, 11 of Article IV. How democratic are these? Do they train you for the really big elections? Just start thinking NOW. The time for action is before the need arises, when it is too late. You are intelligent enough to handle a real election program! Aren’t you?
——Phil Davis

Associated Students Memorial Building
University of Washington

Ask for it either way... both trade-marks mean the same thing.

The Associated Students Memorial Union Building is one of the favorite on-the-campus haunts of students at the University of Washington. That’s because the Union Building is a friendly place, always full of the busy atmosphere of college life. There is always plenty of ice-cold Coca-Cola, too. For here, as in university gathering spots everywhere—Coke belongs.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO., OF CONCORD