PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF ... BILL WHITE
BUSINESS MANAGER ... ALEX GOLEY

Associate Editors ... Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis, George McMurray
Managing Editors ... Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw, John Ottley
Photographs ... Archie Neal
Photographer ... Andrew Simmons
Feature Editor ... Mike Myers
Exchange Editor ... Ed Richardson
Copy Editor ... Pete Ormsby
Art Editor ... Don Mahy
Sports Editor ... Dick Liles
City Editor ... Nat Daniels
Assistant Business Manager ... Jack Hobson
Advertising Manager ... Bob Poston
Circulation Manager ... Bill Minter
Collection Manager ... Preston Chaney

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

A Letter from the Editor
September 14, 1951

Dear Freshman:

You've been a college student, most of you, for about 24 hours now. The good Lord willing and grades not
to the contrary you'll still be one 61,968 hours from tonight. For the majority of this Class of '55 it
was Davidson gentleman or dogface, just as it has been all over the country this fall. And a lot of
fellows who wanted just as much—and maybe more—to be a gentleman at Davidson or Duke or Denison will be taking
PRI while you are at PT, battling basic while you buck biology. Makes you kinda squirm to think about it,
doesn’t it—you at Homecoming and this other guy crawling his infiltration course? It shouldn't. You're hardly the select of a
caste system whereby the aristocracy attends college and the peasant fights his war. It’s still Selective Service, and though the
draft hasn't dipped into your age bracket quite yet, there's the strong possibility that you, as a college student, will
be called.

There is, of course, a good reason behind your deferment, because education will always lick ignorance, be it in medicine,
sports, business, agriculture, or war. Korea has proved, among other things, that well-trained soldiers, under intelligent leadership and with the
firepower and mechanized equipment that an industrial nation has produced, can stop a greater number of blind, ignorant troops who
neither know nor care why they are fighting.

If the deferment tests are offered again next spring, many of you will take them and continue in school, probably
until you receive a diploma, and stand a good chance of receiving a commission after entering the service. Others will
gain commissions through ROTC. Still others of you will go next summer or sooner, serving as NCO’s or privates. At
any rate, you will be looked to as a college man, diploma or no, and you will be looked to
for leadership. College right now is your training ground. By applying yourself (and that’s not as overemphasized as it seems)
you can gain maturity, responsibility, self-discipline, character. You can adjust yourself to life with other men, sacrificing here and there
to help another. And you will learn that the other fellow isn't adverse to lending you a hand now and
then, either. College can change you, all right—for the better if you want. But without application or effort, it won't
do the job for you.

This isn’t a somber note, just a serious one. This isn’t the carefree, joy-boy college day of a world at
peace. These are days of preparation. Think about what lies ahead for each of you, and you'll get the point.

Sincerely,
YOUR EDITOR.

“Hey Freshman, run to the Stud and get me a Blue Ribbon,” probably won't be the first contact you'll have
with Davidson, because right off the bat you'll see the “rough and rugged” boys getting ready for their first game
with Lenoir-Rhyne on the 22nd. You will become acquainted with the “sporting” situation that was hinted at above quite early,
but that is out of my line. Here at Davidson where we haven't always had the “winningest” teams, we like
to pride ourselves in the fact that the entire student body was behind the team, win or lose. This Utopian
situation was not always 100 percent true, but we have the reputation of having a lot of spirit and always
the will to win, although the competition might be too great to win. The “Davidson Spirit” is a tradition. You've
heard tradition... tradition... tradition since you've been here, but none of them is prided more than our spirit. I wish
every one of you could have seen the game against State over in Charlotte 4 years ago. State had what
was considered their best team in years. Davidson always had a spirited and game team, but we were about at
our lowest ebb. I don’t know whether it was the fact that the whole team was graduating and had been
playing so long together, or that one of the boys had just become the proud papa of a bouncing baby
girl, but those crippled and weakened boys just beat the pants off that State crew. It was the greatest show
of spirit I had ever seen. The fans yelled and cheered for the entire show and went off very happy,
but also very worn out.

This year the football outlook is the best it has been since 1946 when “Wild Bill” Storey fielded his outstanding
Freshman squad. In his second year at the helm, head coach Crowell (Cruel) Little has mustered together what should and
easily could be the winningest team since ‘46. At any rate it is quite a step forward in the rebuilding
program now underway. Beside the regulars left after graduation, he has scooped up some of the finest frosh material that
was available in this part of the country. This is by far the largest squad Davidson has had in its
history and from all preliminary reports and observations, looks like it is going to be a rather fine time for
you Frosh to be coming in. You chose a darn good school.

By DICK LILES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1951

LAST WEEK...

Sexperts (by Does’s and Doesn’ts About Your Davidsonian)

As compulsory subscribers to Davidson College's only weekly newspaper, members of the Class of ‘55 and transfer students are entitled
to a brief run-down on pertinent facts concerning the paper.

1. The Davidsonian is double the dose you're getting this week. It is a four-page, eight-column paper, slated for publication
every week during the school year except holidays and exams. Twenty-six publications after this freshman issue are planned.

2. The paper is planned to appear after supper Friday nights on the week of publications. There is a minute—Oh,
ever so minute—a possibility that you may sit up once or twice until Saturday morning awaiting its arrival.

3. Despite the high prestige enjoyed by this campus organ, staff membership is not exclusive. Rather it is inclusive of
every type we've got here in the student body. You'll have a chance in a week or two to throw
your form in our melting pot.

4. “All the news that’s fit to print” is not our motto, for some news that is fit to print
elsewhere is not fit to print in Davidson. We do our best to get lurid and sensational over the election
of officers by Phi Mu Society, and leave the rest to your imagination.

5. For reasons stated in No. 4,

Improved Wildcat Team Encounters Lenoir-Rhyne In Season's Opener

A time-tested attack but a new, untried defense is the story on the Lenoir-Rhyne team which the 1951 Wildcats will
face in their season opener September 22. Coach Clarence Stasovich will have his single-wing offensive team back almost intact, but
he is having to build almost an entirely new defensive outfit.

Cat Coaching Staff Now Complete With Chandler, Fetzer

Besides the 20-odd freshman aspirants for football positions, Coach Crowell Little has two new assistants which have already “sewed up”
their positions. Coach Tom Fetzer and Buddy Chandler have already started their work with the footballers and promise to help
out a lot in the ensuing days when the team is polished up for wars among the other contenders of
the Southern Conference.

Tom Fetzer hails from Reidsville and was an outstanding prep star before going to Wake Forest, where he was the
scourge of the conference for three years. He handled the scatback post until “Peahead” Walker placed him behind center at
the quarterback post when he shifted to the “T” formation.

Buddy Chandler came to Davidson with Bill Storey’s Frosh dream team after the war. He had played with the prep
team that had won the Virginia State Championship for three straight years and were undefeated. He played first string ball
for four years under Storey and Jameson and contracted to play pro ball.until he took the line-coach’s job at his
alma mater. He's really going to be a “big” help among those monsters up front. Co-captains Jim Newsom and Al
Archibald, working from the tackle positions, will be the mainstays in the Bearcat line. Steve Trudnak, All-Conference in 1950, and
twins Gene and Jerry Robinson, the former an All-State back last fall, will be the men to stop in the
backfield. As far as his own team is concerned, Coach Crowell Little naturally regrets the loss of passing ace Auburn
Lambeth but has an experienced and capable performer in King’s Mountain’s Jack Ruth. Spelling Ruth at least part of the
time should be sophomore Dan McCall and possibly freshman John Archer. There is an abundance of talent at the halfback
spot, but doubtless standbys Roy White, A. C. Gregg, Johnny Guiton, and sophomore Johnny Gray will carry the brunt of
the attack at this position. Ham Wade has been Little's fullback so far. Up front, with so many able frosh
to draw from, Coach Little probably will not know until opening day who he will start. Bob Turk and Dave
Williams seem to have captured the offensive assignments at the ends. At the tackles, Captain Bill Freeman and Jack Branch
are being hard-pressed by a host of hustling candidates, notably freshmen Walter Yates and Harry Peterson. Alternate Captain Jerry Kiser
is the only certain starter at guard. Arnold Whisnant and Dick Perkins have handled offense and defense, respectively, at center.

We cannot mirror the mind of the Davidson student on our editorial page, but we will print any letter to
the editor you'd let your mother read. If you want to sell your overshoes, umbrella, electric fan, Latin pony, etc.,
RUN, don't walk to the advertising manager! But, no beer, liquor, orange juice, etc., please.

The largest squad in Davidson’s football history greeted the cameraman with this display of manpower on opening day of drills,
two weeks ago tomorrow. While some of the personnel in the picture has changed, the squad still boasts better than
60 members.

1951 Cats Elect Freeman Captain; Kiser Alternate For Coming Year

A couple of front liners will be making the important decisions on the field for the Wildcat gridders this fall.
Coach Little’s sixty-man squad last week chose Tackle Bill Freeman as captain and made Guard Jerry Kiser alternate captain. Freeman,
an aggressive lineman who has been aptly nicknamed “Bull” by his teammates, is a five-eleven, 183-pound senior from Winston-Salem. This
fall he will be playing his second season as a regular. One of the most conscientious workers on the squad,
Bill also sports a highly enviable scholastic average. For his outstanding performance against Presbyterian College last fall, Freeman was voted
Lineman of the Week by N. C. sports writers. Kiser, who packs 230 pounds on a five-ten frame, is nevertheless
one of the most agile linemen on the Wildcat squad. The 1951 season will also be the second campaign as
a first-stringer for this 21-year-old senior from Shelby. Although Jerry has more competition at his position than any other regular
(sixteen other men are candidates for guard), there is little doubt that he will be one of the mainstays of
the Cat line.

Frosh Cake Race Set Next Friday

Next Friday, September 21, is the date set for the running of the traditional Cake Race by members of the
freshmen class. All frosh will participate, running a portion of the cross-country course for the cakes and other fine pastries
awaiting the winners. The cakes are baked by the women of Davidson, and a frosh who “places” has not gone
away hungry yet. Last year in the post-war revival of the affair, Bill Shipley of Asheville set a new course
record with a winning time of 8:57.1, edging Bill Coe in a sprint to the finish. Both boys later became
outstanding members of the freshman track and cross country teams.

....and another from Joe

Dear Freshman:

First of all let me welcome you to your new home away from home. Don't know why you chose the
old place—it certainly isn’t the social center of the South, its football team is completely snubbed by the AP (by
the way, do you think Tennessee is holding all they say she is?) and the campus, while beautiful, is not
endowed with fair co-eds. What does it have, then? Well, first of all, it has boys—hundreds of them, the best
in the world. For 115 years, the good old Scotch Presbyterians have been pouring their best blood into D. C.,
and regardless of what they do or don’t learn in colleges these boys manage to rate high in graduate schools,
the business world, and professional life. Of course, you can’t give the Scotch all the credit, though, for in this
modern age they're beginning to be out-numbered on the campus. A preacher told me once that boys, as a group,
have the highest ideals in the world. They all hope to be shining lights for humanity in a brave new
world. It was discouraging, he said, to watch those ideals and dreams fade out with maturity, to be replaced by
a cold, cynical sophistication. Well, the other schools call us “Boys Town,” and I think one reason for this tag
is that the Davidson gentleman hasn't acquired his hard shell of cynicism, which today seems to be the mark of
maturity. If that’s maturity, then let’s keep on being friendly, courteous, honest to others and expecting honesty in return, entertaining
a few serious thoughts about religion and God—and let them keep on calling us “Boys Town!”

Besides boys, Davidson has a faculty, of whom you will soon be painfully aware. It isn't all play, fellows, even
though one-third or more of the marshals at the Deb Ball in Raleigh were Davidson students. There's just no substitute
for an education, and as President Cunningham says, first things first. To be blunt, your father or your coach can’t
get you in or keep you in school—you've got to do it yourself. This principle keeps us from turning out
a powerhouse football team, but it also keeps us near the top in scholastic standings, and gives Davidson a reputation
among mature educational circles that other schools can only envy. Many of our professors could make more money elsewhere, but
their love for the old school anchors them here. So give them and yourself a break and hit the books—that's
what you're here for.

At first glance it might seem that there's not much to be found here at Davidson except boys and professors
and, of course, the physical plant. And if you just take one look, get caught in the social whirl, and
go gallivanting off every weekend, that’s probably all you will see in Davidson. Don't get me wrong, chum, I'm not
advocating a stay-at-home policy, but you are going to have to take an interest in the school if you expect
to acquire the most cherished tradition around these parts—Davidson Spirit. Now spirit is one of those intangibles which is like
a woman’s virtue—if there's much talk about it, it probably doesn’t amount to anything. So I won't indulge in any
flowery phrases, but suffice it to say that the Spirit is still alive, and it's up to you to fan
the flame. All the veterans are gone now, and Davidson is as nearly back to normalcy as is possible in
these times. Don’t let down the 114 classes that have gone before you, ‘cause they're counting on you to uphold
the traditions they cherish.

During Orientation you will get enough advice to fill a small library, so I won't bore you further with what
you'll get enough of later. Just tell the folks you bum rides with that you go to Davidson, a liberal
arts college about 20 miles from Charlotte, a school where you can visit faculty members on Sunday night after Vespers,
a school where you attend chapel 5 days a week, a school where everybody knows everybody else, a school that
turns out individuals and not production line automatons with interchangeable parts, a school that’s just great, and, in spite of
all its faults and inadequacies, a school that you love.

Sincerely,
JOE COLLEGE

Assuring the Cats of a 1951 that obviously isn’t going to be reserve shy. One week from tomorrow Coach Crowell
Little’s charges open the season with Lenoir-Rhyne's Bears.

WELCOME
Freshmen and Transfers to your COLLEGE SHOP
WILSON-WRIGHTS
Next Door To The Bank

FREE
@ Pair of Fall Slacks
@ Sweater
@ Argyles
@ Other Valuable Prizes

Come in Friday and Saturday and put your name in the pot! Refreshments For All
