We'll start this column off with a hearty welcome back to the campus and to the fine lineup of fall sports. With Rush Week about over and school back in full swing, the Frosh are about down to their usual position on the campus, and the leaves blanketing the once-green grass, all eyes turn to the gridiron wars that were officially initiated last Saturday and will continue until the last weekend in November for many schools.

By DICK LILES

To the few brave fans and the 300-odd Freshmen, the effect of a stunning defeat soaked in last Saturday night on the campus of Davidson College. Lenoir-Rhyne of the North State Conference, under the able leadership of Coach Clarence Stasavich, fielded a strong eleven and got the jump on the Cats on the starting kickoff with a brilliant 90-yard TD gallop by their scatback Robinson and never relinquished their mastery in the game to trim the Red and Black by a 21-7 score. To the coaches, players, and all those who had followed this year's proceedings down in Wildcat Hollow, it was particularly stunning. This was the year the Wildcats were going to put a stop to their losing ways. The material had poured in from all corners of the South and more pep and spirit was apparent from the very first. Coach Little had added to his staff a former Davidson lineman who had played some great ball for the Cats, and also one of the Southern Conference's best T quarterbacks and safety men. The coaches had worked hard and had a lot of new tricks up their sleeves. The boys had worked even harder in the hot September sun to polish their defense and attack. What happened then?

Lenoir-Rhyne’s Bears are in a different league from ours. It is a small league of small colleges. They don’t get the publicity that the Southern Conference schools get nor do their teams. Therefore, when one of the Southern’s schools schedules a North Stater (most of the time for a breather or an opener), it is logical that they would go all-out to win the game or put up a good fight. And so Stasavich stayed awake nights this summer, drove his boys to the limit, recruited, worked out plans and plays, and generally got set to lick Davidson to show that they can play football up there, too. As the saying goes, "They had everything to gain and nothing to lose." The Bears got the kickoff, blocked viciously, and paved the way for the ball carrier to the Davidson goal—90 yards away. Their single-wing formation made more gains during the wet, sloppy minutes of the game than did our quick-opening T-formation.

FROM THIS DAY FORWARD

Although they face a really tough schedule of greatly improved teams, the Wildcats cannot and will not be counted out of the race for victories. Coach Little has the finest staff any coach could want. The biggest and best bunch of freshman material in years has descended on the campus, not to speak of the already-potent crew of starters and lettermen that were left by graduation and Uncle Sam. The season has just begun and it can't rain every Saturday (law of distribution, etc.). Those boys have worked hard and long and they are due some reward. The Cats have to get in the frame of mind that the Bears had when they travel to V.P.I. today.

Wildcat Of The Week

DAVE WILLIAMS

Davidson’s Wildcats didn't have a “sixty-minute man” in their ill-fated outing against Lenoir-Rhyne, but they had a very close approach to one in the form of 6'1", 175-pound senior, Dave Williams, who plays with equal facility at two positions. Williams, a pre-med student from St. John's, North Carolina, is in the midst of his second season as a member of the Davidson varsity. He was recruited from the ranks of inter-fraternity footballers at the end of his sophomore year. As a glue-fingered end on the Kappa Sigma entry, he was picked as a member of the 1949 edition of the all-star intramural squad. Last season, his first in a Wildcat uniform, Williams stood out. On the receiving end of 19 of quarterback Auburn Lambeth's passes, he racked up a total of 249 yards gained, tops for all receivers on the squad. Dave scored two touchdowns and returned one kick-off. Dave, who played only at end last year, has been shifted to safety on defense by Coach Crowell Little this season. A versatile end, Williams handles both positions like an old pro. Besides being a stalwart on the gridiron, he is also a track man, having already won a freshman numeral and two varsity letters as a high jumper. He is, of course, a member of the “D" Club. Strangely enough, Dave says he would rather watch basketball than any other sport, and that he has always wanted to play himself.

Wildcat Sports

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1951

THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SECTION

Cats Set For VPI

Lead Red And Black In ‘51

Captains to pick two boys who could go 6'3" to 6'10" tall and weigh close to 235 pounds. On the other hand, Bill Freeman, or “Bull” as he is called, wouldn't worry an opposing team by his size, but rather by that grimacing look on his face, which, incidentally, strikes terror into the hearts of Freshmen from his seat on the Court of Control. Actually, “Bull” is just as mild-mannered as a frightened freshman, but with a build like his, anyone would be afraid to tangle with him. Bill, the team captain, is a product of Winston-Salem's Haynes High School, where he played four years at blocking back. However, in his switch from high school to college, he soon made a switch from blocking back to tackle, and it is in that position that Bull is seen on any Saturday when the Wildcats play. After two terrific years on the varsity team, it looks...like Bull is headed for even higher honors this year, for he is considered to be one of the outstanding linemen in the Southern Conference. Certainly he proved his worth to Davidson in last Saturday's game when he played in all but about five minutes of the entire game. Bill is a senior this year, a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, and is a business major. It looks like Bill will go just as far in the business field as he has on the football field, for he is a partner in one of the fastest-growing enterprises in the South, Freeman and Gibson, Inc. Just as Bull was a standout at Haynes High, so Jerry was a standout at Shelby High. Jerry was by far one of the most outstanding players on the team last year and he promises to do just as well or better this year. Certainly, the fact that he played the entire first half against Lenoir-Rhyne without being relieved shows that he will be a line star this year.

Chesterfield SPORTS QUIZ
This great second baseman, who came to the American League in 1937, announced his retirement from baseball to take effect at the end of this season. The former Boyden High star of Salisbury who was voted the "freshman of the week" by the Associated Press. Ford Frick was recently made baseball commissioner. Who was his opponent who dropped out of the voting? Answers next week.

Captain Bill Freeman (left), and alternate captain Jerry Kiser take time out at Wildcat practice.

Freeman, Kiser Grim Faces Behind Masks
By WALLACE ABBOTT
In picking this year’s captain and alternate captain, the football team must have been trying to scare the opposing team into submission. For Bill Freeman, this year’s captain, and Jerry Kiser, the alternate captain, are a formidable pair behind their steel face guards. Jerry could probably strike terror into the hearts of the opposing captains by just appearing on the field, for he is jokingly called "the Grim Reaper." Not only is he a popular sight in his fraternity house, Phi Kappa Chi, but he is also a well-liked member of the student body. Jerry is a senior this year and will go into business after Uncle Sam doesn’t call first.

The University Shop of Greensboro, N.C. presents a showing of the newest fall fashions in MEN’S WEAR October 1st.

Miss Scoffields
Tag Football May Replace Touch Game In Fraternity Play
The large number of injuries sustained by participants in last year's intramural touch football program definitely precludes the continuation of this version of the gridiron game, Coach Heath Whittle said today. However, Whittle, supervisor of the inter-fraternity athletic program, said that the less rough games of tag football or flickerball might be substituted. The fraternity sports managers will decide which of these two versions of the sport they prefer when they meet with Coach Whittle Monday afternoon. The other sports on the inter-fraternity program for the year are basketball, handball, tennis, softball, horseshoes, track, and swimming. Table tennis and possibly wrestling will be added if the sports managers vote them in. Sports managers for the year are: Flenty Howe, SPE; Bob Wearn, Phi Delt; Fred Spach, Kappa Sig; Adrian Bowen, KA; Chuck Elliott, Betas; Wallace Abbott, Phi Gam; Charles Johnson, Sigma Chi; Julian Weinburg, Campus Club; Jerry Nall, Pi Kappa Phi; Avera Jones, Pike; Jim Jamerson, SAE; John Nisbet, VPO.

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests
No. 22... THE WOODPECKER
Woodrow almost bit off more than he could chew when he tackled the cigarette tests! But he pecked away till he smoked out the truth: Such an important item as mildness can’t be tossed off in a fleeting second! A “swift sniff” or a “perfunctory puff” proves practically nothing! He, like millions of smokers, found one test that doesn’t leave you up a tree. It’s the sensible test... the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test, which simply asks you to try Camels as your steady smoke—on a day-after-day basis. No snap judgments! Once you've enjoyed Camels for 30 days in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste), you'll see why...

SPORTS MANAGERS DECIDE FOOTBALL'S FATE MONDAY PAGE THREE

IMPROVED GRIDDERS HOPE TO BOUNCE BACK AT BLACKSBURG
By DICK ROPER
Can the Wildcats do it? Can they forget last week's humbling by Lenoir-Rhyne and come back fighting as their namesakes would do? Coach Crowell Little thinks so. Confidence, he says, is what the Cats need more than anything else. With a little more self-assurance, they would be a different club. The Wildcat head coach has been working his club long and hard all week in hopes of a comeback against VPI tomorrow night. The game will be played at Blacksburg, a tough psychological disadvantage for a team trying to bounce back, but the Cats have made a lot of progress in this week's drills. Fullback Ham Wade and frosh Halfback Jimmy Thacker sparked the offensive team in a full game scrimmage held Wednesday. Downfield blocking, a weak spot in last week's game, was noticeably improved. Still on the injury list is End Bob Turk, who limped all during the week on a sprained ankle, and Halfback Roy White dressed in light togs during the first of the week. Tackle Roger Wright suffered a bruised shoulder in Wednesday's scrimmage, but is expected to see action tomorrow. The Cats will have no easy time beating Virginia Tech. The Gobblers haven't won a Southern Conference game in two years and would be happy to make Davidson its first victim of the year. Pregame predictions on the game tomorrow range anywhere from a toss-up to a one-touchdown victory for Virginia Tech.

After all the Mildness tests... Camel leads all other brands