PAGE FOUR

College Honors Cunningham

Pictured above are the four buildings which have been added during Dr. Cunningham's presidency; the student body, increased by one-third
over pre-war days; a group of tryouts for a Baker Scholarship, a $50,000 grant just recently renewed; and pictures of
invitations to President Cunningham's inauguration and to the current Homecoming exercises.

CUNNINGHAM ... (Continued From Page One)

... would later aid the students in military life and in securing defense work were emphasized.

DR. CUNNINGHAM THEN SECURED a contract from the Air Force to train 500 Aviation Cadets each five months; and, when
this program was curtailed, the way was opened for the Army to place an ASTP unit at the college. All
in all, more than 5,000 Army and Air Force personnel received college training at Davidson during the war. At one
point, the 1944-45 session, the enrollment dropped to 162, the smallest student body at Davidson since the turn of the
century. In only two years the enrollment climbed to the highest point in Davidson's history when approximately 1,000 students enrolled
for the 1947-48 term.

PROGRESS AND EXPANSION have been the keynotes all during the “Decade of Destiny.” In 1941, Chambers was the only adequate
academic building on the campus. However, a building campaign was launched under Dr. Walter L. Lingle’s administration which Dr. Cunningham
continued, and four major buildings have now been completed or near-completed under the program. The Grey Memorial Library was dedicated
in 1942, the Martin Science Building in 1944, and the Charles Worth Johnson Gymnasium in 1949. A new college church
is expected to be completed by January 1, the old gymnasium is being renovated and remodeled into a modern Student
Union, and plans for the W. H. Belk dormitory are in the program.

IN ADDITION TO greatly increasing the facilities of the physical plant, Dr. Cunningham has led an equally successful drive for
a larger endowment. The long, ten-year fight, which is still being waged, has brought in some two and a half
million additional dollars as Davidson’s endowment today stands at more than $6,000,000.

THE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM is the largest financial campaign in which Davidson has ever been engaged. Set up in 1948, it
was officially launched in 1949 with a goal of $2,500,000. Through the efforts of Dr. Cunningham and the other campaign
leaders, seventeen large donations realized $1,600,000 of the goal in a few months and the goal was successfully met and
passed in June of 1950.

ALTHOUGH DR. CUNNINGHAM has met great success as a fundraiser, his academic and spiritual contributions to the college surpass even
the great progress made during the building and financial campaigns. The average size of the classes at Davidson has been
reduced to approximately 25 students, while the average number of hours taught by the faculty has been lowered to 12
per week. Maintaining its progressive traditions, Davidson has added a number of courses to the curriculum, especially in the fields
of fine arts, music, speech, physical education, and dramatics. In 1948, Dr. Cunningham secured the $50,000 George F. Baker Scholarships
for Davidson, a recognition which only six other institutions in the nation were able to earn at that time. The
scholarships were renewed for another three years last month with an additional $50,000 grant.

DAVIDSON MAINTAINED A long-standing tradition when it selected an active minister for its 13th president, and probably the greatest single
contribution made by Dr. Cunningham during the past decade has been the deepening of the spiritual life of Davidson and
the constant stressing of character building. A champion of the church-related college and all it stands for in its purest
form, Davidson's president has constantly striven and fought for Christian education. In addition to the major contributions made to Davidson,
Dr. Cunningham has found time to serve his church and nation with equal distinction.

IN 1945, HE SERVED on the American Section of the World Council of Churches, one of two representatives of this
body from the Presbyterian Church, U. S. In August 1946, he was chosen as one of ten American churchmen to
attend the International Conference of Church Leaders on the Problems of World Order at Cambridge, England. In the summer of
1948, Dr. Cunningham attended the First Assembly of the World Council of Churches in Amsterdam, Holland, as one of the
three delegates from the Presbyterian Church, U. S. He was the official representative of the Southern Presbyterian Church at the
organization of the Presbyterian General Assembly of Mexico in 1947, and was chairman of the North Carolina division of the
China Relief Drive in 1941. The Presbyterian Church, U. S., bestowed its greatest honor on Dr. Cunningham in 1947 when
he was elected to the highest position in the church, Moderator of the General Assembly.

AT PRESENT DR. CUNNINGHAM is serving as a member of the Board of Directors of the Mountain Retreat Association, Union
Theological Seminary at Richmond. He is also a member of the Board of Directors and Executive Committee of the Presbyterian
Ministers Fund, a member of the Federal Council of Churches, Church World Service, and the National Advisory Board of Allied
Youth, treasurer and a director of the American Association of Colleges and Universities, and past president of the North Carolina
Council of Churches. Dr. Cunningham came to Davidson from the pastorate of the First Presbyterian Church of Winston-Salem, having previously
served as president of the Louisville Presbyterian Theological Seminary.

HE IS A GRADUATE of Westminster College and the Louisville Presbyterian Seminary. The degree of Doctor of Divinity was conferred
upon him by Westminster in 1925, and he has been awarded the L.L.D. degree from King College, Duke University, Wake
Forest College, and the University of North Carolina. The trustees of Davidson paid tribute to Dr. Cunningham during Commencement last
spring when they presented him a silver serving tray and passed a resolution paying tribute to his ten years of
leadership. The resolution, in part, declared: “The Board of Trustees wishes to express its deep appreciation of the magnificent leadership
that Dr. John R. Cunningham has given Davidson College during the decade since becoming its President; years in which, despite
the tremendous changes and difficulties involved, the college in many respects has known its greatest advancement. We would record, too,
the joy and inspiration we, as members of the Board, have had in our relationship with him.”

WHEN THE FRIENDS and alumni of Davidson gather on the campus Saturday to add their tribute, all will be looking
back on ten great years of progress, and forward with enthusiasm, confidence, and cooperation to John Rood Cunningham's second “Decade
of Destiny.”

“Peace is what all desire, but all do not care for the things that pertain to true peace." —Thomas A.
Kempis.

Red Feather Drive

ULFS Schedules Four Big Movies

A new drive for memberships to the United Literary Film Society is planned by the Philanthropic and Eumanean Literary societies,
officers of the organization said today. The poor attendance at the first presentation of the year, “The Baker's Wife,” was
attributed by ULFS officials to inadequate promotion with the resultant drive for more members. Four more films are scheduled to
be shown during the semester, and tickets for admission to all showings may be purchased for one dollar from Jack
Hunter or Stuart Shippey, or in the lobby on the days of the scheduled movies. The purpose of the society
is to bring to the campus outstanding motion pictures, U. S. and foreign, that are ordinarily shown only in larger
cities. It is an excellent opportunity for students to...become familiar with films that, in the brief history of this new
medium of expression, have remained as masterpieces in the literature. The society has endeavored to present a well-rounded program, including
examples of both modern and early filming techniques: “Chaplin Festival,” October 26; “Long Voyage Home,” November 9; “39 Steps,” November
30; “Ivan the Terrible,” December 7.

Kicks Off Monday National Cup

With a town quota of $2,250.00, exceeding the amount raised last year, the Davidson division of the Mecklenburg County Community
Chest drive gets underway Monday morning to run through Thursday, October 25. Chairman of the Davidson town drive and college
student body drive is Lt. Col. J. L. Ballard, Jr. Seventeen residential area chairmen have been named to cover Davidson,
with three heading up the industrial drive. Col. Ballard emphasized the vital part which the student body will play in
this drive, pointing out that students who would give at home can do as fine a work here in Davidson
and the surrounding communities with their gifts.

SWEDISH STUDENT ... (Continued From Page One)

marker, is a hotel owner. John is a 20-year-old junior. His curriculum includes psychology, political science, French, Spanish, and English.
Any of you know four languages? He told me the last two years of high school in Sweden are equivalent
to the first two years of college in America. “Neutrality is the only way for Sweden. I'll tell you this
though ... American ideology is taking deeper root every day. Even the Russian propaganda is decreasing. You can count most
of Sweden’s 7,000,000 people as friends of America.”

Soccer is quite the sport in Sweden. John saw his first football game here the other week. Comment: too ‘monotone.’
In soccer, the ball moves all the time. I like the pep rallies and the preparations. Homecoming isn't going to
catch John without a date. He already has several pleasant connections, and a Salem gal planning to come up Friday.
I hope flush is one word John will never have to explain. I think John is smart. I don't know
a thing about his grades, but one remark convinced me. “I don’t like rush week—too much pressure.” Lots of four-year
men haven't caught what John has seen through in a few weeks. In looking around John’s room before I left,
I noticed a tennis racket, several good novels, a suitcase covered with foreign stickers (but with a Davidson “D” in
the center), and a statuette of Robert E. Lee. No one needs to worry about John Lindmarker.

As Always, serving you. Drop in to chat a while.

Hines Program

Jerome Hines, whose concert tonight opens Homecoming festivities, has selected a program of classical, religious, and modern compositions for his
waiting audience. Accompanied by Alexander Alexay, the tall, big-voiced star of Mephistopheles will sing six groups of songs. Mozart's “Mentri,
ti lascio,” the first presentation, will be followed by selections from Wolf, Strauss, and Beethoven. The third, a special group
of religious numbers, will include “The Lord’s Prayer,” by Molotte, “Agnus Dei,” by Boito, and a traditional Jewish hymn “Eli,
Eli.” Hines then turns to “Son lo spirito” from “Mephistopheles” by Boito. The remainder of the program consists of three
selections by the French composers Ravel, Faure, and Thomas; and a group of modern compositions which includes “She Walked in
the Hand of My Dreams,” written by Hines himself.

To Phi Delt

The president of North Carolina Gamma Chapter of Phi Delta Theta, Al Davies, received word last week that the Davidson
chapter had recaptured the coveted Cleveland Trophy, the highest award a chapter can win. This trophy, awarded by General Headquarters
of Phi Delta Theta, is presented to the outstanding chapter of its class on the basis of high scholarship, leadership,
and inter-fraternity activities. The Davidson chapter leads the list of forty chapters in the small school division, and this is
the first time a chapter has won it twice in a row in the Delta province.

WILDCAT OF WEEK... (Continued From Page Three)

first of Davidson's two touchdowns, and continued to play “heads up” ball for the remainder of the game. Jim at
the present time calls Rome, Ga., his home, and the Pi Kappa Phi house his home away from home. It
has been said earlier that Jim is only a freshman, so it is evident that he has several more years
of good top-flight football left for Davidson.

Monday Breakfast thru Saturday Lunch

LUNCH 7:30 to 10:00 11:00 to 2:00 5:30 to 7:00 $11.00 per week $10 per week through Friday See Mr.
Dewese or Mrs. Thornburg COLLEGE RESTAURANT

We Are Backing Davidson

A long-time friend of your college, we find interest in your activities and pleasure in seeing you. J. O. JONES,
INC. 208 S. Tryon St.

Special Announcement Weekly Rates On Meals

Shop, Browse, or just see us. We’re two blocks below the Square.

SPORT QUIZ... (Continued From Page Three)

back holds the college record of averaging over eleven yards per offensive play. Answers: ‘staeq uUd|y *yetursa7 sus “Aqsusopy sidR0y
“Sew ATE yozzey AuoL HN as

FOOTBALL CHAMPS ... (Continued From Page Three)

N. Y.; D. O. Leftwich, Conyers, Ga.; William O. Green, Houston, Texas; William A. Christian, Hamden, Conn.; Dr. English McGeachy,
Decatur, Ga.; Ralph E. Boggs, Jr., Chester, Pa.; Henry L. Laws, Columbus, Miss., and Rev. R. Herbert McIlwaine, Taiwan, China.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1951

Meetings, Bar-B-Q (Continued From Page One)

Neal, Fraley Installed

William Neal and Walter Fraley, new alumni officers, will be officially installed in a portion of the meeting. Davidson student
morals in light of the nation-wide scandals, student draft status, and resulting decrease or increase in number were thought to
be planned points in Dr. Cunningham's “state of the college” address to the alumni. His message will conclude the meeting.

Barbecue For 1,000

Nearly 1,000 persons will be served at a barbecue at 1:00 p.m. This is an annual affair and will be
held on the back campus again this year. At 2:30 that afternoon the Wildcats will begin their scheduled duel with
the Blue Hose of Presbyterian College.

Lenoir-Rhyne Band

A special pre-game show will be staged by the Lenoir-Rhyne High School Band. Under the direction of James C. Harper,
the 50-piece unit is fully equipped with three girl cheerleaders. Halftime ceremonies will be divided between the performance of the
Presbyterian ROTC band and Davidson's football band. Members of the state championship football team of 1926 will be individually introduced
from the center of a large “D” formed by the football band.

Last Event

A second Pan-Hel dance will be held in the new gym from 8-12 p.m. Tickets purchased for the formal dance
will still be good for this informal function. Lawrence will again furnish tunes. This will be the final official event.

Oren Moore To Be Honored

A highlight of the Alumni Convocation tomorrow morning will be the honoring of Dr. Oren Moore, '06, in a resolution
from the Alumni Association and written and read by Dr. Ernest Beaty. Until his death this summer, Dr. Moore was
outstanding as one of Davidson's most loyal alumni. As a member of the Board of Trustees, past president of the
Alumni Association, and a member of the Athletic Committee, he served his alma mater well. Particularly in athletics was Dr.
Moore close to the college. Always identified by a bright red carnation in his lapel, Dr. Moore never witnessed a
football game from the stands. He was always with the team on the bench. One of the nation’s top gynecologists
and obstetricians, Dr. Moore ranks as one of the institution’s finest products. Dr. Beaty, a long-time friend of Dr. Moore,
is well qualified to present the resolution. Wrote sports editor Wilton Garrison in the Charlotte Observer, the repartee passed between
Moore and Beaty was “as sparkling as the sunshine on Homecoming Day.”

NEW CARS DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF Dial 3-4513 212 W. Fourth Charlotte

“A boy's best friend is his mother... You need not inhale to enjoy a cigar!” CIGAR INSTITUTE OF AMERICA, INC.
