PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF -------------------- GORDON SCOTT
BUSINESS MANAGER ---------------- JOHN LOFTIN

Associate Editors -------------------- Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Features Editor ---------------------- Shelley Beard
Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George McMurray, Ed Richardson
Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Photographer—Raymond Lynch
Proofreader—Wallace Abbott
Managing Editors -------------------- City Editor—Nat Daniel
Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen
Sports Editor—Bill White
Assistant Business Manager --------- Alex Goley
Advertising Manager ---------------- Manley McWilliams
Circulation Manager ----------------- Ansley Moses
Collections Manager ----------------- Jack Turner
Subscriptions Manager --------------- Bill Hart
H. T. Lilly, Faculty Advisor

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Controversial Subject?

One would suppose from the bull sessions in our dormitories that criticism is the cheapest, most plentiful commodity at Davidson.
A certain type of destructive criticism is just that, but how rare is intelligent, constructive criticism! Last Tuesday night the
Student Council held an open meeting to allow a free expression of opinion on the question of campus elections. One
would expect such a seemingly controversial subject to draw a considerable crowd even on a rainy night, but the Student
Council members outnumbered their guests three to one. Yes, only four men from the entire student body considered it worthwhile
to attend the election discussion. Such a showing as this is a pretty good indication that the criticism of the
election system by the students has largely been the product of idle moments and rattling tongues. Of the four students
who were present, one wholly endorsed the system of open campaigning which has been painted in such glowing terms by
some men on the campus. Everyone there seemed to agree that the present system with some modifications and improvements is
best suited to the type of student body which we have at Davidson.

The greater part of the discussion centered around the problem of introducing the candidates for office to the student body.
It was pointed out that the Freshman Class often does not know some of the best-qualified men nominated for the
highest offices in school. Even the votes of the upperclassmen are often based only on superficial popularity. It is here
that the Davidsonian advocates a change in the procedure of former years. As an answer to what we consider to
be a real problem, we propose to offer Special Election Issues to the students. It would be impossible for the
Davidsonian as a weekly newspaper to carry this information in its regular issue because such a plan would necessitate a
week’s delay between nominations and elections. Therefore we propose to publish once or twice a week during elections mimeographed Special
Issues devoted to data concerning the candidates’ records and any other information pertinent to the election. These will not be
elaborate affairs but merely skeleton publications, probably in outline form. We feel that such a plan will lead to more
interest in and intelligent use of the voting privilege without opening the election system to the dangers and expenses of
free campaigning.

—J.J.M.

“A Prophet Is Without Honor”

After a highly successful 1500 mile tour, the Davidson Male Chorus has returned to the campus. The trip, which lasted
for a week, was highlighted by a nationwide broadcast over NBC last Saturday afternoon. Director Berg and his 36 choristers
covered themselves with glory, performing a difficult program with ease and confidence which were apparent to all who heard their
broadcast. This week has seen only the beginning of praise coming from all parts of the country. Many Davidsonians who
heard the broadcast took it in stride, comparing it favorably with any other performance of the Male Chorus. True, it
was a typical performance, but this passive acceptance serves to illustrate that we are in danger of taking for granted
musicianship of a high caliber which has characterized music organizations on the Davidson campus for a number of years. The
chorus and band have always been Davidson’s chief “horn blowers” and it is high time that students, faculty and friends
of Davidson recognize and appreciate their excellence.

It rains for the optimist and on the pessimist.
Sin is an old-fashioned word that is now called experience.
Today’s problems are often the consequence of yesterday’s foolishness.
Success is the ability to get along with most people—and ahead of others.
Speak of men’s virtues as if they were your own, and of their vices as if you were liable to
their punishment.
Genius is one percent inspiration and ninety-nine percent perspiration.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

“Mother wrote me to stop griping, every laundry makes a few mistakes now and then.”

Gags from College

A tractor salesman was going along a back country road one day when he saw a farmer plowing his field
with a bull hitched to the plow. Thinking this should be a lively prospect he stopped his car, got out
and went over to high pressure the farmer. He made his pitch and then asked the farmer if he wouldn't
like to buy a tractor. The farmer said, “I’ve got a tractor in the barn.” “Then why are you using
this primitive method of tilling the soil?” asked the salesman. The farmer replied, “I aim to teach this critter that
there is something else in life besides romance.”

A young man discreetly inquired of his blind date, “Do you shrink from kissing?” “I'd be nothing but skin and
bones if I did,” was the answer.

She: “What do you think of my new evening gown?”

A farmer went into a store to get something for the wife. After looking around awhile, he finally found what
he wanted at the lingerie counter. “What size, sir?” asked the sales lady. “Waal,” said the farmer, “My wife wasn’t
home when I left, but I tried a pair over the headlights of our car and they fit pretty snug.”

During last year's coal crisis in England, the British Government gave this eyebrow-lifting counsel to the nation’s businessmen: “Owing to
the shortage of fuel, employers are asked to take advantage of their typist between the hours of 12 and 2."

A young man about town approaching a cigar counter behind which stood a cute young thing: “Do you keep stationery?”
“Yes, up to a certain point—then I just go all to pieces!”

Having heard of an old timer who had attained the age of ninety-nine and had never tasted an alcoholic beverage,
a temperance committee rushed to his bedside for a sworn statement to that effect. Holding the poor old fellow up
in bed, they guided his trembling hand along the dotted line. Soon they were disturbed by a commotion in the
next room. It sounded like a bull in a china shop. “What in the world is that?” asked one of
the committee women. “Oh, that,” gasped the old man as he sank back on his pillow, “That's my Dad. He’s
been drunk for a week.”

The law took three years to catch up with an Ohio woman who cashed stolen checks totaling more than $10,000.
Postal inspectors said they could never obtain a sharp description of the culprit because she made a point of wearing
extremely low-necked dresses when presenting the checks to bank tellers.

Him: It gives me the peeps.”

THE POT BOILS
By HENRY HANSEN

To those of us who take Davidson College seriously, to those of us who rationally criticize her both pro and
con, to those of us who look upon her as something more than a pleasant place to spend four years—to
these, the reading of a short book by Howard Lowry entitled, The Mind’s Adventure, should prove of immense value. The
ideas presented in this book can, and certainly should, have applications to Davidson. The book’s subtitle, Religion and Higher Education,
points the way, however, to a far wider scope, to a much deeper problem in American education than any presented
to us here at Davidson. The heart of the book lies in two questions posed by the author in the
preface. Can a liberal education include religion and remain a liberal education? If it ignores religion, on the other hand,
can it, in the very nature of things, be liberal at all? The answers to these two questions make provocative
reading and strike to the heart of the problem which usually manifests itself in bickerings over whether chapel and vespers
should be compulsory at a school like Davidson or whether they can be included at all in a large state
university. Bound up in these answers are critical looks at humanism and narrow denominationalism, at the ‘objective’ viewpoint of science
and the lack of integration so prevalent in education today.The answer to the second question, stated briefly, is this: so
much of our cultural heritage springs from the religious instinct in man, so much of the history of man is
a direct outgrowth of the workings of this instinct that we cannot afford to ignore the place religion has played
in man’s development, and any curriculum which leaves it out is thereby failing to present all the facts. Naturally enough,
in placing a study of religion in the curriculum of any school, public or church-related, it should be taught with
broad inclusiveness; that is, it should really be a study of religion and not of Catholicism or Protestantism or Mohammedanism
alone. If it is not presented in this way, it is as guilty of leaving a part from the whole
as is the curriculum which ignores religion itself. This does not place a halter on the expressions of a personal
faith of a man of conviction; what it does do is demand that that man as well as the agnostic
or even the atheist present a fair picture of all religion and religions. Differently expressed, a faith must grow from
an open perusal of all faiths; beyond this, the student must be free to accept or reject as he studies
honestly what is presented honestly to him. Largely speaking, the public-supported institution fails to offer the student this opportunity, and
the church-related school too often presents only a denominational viewpoint (not that it should not do this) instead of a
view of religion as a whole. In speaking to the church college the author quotes Newman's view that, “God has
‘relations of His own toward the subject matter of each particular science which the book of knowledge unfolds.’ Religious truth
is thus ‘not only a portion, but a condition of general knowledge.’” A church college should not, in his view,
have a religious program for, it ‘is’ a religious program, if it is functioning properly. Further, this religious nature of
a church-related college does not mean a nervous shielding of its students from knowledge. “A church college knows no blind
alleys down which it need fear to look. The Christian, as part of his faith, believes that ‘God has spoken
his truth to men’ and that this truth has made him free. His faith should therefore risk all competition.” This
article, as a review of Lowry’s book, has severe limitations, for into one hundred and forty odd pages he has
managed to compress a great wealth of fact and opinion, far more, indeed, than could possibly be treated in any
review of his book. No matter which side of the fence you graze on in this matter, if your interest
is more than lukewarm, the book should be read, for it is a vital and trenchant view of one of
the basic problems confronting American education today. The book is available in the college library.

FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 1951

THE POLL CAT
By SLAYDON MYERS

1. Do you think college basketball should be restricted to college gyms only?
Yes—25 per cent
No—75 per cent

2. Do you think bribery would have occurred even without New York’s doubleheaders in Madison Square Garden?
Yes—84 per cent
No—16 per cent

3. How severely do you think the college players taking bribes should be punished?
1. To the limit
2. Moderately
3. Let off easy

THE WORLD LAST WEEK

1) Turkey asked the U. S. to associate itself with a treaty of mutual assistance which Britain, France, and Turkey
signed in 1939.
2) Premier Razmara of Iran was assassinated by a Moslem fanatic.
3) Conservative leader Henri Queuille is the new premier of France. His job: to form a coalition government.
4) Hungary gave way to peasant resistance and suspended her farm collectivism program.
5) The President received with favor the proposal for a multi-billion dollar program to fight famine.
6) Marshal Tito’s “White Book” proclaimed the danger to Yugoslavia posed by the fast mobilization in nearby satellite countries and
the sheltering of Russian troops there.
7) The Allied High Commission ended most of its direct control over the government of West Germany, which now can
have its own foreign minister and carry on diplomatic relations.
8) Defiance of Franco’s regime took the form of an almost hundred percent strike in Barcelona. Main objection: the terrific
rise in living costs.
9) The first Asiad, patterned after the Olympic games, was held in New Delhi. The event had as its stated
purpose “maintaining world peace.”

Wax Scratching
By BOB WHELESS

Don Cherry, one of the most promising new recording stars in the field, has a follow-up for his discing of
“The Seven Wonders Of The World.” The newy is labeled “Bring Back The Thrill” and if early trends continue this
might easily be his biggest hit to date. The tune reminds you a little of “Come Back To Sorrento” and
has a similar slow, sad theme which Don pours forth with a tear in his voice. Another new voice on
the platter market, Guy Mitchell, has a mighty good thing in “Sparrow In The Tree Top.” It’s the same type
tune as his recent hit “The Roving Kind,” and although it has been recorded by such stars as Bing Crosby
and Blue Barron, Guy's arrangement is by far the best on the market. Both Paul Weston and Ralph Materie have
cut “Across The Wide Missouri” and both are terrific. In this particular case I’m a little partial to Ralph's rendition
mainly because of the outstanding trumpet work all through the number. Don’t think I’m belittling Weston’s version, however, for either
of the two would be a worthy addition to any record collection. Before we leave Paul Weston, his new etching
of “Let Me In” seems to be getting rather popular with the disc jockeys. A fellow named Champ Butler handles
the vocal department on that one and does a rather nice job of it. The song isn’t particularly outstanding, but
certainly bears some mention. Some of you may have heard a radio program called “Lonesome Gal” which is nothing more
than a record show with sex appeal. The disc jockey (or jockey-ess) is a sultry-voiced female who in between beer
advertisements, into which she somehow manages to instill sex, plays records. What all this is leading up to is that
the theme she uses to open and close her program has been recorded by Margaret Whiting. The song, “Lonesome Gal,”
is really quite a pretty one and it’s a wonder someone didn’t get around to discing it sooner. It isn’t
made of top hit parade material, but in the soft, smooth and sentimental department it’s hard to beat. M-G-M has
released a number from the flick “Royal Wedding” labeled “The Liar Song” which is kinda cute. Fred Astaire and Jane
Powell handle the vocal work which falls in the novelty category. The liar business is given a little different twist
when Fred sings “How could you believe me when I said, I love you, when you know I've been a
liar all my life.” If you haven't heard Billy Daniels sing “I Get A Kick Out Of You” or “Too
Marvelous For Words” make it a special point to do so. I think you have to cultivate a taste for
this Daniels guy, but he’s different and in these days when every new singer tries to copy some popular singer's
style that’s saying something. Some of you may think he sounds a little like Eckstine, but certainly not enough to
make anyone think that it's an imitation. An oldy, “Without A Song” has been added to the host of songs
which have been enhanced by the voice of Perry Como. It has been recorded ever so many times but never
more beautifully by any popular artist. “Without A Song” is a must for every collection in which the all-time “greats”
are included. “Aba Daba Honeymoon” has been given novel treatment by zany Cass Daley and goat-voiced Hoagy Carmichael. They are
supported by a driving Dixie combo that is nothing short of great. It “ain't purdy” but it sure is good
listening.

DAVIDSONIAN’S PLATFORM FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

1. To abolish the double-cut system.
2. To change the existing system of giving cuts.
3. To make Physical Training non-compulsory for all seniors regardless of their age.
4. To improve the telephone arrangements in the dormitories and the college at large.
5. To change the system of student body elections.
6. To have more varied and interesting chapel programs and speakers.
7. To give praise where praise is due.
8. To criticize when it is felt that criticism will improve a situation.
9. To advocate Sunday night visitations to faculty homes.
10. Clarification of student regulations to the student body.
