PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF ------------------ GORDON SCOTT
BUSINESS MANAGER ---------------- JOHN LOFTIN

Associate Editors ---------------- Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Features Editor ---------------- Shelley Beard
Managing Editors ---------------- Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George McMurray, Ed Richardson
Photographs ---------------- Pete Ormsby
Photographer ---------------- Raymond Lynch
Sports Editor ---------------- Bill White
Proofreader ---------------- Wallace Abbott
---------------- Alex Goley, Manley McWilliams, Ansley Moses, Jack Turner
City Editor ---------------- Nat Daniel
Art Editor ---------------- Jim Fickeisen
Assistant Business Manager ----------------
Advertising Manager ----------------
Circulation Manager ----------------
Collections Manager ----------------
Subscriptions Manager ----------------
Faculty Advisor ---------------- Prof. Henry T. Lilly

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

“Davidson Gentlemen”

Chapel conduct has been the perennial topic for editorialization, even though for the past three years each incumbent editorial staff
has sworn off the subject as being one in which any attempt to influence the actions of the student body
would be futile. However, assuming that debatable, one trying to detach himself from the situation might observe that further silence
on the question would be sanctioning our animalistic behavior either in maintaining at the present level or developing to a
more highly specialized stage our already renowned competence in the art of frustrating platform speakers (particularly those “afraid of us,”
and those “preachers in the middle of the week”).

If the administration can rightly—and it seems legitimate that they can—expect our willingness to participate reverently in a daily group
devotional period by the mere fact of our presence at Davidson College, then we would like to be the first
to applaud Dr. Cunningham for his reprimanding and constructively suggestive talk in chapel last week. At least he was right
in saying that though we had not meant to be, we had, nevertheless, been irreverent, insolent, crude, and otherwise ungentlemanly
and pagan-like in our chapel conduct—and he was probably too kind in saying that we had not meant to be.
The main criticism of his reprimand is that it is probably two or three years overdue.

However, if there be some who contend that the administration cannot rightly presuppose our reverent conformance to a system of
daily group devotionals by our choice in coming here, then we must lay aside Dr. Cunningham’s talk and ask ourselves,
“Why have a daily group devotional period at all?” If this is a supposed important feature distinguishing us from secular
institutions then why attempt to maintain it as an integral part of our curriculum when there is such a rebellious
attitude toward it, for in reality we are not distinguishable. If vigorous external pressure has to be exerted to inject
an atmosphere and attitude of reverence, then why not admit the hypocrisy and say that because of our failure to
select the religiously minded students we had supposed, our failure to impress upon our students the significance of a daily
group devotional period, and our success in killing and stifling whatever religious leanings our students had when they entered Davidson,
we must discard the devotionals, or any type of religious exercise during the chapel period, and look to the day
when eventually we shall have to discard Vespers.

Even though there may be some significance to some of these points, it seems most would agree that they are
a misrepresentation of the real situation. These seem to be the facts: (1) when we entered Davidson, we implicitly manifested
our willingness to participate in a daily group devotional exercise; (2) the majority of students have at least some religious
tendencies, which, if the question were forced, would admit of some significance in a daily devotional period; (3) the majority
of students at least know how to be polite and courteous, even if such knowledge is often not exhibited.

Assuming the above facts to be true, it would seem then that the administration and faculty have a legitimate right
to expect behavior consistent with our attitudes and implicit commitments. If some of us are dissatisfied with having a daily
group devotional period, then because we implicitly signified our willingness to participate in such when we entered Davidson, our only
recourses are either to assume a pseudo-religious and courteous attitude in chapel, or, withdraw from Davidson College. However, if some
of us are dissatisfied only with the manner in which some of our chapel programs are planned, not planned, or
conducted, or, all three, then our only recourse is to exhibit inwardly and outwardly a religious and courteous attitude, and,
if we are really as concerned as our rebellious expressions seem to indicate, feel some compulsion to make suggestions for
improvement of programs. In neither case is there excuse for our irreverence and discourtesy. Where is this Southern gentility and
knighthood we so ardently and hypocritically claim to possess, and to which we pay such homage?

What then can we do as a group interested in the proper solution? Some have suggested doing away with devotions
on student days. But, it is extremely doubtful that, if this were done, any incremental effect on our piety would
be shown on non-student days.

Since Dr. Cunningham's suggestions have gone unheeded and apparently his criticisms scoffed at implicitly (Continued On Page Six)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

“Tins is A SPORT THE STUDENTS Here CALL ‘CHAPEL’.”

From The Daily Tar Heel

ON FRATERNITIES
By BOB SELIG

I believe that the fraternity system is an evil, but I have joined one. Why? Because fraternities are a necessary
evil, just like death and taxes. Why are they necessary? They are necessary because most people have mediocre personalities. They
cannot run into a person on campus, say hello, shake his hand, and become his lifelong friend. They are too
uninteresting to make friends easily. Some, of course, may be really fine men and women, but introverted and withdrawn. They
are in the same boat as the dull ones. Such college students find that they are not making as many
friendships and contacts during their college life, as they should, and these are two of the most important things to
be found at a college or university. A fraternity is the best answer for these students. A college campus is,
after all, a big place, and fraternities can be a big help to anyone in getting to know people.

Why, then, are fraternities evil? What's wrong with them? They encourage snobbery, inequality, discrimination, and personal abuse. Too many of
the practices and activities of a fraternity are a waste of valuable time. And they may curtail the freedom and
individuality of a sensitive individual to a point which is intolerable.

Why does one man get 15 bids and another none? Because he has whiter teeth and a bigger grin? Possibly,
but probably not. I think the reason is that he belongs to the right family, the right religion, the right
social class, and has the right amount of money.

If a fraternity member is asked to cut up paper streamers out of Kleenex for a big weekend winding and,
as a result, neglects his psychology homework, or his work in student government, or his publications job, then he is
wasting his time and so is the fraternity. If a fraternity man is coerced into going to the big lacrosse
match at Hogwash, South Carolina, when he would rather be home making finger paintings or visiting his girl in Washington,
then his freedom and individuality are being curtailed.

If a pledge is blackballed or a member gets a knife in the back from another fraternity man because of
personal reasons, that is personal abuse and a very ugly thing. There is a wide range of abuse in fraternities.
Some are more enlightened than others. Some are aware of the limitations and drawbacks of the system. Some are trying
to correct them. The elected head of my fraternity disagreed with what I have written, but had no objections to
my going ahead and printing it. That is a pretty good example of fair-mindedness. But too many of the evils
of fraternities are part of the fraternity idea and inherent in the system. What would we do without it? I
really don’t know.

Wax Scratchings

Don Cherry is back in the record news this week with a new Decca release, “The Seven Wonders of the
World.” The ork-chorus work on this one rivals even his very popular discing of “Thinking Of You.” You will have
to hand it to this guy, it isn’t everyone who can gain national recognition after making only one record. He
just has a style all his own and after all, that’s all it takes.

If I were asked to make a nomination for the top platter of the week Nat King Cole’s waxing of
“Jet” and flip side “Magic Tree” would get top billing without a second thought. Nat’s best since “Orange Colored Sky”
this little platter is rapidly gaining in popularity, and if the present trend continues could easily become one of his
all-time hits.

“Tennessee Waltz” has been finished by Spike Jones and his Thirty Tune Wreckers, and not even “T. Waltz” deserves such
a ghastly ending. They give it the usual treatment and after one hearing you will swear off the tune for
life. This same destructive force has been applied to his “Rhapsody From Hunger(y)” in which the melody is carried by
the cowbell section and joined on the chorus by a cackling chicken. If you're looking for a grin this is
definitely the number for you.

Some of you will remember when Dick Contino, the accordionist, played on the Horace Heidt Program last year. Well now
he not only has his own program, but is recording for the RCA Victor label. For those of you who
like him or accordion music in general his newAlbum will be one of the prizes of your collection. Give it
a listen and see. The guy's really good! Dinah Shore and Tony Martin seem to be doing quite well on
their etching, “A Penny A Kiss,” but then with a combination like that you can't go wrong. Tony does some
mighty fine solo work in “Would I Love You.” Even though the words do have that same old “June-Moon” idea,
Tony handles them very smoothly, and the song is given added car appeal by some excellent orchestration. “Who Kicked Out
The Light Plug” is Betty Hutton’s latest. As usual, she knocks herself out trying to put the number across. I
have about as much use for her as a case of the smallpox, but you “people” who like her may
get a big bang out of it. The Mercury people are undoubtedly rubbing their hands together as the coin begins
to flow in from sales of Frankie Laine’s “Dear, Dear, Dear” which is selling quite well even though it would
hardly race the motor of even the most avid Laine fan. The flip side, “May The Good Lord Bless And
Keep You” is somewhat better. You'll probably be hearing from it in the next few weeks. Have you noticed how
many more religious songs are being made these days than several years ago? “Our Lady Of Fatima,” Doris Day's “The
Everlasting Arms” and “The Twenty-Third Psalm” and other songs of the same type are being played more and more. Maybe
we're ushering in what will be known in music history as the “Religious Fifties.” I'm about to scrape the bottom
of the barrel, but while we’re down here among the scrapings maybe you won't begrudge me a word about Mel
Blanc’s “I Taut I Taw A Puddy Tat.” Admittedly it's quite stupid, but if you've ever laughed at a cartoon
you won't be able to hold back the grins when you hear this ditty. With the barrel scraped clean there's
nothing to do but close up shop until next week. I'll try to have all the latest poop on “what's
new in the platter field” for you then.

THE POLL CAT
By SLAYDON MYERS

Do you favor the semester system or the quarter system?
SEMESTER — 24%
QUARTER — 76%

In the semester system, do you favor some break of at least three days between semesters?
Do you believe that the final examination should count:
More than 33% ....... 1%
25-33% ....... 60%
17% ....... Less than 25%

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1951

THE WORLD LAST WEEK
1) Reports at New Delhi indicated a deeper push into Western Tibet by Red forces.
2) General Eisenhower’s address asked the U.S. to help build “a wall of security” to be defended “until communistic imperialism
dies of its own inherent evils.”
3) Catholics were warned by Rome not to give credence to miracles which are not recognized by the Church.
4) Raymond Swing said the Soviet Union is probably pledged to use its Far Eastern Air Force in case China
bases or cities are attacked by U.S. planes.
5) The French outlook in Indo-China was brighter last week. Britain still has troops in Malaya for somewhat similar reasons.
6) The rail strike in Eastern United States began to subside, at least for the time being.
7) Canada announced her three-year defense program, which has been presented to the House of Commons. It includes a forty-squadron
air force.
8) One apparent effect of the branding of China as aggressor was a stiffening of resistance and the determination behind
that resistance.

Geech’s Goulash
By PAT McGEACHY

We fell to wondering, as all second-rate philosophers do, about a question. Several students have been heard to say, over
the course of our four-year stint, that they wished the Male Chorus would come down to earth and sing some
things that everybody knows and enjoys. Possibly this question should be left for more talented music critics to deal with,
but it interested us, and so we tried to look more fully into the situation, asking around in the music
circles for an answer. In general, this is what we got, and it can best be illustrated, we think, by
a couple of analogies. A lot of people like cowboy pictures. This is not a bad thing, of course, but
this does not make the cowboy pictures the best type of picture. Despite the fact that more people enjoy reading
detective stories and pulp novels than Shakespeare and Tolstoy, no educated person would debate the merits of these greater works,
simply because they are enjoyed by a minority. And professors in the English department—are they obligated to teach pulp novels
to the student body because they are much more enjoyable to most? It would probably be a lot more interesting
to most people if instead of physics books, we read exciting tales of scientific achievement such as “Twenty Thousand Leagues
Under the Sea,” but in the pre-med courses, we are taught a lot of details, quite dry to some people,
but infinitely necessary to a science major. Then why should the music department be obligated to offer music simply because
it is popular, when it is the duty of a college to stimulate a student to the better things in
the fields of liberal arts?

Now naturally it is not the place of the music department to try to force its tastes onto the students,
just as the English professor has no right to insist that Tolstoy is better than Erskine Caldwell, but it is
his duty to allow the students to taste of what he considers the best in literature, and let them be
given the chance to appreciate it at least. If, then, it is the first duty of the music department to
present what it, as a department of men well educated in the field of music, believes to be the best,
they must do this before anything else. Unfortunately, in a school as small as Davidson, and with the limitations that
it has, nearly all of the time of the music department must be spent toward this end. It would be
nice if the Male Chorus could learn “Begin the Beguine,” and “When Irish Eyes Are Smiling,” or other songs, and
present some very entertaining programs to the student body. But fortunately, our music department has the eyes to see that
it must first fulfill its duty as an educator, before the idea of lesser entertainment can be approached. This is
unfortunate, as we said, but it is not an irreparable condition. If an organization could be formed on the campus,
among the students, with the end in view of producing popular programs, there are many talented students, singers and directors,
who are not in the Male Chorus or Band, and could find time to help out. Perhaps this would not
be practical, but under our present set up, the Chorus and Band will have to be predominately educational. Personally, we
feel that an organization of pop singers is feasible—something formed like the Cripple Creek Boys. But anyway, it’s a thought.

The Editor’s Mailbox
Editor
The DAVIDSONIAN
Davidson, N. C.

Dear Sir:

Last week the Faculty Committee on Fraternities asked social fraternity presidents and the president of the Campus Club to exclude
so-called road trips from their pre-initiation week schedules. There was no alternative. In doing so, the faculty sunk talons deeper
into the soft flesh of the last vestige of student control. Done for ostensibly sincere and just reasons, this action
is a crucial step in leaving fraternity governments wide open to complete faculty domination in the future. This letter is
not an attempt to deny the faculty's concern for student welfare, but to condemn its manifestation in said move.

An immediate and rather overworked reaction would be to chant that such is “the way of our college, always has
been and always will be. Those unwilling to accept may leave at any time.” If everyone unwilling to accept left,
there would be few thinking students at Davidson. It would seem that this college was originally designed to better prepare
young men for the varying problems they will be required to meet in their later social, religious, and political lives.
Fraternities here at Davidson, by merit of their government by the members thereof, are a very live representation of the
total democratic system under which we live. Increasing faculty control of these groups is hardly training young men to govern
them. If the desire to exercise their power as individuals is stifled here, while minds are yet forming basic concepts,
what hope can there be that the owners of these minds will later defend this power before the grinding heel
of a godless Communism?

Would anyone deny that these scavenger hunts are many times more civilized than the barbarous and often immoral practices which
will inevitably return as a result? One could find only slight argument in favor of road trips, but when one
sees them compared with the vicious “games” practiced elsewhere, it seems painfully obvious road trips are the lesser of two
evils. Again, even this point becomes illogical if the faculty plans to eliminate pre-initiation week entirely.

Public interest and financial support are indispensable to any school and especially to those of a size comparable to that
of Davidson. There must be a line, admittedly often a thin one, drawn between appeasement of the public and the
throttling of a democratic consciousness among the student body. There lies the crux of the problem in question. Possibly this
specific incident of intervention brought a chortle of satisfaction from the moneyed public, but it drew tighter the curtain veiling
student independence and, in proportion, student preparedness for life.

John Ottley and Jack Stevenson
