FRIDAY, MARCH 9, 1951

Breaks Two Records And Swims on Relay For Scoring Honors

Shattering records in two events and swimming a leg on his team’s second place 200-yard relay foursome, Gray Hampton paced the Sigma Chi's to the interfraternity swimming championship Thursday afternoon, the second major interfrat title for that frat within a week's time. Having just last week finished the basketball season without defeat to claim the cage crown, the Sigma Chi’s, chiefly on the strength of Hampton’s outstanding performance, edged the Kappa Sigma’s 23-21 with three points garnered in the final event of the day, the 200 relay.

Hampton won the finals of the individual medley in 51.5, considerably toppling the old mark of 58.2, set by Charlie Baldwin of SAE in the first interfrat swim last year. The Huntington, W. Va., senior also won the 75-yard freestyle in 44.2, but had already set a new mark of 43.8 in time trials on Wednesday. The old record of 44.0 was set by Francis Pepper of Beta Theta Pi last year. Hampton was the meet’s high scorer with 11 points.

Two other marks also fell in the two days of competition. John Stiefel, SAE from Jacksonville, Fla., cut KA Gene Regen's 1950 mark of 34.9 on the 50-yard backstroke to 34.7 in trials, winning the finals in 35. George Crone of Kappa Sigma broke Baldwin's 37.3 record on the 50-yard breaststroke with a 34.7 performance in time trials, and then came through in the finals with a slower but still record-breaking 36.2. Bill Pritchett, an outstanding swimmer for Phi Delta Theta, missed trying his old mark of 11.2 on the 25-yard dash, winning the 1951 event in the not-too-slow time of 11.3. The Phi Delts finished third, closely trailing the two leaders with 19 points.

A Winston Salem trio, Crone, Fred Spach, and Nab Armfield paced the Kappa Sigs in their point collection. After the Phi Delts, no one was close to the first three teams. The Betas were fourth with nine points, followed by SAE with seven, KA with five, and Pika’s with three and SPE with one. Pi Kappa Phi and the Campus Club did not enter.

The Summaries:
150-yard Medley: 1—Kappa Sigma, 2—Sigma Chi, 3—Phi Delts, 4—KA. Time 1:45.4.
75-yard Freestyle: 1—Hampton (SX), 2—Spach (KS), 3—Armfield (KS), 4—Davies (Phi Delts). Time: 44.2. Record of 43.8 set by Hampton in trials.
25-yard Freestyle: 1—Pritchett (Phi Delt), 2—Hairston (Beta), 3—Boulware (Beta), 4—Witherspoon (Phi Delt). Time 11.3.
50-yard Backstroke: 1—Stiefel (SAE), 2—Shipley (SX), 3—Tucker (KA), 4—Grant (Pika). Time 35.0. Record of 34.7 set by Stiefel in trials.
50-yard Breaststroke: 1—Crone (KS), 2—Armfield (KS), 3—West (KA), 4—Pietenpol (SX). Time (Continued To Page Six)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

With the majority of the spring sports teams kicking off next weekend, the season of sunshine and flowers, ball games and showers is here before March 22. The above scene should be repeated many times this year on the tennis courts, but the repetitions will hardly carry the oomph this one did. It is a shot of Bo Roddey playing Clark Taylor of Carolina two years ago when Davidson nipped the Tar Heels, 5-4, for the State title.

In the upper left corner is Tommy Haller, high scorer of the 1950 track team who returns to lead the Cats on the cinders this year. Upper right is Bill Child, a letterman last year who will help to fill one of the vacancies created on the tennis team by graduation. Lower left is Tom Craven, outfielder-pitcher who will probably work both posts this spring. Lower right is captain Monty Hill of the golf team which opens with a practice match at Mooresville Mills this afternoon.

Short On Material, Frosh Baseballers To Bank On Ginger

Freshman baseball practice unofficially opened March 5, with about 25 boys present. Official practice sessions begin March 12 with Coach Baird at the helm. More boys are expected out when spring football practice ends. The first week's work is conditioning workouts, consisting of running, throwing, and pepper games. The Freshman squad has a tentative schedule of 12 games at present with the possibility of a few more being added later. The first game is scheduled for April 10th. Most of the teams that the Freshmen will play are the larger high schools in this section of the State—Central, Harding, and Tech of Charlotte, and Gastonia High are some of the foes. With a small club to pick from and not too much depth, the outcome of the season depends largely on the teamwork and spirit that the team can build up in a month's work. Coach Baird’s outlook is somewhat dubious now, but with good weather and a little luck a good season is anticipated.

Patronize Our Advertisers!

Chesterfield SPORTS QUIZ

Wake Forest's Deacons, playing without their injured regular catcher, nevertheless wound up second in the Pan American games at Buenos Aires this week. What was their won-loss record? Ranked eighth in this year’s final AP poll, N. C. State finished in what spot in last winter’s ratings? Beloit established a new single scoring record for intercollegiate basketball competition this year against Cornell College. How many points did it take to do it? How many track and field titles did the United States team win at the recent Pan American games? Answers should be turned in on a Chesterfield wrapper to Dave Moylan, C-East. A carton of Chesterfields awaits the winner.

OUR NEW SERVING HOURS FOR SUNDAYS20.... ‘Nets Hustle To Make Up Lost Time Before Opener With Springfield

By CHARLIE HASSELL

Coach Derrick Barton is in a dither. For he has only about ten days in which to shape up a team to oppose Springfield College when they play here on March 20th.

Moulding a team means lining up single players, pairing off doubles players, and then putting the finishing touches on the team as a whole—quite a job for only a ten-day period. It was not until last Wednesday that the tennis aspirants began intra-squad ladder competition to determine this year’s team members. The only two men who are almost certain starters are Captain Allen Strand and Dewey Keesler, these being the only returning starters from last year. Lettermen Bill Child and Pete Kennedy will be heavy bidders for the third and fourth spots. There are about 16 or 18 men out for the tennis team at present, and these must be whittled down to squad size. The freshmen have not yet started, due to lack of court space, but will probably begin the latter part of this week or the first of next week. Among those who are out for the squad at present are several who were members of last year's freshman squad—Joe Dudley, Bill Bivens, Bill Bledsoe, and Bob Walker. These men are expected to add to the team’s depth in an attempt to fill some of the gaps left by last year’s graduating net men.

Transfers Key To Baseball Success

PAGE FIVE

HAMPTON PACES SIGMA CHI TO SWIM TITLE

Sophomores New Head Skipper Frank Packard Has One More Week To Drill Club

By CHARLIE HAWKINS

Davidson’s baseball team started practice this week under the watchful eyes of new Coach Frank Packard, who was only named to the job at the beginning of the week. With the first game with Springfield on March 19, the Cats have only a little over a week in which to ready themselves and get in shape for the coming season. Besides this short training period, the Cats have a letterman shortage with only five returnees on hand. Thus it is mainly up to the transfers and the sophomores to make or break this season.

Newcomers Carl Thompson and Jim McFarland are scrapping it out at second, as are Chuck Elliott and Mac Doubles at shortstop. Third base is wide open with T.W. Aldred and Jimmy Miller fighting it out for the hot corner position. On the mound, Davidson can boast two lettermen in Fred Hengeveld, last year’s ace, and Harold Smith. Sophomores Jim Smith and Paul Eastman are very promising here and could become first-rate hurlers this season. Coach Packard can rely on Lee Faithbirt and Bert Downs in the catching department, and both should become steady receivers, although they haven’t had any varsity experience.

The infield is the sore thumb of the team, with not a returning letterman; yet there is great promise here. At first base, Sophomore Arnold Whisnant holds out, with Tom Craven backing him up. Craven is also a first-rate handy man, doubling as a pitcher. In the outfield, the Cat's strength lies with two lettermen back and two promising sophomores. Auburn Lambeth and Jack Branch are the returnees, and together with Bill Rowland and Jerry Morrow, they could give the outfield the needed punch. All four are heavy hitters and good fielders.

Coach Packard faces a rough assignment in his first year as the Cat baseball coach, but it can become a pleasant one if he can round the players into shape fast enough and get good play out of the newcomers. The success of this season can depend on the ability of the sophomores and transfers to make the grade in varsity competition.

Mooresville Creamery
GRADE “A” MILK
PASTEURIZED
Daily Delivery
PHONE 205
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
MAKERS OF
Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N.C.

221 South Tryon Street

DePaul University
Chicago, Illinois

Wangler Hall
Private Dining Rooms for Parties and Banquets
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
Phone 25490

BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST.

In Chicago, Illinois, there is always a friendly gathering of DePaul University students in Wangler Hall on the campus. And, as in universities everywhere, ice-cold Coca-Cola helps make these get-togethers something to remember. As a pause from the study grind, or on a Saturday night date—Coke belongs.

Week Days as Usual

Albert says: For a delicious Sunday dinner, come to the College Restaurant. Convenient Sunday hours will enable the college folks to attend their regular Sunday activities, and still enjoy a good meal at the College Restaurant.

Stonestreet's Cafe
GRADE ‘A’ CAFE

College Restaurant
Beyond Post Office
Phone 3911
Davidson, N.C.

Fine Foods
Mooresville, N.C.

Ask for it either way... both trade-marks mean the same thing,
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
Coca-Cola Bottling Co., Concord, N.C.
418 South Main Street