DANIELS CALLS WILDCAT FOOTBALL “USELESS” PAGE TWO

VOLUME XL

The Davidsonian

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

Davidson Men Now With The Armed Forces

(Ed. Note: This is the first of a series of “service columns” listing the names and addresses of alumni now
serving in the armed forces. Anyone able to contribute similar information is asked to submit it to the Davidsonian so
that the student body may keep tabs on former schoolmates.)

PVT BILL ACKER, U.S. 530-6453, is with the Hqs. Btry., 71st A.A.A. Gn. Bn., Fort Belvoir, Va. Serving with the
Hq&Hq.Sq., 3510th Plt. Tnk. Wg., Randolph A.F.B., Randolph Field, Texas is Pfc. RICHARD (RIP) BERNHARDT, A.F.14379921. CPL. JIM FASUL, A.F.14380935,
is now stationed at Francis E. Warren A.F.B., Cheyenne, Wyo., with the 3450th Personal Process Sqdn. JIM IVEY, JR., is
a control tower operator with the 3311, Instructors Sqdn., Keesler A.F.B., Miss. At nearby Ft. Jackson, S. C. in Co.
A, 41st Tnk. Bn., 8th Inf. Div., is SGT. JIM PARKER, II. CPL. JOHN SMOOT, A.F.14387106, is a member of
the 2798th Medical Gp. Base Hospital, Edwards A.F.B., Muroc, Calif.

Alumni, Weather Make Weekend OK

According to John Payne, Secretary of Alumni and Public Relations, Homecoming was a great success due to two factors—mainly the
weather which was under strict control of President Cunningham, and the large attendance of alumni who returned to the campus
to meet old friends and classmates and to see the tangible results of President Cunningham's “Decade of Destiny.”

“As the day wore on,” said Payne, “the football game got rather out of hand. Our plans had definitely called
for a Davidson victory, believe it or not. However, our alumni understand, and are not going to desert Coach Little
and his injury-riddled squad in the middle of the season. They feel that the loss of one battle does not
necessarily mean the loss of the war.”

Dr. Cunningham is photographed shaking hands with President Harry S. Truman at the groundbreaking of the new Wake Forest College
in Winston-Salem. Introducing Dr. Cunningham is his former classmate, presidential aide Harry Vaughan.

Masquers Select “Indians” Cast

The Red and Black Masquers recently chose Agatha Christie’s “Ten Little Indians,” a murder mystery in three acts, for their
fall play. Professor Tyson has appointed Bill Trotman as director of the production. Try-outs were held this week, and the
cast has been announced by the director as follows: Rogers, the butler, will be played by Mac Williamson; Mrs. Rogers
by Nancy Copeland, Anthony Marston, a young playboy, by Vance Mizelle, General Mackenzie, a retired army officer, by Alden Williams.
Miss Emily Brent, a fanatical old spinster, by Miss Mae Holly, Captain Philip Lombard, a young ex-army officer, by Gordon
Hurst, William Blore, a confidence man, by Bradley, Dr. Armstrong, a nerve specialist by Tad Currie, and Fred Narracott, by
Bill Phifer. Assisting Mr. Trotman will be Courtney Hill as stage manager, and Jack Pietenpol will engineer the lighting.

The story takes place on Indian Island off the coast of England, where all the characters have been invited to
spend some time as house guests. On the mantle of the home sit ten little Indians, and as they topple
off, one by one some one of the ten people meets an untimely and violent end. The strange part is
they have never seen each other before but all have one thing in common.

Play Readings

Also on the Masquers’ agenda for the week is the first of a series of play readings which will be
sponsored in conjunction with Alpha Psi Omega and which will be held Wednesday night October 24th, in the Y lounge
at 8 p.m. The director is Tad Currie, and the reading will be Eugene O'Neill’s “Ah Wilderness,” and the participants
will be Dick Perkins, Mrs. Cummings, Wallace Abbott, Jane Gillette, Bob Mims, Tad Currie, Nancy Copeland and Tink Taylor. This
reading will be open to any interested members of the faculty and the student body, and it is hoped that
a large number will make plans to attend.

Three Co-Ed Weekends In Near Future

Here is welcome news for eligible bachelors! Three co-ed weekends have been planned this year. On two of these, young
men from Davidson will have an opportunity to visit nearby women's colleges. The other is tentatively planned as a home
stand.

This Saturday, October 20, forty lads from our alma mater will journey to Montreat College where they will be royally
entertained by the freshman and junior classes through Sunday noon. The festivities will include a supper, hike and square dance.
Salem College will be the scene of the next invasion by sixty gentlemen from Davidson who will attend a combination
hayride and Halloween party. “D-day” is October 27. On the tentative list is Converse College. They have been written concerning
a Saturday of fun here at Davidson November 17. If the present plans go through, there will be a tea
dance in the afternoon, and a play by the Red and Black Masquers will highlight the evening.

Sweet Briar Sponsoring Foreign Trip

Sweet Briar College is sponsoring an organization this year known as the Junior Year in France Group. In this, students
can spend their junior year in France, where after a preliminary language session they will begin eight months of supervised
study at the University of Paris in courses paralleling their majors. This year the group is made up of 79
men and women from 34 colleges and universities, including students majoring in Art, Comparative Literature, English, French, Government, History, International
Relations, Music, Philosophy, and Political Science. A group for 1952-53 is now being organized, open to men and women students
from accredited colleges and universities. The minimum requirements are two years of pre-college French and two years of college French
of “B” grade, with a minimum general academic grade of “C.” This is an opportunity for travel, an exchange of
ideas, and, since students will live in the homes of French families, a chance to become acquainted firsthand with French
manners and customs and European culture as a whole.

Eberhardt Shows Holy Land Pix At Forum Opener

Dr. Charles Eberhardt will open this year’s Y Discussion and Forum Series by showing color slides he made recently of
the Holy Land. The showing will take place Sunday night immediately after vespers in the YMCA lounge. Coffee and donuts
will be served. Dr. Eberhardt returned this summer from several months of travel.

Student Photos Will Be Snapped

Representatives of Brumfield Studios from Charlotte will be in the basement of the south end of Chambers all next week
to take individual pictures for this year's annual. All pictures must be taken this week. No pictures will be taken
later in Charlotte.

Top Scholars Honored

Seven Davidson seniors have been elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholastic fraternity. Shown above are seven
outstanding Davidson scholars who were named this week to the ranks of Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholastic fraternity. The
men are all seniors who have maintained a B average throughout their college studies. Pete Tucker is president of the
Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. He is another Rock Hill boy and is a pre-med student. Francis Pepper of the
Beta Theta Pi social fraternity received the largest number of 660 votes in the contest for the best dressed Davidson
student Wednesday, October 17. This election was held at the college by the Publications Board, under the leadership of Bill
Adams and was sponsored by the Men’s Fashion Guild of Charlotte, which has given many advertisements to Davidson publications.is the
first of a series of monthly readings planned by the two groups, and any persons interested in participating in these
readings may do so by applying to Tad Currie in 10 East. Refreshments will be served to all participants and
guests at the conclusion of the reading.

Calendar
Sunday evening Vesper Services has as its speaker Rev. Henry P. Mobley of Oakland Street Presbyterian Church in Rock Hill,
S.C. Dr. G. A. Abernathy, Dr. Cunningham, and Dr. A. V. Goldiere will have charge of chapel services the first
three days of next week, with the YMCA taking over the program on Thursday, and Dr. H. A. Baumann on
Friday.

Thursday: A freshman math review from 7-8 that night.
Friday evening the U.L.F.S. presents the movie “Chaplin Festival” from 7:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m.
The state meeting of the North Carolina chapter of American Association of Teachers of Spanish and Portuguese will be held
on Saturday and will close out this week at Davidson.

All four classes will have their pictures taken according to the following schedule: A-C on Monday, D-H on Tuesday, I-M
on Wednesday, N-Sm on Thursday, Sn-Z on Friday.

The seven are: Hooper Alexander, Roland Englehart, Pete Kalogridis, Kirk Oglesby, Bryan Robinson, Stuart Shippey, and Tony Tucker. Jack Hunter
is the only remaining member from last year.

In the ROTC department, he is Cadet Colonel Kalogridis, student commander of the Davidson corps.

TONY TUCKER is the president of Philanthropic Literary Society, a member of the “Y” cabinet, and secretary of Kappa Alpha.
He makes his home in Laurel, Mississippi, and is majoring in English.

While there he took more than 450 colored pictures and as many black and white, of the countryside and also
of contemporary life in Holy Land.

Hours each day will be from right after chapel until 4:00 p.m. All students must wear navy blue coats and
solid color black knit ties. No pictures will be taken without these. New pictures of the faculty and administration are
to be used this year, and should be made Thursday or Friday.

HOOPER ALEXANDER calls Waynesville, N.C. home, although he attended high school at Lee Edwards in Asheville. He is a business
major and plans to do insurance work when he graduates. At present he is treasurer of Pi Kappa Phi social
fraternity.

ROLAND ENGLEHART is a psychology major from Washington, D.C., and is a member of ATO social fraternity.

KIRK OGLESBY is second in command in the ROTC corps and assists Coach Little with the football team. He is
president of Kappa Sigma and comes from Rock Hill, S.C. As an economics major, he plans to enter hospital administration
after graduation.

BRYAN ROBINSON is from Thomasville, Ga., and is a pre-med student. He is a member of the student council. Bryan
is also president of Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

MEMBERSHIP in Phi Beta Kappa is based on scholarship, leadership, achievement, and character. Seniors and second semester juniors with a
“B-plus” average are eligible for election.

MEMBERS ARE ELECTED by student and faculty members of Phi Beta Kappa. Not more than eight per cent of the
junior nor twelve and one-half per cent of the senior class may be admitted to membership.

News Briefs
Tired of your old pinups? The Fine Arts Committee is again renting reproductions of outstanding paintings this year. One simoleon
will culture up your room or fraternity house for a semester. Interested students may see them at the bookstore any
day from 10:45-12:45 a.m. Lots will be cast Saturday in the event that two men ask for the same painting.

Professor Tyson wishes to announce that any student desiring assistance in correcting speech defects may secure it by contacting him
in his office—142 Chambers.

Gina Bachauer, noted European pianist, will be featured with the Charlotte Symphony in their first concert of the year, which
will be presented in the Piedmont Junior High School Auditorium in Charlotte, October 29 and 30. Miss Bachauer, a native
of Greece, has been enthusiastically received by critics and audiences in Europe and New York.

In order that the committee may have some idea as to the amount of food to prepare, the students are
requested to sign for this program on the Y bulletin board.

Eu Lits Hold First Meeting
Newly appointed chairmen have been added to the roster of the officers of the Eu Literary Society. They are Pete
Kalogridis and Frank Hanshaw, chapel programs; Mike Myers, critic; Charlie Hassell, parliamentarian, and Nat Daniel, programs.

Nat Daniel gave a satire reading entitled “A Visit to Podunk College.” Buddy Laman and Frank Hanshaw gave impromptu speeches
on quite varied subjects, “Celestial Ada,” and “Making Love in a Pontiac Convertible” respectively. The rest of the meeting was
taken up by constitutional business.

James Christian Pfohl will direct the Symphony.

It’s A Bigger Red Feather This Year ---- What You Give Counts
