WHITE Se By BILL

In November you've no more idea what a basketball team is going to be doing in February than you have now as to the Red Sox’s standing on the Fourth of July. But the printers don’t care about your lack of prophecy. They want the basketball brochure in November so they get the mid-winter dope three months early.

It’s not too hard. There’s a stock formula to follow. Any returning starter is nothing short of All-Southern, but without enough support; all lettermen bring badly needed experience, and are scrapping for starting jobs; all varsity holdovers played little last winter but are sure to see plenty of service this year; and every sophomore was a hotshot freshman who will beyond any shadow of a doubt make up in scrap, drive, and love of the game for what he lacks in experience and know-how.

Comes February and you find you’re hardly the liar you thought you were—except for the All-Southern malarkey. The whopper of them all you had told about the sophs, and you may beam at your fall foresight after viewing some of their winter work. The second half of the Furman game, reserve dominated as it was, shook you in your socks with the ability that the freshman team had actually come up with. None of them little Grimaldi’s—if that would be any asset, but they've come along fast as sophs from a frosh club that wasn’t supposed to contribute much.

Now, just what was it you did say about them, back then when your mind was still on Auburn Lambeth’s five TD tosses at Richmond, chances against Georgia Tech...

BOB GRAHAM: “Top scorer on the freshman team last winter, this lanky forward should see a lot of action his sophomore season. Pinpoints them via set or push, but seldom cracks unless sure of a shot... Tab him a future Wildcat star.”

No great prediction here. Bob couldn’t help succeeding. He was that far along last winter. True, not burning up the floor but a strong, dependable, surprisingly cool pressure player who has relieved swell for Haller and Brooks. (Must remember that last line on Graham. Use it again next year by deleting “future.”)

JOE DUDLEY: “Lean, lanky, and inexperienced, but with the making of a good pivot man. Showed signs of development as the frosh year waned last winter and may continue to pick up as the present season progresses.”

Frat brother to the contrary, you had your doubts about “Little Joe.” Wasn't even a high school starter and saw only reserve action as a freshman. But then he had looked better toward the year's end. Result: He picks up where his improvement left off, is gaining poise and polish with every game, and will soon be filling in for Al and Woo Woo without a bump in team performance. Don't think that hand Joe gets when he enters a game can be wholly attributed to sympathy for a tall guy’s efforts to beat awkwardness. Them's happy claps, and there’ll be more of them.

GEORGE KING: “...a 6-3, 185-pound sophomore who could develop into a top performer his junior and senior years... George has the raw materials, and with some polish he will fulfill the high expectations held for him.”

With a pinch of two games’ polish behind him in varsity competition, George played the better part of the second half against Furman and rang up 11 points, keeping the Red and Black machine spurting when it started to sputter. Baird threw him into the fray to pop from the outside with his one-hander, and the Hurricane zone defense couldn’t check him. Four of those jobs plus one free throw. Yes-sir, underline “top performer his junior and senior year.”

JIM SMITH: “Smallest man on the squad at 5-9... nevertheless tabbed for service. Interfraternity hotshot last winter... Caught Baird’s eye in drills this fall, and now slated for guard duty. Pops a set shot nicely...”

The closest this guy had been to honors earlier was all-interfraternity selection his freshman year. He had been pruned from the freshman team. Yet he saw action in the first test against State. Pretty good jump—playing the SPE’s your last ball game, the nation’s (then) top team your next. And that set shot is holding out nicely, thank you. The Furman scrap attests to that. Could have padded Jim’s thumbnail with some talk about his ball-handling ability. He gave a dazzling exhibition Tuesday night. Who said the little man is doomed?

We single out these four, as aforesaid, for the impression they made in the Furman scrap. Old D. C. just hasn’t had too many into which a coach would want to pour his soph stock. To date, it has chiefly been a letterman’s season. But the time is coming now, through the schedule and the sophs’ own merit, whereby they are seeing more and more action. And when they shake the first eagerness (Lefty, Adrian, and J. V. collected two fouls apiece in their brief stay the other evening) they show what they’ve got. For one man, they sure show a lot more than we ever thought they had in them.

Smarting From Furman Loss, Frosh...

page FOUR Wildcat Sports THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SECTION

By DICK LILES

The fifth team to cautiously enter the lair of Wildcats at Davidson College will be the Clemson College Tigers when they sneak into Johnston Gymnasium tonight for their second meeting of the season with the “scrappy” Cats. Cautiously, yes, because the last four visiting teams have met either defeat or the scare of their lives before gladly leaving the inhospitable Presbyterian home.

In their own backyard the Bairdmen have been nothing short of poison to four recent Southern Conference foes, beating 2 of them soundly and coming within 3 points of victory over the heavily favored other two. The first “victim” to invade the campus was the crew from Maryland U. and they were fate-filled to walk off the court victoriously in an overtime period in which the last split-second gave them the margin of victory 57-55 after trailing 35-21 at the half. The Citadel’s Bulldogs were tamed 69-49 in Charlotte’s slick-floored Armory last weekend without much effort. Then “Slim-Jim” Slaughter and his high-riding Gamecocks presented themselves Monday night and were overwhelmingly surprised to find themselves on the short end of a 40-35 score at half-time. Then the tall A-A candidate went to work and finally pulled his boys to a slight 74-71 lead and had to freeze the ball for the remaining minutes for the win and a heartbreaker for the boys in red.

Everything looked blue until the Purple Hurricane was quelled 78-63 Tuesday night. The Furmanites weren't enough for Boyd's Boys and reserves played practically all the second half. Individual stars have been many in this home stand uprising. Dutch Hengeveld has been phenomenal with his long set-shots and has had two 20-point nights in the present stand. Haller and Brooks have shared the scoring spotlight with consistently good scoring and excellent floor play. Throw in the ever-improving Proctor-Fitzgerald combo and the wonderful play of Mac McLean and Don Lazenby and one has the answer to the recent spurt by the Cats.

Clemson comes probably somewhat confident of victory after the 74-62 beating they inflicted on the Wildcats earlier this season. They bring a 20-pointer in Sneed and his help-mate Haugk, who pumped in 15 against Davidson earlier. Coach Banks McFadden, an all-American from Clemson himself, can never be trusted for having a...

(Continued on Page Six)

Track's Renovation Calls For Widening And Cinder Coating

Plans were completed and work slated to get underway today on the facelifting for Richardson Field track.

Generally the improvements, to be ready well in time for competition this April, embrace a widening of the track to a constant width of 21 feet all the way around and a building up of bad areas with a base of clay and a coating of cinders. The 100-yard straight-away is due to be widened four feet, running two new lanes in between the present right bounds and the steps to the west stadium stands. This will mean room for six lanes of 120-yard high hurdles and 220-yard lows, and eight—if ever needed—lanes for the 100 and 220.

On the far or east side, considerable widening will be necessary since it is presently only four lanes wide. Whereas only four men—two from each team—have been able to run in the 220 lows and 220, six—three each—will now be able to compete. Coach Heath Whittle added, however, that all six lanes would not be utilized until the construction of 20 more hurdles to give the school a full set of 60—10 in each lane. Whittle said that provision...was being made so that—when the money comes in—a concrete curbing can be laid down on either side of the cinder path. He pointed out that in addition to helping our own track program with the advantage of more participants in dual meets and the ability to hold triangular meets, Davidson could now play host to high school invitational meets, junior college meets, and the like. The work is the realization of long-needed track improvements and should considerably boost Davidson’s track and field program, both as a participant and as a supporter of the sport.

Seek To Repay Young Tigs Tonight
By BILL MORRIS

Smarting from the 85-64 trouncing handed them by the Furman frosh in Johnston Gymnasium Tuesday night, the Wildkitten hoopsters take a shot at the yearlings from Clemson College here tonight. The young Tigers, who eked out a win over Davidson, 62-60, two weeks ago in Clemson, will have an even harder time on the 'Kittens' home court in the 6:15 opener.

Furman, which boasts a freshman team better than their varsity, had little trouble, after the first few minutes, with Coach Ray Brown's court men. Halftime found the Davidson frosh struggling under a 22-point deficit, 43-21. Speedy Forward Spelvy poured in 24 points for the Furman five, while Teammate Center Kirkpatrick connected with 19 tallies. John Holt hit the top of the scoring column for the ‘Kits with 15 markers, and was followed closely by six-foot-six Center George Melton with 14. Guard Johnny Gray had 12 for the losers. Tomorrow night the Wildkittens tangle with Darlington Prep.

(Continued on Page Six)

Bob Graham Hot Yankee Down South
King's Mountain Men Addressed by Baird

Coach Boyd Baird found himself speaking on a subject which he knew relatively little about last night when he addressed the Kings Mountain Kiwanis Club on “Tall Men and Basketball.” The Wildcat mentor hasn’t had a “tall” man on either of his Davidson teams to date, unless one would tab 6-4 Bill Proctor or Joe Dudley a high boy. Ordinarily, Proctor and Dudley would fill the bill, but basketball nowadays just doesn’t classify as ordinary. Said Baird: “There I was, speaking and drooling at the same time!”

Sports Schedule February 12-17
Monday — Basketball: Duke, here; Swimming: Wm. & Mary, Williamsburg, Va.
Thursday — Wrestling: Duke, here.
Friday — Basketball: W & L, Lexington, Va; Swimming: N. C. State, here.
Saturday — Basketball: VMI, Lexington, Va.; Wrestling: VPI, Blacksburg, Va.

CATS’ LAIR
Citadel Matters Here Tomorrow
Wildcats Shake Home Court Jinx
May Miss Citadel Match At Favored Clemson In Loop Tilt

Bob Gay, undefeated in the 167-pound class and winning his fourth match of the year at North Carolina Wednesday night before passing out, will in all probability be lost to Davidson for their match here tomorrow with The Citadel. Gay, who weighs 185 normally, had scaled down almost twenty pounds to reach the 167-pound division. Coach Charlie Parker said that Bob is receiving a medical checkup. If he is unable to grapple, Parker isn’t certain who will fill the spot.

Wrestlers Hope For Two Straight After Licking Carolina Wednesday
By CHARLIE HASSELL

With the return of two valuable missing links to the ranks of the team, the Wildcat wrestling squad won its first match of the season last Wednesday night, when they defeated the opposing U.N.C. mat men 22 to 11. Tomorrow afternoon at 3:30 they take to the mat in another attempt to balance up their losses, when they wrestle the Citadel here in Johnston Gymnasium.

Influenza had Coach Charlie Parker pinned to his bed for a period of about two weeks, and he was unable to accompany the team to VMI. He had been up only a few days when the varsity team made their win debut at Carolina. The other returnee is Johnny Kelton, the team captain. He had been out since the opening contest with Washington and Lee, where he was forced to forfeit because of a separated muscle. Wednesday night, however, he got back into the swing of things by decisioning Ken Stuckey of the Carolina team by a margin of four points.

Davidson's Bob Gay, in the 167-pound class, lost his first match of the season to Tommy Coxe, by forfeit, when he passed out twice during the match. Bob had pinned two men and decisioned the third prior to Wednesday's match. In the 123-pound division, Gene Craven floored Carolina’s Schwartz after two minutes of the third period. Gene lost only one match in four starts. Jim Grissom is the only other man on the team who has won as many as three matches this year. He nailed Jim Ragsdale in the second period. Beside Gay’s forfeit, the only losses occurred when Carolina’s Quarls decisioned Johnny Guiton and Bell took a 4 to 2 decision from George Irvin. Irvin, who had been wrestling in the 130 class prior to the Carolina meet, was forced (by the return of Kelton) to enter the 157-pound class. Jerry Morrow decisioned U.N.C.’s Bond 8-2, and the Wildcats got their third pin of the night when big Bill McNeely threw Ted McLaughlin, at 1:35 of the third period.

Tomorrow afternoon, the wrestlers hope to win their second victory, from the Citadel Bulldogs here at Davidson. Coach Parker, who refereed one of the Citadel’s matches knows just what the Bulldogs have. Perhaps their best man is their Captain, Scott, who wrestles in the 167 class. Another good man is Bob Sachs, at 137 pounds. The lineup for the Citadel match will be the same as last Wednesday’s match.

Gridders Finish First Week's Work

The first week of winter grid practice has come to a close, and it leaves Coach Crowell Little with only one comment: “It's cold and we're working like the devil.” Cold rainy weather forced the Cats inside once this week. They will work only five afternoons a week, taking Saturdays off. Chief work to date has consisted of blocking and tackling, with Little working with his frosh material to groom it for varsity play.

BELLHOP WEEK

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1951

OF THE WEEK
By Dick Roper

Nature’s long-established law of averages seemed little more than a farce a few nights ago in Johnston Gymnasium. The lawbreaker, a calm, serious-faced guy, was having quite a lot of fun doing the well-nigh impossible with a basketball. When Wildcat Guard Fred (Dutch) Hengeveld poured the first of his beautiful set shots in the basket against South Carolina last Monday, people oohed and ahed. When he duplicated the feat, the sounds of admiration were louder. But when he kept right on doing it, it was downright demoralizing to the Palmetto crowd. Dutch wouldn't shoot often. But when he decided to try one, he'd just stop, give the ball a twist of the wrist, and swish! Two points for the home team. While the Gamecock supporters groaned, local fans went wild. He finished with a good 15 points that night. But his team lost the game.

Tuesday night, Furman was the opponent. But Dutch hadn’t cooled off yet. He wanted to win one. So he just maintained his composure, kept his eye on the basket, and scored 20 points. The Purple Hurricane was little more than a mild breeze when it left Davidson that night.

A native Davidsonian who is playing his fourth season of varsity ball, Fred is co-captain of the Wildcat five this season. Working with Tom Haller, the other ’Cat co-captain, Hengeveld has been hard to stop. While Forward Haller works in and out around the basket positioning for a shot, Guard Hengeveld moves back and forth on the outer court. If he has the ball and sees an opening, he will generally shoot. If the opportunity is not so good, he will pass off to someone else. Dutch doesn’t waste shots.

Adding the 21 points he scored in the ‘Cat win over Citadel last Saturday night to the 35 representing Monday and Tuesday night's work, Dutch’s record now shows a total of 210 points for eighteen games. The Dutchman isn’t one to neglect his guard duties either. One of the most aggressive in the Southern Conference, his ball stealing, rebounding, and shot-blocking stamp Dutch a top performer defensively as well as offensively.

Son of College Registrar F. W. Hengeveld, one of Davidson’s basketball greats in years past, “Dutch” is closing out his college career this year. However, he'll probably be remembered for some time to Wildcat hoop opponents as “That guy who didn’t miss ’em.”

Dutch Hengeveld
Baird’s Backyard Basketballer