LIT-FILM SOCIETY BOOKS 4 TOP SHOWS See Page Four

VOLUME XL The Mavidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1951

ATO PLEDGES AID ORPHANAGE

ATO PLEDGES AT WORK on the Alexander Home Monday. In front row (left to right) are Larry McDonald, Roy Barrow,
Hamra Gheesling, Mac Williamson, John Johnston, Jack Knox, and Dan Landers. Standing (left to right) are Jim Baird, Fred Samra,
Charles Lambert, John Garrison, Frank Renfrow, Max Barker, Marshall Pitts, and Charles McElveen. Ellen, who lives at the home, is
watching the boys.

Phi Gams Are AT O First With Top Scholars (Pledge Project)

This week Alpha Tau Omega fraternity brought for the first time onto Davidson campus a practical application of the idea
of a constructive fraternity pledge period. A national trend toward this has recently been illustrated in the movie, “Take Care
of My Little Girl,” and in an article in the September issue of Reader's Digest. There is a current move
in Davidson in favor of a “Greek Week,” when all fraternity pledges work together for a worthwhile enterprise.

Leaves and a Picnic

Last Monday, the ATO pledges, accompanied and supervised by a group of members, went to the Alexander Home in Charlotte,
where they cleaned the grounds and buildings, trimmed the hedges, raked leaves, and washed windows. The work finished, they entertained
the children with a picnic and games.

John Whitfield, president of ATO, said that the group felt that if social fraternities are to justify their existence, they
must serve the school and the community as well. The Davidson chapter of the ATO has permanently inaugurated “Help Week”
instead of the “Hell Week.” He hopes that the other Davidson fraternities will join ATO in this. He pointed out
that if every pledge on the Davidson campus worked as little as one or two hours each afternoon during “Greek
Week,” they could complete such constructive jobs as making a playground for the town’s children, painting or repairing houses of
those who could not afford to have it done, or similar services.

Plenty of Work

ATO believes that this would provide plenty of work for the pledges and at the same time harness the labor
for the benefit of the college and the community.

Court Avid On School Spirit

Chapel proceedings for the Court of Control will remain the same as of recent years, with a court meeting every
Friday in chapel. Johnny Guiton and Mac McLean discussed this in a recent meeting with Dr. Puckett about chapel conduct.
At this meeting, the leaders of the Court of Control and the Student Government also deplored the total lack of
school spirit shown by the student body when so many boys went home the weekend of the Citadel game. Guiton
said that if the upperclassmen would turn in the names of the freshmen who missed the game, the court would
help to remind those boys to stay on campus for all major sports in the future. The group noted an
improvement in chapel conduct, but they feel that they still need more cooperation from the upperclassmen. Guiton expressed his appreciation
for the time and work Dr. Puckett and his committee have put into trying to improve the chapel programs.

Lt. John Watt Dies In Korea

John Franklin Watt, a graduate of the Class of ‘50 and brother of Bill Watt, a member of the sophomore
class, was killed in action in Korea on September 21, according to word reaching the president's office this morning. Earlier
in the week, Watt's missing in action status was reported by the War Department, and today the news came of
his death. Coming to Davidson from Americus, Ga., John was Pan-Hellenic representative for the Campus Club, served as head waiter
in the dining hall, and was active in intramural sports. A political science major, John took a teaching post in
Fulton County, Georgia, after graduation. He was called into the service last year as a second lieutenant through ROTC. First
sent to Fort Knox, he later was transferred to Fort Benning and from there he was sent overseas.

Notice!

Get flushed for the homecoming dances! Like to have a substitute for your baby? There is a rush call out
for baby sitters in faculty homes tonight and tomorrow night—with pay. If interested, get in touch with Miss Shinn at
the Y Guest House. Phone 3751 or 3551.

Frat Props Wreck P.C.

Homecoming is here again and with it comes the rush and secrecy of fraternity decorations as well as the bustle
of campus adornment. The Pan Hellenic Council, as has been the custom in the past, will decorate the gymnasium for
the dances. Here is a preview of some of the fraternity decorations.

Low Man

The Sigma Chis are sitting on top of the world, or at least on top of a twenty-five foot totem
pole, decorated with Indian designs and through which shines the white cross, emblem of this fraternity. At the base of
the pole is a wildcat trampling a P.C. football player. A sign nearby reads: “Low Man on the Totem Pole.”

Dean Bailey announced Monday that the local chapter of Phi Gamma Delta was the number one fraternity in scholarship for
the school year 1950-1951. With an average of 1.680, the Phi Gams were closely followed by the Sigma Chis with
an average of 1.634 and the Kappa Sigs with an average of 1.622. Retiring from first position for last year
was Beta Theta Pi. The fraternity men showed a slight edge over the student body average, 1.534 to 1.497. The
Phi Gams made a rapid rise from their number six position of last year, but their success cannot be attributed
to any one class. The classes were generally even with a steady drop from the seniors’ even B to the
freshmen pledges who dragged with an average of 0.92. Eight of the members had an average for the year of
better than 2.50. The report of the fraternity averages covered all upperclassmen who were members of fraternities and all freshmen
and upperclassmen who were pledged to the fraternities during the early part of the first semester. Only students omitted in
the calculation were those who withdrew from the college early in the semester and for whom no permanent grades were
entered. In calculating the averages, the usual system of computation was used with an R subtracting 1.0 and an F
subtracting 2.0.

News Briefs

Dr. Cunningham attended the semi-annual meeting of the Association of American Colleges, of which he is treasurer. At this meeting,
held Friday in Washington, D. C., plans were made for the annual meeting to be held January 8-10, in Washington.
Dr. Spencer, assistant to the president, is attending the meeting of the Synod of Florida, now being held in Tallahassee.
A reception was held Monday evening, at 8:00 p.m., at the Guest House for new members of the staff and
faculty. Guests were greeted by Dr. and Mrs. J. R. Cunningham, Dean and Mrs. C. K. Brown, Dean and Mrs.
J. C. Bailey, Dr. and Mrs. Thomas S. Logan, Dr. and Mrs. C. G. Davidson, and all new members of
the faculty and staff.

New Draft Tests Now Available

An announcement has been received of importance to all boys who have registered with their draft boards since the last
Selective Service test was given. Applications for the December 13, 1951, and the April 24, 1952, administrations of the College
Qualification Test are now available at Selective Service System local boards throughout the country. Eligible students who intend to offer
this test on either date should apply at once to the nearest Selective Service local board for an application and
a bulletin of information. Following instructions in the bulletin, the student should fill out his application and mail it immediately
in the envelope provided. Applications for the December 13 test must be postmarked no later than midnight, November 5, 1951.
According to Educational Testing Service, which prepares and administers the College Qualification Test for the Selective Service System, it will
be greatly to the student's advantage to file his application at once, regardless of the testing date he selects. The
results will be reported to the student's Selective Service local board of jurisdiction for use in considering his deferment as
a student.proclaims, “Presbyterian is now the low man on our totem pole!” Phi Gamma Delta welcomes back its alumni with
an inebriated wildcat, in front of which is a little wildcat chasing a blue-hosed football player.

Stirring Wildcat
This weekend the Alpha Tau Omega yard is a football field. On the fifty-yard line is a wildcat stirring a
pot and boiling a representative of P. C. The Pi Kappa Phis are tearing the blue hose off the line.
Their decoration consists of three wildcats tearing blue socks off of a clothesline and another laughing at the score of
the football game.

Soup for the KA’s
Blue Hose soup is the diet of the Kappa Alpha Fraternity. Blue-hosed football players are being shaken out of a
sock by wildcats into a Heinz 58 variety can labeled Blue Hose Soup. Sigma Phi Epsilon has a steamroller driven
by a wildcat flattening out blue-hosed football players and pushing down the Presbyterian goal post which more football players are
trying to hold up.

Kappa Snapper
Kappa Sigma, winner of last year’s decorations contest, plans another animated decoration. With a football stadium as a background, a
Davidson Wildcat will be snapping at the heels of a fleeing Presbyterian ball carrier. Each fraternity hopes to have their
house judged as the best decorated. Which one will gain this honor?

Meetings, To Color Campus Bar-B-Q
With an extended series of dances, meetings, reunions, and open houses docketed, homecoming weekend has the promise of being one
of the biggest in years. Included in the mammoth plans are two student dances, an alumni meeting, a state champion
football team reunion, a Wildcat Club meeting, and a football game. Jerome Hines, Metropolitan Opera bass, will launch the program
with a concert this evening in the Chambers Auditorium. Hines, in his fifth season with the Met, will begin his
concert at 8 p.m. Students will be admitted by presenting their concert ticket and date ducats are selling for $1.50
at the door tonight. Hines is the first in the annual Artists Series Concerts presented here.

Formal Dance
A formal student dance starts in the Johnston Gym immediately after Mr. Hines’ concert. Eliot Lawrence and his orchestra will
supply the music. Lawrence is a popular pianist and his aggregation comes to Davidson after an engagement at the Paramount
Theater in New York City. The Pan-Hellenic Council is sponsoring the dance and tickets are $6.00 for all students. Fraternity
men are urged to buy from their own Pan-Hel representative so that the 85 percent rule may be met. Independents
desiring tickets may obtain them from Charles Herion, 204 Village.

No Flowers
The dance will begin at 10 p.m. and end at 2 a.m. The Pan-Hel requests that no flowers be given
to dates for the dance.

Armfield Out
Saturday's calendar opens at 10 a.m. when a Wildcat Club meeting is slated. It is expected that President Ed Armfield
will terminate his span of office by trying to fire up the move toward getting the remaining $7000 in this
year's fund drive. New officers must be elected to replace Armfield as president, Hugh Query, vice president, and McAlister Carson
who is the incumbent secretary-treasurer. Seven new directors will have to be chosen to fill the vacant spots left by
the retiring seven senior members.

Alumni Honors Cunningham
Ten years ago Dr. Cunningham was asked to accept the presidency of Davidson. Since then he has administered a series
of vital improvements. This fact will be recognized signally at an 11 a.m. alumni meeting in Chambers Auditorium. Walter Dickson
will lead the meeting since the alumni president, Joe McConnell, is in Europe with his family. A special tribute will
be paid to Dr. Oren Moore who died recently. Dr. Moore was called “the most outstanding alumnus" and was regularly
asked to head many campaigns beneficial to his alma mater.

(Continued On Page Four)

YMCA REJUVENATES CHAPEL PROGRAMS
See Page Two

NUMBER THREE

Concert And Dance Begin Weekend Fun

TEN YEARS OF SERVICE
Dr. John R. Cunningham ends ten years of fruitful administration to Davidson College just six days from today. He has
led the college firmly through the greater portion of its parade of progress.

Cunningham Ends Crucial Decade
Ten years ago when Davidson's newly-installed president stood just over the threshold of his executive tenure he coined a phrase
for the years that lay ahead—a “Decade of Destiny,” he called them. Few listening to Dr. John R. Cunningham's talk
realized the full impact of that alliterative tab on time. For it truly has been a “Decade of Destiny” at
Davidson almost from the first moment of Dr. Cunningham’s inauguration on October 18, 1941. It has been a decade that
has seen the student body increase by almost one-third; a decade that saw the college weather one of the major
crises in its 115-year-old history during World War II; a decade during which four major buildings were added to the
physical plant; and, most important of all, a decade which saw the spiritual life of the campus deepened and the
church bonds of the college strengthened—all largely achieved through the great leadership and guiding hand of John Rood Cunningham.

LESS THAN TWO MONTHS after Davidson inaugurated Dr. Cunningham, America was launched into World War II, and in the following
four years the college was called upon to face one of the worst crises in its entire history. The president
met the crisis head-on. Along with his associates, he set up an accelerated program with a twelve-week summer session so
that students could graduate in three years, and courses which

(Continued On Page Four)

A Best-Dressed Man To Be Named
Davidson's best-dressed man will be chosen at a Wednesday chapel voting. The election is in conjunction with Men's Fashion Week
sponsored by the Men's Fashion Guild of Charlotte and the Davidson Publications Board. Each fraternity will nominate one man as
well as the Campus Club and independents. An appropriate award will be given to the winner at a later date.
The purpose of the campaign is to “inform the male population of the meaning of being well-dressed.” Also, the “sense
of security it gives does not require a quantity of clothes, but quality and taste.”
