DANIEL WANTS WOMEN See Page Two VOLUME XL Che Habidsonian ALENDA CUK UB) ORTA LIBERTAS DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1951 COLUMBUS HAD IT EASY See Page Two NUMBER FIVE Davidson Men| Truman Vatican [FBI Lectures Action Blasted Given Yearly

"The principle of the Roman Catholic Church is that of domination and it will not bend from that path." Thus cracked Chaplain Alan Gripe in reference to Truman's recent appointment of General Clark as a full ambassador to the Vatican. "It isn't fair to recognize the Roman Catholic Church which long

Now With The Armed Forces

W. RAY CUNNINGHAM, 298-256, Co N 10, U. S. Coast Guard Receiving Station, Cape Mary, N. J. Ray was a prominent student on the Davidson campus. He was freshman advisor, in Omicron Delta Kappa, on the swimming team, and a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity.

LT. THENTON L. DAVIS. JR., 012004058, Co. I., 47th Inf., Fort Knox, N. J. "Hoopie" played varsity football, was in Who's Who Among Students, Beaver Club, Scabbard and Blade, "D" Club, a member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity. He was well known to last year’s freshmen as Judge of the Court of Control, and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity.

LT. PAUL B. GUTHERY, JR., 103rd Co., 2nd Student Regt., Fort Benning, Ga. Paul hails from Charlotte. At Davidson he was a member of Kappa Alpha, Sigma Delta Pi, in the Eumanean Society and on the Forensic Council.

PVT MONTGOMERY S. HILL, 14410005, Flight 1758, Sq. 3703, Lackland Air Base, San Antonio, Texas. "Monty" is well remembered as head cheerleader and captain of the golf team. He was vice president of the Beaver Club, secretary- (Continued On Page Four)

Chaplin Flicks Revived Tonight

Old time screen comedy at its best is to be presented by the United Literary Film Society tonight at seven o'clock. Charles Chaplin, often known as the man who made more people laugh than any other man who ever lived, stars in the films. "Easy Street," "The Adventurer," "The Vagabond," and "The Rink" are four films which will make up the "Chaplin Festival." The films were written and directed by Charles Chaplin, and are filled with wild chases, slapstick, and clever pantomime. Students may obtain membership tickets for one dollar from Jack Hunter and Stuart Shippy, or in the lobby of Chambers before the films.

has favored openly the establishment of a church-ruled state without also sending emissaries to the World Council of Churches and other such Protestant groups," he added. Gripe sees the Vatican as a good international listening post, but said he was firmly convinced that this country can get any obtainable information through our Secret Service or other channels.

Way Open For Treaty

"The chief danger is that it leaves the way clear for a concordat of some kind which would provide mutual benefits for the Roman Catholic Church and the U. S.," he emphasized. Gripe warned that if Protestants don’t speak out now, the State Department may take it as a signal that the American people don't object to the union of church and state.

War Casualties Honored By S&B

In conjunction with national Scabbard and Blade Day which is tomorrow, the Davidson Company this afternoon held a commemorative retreat service honoring the college's two Korean war dead, John Watt and Bert Anderton. Anderton, who graduated after the summer session in August, 1949, was a first lieutenant up for captaincy when he was killed.

Pluck and a Party

Anderton's death attracted nationwide interest through the wire services’ stories concerning his polio-stricken little daughter's seventh birthday party going on despite Daddy’s death. Watt, a second lieutenant, was called into the service from his teaching post in the Fulton County Schools in Georgia, and was killed.

Taps and a Salute

While the members of S & B stood at rigid attention a brief commemorative message was delivered honoring the accomplishments of the two men. With the playing of Taps, the flag was slowly lowered as the military society members held a hand salute. The ceremony was previewed by Harper Newbold in a short talk given this morning in chapel, inviting the student body to attend.

Breaks Religious Freedom

State policy authority E. O. Guerrant was quick to agree that it is not necessary to establish ambassadorial ties to obtain the information available from Vatican listening posts. (Continued On Page Four)

Plan To Finish New Church By January 1st

Steeple Coppering Given Go-Ahead

Almost two years since its beginning, the new Davidson Church is nearing completion. Plans now call for the final touches to be applied to the building itself on or about January 1st. Installation of interior furnishings will then begin. The first services in this new brick and stone edifice are scheduled for early spring.

Government authorities last week gave the go-ahead signal to coppering the steeple. The coppering which has almost been completed, is designed to give a dull grey finish to the steeple. The transition from the present shiny finish is brought about by oxidation.

A large number of the furnishings for the chapel will be purchased with donations given as memorials. A final list of these memorials is being drawn up so that commemorative plaques may be placed on each memorial. The chapel organ has been constructed and is now awaiting shipment from Buffalo, N. Y. This custom-made instrument, built by the Schlicker Organ Company, will be installed by Mr. Schlicker himself. The tedious installation will begin as soon as the chapel building is completed.

The exterior of the building is now virtually intact. Inside the chapel, plastering has begun, and a number of windows have been installed.

By Johnston

DR. FRONTIS JOHNSTON

As a special lecturer to the FBI-sponsored National Police Academy, Dr. Frontis Johnston is reaching outstanding police officers about the American Constitution in Washington this week. Dr. Johnston has been delivering this series of lectures for the past several years to policemen from all over the nation and many foreign countries. The overall purpose of Dr. Johnston's talks is to familiarize the policemen with the constitutional rights of the citizens of this country. For example, it is unlawful to make physical contact with a citizen unless an officer is involved in arresting him.

Students are selected on a basis of merit by their home departments and sent to the academy usually with expenses paid. NPA is generally recognized as the superior police training school in this country. After the war, a school on a smaller scale was organized by Mecklenburg County Chief Stanhope Lineberry to instruct his own staff. The school was conducted at Davidson and Dr. Johnston gave similar lectures to the local men. Chief Lineberry was a personal acquaintance of J. Edgar Hoover, FBI head, and he recommended Dr. Johnston as a potential lecturer to the NPA students. His name was accepted and he has been asked to return to his podium there for several years. In his capacity as professor of history he was deemed a competent authority on the Constitution.

Bronco Bailey, Favored Dog, Is "Home Again" At Davidson

By MIKE MYERS

This story begins before most of us knew Davidson. A boy, his brother, and a constant friend. I had been at Davidson only a few weeks before I heard of Milton (Bronco) Bailey—long before I knew anything about Peter Stewart Ney. Milton graduated four years ago, so I've never met him. But when he went to graduate school in Tennessee he left much behind.

From what I hear Milton was tremendous—built along the Bill McNeely-Sherman tank design. Some say he was the only boy they have known with a photostatic mind... he could read a book in a matter of minutes the night before he had a review. He missed Phi Beta Kappa only because of two C’s his frosh year.

A Rock

On the football field he was a rock. Few stories of Davidson's victories in that era failed to give much credit to "the rock." But Milton wasn’t happy. He missed Memphis, Tenn. He used to wake up at 5:30 in the mornings and take long walks before breakfast in the woods around the golf course just to be a little closer to his home life. He was lonesome, and that is where little Bronco comes in.

When Milton found him, Bronco was just a pup nearer dead than alive. He had been shot at and had seen. At times it was hard to tell under Milton’s bed, scared and starving, for three days. Bronco was lonesome. Any of the SAE seniors will tell you how Milton nursed Bronco, slowly and patiently, back to health. The dog never forgot. He thanked his savior with a faithfulness rarely seen.

STOY AND BRONCO... upperclassman which companion was doing the following. Bronco attended more classes than George and Fifi ever will. Fickleness never entered either’s mind. Together always. Early morning walks over the hills, among the leaves. Big Milton got his diploma with Bronco at his side. Some swear Bronco smiled at that moment. When Milton left Davidson for U.T., some were more sorry to see Bronco go than Milton. School would seem emptier with the pair gone—just as though the chambermaids suddenly left.

A Brother

Now three Autumns later, the freshman roster lists another Bailey. Milton's little brother (only 6' 3", 205 lbs.) has come to Davidson. But not alone. Yes, just as some of us are handed down our big brother's clothes, so is custodian of one small dog that answers to the name of Bronco. Many seniors that haven't seen Bronco inThree years still recognize the small black and white mongrel. And he remembers many of his old friends, too. If you’ve met Stoy, you have seen Bronco. The other night Bronco slipped up. I was in the library when he lost Stoy. He raced into our study room and went frantically from boy to boy looking up into our faces with a what-the-heck-are-you-doing-here look. I felt guilty—felt like apologizing to him. But he (Continued On Page Four)

Tom Stockton, Allan Strand, Ham Johnny, who calls Lillington, N.C.

Thirteen Seniors Honored By Election To Who's Who
Men Chosen For Grades, Leadership

Thirteen Davidson seniors have been named to this year's Who's Who in American Colleges and Universities. The list includes Bill Adams, Bill Buckey, Jim Fickeisen, Johnny Guiton, Pete Kalogridis, Mac McLean, Francis Pepper, Bryan Robinson, Dick Stockton, Wade and Bill White.

BILL ADAMS is the editor of the Quips and Cranks and has been a writer and managing editor of the Davidsonian. This Seneca, S.C., lad is also a member of the Y Cabinet, Eumanean Literary Society, and Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Beside being Freshman Adviser, BILL BUCKEY, a pre-ministerial student, is secretary-treasurer of the Senior Class and a Y Cabinet member. He hails from Jacksonville, Fla., and is another Kappa Alpha.

JIM FICKEISEN, a Bluefield, W.Va., boy, has been on the track team, is a Beaver Club member, and was vice president of his sophomore class. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity.

JOHNNY GUITON, Judge of the Court of Controls, is a Beaver Club member as well as a halfback on Coach Little's Wildcats. He's shortstop on the baseball team. His home is vice president of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity and runs the boarding house.

PETE KALOGRIDIS, one of the new Phi Beta Kappas, has participated in many forensic activities, is regimental commander of the Davidson ROTC Cadet Corps, and is president of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. He is claimed by Winter Haven, Fla.

A Charlotte, N.C. boy, MAC McLEAN is president of the student body, a member of the golf and basketball squads, president of the Beaver Club, a member of ODK honorary fraternity, and Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

Head Cheerleader FRANCIS PEPPER, from Winston-Salem, N.C., is co-captain of the swimming team, a Philanthropic Literary Society member, and member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.

BRYAN ROBINSON, another Phi Beta Kappa man, is president of ODK honorary fraternity and Kappa Alpha social fraternity, head of the Forensic Council. This Thomasville, Ga., student has been active in Boy Scout work in this area and is Y vice president.

DICK STOCKTON, the Pan-Hel president, is a track and cross country man, Beaver and D Club member, and a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

TOM STOCKTON, Dick's twin brother, is also a track and cross country man, past secretary of student council, president of the senior class, a Beaver Club member, a member of ODK honorary fraternity, and Kappa Sigma social fraternity. (Continued On Page Four)

Humor Magazine Delivered Monday

Monday morning after chapel. “Just tell them not to plan too big a weekend, cut chapel, or do anything that should force them to miss chapel,” editor Jim Fickeisen remarked. This first publication of the 1951-52 school year will feature more cartoons and drawings than have been run in the “Scripts and Pranks” in the past, according to Fickeisen. The fall edition of “Scripts and Pranks,” college humor mag, will be distributed to the student body.

Pictured above are thirteen of the outstanding members of the senior class who have been named to the ranks of Who's Who at American Colleges and Universities. They are, top row (left to right): Johnny Guiton, judge of the Court of Control; Jim Fickeisen, editor of Scripts and Pranks; Pete Kalogridis, commander of ROTC regiment; Ham Wade, president of the D Club; and Bill Buckey, freshman class adviser; Francis Pepper, head cheerleader. Second row: Bryan Robinson, president ODK; Allen Strand, Y president; Mac McLean, student body president; Tom Stockton, senior class president; Dick Stockton, Pan-Hel president; and Bill White, editor of The Davidsonian. Below at left: Bill Adams, editor of Quips and Cranks.

Abbott Receives Fan From 8 Jobs Many Citations From Ft. Benning

Breaking all recent records, ROTC Cadet Wallace Abbott was awarded a total of six medals and citations for his performance at the ROTC summer camp at Fort Benning, Georgia, last summer. Abbott was named outstanding cadet of his entire company and recorded the best rifle score for Davidson participants. Doing equally as well with the carbine, he was awarded best carbine shot in his company and for the camp. His performance with the M1 Rifle netted him the title of high rifle shot in his company. A medal was awarded him for being a member of the winning volleyball team. Cadet Abbott is currently commanding Company G in the Davidson Cadet Corps and is active in Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity.

Notice!

The 1941 bound volume of Scripts ’N Pranks has been missing from the “Davidsonian Room” for several weeks. This is the only complete file of the periodical in existence and for the benefit of future users should be returned to the College Library.

Men from eight leading professions have been invited to give career talks in fraternity row as a part of the college YMCA Fall Services. The talks will be given Tuesday evening, November 6, immediately after dinner.

Late News

No action has yet been taken by the executive committee in lieu of the recent student majority vote to switch Thanksgiving holiday. Student body president Mac McLean said he hadn't realized the committee was meeting last Wednesday, but would put a formal petition to them at their next meeting.

A two-star visitor to the ROTC Department next week will be Major-General W. A. Berlinden, Third Army commandant, and his aide First Lieutenant Jesmond D. Balimer, Jr. The purpose of the general's visit is to familiarize himself with the ROTC units in North Carolina.

All freshmen interested in debating are requested to meet in Eu Hall Monday night at 7:30. Those who haven't signed up will not be expected to give speeches.

First Indian Scalp ing Launch Practice For Drama

With just three weeks to go before the curtain goes up on the Red and Black Masquers’ production of Agatha Christie's “Ten Little Indians,” Director Bill Trotman has rehearsals well under way, and from all appearances at this stage of production, “Ten Little Indians” will be one of the best plays produced by the dramatics group in recent years. With such experienced Thespians as Tad Currie, Bill Pharr, Mac Holly, Vance Mizelle, Howard Proctor, and capable newcomers Gordon Hurst, Betty Bradley, and Mac Williamson, “Ten Little Indians” should be well worked out, and foretells of better things to come on the Davidson stage.

Girls Also

In conjunction with the play's presentation on November 17th, “Y” social committee chairman Bill Buckey has drawn up tentative plans to have a group of young ladies from one of our neighboring feminine educational institutions visit Davidson on the weekend of the 17th, and “Ten Little Indians” will be a feature attraction of the weekend. Plans for a tour are also being formulated, and Winthrop College in Rock Hill, S.C., has secured the drama for the week following its production here. Other schools and Little Theatre groups have been contacted, and Director Trotman and Masquers President Ted Daniel hope to extend its itinerary in the near future.

O'Neill Reading

In keeping with its progressive program for 1951, the Masquers also presented a reading at their regular monthly meeting of Eugene O'Neill's, “Ah, Wilderness.” Parts were read by Dick Perkins, Tad (Continued On Page Four)

Mr. Phil Howerton will probe the field of insurance. He is from Charlotte and affiliated with the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Co. Talking on medicine will be Dr. Parker Beamer who is head of admissions at the Wake Forest School of Medicine in Winston-Salem.

Holloman Back

A one-time Davidson professor, Mr. Charles Holloman of Raleigh, will outline the essentials of the law profession. From the Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur, Georgia, comes Dr. Cecil Thompson to discuss the ministry. Textile speaker will be Mr. Robert Hall of Belmont, N.C. (Continued On Page Four)

Y Will Sponsor Marital Message By Ethel Wash

Are you thinking about getting married anytime in the next five years? If so, you will be interested in learning that an outstanding counselor on marriage, Mrs. Ethel Wash, will be invited to the campus for counseling and lecturing to students on this topic. This news comes from Rev. Alan Gripe, who attended the Southern Region YMCA Student Secretaries Conference at the University of North Carolina on October 19, through the 21st. Mrs. Wash was one of the outstanding speakers who addressed the conference and is considered by many as the most popular and competent authority in this area on marriage. She believes that particular focus is required today on the needs of students in this time of instability and threat of war.

Driscoll Visits Y

The campus was visited by the Rev. Edward A. Driscoll, Executive Secretary of the YMCA Southern Area Student Council, on Monday, October the 22nd. He met with the YMCA cabinet members and gave many good suggestions to the Y board on improving and broadening their activities on the campus. Also while on the campus Rev. Driscoll had informal talks with various members of the college administration.