DAVIDSONIAN STUDENT ROSTER PAGE TWO VOLUME XL ALENDA CLUK UB) GQRTA LIBERTAS The Davidsonian DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1951

LAWRENCE SIGNED FOR HOMECOMING

TODAY’S SPECIAL! 3-MINUTE EDITORIALS NUMBER ONE

DOROTHY THOMPSON, CORNELIA OTIS SKINNER TO SPEAK HERE

Top Pianist Brings Alumni Heads Norwegian Consul First Drill Leads Off Lectures

Perhaps the most dynamic group of speakers to appear here in recent years will compose the college lecture series personnel this year, it has been announced by Dr. S. R. Spencer, assistant to the president. Dorothy Thompson, America’s outstanding woman columnist and news analyst; Hans Olav, Norwegian assistant secretary of State; Olin Downes, New York Times music critic since 1924; Cornelia Otis Skinner, who has been called “the greatest single attraction of the American theater” and Leonard Lisner, “one of the finest of young American pianists,” will appear on the Chambers auditorium stage.

No Added Charge

Students will be admitted without additional charge to the series which starts November 12. Dr. Spencer explained that admission charges were paid in registration. He requested that all men pick up their tickets so the remainder may be sold to the general public.

Atlantic Pact

The punch and defensive ability of the North Atlantic Pact will be outlined in the opening talk by Mr. Olav. He will explain why his country chose to join the West even though it lies directly in the shadow of Russian control.

Sketches

Miss Skinner will offer a program of six theatrical sketches on December 3.

Cauldron

The current fiery cauldron of political crises, the Middle East and Palestine, will be discussed by Mrs. Thompson on March 19.

Dual Lecture

A dual lecture delving into the “Ideas Behind Music” will be presented by Messrs. Olin Downes and Leonard Lisner on April 21. Mr. Downes will lecture and Mr. Lisner will demonstrate the talking points.

NOTICE

Freshmen are reminded that today (Saturday) is a day of silence with the upperclassmen. Any conversation other than a passing greeting should be refrained from. Bids will be issued through the mail this morning and these must come from the Pan Hel ONLY. Pledging will be between the hours of 2-4 p.m. A freshman will signify his pledge by appearing at the house of his choice in this interval.

A LOST GRAF THREATENS RUSH TROUBLE

A paragraph left out of this year’s Wildcat handbook almost threw several fraternities and the Pan Hel for a loop this week. This was Section VII of the Pan Hel constitution which deals with the legality of obtaining rush dates during freshman orientation week. Confusion resulted among the fraternity rush chairmen because there was no clear ruling printed for them this year. Several serious charges of illegal rushing were levied since a full understanding of the rules was impossible. None of the fraternities were guilty of illegal procedures in light of the hazy ruling. It was decided at a called meeting of the Pan Hel. Pan Hel President Dick Stockton told a Davidsonian reporter that a meeting would be held by the Pan-Hel next week to further clarify and define the difference between “obtaining” and “confirming” rush dates. He said the entire rushing procedure would be critically examined at that time and hoped general improvement would result.

By Army Staff

The largest Cadet Corps in Davidson's ROTC history performed its first drill Tuesday. The Military Department here complimented highly the students’ performance and indicated the Corps had formed remarkably quickly. Upped by 30 men over last year’s 526 students, the Corps contains 50 seniors, 63 juniors, 204 sophomores, and 239 freshmen. Col. Ballard, Davidson PMS&T, was particularly impressed with the “preparation which had obviously been made by nearly all student leaders” and stated that with comparable progress in the coming drills, “it will not be hard to surpass the fine record made by the Corps last year.”

Rifle Team

The Military Department announced that a call for the initial practice session of the rifle team will go out around October first. It was emphasized that freshmen are eligible. Major Jones, one-time team captain here, expressed the hope that many of them would try out together with the upperclassmen who fired last year. The team fired 16th last year in the U.S. in the National Intercollegiate Match. It won the majority of regular season meets.

Staff Changes

The PMS&T has announced that two staff changes have occurred over the summer. Major George G. Jones has replaced Major Hood (promoted during summer) who is doing graduate work at the University of Alabama. Sergeant Westby has left the clerical staff for a new assignment in Massachusetts. His replacement is not known, but is due to arrive within a few weeks.

Officers Named

Cadet Col. Peter G. Kalogridis, Regimental Commander; Cadet Lt. Col. Daniel H. Oglesby, Jr., Regimental Executive Officer; Cadet Lt. Col. Ernest H. Barry, 1st Battalion Commander; Cadet Lt. Col. Larry J. Dagenhart, 2nd Battalion Commander; Cadet Major Frank E. Hanshaw, Jr. Regimental Adjutant; Cadet Major Thornton W. Tucker, 1st Battalion Executive Officer; Cadet Major William A. White, Jr. 2nd Battalion Executive Officer; Cadet Capt. William D. Reynolds, 1st Battalion Adjutant; Cadet Richard Stockton,

(Continued From Page One)

Frosh is Campus King While Frats Wine-Dine

By MIKE MYERS

Cool was I, and logical. Keen, calculating, perspicacious, acute and astute—I was all of these. My brain was powerful as a dynamo, as precise as a chemist’s scales, as penetrating as a scalpel. And—think of it! I was only a freshman, and about to be rushed! I liked the brother who had come to get me. As we walked arm in arm, hammer lock in hammer lock, I couldn't help but feel content and I smiled inwardly. We walked slowly, listening to the gravel crunch satisfactorily under our shoes in the still twilight, breathing the thin evening air. But my mind was miles away—all the way back to Cinnamon Gulch, to my last week at home, to Agnes... “I’ll wait for you. I'll wait for you forever,” she had said. “Tell them to take care of my little boy,” Mother had said. “There's never been a better father than I am to that boy,” Father had said. But now I was about to be exposed to the great American fraternity system. The very thought thrilled me. I favored my companion with a smile. “Read any books?” I ventured. My brain, that precision instrument, slipped into high gear. “Why yes, now that you mention it. Just finished one on Medieval African Customs. They had the most ridiculous method for choosing a mate that you've ever heard of. You'll laugh it's so silly. “All the eligible girls line up in a row; then all the single men who can pronounce ‘pftjetzero’ parade by. Each girl then does her most appealing dance for the men. If a male can climb a coconut tree quicker than his rivals, or if he has a real mullock bone entwined in his hair, chances are she will like him. But she does the same song and dance for each boy, even if she doesn't like him. But here's the senseless part. The boy and girl are allowed to see each other for fifteen minutes yet the male is not allowed to talk during this time, yet the choice must be made. The male chooses on merit of the best dance, and the female goes by the quality of bone in her lover's hair. If she wants him she sticks a straw up his nostril while he sleeps. If he accepts her offer he comes and joins in the dance with her. Isn't that the craziest thing you've ever heard of?” We had rounded the corner and were starting up the path to the house. “But get this,” I went on. “The marriage is only a trial. The girl can end it anytime by cutting out her lover's heart and the matter is forgotten.” The lights and noise up ahead quickened my pulse. My excitement grew. “It’s a good thing there's nothing that stupid in America,” I said over the din. The first big smile and extended arm reached out for me. “Yeah,” the brother beside me said. “A good thing.”

DIES IN ACTION

Davidson College alumnus killed in action in the Korean fighting is pictured here in uniforms he wore well while at Davidson. As a footballer, Bert was a passing and kicking standout at tailback. Receiving his commission through ROTC, Anderton served as battalion adjutant.

City Now Has New Fire Truck

Any fires in Davidson now have a good chance of being extinguished. The reason? A brand new fire truck was procured in late June. According to a Charlotte fire instructor it is the best in this part of the country. Jerry Small, who usually drives the machine, was just as enthusiastic about it and he graciously demonstrated its capabilities to a Davidsonian reporter. Costing $11,000 when purchased from the Mack Truck Company, the vehicle hasa 500-gallon booster tank (200 more than the old truck), 400 feet of reel hose, modern fog-throwing nozzles, five forward transmission gears, three centrifugal pumps, and an ingenious dual ignition system which allows the truck motor to run on either of its two banks of six cylinders or all 12 simultaneously. The college contributed $2,500 toward the cost of this new truck. Small reported that the truck will be able to put out at least 90 percent of the fires which could happen here. He was quick to add that this truck is equipped with a self-starter.

Bert Anderton First Alumnus Lost In Korea

In a story which started out to be one of dramatic tragedy in the lives of folks unrelated to and distant from the campus, the Davidson family read this week of the first death in the Korean campaign to one of its alumni. As they read the Associated Press Memphis-datelined drama telling of a young mother’s plans to hold a birthday party for her polio-stricken little girl—despite the death of her father, Davidsonians read into the name of Army First Lt. Horace Bert Anderton who had graduated from Davidson College in 1949.

The AP account was brief, and much of the news about Bert's death was not printed. But from Memphis has come a letter from Milton (Bronco) Bailey, former Davidson student and teammate with Anderton on the Wildcat football club for three falls. Bronco enclosed a clipping from the Memphis Press-Scimitar, which gives a more detailed look at the story which will certainly be of great interest to the senior class, the faculty, and administration. Graduating from Davidson in August of 1949, Bert was an expediter with a Memphis firm until his recall to service in October of last year. As a platoon leader with the 17th Infantry “Buffalo” Regiment in Korea, Anderton lost almost his entire platoon fighting in the “Iron Triangle,” and wrote home, “I was lucky.” In a letter to his wife, Corrinne Massey Anderton, Bert told of his promised captaincy in November, recommendation for the Silver Star, and his hopes to leave Korea by October.

(Continued On Page Four)

Band October 12-13

Officially In From an engagement at New York's Paramount Theater, Elliott Lawrence and his orchestra come to Davidson for the Homecoming series of dances October 12 and 13. It was announced this morning by Dick Stockton, president of the Pan Hellenic Council. One of the nation’s top pianist bandleaders, Lawrence has recently reorganized his orchestra and currently furnishes as fine a dance program as there is in the land. Lawrence played for the Charlotte Debutante Ball in June of this year, and it was there that Stockton heard of him. Impressed and pleased as were the Charlotte folk, Stockton brought Lawrence's name to the attention of the Pan-Hel this fall and they immediately contacted the director for a booking. Membership to the Pan Hel for the dance set will be between five and six dollars, Stockton added, probably five. The set consists of Friday's formal dance from 9-1, a tea dance Saturday afternoon from 4-5:30, and Saturday's dance from 8:00 till midnight. Theme of the dance is expected to be “Rose in Hose” in connection with the Homecoming decorations.

Wilson-Wright Names Winners In Contest

Ten winners in Wilson-Wright’s clothing give-away were announced by Russ Wilson, manager of the local men’s apparel store. Tom Godwin was winner of the top prize in the drawing, a pair of slacks. Other winners included Tom Dove, sweater; Frank Renfrow, sport shirt; Phil Lewis, dress shirt; Malcolm Williamson, and Ernest McCutcheon, wool argyles; John Snyder, Bob Crawford, and Jim Johnson, repp ties.

Fulbright Awards Open For '52-53

Competitions for Fulbright scholarships for the 1952-1953 academic year are now open and will close October 15, 1951. Seniors who are interested in applying for a government scholarship for study abroad should get in touch at once with the Fulbright adviser or any member of the Fulbright committee. The Fulbright Act provides for a large number of scholarships in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Luxembourg, Burma, Egypt, France, Greece, India, Iran, Italy, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Philippines, Thailand, Turkey, and the United Kingdom. Awards are made entirely in the currencies of participating countries abroad. They cover transportation, expenses of a language refresher or orientation course abroad, tuition, books, and maintenance for one academic year. The amount is sufficient to meet normal living expenses of a single person during one year. In 1951 two Davidson graduates won Fulbright awards for study in France. Many students of medicine, chemistry, and physics plan to go this year to the Dutch universities. The Fulbright adviser and the Fulbright committee will be glad to give full information on the program, its requirements, and opportunities. They are: G. B. Watts, Fulbright adviser; E. A. Guerrant, V. S. Logan, and J. A. McGeachy.

HINES BEGINS STAR-PACKED ARTIST SERIES

The fair-haired young man pictured below is not a leading contender for Mr. America; he is rather, Jerome Hines, currently in his fifth season with the Metropolitan Opera Association, and the first attraction on this year's Artist Series program. Mr. Hines begins one of the most promising and best-balanced series ever to come to the Davidson campus. After improving the attendance of students to concerts each year, Professor Pfoll has said that if this celebrated series doesn’t bring out more students, “we may as well close up shop and go home.” He was also thinking of the Celebrity Series, mentioned elsewhere on this page. Following the celebrated young Met singer will be Miss Susan Reed, noted American ballad singer from South Carolina. Susan Reed has been praised by many of the (Continued On Page Four)

NEW BOARD NODS STUDENT LECTURE VOTE

The student body will have a large hand in the selection of speakers for the college lecture series from now on. A student lecture committee has been formed to work closely with the faculty committee on lectures. To ensure sufficient student publicity was also listed as a reason for forming the new committee. Mac McLagan will have charge of naming the members of the student committee, which is slated to commence its work shortly. Professor Causey succeeds Professor Godcharles as head of the faculty lecture committee.

Pulitzer Winner Will Teach Here

Pulitzer-Prize Winner Philip Anthony Moose has been engaged as lecturer in fine arts at Davidson College, President John R. Cunningham has revealed. Now a private art instructor in Newton, Hickory, and Charlotte, Moose was awarded the Pulitzer Prize in 1948. He also won a Tiffany Fellowship in 1949, and has studied and painted extensively in Europe and South America.

The October 15th

Williams Neal of Winston-Salem and Walter W. Fraley of Charlotte will head the Davidson College Alumni Association during the coming year. Neal, who is senior vice-president of the Wachovia Bank & Trust Co., was selected president of the Association over Walter L. Lingle, Jr. of Cincinnati, vice president of the Proctor and Gamble Co., in a very close race in the mail ballot election. Fraley, First Presbyterian Church director in Charlotte, won the vice presidency from Edwin C. Douglas, Augusta, Ga. lumber manufacturer. Almost 1500 members of the Davidson Alumni Association participated in the election. The newly-elected officers will be installed in a special ceremony during Homecoming activities at Davidson on October 13th. Joseph H. McConnell of New York, president of the National Broadcasting Company, is now president of the Association. J. Walter Dickson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Belmont, is serving as vice president. A graduate with the class of 1917 at Davidson, Neal is a member of the faculty of the Graduate School of Banking of Rutgers University, N. C. Chairman of the Savings Bond Division of the U.S. Treasury, and an elder of the First Presbyterian Church of Winston-Salem. He is past president of both the Financial Advertisers Association of America and the North Carolina Bankers Association, and is past district governor of the Civitan Club. His two sons, WOE, Jr. and Necher, are present members of the senior and sophomore classes, respectively.

18 Newcomers Join Faculty, Coach Staff

Davidson College will bolster its faculty and administrative staff by 18 new members during the current year, President John R. Cunningham has announced. Of the 18, 10 of the newcomers will be on the faculty. Four of these are Davidson graduates: George W. Crawford, assistant professor of physics; Major George Jones, instructor in military science and tactics; Frederick Morton, associate professor of economics and business; and Pedro Trakas, assistant professor of Spanish. Other faculty additions include J. Wilson McCutchan, formerly of Queens College, associate professor of English; Donald Pott, graduate of the University of Michigan, assistant professor of music; Charles Ratliff, assistant professor of economics; William J. Watt, Cornell, assistant professor of chemistry; William G. Workman of Emory, professor of psychology; and Philip A. Moose, lecturer in Fine Arts. New administration officials are John Outlon, publicity director; Alan Gripe, chaplain and YMCA secretary; D. Grier Martin, treasurer; Miss Nell Shinn of New York, hostess of the Guest House; Samuel Spencer, assistant to the president; and Miss Lula Taliaferro of Tennessee, recorder. Edward Chandler, Davidson, ‘49, and Thomas Fetzer, Wake Forest, have been named assistant football coaches.