PAGE FOUR

WHAT IS THIS?

Davidson 6, Georgia Tech 6

By MIKE MYERS

I walked with a confident air up to the coach's office door. My confident swagger was due to the fact that I was confident: I knew the solution to Davidson's number one problem. Here was I, about to cross a threshold that had made strong hearts weak, weak hearts weaker, and weaker hearts stop. Yet I was cool as a cool cucumber, my hand ready as a rock. I gloated a few moments over my powerful position, then knocked. As the eye-slot in the steel door slid back, the smell of burning flesh greeted my nostrils. Three beady eyes peered out.

“Go away, Buster, the coach is in mourning.”

“My good fellow,” I began while aimlessly polishing my nails on my lapel, “it so happens I know how Davidson can win some football ga—”

I was before the coach. He was looking at me through the loop in his combination riding crop-bull whip. I laughingly thought to myself that his first words would be “take ten laps around the field.”

“Take ten laps around the field,” the coach recited.

“But sir,” I said, “I’m not a player. But I can help you win football games.”

He put down the thumb-screw he was playing with. I took this for a sign of encouragement and went on, “As you know we've lost some tough games this year. Lately we haven't even won a moral victory. My plan calls for us to concentrate on immoral victories.”

With this, the coach put down the doodling he was doing with a scalpel on a human mannequin. “Go on.”

I then warmed up to my subject. I went over the plan step by step, detail by detail. I brought out all the strong points, the reason it couldn't fail, everything. In a half hour, I finished, perspiring and tired.

“Won't work,” was the only comment.

I hated to do it, but I played my trump card and thereupon went into a plea that would have made William Jennings Bryan seem a mute and Demosthenes a high-school valedictorian. Strangers had gathered around us and were weeping openly before I finished. Coach wiped his eyes on a shroud. At last, he managed.

“It might work at that. I'll try it in the Georgia Tech game for obvious reasons. You're a genius. Davidson College salutes you. If your plan works we'll beat Tech 42-6. Only time will tell. Thank you, my boy, thank you.”

He was licking my hand affectionately. I blushed modestly. “Shucks,” I stammered.

“Don't trip over the Chinese water-drop apparatus on your way out,” Coach called cheerily. I smiled over my shoulder. I was glad to have spread a little sunshine.

Former Editor Now in Korea

With the X Corps in Korea—Pvt. John W. Mann, 23, of Sanford, is now serving as a personnel administration specialist with the 116th Engineer Combat Battalion on the Korean mountain front.

Private Mann, who was managing editor of the Sanford Herald before being inducted into the Army in January, left the United States for Korea in August. He joined the 116th, an Idaho National Guard unit, in September.

The North Carolina soldier said it was easy to get the knack of Army administrative work after being a newspaper editor for two years, but “it's quite a job trying to keep track of 700 men spread out around these Korean hills,” he added.

Mann attended high school in Cleveland, Darlington Preparatory School at Rome, Ga., and graduated from Davidson College with an AB degree in 1949. While at Davidson, Mann, a Sigma Chi, served as managing editor of The Davidsonian. He was sports editor for the Sanford Herald before he was named managing editor. Private Mann is the son of Rev. and Mrs. John W. Mann, who reside in Atkinson.

LAUNCH PRACTICE...

(Continued From Page One)

Currie, Ted Daniel, Tink Taylor, Mrs. Cumming, and a number of others, and was hailed as a great success both by those who participated and those who attended.

Other Readings Planned

These informal readings are to be continued in the future, and it is hoped that many more students and faculty members will be able to take part and attend. Interested persons may contact Tad Currie in Hi East.

Religion Poses Difficulty At Harvard Univ.

Cambridge, Mass. (I.P.)—Harvard College's curriculum does not present religion as effectively or comprehensively as it might, according to Dean Willard L. Sperry, head of the Harvard University Divinity School.

“It is unfortunate,” Dean Sperry declared, “that some students come to College unaware of religion and leave without being awakened.”

Any man who brings an interest in religion to Harvard, he said, “will have opportunities to mature that interest.” But he added that a student will have to hunt for his religious instruction and inspiration, for they will not be handed to him.

According to Dean Sperry, it has been difficult for the faculty to agree on a definite program of religious instruction. He said he believes that a course on the development of religion in America would be of value. Some consideration has been given to a General Education course on religion.

Some of the criticism of the College’s religious program, Dean Sperry added, stems from denominational groups which have failed to instruct their own members properly before they come to college.

LITTLE INDIANS

The Goldenrod, Wayne State Teachers College, Nebraska, is a bit fed up with certain types of male dancers. Here are the types:

Harry the Hepcat—“He asks a girl to dance as if he were Louis B. Mayer asking a starlet to star in a million-dollar picture extravaganza. While twirling his partner back and forth like a yo-yo, he is constantly speaking in a line of jive jargon...”

Bashful Bill—“Bill feels terribly embarrassed and the only excuse he can think of is that he just washed his feet and can't do a thing with them...”

Luke the Lover—“He says he used to be conceited but went to a psychiatrist and was cured. Now he is the nicest guy he ever met. If someone doesn't wise up to this character, he is liable to love himself to death...”

Ballard Reports

Davidson leads all other divisions of the Mecklenburg Red Feather Drive in the percentage of quota obtained, Col. Ballard, division chairman, reported today. With a total of $1950 through Thursday noon, the local drive is well on its way toward going over the top. Col. Ballard reported that several solicitors, as well as eight of the fraternities, have not been heard from, and these additions should increase the total to over $2250. The sum already collected more than doubles last year’s contributions, Col. Ballard said.

Cunningham Visits

Agnes Scott College, at Decatur, Ga., had the pleasure of entertaining our distinguished president last Tuesday for the inauguration ceremonies of their new president, Mr. Wallace F. Alston. Dr. Cunningham was present at Davidson's sister college to give the invocation. The retiring president was Dr. James Ross McCain, moderator of the Presbyterian Church.

GENTRY SWATCHES...

(Continued From Page Two)

You, too, will come to life when you see they cut the sample from the lapel of the coat itself. GENTRY believes that people will value GENTRY if only for the article entitled “What It Means To Be a Man.” We do not believe that muscles, money, or medals are sufficient to merit this word. Obviously. What thinking man do you know who has muscles, money, or medals? All right, so they have medals. How many have muscles or money? We believe that if you have a son, this one article may well contribute more than many months of formal education. Undoubtedly, but only if they include among their swatches a college diploma. None of this glow-in-the-dark hatband business with NOW YOU ARE A MAN, or KISS ME six times in luminous letters. You may do as you like about supporting GENTRY. It’s equally as worthwhile as, say, Flower Grower, Wee Wisdom, or The Open Road for Boys. Personally, I'll read yours when you’re through, since I can’t meet the requirements for subscription. With a six-course schedule, I can't afford to be a thinking man.

Ben Franklin Printed: He that can take rest is greater than he that can take cities. B. Franklin Poor Richard's Almanac, 1737

There’s a time to pause in every activity. When you make that pause refreshing with ice-cold Coca-Cola you can take what comes with ease.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY

DRINK COCA-COLA

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Shall We Dance?

Fellowship Tests Open To Seniors

The Danforth Foundation of St. Louis, Missouri, has announced the inauguration of a series of Graduate Fellowships for college seniors and recent graduates who are preparing themselves for a career of teaching, either at the college or high school level, and are planning to enter graduate school in September 1952, for their first year of graduate study. President Cunningham has named Prof. Bradley D. Thompson as the liaison officer to work with the Danforth Foundation on the selection of candidates. These fellowships will be granted on the basis of need with the amounts varying from $500.00 to $2400.00. Students without financial need are also invited to apply, and if accepted...will participate in the annual Danforth Foundation conference on teaching and the other activities of the program. The qualifications of the candidate as listed in the announcement from the Foundation are: Evidence of superior intellectual ability in college record; good record of health and stability; outgoing personality and the concern for people, essential for successful teaching; choice of vocation of teaching as a form of Christian service; deep religious convictions and growing religious perspectives. (Foundation is looking for candidates who are seriously examining their own religious life, and are seeking a maturing faith and social outreach.) Any student wishing further information should get in touch with Prof. Thompson.

STOCKTON LEADS
(Continued From Page Three)

Finishing second at Richmond was Bill Shipley, Dick Stockton fifth; Bill Lee, sixth; Floyd Feeney, seventh; Paul Alexander, ninth, and Stuart Plummer, tenth.

PSYCHOLOGY TESTS
(Continued from Page One)

Those classed as “religious” were found to attend church at least once a month, while among the “political-economic” group, some admitted not having gone to church in several years, and none attended as often as once a month. The questionnaire used in the research contained a list of stimulus words opposite of which were two response words. The subjects were asked to choose the response word that they associated with the stimulus word.

DISCOVERING AMERICA
(Continued from Page One)

o'clock on the night of October 11, 1492, Chris said he saw a light. He claimed and got the reward. But Morison points out that he couldn't possibly have seen any light from land at that point. He must have been at least 35 miles off shore. At 2 A.M., with the moon past full, a seaman aboard The Pinta shouted “tierra, tierra!” He was right. This was San Salvador.

NEW CARS
Dial 3-4513
212 W. Fourth
Charlotte

CONCORD COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.
© 1961, The Coca-Cola Company

DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF

Teacher Exams Will Be Held

Princeton, N. J., Oct. 17—The National Teacher Examinations, prepared and administered annually by Educational Testing Service, will be given at 200 testing centers throughout the United States on Saturday, February 16, 1952. At the one-day testing session a candidate may take the Common Examinations, which include tests in Professional Information, General Culture, English Expression, and Non-verbal Reasoning; and one or two of nine Optional Examinations, designed to demonstrate mastery of subject matter to be taught.

Application forms, and a Bulletin of Information describing registration procedure and containing sample test questions, may be obtained from college officials, school superintendents, or directly from the National Teacher Examinations, Educational Testing Service, P.O. Box 592, Princeton, New Jersey. Completed applications, accompanied by proper examination fees, will be accepted by the ETS office during November, December, and in January so long as they are received before January 18, 1952.

THIRTEEN SENIORS
(Continued from Page One)

ternity. The twins hail from Winston-Salem. Y president, ODK, student council, tennis team, Beaver Club member are a few of the activities that ALLAN STRAND, a Greensboro pre-ministerial student shares. HAM WADE, a Chapel Hill senior, is president of the D Club, member of the Beaver Club and fullback of the Wildcat football squad this year. Ham is another Kappa Sig. BILL WHITE, this year’s Davidsonian editor, is from Charlotte. He is a member of the Eumanean Literary Society, editor of the “Wildcat” football program, Y Board of Control member, ODK honorary fraternity and Kappa Sigma social fraternity member.

BRONCO BAILEY
(Continued from Page One)

didn’t have time to waste on me. A Moving When Stoy first arrived he was assigned to West. When Mrs. Little explained that no dogs could be kept in the dorms there was no alternative for Stoy. He moved into town so he could see more of his little chum. And so it goes—a boy and his inseparable companion. Stoy knows Bronco will never desert him, will never prove ungrateful or treacherous. And all Bronco asks in return is an occasional rub behind the ear or a chance to lick a hand with his rough tongue. But not just any hand. For Bronco is strictly a two-man dog.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
Mooresville, N.C.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1951

New Secret Weapon?

The shrouded vehicle pictured above is not a new arrival from Mars but is rather Harper Newbold’s unusual way of protecting the paint job on his car. With garage space on the campus nil, Newbold’s portable covering saves wash jobs and also protects the car from tree-drippings.

Salem Provides Halloween Fun

This weekend fifty-five Davidson students will go to Salem for a weekend of Halloween merriment. They will leave here by bus at one o'clock Saturday and plan to arrive at Salem at three. From here they will be taken by truck to a camp outside Salem for square dancing and supper. At seven o'clock they will return to Salem for more dancing and a floor show. We couldn't find out just where the dates for these adventurous young lads were coming from, but as always with Davidson men females are females regardless of where they come from. All this is being sponsored by the YWCA of Salem and is being co-ordinated here at Davidson by Bill Buckey, who is in charge of social activities for the Davidson YMCA.

MEN FROM
(Continued From Page One)

William Neal from Wachovia Bank and Trust Co., in Winston-Salem will give a message on the banking field. Central High School's John Otts is slated to discuss teaching as a vocation. A speaker on salesmanship is planned, but no name was available this week.

Vocational Film

A vocational guidance film will be shown after Sunday Vespers November 4. It will be in line with the sermon delivered that evening and is entitled “Cross Roads.” It was thought that many good hints as to career choice are contained in the movie.

Main Speaker

Chief speaker for the services is Dr. John Oliver Nelson, chief of religious field activities at Yale. This has been announced in a previous number of the Davidsonian. He will address the student body in a series of programs held Sunday through Wednesday morning chapel. Tom Stockton will give a kick-off talk outlining the main events of the services next Thursday in chapel.

The customer regarded her coldly and said, “Who likes it sweet?” ——Speakers Mag.

VISIT YOUR HEADQUARTERS

DAVIDSON MEN
(Continued From Page One)

treasurer of the “D” Club, and in the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. HERBERT D. MIDDLETON, JR., A.F. 1440 526, Hdqrs MATS, Andrews, A.F.B., Military Air Transport Service, Washington, D.C. Herbert is a native of Charlotte. He was in the Spanish Club and Epsilon Delta Pi. F. NELSON TOMLINSON, Base Finance Office, Donaldson A.F.B., Greenville, S.C.

Oxford Grey Slacks worsted flannel, self belt

SPORT SHIRTS—button down collar
SWEATERS—40% cashmere, 60% wool
DACRON solid rib SOCKS
NAVY SWEDE BELTS 18.00