PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF ............ BILL WHITE
BUSINESS MANAGER ....... ALEX GOLEY

Associate Editors ........ Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis, George McMurray
Managing Editors ........ Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw, John Ottley
Photographs ........ Archie Neal
Photographer ........ Andrew Simmons
Feature Editor ........ Mike Myers
Exchange Editor ........ Ed Richardson
Copy Editor ........ Pete Ormsby
Art Editor ........ Don Mahy
Sports Editor ........ Dick Liles
City Editor ........ Nat Daniels
Assistant Business Manager ........ Boo Northcutt
Advertising Manager ........ Jack Hobson
Circulation Manager ........ Bob Poston
Collection Manager ........ Bill Minter
Subscriptions Manager ........

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Service Stamps

David Ovens Worthy of Title “Mr. South”

From Atlanta this week came news that Charlotte's David Ovens, as one of the 117 members of the Living Hall
of Fame in the Southland, was in the running for the title of “Mr. South” for 1951. As a benefactor
of Mr. Ovens’ generous philanthropy, Davidson College knows that few men could be more deserving of the title. Certainly few
men have done more for the business, cultural, educational, and religious life of their community than has Mr. Ovens, and
there exist no more important realms than these.

In his bountiful gift to Davidson College and its sister institution Queens, Mr. Ovens has done much to further the
hope of a Christian people at a time when the darkness of Communism, our own business greed, intolerance, and immorality
gather to becloud the true Light. In an address delivered last fall at the Achievement Day Dinner of William Jewell
College, Hubert Eaton, president of American Security and Fidelity Corporation, brought out: “I would that all people, particularly businessmen, would
realize that to be able to support our Christian colleges is a great privilege. In the best sense such support
is indeed a contribution to the national defense, for the strength of America is finally decided by its faith in
the religious ideas which underlie democracy. Only by strengthening the Christian colleges can America have the leaders it needs to
survive. To that end, a man who is the type leader America needs, has given. The joy which Mr. Ovens
has received from watching the work of that which became his by dint of hard work and the grace of
God is undoubtedly satisfaction enough to him. But for the South, a man of David Ovens’ character wearing the label
of its outstanding citizen would indeed be a tribute to Dixie.

Has Y Forgotten Effectiveness Of “Faith On Campus” Booklet?

One of the deepest reaching arms of the YMCA, so far as the student body is concerned, was the publication
and distribution last spring of the day-by-day devotional booklet, “Faith on the Campus.” The writings of beliefs, ideas, and interpretations
by members of the student body carried to the reader a message that meant far more than would a similar
devotional from someone removed from the life of this campus. “Faith on the Campus” dealt with problems very near to
the Davidson student, because it was written by Davidsonians. It brought about an interchange of thought; students knew how others
on the campus looked on different teachings of the Bible. Importantly, it gave the student a chance for his religious
expression, one of the basic functions of the Young Men's Christian Association. Such a brief debut by “Faith on the
Campus” had the effect of a fleeting breeze on a sticky, hot day—refreshing, but gone too quick. Couldn't the Y
begin work now on a November or December publication so that this “breath of air” might prove life-giving throughout the
remainder of the school year?

Only Minor Changes Needed For Bulletin Board Success

For some three weeks now, as a part of efforts to improve chapel with the elimination of irrelevant announcements, the
bulletin board at the north end of Chambers has served as the communication center for the campus. As was expected,
there were kinks at first. The major difficulty was in getting the students to check by the board to see
if there were announcements there pertaining to them. When the mountain quit coming to Mohammed, however, Mohammed saw he must
go to the mountain, and the majority of the student populace has come to check the board regularly. Col. Ballard
was the first to prove that this would work in the ROTC department. Also, the board is too small. Often
a D club meeting tomorrow night is obscured by a tremendous poster asking if there's anyone going to Atlanta, December
13. And no lighting renders the board useless at night. These two handicaps are, however, soon to be done away
with by a large, lighted board to be erected in the near future. The Davidsonian happily notes the progress being
made, and would make but one further suggestion. Were the board partitioned off for organizations as is the old board
on second floor Chambers, one would know in a minute where to look for his announcement. Also, if each announcement
were standard in form and size, it would make for a fairer presentation of the announcements, such as was given
them when each was read in chapel.

FAMOUS LAST WORDS: “DON'T CUT IT SHORT — JUST TAKE A LITTLE OFF THE TOP.”

THE CABBAGE PLANTER: Hines, Fleas Scratch Off; Peroxide Pip Pulls Plaudits

Unlike his homonymous counterpart in the condiment line, Metropolitan singer Jerome Hines had not fifty-seven, but seven varieties to offer
the Davidson audience Friday night. However, it was not just in this respect that Mr. Hines and Mr. Heinz parted.
For, by all existing pure food and drug laws, the Catsup Connoisseur is required to list the ingredients on his
keystone-shaped label and to adhere reasonably close to his estimate when he fills his pickle jars. After reading over Mr.
Hines’ rectangular-shaped label and listening to what Mr. Hines had to offer, the keen observer could find a discrepancy or
two. And I use the term keen observer to signify only those who hadn’t dates. For it was clear that
the hit of the evening by far were the radiant and ruffled lassies without whom both the concert and the
weekend would have been, to turn a phrase, a disappointment.

It is doubtful that Mr. Hines, fresh from a community concert appearance in Asheville, has enjoyed either so well-dressed or
so responsive an audience during his tour. The reasons for the sartorial splendor out front were obvious: cold and convention
both ruled out T-shirts and made shoes obligatory. By the very nature of the occasion, the girls, at least, were
overly responsible. We hope that Mr. Hines, though he gave an entirely creditable performance, will not assume the laughter that
greeted his pleasantries to have been meant for him. Far from it; the girls who were at Davidson for the
first time were adjusting their laughter for ripple modulation in order to be the most entertaining partner possible for the
next two days. And of course the damsels who were old hands at this dance weekend business were simply proving
to their squires that they hadn’t become moribund over the summer.

For one with two fleas on his person, Mr. Hines hardly scratched at all. A striking figure, the bass gave
one the impression that despite the Lanzas, the Pinzas and their Hollywood cadenzas, there are some who will keep opera
as it was written going, out of nothing more than a stubborn preference for quality, prestige and art. Worth mentioning,
too, was his stage presence, perhaps overworked, but nevertheless disarming. The accompanist worked with the performer well, adjusting himself to
the acoustical conditions quickly and extending his solo period no longer than was appropriate. If any reader should happen to
meet him on the street, we would advise not calling him Alexander or Alexay, as stated on the program, since
he is neither, having been introduced as someone else whose name we don't know. Feel free to compliment him though,
since he did as well as any man who wasn't Alexander Alexay could have done.

There was one other artist on the campus over the weekend, though unfortunately the dean's office has asked us not
to release her name. She brought with her a (Continued on Page Four)

THE EDITOR’S MAILBOX: Obendorfer Says Christianity Major Influence In Davidson Education

Chicago, Sept. 18, 1951.

My Dear Dr. Cunningham:

On the occasion of a new academic year I want to express to you once more, before leaving this country,
my appreciation for the fine hospitality, genuine friendliness and the high regard for scholastic endeavor which I found at Davidson.
I was deeply impressed by the fine spirit of active and dynamic Christianity which I found on the Davidson campus.
I deem this country fortunate in having Christian schools like Davidson. I wish there were similar institutions in my country
which could exert a positive influence in creating a new generation of leaders with constructive attitudes and Christian ideals.

It is hard to express in words the many incentives for my life work which I received at Davidson. I
especially esteem the many sincere and enriching bonds of friendship which I established there. The friendly reception extended to me
I ascribe in large part to the fine spirit resting on Christian principles which prevails among the students and the
faculty. A spirit which has overcome even the spite and the bitterness of a recent war. I certainly hope I
shall be able to convey the significance of this experience to my people.

My hearty thanks to you and the college for the unforgettable year at Davidson. With best wishes that God may
bless you in your work as the leader of a Christian school. I remain,

Sincerely yours,

DIETER OBENDORFER.

(Ed. Note: Obendorfer was a transfer student attending Davidson last year. Dr. Cunningham passes his letter on to The Davidsonian
for the student body interest.)

POLL CAT

Would you rather have your Thanksgiving holiday on Thursday, November 22, or Saturday, November 24? This question was asked of
167 students in Watts, Georgia, West and East dormitories. The results: 81.44 per cent said Saturday, 14.37 per cent Thursday,
and 4.19 per cent had no choice.

COMMENTS:

GARY BARTON—I want Saturday because I'd like to see the Davidson-Tech game.

JIM SPEED—I'd rather have Thursday because you could take off Wednesday after class, get double cuts Friday and regular cuts
Saturday rather than double cuts both Friday and Sunday vespers.

LEIGHTON McCUTCHEN—It would allow me to see my folks before the Christmas holidays by meeting them in Atlanta at the
game.

TOM WILKINS—Thanksgiving is not a holiday but a day of giving thanks and should be reserved for that instead of
being arbitrarily set on just any day.

JOHN PITE—If the holiday is changed to Saturday, more students would have a chance to go home and be with
their families.

BULL FREEMAN—The holiday we are observing is Thanksgiving, so why not observe it on Thanksgiving Day.

NAT DANIELS

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1951Fifty Futile Football Years Or-What Price Moral Victory?

Since the Alma Mater’s latest defeats on the gridiron by Citadel and P. C., a semi-permanent sort of inferiority complex
seems to have settled once again over the student body, and in this time of despair it behooves us to
remind ourselves that the football problem at Davidson is not new at all, it is not simple, nor is its
solution easily available. In view of the fact that I have not participated as a member of the varsity squad,
and in the particular instance of last Saturday, was not present at the P. C. game, let me say before
I am rashly or unfairly criticized for the opinions and ideas set forth in this article that they are not
new, nor necessarily correct. All I’m attempting here is to show that for the past fifty years the plucky little
Wildcats have been getting beaten and for the same reason that they’re being beaten now—they just play out of their
class.

When I noticed the student body going back to sleep football-wise this week, after a brief first-half awakening, I decided
to see how long the problem had been with us, so I looked up and compiled some facts and figures
concerning Davidson’s intercollegiate football records of the past 50 years.

DICK ROPER: Since 1900 Davidson has played 393 intercollegiate football games. Of these, she has won 178, lost 182, and
tied 33 of them. The greater percentage of these losses has occurred since 1937, but there have been 16 seasons
in which Davidson has won more ball games than it lost or tied, and of these only four may be
considered good—1904, with a 6-1-1 record, 1926, the golden haloed year, with a 6-2-1, 1933, with a 6-2-1, and 1947,
with a 6-3-1. You will note that in 1947, when Uncle Sam was paying the bills for most of the
students, we had a football team because we had the material, and most important of all, the depth, of any
of our competition. As for losses, well, the worst licking N.C. State gave us (and here we seem to forget
that State has done that pretty often) was 1948's 40-0 fiasco, but in 1921-'22, Georgia Tech, foretelling of better things
to come, beat us 67-0, and 87-0, respectively. Then, we must remember, that even 1926's State Champions got beaten by
Hampden-Sydney and VMI, so they, too, were not infallible.

And so, Davidson has always had a football problem. It has been increased, to be sure, by modern trends in
subsidization, by the growth of Davidson's competition far out-proportioning that of her own student body, and by the proper evaluation
(in theory at least) of her executive committee in putting brains before brawn, and emphasizing the fact that a liberal
education is more important for the world of tomorrow than is a winning football team for Davidson today. In due
deference and respect to Coach Little and the football team, let me say that the 1951 Wildcats have a spark
of something I hadn't noticed before in four years, but despite her seconds and minutes of glory, from the first
to last whistle, Davidson has always been a medium-sized college with medium-sized faculties, paying medium-sized coach's salaries, but due to
pressure from the defeat-forgetting alumni and many other influences, still sticking her neck into big-time football, and more often than
not getting her head chopped off—and so it has been, with few exceptions, since 1900.

The question is then, can Davidson play big-time football? If the answer is yes, then it’s high time to get
started, if it is no, then take a look at the injured list, and let's stop this useless maiming.

KOREA GETTING US NOWHERE FAST; POLICY DECISION URGENTLY NEEDED

On a blood-stained little peninsula across the Pacific Ocean we are fighting a war which is getting us nowhere very
rapidly. In that abominable projection of Asia known as Korea, nearly 15,000 Americans have died, 60,000 have been maimed and
wounded, thousands more are reported missing in action—and what for? To avoid fighting a war on our own home grounds?
That's what the military men and the commander-in-chief of American armed forces say. We aver that we'll do anything to
keep the war off American soil. Sounds very safe and cozy for those on the home front, for fighting men
who wish to see their families protected from the horrors of war. But at the rate we're going, it hardly
seems that it'll work out that way.

We've been fighting a war of attrition for the past several months now. Since the Chinese communists entered the war
almost a year ago, we have had little hope other than to kill enough of the enemy so that he'll
want to stop fighting. But has it worked out that way? Not to date. When the commies get in a
bad way, they stall us off at peace conferences and dredge up a few hundred thousand more men from their
seemingly bottomless manpower pool, and then start things popping again. Newspaper correspondent Marguerite Higgins, in a recent interview with Chiang
Kai-shek, quoted the Chinese Nationalist Commander as saying the Communists have and are bringing up at the present many thousands
of fresh troops to throw into the Korean fray.

But the fact that makes the whole situation so hopeless, almost pathetically ridiculous, is that while we trade the life
of one American or other United Nations soldier for as many as ten of Mao Tse-Tung’s Reds, the men in
the Kremlin delightedly watch their cause being advanced without the expenditure of a single Russian soldier’s life. Recent announcements of
powerful new atomic weapons have lent hope to some that the Korean war might be brought to a swift ending.
Unfortunately, these weapons are not nearly perfected and cannot possibly do what has been claimed for them. Hanson W. Baldwin,
a military analyst with a reputation for knowing whereof he speaks, said in last Sunday's New York Times Magazine: “There
is no ‘absolute weapon’; wars are becoming more complex, not less so; weapons developments and security systems are more costly—not
less so... There are no miracles on the battlefield and wars today and tomorrow will not be won in a
bloodless blitz...”

If peace should come tomorrow in Korea, the thousands of casualties suffered in that theater may not seem so large
in view of the fact that Communist aggression has been repulsed. But if it drags on and on for months,
accomplishing nothing while more thousands are killed, we and our U.N. allies will be bled so white that all Stalin
will have to do will be to unleash his hundreds of divisions and it will sure enough be all we
can do to keep the war off our own soil. For every gold star mother there is an added drop
of bitterness shed into the turmoil of emotions which is America today. The military experts will agree that more than
one battle has been won on the home front, and should the long-feared “big war” follow on the heels of
several minor ones like Korea, the country will hardly be in any frame of mind or spirit to make another
supreme effort as it did in World War II.

Though it may sound so, this is not an entreaty to revert to isolationism: The quandary is, of course, whether
we should try to stem aggression at its inception, or withdraw to our own borders. Of course it is far
better to fight the war in other lands, but it also seems like we are trying to do too much
in our traipsing around the whole world fighting Stalin's henchmen wherever they may choose. Maybe somebody will think of an
answer. Meanwhile, men are fighting and dying with no immediate objective in sight. If ever a policy decision was urgently
needed, it is now. We can’t fight forever in Korea.

YMCA Provides Teachers For Three Local Sunday Schools

Serving three outside congregations with a staff of fifty boys, the YMCA Sunday School Extension Program is again giving teacher
aid to a large segment of people outside the Davidson community. Bethel Church near Cornelius, Cornelius, and the Sanatorium are
the churches served. Besides furnishing these localities with scarce teachers, the YMCA program provides experience for any number of interested
boys. This year the requests to teach reached a new high of fifty. The largest number of these boys go
to the Sanatorium where they are divided among the wards and the individual rooms. The visitors to the Sanatorium do
not all teach a lesson as some of the patients merely want to see someone from outside of the hospital.
Some of the patients are not interested and they are not visited. The boys that have gone to the Sanatorium
say that the most interested group is the Negro ward. Here, unlike the other wards, there are enough people to
sing. Four boys will be sent to Bethel. As yet only Allen Garrison and Bob Mitchell have taught there. At
Cornelius, there are two adult classes taught by Jim Faries and Ed Blanton. Special services are held at Christmas and
Easter with a professor giving a short sermon. This is made possible in the Sanatorium by the use of the
public address system. Bill Lee, director of the program says that more boys than ever have volunteered to teach and
he believes that the Y can do more this year than ever before.

Baseball Leads Professional Sports For Honesty In Recent Gallup Poll

By SHELLY BEARD

How honest or “on the level” are such professional sports as baseball, wrestling, horse racing, and boxing? Big league baseball
is given the cleanest bill of health of all by the general public. But only one person in every 13
gives professional wrestling a clean bill of health. Horse racing and professional boxing fare only slightly better. These attitudes were
revealed in a recent Gallup Poll. Each person was asked to give his opinion about the degree of honesty in
four leading types of sporting events. The object of the survey was to find out what sort of impressions prevail
among the general public, regardless of whether such impressions are correct and justified or not. Here are the proportions who
give each sport an entirely clean bill of health:

Wrestling—8 in every 100.
Horse racing—13 in every 100.
Boxing—24 in every 100.
Baseball—63 in every 100.

Almost 75 percent of those interviewed said some or all of wrestling was fixed, while only 22 percent believed any
baseball games were fixed. Those questioned were also asked which sports they followed, and it was found that the fans
are more inclined than the general public to think the contests are not subject to “fixes.”

Recent revelations of bribery and “fixing” in both college and professional sports, have led to a demand that Congress conduct
a sweeping probe of all big-time sports. A House committee is now considering such a move. A national commission to
rule on all sports has likewise been suggested.
