BRITAIN... CASH FOR CASUALTIES (See Roper, Page 2)

VOLUME XXXIX

ODK’s Recognize Campus Leaders

Last Tuesday in chapel Omicron Delta Kappa held its annual spring tapping day. A short address by Dr. C. K.
Brown was followed by the tapping of ten new members, five of whom are seniors and five members of the
Junior class. The following were inducted:

TOMMY HALLER
Tommy is a pre-dental senior from Pulaski, Virginia. He was a mainstay on this year’s basketball team and high point
man on the track squad in his junior year. Last fall he served as cheerleader. He was YMCA social chairman,
Pan-Hell representative, a member of Sigma Delta Psi, and is a brother in Phi Gamma Delta.

RAY CUNNINGHAM
A business major from the hometown, Ray won this year an award given to the outstanding Davidson student from Mecklenburg
County by the alumni. Ray has served this year as freshman advisor and was on the swimming team. He is
a senior and a member of Beta Theta Pi. He attended Darlington prep school in Rome, Georgia, where he played
varsity football and was a member of the Honor Council.

IRVING STUBBS
Calling Norfolk, Virginia, his home, Irving plans to enter the ministry. He has been president of the Philanthropic Literary Society,
president of the Honorary Fraternity Council, and vice-president of Sigma Upsilon. He has worked steadily with the YMCA forums and
the United Film Society. He was vice-president of Sigma Chi fraternity.

HARTLEY HALL
Hartley Hall hails from Macon, Georgia, and plans a life career in business and politics. Last year he served as
commander of the ROTC cadet corps. He was president of Eumanean Literary Society and has been an active member of
all three publications’ staffs. In high school Hartley was president of the international Key Club. He recently worked with the
forum on Communism. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.

WOODY LEACH
Last fall Woody Leach was co-captain of the football squad. He was elected to serve on the Athletic Council. He
plans to be a teacher. Woody lives in DeFuniak Springs, Florida. He is warden in Phi Delta Theta. For superior
work in Military Science, Woody was awarded the medal of distinguished military student. He commands the First battalion of the
ROTC regiment.

TOM STOCKTON
This year's first vice president of the student body was Tom Stockton. He served also as secretary-treasurer in his sophomore
year. Only a junior this year, he looks forward to a full season on the cross country and track teams
next season. Tom, a member of Kappa Sigma, is pre-ministerial and hails from Winston-Salem, North Carolina.

MAC McLEAN
Mac will serve as president of the student body for the next year. This year he held the office of
second vice-president. He is on both the basketball and golf teams. His sophomore year he was president of his class.
Mac is a pre-medical Kappa Sigma who calls Charlotte, North Carolina, his home.

ALENDA LUX

The Davidsonian

ORTA CIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, MAY 11, 1951

Professor C. B. Eberhardt, world traveler, student of the ruins, king of the camel caravans, and professor of Bible at
Davidson College, was snapped in this informal shot while riding past the Sphinx and adjacent pyramids in the backdrop, or
rather in the background. The number 9 is unexplained, the name of the camel unknown. (Photo by Kahyam’s Kodak Service
No. 3).

The Eberhardt I Knew... “I Can See Shephelah Now”

(This is the first in a series of one article about the trip of Davidson’s own “Abdul” Eberhardt to the
Mid-East. The middle lump is Eberhardt.—Ed.)

By MIKE MYERS

A somewhat sunburned Charles B. Eberhardt closed the door at his paneled study and gave the Davidsonian the first inside
story of his recent journey to the Mid-East. The purpose of his 3½ month trip, sponsored by the American School
of Oriental Research, was to conduct archaeological and geological research in the lands so often mentioned in his Bible lectures—the
Holy Lands.

BEAVERS SLAP THIRTEEN FOR MEMBERSHIP

The annual Beaver Club initiations were held on Thursday evening, May 3, at 7:30 in Phi Hall. Those being initiated
were Bill Dobbins, Ed Adams, Easy Henley, Max Devane, Corky Johnson, Johnny Bremer, Buddy Williamson, Herschel Allen, Ed Stuart, Bill
Shipley, John Holt, and Buddy McKay, all rising Sophomores, plus Jack Ruth, a rising junior.

New officers elected at the meeting consist of Bob Henry, who replaces Mac Maclean as president; Gordon Stuart, who replaces
Allen Strand as vice-president, and Ed Stuart, replacing Gordon Stuart as secretary-treasurer. New members are selected not only from athletic
ability and being recipients of the Freshman numeral, but are also judged on their abilities as leaders. They remain active
members of this organization until they become rising seniors, when they become retired from the club.

Outstanding among the fine contributions which this club made to the school during the year was the clothing drive which
was held during the first semester. The Beavers ushered at several athletic events free of charge, then used the money
which they would have otherwise gotten for their personal use to be put into a “kitty,” and saved in order
to provide entertainment for visiting athletic teams. Next year, the club plans other various activities, including an attempt to revitalize
the "Davidson Spirit.”

BRYAN ROBINSON
Bryan will head his fraternity next year as president of Kappa Alpha. He will serve also as president of Philanthropic
Literary Society. This year he has been head of the Forensic Council and vice-president of the YMCA. He is pre-ministerial
and from Thomasville, Georgia. Bryan has also worked extensively with Boy Scouts in Davidson and Mecklenburg County.

ALLAN STRAND
A mainstay on the tennis team, Allan is to be head man in the YMCA next year. This past year
he has served as vice president of the Y. Allan comes from Greensboro, North Carolina, and plans his life work
in the ministry. He is secretary of his fraternity, Phi Delta Theta, and a member of the Beaver Club.

BILL WHITE
Bill White will step up to the head position on The Davidsonian for the next session. He has served as
sports editor this year and is a hurdler on the track team. Recently he was awarded a scholarship as outstanding
Kappa Sigma in leadership and scholarship in North and South Carolina. He hails from Charlotte and is a business major.

Dick Boyd Stars In French Drama

At a dinner meeting of the Cercle Francais held at Chez Montet in Charlotte Tuesday night the following officers were
elected for the next year: president, J. V. Hunter; vice-president, R. M. Bulgin; secretary, H. N. Cannon; treasurer, A. V.
Goldiere. The French Club of Charlotte had a good delegation to join the local club for this special meeting. The
following cast presented the one act play, “Cupidon, Dentiste:”

Le Dentiste: J. R. Boyd, Jacques LeLefranc, W. H. Bell, Marguerite Didier: R. R. Hart; Le Gres Monsieur: R. M.
Bulgin; La Vieille Dame: W. W. Crymes; La Bonne: W. B. Lord.

To accomplish this, Prof. Eberhardt was pretty much on his own. Leaving New York January 18, he flew overnight to
Scotland, spent seven days there and seven more days in England. Then on to Geneva (where he visited the offices
of the World Council of Churches) and Rome (where an audience with the Pope was arranged). While in Rome he
visited the catacombs and excavations. On Feb. 2 he emerged from his diggings, saw his own shadow, and, fearing rain,
immediately pushed on to his destination, Jerusalem, where he made his headquarters. There he joined other members of the ASOR
and went to Jericho, Egypt and the Lower Nile (where a special overflowing of the banks was held in his
honor) and flew over the Dead Sea area... here a far-away look came into the professor's closed eyes—which in itself
is a good trick—as he raised his clenched fists to his brow... “I can see the Shephelah now.” All the
while he was taking pictures from Lebanon to Egypt. When we asked if we might run the above picture he
reluctantly answered with a negative.

Prof. Eberhardt was particularly impressed with the peculiarity of the Arab—and vice versa. Instead of the expected sheet-clad camel operators
he found 90 percent living in well-developed towns. The other 10 percent were sheet-clad camel operators. The most irritating thing
about his desert trips? The packs of camels which were mean and constantly up to mischief. They reminded him of
the Davidson faculty meetings when each student’s schedule was looked up so all...Reviews could come on one day. Other than
instances with the camels, there were no unpleasantries, unless you count the time his entire party almost lost their lives.
A flash rain caught them in the Arabian desert near the spot where David sent Uriah to his death in
battle so he might wed the beautiful Bath-Sheba. Instantaneously, the desert was turned into a sea of mud. They were
marooned. When out of the thundering paths, a lorry (ten-wheel British truck) chanced to come along and carried them to
safety. Dangerous Arab bands were in that section, but luckily the truck reached them first. The return trip was made
by way of Cyprus (this was heavenly—skiing, swimming, sailing in March—perfect climate—only 120 miles long—location of Shakespeare's “Othello”—wish we could
move Davidson there), Patmos, where John wrote Revelations; Greece, where he retraced Paul’s footsteps: Athens, Corinth, Nice, London, and finally
via the Queen Mary to New (Continued on Page Four).

ORGANIZATIONS NAME LEADERS FOR NEXT YEAR

Delta Phi Alpha

Delta Phi Alpha held its last meeting of the year last Wednesday night at the home of Dr. Vowles. Alfred
Neumann, president, conducted the election of next year’s officers. The new officers are Charles Herion, president; Tony Tucker, vice president;
MacFarland, secretary-treasurer.

At a meeting of the Eumanean Society, the following officers were elected: President, Jack Hunter; vice president, Carlyle Crenshaw; Secretary,
Buddy Lamon; and treasurer, Shelley Beard.

Scabbard and Blade

Charles Harper Newbold has been elected Captain of Scabbard and Blade. Dick Boyd and Kirk Oglesby were named First and
Second Lieutenants, respectively, and Sib Dorton was voted first sergeant. Bill Bacon will hold the post of Drill Captain.

Masquers

The Red and Black Masquers met for their final meeting of the year on Tuesday, May 8th. At this meeting,
which was held at Phi Hall, the chapter elected officers for the coming year, which are: president, Ted Daniels; vice-president,
Fergus Currie; secretary, Vance Mizelle; treasurer, Bill and Jim (Continued on Page Four).

NUMBER TWENTY-FIVE

Voting Closes

Dick Stockton On Y Board Cheerleader

FREEMAN, PLUMMER, AND CRAVEN ON Y BOARD; PEPPER ELECTED

Spring elections came to a close this week with the selection of “Y” board members, head cheerleader, and the Publications
Board. Bill Freeman was chosen as the senior member of the Y.M.C.A. Board of Control. A standout in the Wildcat
football line for three years, Freeman is an active member of the Beaver Club and D-Club, and Phi Gamma Delta
social fraternity. Gene Craven, a Phi Delt from Boone, N. C., and a Southern Conference wrestling champion, and Stuart Plummer,
from Asheville, were chosen as Junior Class representatives. Stuart, a member of the male chorus this year and a standout
on the Sigma Chi fraternity basketball team, plans to enter the ministry.

Head cheerleader for the coming season will be Francis Pepper, who defeated Eric Clark in the final ballot. Before coming
to Davidson, Pepper was head cheerleader for Reynolds High in Winston-Salem. He is Beta Theta Pi’s representative on the Pan
Hellenic Council and was elected swimming team co-captain by his teammates.

The Publications Board members were elected on the first ballot, and are the editors of the three school publications: Bill
White, Bill Adams, and Jim Vickeisen. Of particular interest in the way of improvement in elections was the increase in
the percentage of the student body voting, due to the new procedure. The average balloting for this year was between
600-625, as compared with 150-200 last year.

CHESS CHAPTER TAKES FIRST WIN FROM CHARLOTTE

The Davidson Chess Club, formed about a month ago, tried out its wings in a match with the Charlotte Chess
Club on Tuesday night. Led by Dr. B. D. Thompson at board 1, the local club won a decisive victory
13-10. Two game winners were Clarence Sanders, board 3; Warren Herron, board 4; Dr. F. W. Johnston, board 6. Dr.
Thompson, Dr. McGavock, Hugh Trotti, Jack MacQueen, Jim Thompson, Carl Sims, and Prof. Bryan Gresham each won one and lost
one at boards 1, 2, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 12 respectively. Bill Cummings and Prof. Holloman at boards 5
and 11 lost close games to their opponents. With this victory under their belt, the local club members are encouraged
to go ahead with plans for a Chess Club next year.

Eleven Appointed To Fill 'Y' Cabinet Posts For ‘51-52

The YMCA Cabinet for the coming year has recently been announced by Allan Strand. Recommendations from retiring cabinet members, from
the “Y” Secretary, and from the officers themselves made a list of almost fifty students to be considered for the
cabinet positions, and only after much deliberation were the final selections made. The members and their positions of duty are
as follows: Hall Prayer Meetings, Stuart Plummer; Fall and Spring Services, Tom Stockton; College Bible Class, Jim Speed; Social, Bill
Buckey; Publications, Pete Kalogridis; Race Relations and Community Work, George Nickels; Student Government, Mac McLean; Freshman Adviser, Bill Buckey; Deputations,
George Knight; Sunday School Extension, Bill Lee; Forums, Hubert Cannon. Several positions are still to be filled. Though the final
decisions have not been made, Strand is sure that Bryan Robinson and Bill Adams will be offered places on the
cabinet. Both the retiring cabinet and the new one will meet in a retreat to be held Sunday, May 13.
This conference is to acquaint the new members with their future positions and to discuss suggestions and plans for the
coming year. The first major duty of the cabinet will be to serve as the group leaders for the Freshman
Orientation Period next September.

Chosen Pan-Hell Head For ‘51-‘52

The Zeus of the Greeks for the coming year is going to be Dick Stockton. The Pan-Hellenic Council picked Dick
as president along with Joe Miller as treasurer and Ken Taylor as secretary. Dick, a Kappa Sigma brother, is from
Winston-Salem, N. C., and has proven to be one of the most versatile men on the Davidson campus. As one
of the most promising members of the track team, Dick has currently been running the quarter mile for Coach Pete
Whittle’s cinder-men, and was a mainstay part of the distance runners during the cross country season. This current year he
has served as president of the junior class in addition to being a member of the D Club, Beaver Club,
and Philanthropic Literary Society. A business major, Dick resides in the Village.

Stockton reports that the Pan-Hell has been drawing up regulations for next year’s Rush Week. The plans now are to
have five nights and one afternoon of rushing. All other features of the week will remain the same as in
the past season. In addition, plans are being made for the Pan-Hellenic dances next year with tentative dates being set.
A financial report from the Council states that at present it has sixty dollars in the bank with about two
hundred dollars still expected to come in before the end of the school year.

Dick Stockton

Ken Wilson-Jones Wins Scholarship In France; Others Cited

Outstanding among such annual awards as the Agnes Sentell Brown Citations to be presented Wednesday, May 16 in Chapel, is
a Fulbright Scholarship given to Ken Wilson-Jones. Kenneth Wilson-Jones of Monroe, N. C., a member of the senior class of
Davidson College, was awarded a Fulbright grant for study at the University of Dijon, France, for the academic year 1951-1952.
Mr. Jones has majored in French at Davidson and will continue his studies in French language and literature at Dijon.
This is the second Davidson student to win a Fulbright award for studies in French, Charles Hadley of Statesville, N.
C., winning a scholarship in 1949 for a year’s study at the University of Besancon. Mr. Jones will leave for
France during the fall of 1951, and will spend a month in Paris en route as a guest of the
United States Educational Foundation for France. An orientation course is given to all arriving Fulbright award recipients. Mr. Jones will
receive round trip transportation by rail and water from Monroe to Dijon, tuition at the University of Dijon, and allowances
for books and maintenance for one academic year.

Basic eligibility requirements are: United States citizenship, a bachelor’s degree or its equivalent at the time the award is taken
up, knowledge of the language of the country sufficient to carry on the proposed study. Selection is made on the
basis of the applicant's personal qualifications for study abroad, academic record, value of the proposed study or research, and suitability
for placement in an institution of higher learning abroad. The scholarships are highly competitive, there being thousands of applicants each
year. No written examination will be held but an interview will be required of all grantees.
