PAGE FOUR

A post-mortem on the weeks-old football season may not make the most exciting reading, but it seems to this reporter that some words are in order on the accomplishments and failings of the '52 Wildcat gridders. At first glance, the most obvious shortcoming of Coach Bill Dole’s team would seem simply that they didn’t win but two games. However, when you look at the handicaps under which the Cats labored this year—small squad, rough schedule, injuries, etc.—that record doesn't look so bad. If nothing else, it was an improvement on the 1951 record of 1-8.

On the credit side of the ledger, there are a lot of things to enter, most notably the fact that the '52 Cats were a team with more hustle and spirit than has been seen around Richardson Field for some years. They fought hard against overwhelming odds (e.g., the Harvard game) and managed to look like a team most of the season even with many key men out with injuries. The biggest single factor in making Davidson football what it was in 1952 was undisputedly the Wildcats’ head coach, Bill Dole. The boys who played for him will be the first ones to tell you that. Dole inspired confidence in his team and showed them how to play football so that they, as well as the fans, could get a kick out of the game. With a squad cut down to less than thirty men at the end of the season by injuries and sickness, Dole juggled players and kept his team going. Without his skill at moving his men around (and their willing compliance with his wishes), the Cats would hardly have won the Richmond game and wouldn't have held some other opponents to as low scores as they did.

After the '52 season, it appears that Coach Bill Dole will have a job coaching football at Davidson for a long time—or as long as he wants to have the job. Davidson is lucky to have a man of Dole’s caliber as head man in its football program, but even with the best coach, a football team can't win unless it has material and favorable conditions under which to work. Dole will not in the near future have much money to work with. It is possible that he will be able to draw on a slightly larger fund for scholarships next season if the Wildcat Club can kick in a little more, but the Cat headmaster will have to depend chiefly on his ability to recruit the very best talent he can find—the kind which can make the grade at Davidson and will be willing to come here instead of the bigger schools. That’s no small feat, but it’s obviously what Dole will have to do to field winning teams.

As far as the more nebulous condition which we mentioned above—favorable circumstances to work under—is concerned, Coach Dole is going to have an even harder time in the next few seasons. Unless some small Southern Conference college can push through legislation to allow freshmen to play on varsity teams, Dole will have one more hardship to contend with next season. (The powers that be at D. C. are opposed to frosh participation in varsity sports.) Otherwise, the situation looks pretty good for the Wildcat head man. He's been getting a favorable press, his team likes him, and after his first season, the students and faculty seem to think he's a pretty good guy.

(Continued On Page Six)

By DICK ROPER

DUKE NEXT IN LINE

Swimmers Set To Open Season

THE DAVIDSONIAN

With Clemson Meet On Tuesday

By MOODY SMITH

Davidson's 1952-53 swimming team opens its season Tuesday afternoon at Clemson when the Catfish will take to the water against a favored Cadet team.

SAEs Declared Interfraternity Swim Champions

Sigma Alpha Epsilon was declared the winner of the interfraternity swimming meet this week after a member of the high-scoring Phi Delt team was found to be ineligible. The SAEs finished the meet with 19 points. The Phi Delts amassed 22 points during the course of the meet but lost seven because of the ineligible man. The third place Sigma Chis added 103 points to their year's total and now lead in the competition for the interfraternity sports championship with 336 points.

Following are winners and runners-up in all events of the meet:

The 150-yard relay was won by the Phi Delts, with the Betas and Sigma Chis as runners-up. Time—1:38.5. Charlie Haigh, Pi Kapps, beat Henry Brown, SAE, for the 25-yard free-style title. Time—11.9. Dave Burns, SAE, bested Bo Abernethy, Kappa Sig, in the 50-yard backstroke. Time—34.5. Charlie Haigh, Pi Kapp, outswam Jim Daughdrill, Phi Delt, to win the 50-yard freestyle event. Time—26.5. John Stiefel, SAE, won the 50-yard breaststroke with Stan Topple, Phi Delt, coming in second. Time—35.6. Ken Partin, Sigma Chi, bested the efforts of Jim Daughdrill, Phi Delt, to win the 75-yard freestyle event. Bo Abernethy won the Individual Medley event for the Kappa Sigs, with John Stiefel bringing second place honors to the SAEs. The Phi Delts won the 200-yard relay, with the Betas and Sigma Chis coming in behind.

WILDCAT OF THE WEEK: Dudley: Furman’s Nightmare

By DICK LILES

In case you were one of the unfortunate few who didn't see the Wildcat basketballers’ 71-67 win over Furman last Tuesday, it might be interesting to know the principal cause for the near explosion of Johnston Gym with the cheers of the Cats’ supporters. It was Joe (The Needle) Dudley who put 28 points through the hoop for Danny Miller’s team in their Southern Conference opener and consequently was the main reason the Cats upset the favored Hurricane, and a better performance on the hardwood has rarely been witnessed in this area.

It was not just getting 28 points on 12 field goals that clinched Wildcat of the Week honors for Joe, but also his sparkling play so far this year and his 16.33-point average in the present campaign. Joe played well last year and was first team the majority of the time. He was second only to Bill Brooks in total points with 292 points for an 11.2 average, but if he continues the pace he is setting this year, he will easily better these old marks.

The lean Winston-Salem native was pouring in that push shot from all over the court and keeping the basket about as busy as Old Glory in a stiff breeze Tuesday night. Frank Selvy was as hot as the proverbial firecracker, but before the game was over all of the local attention had shifted from the potential all-American to Mister Dudley. The fast and hectic first half saw Joe put 18 points through the hoop, and even with the Furman defense hot after him in the second, Dudley managed ten more.

A student manager at State recently remarked that Joe “is the thinnest d—— basketball player I ever saw.” He certainly wasn't far from wrong for the 6-4 frame carries between 160 and 165 pounds soaking wet, but Dudley doesn’t let this hinder his hustle and scrap especially under the baskets. Joe’s success in this cage game is a story in itself which was reported last year when Joe made his first Wildcat of the week appearance. The most amazing fact was that Joe came to college and only considered coming out forTennis, which is really his game and one that he plays with the same determination as basketball, he decided to try his ability on the hardwood, however, and both he and Coach Boyd Baird (Continued On Page Six).

It will be the first of ten meets for the Davidsons, who are beginning the season with a new coach, Carroll Hambright, and with several new men in the lineup who are going to be counted upon heavily to fill the many places vacated by last year’s graduation. Hambright only recently took over the duties of coaching them, but the Catfish swimmers have been working out for several weeks under the tutelage of swimming instructor Tyke Ellis.

Won Six Last Year

Last season, the second in Wildcat intercollegiate swimming history, saw the Davidson squad win six meets while losing only four. Two of the Cat wins came at the expense of Clemson. Davidson will go into Tuesday’s meet with a definite handicap, having practiced only two weeks. Clemson’s team will have one match with South Carolina behind them. Hambright said that the Cat's chief weakness at present was a lack of sprinters and divers, and that he would welcome any new prospects for the squad in these two departments. “There are several capable swimmers who could do us some good, who are either transfers, or ineligible for other reasons this season,” Hambright commented this week.

Among the swimmers now making up the team, veterans Jim Bryan and Al Ormond appear headed for another successful season. Bryan, a senior, excels in the backstroke, while Ormond, last season's high point scorer, is something of a jack-of-all-trades. Other returnees from last season of whom much is expected include Paul Cole, George Crone, Bob Patten, Jim Golding, Bud Montgomery, John Stiefel, and Ken Partin. Among the frosh, Larry Parrot and P. L. Hicks have been looking good in practice sessions. The greatest losses to the Catfish came last year with the graduation of stalwarts Aubrey Miree, Ken Taylor, and Ed Stuart. Stuart, a junior, is studying in India this year, but will probably return to Davidson by next season.

ALL SET FOR ANOTHER BIG YEAR
AL ORMOND

Groaners In Chapel Hill For Meet With UNC Today

By BILL SLEDGE

Eight Wildcat wrestlers are in Chapel Hill today for their first dual meet of the season with the highly-rated Carolina team. Little is known about the Tar Heels as this is their first match of the year, but pre-season forecasts rate them as one of the best teams in the conference. Coach Charlie Parker wasn't very optimistic as to the outcome of the match. Parker's 123 lb. class ace, Bobby Joe Key, is ineligible and won't be able to wrestle until the second semester. Gene Craven, probably the strongest man on the team, received a shoulder injury last week and will be out of action until after the Christmas holidays. Coach Parker said that the weakest point of the team was its lack of experienced men in the 177 lb. class and the heavyweight division. He stated that the team probably wouldn't round into top form until about mid-season, but by then he expects to be able to put a strong team into action. One of the biggest losses of the Wildcats will be to Uncle Sam. Morley Vail, 147 lb. class, received his draft notice last week and will wrestle his last match against Carolina today. Last week against Auburn, Emory, and VMI, he got two falls from some of the best men in his weight in the South.

The probable starters for Davidson will be: Dick Webb, 123; Charlie Murray, 130; Don Reid, 137; Morley Vail, 147; John Buxton, 157; Bill Coe, 167; Bill McElveen, 177; Joe Sugg, heavyweight.

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1952

RCA: CAGERS

Miller’s Team Hot After Furman Win

By JOHN HANDLEY

Davidson’s scrappy Wildcats will travel over to Durham next Tuesday to try their luck against Duke's ever-dangerous Blue Devils. The Dukes, though playing without the services of their graduated great, Dick Groat, are a fine team and will be out to better their 1-1 record. After dropping their first game to strong Wake Forest, the Blue Devils outscored Washington and Lee last Tuesday to even up their record. The Cats will have to watch such Blue Devils as Rudy Lacy, Rudy D'Emilio, and Bill Reigel. All three of these men played on Duke’s great team last year. All three sport averages of over 15 points in their three games to date. D'Emilio and Reigel both hold guard positions while Lacy fires ‘em from his center slot. This trio accounted for 60 of Duke's 91 scored against W&L the other night. The Cats will be gunning to knock off another of the big conference games as they face the Blue Devils. Fresh from their thrilling upset victory over the highly-touted Furman, the Wildcats will be seeking Victory Number Three. In their 71-67 triumph over Furman, Miller’s men were led by (Continued On Page Six).

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE STANDINGS*

North Carolina ........ 3 0
Wake Forest ............ 2 0
West Virginia .......... 2 0
Maryland ................. 1 0
North Carolina State 3 1
Davidson .................. 2 1
George Washington .. 1 1
Duke .......................... 1 1
South Carolina .......... 1 1
Clemson ..................... 0 1
VMI ............................. 0 1
VPI .............................. 0 1
Richmond .................. 0 1
The Citadel ............... 0 1
Furman ...................... 0 2
William & Mary ........ 0 2
Washington & Lee .... 0 4

*Correct through Tuesday’s games.

Winter Sports Schedule

BASKETBALL
Coach—Danny Miller
Dec. 16—Duke at Durham
Jan. 3—South Caro. at Davidson
Jan. 6—N.C. State at Davidson
Jan. 10—Tennessee at Knoxville
Jan. 13—North Caro. at Chapel Hill
Jan. 17—Wake Forest at Winston
Feb. 7—The Citadel at Charleston
Feb. 9—Tennessee at Davidson
Feb. 13—Clemson at Davidson
Feb. 17—McCrary at Asheboro
Feb. 19—The Citadel at Davidson
Feb. 21—Furman at Greenville
Feb. 23—Clemson at Clemson
Feb. 24—Duke at Davidson
Feb. 28—Va. Tech at Blacksburg

WRESTLING
Coach—Charlie Parker
Dec. 12—No. Caro. at Chapel Hill
Jan. 12—N.C. State at Raleigh
Jan. 17—W&L at Lexington
Feb. 7—Duke at Davidson
Feb. 21—The Citadel at Davidson
Feb. 28—VPI at Blacksburg
Mar. 5-6—Conference Meet—(Site to be selected).

SWIMMING
Coach—Carroll Hambright
Dec. 16—Clemson at Clemson
Jan. 13—South Caro. at Columbia
Jan. 17—The Citadel at Charleston
Jan. 31—North Caro. at Davidson
Feb. 6—N.C. State at Davidson
Feb. 9—South Caro. at Davidson
Feb. 13—W.&L. at Davidson
Feb. 16—V.P.I. at Blacksburg
Feb. 21—The Citadel at Davidson
Feb. 26-27-28—Conference Meet

RIFLE TEAM
Dec. 12—Clemson at Clemson (shoulder to shoulder)
Dec. 13—Pennsylvania, Georgia Tech, Niagara, Montana State, Temple (postal)
Jan. 10—V. M. I. at Davidson (shoulder to shoulder)
Jan. 10—Furman, Denver, Mercer (postal)
Jan. 17—Florida, Marion Institute (postal)
Feb. 7—Henderson State, Mississippi (postal)
Feb. 13—Clemson at Davidson (shoulder to shoulder)
Feb. 14—Duke, Tennessee (postal)
Feb. 21—North Georgia, Connecticut, Saint Norbert (postal)
Feb. 28—Gordon Military, Knox, Georgia, Wyoming (postal)
Feb. 28—State ROTC match at Davidson (shoulder to shoulder)
Mar. 7—Oklahoma Military (postal)