PAGE FOUR

Judge Recounts Work Of Court For Year, Surveys Future Of Body
By E. H. BARRY

The purpose of the Court of Control this year has been twofold. In the first place, among the upperclasses there are some who seem to have a desire to subject the freshmen to all manners of indignity. The court must satisfy this desire to some extent. This, however, is not the chief function. In the second place and most important, it is the duty of the court to help the new students integrate themselves into the student body. In this capacity, the court should instill in the freshmen our many traditions and that intangible something which we call the “Davidson Spirit.” The Freshmen Regulations show evidences of both of these purposes, but the second is given far more emphasis. Each year there are several new men who find it impossible to abide by these regulations. In such cases, the court must take action to prevent repeated violations by the same men. This year we have again used the counseling system. Here the offender is made a “stud boy” for some upperclassman, often a member of the court. He is required to do various menial tasks for the upperclassmen, such as washing cars, going to the stud, etc. Usually these upperclassmen have been previously contacted and have shown a willingness to help. Through this association, it is hoped that the upperclassman will be able to help the freshman become more adapted to Davidson and our way of life. For punishments this year, the court has tried to use the offenders constructively. They have helped the football managers, helped on the Davidsonian, assisted the annual staff, and have been made available for other purposes. There have been other punishments, as a necessity, but wherever possible we have attempted to make them constructive. For the Court to be effective, it must have the support and cooperation of the entire student body. Cooperation has been good this year, but there is room for improvement. First, the chapel programs should have the solemnity that would be conducive to the respect which the court needs from the freshmen. Secondly, we need more action and less complaints on the parts of the upperclassmen. If the old men would be especially aware of freshman violations during the first weeks of school and reprimand the offenders as well as charge them before the court, we believe that the freshmen would be more impressed with the fact that we mean business. Many upperclassmen have also been lax in making charges and have allowed violations to go uncharged or unreprimanded. The greatest weakness of the court this year has been that it is completely dependent on the cooperation and support of the upperclasses. This should not be the weakness, but rather the strength of a strong court. We hope that these suggestive improvements will be considered next year by the new court as well as by all upperclassmen.

DAVIDSONIAN ABROAD
(Continued From Page Two)

What more color as the lights of Piccadilly Circus gaily flash across the sky. One is amazed that the night can transform this place so. In every doorway, happy people can be seen sipping their suds and generally raising much hell. Here the tourist feels much more welcome for these Limeys are willing to show you a fine time for the precious American dollars which they are obviously after. All good things must come to an end as you crawl into your straw mattress sack with the sun now glowing through the dusty window panes. You begin to feel as if you and these strange beings might have just a few things in common. So life moves on in the world’s largest Stench Pot and at last the happy day arrives when you move out. Amid the same curses heard upon arrival, you board that welcomed train which will whisk you away to the north. There you know from all reports that a truly “Southern Hospitality” awaits and what a relief after living in London amid the old belief of survival of the fittest. Oh!! London, with your many sights, your Queens, Queen Mothers, and Queen Grandmothers, where many have been but few return. When will you awaken to the fact that you just ain't holding it?

PHI GAMS COP...
(Continued from Page Three)

Simmons (Kappa Sigma) defeated Cousar (Phi Delt) in the consolation. Following are the final standings with the number of points each fraternity earned:
Phi Gam ---------------- 38
Sig Ep ----------------- 31
Kappa Sigma ----------- 24
SAE ------------------- 23
Phi Delt --------------- 17
Sigma Chi ------------- 16
Kappa Alpha ----------- 15
Pi Kapps -------------- 11
Beta ------------------- 1
ATO ------------------- 5
Independent ----------- 5
Pika ------------------- 1
Campus Club ----------- 0

ES VAIL, CRAVEN...
(Continued From Page Three)

Closing out its year's work is the Court of Control composed of: Dick Perkins, Judge Earnest Barry, Arnold Whisnant, Dickie Davis, Billy Shipley, Ish Bennett, and Recorder Gene Craven.

Season’s Schedule
The wrestling schedule for the...

THACKER LAUDED...
(Continued From Page Three)

Player in the Southern Conference, Jim was one of the 18 that received votes out of the slew of backs in the conference. Not without reasons did the diminutive Thacker win all these honors (the first time a Davidsonian since Auburn Lambeth got some glory in his final year), for he was first in the Big Five scoring column with 60 points for ten touchdowns. His 6.8 yards-per-try rushing average was tops in the Southern circuit and he tied for third in scoring with Sturgess of W&M and Stone of W. Va. Also, Jim's 539 yards rushing was sixth in the conference. Not only as a runner is this scooter known, but his average as a kicker, especially quick-kick...

GRADUATES’ SCHOOLS
(Continued From Page One)

Broad fields of undergraduate study and advanced level tests of achievement in various subject matter fields. According to ETS, candidates are permitted several options among these tests. Application forms and a Bulletin of Information, which provides details of registration and administration as well as sample questions, may be obtained from college advisers or directly from Educational Testing Service, P. O. Box 592 Princeton, N. J. A completed application must reach the ETS office at least two weeks before the date of the administration for which the candidate is applying.

THEATRE
THUR.- FRI, DEC. 4-5
“What Price Glory”
JAMES CAGNEY
DAN DAILEY

SATURDAY, DEC. 6
Aaron Slick From Punkin Crick
ALLEN YOUNG
DINAH SHORE

MON.-TUES., DEC. 8-9
My Wife's Best Friend
ANNE BAXTER
MACDONALD CAREY

THE DAVIDSONIAN

French Club Meets At Dr. Goldiere’s
Le Cercle Francais, the honorary French fraternity, held its regular monthly meeting November 25, at the home of Professor A. V. Goldiere. Among the highlights of the meeting were a piano solo, Polonaise (Chopin) played by “Monsieur” Gregory Dimijian, and a...Short skit “Un Peu Exagéré.” Taking part in the skit were Dave Jones, Bill Edwards, Gwinn Griffin, Max Devane, Fred Summers, Tom Shaw, and Tommy Dove. Afterwards, the members of Le Cercle sang some French songs, and refreshments were served.

FROSH FATE... (Continued From Page One)
Fifteen-man squad on the rope for the freshmen. As in accordance with last year’s rules, a man may enter only one event. Richard Holshouser and Charlie Curry are freshmen in charge of organizing a band which will furnish music during the game and entertainment in the form of a variety show afterwards. Leading the frosh in cheering and yelling will be Jerry Walker and his band of merrymakers. They will organize the freshmen cheers and strive to keep their spirits high. Charlie Cousar, president of the sophomore class, is the coordinator of the sophomore teams and will lead his forces against the freshmen on the big day. Larry Dagenhart is quoted as saying, “The freshmen are showing a lot of spirit; the sophomores will have to get on the ball if they want to win.”

Jim is also top-notch. He has averaged close to 40 yards in two years. Jim is known to be a fine pass-receiver and even did some passing in the Citadel game, completing 4 out of 5. All this adds up to the fact that Jim Thacker is an outstanding football player and that a lot of responsibility now rests with him to help Coach Dole and the men who clear the path build a stronger Davidson team next year.

ULFS Shows Film | Amputees... Starring W.C. Fields
“Never Give a Sucker an Even Break,” starring W.C. Fields, will be presented by the United Literary Film Society on December 10, at 8:30 p.m., in Chambers Auditorium. This is the fourth film of the semester series and will be followed on January 7, by “The Blue Angel,” with Marlene Dietrich. This year the ULFS, sponsored by Phi and Eu literary societies, is directed by Tom Abel. The three films previously shown are: “Great Expectations,” “Zero de Condrite,” and “Of Mice and Men.”

CLUB PLANS DANCE... (Continued From Page One)
Feeney, secretary-treasurer. Bill Bradford was elected dance committee chairman. Tentative plans schedule the dance to be held at either the Officers’ Club or the Barringer Hotel on Christmas night. Music will be provided by Billy Knauff and his orchestra. The Davidson-Charlotte Club dance will be just one in a series of dances to be held in Charlotte during the Christmas period. Similar organizations at Presbyterian, State, Duke, and Carolina are also planning social functions.

BLOOD DRIVE... (Continued From Page One)
Age who have not had their blood releases signed by their parents, and who still wish to give blood, take them home with them over the weekend if at all possible. Persons 21 or over need no permission in order to donate. Lamon said that in view of the splendid record that the Davidson student body has in making generous blood donations to the Red Cross, he is certain that this drive will be another success. Lamon emphasized that the Scabbard and Blade is seeking no glory or publicity in sponsoring the drive, but only hopes that it is filling a necessary function in handling the many important details that such an undertaking entails. “The success or failure of the drive is up to the students and townspeople,” Lamon added.

(Continued from Page One)
Younger than these. Their number is increasing because the country is strewn with discarded hand grenades and forgotten land mines; children pick up these “novelties” or stumble on them while scouring for a bit of grass or dried wood as fuel. The idea for such a rehabilitation project was promoted by Dr. Torrey, a veteran Presbyterian U.S.A. missionary. Dr. Torrey himself lost a hand in China during World War II and thus knows full well the opportunities and readjustments that must be afforded these victims of tragedy if they are to return to anything like a normal life. Dr. Torrey arrived in Korea in July 1952, to set up the project, assisted by a team of missionary doctors, nurses, and technicians, especially trained. As rapidly as Koreans can be trained to form other teams, the work will be expanded, as gifts make it possible. A center for making and fitting limbs has been set up at Chongju and another center for providing peg-legs and other simple appliances will be opened in Taejon. These teams will manufacture artificial legs, arms, hands, and feet out of aluminum gasoline tanks discarded by the air force in Korea. They plan to train Korean operators for the knitting machines to make socks for the amputees in the textile mill at Taejon. Headquarters will be in Seoul, Korea. In order to accomplish the purpose of giving assistance to the thousands of Korean amputees, it is planned to do the following: 1) Provide amputees with artificial limbs. 2) Perform such orthopedic operations as are necessary. 3) Train amputees in the use of new limbs. 4) Give vocational training, including the making of artificial limbs, and in agriculture. Suitable limbs and appliances will be provided with necessary surgical and hospital care. Then will follow training in the use of these, together with practical vocational training. On the mission farm and in shops, that will be set up, the patients will be prepared for normal living and to be independent despite their handicaps. Through counseling, special services, and Bible study programs the psychological and spiritual problems will be met. By such activities not only reorientation to life will be accomplished, but it is hoped, many will be prepared to return to their communities as Christian leaders and volunteer lay workers. Church World Service is the official sponsor of the Korea Amputee Project. The Presbyterian Church, U.S., a member of CWS, is cooperating in this project, funds being sent through the department of Overseas Relief and Inter-Church Aid of the Board of World Missions, Paul B. Freeland, Secretary. The CWS project is already underway and functioning. A “shop” has been set up under the direction of Paul Kingsbury, a young Presbyterian, U.S.A. missionary, in premises provided by Severance Hospital and Medical College in Seoul. The shop is the place where prosthetic appliances are made, assembled, and fitted to the patient. But by and large the greatest factor in the rehabilitation of an amputee is the psychological one. Following corrective surgery (necessary in most cases) and fitting of prosthetic appliances, a program of physical and occupational therapy is necessary to mold his spirit. He must still be trained to earn a livelihood. The student body has set as a minimum goal for this amputee rehabilitation project $4,500.00. This is to be a part of the CWS's budgeted item of $50,000 for 1953, but will stand as an individual gift, since it will completely fill the item in the budget of the Presbyterian Church, U.S. There is, definitely, a need.

NEW CARS DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF
Dial 3-4513
212 W. Fourth Charlotte

CIGARETTES
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
“I always smoked Chesterfields in college just like my friends,” says New York secretary, Elizabeth Lydon, “and here in New York it seems like almost everyone smokes them.”

A responsible consulting organization reports a study by a competent medical specialist and staff on the effects of smoking Chesterfields. For six months a group of men and women smoked only Chesterfield—10 to 40 a day—their normal amount. 45 percent of the group have smoked Chesterfields from one to thirty years for an average of ten years each. At the beginning and end of the six months, each smoker was given a thorough examination including X-rays, and covering the sinuses, nose, ears, and throat. After these examinations, the medical specialist stated... “It is my opinion that the ears, nose, throat and accessory organs of all participating subjects examined by me were not adversely affected in the six-months period by smoking the cigarettes provided.” Remember this report and buy Chesterfields... regular or king-size.

The remainder of the season is as follows: North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Dec. 12; N.C. State at Raleigh, Jan. 12; Washington and Lee at Lexington, Jan. 17; Duke University at Davidson, Feb. 7; The Citadel at Davidson, Feb. 21; VPI at Blacksburg, Feb. 28; and the Southern Conference meet on March 5 and 6.

THAT SATISFY
WEDNESDAY, DEC. 10
Everything I Have is Yours
MARGE AND GOWER CHAMPION
ONE-DAY SERVICE AVAILABLE
Frank L. Jackson, Jr.