PAGE FOUR

AED Adds Eleven Medical Hopefuls

Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary medical fraternity, initiated eleven new members on the night of November 12, in the Science Building.
The eleven prospective doctors are H. M. Bellamy, Jr., A. W. Blount, J. P. Carpenter, W. O. Dobbins, C. H.
Hodges, W. B. Hood, J. G. Jackson, Jr., W. W. Johnson, L. M. Seagle, P. A. Sellers, and H. G.
Strader. Membership is based on outstanding character and scholarship.

SCABBARD & BLADE ... (Continued From Page One)

fraternities on the campus. The fraternity with the largest percentage of members and pledges donating will be given a special
certificate of recognition by the National Red Cross. Lamond said that he feels the Davidson student body will again rally
in support of this blood drive in seeing the continued need for blood. He continued, “It is little enough to
ask of us that we give a little of our time, and perhaps suffer some slight inconvenience in order that
we may have the opportunity to help save a life. We never know but what we may someday be in
a position in which our life may depend on the willingness of someone to give a little time and a
pint of blood. If we can picture ourselves in such a situation, I know that each of us will be
eager to donate.”

PHI, EU SOCIETIES... (Continued From Page One)

read by a portion of the new initiates; Mac Doubles presented “Davidson Fumbles, Forgetting Formidable Forces of Freud;” Bob Dunbar,
“A Modest Proposal Concerning the Abolition of the Eumanean Society;” Charles Burnette, “On Higher Education,” and Bill Scholl, “What It
Means To Be a Davidson Gentleman.” Officers this year for Phi are: Mac Bulgin, president; T. Alden Williams, vice president
and program chairman; Mac Williamson, secretary; and Tom Abel, treasurer.

S. V. M.—HISTORY... (Continued from Page Two)

thirteen thousand of whom sailed for the foreign mission field. The twenties and thirties were marked by confusion and decline
in both the general Student Christian Movement and in the missionary program of the churches. Accordingly, the work and influence
of the Movement greatly decreased. By 1940 only a small staff remained and both the objectives and relationships of the
Movement had become less clear. Then the Second World War. In the recent years, there has been a renewed interest
in SVM, evidenced by the Quadrennial Convention of 1952, and the united desire of two thousand students, from the United
States and forty-five foreign countries, that God will revive that which has grown stale. Shortly after the convention, several Davidson
students met to form an SVM chapter on this campus. Even though the national SVM has a statement of purpose,
it was felt by this group that it should formulate its own. The purpose centers generally around the aims of
effectively witnessing to and for the redeeming work of Christ and also by study and prayer to encourage students in
meeting the challenge of the Christian World Mission effort. It is the hope of this SVM group that great things
will be done on this campus in the realization of these purposes. It calls on all men interested to attend
its bi-monthly meetings whenever possible, and it also solicits the prayer of all students who are concerned with its progress.

CATS CLOSE... (Continued from Page Three)

for the fleet sophomore. A good day against The Citadel could clinch the title for Thacker. A win for Davidson
tomorrow would give Dole’s team a 3-6 record for the season. The Cats have beaten only PC and Richmond this
year, but already have improved over their '51 club which finished with only one victory. Against George Washington last week,
the Cats were completely outplayed, falling behind by 33 points before the end of the first half. The second half
saw Davidson come back with two touchdowns to the Colonials’ one, but the play was still ragged and erratic.

Exhibit On Egypt In Chambers Lobby

A photographic exhibition of Egypt, prepared by the editors of Life Magazine, will go on display tomorrow at Davidson College.
The exhibition, which will be displayed in the lobby of Chambers Building, contains the most recent photographs of remaining art
monuments from an Egyptian culture that flourished for 3,000 years before Christ. It includes some 50 photographs by Life Photographer
Eliot Elisofon taken while on an assignment in the Nile Valley. The subject matter is from the Old and New
Kingdoms, and ranges from the majestic simplicity of the Step Pyramid of King Djoser (2780-2761 B.C.) to the Great Temple
of Hathor at Dendera, which was built during the first century B.C. under the Roman Emperor Augustus. A series of
three panels is devoted to several unusually fine reliefs uncovered in 1941, and not hitherto widely known: reliefs in the
tomb of the Royal Scribe Kheruef in Western Thebes. The exhibition is based on the photographic essay, Art of Egypt,
which appeared in Life in 1948, although it is greatly enlarged in scope, and includes much material that has never
been published. It was assembled under the direction of W. C. Hayes of the Department of Egyptology at Metropolitan Museum
of Art in New York City.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

W. C., CENTER OPEN... (Continued from Page One)

during the intermission. The second event is a “Sadie Hawkins Day” dance at Hawthorne Center in Charlotte, Saturday night, November
22. Everyone will come dressed in “Dog Patch” style clothing. An assessment will be made, and refreshments will be served.

O.D.K. CHOOSES ... (Continued From Page One)

mander of ROTC for 1952, and received the Williams Declamation Award of Emory and Henry College. Jim Speed, from Birmingham,
Alabama, is a two-time member of the Y Cabinet. It is he who oversaw the entire orientation program for 1952
in the absence of Hubert Cannon, president of the YMCA. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, of Who's
Who Among Students in American Colleges and Universities, and of Delta Phi Alpha, national honorary fraternity in German. He is
a former president of the College Bible Class, and is this semester's vice president of the Philanthropic Literary Society. He
is associate editor of Quips and Cranks. A member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity, he is rush chairman and corresponding
secretary. Omicron Delta Kappa has this year been carrying on an active program behind the scenes, and looks forward with
its increased...Membership to an even more active program. Student members of Omicron Delta Kappa include: Robert M. His Life Saved,
Urges Blood Gift

U.S. ARMY PHOTO FORT BRAGG, N.C. - Cpl. Jackie C. Havener of Gastonia, N.C. knows firsthand the great and continuing
need for blood by battle casualties. He was wounded in First Cavalry fighting in Korea. “The blood I have received
has been a lifesaver, that’s all!” He reminded folks back home that many hospitalized wounded require multiple-pint transfusions in repeat
operations weeks or even months after initial transfusions on the battlefield.

Henry, president; Frank Hanshaw, treasurer, and Hubert Cannon. The four elected active faculty members are J. Wilson McCutchan, secretary; Dr.
Goldiere, faculty advisor; Dean C. K. Brown, and Captain J. E. Martin.

CHAMPION SIGMA CHIS (Continued from Page Three)

offense. Avery Jones and Jim Smith turned in fine performances as the Pikas lost their third game of the year.

Phi Delts 31; ATOs 0
The Phi Delts won second place in the final standings as they rolled over the luckless ATOs 31-0 last Friday.
Max Devane and Bill Nelson sparked the Phi Delt attack in the easy win. It was the Phi Delts’ ninth
win against only two defeats.

Kappa Sigs 12; Sig Eps 7
After last week's mixed-up tie game between these two third-place clubs, the sports managers of the two groups called for
a new game. This time, though it was also a very close contest, the Kappa Sigs took the measure of
the Sig Eps 12-7. Larry Dagenhart and Tommy Breedon led the way as the Kappa Sigs held on to third,
while Moffatt Ware showed up well for the losers.

Betas 27; Phi Gams 7
In closing out their current campaign, the Betas rolled over the Phi Gams 27-7 in a battle for seventh place.
Ed Douglas and Jim Valentine led the way as the Betas won their fifth game of the year.

NEW CARS DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF Dial 34513 212 W. Fourth Charlotte

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1952

D.C. SONGS... (Continued From Page One)
wald in 1939 and entitled “Davidson, Our Alma Mater.” This Waring composition was featured in the now extinct Fred Waring’s
Chesterfield Pleasure Time radio show. It is published by Words and Music, Inc. There are of course numerous Davidson songs
written for special occasions, but this about covers the subject. So now you know, in case anyone asks you about
our Alma Mater and our Fight Song!

CAGERS NOT... (Continued From Page Three)
These 29 readings were listed by Scott Reams, Hobby Cobb and 1,096 ministers as their favorite selections on this theme.
Although the team will face much tougher opponents than Erskine, Coach Miller expects the S.C. school to have a good
team, and stated that he hoped his team would not regard the season opener as a pushover. There are two
more scrimmages before the team meets Erskine; one this afternoon with High Point College, and one Saturday afternoon with Lenoir
Rhyne. Both are closed to the public. “From the outcome of these two scrimmages, we hope to be able to
tell to a greater degree what progress has been made,” said Miller. He also pointed out that the team was
trying to learn several different systems of play, but added that a lot of work remains to be done in
perfecting them.

SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN HOME!

Christmas Sweater Collection... a choice to delight your man! takes a burden off your back... and your budget, too! by
CLIPPER CRAFT

Clipper Craft coats feel astonishingly light! For Clipper Craft’s special “Pre-Balancing” evenly distributes the weight. Other great advantages: a wide
assortment of colors and designs. “Clipper Craftsmanship” to retain the shape. And our low, low prices, too. For the Clipper
Craft plan combines the purchasing power of over 1,200 stores to help you dress better for less!

PARONDES CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Sleeveless Sweaters
50% Cashmere and 50% lamb’s wool... wonderfully warm and soft, full fashioned. Colors of Carolina blue, charcoal grey, camel, yellow
or maroon. Sizes S, M, L, XL. 13.95

100% Australian Zephyr wool by Batamac. Light blue, navy, maroon, tan, yellow, light green or black... S, M, L sizes.
9.00

Jantzen Kharafleece, a blend of Virgin wool, vicara and nylon. Soft, moth and mildew proof. Improves with washing! Carolina blue,
navy, rust, gold, dark green, white or tan... sizes S, M, L, and XL. 7.95

MEN'S FURNISHINGS STREET FLOOR

V-Neck Pull Over Sweaters
Jantzen Kharafleece with the hand of Cashmere. In white, navy, Carolina blue, jade, dark green, grey, camel, brown heather, red
or rust... 36 to 46. 11.95

50% Cashmere, 50% Lamb's Wool. Exceptionally soft and warm, full fashioned. Carolina blue, charcoal gray, camel or maroon. Sizes S,
M, L, and XL. 16.95

100% finest imported Cashmere. Completely full fashioned and pre-washed. Carolina blue, navy, black, charcoal grey, ginger or cherry... sizes 36
to 44. 20.00

100% Australian Zephyr wool by Batamac. Light blue, navy, maroon, tan, yellow, black or light green... sizes S, M, L
or XL. 7.50

Coat Sweaters
100% Wool by Jantzen... with straight bottom and open cuffs. Solids of navy, maroon, tan or grey... sizes 36 to
46. 12.95

Jantzen Kharafleece of Virgin wool, vicara and nylon. Leather buttons, ribbed cuffs and bottom. Carolina blue, maroon, navy, heather brown
or grey... sizes 36 to 44. 14.95

MIRIAM MILLER J. B. IVEY & COMPANY Charlotte, N.C.

Please send me the following Sweaters:
Style | Quantity | Material | Color | Size | Amount

NAME
ADDRESS
CITY ZONE STATE
CASH ( ) CHARGE ( ) CHECK ( ) C.O.D ( )
Please include 17c shipping charges, also 3% tax if shipped within North Carolina, % sales
