PAGE FOUR

Bethea To Head Alumni; Installed Here Tomorrow

Sings At Concert

Soprano Shirlee Emmons will open Davidson College’s 27th Homecoming celebration with a concert in Chambers Auditorium.

OSBORNE BETHEA
RICHARD GREY

Hallowed Hollow Howls At Homecoming Celebrations

By RONALD WILSON

Each year, during the month of October, a metamorphic evolution takes place on the premises of our long-suffering institution, permeating
the air with the sound of people busily working, making plans, borrowing money, and in general creating confusion and chaos.
Sounds of primitive construction pierce the autumn air around fraternity row; lights are burning night and day for the workers
in the Student Union; the football team strains mightily on the practice field, and the alumni office grinds out volumes
of propaganda for the Old Grads, swearing that Davidson is as economically sound as Fort Knox, but $50,000 more is
needed for grass seed to plant in front of the new building—all these frantic happenings bespeak the one function which
rouses our institution to the level of other colleges: Homecoming.

There will be impassioned oratory at the dedication of the Student Union; there will be impassioned oratory at the barbecue
luncheon, exhorting old and young alike to press forward in the meritorious service of D.C., and there will be impassioned,
and harshly tainted, oratory after the game in case of a miscarriage of justice on the field of play. But
paramount in the minds of many will be the appearance on the Campus of a species completely foreign to our
way of life. Here at Hallowed Hollow, the curriculum offers no courses in the fascinating study of the opposite gender,
and opportunities for outside education are crassly limited. Three times a year, however, the luminaries and the lesser satellites of
the Administration absolve us thoroughly and then permit us to blemish the sanctity of the school and import fair damsels
from the surrounding countryside for a weekend. Amidst great expectations, coupled with some few last-minute tribulations, the first holiday has
arrived. The lavish accommodations of Duke and Rumple have been prepared with consummate care and skill for the awaited influx
of femininity. Ladies, we salute you! Never has so much been expected of so few by so many.

OLD GYM CHANGES... (Continued from Page One)

The building which had been the scene of many thrilling athletic contests had not passed out of the picture completely.
Almost immediately the long process of tearing the inside out of the structure began. When finally only the walls remained,
work on the student union began. At present, though the work is not entirely completed and there are some finishing
touches to be applied, dedication ceremonies will go ahead as planned tomorrow. More than enough has been done so that
alumni, students, and visitors will be able to tell what the new union is going to be like. Though the
old gym as such is gone, it will be a long time before it will be forgotten by the many
alumni who played there, and sat in the stands watching several generations of Davidson teams in action. The plaque dedicated
to the alumni whose money and efforts made possible the erection of the original building will be placed at a
prominent, but as yet undetermined, location on the campus.

THE FREE LANCE... (Continued From Page Two)

It is to say that before anyone despairs of his having gotten any real foundation for living in the contemporary
world, he should think about what he’s getting here that’s not offered at many other educational institutions. It would be
foolish, however, to settle for less than perfection, and so we and many like us will continue to bitch and
criticize the parts of Davidson which are yet open to improvement and these are legion. We thought, however, that the
Homecoming good fellows might mix a bit of reflection in with their jollity. It is always good to wonder why
one is what one is and what forces contributed to the end product.

WILDCAT OF WEEK... (Continued from Page Three)

hopefuls. Not only was Coach Dole well pleased with his running performance but also had high praise for his fine
offensive blocking. As a freshman last season, the 5'8", 165-pounder, from Rome, Ga., tore through nine games in tough Southern
Conference play to rack up 437 yards in 80 carries for an average of 5.5 yards per carry and lead
all Wildcat backs in the running department. This, for a freshman and on a team that won but one contest
in nine tries, was nothing short of sensational, and that is the very word to describe the play of this
little package of running dynamite.

SIGS REMAIN... (Continued from Page Three)

Pikas 19; Phi Delts 12

In the absence of their regular sparkplug, Jim Smith, the Pikas used sophomore Bill Hanna who hooked up with ace
receiver Joe Pharr to bring home a 19-12 win over the Phi Delts in near freezing weather last Monday. Leading
the Phi Delt effort were Bill Nelson and Don Lazenby.

SPEs 26; SAE 7

SPE backfielder Horace Ball joined forces with receiver “Weasel” Clark to rout the SAEs 26-7. The SPE defensive squad showed
up well in the contest. Steve Norton and Ray Lilly stood out for the losers.

Pi Kapps 20; ATOs 6

The fine efforts of Tom Hancock and Ben Jones coupled with a fine performance by the entire Pi Kapp squad
brought the Pi Kapps a 20-6 win over the ATOs. Freshmen Phil Koonce and Johnny Parker led the way for
the ATOs.

Phi Delts 18; Phi Gams 12

The steady backfield work of Don Lazenby and the fine pass receiving of Scott Reams brought the Phi Delts an
18-12 win over the Phi Gams. Watt Moore and freshman Buddy Liles led the way for the Phi Gams.

Campus Club 19; SAEs 13

Charley Harrell and Brooks Webb hooked up to give the Campus Clubbers the winning margin in their first victory of
the season. Sparking the SAE effort were Steve Norton and Dewit Helms.

Phi Gams 34; Campus Club 12

The fine efforts of Watt Moore and Don Reed gave the Phi Gams their second victory of the current campaign
and it came at the expense of the Campus Club. Leading the losers’ attack were Clark Reed and Brooks Webb.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Osborne Bethea, New York insurance executive, and Richard Grey, Asheboro textile manufacturer, have been elected president and vice-president of the
Davidson College Alumni Association, according to an announcement today by Alumni Secretary John L. Payne. The two new officers will
be installed as one of the featured attractions of Davidson’s Homecoming celebration. A graduate of the class of 1922, Bethea
won the presidency over Robert U. Woods of Richmond, president of the North American Insurance Company. The newly-elected president was
an outstanding student leader while at Davidson, and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity. He was
formerly manager of the Pilot Life Insurance Company in Charlotte and held several executive positions with Penn Mutual Life Insurance
Company in Cleveland and New York. Bethea is treasurer of the National Association of Life Underwriters, past president of the
General Agents and Managers Committee of Life Underwriters and is a former president of Life Managers Association of Greater New
York.

Grey, an outstanding football star and student leader while at Davidson, won the vice-presidency over G. Donnell Davidson of Charlotte.
A graduate of the class of 1928, Grey is now president of the Richard Grey Hosiery Company of Asheboro. He
formerly served with the Chase National Bank of New York, Hudson Belk Company of Raleigh and Asheboro, Hugh Grey Hosiery
Company of Concord and the Caswell Knitting Mills at Yanceyville. During World War II, he served for 18 months as
a lieutenant in the Navy. He is an elder in the Asheboro Presbyterian Church and past president of the Men's
Bible Class. The new officers were elected by a special mail ballot held during the past two months. More than
1500 Davidson alumni voted in the record-breaking election.

Bulletin

President of the student body Jack Ruth has investigated the possibilities for a solution to the Christmas holiday dilemma and
says now that he plans a closed meeting of the student body on Wednesday of next week. At that time
his findings will be presented and a plan of action decided.

SHIRLEE EMMONS

The talented young singer was secured as a replacement for Dramatic Dancer Oumansky, who was forced to cancel her engagement
due to an injured leg. All tickets both seasonal and individual for Miss Oumansky’s recital will be honored for Friday
night's concert. For those who had bought tickets to Miss Oumansky’s recital and will be unable to attend Miss Emmons’
concert, refunds are available.

Raleigh Is Site

The North Carolina Baptist Student Union will hold its Twenty-Third Annual Convention at the Tabernacle Baptist Church in Raleigh, beginning
November 7 and continuing through the 9th, with the theme, "Christ Must Reign.” Arrangements have been made to accommodate without
charge some 700-800 students in the homes of the church members. The only cost, in addition to meals and transportation,
is a $1.00 registration fee, which along with a reservation is due on or before November 1. All students are
cordially invited to attend the conference, which will include in its list of speakers such men as Dr. Robert Humber
of the World Federalist Movement and Dr. Maxine Garner of Meredith College. Further information may be secured from Dr. Spencer.

CATS MUST... (Continued From Page Three)

Last year with Presbyterian coming up, Dr. Cunningham was so reasonably sure of a victory, that he “predicted” one. Needless
to say, the Wildcats must be prepared for a tough game.to say the boys let him down just as the
weather did several years before.

No Laughing Matter

It's not a laughing matter and another loss would be just about as useful as some deepfreezes in Alaska. Call
it a jinx, Davidson luck, or just sorry teams, the fact remains that long years of Homecoming losses are on
our record. This is the year to stop it. This should be the team to do the trick. The team
that could explode with anything should be ready to fire on Furman. Davidson and every alumnus is pulling for them
to do it.

SHAW SMITH

(Continued From Page One)

here (he did at Oak Ridge) but this would involve grading and possibly alter some students’ confidence in him. The
whole point is Mr. Smith wants to be our friend—talk to him two minutes and you will realize this. I
was in his already “plush” office (there’s no other word for it) smoking a cigar he forced on me in
celebration of his third child, a daughter, born last Thursday. Gradually the familiar “Davidson-graduate-returned” story unfolded. Shaw's a Mt. Olive
native who took up magic about the time most of us take up building blocks. He became a magician’s helper
and learned the trade well enough to work his way through D.C. in 1939. After a year at Oak Ridge
he returned here as Y secretary for three years, then toured overseas with a service entertainment group as emcee and
magician. Thirty months and 27 countries later he was released, studied at UNC, then became commandant (dean) at Oak Ridge
(for 4 years). Then the trustees here thought it advisable to have a student union director who could double as
a student activities helper and general Dorothy Dix. Shaw was the man. Then, just when the cigar smoke was getting
the best of me, he grabbed me for the grand tour. We went through kitchens, bowling alleys, auditoriums, faculty rooms
(kidney room) and saw things you'll see tomorrow. It's fabulous and Shaw had one request: “Tell the students not to
miss the dedication Saturday.” I left, still dizzy from the whirlwind tour. Or maybe it was the cigar.

For Quick Service
Bates Cleaners

FINE FOODS
STEAKS
CHICKEN DINNERS
FOUNTAIN SERVICE
Open Sundays
Phone 132

BEST IN CLEANING
STONESTREET’S
DYNO & ALTERATIONS
Grade A Cafe
418 South Main Street
Mooresville, N. C.
HATS BLOCKED
Main Street Davidson

Shirlee Emmons Of Baptist Meet To Select Proofs

Band is available. Miss Emmons has gained a wide following principally throughout the East and Midwest for her outstanding talent.
A former soloist with the Robert Shaw Chorale, she has also sung numerous opera roles and was the soprano soloist
for the third Sigmund Romberg Album. She returned from Europe last spring after studying for a year on a Fullbright
Scholarship. She has also been heard as soloist with the CBS Symphony Orchestra on several coast-to-coast radio broadcasts and on
CBS's “Invitation to Music” program. The young soprano received two of her biggest rewards in the last month when she
won the Marion Anderson award of $1,000 for outstanding young singers and was chosen by Lauritz Melchoir to be his
guest artist on tour for the coming season. Her program Friday night will include a group of American compositions, operatic
arias, as well as popular and classical selections.

Deadline Tuesday

Students may now get the proofs to their annual pictures. These proofs are arriving every day from Raleigh. Mitchell Patton
requests that all students go to see their proofs one week after the day they were taken. This year each
student is getting four proofs instead of the two as in years past, and there is a special rate for
extra orders, with the assurance that the pictures will be delivered on or around December 1. Picture proofs may be
seen in the same room as the one where the pictures were taken starting Monday. The hours of Mr. Andy
Law of Smith and Waller are from ten o'clock to five-thirty. It is requested that students try to see their
proofs at times other than right after chapel. Monday and Tuesday are the last days for those supposed to see
proofs this week. Students not selecting the desired proof will be forced to rely on the judgment of the annual
staff in selecting the best possible proof.

This past Tuesday night the YMCA cabinet held its regular semi-monthly meeting and following a devotional by Bob Mitchell focused
its main attention to selecting several projects for consideration in the Christmas Gift Fund.

Students Select

One of the new features of the gift fund is that the student body will have the final word on
this year’s project. Ernest Barry, chairman of the gift fund post, has investigated approximately twenty-five possible causes and projects, ranging
from local to international levels, and has laid these projects before the cabinet. The cabinet, after narrowing the list to
somewhere near five causes, will present these remaining projects before the student body in a chapel program. Following further discussion,
the student body will vote to decide which of the projects it wishes to support.

Socials Planned

Bob Henry, social chairman, reported that Miss Eunice James of the Charlotte YWCA has scheduled a barbecue and square dance
for October 28, to which she has invited about thirty Davidson boys. The following night, October 29, the nurses of
Mercy Hospital have invited twenty-five to fifty students from Davidson as guests at a dance. Henry also outlined plans for
Flora MacDonald-Davidson day on November 8.

Scout Report

Mike York reported that at present there are four scout units functioning in Davidson and Cornelius—two cub scout units and
two boy scout units. As progress is made in these units, further students will be utilized to answer the challenge
of leadership and responsibility with young boys. Homer Sparks called for more student support of boys’ work here in Davidson
and urged that all boys interested in helping with Gra-Y clubs to contact him.

B-15 FLIGHT JACKETS—DUNGAREES—SPORT SHIRTS
RCA RADIOS AND RECORD PLAYERS
“SEE US FOR YOUR NEEDS”

FOR THE BEST T-BONE STEAKS
College Restaurant
Davidson

MEALS . . . PRICES REASONABLE
Albert's Grill
Cornelius

DAVIDSON THEATRE
THURS.-FRI, OCT. 23-24
The Merry Widow
LANA TURNER
FERNANDO LAMAS

SATURDAY, OCT. 25
The Lion & The Horse
STEVE COCHRAN
RAY TEAL

MON.-TUES., OCT. 27-28
RICHARD TODD
JOAN RICE

AND REGULAR
WEDNESDAY, OCT. 29
ORSON WELLS
JEANETTE NOLACE
