Two Davidsonians have slipped into the national “sportlight” without much notice from the outside world. These two rugged individuals grabbed
the limelight as a result of their activities on the gridiron last fall and were chosen within their respective fraternities
to the honor of being named on the fraternity’s All-American team. It was announced by Dick Liles this week that
Dick Perkins of Marion, Va., and a defensive center on Coach Crowell Little’s Wildcat squad of 1951, had been named
honorable mention on the “All-ATO, All-American” football team at the center position. “Perk” was named along with Tom Stevens at
Carolina who has copped the honor for first-team mention for three consecutive years, and other notables such as Bob Sherman
of Georgia Tech and a tackle, Julius Wittman, the captain of the squad and a three-time winner at tackle from
Ohio State, and Tom Fillion, fullback on the Kentucky Wildcats team. Perkins transferred to Davidson from Emory U. and has
another year of eligibility as a Junior.

WADE GETS MENTION AS KAPPA SIGMA STANDOUT

Somewhat earlier, the magazine of Kappa Sigma came out with its annual All-American team and the honorable mention list carried
the name of the '51 Wildcat’s first team fullback and later halfback, Ham Wade, who is a brother in the
local Kappa Sig Chapter. Ham played consistently well the entire season and was one of the few boys that did
not sustain an injury during the year. (Quite an accomplishment, considering.)

CLOSE GAMES ARE NEMESIS

Did you ever stop to think about the number of close games that the Wildcat Hoopsters have played and lost
in the last two years? You probably remember the ones last year and the frequency that they came about. You
also will remember the last home game in which the Generals of Washington and Lee marched off the floor after
a stormy closing minute with a four-point lead, being presented said lead by the generous officials with two, two-point free
throws in the last seconds. I've never been able to get that one straight. All in all, there were five
(5) games besides the W&L fray that were won by the opposition by less than three points. Probably the most
thrilling was the Maryland game where at the sound of the whistle (or a fraction before), a tow-headed Irishman flipped
a midcourt basket in and left the floor with a 57-55 lead for the victory. Right up close to the
top were the two games with Carolina. Both were won by three points and were responsible for carrying on the
jinx that the “boys in baby blue” have over the Red and Black. Scores were 69-72 and 53-56. South Carolina
also ran into the Wildcat Den (where the majority of these heartbreakers take place) and squeezed by with a 74-71
win. It was Don Cox and not Slaughter that ruined us this time. McCrary Eagles also slipped by the local
hoopsters by a 73-71 score in the latter part of the season.

PRESENT CROP TAKES THE CAKE

So far this year has been the proverbial “straw,” though. The Tar Heels again did it, but this time they
were on their own court and squeezed in a foul shot to make it 78-77 over the Cats. The other
night was the apex, it seems to me, because we had outplayed the Deacons all through the game and completely
bottled up young Hemric, but came out on the poor end of a 64-63 score. As usual, the fans were
both shocked and sad over the outcome. The reason for these losses is not anything you can put your hand
on, but I was just bringing attention to the already-thrown-about fact that Davidson has lost more than its share of
the close ones, and it's about time that the ball bounced our way for a change.

WAL Brings Frogmen To Pool of Catfish
By TAD CURRIE

Wildcat Matsters Here For Citadel

Tomorrow night an injury-hampered Wildcat wrestling squad will face the grapplers from The Citadel on the Johnston Gym mats. The
injured Cat regulars are Morley Vail and Nabbie Armfield who will be out of action, possibly for the rest of
the season, with chest injuries. Coach Parker’s lineup for tomorrow night’s tussle, which includes two newcomers—Don Reid and Angus Andrews,
is expected to be as follows:
123 lb. class—Bobby Joe Key.
130 lb. class—Gene Craven.
137 lb. class—Don Reid.
147 lb. class—Johnny Guiton.
157 lb. class—Angus Andrews.
167 lb. class—John Buxton.
177 lb. class—Bill McElveen.
Heavyweight—Stoney Bailey or Bill McNeely.

The Red and Black grapplers are out to put another win on their 1951-52 season's record. Their lone triumph to
date came at the expense of the Emory University squad on January 12 in Atlanta. After tomorrow’s battle, the Davidsonians
have meets left with VPI on February 16, and a final contest on February 22 with the Washington and Lee
wrestlers. The VPI encounter will be at the Johnston Gym.

CATS HIT TIGERS TONIGHT, TRAVEL TO STATE TOMORROW
By BOB OWENS

The win-hungry Cats of Coach Boyd Baird will definitely be looking for a berth in the Southern Conference Tournament when
they meet the Clemson Tigers tonight on the local Johnston Gym floor because they then travel to Raleigh to meet
the potent N. C. State Wolfpack on Saturday night. Tonight’s game marks the second meeting of the two teams this
season. In a game played last week, the Tigers managed to trip the Wildcats to the tune of 67-49, with
Richardson and Sneed leading the way. The local netters have been working hard on defense to stop these lads as
they did Wake Forest's Dickie Hemric in Tuesday night’s game. The Wolfpack of N. C. State set down the Wildcats
74-48 early in the season, but all indications point to a much closer game Saturday night. The mighty Wolfpack has
found the going rough with intersectional opponents and were recently handed their first Southern Conference defeat by William and Mary's
Indians. In other conference action since exams were completed, Furman, led by Frank Selvy and Neill Gordon with 27 and
24 points respectively, rocked the Wildcats 98-69. The Wake Forest Deacons barely nosed out the Cats 64-63 in a game
played on the local gym floor Tuesday night. Although they got off to a slow start after the exam period,
the Cats seemed to have definitely hit their stride in the Wake Forest contest, hitting on 32 percent of their
shots from the floor. Let this be a warning to the Tigs who invade Presbyterian Hollow, Friday night. The Cats
have been very successful in entertaining foes on their home court and they would like nothing better than to add
Clemson to their list. Everyone will agree that the student body is 100 percent behind the Wildcats—any Wake Forest fan
would be glad to verify this statement. With the high morale of the team and its followers and the confidence
that Coach Baird puts in the boys, the remainder of the schedule should be a nightmare for opposing teams.

Hot Loop Race

When the Davidson College Swimmers invade the campus of Washington and Lee Saturday afternoon for a swimming meet, it will
be one of the few times this season that the Catfish haven’t been the underdogs. While the meet won't be
exactly a breather, it will be a rest after having met such conference stalwarts as N. C. State and Carolina,
both having terrific teams this season. Freshman standout Alex Ormond in the 220, 440, and 150 individual medley events holds
future promise in the coming seasons he has remaining as a Catfish. Other top stars for the Cats are Aubrey
Miree and Bob Patten in the dash events, Jim Bryan in the backstroke, Captain Ken Taylor in the sprints, and
Sam Myrick and Paul Cole in the distance swims. Wednesday afternoon the Catfish got back on the winning side with
a victory over the University of South Carolina by a score of 46-38. It was the second victory of the
season for the Catfish, both over South Carolina. Jim Bryan showed much improvement by dashing a pool record in the
backstroke event. With a record of two wins and three losses, the splashers will be aiming at hitting the five
hundred mark in their meet with Washington and Lee on Saturday and the results should be in favor of Coach
Redding’s men.While the W&L match will find the Cats traveling to Lexington for the season’s finale,

GENE CRAVEN
By MOODY SMITH

In these days when Davidson seems to be taking more than its fair share of hard knocks, in the world
of sports at least, it's encouraging to find a Wildcat athlete who can not only hold his own against the
competition but who stands, figuratively at least, head and shoulders over most available opponents. Such a man is wrestling team
Captain Gene Craven, who is proving himself to be one of the outstanding matmen to perform in the local gym
for quite a while.

Since coming to Davidson in ‘50, Gene has lost only two matches in dual match competition. As a freshman, he
went undefeated during the entire season, and so far this season he has yet to come out second best, having
beaten wrestlers from Carolina, Emory, State, and Duke. Last season he suffered his only two regular season defeats which came
at the hands of the University of Virginia and VMI. In tournament competition, Gene won the Carolinas AAU meet in
the 128-pound class, and coming down to 123, he took a third place in the Southern Conference tournament.

Craven is nearly as outstanding in his other college activities as he is on the mat. Gene is the first
junior to captain a Davidson wrestling squad in 17 years. A pre-ministerial student, Gene also maintains a B-plus average, is
a member of the Student Council and of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.

As to Gene's future possibilities, wrestling coach Charlie Parker is more than optimistic. Parker thinks that Craven stands an excellent
chance of becoming the Southern Conference champ in the 130-pound category. Craven will also be a leading candidate for honors
when the AAU meet comes along the last of this month. He also plans to enter the Olympic tryouts later
on in March and if he has the least luck, will probably do as well as last year in both.
All of which speaks pretty well, to say the least, for 5’ 6”, 20-year-old Gene who had never wrestled before
in his life until he came to Davidson College.

Wildcat Sports
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1952

DAVIDSON GRABS WRESTLING SPOTLIGHT
PAGE THREE

CLEMSON ENCORES ON LOCAL HARDWOOD
Brooks Buckets 214 Olympic Wrestling Tryouts, AAU Tournament Here Soon

Captain Bill Brooks’ 16 points against Wake Forest Tuesday night gave him a commanding lead in Wildcat scoring for the
current hoop season with a total of 214 points and a 13.4 average in 16 games. Center Joe Dudley follows
with 156 points and an average of 9.8. Gerald King with 148, Mac McLean with 120, and Al Fitzgerald with
113 are the other Wildcats figuring most prominently in the scoring. In the rebound department, Joe Dudley led with 100
before the Wake Forest tilt. He was followed by forward McLean with 93. Hard-playing Captain Brooks was the chief offender
after 16 games, with 60 personal fouls charged to him. Next is Al Fitzgerald with 55. Team total in points
for sixteen games was 945 points for an average of 59 points per game. The following statistics are complete through
the Wake Forest game February 5th:

STATISTICS
Field Free Personal Total
Player Goals Throws Fouls Points
Brooks .............-...----- 82 50 60 214
Dudley ......--..------------ 53 50 48 156
King .............2.--20--s000 55 38 29 148
McLean .......--..--2020--00 52 20 46 120
Fitzgerald ...........----..--- 45 23 45 113
Turk 2.222.222 eee 25 13 23 63
Lazenby ..................--- 17 26 42 60
Melton .........-.----------- 23 13 28 59
Bennett *...-.......-.....----- 13 4 13 30
Weeks ............-.......--- 11 4 5 26
TOTALS ............---.----- 374 241 354 945
(Above statistics include only players having scored 20 points or more.)

Frat Loop Shows
By WALLACE ABBOTT

“Ten down and two to go.” That is the position that we find in the intramural loop this week, because
out of the 12 teams in the league 10 have already gone down to at least one defeat, and the
two teams remaining undefeated have not played any one of their four closest rivals as yet. So it looks as
if the team that comes out on top will have to play some very potent basketball in the remaining weeks
if they are going to come through this season undefeated.

At the present time the Kappa Sigs and Sigma Chis are tied for first place with 4-0 records, but close
on their heels we find the Pikas, Campus Club, and Phi Gams who have only lost one game apiece.

Standings
Team W L
Sigma Chis .....--.---. 4 0
Kappa Sigs ~-.......-.. 4 0
Phi Gams ----....---.- 3 1
CC ..........-..-..-..-..-.. 3 1
Pikas -..-.-.-..--.---- 3 1
KA .....----.-------- 3 2
Betas -..--..-..-.----- 2 2
Pi Kapps --..--..--. 2 3
SPE's .......----~--- 2 3
SAE's -..--~----.---<- 0 4
ATO's ..--- 0 4
Phi Delts .-..-----.... 0 4

Ten Leading Scorers
Champion, Phi Gams -....-.- 74
Vance, KA's .....-----~.----2- 61
King, KA’s .-.--....-----.--- 59
Smith, CC ......2-22---2+-20-- 50
Wells, CC —....----...--.----- 49
Whisnant, Pi Kapps ----.---.. 48
C. Clark, KS .........-..-..- 47
Pitts, ATO --.-..--..--.----. 47
Bivins, Phi Delt .......-.--..- 43
Downs, Sigma Chi ....-.---.-- 42

Chesterfield SPORTS QUIZ
1. This year Dickie Hemrick is Wake Forest’s high scorer. Who was the high scoring center of last year’s squad?
2. Bill Mikvy of Temple had a new all-time average of 29.2 points a game last year. Whose record did
he break?
3. Who will Davidson play for the first time in football next November 15?
4. What Yankee outfielder has recently stated that he will take over Joe DiMaggio’s place in centerfield next year?
5. Who holds the 100-yard dash record of 9.3?

A free carton of Chesterfields is available to anyone who can answer the above questions about the sports world. Answers
should be turned in to Prof. Rice on the back of a Chesterfield wrapper.

By DICK ROPER

Davidson's Johnston Gymnasium will be the site of two nationally important sports events this spring. The Southeastern United States Olympic
wrestling tryouts will be held here March 14-15, and the Carolinas’ AAU Championship wrestling tournament is set to take place
February 29 and March 1. The Olympic tryouts here will be the only ones held in the Eastern U.S. south
of Princeton, N.J. Unlike collegiate bouts, the Olympic tryouts will be 15-minute affairs with International Wrestling rules utilized. Under these
rules, candidates for Olympics positions will be eliminated by a much more thorough, although more time-consuming, system. Winners in the
District 5 competition will be qualified to compete in the final Olympic tryouts for the 1952 team. Eight weight divisions
have been listed for these tests ranging from 114.5 pounds to unlimited.

This is the second year in a row that the AAU tournament has been at Davidson, the award being made
to this school by the Amateur Athletic Union of the United States. Paul Scott, Davidson athletic director, has announced that
weight divisions have been altered slightly for this year's tournament, with the divisions to be contested being 114.5, 125.5, 136.5,
147.5, 160.5, 174, 191.5, and the unlimited heavyweight classes. This event is open to any registered athlete in North and
South Carolina, and Mr. Scott expects another big turnout again this year. Gene Craven, Davidson’s 130-pound class champion, is expected
to be on hand for this meet along with several other stars from last year’s tournament. Anyone wishing to enter
the tournament should contact Mr. Scott at his office in Johnston Gymnasium. He will furnish all necessary information to all
interested parties.

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS! IT PAYS! THANK YOU!

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N.C.
