PAGE FOUR

INTERFRATERNITY COUNCIL SPONSORS

MARY ANN WALDROP
JAN YOUNG
SHIRLEY FORD
BETTY LINTON
ANNE STEVENS
JEANIE PATTERSON
ERNESTINE LITAKER
MARTHA FULCHER

Pictured above are ten of the twelve Interfraternity Council sponsors for the Spring Frolics dances this weekend, to be introduced
in the figure at tonight’s formal dance. They are: Mary Ann Waldrop of Greenville, N. C., with Dick Stockton, Kappa
Sigma, and IFC president; Jan Young of Charlotte, with H. D. Fowler, ATO; Shirley Ford of Conway, S. C., with
Bill Adams, Kappa Alpha; Nancy Mitchell of Columbia, S. C., with Joe Miller, SAE; Anne Stevens of Lenoir with Jim
Carr, Pi Kappa Phi; Betty Linton of Princeton, Ky., with John Alexander, Phi Delta Theta; Ernestine Litaker of Concord, with
Charlie Herion, Campus Club; Martha Fulcher of Washington, D. C., with Aubrey Miree, Phi Gamma Delta; Jeanie Patterson of Concord,
with Bill Stewart, Sigma Chi, and Faye Beckwith of Henderson with Tom Rose, Pi Kappa Alpha. Not pictured are Betty
Waring of Columbia, S. C., with Frances Pepper, Beta Theta Pi and Betty Lou Johnson, Spartanburg, S. C., with Morgan
Bailey, Sigma Phi Epsilon.

FAYE BECKWITH

Take Your Date To The Stud

The Best Dressed Men At Davidson Wear Jack Wann, Ltd. CLOTHES

It Costs No More To Dress Correctly

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Phi Gams Win National Frat Scholastic Cup

The local chapter of Phi Gamma Delta received word this past week that it was the winner of the Frederick
B. Owen trophy for top scholarship in its national fraternity. The Owen trophy is awarded annually to the chapter of
Phi Gamma Delta that has the highest scholastic standing in relation to the other fraternities on its own campus. This
award was preceded by the local Belk trophy which was received by the Phi Gams recently. The Davidson chapter accomplished
an almost miraculous feat in reaching its present position by climbing from its rank of 55th for the preceding year.
Immediately below Davidson in standing are Indiana, Wabash, Hanover, and Richmond in that order. In relation to other fraternities, the
national fraternity of Phi Gamma Delta has the following record: twenty-four chapters had an average equal to or better than
the all-men’s average; thirty-four chapters improved their standing for the previous year.

ELECTIONS... (Continued From Page One)

YMCA vice president in charge of forums this year, vice president of Eumanean Literary Society, and active manager of the
debating team. A pre-law student, Hubert is doing honors work in history. Dagenhart also was strong on the honor system’s
support as the president's most important duty, but enumerated also a list of possible campus improvements, such as cuts, holidays,
athletics, chapel and the laundry. The Fayetteville resident, a native of Wilmington, is currently serving as vice president of the
student body, and of Kappa Sigma fraternity, is commander of 2nd Battalion and a DMS in ROTC, and is a
past secretary of Eumanean Literary Society. Also pre-law, Dagenhart is doing honors work in history. Ruth came out on specific
problems in his talk—advocating a Rush Week combined with Orientation Week, student appearance before the trustees, and a holiday break
at semesters. Quarterback of the Wildcat football team, Ruth is currently president of the Junior class and secretary-treasurer of the
D Club. He is the newly elected IFC representative for Beta Theta Pi, and a member of the Beaver Club.
Ruth is a business major from Kings Mountain.

SORRELL BRINGS... (Continued From Page Three)

fielder who has come through in the clutches several times this year. Coach Vic Sorrell will depend on Eddie Morris
of basketball fame to keep his big guns open. Also Ed Harbett has shown great hitting strength lately.

Campus Club Names Officers For ‘52

At a business meeting on April 10 the members of the Campus Club elected officers for the year 1952-53. Those
men elected were: president, Ed Blanton, a rising senior from Baltimore, Md.; vice president, Vance Rountree of Charlotte, a rising
junior; secretary, Lewis Baker, a rising senior from Davidson; treasurer, George Bason, a rising senior, from Chapel Hill, and IFC
representative, Mercer Kepler, from Mount Ulla, N. C.

RULES OUTLINED ... (Continued From Page One)

Stuart A. Plummer, William V. Porter, W. Vance Rountree, Phillip A. Sellers, Edward C. Stuart, and Grier M. Williams. Prof.
Harold M. Frantz was taken into the local chapter as an honorary member, and Profs. Kenneth Moore and Donald Plott
were transferred to Gamma Kappa Chapter from their original chapters. Charles Roper leads Phi Mu Alpha as president this year,
assisted by Allen Garrison as vice president, Bill Crymes as secretary, and Morgan Bailey as treasurer. Other fraternity projects are
being planned for the Spring, including one for Fine Arts Week to be announced later.

TWO DEBATORS ... (Continued From Page One)

take part in this tournament to make it the most representative of the debate tournaments that Davidson enters. Among the
teams that the Davidson team met were the University of New York, Emory University, University of Pittsburgh, Ohio Wesleyan, Washburn
(Kansas) and Loyola of Baltimore. Because the negative team found out a few days before the trip that they would
be unable to make the tournament, this usually affirmative team had to double as a negative team also. This was
a particular handicap since neither of the debaters had debated the negative side, and in one day they were to
give six negative debates.

FRANTZ PREMIER ... (Continued From Page One)

sore Chalmers G. Davidson (chairman), G. L. Abernethy, Philip Moose, E. J. Edwins, R. W. Tyson, Harold Frantz, and Donald
Plott. Throughout the week the works of two N.C. artists, George Kachergis, art instructor at U.N.C., and Claud Howell, of
Wilmington, will be exhibited in the lobby of Chambers building. Paintings, drawings, sculpture work, and photographs by students and members
of the faculty will also be on exhibition in the main hall and dining room of Chambers.

BARTON MEN... (Continued From Page Three)

bling on the very brink of defeat in doubles matches, finally rallied to take them all in three sets. So
far this season the local racket wingers have won seven matches while losing only to Michigan State, theBig Ten champions.
But the worst still lies ahead, with Carolina, Duke, Yale, and Princeton, all of whom are considered very strong, still
to be played. Dionysius Cato prescribed: “Mingle your cares with pleasure now and then.” Disticha De Moribus. Make that pleasure
an ice-cold Coca-Cola and you'll tip the scales from care to cheer.

FRIDAY, APRIL 18, 1952

UNC Vote Hijinks
USAF Interviews Ring

(Eds Note: As D.C. elections get into full swing we note a painfully familiar ring to the account of voting
hijinks at U.N.C. The squib is from an editorial in the Daily Tarheel.)

Some of the votes were illegitimate: at least two people were allowed to vote with driver's licenses contrary to the
elections laws; there may have been many more; many women voted at the wrong poll. One 1949 graduate was challenged
as he tried to vote with a 1949 I.D. card; and one student bragged that he was voting with four
old I.D. cards of his own. Plain ordinary ignorance will account for a certain number of such incidents, and so
many will happen in every election. There were also some compulsory votes, but presumably these votes were legal, if irresponsible,
as forced votes must be. Elections meant little to most people—a few minutes out of the day to vote, perhaps
casual conversation as to merits of candidates, a $1 or $5 fine for a few fraternity men.

CABBAGE PLANTER
(Continued From Page Two)

up the Nasty Letter! “Whew,” he sighed, “that was close!” And then he wrote another letter. This one was shorter,
not over a page and a half, small size paper and went something like this: “Dearest Friend, Nobody understands better
than I just why you were unable to make it for the dance this weekend, and certainly, if there is
anything we need for world peace, it is understanding among peoples and nations...” Well, the upshot of it was that
he was just as tender as could be all the way through, and ended up by asking her for a
date at her college the next weekend. Not one Nasty Remark anywhere. I guess you and I, who know about
Such Things, can plainly see. There Was No Doubt About It. Mervin was a man.

Then in the sunset's flush they went aloft, And unbent sail in that most lovely hour When the light gentles
and the wind is soft, And beauty in the heart breaks like a flower.

FEDERAL CHECK...
(Continued From Page One)

Major Lerner is a native of Ohio and attended the University of Akron, the University of Maryland, and the University
of Alabama. He served in the European Theatre during World War II, and last returned from a three-year tour of
duty with the occupation forces in Europe. He entered the Regular Army just after World War II. Major Lerner has
been decorated with the Bronze Star Medal.

Major Perkins is a native of Oklahoma and received a B.S. Degree from the University of Oklahoma in 1939. During
World War II, he served in the China-Burma-India Theatre. More recently, he had a tour of duty in Panama. Major
Perkins has received the Combat Infantryman Badge, the Presidential Unit Citation, and the Bronze Star Medal.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord © 1982, The Coca-Cola Company

Familiar Bell Jere

On April 30 Major Ralph J. Ferree, USAF, of North Carolina Military District, Raleigh, will be at Davidson College April
30-May 1 to interview applicants for pilot training, and for the aircraft observer course of the new program for training
young men to become commissioned officers skilled in navigation, bombardment, radar operation, and aircraft performance engineering. Basic training lasts 27
weeks, and is taken by all students. The advanced phase of training varies in length depending on the specific course
pursued, but all successful candidates are commissioned at the same time after approximately 52 weeks of training. Graduates of this
program may be assigned as crew members of bombardment, transport, reconnaissance, or interceptor type aircraft.

As to qualifications, applicants must be 20 to 26½ years of age, and must have completed two years of college
in an accredited institution. They must be single, and agree to remain so during the training period. Their physical standards
are the same as for aviation cadet pilot training, except for less stringent visual requirements. Major Ferree’s primary mission will
be to interview and give information to all seniors who may be interested in this course, (others will clear through
the dean if desirous of an interview), and to administer the preliminary tests, and forward results with applications to the
nearest Air Force base.

DAVIDSON
Shows Start at 3 P.M.
MON.-TUES., APRIL 21-22
JANE RUSSELL
VICTOR MATURE

MAN ALIVE—

Zip fit is the big news here... Jantzen exclusive construction for perfect fit, streamlined looks. One zipper serves trunk and
supporter... long extension waistband and elasticized back inserts hug the waist. Trim built-in supporter with elasticized legs... Crisp front pleats...
tailored-in flap pocket. Rugged Cotton Gabardine... Sanforized, Mercerized. 8 smart fast colors, 28-40. 4.95

Wilson-Wrights Collegiate Fashions
