George Washington Big Favorite Over Cats Tonight

By DICK ROPER

This is not the kind of stuff that makes glowing copy for the Sunday morning papers, but in view of
all the deserved praise that is being heaped on the rejuvenated Davidson football team, it seems in order to point
out one not-too-widely recognized reason why the Cats have made consistently good showings even with several key players sidelined with
injuries. The big reason for that, in this reporter's opinion, is chiefly the crackerjack job of recruiting that Bill Dole
and his assistants have done. The Davidson head coach didn’t accept his present job until last March, and besides having
to scout around for some good freshmen, Dole also faced the equally important task of lining up some capable assistants.
To say that Dole has come through in a big way would be a gross understatement. In bringing Chuck Clements
and Carroll Hambright to Davidson as lieutenants, the former Eastern Carolina head coach got what have proved to be two
very good men. But that was only a start. With very limited financial resources to work with, Dole and his
assistants have come up with one of the most outstanding freshman crops in years. One reason for the lack of
recognition of this fact is that largely, the holes Dole had to fill in the Davidson football machine were not
the positions which the fans notice the most. His job was mainly to build up his defense, and to give
his bench some reserve strength. The fact that the Cat coach has done well was proved, we believe, by the
38-19 licking given Richmond last Saturday (the first home win in two seasons). With not one but both his fullbacks
out with injuries, Dole put freshman Jim Shelton into the lineup. The results of that move provided the brightest moments
for a Davidson football crowd in a while. In 24 carries, Shelton gained 156 yards for an average of 6.5
per try, and passed 3 times for 60 yards, while his team rolled on to victory. The guy who might
be labeled the Quiet Man in the Cats’ defensive machine is halfback Bobby Renn. This versatile performer from Henderson has
handled almost all of the punting duties this season, and right now owns something close to a 40-yard average, not
including his quick-kicking. Renn, if you remember, was the man who kept putting Davidson back on the offensive last Saturday,
intercepting three Richmond aerials in the last quarter alone. Probably the main reason a whole lot of to-do isn’t made
over Bob is the big factor in his favor—he’s one of the most consistent men on the Davidson squad. The
man who plays across the field from Renn on defense has been another standout all season. Tal Broughton is the
name. This solid Salisbury, N.C., product has been

THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1952 PAGE THREE

SIGMA CHIS, PIKAS TO PLAY MONDAY

Possible 4-Way Tie For Top Spot In Tag Loop

By JOHN HANDLEY

The crucial game between the Sigma Chis and the Pikas, which may decide the tag championship, has been postponed until
early next week, Interfraternity sports director Pete Whittle said today. After bad weather had postponed the Monday and Tuesday games,
the Sig Eps stepped in on Wednesday to knock the Pikas out of their tie position with the Sigma Chis
in a 13-6 victory. The Sigma Chis downed the SAEs by 26-0 to stay on top in the interfraternity race.
Only two other games involving title contenders remain to be played. Today the second-place Phi Delts went against the cellar-dwelling
ATOs. After the Pika loss to the Sig Eps, the Sigma Chis now have cinched at least a tie for
first place. Should the Pikas win, there would be a possible four-way tie for the top honors. Such a situation
would involve the Sigma Chis, the Pikas, the Phi Delts, and the Sig Eps (depending on the outcome of their
Kappa Sig game). However, should the Sigs take the important victory, they would be undisputed winners of this year's race.
By these complications and the very fact that they might arise, the closeness of the race can be seen. There
has been some stiff competition in the league this year and as this new type game ends its second year
here, we find some fine teams developing as the local Greeks catch on to the new brand of play.

This week’s games:

Sigma Chis 26; SAEs 0
Sig coach Paul Eastman entered the attack against the SAE to direct the offensive platoon while Paul Sellers led the
defensive efforts of the top-place squad. The Sigma Chi reserves saw action in the lop-sided contest which saw Steve Norton
lead the losers’ attack. It was the Sigs’ ninth win of the campaign.

Sig-Eps 13; Pikas 6
The fine backfield maneuvers of Horace Ball coupled with a pass interception and long pass play by Fred Stowe provided
the Sig Eps with their victory margin over the Pikas. In the tight defensive contest Bill Hanna and lanky Lindley
Behrdsley stood out as the Pikas suffered their second defeat.

Kappa Sigs 19; KAs 6
A fine Kappa Sig defense contained the KA attack to the tune of 19-6 in a hard-fought contest. Eddie Powe
and Corky Clark led the way for the winners while big George King sparked the KA efforts.

Sig Eps 19; Kappa Sigs 19 (tie)
In one of the most hotly contested games of the season between the Sig Eps, hoping at a chance to
tie for the championship, and the Kappa Sigs, hoping to hold on to third place, darkness halted the contest in
a 19-19 tie. Horace Ball and Moffatt Ware turned in fine performances for the Sig Eps while Larry Dagenhart and
Bob Hoover led the Kappa Sig forces.

Phi Gams 40; ATOs 0
In Wednesday's action the Phi Gams ran up their biggest score of the season as they romped over the lowly
ATOs. Harold Riley and Joe Sugg led the Phi Gams while Tim Gilley stood out for the ATOs.

KAs 24; Campus Club 0
The KAs picked up their sixth win of the season against five defeats as they rolled over the Campus Clubbers
24-0. T. W. Aldred and George King led the way as the KAs wound up their season's activities. Henry Higgins
and Sandy Shive turned in good performances for the C.C.

Pi Kapps 26; SAEs 14
The Pi Kapps downed the SAEs yesterday in a free-scoring contest by 26-14. Cliff Deal and George Urwick sparked the
attack as the Pi Kapp pledges saw action. Dewitt Helms and Steve Norton led the SAE forces. The Sigma Chi-Pika
game, which at the present appears to be the crucial event of the interfraternity campaign, will be played sometime early
next week if not on Monday afternoon. If a playoff is necessary to decide the loop champion, those games may
possibly run into another week of action.

WILDCATS OF THE WEEK - Davis & Shelton: Spiders’ Nemesis

By JACK EFIRD
By BILL SLEDGE

After the fine performance that the spirited and determined

Spray Flies As Catfish Swimmers Ready For Action

Davidson’s Catfish swimmers are making the spray fly in the Johnston gym pool every afternoon from 4 to 5:30 as
they prepare for the '53 season. Tyke Ellis supervised practice sessions until he left for the Army several weeks ago.
Lewis Nelson and Dunbar Ogden are managing the team until the end of the football season when Coach Carrol Hambright
will take over the duties. Jim Bryan, Al Ormond, Paul Cole, George Crone, and Charley Hull will be returning to
give experience to the largely inexperienced group. Freshmen Bob Mack, Phil Hicks, and Larry Parrot will join Senior Paul Cole
in the distance events, and Charley Hull will be ably assisted in the diving events by Jeff Smith and Ed
Davis, both

McCall In At Quarterback For SC Tilt

Dan McCall, a junior from Marion, N.C., will be in the driver's seat tonight to direct Davidson's attack against a
favored George Washington team in Washington’s Griffith Sta-McCall will step in as quarterback where Jack Ruth and Johnny Gray left
off. Both Ruth and Gray appear lost for the season. George Washington, owner of a 4-2-1 record, is a three-touchdown
favorite in tonight’s Southern Conference tilt. But if Davidson continues to show the drive they have for the past two
weeks, the game should be a real battle. If all the spectators present at last week's game with Richmond had
known the whole story on the physical condition of the Cats, that 38-19 victory would have been appreciated even more
than it was. Torn ligaments, bruised muscles, and twisted knees were the order of the day for the team that
pulled one of the minor upsets of the week.

In case Quarterback McCall (Continued On Page Four)

Cagers Work On Fundamentals In Week's Practice

Hard work on the fundamentals of the game has been the order of the week for Coach Danny Miller’s basketballers.
The season opens December 1 when the Cats meet Erskine’s five here.

The squad is being cut daily and at present thirty-six remain. Miller plans to keep thirty—fifteen for the varsity and
fifteen for the junior varsity. With only five returning lettermen, the outlook for the season is not too bright. Coach
Miller says that his squad is working hard but there is still plenty to do before the opener. He expects
them to hit their stride in six or seven weeks.

Davidson accomplished something it hasn't done in two years—win a football game at home. And one of the big reasons
for that win was a little (five-seven, 170-pound) guard named Dickie Davis. This week Dickie, who opened huge holes in
the Spiders’ line, and Jim Shelton, who ran through those holes, have been picked as Co-Wildcats of the Week. Without
that combination, the outcome of the game might have been different.

An offensive linesman’s daily work is usually taken for granted when he makes the alleys for the backs, but when
a back plows into a mass of humanity at the line of scrimmage, spectators wonder who missed his block. The
spectators last Saturday had little opportunity to wonder who missed blocks for Shelton, because there were very few as Davis
had his man out of the play almost every time.

During his first two years on the varsity, Davis has proven to be a sturdy little block of granite, having
never missed a game on any account. He has played regularly since he took over a starting berth his freshman
year, but his outstanding performances have come during the last few games. Against Harvard, he consistently opened big holes in
the much bigger Crimson line. He helped to let Harvard know that they had played a football game.

The opposing linemen have been seeing number 51 pushing them all over the field so much that they are beginning
to believe Stanley Woodward who, in a nationally circulated football magazine, picked Davis as one of the outstanding linemen in
the South. Even though he probably will be outweighed by every lineman he faces this year, few can pack more
drive and hustle into their playing than Mr. Dickie Davis.

Dickie Davis, the startling small fry guard, has proved his worth in two years of good play. The Wildcats showed
in last week's game with Richmond, the job of selecting a Wildcat of the week again appeared a very tough
job. With many of the regulars out of action, the Wildcats gave their best performance of the season, and they
looked good in that 38-19 win.

Even with Jimmy Thacker’s excellent running and scoring four touchdowns, Neil Graham's vicious tackling, Johnny Gray’s fine showing in his
new job at quarterback, and the overall fine playing of the whole team, Jim Shelton was the real spark of
the Cat attack. Jim, who hails from Winston-Salem, is a freshman who until last week had been running third-string fullback
behind Henry Brown and Leroy Fargason. Due to the injuries of Brown and Fargason, Jim stepped into the limelight Saturday
and gave the finest performance from the fullback position that has been seen all season. He accounted for about 40
percent of the Cat's total offense in gaining 156 yards rushing in 24 tries and completing all his pass attempts
for 60 yards and one touchdown. His consistent gains were the main spark in most of Davidson's touchdown drives; they
got the Cats out of many bad holes and netted numerous first downs.

It was definitely a team victory all the way, but Saturday Jim Shelton was the backbone of that team, leading
the Wildcats to their second win of the season and the best game played this year. The job ahead of
Shelton now is to show the fans that he can be a consistent performer, though he can hardly expect to
equal his Richmond performance every time he faces a Cat opponent.

Captain Joe Dudley and J. V. Howell are looking good. Isti Bennett, Gerald King, and freshman Bobby Cobb are also
showing up well. Corky Burdette, a promising freshman, is coming along but needs experience. If the Cats can improve on
last year’s record of 7-18, they can call it a successful season.

Jim Bryan will be Davidson’s specialist on the backstroke, and Ormond will be swimming the individual medley again this year.
Others who are working out and who will swim in various events are Ed Nicholson, a junior; Ken Partin and
Eddie Andrae, sophomores; and Jack Crymes, Vic (Continued on Page Four)

Former Editor Lauds White Performance

(Editor’s note: The writer of the following letter was sports editor of the Davidsonian in 1950-51 and editor last year.)

Mr. Dick Roper, Sports Editor
The Davidsonian
Davidson College, N.C.

Dear Dick:

My sophomore year at Davidson I was working in the sports publicity office, and it fell my lot to file
freshman football games for The Observer. I can recall outstanding play by A. C. Gregg and Roy White, but at
the time my story seemed to point up A.C.'s performance far and above that of Roy. It was, of course,
just the way one man saw the game, but Professor F. L. Blythe reminded me in no uncertain terms the
following Monday that Roy White had played a ball game.

Since that fall of ‘49 I have seen Roy play a lot of football, and a lot of good football.
But I don't believe I ever saw him play a better game—offensively and/or defensively—than he did Saturday against Richmond. Why
go to the trouble to point this out? Well, I suppose I was a bit disappointed in the coverage and
credit given Roy by The Observer for his latest afternoon activity. Again, perhaps, it was the way one man saw
the game. But I should like to come back four years later to make amends somewhat and point up the
praise I feel Roy's due. To a non-football playing fan like myself, his game was dang near perfect.

This note on Roy is by no means a take-away from the credit due the rest of the team and,
in no small measure, that coaching staff. With a handful of players, a fist-full of plays, and a heart full
of fight, Davidson's 1952 team has supplied that nebulous “something” we've been seeking for several years now. They are a
ball club, in the true sense of the word, only more so. But I just couldn't let this pass without
a comment on Roy. It seemed too deserving to go unwritten.

—BILL WHITE.

Rent A New Car
LOW RATES FOR HOMECOMING WEEKEND
* * *
Drive it Yourself Inc.
212 West 4th
Phone 3-4513
Charlotte
