It is always along about this time of year, when all the regular Varsity seasons are over and usually forgotten,
that everyone gets the "clean-slate—new-leaf" feeling which usually allows all good Davidsonians to leave school with the idea that, after
all, September begins a new year in which things will be entirely different, and it is just possible that the
Wildcats will have a winning season in football, basketball, baseball, etc. However, anybody who takes more than the customary ten
seconds to analyze the situation will soon see that there are no brave new worlds forthcoming for Davidson in the
next few months.

By DICK ROPER

It was a Persian gentleman named Omar Khayyam, we believe, who between draughts from an omnipresent jug of wine uttered
sage bits of verse, one of which went like this: "Yesterday This Day’s Madness did prepare Tomorrow's Silence, Triumph, or
Despair..." In those few words, the present Davidson sports scene is summed up. Davidson athletics in 1952-'53 will be largely
what they were this year. Most of the participants will be the same as they were in '51-'52, and the
situations under which they play will have changed but little if at all. The same major problems will confront the
powers that be, and without doubt, they will take the same attitude.

Davidson, with a new coach, a good coach who has proved himself capable of winning if given half a chance,
will spend $25,000 on football in 1952. Its football team will take the field against schools which spend from $40,000
to $83,000 and even above that figure. It seems hardly necessary to point out the futility of such a procedure;
but when the kickoff of the first game comes around, the Wildcat supporters will still be out hoping for a
just-possible upset—as they, of course, should do.

In basketball, the situation doesn’t look nearly as black but neither is it bright. Most of the regulars on Boyd
Baird's '51-'52 squad are graduating, and as is well known, Davidson doesn’t appropriate a whole lot of money for scholarships
in the hoop sports either. The same applies to baseball. Dave Poole did the best he could with what he
had, but not enough of the real material was there.

What it all comes down to in the final analysis is that Davidson at present has only three workable alternatives
if it is going to play the game and play it right (i.e., win): 1) Devote more money to the
subsidization program; 2) lower scholastic standards and get more of the less bright athletes who almost made the big schools;
3) drop football, basketball, and baseball entirely. Of course, it goes without saying that nobody—faculty, students, or alumni—would want to
take either of the two latter recourses, and it seems obvious that more money for athletic scholarships is not forthcoming.
So where does that leave us? You're right. Exactly where we are.

It is said that the powers that be (Headquarters, South Wing of Chambers Building) are hoping that the trend toward
more and more subsidization is slowing down, and that in the near future schools like Davidson can play the game
as it should be played—merely for the fun of playing. But until that day comes, it’s going to be pretty
painful for the athletes who have to play the games and the spectators who will watch them.

Chesterfield

1. Who won the annual Pan American golf tournament last week at Mexico City?
2. Who is captain-elect of Davidson’s basketball team for next year?
3. What retiring Davidson Coach was a Lt. Commander in the Naval Air Force during World War I?
4. Who won the Armfield Blocking trophy last year?
5. For what former Davidson athlete is the Tommy Peters trophy named?

Turn in answers on empty Chesterfield wrapper to Charlie Hall, Room E, East (basement).

Wildcat Sports

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Del Sylvia, captain of the defending University of North Carolina tennis champions, climaxes a sparkling season at the Southern Conference
tournament here this weekend.

Golfers Enter Tournament Minus McLean, Fitzgerald

A weakened Wildcat golf team is in Winston-Salem this weekend for the Southern Conference tournament at the long Old Town
Country Club course. Mac McLean and Al Fitzgerald, two of Coach Elgin White's most dependable linemen, did not make the
trip because of important scholastic work impending. Members of the team to make the trip were Graeme Keith, Jim Sloan,
Lou Barnes, Bob Brannon, with Al Gaither and Ed Douglass filling in for McLean and Fitzgerald.

The team capped off the regular season match play by downing U.S.C. a little over a week ago. This gave
the Cats a 4-4 won-lost record in conference play and a 5-4 record in matches played other than on the
Florida trip. Two of the four lost matches were by a margin of three points or less, and one of
the Cat wins was a hard-fought one-point victory over N. C. State, which, as Coach White pointed out, goes to
show that Davidson teams don't always lose the close ones. Although the absence of Fitzgerald and McLean was sure to
be felt, the addition of Gaither and freshman Douglass appeared to give the Cats a fair chance in the tournament
competition.

FRIDAY, MAY 16, 1952

Keesler Loses To Tom Boys

Derrick's Men Lose Out In Doubles Play

Tommy Boys of William and Mary defeated Lacy Keesler in the semi-finals of the Southern Conference tennis tournament here this
afternoon and consequently ended all chances for Davidson's taking a title in the meet. Scores in the Boys-Keesler match were
6-0, 6-2, 6-3. Boys will meet the winner of the Del Sylvia-John Schellinger match played this afternoon in the final
action of the tourney tomorrow morning. Sylvia, from UNC, is captain of the team that won the meet last year.
Schellinger is Duke's hope for the singles crown.

In the doubles competition, the Wildcats lost out in the quarterfinals when the Lacy-Dewey Keesler team bowed to Duke's hot
combo of Norm Schellinger and Dave Schimmel, 6-1, 2-6, 8-6. The brother team had the Blue Devils 5-4 in the
final set before fading out. Wildcats Joe Dudley and George Snead also went to the quarterfinals before bowing out of
the pic-Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

They were defeated by Maryland’s John Magnam and Sam Handel, 6-2, 6-3. Johnny Bremer, Davidson's only other hope in singles
competition, also lost out in the fourth round this morning to North Carolina's Del Sylvia, 6-4, 6-3. Dewey Keesler, Corky
Clark, and Allan Strand were defeated in the third round in singles play. Clark lost to Lacy Keesler yesterday afternoon.
To get into the semi-finals, Lacy had to beat U.N.C.'s Herbie Brown, who last year was National Scholastic champion. Keesler
beat Brown by scores of 6-4, 2-6, 6-4.

Wildcat of the Week . . . Bob Brannon
By DICK LILES

A 68 on a review or writ is known to be not too good here at Davidson, but that score
on the golf links is nothing to be sneezed at and something that even comes hard for the pros sometimes.
However, a young Charlottean on Coach Elgin White's golf team accomplished that feat in their last match against South Carolina
and very much aided the Davidson cause in the rout of the Gamecocks, 19½ to 7½. Bobby is no stranger
to the wide fairways and putting greens, and although only in his sophomore year here at school, he has already
made his name on the links. He started his golfing career at the ripe age of eleven years and has
been playing continuously ever since then on his home Myers Park Country Club course or visiting some other location for
a school match or some tournament.

High Star
While in high school, Brannon made quite a name for himself on the Central High School team and while playing
on his own hook in the various junior and high school tournaments. In three years as No. 2 man on
the team, Central lost only two golf matches. They won the state tourney his last year in high school. Teaming
up with Bobby Sisk, who is still at Charlotte Central, and playing No. One spot, Bob helped win the Carolina's
4-Ball Tournament two years ago, which was his greatest honor. Then they went on to set a record that still
stands for the Kiwanis Club Tourney that is played every year in North and South Carolina and includes both high
school and junior stars.

Plays Number Two
The Kappa Sigma sophomore has been consistently playing between spots 4 and 2 all season and has a won-4, lost-4
record for the season. His average score for the year was a good 75.9, which actually would have been better
except for a few poor rounds early in the season with no practice to smooth out the kinks.

A 68 deserves a smile

Four Athletes, Kappa Sigs Win Sports Awards
Five important sports awards were made early this week in both the varsity and interfraternity sports scenes. Coach Heath Whittle
presented the coveted interfraternity sports trophy to Kappa Sigma in chapel Tuesday. The Kappa Sigs beat out Phi Gamma Delta
by a very close point total of 1278 to 1257. Jack Branch, Phi Gam senior from Morganton, was awarded the
Armfield Blocking trophy at the All-Sports Banquet Monday night, and John “Ish” Bennett, Phi Delt from North Fork, West Va.,
was the first recipient of the “D” Club's annual award to the outstanding freshman athlete. Bob Turk, Kappa Sig senior,
won the Tommy Peters award for outstanding athletic ability and leadership. Al Ormond, Phi Gam freshman from Akron, Ohio, was
awarded the Bill Ray trophy for high point winner in swimming. The “D” Club at the banquet made a special
presentation of honorary memberships in that organization to Coaches Baird, Little, and Redding. Jake Wade, sports publicity director of the
University of North Carolina, gave the principal address of the sports banquet.

He listened to the weak thread of so many shallow claims he’s fed-up! His point is—there’s a thorough test of
cigarette mildness. Millions of smokers throughout America concur. It’s the sensible test ...the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test, which simply asks
you to try Camels as your steady smoke—on a day-after-day, pack-after-pack basis. No snap judgments! Once you've tried Camels in
your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste) you'll see why... After all the Mildness Tests... Camel leads all other
brands by millions.

No. 42... THE PORCUPINE

HOT TOURNAMENTS CLIMAX WILDCAT SPORTS YEAR

PAGE THREE

Eight Davidson Thinclads in At Conference Track Meet
By JOHN HANDLEY

Eight members of Coach Pete Whittle’s track team were on hand in Chapel Hill this morning for the Southern Conference
tournament today and Saturday. Men making the trip were Bill McNeely, Frank Cenegy, Frank Mitchener, Bill Shipley, Bill Russell, J.
V. Howell, Bob Turk, and Bob Henry. The preliminary trials for the shot, discus, 100 and 440 were run off
today with McNeely and Cenegy, Mitchener, and Shipley, respectively in the above events, in the action. The finals in all
events will be held tomorrow with those Cats not eliminated today and the mile relay team competing for the Red
and Black. The relay team is composed of Shipley, Howell, Russell, and Henry.

Last weekend a crippled Cat squad was overpowered by a strong State Wolfpack team in Raleigh by an 85 to
46 margin. Out of the action were Bill Shipley, Dan Landers, and Bob Voston. All of these men had proved
to be reliable point-getters throughout the season and Coach Whittle feels that the Cats’ chances would be much better had
he been able to use these three men. In the State meet, the Wildcats were able to capture only four
firsts and 19 total places. The first positions were taken by Bill McNeely with a 45’ 5” put of the
shot, J. V. Howell with a 52.1 time in the 440, Frank Mitchener with a 23.2 running in the 220,
and Roy White with a 20’ 4” jump in the broad jump.

With the regular season completed and the individual point totals compiled, big Bill McNeely walked away with the individual scoring
honors by compiling a grand total of 51 points over the six meets in which he participated. Versatile Jim Fickeisen
was second in line with 39 points, while distance-man Tom Stockton placed fourth with 38. Next were Bob Henry and
Frank Mitchener with 36, and Bill Shipley with 35. Coach Pete Whittle commented this week that all in all it
has been a very successful season, and a fine squad is expected for next year. Although the men mentioned above
were the most valuable to the team in view of their point compilations, Whittle was quick to praise all members
of the team for their help toward making a winning season possible.
