PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF -------------------- Frank Hanshaw
BUSINESS MANAGER ---------------- Jack Hobson
ASSISTANT EDITOR ------------------ John Ottley
Associate Editors -------------------- Brinkley, Daniel, Harter, Hope, Myers
Managing Editors -------------------- Hassell, J. M. Moore, Owens
Sports Editor ------------------------ Dick Roper
News Editor ------------------------- D. M. Smith
Feature Editor ---------------------- T. A. Williams
Arts Editor -------------------------- Mahy
Assignments ------------------------- Strand
Photographer ------------------------ Simons
Assistant Business Manager --------- Poston
Advertising Manager ---------------- Hasty
Circulation Manager ----------------- Nicholson
Collection Manager ------------------

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Importance of Speaking on Campus Must be Stressed to Freshmen

There is one freshmen regulation that the Court of Control cannot possibly enforce by itself regardless of its efficiency. This
is regulation number eleven. Freshmen are required to speak to all men they meet on the campus and tip their
hat to members of the faculty. We have observed several times during the past few weeks that many of the
freshmen are not carrying out this regulation. If we were able to put our finger on any one aspect of
the "Davidson Spirit," it would be the tradition of speaking to all people on the campus, including visitors as well
as students and faculty. This is one of Davidson's good traditions which makes her unique among the other colleges in
the South. We challenge any student to travel to another college or university in this state and find an atmosphere
of friendliness that exists on this campus. It would be very easy for this characteristic to change over the course
of several years if the importance of this matter is not impressed on each new freshman class. We hope that
the upper classmen and the court of control will make a special point to enforce this regulation. But what is
more important, we hope that the freshmen will see the importance of the regulation and will enter into this spirit
which is so much a part of Davidson College.

ROTC Department to be Praised In Support of Student Interest

The purpose of the editorial page is not only to criticize, analyze and make recommendations, but also to give praise
and thanks to those organizations and people who deserve it. Consequently, we feel the ROTC Department should be commended for
its consideration of the student's interest in the World Series. We wished, of course, that there had been no drill
at all, but realizing that this was impossible, we should appreciate their efforts to let us out as early as
was possible. Those students who have met Colonel Davis outside of class or drill will tell you he is not
only a fine soldier, but also a great man to have as a friend or counselor. Through his efforts we
note increased efficiency as well as a new attitude and method regarding Tuesday afternoon drills. Even the "Peoples’ Army" reviews
are not yet in bad repute with the ROTC cadre. All of this leads up to a fairly obvious point,
namely, that if those of us who are ROTC students give our best cooperation and efforts during the drill period,
perhaps we can expect future favors when important events conflict with drill. The ROTC Department has certainly met us more
than halfway so far. We would also do well to bear in mind that if our drill conduct becomes poor
we can expect few, if any, "breaks"—S.R.H.

No P. O. In Present Union Plan; Addition Possible In The Future

As the new college union nears completion, many students have been asking if it will contain a post office. The
original plans did not call for a post office, although the matter was discussed. A poll of the student body
last year showed that it was eleventh in importance with the many other things that were considered to be needed
in the union. Such facilities as the student lounge, organizations’ rooms, a record room, snack bar, billiard room, etc., came
before the post office in preference. Although there are no present plans for the post office in the college union,
it is not entirely out of the question. However, there are several things that must be taken into consideration. First,
there is a limited amount of space available for the present activities in the union. The space tentatively to be
used for the bowling alley has been allocated for storing supplies for the dining facilities and for a ping pong
recreation room. Lack of space is undoubtedly the biggest problem. Also, the government will not operate a branch post office
in a community as small as Davidson. In order to handle the mail for the students, the college would have
to employ a full-time mail clerk which would be an additional expense. Finally, there is the matter of public relations
with the business concerns in the community which should be considered. If the post office were established in the union,
it would take a good bit of business from the town. Even with these obstacles, we feel, along with many
other students, that a post office should eventually be established in the union, for it will be the center of
student activity and is the logical location for a post office. We hope that after the union operates for a
while, a suitable solution may be reached so that this facility may be enjoyed by both faculty and students.

EDUCATION AT DAVIDSON IS NOT CONFINED EXCLUSIVELY TO THE CLASSROOM, AESTHETICS — Davidson CATALOG, P. 59

Intellectual Insult Delivered By Honored Emissary of Congress

Forty years from now, when we buttonhole some unsuspecting character and, in glowing terms, describe the bliss that was ours
when we were students here at the Pallid Pavilion, many fond memories will crowd into our minds, and be related
to the unfortunate whose ear we are bending. Ah yes, the great old traditions, the roaring social life, the long
holidays and the dearth of wisdom which we acquired sitting humbly at the feet of our assigned professors—all these shall
be consecrated in our mind. But above and beyond all this, exciting greater emotion and warmer praise, stands the one
outstanding feature which is synonymous with our existence here. The Place of Honor, after long and calculated thought, must necessarily
go to our daily little Chapel Service. As we stand and nauseate the poor misfortunate, who is by now a
dedicated misanthrope, the aura of Time will clear and we shall turn back the pages of Life reminiscing about certain
chapel programs, which it was our good fortune to have attended. And suddenly, with all the lucidness of a bright
light, Thursday morning's program will present itself at the front of our minds, reminding us of how we have been
blessed. South Carolina had its Henry Clay; the Union had its Daniel Webster; but now North Carolina has counteracted their
brilliant oratorical accomplishments and statesmanship with a ponderous contribution to the hallowed halls of the House of Representatives. The Pride
of Paducah cringes in comparison with the Messiah of Mecklenburg. With true humility we have once again accepted the infallible
choice of the voters, whose clear insight and succinct judgment are a joy to behold when we view the end
product of their ballots. Our little interlude opened yesterday with a sugary invocation which was heaped upon the unsuspecting head
of Dr. Cunningham, in which he was compared to John Dewey and Chancellor Hutchinson of the University of Chicago. After
that we were treated to the reasons why the Honorable Speaker went to UNC instead of Davidson, which he dearly
admires, but some of the students felt that perhaps the academic rating of our noble institution had a hand in
his choice. Then we moved on to the order of the day. "Now," said our distinguished visitor, "let us examine
our two-party system. It is obvious that some Democrats are turning Republican." Masses are being said and rosaries counted for
those poor, misguided souls who have deserted to the other side, not realizing the quality of leadership and representation with
which they have been endowed for the last six years. Oh, that they could see the errors of their ways
and return to the Democratic fold! Then we had a good old shaggy dog story which left the students rolling
in the aisles. We learned (Continued On Page Four)

FROM THE EDITOR'S MAILBOX: Past Judge of Court, Doug Rice, Defends His Reign And The Present Court’s Decision

Dear Editor:

In reply to the sardonic libel printed in last week's Davidsonian in the column commonly referred to as “The Free
Lance” I should like to make a few remarks. Taking that column for what it is and the editor cannot
justly be held responsible for the self-appointed judgments of his assistants, I count the Davidsonian blameless for this heinous vituperation.
Yet I feel an obligation to correct the absurd and indiscreet implications created by this personal attack. First may I
agree wholeheartedly that third degree tactics are not the way to aid anyone's proper adjustment. That is why I have
never used them or advocated their use. The very existence of the Court of Control is aimed at preventing uncontrolled
abuse and promoting a wholesome attitude, not only in the freshman class but in the student body as a whole.
It was my aim as judge three years ago to make the court the instrument through which correct traditions and
good school spirit might be instilled in boys coming to Davidson for the first time. Such a task requires more
than just stating rules; it requires advice and reprimand, active enforcement and personal interest. If the policies of the past
two years show any great deviation by comparison with those of preceding years, it lies in the relative lack of
action by the court and not in sanity or constructiveness. Those who founded the court in 1923 expected it to
work actively for a better school spirit. Acting on that principle I tried to make the court influential in the
most effective way. If apathy toward the problem or an inactive court is the solution, then the founders and I,
as well, have been sadly misled. It just might be also that the writer of those hypercritical insinuations gave himself
away by venting his opinions against me. The fact that I was judge and he was a freshman three years
ago is no coincidence. It is most revealing that the writer says, “We remember our own experience with Rice's third-rate
inquisition. It not only did us no positive good but kindled a deep-seated resentment of the court and of the
so-termed ‘Davidson Way of Life’.” It is my deep regret that the court was unable to engender the true Davidson
spirit in this boy. He is obviously describing himself when he says, “a boy is hurt and driven into a
sort of protective shell” and his adjustment is hindered. He is right, I will have to admit. We failed terribly
in this case, for he apparently has not been able to adjust to our Davidson way of life which he
so resents and is now flinging specious abuse at those who sought to make him a Davidson man. In defense
of the court and my own reputation I submit that this writer is obviously an exception to the usual result
of the court's work. To prevent uncontrolled hazing the court is essential. In instilling into freshmen the good attitude and
spirit it can only do its best with student body support and cooperation. Keeping silence at chapel sessions of the
court (the only apparent change effected in the last two years) is a minor detail. In fact it would probably
be better to have all the noise than relative quiet broken byscattered wisecracks and laughing. No ostentatious spoutings or unctuous,
high-sounding journalism coming from one maladjusted individual should be allowed to defeat the sincere efforts that the court has made
for many years. The fastidious writer who has made himself the judge of all things good will find that he
does not possess the only mind on the campus. The court does need improvement and should avoid appearing ridiculous before
the student body. But this “college man” who has found it necessary to flaunt his starchy invective at one and
all will soon discover that character assassination is not the way to win friends or influence student opinion. The objective
and constructive policy he seems to advocate will never be seen through the jaundiced eye. His venomous methods belie his
moralistic pretensions and reveal only the cynical opinions of one man. Had this column not been a personal attack, I
would have considered the criticism of the court from that source as most insignificant. But because his criticism is not
objective but personal and is given public circulation, I have felt it only common sense to add this note of
warning to those who might take such bias seriously. I will appreciate your cooperation in seeing that such personal opinion
not be allowed control of the usually objective Davidsonian. Yours very truly, DOUG RICE.

THE FREE LANCE: FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1952

A Fable of Men Who Thought They’d Turn

Once there was a group of very wise men who decided they would go time one better. Rather than living
from first to last as the rest of us do, they decided to pick a spot in the future and
live back to it. Everything went swell for a while. They selected a time in May and planned backward until
they got to September. Great pains were taken to decide what days would be devoted to what particular events so
that there would be no conflict with those who lived normally. Somewhere in their planning someone flubbed the deal and
they began to run into a conflict with the persons who were living forward. To get out of the jam,
these wise men retreated into a corner and said that those whose living schedules were different from theirs would simply
have to do things in another way. So what was originally only an experiment among wise men became an imperial
decree to all the men whom they controlled, which number exceeds 800. Several of this number were so bold as
to suggest changes in the backward calendar, but the wise men objected on the grounds that when living backward, forward
ones cannot fish out days from mid-air. The wise men said that the number of days could not be reduced
because that would be wrong for the forward living people. It was regrettable, they admitted, that all the forward living
subjects had to change their schedule of events, but according to the backward calendar, it had to be done. Being
that the subjects were liberally minded, they argued, it would not strain them to observe certain customs at a different
time from others in the world and others who were not subjects of these particular wise men. Of course, it
is mere conjecture to say that when the families of the subjects plan their events at a different time, it
may call for even more liberal mindedness among the subjects. But to the wise men, it is obvious that pleasure
and pain are not relative to the time of any one day. No doubt they may discuss this idea with
their own families as they sit together on the day which the subjects will have to shift to some other
day.

By JOHN OTTLEY

“Now this here is more to my liking. It’s the kind of stuff I can appreciate,” he said as he
stood in Chambers lobby perusing the art exhibit there. The particular picture which drew his attention was the portrait of
a girl done in dull green and brown. What about this business of modern art anyway? Why do they clutter
up a nice decorative lobby wall with such crazy gyrations? If we gotta have art, why not put something here
we all can understand? Let’s look for a moment at the kind of stuff we can appreciate. It usually falls
into two characteristics. It’s either a portrait of a single man or woman or it’s a landscape of mountains or
the beach. Do we really understand this type of painting or do we merely recognize it? We feel the emphasis
on understanding art has been misapplied. One may understand why a man did something; one may even have the artist
there to explain what it’s all about. Suppose we do understand the why of the picture, what then? Our contention
is that the primary action we should take in regard to art is to attempt to determine if there is
anything about it that we like in an unbiased fashion. Too many of us are accustomed, in this the age
of the illustrated press, to trying to find some physical object we know in a painting. We look for the
photographic copy. One cannot like or dislike a photographic copy. It is simply there. It may remind us of an
experience associated with that copy which was pleasant, but in (Continued On Page Four)

HISTORY WILL VINDICATE THE HARRY TRUMAN ADMINISTRATION

Needless to say, the position of Harry Truman today is somewhat different from that of four years ago. Furthermore, there
seems to be a difference in feelings toward him because of that fact. A great many who have condemned him
in the past are now growing less passionate in their denunciations and in some cases even praising some of his
actions. Of course, there are still and will continue to be die-hard bitter critics who see “Truman socialism” behind every
bush, but maybe as time passes more of us will be able to look at his administration with a truer
perspective. Although citing historical analogy is no proof, we could perhaps gain a little appreciation of his years as President
by remembering the administrations of such presidents as Jackson, Johnson, and Wilson. They and other Presidents have been roundly condemned
by their contemporaries and yet vindicated and in fact greatly admired by posterity.

By GEORGE BRINKLEY

Whether or not Harry Truman is another Jackson, many would consider highly debatable, yet no other two Presidents have been
so close to the people or as progressively democratic in their thinking. Further, President Truman has guided this country in
one of the most trying eras in history. His decisions have never been cowardly or timid; on the contrary, no
President has ever been so outspoken and courageous in standing up for his beliefs. Like Jackson and Wilson, his views
have been a little radical for his time, but no one can deny his courage in defending what he believed
best for the people. Whether we agree with all his views or not (and there's probably no one with whom
anyone can completely agree), we must admire his fearless stand. His history-making “whistle stop” campaign today is ample testimony to
his vigorous determination to preserve the work of the past twenty years. Like his predecessors also, he has made mistakes,
but such resolute and vital decisions as Point Four, strong support of the U.N., the strengthening of collective security through
E.R.P. and N.A.T.O., and his profound interest in racial equality, even F.E.P.C., will stand out powerfully in history and their
forthright spokesman will not be forgotten. When the passion of personal grudges and political prejudice has passed into history, that
history will record the acts of a very outspoken, courageous man of the people. Misunderstood and bitterly denounced, he has
never lost his fighting spirit. A shrewd politician guilty of rashness and other human frailties at times which he openly
admits and regrets, Harry Truman is more than a politician. He will be recorded as a leader in many fields
and one of the most courageous of our Presidents.

THE CABBAGE PLANTER: JONES, JONA, JONAMUS, JONAT; JONAM, JONATIS, JONATUM, JONANT

The fact can’t be no longer disguised that a Krysis is onto us. —Artemus Ward.

We realize that our four speakers this week, either in forum or debate on the National Elections, had only a
limited time to present the issues and to meet them squarely. However, I know that all of us felt deeply
the gross evasion of what is perhaps the central issue of the campaign: the legality of water in our nation’s
lakes and rivers. During peacetime, non-election years, the question is more easily overlooked on the basis of separation of powers;
lakes, ponds, and puddles are administered by the Department of the Interior, while rivers, arroyos, and creeks are under the
Department of Commerce. We cannot, however, escape the fact that any malfeasance must be laid to the feet of the
same President. When President Truman assumed office in 1948, he implied that he stood solidly for the existence of water
in both our lakes and our rivers. The question now is, has he done anything during the past four years
toward putting water in the lakes and rivers? The question as it now stands affects the entire policy-making structure of
the government. Witness, for instance, the comment of Chairman Wheeler (R. Kan.) of the House Government Procedure Committee. “It may
or may not be,” said Congressman Wheeler, “but on the other hand, however, in view of recent developments, its bipartisan
origin may prove the decision to have been right or wrong.” Add to this the recent decision of the Supreme
Court that there is no Constitutional way whereby the Senate Banking Committee can remove the leaves from every tree west
of the Rocky Mountains. Informed of the verdict, Senator Rohler (D. Fla.) was reported as saying that even if Washington
closed its filling stations every Sunday, there would still be horse-chestnuts to trip on once a year. A movement has
started in both houses of Congress to set up a deputy grade of forest ranger to combat the horse-chestnut danger;
the deputy force would take approximately three years to organize and would, reliable spokesmen say, be in operation sometime late
in 1955. The plan was first proposed by Republican Cabot McWherry of Oklahoma, whose term expires this year. Asked point-blank
whether there were any Communists in the proposed ranger force, McWherry replied, “It isn’t a matter of how much is
being spent for subsidization, and I think the American people will back me up in that.” On MBC’s “Meet the
Press” last Monday, moreover, the same angle of farm product subsidization came in for a heavy barrage of questions. Soon
afterwards, MBC scriptwriter Tighe Murphy released a full account of his mash-consumption and egg-laying records since 1942. “I do not
mean to be irreverent,” said Federal Housing Chief Eric Perley, “when I contend that our late President laid an egg
when he refused to remodel the Presidential yacht, Williamsburg, as a troop carrier in 1943. We scrapped the project at
his insistence, and now are having to rebuild the liner ‘United States’ at inflationary prices.” The ship, when completed, will
have to sail on ocean waters which have originally come from a lake or a river. It remains to be
seen whether or not the United States will have a part in the contribution of water to these oceans. It
remains to be seen whether Americans will Wake Up In Time. Personally, I don’t care, “my politics, like my religion,
being of an exceeding’ accommodating character.” —Artemus Ward.
