PAGE TWO

Associate Editors
Art Editor—Don Mahy
Sports Editor—Dick Liles

have been posted for all to see. Basically, of course, Ruth's program will remain the same as McLean's, Cobb's, Pahl’s, Hill's, and the men before them. The highest responsibility will rest in his charge as guardian of the honor system. In addition, he will serve as the student-faculty go-between, the counsellor of his fellow student body members, and the executive head of the student body. But Ruth's program already differs from those of his predecessors. He has laid before those who elected him—prior to his election—certain points which he personally will push in his office. Point one was the combination of Rush Week with Orientation; point two, student appearance before the trustees; and point three, a holiday break between semesters.

An endorsement of the man means at least partial endorsement of his program. Of the three points stressed by Ruth, we would look for his roughest road to lie along the way to the Rush Week-Orientation combination. The idea kayoes the hot and hectic sessions of the first two weeks of the semester, so important in formative value to frosh and upperclassmen alike. Too, dirty-rushing throughout Orientation Week is eliminated. The idea is a good one. But how much backing in the student body will Ruth get for it? Whatever number of the upperclassmen deem the present Rush Week disadvantages worth the return to campus one week early?

Student appearance before the trustees and the semester break will undoubtedly get support to the limit—from the student body. Ruth must concern himself with work on the administration side of the fence on these two. On the other hand, as pointed out, the shoe is on the other foot in the Rush Week proposal—a willing (in spirit) faculty and administration, but probably a reluctant student body. Hence, the presidential perplexities already await the man who made them. He has struck his issues, which—if obvious—will not be easy in their settlement. The one great characteristic of a leader is his ability to influence others to follow in his lead. Ruth has set his foot on the path. What and who is to follow is a question yet to be answered.

24-Hour Period Is Warranted Between Speeches and Voting

While campaigning, as such, cannot get very far in the brief, five-minute setting down of views provided for under the present election set-up, there remains too much room for the superficial appeal of emotionalism. The ability to make a close, immediate appeal to the student body, to catch the voter's fancy with an attractive program—whether sound or no—could become the sole prerequisite to election, were we to continue voting within minutes after the final candidate's words have floated out over the audience of ballot casters.

Admittedly, the time-saving value of the present system is one of its greatest assets, but is a day too precious to sacrifice for some serious thought concerning the men who are to lead campus organizations for the coming year? We would like to see a 24-hour period injected between speech and vote, to free the student from the emotionalism of the moment and enable him to seriously consider the candidate. The next speeches by candidates are scheduled for Monday. It is within the power of the Elections Board to effect our proposed change. We hope and ask that they do so, and that Boards in the future follow this policy.

D.C. Music Lovers Like Yokels

Culturally speaking, there is little difference between a country boob at a sideshow and many of our more enlightened student body—both go bug-eyed to the barker with the flashiest cry. In the case of the Davidson man it’s whichever entertainment seems to have the more citified or big society reputation. We refer to the difference in attendance at the Olin Downes-Leonard Eisner lecture and the Davidson band concert the next evening. Attracted like so many moths by the magical words of New York Times and the terribly stereotyped ‘brilliant young pianist,’’ they thronged to sit through two agonizing hours of the portly Downes. Tuesday evening a scanty seventy men straggled into Chambers auditorium in T-shirts and work pants. Those who did attend the band concert were treated to a program of vastly greater entertainment value even if not aesthetic perfection. In a manner that was compared to the Harvard band, the local men marched through a program which was not only (Continued On Page Four)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF .......... BILL WHITE
BUSINESS MANAGER ........ ALEX GOLEY

Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis, George McMurray
Managing Editors
Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw, Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Feature Editor—Mike Myers
City Editor—Nat Daniels
Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager
Collection Manager
Subscriptions Manager
Boo Northcutt

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Ruth Goes To Bat Under Pressure After Pointing Where He'll Hit

Our new elections system has brought forth its first born in president-elect Jack Ruth, and Ruth, in turn, has brought forth a program which is new at least insofar as its points

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sixty CENTS BOX RENT — AND WHAT Do I GET?

‘SALE — BABY CHICKS

Mails from the North—the East—the West—the South—whence, according to some curious etymologists, comes the magical words NEWS. T. DeQuincey, Confessions of an English Opium-Eater.

Friend Tom, above, hit the jackpot about a good many things during his seventy-four odd years, but on this mail business, at least at Davidson, he seems to have missed the target completely, yielding place to D. Mahy, still farther above, who once and for all debunks the notion that the mails ever bring any news. Artist Mahy, with a number of adroitly placed lines, has captured the spirit of the daily trek westward just beyond Miss Minnie’s to the post office. In other words, what Don has conveyed in his illustration would have taken a student at least a word to say. Everybody knows the mail situation here, but like the weather, has anybody ever done anything about it? Or even classified it?

Mail for the Davidson student is divided into two categories: inherent mail, and other mail. Under inherent mail would come all that which he gets by virtue of being a Box Holder. Sex, poultry raising and family insurance, all for just sixty cents a quarter. Other mail is a more personal category. This includes all letters with someone's name on them, whether it’s yours or not. Here we have overdrawal slips, cut cards, library overdue reminders, dismissal notices and things like that. These make the trip worthwhile.

I have two examples of inherent mail before me. One is pretty valuable, and it's hard to see why so many people seem to have neglected it. It is from the Wesson Oil and Snowdrift Sales Co., and contains a goodly number of impressive looking, genuine coupons, each worth anywhere from five to ten cents on the purchase of something handy for your room, like Wesson Oil or Snowdrift. It has been computed by someone who computes such things that if one person redeemed all the coupons on the post office floor, he could well nigh bankrupt those WO&SSC folks and maybe bring on a depression. But who does things like that any more?

The other example is also impressive, in blue ink and all. From the National Bankers Life Insurance Company, whose clever motto is “Old Line Legal Reserve,” it starts off like this: Dear Friends: When you receive this letter, bear in mind that your name was not drawn from a hat, nor was it given to us by a friend of yours. Instead, your name was selected on a basis of statistical information. Sure it was. There are 1199 boxes in the post office, so you were statistically bound to get at least one of the 1199 letters they sent out. ... It also shows that you or someone in your family has probably been faced with payment of a Hospital and Doctor Bill. Jumping at conclusion, I'd say. In view of the above, you may do one of two things. Throw this letter away and forget it, Hah! and perhaps be faced with a big Hospital and Doctor Bill tomorrow, next week, or maybe next year... See there? They know exactly when something’s going to happen to you. The other alternative is to return to them an enclosed card, plus a few pennies every morning before chapel, following which you are automatically covered in case of accidents, sickness and childbirth. Gentlemen, how can we turn it down?

There is but one answer to the growing feeling of frustration about the post office. You must make an adventure of it. Say to yourself as you cross the street against the light, “Did he catch that cut last Saturday,” or “I wonder if the price for three-day-old baby chicks is up again,” or “It's about time for those two bad checks to be rolling in.” Life can be an adventure, if you'll only work at it.

ACP POLL

Students Show Disapproval For Smoking In Classroom

Ever feel like clutching for that evil weed to get just one puff during a particularly boring session in the classroom? Surprisingly enough, over half of the students across the nation polled recently by the Associated Collegiate Press voted emphatically “No” to any smoking in the classroom. Students in general disapprove of smoking in classrooms two to one, but freshmen and women are much stronger in their disapproval. Most frequently mentioned reason of those who oppose classroom smoking is consideration for non-smokers.

Students across the nation were asked, did you approve or disapprove of smoking in the classroom. The results:
Approve .......... 29 per cent
Disapprove ....... 58 per cent
No Opinion ....... 9 per cent
Other ............. 4 per cent

“It's downright irritating to the people who don’t smoke,” declares one co-ed interviewed. “Its all right if there’s proper ventilation,” says a student at the Crosse State College, Wisconsin. A co-ed majoring in physical education at Michigan Teachers College declares, “For safety purposes I don’t think it would be wise. It might also make it uncomfortable for non-smokers, although you can get used to it.”

There is an unmistakable trend toward “approval” from freshmen to graduate students. Here's the way it stands:
Approve Disapprove
Pet. Pet.
Freshmen .... 25 63
Sophomores .. 28 58
Juniors ....... 31 56
Seniors ....... 34 55
Graduates .... 42 46

“There is a time and place for everything,” says a disapproving freshman at Belleville Jr. College, “and the classroom is not one of these places.” But a senior at Florida State University approves of classroom smoking and sums up his reasons in two words: “I smoke.”

CONGRESS

A survey of senate absenteeism shows that one-fourth of the senators have missed over 75 votes since the 81st Congress opened in Jan., 48. In other words, some of the taxpayers are paying for full-time senators but getting only part-time service. On any other job they would be fired—Drew Pearson, Bell Syndicate.

Shrinking Oceans May Reveal Lost Submarine Lands

Atlantis may rise again in about a billion years. The oceans of the world may be shrinking. If they are, the Atlantic will be divided, in about a billion years, into two seas by an Atlantean continent running its entire length, according to Hans Petterson, Directorof the Oceanographic Institute at Gothenburg, Sweden. Petterson was speaking in the course of his first Silliman Memorial Lecture on April 16. The Silliman Lectures, entitled “The Ocean Floor and Its Problems,” are being given at the Yale Law School Auditorium from April 16 to 25. The Pacific and Indian Oceans, unlike the Atlantic, would be divided into a number of small seas. Large undersea ridges or plateaus would be exposed, forming new land bridges and continents between the Antarctic and other continents. Oceanwise, according to Petterson, the Earth may be following the evolutionary pattern of Mars and Venus. Venus is still in a pre-oceanic stage, while Mars is a desert planet. “Our present oceanic splendor,” he said, “may be a transient stage and the Earth may be on its way towards a complete desiccation.”

NAT DANIEL: notice the changes going on around them. The criticisms of these groups have been partially sound, but there is more to the intolerant attitude at Davidson than mere racial segregation, or as some have pointed out, religious intolerance. The student body at Davidson is, as a group, extremely intolerant, and exerts a terrific amount of pressure on its deviates to force them to choose between falling in line or getting out. It has little respect for individual differences and operates on both a conscious and subconscious level to keep its members within the confines of Southern Presbyterian upper-middle-class society. It doesn’t permit the highly intellectual to survive because it so restricts its ideas to one type or aspect of living, that he feels no intellectual challenge, and many of Davidson's superior students transfer at the end of their freshman or sophomore years from sheer boredom. It doesn’t permit any effeminacy and almost completely ostracizes this type of person from its social activities, fraternities, close friendships with others than those who have the same type of personality—in short, it gives them the old brush-off—or more accurately, the blackball. Nor does the Davidson student body give those who may be more deeply religious a respected place in its society. Its average member can't seem to comprehend that people that are religious are actually sincere. But there is some room for condemnation when the deeply religious boys don’t give the student the benefit of the doubt, too. It works both ways. These are some of the aspects of the intolerance which confronts those more enlightened persons who are honestly and sincerely, without idea of personal gain or excessive recognition, trying to reform Davidson or change it for the better. They will never get anywhere, however, by doing as has been done several times this year: attempting to go too far too fast. The best way to install changes in Davidson as it is, is to work with the intolerance delineated above, rather than stir up antagonism reinforced by intolerance. Begin by degrees, then, present your program on a modified level, so the student body can take it without reacting against it, and eventually, as you feed the ideas to them one at a time, you may eventually find that you have gotten your proposals installed with a minimum of trouble. You may have to modify some points and compromise others, you may have to include other people’s ideas in the plan, but even though it may be modified considerably, and take much longer to formulate and consummate, it will probably be a good deal more practical and useful than it was in the beginning. Some of the too radical ideas will become progressive, and it will more effectively replace those aspects of the status quo which had become obsolete. So by accepting and using, but not condoning, intolerance at Davidson to propagate more progressive ideas, we may someday achieve here an institution where the individual can develop himself physically, intellectually, and socially to the utmost, so long as that development does not conflict with the fundamental Christian ideals on which Davidson was founded.

“Can Christianity Challenge Communism?”

There are today two forces at loose in the world which cannot be reconciled to one another. Each lays a claim upon the lives of men. Each has a world mission. If someone asked us this question: “Can Christianity meet the challenge of Communism?” I think we would answer in the affirmative without much thought. And most of us would be thinking in terms of military power. Yet the struggle in which we find ourselves today is one which will not be settled ultimately on the battlefield. The past fifty years have shown, or should have shown us, that war never really settles anything. I do not wish, therefore, to discuss this conflict from a military standpoint, but rather from that of ideology. Yet we must remember that the conflict may become hot at any time—involving not only Christians but non-Christians. As we attempt to answer this question, let us remember that our purpose is not to defeat Communism, but to do the will of God—the result being the defeat of Communism. There is a difference. Let us also remember that Christianity is not confined to America. This struggle is not only one involving America and Russia, but one on a much larger scale involving the whole of Christianity and Communism. We, as Christians, should be Christians first, Americans second. The time when we might be forced to make a choice between the two could come about. Our prime concern must be to do the will of God. Yet the question remains unanswered; can Christianity meet this challenge? My answer is yes! The Church, and we as individual Christians, can meet this challenge. Then what is the message with which we confront the adversary? It is, briefly, a three-fold proclamation; stating, first of all, that man belongs to God, is a creature of God. Second, is the fact that the world belongs to God. Third, is the fact that salvation belongs to God. Man cannot save himself, nor can the state. But we must not content ourselves with the simple statement of our belief. We must ACT. We must pour out the love which Christ had for us. It is the act of unselfish, spontaneous love that shakes the Communist more than anything else. This is the strategy of world missions: Continuous, out-reaching love. If we have it, we need not fear that we shall meet the challenge. A stand can be made against Communism. It is being done. It is successful, not by being anti-Communist, but rather by being pro-Christian. When the message of God turns our lips; when the love of Christ overflows our hearts; when Christians are invited into one fellowship, one body—then worldwide Christian missions are irresistible in their power. We, as Christians, can meet the challenge of Communism, by means of a stronger faith and bolder deeds.

N. S. A. Plan Offers European Trips

Want a trip to Europe this summer? Under one of the plans offered by the National Student Associations, it may well be possible that such may be yours, and within your budget. The first of the plans is offered through the committee selection while the second is allocated on the basis of receipt of application. In view of the latter, it appears evident that the opportunity can be yours, with a major qualification being initiative. The first of the programs involves the exchange of technical school students for summer work experience. The European countries provide jobs in their industries for American students, this job being of such nature as to give them practical experience in their respective technical fields of study. The student provides his own transportation to Europe, and works there at least eight weeks, earning all this time a wage sufficient to cover his living expenses. After having worked the length of time agreed to by him and his employer, he is free to come directly back to the United States or travel around Europe before doing so. Similarly, American industry provides the same number of jobs as there are provided in Europe for us. Administered entirely by students, this international exchange program functions through the efforts of national student associations of twelve European countries and the United States. Last year the United States associate sent 37 students to work in Europe and received 30 Europeans to work in America. Every one of the Americans reported very good cooperation from everyone connected with the company and considered their experience invaluable for the technical information and knowledge of techniques obtained. In addition to the job exchange plans, the N.S.A. also offers group tours designed to further international contact, understanding, and goodwill, a chance to travel and see other countries, and an opportunity to really learn what people are like by living and working with them. At a quoted price, tremendously lower as the result of group arrangements and special considerations, the N.S.A. provides trans-Atlantic transport, all transport during the organized portion of the tour, food, lodging, tickets, and incidental expenditures. The loss incurred is provided for by part-time work by the students during the course of the continental tour. By working for three or four days per week, pro-

(Continued From Page Two)

committed to the Wildcat Club and

Wildcat Club Report For 1951

Following is the 1951 Wildcat Club Report. As you can see, we fell short of our goal by some five and a half thousand dollars. We are committed to athletics at Davidson. If we fall down on the job, both will surely fall with us. We know that last year was not a good one, athletically speaking, at Davidson. However, we know with just as much certainty that Davidson is looking forward to next year's program with a new hope and genuine enthusiasm. More than ever before, now is the time to back our athletic program!

| Town or Area | No. Members | Contributed | Quota |
|----------------|--------------|-------------|-------|
| Asheboro—Greensboro | 70 | $3,382.50 | $6,000 |
| Burlington—High Point | 0 | 350 | |
| Belmont | 18 | 885.00 | 1,000 |
| Charlotte | 93 | 3,785.00 | 7,000 |
| Concord | 24 | 1,090.00 | 1,000 |
| Davidson | 43 | 783.00 | 1,000 |
| Durham | 29 | 350.00 | 500 |
| Fayetteville—Laurinburg | 41 | 826.00 | 1,000 |
| Gastonia | 18 | 2,065.00 | 2,000 |
| Greenville—Washington, N.C. | 1 | 10.00 | 250 |
| Hickory—Lenoir—Morganton | 37 | 1,060.00 | 1,000 |
| Conover—Valdese | | | |
| Kings Mountain | 18 | 1,595.00 | 1,700 |
| Kinston—New Bern—Goldsboro | 13 | 325.00 | |
| North Wilkesboro | 6 | 460.00 | 500 |
| Raleigh | 7 | 120.00 | 500 |
| Rocky Mount | 12 | 200.00 | 500 |
| Salisbury | 12 | 340.00 | 600 |
| Shelby | 12 | 315.00 | 300 |
| Statesville | 32 | 810.00 | 800 |
| Wilmington | 8 | 335.00 | 500 |
| Winston-Salem | 37 | 1,212.00 | 2,000 |
| Greenville, S.C. | 12 | 420.00 | 1,000 |
| Alabama | 2 | 15.00 | |
| Florida | 15 | 301.00 | |
| Georgia | 14 | 245.00 | |
| Kentucky | 3 | 40.00 | |
| Louisiana | 4 | 45.00 | |
| Maryland | 3 | 40.00 | |
| Mississippi | 3 | 50.00 | |
| New York | 10 | 310.00 | |
| Pennsylvania | 5 | 53.50 | |
| South Carolina (Misc.) | 31 | 847.00 | |
| Tennessee | 5 | 295.00 | |
| Texas | 9 | 110.00 | |
| Virginia | 23 | 830.00 | |
| West Virginia | 3 | 160.00 | |
| Other States | | | |
| Wildcat (Income from Wildcat football program) | 12 | 140.00 | |
| | | 1,122.10 | |
| FINAL TOTAL FOR 1951 | | 24,472.11 | 30,000 |