ALENDA LUX UB) GRATA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1952

Harold listed flying as his chief interest and a few months later he proved it by cracking his plane up on the old Davidson airfield. Harold is still in the flying business. He escaped uninjured and withdrew in '51 to join the Air Force. He's with the 3703rd Flight Sqdn, Flight 331, Lackland Air Force Base, San Antonio, Texas.

HAROLD P. JOHNSON—Upon entering Davidson as a freshman, 

RUSSELL S. MILLER, one of three brothers to attend Davidson, entering in '44 with theology in mind, was a member of the Campus Club and Delta Phi Alpha. He later became associate editor of a rural Carolina newspaper. He taught physics and math to high school students and worked with a motor company. Then the Army took over and here he served as Career Counselor in the Career Guidance and Assignment Section of the 3700th Personal Processing Squadron of Lackland Air Base.

EUGENE LEE BURCH, JR., came to Davidson from Mars Hill Junior College in 1949, and finished his major in business here. He was graduated with the class of '50. His home is Charlotte. He is now Pfc. Eugene L. Burch of the Airborne Division of the U. S. Air Force. He was a member of Scabbard and Blade and a good tennis player on the Davidson courts.

Placement Bureau Slates 3 Interviews For Coming Week

Representatives from three Carolinas firms will be on the campus to conduct interviews with seniors next week. Placement director John Dillon pointed out that men interested in talking to these contacts should sign up for individual interviews before Wednesday of next week.

Wednesday, the Deering-Milliken Company of Greenville, S. C., will hold a group interview at 8:45 a.m., in Room 108, Chambers. Dillon said that he had no information on openings available with that firm. Aetna Insurance Company will hold personal interviews for claim and field work, and underwriting Thursday. No group interview will be held. Laurens Mills of Laurens, S. C., seeks a graduate, regardless of major, to train as a production supervisor. Personal interviews only will be held.

A four-point program to revise the electoral system was the report which the appointed committee on election revision brought to the student body this morning at its closed meeting. The revisions include these points: (1) All nominations are to come from the floor; (2) a fee of two dollars will be charged for all nominations; (3) after the first ballot, the five men who receive the highest number of votes will make platform speeches; (4) there will be no signing of the ballots.

The committee is composed of the nine members of ODK, Lee Harter and Bob Crutchfield. It was announced by Mac McLean, president of the student body, that an open meeting of this committee will be held Monday night, Feb. 25, in the Science Auditorium. While Pete Kalogridis spoke as the general voice of the committee, Lee Harter gave some of his personal views on the needs of the electoral system.

The points of differentiation between the views of Kalogridis and those held by Harter are ones of both a philosophical and practical nature. Kalogridis, expressing the views of most of the other members of the committee, is not in favor of a drastic change and looks for a gradual solution if changes are to be made. Harter stands for a more immediate and comprehensive change in the electoral system and tends toward the liberal.

On the first point, that of having all the nominations come from the floor, Kalogridis emphasized the fact that using this method would eliminate the nominating committee. He said that this action would do away with the psychological advantage that a man got from being nominated by the committee and would put all candidates on a more equal footing. This was the general view of the committee.

Harter wants to have each can-

(Continued On Page Four)

Thursday night in their new Dome Theatre the members of Alpha Psi Omega, national honorary dramatic fraternity, opened a three-night run of two one-act plays in arena style. Presentation of the plays, How He Lied To Her Husband by Shaw and Bound East for Cardiff by O'Neill, mark the Davidson premiere of this type of staging which had its beginnings in the ancient Greek and Roman theatres and the Elizabethan theatre. The play is one of mood and is played in semi-darkness to lend to the eerie atmosphere of the play and the situation.

Contest Entry

This play has been selected as the Davidson entry in the one-act play contest for Alpha Psi Omega to be held in Nashville, Tenn., on March 7th and 8th. The evening's entertainment with lots of laughs, for it presents the eternal triangle with a new twist. Vance Mizelle is the poet in love with another man’s wife, played by Elizabeth Gripe. To complete the tri-

Play

Inter-fraternity Council president Dick Stockton announced today that Johnny Long and his band have been signed to play for Spring Frolics. Spring Frolics will be the weekend of April 18 and 19. The schedule will be approximately the same as for Midwinters. The formal dance will be Friday night, and the tea dance on Saturday will follow the track meet with South Carolina; the informal dance will be held on Saturday night.

Long is a native of Mecklenburg County and a graduate of Duke University. He and his band are currently playing at the Roosevelt Hotel in New Orleans. Long has played at several school dances in this area and has proved very popular.

The group who heard the sound of their names as they were read from the active duty list Monday night, February 18, is from a division other than the one that got the call several weeks back. Those who have been most recently called are: Jim Goldsmith, A. C. Gregg, Ralph Holt, Bristow, Parks Dalton and Hammond. All of these men plan to apply for deferments to finish school.

In the first draft, they have been unofficially notified that they are deferred until June 11. As the boys who were called earlier, some of these men are applying for the Reserve Officer's Candidate program, commonly called the ROC. If a man is accepted in this program, he will be automatically deferred, but if an acceptance is not forthcoming, it can be assumed that he will go to active duty.

At a YMCA retreat held at Erwin Lodge on Tuesday from 2 p.m. until 10 p.m., the question of general Y membership was discussed at length, and it was decided that the problem should be put before the student body at a YMCA chapel to discuss the opinion of the students in the matter. The retreat was opened by President Allan Strand, who led a worship service. Individual reports by the cabinet members followed in which each member reviewed the work done by his committee in light of the goals set earlier. Each member was questioned by the others as to the particulars of his job and its accomplishments.

Internal Review

In the late afternoon, the general business matters of the Gift Fund, Hi-Y, Regional Conference, Filing and Report System, Study Conference, Cabinet Membership Qualifications, General YMCA Membership, and questions of “Y” program were discussed.

Barely having recovered from the news that 9 of their fellow Naval Reservists had been called to active duty, six other Davidson members of the Charlotte unit were informed that they too were joining their previously notified brothers in arms. They too are to report to Bainbridge, Maryland, on May 27. Diehl Sluss is one of the men from this division who was called.

One of the men who has gotten his call had this to say about it: “We are glad to serve our country and appreciate the opportunity to transport the ROTC boys to Korea. And wherever we go, we will carry our Wildcat Handbooks to guide us through all our troubles.” To some of the laughter and jokes that have been recently directed at the reservists on the campus because of the draft, their reply has been a sobering one. “It's just two years; and it is.

Faculty Salaries Upped By July By Trustees Here

An approximate salary increase of 10 percent was voted to all faculty members by the trustees at their semi-annual meeting Thursday. Recommended by President J. R. Cunningham and approved by the Finance Committee, the increase will go into effect July 1. Also at the meeting, Treasurer D. G. Martin reported that he expects a balanced budget at the end of the fiscal year. “If we were not too disturbed by military calls among the upper classes next year, enrollment should be stable.”

Latest figures on the Development Program, completed in 1949

(Continued On Page Four)

S & B Oils Guns For Rifle Meet

Members of the Davidson College Scabbard and Blade Company have started practice for entering the Scabbard and Blade Intercompany Rifle Match for 1952. Each company is represented by seven riflemen.The Davidson team has not been chosen yet, but after a short practice session, the team will be chosen by a process of elimination.

By JOHN OTTLEY

Crowell Little resigned as head football coach at Davidson this afternoon, leaving for good the coaching profession to enter business. Little stressed in his letter that he “never regretted for one minute coming to Davidson” two years ago to assume the coaching post vacated by Charle Jamerson. The attractive business offer (which The Da-High Point) was one which the coach stated he would have left any job to take. Dr. Cunningham late this afternoon announced Coach Little's continuance as head coach. Up until the last minute, as late as 4 this afternoon, Dr. Cunningham had thought and hoped that the College would be able to retain Little. Announcement of the resignation by Dr. Cunningham substantiated rumors that Little would leave Davidson. Little said that the decision was a difficult one to make, but that the offer was one too good to be turned down.

(Continued On Page Four)

Here is a view of the debated center circle at fraternity court for which incomplete plans are underway on a beautification plan. Two ideas have been suggested. One is to make the area into a parking lot for Greekmen’s cars. The alternate that is under consideration is to put in some hedges and make a landscaping project of the circle.

Tell Trustees Church Ready By Graduation

Dedication of Davidson College's new church is now definitely scheduled for the commencement exercises in June, trustees were told at their meeting here this week. The baccalaureate sermon will be on the first of June and will naturally be attended by a large number of both parents and alumni, thus the dedication will be one of twofold significance. At the present time, the walls of the main sanctuary are in the process of being painted, while the chapel has been completed and most of the educational building has seen the last of the painter's brush. The interior color scheme of the building calls for a gray-green in the sanctuary and different colors in the rooms of the educational building. The scheduled contract calls for completion of the building itself by the first of March with the laying of the tiled flooring to begin immediately. The organ for the sanctuary has been completed and Mr. Schlicker of the Schlicker Organ Company will come down to personally aid in the installation, which will probably take about six weeks. Furnishings for the entire structure are now being considered and a definite selection will be made in the near future.

To Improve Court

A promise to “do all we can” met a request for frat court beautification made to Treasurer Grier Martin by the treasurers of Davidson's fraternities this afternoon. Martin reported that he hopes to meet most of the Greeks’ points, but could offer no definite promises. The realization of the treasurers is not a new idea. The present condition of the court has been an eyesore for some time to all who pass around it or wade through its mud. Because of the present situation, the court has been the subject of many comments and the consensus of opinion is that improvements need to be made. The fraternity treasurers agreed that for the amount of house rent that the fraternities pay, which if anything is thought too high, some further services or improvements should be rendered. At the meeting, the group suggested that the planting of shrubs, the construction of walkways and parking space, and the cutting of certain trees would help to beautify the court. The plan for remodeling is not only to beautify the area but also to construct walkways.

(Continued On Page Four)

Coaches Select Queen And Court

The queen of the Quips and Cranks beauty court has been crowned. She is Miss Phyllis Walker for John Handley. Her attendants are Misses Janice Young for Duke Fowler, Wynne Norman for Pete Hairston, and Myrtis Johnson for Tom Ashford. Other maids of the court are Misses Alda Morris for Buddy Lamon, Phyllis Smith for Jack Stevenson, Jo Cross for T.W. Aldred, Jean McMillan for Bill Green, Rose McLean for Tyke Ellis, and Barbara Hinds for Bill Morris. The lovelies were selected by a trio from the college coaching staffs. They were Buddy Chandler, Dick Redding, and Tom Fetzer. Only 23 pictures were entered for positions on the court. No reasons were given for this deficiency.

Moose Shows Work At Mint Museum

Philip Moose, professor of Fine Arts, has a collection of seventeen of his most recent paintings on exhibition at the Mint Museum in Charlotte. Each year the Mint Museum has this exhibition, and this year the display will be open to all visitors until the sixth of March. Besides the paintings of Professor Moose and other American artists, there are works from France, Mexico, and Guatemala. Visitors are always welcome at the museum, and this is a fine opportunity for those interested in the fine arts.

Middle East Is Topic For Essay Contest

In connection with Dorothy Thompson's lecture here in March, the Committee on Public Lectures, headed by Prof. James Causey, is sponsoring a Palestine-Middle East essay contest. Entries must be at least 1500 words long, typewritten, and in the hands of the committee by Wednesday, March 12. The winner will receive $15.00 or 8 Modern Library Giants, whichever he prefers. The essay, of course, must be on some aspect of the Palestine-Middle East problem. Miss Thompson, “the most famous woman journalist in America,” has recently returned from a trip to England and the Middle East to view the situation there. A similar trip to Germany in the early ‘30s brought about her permanent expulsion by Hitler.

The Sunshine State will play host to the Davidson College Male Chorus for a week, starting next Wednesday, February 27. The thirty-voice group, which began as an amateur octet some fifty years ago, departs on its annual spring tour after several weeks of highly concentrated work in an effort to polish up the difficult and varied repertory it will present in concert form. The chorus has enjoyed enthusiastic acclaim from concerts throughout the Southeast and East and from a number of radio performances, including coast-to-coast broadcasts over both the NBC and CBS networks.

Seldom Happens

It has performed in principal cities from New York to Florida; a concert on a recent southern tour prompted the Florida Times-Union to comment, “Seldom does an audience have the privilege of hearing as magnificent a concert as the one given last evening.” “The voices of the chorus were mature and resonant, excellent in ensemble, with fortes brilliant and pianissimos solidly fragile and vibrantly effective.”

Freshman Conductor

Donald B. Plott, director of the organization and a bass soloist in his own right, is in his first season as conductor of the Davidson chorus. A native of Jefferson, Maryland, Plott came to Davidson from the directorship of music in the Ann Arbor, Michigan, and Owosso, Michigan, high schools. He holds a master’s degree in music from the famed University of Michigan's School of Music, where he was also soloist and student director of the men's glee club and assistant director of the Michigan choir for two years.

Ex-Sailor

He served in the United States Navy for thirty-eight months, receiving his discharge in December of 1945. The itinerary for the singers has been set and seven concerts are at present scheduled. On the first day, they journey nearly four hundred miles, the biggest single jump in their tour, to present an evening concert in the First Presbyterian Church of Waycross, Georgia. On February 28th, they will be heard in the City Auditorium at Ocala, Florida; at the First Presbyterian Church in Tampa on the 29th; at Sarasota in the First Presbyterian Church on March 1st; and two concerts at the First Presbyterian Church in Saint Petersburg on March 2nd. Their final concert is on March 3rd at Williston, S.C., and March 4th will find them back at Davidson.

Male Choraleers Hit The Sunshine Trail

Mostly Sacred Numbers

With the exception of the concerts at Ocala, Fla., and Williston, S.C., the chorus will present a program composed entirely of sacred music; this program will be approximately the same in each instance. It opens with the magnificence of the Ninety-sixth Psalm set to music by Croce in his “Cantate Domino”—"O sing unto the Lord a new song; sing unto the Lord, all the earth.” Other standouts in the Latin portion of the program are “Adoramus Te” by Clement, one of the most beloved Latin texts; “Sicut Locutus Est,” from Bach's Magnificat and a motet for two choirs by Jacob Handl, “Repleti Sunt.” Numbers on the program perhaps more familiar to Davidson listeners will be, “Lo, How a Rose E’er Blooming,” a perennial favorite by Praetorius; “Salvation Belongeth to our God,” a hymn of the Russian people by Paul Tchesnokov; and a song from the original Genevan Psalter, “Turn Back, O Man,” by Gustav Holst. The secular programs vary all the way from the simplicity and poignancy of English ballads such as “The Banks of Allan Water,” and “The Turtle Dove,” to the ridiculous confusion of a corrupted Latin text.

(Continued On Page Four)