PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1952

Swain Has Headed Construction Here At Davidson For 14 Years

By MOODY SMITH

The key figure in the construction of the half dozen buildings that have been added to the Davidson campus in the last 14 years has been Mr. W. E. Swain, formerly of Charlotte, but now of Davidson. Mr. Swain has been the construction superintendent for the F. N. Thompson Construction Company of Charlotte, which built all of these buildings. Mr. Thompson, president of the company, is, incidentally, a graduate of Davidson College.

The first construction job that Mr. Swain supervised was that of Duke dormitory, built in a matter of some four months in 1939 when building materials were cheaper and more plentiful. Mr. Swain stated that the reason that the erection of the church and the student union seemed to take so long is the fact that nowadays a good part of the time spent on any job is taken up in waiting for delivery of scarce materials.

After the completion of Duke, Mr. Swain started overseeing construction of the library and science building, which were started in 1940 and completed a little over a year later. World War II, which began in 1941, halted most construction at Davidson as it did nearly everywhere else. In 1943 some sidewalks were laid, and the kitchen annex was added to Chambers.

When the recent program was begun in 1948, Mr. Swain was back on hand to run things. The Johnston Gymnasium was begun in that year, and completed in ‘49, and in the early spring of ‘50 work began on the new church. This job was by far the longest that Mr. Swain has supervised, lasting about 26 months from the time that workmen began tearing down the old church until the new one was dedicated.

Early in July of 1950, Mr. Swain said that he had decided that since his work entailed his commuting from Charlotte to Davidson every day, he would just move out here and simplify matters. He has been a resident of the Davidson community now for over two years.

The latest job that Mr. Swain has been working on is, of course, the College Union. The building, according to him, will not be completed until May of ‘53, due to the fact that materials have been slow in arriving ever since the job began. Mr. Swain said that if he had everything he needed on hand now, the building could be finished in 60 days.

Big Tom Wilson, patriarch of Mitchell and surrounding ranges, would put any tenderfoot to shame. A charter of much of the Mitchell range, he was a close friend of Elisha Mitchell, and it was Big Tom who found Mitchell's body after he vanished.

CABBAGE PLANTER (Continued from Page Two)

to take a blizzard at what was left on it. “The critter stood still as a scarecrow in a cornfield, for she'd got used to Mike's tricks by long practice. ‘No, no Mike,’ says I, ‘my hand would be sure to shake if my iron was pointed within a hundred miles of a shemale, and I give up beat.’”

This story is, of course, just one of many basically asinine tales that the above-mentioned tourists, in one form or another, have made up and spread about the mountain country. It still remains for someone to collect the mountain stories that are true, and stop the palming off of these monstrosities on the public. For instance, there are stories of Big Tom Wilson, patriarch of Mitchell and surrounding ranges, that would put any tenderfoot to shame. A charter of much of the Mitchell range, he was a close friend of Elisha Mitchell, and it was Big Tom who found Mitchell's body after he vanished.

THE YOUNG MEN'S SHOP Clothing For Men Mooresville 116 No. Main

THEATRE THURS.-FRI., NOV. 13-14 Jumping Jacks DEAN MARTIN JERRY LEWIS

SATURDAY, NOV. 15 Five Fingers JAMES MASON DANIELLE DARRIEUX MICHAEL RENNIE

MON.-TUES., NOV. 17-18 GEORGE MURPHY VIRGINIA GILMORE

WEDNESDAY, NOV. 20 Cuban Fire Ball WARREN DOUGLAS MIMI AGUGLIA LEON BELASCO

There is a bond between the mountains and the heart of a man who has come to love them that can't be broken. To that man, the mountains are a living body, something that will never change and something that he'll never understand. It's easy for that man to see how the psalmist could have said, “I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, whence cometh my help.”

(Continued from Page One)

Plans were made for a meeting with the Winthrop International Relations Club on December 11.

FOR QUICK SERVICE BATES CLEANERS LAUNDRY SERVICE

THE GUY SAID IT WILL BE THE pa THIS GOLD-MINE, an wie 4 us Ue ALL MILLIONAIRES! { NE yy Zn ONLY COST A BUCK

THREE KOREAN VETS... (Continued from Page One)

teaches MS I. He graduated from North Georgia College in 1941 and from the Advanced Infantry School in 1952. In World War II he was with the 227th Combat Engineers in the European Theatre. He served in Korea for 13 months with the 5th Regimental Combat Team.

Captain Russell C. Hatch, who teaches MS I, graduated from Michigan State in 1941. During World War II, he was with the 2nd Infantry Regiment of the 5th Division in Iceland and the European Theatre. He spent nine months in Japan, seven months in Korea, with the 160th Infantry Regiment, of the 40th Infantry Division. While there he was com-

CHRISTIAN PACIFISM... (Continued From Page Two)

Pacifist say? Is he to maintain his position even at the expense of jettisoning patriotism and national responsibility? Is his not a negative policy, inviting aggression and abandoning honor? Can he conscientiously claim allegiance to God and concern for his fellows and yet allow the subjugation of Christian teaching that the atheistic tenets of Marxism would urge?

The Christian Pacifist denies vehemently that the teachings of Christ are negative. He views them rather as the most positive social ethic ever announced. It is in inculcating Christ's love principle into every area of human relations

GEORGE WASHINGTON... (Continued from Page Three)

should also fall to the injury plague which has hit the Cats so hard this season, Henry Brown will be the man to take over. It’s a new assignment for Henry, who has been running from the fullback slot so far this season.

Working behind McCall tonight will be fullback Jim Shelton and halfbacks Roy White, Jimmy Thacker, and Bobby Amos. Thacker, second highest scorer in the Southern Conference, was named “Back of the Week” in many of the State's dailies for his great performance against Richmond last week, and received mention in the Associated Press’ Back of the Week feature.

Frosh Black List

Two freshmen escaped punishment at the hands of the Court of Control this week by being acquitted of charges pressed against them. Seven others were not so fortunate. They received the guilty verdict and were duly punished for their offenses. Nelson Grice and Doug Andrews were found without hats and were requested to wear ribbons and were made stud boys for upperclassmen. Van Julian was also found without his hat; his punishment was thatof being made study boy for an upperclassman and having to work on the Davidsonian Friday. Joel Blackwelder and Dick Peters, convicted for showing disrespect to upperclassmen and being cocky, were required to be stud boys and work on the Davidsonian. Also, they are required to wear coats and ties throughout the entire week. J. E. Lewis and Walter Coleman were hardest hit with penalties this week. Walter, guilty of quite a few offenses, including walking on the grass, gross obnoxiousness, extreme conceit, and using language which Mr. Arnold never heard on the Davidson campus, was given the duties of cleaning football shoes, writing an essay entitled, “My Idea of a Good Davidson Man," and running stud for an upperclassman. J. E. Lewis received his sentence for gross obnoxiousness, never speaking, and bad manners. His penalty is having to wear a coat and tie to class for a week and being stud boy for an upperclassman.

It is that hope for society's survival lies. It is dynamic of the pacifistic concept that can motivate genuine international peace and ensure the individual rights of men and women the world over. The pacifist insists that society can never attain unto its Divinely-appointed destiny until it is willing to accept Christ's teachings as criteria for its activities. The teachings are commendable, and certainly if everyone were a pacifist there would be no war. We are concerned, however, with practical techniques. How does the pacifist propose to make his ideas impinge upon society at large? If he cannot suggest any tangible program, his dreams must remain dreams, and his ideas must be relegated to the pages of some modern version of the Utopia. The Christian Pacifist, however, does have a program in mind. He proposes to initiate it in that ancient institution, the Christian Church. He enjoins Christians the world over to awaken to the gulf that lies between preachment and practice and to actually apply the Christian ideal to their lives. When the Church once begins to live up to its teachings, its influence on society will be unbounded. How can we hope to impress the ultimate validity of Christianity on others when we do not accept it experimentally ourselves? The Christian Pacifist points beyond the pale of history for the perspective his ideal requires. God can work effectively through His Church for proper human relations once it denounces war and repudiates personal involvement in armed strife as inconsistent with the teachings of its Founder. —DONALD CROSBY.

Beating George Washington, who whipped Bucknell for the latter's first defeat in 20 games last week, wouldn’t be an easy task for Coach Bill Dole’s team at any time, and with so many regulars out the situation is anything but bright.

DAVIDSON'S DEAD ... (Continued From Page One)

In exchange for this cost? We have received the continuance of the American way of life, the right to earn our living as we choose, and to select our national leaders by voting as we choose. We have received the privilege of living in a manner decided by the will of the majority and not by the orders of a few power-crazy fanatics.” Col. Davis then asked if the value received was worth the price paid; “You need only to look at life in Communist China or in Soviet Russia to make the comparison. Then decide for yourself if war with its casualties is too high a price for American citizenship.” The speaker concluded by saluting those who brought freedom with their lives. He prayed that world peace would put an end to the necessity of defending our way of life by war and its three attendant horsemen—death, famine, and pestilence.

SPRAY FLIES ... (Continued from Page Three)

Morris, and Jim Daughdrill, freshmen, Meets will begin soon after the Christmas holidays. During January and February, the Catfish will swim against the University of South Carolina, The Citadel, Clemson, the University of North Carolina, N. C. State, Washington and Lee, and VMI. Prospects are bright for a fine season for the swimmers.

SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN HOME!

FRED'S SHOE SHOP
“If it’s New Shoes, We Have Them”
We Specialize in all Leather Work — All Work Guaranteed
CORNELIUS, N. C.

Andrae, Ken Lewis, David Holloman, John Cathcart, Zan Turner, and Henry Higgins.

HOW CAN THEY TELL SO SOON? REMINDS ME OF THE TIME I BOUGHT THE BROOKLYN BRIDGE.

CAMELS

COMMANDER OF COMPANY A and operations officer of the 22nd Battalion. His awards are the Silver Star, Bronze Star with the Oak Leaf Cluster, Purple Heart, Combat Infantry Star.

GENERAL CANHAM ... (Continued from Page One)

In 1951, His most brilliant records were made in the European Theater of Operations where he was commander of the 116th Infantry Regiment. After his unit had made a successful landing on D-Day, General Canham was wounded. In July, 1944, he was made Assistant Commander of the Eighth Infantry Division in Europe. His division made great advances in the Hurtgen Forest-Vossenack Area and participated in the capture of Cologne. In a northward movement splitting the Ruhr pocket, his group captured over 100,000 Germans. On the last day of combat a task force commanded by General Canham captured over 244,000 prisoners. Since the war General Canham has held several important occupational posts in Europe. More recently he has been commander of the 82nd Airborne Division at Ft. Bragg, North Carolina. He has received the Distinguished Service Cross, the Silver Star, the Legion of Merit, the Bronze Star, the Purple Heart, the French Legion of Honor and Croix de Guerre with Palm as well as many other decorations.

FINE FOODS
STEAKS
CHICKEN DINNERS
FOUNTAIN SERVICE
Open Sundays
Phone 132
STONESTREET'S Grade A Cafe
418 South Main Street
Mooresville, N. C.

GIFT FUND... (Continued From Page One)

SERVICE COLUMN ... (Continued From Page One)

LT. ALBERT W. COOK, '51, of Decatur, Ga., now serving with the 8th Cavalry Regt. of the 1st Cavalry Div. at Camp Chitose, Hokkaido, Japan. He was a cheerleader, member of the basketball team, Scabbard and Blade and Phi Delta Theta fraternity.

A/3C JAMES H. THOMPSON, '51, of Wadesboro, Ga., is a radar mechanic assigned to the 305th Bomb Wing at MacDill AFB, Fla. While at Davidson he was on the track and cross country teams and was in the “D” Club. His address is: AF 1443042, 305th A&E Maint. Sqd., Box 25, MacDill AFB, Fla.

A source of help, the graduates of the old orphanage contributing small amounts out of their own salaries to aid in this work. Forty orphans from the school in Jerusalem where Igor worked constitute the nucleus around which the new efforts are being centered and he emphasized that the importance of such a contribution could not be overestimated.

2ND LT. WM. GRIMES THOMAS, '51, of Siler City, N.C., has been assigned to the Marine Corps School at Quantico, Va., for a specialized infantry training course. At Davidson, Grimes was a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity. He married Miss Sara Carson.

JACKSON Cleaners.
CLEANING EVERY JOB A GOOD ONE
SKILLFULLY DONE BY PRESSERS WITH YEARS OF EXPERIENCE
ALTERATIONS THAT SATISFY

Drink ‘MOOR’ QUALITY MILK
Mooresville Creamery, Inc.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
Dial 3-6341

ONE-DAY SERVICE AVAILABLE
Frank L. Jackson, Jr.

SOUTHBOUND NORTHBOUND
CHARLOTTE, N. C. .... $0.50 | WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. $1.60
ROCK HILL, S.C. ...... $1.20 | GREENSBORO, N.C. __ $2.00
ATLANTA, GA. ........ $6.90 | RICHMOND, VA. ...... $7.15
COLUMBIA, S.C. ....... $2.85 | PHILADELPHIA, PA. .. $10.85
AUGUSTA, GA. ........ $3.65 | NEW YORK, N.Y. ..... $12.70
NEW ORLEANS, LA. ... $15.05 | BLUEFIELD, W. VA. ... $4.70
JACKSONVILLE, FLA. .. $6.85 | CHARLESTON, W. VA. . $7.95
MIAMI, FLA. .......... $14.95 | CINCINNATI, O. ...... $10.60
Plus U. S. Tax
BIG EXTRA SAVINGS ON ROUND TRIP TICKETS
C. S. GOODRUM, Agent
Atlantic Greyhound Lines
Davidson, N. C.