464 Pints Are Collected As The Blood Drive Exceeds School Record

The Davidsonian

FUND LAGS WHILE BLOOD FLOWS

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

BARIUM PARTIES ON PAGE THREE

VOLUME XLI

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1952

Christmas Vespers Is Planned For Sunday

The annual Christmas Vespers will be held Sunday evening, December 14, in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, beginning at 7:30 o'clock. In actuality, the service will begin earlier, as the concert band will begin playing from the church steeple at 7:00, and the prelude by the string quartet will begin at approximately 7:15. The service will in large part resemble that of former years, although some changes and variations have been made of necessity, and since the location has been shifted from Chambers Auditorium to the main sanctuary of the new church. Students will not be required to attend the services because of the size of the crowd expected to attend.

The music for this year's service is under the direction of Mr. Donald Plott, head of the Music Department, and Mr. Kenneth Moore, band director. Mr. Philip Gehring will be at the organ. Taking part in the service along with the Male Chorus will be the Chapel Choir and the Davidson College Brass Ensemble. Harriet Boden Brask, voice instructor at Newberry College, will again be with us as mezzo-soprano soloist. Instead of a small symphony orchestra, this year a string quartet, composed of members of the music faculty and community, will be heard. Among those taking part in the service will be Hubert Cannon, Y President, who will give the invocation and lead the congregation in a special prayer.

Honorary Council Gets Constitution

At its last meeting, the Honorary Fraternity Council decided to draft a definite constitution, which will be drawn up by Bob Walker over the Christmas holidays. The council realized that there is a need for an interpretation of its purposes as well as setting them up in a formal constitution. The agency to interpret these purposes is the Appraisal Committee composed of Bob Poston, chairman, A. K. Garrison, and Preston Chaney. This new committee will investigate each of the 22 organizations which make up the Honorary Fraternity Council. A general report plus a membership attendance report and financial report will be used to determine whether the organizations are functioning properly.

Scripts 'n Pranks To Publish Humor Issue Thursday

The second issue of “Scripts 'n Pranks” for this year will be distributed to the student body after chapel on Thursday, December 18. As some students will be leaving before that time, arrangements have been made for mailing their copy to them. These people should give their address to Mike York in 311 East dormitory and should furnish a three-cent stamp. A description of the remaining three issues has also been announced by Mike Myers, editor. This issue once again follows a humor theme, though somewhat smaller than the first issue. This is being done to conserve funds for the third issue. This mammoth volume will be a parody in the form of a take-off on some national magazine. The final issue will be completely literary.

Total To Rise Give Later

With a whopping 53 percent of the student body contributing, the Red Cross blood drive last Wednesday and Thursday here on the Davidson campus set an all-time school record both for the number of pints collected and the percentage of students contributing. Buddy Lamon, chairman of the drive for the Scabbard and Blade, the sponsoring organization, announced yesterday afternoon that the 53 percent does not include those men who tried to contribute and were turned down because of age or other reasons. Neither does it include the members of the basketball, wrestling, and swimming teams who will contribute at a later date. According to Lamon, a total of 464 pints of blood were donated by students.

Hassel Flays Frosh, Sophs For ‘Y' Drive

Charlie Hassell, publicity chairman for the drive, blasted the Y Gift Fund home to the freshmen and sophomores in a post-chapel talk this morning. Earnest Barry, after the talk, emphasized what Hassell had said by adding, “The freshmen and sophomores seem not to understand the importance of this drive.” Saying that many students, especially the juniors and seniors who have made contributions far exceeding, proportionate to numbers, those of the lower two classes, were disappointed in the response thus far met. “This is the main effort of the student body toward benevolences and the present apparent failure to elicit the enthusiasm shown in former years is not indicative of the generosity that usually characterizes the student body,” said Barry. $2,370.46 has been collected so far in the drive with 525 student reports now in.

McKnight, Davidson Grad Receives Mayflower Award

Mr. and Mrs. J. P. McKnight have traveled extensively in South America, the U.S., Spain, and Italy. Mr. McKnight’s travels led to his writing two years ago “The Papacy: A New Appraisal.” John P. McKnight, a graduate of Davidson College, has been awarded the Mayflower Award for 1952 for his recent book, “The Papacy: A New Appraisal.” The Papacy, an unbiased appraisal of Catholicism, has been made possible through the writer's recent stay in Italy. Mr. McKnight graduated from Davidson in 1928, and immediately entered the newspaper field, serving for papers in Wilmington and Charlotte. He worked as a correspondent for the Associated Press for nearly nineteen years, during which time he served in many foreign countries. Since his resignation from AP, Mr. McKnight has served as a free-lance writer, and he is now associated with the State Department in Rome, Italy. The Mayflower Award is made annually by the Society of Mayflower Descendants in North Carolina to the North Carolinian who, during the year ending August 31, has published a non-fiction book adjudged best by the society's board of award. John S. McKnight of Shelby, father of the writer, accepted the award on behalf of his son.

Union Opens After Christmas

Ovens College Union will have its two upper floors opened for use by the time the Christmas holidays are over. The members of the recently organized business fraternity, Kappa Delta Sigma, are: from left to right: John Maynard, Frank Hanshaw, Mitch Patton, Bill Bledsoe, Jessie Fisher, James Harper, Bob Walker, Bob Tucker, and Earnest Barry.

Business Frat Is Formed

To give the occasion some historical significance, the founders of the society chose the new Student Union as the place for the inaugural meeting last Wednesday. Kappa Delta Sigma is a local organization. Several national honorary societies in economics and business were considered; but it was decided a national organization would be more expensive, inflexible to the desires and needs of the local members.

Moose’s Art Wins Plaudits Of Critics

Philip Moose, Pulitzer prize-winning artist and professor of fine arts at Davidson, has recently been adding leaves to his laurels in the field of art. The soft-spoken, Newton, North Carolina, native, was hesitant in mentioning to this reporter honors which obviously show his worth but seem only to increase the charm of his timidity. His most recent achievement and one that brought him mention in the New York Herald Tribune for Sunday, Dec. 7, is the inclusion of a watercolor, “Mayan Mystery,” in a survey of current American art by the Metropolitan Museum of Art. “Mayan Mystery” is a semi-abstract piece done in watercolor, and this represents one of the products of Mr. Moose's study in Aztec art. Not one to be retarding his ever-productive talent, Mr. Moose has been recognized by the State Gallery in Raleigh, where his “View of Cagnes” in France, is now hung. This picture was painted two years ago while Mr. Moose was in France. Finishing a month’s showing in Norfolk, Va., is a collection of Mr. Moose’s works that cover a five-year period. All of these were done after he won the Pulitzer prize for painting in 1948. Mr. Moose has announced that there will be a student show in the lobby of Chambers in January. This showing will display oil paintings, watercolors, and drawings done in fine arts lab as well as independent works.

Prof's Houses Open After Next Vespers

Sunday evening's Christmas Vespers will be on a voluntary basis for students. This announcement is made for students who desire to visit faculty members after vespers. Those scheduled to be “at home” for December 14, are: Bailey, Crawford, Johnston, McGeachy, Martin, J. E., Mebane, Moore, Morton, Plott, Purcell, Reid, Thompson, Tyson, Workman, Woods, and Clements.would add no more distinction to the members and to the college than an efficient locally formed organization. KDS will elect next term's juniors, who express an interest and who prove acceptable. “The society also intends to add to its membership soon more seniors who express their desire to become members.” Although Kappa Delta Sigma has a foundation similar to other clubs and honorary fraternities on the campus, it has adopted some unique procedures. Kappa Delta Sigma is the representative of the largest department at Davidson. Although not conclusively determined at this time, it will not necessarily be based on scholarship alone; but it has been decided to elect members who maintain a favorable balance of scholarship and interest in the organization. Another unusual feature is that KDS will have no officers, which reasonably small membership informality in order to achieve efficient operation. However, the door shall not be closed to anyone who pledges to attend the meetings, whose interest necessitates a and in the organization is sincere and enthusiastic, and whose scholastic standing is creditable. The meetings are to be held either semi-monthly or monthly in the Union or at the homes of the faculty, who are active members. Each member will be responsible for at least one meeting a year when he will present the topic for discussion which is of interest to him, or about which he has little knowledge. The members will elucidate any vagueness of the topic and cast out opinions on the subject. The first meeting will be held in January on the DuPont members.

By PETE HAIRSTON

Kappa Delta Sigma, an honorary business fraternity, has become the newest campus group after a year of discussion and an anti-trust suit, led by Bill Bledsoe. Some of the reasons for and services of Kappa Delta Sigma are listed below. It should serve as an incentive for students to strive for higher scholarship in the Economics and Business Departments, as an honorary fraternity can reward diligence, interest, and proficiency. Second, it will provide a means for closer student-faculty relationships by the formal meetings and Sunday night get-togethers which should bring together the faculty members of the Economics and Business departments and students on a foundation of common interest, aid, and understanding. KDS can be a medium through which guest speakers can be invited and entertained on the campus. This society should be able to obtain prominent businessmen and economists who are authorities in their particular field for chapel speakers. It is an opportunity for students to obtain knowledge on various subjects of current interest. It should increase the students’ interest in their work as a result of the interviews with businessmen, movies on various industries, group discussions, and talks on various topics by faculty members and other students.

MALLOY GETS LIFE

Another Davidson man has found fame in the national magazine Life. Neville Malloy, formerly of the class of ‘52 now of Florida State University, achieved his present notoriety by virtue of his being the “boyfriend” of the Florida State homecoming queen, Warlies Gessler. Life thought Warlies, a Polish displaced person not fourteen months ago, and her being elected to the beauty spotlight of such importance to warrant a front-page spread. Neville didn’t make that. He did rate a picture and comment in one of the inner pages of the story. The popular blood giant was an SAE while here, in the Male Chorus, was a cheerleader, on the swimming team, and was majoring in business.

Mr. C. Shaw Smith, director of the Union and coordinator of student activities, had this to say in making the announcement: “Barring some unforeseen emergency, the upper two floors of the Ovens College Union will be open and ready for use when students return from the Christmas holidays.” Mr. Smith pointed out that the weather and the scheduling of other work by the asphalt contractor have prevented the completion of the walks which are considered a prerequisite to opening the building. The large amount of grading that has been necessary has left the area around the structure in such a condition that use of the building has been impractical without the walks. The contractor has given assurance that the walks will be completed in time for the after-Christmas opening. Funds have recently been made available so that full equipping in the student lounge and other areas is now certain.

Money From Stud

It was by action of the Student Council and the Board of Directors of the Student Store that this money, several thousand dollars, has been made available for the Union's use. From the profits of the Student Store, which have been accumulating over a period of eleven years, a television receiver is now assured. Also to be purchased by this money will be a radio-record player, a tape recorder, a moving picture projector, spotlights, books, and magazine subscriptions. This is the first time since the Student Store fund was used in making the old library into the Y Guest House in 1941 that the profits have been used.

Plans Received

Complete architectural plans have now been received from the architects and engineers for the extension of the dining area and the rearrangement of the kitchen in line with the recommendations made by the management engineering firm which has just completed a survey of the college.

Stuart In Holy Land

A message has come from Ed Stuart, who has interrupted his work at Davidson for a trip to a Religious Conference in India. He was writing from the Holy Land, from which place he says, “These three short days in the Holy Land have been our finest yet in this recent interesting trip. In spite of the political tensions, commercialism, and the relic worship, we have found many of the sacred spots very lovely and moving. Don Shriver of the Class of 1950 is on the same trip.

FAMED LIFE PHOTOGRAPHER TO SPEAK ON EXPERIENCES

Miss Margaret Bourke-White, brilliant author and photographer, will deliver a speech in Chambers Auditorium on Tuesday night, December 16. She will speak on “Lights and Shadows in Asia.” Miss Bourke-White is particularly well qualified to speak on the subject of Asia, for she has spent the greater part of this year in Japan and Korea as a photographer for Life magazine. This was her first trip to the northern Pacific area, though she has covered with her cameras more than two dozen countries all over the world. In the course of her camera career, Miss Bourke-White has literally commuted by air to the remotest reaches of the earth. She has taken photographs of the great and near great in over two dozen countries, including the Arctic region. Her works hang in the Library of Congress, the Museum of Modern Art in New York, the Cleveland Museum of Art, the Brooklyn Museum, and her photomurals are used for interiors in Radio City in New York. Photographs taken by Miss Bourke-White have been on exhibit for the last two weeks in Chambers Building. Her work is not from a distance, but rather close observation photographs. Recently Life magazine carried a nine-page spread of her Korean photographs in which she captured much of the situation of the Korean people. By looking at the capture of facial expressions, one is able to see that Miss Bourke-White was not far from the pictured event.