It’s extremely doubtful that any Davidson football team or crowd has ever been as stunned as those present last Saturday on Richardson Field when Washington and Lee’s quarterback Joe Lindsay picked up a backfield fumble and raced forty yards down the sidelines to put the Generals one TD ahead. The few minutes in the third quarter when Bill Dole’s Wildcats were ahead 14-13 were the brightest the home crowd had enjoyed so far this season, and the Cats themselves were undoubtedly happiest of all. For just a little while it really appeared that Davidson had a chance to whip a team favored over them by two or three touchdowns. There are many players and fans who will tell you that Davidson would have whipped the Generals had it not been for that freak play. That, however, remains a moot question. And it isn't the most important one. It was obvious to even the most partisan Wildcat fans last week that W&L was a more powerful team than theirs. That could be seen when Lindsay, Barcelona, Broyles, et al., continually ripped through the Cat line for substantial gains. It was also obvious (though a painful admission) that the Generals played the game more skillfully and had more drive than the Cats. These, however, are not the most important facts about the game last Saturday. The salient facts were that Neil Graham, Ben Craig, and Roger Wright were piling up more and more plays at the line of scrimmage; that Jack Ruth's ball handling gets smoother every week; that Roy White was running like he hasn't in a long time; that Bob Renn continued to shine, especially on defense; that Jim Thacker shook loose for some beautiful gains; that end play was vastly improved; that Leroy Fargason did a very good job at fullback; and that as a group, the whole Davidson team did a bang-up job. It undoubtedly appears more than slightly contradictory to say that on the one hand W&L played the better game, on the other that the Cats did okay too. However, when you consider certain facts, the two statements don’t seem at all incompatible. The main thing that made Washington and Lee better is practically as old as time itself: it was money. It is no secret in any quarters that the Generals are a $50,000 ball team, if they don’t represent an even greater investment. The Wildcats represent a $23,000 investment. And in football, as in business, the larger investment is generally going to yield a bigger dividend. This fact is no revelation to members of the Davidson football team. They know probably better than anybody else that they have been outmanned in almost every game since they can remember. It's the students and fans who should realize what the Cats are up against. All this, however, should not be any sanction for Davidson's dropping a game. Many a military battle has been won by a commander and troops who realize that they are at a disadvantage; that’s only facing the facts. The real test is whether they can take that fact in hand, and work it to their own advantage by making their own breaks and capitalizing on them and by playing it cool when the chips are down and fighting and scrapping every inch of the way. Davidson has the commander; he has in the past proved himself capable of taking hold of a situation in which his team was theoretically inferior and winning out. If he can convince his men that they can and will whip some of the big boys, things won't go on like they have. Maybe the Cats won't win. Maybe they'll lose every game from now on out. That's the way the professional oddsmakers will probably figure things. But the oddsmakers don’t often figure in such things as spirit and hustle and will to win against teams with potsful of money and talent. And that’s where the Cats have been strongest so far. Anyway, it's up to the boys. They saw how the stands went wild when they were ahead last week. They know they've got support. All we can do now is to watch and see what comes to pass.

Just Received New Shipment
Tweed Sport Coats
Oxford Grey Flannel Slacks
10 Inviting Shades Of Cashmere Sweaters
Wilson-Wrights “Collegiate Fashions”
Next to Bank in Davidson

Wildcat Sports
THE DAVIDSONIAN — FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1952

CAN DOLE’S MEN CLOBBER STATE, REPEAT ‘49 STORY?
PAGE THREE

Cats Get Breather, Will Play State Next Week

A last-minute change of plans moved the date of the Davidson-N. C. State game up to next Saturday, October 11. State will play Georgia tomorrow at Athens. At a meeting after chapel this morning the team and Coach Bill Dole agreed to the shuffle in dates. The change came because the University of North Carolina was forced to cancel their scheduled contest with Georgia tomorrow when a member of the Tar Heel team was stricken with polio. Since the Cats had an open date on October 11, the postponement of the State game will not alter their schedule otherwise. The Cats have been working hard this week on defenses to stop the plunging attack of big, 200-pound Alex Webster, and devising at the same time an attack of their own that will garner enough touchdowns to bring the first win to Wildcat Hollow. However, for the second straight week, they have caught a team on the rebound from a humiliating defeat. Washington and Lee had just recovered from a swamping by the Blue Devils and now the Wolfpack has to be handled on the backlash of a 39-0 loss to George Washington.

Nobody Sad

Although losing to the Generals last week, neither the team nor the coaches and students seemed to be wearing the mourner’s veil. The team played well against a better-manned and bigger team, and plenty of fight and spirit was evident everywhere on the field. It is this “new spirit,” new team, and new coach that will take the Davidson-State feud to Raleigh next week. Meanwhile, behind the Coliseum Coach Horace Hendrickson is pushing his boys to the limit and is hopping mad over last week's showing by his team. He'll be depending on big Ray Parkouskie, the blocking-back converted to tackle, to stop the plunging of Leroy Fargason and the slants of Jimmie Thacker and Bobby Renn, and on Steve Kosilla to snatch the passes and stop the end runs of the Cats. Plenty of action is also expected out of tackle J. C. Britt, who is a former student of the “Dole Pin” at Fayetteville High. The Presbyterians will be primed for this encounter, but even though The News writers (Continued On Page Four)

State Harriers Rated Favorites Over Wildcats
By BILL SLEDGE

The Wildcat Harriers, eight strong, left at noon today for Raleigh where they will meet the highly-rated N. C. State Wolfpack. Coach Pete Whittle said that the Wildcats will be decided underdogs. North Carolina State is the defending Southern Conference champion and has most of last year’s squad back, plus many promising freshmen. “No one in the conference will be able to give State any competition,” said Whittle. “They have an awfully good chance of making a good showing in the National Intercollegiate meet later in the fall.” Time trials were held Wednesday over the rugged three-mile course. Bob Henry, Floyd Feeney, and Steve Gooding tied for first, with a time of 15:06. The others in order were: Bill Shipley, Bill Russell, J. V. Howell, J. A. Turner, and Joe Carpenter. The Harriers will be running against one of the best cross-country teams in the South and a good showing will be a credit to them. One setback to the chances of Davidson beating the Wolfpack harriers came when Bill Shipley recently developed knee trouble. Last year, he was a stalwart on the cross-country and track teams. He did makea good showing in time trials, but was slowed down to some extent by the bad knee. Defensive Rock we 7). aye 4 oy it ; c~ Ab . he'll be a thorn in State’s side NEIL GRAHAM .. Catfish Swimmers Limbering Up By JACK EFIRD This may be only the beginning of October, but the competitors who intend to try out for the Davidson swimming team are already starting to limber up in the pool. The present plan of Coach Carroll Hambright is to have a clinic for the prospective swimmers to instruct them in principles of competition and swimming and to start regular practice late this month or early in November. Nothing Definite Yet No one is slated yet to swim in any particular event as the total prospects of the team are not known, and the schedule is not definitely set yet. As the schedule tentatively stands there will be home and (Continued On Page Four) ‘ye eee hd Ta “ HM RI wl a. YOU AS YOUR STEADY SMOKE! Nha af " a NVA DAT Aa ON ME TNE SIGs CAMEL leads all other brands by billions of cigarettes per year! FORGET LAST SEASON! WE'LL BE THE CLASS OF THE CONFERENCE THIS YEAR Wildcat of the Week Cats’ New Spirit & Hustle Due To Dole’s Guidance In their first two starts in the 1952 season, Davidson's gridders have come out on the short end of the score. nobody seems terribly unhappy about it. Why? In losing the Wildcats have showed more fight and spirit than they have in many a game. They play the game to win, and they don’t give up when they're behind. And what's behind this new spirit, this new will to win? The answer to that one is easy. It is a smiling, personable Davidson coach named Bill Dole who has injected a large dose of new life and morale into a football team which has been faltering for a long time. It is this same man who has made football less of an ordeal and more of a challenge for the boys who wear the Red and Black. Met D. C. Challenge When Dole took the Davidson job, he looked at it as a challenge. He knew that there was a defeatist attitude on the Cat campus which had become widely prevalent because, simply enough, Davidson hasn't had a winning team since 1947. He knew that the Cats were going onto the field in game after game, knowing that the odds were overwhelming for their defeat, and playing mostly to get the game over, Dole wasn't having any of that. On his first visit to the Davidson campus last spring, the former Eastern Carolina mentor called a meeting of the football team. “There isn’t going to be any of this business of going out on a football field for two hours just to get the game over,” he told them. “Anybody on my team who feels that way isn't going to play. I believe Davidson can win football games and I want to make you think so too.” From some men that might have sounded like an ultimatum, but from Dole it was simply an announcement of his aims and a tacit admission that his work had been cut out for him. Got Team's Confidence Dole then buckled down to work. The main thing he accomplished in spring practice, in addition to seeing what his squad was capable of and what it needed in the way of new talent, was gaining the con- (Continued On Page Four) BILL DOLE ... he gave Cats confidence in themselves Yet OF ae Ge Ve Lk ee GOT A NEW HALFBACK THAT'S SURE-FIRE To Begin Monday By FLOYD FEENEY Tag football begins Monday to open this year’s race for the Interfraternity Sports Trophy. This game was inaugurated last year at Davidson, replacing touch football. Tag football is played by seven-man teams. The field is marked off into five equal parts between the goals; a team failing to advance the ball the length of one of these divisions surrenders the ball to their opponents at the nearest division. Passing Stressed Passing is stressed in this game. Both forward and lateral passing from any part of the field is legal any number of times. A player carrying the ball must halt when touched between the waist and the neck. The wrestling tournament will follow football sometime early in November. Managers already chosen for the coming season are: T. W. Aldred, KA; John Nesbit, ATO; George Lippard, Kappa Sig; Paul Eastman, Sigma Chi; Bill Stedge, Pika; George Thomas, Beta; Bill Nelson, Phi Delt; Don Menzies, Pi Kapp; Charlie Hall, Phi Gam. The sports trophy is given each year to the fraternity which acquires the most points throughout the year in interfraternity competition. Ten Sports Played Points are given in each of ten sports and for varsity participation. Last year’s program included these sports: football, basketball, softball, volleyball, wrestling, table tennis, track, horseshoes, handball, tennis, and swimming. Last year in a very close race the Kappa Sigs edged the Phi Gams by a score of 1278 to 1257. Close behind these two were the Phi Delts with a total of 1225 and the KA’s with 1159 points. These four fraternities along with the Sigma Chi appear to be the strongest contenders for the cup at this point. All fraternities seem to be stronger than last year and the race will probably not be decided until late next spring. Cagers Already Begin Workouts By JOHN HANDLEY According to Southern Conference regulations, basketball practice cannot officially begin until November 1st, but many varsity hopefuls have already begun individual workouts and practice. Coach Danny Miller, beginning his first year here, feels that he has a lot of good material to work with, but says there's plenty of work ahead in shaping up the 52-53 Wildcat basketballers before the season opens with N.C. State, December 6. A host of returning varsity men will probably be the nucleus from which Coach Miller will build his squad. Among these are: at the center slot, Jac Dudley; George Melton, and Bill Glidewell; at the forwards, Graeme Keith, J. V. Howell, and “Ish” Bennett; at the guards, Jerry King, Jimmy Smith, Ed Weeks, and Adrian Bowen. Several Frosh Prospects However, there are several outstanding freshman prospects. Hobby Cobb, who starred last year for Charlotte's Central High, Corky Burdette, and Ray Harding, have all looked good in early workouts. Also in the competition for varsity berths will be members of the ‘51-52 JV squad. Some of these are Buddy Brown, Eddie Adams, Jim Faucette, Floyd Feeney, “Pappy” Fowle, Scott Reams, and Joe Sugg. Darrell Floyd, freshman who won little All-American honors at Wingate last year, won't be eligible until next fall. Besides this group, 35 freshmen indicated an interest in basketball through the sports activities blank sent to them before school opened. Coach Miller will employ a much more diversified attack than was used by last year’s Wildcats. He plans to use such offensive plays as the single and double posts, opposite screening, and the five-man weave against the opponent's man-to-man defense. (Continued On Page Four) CAMELS for 30 days for Mildness and Flavor CAMELS are America’s most popular cigarette. To find out why, test them as your steady smoke. Smoke only Camels for thirty days. See how rich and flavorful they are pack after pack! See how mild CAMELS are week after week!