PAGE FOUR

Frosh Black List

The only Freshman convicted twice in two weeks by the Court of Control is Gregory Dimijian. Found guilty of wearing
no cap, he was requested to wear a ribbon and to report to an upperclassman. John Portridge, Wate Parker, David
Regen, and Bill Payne, Jr., were found without hats and were requested to wear ribbons and were made stud boys
for upperclassmen. John Hartee, Archie Joyner, and M. F. Miree, for walking on the grass, not wearing freshman hats, and
showing disrespect to upperclassmen, were made stud boys, ordered to wear ribbons, and were given other duties. Ted Reid, Moffet
Ware, and Jack Still were found guilty of showing disrespect to upperclassmen and were made stud boys. Pete Robertson, charged
with many things, including “possessing a cocky and superior attitude,” was made stud boy and assigned to the Davidsonian. Ed
Price, convicted of having instead of a hat, a haughty attitude, was given a ribbon and made stud boy.

Notice

A new policy is being inaugurated of having all students who desire part-time or full-time work in connection with the
college, fill out a standard form which will be retained on file in Dr. Spencer's office. As jobs become available
the student will be notified on a basis of need, experience, and qualifications. These forms may be secured in Dr.
Spencer's office.

Swimming Team Shows Need Of Greater Depth

Candidates for Davidson's swimming team are now completing their third week of workouts in the Johnston Gym pool. So far
only fourteen candidates have been working out. The opinion has been expressed that many good freshman swimmers have not yet
come out for workouts, because they are playing fraternity football. The varsity football team may also have some swimming talent
on it. Tyke Ellis, who has been supervising the workouts up to the present time, will step down in favor
of head swimming coach Carroll Hambright when the latter is able to get away from his varsity football chores. Among
the freshmen, Larry Parrot and Maloy Miree have looked extremely good in the first few days of workouts. The diving
also looks good with freshmen George Unwick, Jett Smith, and Ed Davis showing up well. Captain Jim Bryan, Ed Nicholson,
and Johnny Dabbs also show promise for the coming year.

Relays Being Held

At the present time Ellis has been having relays to find faults in style which can be corrected early in
the season. Now the swimmers will be put through medleys to see if they are in shape yet. The workouts
have progressed well, but the squad lacks sprinters and breaststrokers. Ellis hopes that more swimmers will come out in the
near future to bolster the squad.

FALL SERVICES...
(Continued from Page One)

from 1947-1949, and is at present professor of Christian Ethics at Union Seminary. It is sincerely hoped by the YMCA
Committee on Special Services that the student body will lend its full support to this year’s Fall Services, for the
student's active participation is the only gauge of success for such a movement.

BARNES...
(Continued From Page Three)

able,” said Elgin White, the Davidson golf coach. “He's shooting par and sub-par golf daily. He'll be either No. 1
or No. 2 when the season starts.” Barnes’ most recent conquest came when he copped the club championship in hometown
Bassett.

Merion Davis Co. Inc. Presents the newest in Formal Wear for all occasions, TUXEDOES $47.50 and $55.00 Single or double-breasted
Marion Davis Co. Inc. 118 South Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C.

FINE FOODS STEAKS CHICKEN DINNERS FOUNTAIN SERVICE Open Sundays Phone 132 STONESTREET'S Grade A Cafe 418 South Main Street Mooresville,
N. C.

DEMOCRATS...
(Continued from Page One)

and where the reduction should be made. Both candidates made an emotional appeal rather than explaining the main planks of
his platform. Fortunate for the United States will be the day when campaigning will appeal to man's reason as well
as his emotion.

SIGMA CHI...
(Continued from Page Three)

KA's 12; Betas 0

The KA’s showed fine offensive and defensive play as they downed the “hard-luck” Betas by 12-6. T. W. Aldred and
George King hooked up to lead the KA forces to victory. T. K. McDonald and Shady Eller turned in fine
performances for the Betas.

Sigma Chi’s 20; Pi Kapps 6

A fast Sigma Chi offensive attack proved the deciding factor as they overpowered the Pi Kapps 20-6. Buzzy Holt and
Bob Mitchell, coupled with fine teamwork, brought home the win for the Sigs. Ben Jones, Lawrence Erwin, and Tom Hancock
led the Pi Kapp efforts.

Pikas 33; CC 12

The alert backfield play of Pika playmaker, Jimmy Smith, and the fine receiving roles played by Joe Pharr and Bill
Hanna brought the Pikas a 33-12 victory over the CC. Clark Reed and Brooks Webb led the Campus Club in
the free-scoring encounter.

Phi Delts 25; Kappa Sigs 14

The fine pass-catch combination of Jerry King and Phil Lewis gave the Phi Delts their 25-14 margin over the ever-dangerous
Kappa Sigs. As usual, backfield ace “Lip” Lippard and freshman receiver, Bobby Hoover, led the KS forces.

Phi Gams 7; SPE's 0

In a tight defensive contest, the Phi Gams outlasted the SPE’s to take a 7-0 triumph. The Phi Gams were
led by freshman passer Bill Gentry and Watt Moore. The SPE’s efforts were led by Horace Ball and top defender
John Partridge.

SEND HER Phone: Davidson 4131 For Quick Service Bates Cleaners BEST IN CLEANING DYEING & ALTERATIONS HATS BLOCKED Main Street

THE GIFT SHE’LL LOVE BEST Say It With Flowers-by-Wire — Member F.T.D. SMITH’S FLOWERS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

INTELLECTUAL INSULT
(Continued from Page Three)

Republicans in Congress, The astute gentleman continued providing sight and impartialness. The pinnacle of this stirring oration was approached. “Now
boys,” he said, “I'm going to say something that we all will agree on.” This is the fifth thing that
we all had agreed on. “I'm against Communism and I want you all to applaud so that I'll know you
all are against it too.” The rafters of Chambers were strained mightily to hold the immense ovation following this tear-jerking,
soul-searching statement. The Hon. Representative had suddenly clarified his platform for those who, being intellectually short-changed, had been groveling in
the dark as to the portent of his address. Hurrahs rang forth with clarion sound, and strong men sobbed aloud.
The impact left upon the student body here was less than diversified. This much can be said. It was an
insult to the intellectual integrity and dignity of many of the students and faculty to permit such an inane speech
to be made. After such an exhibition, one recalls the epic words of Alexander Hamilton regarding the lack of ability
in some officials chosen by the people in elections. His trenchant comment was: “The people are too dumb to vote.”
Whether or not it is applicable in this case is a matter of personal opinion. It is the opinion of
this writer that Ham Jones is Charles Jonas’ best campaigner.

THE FREE LANCE...
(Continued From Page Two)

the copy itself there can be nothing of individual stimulation. If we can rid our minds of this stigma—this automatic
seeking for the copy we have accomplished a prime step in the development of an appreciative attitude for modern and
so-called semi-modern art.

CROSS COUNTRY...
(Continued from Page Two)

somewhat of a disadvantage on the 3.2-mile Knoxville run, for timing and speed had to be changed for this shorter
distance. It was their first competitive run on the short course. Coach Whittle commented, “This triangular meet gave the team
some wonderful experience. They will profit from it and will be in better shape for Richmond Saturday.” Among the freshmen
prominent on this year’s team, Whittle was impressed by the running of Steve Gooding and Andy Turner. Senior Homer Sparks,
ineligible for competition last year, has been looking sharp all season. He took second place close behind Bob Henry last
Friday at Knoxville. Gooding and Turner copped third and fourth slots. From the Wednesday time trials, led by Bob Henry
with a 22:24-minute jaunt over the four-mile course, the following eight men will run for Davidson: Henry, Floyd Feeney, Bill
Shipley, Homer Sparks, Steve Gooding, Andy Turner, Bill Russell, and Archie Joyner.| One cannot become appreciative of any art without
experience in looking at examples of art. We get pitifully little of this opportunity here even though the efforts of
Phil Moose to bring exhibits here have been outstandingly laudable. At this time painting is equipped with the attitudes to
portray raw expression of feeling and emotion as it has seldom been before. Such expression is the stuff which we
value most in conversation, in letters from the girlfriend, and in sermons. If we can learn to let ourselves see
it, there is untold wealth in modern art. This is not to say it’s all good; there will always be
poor speakers, but in its way, it lets us see into the human soul even as the artist saw. It
lets us see nature in her elements with almost unique clarity. The photo cannot separate nature from her elements or
human emotions from the human. To a degree, modern art can do these things.

McKEE’S MEN... (Continued From Page Three)
graduated last spring. Another newcomer in the Blue Hose line-up was Jerry Hunt who defeated Johnny Bremer as he held
down the number two position, pushing last year’s second man Bill Tolle down to third. Although the Wildcats did not
look bad in defeat, they showed the effects of a summer during which few of their number played very much
tennis. Coach Dick McKee expressed the opinion that when his charges got back in shape they would be considerably harder
to contend with than was the case last Saturday afternoon.

FRATERNITIES PLAN... (Continued From Page One)
is having a party after Friday night's dance at Erwin Lodge for the brothers and their dates. Another party will
be held after the dance Saturday night at the house. During the entire weekend, all brothers, their dates, and alumni
will be welcomed at the house at any time. Highlighting the homecoming celebration of the Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity will
be an outdoor hamburger fry Friday afternoon. All brothers, their dates, and especially all alumni are extended an invitation to
this event. In addition, open house will be held during the entire weekend. The Kappa Sigma house will be open
for all brothers and their dates during the entire weekend. Special plans have been made for the alumni after Saturday's
game.

FLOWERS
This celebration will be highlighted by a buffet supper at the house which will be served to all alumni and
friends. Phi Gamma Delta will hold open house from 12 noon until game time, and immediately after the game until
7:30. There will be a buffet supper for alumni. Sigma Alpha Epsilon, in addition to open house, will have a
banquet at the fraternity boarding house Saturday evening. Alpha Tau Omega will have a Saturday banquet and open house. Beta
Theta Pi will have open house before and after the homecoming game. They will also have a banquet at 6
p.m. in the college dining hall in honor of 50-year graduates of Davidson who were members of Beta. The Sigma
Chi’s had not made any definite plans up to the time this paper went to press.

Drink ‘M O O R’ QUALITY MILK
Mooresville Creamery, Inc.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
Dial 3-6341 Cornelius, N.C.

Rent A New Car
LOW RATES FOR HOMECOMING WEEKEND
* * *
Drive it Yourself
212 West 4th Phone 3-4513 Charlotte

that there are both Democrats and which seemed extremely odd; and that the Democrats might possibly have made some minute
mistake, which is nothing short of rank heresy. Then observed that the incumbent and his party have been, are, and
shall continue to provide the people of North Carolina with superior intellectual and moral government; bringing taxes and the cost
of living down, stamping out socialism while subsidizing the farmer, and in general discharging the duties of his office with
wisdom.

FRED'S SHOE SHOP
“If it’s New Shoes, We Have Them”
We Specialize in all Leather Work — All Work Guaranteed
CORNELIUS, N. C.

RUSSIAN STUDENT... (Continued From Page One)
ed Cossacks when one slashed him across the neck with a saber. The cut was so deep it cut his
tonsils, which had to be removed. The scar of course is still plain. Can you imagine it? His feet became
cramped and swollen from riding in the stirrups all winter. Next, he caught typhus fever and was unconscious for a
month. He was taken from Crimea to a crowded hospital in Egypt... so crowded that he was kept outside two
days, then put in a bed “still warm from the man who had just died.” When he recovered he went
to Palestine (as he knew neither Arabic nor English and knew there would be Russian Jews in Palestine.) He worked
as a groom and later as a chauffeur for the town’s mayor. Igor's mother-to-be was also working for the mayor.
They married in 1925 and gave us the subject for this interview in 1932. Igor was born on the Jewish
side of Jerusalem. From kindergarten on he took Hebrew, English, and Arabic. He already knew Russian and is now taking
French. Life in Jerusalem was pretty rugged at that time. Three hundred were killed when the Jews blew up a
hotel. Twelve-inch pipes would be packed with dynamite and shot with springs at their houses. Igor’s family immigrated to within
the walls of Old Jerusalem and lived 12 in a room about half the size of a room in West.
Igor’s names for the Jews sounded like an excerpt from an Eberhardt lecture.

And speaking of Dr. Eberhardt, Igor realizes he owes much to the professor. He met Igor two years ago in
Palestine, got him interested in Davidson, initiated the correspondence between Igor and his future roommate, Hubert Cannon. He also arranged
their meeting in Paris last summer. What does he think of D.C.? The usual chapel spiel... friendly great guys, etc.
He was disappointed with his first football game. “They line up, throw the ball, pile up over each other, line
up and do it over and over. Why?” Offhand, I didn't know either. I asked if there was anything else.
“No,” he said, then added, “Oh yes... I like Ike.”

P. C. HOSTS... (Continued from Page Three)
look very sharp in practices this week, McMillan said yesterday. Coach Dole stated: “I had hoped that we would be
able to enter the Presbyterian game at full strength, but due to the injuries that Whisnant, Craig, and Davis received
last Saturday and “Old Man Flu” taking out freshman Dick Jones, we won't be at full strength and this could
hurt.” Presbyterian’s record isn’t too impressive either. They were run over by Clemson in their first game, 53-13. They beat
Alabama State in their second contest, 13-7, but went down to defeat again in their third game by a score
of 32-20 at the hands of Wofford.

THEATRE
THURS.-FRI., OCT. 16-17
“Lydia Bailey”
DALE ROBERTSON
ANN FRANCIS

SATURDAY, OCT. 18
WILLIAM HOLDEN
JOHNNY STEWART

MON.-TUES., OCT. 20-21
O’Henry’s Full House
FRED ALLEN
ANN BAXTER
CHAS. LAWTON
JEAN PETERS

WEDNESDAY, OCT 22
ESTELITA
ROBERT CLARKE

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1952

And Shetland Sport Coats by
Jaunty new tweeds and spanking new Shetlands... including some very special imports... highlights this season’s fresh collection of sport coats
by Eagle Clothes. They’re hand-tailored to provide truly casual comfort for your leisure time pleasure. $50.00

IMPORTED FLANNEL
hand tailoring, welt seams and elastic waist bands. Light grey, charcoal grey regulars and longs. SLACKS with — excellent 20.00
- 15.00 to 32.50

Street Floor
Other Styles

Mens Clothing

A NEW “COLONEL” by
only $5.00 for the 2-suit size
20” “Little Colonel” Companion Overnight $37.50 $45.00

Handsome, rugged luggage crafted by Wheary from smooth top-grain oak-tanned steerhide, aniline dyed in masculine British Tan. Lining of tan
super-twill, tailored to a man’s liking. A truly exceptional value in fine luggage... built exactly the same as the highest
priced Wheary “Colonels”... with all the exclusive features of quality and convenience that have made the “Colonel” first choice with
men who travel constantly! Equipped with Wheary’s famous patented "Aviator" Suit Fixtures that actually smooth away wrinkles of wear! Buy
now, for your own travel needs... for treasured gifts!

All prices plus fed. tax
Iveys Luggage
Fifth Floor
