Whether you've realized it or not, there has been a tremendous change on this campus regarding the general athletic policy,
as well as specific examples. The general football situation has been discussed enough, but something that has indeed brightened the
picture is the rise of interest in the art and sport of wrestling. Last week, when it was announced that
for the second straight year Davidson had been awarded the AAU Wrestling Tournament, it seemed to carry out the idea
that we've come a long way in the last few years. For years, the center of wrestling in the Southern
Conference was in Virginia, especially at Washington and Lee and V.M.I. No school in North or South Carolina could compare
to the grappling of the Virginians except possibly the team from Appalachian, which is not even in the Southern Conference.

CHANGE NOTED DESPITE WINLESS TEAMS

Now, with the increased interest among the students and a “go-getter” like Coach Scott, who is vitally interested in wrestling
and has put out some fine teams himself, it looks like Davidson is emerging and will soon be looked upon
as the center of wrestling in the conference. The amazing thing about the whole situation is that although we have
some fine individual performers and some potentially great wrestlers, we have not had a good, winning season in several years.
The answer comes from the inner office where Coaches Scott and Charlie Parker have put their heads together and decided
to run this thing in a business-like manner.

GRAPPLING AFTER BASKETBALL SHOWS VARIETY

The most notable change has been in the scheduling of the matches and holding them, whenever possible, right after the
well-attended home games in basketball. Everyone seems to stay, and the amount of yelling and pleading signifies the interest and
enjoyment of the crowd. The biggest honor of the present rise to prominence seems to be the fact that the
Olympic tryouts for the entire Southeastern United States will be held on the campus two weeks after the AAU Tournament.
This brings national prominence to Davidson, as there are only four to six of these tournaments held in the entire
country in preparation for the world-wide games in Helsinki in the summer. The U.S. always has a strong team, and
who knows but what a winner might sprout forth from this tournament?

THE FUTURE MAY HOLD HIGHER HONORS

With all this going on, the increased interest among the students, the growing interest among our neighbors and supporters in
Charlotte and the surrounding territory, and more weight given to the matter by the coaches and athletic policy directors, we
are bound to have more interest among potential grapplers, and good high school material will pour into the school. Then
is when you start having good teams and winning years, and ninety percent of the building-up process is dispensed with
as a result. A few more good wrestlers and a couple of good years, and this dream would be complete.
It is very real and very possible to become true.

MORE EMPHASIS ON MINOR SPORTS

The rise to importance of such sports as wrestling, tennis, track, swimming, and even more to basketball would, it seems
to me, be a healthy situation for Davidson. Not exactly deemphasis of the major sports, but just more emphasis on
the minor sports in which a college of Davidson's size and caliber could excel. Not that baseball is considered a
minor sport (neither is basketball), but it is still minor around here and could use some attention when it comes
to rebuilding. More on baseball can be withheld for a few weeks.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1952

A weekend invasion of South Carolina begins tonight for Boyd Baird’s Wildcat hoopsters as they invade USC's gym for the
return game against that team. Revenge will be foremost in the minds of the Cats when they clash with the
Gamecocks tonight. When the teams first met this season in the Carolinas Invitational Tournament during the Christmas holidays, Baird’s charges
humbled the USC squad by an 87-63 count. Only a few nights later, however, the Gamecocks returned to Davidson to
hand the Cats a 76-61 defeat. Unless Citadel's Bulldogs have improved radically, the Cats look to wrap up their Saturday
night fray with ease. In defeating the cadets here a month ago, they racked up 100 points compared to 66
for the losers.

Who is the leading scorer on Kentucky's top-ranking quintet? Who holds the major-college scoring record of 2,199 points in four
years of basketball competition? What teams played in the first Rose Bowl game in 1902? What is the most number
of games won by Bob Feller in a season? In what years did Tommy Harmon of Michigan make All-American? Participation
in the Sports Quiz is slow for such a liberal offer of those high-priced cigs. A FREE carton of Chesterfields
may still be had at the Stud for the first correct answers written on a Chesterfield wrapper.

After the Palmetto State, the Cats will return home to play hosts to North Carolina on Monday night. This shapes
up as one of the toughest contests of the season, as the Tar Heels nosed out the Davidson club 78-77
only a few weeks ago.

UNC Pacesetter Ebel Hi hoops against the ATO’s.

Dave Poole, a 23-year-old Davidson junior, has been named to coach the 1952 Wildcat baseball team. He succeeds Frank Packard
at this post. Poole was chosen for the post on the basis of his baseball knowledge and associations. He was
an outstanding catcher for the Columbia Reds of the South Atlantic League last year and previously played half a season
for Columbia and half a season for Charleston, W. Va., of the Central League. Poole is now connected with the
Tulsa team of the Class AA Texas League and plans to join them as soon as the current school year
is ended. It was the first time in the known sports history of the college that a student has been
named to a top coaching post in baseball. Poole held the season’s first practice.

IKS Takes Lead As Sigs Lose

Kappa Sigma’s basketballers have taken over undisputed possession of first place in the Interfraternity basketball standings as a result of
their 72 to 51 win over the Phi Gams this week. The victory, coupled with the Sigma Chis losing effort
against the KAs—final score, KAs 47, Sigma Chis 39—enabled the Kappa Sigs to maintain their unblemished records while the Sigma
Chis were losing their first contest thus far this year. As a result of their win, the Kappa Alphas climbed
into a third-place tie with the Pikas, who won one and lost one in the course of a week. The
sophomore standout of the Phi Gams, Larry Champion, continued to set the pace in the individual scoring race, with a
cool 98 points, averaging better than 16 points per game. Trailing Champion are Lefty Vance (KA) with 77, Smith (CC),
and Corky Clark (K. Sig) with 72 apiece. Champion holds the season's record for high scoring.in one game also, having
sent 28 points swishing through the

The Standings
Kappa Sigs .......... 6 0
Sigma Chi ........... 5 1
Pikas ............... 4 2
KA’s ............... 4 2
Campus Club ........ 3 3
Betas ............... 3 3
Phi Gams ........... 3 3
GPR ............... 3 3
Pi Kaps ............ 2 4
Phi Delts ........... 2 4
BED ............... 1 4
SAEs .............. 0 5

and Greater was my thirst you need COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. The farther you go the more you'll
hear folks say, “Let's have a Coke and get going.” It’s one way to get somewhere. OF CONCORD Tennyson: Holy
Grail refreshment. That's why “Coke!” to ereghtered wade-mark. © 1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

JUVIETS, Cats Angle On Mats
By BOB OWENS

It will be the last home match for Charlie Parker's strong D.C. wrestling squad when they tangle with the VPI
grapplers in Johnston Gym Saturday. The wrestling match scheduled for the afternoon will begin at 2 o'clock, but a Tea
Dance with Charlie Spivak supplying the music will be held immediately following the match.

Plagued by constant injuries, the Wildcat strong-boys have captured only one match this season, but such veteran performers as Captain
Gene Craven, Johnny Guiton, Bobby Joe Key, and Bill McNeely brighten the hopes for a Cat victory Saturday afternoon. Coach
Parker has indicated that no starting line-up could be determined until the week’s practice sessions were concluded, but the probable
starters are as follows: 123 lb. class, Key or Murray; 130 lb. class, Gene Craven; 137 lb. class, Ron Reed;
147 lb. class, Johnny Guiton; 157 lb. class, Angus Andrews; 167 lb. class, John Buxton; 177 lb. class, Bill McElveen;
Heavyweight, Bill McNeely.

The injured Cat regulars, Nabby Armfield and Morley Vail, are doubtful starters for the VPI match and may be out
of action for the rest of the season due to chest injuries. Undefeated Gene Craven, the lad who had never
wrestled before coming to Davidson in ‘49, appears to be in top shape and eager to add another defeated opponent
to his growing list. Having lost only two matches in his college career, Gene has an excellent chance of becoming
the Southern Conference champ in the 130-pound class. He will be a definite threat in the A.A.U. Tournament and the
Olympic wrestling tryouts, both of which are to be held at Davidson next month. After Saturday's battle, the Cats travel
to Lexington, Va., on February 22, where they will meet the strong W&L wrestlers in the season finale.

By MIKE MYERS
(EDITOR'S NOTE: Feature Editor Mike Myers, looking a few weeks ahead into the Southern Conference sports picture, analyzes Davidson's chances
for getting into the conference hoop tournament in March. His conclusions are printed below.)

With only six more conference games left on the schedule and Davidson now with a 3-10 record, Coach Baird doesn’t
see much reason to check the P.O. closely around the first of March. Davidson won't get an invitation to the
Southern Conference Tournament to be held March 6-7-8 in the Raleigh Coliseum. The best we can do is end up
with a 9-10 record, and as long as I can remember it has taken better than a 50-50 mark to
make the play-offs. Of the six remaining opponents, only Clemson is below us in the current standings. Three of the
six are in the top eight.

Remaining Games
Davidson played perhaps the sloppiest game of the season against South Carolina here in early January. They beat us by
15 points, but they aren't much better. I believe with a little good luck and good play we could win
this one (tonight) even though S.C. is now 6th in the standings. CITADEL was our 100-point victim and we ought
to take them again. UNC—the first of the close nightmares. DC looked good even in defeat (47% accuracy from the
floor) and a few bad breaks beat us. The Heels are in the 9th position and need a win over
us badly to make the play-offs. Smith Barrier, Greensboro Daily News sports editor, quoted the UNC coach earlier this week
as saying, “We're out to win 6 in a row.” There's nothing we'd rather do than mess up their plans...
and I think we can. It's here, too, this Monday night. Wake Forest is a better team in their own
small gym, but they were good enough up here. This will be a hard one, but if Dudley and Brooks
can bottle up Hemric longer than one half we could easily pull a minor upset. Duke and Maryland will definitely
be favored over us. And rightly so. It isn’t too crazy to hope for a win over Maryland, though. It
all boils down to this: Davidson will probably barely miss the tournament. This makes those close...

(Continued On Page Four)

WILDCAT OF THE WEEK - - - Jerry King
By BILL BRADFORD

Our Wildcat of the Week needs no introduction to the reader even though he is a relative newcomer to Davidson.
Jerry King hails from Hamilton, Ohio, where basketball is the sport. Coach Baird, who is from the same part of
the country, spotted him on one of his northern trips and was very instrumental in bringing him to Davidson. In
his high school, Jerry was one of the outstanding boys in the State and his ability was recognized by numerous
awards. He was on the third team all-state and got honorable mention in the All-American selections. His team, largely through
his efforts, got into the finals of the Ohio State Basketball Tournament.

It did not take Coach Baird long to recognize his potentialities on the hardwood after his arrival at Davidson and
he was quickly elevated to the ranks of the varsity. But Jerry was not going to be just another member
of the varsity and in short order was slated for a starting position at guard. Living up to all previous
expectations, he has been consistently among the chief point-getters and to date boasts a healthy 9.3 average.

Even though the Wildcats are not faring too well on the tough road of the Southern Conference, the readers might
find some consolation in the fact that Jerry is only a Freshman and will be with us for another three
years. With seven games still on tap, among which are Duke and Carolina, his ability and accurate eye will do
much toward bettering our standing in these games and those of the coming year.
