PAGE TWO

The Davidsonian extends Season’s Greetings to the Student Body, Faculty, and Administration.

Step Taken In Right Direction; Students Meet With Calendar Committee

A recent letter from Dean C. K. Brown and the tone of this letter has strengthened our belief that all
was not lost in the recent calendar schedule conflict. It has reassured us of what we believe to be a
sincere desire on the part of the administration to create a better understanding among students and faculty alike on matters
that directly concern the students. Addressed to the five student committee members, the letter is as follows:

Gentlemen:
The Faculty Committee on the College Calendar must fix the calendar for 1953-54 within the next few days. If you
can meet in the Faculty room at 3:40 Friday afternoon, December 12, to confer with us, we shall be glad.
Sincerely yours,
C. K. BROWN
Dean of Faculty.

It will be the function of the Davidsonian to inform the student body on meeting times of the committee and
to report its activities and discussions. Of primary importance will be the duty of the individual members of the student
body to participate in the discussions of current issues or to present plans for improvements. It will be an opportunity
to agree or disagree with school policy or to openly discuss any conflict that might arise during the course of
the year. This is the most recent opportunity that the students have had to show that they are mature thinking
individuals and not the immature prep school boys they oftentimes seem to be. The students must be given an opportunity
to shoulder responsibility here at Davidson if the college intends to fulfill this integral function in education. It must train
its men to think clearly and to meet the challenge of the outside world. This cannot be done by imposing
upon them a sheltered life. It is a real challenge to the student body to put aside its complacent attitude
and shoulder some responsibility for a change. The findings of this committee must be presented to the administration for satisfactory
results, since this is a discussion group and not the final say-so on any matter. The editorial staff of the
Davidsonian will work in conjunction with the committee to aid in its functioning. Faculty-student committee chairman Dr. E. A. Beaty
plans a meeting of the committee early in January at which time its purposes will be set forth and such
topics as the cut system and review and exam schedule will be discussed. The committee will succeed only to the
degree that the faculty and students desire. If the students show no interest in the type of education and curriculum
they are receiving, this committee will be no more than a meeting of Signify Nothing and one of the greatest
opportunities for promoting cooperation and understanding between students and faculty will be lost.

Johnson Defends London From Visiting Davidsonians Abroad

In regard to the recent little disquisition upon London which appeared among these hallowed pages, a better description, and more
scholarly as well, was written by the immortal Dr. Samuel Johnson in the year 1763. Indeed, he seems to be
speaking to the author of last week's “Davidsonian Abroad,” when he says:

(Consistent with our policy of keeping in touch with contemporary thought on various subjects at other universities and colleges here
and about, we offer this week what we think to be a pertinent sample concerning Carl Snavely's resignation as UNC
grid coach. The author is Sports Editor Biff Roberts of the Daily Tar Heel, and recently defeated candidate for editor-in-chief.
His column, “Down in Front,” is a regular feature of the Daily Tar Heel.—T.A.W.)

By BIFF ROBERTS

An unfitting close came to one of the best coaching records in the nation last Tuesday night when Carl Grey
Snavely announced his resignation as head football coach at Carolina. For 26 years as a head tutor he had been
at the top of the coaching roster. It's a shame that he had to bow out after a season that
had been shackled with ill luck from September to November. Until the 1952 season, when his denouncement began, the Old
Man had a brilliant record. His teams had won 140, lost 57, and tied 14. In the years between 1946
and 1949 he had sent three teams to bowl games. The nation acclaimed him as one of the best in
the game. But in the three years from that final great season in 1949, the Old Man and the NC
declined. In that span of time his teams won but seven games—what would be considered good for one Snavely season.
The wolves started howling after the 1950 season. This season it became unbearable. The Old Man stepped down. His reasons
weren't announced, but there’s no doubt the glum alums had something to do with it. Coaching has been Snavely’s living
for 26 years. A man doesn’t treat his livelihood that lightly. But whatever his reason for stepping out, and whether
you like his leaving or not, the fact remains that he’s gone and the job of hiring a new coach
is already moving. Snavely was criticized greatly during the past three seasons—for his coaching, handling of the boys, running of
the team during a game, etc. Perhaps some complaints were justified. But one thing that cannot be taken away from
the Old Man, regardless of his losing streak, was his fairness on and off the field. He played his cards
straight. When one of his boys needed help Snavely could always be counted on to lend a helping hand. Snavely’s
story is almost one of riches-to-rags. In the Justice-Weiner days he was King Carl, but try to remember how many
times he’s been called that in the past three years. Back in the late forties he had men, tempered by
war service, playing for him. When the last of the vets left he was confronted with the problem of going
back to building boys, fresh out of high school, into college stars.

“Talking of London, he observed, Sir, if you wish to have a just notion of the magnitude of this city,
you must not be satisfied with seeing the great streets and squares, but must survey the innumerable little lanes and
courts. It is not in the showy evolutions of buildings, but in the multiplicity of human habitation which are crowded
together, that the wonderful immensity of London consists.

“I have often amused myself with thinking how different a place London is to different people. They, whose narrow minds
are contracted to the consideration of some one particular pursuit, view it only through that medium. A politician thinks of
it merely as the seat of government in its different departments; a grazier, as a vast market for cattle; a
mercantile man, as a place where a prodigious deal of business is done upon Change; a dramatic enthusiast, as the
grand scene of theatrical entertainments; a man of pleasure, as an assemblage of taverns, and the great emporium for ladies
of easy virtue. But the intellectual man is struck with it, as comprehending the whole human life in all its
variety, the contemplation of which is inexhaustible.”

Need more be said?—J. L. H., H. T. L.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

As I sat there eating peanuts in the sidewalk cafe on the Champs Elysees, I suddenly realized that I was
in Europe, in Paris. And such was the impression of my whole trip this summer. Nothing seemed so much out
of the ordinary, but all down to earth and quite conceivable. Of course, there were times like the week that
I spent in Italy without seeing a single American, or like the week in Germany when I could never find
someone who could speak English when I really needed him, when I was very well aware that I was in
a foreign country, and a country very different from my own. But for the great majority of the time, I
never felt too far away from home.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Frank Hanshaw

BUSINESS MANAGER
Jack Hobson

ASSISTANT EDITOR
John Ottley

Associate Editors
Brinkley, Harter, Hope, Myers, M. G., Moylan, D.H.

Managing Editors
Hasselt, J. M. Moore, Owens

Sports Editor
Dick Roper

News Editor
D. M. Smith

Feature Editor
T. A. Williams

Arts Editor
Mahy

Assignments
Strand

Photographer
Simons

Assistant Business Manager
Poston

Advertising Manager
Hasty

Circulation Manager
Nicholson

Collection Manager
Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

So many things happen on a trip like this that it is quite difficult to try to pick out one
or two incidents as the most interesting and the ones that I should talk about. Two visits that I remember
quite vividly were the small party that I attended at the French Ambassador’s home and the trip to the Vatican
to see the Pope. I had gotten a letter of introduction from my congressman who is a personal friend of
Ambassador Dunn, and it did the trick. I can’t say which I enjoyed more, the party or the look his
secretary gave me when she told me of my invitation after saying only five minutes beforehand that the ambassador was
a little too busy to see me. The Pope wasn’t quite as personal, but I enjoyed seeing him anyway. There
are so many other things that will stand out in my mind, the week I spent with two Italian black
marketeers on the Italian border, Macbeth in Stratford-on-Avon, the Swiss Alps, the German train station benches, Trafalgar Square, the canals
of Amsterdam, the Eiffel Tower, the London subways, European trains, the Black Forest, the waiter’s look when you ask for
water or milk, Place Pigalle, Les Follies Bergere, Comédie Française, the London pub that closes at 10:30, wooden shoes, the
boat trip down the Rhine, and so much more that I could easily fill this paper; but let me just
sum it all up by saying that it was quite an experience.

But the experiences that I had traveling were overshadowed by those of my five weeks at a World Council of
Churches work camp at Bruay in Northern France. Bruay, Pas-de-Calais, is in the middle of the coal mining region.In that
transition period, something was missed. He's been trying to build those boys into stars during the past three years, but
the Carolina teams haven't materialized. Whether it was his fault, the players’ fault, or the assistant coaches’ fault will have
to be decided in the next season—under a new head coach. Snavely has been offered a position with the Department
of Athletics and Physical Education, but whether he stays is still to be answered. His love for coaching may send
him to another school. Then again, because of his age, he may stay here. The answer rests with Snavely himself.
Nothing is more disheartening than seeing a champion going down. Snavely contributed great records to Carolina in his 10-year reign
as coach. Whether you are sorry to see him go or are in the group that feels it was time
for a change, you must give the Old Man his credit. His contribution to Carolina has been a great one.
Our sometimes too-short memories shouldn’t forget that.

Of France, and thus in the center of the French Communist Party. In an effort to reach the working class
and also to relieve the severe housing shortage, especially for men who do not have families, the church was repairing
two old buildings into a “foyer de mineur,” or what we in America would probably call a YMCA in which
young coal miners could live. We had eight countries represented among our twenty-five campers, German ex-soldiers, a Danish boy whose
father had been murdered by SS troops, Dutch, French, etc. In this varied group, you could get a bird’s eye
view of Europe, and many of the discussions and bull sessions that we had gave me my most valuable insights
into the European situation. To say the least, I was shocked by what I learned. Never have two peoples had
such mistaken ideas and impressions about each other as do Europeans and Americans. I could see Communism as I had
never seen or even dreamed of it before. This town of 35,000 makes its living from the coal mines, and
nine out of ten of the miners vote Communist. Everywhere were signs, billboards, newspapers, and books, that reminded the American
that he was in Communist territory, that he wasn't exactly among friends. It was in the conversations with workers, my
visit down into the coal mines themselves, the arguments with the Communist Party leaders of the city, the visits to
the homes of the workers, the conditions that they live under, the outlook that they have, it was in all
these that I saw communism. I received so many varying impressions this summer that it would be quite impossible to
summarize them, but I don’t think that I will forget them. It was just that the peanuts tasted so much
like South Carolina peanuts.

By RONALD WILSON

The Big Noise About Blood Drive Is In Vein

Catchphrases such as “It doesn't hurt at all” and “You will hardly miss it” have been permeating the campus this
week with almost sickening density. Accompanying these are books of slight but artful disdain at those members of our happy
family who simply can’t or do not care to give blood for one reason or another. It's amusing how to
maintain prestige here one must do the right things. This week a pint of blood is the thing to do
to be one of the boys. One must also memorize certain jokes and humor lines to repeat to one’s neighbor
while standing in line. All of this is unavoidable and perhaps not too bad in the final analysis, but we
believe there are some who deserve a bit more recognition than a band-aid on the right elbow. We refer not
to the time-giving Red Cross, local ladies, ROTC Department, or Scabbard and Blade—time is a relatively easy thing to give—but
to various unnamed students and other volunteers who give raw courage as well as blood. Courage is a funny thing;
it appears in so many forms and is reputed to appear in equally as many forms where it doesn’t that
a person is hard put to know just when he is observing it. It surely was trying for another man
who is caught from falling from his chair in a dead faint. Maybe he's fluked before, but he kept coming
back. Two drives a year and you see he's a junior. These men probably had an idea not exacted from
every man who gave blood this week. Let's look back a day, though. The man in front of you in
the line shows you his record and it looks normal or in other words like your own. You chat gaily
through the line and down the stairs to the donation rooms. He gets ahead of you and you see him
again at the refreshment table. He is not so gay now. His head is low and his face is a
weak white. Later they find it better to remove him to an adjoining room to lie down. He is obviously
under terrific mental and physical strain. But his record was the same as yours. He shouldn’t have had any difficulty.
Chances are the same man had the same trouble last year and his record showed this was his fourth donation.
While you are thinking this was going to happen. Giving blood was much more than just taking the time out
to go down there. Through your mind drift some of the phrases from The Charge of the Light Brigade. You
have no way of knowing just how many men who give are faced with the alternative of “feeling it” a
great deal. You go out a little quieter than you came in until you realize that the proper Davidson man
is seldom pensive in public. You crack the appropriate jokes upon leaving the donor center, but something lingers in the
back of your mind. Perhaps we might next Spring direct some of our rantings away from those who do not
give and toward some of those to whom it is a real problem to give.

We Listen, And The Herald Angels Shout:

Due to the intricacies of nature's cycle of seasons, every twelve months we find ourselves face to face with that
holiday which is called Christmas. Bells ring, lights burn, the streets are decorated with all manner of evergreen and colored
wreaths, store windows haul out lavish displays, and in general, the cities and towns exude an ethereal glow after dark,
attesting to the inventive and decorative genius of modern man. The man of the house ventures into the mysteries of
the forests and inflicts a series of ill-aimed ax strokes upon a pine or cedar, finally managing to subdue it
by persistence and pure force. While he is setting up his conquered foe in one corner of the living room
and industriously belaboring it with all manner of tinsel, the Little Woman is busily sacrificing the pictures of ancient and
honorable ancestors with great sprays of evergreens which dangle back and forth in their long-suffering countenances. Some of the more
original folks adorn the whole front yard with a regular pageant of Santa Clauses, reindeer, and sleds. The merchants look
about happily; then, with hypocritical goodwill, offer a $25 prize for the best outdoor display, in hopes that people will
spend approximately eight times that much to out-do the Joneses next door, which is the essence of the great American
competitive dream.

Each individual has his own particular conception of Christmas. The idealists begin preparations long before Thanksgiving and walk about during
the two weeks preceding Christmas Day in a hypnotic trance, radiating joy and goodwill. For them, there is always one
more present to be bought, one more card to be sent, one more person invited to the party, and one
more family which must be visited and wished a Merry Christmas. These are the people who are most aware of
that intangible substance which defies definition: The Christmas Spirit. The pessimists look forward to Christmas with a great deal of
foreboding, expecting the worst and going out of their way to find it. One can find them in any department
store huddled together and commiserating about the iniquities visited upon them at each Christmas time, and, if the press of
the crowd is particularly bad that day, some will be mumbling ominously about committing suicide. These people are the joy
of the merchants and clerks, for they come in and will take anything at any price as quickly as possible,
simply to return to the privacy of their homes. The realists strike a happy medium between the idealists and the
pessimists. They stoke themselves up with phenobarbital and rather bravely make the rounds of the stores and the parties, finding
to their own amazement that it is quite an enjoyable experience. The cynics are the ones that sneer at Christmas
and the Christmas spirit and refuse to drop anything in the Salvation Army pot. They have never seen the face
of a child transfigured in the early morning hours as he discovers his bounty under the Christmas tree.

Too often we subjugate the spiritual aspect of Christmas to the commercial manifestations of our goodwill for others. The size
and the expensiveness of a gift take precedence over the thought behind it. We sometimes confuse the spiritual elements which
are most important, and the symbolism which we associate with Christmas. The birth of Christ in itself is not the
important event that we are celebrating; rather, it is the humanitarian principles which He created for the following generations. Increased
tolerance, friendliness, material help for the needy, etc.—all these are outward manifestations of the spirit of humanity which we associate
with the teachings of Christ. And it is the practice of this humanity which creates in each of us our
own individual Spirit of Christmas.
