PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF ............. BILL WHITE
BUSINESS MANAGER .......... ALEX GOLEY

Associate Editors ........ Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis, George McMurray
Managing Editors ........ Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw, John Ottley
Photographs—Archie Neal
Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Feature Editor—Mike Myers
Exchange Editor—Ed Richardson
Boo Northcutt
Copy Editor—Pete Ormsby
Art Editor—Don Mahy
Sports Editor—Dick Liles
City Editor—Nat Daniels

Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Manager ........ Jack Hobson
Circulation Manager ........ Bob Poston
Collection Manager ........ Bill Minter
Subscriptions Manager ..... Preston Chaney

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

At Last: Student Interest In Which Way Sports Program!

One thing should be certain—there is no athletic middle road. Davidson College for the past few years is living proof. In a competitive economy twenty-five dollars simply will not match one hundred. Hence one must choose one of two alternate roads: either we must greater emphasize our athletics (get and spend more money), or we must bring about a restoration of athletics to their original and normal position.

We need not rehash here the story of the history of subsidization. Anyone who has kept up with the sports page and sometimes even the front page is well acquainted with the situation. But we do need to do more than that favorite recreation of the Davidson liberal—talking and doing nothing about his conclusions. Some of us are more than tired of effects similar to a large number of penicillin shots. It is bad enough to try to walk the razor’s edge—but even worse to try when it does not exist.

A group of students who are interested in a healthy athletic future for Davidson, and therefore favor a deemphasis of athletic subsidization, have banded together to study the situation. First, they want to feel out student opinion, if there is any such thing around a campus that someone once said suffered from mental atrophy. They have approached The Davidsonian in hopes of bringing this matter to student attention.

The Davidsonian compliments this group on their interest and wholeheartedly endorses their general purpose. We believe that it is a mistake to professionalize or semi-professionalize athletics, that it is a tremendous backslide to put winning over playing, to take the benefit of sports from the player and put them into the hands of the spectator. And above all, we deeply feel that it is impossible for athletics to continue in their present trend and at the same time serve the purpose of existing for the student body as a normal, healthy part of their college life and development.

If we do not want to play unsubsidized or smaller teams, if all we want are winning teams, then let’s go all the way so we can obtain them. But if athletics exist for the College and not the College for athletics; if the alumni exist for the College and not the College for the alumni, then let us put away the childish fictions of the middle road, realistically examine the systems, and propose a remedy. Let us find the way that surely must exist to deemphasize subsidization and emphasize the true purpose of athletics.--P.G.K.

U.S. Action In ROTC Deferments Is Moral Breach of Contract

One of the first things a young man being introduced to the Army is told is: “The only thing you can count on around here is change.” The old axiom reached down into the ROTC ranks late last month and stirred up the minds of the few young college men who thought they were worry-free until graduation—those holding deferments. The change was not directly the Army's this time, a child of Congress's UMT, but Army recommendations just might have had something to do with it.

Members of the junior and senior ROTC classes who had signed deferments had agreed to accept a commission in the Army reserves for a period of five years after graduation, subject to call to active duty for two years. In return, there was the pay stipulation and even the more valuable guarantee of a 1-D classification through the undergraduate years. That deferment was a contract, signed by the young men of America with their government, the government whose word had been a bond ever since these young men had been taught about the country in which they live.

Then came the December telegram with the Washington directive that the old deferments have been junked, draft boards have been notified as such, and that new deferments must be signed if the old holder is not to become 1-A, losing his expected commission. The change was an insignificant one—relatively—merely asking for three more years in the reserves. But the moral breach of contract by the government left many a young man wondering. Indeed, this is a time of emergency, but it is hard to believe that the government would suffer in strength by inserting the clause in new contracts, rather than making it retroactive and the old contracts void. It was indeed a penalty for signing it in the first place. Sign the new one or be dropped. Those who had never signed were not required to sign this new agreement or suffer the consequences. The whole business left a rather bad taste in the mouths of all concerned. We realize we're lucky to still be in school, and we don’t mind taking the extra three years in the reserves—much, but the idea of a demanded contract breach or else goes down rather lumpily. As Dr. Brown brought out the other day, when a government backs down on its word, what can be expected of its citizens?

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Come To THINK OF IT

A Horse CARRIAGE DOES SEEM Like A Good IDEA — IF IT WILL WORK

COMRADE MANYOUITCH THE CABBAGE PLANTER: Archives Reveal Russian Birth Of A Nation-al Pastime

Life in Russia has not always been so pleasant as it is today. Once, czars killed lots of people. Then, during the Revolution, lots of people killed czars. But before czar-killing caught on, people who would normally do that sort of work had to find other jobs and lots of them wrote. In code, though, so the czars would not kill them first, which would have loused up the Revolution no end.

One of these indigent czar-killers, Maxim Gorki, wrote “Birth of a Man,” which lots of people, including even some other czar-killers, thought to be a story about the birth of a man. It wasn't, of course. It was the story of the invention of the automobile in 1762, which fact Gorki wisely waited to reveal until all the czars had finished dying, shortly after his return to Fie on the Oder from Detroit in 1928. The first published proper translation of “Birth of a Man,” i.e., “Birth of an Automobile,” follows. For baby, read car; for car, read baby; for amusement, read the cartoon above instead.

This happened in 1762, a famine year, at a point between Oryol and Ochemchiry, on the shore of the Kodor River, so near the sea that through the gay babble of the clear waters of the mountain stream the muffled thunder of the billows was distinctly heard. Suddenly, the faint sound of human voices was heard. Their words clashed with the voice of inspiration that throbbed and kicked against the wall of my brain.

“Ah, what rich soil!”
“Things just push out of it.”
“My—yes. Still, rather stony.”

(If the plot seems somewhat to die here, we must remember that Gorki was first a czar killer and second an inventor. He wrote to be immortal.)

One of the men was singing, in a high, angry voice:

By the graveyard
Where the shrubs grow green and thick,
On the sand-bank
I will spread a linen cloth.
(Cossack fighting song.)

Making my way through the bushes, my inventive genius began to throw again as I came upon a peasant woman with a yellow kerchief. (He means an American tourist and a ‘39 Ford with red seat covers.) Of course, I was frightened, jumped away, and the woman let out a long-drawn-out wail. (She honked.) In the fever of excitement, and quickly recalling everything I knew about this business, I turned around and she stopped. We swore at each other a little, she through her teeth, I too, under my breath, she from pain, and I because I was ill at ease and tormented by pity for her. (He feels bad because he must kill the American tourist in order to invent his car.)

“L-lord!” she repeated, bringing out the word with a rattling sound. (He is filing off the serial numbers and switching the license plates.)

“G-go away, you devil...” she kept saying. (This is symbolism for the sound of the fan belt, which keeps catching his finger as he invents the sparkplugs.)

At last, a human being was in my hands. (He has killed the American tourist and has learned how to work the steering wheel that he has invented.) Through my tears I saw that he was all red, and already he was discontented with the world. He struggled, carried on, and howled in a thick voice. (The horn is stuck, the choke is all the way out, and he means it’s backfiring.) His nose was ludicrously crushed against his red, crumbled face. (When he invented the grill, his hammer slipped and the radiator fell out on the stony soil.) He was so slippery that if I had not taken care, he would have slipped away from me. (After he invented the brake, he forgot where it was and pulled out the throttle instead.) He gave a particularly loud and earnest yell when he was splashed for the first time by a frothy wave which gaily dashed against us both. (He drove into (Continued On Page Four)

Dean Brown, Hunter and Robinson Express Views: Points Debated Pro and Con on Professorial Loyalty Oath

NAT DANIEL:

FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 1952

Are Vacations At Davidson Adequate For Student Needs?

The vacation system as it is presently set up by the administration of Davidson College borders on the absurd. At Thanksgiving, Christmas and Spring Holidays, when the average college student relaxes for a few days from the grind, the Davidsonian, if he gets home at all, rushes in, kisses mama, has a date, and almost immediately has to start back to not yet dusty Davidson.

The most farcical of all our holidays is that day set aside by the rest of the nation as “Thanksgiving Day,” but is not observed at Davidson. We have our own private “Georgia Tech Game Day” the Saturday after the third Thursday in November. Result: Thanksgiving loses its significance entirely, both as a national holiday and as a period of true Christian thanksgiving. Secondly, along about the last week in November, certain tensions have been built up in the average student—remember, he’s been going to school now for two and a half months—and he’s almost got to relax. Consider, for example, the lackadaisical attitude so prevalent on the campus from the fifteenth of November to the nineteenth of December. Davidson strives to maintain a standard above that of most Southern colleges, but she would do well at times to copy them in their better moments, and most of them give their students at least four days for Thanksgiving. Finally, one day or four, we don’t get much done that weekend. Many of the students cut, and the language professors are away at their annual convention. In short: It’s a lost weekend from an academic point of view.

The second holiday which I believe was handled badly this year was the recent Christmas vacation. A more ideal situation would have been the dismissal of school at 12:50 on Friday, December 14, retaining the January 3rd opening date. Three of the four considerations listed above hold here too: The relief of tension, the similarity to neighboring colleges (Queens being notable exceptions), and the weekend of December 16th was another one of those lost weekends. However, more important than the fact that school got out so late, was the retention of many students hereFor afternoon exercises. In relatively polite phraseology, this was senseless, for those students who had afternoon classes and labs did FROM THE EDITOR’S MAILBOX: HARTER PLEADS OTHER MATTERS WARRANT DROPPING NEGRO ISSUE

Mr. Bill White
Editor, Davidsonian
Davidson College
Davidson, North Carolina

Dear Bill:

Again this week in the Davidsonian (Friday, Dec. 14, 1951) the monstrous issue of admitting a Negro into the Davidson College student body was argued in a letter to the editor signed by Mr. Bryan Robinson. Purely because of the numerous other issues which confront the student body, which are of a more importunate nature, the issue of admitting a Negro into the student body of Davidson College ought immediately be resolved. It is quite evident from the imprecatory discussion that has been directed toward the advocating, and even agitating for, the admitting of a Negro into the Davidson student body, that such is held in opposition to the commonly received doctrine, and tends to promote discord of a hazardous nature.

Such an advocation is so diametrically different and repugnant to the common tenet that it is not sufficient merely to advocate and then avoid meeting the issue by saying, “The main issue is whether or not it is right to exclude from our opportunities and company another human being.” Is not what you mean here, and I direct my questions to Mr. Robinson, that because no Negroes are admitted to the student body of Davidson College that the college is guilty of practicing segregation? If that is what you mean, why not say so? Say what you mean and mean what you say!

The only contention those who advocate admitting Negroes into Davidson student body have has been in the form of a question: “Would not Davidson College be the best institution for a Negro to attend who is seeking an education so that he may become a Presbyterian minister and preach in the South?” And tacked on to this question is another—"If not, then just where should he go?”

Here is a sample analogy to which a parallelism to Davidson College may be drawn. A private organization is established which admits into its membership only those persons who meet the requirements set up by the organization itself. Such an organization is a country club, a musical organization, a civic organization, a business enterprise, a fraternity, and virtually every existing organization. Such an organization, for your information, Mr. Robinson, is Omicron Delta Kappa. No one accuses the Davidson Chapter of ODK of practicing segregation. It is indeed doing so, however, the word when used in this connection has an entirely different connotation than is usually associated with the word.

Why then can not a college, Davidson College, be established in a similar manner without having such heretical questions as the ones implied thrown at it? “The main issue is whether or not it is right to exclude from our opportunities and company another human being.” That is perhaps the most vain statement yet, and truly does not appear to be endowed with any reason or understanding whatsoever. A state institution is for “The” people, and a private institution is for “A” people. There is no moral issue involved here.

Hesitatingly it is suggested that those who advocate the admitting of a Negro into the Davidson student body are guilty of duplicity, but expeditiously it is suggested that the entire issue be discarded and our attentions and efforts be directed conscientiously toward the more importunate issues with which we are faced.

I hope this letter is not too strong, Bill, and also that you will feel there is some logic embodied in it. Should I be wrong in any part of this letter, I welcome criticism, however, at present I feel that I have looked at this issue in the correct light, and I sincerely hope that you will find it good enough to print.

With kind personal regards and every good wish I remain,

Very sincerely yours,
J. LEE HARTER.

We feel that this column marks a milestone in the history of Davidson College. Here, for the first time that we know about, students and faculty are meeting to talk out quietly and rationally certain issues that concern us all. Nor is this just to be between students and faculty. It is hoped that throughout the remainder of the year controversial questions can be discussed by those interested in them, regardless of their position. The reason for these discussions is a firm belief that calm, rational talk is the moral basis for resolving our differences and that this way of handling these problems leads to a mutual respect and understanding that is not attained when we keep what we feel to ourselves or to our group.

THE PROFESSORIAL OATH APOLOGIA:

We are shaped in our thinking more than we realize by the men who present new ideas to us. Not only is what we think and believe in molded by what is presented positively in the classroom, but we tend to reject or to treat as unimportant those ideas that we are aware of but which are ignored in the classroom. There is no such thing as not presenting an idea. Professorial silence on an issue forms our opinion of it just as surely as any lecture that could be presented. Just who our professors are is an important question that affects each of us directly. What is attempted in the short paragraphs below is an exposition of the pro and con of the question: Should there be a professorial oath?

Dr. C. K. Brown, Dean of the Faculty, is one of the ablest exponents in favor of the oath. It was felt that he could present the pro side of the issue with acumen and wisdom. In no wise is this to be thought of as an issue between faculty and students. It is not that. That issue has no relevance in this discussion.

THE OATH:

The President, and each Professor, or Associate Professor, shall be required (by the Trustees) to give affirmative answers to the following questions:
a) Do you believe the Scriptures of the Old and New Testament to be the Word of God, the only infallible rule of faith and practice?
b) Do you believe in the fundamental teachings of Evangelical Christianity?
c) Do you solemnly engage not to teach anything contrary to the Holy Scriptures as interpreted by the Standards of the Presbyterian Church in the United States while you are connected with this institution?
d) Do you promise in reliance upon the grace of God to live a becoming Christian life and to be faithful in the discharge of your duties as a Professor in the College?
e) Do you promise that if at any time you find yourself out of harmony with these solemn engagements which you have just made, you will notify the Trustees of the College? (Charter and By-Laws of the Trustees, pp. 23-24)

PRO
DR. C. K. BROWN

The so-called professor’s oath is not, properly speaking, an oath, but an affirmation, since those who answer the questions are not sworn. To an honorable man, however, an affirmation is just as binding as an oath. The affirmation is required of those who are to be inaugurated as professors or associate professors in the College. The requirement dates from the earliest days of the College. The questions were taken from those that the officers and ministers of the Presbyterian Church must answer upon their ordination. Davidson was founded by the Church and has always been an arm of the Church. The founders and their successors in the control of the College have considered a professorship in the College to be on the same level of importance to the church as the eldership. They have believed and still believe that the College should sustain a very close relationship to the church. They do not wish the College to be lost to the Church as has been the case with so many institutions that the Church has founded. While Davidson is non-sectarian in that it offers its services to men of varied faiths and does not attempt to proselyte its students, the College does believe that the only effective means of keeping an institution closely related to the Church is to keep it closely related to a particular Church organization. The founders could see no reason why a college established by and controlled by the Presbyterian Church should not limit its faculty to persons who subscribed to the Presbyterian doctrine and accepted the Presbyterian system of church government. In very recent years, however, the questions have been modified so as to allow the employment of Christian men who are not Presbyterians. The affirmation does not limit anyone’s freedom, since no one can claim a vested right to be a member of the faculty of Davidson College, nor contend that he cannot otherwise make his living. Indeed, the freedom of the Presbyterian Church would be seriously limited if it were denied the right to have a college operated by men of its own choosing. Davidson does not require anyone to take a particular stand: it simply seeks for its faculty men who do take a particular stand.

CON
JACK HUNTER AND BRYAN ROBINSON

We have three reasons for disliking this particular oath.

1. The oath is vague to the extreme in section b and almost as vague in sections a and c. One who takes an oath should know exactly to what he is swearing, or not swearing. The Presbyterian Church U. S. has issued no statement as to how it feels on a multitude of issues, many of which appear in classroom discussions throughout the academic year. One of the staunch supporters of the oath admits that he does not know whether to consider the Greek Orthodox and the Roman Catholic Churches as Evangelical. If the Church requires this type of oath from professors, it should at least inform them as to how it feels on all the issues that present themselves.

2. A direct consequence of the first reason is this fact: Many professors can take the oath only by interpreting it in such a way as to fit their particular beliefs. It has been our observation that not all professors or associate professors are “down the line” Southern Presbyterian. The men who wrote this oath did not mean for this to happen. They intended the oath to be interpreted in one and only one way. For any other interpretation to be made breaks the spirit of the oath, and makes hypocrites of those professors who have taken it in this manner.

3. Section c of the oath is perhaps the worst part of it. We should like to assume several basic points here. First, that the Trustees of Davidson College should be humble enough to realize and admit that (Continued On Page Four)