The postponement of the State game until tomorrow left intercollegiate competition at Davidson pretty much at a standstill for a couple of weeks, but don't think there hasn't been plenty of action behind desks for the gentlemen in the coaching trade. Southern Bell and affiliated companies must have made a cool fortune about the time State College started looking around for a way to pick up the revenue they were due to lose from their canceled game with Carolina this weekend, and Georgia sports brass was in the same pickle because their game with the Tar Heels was also canceled. It is no top drawer secret that the Davidson-State game doesn’t draw an overflow crowd even in Charlotte's Memorial Stadium, and the State officials knew that. So, by scratching around and keeping the telephone wires of three states buzzing for over 24 hours, they managed to put off the contest with the Cats and arrange for their not-so-vaunted Wolfpack to play Georgia. In the overall picture, the fact that the Pack got beat 49-0 doesn’t seem to make much difference, especially since they made well upwards of $25,000 on the little jaunt to Athens.

Chances are that the whole business wouldn't have made much difference to anybody at Davidson had the other two schools involved in L’Affaire Snafu simply bothered to tell them what was going on before the shuffle was announced. Somebody along the line evidently didn’t know or didn’t care that it takes three parties to make a tripartite agreement.

Whittle Also Worked Fast

The tragedy at Chapel Hill in which two members of the Carolina football team and several other students were struck down by polio also caused UNC officials to cancel the Tar Heel cross country meet with Davidson this weekend, but Coach Pete Whittle wasn't about to let his team get stale. Instead, the Dean of the Davidson coaching staff got busy and managed to arrange a meet with not one but two other teams and, incidentally, got his boys out of a couple days of classes. The meet, an indoor event, was run against the University of Tennessee and Maryville College this afternoon in Knoxville.

It probably isn't very widely known, but Cat quarterback Jack Ruth was the leading passer in the Southern Conference after the Washington and Lee game. With 15 completions in 30 attempts, Jack had accounted for 129 yards and one touchdown with his aerials. If Kings Mountaineer Ruth can just start hitting for the distance and thereby break open the opponents’ defenses a little, the Cats will have much easier sledding.

Another Wildcat who is pushing at the top of Conference statistics is Bobby Renn, the Henderson booter, who has punted 17 times in two games for an average of 40.1 yards. Alternate captain Dick Kelley leads Davidson scoring for the two games played so far this year. He’s caught two of Ruth’s heaves for touchdowns, plus four others for a total of 66 yards. As a team, the Cats ranked second behind UNC in punting after the W&L game. Bud Wallace is the man who boots the ball for the Tar Heels, who won't get back into action until next week when they take on Wake Forest.

Pre-Season Workouts Everywhere

We mentioned at the beginning of this column that as far as intercollegiate competition is concerned, things have been pretty quiet around Johnston Gym for the past several days. But everywhere you look somebody is getting ready for a season which is just around the corner. Coach Danny Miller isn't allowed to start working with his basketball team until November 1, but almost any afternoon he can be seen just sitting quietly on the bleachers on the court watching a group of varsity hopefuls in a pickup game. About the best prospect he’s got at the present time is the boy who followed him from Wingate Junior College to Davidson, freshman Darrell Floyd. Floyd, who made little All-America at Wingate last year, won't be eligible for Conference play this year since he left Wingate before completing his two-year course there. But if Darrell stays around for a year, he'll be heard from in no small way.

In the swimming pool, Tyke Ellis is supervising the early workouts of the Cat tank men, who have a pretty good chance of equalling if not bettering their 6-4 record of last year. Captain Jim Bryan and Al Ormond, last year's high point man, (Continued On Page Four)

Complete Outfits FOR THAT FORMAL DANCE

In our After Six Tuxedos you will look your best. Single and Double Breasted only $52.50 RENTALS ALSO **We Are Never Knowingly Undersold” Wilson-Wrights “Collegiate Fashions” Next to Bank in Davidson

Wildcat Sports

PROCTOR SEZ: CUT FOURTH PERIOD, SUPPORT THE CATS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Bob Henry (left) listens to a few words of advice from cross country coach Pete Whittle. Henry, a senior, is captain of the Cat harriers.

Harriers Meet Tennessee At Maryville, Knoxville

By BILL SLEDGE

Coach Pete Whittle’s cross countrymen met Maryville College and the University of Tennessee this afternoon in Knoxville in a specially arranged triangular event. Davidson was regularly scheduled to meet the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, but this meet was canceled due to the polio quarantine there.

State Was Superior

N. C. State's superior running completely overpowered the Wildcats last week at Raleigh, but Coach Whittle stated that all his men ran a good race and that competition from here on out wouldn't be nearly as stiff as it was at State. Coach Whittle wouldn’t make any predictions as to the outcome of the triangular meet, for very little is known about either of the Cats’ opponents. However, he did point out that Duke whipped Tennessee last week, and that Tennessee outran Maryville earlier in the season.

Netmen Hosts To Presbyterian In Fall Match

Tennis Coach Dick McKee will get a chance to see what his Wildcat netmen are capable of when they meet Presbyterian College here tomorrow afternoon in an off-season match. Later this fall the Cats will meet P.C. again, and McKee is now negotiating for a couple more off-season matches with Duke.

“Davidson’s tennis team should be very solid all the way down, with not a great amount of difference between the number one and two men and the fifth and sixth men.” That was McKee's estimate of his club after watching the Wildcats in the two weeks of fall practice. The tentative lineup for the match tomorrow will include in the singles: Lacy Keesler, Johnny Bremer, George Snead, Corky Clark, Leighton Green, and Bill Bivins in that order. Joe Dudley, a stalwart in singles and doubles last year has been giving most of his time to basketball this fall and will not play in the singles. However, he and Snead will combine forces to form the number two doubles team. Other doubles combos will be: one, Keesler and Bremer; and three, Green and Bivins.

For the first time in several years Davidson has failed to come up with an outstanding freshman prospect, although there are several capable frosh out for the team. Last season there were four freshmen who saw action on the varsity squad, including Keesler, the number one man. Others were Corky Clark, Leighton Green, and George Snead. Since these four will probably all be playing regularly for the next three years, Coach McKee has no immediate cause for anxiety over the future.are primed for the meet and a favorable outcome is anticipated by Whittle’s men. Time trials were held again on Wednesday—as they will be each week—and the following boys will run tomorrow at Knoxville: (1) Steve Gooding, 18:08; (2) Rob Henry, 18:08; (3) Floyd Feeney, 18:08; (4) Bill Shipley, 18:08; (5) Andy Turner, 18:26; (6) Homer Sparks, 18:26; (7) Bill Russell, 18:35; (8) Joe Carpenter, 18:39.

ALL THE BEST GUYS ARE SQUARE!

CAMEL leads all other brands by billions of cigarettes per year!

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1952

Hot Pace Set For Tag Football Race
By JOHN HANDLEY

The hotly contested interfraternity football race got off to a fast start this week with seven games played through Wednesday's action. Two of the scheduled Wednesday games were called because of wet grounds.

Sigma Chis 22; Phi Gams 0
The Sigs, sparked by the sharp passing-running attack of their mainstays, Tyler Berry and Rob Mitchell, trounced the Phi Gams by a 22-0 count. Charley Hall and Watt Moore stood out even in a losing cause for the Fijimen.

Kappa Sigs 21; Campus Club 0
After being held to a scoreless deadlock till halftime, the Kappa Sigs turned on the steam in the second half to down the Campus Club, 21-0. The pass-catch combo of “Lip” Lippard and Joe Dudley, coupled with the running of Corky Johnson, was the difference. A freshman, Brooks Webb, with Clark Reed and Charley Harrell looked good even in defeat for the CC.

Pikas 26; ATO’s 13
The sparkling backfield play of Jimmy Smith, plus the fine pass receiving job turned in by freshman Joe Pharr, brought the Pikas an easy victory over the ATO's. Tim Gilley and Freshman Phil Koonce put in fine performances for the ATO's.

KA's 12; Pi Kapps 6
Last year’s champs nosed out the Pi Kapps in a close one by 12-6. George King and Lefty Vance, both stellar members of last year's winning squad, sparked the KA win. Don Menzies and Bob Southwell led the losing efforts of the Pi Kapps.

SPE's 26; Phi Delts 24
The up and coming SPE’s let it be known that they are after the loop crown as they nosed out the ever-dangerous Phi Delts. Horace Ball and Moffatt Ware turned in fine performances in leading the SPE's to victory. Sparking the Phi Delts in the close defensive battle were Max DeVane and Bill Nelson.

Pi Kapps 14; Betas 13
The Pi Kapps bounced back after dropping their opener to win a real thriller from the Betas in Wednesday's only contest. Bob Southwell showed up well in the Pi Kapp’s winning effort. Tom Lambe and a newcomer, Bill McNair, turned in good performances for the Betas.

Betas 34; SAE’s 13
The stellar efforts of Tom Lambe and Bill McNair brought the Betas the highest score of the week as (Continued On Page Four)

Swimmers Open Practice With Dry Workouts
Only six freshmen reported for varsity swimming practice workouts under the direction of swimming instructor Tyke Ellis. Ellis, who is coaching the team until football season is over and Coach Hambright takes charge, is urging all men, especially freshmen, who are interested in swimming to report to practice Monday.

Work on Conditioning
Little water work was done during the first week of practice. The emphasis so far has been on conditioning with heavy work slated to start next week. Prospects for this year’s team are good with many men back from last year’s team which earned a 6-4 record, best of any Davidson tank team. Heading the returnees are Captain Jim Bryan and last year’s high point man Al Ormond. Others who are being counted on heavily are Bob Patten, Bud (Continued On Page Four)

WOMEN GO FOR FOOD IN THIS HOUSE
By DICK LILES

PAGE THREE

CAPTAIN AND COACH LOOK THINGS OVER

N. C. State Braced For Cat Assault At Raleigh
State College's Wolfpack will be dug in with backs to the wall tomorrow afternoon when Davidson invades Riddick Stadium in Raleigh. Game time is 2:30. Both teams will be trying desperately for their first win of the season in this Southern Conference contest. The Cats have lost to VPI and Washington & Lee while State has dropped three, including a 39-0 loss to George Washington and a 49-0 drubbing from Georgia last weekend.

Postponed a Week
The State game, originally scheduled for last Saturday, was postponed a week in order to allow the Pack to play Georgia. Both State and Georgia were due to suffer terrific financial losses when the University of North Carolina, hit by polio, was forced to cancel their games with these teams.

State is a beaten ball club in more ways than one. They suffered two hard setbacks when Alex Webster, the big man in the Pack attack, suffered a twisted neck muscle in the Georgia game. Another State standout, Don Langston, was hurt last Saturday.

Meanwhile, things in the Wildcat Den have been progressing fairly satisfactorily under the watchful eye of Coach Bill Dole. None of the Cats were injured in any of the scrimmages held since the W&L game two weeks ago, but quarterback Jack Ruth has missed several practice sessions this week on account of a slight touch of flu. Ruth, a vital part of the Cat attack, will be sorely missed if he can't play tomorrow.

Ruth Top Passer
At present, Ruth is the top passer in the Southern Conference with a 15 for 30 record for completions. “The edges are not as sharp as last week,” Coach Bill Dole commented on his team Wednesday afternoon, “but I expect the team to be in the best condition of the season by Friday.” Only Henry Brown and Pete Peterson remain on the injured list.

Although hurt last week, big, plunging Alex Webster will be a potential threat to the Cats tomorrow afternoon. Webster, however, hasn't yet looked as good this season as he did last year as a 210-pound scatback.

CAMELS for 30 days for Mildness and Flavor
CAMELS are America’s most popular cigarette. To find out why, test them as your steady smoke. Smoke only Camels for thirty days. See how rich and flavorful they are — pack after pack! See how mild CAMELS are — week after week!