FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1952

Why We'll Vote For Stevenson

Of vital importance to the American people today is the natural and wholesome fear that machine politics might gain control
of our government. We are justified, therefore, in demanding that our next President be as independent of a political machine
and undue group pressure as is possible under our system of government. It is our firm belief that Adlai Stevenson
is well qualified in this respect. He has repudiated the suggestion that he merely be the front man for the
machine. He has organized and led his own campaign, appointed his own advisors, written his own speeches, all independently of
the party's old guard machine.

His opponent, however, has shown no such independence. Rather he has welcomed the aid and advice of the party bosses,
Taft and Dewey, as well as compromising his own principles to shelter such men as Jenner and McCarthy, whose record
of character assassination and slander tactics not only disrupted much of the secret operations of the F.B.I. agents in the
Communist party, but threatened the American ideal of justice itself. It is obvious that both candidates have support they do
not really want. But the important questions are will those who give that support be carried into office with that
candidate, and will they have to be appeased after the election?

The preservation of government free of undue pressure from any one element will depend on the attitude of the next
President toward pressure groups. Adlai Stevenson has paid the voter the unique compliment of discussing issues seriously and refusing to
angle for votes from pressure groups. He has never compromised for the sheer expediency of winning votes. He has told
pressure groups such as the American Legion and Labor that he will not yield principle for their support—a stand that
takes great courage in a political campaign. His attitude toward this problem has been refreshingly straightforward and demonstrates the value
he places on integrity. It is keynoted by his own statement, “Let's talk sense to the American people.”

There can be no serious denial of Adlai Stevenson's better preparation for the office of President. His personal record is
cited just to the right of this column—read it. His experience has been in all levels of government, in a
great variety of positions, and he has been highly successful in each. Taking the highest executive office of this nation
demands more than recent accomplishments in one field. The responsibilities of that office require thorough background, knowledge of the million
details of domestic government, the ability which can come only through experience. In contrast to his opponent’s admitted lack of
knowledge and experience, we have Stevenson's invaluable experience as Governor of Illinois where he has made good his promises of
clean, efficient, and respected government. His business-like administration in a state formerly notoriously lax and machine-run has gained him the
firm support of its Republican legislature. We cannot ignore the importance of this training in our choice.

As Governor of a state, he strongly supports state action in every way that is consistent with national security. His
program includes also the practice of economy in the same manner as demonstrated in Illinois where he fired over 1300
from do-nothing jobs, appointment of new men to vital positions who have demonstrated their qualifications, extension of civil service to
take vital government jobs out of politics, and the initiation of a new tone of rational politics into government. His
record against corruption in that state is the most encouraging evidence of his character and leadership we know. His opponent
has not given evidence that such change would result from his election.

Public opinion has a just right to seek a change as it does now. We firmly believe that if that
change is to be in the right direction we must elect Adlai Stevenson, a man who has demonstrated his capacity
to wield political power successfully without betraying his high purposes. To let an imagined fear of harm to our two-party
system stand in the way of the change we really want would be to let false reasoning aimed at getting
less qualified men into office control our decision at the very time that the two-party system is strongest. Any suggestion
that change of party is a panacea for all our problems, including Korea, is deception of the lowest sort. The
Democratic party was once kept out of the White House for twenty-four years, but our system was not threatened; we
did not lose our political heritage then, nor will a Republican defeat cause us to lose it in this election.

In the field of foreign policy he has proved by his intelligent analysis of the problems before us and his
rational approach to their solution that he is well qualified to assume a position of leadership. His opponent, however, has
confessed his personal inadequacy and dependence on advisors, even in this vital field. The foreign policy plank of the Republican
party is the most negative and unconstructive policy ever devised. It consists almost entirely of attacks on the past administration
and offers for securing the peace such negative policy as repudiation of agreements we have already made with other nations
and “enlightened self-interest.” Republican party votes in Congress have been against the Marshall Plan, against Point Four, against so many
security measures. If their candidate does not agree with them, it is merely another inconsistency of that party, in a
field where party conflict is most dangerous.

Stevenson stands with the Democratic party for a firm resistance of aggression, but above all for the goal of an
honorable peace, which cannot be achieved by withdrawing from present conflicts or by stirring up trouble in satellite nations. His
record does not include the inconsistencies of his opponent, who for lack of a definite program has embraced opposite positions
and changed his views to suit expediency. His record does include outstanding work in foreign missions as well as invaluable
experience in the formation of the United Nations. He also strongly supports mutual economic cooperation in order to cut down
give-away foreign aid programs which we cannot continue to afford after war-torn nations have recovered. We repeat, in this area
above all others the possibility of intra-party conflict and a resultant compromise of principle is one of the gravest threats
to our national security we know, and one of the most important reasons why we urge support of Adlai Stevenson.

A great many people fear that we have gone or will go too far toward socialism, a fear well grounded
in the fact of a world trend. That trend, however, would have occurred regardless of who occupied the White House.
The remarkable thing is not that it occurred but that it has not gone any further than it has. Out
of all the major nations today the United States is the only one which has not resorted to outright socialism.
By such methods as the federal grant-in-aid, attempts have been made to provide the necessary functions without government ownership or
control. Yet we agree with Adlai Stevenson that we must not allow centralized power to grow larger but must urge
the states to assume their proper place in the balance of that power. We urge you to note his stand
on this issue against increase of central power and not to accept cliches aimed at getting you to believe just
the opposite. Read the speeches of the candidates and base your vote on fact, not assumption.

In short, then, we want a man free of the strings of old guard political machinery. We want a man
qualified by thorough experience and demonstrated ability for the job he seeks. We not only want a man of integrity
and range of vision, but a man who has proved that he can deal with the practicalities of politics without
losing his principle. We want a sound foreign policy so vital today, a consistent policy designed to preserve peace and
harmony between nations without becoming aggressive or selfish. We want an effective domestic policy aimed at human welfare but including
state’s rights and decentralization of government. We want government based on rationality, not emotion. Finally, we want not moralistic but
moral government, not selfish but forceful policy, not military but militant leaders. We will vote for Adlai Stevenson.

-G.A.B.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

A Platform of The Democratic Party is as old as the United States itself. The principles upon which it is
established and the objectives which it seeks are those same principles and objectives which motivated the founders of a great
nation to free themselves from the oppressive bonds of a parliamentary overlord. The principle is the sanctity of human rights;
the objective is to protect such rights against all comers. From the beginning of its long history the Democratic Party
has stood out as the champion of the people in this respect. Led by statesmen such as Thomas Jefferson and
James Madison, the Party, in this stage of its history, stood as a check against the tendencies of the new
government to absorb individual rights which only too recently men had fought to obtain. Public support for the Anti-Federalists and
their objectives was so complete that after the Adams administration was repudiated in 1800, the Federalist Party never won another
election!

The name “Democratic” was assumed in the 1820's when Andrew Jackson, feeling that many of the administration officials had lost
sight of the party's original policies, campaigned and was elected president on a platform of “equal rights for all —
special privileges for none.” From this time until 1860 and Abraham Lincoln, the Democratic Party was to win all but
two presidential elections. It is common knowledge how in 1860 the whole country was divided on the slavery issue. Southerners
of all political views were united on the question even when it meant the transcending of party lines. The Democratic
presidential nominee was Stephen Douglas, a candidate whom the slavery advocates would not support. When Douglas refused to compromise on
his slavery views even at the risk of losing the election, the Southern element proceeded to elect its own candidate.
The election was won by Abraham Lincoln and the newly formed Republican Party—entirely sectional in its outlook. It is not
presumptuous to say that the Democratic candidate would have been president if the Southern wing of the party had not
rebelled, for Lincoln received almost a million votes less than a majority. The war, Carpetbag rule, and Reconstruction which followed
this election have now been laid away in the nation’s history.

For the next few decades, the party struggled to come into its own once again in spite of the restrictive
and sometimes oppressive measures aimed at it by the radical-controlled administration and Congress. The opportunity came in the 1880’s and
90's when Americans, no longer able to bear the excesses of the “millionaire’s club,” as the Republican administration came to
be called, saw in the Democratic Party the answer to their distress. After Grover Cleveland, the next Democratic president was
none other than Woodrow Wilson. The 1920’s saw the Republicans again in control of the government but American liberalism, strengthened
by several depressive years, swept Franklin D. Roosevelt into the presidency in 1933. As leader of the Democratic Party, Roosevelt
revealed extraordinary political skill and maturity. This Democratic administration, with its unfaltering determination to secure long-needed reforms, will forever be
known for its success in breaking the prevailing financial crisis and gradually restoring the national economy so that America came
to enjoy a prosperity unknown to any nation heretofore in the world's history.

-B. McN.

STEVENSON--EXPERIENCE UNEQUALED: Preparation For Leadership

The Democratic nominee’s roots are deep both in Illinois soil and in the national political life. His great-grandfather was Bloomington’s
first lawyer as far back as 1832, while his grandfather, Adlai Ewing Stevenson, for whom he was named, served two
terms in Congress and was elected Vice President under Grover Cleveland in 1892.

During the early years of the depression Stevenson emerged as a lawyer in his own right. In 1933 he was
among the bright young lawyers drawn to Washington by President Roosevelt. After two years as special counsel to the Agricultural
Adjustment Administration, he returned to Chicago. During World War II, Stevenson was Special Assistant and personal counsel to the Secretary
of the Navy, Frank Knox, leaving this job briefly in 1943 to head a mission to Italy to plan occupation
policies. For this service he was awarded the Distinguished ServiceAward in 1945. Later he served as an assistant to Secretaries
of State Edward Stettinius and James F. Byrnes, and also as an adviser to the U.S. delegation at the San
Francisco United Nations Conference. The president appointed Stevenson U.S. Minister and U.S. Representative to the Preparatory Commission of the United
Nations which met in London from August to December, 1945. He was senior advisor to the U.S. delegation to the
first General Assembly of the United Nations, London, 1946, and was appointed by President Truman as one of the U.S.
delegates to the 1946 and 1947 U.S. General Assemblies in New York.

Back in Chicago in 1948 and in private practice again, Stevenson was tapped almost without warning to be the Democratic
“cleanup” candidate against the Republican administration of Governor Dwight Green. The voters were obviously anxious for a change as they
swept Adlai Stevenson back into office by the largest majority in the history of the state—572,000 votes. Declaring himself an
“amateur in politics,” Stevenson nevertheless kept his campaign promises in stamping out commercialized gambling, lopping off 1,300 ward heelers from
the state payroll, and putting the state police force on civil service. Public aid in several forms has always been
a large part of his program, but at the same time, he has streamlined the Illinois financial and budgetary system,
ensuring the greatest possible use of each tax dollar. Stevenson has consistently waged a campaign to keep government bureaus where
there is potential corruption, out of politics. Along this line, he took the Illinois Commerce Commission out of politics and
put the vital state police under a merit civil-service type system.

Vice presidential candidate John J. Sparkman is a law graduate of the University of Alabama. His first venture into politics
was as a representative in 1936, later being appointed to fill the unexpired term of the late Senator John H.
Bankhead. Friendly to labor, he has been fairly close to Truman's Fair Deal Policies, in everything except civil rights, believing
these matters should be handled by the states. He has consistently fought for low-cost housing and rent control.

For Democracy

Unlike its negative and obscure counterpart in the Republican Party, the platform of the Democratic Party is a document embodying
positive assertions and concrete objectives. If such a comparison should seem unwarranted, then let those who doubt examine the platforms
each in the light of the other. We ask only that they be guided by the principle that “seeing is
believing,” for we ask no one to accept our word concerning a document which is open to all. You cannot
make a fair decision if you do not know how the parties stand. We include here a few of the
important points of this platform for Democracy.

THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY

1. “has been alert to the corroding and demoralizing effects of dishonesty and disloyalty in public service. We commend the
relentless and fearless actions of congressional committees which have exposed dereliction in public service and we pledge our support to
a continuance of such actions.

2. “We pledge ourselves to a vigilant review of expenditures in order to reduce them as soon as possible.

3. “As rapidly as defense requirements permit, we favor reducing taxes, especially for people with lower incomes.

4. “We will continue to assist farmers in providing abundant and stable supplies of agricultural commodities for the consumers at
reasonable prices, and in assuring the farmer the opportunity to earn a fair return commensurate with that enjoyed by other
segments of the American economy.

5. “We pledge our unremitting efforts to avert another world war. We are determined that the people shall be spared
that frightful agony. We will continue our efforts to strengthen the United Nations, improve its institutions as experience requires and
foster its growth and development.

6. “We will continue to encourage the use of American skills and capital in helping the people of underdeveloped lands
to combat disease, raise living standards, improve land tenure and develop industry and trade.

7. “We will not abandon the once free peoples of Central and Eastern Europe who suffer now under the Kremlin's
tyranny in violation of the Soviet Union's most solemn pledge at Teheran, Yalta, and Potsdam.

8. “We urge continued effort, by every honorable means, to bring about a fair and effective peace settlement in Korea
in accordance with the principles of the United Nations’ charter.

“Under the guidance, protection, and help of Almighty God we shall succeed in bringing to the people of this nation
a better and more rewarding life and to the peoples of the entire world, new hope and a lasting, honorable
peace.”

Adlai’s Sense Of Humor Unmatched

Much has been said about the Stevenson calm and the placid way in which he meets daily vagaries of life.
This was a part of his nature as far back as 1931 when the Democratic nominee was still a Chicago
lawyer. After numerous delays and several false starts, his home was soon under way, and shortly the result was a
trim and serviceable home in Libertyville near Lake Forest. Just six weeks after the final nail had been pounded home,
though, a fire started, and while the various local fire companies settled a jurisdictional argument, the practically new house was
razed. As the fire died down, a piece of flaming debris popped from the embers and landed at Stevenson's feet.
He picked it up and calmly lit a cigarette. “Oh well,” he said, “as you can see, we are still
using the house.”

PAGE THREE

We Support Stevenson -- Faculty and Administration

If your town, your college, or your church has gotten into a mess, I believe in cleaning it up from
the inside. Admitted there is much about the present Democratic administration which does not appeal to many Southerners. Admit, also
that we owe a great deal to the Democratic party in the South (I am not interested in arguing with
ingrates; they are the kind of people who rise in the world by means of a Davidson College education and
then send their sons to Princeton.) I am ready and willing to admit that many changes are needed in Washington
and I believe that a man of Governor Stevenson's experience (I don't need to review it, you can read it
in Who's Who) is more capable of making these changes than a man of General Eisenhower's experience.

There seems to me a parallel between Governor Stevenson's career and that of another great scholar-Democrat Woodrow Wilson. New Jersey's
regular Democrats were in a bad way (doubtless due to their own shortcomings). They had little chance of winning the
governorship so thought they might as well nominate a really first-rate man about whom they could brag, even though defeated.
To their surprise, Wilson won. In the national elections, the Democrats didn’t seem to have much of a chance either
(owing to the long tenure of the Republicans) so they also nominated Wilson for President, again to get credit for
a good man. It is well known that Adlai Stevenson was nominated for the governorship of Illinois for the same
reason the New Jersey Democrats nominated Mr. Wilson. The Democrats didn’t have a chance in Illinois. But Adlai won. You
can find plenty of evidence that many Illinois Democrats will be delighted to move Mr. Stevenson to the White House.
It seems to me an almost perfect parallel. I think Governor Stevenson is a statesman, a scholar, a gentleman, and
a humanitarian. I see no evidence that he is a radical or a leftist. He is the kind of man
I would like to see President of the United States.

—C. G. DAVIDSON.

I like Ike. It is my considered opinion, however, that Stevenson is definitely better qualified for the toughest job in
the world. While the power to levy taxes and make appropriations is vested solely in the Congress and not in
the President, the President is the titular head of his party, and, if a true leader, is possessed of great
power of influence. During Stevenson's term as governor of a great state, he has shown rare courage and superior judgment
in fiscal matters. He has vetoed appropriations by a Republican legislature running into millions of dollars because of his belief
that the monies were for wasteful ends or to promote class interests. On the other hand, he has supported the
appropriation of funds clearly involving the welfare of the entire people. Both his actions and his public pronouncements indicate his
prudence and his superior understanding of the term “economy.” As the head of the executive branch, he has evidenced remarkable
ability in the selection and discipline of department heads. In general, our best presidents have received their apprenticeship training in
the office of governor of some great state. I know of no better tests of a man’s qualifications for the
presidency than demonstrated integrity, independence of pressure groups, sound judgment, leadership, and devotion to the public interest, all tested by
the rigors of experience.

—A. G. GRIFFIN

Throughout the current campaign, Governor Stevenson has consistently proved his ability to understand our complex social and economic structure in
America. He has analyzed our social problems realistically and his economic thinking has been declared sound by news editors who
are opposing his election. While General Eisenhower has stormed across the landscape speaking in “generalities” and saying little other than
throw the Democrats out, Stevenson has used much of his campaign time in a logical and understanding manner. Governor Stevenson
is, in my opinion, a conservative liberal who can consolidate the social gains of the Democratic Party over the past
twenty years without destroying them on the one hand or extending them disproportionately on the other. In painful contrast, the
Republican candidate has shown such a split political personality that no one really knows how to classify him. An examination
of his speeches and his actions indicates that he is trying very hard to get on all sides of all
questions! For a man who is supposed to clean up corruption in government, the Republican candidate has shown a serious
lack of moral courage in his willingness to embrace all saints and sinners in his party. Contrast those surrenders to
expediency with the forthright statement of Stevenson about his letter on Alger Hiss, or his defense of FEPC in Richmond,
or his stand on tidelands oil in Louisiana and Texas! Stevenson seems to me to be a man of ideas
with the skill to express them, a man of principles with the courage to defend them, and a man of
ideals with the ability to realize them.

—J. H. OSTWALT

My choice is Stevenson for the following reasons:

(1) I am basically more sympathetic to the philosophy of the Democratic Party than to that of the Republican Party.
While this holds true in the realm of domestic policy, I am particularly concerned in this election about the area
of foreign policy, where the Republicans have been consistently slow to recognize, ever since World War I, the obligations of
the United States attendant upon our twentieth-century position in the community of nations. I am afraid that General Eisenhower's internationalist
convictions cannot change the spots of the men with whom he has allied himself.

(2) I have been disappointed in General Eisenhower's apparent willingness to sacrifice principle to expediency. Despite the supposed differences between
Eisenhower and Taft emphasized by the followers of both before the convention, the Wall Street Journal can now say with
satisfaction that “there was never any appreciable difference between General Eisenhower and Senator Taft.” The General's endorsement of such men
as Senators McCarthy and Jenner with whom he obviously has little or nothing in common, raises a serious and important
question as to either his sincerity or his wisdom.

(3) In spite of the above I would vote for General Eisenhower had the Democrats nominated any man other than
Adlai Stevenson. Governor Stevenson's statements both before and after his nomination have demonstrated, it seems to me, a remarkable mixture
of vision, honesty, practicality, and courage. We have heard a great deal about the present Administration's handling of Communism, corruption,
and Korea. Much is true; but much is also untrue. I am voting for Stevenson primarily because I believe him
to be possessed of a keener mind, deeper convictions, and a firmer conscience—in short, because I believe he is the
better candidate.

—S. R. SPENCER.
