FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 1951 THE DAVIDSONIAN

D.C. Music Lovers (Continued From Page Two)

Spanish Fraternity Elects New Officers

Sigma Delta Pi met Tuesday evening at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Goldiere. Following a brief meeting, the following
were elected as officers for 1952-1953: President, Bob Walker; first vice president, Jesse Fisher; second vice president, Larry Champion; and
secretary, Jinks Jervey.

FACE DEL SYLVIA... (Continued From Page Three)

defeat Strand and Dewey Keesler, 6-3, 4-6, 6-2 for P.C.’s only other victory of the afternoon, which, however, gave the
Blue Stockings both the number one singles and doubles matches.

Worst Is Yet to Come

After the Wildcats dispose of Carolina—or vice versa—the worst may be yet to come, with big matches against Yale, Princeton,
and Duke, all of whom are tennis powerhouses, remaining to be played.

Gunga Din Never Had It As Rough As Hardy Men Who Fold And Deliver Davidsonian Every Friday

FOR THE BEST IN RECORDS DAN RAMSEY RECORD BAR 127½ W. Trade — Charlotte

DAVIDSON THEATRE Shows Start at 3 P.M. MON.-TUE., APR. 28-29

You can read of Gunga Din sweating in “Inja’s sunny clime,” but there are guys on this campus who each
Friday night exude more perspiration than Gunga ever thought about. They do it without benefit of being sung in poetry,
too. These fellows have about the meanest job on the campus and they get absolutely nothing for it. Who are
these unstinting laborers? They are the men who week after week drop whatever else they are doing to fold and
deliver The Davidsonian to every room on the campus. Theirs is an extra-curricular activity without peer. Any other job around
here at least happens at a set time, but there's never any telling just when the press will begin to
bump for the last time. Each week the local printing shop vibrates to the great thumping strokes of its printing
press as it kicks out some 1300 copies of your newspaper. It’s up to the folding crews to grab these
off the press, fold each one two ways, count and deliver the lot to dormitory, YMCA, faculty boxes, and mailing
room. Head of these nimble-fingered and silent workers is Bob Poston whose official title is Circulation Manager, but whose abilities
include the patience of four Jobs, coordinator par excellence. Innumerable are the times he’s had to recruit folders at hours
which would make a doctor sneer, but the amazing thing is that he does get them and consistently so. Poston’s
is a job which draws a rather plump paycheck on most campuses in the U.S. but he usually gets not
even a hearty thanks from the finicky editorial staff. It's a job not many guys would stick out for a
week much less an entire school year. A step down the ladder are Poston’s team captains Don Wilkins, Ed Blanton,
Gene Witherspoon, and Angus Hagins. Each of these men has a list of students who have volunteered to fold one
night every three weeks. That reads fine, but rounding the volunteers up is quite another matter. These are the fellows
who have the impossible job of asking the impatient folders to “come back in a little while” when press time
is held up by an editorial or compositional change. The trouble is that this manages to happen about three or
four times every Friday night. Late copy and last-minute headline alterations are the bane of the team captains. They, too,
are unpaid, and their titles are deceiving. Being Captain usually turns out to mean being an unpaid super psychologist, organizer,
and coordinator.

Can Keep Security Without New Taxes

Expenses for national security can be held down without hurting the defense or foreign-aid programs, according to the Research and
Policy Committee of the Committee for Economic Development, a national organization of businessmen and educators. In its latest report, issued
after a searching study of the budget proposed for the fiscal year which begins July 1, the group said the
$10.4 billion cash deficit indicated in the President’s budget message can be eliminated without raising taxes or damaging the security
programs. A deficit “would increase the risk of further inflation, with serious injury to the nation,” the committee warned. Its
findings were based on:

1. A calculation that actual expenditures for military functions of the Defense Department and for foreign military aid will lag
at least $3.5 billion behind the President’s estimate of $58 billion, “even assuming adoption of the whole presidential program.”
2. An estimate that another $4 billion can be saved by eliminating waste and inefficiency in the military programs.
3. Recommendations that about $2.8 billion be cut from the $26.7 billion proposed for other than military and foreign aid
expenditures.

The committee took the position, however, that if Congress reached a different conclusion, leaving expenditures substantially higher than prospective revenue,
the budget should be balanced “by a temporary tax on retail sales, except sales of food, housing, and items already
subject to direct Federal excises. This way of financing the excess of expenditures would be less inflationary and less injurious
to production than any alternative.”

“We believe that the world situation requires a rapid buildup of our own military forces and assistance to friendly nations
in building up their military and economic strength,” the committee said. “It is our belief that if the proposed programs
are necessary for our reasonable security they should not be curtailed by the thought that our national economy cannot bear
them. But ... it is obviously essential to avoid waste in the execution even of necessary programs.”

“We also believe,” the committee went on, “that foreign assistance is as necessary to our own security as is our
own military program. The components of both the foreign assistance program and our own military program should be objectively examined
from the standpoint of usefulness and efficiency. But this examination should not assume that a dollar spent for foreign assistance
is less essential to our security than a dollar spent for our own forces.”

Acknowledging that “the possibilities of action this year to improve the tax system areNarrowly limited,” the committee said that it
is nevertheless “time to begin a national reconsideration of the principles of taxation.” The Research and Policy Committee noted that
since 1944 it “has repeatedly pointed out the need for reform of the Federal tax system to make it more
equitable and less repressive of productive efficiency and economic growth.” It suggested that the Congressional Joint Committee on International Revenue
Taxation initiate a study of the tax structure. McMyer Kestnbaum, of Chicago, President of Hart Schaffner & Marx, is chairman
of the CED Research and Policy Committee. J. Cameron Thomson, of Minneapolis, President of the Northwest Bancorporation, is chairman of
the subcommittee on the statement. Marion B. Folsom, of Rochester, Treasurer of Eastman Kodak Company, is the CED's chairman.

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS — IT PAYS!

...and students themselves who really deserve the hand. The roll call of these men reads as follows: Joe Greer, Buddy
Brown, Ralph Petree, Fred Hudson, Robert Jones, James Montgomery, Corky Clark, Lacy Keesler, Miller Byne, Buddy Simpson, Phil Lewis, Dan
Leach, Carroll Jenkins, John Gordon, Gordon Hollister, Don White, Bob Stevenson, Fred Walsh, Scott Ball, Frank Mitchener, Charlie Hooper, Bill
Towe, Willis Briley, Scott Reams, Ish Bennett, Pete Seago, and Carl Swofford. No one else in the world would turn
out to stand some one and one-half hours on his feet methodically folding and counting newspapers for absolutely no recognition.
Last week is a good illustration of how this thing is carried on. Team Captain Hagins showed up at 4:30
p.m., at which time he had been promised he could have his men start folding in plenty of time to
make the D-Club Foolies. He was told to wait an hour and the folders who came with him sighed knowing
this was just the first of a series of delays that might hold them up until 12 that night. But
they came back in an hour. This coming back kept up until they would miss the Foolies and maybe even
the dance, but they showed up anyway. Call it what you will, they showed up. Working fast they had the
papers ready for delivery by 6:30 and one lit out with papers for the village, YMCA, Watts, and Georgia. Hagins
and a helper piled the papers into his car and raced for fraternity court to get the sheets in the
frat houses by the time the Greeks and their dates arrived before going to the dance. Luck was with them
and they found Dean Bailey in his office with a key to the alumni office. The faculty got their papers
on time when they arrived Saturday morning. This was just one weekend. The story has been repeated time after time
with individual sacrifice the usual instead of the exceptional feature. The men have gone out in rain and bitter cold
to get their time-bound burdens delivered. So that’s the background for the guy who knocks on your door on Friday
nights to bring “that paper again.” Whether it’s Friday evening or late that night, you can bet that last buck
it’s been no pushover for him.

WILL OPERATE... (Continued From Page One)
books for the fraternity bookstore. Special arrangements can be made for seniors to sell their books also. The fraternity hopes
to make this project an annual one on the Davidson campus, and student participation is necessary if such a student
aid is to come about. Alpha Phi Omega invites all students who have had previous training in scouting and who
wish to render service to others to become a member of their group. No particular rank of scouting is necessary,
and all members of social fraternities are eligible.

180 ATHLETES... (Continued From Page One)
held here at Davidson. The purpose of the banquet is to bring all college athletes together at one time and
to promote spirit and cooperation among the various varsity teams and between athletes and faculty. Last year’s banquet was held
in the college dining room. It was told that faculty and administration would be invited this year as they were
to the event last year.

SENIORS NAME... (Continued From Page One)
Roberts, Tom Suther, Neil Underdown, Ralph Guffey. Named valedictorian for Class Day exercises was Jim Carr, after a run-off with
Duval Hunter. Other Class Day officers were announced last week.

NEW CARS DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF
Dial 3-4513
212 W. Fourth Charlotte
THACKER’S INC.
PRIVATE DINING ROOMS for PARTIES AND BANQUETS
“A Good Place to Eat”
Phone 25-4900 Charlotte
221 South Tryon Street

MASQUERS’ HARD ... (Continued From Page One)
the settings and special lighting effects. Courtney Hill is stage manager and also in charge of costumes. Electrician for the
play is Jack Pietenpol who is being assisted by Gwynn Griffin and Charles Burnett. Don Baucom is in charge of
props and is being aided by Don Pilkenton and Charles Babcock. Bill Pharr is bookholder and Bill Crymes is in
charge of make-up. The play will be given Friday and Saturday nights at 8:30 in Chambers Auditorium and the admission
fee is $.50.

N.S.A. PLAN OFFERS ... (Continued From Page Two)
visions can be met for the remainder to be spent in leisure, travel, entertainment, instruction, and sight-seeing. Transportation from the
United States to Europe and the trans-Atlantic return is met at the service of ocean liners. Included in the steamship
accommodation are orientation lectures, language classes, entertainment, and in view of the fact that tours are co-educational and the tendency
runs to an excess of femmes, there remains the constant possibility of romance. As a matter of fact, the female
adventurers attained over an eighty percent majority during the 1951 tours.

CHESTERFIELDS are much MILDER and give you the ADDED PROTECTION of NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE*
FROM THE REPORT OF A WELL-KNOWN RESEARCH ORGANIZATION

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30
GROUCHO MARX - MARIE WILSON
WILLIAM BENDIX

Coach Derrick Barton’s Davidson line-up for tomorrow's match will most likely consist of the same men he has been using
successfully since the Michigan State match. In the singles, Lacy Keesler at number one, and in descending order Johnny Bremer,
Allan Strand, Dewey Keesler, Corky Clark, and Joe Dudley. For doubles, Strand and Dewey Keesler will be at one, followed
by Lacy Keesler and Bremer at two, and Dudley and George Snead at three.

ALLEN IS YMCA... (Continued From Page One)
ville, N.C., which is also near his summer home of Montreat where he has worked for several summers past and
where he plans to spend his summer this vacation period. On the Y Cabinet, Stuart has served as the head
of the spiritual development, with particular emphasis on hall prayer meetings. This year he has been compiler and editor of
the Faith on Campus booklets. In his fraternity, Sigma Chi, Stuart has been elected treasurer for the coming year. Turning
to intercollegiate athletics for the first time this year, Stuart earned his letter in cross country and is presently on
the track team. He also sings in the Male Chorus. A pre-ministerial student, Stuart is majoring in history. Due to
the track team’s being at Charleston for a triangular meet with the Citadel and USC, and Stuart Plummer’s absence from
school on this count, the speeches are in Monday’s chapel instead of Friday as it had previously been supposed.

THURSDAY, MAY 1
CORNEL WILDE - MAUREEN O'HARA
At Swords Point
TECHNICOLOR
ROBERT DOUGLAS - GLADYS COOPER

FRIDAY, MAY 2
STEAKS
CHICKEN
JOINNERS FOUNTAIN SERVICE
Open Sundays
Phone 132

IDA LUPINO - ROBERT RYAN
ON DANGEROUS GROUND

STONESTREET'S
Grade A Cafe
418 South Main Street
Mooresville, N.C.

CHESTERFIELDS are much MILDER and give you the ADDED PROTECTION of NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE*
FROM THE REPORT OF A WELL-KNOWN RESEARCH ORGANIZATION
