PHILOSOPHY STUDENTS TALK WITH NEGRO STUDENTS (See Page Four) on The Davidsonian (See Page Two)

ALENDA LUX UBI CREA LIBERTAS

APRIL 4, 1952

U. S. Thought Leaders Featured On Y Forum

75 Salem Beauts Speaker List

FRIDAY, NUMBER TWENTY

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

WHEN LAST DUTY CALLS

VOLUME XL

Davidsonians Pick Successors For Ballard, Hull

Word has been received that Lt. Col. James L. Ballard, PMSG&T, will be transferred to an overseas assignment next fall. Col. Ballard will leave Davidson at the end of this school year, but will not go overseas until the end of the summer. The exact nature of his new assignment will not be known until the end of April. When asked about his leaving, Col. Ballard remarked, “I wanted to stay for a fourth year and if the Korean war situation were not what it is, I might have been able to stay. In 12 years in the Army, I have never gotten more personal satisfaction than from this work. It is going to hurt to leave.” He will have to leave his newly-built home and his position of vice president of the Lions Club. He said that he wanted to stay through a whole cycle and see a class go through all four years.

Col. Ballard will be replaced by Lt. Col. Ernest H. Davis who will arrive in Davidson Sunday, April 6. Col. Davis is a graduate of the University of Kentucky and has just recently returned from a year and a half of combat duty in Korea. Col. Davis, his wife and eight-year-old daughter will reside temporarily in the Fulcher house, recently vacated by Professor and Mrs. Morton. Col. Ballard, whose father was on the ROTC staff here before the war, graduated from Davidson in 1939 and received his Regular Army Commission in 1941. In 1943 he was transferred from Iceland and took part in the D-Day landings on Omaha Beach. He was made aide-de-camp to Gen. W. Bedell Smith in 1945, and witnessed the German surrender to Gen. Smith in the school room in Reims, Germany, on May 7, 1945. After returning to the United States with Gen. Eisenhower's party, he was the chief of the Statistics Division under the Chief of Staff in Washington. In 1947-48 he attended the Command Staff course at the Air University at Maxwell Air Force Base, Ala. He came to Davidson from Los Angeles, Calif., where he did graduate work in the field of guided missiles at the University of Southern California. He holds the Silver Star, the Bronze Star, the Combat Infantry Badge, the Army Commendation Ribbon (two awards) and the Purple Heart (three awards). He is married and has three daughters.

Capt. Charles M. Hull, assistant PMS&T, will leave late in the summer when his present tour of duty as a reserve officer expires. His future plans are not fully decided, but he expects to do school teaching in Hillsboro, Ill. He will be replaced by Capt. Walter P. Blanton, a graduate of North Georgia State Teachers College who will arrive here in early June. Col. Ballard announced that there will be five officers and six enlisted men here next year. The two new men will be First Lt. Norman L. Williamson who has just recently returned from Germany, and Sgt. John T. Ingle from Fort Jackson, S. C. Lt. Williamson, a graduate of Presbyterian College, will arrive May first and Sgt. Ingle will arrive next week.

DC Professors Win Fellowships

This week it was announced that two Davidson professors, Dr. G. L. Abernethy and Dr. E. O. Guerrant, have been granted fellowships at Columbia University and the University of Southern California by the Ford Foundation. Dr. C. K. Brown, Dean of Faculty, says that no arrangements have yet been made for their replacement, although arrangements will be made as soon as possible. “It is a very fine opportunity for these gentlemen and excellent for the college for its staff members to be able to study under such conditions,” said Dean Brown. Dr. Abernethy, professor of philosophy, will study at Columbia, while political science professor Guerrant will study at the University of Southern California.

Community Tops Red Cross Goal

The Davidson community contributed over $1,300 to the American Red Cross Fund Drive which closed Monday. This was 85 percent more than last year, and also 80 percent over the assigned quota. The Davidson College Student body gave only about $100 of the money. On behalf of the American Red Cross, Mr. Daggy and Lt. Col. Ballard, the Davidson co-chairman, expressed the sincere appreciation of the Red Cross to the student body and other personnel of the college for their generous support and contributions. They wish also to thank publicly ODK, under Bryan Robinson, for the fine work it did in soliciting contributions from the Student Body, and Doug Rice, student store manager, for voluntarily collecting money at the student store.

Theft Scandal

Under the cloak of a dark night, the SAE lion made a sudden and short visit recently to the Davidson campus after an inexplicable absence of some four weeks. With his bottom embedded in freshly poured concrete, this monster bore little resemblance to the panthera leo which previously had stood guard at the portals of the palatial SAE estate on Fraternity Row.

This Is a Lion?

Tyson’s Terrors Pile Up Wins Over Navy, A. Scott

Davidson's four debating teams compiled an unusual number of wins over March 28-29. Two teams of two men each went to the University of Richmond and the U. S. Naval Academy. The affirmative team, composed of Hubert Cannon and Roy Davis won at both schools; while the negative team, composed of Bob Mitchell and Will Terry won at the University of Richmond but lost to the U. S. Naval Academy. This record of three out of four was equaled by the two teams at Agnes Scott. The affirmative team, Dick Gregory and Dunbar Ogden, won five out of seven matches, including victories over the University of Georgia, Georgia Tech, North Georgia, Agnes Scott and Emory.

Arts Week Slates Bell Prize, Music

The fifth annual Fine Arts Week, being held at Davidson S-Day will include a tea dance sponsored by Scabbard and Blade from 4 to 6, and a prom sponsored by the senior class from 8 to 12. Both dances are informal. These events follow the track meet with Florida State from 1 to 3, Saturday, and are open to all members of the student body. Fleet Green and his orchestra, well-known performers in and around the Charlotte area, will furnish the dance music. Tickets may be purchased from any one of the seven men on the dance committee, or any member of Scabbard and Blade, for $1.50 per couple. This price covers the admission to both dances. Tickets must be bought before the dance since they will not be on sale at the door. The men on the dance committee who have organized and planned S-Day are: Tom Stockton, chairman; Eric Clark, vice president; Bill Buckey, secretary-treasurer and chairman of the YMCA social committee; Sib Dorton, director of decorations; and Tyke Ellis, publicity director. Cecil Rhodes and Kenseth Newbold represent Scabbard and Blade on this committee.

Seven Given George Baker Scholarships

The Baker Scholarship Committee announced today that seven of the candidates who competed in the finals at Davidson last week were awarded scholarships.

The above scene will be duplicated next week in the auxiliary room of Johnston Gymnasium when the Mecklenburg County Mobile Blood Unit sets up on the campus for a two-day period. Donations by whole fraternities, such as the Phi Gams above, spearhead drive officials’ hopes to go well above the state and regional record of 448 pints contributed in one day——(Photo by Jack Scott).

“Top 500” Is Goal For Blood Drive

Next Wednesday and Thursday the American Red Cross will conduct the second blood drive of the college year in the Davidson community. The drive, sponsored by the ROTC department, staffed by the Davidson Civic League, and solicited by Omicron Delta Kappa, will be held again in Johnston Gym. It is hoped that this April's drive can far exceed the community's regional record of approximately five hundred donations in one day. Those persons who wish to donate blood will be given a convenient appointment hour. Appointments may be made directly with the ROTC office between the hours of 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. It is intended that, by close adherence to the schedule and to a carefully-developed plan of procedure, no one will be subjected to unnecessary delay at the college gymnasium. Persons under 21 who wish to contribute blood must, prior to the donation, secure a written parental release. Forms for this are available at the ROTC building. This particular blood drive is especially important, because urgent appeals are being made by the government for more blood for the Korean casualties. A greatly increased quota has therefore been assigned. Donors are assured that the great majority of their blood will be promptly dispatched, by air, to the Korean conflict areas. In going to the gymnasium for blood donation, donors are requested to enter at the rear entrance, that is, on the north side of the building. The facilities will be set up in that end of the building.

Record Library Gets LP Discs

The college music library got a surprise April’s Fool present in the form of a new collection of long-playing records for the Phi Hall library. The platters were donated by Mrs. Edmee Bush-Greenough of New York. The Music Department said it was “extremely fortunate in being selected to receive these outstanding records for use by the music department.”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The negative team, Buddy Lamon and Mac Williamson, won two and lost five, but this record is not one to be ashamed of, since the tournament was noticeably pro-affirmative. Out of the eighty contests staged, sixty were won by affirmative teams and twenty by negative teams.

Having shed his winter coat, Leo stood resplendent in his new coat of gleaming white porcelain. Leo’s wild debauchery during his absence had caused his once trim figure “to go to pot.” He now bore a marked resemblance to a modern necessity which is fast replacing the backyard shanty in the rural areas of the South. For some reason, “the Men of Minerva” did not appreciate the commodious features of their mascot’s metamorphosis, and they relieved him of his place of honor and relegated him to the ash heap.

The week of April 20-26 will feature music by the Male Chorus, a band concert, several informal talks and awards, and “Macbeth” by Shakespeare as played by the Red and Black Masquers and Alpha Psi Omega dramatic fraternity. On Sunday night, the Male Chorus, directed by Mr. Plott, will be open to all, at which Mr. James Southall Wilson will again speak. The main feature of vespers will be in the regular form except that there will be no speaker. Some of the numbers featured on the program are: “Great and Glorious,” “May Now Thy Spirit,” “Praise to the Lord,” and many of the favorite selections that have been sung throughout the year. The featured vocal soloist is Leonard Geiger, and Mr. Frantz will play an organ solo.

Olin Downs will speak Monday night on “Be Your Own Music Critic,” and Tuesday will bring a concert by the Davidson College Band and Brass Ensemble, also at night. There will be an informal talk in the Guest House on “Art in North Carolina” on Wednesday evening. Miss Lucy Crisp, director of the North Carolina State Art Gallery in Raleigh, will make this talk. The Vereen Bell Literary Award will be presented in chapel by Dr. James Southall Wilson on Thursday. Thursday night will bring forth a Phi Beta Kappa lecture. The Fine Arts Week will be brought to an end by the play “Macbeth” put on by a collaboration of the Red and Black Masquers and Alpha Psi Omega. This play will be staged both Friday and Saturday night.

Two exhibits will also be featured during this week. There will be a display of student and faculty drawings and paintings in the dining hall in Chambers, and the paintings of two North Carolina artists, George Kachergis and Claude Howell, will be displayed in the lobby of Chambers.

Notice: Dr. Samuel R. Spencer has announced that all applicants for the grants-in-aid scholarships for next year must pick up the new forms in his office, fill them out, and return by April 23. Included are all men who now have the scholarships as well as new men who wish to apply for aid.

Mrs. Busch-Greenlough’s gift represents “Music in Colonial America.” The series is currently being recorded by New Records, Inc., in New York. The waxing is under the general direction of Dr. Karl Krueger, famous conductor, and is being edited by Dr. Carleton Sprague Smith, eminent musicologist. The entire series will be given the name “Music in America.” It includes the records given to the college library and others. Included in this unique collection are: “Catholic Mission Music in California,” “Ballads in Colonial America,” “Early American Psalmody” (from The Bay Psalm Book), a group of string quartets including a 1799 English model Challis piano, Georges Enesco’s “Octet for Strings,” and of particular interest, a group of six String Quintets composed by Johann Friedrich Peter in Salem, North Carolina, in 1789. Donald Baucom, John Gibbs, and Herb Russell are the student assistants working in the recording library, and invite the students and faculty-administration personnel to hear these unique recordings. Regular “listening hours” of the Record Library in Phi Hall are 8 to 10 p.m.

George P. Baker Scholarships: The addition of these seven will bring the total number of Baker Scholars at Davidson next year to twenty-four.

WILLIAM H. F. KUYKENDALL of Central High, Charlotte. Kuykendall is a member of the student council, a high-ranking student in a class of 429, and active in various student organizations.

J. HAROLD McKEITHEN, JR. is president of the student body and student council at Reynolds High, Winston-Salem, state president of the National Honor Society, a member of the football team for three years, and of the school’s debating team, which was defeated only in the state finals.

JIM BEAUMONT MARSHALL of Clarksville, Tenn., has served as editor of the Tennessee Boys’ State newspaper, editor of his school paper for two years, member of the student council for three years, and has twice represented the school at the state convention of student councils, where he was a group discussion leader. He has also won state-wide recognition in debating and has attended the National Forensic League Student Congress for two years.

ARTHUR M. MARTIN, JR. is president of the Student Council at Mt. Zion Institute in Winnsboro, S.C., chairman of the Commission on Christian Works of Congaree Presbytery’s Youth Fellowship, and was the state’s delegate to the national convention of Student Councils at Wellesley College in Massachusetts. He was chosen all-state center, played in the Charlotte Shrine Bowl game last fall, and has played three years of varsity basketball. Scholastically, he ranks at the top of his class.

PATRICK DWIGHT MILLER, JR. has made an outstanding record at Bass High in Atlanta, where he won a Ford Foundation Pre- (Continued On Page Four)

To Bolster S-Day: Approximately 75 girls from Salem College will arrive on the campus tomorrow for S-Day — Senior, Scabbard and Blade, and Salem Day — jointly sponsored by members of the Senior Class and Scabbard and Blade. The YMCA social committee is in charge of the Salem visit.

Abbott, Cole Awarded Trip To West Point: Wallace Abbott and Paul Cole were chosen yesterday by the ROTC Department to represent the Davidson unit at the U.S. Military Academy's Sesquicentennial Observances May 1-4 at West Point. All of the 110 ROTC students chosen will be integrated into the corps of cadets for their entire stay. They will take their meals in the cadet mess hall with their individual hosts, attend classes with them, sleep in the cadet rooms, and conform to the general rules governing the cadets. They will wear their ROTC uniforms during the entire visit. The object of the visit is to give them an intimate view of the methods of the academy and how the other half of the Army officers’ training corps team lives; not to recruit men for West Point.

Wallace Abbott, a senior from Kirkwood, Missouri, is a cadet major, outstanding member of the rifle team, and made an extraordinarily fine record at the ROTC summer camp last summer at Fort Benning, Ga. Paul Cole is a first sergeant in the unit here and has had one of the highest averages in his ROTC class in the last two years. Abbott and Cole were chosen from a field of 13 “good men,” with the only regret, Lt. Col. J. L. Ballard, PMS&T, added, that so few as two had to be chosen.

News Item: Should the Northern and Southern Presbyterian Churches Unite? This is the topic that will be discussed this Sunday night at Westminster Fellowship. Dr. Charles G. McClure of the Caldwell Memorial Presbyterian Church, Charlotte, will present his ideas on the subject and then will attempt to answer questions. Westminster Fellowship invites students to come this Sunday evening, April 6, at 6:30 p.m., to the Quadranglers Room.

Has Three Top Ideas Upheld: At a “Which Way Peace?” forum next week, Frederick J. Libby, Executive Secretary of the National Council for Prevention of War; Gen. Robert Ginsburgh, staff officer of the Secretary of Defense; and Robert L. Humber, internationally recognized world federalist, will present their ideas on how the U.S. can best achieve world peace. The forum will be next Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday in chapel and the speakers will be on a panel for an open discussion of their respective arguments Wednesday night at the Y lounge. Libby will defend the pacifist viewpoint, Gen. Ginsburgh will advocate intervention, and Humber is to review the case for world federation. The purpose of the forum is to present to the student body the different attitudes toward war that are held in our country today. The speakers were chosen so as to have representatives of the three principal stands that the Christian could take towards war. The committee felt that this topic was of great importance in the light of the fact that the majority of the present senior class are going into the armed services this summer, and the rest of the student body will eventually be in some type of military activity soon.

The first speaker of the forum, Mr. Frederick J. Libby, is a native of Richmond, Virginia. He received his A.B. from Bowdoin and studied further in Berlin, Heidelberg, Marburg, and Oxford. He has been the pastor of the Union Congregational Church in Magnolia, Mass., and did reconstruction and relief work in France in 1917 and 1918. He has been the executive secretary of the National Council for the Prevention of War since 1921. General Ginsburgh was born in Warsaw, which was then Russian Poland. He became a naturalized citizen of this country in 1901. After having received his A.B. and LL.B. from Harvard, he received the A.M. degree from the Universities of Louisville and Missouri. He served in the Philippines in World War I and served on the General Staff Corps of the Southwest Pacific theater in the last war. He has been an officer on the staffs of many cabinet secretaries including Hurley, Johnson, Patterson, and Royal. (Continued On Page Four)

PREFERENCE POLL PICKS IKE; KEFAUVER AND RUSSELL FOLLOW: “We like Ike,” is the consensus of opinion around Davidson. Results of a straw vote on presidential candidates taken yesterday show the popular general copped 40 percent of the votes among students and faculty alike. Largely because of Eisenhower's appeal, the Republican candidates outdrew the Democrats by more than 100 votes. Following Ike in popularity were Senators Kefauver (155), Russell (150), and Taft (116). The faculty overwhelmingly chose Governor Stevenson over both Russell and Kefauver on the Democratic ticket, and this marked their only major point of divergence with student opinion. Write-in candidates included Prof. Eberhardt, Arthur Godfrey, The Batman, Billy Graham, Crowell Little, and Robert E. Lee. Some even voted for Truman. Here is a rundown of the poll:

DEMOCRATS
Kefauver: Students 155, Faculty 6
Kerr: Students 5, Faculty 6
Russell: Students 150, Faculty 1
Stevenson: Students 43, Faculty 26
TOTAL: Students 353, Faculty 39

REPUBLICANS
Eisenhower: Students 279, Faculty 37
MacArthur: Students 12, Faculty 0
Stassen: Students 27, Faculty 0
Taft: Students 116, Faculty 8
TOTAL: Students 471, Faculty 48