(See Page Two)

USE OF CODE TAPE IN RIOT EXPLAINED BY CABBAGE PLANTER ALENDA LUK UB) ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

NO BOTTLES NO DRINKS (See Page Two)

VOLUME XL * DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

Name Burnet (Plummer Wins; Director Of Others Still Run To ‘52 Chad Regional YRC Lining

Burnet, Greensboro sophomore, was elected college director of the Region Four Young Republican Organization at a recent meeting of the YRS in Greensboro. Tad Currie, junior from Kalamazoo, Michigan, was elected treasurer of the organization.

Burnet, who drafted the constitution for the regional organization, has the job of making an effective organization of the college Young Republican Clubs in Region Four. He was elected by representatives of college YRC’s in the region which includes Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Tennessee, and Florida. To accomplish his work of integrating and coordinating the Region Four Young Republican clubs, Burnet will be allowed a liberal expense account from the Young Republican Federation, a national organization.

“The Republican party has become disturbed over the lack of support of the young people in the last few years,” said Burnet. “They are now making a conscious effort to convince the first-voters of the country that the Republican party is their best bet for the future.”

Students Pick Lecture Series Favorites In Poll

Popular vote by both students and faculty listed Cornelia Otis Skinner, Edward R. Murrow, Drew Pearson, Lowell Thomas, Ogden Nash, and Norman Thomas as choices for the lecture series next year. Cornelia Otis Skinner was the unanimous choice of all the faculty and of the part of the student votes counted. Dr. Spencer stated that he thought the student ballots counted would be sufficient to indicate the trends of student choice. Dr. Reinhold Niebuhr proved to be a high choice in both circles, but student (Continued On Page Four)

Stuart Plummer was elected secretary-treasurer of the Senior Class today in the final run-off. Other officers elected were Don Mahy, vice president, and Bill Hood, the secretary-treasurer of the Junior Class.

Three men are still in the running for each class president as the field is rapidly being narrowed down. Remaining candidates for Senior Class president are Tyler Berry, Larry Dagenhart, and Bucky Irwin. Still in the race for Junior Class president are Johnny Bremer and Charlie Johnson, and for Sophomore Class president, Charlie Cousar, Cortez Cooper, and Dick Gregory.

The slate for the other officers of the classes include Senior Class vice president Robinson and Vance; Sophomore Class vice president, Kilpatrick and Strand; and the Secretary-treasurer Hurst, Mitchener, and Swofford.

The office for the student representative on the Athletic Council has been narrowed down to eight men. They are Craven, Berry, Kelly, Lippard, Perkins, Poole, Ruth, and Whisnant.

Nomination for the Freshman advisor will be made by the rising Senior Class along with nominations for class representatives on the student council. Installation of Jack Ruth as president of the student body will take place in chapel Thursday. Court of Control officers will be appointed by the student council at its first meeting so that the court may function upon opening of summer school. Nominations for YMCA board of directors were taken today.

Col. Davis Speaks On Korea at S&B

Colonel Ernest Davis, who has just returned from a tour of duty in Korea and who will replace Col. James L. Ballard as PMS&T, addressed the final meeting of Scabbard and Blade Wednesday night. Col. Davis spoke on combat duty in Korea, dealing particularly with the tactical problems. (Continued On Page Four)

14 Classes To Reunite At Graduation

The 1952 commencement weekend will be highlighted by many gala events, among which the reunion of 14 classes stands out. The traditional alumni luncheon will be featured on Alumni Day, May 31, as well as a meeting of the Alumni Council. Presiding over the latter will be William H. Neal, of Winston-Salem.

There are two classes that will be celebrating special reunions. The class of 1902 will have its Golden Anniversary, and the class of 1927 its Silver Anniversary. Others are the classes of 1908-1911, 1930-1935, 1947 and the Old Guard (1870-1900).

The alumni luncheon will be held on the front campus at 1 p.m., for all alumni, seniors, their parents, and faculty members, and as has been the custom in the past, speeches will be held to a minimum and emphasis placed on good food and fellowship.

Outdoor Concert Tuesday Evening

The Davidson College Band will stage its second and last outdoor concert next Tuesday evening at 7 p.m., on the south side of Chambers. Under the direction of Kenneth R. Moore, the concert will feature soloist Dudley Pendleton, who will sing selections from “South Pacific.” The band will feature “The Gay Nineties Overture,” a circus number, “The Billboard March,” and an original march for bands by Prokofieff. Also included on the program is Gossec's “Military Symphony in F,” Morton Gould’s “Tropical,” and “Semper Fidelis,” by Sousa.

After 23 Years Of Her Silent Service Miss Passmore Will Be Leaving Library This August

Davidson loses a personality second in familiarity only to the chambermaids. Miss Julia Passmore, library circulation manager, plans to retire just after summer school. There’s not much you can say about her that deserves 2-inch headlines. Hers was not the kind of work that calls for unveilings and ceremonious display. For she represents the thankless worker behind the scenes. But had she not done her many tasks promptly and efficiently, the library would soon have become inefficient and slovenly.

Miss Passmore has been with D.C. since before most of us were born. She came here after graduating from W.C. and teaching Latin and math in her hometown high school at Cary. She had taken a library course in Philadelphia and came directly to D.C. in 1929. At that time the library was in the present Guest House. There were only 25,000 books then, and in her 23 years she has helped this number to grow to its present 57,000.

Ironically enough it is this increase in volume of volumes that is now forcing her retirement. “The work is just becoming too heavy and I couldn't carry on another year. I suppose I'll move from Davidson and try to get lighter work elsewhere. I haven’t sent in any applications as yet though.”

I asked her about the students, “Oh, the boys haven't changed much. Maybe they're a bit noisier.” She realizes it’s an exceptional student that goes through D.C. without ever once being called down for noise in the library. Many a student has learned from Miss Passmore the high relationship between gold and silence. And that is her only regret. “I hope the boys don’t think I was too strict. I've enjoyed my work here very much. Davidson is a great college and I think a great deal of you boys, but I hope they realize I had to be strict at times.”

Dr. Davidson perhaps knows her

Scholarships

Last week it was announced that four Davidson men of the class of 1952 had been awarded Morehead Scholarships for graduate study at the University of North Carolina. Those receiving the grants for their advanced studies were Wallace Abbott, J. V. Hunter, Pete Kalogridis, and Bill White.

This announcement came after the four, who were nominated by Davidson College officials for the tryouts, had undergone interviews on two successive days at Chapel Hill before the Morehead Scholarship Committee. They were selected along with four others from a group representing fourteen schools of higher learning. Three of the other scholarship winners attend UNC while the fourth is from Atlantic Christian College in Wilson. Thus one-half of the scholarships awarded by John Motley Morehead went to Davidson men.

Last year Sam Joyner and Johnny Kelton became the first Davidson men to win Morehead Scholarships. They are currently studying at the University.

Hunter, who is from Winston-Salem, and Kalogridis, a product of Winterhaven, Florida, will both pursue studies in the field of law, working for their LL.B. degrees. They both expect to be at the University for three years. Abbott, who is from Kirkwood, Missouri, and White, from nearby Charlotte, will be working toward their Masters in Business Administration, a course of study requiring two years.

The scholarships consist of $1500 per year to aid the student while at the University. The award is presented on merit and accomplishment alone, not on financial need. They are good for one year, to be renewed if the holder's performance is satisfactory.

Bulletin

Students may get their annuals at the bookstore Monday through Wednesday afternoons from 1:30 to 4:00 p.m. Each man must get his own copy.

FRIDAY, MAY 9, 1952 NUMBER TWENTY-FIVE

Lawrence Erwin IFC President

Myers Edits Scripts N Pranks

Bulgin, Moylan Out; Fick Says New Man ‘Okay

Rising senior Mike Myers was elected today editor of Scripts 'N Pranks for next year in the two-day student vote which eliminated Mac Bulgin and Dave Moylan. A Beta from Greensboro, N. C., Mike is, in the words of Jim Fickeisen, the departing editor, “Very well qualified and probably will bring a lot of new ideas into the magazine. He will have a good staff to help him.”

In his speech in chapel Myers backed the proposals entered by Mac Bulgin for improvement of the magazine. However, Mike diverged from Bulgin’s line widely in saying he wanted to make the magazine a first-class college humor magazine. He said also that all the serious articles would not be cut, but that there would be only two or three an issue. “A good, clean humor magazine; the kind you'd send to your folks and girlfriend,” were Myers’ descriptive terms.

Tuition Gets Hike At Trustee Meet

At their last meeting the Trustees decided that to meet operating expenses the present tuition fee of $375.00 must be raised to $435 for the academic year 1952-53. This increase means that the total paid in fees to the college will be approximately $500. This figure covers not only tuition (Continued On Page Four)

Chaplains Cover Service Problems

Prospective serviceMen, about forty in number, attended a retreat at Erwin Lodge last Tuesday to discuss spiritual and moral problems facing the modern soldier. Speakers at this get-together included Professor Workman, Professor Wilson, Dr. Lt. Col. Davis, and Chaplain Major August T. Nolan of Raleigh, N.C. Al Davies led the worship program as chairman of the retreat.

Professor Wilson stated that every soldier must learn to keep up his own morale. He said he found the “Devotional Diary” helpful for this purpose. He advised learning to catnap during occasional short rests to stay physically awake. Dr. Workman stressed the difficulties of navy life, paying particular attention to the adjustment each man has to make to the many different moral attitudes of various individuals. A man must go outside himself to look at his standards and those of his fellow comrades. He stressed the need for spiritual guidance to hold up under fire.

Lt. Col. Davis spoke of the need for an officer to maintain professional standards by following the example of senior officers and through personal experience in the service. He suggested that problems of personality and over-familiarity could be solved by those men who are always strict and fair with those they command. He also emphasized the necessity of knowing how much responsibility to delegate to others.

In the concluding address, Chaplain Nolan outlined the importance of faith in oneself, faith in the country, and faith in God for becoming a successful leader in the armed forces. Opportunity was given for the students to ask questions and to talk personally with the various leaders after the close of the retreat. Al Davis led a worship service at the beginning of the retreat and distributed special copies of The Intercollegian about “Facing Military Service” to all in attendance.

Chaplain Resigns After Short Stay

Alan G. Gripe has announced that he will resign his post as College Chaplain this summer. Mr. Gripe came to this campus only last summer but found that the work was not to his liking and felt it his duty to explore the field of Christian student work more thoroughly. For this purpose, he will journey to Europe to work in an Ecumenical Work Camp in Germany this summer. Mr. Gripe was active in the Y and other phases of campus life, and many will regret to see him and Mrs. Gripe leave. The college never before had a man serving in the capacity of chaplain, but it was hoped that Mr. Gripe would fill an essential spot in the religious chain of command and solve some of the eternal problems that confront members of the administration of Davidson College. Mr. Gripe has proved helpful in this last respect, and it is unfortunate that he finds it expedient to leave. When he returns from his overseas trip, he has no definite plans but intends to seek a job that fits all his requirements as best as possible.

SVM Presents ‘In His Hands’

The Student Volunteer Movement for Christian Missions, a recently formed Christian organization on the campus, will present at vespers Sunday night a play entitled “In His Hands.” This play, written by Archie Crouch, is about the Korean Church's response to need in the present Korean war. It is based on the personal experience of a Korean Christian Church pastor named “Pastor Kim,” and it is to be presented to the Davidson student body to form a clearer picture of Christian actions in Korea today. This play, directed by Mr. and Mrs. Alan Gripe at Davidson, was also presented at the Sixteenth Quadrennial Conference of the Student Volunteer Movement held in Kansas during the past Christmas vacation. At that time, three Davidson students acted in the play. The leading male role will be played by Stuart Plummer of Davidson, who will be opposite Miss Nan Breyman. The several girls’ parts in the play will be played by Queens girls. Since the play will be presented at vespers, it is requested that there be no clapping during or after the performance of the play.

PETITION

The following petition will be submitted to the faculty of Davidson College, signed by students below. Write The Davidsonian or see Student Body President Jack Ruth to express your opinion on the matter. (Ed Note.)

We, the undersigned, do hereby petition the faculty of Davidson College for at least a three-day holiday between the end of the last examination of the first semester examination period and the beginning of the first day of classes of the second semester for the college year 1952-1953. Our reasons are as follows:

1. It is highly desirable and not unreasonable to have a brief rest period after examinations, which have never been known to have been easy at Davidson College.
2. A break will also benefit the faculty, giving them more time to grade exams and prepare final grades, and also a few days for rest.
3. Better work and more enthusiasm from student and professor alike would result at the beginning of the second semester from such action.

Signed by Class Presidents, Student Council, Fraternity Presidents, YMCA Cabinet, ODK, Phi Beta Kappa, Who's Who, Y Cabinet.

Lawrence Erwin of Pi Kappa Phi for 1952-53 has been elected president of the Interfraternity Council with Lefty Vance as the new treasurer, and Dick Kelly, secretary. In the future, there will be a combined meeting of the new and old council to go over some of the problems of rush week and other matters which have come up during the year. Several of the old and new groups have some ideas that might be worked out to make for a smoother rush week next fall. The new council consists of: Tyler Berry, Sigma Chi; Lawrence Erwin, Pi Kappa Phi; Duke Fowler, ATO; Al Gaither, Pi Kappa Alpha; Dick Kelly, SAE; Mercer Kepler, Campus Club; Dick Liles, Phi Gam; Joe Neisler, SPE; Pete Ormsby, Phi Delt; Jack Ruth, Beta; Charlie Simmons, Kappa Sigma, and Allan Vance, Kappa Alpha.

DC Students Aid Mitchell College's Honor System

On Monday, May 5, 1952, two members of the student body, Lee Harter and Fred Summers, at the invitation of the student body of Mitchell College in Statesville, North Carolina, led a discussion chapel program at Mitchell College, discussing various phases of an honor system. The student body of Mitchell College, having never had an honor system, has but recently devoted much time and effort to working out an effective honor system which they propose to adopt by student body vote on Saturday, May 10. The entire week ending May 10 has been devoted to an educational program concerning the honor system. Programs will be conducted during chapel this week by Davidson, Mitchell student council, Lenoir Rhyne, the faculty of Mitchell, the Board of Trustees of Mitchell, and on Saturday the student body will vote. The honor system is favored by the day students at Mitchell, while the boarding students have presented the greatest opposition.

KA’s, Roper Win Frat Singing Cups

The Kappa Alpha Fraternity sang their way into first place in the interfraternity sing last night under the leadership of Howard Proctor. Mr. Joe Little of the Charlotte record shop bearing his name stated that the choice was very close since all fraternities were both original and well balanced in their singing, but the KA’s won on their having not only good voices well united, but also on having a larger degree of originality and entertainment in their show. Equally as important as the KA win was the fact that Charles Roper of the Sigma Chi’s, which ran a close second, won the conductor’s trophy for his skill in leading his songsters. Judges for the event were Reverend Harley Williams, the local Methodist preacher; Mrs. R. J. Overton, the leader of choral music at Central High School in Charlotte; and Mr. Joe Little of Joe Little's Record Shop of Charlotte.