PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1952

THE DAVIDSONIAN
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF .................. Frank Hanshaw
BUSINESS MANAGER .......... Jack Hobson
ASSISTANT EDITOR .......... John Ottley
Associate Editors ........ Brinkley, Harter, Hope, Myers, M. G., Moylan, D.H.
Managing Editors ........ Hassell, J. M. Moore, Owens
Sports Editor ........ Dick Roper
Feature Editor ........ T. A. Williams
Assignments ........ Strand
News Editor ........ D. M. Smith
Arts Editor ........ Mahy
Photographer ........ Simons
Assistant Business Manager ........ Poston
Advertising Manager ........ Hasty
Circulation Manager ........ Nicholson
Collection Manager ........ Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Dr. McIlwaine Thompson
(Editor’s note: This fine tribute to Dr. McIlwaine Thompson was given in Vespers last Sunday evening by Dr. Cunningham.)

Two weeks ago at this hour we began our Fall Services. We were all pleased to have, for those not
to be forgotten days, Dr. McIlwaine Thompson as our leader. From the beginning, he spoke as one inspired. His freshness
of spirit, his clarity of thought, his sense of mission, and his eagerness for a verdict impressed themselves on all
of us who knew him and on many others. His messages were both timely and timeless. He proclaimed the Gospel
of Christ with intelligence, force, and urgency. For three evenings and three mornings he gave himself eagerly to his messages.
Throughout those days he made himself available to all who sought him whether in groups or in personal counsel. Some
of us who had known his condition previously were deeply impressed with his willing sacrifice of himself during those days.
He was fully aware of his physical limitations. Special treatment had been given him before he came. His devoted wife
changed her plans for coming to Davidson to visit here with friends and to be with him in order that
she might be ready to go with him on the serious mission which was to take him last week to
New York. He preached last Sunday in Staunton, Virginia, and then, with her, was off to the hospital. It hardly
seemed possible when the message came day before yesterday that our friend who had spoken to us slightly over a
week before had been transported from this life to the land of the unsetting sun. We are saddened that we
shall see his face no more. We are exceedingly thankful for his heavenly ministry to us. If he expended the
energies in our behalf he was later to need, then as I wrote his father the day after he left
here, I believe it was a wise economy. Surely we shall try to guarantee that his word to us was
seed sown in good ground. His last message was on “The Living Lord of Life.” He has heard the call
of his Lord—and we believe he knows Him now, and knows Life as never before. Our gratitude is to God
who sent him to Davidson as Student, Professor, Preacher. Our faith is strengthened in our Lord and Redeemer. Our sympathy
flows freely to his parents, brothers and sisters, his wife and little children. We are humbled and solemnized by this
Providence. We say with the Psalmist, “So teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto
wisdom.”

Approaching Blood Drive Asks Each Man A Personal Question

As another blood drive approaches in December, it would be well if all of us stopped for a minute to
think about the matter of donating blood. A great majority of the student body has generously donated blood in the
drives during the past several years. But have we ever considered why we are motivated to give? We believe that
there has been a great deal more than giving just for the sake of giving. The present conflict in Korea
has made the apparent need real. Already five Davidson men have given their lives to the service of their country
and several others have been reported wounded. This is certainly the most striking reason why we should give. There are
also many deep-rooted underlying reasons that motivate us to donate our blood. As Americans, we are proud of our heritage
and our democratic way of life. We believe that we must fight to preserve our freedom that we might continue
to be the greatest country in the world. And perhaps another thought is that we are grateful for the opportunity
to continue our education in these troubled times. It is the least we can do to take ten painless minutes
out of our day’s schedule to aid the fighting men in Korea who are preserving our way of life. This
writer feels that the men of Davidson College will again unite to give blood in the same fine spirit shown
in the past and will make this a record drive. Our blood is the strength of America!

Drink FINE FOODS
STEAKS
CHICKEN DINNERS
FOUNTAIN SERVICE
Open Sundays
Phone 132

MILK
STONESTREET'S
Grade A
Mooresville Creamery, Inc.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
Dial 3-6941
418 South Main Street
Mooresville, N. C.

DAVIDSONIAN ABROAD: Italy Is Hot As Hades In Summer But Ice Cream And Spaghetti Help

Italy was hot as the hinges of h— this summer, at least during the week of the heat wave which
struck all of Europe, and which came, together with tourists and dollars, from America. The Italians philosophically took the bad
with the good—the poor Italians did, that is; the rich ones traveled to the Alps for their vacation, about the
same time that American tourists trekked to Rome, Florence, Naples, Capri, Venice. All businesses, of course, are closed from noon
until three o'clock in the afternoon in Italy. But Italian businessmen walk the streets calmly and seemingly in perfect sanity,
properly attired in starched woolen suits. Everyone to his own taste!

History Of The Student Volunteer Movement Reveals True Purpose, Leaders, And Progress

Dwight L. Moody convened the first YMCA conference for college students in July of 1886 at Mt. Hermon, Mass. It
was here that the Student Volunteer Movement was born. Robert Wilder of Princeton instigated an interest among the two hundred
and fifty-one delegates which resulted in one hundred of them signing the statement: “We are willing and desirous, if God
permit, to become foreign missionaries.” In 1886-1887 Robert Wilder and John Forman, both India-born and both from Princeton, visited one
hundred and sixty-two colleges and seminaries and enrolled over two thousand Student Volunteers. Robert Speer was the traveling secretary in
1889-1890 and enrolled one thousand one hundred and ten from one hundred and ten schools. By 1891 the total was
six thousand two hundred. Formal organization was effected in 1888 and the Movement, though self-governing, became the missionary arm of
the student Christian Associations and the recruiting agency for the Mission Boards of the Churches. From 1888 to 1920 the
chairman was John R. Mott.

THE FREE LANCE: Spell As Exhibits Too Dues

In what purported to be a discussion last Sunday night the subject of a free press at Davidson was bandied
about between the leaders of the group to the greater or lesser illumination of the students who happened to attend.
What quickly became apparent was that the faculty is seldom influenced to action by unthoughtful criticism from the editorial page
of this paper or any other kind of criticism. It was clear that the solution to having the faculty (i.e.,
administrative governing bodies at the college) hear student ideas in a fairly unbiased frame of mind was the suggested rejuvenation
of the student-faculty committee. Hot criticism from this page, no matter how justified, does little more than to root policy
makers deeper in their holes, it was said at the discussion. Such writing also alienates the student body from the
faculty and makes them seem to be working at entirely different ends. Whether this isRationalizing the adamancy of the governing
bodies or not is a moot point. It does stand to reason, however, that if the student-faculty committee were to
meet each week and talk over issues as they arose, there might be a more direct and cooler presentation of
ideas on both sides. Cursing an action in retrospect, which is all students can do now, seldom has the effect
of criticizing it when it first comes up. Are we saying that the Davidsonian should discontinue its editorial page? No,
it can still form an invaluable function of presenting to the student body various opinions of the action taken by
the committee and/or merely reporting and interpreting what is taking place at its meetings.

From The Bookshelf
By BOBBY WALKER

Below is a list of books on various fields or professions, but comprehensible by all Davidson students. One may strike
your fancy. If it does, read it! If you have read them all, congratulations! Your scope of reading is considerably
larger than the founder of this literary endeavor, but still in the state of magma.

Economics and Business
“Economic Policy for a Free Society,” H. Simons.
“Dollar Shortage,” C. Kindleberger.
“The Memoirs of Herbert Hoover,” Volume II.

Pre-Med
“Behind the Doctor,” L. Clesdening.
“The Development of Modern Medicine,” R. H. Shryock.

By GEORGE BASON

Those Italians who can afford it stuff themselves royally at their midday meal, starting off with a heaping plateful of
spaghetti and a small-sized bottle of wine, following this with the main course, which consists largely of a quantity of
meat, and topping off with a large bowlful of assorted fruits. After this, the only thing you can do is
roll away from the table and go to sleep—we suspect the real purpose of the whole masochistic ritual is to
provide an excuse for sleeping during the hottest part of the day. One other item of Italian cuisine which cannot
go without mention: ice cream. The Italian ice cream comes in all flavors and varieties, and it is heavenly. Unlike
Americans, however, Italians eat their ice cream in moderation; they are amazed to see us perform such feats as eating
a pint of ice cream at one sitting, or even half a pint. They gaze in a combination of admiration
at the enormity of the performance, horror at its indubitable gastronomical consequences, and amazement at the sheer foolhardiness of the
Americans, who can be regarded, in the light of such spectacles, as nothing but big, overgrown children. Italy, of course,
is known for other things than heat and food, but, as the saying goes, those things could easily occupy a
whole library of books—and I have no intention of writing any one of these books.

By GEORGE E. NICKELS

Of the executive committee was John R. Mott, one of the first of Student Volunteers and an influential leader in
the student YMCA. He did much to unify the various phases of the Student Christian Movement and to relate them
to the growing missionary program vitality and effectiveness. In 1891 the first of the Quadrennial Conventions began, the last of
which about twenty Davidson students were privileged to attend in Lawrence, Kansas, just this past Christmas. Each student generation was
thus faced with a missionary appeal by such leaders as John R. Mott, Robert E. Speer, G. Sherwood Eddy, Dr.
John Mackay of Princeton, and others. The late Dr. C. R. Eberhardt’s gift of five volumes by John R. Mott,
including the history of SVM, autographed by their author and originally presented as a gift by Dr. Mott to Dr.
Eberhardt. The movement continued into and through the first two decades of the 1900s with all its former vitality and
effectiveness.

Pre-Law
“Mr. Justice Black,” John P. Frank.

Pre-Ministerial
“Essentials of Bible History,” E. W. K. Mould.

Fiction
“The Caine Mutiny,” Herman Wouk.
“Matador,” Barnaby Conrad.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
THURS.-FRI., NOV. 20-21
DREAMBOAT
CLIFTON WEBB
GINGER ROGERS

SATURDAY, NOV. 22
Wait Till The Sun Shines, Nellie
JEAN PETERS
DAVID WAYNE

MON.-TUES., NOV. 24-25
Red Mountain
ALAN LADD
LIZABETH SCOTT

WEDNESDAY, NOV. 26
Lady In The Iron Mask
LOUIS HAYWARD
PATRICIA MEDINA

A Rejuvenated Student-Faculty Committee Only Way to Action
By JOHN OTTLEY

We claim to have a student democracy and the only type of democracy which has any lasting power is an
informed democracy. This is not in any way a reversal of face or a selling short of the men who
have labored to write critically and intelligently on this page. It is a realization of the time factor in determining
the efficacy of this criticism. We believe the object of those who have written consistently for this page has been
to get things done or changed as the case may be rather than just to criticize emptily. Davidson men went
forth seeking in Queens girls soul companions, girls to whom they could unload the troubles of their separate cosmologies here.
They wanted women to console them, to entertain them, to share in their aspirations. And how the young ladies glowed
at this! We could almost hear them making mental notes to write Marilyn Monroe saying “We've found you out you
rascal you! It was virtue all along.” We suspect the crushing truth is that Davidson men seek qualities a shade
less ideal in their Queens dates after five days of seeing nothing more feminine than the window displays of local
entrepreneurs. We will confess that when it comes to marriage the standards of Joe Davidson lift quite measurably. In many
cases it is then the long-suffering puritans of the opposite sex are rewarded. All this is pointing to one fact—at
this juncture many collegians are not looking for happy homemakers.

FOR QUICK SERVICE
BATES CLEANERS
DYEING & ALTERATIONS — HATS BLOCKED
LAUNDRY SERVICE

the "DESERT BOOT" 11.99
By Clark's of England
SOFT AS A SLIPPER, LIGHT AS A FEATHER . . . TOUGH AS THE DESERT ITSELF. SUPPLE SUEDE UPPERS WITH
CREPE RUBBER SOLES. SAND, BROWN or NAVY. DESIGNED FOR BRITISH TROOPS
106-14 W. Trade St.
Store Hours 9 to 5:30, Thurs. 9
