PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1952

THE DAVIDSONIAN
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Frank Hanshaw

BUSINESS MANAGER
Jack Hobson

ASSISTANT EDITOR
John Ortley

Associate Editors
Brinkley, Daniel, Harter, Hope, Myers

Managing Editors
Hassell, J. M. Moore, Owens

Sports Editor
Dick Roper

Feature Editor
T. A. Williams

Assignments
Strand

News Editor
D. M. Smith

Arts Editor
Mahy

Photographer
Simons

Assistant Business Manager
Poston

Advertising Manager
Hasty

Circulation Manager
Nicholson

Collection Manager

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Want to Return New Year's Day? If Not, Let’s Change Calendar!!!

The Cat Poll last week showed that the students of Davidson College were not at all in favor of returning
from the Christmas holidays on New Year's Day to begin school on the second of January. This plan would be
especially inconvenient for the men living out of the state, for many would have to start back very early on
the morning of the first in order to get to school at a reasonable hour in the evening. For those
men who greet the New Year with celebrations, it undoubtedly would be difficult for them to start back early in
the day. And, many students who have always spent New Year's Day with their families desire to continue the custom.

With these arguments at hand, the Davidsonian undertook to investigate the possibilities of a change in the present setup. Dr.
C. K. Brown, Dr. Sam Spencer, and Mr. F. W. Hengeveld of the Calendar Committee were consulted about the matter
and the following suggestions were submitted to them:

1. A one-day extension—classes begin on January 3.
2. A two-day extension—classes begin on January 5.
3. Begin vacation on December 19 or 20, returning for classes January 3 or 5.
4. Christmas vacation December 18-January 5, plus between semester vacation January 28-February 1, extending school one extra week into June.

It was stated by the committee that they were well aware of the disadvantages of returning to school on January
1. But in studying the situation carefully before making up the calendar last January, they could find no other suitable
solution to the problem. Here are the arguments against the above four suggestions:

NUMBERS 1 AND 2:
The present school calendar meets the minimum requirements of the Southern Association—45 days of school each semester for each three-hour
course. The three-day Thanksgiving vacation granted to the students this year, the Saturday holiday this Homecoming, and the spring holidays
take all available free days this school year. Thus, there are no days that can be used for a one
or two days extension of the Christmas vacation.

NUMBER 3:
To begin the vacation later would interfere with student plans for working during the holiday period, at which time many
students make considerable sums of money to help with their schooling. Some students will have to cut several days of
school as the calendar now stands in order to get the jobs.

NUMBER 4:
To extend school into the first week of June would cause summer school to open one week later. This would
run the last week of summer school into the opening week of football practice in September which would not be
possible. Also, the cost of operation of an additional week of school has not been taken into consideration for this
year’s budget.

Therefore it seems the only feasible plan to extend the Christmas vacation would be to take a day off of
the semester exam period which is not counted as a part of the Southern Association requirement. If the members of
the student body feel this desirable, see Jack Ruth, student body president. He can call a closed meeting of the
student body.

THE NON-CONFORMIST
(Really Not Concerned Whether Recognized at the Artist Series or Not.)

THE CABBAGE PLANTER: A Shutter Is Snapped; Reveals Proof Of A Negative Approach

Some hate broccoli, some hate bacon, I hate having my picture taken,
—O. Nash.

Among the advantages of the new student identification system, whereby one’s picture will open the door to new vistas of
sport, culture and things, perhaps the cleverest benefit has been overlooked. To wit, the subtle way the photographer developed all
the pictures to appear grotesquely identical, so that one card may be shared by roommates, fraternity brothers or just anybody.

One picture, they say, is worth the proverbial thousand words. Why not, then, print enough of the wallet-size caricatures to
keep on hand to send draft boards, girls you asked up for Homecoming last summer but now you wonder why,
and other people you want to scare.

There's little chance, however, that either of these worry and time-saving devices will ever be used. Even if they are,
it will be at someone else's suggestion. Consequently, there'll be a change in the Cabbage Planter, which column many people,
including the Cabbage Planter, hoped would be killed over the summer by a combination of drought, heat, and blight. Hugo
even stopped his Vigoro account.

The new program, for lack of a name, has been called the “I'd Rather Sing Than Sack In Series,” and
will be dedicated to Davidson’s behind-the-scenes activity. Certainly the most vital angle will be to give boys with interesting outside
activities a chance to let the world know about it. Boys with intriguing hobbies are all about us and we
never notice them. Take, for instance, Alexander Watermark of the freshman class.

Called Alexander for short, Watermark spent all last summer in the Charlotte post office keeping a record of how many
Greek two-cent magentas went through upside down. There are the makings of a real live-wire story, and you can bet
if we can find Alexander, we'll sure make him tell us about it. There’s the scientific side, of course, and
then there's all the love interest that can be worked in.

Naturally, we won't run a serious article like that very often, but only when our Why I'd Rather Debate Than
Date Series gets too hot. This Debating vs. Dating Series springs from the fact that there are several worthwhile institutions
on the campus, not the least of which are religion, art, government, athletics, education, and social enlightenment. Broken down, they
come under the headings of YMCA; dramatics and literary societies; Student Council; football and other teams; Inter-Fraternity Council, and other
names I can't think of right now.

As a rule, all that we as a student body know of these is the result of their actions—anywhere from
taking in sixty minutes of football on an average of four Saturdays a year to spending about six hours in
the gym on dance weekends or watching “Macbeth” during Fine Arts Week.

There's probably a story or two, though, behind all this, and because there’s a chance that some of it will
make interesting and/or provocative reading, we're going to run a number of them in the Cabbage Planter’s space. More important
than any one article, however, is that none of this space will be used to preach—
(Continued On Page Four)

FROM THE EDITOR'S MAILBOX: Students Support United Fund Drive As Best Means Of Conducting Fund-raising Campaign

Dear Editor:
In response to your request for personal opinion about the United Appeal, I am writing to urge student support of
this effort.

My opinion is based on the advantageous practical aspects of the program rather than an emotional appeal of the plan.

Although the real need of support of these charitable organizations such as the Salvation Army, American Heart Association, Cancer Society,
and Red Cross cannot be overemphasized, I do not intend to be sentimental and deal with this phase.

The advantages of a united drive at Davidson are many. If such a plan were introduced here, the student body
would benefit by the convenience afforded by this institution. Rather than having several drives throughout the year, the student and
faculty would be able to concentrate their money and energy to make one big successful campaign. In this, the student
body would be spared the necessary, but an-

It is administered by the United Community Service and is certainly in competent hands. If there is any criticism of
any of these charitable organizations, all I ask is that the objections be based on first-hand observation and not merely
on idle chatter and second-hand dope.

To support a good charitable cause is the moral obligation of everyone who is able, and the inner satisfaction of
this service is unsurpassed. I commend The Davidsonian and urge your continued support.

Sincerely,
BILL ELLIOTT.

Dear sir:
As dues-paying members of “The Soft-Touch Club,” or Davidson student body, we believe the United Appeal proposal as stated in
last week’s editorial is one answer to the problem of multiple giving. One concerted attack on the wallets and billfolds
of the Davidson students would be a clean, decisive stroke—an improvement over the present situation of giving with the mental
reminder of “holding some back for the WCTU drive next month.” Therefore, enlist us in your cause. Givers of Davidson,
unite! You have nothing to lose...

Respectfully,
101 VILLAGE, THAT LUCKY

Male students at the University since earliest days have bemoaned the scarceness ofMembers of the opposite sex on the campus,
the usual ratio in the past has been approximately three or four males to every woman student enrolled. Although the
women on campus have not seemed to mind this arrangement too much, the men have been loud and insistent in
their strident demands that something be done. Just exactly what is to be done has never been clearly specified but,
nevertheless, the men insist, something must be done to correct the situation. Actually, the male segment of the University population
should be more than content. Here the ratio is only four to one, but at Davidson College in North Carolina
things are a little worse. Its enrollment? Men—825; Women—1. —Daily Athenaeum, W. Va. U.

THE FREE LANCE: The Ursilus Rubber Co., whose specialty is the manufacture of garden hose in 2-foot lengths, has renewed
a contract on the campus. From all reports, the riot squad methods of Doug Rice’s Court of Control have been
dug up and reapplied. What happened to the sane and constructive policies of Judges Hoopy Davis and Johnny Guiton? Though
it makes for good fun around the boarding house table the next day, we wonder what results the “tough guy”
attitude produces on (a) the freshmen and (b) the tough guys. In the latter case, it appears that the court
is being run for their entertainment rather than for the benefit of the offenders. Somehow we have the idea that
organized barbarism should have gone out with high school letter club initiations. At this age, it is not flattering to
us to make a fetish of perversity.

Trying to terrify the freshmen causes two general reactions. We remember our own experience with Rice’s third-rate inquisition. It not
only did us no positive good, but kindled a deep-seated resentment of the court and of the so-termed “Davidson Way
of Life.” We know of one first-year man who already has been given an opening to such a view. The
alternate reaction is that a boy is hurt and driven into a sort of protective shell. His adjustment to college
is not only hindered, but in some cases prevented. Again our attention has been drawn to one boy who had
more or less this reaction. Perhaps we have spoken too soon. If so and it is the intention of the
“judge” to change his tactics, we apologize. On the other hand, it may be that we have not spoken soon
enough.

Humor—You Say: You haven't had a chance yet this year, but how often in years past has the cry gone
up for a strictly humorous magazine for the 800-odd prisoners of Chillon. We note with interest an editorial in The
Daily Tar Heel urging the student body to support their humor magazine, Tarnation. It appears that apathy at the reputed
center of Southern sin has nearly forced that publication on the rocks. If the worldly citizens of UNC don’t get
fired up over humor, what would a humor magazine's fate at simon-pure D.C. be? Naturally, a near bankruptcy at UNC
can’t be proof of a dying interest in all comic mags, but if called upon to offer financial support of
one, we feel the Davidson gent would take his customary seat in the rear. This leaves us with the heretical
act of accepting—accepting our Scripts 'N Pranks the way it is, a half and half affair. Incidentally, despite the above,
we hear Myers has cooked up a real funny for the first issue.

Who Said It? A favorite trick around this center of things epistemological is to silence an argument by a sly
and learned reference to the comment of some well-known philosopher. The speaker lets a slow smile creep over his face
which suggests of his having dined upon a rather distasteful fare. In a land of hero-worshippers such as ours, this
is a particularly effective trick. We become so awed at a name which resembles a Greek that we immediately concede
the point of dispute. A sad fact to be revealed to us is that history has made its mark everywhere—even
in sacred philosophy. One cannot honestly take any one thinker’s system and call it the end answer to all human
problems. Admittedly, one can look at some of the destructive thinkers with credulous eyes, but even in their denial of
things they are creating. Being introduced to rational thinkers is almost a new experience to many of us and we
have a tendency to desert our inherited empiricism and go hog wild in the search of universals. Either that or
we gobble up the rationalists having never acquired any empiricism at all by virtue of some religious affiliation. We don’t
go far enough. We sip and then want to flee out in the world singing, “Ah, at last I know
the answer to it all.” The brutal fact is that we don’t, and have not the right to try to
lord a little learning over anyone who has not done the reading we have done. At best, Truth is being
reached by an evolutionary process with thinkers and artists of every age getting a little closer through the comparison and
rejection method. To read in philosophy prescribes a tremendous obligation to the reader. It is not for him to spout
pedantic slush and conquer those who haven’t read, but to rack his brain for an intelligent criticism of what has
been read. The natural result of accurate criticism is a morsel of creation. At this stage of the game of
the universe even a morsel is invaluable.

OBSERVED AS NESBITT OFFICIALLY ARRIVES: Sometime last week, though nobody is exactly sure when, a phenomenon suddenly appeared on the
Davidson campus which, because of its peculiar nature, has almost driven the Administration crazy. It was discovered by Cop Linker
as he was dutifully making his rounds at about two o'clock in the morning, who suddenly noticed this creature strolling
back and forth between the library and the Science Building, and bawdily singing songs of a less than delicate nature.
Luckily for those of us whose ears have been unsullied through these formative years by such garbage, this oddity did
not have superior enunciation of the English language, and thus we were spared a shocking embarrassment. According to Cop Linker,
the dialect which this undetermined character used seemed to be Yaddish in flavor, thus pointing the finger of guilt at
our brethren across the sea for having foisted such a misconception upon us. Needless to say, the Administration has kept
“It,” our unknown visitor, in deepest hiding ever since his capture. Scientists are rushing from every point of the United
States to Davidson in an effort to ascertain the nature and heredity of this unfortunate creature. Some of us were
confronted with this problem when, while walking by Dean Bailey’s house one night, we heard a voice using the most
urgent tones issuing from the upstairs window. It seems that the Good Dean is beset by many pressing problems, and
this last catastrophe which has been spoken of was more than he could bear. He has taken to talking in
his sleep to relieve the unbearable tension, and it was thus that we learned of this peculiarity which has invaded
our domicile. Feeling that the Student Body should not be ignorant of this eccentricity, we hastened to verify what we
thought were aimless meanderings by the Good Dean's troubled mind. Alas, it was all too true. Gentlemen, with all due
respect to Darwin's theory of Evolution, I believe that we have found the object of so many vehement arguments: The
Missing Link. As we approached the cage with our hats held reverently over our hearts and muttering “Te Deum Laudabamini’s”
to ourselves, the fog slowly lifted and we found ourselves face to face with this unequaled rarity. Seated in the
cage and surrounded by all its pristine glory was—Nesbitt, The Neuter Nude. It seems that Nesbitt had a very unhappy
home life. His father was a Babylonian eunuch who didn't realize his own limitations, and for his untimely excursion into
the harem was promptly beheaded. Nesbitt’s little playmates treated It with disdain, though it never knew why, for among the
Asiastics as the Americans, even your best friend won't tell you. Well, we all have our crosses to bear. So
now a new student has matriculated to our beloved institution of higher learning. Its activities will be somewhat limited, (Nesbitt
doesn’t date), but it has promised to give us any observation which is deemed pertinent to our Way of Life.
Watch for his lurid commentaries in following issues. And be on the lookout for Nesbitt, The Neuter Nude.

Campus capers call for Coke. There’s bedlam in the stands when the team is on a march to the goal.
Keep things going! Refresh now and then with a frosty bottle of delicious Coca-Cola. BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA
COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N. C. “Coke” is a registered trademark. © 1982, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY.
