FOOTBALLERS WAIT WEEK TO MEET WOLFPACK (p. 3)

VOLUME XLI

Davidsonians In Armed Forces

(Ed. Note: Again this year the Davidsonian will present a column giving information on and addresses of Davidson alumni now
in the armed services. These men would appreciate hearing from you.)

CHARLES M. BARRETT, '52, of Barium Springs, N. C., is now in training for the Air Force at Wichita Falls,
Texas.

WILLIAM WEED BOWER, who was drafted into the Army just before he was to have begun his senior year in
1951, is serving with the 3rd Infantry in Korea. His address is Pvt. William W. Bower, U.S. 53102802; 30th Bn.,
33rd Co., H.L.T.C.; APO 957, Care Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif.

HENRY TREW GURLEY, JR., has just completed a course in meteorology at the University of New Mexico, preparing for service
in the U.S.A.F., as a weather technician.

Deferment Tests Set In December

Selective Service College Qualification examinees will compete in the third series of tests to be given December 4, 1952, and
April 23, 1953, at the thousand testing centers throughout the country. General Hershey, head of the tests, emphasized that increasing
manpower demands made it necessary and important that each draft-eligible student who has not taken the test do so as
soon as possible.

To be eligible to apply for the college deferment test, a student must (1) intend to request deferment as a
student; (2) be satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course of instruction; and (3) must not previously have taken the test. Application
cards for the taking of the test will not be available after October 6, so it is entirely necessary that
all students wishing to take the test apply before that time.

The present criteria for deferment as an undergraduate student are either a satisfactory score (70) on the Selective Service College
Qualification Test or specified rank in class (upper half of the male freshman class, upper two-thirds of the male sophomore
class, or upper three-fourths of the male junior class). The two forthcoming administrations of the College Qualification Test represent the
eighth and ninth testing dates of the program. In the first series of tests 64 percent of the (Continued On
Page Four)

Lt. Dick Harris D.C. Graduate, Dies In Korea

Lieutenant Richard Everett Harris, Davidson Class of 1951, died in Korea on June 4, 1952, of a virus infection. Dick
Harris entered service in July, 1951, after accepting an ROTC appointment as second lieutenant. His battle record was a good
one, and he had been awarded the Combat Infantryman’s Badge for “excellent performance of duty in combat.” Prior to his
death, Lt. Harris had served eight weeks in the front lines.

Dick made an excellent record at Davidson. He was a member of Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity, and sang in
the Male Chorus. He was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Phi Mu Alpha (national music fraternity), Scabbard and Blade,
and Beta Phi Alpha (national German fraternity). He was also a cadet major in the ROTC. He graduated cum laude
in Business and Economics and because of his distinguished record was granted an assistant professorship in Economics at Duke with
the privilege of studying for his Master's degree.

Dick was born October 12, 1930, in Oak Park, Illinois. He graduated from Miami Senior High School in 1947 with
many honors. His family now resides in Weaverville, N.C.

A letter written by a classmate and friend of Dick Harris accompanied by a memorial gift to the school library
reads in part: “Dick came to mean a great deal to me through our years at Davidson together ... The
fine qualities of his spirit which I absorbed from that association are among my richest gains from Davidson. I shall
always cherish his manly reverence, his appreciation for (Continued On Page Four)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3,

Over 200 New Pledges Select Local Fraternities

ALENDA LUX UBI

Davidson's 11 national social fraternities and one local organization pledged a total of 221 men as a climax of last
week's rushing. Highest number of pledges were garnered by the Sigma Chi’s who enlisted 27. Second were the Phi Delts
and KA’s who got 24 apiece. The remainder of the field lined up as follows: Betas, 22; SAE's, and ATO’s,
21; Phi Gams, 18; Kappa Sigs and SPE’s, 16; Campus Club, 12; Pi KA’s and Pi Kapps, 10 each. Below
is a list of the new pledges of each group:

BETA THETA PI: Arthur Morrison Martin, Jr., Theodore Nelson Grice, Jr., Robert LeGette Alexander, Jr., Richard Burt Sessoms, Hugh Waddell
Stephens, James Congdon Seabury, Jr., Joel Osborne Conarroe, John Hugh Malone, Jr., John William McLauchlin, William Harvey McNair, James Roy
Morrill, Charles Frederick Mauney, William Harry Brownlee, Van Lynn Julian, Charles Oliver Miller, Julian Harold McKeithen, Larry Huitt Parrott, Richard
Halbert Webb, Jr., John Lawrence Still, Archie Braswell Joyner, Walter Gluyas Craven, Robert Earl Hayes, III.

PHI GAMMA DELTA: Allan V. Beck, Jr., Gregory G. Dimijian, William R. Gentry, Henry A. Ghigo, Osborne Bethea New Alumni
Head Osborne Bethea, New York City insurance executive, and Richard Grey, Asheboro textile manufacturer, have been elected president and vice
president of the Davidson College Alumni Association, according to an announcement by Alumni Secretary John L. Payne. The two new
officers will be installed as one of the featured attractions of Davidson's Homecoming celebration October 24-25.

A graduate of the class of 1922, Bethea won the presidency over Robert U. Woods of Richmond, president of the
North American Insurance Company. The newly-elected president was an outstanding student leader while at Davidson, and a member of Omicron
Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity. The new officers were elected by a special mail ballot held during the past
two months. More than 1500 Davidson alumni voted in the record-breaking election.

John V. Harmon, William A. F. Kuykendall, Edmund A. Liles, John W. Liles, Jr., Clyde A. Long, Jr., Mallory F.
Miree, Fred G. Myers, James I. M. Query, Jr., C. Henry Rendleman, Lloyd H. Robertson, Jr., Robert F. Robinson, Igor
Sviatoslavsky, John A. Young.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON: Sellers Crisp, Ed Spier, Tom Darst, Henry Faison, Joe DeShazo, Charlie Harris, Jerry Walker, Jerry Bishop, Buddy
Echols, Albert Aiken, Ralph Maynard, John Woodall, Hilly Rawson, Steve Norton, Watt McCain, Ken Bumgarner, Ernest Mason, Jack Chipperfield, Jack
Nivins, Dewitt Helms, Carl Jordan.

KAPPA SIGMA: John Child, Don Copeland, Johnny Kiser, Corky Burdette, Manfred Johnston, Harold Davis, Chuck Adams, Blake Brinkerhoff, Bill Taylor,
Bo Abernathy, Bob Hoover, Joe Hall, Ed Pullen, Shep Nash, Hobby Cobb, Dickie Adams.

PI KAPPA PHI: Bill Bard, Phil Hicks, Carl Jackson, Denis King, Tom McAfee, Addison Toole, George Urwick, Don White, Jack
Williamson, Bob Wolfe.

CAMPUS CLUB: George R. Cousar, Jr., Charlie M. Harricil, William P. McAllister, Leighton M. McCutchen, Guy F. Miller, Clark S.
Reed, Luke L. Scales, Jr., A. M. Shive, Jr., Robert M. Shive, W. Jack Sims, Jr., William M. Watt, B.
Brooks Webb.

KAPPA ALPHA: Bob Blevins, Walter Coleman, Bill Davidson, Thorny Guthery, Dick Lovette, Charles McCrary, Larry McIntosh, Bill McKemie, Dick Morehead,
Jim Murr, Si Nunn, Walter Parker, John Ponder, Phil Rice, Vic Scott, Al Simpson, Allen Smith, June Stallings, Jack Taylor,
George Whitlock, Bob Sloop, Bill Scholl, Bob Dunbar, Don Swicord.

ALPHA TAU OMEGA: R. S. Beal, M. C. Beebler, T. C. Flanagan, Ivey H. Gaskin, J. T. Harllee, W. E.
Keiter, Jr., P. H. Koonce, R. H. McCormick, A. D. McCutchan, W. D. Mendenhall, Jr., H. S. Parrish, H. A.
Patterson, M. G. Quesinberry, G. M. Sharp, W. H. Simendinger, J. D. Stewart, J. W. Stewart, R. C. Stewart, R.
M. Strozier, J. A. Turner, Jr., T. W. Warlick.

PI KAPPA ALPHA: Bob Klack, (Continued On Page Four)

Parking Capacity Of Fraternity Court Doubled: Other Improvements Made

NEW PARKING AREA AT FRATERNITY COURT

Several improvements have been made in the fraternity court parking area. Much of the center of the court was paved
with asphalt. The situation is now such that the court can hold twice as many cars as before, which will
be a definite asset on a dance weekend. There is enough room for parallel parking in the paved area, not
to mention end-to-end parking all the way around the court next to the fraternities.

Bumper logs were placed in order to prevent cars from going into the center of the court. These logs were
imported from South Carolina. They are especially treated with rot-proof materials and are very similar to the telephone and telegraph
poles seen all over the nation. The part of the court which is not used for parking has been thoroughly
graded to better the drainage problem in the court. The whole central area that is not paved has been covered
with a thick layer of pine needles which will keep the ground in that area from getting muddy. Additional drainage
pipes, etc. have been set up in order to keep water off the grounds of the lower houses. The fraternity
court is now (Continued On Page Four)

Patterson, Jr., Stafford. 1100 points.

ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

1952 Frosh Fall Flat In Fiz-ed Fiasco

The supposedly rough and tough freshman class found itself grossly embarrassed as 52.4% of its muscle-men remained in Basic P.T.
The basic physical fitness test, given to new students September 18 and 19, proved too much for 120 of the
229 freshmen and transfers who took it. A total of 290 points in five events was the passing mark. A.
H. Smith proved the fittest man in the freshman class with a whopping score of 446 points. H. S. Norton
and R. R. Sessoms were a close second and third, and 109 men had the necessary 290 orMore points. Nineteen
of the young Herculeans had scores of over 400 points. Only 12 frosh made less than 100 points. The low
man, R. R. Lyle, with 32 points, made a much better showing than did the low man in the class
of '55 with 7 points.

Ken Boyer Takes Post With Library

Succeeding Miss Judith Passmore, for years a library landmark as circulation librarian, is Davidson pre-ministerial Ken Boyer, who took over
the job when Miss Passmore resigned last spring. Boyer, a philosophy major, who intends to follow his father’s footsteps as
a missionary, is registered in Columbia Theological Seminary. Ken began his library work as a sophomore in 1949, working in
the magazine files and government room. He continued this work until his promotion to the front desk this year. He
says, “So far, the desk job has been very interesting, and I am looking forward to the rest of the
year... Every day something new.” Ken remarked that he was working on some improvements on the keeping of library records.
These are mostly behind the scenes, where students do not see, but are calculated to make the library run smoother.

Ken and three of his four sisters were born in Chinju, Korea, where his missionary parents served until their evacuation
just before Pearl Harbor. Ken has lived since then in Michigan, Florida, Virginia, Tennessee, North Carolina, and Ontario. He entered
Davidson in 1948, and was a member of the Campus Club until the spring of 1950, of the concert and
football bands, and of the Photo Club. He also worked on Scripts 'n Pranks. Ken had one remark to make
about the students who use the library. “It is amazing,” he says, “how many people come here for four years
without ever learning how to find books, while others progress in their ability to use the library year by year.”

College Undergoes Three-fold Survey By New York Firm

For the next several months Davidson College will be undergoing a physical, financial, and administrative survey by Cresap, McCormick and
Paget, management engineers of New York City. At present there are three representatives of this company on the Davidson campus,
Messrs. Eldon Shoup, Archer Brown, and Grady Jensen. A fourth man, Dr. Paul Gillen, will arrive later this month to
assist with the survey. This survey, which will involve several weeks of actual observation and later study in New York
City, will be a study of the administration and administrative organization.

(Continued On Page Four)

United Film Society To Sponsor Pictures Of World Wide Fame

“Great Expectations” will be presented, Tuesday, October 7, in Chambers Auditorium by the United Literary Film Society, Tom Abel announced
today. The ULFS is a group jointly sponsored by the Philanthropic and Eumenean Literary Societies and certain members of the
faculty, student body, and staff, and was founded for the purpose of bringing outstanding films, either American or foreign, to
the Davidson campus for both the enlightenment and entertainment of the audiences. The admission to the series of five movies
is one dollar, and tickets may be had Monday in the dormitories, in the lobby of Chambers after chapel Monday,
or before the show Tuesday evening.

This is the schedule for the Fall semester, 1952: Tuesday, October 7, “Great Expectations,” 7:15 p.m.; Wednesday, November 5, “Alexander
Nevsky” or “Zero De Conduite,” 8:30 p.m.; Tuesday, November 12 (to be announced) 7:15; Wednesday, December 10, “Never Give a
Sucker an Even Break,” 8:30 p.m.; Wednesday, January 7, “The Blue Angel,” 8:30 p.m. “Great Expectations” alone is worth the
price of admission. “Alexander Nevsky” is famous for its score by Prokofiev, and “Zero De Conduite” is a movie dealing
with life in a boy’s school. “Never Give a Sucker an Even Break” is partly written and is acted in
by the late W. C. Fields, and, needless to say, “The Blue Angel” features Marlene Dietrich long before she was
a grandmother.

Next Week's Chapel

Monday, October 6, the chapel will be conducted by Professor F. S. Morton. Tuesday, October 7, the chapel will be
under the direction of Dr. Frank Hall, who will be a special guest of President Cunningham. Wednesday, October 8, chapel
will be conducted by Dr. E. E. Brown. Thursday, October 9, will be YMCA day as usual. Charlie Williams, member
of the junior class, and moderator of Assembly's Youth Council, will be in charge. Friday, October 10, will be student
day and Court of Control.

Vowles Requests Rhodes Entrants

A candidate for the Rhodes Scholarship should send his application, which he may get from Professor Vowles, to the Secretary
of the Committee of Selection for the State in which he wishes to compete as early as possible in October,
and in any case not later than November 1st. State Committees of Selection will meet on December 10, and District
Committees on December 13th. Scholars-elect will enter the University of Oxford in October, 1953. Each candidate must obtain a written
endorsement from his college stating that he is a suitable applicant for a Rhodes Scholarship. If any other questions arise
about applications or the tests and efforts made by the candidate, Dr. Vowles will be glad to answer them. The
Rhodes Scholarship committee here at Davidson is composed of Prof. G. R. Vowles, chairman, and Professors W. P. Cumming and
H. T. Lilly as committeemen.

CHARITY DRIVES SHOULD BE UNITED, SAYS THE EDITOR

NUMBER 2

Professor H. A. Baumann presents Student Body President Jack Ruth with new edition of the Bible in commemorative service held
in chapel Tuesday.

Special Ceremony Features New Revised Bible Edition

The official publication of the American Revised Standard Version of the Bible was made on September 30, 1952. It was
commemorated in a special chapel service on Tuesday. The new revision of the Bible, with its great accuracy and modern
form, has been made possible only through the patient work of many American scholars for over twenty years, and through
the great advances made during the past three centuries in the discovery and understanding of the original Greek and Hebrew
texts. Even the revisions of the late nineteenth century have been outdated by the new Version, which has corrected their
occasional archaic expressions and inaccuracies.

The translation of the Scriptures from their original Hebrew and Greek into other languages and dialects is a process that
has continued for many centuries. The Septuagint version of the Old Testament writings, 400 A.D., and the King James Version
of 1611 are perhaps the best-known translations. The King James Version is still the most beloved and most used version
of our day. The Revised Standard Version is not a new translation, but is a revision of the 1901 American
Standard Version, which in its turn was a revision of the King James Version.

Two services have been held at Davidson to commemorate the publication of the Revised Standard Version of the Bible. On
Sunday, September 28, 1952, Dr. Bernard Boyd of the University of North Carolina devoted his Vesper sermon to the subject
of the importance of the Bible and of this new version. Professor Henry Patmann held the chapel service in commemoration
of the new version’s publication, and made five awards of copies to leaders in the Davidson family. Those receiving copies
were Jack Ruth, President of the Student Body, Hubert Cannon, YMCA president; Dr. W. C. Workman, Dr. Walter Lingle, and
Dave Moylan.

Mizelle To Head Series Committee

By recent appointment of the president of the student body, Vance Mizelle has been appointed chairman of the Student Committee
on Artist Series. He has chosen as his committeemen the following: T. K. McDonald, senior; T. Alden Williams, junior; and
Dick Williams, sophomore. The purpose of this committee is to assist the faculty committee in both selecting various artists to
appear on the Davidson campus and also arranging for their entertainment while visiting our campus. The first artist of the
Artist Series will be Valentino Ormansky, a dramatic dancer who has appeared in such shows as “Oklahoma,” “Carousel,” and conducted
the Indian dances for the Cherokee pageant.

Dutch Army Seeks Local Cosmopolite

By MIKE MYERS

“It's just that I have to be in the Army and I cannot appear.” Naturally, we all asked Johannes why.
“Well, I am here, that’s why.” It seems that when the tall Dutchman left here last June he made up
his mind that he would come back to Davidson, although his travel grant would have expired. He wrote to N.Y.,
requesting an extension of his leave, then took off hitchhiking “West... just West.” Mr. Miedmer, with a 60-lb. pack on
his back went via thumb to Texas; then to Oklahoma City, where he got a job with a combine crew.
The work was miserable (work from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m.), but so was the pay. “Then one day I
got a letter from New York and a letter from home. I sat in a wheelbarrow and read them. The
one from N.Y. says no extension—get out of the country. The one from home says appear to draft board Oct.
8th. Here I am.”

Johannes stuck out the combine job for six weeks—then one day he got his machine stuck in the mud. A
truck pulled him out and then stopped, but the combine didn't—it rammed into the truck and smashed. The boss didn’t
say anything and Johannes didn't say anything. His next job was in Kansas—then Colorado, Nebraska. Then somehow Jo wound up
in Chicago, completely broke and completely hungry. Of course, he had never seen Chicago and knew no one there. He
decided to buy a coke at a (Continued On Page Four)
