If Coach Bill Dole were given the chance to revamp the rules of college football before tomorrow's fracas with W&L, chances are the first thing he'd do would be to pencil in a clause unconditionally restricting the Wildcats’ biggest headache against split-T teams: the option play. If this Now-I-Got-It-Now-I-Ain't tactic of VPI's quarterback Johnny Dean didn't beat the Cats last Saturday, it was certainly the proverbial straw that broke the back of the Davidson club. About the time that the Gobblers’ Dickie Beard scampered for the fourth VPI touchdown, it began to appear that this Wildcat team was the same as those of yesteryear, which just couldn't seem to hold out against a sustained attack. But anybody who bothered to look a little deeper into the situation would have had reason to brighten up and realize, even in the gloom of an opening-game defeat, that things were not nearly as bad as they might have seemed. Even to the skeptical, it was obvious that this Davidson team had one thing that past teams have lacked: belief in themselves. They went on the field last week believing that they could and would win the ball game. They played the game hard, capitalized on the breaks, and showed a real scoring punch. Behind thirteen points in the final quarter, they came back with another touchdown to prove they weren’t quitters. The big job ahead of Coach Dole now is to teach his men not to make the mistakes they did against the Gobblers. The most conspicuously weak point of the Cats’ defense were, of course, the ends which Dean ran ragged last Saturday. These positions, manned mainly by freshmen and others not used to protecting the flanks, will probably be the principal points of the W&L attack tomorrow, but perhaps last week's experience plus Dole’s tutelage will be enough to slow down the Generals here. Between the tackles, VPI had to fight for every inch they gained, but the difference in weight between the visitors and the home team was usually enough to ensure at least a couple of yards when a first down was needed. Still, few would deny that the resistance put up by Ben Craig, Dickie Davis, Harold Davis, Neal Graham, Bob Patten, Roger Wright, Bob Loy, et al. was the strongest and most determined seen in a Davidson line in a while. Smart defensive playing in the backfield kept VPI pass receptions at a minimum, and good pass defense will again be at a premium tomorrow. The brightest spot here was freshman Bobby Renn, whose ability at batting down Dean's aerials saved the Cats more than once. And his punting? Well, you saw that. He only averaged 41 yards a try. Looks as if the biggest setback the Cats have received in this young season is the loss of fullback Henry Brown, whose running against the Gobblers virtually kept Davidson in the ball game. Henry’s wearing a cast now, says it won't come off for four weeks, and the chances are he’s lost for the season. So it looks now like the load will pass on to sophomore Leroy Fargason and the versatile Bobby Renn, who'll play both fullback and halfback. From here it looks like it'll be an uphill fight all the way tomorrow against the Generals. If Quarterback Ruth can shift the Wildcats into high tomorrow, some folks will be pleasantly surprised. If they don’t—well, the less said, the better. All the students and fans can ask is that they try.

Wildcats, Dropping Opener, Are Still ‘Not Disappointing’
By RONNIE WILSON

Davidson’s reception into this year’s Southern Conference competition last Saturday was something less than gentle, yet to call it disappointing is both unfair and untrue. VPI, one of the heaviest athletic subsidizers in the conference, had had its expensive nose rubbed into the turf last year by “tiny Davidson,” whose student body is approximately one-tenth the size of the Gobblers. And adding insult to injury, Johnny Guiton, who could have run through several of their player's legs, was the leading ground gainer of the day, averaging over 5 yards a carry. VPI definitely was up for this year’s game after the way they were treated in ‘51. Add to that the fact of the superlative punting by the Gobblers. The gentleman who handled that job was undeniably an engineering major, for no one else could have so shrewdly calculated the distance, windage and position, and advantageously used it to kick outside back of the 15-yard line so often. The Wildcats, except for one sustained drive, were always fighting with their backs to the wall. Bobby Renn, whose name should become familiar around these parts soon, frequently had the rather dubious pleasure of kicking from behind his own goal line, which he did exceptionally well. His only fault was that he couldn’t punt 100 yards. Dean mixed his option plays and his inside-tackle bucks well, capitalizing on our lack of reserves. The Thin Red Line is still meagerly equipped with muscular behemoths of any description, and though many a game has been won on guts alone, the human body will only absorb so much punishment before it must necessarily yield to fresh invading forces.

THURS.-FRI., SEPT. 25-26
“Jack And The Beanstalk”
BUD ABBOTT
LOU COSTELLO

SATURDAY, SEPT. 27
“I Dream of Jeanie”
RAY MIDDLETON
MURIEL LAWRENCE
BILL SHIRLEY

MON.-TUES., SEPT. 29-30
Don’t Bother to Knock
RICHARD WIDMARK
MARILYN MONROE

WEDNESDAY, OCT. 1
BURNARD BROS.
COLEY DOWNS
ROBERT HUTTON

Wildcat Sports
INTERFRAT FIGHT STARTS OCTOBER 6 WITH TAG FOOTBALL

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1952
PAGE THREE

And Pleeze Watch Them Options!
Weakened Cats Hit W. & L. Here Tomorrow
Dole Juggles Backfield

A Wildcat eleven hard hit by the loss of ace ground-gainer Henry Brown will take the field here tomorrow afternoon against Washington and Lee's highly favored Generals in the second home game of the season. The loss of fullback Brown dealt a sharp blow to Davidson's chances for hitting the victory trail this season. Hard-plunging Henry, out of action indefinitely with a wrenched knee, accounted for more total yardage in last week's 27-14 licking by VPI than the whole remaining Davidson attack combined. In Brown’s place, Coach Bill Dole will run Leroy Fargason and freshman Bobby Renn, who will alternate between his own post at right half and the power slot.

Stop Option Plays

Biggest job the Cats will have appears to be stopping option plays of the same variety that VPI ran Davidson ends ragged with last week. Dole has had his squad concentrating on his defense all this week and hopes to be able to bottle up the Generals on the flanks. Cat chances for a victory tomorrow will depend a lot on Ruth’s passing, which will probably be more frequent than last week, and halfbacks Jimmy Thacker, Roy White, Fargason, and freshman Renn. The Virginians, smarting from a humiliating 34-7 defeat by Duke last Saturday, are expected to have their split-T machine in high gear and won't be sparing any tricks to rack up their first win of the season. They whipped the Cats 34-0 last fall.

Broyles Is Big Gun

The big man in the Generals’ attack is Randy Broyles, a halfback who carried the burden of their attack against Duke. Many of last year’s squad are gone, but the Generals are still big and fast.

BOBBY RENN

It appears doubtful that fullback Brown will be able to play again this year. Now under observation at Duke Hospital, Henry will have to wear a cast on the injured right knee for a month, and will be out for at least two more weeks after that.

If Dole’s men can do as well on

Harriers To Open Against N.C. State On October 4
By BILL SLEDGE

Coach Pete Whittle’s Wildcat cross countrymen open their season against N.C. State October 4, and nineteen candidates for the team have been working hard for positions on the ’52 squad. A great deal of responsibility will lie on the newcomers to the squad as only three lettermen are returning. They are Bill Shipley, Floyd Feeny, and BobHenry, captain of the Wildcats this season. All three of these boys are excellent runners and sure bets for positions on the team. Also returning from last year’s team are Paul Alexander and Stuart Plummer. Several good freshman speedsters are working hard for berths on the squad, with S. G. Gooding and Archie Joyner showing promise in pre-season workouts. Joyner, winner of the freshman cake race last Friday, is one of the brightest prospects out of the newcomers. A tough schedule is on tap for the Wildcats and a good record will be a big credit to the team. The services of Tom and Dick Stockton, two stalwarts of last year’s team, who were lost through graduation, will be sorely missed. The remainder of the harriers’ schedule is as follows:

Oct. 11—UNC: Chapel Hill
Oct. 18—Richmond: Davidson
Oct. 24—W&L: Davidson
Nov. 1—VMI: Davidson
Nov. 3—State Meet: Raleigh
Nov. 17—Conference Meet: Richmond

If the Wildcats rack up as many first downs tomorrow as they did last week, there'll be some fireworks on the field no matter what WKL throws at them. The Cats racked up eleven first downs, only two less than the visitors made.

Jack Ruth’s passing last week left little to be desired in the completions department. The Kings Mountaineer connected for seven (Continued On Page Four)

Have you seen the new Latin professor? He's cute! I'm signing up for Latin... but definitely!

Camel leads all other brands by billions of cigarettes per year! Only time will tell and only time will tell about a cigarette! Take your time... make the sensible 30-day Camel mildness test. See how Camels suit you as your steady smoke.

Five New Men On Wildcat Coaches’ Roster
By JOHN HANDLEY

Five new members of the Davidson coaching staff will be beginning their first full year here when the 1952 seasons open. After a flurry of signing and resigning last year, these men emerged on the Davidson athletic scene:

BILL DOLE, head football coach. Formerly at Fayetteville High School and Eastern Carolina College, Dole brings with him an excellent won-lost record of 114-44.

Fall Net Practice Opens on Monday
By MOODY SMITH

How to replace Allan Strand and Dewey Keesler will be the problem facing Davidson's new tennis coach Dick McKee when he rings the bell for the opening of fall tennis practice September 29. Strand and Keesler are the only members of last season's squad who will not be back this year, but their absence will be sorely felt. Strand was captain of the 1951 squad while Keesler captained last year’s team. Returning from the 1952 edition which won 13 and lost only four against some of the top competition in the South and the East will be Lacy Keesler, who held down the number one singles berth most of last year; Johnny Bremer, Corky Clark, and Joe Dudley from the first six and George Snead who played only in doubles. Also available will be Leighton Green, who saw some action last season, Bill Riving, and Tom Staley, if the latter’s lab schedule permits. Some help may be expected from the freshmen candidates who will remain largely an unknown quantity until practice gets underway. Coach McKee, who was the pro at the Charlotte Country Club before accepting the Davidson job, will remain in that capacity. He replaces Derrick Barton, the colorful former British Davis Cup winner and amateur champion, who is now (Continued On Page Four)

Coach Dole is a graduate of West Virginia University.

DANNY MILLER, head basketball coach and assistant baseball coach. In six years at Wingate Junior College Miller's teams won 165 games while dropping only 39. His teams have consistently brought home honors in both state and national competition. Danny's alma mater is Appalachian.

CHUCK CLEMENTS, head baseball coach and assistant football coach. Clements, a graduate of Catawba, hails from Gastonia where he has turned out some real powerhouses in the last several years.

CARROLL HAMBRIGHT, head swim coach and assistant football coach. A Clemson graduate, Hambright has held positions at Tech High in Charlotte and Greer, S.C., High School where he has turned out good teams in several sports.

DICK McKEE, tennis coach. McKee, who until recently served as head tennis professional at the Charlotte Country Club, is a graduate of Miami University (Florida). He will be at Davidson for both the fall and spring tennis sessions.

In addition to the new members of the coaching staff, several veterans will be on hand this year. Paul Scott, director of athletics, and Charlie Parker will probably collaborate on this year's wrestling team. Pete Whittle will coach the track and cross country teams again this year. Tom Fetzer is back as backfield coach under Dole, and Elgin White will return to his position as head golf coach. All the coaches have expressed a desire to meet all freshmen interested in athletics and hope to see a large turnout for all of the athletic teams.

When approached as to the situation on the sports scene, Paul Scott, director of athletics, commented that “excellent balance has been achieved in the coaching staff as a whole. We feel that the college is very fortunate in securing the services of the new men. All are fine individuals and able coaches and will be a credit to Davidson College in every respect.”

I could sit in his class forever!

Great Against Gobblers
By BOB OWENS

Anyone who gains over 100 yards per game is usually regarded as a great football player, and that is exactly what Coach Dole thinks of his big 6’ 1", 180-pound fullback, Henry Brown, from Carrollton, Georgia. Brown carried the pigskin 19 times for a net gain of 109 yards and a sparkling average of 5.7 yards per carry in Saturday's opener with VPI and showed great power and shiftiness both on offense and defense.

Wade's Understudy

The vastly improved Brown, who last season was an understudy to the now graduated Ham Wade, made good use of large holes opened in the center of the VPI line to rack up consistently good gains, but it was also in defensive play that the lanky Georgian was outstanding. Brown came to Davidson from Darlington where he teamed with Jimmy Thacker and Harry Peterson for three years of terrific football. The trio has proven to be one of Darlington prep’s finest contributions to the rank and file of Davidson football. He played in all of the Wildcats’ contests last season, mainly on defense, and was the mainstay of the Cat attack in the season's finale against Georgia Tech, where he established himself as a leading candidate for the '52 starting fullback position.

Potential Great

What his recent knee injury will do to his football career is still uncertain, but Henry has all the potentialities for becoming one of the top fullbacks in the Southern Conference. He attracted the immediate attention of Coach Dole when he first started the spring practice grind with his speed, size, rugged play, and his smart ability. If he can nurse his knee back into shape, Brown will be heard from again.

Two Frosh Break Cake Course Mark

The annual freshman Cake Race last Friday uncovered two potential runners for Davidson's cross country team. Both Archie Joyner, the winner, and S. G. Gooding, in second place, set a fast pace for the two hundred and fifty freshmen and both runners broke the course record set by Bill Shipley in 1950. Both runners were running neck and neck as they rounded the final (Continued On Page Four)

for 30 days for Mildness and Flavor

CAMELS are America’s most popular cigarette. To find out why, test them as your steady smoke. Smoke only Camels for thirty days. See how rich and flavorful they are — pack after pack! See how mild CAMELS are — week after week!