WHICH WAY ATHLETICS? See Page Two

VOLUME XL

Davidsonians In Armed Forces

PFC. JAMES EDWARD TEMPLIN, now known to the Air Force as No. AF 14415309 Squadron 3705, Flight 2103, and located at Lackland Air Base, San Antonio, Texas, was better known to Davidson students as a member of the Campus Club, the Rifle Team, and the Forensic Council. Jim came to Davidson in '49 as a transfer from Emory University and in May '51 he joined the Air Force. His home is in Atlanta, Ga.

PFC. GLASGOW HICKS, JR., entered Davidson September '49, planning to major in business. He is a former resident of Wilmington, N. C., and is now located at MacDill Air Force Base, Tampa, Fla., in the 305th Bomb Wing. This former Darlington student withdrew from Davidson December '50 to enter the Air Force. His father and uncle were both graduates of this college.

LT. FRED (DUTCH) WM. HENGEVELD, JR., is now located at Fort Jackson, S. C., and is a member of the 41st Tank Division in General Service, where he is using his talents to the fullest. This former Davidson basketball and baseball star is now doing phys-ed work for Uncle Sam. While he was at Davidson he was a Kappa Sig, a member of the Beaver Club, Scabbard and Blade, and co-captain of both the basketball and baseball teams.

PFC. HORACE RUSSELL GRANT entered Davidson in '47, and earned a B.S. He was a Pi Kappa Alpha and, ironically as it may seem, when he entered Davidson he listed aircraft as one of his interests. His home is in Louisville, Ky., and his Air Force address is: Pfc. Horace Russell Grant, AF 15461428, 34333rd Student Squadron, Box 9013N, Lowry Air Force Base, Denver, Colorado.

Devotional Penned By 66 Contributors

The YMCA's devotional booklet for January, February, and March, "Faith on the Campus," was distributed through the dorms yesterday, with contributions from 66 members of the student body. Stuart Plummer, in charge of publication, explained that holidays were the cause of the tardiness of January appearance, and stated that work will begin soon on the spring issue.

Four "themes" run through the three-month guide. The first is the Kingdom of God, the marks of its citizens, and the meaning of the Kingdom for various classes of people. The second theme is that of prayer. There are discussions on prayer, and then a breakdown of the Lord’s Prayer over a two-week period. The Christian attitude toward such things as gluttony, drink, sex, politics, and science and religion are treated next. The final section, the latter part of March, is composed of writings on the meaning of the Cross. In addition to the four major themes, there are also special insertions in 18 instances.

Y Gift Fund Total Falls $2500 Short Of Expected Goal

Final pledges to the 1951 YMCA Christmas Gift fund amounted to approximately $3,500—$2,500 short of its goal—it was announced today by chairman Bryan Robinson. Of the pledged total, about $2,500 has been collected. Robinson pointed to the fact that yesterday, January 10, was the deadline for payment of the pledges and urged that all outstanding pledges be paid as soon as possible. All money must be in the hands of the YMCA before checks can be sent to the various recipients—The Caswell Training School, relief work in India, and improvements in the local Negro YMCA.

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 1952

Grid Policy At NCAA Meeting

By JIM MOORE

Davidson College has sent two representatives to the National Collegiate Athletic Association meeting in Cincinnati this weekend. They are Dr. Frontis Johnston, a member of the faculty committee on athletics, and Mr. P. K. Scott, Director of Athletics. The two men are representing Davidson and its athletic policy on a national level. They are expected to go along with the recent recommendations of the Presidents of the Southern Conference which Davidson supported at the time of their formulation. These recommendations, if adopted, would bring about a de-emphasis of athletics.

Two Maxims

The general athletic policy of the school, as outlined by President Cunningham in a recent statement to the Raleigh News & Observer consists of two maxims. (1) No activity, academic or otherwise, deserves a place on the college campus unless it contributes positively to the educational process. (2) Intercollegiate athletics can claim no special exemption from this test.

Meeting for its 46th annual convention, January 10-12, the 300-odd member association will consider rules aimed at changing it from a loose supervisory group into a body with power to enforce strict controls over athletic practices. Mainly it is a question of whether the NCAA should assume broad legislative powers or should continue as a body whose principal functions are establishing rules of play and conducting championships.

TV or Not TV

Problems of televising of football games; over-emphasis of athletics, particularly football; the sports gambling scandals; the reduction or abolition of off-season practice sessions; and the future of post-season bowl games were a few of the matters expected to come before the NCAA members when they got down to the weighty part of their convention Thursday. The rules committee of the Football Coaches Association, whose deliberations usually are an important part of the week-long gathering, apparently will make a few recommendations this year.

Tucker High Man In Senior Class

High man on a list of ten seniors making the highest grades is Tony Tucker, Laurel Mississippian, with a 2.928 average, according to figures released this week by Registrar F.W. Hengeveld. Close behind Tucker in the number two and three spots are Jack Hunter, Winston-Salem, with 2.907, and Kirk Oglesby, Rock Hill, with 2.890.

Following these three respectively on the list are Pete Kalogridis, Bryan Robinson, Roland Englehart, Stuart Shippey, Hooper Alexander, Bill White and Bill Adams. All three of the top men are candidates for a cum laude tag on their diplomas in May. Requirement for the honor is that a man maintain a B-plus average in all his four years. Hengeveld said that though there is a tight race between Tucker and Hunter for the valedictory spot, the grades are not unusually high for the school. He confided that he posted the list to "spur the scholars on to meet the cum laude requirements." A second list will be published after the mid-term examinations and perhaps a list of the top 20 men in the junior class. Eight of the top men are members of Phi Beta Kappa.

CUNNINGHAM NAMED VICE-PRESIDENT AAUC

Dr. John R. Cunningham has been elected vice president of the Association of American Colleges and Universities this week in New York. He formerly held the office of treasurer of the educational organization. The president was back in his office today after a three-day trip which included meetings of the AAC and a Committee on Christian Education.

Buie To Inspect Davidson ROTC

The ROTC Department will undergo its informal inspection next week by the new chief of the North Carolina Military District, Colonel Walter D. Buie, and party. The Thursday inspection will cover all phases of the military program here except drill. Col. Buie will survey the training and instruction program, facilities, equipment, administration and military courtesy.

Staff Members

The district chief will be accompanied by Major Charles F. Colyer, Captain Herbert L. Franklin, Captain William F. McHarge, and 2nd Lieutenant Lewis A. Jones of his staff. The army officers come here after inspecting the ROTC unit at North Carolina A&T College in Greensboro.

Took Over January 1

Col. Buie assumed command of the N. C. Military District January 1 of this year. A native Georgian, he was graduated from West Point in 1920. He has had varied military service during his 17 years of commissioned service. During WWII, he commanded the 272nd Regimental Combat Team in Europe. In the Pacific Area, he served as Chief of Staff and as assistant division commander of the 25th Infantry Division and later as a member of the General Headquarters Staff in Japan.

Here From Greece

He came to his present assignment from Greece where he was a member of the American military mission and acted as advisor to the Greek Army. For combat service in WWII, Col. Buie has been decorated with the Legion of Merit with oak leaf cluster, Bronze Star with oak leaf cluster, the Army Commendation Ribbon, the Combat Infantryman Badge, and foreign awards.

To Play Here

The famed Longines Symphonette Orchestra, one of the world’s most renowned symphonettes, will appear at Davidson Wednesday night, January 16, at 8:15 o'clock, Mr. J. C. Pfohl, director of music, has announced. The Symphonette is making its initial tour of the country. Conducted by Mishel Piastro, the Symphonette has won fame for its radio broadcasts and public concerts since its formation ten years ago. The group broadcasts each Sunday afternoon over the CBS radio network in addition to other broadcasts and public appearances.

Selections included on their program are: "Aria" by Bach, Fritz Kreisler Favorites, including solos by the first violinist, "Claire de Lune" by Debussy, and "Die Fledermaus" selections by J. Strauss. The Symphonette is actually a full symphony orchestra in all respects except number, with all instruments represented. The main difference between the Symphonette and the usual symphony orchestra is merely the fact that the Symphonette has a smaller string section. The number of musicians making the broadcasts vary slightly according to music being played that day. The 31 New York musicians to play at Davidson with Mishel Piastro are the average number heard on the radio. They are often times referred to as "the average man’s symphony orchestra," for they play short, light pieces of great composers. The magnificence in their playing is achieved through using some of New York City’s finest musicians and playing only music from composers’ original scores.

Author's Family Presents Library Studies Of Ney

Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson, director of the Davidson College library, announced today the gift of a collection of unique material pertaining to North Carolina's mysterious Peter Stuart Ney by the family of the late Dr. James Edward Smoot of Concord. Dr. Smoot devoted many years to research concerning Ney and, like many others, arrived at the conclusion that the North Carolina school teacher was the same man as Napoleon's famous Marshal Ney of France. Dr. Smoot's conclusions appeared in his book, "Marshal Ney—Before and After Execution," published in 1929. ManyPhotos
The Concord doctor collected numerous photographs from America and France for his book. A great number of these were used as illustrations for his book, although many had to be omitted. Dr. Smoot also acquired many additional pictures and papers after the publication of his biography. It was his plan to revise the book and incorporate the additional material, but he had not had the revisions published at the time of his death.

Gift Contents
These photographs, the voluminous correspondence, and the additional chapters to “Marshal Ney—Before and After Execution” form the bulk of the material which was presented to Davidson College. Also included in the gift are 15 printed volumes pertaining to Marshal Ney. Several of these are French editions and very rare in this country.

French Works
The works include two volumes of “Memorie Du Marechal Ney,” published by his family in Paris in 1833, and the monumental three-volume “La Vie Militarire Du Marechal Ney,” by General H. Bonnal, which was published in Paris in 1911. Regardless of the identity of the two men, Davidson College has a vital interest in Peter Stuart Ney. In 1840, he designed the official seal (Continued On Page Four).

IFC Adopts Greek Week; Lists Tentative Plans
Above is Mrs. W. F. Holly, who has served as secretary to the Dean of Students for three years. Although her official title is that, she has been much more to students dealing with the painful, at best, subject of absences. She will be relieved in the Spring due to a transfer of her husband’s business affiliations. Mrs. Holly's job has been to send a student smiling from the Dean's office—a Herculean task in itself. She had had to uphold stringent standards of accuracy and has met with a remarkable medium of success.

“Cut Custodian” To Vacate Post
Just before the coming of spring, Davidson College will be deprived of one of its most well-liked and well-known feminine personalities on the campus. Mrs. W. F. Holly is well known to all the student body as probably everyone has cussed and discussed his problems with her. She is leaving primarily because Mr. Holly has had an attractive offer of a promotion by the insurance company with which he is now working. This offer from the Traveler's Fire Insurance Company, which was effective January 1, 1952, will move the Hollys from Davidson to Birmingham, Ala.

Plan to Leave
Mr. Holly left January 1, and Mrs. Holly plans to leave Davidson and join him as soon as suitable housing facilities are available. She plans to finish the month of February in the role of secretary to Dean Bailey before leaving. Mrs. Tom Daggy will take over the absence records for the second semester. She will collaborate with Mrs. Holly a few hours each day this month. After getting acquainted she will start regularly next month.

Came From Florida
Mrs. Holly came to Davidson from Jacksonville, Fla., about six years ago. She is a junior, relatively speaking, having been employed by Davidson College for three years. Dean Bailey expressed a feeling of loss in Mrs. Holly's departure. “The position is one which requires a good deal of patience and understanding, as well as one which calls for an efficient, mature person to handle it.” While at Davidson she was active in the Red and Black Masquers, playing in many Masquers’ productions such as “Our Town,” “Arsenic and Old Lace,” “The Man Who Came to Dinner,” “Sunday Costs Five Pesos,” and “Ten Little Indians.” Mrs. Holly was also active in church and civic life and a prominent member of the community.

L. Cederic Foster Speaking Monday
Cederic Foster, top news commentator for the Mutual Broadcasting Company, will address the Davidson Quadranglers Club Monday afternoon at 3 in the Quadranglers Room of Chambers Building. Foster has done extensive work in the radio, wire service, and newspaper fields. A New England Yankee, he was graduated from Dartmouth College. He is visiting this area to commemorate the expanding of facilities by station WIST in Charlotte and comes to the campus as a result of the cooperation of Mr. R. A. Furr of that station. Foster steers to the right of center in political matters and is regarded as Mutual's highest-ranking news authority. A specialist in international affairs, Foster has worked with both the Associated Press and United Press.

Shows For Month
The third exhibition of a series of paintings and watercolors by outstanding North Carolina artists went on display today at Davidson College. Featuring the works of Howard Murry of Valle Crucis, the exhibit includes 14 watercolors and will be on display in the lobby of Chambers Building through January 30. The exhibit, which is sponsored by the Department of Fine Arts, features paintings of the rolling hills and valleys of Carolina mountains near Boone and Banner Elk, and of subjects along the coast near Pawley’s Island. Mr. Murry, who is formerly of Charlotte, resigned from a highly successful business some ten years ago to devote himself exclusively to painting. Philip Moose, director of fine arts at Davidson, highly praised the work of Mr. Murry, pointing out that the paintings now on display “reflect the artist’s understanding and love for the misty, ever-changing play of light over mountains and hills. They have the flowing wetness which bespeaks an artist with great command of his medium and a man who has found peace and contentment as a creative artist.”

Notice
A reminder was issued from the Quips & Cranks today to the effect that pictures for the beauty section of the annual will be accepted until January 19. All pictures should be turned into Carlyle Crenshaw in 108 West.

RIFLE TEAM IN FIRING FOR HEARST TROPHY
The Varsity Rifle Team is preparing this week to fire in the William Randolph Hearst National ROTC Rifle Competition. Also, during the next five weeks the team will be firing in the Third Army Intercollegiate Rifle Match. Eighteen matches have been fired to date this season, among them several shoulder-to-shoulder matches.

Letter Clubbers Formally Induct 25 New Athletes
At their last meeting, the D Club formally inducted twenty-five lettermen. The lettermen had previously been initiated. President Ham Wade administered the membership oath after making a short talk on the activities and procedure of the club. The initiates are Eric Clark, Joe Dudley, Bill Bivins, tennis; Paul Eastman, Charles Elliott, Bert Downs, baseball; Al Reese, Jim Fickeisen, track; Lewis Barnes, Al Gaither, and Lawrence Erwin, golf; Jack Arnold, wrestling; Vic Taylor, Ed Richardson, basketball; Bill Shipley, Floyd Feeney, cross country; Henry Brown, Ben Craig, Dick Davis, Dick Kelley, Charlie Rankin, Jim Thacker, Roger Wright, Walter Yates, Bill Neal, football.

Highway Pleas Hit Red Tape
In line with the December 14th Davidsonian article dealing with the poor stretch of road between here and Charlotte, Dr. Cunningham has written Governor Scott inquiring about altering the road so as to by-pass the Davidson township. Acting upon this letter, Governor Scott wrote Henry Jordan, chairman of the State Highway Commission, asking him about it. He, in turn, wrote Otis Poole, Highway Commissioner for this division, asking him to communicate with Dr. Cunningham. Mr. Poole’s letter to Dr. Cunningham mentioned that such a road had been discussed previously by himself and Mr. Beaty, division engineer, but that nothing definite has been decided. Mr. Poole stated that he would contact Dr. Cunningham early this year to arrange a conference with him. As yet, nothing further has been done.

(Continued On Page Four)

February 11-17
As plans congeal and the efforts of Dick Stockton and Bill Adams are brought to a climax, pledges can look forward to participation in a Help Week project February 11 to 16.

At a meeting last Friday of the Interfraternity Council and fraternity presidents, it was decided to go ahead with the program proposed by Adams and his Greek Week Committee. This proposition is purely experimental and participation is voluntary, but the enthusiastic reception it received from the majority was encouraging. Stockton reported most of the frats expressed their wholehearted approval of the scheme, a few were dubious, and some even hostile; but this was expected.

The tentative schedule for the week is as follows: Monday afternoon there will be a combined pledge project to make the Davidson business community sanitary and beautify it wherever possible. The colored school building will receive a coat of paint and the entire project will be under the direction of Pete Kalogridis. Both Monday and Wednesday nights will see an exchange of pledge groups at supper, with one half of each class visiting another house one night, and then reversing the situation the next. Sandy Morton is supervising this. The Greek Week Varieties will be staged Tuesday night in Chambers Auditorium, directed by Alex Goley, in which each pledge class entering will put on a skit for the entertainment of its fellow pledges. There is a tentative contest scheduled for Wednesday afternoon between the brothers and pledges of each fraternity, but it is not definite as yet what game will be played. Possibly a medicine ball will be utilized, or something similar, and Bob Boyd will be in charge of this event. Wednesday night will see a meeting of the fraternity officers to discuss their problems, with Ken Taylor organizing.

Proper emphasis must be placed on the fact that this is a trial proposition to see if such a scheme could work here at Davidson instead of “Hell” Week, and its success depends on the cooperation and participation of all the fraternities interested. There is a meeting today to determine which fraternities will definitely enter the various activities.

ROTC Deferment Adds To Service
A discussion of the mandatory signing of new deferment agreements by those men wishing to remain under deferment contracts was presented to the junior and senior members of the Davidson regiment this week by PMS&T Lt. Col. J. L. Ballard. Under the new deferment agreement, a student accepts his commission with the understanding that he will be in the reserve corps for eight years instead of five years as prescribed in the old deferment act. The student still must take his two years of basic ROTC training and then apply for admission into the advanced course. If he is accepted, then he will continue for his last two years in ROTC and upon graduation accept a commission in the army. Two years of active duty are required of the officer and this length of time is included in the eight-year period. A new requirement for acceptance into the advanced course is that the student must have signed the new deferment agreement. All seniors who now hold old deferment agreements must (Continued On Page Four).