PAGE FOUR

Finishing a mediocre season, the Wildcat matmen pose before lining up for the Carolinas AAU meet. Nearly every man on the squad is entered.

Coordinate Study, Travel In Europe

The leading universities of Europe are now completing arrangements to receive this summer the greatest number of foreign students since World War II. Students from the USA will join with students from the Near and Middle East, Western Europe, and Scandinavia in discussion of present-day problems in a wide number of fields. For the first time, several important universities and academic institutions such as the Institute of Political Science in Paris are setting up International Summer Courses and Seminars with lectures and discussions conducted entirely in English. This particular seminar in current political and economic questions was pioneered over the past three years by Travel & Study, of New York City, and similar programs are now being developed in England, Scandinavia, Portugal, Spain, Italy, Greece, Turkey, and Israel. The range of topics includes languages, literature, the history of art and music, as well as political philosophy, and the emphasis is on meeting one's opposite numbers abroad and achieving a wider mutual understanding. Programs are under the leadership of outstanding educators from Columbia and Harvard Universities, Pennsylvania State College, and others.

Foreign Assignment 1952, a practical experience assignment for students of journalism and current affairs, is directed by Robert W. Desmond, Chairman of the Department of Journalism at the University of California, who in the course of a varied professional career has been closely associated with the press in Europe and in this country and who is the author of several books including “The Press and World Affairs" and “The Professional Training of Journalists” recently published by UNESCO. With the emphasis on peoples and cultures, all programs feature visits to art and music festivals, the theater, opera, concerts, and ballet. Titles of programs, lasting two months or more in Europe, include Sources of Western Civilization, Latin Mediterranean Culture, East and West, “Bohemia,” Fashion, Europe Grave and Gay, and there is a special Junior Tour for teenagers. In addition, there are tours in Mexico and South America. All-inclusive prices of tours to Europe, covering a minimum of four countries, range from $565.

Gunmen Seek 2nd Win Over State Tomorrow Morning

Davidson's ROTC rifle team will be out for a repeat win when they play host to the N.C. State gun contingent on the ROTC firing range tomorrow morning. Maj. George Jones’ riflemen dropped State at Raleigh two weeks ago. In their last match, the gunmen defeated Clemson and Wofford at Clemson, posting a score of 1807 to 1778 for Clemson, and 1667 for Wofford. Alan Groseclose and Hallet Ward led the Davidson scoring with 365 each, trailing Clemson's Callahan for top honors. Callahan fired a 366.

FOR THE BEST IN RECORDS
DAN RAMSEY RECORD BAR
127½ W. Trade — Charlotte

NEW CARS
DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF
Dial 3-4513
212 W. Fourth Charlotte

Travel and study ABROAD this summer

LOWEST FARES EVER make university-sponsored tours via TWA most attractive. Spend your summer profitably and enjoyably on one of 16 four- to ten-week study tours in Great Britain, Europe, Scandinavia, Asia, or Africa. Earn full credit while you travel and study. Arranged by specialists in the educational-travel field, in cooperation with TWA. Tour price takes care of all necessary expenses, including TWA’s money-saving new tourist fares.* For tour information, mention countries that interest you most when you write to: John Furbay, Ph.D., Director, TWA Air World Tours, 80 E. 42nd St., New York 17, N.Y. Effective May 1 subject to gov't approval.

CRAVEN PLACES... (Continued From Page Three)

Davidson. The Wildcats have entered sixteen men. Other schools are expected to enter late applicants.

D. C. Provides Officials

Davidson College will completely staff the tournament with officials. Professors Bauman, McCutchan, Causey, and Coach Tom Fetzer will be the judges, while Parker and Scott will referee the matches. Timers will be Coaches Buddy Chandler and Derrick Barton. The AAU tournament ending Saturday night will be by no means the end of the road for the Cat matmen. The Southern Conference meet and Southeastern Olympic trials will take place on successive weekends following this one.

PYGMALION FILM... (Continued From Page One)

his sharpest dialogue and most amusing situations in this play. Shaw himself adapted the script for the movie and supervised the direction. Leslie Howard and Wendy Hiller are supported by an excellent cast. It is hoped by Film Chairman Stuart Shippey that a large number of students and faculty will be able to attend this first film on the ULFS's schedule, as season tickets will not be reduced for the remaining features. Tickets are $1.00 and will be on sale before the showing at 7:30 in Chambers Auditorium tonight. The Mikado, March 7, is the next movie. Further information and an illustrated brochure may be obtained from Travel & Study, Inc., 110 East 57th Street, New York 22, N.Y.

—no better time to save a buck by GREYHOUND

ASHEVILLE .......... 3.45
GREENSBORO ........ 2.20
WINSTON-SALEM .... 1.60
RICHMOND .......... 6.35
WASHINGTON ........ 8.20
NEW YORK .......... 12.70
BLUEFIELD .......... 4.70
AUGUSTA ............ 4.20
ATLANTA ............ 6.00
BIRMINGHAM ........ 8.50
NEW ORLEANS ....... 14.30
JACKSONVILLE ....... 8.85
MIAMI .............. 14.98
COLUMBIA .......... 2.85

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
C. S. Goodrum, Agent
Davidson, N. C.

THE

Oslo University Offers Awards

Additional scholarship awards are announced by the Oslo committee for study at the University of Oslo from June 21 to August 2, 1952. Various industrial firms in Norway are offering a limited number of Ralph Bunche Awards in honor of Dr. Ralph Bunche, the recipient of the 1950 Nobel Prize. These awards will range from $115 to $225 and are open to those interested in Norway's export industries. The Norwegian Federation of Labor Unions is offering two scholarships, worth $225 each, to candidates interested in the Norwegian labor movement and social problems in Norway.

250 EXPECTED... (Continued From Page One)

present a concert at 1:30 p.m., during noon intermission of the contest. The Davidson contest,which will be the final judging of grade and high school musicians for the year, will be one of two scheduled for Saturday. The Eastern District will be competing at Duke University.

APRIL 5 SET... (Continued From Page One)
near future. A committee composed of Sib Dorton, Frank Warren, George McMurray, Sandy Morton, and Tyke Ellis working with senior class officers, Tom Stockton, Eric Clark, and Bill Buckey, is completing arrangements for the dance.

DIAMOND NINE... (Continued From Page Three)
over this important post. Perhaps utility infielder Johnny Gray or Fred Stowe will finally settle down at third—only time will tell. Poole has a real job on his hands to fill the position vacated by last year's star outfielders Auburn Lambeth and Bill Rowland. Returning from last year’s squad are lettermen Jack Branch and Jerry Morrow. These two will probably fill two spots in the outer defense. Two players, Tim Gilley and Max DeVane, up from last year’s freshman squad, seem to have the best chance to fill the other position.

DAVIDSONIAN

CABBAGE PLANTER... (Continued From Page Two)
curately. So I go to where Actor Willie is hiding out above Good Time Charley's little Gingham Shoppe over in Forty-seventh Street and give him Freddy South Philly's message plus the address which Freddy gives me. This news makes the Actor extremely jubilant and he convinces me that I come along for the ride much against my better judgment. We start out in his big black car and are in Brooklyn and almost to Miss Wisteria Weep’s new abode when all of a sudden a very loud explosion is followed by a large cloud of smoke which ascends from out of the hood and the car stops smack dead. Now Actor Willie Sutton is not used to this happening to his auto, so he very angrily exits from the car and lifts up the hood. At the same time I am exiting and tell him I will check the back tires because we have this occurrence three blocks from a police station and I am not the kind of guy who is anxious to be seen riding in Actor Willie Sutton's auto. As I am checking the back tires of the third car behind Actor Willie’s I see all of a sudden two coppers in plainclothes take a rapid hold on his arms and much against his protest take him to the police station. This surprises me indeed because the Actor is noted for protesting even so far as shooting anyone who is not a doll for taking his arm. It is said around Mindy’s that if all the coppers Actor Willie Sutton shoots are lined up in a row, they are looking like a parade in front of City Hall on Saint Patrick’s Day except for being flat on the ground. I am contemplating how close I come five minutes before to being in the middle of a close-out sale between two very smart businessmen when all of a sudden who takes my arm but Freddy South Philly, the other arm on which is not a roscoe but a very beautiful doll whom I recognize to be Miss Wisteria Weep, since before she meets Actor Willie Sutton, does a striptease at Miss Missouri Martin's Three Hundred Club in the summertime which is very popular because the beer is five cents cheaper than Good Time Charley's if the party buys five glasses each hour. “Meet my fiancée,” Freddy South Philly says, smiling and not seeming very sorry at all that the coppers have detained his boss. “I am marrying Miss Wisteria Weep because she saves my life and any doll which saves my life I am very fond of.” Freddy is expecting me to ask him how she saves his life, so I ask him and he replies: “Last night, before the Actor goes to work,” Freddy South Philly says, “he tells Miss Wisteria Weep to get him some distilled water for the battery in his auto. Now Miss Wisteria Weep is no grease monkey, as you can plainly see, and so she thinks naturally that the beverage which I distill as an experiment before I got into business must be as good so she pours this into the Actor's battery.” “This particular beverage is truly distilled, so much distilled in fact that it will boil at seventy degrees, which temperature Actor Willie Sutton’s car quickly reaches. I am confident you are aware of the remainder of the episode?” says Freddy giving me half a G and walking to his own big black car which is pointed in the opposite direction as the police station.

Have Fun and Win Prizes!!
* A Zenith Clock-Radio, or
* A Season Ticket to Charlotte Hornet's home baseball games

You must enter before 2:00 p.m., Thursday, March 6

Get in the Contest and Hear the Games on WIST!
By picking the order in which the 8 teams will finish in the Southern Conference Basketball Tournament
Broadcast Direct from Raleigh
THURSDAY, FRIDAY & SATURDAY, MARCH 6-8
Over WIST

Fill Out Your Entry Card At:
BRIDGES FURNITURE COMPANY
308 S. Tryon St.
SNOOK BROTHERS, INC.
1020 Central Ave. In Charlotte
You may enter at both stores

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 1952

THACKER’S INC. PRIVATE DINING ROOMS
for PARTIES AND BANQUETS

I do not see Freddy South Philly much after this because he moves his place of business about every week. I hear that possibly this is because his unlicensed beverage continues to boil at seventy degrees and Doc Brennan tells me that a guy’s average temperature, which includes a doll’s too, is something over ninety-eight degrees.

FINE FOODS
STEAKS
CHICKEN DINNERS
FOUNTAIN SERVICE
“A Good Place to Eat”
Phone 25-4900 Charlotte
221 South Tryon Street

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Shows Start at 3 p.m.
Open Sundays
Phone 132

STONESTREET'S Grade A Cafe
418 South Main Street
Mooresville, N. C.

MON.-TUE., MAR 3-4
1001 Loves! Thrills! Sensations!
BALL: AGAR