Concert And Artist Series

This year's Concert and Artist Series opened tonight with Leonard Warren, baritone of the Metropolitan Opera. The entire series promises to approach or surpass the outstanding group of figures who appeared on the Davidson stage last year.

LEONARD WARREN
Acclaimed as an artist from coast to coast and in South America, where he has sung in numerous operas, Mr. Warren brings a wide and varied repertoire to the full usage of his skilled baritone voice.

VALENTINA OUMANSKY
Miss Oumansky is a former member of the Ballet Internationale, and an outstanding dancer in such Broadway productions as “Oklahoma” and “Carousel.” Her program on October 24 will include selections from both classic and modern dance.

WILLIAM MUIR
EMILY MUIR
William and Emily Muir, sculptor and painter, are a family team. Mr. and Mrs. Muir will present a program of theoretical and practical art that will include a sculpture demonstration and the creation of a painting.

MARGARET BOURKE-WHITE
Margaret Bourke-White, the celebrated photographer, will bring to Davidson a background of exciting experiences which stretch from World War II to the Korean conflict. Her most recent, and most memorable, assignment was the one this year for Life in which she spent six months in Japan studying with her camera the people of that country. On December 16, she will speak on “Lights and Shadows in Asia.”

CHARLES LAUGHTON
The Academy Award-winning creator of Henry VIII, the world-renowned platform speaker for his Bible readings, and acclaimed by many as the exemplification of the best on the English and American stages in this century, Charles Laughton’s coming to Davidson is frankly considered a special treat. On January 29.

FABIEN SEVITZKY
The Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra, recognized as one of the nation’s finest, is led by the baton of the eminent Russian-born conductor, Fabien Sevitzky. An internationally famous figure in musical circles and the conductor of the Indianapolis Symphony since 1937, Dr. Sevitzky has conducted orchestras in cities throughout Europe and the U.S. February 27.

ROBERT FROST
Robert Frost, famous as a poet, teacher, writer, comes to us from his Hendersonville, N.C., goat farm. The winner of four Pulitzer prizes for poetry—in 1924, '31, ‘37, '43—his address will undoubtedly cause a furor of interest among the intellectuals of this area. The recipient of the honorary LL.D. from Duke and Amherst in 1948, his March date has not been definitely set as yet.

Anna Russell, musical comedienne, and Nelson & Neal duo piano team, are also engaged but their pictures were not available. A sensation in New York last season, Miss Russell created a wide following among the Davidson men at Camp Transylvania this summer. In her North Carolina mountain performance, she gave interpretations of singers at various levels of ability, and as one on-looker remarked, “She was a scream.” February 6.

A young Australian duo-piano team, Nelson and Neal, has been (Continued On Page Four)

WHAT HAPPENED? ALL THE BUTTONS CAME BACK (P.2)

VOLUME XLI
Donald Plott Library
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, SEPT. 26, 1952

Now Directs College Music
Donald B. Plott, director of the Male Chorus since 1951-52, has been named chairman of the college’s department of music, replacing James C. Pfohl, who recently resigned as director. Professor Plott is a graduate of the University of Michigan’s School of Music with both the B.M. and Master of Music Degrees. A veteran of 37 months service with the Navy during World War II, he also was director of choirs at Ann Arbor and Owosso, Mich., high schools. He was also director of the Owosso Choral Society and the “Hymns of Freedom” broadcasts originating over Radio Station WJR in Detroit. Professor Plott, baritone, studied with Andrew White and Arthur Hackett before becoming director of Davidson’s Male Chorus last September. During the past summer, he was in charge of choral work at Transylvania Music Camp near Brevard, N.C., and served as director of the 100-voice Brevard Festival Choir. Professor Plott is married to the former Mary Riley Whitaker of Williston, S.C. They have a two-year-old son.

Davidson's director of music for the past 19 years, James Christian Pfohl, resigned in August to become conductor of the Jacksonville, Fla., Symphony Orchestra. Commuting between Jacksonville and Charlotte, Pfohl will continue his musical associations with the Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte and Camp Transylvania at Brevard.

The new revised edition of the library handbook will soon be published, according to Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson, director of the College Library. Dr. Davidson said that the new book had been revised in accordance with modern language and the Association of Bibliographical Standards. Several infelicitous styles have been eliminated, and an effort has been made to clarify and simplify the directions for the student. Of local interest is a new section of examples on footnote forms used by the publications of Davidson College which faculty and alumni have written. This new little book will contain most of the information contained in the previous ones, and the pictures that illustrated the other book are used in this one. Professor H. T. Lilly has been added to the staff of writers for the book. The staff is now composed of Dr. Cumming, Professor Lilly, Dr. C. G. Davidson, and Mr. Gordon Wood, now of the University of Chattanooga. Dr. Davidson said that he regretted that the manuscript went to the printer too late to include the name of Mr. Ken Boyer, who is now serving as head of circulation for the library. The new booklet is being printed in the town at the Davidson Printing Co., the same firm which prints The Davidsonian.

Notice
Would you like to write for either The Davidsonian or The Scripts 'N Pranks? If so show up at 215 Duke Dorm next Monday evening at 7:30.

Stud Alone Carries Senior Rings Now
The Student Store will this year be the sole representative for the sale of the senior rings, Doug Rice has announced. Herff Jones and Jenkins rings will be sold for the next year or two and by the end of that time the company that has proved the most popular in sales will be the exclusive ring of the college. The principal reason for the change in procedure in the sale of the rings which was previously carried on by students selected by the companies, is economy. Doug explained that some cut in price is now possible, and that the constant aim of the student store in general is that of lower prices to students. When the student store began operation in 1923, in the basement of Watts dorm, the rings were sold only there. In that era, when the store was run by student managers, the honor system was in full effect, but after the war huge losses caused the change to the present organization. Under the old set-up the student managers didn't have time to apply in taking the orders for rings, so the various jewelry companies persuaded the college authorities to have a limited number of students outside the student store sell their rings. Cost of the rings varies from twenty-eight to forty dollars, depending on the weight, fraternity seal, and some other special processes that are available. The twenty percent federal and three percent state taxes are added to the selling price. The hours during which the student store will be open from Monday to Friday for the first semester are as follows: 8:15-1:00 in the morning (closed for chapel); 1:30-5:30 in the afternoon; 7:00 to 12:00 at night. On Saturday the hours are from 8:15-12:30 in the day and 9:00-12:00 at night. The Stud will be closed during the afternoon of all home games. This message from Doug is di- (Continued On Page Four)

ROTC Officers Get ‘52 Posts
Cadet Robert M. Henry, senior from Huntington, W. Va., has been appointed Cadet Colonel and Regimental Commander of the Davidson College ROTC Corps. Cadet Lt. Colonels appointed are Robert M. Wearn, Regimental Executive Officer; William G. Russell, Commander 1st Btn.; and Samuel R. Hope, Commander 2nd Btn. John R. Hobson, Brown W. Dennis, James W. Jervey, Jesse M. Coburn, and Lawrence Erwin have been awarded the rank of Cadet Major. Men assigned the rank of Cadet Captain include Btn Adjutants Torrence W. Aldred, and Homer G. Sparks; Btn, S-3's David W. Robinson and Allen J. Vance, and Company Commanders J. V. Howell, Paul J. Pinkney, William P. Cole, Harry V. Lamon, Fletcher W. Bright, James D. Kelly, and Harold L. Gilliland. First Lieutenants (Co. Executive Officers) are Angus G. Andrews, Marion S. Clark, Preston O. Chaney, Lincoln Jung, James N. Smith, Fergus G. Currie and John H. Cathcart. William H. Duncan, Reuben J. Morrow, Jesse C. Fisher, Arnold E. Whisnant, Robert W. Bruce, Sam H. Wainwright, Roy T. White, Pinckney C. Ennis, Charles A. Hodgin, William W. Bivins, Edward L. (Continued On Page Four)

Rhodes Scholars To Be Selected
Elections for Rhodes Scholarships this year have been set for December. The Rhodes Scholarships, given annually to outstanding students throughout the country, is generally recognized as one of the highest honors that a student can attain. To be eligible for this scholarship, which provides $1400 a year for two, possibly three, years of study at Oxford, an applicant should be between the ages of nineteen and twenty-five on October 1, 1953, have completed his sophomore year of college work, and receive the official endorsement of the college. Davidson has fared well in past years in competition for these scholarships and ranks second to Duke in this area in the number of scholarships won. Last year Davidson's Jack Hunter went to the finals before being eliminated.

Handbook
Kalogridis Awarded Recognition As Outstanding Leader
Pete Kalogridis, ofWinter Haven, Fla., of the Davidson class of '52, has been chosen for honorable mention by the Editorial Board of Leader Publications in their “Ten Outstanding American College Student Leader Award” contest. Kalogridis received his diploma at Davidson with a Summa Cum Laude rating. While a student at Davidson he was president of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, a member of Omicron Delta Kappa leadership fraternity, Phi Beta Kappa scholarship and honor fraternity, a member of Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities, ROTC Regimental Commander, Honorary Fraternity Council representative, president of the Eumanean Literary Society, a member of the Y cabinet and the Y Board of Directors, a member of Scabbard and Blade military society, and a distinguished military student. This award is granted annually by the leadership publications to outstanding student leaders in American Colleges in recognition of demonstrated leadership in scholastic, athletic, and extracurricular activities. Kalogridis is now a student at the University of North Carolina Law School.

Students To Note Rules, Regulations Concerning Church

With Vespers being held each Sunday in the new church, there are some new rules and regulations that students should notice. One of the most important of these is that students get a white card for the absence check from a monitor at one of the doors and turn it back in with their names signed at the end of the service. Dean Bailey calls attention to the fact that the cards don't have to be returned to the same monitor and also that they can only issue one card to a student. If a student comes in after the prelude he is given a blue card which signifies that he is tardy; there will be no admission of any student after the sermon begins. As for the seating arrangements, the students may sit anywhere on the main floor, and if the pews are properly filled no one will have to sit behind a column and there will be room for all the students. Only a limited number of guests are permitted to sit on the main floor, but if a student has a visitor, he may be invited to sit on the main floor. Dean Bailey expressed the desire that everyone will remember these rules and follow them, so that the rough edges evidenced along these lines in the opening vespers will soon be smoothed out.

NUMBER 1

Buddy Morrow To Play For Homecoming Dances

By MOODY SMITH

Court Of Control Swings Into Action

The Court of Control for this year will get into action late next week, according to Ernest Barry, Judge of the court this year. Judge Barry stated that he and his court would be ready to try freshmen for offenses to upperclassmen probably Wednesday or Saturday. Such offenses as walking on the grass, not speaking to upperclassmen, disobeying their rules, and general obnoxiousness are a few of the charges that will spell a rough life for any misguided frosh. Judge Barry stated that he planned to have Recorder Gene Craven give the Davidsonian a complete list of boys tried, their offenses, and their punishments for the paper every Friday. Thus, any freshman who is judged will be surveyed after his first offense and watched carefully until the end of the first semester, Barry explained. Other members of the court this year are: seniors Arnold Whisnant and Dick Perkins; juniors Fred Stowe and Bill Shipley; and sophomores Isham Bennett and Dick Davis.

Education Board Announces Grants To Be Awarded

Scholarships for advanced study ranging up to $750 in value will be awarded in the near future by the Board of Education of the Presbyterian Church in the United States, according to an information bulletin released recently by the board. Deadline for filing applications for these scholarships is October 31, 1952. These scholarships are open to selected individuals who meet the following requirements, according to the bulletin: (1) hold United States citizenship, (2) are forty years of age or less, (3) have interest and capability to pursue a program of advanced study that might contribute to the strengthening of (a) liberal arts education, (b) theological education, (c) non-professional graduate education, (d) an understanding and appreciation of the contributions of our Christian faith. In addition, the applicant should be primarily concerned with the development of a sound and fruitful program of study. For further information look on the bulletin board.

Plaster Named As Outstanding In Class Of '50

Larry Plaster, a member of the graduating class of 1950, has been named the most outstanding military student in a class of 90 graduating jet pilots. In addition, he was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Air Force and awarded pilot wings in ceremonies at Bryan Air Force Base, Bryan, Texas. A brother in Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity while in college, Lt. Plaster was also in the football band and played freshman football in 1945. Lt. Plaster is a graduate of R. J. Reynolds High School in his hometown of Winston-Salem, and received a B.S. degree from Davidson. After completing primary flight training at Bainbridge Air Base, Ga., he was assigned to Bryan AFB for basic single-engine (jet) training.

Interfraternity Council has announced the selection of Buddy Morrow and his orchestra to play for the homecoming weekend dances October 24 and 25. Morrow comes to the Davidson campus on the heels of his recent booking at the Steel Pier in Atlantic City during the Miss America Contest. This is generally considered by band men as one of the top bookings in the business. Since Morrow’s band is comparatively new this will be one of his first trips below the Mason-Dixon line. He has, however, gained considerable following throughout the nation by virtue of his recent RCA Victor recordings which include: “Got You On My Mind,” “One Mint Julep,” and “Night Train.” Furnishing the female interest with Morrow’s band will be pretty Joan Hovis. The formal homecoming dance is slated to begin on October 24 at 9 p.m. and continue until 1 a.m., while the informal affair the following night will be from 8 p.m. till 12 midnight. Hours for a concert or a tea dance have not as yet been set.

Morrow made his professional debut as a trombonist, which he still is, playing for high school dances in his hometown of New Haven, Conn. Later he studied at the Juilliard School of Music in New York City after which he joined Paul Whiteman's band. After an eight-month stay with Whiteman, Morrow hooked up with the orchestra of the late Eddy Duchin. Morrow then played with Artie Shaw, Vincent Lopez, and Tommy Dorsey until World War II interrupted his career. Returning to the music world after three years in the Navy, he first played with Jimmy Dorsey as the featured trombone artist. Buddy then organized a recording band of his own in 1950 for RCA Victor. His first record was “Rio Rita” followed shortly by four other waxings, the most successful of which was “Solo.” From that moment on Morrow's band became recognized as one of the most promising dance aggregations around, though paradoxically enough, it had not yet played a dance, having concentrated on recordings. Buddy's first engagement with the band was at the Steel Pier at Atlantic City in August, 1951, where he also played last summer. In March of this year the band played at the world-famous Hollywood Palladium. The success of the Morrow band was authoritatively recognized in the 1951 annual Billboard magazine Disc Jockey Poll when over 2,000 disc jockeys voted him the most promising band in the country. The trombone that Buddy Morrow plays today is a custom-made job which cannot be duplicated by any commercial manufacturer. It is insured for $10,000 and is kept under constant watch at all times when he is playing a job.