PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

NAT DANIEL: EDITOR IN CHIEF ..............000...000008
BILL WHITE BUSINESS MANAGER ........
ALEX GOLEY

Associate Editors ----..-------- Shelly Beard, Mele We
Managing Editors ..---.---. Larry Dagenhart, Frank Henshaw, John Ottley
Art Editor—Don Mahy
Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Sports Editor—Dick Liles
Feature Editor—Mike Myers
City Editor—Nat Daniels
Assistant Business Manager ..-.--.----------4-- Bob Northeutt
Advertising Manager -..-~---------.-------------- Jack Hobson
Circulation Manager --..--.---..-...--------------- Bob Poston
Collection Manager ----.---------~----------------- Bill Minter
Subscriptions Manager ~.-----------------------

We really have it made around here and have dectioned tase fullness, the back yards and porches of the dorms have become sprinkled with the bronzed, bare bodies of clean-cut American Southern Presbyterian kids. We have no troubles, no responsibilities. We get our three meals a day. We don’t have to walk very far after our mail. Many of us have cars. A majority of us take easy courses in the Business Department, but those few who major in Bible, Philosophy or some other odd sort of course are only bookworms or Phi Betes, or just plain odd. But even to them, college is comfortable. The Davidson students as a group, don’t use the record room in Phi Hall so as to give the Music Department a good return on its investment. Only a few esthetes and members of the Music Appreciation class use the facilities to any considerable extent. It would be easy for those students who don’t take any courses in Shearer Hall to drop in once in a while and listen to a few classical records. It might increase the cultural level of the average Davidsonian.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

In Which The Editor Stumbles Through The Form of Farewell

It is of some comfort to an outgoing editor, about to file his final, to know that the inadequacy of words has been realized by men of greater import than himself when passing from a tenure in office. A farewell column is written not because of any parting advice or meaty summation that the exiting editor might impart to incoming generations, but rather because it is expected. It seldom praises others for fear of omission; it seldom praises self, out of braggant modesty: it seldom analyzes self, for fear of what might be found. It is a sentimental sop to self and those faithful enough to follow the writer through the year. But of sentiment, we have little—in its expected vein. Personally, it will be a relief to have that weekly nagging responsibility lifted—to have Wednesday nights and Friday afternoons uncluttered with the cares of tardy stories, gaping holes on page one and four, insufficient advertising, and a dozen other worries peculiar to that particular issue. It would be more fool-hardy than hard-hearted to pretend there is no sentiment attached, however. The very things of which we complain (using the editorial “we”), we will glance on with nostalgia in the days to come. As is true with any job, we have gotten from The Davidsonian what we have put into it. Where we have prepared ourselves and planned well, we have enjoyed the results of hard work. Where we have failed in organization of staff, authentication of facts, or error in judgment, we have sadly suffered the consequences. In a self-analysis we would condone ourselves for the sometimes weak inconsistency of our editorial page, the publication of certain stories which—in a second better thought—we would have told ourselves to delete, and the ruling of expediency over authentication in other reports. Our self-praise we feel is due in a more attractive, newsier paper. Here “we” is not the editorial pronoun, but is inclusive of the entire staff. Particularly are managing editors John Ottley and Frank Hanshaw and sports editor Dick Liles responsible. They could—and did when necessary—carry the paper without the editor. The close cooperation received from our printers is largely responsible for our improved appearance and for the promptness of publication on Friday evenings. Only once did circulation manager Bob Poston’s teamwork on Saturday morning, and that was due to a press breakdown. Jack Hobson, business manager-elect, and past advertising manager, worked well with Alex Goley to hold up the financial end of the press, where dollars—not fillers—must be used in shortages. Outside the staff, handled through assignments editor Charlie Hassel, Mr. Dillon and Mr. Payne in the News Bureau were of tremendous help in copy and advice. As we said at the start, in praise of others there are omissions. We have made too many here, but they are included in thought. Included too, in thought, are the many, many incidentals tied in with the year. But to continue would be to grow effusively sentimental, and we have steeled ourselves against that weakness. We have, in the tradition of editors, fulfilled our duty with the farewell column.

With National Convention time and the date of Gen. Eisenhower's return to America daily drawing nearer, the question comes up as to what the General is going to say on the vital issues of the day—and really, if he is going to say anything. It has been reported that Eisenhower has scheduled but one speaking engagement after his return June 1, that to be in his hometown of Abilene, Kansas. He has been quoted as saying that he hopes he will be allowed a rest when he gets back to the U. S. We hope that the General will see that a rest at that crucial time is not in the best interest of either himself or the country. That is the time when he should begin acting like a future President of the U.S., and he should lose some of his reticence concerning the important issues currently holding the headlines as well as on general principles.

Most Important Issues

Though the issues will be many and varied when Sen. Taft and Eisenhower square off in June, the two which seem most important to this writer are foreign policy and “galloping socialism.” Now in practically every speech he has made in the past six months (over 1000 at this writing), Sen. Taft has said that the vital issue of the day is Liberty vs. Socialism. He avows that if elected President, he will...

THE CABBAGE PLANTER: Overcome With Stark Fatigue Look, Then To The Ivy League By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

Answer this question honestly, and with a full realization of its significance for you and your life: do you, and your classmates, but more important, do you personally, make a sincere effort to apply your new-found learning in this way? But perhaps you are not yet lost. Perhaps you have driven the car...

Constant labor of one uniform kind destroys the intensity and flow of a man’s animal spirits, which find recreation and delight in mere change of activity.
—K. Marx, Capital.

Harvard, Yale and Princeton: three brightest stars among the educational galaxies of the world. The epitome of intellectual and philosophical perfection in the realm of scholarly application of oneself to the solution of life's severer problems. Gentlemen, it is to these that we must look, and after them must we model ourselves if we are ever to become, once more, Little Princeton, instead of Big Mars Hill. Where, you will ask, is the secret to their giant status in the educational field? Where their touchstone? Where their elixir? One has not far to look. Study carefully, gentlemen, not only an Ivy Leaguer’s retention of what is good and fine and beautiful and Real George in the world, but their unfailing application of that knowledge to their behavior in contemporary society. Take any one at random. Say, for instance, Princeton. We quote from Life, April 28:

Learning that the college planned to cut $75,000 in janitor services ... a thousand undergraduates armed with pillows, firecrackers and bags of water staged a midnight march on Nassau Hall, wailing “We want janitors.” Defying the six college proctors, they staged a sit-down strike that clogged traffic on Nassau Street for an hour.

Youth of the Next Generation? A veritable Gargantuan project in international relationships. I have, on short notice, no authority, but I think it logical that only at Harvard could two undergraduates, undoubtedly political science majors, have spent twenty-eight consecutive hours slapping each other's face to break a reputed Russian twenty-four hour record. Or perhaps it was at Dartmouth or Brown or Amherst, and maybe it was thirty-two and twenty-five hours, and it might even have been a Polish or an Ethiopian record that they broke. Or maybe they didn’t even break it at all. There were two undergraduates, however, and this is significant.

Heart and guts, men, pure heart and guts. The consciousness and intestinal fortitude of ninety-odd Yale stalwarts on a recent Saturday. We again look to Life up above: Last month ... the Yale men decided to hold a relay bike race from New Haven to Vassar. Five-man teams were organized, and to make the race even more challenging it was ruled a team member at the end of each lap would have to consume a quart of beer before the next team member could take off. Only one team of eighteen competing had trained. The others, with names like the Lavender Hill Mob and Maidenform Five, decided that they...

One cyclist lost control of his machine going down a hill and fell, injuring his hip and arm. Others dropped temporarily from exhaustion. But, with 90 dates waiting for them at the finish line, most of the Yale men doggedly stuck to their wheels.

(This is the first of the accounts which will be carried in the Davidsonian on the discussion between faculty and students, initiating new thinking on various phases of college life.)

In Brief Retrospect, System Has Merits But Needs Control

As a President of the United States constantly reminds his critics, one must wait for history’s retrospect before passing judgment on acts so close to our own time. As one with time running out, permit us to telescope our time of retrospect into a two-week period and allow a final say on the election system. Happily we observed last week the Election Board's installation of The Davidsonian recommended 24-hour waiting period between speech and vote. It is hopeful that future boards will continue the policy. The Board is left, by the wording of the amendment with considerable leeway in the administering of the elections, and it is with that in mind for the future that we pass a final comment. A further step which seems highly desirable, though caution must be used in the proceeding, is a check on histrionics and cigar-throwing campaign tactics that tend to throw the serious selection of officers into a fiasco. Screening of speeches by the Elections Board seems an extreme and unnecessary measure, one which could have its purpose as well served by a meeting of the candidates with the board prior to their delivery, in a general conference where they might be briefed and reminded by the board of the rules governing the presentation of candidates. Now, as for judgment of our newly installed system. Interest, to be sure, has been created by talks where it had not been before so. The candidates have become real people, not mere mimeographed names, and their stands have become grounds...

(Continued On Page Four)Systems. The coverage was made by Lee Harter. At a recent after vespers forum sponsored by the YMCA, held in the home of Dr. McGavock of the Mathematics Department last Sunday evening, the Davidson Honor System was discussed in full. Five students were in attendance representing the freshman, sophomore, and junior classes. After some length of discussion, it was revealed that the practice of breaching the Honor System in several respects is quite general and growing. In addition to the practice of breaching the Honor System, several of the faculty-imposed rules were discussed which it was held are also quite generally broken.

For purposes of merely an academic discussion, it was assumed that an honor system is very desirable; and with that assumption in mind, the discussion was carried to the point as to whether or not an honor system should be “penal” or “corrective.” In general consensus, it was held that the ideal of a corrective type system is rather too idealistic, and the most practical type which could be inaugurated would be a combination of the two, both “penal” and “corrective.”

Several aspects of the penalties that might be assessed for the infractions of the honor system and faculty-imposed rules were discussed and as a challenge to the present system, it was suggested that perhaps suspension or expulsion were penalties too hastily invoked. The question was raised as to whether or not suspension or expulsion were not too severe for a man’s first infraction; and although no alternative method was suggested at this forum, the group was in accordance that suspension and expulsion were too severe for a man's first mistake. It was suggested that either of these penalties might better be invoked for a man’s second offense, substituting some severe but lesser punishment for a man’s first mistake.

Also at this forum, there was some discussion as to the advisability of reporting the various meetings held by the Executive Committee, the Faculty, and the Board of Trustees. Accordance was again reached in the idea that such reporting would alleviate the terrific problem of quelling the vicious rumors that circulate the campus.

With the advent of the new church and the new dorm on the campus, Shearer Hall seems a tad out of place on the campus. Since they can't remove the stucco very well, why not tear the building down, and build a replica of the old chapel, along more modern interior designs, and with more modern facilities.

An interesting study in race relations came up locally recently, and the situation stirred up quite a scandal in the community. We're going to gather some more facts between now and next week, and come up with a real news story.

The library is installing more shelves, in preparation for additional volumes. We need them badly, but if more students read the ones that were already in use, the average Davidsonian would become better educated.

Governor Scott (a fellow member of the rougher element) still hasn't done anything about Highway 21. Could be because Mecklenburg County voted Johnston and Smith in the elections of past years. The election board's idea of waiting a day between speeches and voting is a good thing. It gives the student body a chance to recover from exhibitionism and rabble-rousing, and seriously and intelligently consider the candidates.

The college has been fairly slow about getting out the new catalogue this year. Rumors have it that it’s been completely revamped, and will be much better. Dr. Spencer has been working hard to come through with it. We do hope it appears soon, however, so we can plan our courses for next year before the rush of exams begin.

“Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas” Are we living according to that motto today? There are too many sleepy people, and conservatives for the sake of conservatism around here. Conservatives and sleepy people have their eyes half closed, and people with half-closed eyes can’t even see the light, much less let it shine in their minds and lives.

“And when the one greater Scorer comes
To write against your name,
He writes not that you won or lost,
But how you played the game.”

Or Socialism Most Important Election Issue?

Any organized, occupational, racial, religious or regional minorities. We have had no such President since 1932. On the contrary, for twenty years the dominant party has based its political power upon these minorities. It has run the country in their interests rather than that of the great majority of us who do not belong to them. It has showered governmental favors and support upon organized labor until it has become the outstandingly favored class.”

Boiled down, this writer sees the basic question in the Ike-vs.-Taft argument as this: Is foreign policy or domestic policy most important at the present? Should we consider primarily what the next President of the U.S. will do inside America or what he will do for American relations with the rest of the world? Foreign policy, of course, can make or break a country, but the wisest foreign policy cannot save a country which seems to be emasculating itself by socialism. As far as this writer is concerned, Eisenhower is the man for the job if he will take a strong stand on the issues discussed above. But if the General persists in making mostly general statements, he will not be alone in turning to support a man who no doubt has his faults but at least takes a strong stand on one of the great issues of the day.

“How Do I Know I Am Called” by Bob Boyd of the Student Volunteer Movement.

Many young men have the notion that to be a missionary requires a special kind of “call.” But there is nothing secret or mysterious about this call for it is nothing more than my seeing a need in God's perspective, and realizing that God has equipped me to meet it. This definition brings up several questions: what is “God’s perspective,” what is “need,” and what am “I” and my equipment. First of all, seeing things in God's perspective means that this matter of call is our somehow being brought to see life and ourselves as God does, through the gift of His Holy Spirit. We understand, too, the perspective of God as we recall the command of Jesus to “Go into all the world” and realize all that lies behind these words in one God, Creator, who chose the Church to proclaim His faithfulness. With such a perspective, we might ask what does the Christian see as “need?” Certainly we size up need from our own viewpoint. Then, for those who see humanity even momentarily in God's perspective, needs are revealed which completely elude the non-Christian, for we know that “Man shall not live by bread alone.” When we speak in these terms we get a new understanding of the “I” which responds to a call. After a man accepts Christ he never quite belongs to himself again; he belongs to God in Christ. Then the “I” which has found God is turned outward, given God’s power to heal and reconcile. Whether or not I am called to be a missionary, I am assuredly called to be missionary. For the “I” has become the released, proclaiming self who belongs to God.

Today we are faced by the emergence of the world community of Christendom, a world-wide Church. Doesn't this great new fact of the world Church added to the early command to “make disciples of all nations” sharply focus the call to proclaim the good news to those who still have not heard it, and extend a kindly ministry to those who are still untended? Surely Christ’s commission to the Church is a call to each of its members, a call to be weighed and considered, a call demanding decision!

Returning to the question with which we originally began, what are the marks by which I recognize God’s call to me to be a missionary? Well, first of all, I need to know what God wants done and this calls for Bible study, regular association and worship with Christian friends, and times of quiet meditation when God's voice may be heard. I can be sure that as I seek, I will find. Secondly, I must know myself for part of God's will for me is written in my physical frame and in my personality. And then, most difficult of all, I must accept all that God tells me. Isn’t that what Jesus meant when he said, “If any man wills to do my will he shall know.” God's call to me will be clear as I am ready to receive it. There is a general obligation resting upon Christian men to see that the gospel of Jesus Christ is preached to the world. We need no (Continued On Page Four)