op og! ge hmm axe we Cannon. Thirteen members of the senior class have been selected to be members of
Who’s Who Among Students in American Colleges and Universities. Selected this year were Jack Ruth, Hubert Cannon, George Irvin, Larry
Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw, Lawrence Erwin, Bob Henry, Earnest Barry, Mike Myers, Mitchell Patton, Jim Speed, Bob Walker, and Clay Evatt.
Annually since 1934, Who’s Who has chosen for its membership students who, in their whole college career, have shown scholarship,
leadership, cooperation in education and extracurricular activities, citizenship, promise of future, and unselfishness. This organization selects its members from over
six hundred colleges and universities throughout America. The students receiving membership are chosen by men of the college faculty or
administration who have been chosen by the directors of Who's Who Among Students in American Colleges and Universities. The number
of members taken from each college is based on the enrollment of the college; the Davidson allotment is thirteen. The
following is a list of the men and the activities of each:

JACK RUTH, a Beta who is president of the student body, is from Kings Mountain, N.C. Last year’s junior class
president, Jack has been active not only in student government activities, but also he has been an outstanding football player.
This year he is on the Y Cabinet and is president of the Student Council.

HUBERT CANNON, the president of the YMCA, comes from Lancaster, S.C. Last year he was president of Phi Gamma Delta,
and during all his years here he has been very active not only in Y work but also in French
Club activities. He is at present a member of Eumenean Literary Society, the Forensic Council, Le Cercle Francais, and ODK.

GEORGE IRVIN, president of the senior class, is from Winston-Salem. “Bucky” is a brother in Beta Theta Pi and Eumenean
Literary Society, and he was a varsity member of the wrestling team year before last. Last year he was vice
president of the junior class and had much to do with the David Ovens College Union.

LARRY DAGENHART, from Wilmington, N.C., is freshman adviser this year. Larry is a member of ODK, Phi Beta Kappa, and
was a Distinguished Military Student last year in ROTC. Last year he was vice president of the student body, and
this year he is a member of Eumenean Literary Society and of Sigma Upsilon, the honorary literary fraternity.

FRANK HANSHAW, editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian this year, is president of Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. Last spring Frank was made
a member of ODK and was elected treasurer of that group. This year he is also commander of Scabbard and
Blade, a Distinguished Military Student, and a member of Sigma Upsilon and Eumenean Literary Society. Frank comes to Davidson from
Huntington, West Virginia.

LAWRENCE ERWIN is president of the Interfraternity Council this year. From Morganton, N.C., “Ewong” is a member of the “D”
Club due to his golfing ability. He is a member of Pi Kappa Phi fraternity.

BOB HENRY is president of both ODK and of Kappa Alpha fraternity. From Huntington, West Virginia, Bob is captain of
the cross country team; he has been a member of the Beaver Club, the Honorary Fraternity Council, and Sigma Upsilon.
He is also a member of Scabbard and Blade and is the regimental commander this year for the ROTC.

EARNEST BARRY, judge of this year's Court of Control, is from Jackson, Mississippi. Last year Earnest was a battalion commander,
a member of Scabbard and Blade, and was a Distinguished Military Student. He is also a member of Eumenean Literary
Society and of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. This year he is in charge of the Christmas Gift Fund for the
YMCA and is on the Cabinet.

JIM SPEED is a new member of Phi Beta Kappa from Birmingham, Alabama. During his four years here Jim has
been active in “Y” work. This year he is also one of the associate editors of the annual. He has
been vice president of the Philanthropic Literary Society. He is a member of Delta Phi Alpha, the German honorary society.
He is a brother of Kappa Alpha fraternity and is majoring in history.

MIKE MYERS of Greensboro, N.C., is editor-in-chief of the Scrips ’n Pranks this year. A member of Beta Theta Pi,
Mike has been very active in the publication fields of the college. This year he is a member of Eumenean
Literary Society, of Sigma Upsilon, and of the Publications Board.

MITCHELL PATTON, from Greenville, S.C., is editor-in-chief of the Quips and Cranks. He is a member of the Publications Board,
of Le Cercle Francais, and of Pi Kappa Phi fraternity.

BOB WALKER, a Beta from Nashville, Tenn., is president of Eumenean Literary Society. He is president of the Spanish Club
and of the Honorary Fraternity Council, and is a Spanish major here at Davidson. He is also a member of
the cheerleading squad.

CLAY EVATT, president of this year’s “D” Club, is from Charleston, S.C. Earning his letter in football, Clay has played
continuously on the Davidson Squad. This year he is also president of Kappa Sigma fraternity. He was a member of
the Beaver Club during his sophomore and junior years.

Fate Of Holidays Lies With Faculty

The issues of the post-Christmas holiday problem were clearly drawn in two important meetings between faculty and student leaders this
week. Dr. Cunningham on Tuesday called the members of ODK along with President Jack Ruth into his office for a
discussion of the situation. Though the conclusions were not clearly drawn, the pervading idea seemed to be that the faculty
had prepared the calendar which satisfied the college and student requirements as near as was possible. It was pointed out
that both the Wake Forest and N.C. State students were returning from their holidays on either the first or second
of January. Another observation was that made by Dean Bailey that this same situation had occurred in the history of
the college five times in the last 11 years.

New Plan

Jack Ruth and ODK president Rob Henry have devised a plan, which was presented to the Executive Committee in its
meeting. Petitioning for the single cuts will continue as the second line of action now that the more feasible plan
for the widely desired two-day extension has been brought forward.

Husband-Wife Team Here On Thursday Next

Famous Pianists, Play Here Tonight

There will be music in the air tonight as Nelson and Neal, the brilliant young piano team, present their distinctive
music at Davidson. Scheduled for 8:15 p.m., in Chambers Auditorium, they will play a concert program consisting of popular, semi-classical,
and classical selections. The activities of this versatile duo-piano team have made them the cynosure of many critics, which has
won them distinguished honors all over the world. In 1951 they presented over 150 concerts on tour, which makes Davidson
proud to be able to present them at this time. Opening their program with an Andante in D Minor by
Bach, they will follow with Rondo in C Major, op. 73 by Chopin, and March Militaire, op. 51, No. 1.
The first half of the concert will conclude with Variations on a Theme by Haydn, op. 56b, a brilliant composition
by Johannes Brahms.

DeMille To Judge Flora Mac Femmes

United Drive Here For Weekend Kickoff Held

Arriving at one o'clock, the participants in the exchange day that Davidson Y. The events that are going to take
place throughout the day will begin with the football game, which will be attended by the couples, and will be
watched by them as they sit in a group. The price of the tickets has been reduced for the lucky
boys to $75. The time from the end of the game until supper time will be spent at the fraternity
houses, and dinner will be served at the respective boarding houses. A grand march will be the opening event of
a fellowship period.Follow supper, “Flaming” Fletcher Bright and the “inimitable and incomparable” Cripple Creek Boys will make their first appearance
on the campus this year and will supply the music for the square dancing which will follow the grand march.
This is the first collective campus activity that this group has participated in. At mid-evening, there will be a program
presented by the Flora Mac girls and the Davidson men. The Flora Mac girls will give their interpretation of the
Highland Fling. The Davidson men will feature Rich Steck with his ventriloquist act. Novelty numbers by the Cripple Creek Boys
will follow, after which round dancing and group singing will climax the evening. The social committee of the faculty, headed
by Dr. Goldiere, will observe the events of the weekend and will make suggestions and criticisms for the improvement of
future exchange programs.

VESPERS AND CHAPEL

The United Appeal Drive, approved by the Student Council, got underway at Davidson College last night as letters were sent
to the eleven national fraternities and the Campus Club mapping out the drive and asking these groups to support this
worthwhile campaign. Participation of the independents in the drive was discussed this morning in chapel and plans have been made
by the independents to take part in the campaign as a group. The Charlotte drive, which is a part of
the Charlotte-Mecklenburg County drive to raise $760,000, will end November 14. Funds raised will go to some twenty charitable organizations,
both county and national. Larry Dagenhart, college drive chairman, stated that this year, instead of having many different drives in
chapel for the charitable organizations, Davidson will join the United Appeal in one consolidated effort. It will include all Community
Chest agencies plus other national organizations that solicited throughout last year. This does not include polio which will hold a
separate drive next January. Although the United Appeal could be handled on a personal subscription basis, it is felt that
this might conflict with the approaching YMCA Christmas Gift Fund and would exert too much pressure on the individual. For
this reason, the fraternities, Campus Club, and independents are asked to contribute as a group and to remember when they
set a quota, that not one, but twenty charitable organizations are to benefit from their contributions.

HEADS UNITED DRIVE

Wednesday, whereby the request for a two-day extension of the holidays would be possible. This plan would allow that classes
after the Christmas holidays begin on Monday, January 5, rather than on Thursday, January 2, as is presently planned. This
is made possible by having the first semester exam period start two days late and shortening the second examination period
by one day. This does not mean that school will be lengthened, however. Furthermore, there will be under the new
plan only two days in the first week of the second semester, rather than the present three, thus making the
first semester exam period only one day shorter. It is not known what action the Executive Committee will take, but
the announcement is expected shortly. The petition which appears below is the one that was presented orally at the recent
Executive Committee meeting and was evolved from the motion approved by the students in the recent student referendum.

WILLIAM MUIR

Davidson students will have an opportunity to observe two artists demonstrate their media when Emily and William Muir are on
campus for a two-day visit, Nov. 13 and 14. Mr. Muir specializes in wood carving of forms inspired by his
study and observation of plants, while Mrs. Muir paints in conventional oil. Mr. Muir is a native of (Continued On
Page Four)

PETITION

Believing the present college calendar to be the best possible under the existing circumstances; realizing that the present schedule meets
the minimum requirements of the Southern Association, and yet disagreeing with the advisability and the practicality of the New Year's
Day return; we the students of Davidson College do hereby petition the Executive Committee for single cuts on the two
days immediately following the Christmas holiday period.

JACK RUTH, President of the Student Body.

Highnoting the lighter side of the concert will be “Pupazzetti” which consists of five pieces for marionettes by Alfredo Casella.
The popular “Sabre Dance” by Khachaturian along with “The Carnival of the Animals” by Camille Saint-Saens will be featured in
the second half of the program.

ULFS To Present Movie Tuesday

“Of Mice and Men,” the third picture in the fall series of the United Literary Film Society, will be shown
in Chambers auditorium November 11 at 7:15 p.m. The society reports that ticket sales are lagging, possibly because of the
scheduling of other events and the lack of publicity. To conform with the recommendations of the chapel committee, announcements in
chapel, used in the past, are no longer used. Tickets to the series are on sale at the door before
each picture. At the present time, it is not possible for several reasons to sell tickets to individual pictures, but
an attempt is being made to solve this problem. It may be possible also that tickets for the Spring series
will be lower in price due to a new film contract. The United Literary Film Society was formed in 1950
by the two literary societies on the campus to bring films to the students which would not normally be shown
in the theaters because of the limited interest in them.

Pictures Of Girls

Cecil B. deMille of Paramount Studios will select the beauty queens for the 1953 Quips and Cranks. The famous producer
and director, whose eye for beauty has picked such stars as Paulette Goddard, June Arthur, and Hedy Lamarr, and who
gave Gloria Swanson her start, has recently accepted the invitation to judge the Davidson annual’s 1953 queens. Producer of some
seventy moving pictures, and the man who has created more stars in Hollywood than any other, deMille has recently been
accredited with such masterpieces as “Samson and Delilah” and “The Greatest Show on Earth.” In his letter of acceptance to
the invitation to judge the Quips and Cranks beauties for this year, deMille stated: “I shall be glad to accept
your invitation to judge the beauty queens for the Davidson College yearbook. They say that ‘wisdom is the abstract of
the past, but beauty is the promise of the future.’ May I be granted the wisdom to judge the beauty
of the Davidson girls.”

Due to a conflict with the Fall Services, a change in the schedule of meetings of the Philanthropic and Eumenean
Literary Societies was made this week. The Phi meeting was postponed, and the Eu Society met after the service. In
its informal meeting, the Eumenean Society voted to postpone the chapel program which was scheduled for Thursday. No new date
has been set for the program. After much discussion, a resolution of support for the United Literary Film Society was
made.

Military Group

Sunday, Nov. 8, Dr. James Cleland of Duke University will lead the meditation at the annual fall vesper communion service.
Monday, November 10th, the devotional will be conducted by Professor Jay Ostwalt. Tuesday, November 11th, will be a long chapel
program with Dr. Frontis Johnston having charge of the devotional, but he has not decided on the topic of his
talk. Wednesday, November 12th, the short devotional will be led by (Continued On Page Four)

LARRY DAGENHART

Scabbard and Blade Selects Nine

The local company of Scabbard and Blade, national military fraternity for outstanding ROTC cadets, held a Fall tap day on
Tuesday, Nov. 4, during ROTC drill. The nine cadets tapped were John Cathcart, executive officer of the ROTC Band; Dick
Coburn, executive officer of the First Battalion; Brown Dennis, regiment leader, Squad 3; Dick Kelly, company commander, F Company; Jerry
Morrow, platoon leader of the Second Platoon, Company A; Dave Robinson, first battalion, Squad E; Homer Sparks, Second Battalion adjutant;
Allan Vance, Second Battalion, Squad 3; and Harry Underwood, platoon leader of E Company. In addition to these cadets, Lieutenant
Colonel E. H. Davis, the PMS&T, was selected to honorary membership. (Continued On Page Four)
