SIMMONS SAYS SUPPLEMENT VESPER CABBAGE PLANTER OFF AGAIN ) CUTS (See Page Two) (See Page Two) The Davidsonian QRTA LIBERTAS
ALENDA GCUK UB) NUMBER SEVENTEEN William Perry Wills $30,000 To Davidson A bequest of approximately $30,000 to Davidson College by
the late Dr. William G. Perry of Atlanta has been announced by President John R. Cunningham. Dr. Cunningham revealed that
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 1952 290 Expected Sen Rose To Speak Here Saturday At Spring Serv
THE VOLUME XL 3 Hats In Ring For Little’s Job At least three hats and a possible fourth are in
the ring for head coach here to fill the gap left by Crowell Little’s resignation last week. Applications have been
received from Dick Redding, Wolfpack Assistant Coach Gwyn Fletcher, and Fayetteville High’s “Bear” Biggers. There is also some local pressure
favoring Coach Harry Milligan of Richmond Academy in Augusta, though he has not formally applied. Davidsonians In Armed Forces SAMUEL
F. WARLICK, now serving Uncle Sam in Iceland as a member of the U. S. Airforce, entered Davidson in ‘47
with a BS-2 in mind. He graduated with the class of 50-51, having been a Pi Kappa Alpha, a member
of Le Cercle Francaise and a member of the Davidsonian staff while at Davidson. More than 250 grade and high
school students representing 29 schools are expected on campus for the Western District Solo and Ensemble Music Contest for Primary.
He can be contacted through his home on Mocksville Road, Statesville, North Carolina. ROBERT WILLIAM BENNETT, a member of the
class of ‘50, he came to Davidson for his B.S. in 1946. Bob was graduated and joined the Army. While
on the Though it has these names and hints of others, the Athletic Council is not yet ready to pick
a new mentor. At a meeting Friday night they were only able to agree that one must be gotten “pretty
quick.” It plans to search the immediate area for candidates among assistant coaches, high school coaches, and junior college solons.
“The man will have to be able to fit into the Davidson program and be able to sell the Wildcat
Club,” they said. No information was available on either Fletcher or Biggers, but it was learned that Milligan guided his
Richmond squad to the state championship last year and produced two conference champs while at Darlington School in Rome, Ga.
This was his first year at the helm of the Augusta prep school. Answering a wire from the Davidsonian, Milligan
said that he would have to have more details about the job before he could make any definite commitment. It
was about such “details” that Athletic Director P. K. Scott was hazy as the week ended. Despite his negativism in
the telegram, Milligan has been quoted as saying he “would not coach at any other college except Davidson.” It was
learned that Georgia Tech has offered him a position as assistant backfield coach, but it is reported that he is
not looking for an assistant’s job. There is considerable support for Milligan among the members of the varsity squad, it
was learned by the Davidsonian. Asking that their names be withheld, at least three were quite pronounced in their praise
of the Georgian. George Nickels, who recently charged Davidson coaches with “un-Christian practices,” told this reporter that he thinks Milligan
should be the man for the job. One source reported that Milligan would get the backing of Dr. C. R.
Wilcox, a member of the Executive Committee of the Trustees and president of the Darlington School. These straws in the
wind will probably be joined by a good many more, intimated Athletic Director P. K. Scott, who said that planning
is definitely in its first stages. He added that at the moment he is unable even to advise applicants as
to the conditions under which the job will be offered. “Such matters as whether he will be allowed to bring
assistants have to be settled,” he explained. Members of the Athletic Council are Drs. Abernethy and Johnston (faculty), Bill Freeman
(student), and Dr. Tom Sparrow, D. R. Lafar, Olin Nesbit and Hugh Query (alumni and trustee). The decision of the
Athletic Committee, when it is made, will have to be okayed by the trustees. Anxious Females Run Riot Today Cancel
those trips to Salem and Converse this weekend, men. Keep out of reach of anything in skirts as far as
that goes! The reason? It’s Leap Year Day. and 6 hours. Not bad for 40 B.C., still inconvenient both to
the modern gal and the afore-mentioned persecuted male animals. The modern gal is quite more manish than her dainty Neanderthal
progenitors, at least mentally. Having lost the ideal of procuring a man by coquetry and sweet femininity, she has taken
to running after him with an unfamiliar, but devastating bluntness. The record shows that she has had the winning theory,
for marriage bureaus report a boom in Leap Years. Some of the delightful creatures are looking at the male and
female population figures and transforming Malthus’ economic ideas in terms of sweet daddies, pikers and just about anyone with a
low-pitched voice. The disheartening fact is that most men neglect such admonitions as this and refuse to flee from the
oncoming tides of marital-minded Minnies. For some reason they seem to think man can’t get along without the frightful hobgoblins.
The Davidson College biology department reports that they can't in fact. Spencer Announces Names of Judges Judges for the Middle
East Essay contest have been announced by Dr. S. R. Spencer as Dr. J. Y. Causey, Dr. C. R. Eberhardt,
and Dr. J. Wilson McCutchan. The contest is being held in connection with Dorothy Thompson’s lecture on the Middle East
here March 19. The contest closes March 12, and all entries should be 1500 words or more. and Secondary Schools
at Davidson tomorrow. Directed by Kenneth R. Moore, assistant professor of music at Davidson, the judging will begin at 9
a.m. and continue through late afternoon with more than 215 separate events scheduled for the day. Each solo performer or
ensemble group will be allowed six minutes playing time. The contestants will perform for written criticism of the judges as
well as a rating. Superior will be the top rating to be given, followed by excellent, good, average and below
average. Professor Moore pointed out that the contestants will not be competing against each other, but will be judged according
to standards set up by the N. C. Music Educator's Association. Judges for the event will be Willard Brask, of
Newberry College, S. C., Willard L. Burrage, director of Music at Dunn High School, and Herbert Carter and Kenneth Cuthbert
of Eastern Carolina Teacher's College. The contests will be held in four separate locations on the campus. Woodwind and string
solos will be judged in Chambers Building, woodwind ensembles in Phi Hall, brass and percussion solos at Eu Hall, and
brass ensembles in Shearer Hall. The Davidson College Band Ensemble and Woodwind Quintet will (Continued On Page Four) Faculty Recital
Slated For Monday On Monday, March 3, at 8:15 p.m., there is to be a sonata recital held here. It
will take place in the Frantz Studio on Oak Row, and will feature Louise Nelson Pfohl, Jean Moore, and Kenneth
Moore. There are to be three sonatas in the program, including a Beethoven Sonata in E Flat for piano, a
Shostakovich for cello and piano, and a Brahms Sonata for clarinet and piano. There is a general invitation to all
interested persons, and no admission.There were no definite actions or recommendations—only a multitude of varying opinions and ideas—expressed in the
open meeting of the committee on elections which met Monday night. The general topics of nominations, platform speeches, and the
signing of the ballots were discussed by the 20 students, led by Mac McLean, assembled in the Science Auditorium. Three
plans were brought up as methods for nominations. They were: (1) All nominations will come from the floor and the
man nominated will accept by bringing a two-dollar fee to the student body president. (2) All the men who wish
to run will file with the president and his name will be entered on the lists. (3) A combination of
these two plans will be used. The question as to who would be permitted to present a platform caused a
long debate. Some of those present were for allowing all those nominated the privilege of speaking, while others were for
restricting the number of those speaking to the last five men left after the ballots had reduced the candidates to
that number. Perhaps the most arresting proposal was one made by Pete Kalogridis, who suggested that the platforms be made
a social event. He said they could be combined with a speech by Dr. Cunningham, a concert, and a barbecue.
The reactions to Kalogridis’ idea were mixed. Some said that it would make a farce of the elections and others
thought it would add dignity to the occasion. The practice of signing the ballots, it was explained, was developed to
keep down any stuffing of the ballot box and to check on any clique forming. The opinions expressed indicated that
some thought the signing of the ballots was undemocratic and against the principle of the secret ballot. The alternate method
to signing the ballots that has been approved by the committee in an earlier meeting was to have no signing
of the ballots. This would be replaced by checking off the names of students as they voted. Some light on
the history of elections at Davidson was shed by Bob Walker. He said that a professor had told him that
open elections were tried in 1940, but there was such a feeling of contempt developed from the cheapening of the
offices by the open campaigning that the men of leadership refused to accept the nominations. After this experience, the present
election regulations were adopted. Whether the editors of the publications should have platforms and the present procedures of nominating the
editors came in for some appraisal. It is expected that there will probably be another open meeting of the committee
before the final closed session in which the recommendations to the student council will be formulated, President Mac McLean predicted.

Senior Class President Tom Stockton announced yesterday that a definite date of Saturday, April 5, had been set for the
Senior Dance. The dance will be informal and will be from 8:30 till 12 p.m. On the same day Scabbard
and Blade will have a Tea Dance in the afternoon, following the Davidson-Florida State University track meet. All classes are
invited to attend both dances. A girl's day, probably Salem or W.C. Day, will be held in connection with the
two dances. Tickets to the Senior Dance will be one dollar and a half. Profits from the dance will go
to the Senior Class gift fund. A band has not been signed to play, but will be selected in the
(Continued On Page Four).

Phi Bet Taps Adams, White

Secretary J. A. McGeachy of the Davidson Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa today announced the election of two seniors to
the national scholarship fraternity, William A. Adams of Seneca, S.C., and William A. White, Jr., of Charlotte. Adams, a Kappa
Alpha, is editor of Quips 'N Cranks; White, a Kappa Sigma, is editor of The Davidsonian.

Talk, No Action At Election Meet

There were no definite actions or recommendations—only a multitude of varying opinions and ideas—expressed in the open meeting of the
committee on elections which met Monday night. The general topics of nominations, platform speeches, and the signing of the ballots
were discussed by the 20 students, led by Mac McLean, assembled in the Science Auditorium. Three plans were brought up
as methods for nominations. They were: (1) All nominations will come from the floor and the man nominated will accept
by bringing a two-dollar fee to the student body president. (2) All the men who wish to run will file
with the president and his name will be entered on the lists. (3) A combination of these two plans will
be used. The question as to who would be permitted to present a platform caused a long debate. Some of
those present were for allowing all those nominated the privilege of speaking, while others were for restricting the number of
those speaking to the last five men left after the ballots had reduced the candidates to that number. Perhaps the
most arresting proposal was one made by Pete Kalogridis, who suggested that the platforms be made a social event. He
said they could be combined with a speech by Dr. Cunningham, a concert, and a barbecue. The reactions to Kalogridis’
idea were mixed. Some said that it would make a farce of the elections and others thought it would add
dignity to the occasion. The practice of signing the ballots, it was explained, was developed to keep down any stuffing
of the ballot box and to check on any clique forming. The opinions expressed indicated that some thought the signing
of the ballots was undemocratic and against the principle of the secret ballot. The alternate method to signing the ballots
that has been approved by the committee in an earlier meeting was to have no signing of the ballots. This
would be replaced by checking off the names of students as they voted. Some light on the history of elections
at Davidson was shed by Bob Walker. He said that a professor had told him that open elections were tried
in 1940, but there was such a feeling of contempt developed from the cheapening of the offices by the open
campaigning that the men of leadership refused to accept the nominations. After this experience, the present election regulations were adopted.
Whether the editors of the publications should have platforms and the present procedures of nominating the editors came in for
some appraisal. It is expected that there will probably be another open meeting of the committee before the final closed
session in which the recommendations to the student council will be formulated, President Mac McLean predicted.

Will Be Repeated

Dr. Ben L. Rose, pastor of the General Presbyterian Church of Bristol, Va., will be the principal speaker for Spring
Services, “What think ye of Christ?” March 9-12, it was announced today by Tom Stockton, YMCA special services chairman. An
outstanding list of counselors to be on the campus for inspirational leadership and guidance, was also released by Stockton. The
group includes: Rev. Robert M. Bird, rector, All Saints Episcopal Church Concord; James W. Ray, state secretary, Baptist Student Union,
Raleigh; R. A. White, Jr., assistant minister, First Presbyterian Church, Winston-Salem; Rev. Albert B. McClure, superintendent, Presbyterian Orphan's Home, Barium
Springs; Rev. Sherrill B. Biggers, Kilgo Methodist Church, Charlotte; Rev. W. M. Fountain, Jr., Malvern Hills Presbyterian Church, Asheville; John
D. Riebel, assistant secretary, YMCA, University of North Carolina; Rev. W. R. Smith, II, Buchanan Presbyterian Church, Buchanan, Virginia; Rev.
Murphy Smith, First Presbyterian Church, New Bern. This year the services will begin with a talk at Vespers, and talks
Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday in Chapel by Mr. Rose. These three days will be climaxed at night with discussion groups
at each fraternity house and one for independents and bull sessions about ten o'clock, both led by counselors. As last
year, the counselors will live in the dormitories (one to a dorm if possible). Mr. Rose was born in Fayetteville
on December 12, 1914. His father, Judge Charles L. Rose, attended Davidson in 1898 but graduated from UNC in 1900.
His father was Moderator (1942-1943) of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, U.S. From 1854 to 1860, Rev. Rose's
great-grandfather, Rev. Drury Lacy, D.D., was president of Davidson College. Graduating from Davidson in 1935, Rev. B. L. Rose was
business manager of Quips and Cranks and a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity. He graduated from Union Theological Seminary in
Richmond in 1938. From then till 1941, when he entered the army and served as a chaplain with the 331st
Infantry Division and with the 113th Mechanized Cavalry Regiment, Rev. Rose served Home Mission churches in Wilmington Presbytery at Chinquapin,
N.C. With latter the bequest would be set up in a scholarship fund for Davidson students. In leaving the residue
of his estate to Davidson, Dr. Perry stated: “I would like consideration be given... my great sympathy for worthy young
men who desire to receive the benefits of education and have limited means at their disposal.” A graduate of Davidson
with the class of 1898, Dr. Perry was professor of English for 47 years at Georgia Tech before his retirement
in 1948. He started teaching as adjunct professor of English there in 1902, and became head of the department in
1922.

Rich's, Taxmen, Lehigh-Portland Counsel March 6

Next week representatives from Lehigh-Portland Cement Company, Rich's Department Store of Atlanta and the North Carolina Department of Revenue will
be on the campus to interview seniors interested in securing employment with them. At 8:00 a.m., on March 6, Rich's
representatives will hold a group interview in room 108 Chambers, and at 9:00, will begin individual interviews. Rich's, the South’s
largest department store, is looking for graduates who will receive training for executive positions in the business. Also on Thursday,
the Lehigh-Portland Cement Company representative will be available for 20-minute interviews beginning at 9 a.m. He will see business administration
and liberal arts seniors who are interested in selling. All applications for these interviews must be made before Wednesday. The
North Carolina Department of Revenue will have a representative here on Friday, March 7. He will interview those interested in
becoming state revenue agents. Seniors who wish to make an appointment with these representatives should see Mr. Dillon in his
office.

Concert Bandmen On The Air Soon

The Davidson College Concert Band will begin a series of 10 Male Chorus-and-Concert Band radio programs tonight at 9:30. The
Chorus and Band will alternate their performances, one broadcasting every Friday evening throughout the series. These programs will be broadcast
by radio stations WBT, Charlotte; WBIG, Greensboro; WPFT, Raleigh; WISE, Asheville; WMNC, Morganton, and WSIC, Statesville.

GEORGE IS IMMORTALIZED

Several enterprising young men took advantage of Tuesday's snow to give vent to hidden sculpting talent. It was not certain
that the objet d’art honors George, but who could deny it?
