This year is shaping up as a very tight race for the Interfraternity Sports Trophy, which has been held for the past four years by the Kappa Sigs. Last year it went right down to the wire before the outcome was certain, and again this year it looks even closer as the interfrat season comes to a close. Different from last year when there really were but three teams that were close, there are five that could conceivably take the trophy to their halls this year. None of the front runners have run away with the victories or the copping of many individual events. It has been a season, therefore, of many close events and many heated and competitive games and matches.

By DICK LILES

LEADERS DIVIDE MAJOR VICTORIES

The five leaders have pretty well split up the major sports with the Kappa Alphas taking football, the Sigma Chis winning the swim meet and handball and a second in basketball, the Phi Gams annexing the volleyball crown and gaining a second in the wrestling tourney and the track meet, while the Phi Delts really have cashed with their capturing ping pong, wrestling, and the track meet with a second in volleyball. The Kappa Sigs, meanwhile, won the basketball crown and have really amassed the points by coming in second in three events. These are football, swimming, and handball. Last year the “boys of the red” won the cup nearly in the same manner by slipping in numerous seconds and thirds, while the Phi Delts and Sigma Chis were fighting it out over the firsts.

FIGHT TO FINISH

No one will be able to predict how the thing will come out with tennis, softball, and varsity participation still to be decided, but one fraternity or the other will have to take one or two of the remaining or some strong seconds to be assured of the Big Brass. This is bound to be tough with the competition such as it is. It is just like the “big leagues” for the cellar-dwellers are always on the lookout to knock off the big boys at any chance they might get. For example, one team that hasn't been too impressive in the entire sports agenda this year has come up with a softball squad that is the terror of the league at this very moment. The SPE’s have already bumped off the Phi Delts and Phi Gams, two comparatively strong competitors for the softball crown as well as being hot in the race for the cup.

TENNIS MAY BE DOWNFALL

Also on the courts, the front-runners may have a little trouble. The Betas seem to have the strongest pair of netmen in the league with Ed Coleman and “Half-man” Walker, and they also are actually out of the running for the trophy, but will be pretty tough customers for the boys who are trying for those ever-valuable points toward the big goal. And then the question comes up about varsity participation and that again might be somewhat of a question although it is cut and dried and only needs counting and calculating to determine the outcome here. That process, by the way, is done by a complicated method that is designed to be as fair as it can be and is calculated on the basis of the number of men in a fraternity that participate in varsity athletics divided by the membership of the group. As far as a prediction is concerned, it looks like the race actually will boil down to a Kappa Sig-Phi Delt-Phi Gam push with the KA’s and Sigma Chis falling behind on these last three races. At any rate, the last day of school and maybe later will come before the winner will be known.

Thursday, Friday, Saturday May 8-9-10 We Present Dan River Wrinkle Sheds

We are one of the first five towns in N. C. to have these— Wrinkle Shed Shirts

HAVE PERMANENT SHRINKAGE CONTROL
RESIST WRINKLES
STAY CRISP WITHOUT STARCH
RESIST SOIL
ARE EASIER TO WASH AND IRON
DRY FASTER
RESIST MILDEW
RETARD PERSPIRATION ODOR

Wilson-Wrights Collegiate Fashions

THE DAVIDSONIAN

CLEM

Wildcat Diamonds Face Carolina Here

Poole Hopes For Initial Mastery Over Heels At Home

By DICK ROPER

North Carolina's Tar Heels visit the local diamond tomorrow afternoon to take on a tired and victory-starved Wildcat nine. Freshman hurler John “Ish” Bennett will be Coach Dave Poole’s choice to start on the hill against a Tar Heel club which has already edged out the Cats once this season. The UNC team won 4-3, at Chapel Hill April 15. Still smarting from a 12-1 licking from Asheboro’s McCrary Eagles here Thursday, the Cats will take the field decided underdogs against Coach Bunn Hearn’s Chapel Hill team. Errors—12 of them—were the order of the day against the semi-pro Eagles, who garnered a total of 14 hits off three Cat pitchers. The Thursday performance was in direct contrast to the Cats’ trouncing of Furman the day before. Behind the five-hit hurling of Ish Bennett, Poole’s club held their error total down to four while they touched three Furman hurlers for nine bingles. Against Carolina today the Cats will have a chance of winning, but only if they can manage to hold together for nine innings. Going into the eighth against McCrary the score was 5-1. Two innings and eight misplays later the game had turned into a complete rout. To date the Wildcats have won three games while dropping twelve for a .200 percentage. Fred Stowe, hard-hitting Cat left fielder, has been slipping for the past several games but still owns a .404 average, with 21 hits in 52 trips at bat. A good performance in the final two games of the current season could well bring the Belmont, N. C., boy All-Conference honors. After tomorrow's contest with North Carolina, the Cats will have only one game remaining on their schedule this year. They meet NC State at Raleigh Monday afternoon. The Wolfpack won handily over the Cats in their first meeting here in April.

Softball Livel

Front-running SPE's Are Whipped and Forced To Tie

By THEO FEILD

With tennis and softball in the spotlight, plenty of action is taking place in the interfraternity sports competition. Both sports have important games scheduled for the coming week with the big question being whether the SPE’s can continue their dominance over the other fraternities in the softball race. Only one week remains for the other clubs to lower the boom on the victorious SPE’s who have extended their winning streak to eight games in a row, although they dropped one on Thursday to the up and coming Kappa Sigs. Tied for first due to the Thursday loss, are the Phi Gams. This ball club has racked up eight wins against a lone defeat which came at the hands of the SPE's. Also very much in the running for the title are the KA’s and Kappa Sigs, both of whom have suffered only two defeats. Other fraternities with a .500 or better percentage in the softball standings are the Sigma Chis, Phi Delts, and Pi Kapps. Any one of these teams could play the part of the dark horse and slip through for the softball crown. In some of this week's action, the Phi Gams knocked out the Pikas to further strengthen their position. The Betas captured their second win of the campaign by downing the Campus Club, while the Sigma Chis defeated the SAE’s. The pressure will be on next week when some of the big games are played. The Sigma Chis will try their hand at stopping the SPE’s and the Kappa Sigs will seek to gain second place by beating the Phi Gams.

Tennis Reports

The fraternity racqueteers have gotten off to a slow start with the Betas and the Phi Gams taking over as the early leaders. The Betas have registered three wins against no defeats, while the Phi Gams have two wins and no losses. Other teams which appear to have strong teams this year are Phi Delts, Pikas, and Kappa Sigs; all three of which have been handed a single loss. In this week's action, the Phi Delts have won over the Kappa Sigs, putting an end to their five-game winning streak. The Pikas won their fourth match of the year by downing the Sigma Chis, and the Kappa Sigs beat the SPE’s. A definite leader will be singled out by the end of next week when the Betas and Phi Gams clash. Play has been hampered by the inconsistency of the weather which has caused several matches to be postponed or cancelled.

SOFTBALL STANDINGS

W L
SPE 8 1
Phi Gam 8 1
KA 6 2
Sigma Chi 5 3
Phi Delt 5 3
Kappa Sig 4 3
Pi Kapps 3 3
SAE 3 5
Pikas 2 5
Betas 2 6
ATO 0 6
CC 0 8

TENNIS STANDING

W L
Beta 3 0
Phi Gam 2 0
Kappa Sig 5 1
Pikas 4 1
Phi Delt 3 1
SAE 2 2
SPE 2 2
KA 2 4
Pi Kapps 1 3
CC 1 4
Sigma Chi 1 5
ATO 0 4

SPORTS QUIZ

Which team won and by what score the annual Blue-White football game at the University of North Carolina last Saturday?

Who won the 1952 North-South Amateur Golf Tournament at Pinehurst last week?

What is the name of the ex-UNC football player who announced that he was quitting as football coach at Central High School in Charlotte?

What outstanding N.C. State tackle who graduates this spring was traded from the Cleveland Browns to the Green Bay Packers this week?

Who pitched his first game for the Phillies this week after a 19-month hitch in the U.S. Army?

Chesterfield Charlie. Hal, Chesterfield representative (Continued On Page Four)

FRED STOWE...

By BOB OWENS

Perhaps Coach Dave Pooledoes not have the most outstanding baseball team in the Southern Conference this season, but he has certainly got one of its most outstanding players—leftfielder Freddy Stowe.

Stowe has shown his sharp batting eye in far outdistancing his teammates in hits, runs scored, runs batted in, and is leading the Wildcat batters with a sparkling .404 average. He roams the pastures of left field as if he were at home, and his strong right arm is very valuable to the Cats.

Extra-Curricula Hitter
Stowe, a sophomore who hails from Belmont, N.C., has made it a habit of banging out hits, and playing good left field. He played four years of baseball for Belmont High School and played in the N.C. vs. S.C. All-Star game in Charlotte in 1950. Never one to remain idle during the summer months, Stowe played for the Belmont semi-pro team in ‘49 and ‘51. In the summer of 1950, he played for the Cramerton semi-pro team and led the league in batting with a fine .386 average. A stern believer in practice and the fundamentals of baseball, Stowe plans to stick with the game. At the close of this semester's work, Stowe plans to leave for Nova Scotia with other Southern Conference stars where he will play baseball for the Truro semi-pro team during the summer months.

Continued Success
If the sharp-eyed youngster can continue to wield the stick as he has done in the past, he'll go a long way in making Poole’s team a winning outfit as well as maintaining a batting average that may break all previous records here at Presbyterian Hollow, either one of which would make any Davidsonian proud.

Swings Mean Stick
Ivy Leaguers Are Hosts to Netmen
By MOODY SMITH
With their season’s record now standing at eight wins against only two defeats, the Davidson College netsmen depart for the far north tomorrow on a one-week trip during which they will run into two of the toughest tennis powers in the East—Yale and Princeton. Besides these two giants of the collegiate courts, the Cats will also take on Harvard, Wesleyan, and William and Mary to round out a week that should prove whether this is a great team or only a good team.

Yesterday at Durham, the Wildcats suffered their second defeat of the season, bowing to a very powerful Duke aggregation, 7 to 2, Davidson taking the number one singles with Lacy Keesler defeating Norm Schellenger in three sets, and the number six singles with Joe Dudley defeating Buzz Cordoza in three sets also. Individual match scores were as follows:

Singles—Lacy Keesler (DA) beat Norm Schellenger 1-6, 6-4, 6-4; Kes Deimling (DU) beat Johnny Bremer 8-6, 6-2; Dave Schimmel (DU) beat Allen Strand 6-4, 6-3; Buzzy Hettleman (DU) beat Dewey Keesler 6-1, 6-1; Ralph Paris (DU) beat Corky Clark 3-6, 8-6, 6-3; Joe Dudley (DA) beat Buzz Cardozo 1-6, 8-6, 6-1.

Doubles—Deimling and Hal Lipton beat Strand and D. Keesler, 6-4, 6-3; Schellenger and Schimmel beat L. Keesler and Bremer 3-6, 6-4, 6-1; Paris and Hettleman beat Dudley and Joe Snead, 9-7, 6-1.

After returning within the safe confines of the Mason-Dixon line, the Cats will have only one match to look forward to. That is the one with North Carolina. Scheduled for last Saturday afternoon, this game was rained out. If present plans materialize, it will be played May 14, the day before the Southern Conference tournament, which is to be held again this year on the focal courts. Coach Barton is taking north with him the line-up of six singles men on which he has relied for the greater part of the season: Lacy Keesler, Johnny Bremer, Allan Strand, Captain Dewey Keesler, Corky Clark, and Joe Dudley, together with George Snead for the number three doubles and Leighton Green as insurance.

The Cat thinclads last weekend came through with an impressive 69 to 51½ to 42½ win over the Citadel and South Carolina respectively in a triangular meet held at the Citadel track in Charleston. The Red and Black clad tracksters took 6 firsts of the 15 possible, and took 26 places in all for their 69 total. The Wildcats who took first spots were: Bill Shipley with a 53.5 time in the 440; Bill White with a 16.5 in the high hurdles; Bob Henry with a 2:06 in the 880; Tom Stockton with a 10:36 in the 2 mile; Buddy McKay with a 14.3 in the low hurdles; and the mile relay team composed of J. V. Howell, Bob Henry, Bill Russell, and Bill Shipley with a 3:35.5 mark.

After last week’s meet, the first slot in total points for the season was taken over by Jim Fickeisen with a 35 1-3 total. Though taking no firsts, the versatile “Fick” took seconds in both the high hurdles and the low hurdles, and fourths in both the pole vault and the javelin. Close on Jim’s heels in the scoring race is big Bill McNeely with 35 points followed closely by Tom Stockton with a grand total of 33. Next in line are Bill Shipley with 28 3-4, Bob Henry with 26 3-4, Buddy McKay with 25, and Bill White with 24.

L. R. Weak Opponents
In a practice meet held last Wednesday against the Lenoir Rhyne trackmen, the Wildcats smothered their guests with a smashing 110-16 victory. The men from Hickory took only 10 places, 8 of which were fourths. They repeated only one first place which came in the broad jump. Taking the first slots for the Cats were: McNeely (shot); Turk (high jump); Dick Stockton (mile); Shipley (440); Mitchener (100); White, B. (high hurdles); Russell (880); McNeely (discus); Mitchener (220); McKay (low hurdles); Poston (pole vault); Plummer (6 laps race); and Fickeisen (javelin).

The Wildcats will be out to make Clemson their fourth straight victim as they now hold an impressive 3-1 record. This is the last home meet of the current season.

Sports Mirror
1 Year Ago This Week: May 4, 1951—Phi Delts, with 10-0 record, take volleyball title.
6 Years Ago This Week: May 2, 1946—Netters First Unbeaten Cat Team in Two Decades.
10 Years Ago This Week: May 7, 1942—Wildcat track team downs N.C. State in final meet of the year, 79-47.
15 Years Ago This Week: May 5, 1937—Davidson nine chalks up win over UNC by staging ninth inning rally, 7-5.
20 Years Ago This Week: May 4, 1932—N.C. State and U.N.C. baseball teams defeat Wildcat nine by 14-5 to Tar Heels and 16-2 to Wolfpack.
25 Years Ago This Week: May 5, 1927—Cats outhit Gobblers but errors cause loss of game by 10-8 score.
30 Years Ago This Week: May 5, 1922—Davidson takes easy win over Wofford, 4-1.