THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Frank Hanshaw

BUSINESS MANAGER
Jack Hobson

ASSISTANT EDITOR
John Ottley

Associate Editors
Brinkley, Harter, Hope, Myers, M. G., Moylan, D.H. Hassel, J. M. Moore, Owens, Dick Roper

Feature Editor
T. A. Williams

Assignments
Strand

Managing Editors
Sports Editor
News Editor—D. M. Smith
Arts Editor—Mahy

Photographer
Simons

Assistant Business Manager
Poston

Advertising Manager
Hasty

Circulation Manager
Nicholson

Collection Manager
Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Little We Can Do For Amputees But Can We Afford To Do Less

There is not much that you can do for a boy of eight who has lost his hand. There is not much that you can do for a veteran who has grasped the significance of the term “quadruple amputation” or “basket case.” There is nothing that you can say which will calm the jangled nerves of a man rendered suddenly helpless... there is no word to erase the bitter taste of helplessness that comes to one whose bandaged nubs render impossible even the rudiments of personal care or habitual functions. There is nothing that you can say to a person who has been suddenly bereft of the use of his limb (or limbs). There is, in fact, no way for those of us who have hands and feet at our disposal even to imagine what it would be like to be unable to step out of bed in the morning or feed ourselves at the breakfast table.

There is, however, something we can do. It is not much... it will not blot out the memory of pain... it will not restore that which is lost... but it will aid in giving a touch of hope to the hopeless. There are those who are giving their time, their energy, and their skill to the restoring of purpose to the lives of those blasted by the destruction of war. They can perform no miracles. They can only smooth the path to rehabilitated lives and rejuvenated personalities. They do it with scrap metal, trained fingers, and occupational therapy. More important than that... they do it because of, and by means of, a loving spirit for human beings in distress.

What can you do for maimed bodies and tangled lives? Very little. But can anyone refuse to do what little he can do? We have an opportunity to do a little. We can help furnish part of the hard cash that will be necessary to carry out a program of aid to the maimed in Korea. It is just a small thing to give a few dollars, but multiply it by the love of man for man and invest it in human lives and the net result should be sufficient for even the most hard-headed business major on the campus. We can do only a little. But can any of us do any less than that? —D.H.M.

Good Government Cannot Be Bought With A Ballot

Another election has been relegated to history. January 20 will be our cue to pull ourselves back into our own little shells for another four years as far as politics go. Oh, world problems are interesting at times and scandals catch our attention, but we can’t let ordinary, plain old, common routine politics interfere with our everyday business or thought. That sounds silly, but what's even sillier is that so many people do just that. During an election year we get all excited and bothered over foreign policy, corruption, rights, issues ad infinitum, but the rest of that four-year interval we're completely oblivious to the workings of the government or the issues. We're ready to scream about incompetent public officials when a story hits the front page, but it’s strictly “who cares” until then. Bad laws and bad officials go unnoticed until they hurt someone.

It doesn’t seem to occur to us that honest government officials, just as honest businessmen, can’t succeed without our backing. Business loses over a billion dollars a year to its own swindlers; local politicians sell influence by the barrel; everybody tries to cheat the tax collector; but except for being against others' sins, we care little for the good and do little about the bad. What we are failing so miserably to see is that we get exactly the kind of government we deserve. If we're interested in good government once every four years, that’s just what we'll get—good government once every four years. If all we bother to do as citizens is to vote, all the politicians will have to do as public servants will be to get elected. If we're swayed by sentiment and emotion, office seekers will give us the greatest show on earth. We get just what we ask for—ours is a representative democracy.

The citizen who takes the attitude that one more coal on or off the fire won't matter is making an ash of himself in more ways than one. Corruption, like a tree, gets its nourishment from the roots. Electing new men on top is only half the job; we fail in our purpose unless we elect ourselves to the office of active citizens whose respect for government will not condone “honest graft” in any case and whose interest is alive every day of the year. Even here at Davidson we broke through our homogeneity long enough to participate along with the 60 million who voted November 4. But that was easy; the test begins now. We can't convince anybody we want good government unless we continue to bear active witness to the fact, unless we take seriously the responsibility to see that politics is good, all the time. Democracy is built on individuals and bad government will operate only with our consent. If we don’t care, we deserve anything that results from that carelessness. Casting a vote is but the down payment on integrity in government; it is not ours until we pay with interest. —G.A.B.

Dr. Quincy Washington planned to burn a copy of the revised edition of the History. But instead, he tore out the page that bore the inscription from the Declaration of Independence in which the words “Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness” had been substituted for “Life, Liberty and the Pursuit of Happiness.” Franklin delivered an hour-long lecture in which he expounded the reasons for his attack on the revised History. Following this, he displayed a copy of the History to the students gathered in the Fimpton Station high school auditorium. The high-school mentor ripped the paper covering off the History and on the cloth covers were the words, “A Bundle of Frauds.”

Massive Audience

The scheduled ceremony had expected to attract a full classroom. The auditorium, which accommodates about 200, was about one-tenth full. Each student-body member was given a flag with thirteen stars and stripes and Beard’s Basic History as Franklin went outside the schoolhouse, ripped a page from the History, and set it afire. Franklin described the revised History as “the master stroke of H. L. Mencken.” He added the History is “a scheme of the modernists to make the Declaration of Independence and the illegible child of an illiterate man.”

Showing up about twenty minutes late at the school, Franklin centered most of his lecture on a passage from Thomas Paine: “These are the times that try men’s souls.” He told the students that the editors of the revised History said it “came out of the inevitability of etymological modification, I say it came out of the inevitability of sin.” He explained that a frontispiece reported the editors as saying the changes in spelling resulted from a current growing usage of “s” and “ss” instead of “f” and “fs” as was common in the 17th and 18th centuries.

Refers to Happiness

Several times during his lengthy lecture, Franklin made reference to the passage in the Declaration in which the “pursuit of Happiness” was changed. He contends the new revised History attempts to deny Thomas Jefferson’s erudition and extensive scholarship. The new revision substituted, among others, the words “these, pursuit and Happiness” for “thefe, purfuit and Happinefs,” in the Declaration passage. The true and original Declaration, he declared, reads: “We hold these truths to be self-evident,—that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights; that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.”

DAVIDSONIAN ABROAD: Student Views Starving City, Fallen Nobles; Glad To Know U.S. Hasn’t Much In Common

By DONALD BAUCOM

The life of a tourist in London

One's first impression of London could easily be how much further would this place have fallen if they did not have the support of Scotch whiskey, the Presbyterian Church, and Canadian wheat? To be a place with so little left the people appear to be the busier and get less done than any place in Europe. Of course, what little there is remaining the people will not mind telling you about in their usual egotistical manner, while in the same breath belittling America and Americans. With these pleasing thoughts and words still running through your mind you descend from the train of unknown vintage only to climb into a taxi of pre-which war no one knows. So off to your lodging and the waiting hot cup of tea. But why should we Americans complain for a vacation we'll be able to live plenty cheap at less than two “quid” a day and see how the “rougher element” lives besides.is somewhat different from elsewhere in Europe. Here one can understand the curses which are frequently thrown at you from the locals. Here too will be found none of the gala nightlife nor excellent food. Instead, one suffers acutely from the “pea-soup” fogs and dreadful hot tea (incidentally about the only mode of heat now found in England). The eager attention given to listening for the sounding of Big Ben is purely to see how much nearer you are to a meal. When at last the happy hour chimes and everyone goes dashing—but to what—no, not a fine Continental Restaurant but only to the nearby tea-room. In this den of starving human beings will be found only sweets and that horrible oriental concoction—Tea.

Perhaps one will grow curious why so many people carry umbrellas on even the most beautiful days in London. This was one thing which aroused my curiosity until one day walking unguarded by such a device I walked foolishly across Trafalgar Square with its thousands of pigeons hovering overhead. By night London takes on some (Continued On Page Four)

Give | / ... your blood will ea voir @ men er a friend your Ol bor... GIVE THROUGH YOUR RED CROSS

THE FREE LANCE: FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1952

They’re Hitting Nail On Head At Union But Maybe Too Fast

We wonder how without the use of the an/ratc-35 radio the mighty swarm of workers who daily blacken the walls of the student union is controlled. It is encouraging to read of labor demands on the newsfronts of our nation and yet to realize with a certain warmth that here we have men who are intensely interested in getting the union into use at least two years from the date it was thought to have been opened. We feel that the spontaneous love of humanity which infects anyone on this campus has surged through the humble veins of these men who make a deafening din with their furious hammering and sawing. We feel that they know the purpose for which they strain. Somehow a fellow can tell they visualize the hours of pleasure this building will bring to the students and work all the harder for their knowing.

There is a slight parking problem created by the gigantic fleet of autos which conveys this ambitious horde to work day in and day out regardless of the severest storm, but we do not mind this. Another thing which warms the heart is the attitude of the upperclassmen who may not get to use the building before they graduate. “Anyone can make an error,” one said, “and could I be so selfish as to want to get into the union when I know the delay in opening it will make it so much the better for future Davidson boys. Not on your life, sirrah!” Indeed there was almost a tone of indignation in his voice.

We might interject one soft note of exhortation with the hope that it will not hurt anyone's feelings. We hope that the worthy construction men will not make any errors in their haste. We've heard it makes waste.

On Your Marx

In our zeal to take a moral issue with everything here we sometimes commit a grievous injustice to ourselves. Mention, for example, the word communism or label a thing communistic or Marxist and your companions will blush if not blurt out some scathing invective. Though he seems to have been far from right both in theory and practice Karl Marx has made some invaluable contributions to the field of analysis of history, of social and economic systems of the western world. It is nothing but pitiful that we must attach a stigma of automatic evil to the study or even contemplation of this thinker. Of course, some of this is a natural reaction to the storm trooper tactics which many members of the communist party have employed to get Marx displayed in an unusually favorable light.

Gerald Johnson writes pertinently: “The regimentation that is really to be feared in American life is not the regimentation imposed from without ... (it) is accepted sullenly and will be rejected at the first opportunity; but regimentation accomplished by a man’s own decision to go along with the crowd is deterioration of character and is likely to be permanent.”

Immature Attitude Of Student Body Primary Factor In Curtailing Some Needed Changes

Each year from time to time the Davidson student body attaches itself to some particular segment of the curriculum or calendar which, it believes, encroaches upon the independence and individuality of the students, and the hue and cry of battle is raised in an attempt to remedy the situation. Usually the criticism is a valid one which deserves the attention of the Administration and should be acted upon. Last year it was the problem of Thanksgiving vacation and cuts and the restrictive measures of the professorial oath—this year the brunt of the attack has been directed against the inadequacy of the Christmas holidays. Some talk about instituting a Dean's List which would carry with it the compensation of unlimited cuts has been noised around in various bull sessions. The need for a change in the required subjects and in the courses offered has been advanced. Some of the most flagrant examples of the need for revision are in several archaic traditions and rules existing either in the by-laws of the school or in the unwritten word, and which are preserved as a sop to the trustees and alumni who would like to keep Davidson in the niche of their memory which they have carved for it: that of a quaint old Presbyterian school, turning out men well-versed in the intricacies of Calvinism, but sadly lacking in the necessary realities which one will encounter in life. It goes without saying that these could be changed without hindering the essential values on which Davidson is based.

One thing the student body often forgets in its struggle for emancipation is an ancient hackneyed phrase which has been uttered for many years: that privilege invokes responsibility. The familiar cry that the Administration treats us as a group of prep school kids is at times not far from wrong, but unfortunately we often give them excellent reasons for thinking that we are no more than overgrown school children. The whistles, the cat-calls, and the legion of marching feet which accompany announcements from the platform in chapel are definitely not manifestations of mature minds. A speaker here can never be assured of a courteous welcome or even a chance to make his talk to a comparatively quiet audience. Discourtesy and misplaced comments seem to have become the standard of action. Last year we reached a new low, even for Davidson, in the disgusting exhibition at Dr. Abernethy’s speech. All these actions are purely childish, sickeningly so, and have no place in a college which is supposedly composed of men who have gotten through high school or prep school. Oddly enough, it seems that the sophomores, juniors, and seniors are the primary instigators of these outbursts. After a year or so, they have become well-versed in the routine. The freshmen receive it at first with a mixture of amazement and contempt, then, as they become immunized to the raucous behavior, some of them follow in the footsteps of the upperclassmen.

Thus, we have cut our own collective throat by these actions, as far as ever obtaining some of the revisions for which we plead. Several of the professors have stated that they would not vote for certain measures simply because they did not believe the student body, as a whole, could use them with discretion. The restrictions which cause friction between the students and the Administration are as much the fault of the student body, which has not yet shown itself capable of handling extra responsibility and privilege, as it is of the decidedly conservative policy of the Administration. Our first move is to get rid of this juvenile temperament; then we can ask for the privileges accorded to mature college students.

Drink QUALITY MILK Mooresville Creamery, Inc. MOORESVILLE, N. C. Dial 3-6341

FOR QUICK SERVICE BATES CLEANERS DYEING & ALTERATIONS — HATS BLOCKED LAUNDRY SERVICE

Campus capers for Coke

When grades are posted, get hold of yourself—maybe the news is good. Anyway, there'll always be problems ahead, so start now and face them refreshed. Have a Coke.

“Coke” is a registered trademark. Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, N. C. © 1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY