DR. CUNNINGHAM PAYS TRIBUTE TO DAVIDSONIAN ABROAD VISITS ITALY (See Page Two)

DR. THOMPSON

The Davidsonian

ORTA LIBERTAS ALENDA LURK UB)

VOLUME XLI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1952 NUMBER NINE

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA CHOOSES SIX

Scabbard And Blade To Sponsor Blood Drive Dec. Ten and Eleven Dates For Year's First Blood Letting

Scabbard and Blade, the local honorary military fraternity, is sponsoring this year’s Red Cross Blood Drive, December 10-11, on the local campus and in the Davidson community in conjunction with the Davidson Woman's Civic League. Buddy Lamon, Scabbard and Blade member who is chairman of the drive for that organization, told the Davidsonian that a goal of 600 pints of blood had been set for the school and the community. In addition, the Scabbard and Blade hopes that the Davidson student body will be able to break the national percentage record for blood donations in American colleges and universities. The “official” record is now held by Washington State University, with 52 percent of the student body donating blood as the result of a single drive.

Scabbard and Blade has given over the greater part of its efforts this year in making preparations for conducting the drive. Before Thanksgiving holidays its members will distribute personal letters, together with blood release forms, to all members of the student body reminding them of the tremendous need for blood donations both for our fighting men in Korea and at home for use in disasters and lesser emergencies. The members will also make a canvas of the Davidson community in order to solicit further contributions on Tuesday, Dec. 8th. Scabbard and Blade has asked that all students remember to take the blood releases home with them over the holidays to be signed by their parents or guardian. Releases must be signed by the parents of all persons under 21 years of age who wish to give blood and they must also be witnessed. This year the Red Cross will carefully check all the releases in order to verify the authenticity of the parents or guardian’s signature. Lamon said that anyone who loses his release before he has turned it in may procure another from him. Blood releases will be presented to the members of the bloodmobile staff at the gymnasium on the day when the donor makes his contribution. In addition to calling on the churches and civic groups for their support, there will be competition between the social (Continued On Page Four)

VESPERS AND CHAPEL

Sunday, November 23rd, Vespers will be conducted by Rev. Charles R. Eberhardt, Ph. D. Afterwards Dr. Eberhardt will lead a discussion in the lounge on “Predestination.” Monday, November 24th, Professor Ratliff will have the devotional. Tuesday, November 25th, Dr. J. R. Cunningham will be the speaker. Wednesday, November 26th, will be a short chapel, but it has not been announced as to who will conduct it.

Frat Functions Feature Balls; All Socials Plan Eats, Dances

The interim between now and the Christmas holidays will see social functions in operation for all the social fraternities on the campus and the Campus Club.

A Rose Ball will be the K. A. feature, at which the K. A. Rose will be crowned. Dan Ramsey will play at this ball, held on November 22 at the Hotel Barringer in Charlotte. Dr. Davidson will speak.

The S.P.E. function will be an informal bowery ball idea on December 6, at the Policemen’s Club outside of Charlotte. The pledges will furnish the entertainment, and the music will be played by a Negro band.

A Hobo Ball on December 6 will be had by the Pika group. This ball will be held at the Lions Club in Statesville. It is a dinner and dance affair with pledge class entertainment.

Phi Delta Theta will have some type of informal ball dance on December 13. Dan Ramsey will play for this group, which will meet at the Pecan Grove for dinner and dance. Toastmaster and entertainment have not yet been decided.

The Kappa Sigs plan to have their annual Black and White Ball, in honor of the pledges of their chapter, on December 13. As yet they have not decided on a place or a band. The affair will be a dinner and dance.

The Red Fez Club will be the dancing floor for the Pi Kapps on the sixth of December. Dan Ramsey will play for this group, and Professor Morton will be the speaker. The pledge class will furnish the entertainment at this formal dinner and dance combination.

For the thirteenth of next month the Campus Club members are working on a good old-fashioned square dance, which will be held at Erwin Lodge.

The Sigma Chis are going to the Covenant Presbyterian Lodge on the thirteenth of December for their function this semester. They are planning a gay time with a “Song-Title” costume ball.

The VFW Hut in Charlotte is going to be the locale of the Phi Gam party. The affair is scheduled for December sixth and will be a formal in honor of the pledges.

On the thirteenth of next month the Betas are planning to have their function in the form of a formal dance. The Concord Hotel in Concord will be the scene of the banquet and dance.

A Masquerade Ball is being planned by the SAEs for the sixth of December. The SAEs will take their merry-making to Charlotte.

The ATOs are anticipating a big formal pledge dance as their fraternity function of this semester. The ball and banquet will be held in the Selwyn Hotel in Charlotte on the sixth of December.

Masquers Delay Laburnum Grove Till Early March

The Red and Black Masquers' production of J. B. Priestley's “Laburnum Grove,” which had been scheduled for December 12 and 13 has been postponed until the first week in March, Masquers' president Tad Currie announced today. Because of the illness of two of the cast’s main actors it was necessary to delay the play. However, a substitute production of a more minor nature is being planned and details will be announced as definite plans are known. With the Priestley play put off until March an active second semester is assured since the annual Shakespearean production is set for April or early May. As yet the play to be done this year is indefinite but several are under consideration. Thus far this year the Masquers have presented one production, T. S. Eliot's “Murder in the Cathedral.” Plans are now underway for a radio production and a casting call will be issued sometime before Christmas.

Annual Asks Aid; Needs More Pics

“Give us more girls!" cries Mitchell Patton, editor of Quips and Cranks. Of course, Mitchell is asking only for pictures of beauties to add to the glamour section of the annual. The deadline for turning pictures in is December 5. Photographs of any size, tinted or black and white, may be turned in to Bill Bradford, 126 Duke dormitory. A slip of paper bearing the girl’s name and hometown, and the name of the student submitting the picture should be attached to the photograph. All the entries will be sent to the famous Hollywood producer Cecil B. DeMille for judging. They will be returned as soon as the judging and printing are accomplished. Students are urged to submit any suitable photo so that Mr. DeMille will have a large field from which to choose.

‘D' Club To Initiate Football Lettermen

The Davidson “D” Club is planning its initiation which will be held sometime before Christmas. Lettering members of this year’s football and cross country teams will be admitted along with those boys who lettered last year in wrestling, swimming, basketball, baseball, track, and tennis. White letter sweaters have been ordered for senior letter winners. The “D” Club is also planning for this year's “D” Club “Foolies.” Officers of the “D” Club are Clay Evatt president; Arnold Whisnant, vice president, and Floyd Feeney, secretary-treasurer.

W.C., Center Open Doors to D.C. Studs

Two social events for this weekend to which all Davidson students are invited have been announced by Bob Henry, chairman of the YMCA social committee. The first of these is sponsored by the Promenader’s Club of WCUNC. This annual Harvest Hoedown will be held Saturday night, November 22, at 8 p.m. at Coleman Gymnasium in Greensboro. There will be no admission fee, and refreshments will be served (Continued On Page Four)

MEN TAPPED: ODK enlarged its student membership to ten: Dick Perkins, Mitch Patton, Mac Bulgin, Ernest Barry, Lawrence Erwin, Jim Speed. Ernest Barry, head of the 1952 YMCA Gift Fund, announced the principal committees and leaders for the approaching drive. The kickoff speech will be the subject for a chapel program next week (the first week of December) and the campaign will begin immediately following. Heading the Solicitations Committee are Hunter Strader and Leighton Green. Under their direction, the soliciting will be handled in most respects as in previous years. However, in an effort to decentralize control this year, there have been appointed dormitory captains to supervise work in

D.C. Songs’ History Revealed

Davidson has two college songs that are traditionally used, one the Alma Mater and the other, the Fight Song. “O Davidson” was written by B. Ernest Shields, of the Class of 1920, and it is now published in piano and band arrangements by the Thornton W. Allen Company of New York City. He also wrote the national dream girl song of Pi Kappa Alpha. Until several years ago, "O Davidson” was used for all occasions; however, it is definitely a fight song and was notVery fitting to be used on occasions such as commencement and college functions where athletic spirit was not predominant. Need was felt for a real Alma Mater. When Davidson planned the Centennial Celebration in 1937, an alumnus, Dr. G. M. Maxwell of Roanoke, Va., Class of 1896, sent in a manuscript with a melody on it written in 6/8 time and with the words to “All Hail, O Davidson.” He sent it to be used as a fight song in the Centennial campaign. After looking it over, it occurred to James Christian Pfohl, former director of the Music Department, that here was the background for a real Alma Mater song, if by changing the rhythm from 6/8 to 4/4 tempo and harmonizing the melody in a very dignified and hymn-like style, a song of great dignity would result. This was done, and it is now what we use for the Alma Mater, “All Hail, O Davidson.” — In Paper From Music Dept. It is published in piano form by The Thornton W. Allen Company. At first, the students would not take to the use of this new song. They wanted nothing but “O Davidson,” but through the years it has been used by the musical organizations (and alumni organizations) and is now considered traditionally as the Alma Mater. These two songs are excellent college songs. Each has its place and each is truly a Davidson College song, in that they were both written by an alumnus, and to be a good Alma Mater, a song should be inspired by one’s love and devotion for one’s own school. Other songs have been written for Davidson College, but these two are the ones which have, through traditional use, established themselves as the official college songs, and whenever they are heard, thoughts of alumni and friends turn to the Davidson campus. Among the other prominent songs pertaining to Davidson is the one entitled “The Red and Black" (Alma Mater—Davidson College), the words by Prof. W. P. Cumming, Class of 1921, and the music by Mr. K. M. Scott, Class of 1937. This song was published by the Intercollegiate Music League, Inc., in 1938 in its folio called “Songs of the American Colleges” (Central and Southern Group). And the last song that can be brought to mind is the one composed by Fred Waring, Pat Ballard and Roy Ring.

(Continued On Page Four)

(Art by Pete Hairston)

GIFT FUND DRIVE LEADERS NAMED

The dormitories and other student living quarters. There will be canvassers for each dormitory floor who will make daily pleas for pledges or cash. These canvassers will return a report to their dormitory captains, who will then relay the progress to Barry. YMCA fund chairman Ernest Barry announced at noon today the results of student body voting concerning the gift fund drive: the majority of students selected as the project the rehabilitation of Korean amputees. Also, as a goal, the students have set $4,500.00 as a minimum. Attempts are being made to secure Dr. Paul Crane to make the kickoff presentation in chapel the opening day of the drive, December 4. A further effort to better the mechanics of this year’s campaign is being made by keeping accurate and complete records and statistics on various phases of solicitations and contributions. Heading up this work as chairman of the Administration and Records Committee will be Bill Hood. Publicity and education for the Gift Fund campaign will be directed by Mike Myers and Charlie Hassell. Students are reminded that they may subscribe to giving either by paying now or signing a pledge for any amount. Any pledge not paid during the actual campaign, which at present will extend from December 4 through December 15, will be collected before January 10. Throughout the drive, daily reports of progress will be made during the chapel period.

Notice

Mr. Shaw Smith, director of the new Student Union, is anxious to see anyone with any ideas which could be incorporated in the Union or any uses to which it could be put. As the building is not yet complete, any ideas or suggestions can be carefully considered. See Mr. Smith in his office, 101 Chambers.

D. G. Martin Gives Address In Chapel

At the Fall tapping service of Omicron Delta Kappa on Tuesday, November 18, 1952, six seniors were honored with membership in the national leadership fraternity. Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa tapped the following seniors: Ernest H. Barry, Randolph M. Bulgin, Lawrence Erwin, Jr., Mitchell Patton, Dick Perkins, and James O. Speed. These men were initiated into the fraternity at 8:00 Tuesday night. Ernest Barry from Jackson, Mississippi, is a member of Who's Who Among Students in American Colleges and Universities. At Davidson this year he is judge of the Court of Control and is in charge of the YMCA Christmas Gift Fund. He is rush chairman and boarding house manager of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. He is a Distinguished Military Student, and is a member of Scabbard and Blade. A member of the Eumanean Literary Society, he is doing honors work in Business. Mac Bulgin is president of Sigma Upsilon, national literary fraternity, of Le Circle Francais, national honorary French fraternity, and of the Philanthropic Literary Society. He is a Phi Beta Kappa from Franklin, North Carolina. He has twice been Secretary of his social fraternity, Sigma Chi. He is associate editor of Scripts and Pranks. He received the Vereen Bell Creative Writing Award in 1952. Lawrence Erwin, a Pi Kappa Phi from Morganton, North Carolina is this year’s president of the Interfraternity Council. He is a member of Who's Who Among Students in American Colleges and Universities. He is co-business manager of the football program. He is a Distinguished Military Student and a member of the Honorary Fraternity Council. He is on the golf team, and is a member of the D Club. Mitchell Patton is this year's editor of Quips and Cranks. A Baker scholar from Greenville, South Carolina, he is a member of the Student Council, of Le Circle Francais, the national honorary fraternity in French, and of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity. He is a member of Who's Who Among Students in American Colleges and Universities. For his social fraternity he is this year’s rush chairman, having served in the past as alumni secretary and newspaper editor. Dick Perkins of Marion, Virginia, is this year’s president of Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity. He is vice president of Alpha Psi Omega, the national dramatics fraternity, and of the Red and Black Masquers. He has been a member of the varsity football squad for the past two years, of the D Club, and this year is the only student member of the College Athletic Council. He is a member of Scabbard and Blade, Sigma Upsilon, and the Court of Control. He was an outstanding company commander.

(Continued On Page Four)

Clothing Drive By Beavers Soon

Herschel Allen today announced the dates of the annual Beaver Club clothing drive. This year's drive will be during the week of December 7 through 13. This clothing drive, annually sponsored by the Beaver Club, gathers old clothes to send to less fortunate people throughout the world. This year part of the clothing will be sent to the Philippines to be distributed by the families of Bob Mack and Don Mahy, Davidson students, whose parents are missionaries in this needy area. The other part, winter clothes, will be sent to Europe. The goal this year is one article of clothing per student, and students are urged to look at home during Thanksgiving for clothes which they might contribute. This is the first year that a call for summer clothes has gone out, and the Beaver Club hopes to receive an equal amount of summer and winter clothes.

Phi, Eu Societies Launch Programs

Both the Philanthropic and Eumanean literary societies have launched active and ambitious programs for this year, as evidenced by their regular bi-weekly meeting held Monday night in their respective halls. The Eu meeting was devoted to a debate between Queens and Davidson students, and Phi's to taking in new members. Jesse Visher moderated the Eu debate, entitled “The Moral Code of Ethics as Adequately Applied to Modern Life.” Anne Clark and Nancy Barron, representing Queens, spoke on the qualities men look for in women. Their ideas on the subject were challenged by John Ottley and Bill Moffett for Davidson. After the debate the girls led the group in a discussion of the subject. Anne Clark will be remembered by upperclassmen for her speech in chapel last year. Mac Bulgin, president of Phi, presided over an impressive ceremony in which the following upperclassmen were initiated: Bill Gordon, Jack Stackhouse, Ernest McCutcheon, John Fire, Stein Wilson, Robert Dunbar, Bill Scholl, Malcolm Doubles, and Charles Burnette. The program consisted of papers.

(Continued On Page Four)

Community To Hear Recital By Organist On This Sunday

Philip Gehring, Davidson's organist and assistant professor of music will give an organ recital in the College Church this Sunday at four o'clock. A familiar figure to the students as the official organist for all college exercises, Mr. Gehring’s renditions will include works by Handel, Bach, Milhaud and Reger. A graduate of Franklin and Marshall College, he also holds the A.B. and bachelor of music degrees from Oberlin College. He served more than three years with the Navy during World War II. Professor Gehring was formerly choirmaster and organist at Kimball Memorial Church in Kannapolis.