PAGE FOUR

DC Students Probe U.S. Aid At Inter-racial Discussions

That the U.S. should not try to force Americanism on Marshall Plan nations in the East was the general conclusion of an interracial discussion group which 13 Davidson students attended Sunday night at Catawba College in Salisbury. The meeting was attended by representatives from Davidson, Catawba, and Livingstone colleges.

The reason for denying this idea held by many Americans was that a better goal than converting all the world to Americanism is the formation of a kind of world culture. The students agreed that the ideal policy would be one of offering the best that America has with hopes that an amalgamated culture might be synthesized. To further this prospective synthesization, it was suggested U.S. economic aid be continued but supplemented by educational and agricultural advisors such as those currently seeking to increase farm yields in India.

It was thought that strides toward a world culture could be made through the agency of the church but not if it failed to understand and accept Eastern religious traditions. Participants in the discussion agreed that as the world grows smaller, all cultures are being rubbed against all others and that some of the previously mentioned steps will have to be taken or a world culture will have to be ground out by war.

An observation was made that Americans have much to learn in the realm of culture. It was stated that while the U.S. has achieved incredible technological and industrial heights, it is in the second division culturally and philosophically. Credit was accorded U.S. vigor, optimism, genius for self-correction, and administrative ability, but a general mental and religious house-cleaning was advocated by the group before this nation is fit to share in a movement toward worldism.

Individuals included Gene Little, Don Crosby, Tony Tucker, Gene Pierce, Roland Englehardt, Bill Lord, Nat Daniel, Ken Boyer, John Ottley, George Nickels, Bill Lee, Allan Strand, and Prof. G. L. Abernethy.

NETTERS DOWN...

(Continued From Page Three)

of Allan Strand-Dewey Keesler and Lacy Keesler-Johnny Bremer, respectively, won their matches on both days as did the number three team of Joe Dudley and George Snead. Thus Davidson made a clean sweep of all the varsity doubles.

(Continued From Page Two)

a campaign speech of not more than five minutes’ duration.”

A New Section to be added: (Proposed by petition).

“In the elections for President of the Student Body and for President of the YMCA, there shall be campaign speeches. These speeches shall be made in chapel, and shall be of no more than five minutes’ duration.

“Only five candidates, or fewer than five, shall speak for each office. If, after the first primary election, the top men, or fewer than five, shall have received among them over fifty-one percent of the total votes cast, they shall be the ones required to speak. If more than five candidates are required to form a majority of the votes cast, another election shall be held to eliminate all but five.”

ARTICLE XII—PUBLICATIONS

Sections 1, 2, and 3 to be deleted, and the following inserted in their place:

“Nominations for the editorship of The Davidsonian, of Quips and Cranks, and of Scripts ‘n Pranks shall be made by the staffs of those publications respectively, and shall be submitted to the Publications Board. Subsequent procedure shall be as outlined.

SPRING SHOWING

CLOTHING
HABERDASHERY
SHOES

Tuesday, April 8th

First 150 Men Will Receive A Free Gift

Mr. Ben Townsend, Davidson 1954, Now With Ivey's Will Be Our Representative

SPORTSWEAR

Minnie Scofield’s

Queens Babes In The Eyes Of D.C. Men

I shoulda stood in bed! Why I ever let Ig Quigly talk me into dating at “that college” I'll never know. But Ig is a very persuasive fellow. He had painted a very glowing picture of the advantages of dating Queens girls. He had ten good reasons, but I can't think of a single one now. Besides, I knew I would enjoy being in his company. (Actually, the reason was simple. He's a brother, I'm a pledge.)

Ig had a talent that made him quite famous. He could appear and disappear at will. Since coming to D.C., he had taught hundreds his secret. (Note to real live Queens girl: This explains the disappearing act. Who, pray tell, has gone back to Queens a second and even a third time? Our committee would like to meet him. We're striking a medal).

To take my mind off the coming event, I read the comics. (Contrary to your opinion, R.L.Q. Girl, we do read Lil Abner. Let’s not blaspheme the wolf girl, though. You want to know what the wolf girl has that you don’t? You'd slap my face if I told you.) But it did no good. I still had the memories of the frosh-Queens dance.which the advisor told us to attend or be flogged. Why didn’t I go to Carolina? (Let's be reasonable R.L.Q. Girl, if D.C. boys won't go 20 miles, do you really think U.N.C. boys would go 130 miles? Multiply by two to get round trip mileage.) The time has almost come, now. They just gave me a big last meal and split my pants legs. I have taken the precaution to remove sleeping tablets and iodine. But I'll not go without fighting. It will take at least four or five men to get me there. (This explains why D.C. boys always show up with four or five buddies at the abbatoir on Queens Road.)

THE DAVIDSONIAN SEVEN GIVEN ... (Continued From Page One)

induction Scholarship for the past year at the University of Wisconsin, an award which he declined, being then but fifteen. He won, also, the Atlanta Harvard Club’s prizes for the outstanding junior. He will complete high school in three and a half years. In addition to his excellent scholastic record, he has been active in a number of school and church organizations.

FRED GLENN MYERS, of Spartanburg, has made a notable record in writing, dramatics, and art, and has been engaged in service club activities. He has demonstrated ability of particular significance in creative writing, for which he has won a number of awards.

CLYDE O. ROBINSON, JR., the probable valedictorian of Needham Broughton High in Raleigh, has an unusual record of accomplishment as president of the senior class, editor of the school paper, and as president of the Youth Fellowship of Granville Presbytery. He also plays varsity baseball.

What a ghastly hell week! My time has come—. (You will notice, pains taken throughout this article to refrain from mentioning any type of swine. Perhaps it’s just coincidence, though, that so many Queens girls’ favorite food is popcorn—unpopped and still on the ear).

FOR THE BEST IN RECORDS
DAN RAMSEY RECORD BAR
127½ W. Trade — Charlotte

Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville Ice Cream Company
Mooresville, N. C.

Y FORUM... (Continued From Page One)

General Ginsburgh has been a member of the staff of Secretary of Defense Johnson since 1949. He has been decorated with the Distinguished Service Medal, the Legion of Merit, the Air Medal, the Bronze Star, and the Distinguished Service Star. General Ginsburgh is also a member of Phi Beta Kappa.

Speaking for World Federation will be Mr. Robert Lee Humber. Born in Greenville, N.C., Mr. Humber attended Wake Forest where he received three degrees. He received his M.A. from Harvard and as a Rhodes Scholar received his LL.B. from Oxford University. He studied two years at the University of Paris and spent ten years there as a lawyer and a business executive. He was the founder of the movement which resulted in a resolution for World Federation which has been passed by fifteen state legislatures. In 1948 he received the American War Dads Prize for the greatest single contribution toward world peace. Mr. Humber is also a member of Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kappa.

These three speakers will appear on the same panel for an open discussion Wednesday night. At this time they will be glad to answer questions and to discuss ideas that were brought up in the morning speeches. This major forum is part of the program of forums and discussion groups presented by the Forum Committee of the YMCA, headed by Hubert Cannon.

NEW CARS
DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF
Dial 3-4513
212 W. Fourth Charlotte

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS — THEY OFFER BARGAINS!

CHESTERFIELD
“and give you the NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE”
FROM THE REPORT OF A WELL-KNOWN RESEARCH ORGANIZATION

(Continued From Page Three)

injured the infield has been composed of Arnold Whisnant at first, Johnny Guiton at second, Johnny Gray at short, and Bill Southwell at third. Bill Glidwell has been doing most of the catching. The present outfield is composed of Al McCall, Fred Stowe, and Jerry Morrow. Andy Courts, Jim Smith, and Ish Bennett have been doing most of the hurling.

THACKER’S INC.
PRIVATE DINING ROOMS for PARTIES AND BANQUETS
“A Good Place to Eat”
Phone 25-4900
221 South Tryon Street

Wordsworth versed
WITH WHICH THOU DOST REFRESH THY THIRSTY LIPS
The Excursion

With which? Why, with Coca-Cola of course, for this delicious refreshment is the answer to thirst. Have a Coke.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
“Coke” is a registered trade-mark. © 1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

FRIDAY, APRIL 4, 1952

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Shows Start at 3 P.M.
ROBERT CUMMINGS
PIPER LAURIE
CHARLES COBURN
BAREFOOT MAILMAN

GOOD FRIDAY, APR. 11