PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

FIVE ATTEND Conferences Fill Profs’ Holidays

During the Christmas holidays, five Davidson College professors attended meetings of learned societies in Northern cities, two of whom had parts on programs.

Faculty Selects 1952 Committees

Standing faculty committees for 1952 have been elected and appointed by the faculty at their monthly meeting for January. The groups are as follows:

Professor Charles Eberhardt attended the meetings of the American School of Oriental Research and the Society of Biblical Literature in New York City from December 26 to December 29.

Puckett to Zoologists

Professor W. Olin Puckett went to the meetings of the American Society of Zoologists in Philadelphia, Pa., December 26-29.

Professor Frederick Morton attended the meetings of the American Finance Association in Boston, Mass., on December 26-29.

Morton took part in a panel discussion on “Recent Developments in Business Finance at Home and Abroad,” along with Mitchell Sharpe, Deputy Minister of Trade and Commerce of Canada, the president of the Rockland and Atlas Bank of Boston, economists, and professors of finance.

Professor George B. Watts was present at the meetings of the Modern Language Association of America and those of the American Association of Teachers of French in Detroit, Mich., from December 27 through December 30. As National Secretary-Treasurer of the latter association, he took part in all the sessions of the Executive Council and read his annual report at the business meeting on December 30.

Executive
Cunningham
Brown, C. K.
Bailey
Erwin (languages)
Griffin (social sciences)
Pietenpol (natural sciences)
McCutchan

Curriculum
Cunningham
Bailey
Watts (languages)
Johnston (social sciences)
Reid (natural sciences)
Griffin
Schenck
Puckett

Student Health and Physical Education
Cunningham
Woods
Scott
Abernethy
Johnston
McGavock

Athletic Council
Johnston

THE CABBAGE PLANTER

(Continued From Page Two)

Here an Abkhasian came riding slowly by, his head drooping sleepily. Suddenly his small sinewy horse snorted and the Abkhasian spoke. “How queer the people are here, and frightening. Is this your first one?” he asked.

I answered him. “The first.”

He dropped his eyes, thought awhile, and said, “And how is it you know about these things?”

“I am an inventor,” I said.

“I would like to have a wash, too,” he said, “but this queer water... What kind is it? It’s salt and bitter.” (The anti-freeze has leaked out into the river.)

“You wash yourself with it; it’s good for you!” I said.

“Is it?” he said.

“Sure,” I said. “It's warmer than the stream; the streams hereabouts are like ice.”

“You know best,” he said, drinking it. “Are you really going to drive?” he asked me.

“Look out, Mother!” I said. “I am!” (Perhaps his mother was washing clothes on the other bank and did not see her son in the water.)

Meanwhile, the new inhabitant of the Russian land, a person with an unknown future, was lying in my arms, breathing noisily like a solid citizen. (No water in the radiator.) The sea was splashing and swishing, laced with white shavings. (He caught his mother’s wash in the fan belt after all.)

Once, as we halted (stalled), I said, “How good it is, how good! I could go like this, I could go to the end of the world, and he, my little son, would grow, would grow freely amidst plenty, my darling...”

The sea was booming...

(Freudian reversion to childhood tortures before firing squad at Oryol.)

Turk To Head Sig Delt Psi

Bob Turk, three-sport star from Atlanta, was elected president of Sigma Delta Psi, honorary athletic fraternity, at a meeting yesterday. Secretary-treasurer for the organization will be Jim Fickeisen, senior track standout from Bluefield, W. Va. The body is composed of boys who have passed a series of 13 tests of athletic skill. Tests are passed throughout the year to members of the fraternity or track coach Heath Whittle, advisor.

Turk has lettered in football, basketball, and track at Davidson, and stands out as one of the school’s top natural athletes. Fickeisen, a multi-gifted performer on the cinders, competes equally well in the hurdles, high jump, or javelin.

Physicians Hear Student-Foreman

At its final meeting of 1951, Sigma Pi Sigma, physics honor society, heard a talk from a local asbestos plant foreman and issued membership to Lincoln Jung of the Junior Class. The meeting was held jointly with Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity, with a view toward greater cooperation between the two groups.

A short summary of the record made by Sigma Pi Sigma was given by Professor Pietenpol after which Mr. Jung was initiated. In his illustrated talk to the group, foreman and special student Grover Meetze used his plant’s products in explaining “Physics and Chemistry in a Small Industry.”

FOR THE BEST IN RECORDS
DAN RAMSEY RECORD BAR
127½ W. Trade — Charlotte

Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville Ice Cream Company
Mooresville, N. C.

THACKER’S INC.
PRIVATE DINING ROOMS for PARTIES AND BANQUETS
“A Good Place to Eat”
Phone 25-4900 Charlotte
221 South Tryon Street

He had no wish but to be glad or want but—when he thirsted

The Jolly Beggar

Each frosty bottle of Coke is the answer to thirst... each frosty bottle is a bargain, too. Robert Burns would like that!

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO., OF CONCORD
“Coke” is a registered trademark. © 1952, THE COCA-COLA Company

College officials have decided not to ask county health men to investigate a minor rash of what appeared to be food poisonings among fraternity men here this week. Dr. J. B. Woods explained that (1) all traceable food had been disposed of and (2) all recorded cases are under control.

“No individual boarding house should be blamed entirely,” stated the college physician noting that the patients were from several eating quarters around town.

Between Monday and Wednesday, some 19 students reported symptoms of nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, weakness, and fever.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Last year, Dr. Woods said that the trouble could be traced either to a virus that is currently prevalent in Charlotte or to food poisoning. He noted that the simultaneity of the cases pointed to the latter. An inspection was made of the kitchen of the KA-Kappa Sig boarding house, and conditions there were found to almost meet the sanitary suggestions made to boarding house managers by the college last fall. Fifteen of the sick men were called to investigate. There are no facilities here for conducting such an investigation.

GIVE TO THE C.

Delegation Largest at SVM

Eighteen Davidson students formed the largest individual delegation from any institution at the Student Volunteer Movement Quadrennial Conference held at the University of Kansas during the Christmas holidays. Accompanied by Chaplain and Mrs. Alan Gripe, the Davidson men joined some 2,500 other consecrated Christian young students, including 200 foreign youths from 45 countries, at the conference.

Mission Leaders

The group was addressed by such outstanding leaders in the field of Missions as Rev. Charles Ranson, secretary of the International Missionary Council; Rev. Tracey Jones, Jr., and Dr. Frank Laubach, pioneer missionary educator. Another outstanding speaker was Dr. John R. Mott, founder of the 65-year-old student movement. The main purpose of the meeting was to shed light on problems in world social conditions and on the world mission field.

POINTS DEBATED... (Continued From Page Two)

The Southern Presbyterian Church does not have the final truth in religious matters. Second, that the loyalty of any educational institution, and especially a Christian educational institution, should be first to Truth, and not to a particular creed that is held by a very small percentage of the world’s population. Third, that truth is best reached by examining all the evidence possible, by weighing this evidence in the light of honest reason, and through comprehensive, independent solution of the paradoxes and problems that present themselves. There is a world of difference between “teaching” issues and ideas, and “presenting” them. Evidently, this distinction has been lost by the present administration, for there are no courses in Comparative Religion (except a semester course in the philosophy department), Comparative Economics, etc. Communism guides the destinies of one-third of the world’s population today, and except for various philosophy courses, we have yet to hear it intelligently discussed in the classroom. We receive only one side of a multi-faceted picture. Man’s mind is a gift from God. To inhibit its use is to make a mockery of it.

What is the ostensible purpose of an academic oath at a school such as Davidson? We can agree that its ostensible purpose is to make possible the finding of religious truth by the student, or, more accurately, to protect him from religious untruth. The preceding sentence is a fancy way of saying that an academic oath is a means of palming off on the student, to the exclusion of other religious thought, the opinion of a small group of men. Are the opinions of any men sacrosanct? What is a man? Is he not a transitory creature possessed of a reasoning mind and a spirit that we think is part of God? Men's concepts of God are varying, but not irreligious because of their variations. Any man who honestly seeks God cannot be said to be irreligious. Any group that requires an oath forces on them a concept of God not their own is guilty of conceit. Any men who, by exacting a professorial oath, limit the opportunities of professors and students to seek God are guilty of delaying the coming of the Kingdom of God. The requiring of an oath at Davidson seems a tacit admission that Presbyterian thought cannot stand the rigid test of comparison. If the thought of the Church is true, it will win without an oath to protect it. If it is not true, should not the Church be the first to discard it and seek something that is true?

What would the Christ think of the academic oath? Would he be pleased to see His religion, which he so evidently considered a dynamic, vital, expanding faith, afraid of comparison? Would he be pleased to see his concept of God solidified on paper, restricted to a few words? Might he not consider this the equivalent of carving God in stone or wood? These are things worth considering. The life of man should be the constant, energetic seeking of a God that is infinite. An academic oath makes the Christian religion seem cowardly and incapable of holding its own in today's world. Is not such an oath an attempt by man to tell God what God can be? It is an attempt to restrict the living God, and as such must be condemned.

A point that is often brought out by supporters of the oath is that since this is a Presbyterian school, the Church has the right to require any oath that it sees fit. There is another distinction that we would make at this point, i.e., that right and freedom are different, and must be distinguished in this argument. Davidson College has the freedom to require any oath that it sees fit, but it does not necessarily have the right. We speak here of moral right, and we think that everyone would agree with us that no one has the right to do something that is perhaps wrong. It is our freedom to be inconsistent with a free search for Truth, but it is not our right.

ROTC DEFERMENTS... (Continued From Page One)

Sign the new agreement or be dropped from the deferment list. The juniors also must sign or be dropped. The sophomores may remain deferred until June and then sign, upon being accepted into the advanced course. As the school requires two years of ROTC, the sophomores are not readily affected. Freshmen are not affected by the old agreement and must accept the new one. There have been no basic changes in the two agreements except in the length of time of reserve status. The old agreement specified a period of five years, and the new one requires a period of eight years.

Patronize The Davidsonian Advertisers!

NEW CARS DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF Dial 3-4513 212 W. Fourth Charlotte

AUTHOR'S FAMILY... (Continued From Page One)

Of the college which is still used, and the Davidson library has the most extensive collection in existence on the mysterious French school teacher.

DAVIDSON THEATRE Shows Start at 3 p.m.

MON.-TUE., JAN. 14-15 HOWARD HUGHES presents ROBERT MITCHUM, JANE RUSSELL in HIS KIND OF WOMAN

FRIDAY, JAN. 18 Paramount presents RONALD REAGAN, RHONDA FLEMING in HONG KONG (in Technicolor)

SATURDAY, JAN. 19 TYRONE POWER in JESSE JAMES (in Technicolor)

CHESTERFIELD

"MILDNESS NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE" From the Report of a Well-Known Research Organization and only Chesterfield has it!