” (See Page Two) McLEAN IN DEFENSE OF STUDENT COUNCIL The Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS RECOMMENDED ELECTORAL SYSTEM
(See Editorial, Page 2) VOLUME XL DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1952 NUMBER FIFTEEN Davidsonians In Armed
Forces CAPT. CRUTCHFIELD Another Davidson graduate has fallen in the Korean theater in the service of his country. He was
Captain James H. Crutchfield who was reported killed in action November 4, 1951. It is thought that his name was
confused in the recent mixup over POW lists among the Korean belligerents. While at Davidson, Captain Crutchfield was active on
the varsity football squad and in the ROTC unit. While in Korea he was serving on the company level. *
* * PFC. WM. S. FARRIOR, a former member of the Davidsonian staff, a member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity,
a member of Red and Black Masquers and a track man, is now serving his country as a member of
the U. S. Air Force. William entered Davidson in 1946 and withdrew to serve in Europe for two years. He
re-entered Davidson in ‘48 and received his diploma with Davidson's 114th graduating class. * * * HARRY GOULD BARRETT, now
in cadet training at Hondo Air Base in Hondo, Texas, was graduated from Davidson in 1950 with a B.S. Harry,
whose home is in Augusta, Georgia, listed flying as his main interest when he entered Davidson in 1946. * *
* JOE V. WILLIFORD entered Davidson in 1949 as a pre-med student and voluntarily withdrew in 1951 to become Pfc.
J. V. Williford, A.F. 13384326 of the 3387th Student Squadron at Keesler Air Base in Mississippi. Joe was the sixth
member of his family to attend Davidson. Insurance History Told B. S. Students W. H. Trentman, executive vice-president of the
Occidental Life Insurance Company of Raleigh, spoke to a group of students in the business and economics department at Davidson
this morning. Mr. Trentman is the first of four life insurance executives who will visit the campus in coming weeks.
A well-known speaker at life insurance meetings, Mr. Trentman told the students about the history and philosophy of life insurance.
His lecture engagement was arranged by A. G. Griffin, professor of economics and business at Davidson. Draft Test Hopefuls Told
To Send Forms All eligible students who intend to take the Selective Service College Qualification Test in 1952 should file
applications at once for the April 24 administration, Selective Service National Headquarters advised today. An application and a bulletin of
information may be obtained at any Selective Service local board. Following instructions in the bulletin, the student should fill out
his application immediately and mail it in the special envelope provided. Applications must be postmarked no later than midnight, March
10, 1952. Early filing will be greatly to the student's advantage. Results will be reported to the student's Selective Service
local board of jurisdiction for use in considering his deferment as a student, according to Educational Testing Service, which prepares
and administers the College Qualification Test. Expect Girl Reps At Y Talks Here Several women’s colleges, including Agnes Scott and
Queens, will have, along with many men’s colleges, representatives on the Davidson Campus during March 14, 15, and 16, for
the YMCA conference sponsored by the Davidson College Y under the chairmanship of Jim Speed. The study conference has two
purposes. The first is to let the Davidson College Y learn operating ideas from the various schools present, and the
second is to give the representatives of the colleges present a chance to examine critically their organizations and to gain
ideas from other colleges. Duke, the University of North Carolina, Wake Forest, Clemson, and Vanderbilt are a few of the
colleges that have been invited to participate in the discussion groups that will discuss two topics: the purposes of the
YMCA, and a method of putting these into action. The main speaker at this conference will be Dr. Robert Boyd,
pastor of St. Andrew's Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. Mr. Edward Driscoll, secretary of the Southern Area Student Council of the
YMCA, will also be here to help Dr. Boyd in leading the discussions. The final plans for the conference have
not been completed, but many of the 17 colleges are making plans to attend it. All the visiting representatives will
be guests of the Davidson YMCA and it was thought that by thus removing a part of the travel expense
factor a greater attendance might be obtained. Each institution has been invited to send two delegates. Invitations have been sent
to the (Continued On Page Four) All that remains of the Protector of Minerva in front of the SAE fraternity
house is this concrete base, from which the cast iron lion was separated by some heavy sledge-hammer work. An “acquisition”
from the SAE brethren at Washington and Lee, the lion, painted black, was to have been dedicated as a shrine
of the local chapter in ceremonies tomorrow. The ceremonies, needless to say, have been cancelled. Still No Answer To Lion
Lifting By JIM ALLEN What is THIS? That delightful creature, the object of much discussion recently in frat court, the
beloved and much-pampered mascot of SAE, Leo the Lion, has been forcibly removed from his pedestal of concrete, leaving as
mementos only four mangled paws and a stubby tail behind him. These pitiful remains are all that is left to
remind his loving keepers of their far-departed pet. Woe unto the perpetrators of this awful deed! An Alien by Birth
Leo's origin is rumored to have been the rum-laden campus of Washington and Lee, whence he was spirited away to
Davidson by two aspiring zoologists of the local SAE chapter. With noble purpose and fearless hearts, they transported the stately
beast in the dead of night to their own haunts, intending to mount him in splendor on a permanent slab
of cement. But, alas, someone took a dim view of these preparations, and with malice aforethought, expressed their sentiments by
a very ignoble deed. In the Night They Came Unknown to but a few, Leo was designated the main objective
of a midnight demolition squad, and these amateur Rangers accomplished their mission without mishap. Where the lion has been secreted
is yet a mystery to the anxious pledges of SAE, but many suspects have been finger-printed by the detective bureau
in charge of finding lost lions. Knew His Women One of the many accomplishments of the talented beast was the
infallible ability to detect unblemished females at a glance. Every time one of these monuments of morality sauntered by, the
animal would loose a long, low growl and shake his tail three times. This valuable loss is slated to leave
a considerable gap in the near future when graceful lovelies pass the honored portals of the SAE house. Anyone knowing
the whereabouts of said lion, or any information pertaining to his disappearance, please contact a member of said fraternity, and
he will be duly rewarded. The chapter is particularly anxious to regain this virtuous beast as soon as possible, since
the fate of many revolves around Leo's judgement. Greek Week Greek Week on the Davidson campus is a success in
the eyes of the IFC, reports the program engineer Dick Stockton. He was optimistic after the first attempt to replace
a useless pre-initiation week of stunts among fraternities here. He further opined that though cooperation was generally good, there seemed
“not enough concentration on the ultimate goal of the program.” Pete Kalogridis, head of the clean-up squad, was very pleased
about the job his workers did around O.K. More Longer Lunch Time Circus Style Foolies Due to the old vaudeville
style of D-Club Foolies’ format this year, it has been announced by President Ham Wade. Bill Trotman is the producer.
Always an enjoyable evening's entertainment, the Foolies will be given as usual on the Friday night of Spring Frolics weekend.
Outside Talent There will be some outside talent added to the cast this year though it was not hinted that
there was lack of it among the students. No definite schedule has been completed therefore no list of acts or
castings has been prepared for the annual expedition into nonsense and light entertainment. Past years have seen the presentation of
minstrel shows and other assorted acts by the gentlemen athletes. The vision of football players performing ballet and wrestlers gently
engaged in a pas de deux has drawn a perennially large audience to the spring extravaganza. News Item The Davidsonian
became interested, after the many discussions across the campus on holidays, in seeing how many days Davidson had in its
school year and the number in other nearby colleges. Here are the findings: Davidson 182 | G.C. 187 WCUNC 180
| Citadel 158 Carolina 158 | Duke 178 High P'nt 185 | Queens 189 In The Spring The handsome pair
above are featured vocalists in Charlie Spivak’s music for Mid-Winters this weekend. The male is Tommy Lynn, a baritone, and
the other vocalist—very obviously female—is lovely Lynn Roberts. In addition to their work at the dances, the twosome will appear
at Saturday afternoon’s tea dance concert. Big Formal Ball Begins Weekend Taking a momentary rest from their rebellious mood toward
the faculty and administration this weekend, students areSettling down for a period of delightful though nonetheless thorough domination by members
of the so-called gentler sex. Mid-Winters later the underway Festivities for the weekend will get this evening at a formal
dance in the Johnston Gym beginning at 9 p.m., and lasting until one a.m. Music will be furnished by Charlie
Spivak and his orchestra. Tomorrow afternoon the swains and their ladies will be treated to a gamut of activities which
commence with a wrestling match at two p.m., with VMI and terminate with a tea dance after the mats are
rolled up from the gym floor.

When the actors take their places for the opening performance of a three-day run, they will have seen an idea
become a reality for this marks the first theatre-in-the-round production ever given in this area. The two one-act plays which
have been selected are aimed at providing a well-balanced evening of entertainment, one being a comedy and the other a
drama of a tragic nature. The plays are two of the finest of their kind ever written and they are
by two of the world’s greatest playwrights, George Bernard Shaw and Eugene O'Neill.

The Shaw play, “How He Lied to Her Husband,” is filled with clever, witty lines based on a simple story,
the eternal triangle, with an unusual ending that is calculated to leave the audience laughing. As a young, dashing and
somewhat bold poet, Vance Mizelle makes his fourth appearance on the Davidson stage and his second of the year, having
played the short-lived playboy in “Ten Little Indians.” Besides his theatrical work here, Vance played with the Fort Lauderdale Little
Theatre and spent last summer as a member of the Lake Summit Playhouse crew. As the wife, Elizabeth Gripe makes
her Davidson debut. Before coming to Davidson Mrs. Gripe was active in many dramatic productions and majored in speech at
Elmira College in Elmira, N.Y. Completing the cast is Tad Currie as the husband. This marks Tad’s seventh role at
Davidson, having appeared recently in “Julius Caesar” and “Ten Little Indians.” Tad is president of Alpha Psi Omega and last
year appeared in summer stock and was seen in the male lead of “Angel Street.”

“Bound East for Cardiff” by O'Neill is one of his sea stories and is centered upon the effect of the
death of one of the men upon the rest of the crew, the S.S. Glencairn. Tink Taylor plays the role
of the dying Yank and plays a difficult part confined to a bed. Tink, who made his first Davidson appearance
last year in “Julius Caesar,” is a junior and hails from Wilmington. Sharing the lead with Tink is Dick Perkins
as Driscoll, a hard seaman who is Yank’s best friend. Well remembered as Brutus in “Julius Caesar,” Dick is also
center for the football team and before coming to Davidson was active in radio work. Howard Proctor returns to the
Davidson stage playing Cocky, a natural for Howard who played similar roles in “The Man Who Came to Dinner” and
“Ten Little Indians.” Ted Daniel leaves radio work at WAYS long enough to appear as Davis. Ted's last role was
that of the newspaperman in “Command Decision.” Ted is president of The Red and Black Masquers. Mac Doubles makes his
second dramatic appearance, the first as that of the NCO in “Command Decision,” as Scotty; the lad from Richmond comes
through with a burr that would be at home in Scotland.

Last event of the weekend will be an informal dance again in the gym and again with Spivak dishing out
the tunes. The hours are from 8-12 p.m.

Men 18-27 Suited For Naval Duty

With the Naval forces afloat, selected college men between the ages of 18 and 27, with a minimum of two
years of college training can now qualify for 18 months of naval flight training, Captain S. M. Pickering, USN, Commander
of the Naval Air Station, Atlanta, Georgia, announced Tuesday. Captain Pickering added that the applicant is given a four-year active
contract; at the end of this period the young officer represents an investment of $100,000, $60,000 of which is the
cost of training a pilot today. Candidates to qualify for the 18-month highly specialized aviation training course must pass the
Navy’s aptitude and physical tests, be unmarried and must not have received notice to report for selective service induction. The
18-month flight training period, at the Navy's Annapolis of the Air in Pensacola, Florida, is divided into three phases: pre-flight
school, basic flight, and advanced flight.

Seniors Must Sign For Interviews Saturday Morning

Placement Director John Dillon issued a reminder today to all men expecting to graduate in June that tomorrow (Saturday) noon
is the deadline for signing for job interviews Monday. Representatives of both Lockheed Aircraft Corporation and Dan River Mills will
be on the campus Monday. Lockheed is interested in men who have had accounting. Applications must be filed at 104
Chambers before the 8:45 a.m. interview in Room A, Guest House. A group interview for Dan River is scheduled for
8:00 a.m. in Room 108, Chambers. Dillon urged that all seniors, regardless of certainty of future service in the armed
forces, sign for these interviews and talk with these representatives.

Faculty Nays Any Vacation At Semesters

As a direct result of recommendations in last week's closed meeting of the student body, the faculty has extended Thanksgiving
holidays for next year, and has added 10 minutes to the present lunch period, president of the student body, Mac
McLean, has announced. The Thanksgiving extension will embrace November 27-30, and was achieved by a request, submitted by a group
from the student council, headed by President McLean, to the faculty meeting that was held on Tuesday of this week.
By the time this paper goes to press, the 10-minute addition to the lunch period may already be in effect,
as the faculty ruled to change the schedule as soon as the automatic bell system could be altered. Another item
that was brought up by the student group was that of having a time lapse of some days between the
end of the first semester and the beginning of the second semester. The faculty voted against this measure. According to
McLean, the next closed meeting of the student body will be held on February 22, at which time the findings
of the committee investigating the electoral system will be put forward. This committee is composed of men who hold varying
views as to what the needs of the electoral system are and their ideas as to the remedies. This one
item is expected to fill the meeting, and there is planned a full presentation of all sides of the question.

S&B Initiates 5; Military Ball Slated In March

Five students became new members of Scabbard and Blade during a recent meeting of the honorary fraternity on February 13.
Those initiated were: Joel D. Ware, William W. Abbott, Richard Perkins, Aubrey S. Miree, and Ralph L. Roberts. In addition
to the new active members, two associate members, Captain Charles M. Hull and Captain Joseph E. Martin, were initiated. Although
the initiation of new members was the highlight of the meeting, certain social plans for the semester were announced. It
was the hope of the organization to combine interests with the Senior Class and sponsor a dance to be known
as the Military Ball on March 7 before the seniors’ dance on March 8. The idea of Scabbard and Blade
was to make a weekend affair of the two functions. It seems, however, that because of certain controversy, these plans
may not be carried out. Because of this, Scabbard and Blade plans to present their Military Ball at another date
during March or April. Another tentative function of the fraternity is a tea dance to be given on the afternoon
of April 5. On this day some of the students from one of the nearby girls’ campuses will visit Davidson
and be the guests of Scabbard and Blade at the tea dance. That evening the YMCA is planning further entertainment
for the visitors. After the initiation and business were complete, the members enjoyed a feed at Erwin Lodge.
