PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF
BILL WHITE

BUSINESS MANAGER
ALEX GOLEY

Associate Editors
Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis, George McMurray, Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw, John Ottley

Photographs—Archie Neal
Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Feature Editor—Mike Myers
Exchange Editor—Ed Richardson
Managing Editors—Boo Northcutt, Jack Hobson, Bob Poston, Bill Minter, Preston Chaney
Copy Editor—Pete Ormsby
Art Editor—Don Mahy
Sports Editor—Dick Liles
City Editor—Nat Daniels
Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager
Collection Manager
Subscriptions Manager

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Who Hushed Athletic Discussion At Alumni Gathering - And Why?

Among the topics for panel discussion at the recent Mecklenburg-Union counties’ alumni banquet in Charlotte was the sports at Davidson.
Listed along with 1) Student body size, 2) Fraternities, and 3) Academics, sports was included under the general discussion theme:
‘Which Way for Davidson?’ All topics were discussed save athletics, which received only a polite brushoff by the panel moderator,
who—being an impartial non-Davidsonian—apparently had been foretold that this ugly subject must not rear its head in the prevailing peace
of a Presbyterian gathering.

To say that there was disappointment for many of the large turn-out would be truthful, and to say that it
left a bad taste in the mouths of some that the matter had not been allowed to be brought up,
would be, we think, no exaggeration. Easily, athletics would have held the spotlight had it been brought up. And rightly
so. The alumni present were interested most in that subject. The other topics, as it turned out, for the most
part only showed that every member of the panel felt as every other member about every subject, and that—as the
moderator put it, ‘Davidson is perfect in every respect.’

The examination layoff forced our comment so late that the thought might have cooled in the minds of some present
and ired by such outlawery. But we wonder: 1) Who gave the word that the very pertinent subject of athletics
should not be brought up before the alumni—pro or con, and 2) Why? Nothing like stagnation to preserve the status
quo.

East and West Clashes Produce Noisy Explosions For Occupants

East being East and West being West, the twain are clashing frequently these nights. A carry-over from exam period pressures,
oaths and alarm clocks, singing and sirens, bottle-breakers and ball bouncers, and nuisances and noisemakers in general are rending the
after-midnight air. And no steps have been taken to check the bedtime bedlam.

Firecrackers, supposedly outlawed in the county as well as on campus, are commonplace. The aforementioned practices ought to be. Common
sense, though, is figured to take care of most of them. Besides a lack of maturity and common sense, then,
why does this racket persist? The offenders aren't the least bit disturbed by threat of action by the student government.
They're perfectly content to continue their prep school practices so long as they feel that there is no restraining monitor
about. Could it be these dorm disturbances are only the manifestation of the student opinion of its government?—a government in
name, performing the routine functions, but hardly rough enough to stop a little hell raising at one o'clock in the
morning.

Student Body Should Benefit From Open “Closed” Meetings

The initiation of President Mac McLean's ‘town meeting’ conception of student body meeting this morning could well be the dawn
of a new day of student expression on the campus. Long stifled by faculty-administration handed down decisions, railroaded reports from
small student body committees that were representative only in name, and by a feeling of apathy stemming from inability to
voice an opinion that might stand a chance of survival, the student body at last can get something off its
chest—openly.

McLean’s plan for using every fourth Friday is in keeping with the chapel committee's proposal that all student business be
reserved for Friday. Conducted after the devotional service, the open meeting does not seem to have any adverse effect on
the spirit in which chapel is met. Moreover, with the student knowledge that such chance for expression is now available,
it may well be that chapel ‘conduct’ as a whole will benefit.

The principal virtue of these meetings seems to lie in the thought that will be stimulated, and—importantly—the action that should
follow. Whereas expression through The Davidsonian can, through stimulation, lead indirectly to action, direct action in the form of legislative
proposals should be forthcoming from spoken discussion of a common meeting room.

It is important that talk from the floor be in the constructive vein, and not merely talk for the purpose
of being seen and heard. Gripes are to be expected. But gripes without accompanying proposals of improvement do nothing for
progress. Too, for a resulting action, it is important that thought be given the ideas advanced at one meeting and
held over to the next. For without thought, the period of contemplation between proposal and ballot might be done away
with, railroading replacing it. Issues that are vague and uncollected; ideas that have never quite materialized; movements that have never
had a chance for presentation, should become concrete and united. When that point is reached, we will be moving toward
progress.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1952

Dormitory Life At Davidson; A Demonstration of Immaturity

The most flagrant display of adolescence which the Davidson Student Body entirely too often demonstrates is the inconsideration which it
shows for its individual members. This is particularly pronounced in the area of the dormitories, and it reaches a climax
during exam week when the more or less subdued hubbub of the rest of the year increases in volume and
intensity until it becomes a veritable bedlam. A conscientious student who is trying to study for his finals under these
circumstances must either become stone deaf or give up in disgust and retire to the already overcrowded library.

Now one of the first principles of maturation is the recognition of the existence and right to that existence of
other individuals besides the self. If we are to really grow up we must become in an ever diminishing degree
the center of our own little universe, and apply the golden rule in every aspect of our relations with our
fellow human beings. Of course, we can never achieve complete altruism; we must leave that to God, but to strive
in that direction is one of the basic principles of Christian ethics.

Most of us were brought up in upper-middle class Southern Presbyterian homes (the humble abodes of the common man), where
the four walls of our rooms afforded a degree of peace, quiet, cleanliness and dignity, but once we get loose
in a dormitory, we lose our self-respect, our respect for other people and even many of our fundamental human characteristics.
Dormitory life is varied by water fights, blaring radios, midnight git-fiddle pickin’s, and general free-for-alls which upset nerves, interrupt sleep,
and leave college property in a somewhat depreciated state. These more destructive forms of entertainment take place only at intervals,
but the standard can at times and to many people be a pretty big racket, and during exams it becomes
almost unbearable.

We wouldn't act that way in our homes, or mistreat them so, and these dormitories are our homes for the
greater part of four years. The arguments, or more accurately, rationalizations of the problems boil down to “we're tense, and
have to let off some steam,” which is true for all of us to a certain extent, but letting off
steam so selfishly and destructively should have been left to our kid brothers many years ago. We're supposed to be
grown up young gentlemen with one to four years of college, and mature enough to understand the responsibilities to our
fellow students and to ourselves which life in a college dormitory places upon us.

So the next time the temptation arises to create a disturbance in the dormitories, before we start anything, let’s ask
ourselves three questions: “How will it affect our fellow students?”; “Would I do it at home?” and “Would it be
the action of a normal, educated and mature adult?”

FROM THE EDITOR’S MAILBOX: WALKER HITS AT SLEEPINESS OF DAVIDSON STUDENT GOVERNMENT

Paradise Missing, If Not Lost, From Norwegian Angel Voices

When Hans Olav, of the Norwegian press and government, was at Davidson several months ago, he assured us that Norway
was on her guard, ready for battle, and even more indomitable than she had ever been. Every moment of their
time, he said, was being spent in earnest preparation for a possible war. And then, as if to prove his
point, Norway sent over her Olavsguttene, or Singing Boys, Friday, to show how much rehearsal time they must be giving
to the Olavsmilites, or army.

Guilty of a sporadic, unpolished and at times even slovenly performance, the forty-eight member group, minus one who was busy
having his appendix out, showed the strain of an outrageously planned concert tour. Duke heard the Singing Boys Thursday night,
Davidson, Friday night; Columbia, South Carolina, Saturday; Danville, Virginia, Monday, and somewhere in Georgia on Wednesday. Such a table-hopping schedule,
while it may prove that at least forty-eight Norwegians are indomitable, also proved that thirty-six pre-adolescent boys, regardless of nationality,
are unable to travel all day and sing well that night.

The boys were not too sleepy to keep their eyes open, however. With a benevolent smile on his face, Svein
Sigvartsen, Terje Vegstein and basso Wiggo Wyphjell were asked what they like most about the United States: tall buildings, subways
or ice cream. Svein and Terje answered immediately. “Girls!” and compared notes in Norwegian. Wiggo, older, wiser and fresh from
Duke, likes ice cream.

Olavsguttene’s conductor and founder, Ragnvald Bjarne (Bjarne is pronounced like Ragnvald looks) was a friendly, nervous man in his late
fifties whose stock-in-trade were a broad smile, a handshake and the phrase, “Come to Norway!” He was generous with all
three. The smile was unbroken, and this interviewer shook hands with him six times in ten minutes and was invited
to Norway twice on each shake. Conductor Bjarne, though handling English well, was happy to find exchange students Ingmar Lindmarker
and his comely Winthrop date, both of whom spoke whatever it was they talked in for an animated five minutes.
It might have slipped through unnoticed, but to all appearances, Bjarne didn’t invite Ingmar or his date to Norway.

Accompanist Melvin Simonsen played two exercises during the first half of the program. The first was Grieg’s March of Sinclair,
barely legitimate as a concert piece, and the second was the premiere performance of Variations on a Two Note Concerto
by the Norwegian contemporary, Melvin Simonsen. It is hoped that Columbia, Georgia were spared the simplicity of Mr. Simonsen’s Variations.

The calmest member of the troupe was their Violinist, Eiving Bull-Hansen, whose violin playing was also calm. Mr. Bull-Hansen rendered
Svendsen’s Violin Romance in D as eleven-year-old Pelle might. Pelle cannot play the violin. It was, to say the least,
disappointing to hear an elementary composition played without confidence by the conductor of Oslo’s National Theatre Orchestra and the great-grandson
of the more famous Ole Bull of a century ago. We are sure that both Mr. Simonsen and Mr. Bull-Hansen
are good fathers to the boys.The musical side of the evening, the choir was noticeably more comfortable during the second
half. Strangely enough, their Italian pieces were more naturally done than such native songs as Grieg’s prophetic "I Himmerik" and
the pastoral "Ku Banne," both of which showed the choir's lack of pitch in the upper register. The one exception
to this was the singing of highly-touted Pelle, Jarl Kaavin, who was truer above high C than Danville and somewhere
in.

In Article VI of the Constitution of the Student Government of Davidson College, there is a mention of the fact
that officers should “strive at all times toward the improvement of conditions upon the campus.” This not only implies an
obligation on the part of the officers to improve the honor system and to enforce student body regulations, but it
also infers a definite responsibility on their part to bring about demands of a majority of the student body. One
method by which the cut system, holidays, and other student demands of a general nature may be ironed out with
the faculty is through the Faculty-Student Conference Committee. This committee was created by Article XVI of the Constitution and is
to “facilitate a free and frank interchange of ideals and viewpoints upon college matters of general interest to the students
and faculty.” The committee is composed of three faculty members elected by the faculty and five student body officers.

The Faculty-Student Conference Committee has not convened in a year and a half. Since the committee has not assembled for
over a year, I assume that the present student government is of the opinion that there are no problems or
dissonant beliefs between the faculty and students, or that our student officers have interpreted the Constitution as to imply no
obligation on their part to accomplish general demands of the majority of the student body. A more poignant answer to
why the Faculty-Student Conference Committee has not met would be that our student government system is permeated with inertia and
lethargy in pressing the demands of the students on the faculty. Student body officers too often regard their offices as
a personal prerogative, a free ticket to ODK and Who's Who, and an honorary position void of any obligation or
responsibility. Student body officers should be elected on the basis of their interpretation of what student government should and can
do for the students. Student body officers should be elected on the grounds of what they promise to achieve for
the students and how well they are qualified to do the job. This type of student government would change ODK
membership to appointment on the grounds of what officers accomplished once in office rather than on their ability to merely
obtain office. This would convert our student government from a tendency to become a collection of figureheads with no responsible
duties other than the honor system and student body regulations to an assembly of representatives of the majority opinion of
the students. If the student body officers were elected on definite timely issues to make the student government more proficient,
it is my belief that our student government system would be intensively and increasingly productive; the officers would be more
energetic and enthusiastic; and the student body would assume a confirmed regard for student body elections.

It is disheartening to realize that our student body elections are verging on popularity polls. What else could the elections
be besides a popularity poll if a student cannot state why he seeks office and what he proposes to accomplish
once in office? The word “representative” denotes one acting as an agent for a group, and an agent is created
to produce a certain effect. Under our present system, student body officers are not elected to produce a certain effect
and consequently they are far from representative. It is very possible at Davidson for a candidate to be elected whose
opinions are diametrically opposed to the beliefs of the majority that elected him. One might say this is democracy in
action but I construe it as mere folly because the candidate would never have been elected if his beliefs were
publicly revealed. Under our present system, no one is quite certain what the majority student opinion is on important issues;
no one is quite certain why the student body officers were elected; and most frightening of all, many officers themselves
don’t know.

Strand Questions Compulsory “Y” Membership At Davidson

(The reasons for presenting this subject are: (1) to carry out part of the ODK program outlined at the first
of the year, i.e., to take a long look at the YMCA set-up with special reference to compulsory membership; (2)
to bring before the student body a matter that has been greatly discussed by the Y Cabinet and the Y
Board of Directors.)

It was thought that this subject would be treated as a “hot” issue by presenting opposing viewpoints; but since YMCA
membership is of little concern to the students in general, the first intention of this statement will be to inform.
I will bring out the main points at question and then draw my personal conclusions.

Most of you are familiar with the way in which our Y is set up. Every man is a member.
He becomes one when he enters school and pays his fees, part of which is a campus tax to the
YMCA. It is obvious that something is wrong with the Y. It is not a vital, living organization. The Y
is a tradition at Davidson into which a group of boys settle every year and then move on to make
room for the next group of boys, while the program remains pretty much the same through the years. We have
a large non-interested group within the membership which approaches active participation and interest only in the Christmas Gift Fund Campaign
and in the Spring Elections. Also, we find some resentment against the Y. No policy decisions are ever initiated by
the general membership or even referred to the membership for approval or decision. We have boys who are not Christian
being forced into a Christian fellowship if they want to stay at Davidson. There is also the possibility that they
will be elected to Y offices. I think that all will agree that these things are true and not indicative
of a healthy, vital, and worthwhile organization which is based on historic Christianity. The problem then is: How can we
improve the situation?

In considering these facts, there are two viewpoints: The first deals with the problem by advocating that we do away
with our present plan of membership and put it on a voluntary basis. No religious organization which imposes itself upon
its members can serve its purpose. It should grow from the grass roots. If the Y were voluntary, it would
more nearly approximate its purpose of being a fellowship of Christians who want to express their love for Christ in
that fellowship and in social activity. If this plan were accepted, there would be no non-Christian forced into the Y
by his desire to remain at Davidson; and neither would the Y face the possibility of his being elected to
a Y office. The voluntary plan would do away with the large non-interested group, and would also alleviate any resentment
against the Y from within its own membership. As the group would be active and interested, it would initiate and
decide about plans and projects. It would be possible for the Y as an organization to take a stand with
regard to campus issues, for instance, the gambling problem that came up last year. We would be in harmony with
the National YMCA Movement as far as membership is concerned. At present, we are the only school that has a
completely automatic or compulsory membership plan. In short, the Y would be made more meaningful to its members and more
effective as a campus organization.

The second viewpoint is held by those who do not agree with the voluntary membership plan. They have not yet
offered a positive solution to the problem of how to improve the existing situation in the Y; but they have
pointed out some of the dangers involved in changing from compulsory membership. The four main objections are: (1) all of
the Davidson students except about thirteen are members of some evangelical church; therefore, the dilemma of having non-Christians in a
Christian organization is much lessened if not removed altogether, (2) membership on a voluntary basis would create division in the
student body over a religious issue, (3) the Y would lose prestige on the campus. If the Y elections were
limited to a segment of the student body, they would no longer hold a place of importance just under that
of the Student Government Elections. Because of this, the Y membership might come to be thought of as a bunch
of “baby Joes,” and this atmosphere would not be conducive for a man who was on the borderline to come
into a Christian fellowship and from there into a deeper meaning for his life. It would also limit the contact
that Christ, through the Y, could have on individuals in the student body because of its restricted membership and its
lack of prestige, (4) Under the voluntary plan, the Y would no longer have its chief means of financial support,
i.e., the campus tax; and would therefore not be able to carry on its full program. It would no longer
represent the entire student body which would mean that the chaplain could not serve as Y secretary in addition to
his other duties.

In the personal conclusions, I would like to briefly reply to these points: (1) There may be only fifteen boys
who aren’t church members, but there are many more who don’t know what church membership means in living experience. If
I am wrong, why is there the large non-interested group, and why is there a need to worry about voluntary
membership since everybody would want to be in the Y anyway? (2) Voluntary membership would not create division in the
student body. It would only bring into the open division which is already there. We should not force unity where
there is no sound basis for it. (3) Certainly the Y would lose prestige on a voluntary membership plan; but
the purpose of the Y is not to stand for Christianity in such a way as to gain prestige. Rather,
it is to stand for Christianity whether it brings prestige or not. In the days of the early church, the
aid was anything but conducive to membership, yet the church was alive. (4) The program is not a static thing
to be carried through no matter how large the membership and interest might be. But the scope of the program
should be determined by the number and interest of the members. In other words, the financial needs would not be
as great.

As I look at the information that I have, I am in favor of changing the present automatic Y membership
to a voluntary plan. Space limits me from indicating the outline of a plan at this time. If there is
to be any change made, there will have to be a shout heard from the student body, a shout so
loud that it will carry through the Cabinet, the Board of Directors, and the Religious Exercises Committee to the Trustees.

ALLAN STRAND.
