In the spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns ... well, to spring sports and intramural softball and there's no better place to turn than the ‘ole campus at Davidson. All the sports have gotten off to a fast start and almost any afternoon, you can find a game or match of some sort going on. If this is not true, the odds are that there is a hot softball game on tap somewhere on the golf course or behind Watts.

One of the greatest comebacks for any team after a rather mediocre season last year has been found in the tennis team. There Sir Derrick has placed some flashy frosh and a sophomore in some top positions and the result has been great. The Cats have dropped only one contest and that was to the Big Ten Champions, Michigan State. Of course, the outcome of the Southern standings has not been decided because the netmen haven't met the perennial strong-men from Carolina and Duke.

By DICK LILES

One of the greatest things for a rookie is to break into the big-time his first year out and really make a name for himself. This and more the youngest member of the net-born Keeslers, Lacy, has done. Not only did he make the team as a freshman, but moved on up into the Number One position and has lost only one match since then. His running mate has been Johnny Bremer, who has improved greatly and has moved into the second spot and has been playing excellent tennis there.

KEESLERS, BREMER SHOW IMPROVEMENT

The captain of the whole aggregation is a senior and has been holding down his No. Four spot with the greatest of ease and winning his matches to boot. Dewey Keesler in his position shows every indication that it might be his best year both in singles and doubles game. Not to be discounted is the dethroned Allen Strand, who could improve and regain his old form and move on up the ladder. Corky Clark and Leighton Green are also frosh and round out the singles crew. Slim Joe Dudley and George Snead help out in the doubles play. When this club runs into the remaining competition, we'll say that they have a better than 90 per cent chance of coming out on top.

SPIKES ARE MUCH BETTER

Would you ever have thought that Dave Poole could whip a bunch of freshmen and sophomores into a ball club that has been playing good ball all down the line and already has won more games than the two years before this? Well, he’s done it and if you don’t believe it, why not come down and see those boys hustle through a game. They pushed South Carolina into 10 innings and were eked out by Carolina, 4-3, two weeks ago and are looking forward to the return match. Getting a lot better pitching than was expected in early predictions, the Cats have also shown hitting strength and a tremendous hustle and fight about them. Freddy Stowe has been the big gun for the Poolesters with a healthy .462 batting average as well as flawless field play. Bill Glidewell has also shown hitting strength and has been holding down the backstopping duties as well. Andy Courts continues to be the workhorse of the mound crew and he is being backed well by Ish Bennett and Jimmy Smith with the chores.

TRACKMEN LOOK TO BEST SEASON

Looking forward to perhaps their best season in years, the thinclads are burning up the cinders here of late. Led by Bill McNeely and Gene Pierce in the field events and Bill White, Bill Shipley, Tom Stockton, and Frank Mitchener, the Cats have lost only one meet and have a dual job on hand for tomorrow afternoon in Charleston. Then Clemson and State will be the only roadblocks left and they stack up pretty formidably this year. Last year it looked like things would be slim for the tracksters, but several freshmen have bolstered their ranks, besides the fact that improvement has been marked in most of the boys.

Linen Sport Coats 22.50
Natural, Navy, Grey
Contrasting Pants 8.95
Wilson-Wrights Collegiate Fashions

wildcat Sports

RACE TURNS TORRID FOR INTERFRAT CUP

THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SECTION
FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 1951 PAGE THREE

NcTS ENCOU

Whitemen Seek 3rd Conf. Win

By BOB OWENS

The strong Davidson College golf team will play host to N. C. State today as the two teams match strokes on the Myers Park course in Charlotte. In a previous match played at Raleigh the State golfers managed to squeeze out a close three-point decision over the Wildcats, and one can be sure that revenge will be the main thought in the minds of the Cat golfers as they again face their strong rivals. The Wildcat putt and pinch boys limbered up for the State match by soundly trouncing the Clemson golfers to the tune of 17-10 on Wednesday at Clemson. Lew Barnes was medalist for the Cats with an even par 72, Graeme Keith and Bob Brannan added a 75 and 76 respectively to help out the Wildcat cause.

The Cats now have a 2-4 Southern Conference record, having beaten Clemson twice, while suffering losses to UNC (2), W.F, and NC State. Their overall record is 3-7. The linksters added a victory over Rollins at Charlotte and suffered defeats to Florida, Rollins, and Miami in a pre-season trip to Florida. Captain Mac McLean, Bob Brannan, and Al Fitzgerald will be playing on their home course Saturday, and these three golfers, along with Lew Barnes, Al Gaither, Graeme Keith, and Jim Sloan are expected to show the State golfers how the game is played. Captain Morris Brackett, another Charlotte lad, will lead the Wolfpack team against the long-hitting golfers from Presbyterian Hollow. It is true that the Wildcats’ record is nothing spectacular, but of the ten matches played, only three have been played on the home course. The two remaining matches are to be played in Charlotte, and a clean sweep of these matches could result in a better season for the Cats. On May 16-17 the Wildcat golfers will be ready to tee off for the annual Southern Conference Tournament to be held in Winston-Salem. The remaining matches on tap for the Cat golfers, including today’s match are as follows:

April 26—N. C. State at Charlotte.
May 6—South Carolina at Charlotte.
May 16-17—S.C. Tournament at Winston-Salem.

Chesterfield SPORTS QUIZ

1. Who won the 1952 Master's Golf Tournament?
2. Who is the new manager of the St. Louis Browns?
3. What horse won the Kentucky Derby in 1951?
4. Who is the Southern Conference baseball coach who announced this week that he would retire after the present season?
5. What member of the Davidson baseball team is currently leading the team in hitting?

The Chesterfield Sport Quiz will begin anew with this issue. It will be continued from now on unless the interest drops off. Who can be passive to a free carton of Chesterfields when it is so easy to win? All you have to do is answer these simple sports questions week by week and turn them in to Charlie Hall, the new campus representative for Chesterfields, on the back of a wrapper from a pack of Chesterfields and take them to Room E (basement) East. Remember, a free carton goes to the man with the FIRST correct answers.

Coach Whittle is expecting an ex-

State Returns Golf Match With Cats

Cinders Visit U.S.C, Citadel For Dual Meet

By JOHN HANDLEY

Tomorrow 24 Wildcat tracksters will travel to Charleston, S. C., with two successive victories under their belts and with their sights set on the third in a row. The Red and Black clad cindermen will participate in a triangular meet with The Citadel and the University of South Carolina. South Carolina’s Gamecocks were the victims of the steadily improving Wildcats last weekend by a 76-55 count as the Davidsonians took 8 of the 15 possible first places in the hard-fought encounter.

McNeely Continues Pace

Big Bill McNeely continued his winning way as he came through with two firsts in the shot and discus last week. Bill put the shot 45 feet 6 inches and threw the discus 137 feet 8 inches against the Gamecocks. As things now stand Big Bill is the leading Cat point-getter with a season’s grand total of 23 points. Close behind McNeely in the scoring department is Jim Fickelsen, who though winning no first places, registered seconds in the javelin and high jump and thirds in the high and low hurdles against S.C. Jim has compiled 19 1-3 points thus far this season. The third and fourth high scorers are Tom Stockton with 17 and Buddy McKay with 15. Tom got a third in the mile while Buddy won the low hurdles last weekend. Other Wildcats who captured first slots in last week's meet were: Bob Turk with a 5’ 10” jump in the high jump; Bill Shipley with a 52.1 seconds time in the 440; Bill White with a 16.0 high hurdles performance; Bob Henry witha 2:04.6 mark in the 880; and Dick Stockton with a 11:02.1 count in the two-mile run. Citadel Is Strong citing meet in Charleston tomorrow with all three teams of nearly equal strength. Whittle feels that if the Citadel thinclads aren't too strong in our events that the Wildcats have a good chance of bettering their present 2-1 mark in tomorrow's meet. At any rate, this should be a keenly contested match in all events. Those making the trip to Charleston are: Landers, Mitchener, Shipley, Howell, Wilson, Henry, Russell, Reed, Tom and Dick Stockton, Plummer, Feeney, B. White, Fickeisen, McKay, McNeely, Pierce, Petree, Pate, Poston, Turk, R. White, and York.

Sports Mirror

One Year Ago This Week—April 27, 1951—After taking P.C., Barton netmen hit North Carolina State, UNC today, tomorrow.

Five Years Ago This Week—April 25, 1947—Racqueteers whip Duke 6-3, but lose to Georgia Tech 6-3.

Ten Years Ago This Week—April 23, 1942—Davidson nine defeats Wofford College team, 12-6.

Fifteen Years Ago This Week—April 21, 1937—Cat cindermen defeat Citadel in fast affair, 77-49.

Twenty Years Ago This Week—April 20, 1932—Davidson trackmen down VPI as Brannon sets new record for two-mile, 10 minutes, 2.5 seconds.

Twenty-five Years Ago This Week—April 24, 1927—Gamecocks, Deacons downed in meet with Wildcat track artists, 72-80, 88-38.

Wildcat of the Week

By DICK ROPER

Versatility is a word easily tossed around in discussions of college athletes. But it seems never to have applied more accurately than in the case of Big Bill McNeely, the giant-sized Davidsonian who left jobs pushing people around on the gridiron and tying them in knots on the wrestling mat to throw things around for Coach Heath Whittle’s track team. McNeely, a senior who hails from Statesville, used his six-four, 235-pound frame to make things rough for gridiron foes for three years, and will doubtless be remembered by more than one opposing team. But when the '52 season was over, Big Bill was not expected to be heard from again by most Wildcat sports spectators. Then, after he put in a long, gruelling stint on Charlie Parker's wrestling squad, winning nearly all his matches in the heavyweight class, he must certainly have been filed away into the People In Sports To Be Forgotten Department. Obviously, he didn’t see things that way, for when track started this season Bill was very much in the swing. And his spring activities have paid off no little for the Cat cindermen. When South Carolina’s track club visited Davidson last Saturday, one of the principal reasons that they came out on the short end of a 76-55 score was McNeely, who was the Wildcats’ leading point maker with first places in both the shot put and discus events. McNeely’s success at track amounts to a double victory for him. He had to overcome an old knee injury to even play football and wrestle this year, and many an athlete wouldn't have bothered to try to put in the time and physical effort that Bill’s two track events require after that ordeal. If the Big Man can keep up his present level of accomplishments in the cinder sport, he'll go a long way in making Whittle’s team a winning outfit as well as compiling an athletic record any collegian would be extremely proud of.

With the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity leading the way, the second week of action in the softball tournament has been completed. The SPE’s, displaying plenty of softball know-how, have racked up six straight victories against no defeats. Following closely the lead of the SPE’s are the Sigma Chis and Phi Gams, both of which have lost but one game. There seems to be an abundance of good hitters with a number of sluggers distributed on each team. Enthusiasm, fight, and spirit are the keynotes of competition. All of the teams this year are tough with anyone capable of upsetting the other. It has already been shown that whoever wins the crown will have to display plenty of power. Trying to make it hard on the other fraternities are Horace Ball and Perry Daniels who are currently pacing the SPE's on their victorious streak. There are several dark horses who could round into form and surprise everyone by winning the title. In this dark horse category are the Phi Delts and Pi Kapps. They have shown they know what it takes to win and could get tougher as the season progresses. The coming weeks are crammed full of contests and many hotly fought games are on schedule. Much interest and importance have been placed on the outcome of these games. With the spring term drawing to a close, the final tabulations of points for the highly coveted interfraternity cup are being compiled. Since all the fraternities are vying for this honor, much will be at stake with the outcome of the softball tournament.

Softball Standings
W L
SPE 5 0
Sigma Chis 4 1
Phi Gams 4 1
Pi Kapps 3 2
SAE 3 2
Phi Delts 3 2
KA 4 3
Kappa Sigs 2 2
Pikas 2 3
Betas 1 5
ATO 0 5
CC 0 6

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS—IT PAYS!

Diamonds Seek Revenge

Hoping to avenge themselves of this week's tenth inning sneaks, the Wildcat baseballers travel to South Carolina Tuesday to meet the Gamecocks who won that contest by 7-4. On Thursday, May 1, the McCrary Eagles, a semi-pro team, play here on the home diamond for the only encounter between the two clubs. The Gamecock encounter will be the second meeting between the two teams in a week. In the first encounter played on the home field, the Cats lost 7-4, in ten innings. In the tenth, a double, two walks, two singles, and a passed ball accounted for the rival's three winning runs. South Carolina now has won five of eight games and Davidson has won three of eleven contests. It was once again Fred Stowe who led the Cat attack with two hits in four appearances at the plate and scored two runs while batting in a third.

Stowe Leads Hitting

Stowe is leading the club in batting with a .463 average. Glidewell is second with a .250 mark. Stowe is also leading in runs scored with eight, followed by Jerry Morrow who has five, in hits with eighteen followed by Johnny Gray with eight, and in runs batted in with nine, followed by Morrow and Gray who have two. After the two games with South Carolina and McCrary, the Wildcats will have only North Carolina, State, and Furman left on the schedule.

Davidson will be facing one of the toughest matches of the year, and certainly the most coveted, since the humiliating 9-0 drubbing at the hands of UNC last season. Carolina, however, boasts a very strong squad, led by Del Sylvia, runner-up to Buddy Agar in last year's Southern Conference tournament, and freshman Herbie Brown, last year’s National Interscholastic champ. On paper, at least, they look somewhat stronger than the Davidson aggregation, judging by comparative scores and the records of individual standouts. Nevertheless, the Cats boast a fine record this season, having lost only to Michigan State, the Big Ten champions, while holding wins over eight opponents, including Kalamazoo, N.C. State, Harvard, and B.C.

P.C. Downed Again

In their only other match of the week, Davidson trounced Presbyterian for the second time this season, 7-2, the identical score of the first win. The match was played on the South Carolinian’s home ground before a sizeable group of P.C. supporters who thought they were seeing an upset in the making as they watched their big gun, Frank Spears, trounce Lacy Keesler 6-9 in the first set and come from behind to take the second 6-4 to cop the number one singles contest. But Spears was the only P.C. singles player able to defeat his man, as Bremer, Strand, Dewey Keesler, Clark, and Dudley turned back their respective opponents. In doubles play, Spears and Bill Toole rallied in the third set to (Continued On Page Four)

CALL Your SHOT...

THE GREAT NEW SPALDING POWERED “TRU-TENSION” TEMPERED THREAD FOR UNIFORMITY MAXIMUM DISTANCE, COMBINED WITH THAT SWEET “DOT” FEEL AND CLICK YOU WANT. OTHER FAMOUS SPALDING GOLF BALLS: THE FAST TOP-FLITE AND THE TOUGH KRO-FLITE.

SPALDING sets the pace in sports.

ALL NEW SPORTS SHOW BOOK of Milton Cortoons published in this issue only. WRITE TODAY TO SPALDING—DEPT. C-52 Chicopee, Mass.