SOLUTION FOR Y MEMBERSHIP (Editorial, Page 2) VOLUME XL Davidsonians In Armed Forces GEORGE HUNTER WARLICK is now at Class “A” Yeoman School studying under the direction of the U. S. Navy. Hunter withdrew in January, '51. His address is: G. H. Warlick, Co. 51273, USMNTC, San Diego, 33. Calif.

LT. A. E. GREER, JR., withdrew in October of '50, to become a member of the infantry. He is now stationed at Fort Benning, Ga. He is a former resident of Charleston, S. C., and the son of a former Davidson graduate. His present address is: Lt. A. E. Greer, Jr. 112 Co., 2nd S. R., Fort Benning, Ga.

HAMPTON MAUZE is now better known as Pvt. Mauze, R.A. 14391580, Co. I, 200th Infantry Regt., located at Fort Jackson, S. C. Hampton, a member of the class of '53 withdrew in February of '51. While at Davidson Hampton proudly claimed that his chief interest and hobby was “anything” and Uncle Sam now has him doing just that.

Will Redecorate Phi Hall, Stage Chapel Program

As Phi Hall struggled to remain afloat Monday night, President Jack Stevenson called to order a meeting which witnessed plans for the redecoration of Phi Hall and for a Phi chapel program. Members of the society also heard papers read by four students seeking fellowship in Phi.

Discussion on redecorating Phi Hall led to the formation of a research committee whose purpose it is to ensure the authenticity of Phi’s new interior, keeping decoration within the tradition of Phi’s chandelier. The “indiscriminate splashing of a sickly spinach green without regard for taste or tradition, as has been done in less civilized circles,” is to be alleviated by the student of the committee on research. President Stevenson appointed a committee on aesthetics and culture to plan a chapel program “expressing deep concern over the depths to which chapel entertainment and conduct has fallen as evidenced by a recent maudlin display of infantile exhibitionism by a purportedly literary group of ill repute, sometimes referred to as the You-May-Need-Them Society.”

Students seeking membership in the Phi by the reading of their individual compositions were Cortez Cooper, Swain Loy, Austin Strand, and Fred Allen. Cortez Cooper read his outlook on the conditions we face and the world situation in “1952—What Price Peace.” Swain Loy, in “The Awful Vice,” described the movie industry and its effects on society. Fred Allen closed the readings with his paper, “The Story of Maguss and Sullus,” a sidelight on the eruption at Pompeii.

Writing Contest Entries Scarce

Only a few men have officially entered papers in the Vereen Bell creative writing contest as its March 15 deadline nears. The annual contest rewards the winner to the value of $50. Competing manuscripts may be turned in to any member of the English Department and all work must be typewritten and double spaced. No maximum length is prescribed. The author is required not to sign his paper, but include with it an envelope containing his name and the name of the paper. Professor E. J. Erwin, contest director, said that in the past short stories have been the most consistent winners. He reminded prospective entrants that any form of creative writing is quite eligible.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 7, 1952

WHOSE GENERATION IS WORSE— (See Page Two) NUMBER EIGHTEEN

RECORDING ARTISTS GET PERSONAL APPEARANCE CALL

Honored nationally this week by an invitation to be one of two bands in the country performing at the National Music Educators’ Conference this month, Davidson's concert band modestly accepted the bid and went right on recording its series of radio shows. Director James C. Pfohl’s 54-piece group currently is performing via transcription on three outstanding North Carolina radio stations.

D.C. And Michigan U. Band One Of Two To Bid For Concert

The Davidson College Concert Band has accepted an invitation to give a concert at the National Music Educators Conference to be held in Philadelphia, March 21-25, it was announced by James Christian Pfohl, director of the band.

ROTC Seniors To Get Hurry Call To Army

Those students who graduate from college this year with Reserve Commissions from the ROTC will be called into active service for 24 months as lieutenants. This is identical to the call that was made for last year's class. The Army plans to call about a third of the entire group in each of July, August, and September. Insofar as possible, officers will be called in the month of their choice. If they wish to go in June, it is expected that this can be arranged. Those officers who had two consecutive years of service, as an enlisted man in World War II will not be required to go. If a student does not graduate, but is awarded his commission at the usual time, he will not have to go into the Army until he either graduates from, or withdraws from, college. There is a third group which, although they may be called, will not have to go into the Army, in all probability. These are students going on to graduate school in either medicine or theology, or related fields of study. Upon receipt of orders, which the Army plans will be as the student prepares to leave college at the conclusion of this year's activities, the officer desiring deferment should submit a request to be excused to the Chief of the Military District in which the officer’s residence is located. The PMS&T intends to discuss the entire matter in detail with the students concerned in the near future.

Faculty Gives OK To Reorganization Of Faculty Comm.

At the faculty meeting last Tuesday the members of the faculty approved the idea of re-establishing the Faculty Conference Committee, which went out of existence some years ago. This committee, which is a gathering for student and faculty representatives for the voicing of opinions on relative matters, is provided for in the constitution of the student body; but for a number of years it has not been in effect. The committee will contain, at present, three members of the faculty to be appointed next week by Dr. Cunningham, the presidents of the senior, junior and sophomore classes, a man selected by ODK, and the freshman advisor.

Eu Initiates 19 New Literarians After Readings

Monday evening the Eumanean Literary Society listened to the original writings of nineteen prospective members. The following men read their papers: Jim Faires, All the World's a Stage; Robert H. Jones, The Importance of Character; Z. A. Kilpatrick, Why I Am Who I Am; Al Blount, Next Week; Ed Blanton, Elementary Evolutionary Anthropology; Henry Brockman, Pines of the Appian Way; C. H. Wombie, Sketch of a Freshman Getting His Grades, and Bill Moffett, The Return. Sam Sells, Essay on Sex; Robert R. Charles, The Glory of a Track Star; Frank Mitchener, Jus- (Continued On Page Four)

The ten-week series of programs began last week over WBT, WPTF, and WBIG, each show a quarter of an hour in length. In the future they are to run over WISE, WMNC, and WSIC. The above photo shows the band in a recording session, with the WBT tape recording team at left. The band is one of two such organizations in the entire country to be invited to play for the convention, which will have approximately 5,000 delegates. The other band will be the nationally famous University of Michigan Concert Band. The Davidson group, which is composed of 54 musicians, has been honored numerous times in the past few years. Before the war it played weekly concerts over the Dixie Network of the Columbia Broadcasting System. Two years ago, it played for the National Convention of the American Bandmasters Association, and last year it was the only college group to be invited to play for the Southern Music Educators Conference in Richmond, Virginia. Tonight the band enters its second transcribed concert over WBT, Charlotte; WBIG, Greensboro, and WPTF, Raleigh. In the near future it will begin its ten-week series over WISE, Asheville; WMNC, Morganton, and WSIC, Statesville.

Close-Up Of “The Reverend” Ben Rose Has Personal Touch, Eagerness Which Won Bristol Church At First Sermon

By ALLEN VANCE

With the close of the last war my hometown of Bristol, Tennessee, prepared itself for the return to a normal and peaceful way of life. My church, the Central Presbyterian, besides being involved in this change, was looking for a pastor. Our former pastor, the late Dr. Donald McIver, had retired from the ministry after more than 40 years as an active minister. One Sunday in January of 1946, a tall, thin, redheaded young man delivered the morning's sermon. The man's name was Ben Lacy Rose, who had served as a chaplain in Europe during the war. I don't remember the topic of the sermon but I do remember that everyone in the congregation decided that he was the man for Central Church. Within a short time we had extended a call to him and we were rewarded with his acceptance. Ben Rose took up his duties with an eagerness that has never abated. Soon after he took over we began a drive to raise funds for the building of the new church which we now occupy. With him as our leader we reached our goal and in doing so realized our dream of many years. “The Reverend,” as he is called by our young members, possibly made himself felt more in our young peoples work. This was the part of the church that most needed a boost. He put the whole department on its feet and has kept it running efficiently ever since. I cannot say his appeal is only to the younger set, though, for he is the understanding and invigorating type of speaker who can hold an audience of any age in his grasp. The large reserve of stories and vivid illustrations which Dr. Rose uses frequently in his sermons are partly responsible for his widespread popularity. Also I think you will find, as I have, that he gives you the

West Point Invites Reps From D.C. Unit

The Department of the Army has announced that two ROTC students from each of many ROTC units around the country will be invited to visit the United States Military Academy for a brief orientation and informationPeriod during the next two months. Davidson College has been assigned the period 1-4 May, which is a Thursday-Sunday period. Although the directive is not altogether clear on the point, it is believed cadets would leave here in such time as to arrive at West Point early Thursday afternoon and that they would leave there early Sunday afternoon. Travel, which will probably be by train, will be paid for by the government. The cadets will have to pay for other expenses, including meals. The Superintendent of the Military Academy has written that the whole charge to the cadets should not exceed $7.00. The invitation is not restricted to members of the senior class. It is to all members of all four ROTC classes. Nominations by the PMS&T must be made by the first week (Continued On Page Four).

Feeling that he is talking to you, the individual, and who among us doesn’t like this personal touch found in too few of today’s preachers? I predict that these coming Spring services will be a source of spiritual strength for each and every one of us. I hope that you, the students, will back up my prediction after hearing “The Reverend.”

Du Pont Sending Job Interviewers Monday, Tuesday

The Davidson College Placement Bureau has announced that representatives of the Du Pont Company will be here in the Placement Office Monday and Tuesday to see any boys interested in positions with that company. It was also announced that all boys who filled out applications for the Southern Bell Telephone Company can come by the office and sign up for appointments.

Launch Services Pick Leaders Sunday Evening; For Forums Frat Talks Follow At Y Parleys

With an extensive program of fraternity house and dormitory discussion complementing addresses by Rev. Ben L. Rose, the annual Spring Services will be opened to their theme, ‘What Think Ye of Christ?’ at the vesper service Sunday evening. Following the discussion group which was successfully introduced at Fall Services last November, the YMCA special services commission under Tom Stockton is bringing 11 ministers to lead the sessions again. Fraternity house discussions will supplement the dorm groups this spring, the former meetings to be held from 7-8 p.m. Monday and Tuesday and the latter at 10:30 Sunday, Monday and Tuesday evenings.

Rev. Rose, in addition to his opening sermon Sunday night, will deliver his message Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday mornings in chapel. In a deviation from precedent, the principal speaker will not preach on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday nights. The fraternity discussion groups, guided by Rose’s morning message, will take the place of the evening talk. Discussion leaders will be advised to direct the line of thought Monday night along the theme, “Our Christian Beliefs,” and Tuesday night to center talk about “Christian Morality.” As has been the case in past years, chapel will begin at 10:10 rather than 10:20, the first two periods being shortened five minutes.

The group leaders include Rev. Lee Willingham, Hollywood Presbyterian Church, Greenville, N. C.; Rev. Trumbull L. Simmons, McCallie School, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Rev. Robert M. Bird, All Saints Episcopal Church, Concord; Rev. Maynard Fountain, Jr., Malvern Hills Presbyterian Church, Asheville; James W. Ray, State Secretary, Baptist Student Union, Raleigh; Rev. Murphy Smith, First Presbyterian Church, New Bern; Rev. Albert B. McClure, Superintendent, Barium Springs Orphans’ Home; Rev. W. R. Smith, WI, Buchanan Presbyterian Church, Buchanan, Va.; Rev. Sherrill B. Biggers, Kilgo Methodist Church, Charlotte; Rev. R. A. White, assistant minister, First Presbyterian Church, Winston-Salem, and John D. Riebel, Associate Secretary, YMCA, University of North Carolina.

The ministers and student discussion leaders will be dispersed as follows: Rumple, (left section) Smith, W. R., and John Whitfield, (right section) Willingham and Allan Strand; Watts: (top two floors) Riebel and Leighton Green, (lower floors) Ray and Dunbar Ogden; Georgia: White and Bob Henry; West: (top two floors) McClure and Bill Adams; (lower floors) Smith, Murphy and Wilt Terry; East: (top two floors) Simmons and Charlie Cousar; (lower floors) Bird and Bob Grigsby; Duke: (center section) Fountain and Gene Craven; (east section) Biggers and Max Devane.

The schedule for fraternity discussions is as follows (first speaker listed will lead the Monday discussion, the second the Tuesday night talks): Kappa Alpha: Willingham and Biggers; Phi Delta Theta: Simmons and Willingham; Kappa Sigma: W. R. Smith and White; Sigma Phi Epsilon: Biggers and Ray; Pi Kappa Phi: Riebel and McClure; Pi Kappa Alpha: J. M. Smith and Simmons; Sigma Chi: McClure and Riebel; Sigma Alpha Epsilon: W. R. Smith and Rev. Raymond D. Kepler of Mt. Ulla; Beta Theta Pi: White and Fountain; Phi Gamma Delta: Ray and Bird; Alpha Tau Omega: Bird and Rose; Campus Club: Fountain and J. M. Smith; Independents: Rose and Kepler.

BS Big Favorite In U.S. Colleges

Davidson degree-seekers are following true to form with fellow students all over the country. Of 123 seniors, 110 are candidates for the BS Degree, but only 13 are working toward the AB ticket. This proportion is carried on down through the classes where records show 78 undergraduates applying for AB and 600 for BS. Both Registrar F. W. Hengeveld and President J. R. Cunningham agreed that this increase of men interested in BS diplomas was not a localized tendency but visible all over the nation. As a possible reason it was suggested by Hengeveld that perhaps an increased stress on the specialized and the practical in public school systems was forcing the colleges to educate men in narrower fields. He added that as a consequence most professional schools no longer require a heavy load of the classics. “Most of the AB candidates are pre-ministerial and have to be trained in Greek and Latin," noted Hengeveld. He remarked that modern college students don't seem to see any need of those languages any more as a part of their education. He revealed that Duke University tags nearly all but a few very specialized graduates AB. “We have had to fight pressure here to make Davidson's AB Degree a more general award like that of Duke,” he reported. Dr. Cunningham verified this. Hengeveld stated that in his opinion a liberal arts college should exist more to teach students to live and become adjusted to society than how to make a living. Dr. Cunningham cited a broader interest in the sciences as one reason for the greater number of BS students.

Lit Group Shows ‘Mikado’ Tonight

The Mikado, by Gilbert and Sullivan will be presented tonight at 7:30 in Chambers auditorium by the United Literary Film Society. This film will be in technicolor and stars Kenny Baker and the world-famed D’Oyly Carte Company. The sound track of the movie is most outstanding, giving a faithful reproduction to enchant every lover of musical wit and nonsense. Elaborate staging and costuming are magnificently combined and the exotic effect is enhanced by the use of technicolor. Tickets will be on sale before the movie. Season tickets will not be reduced for subsequent movies. This is the second in a series of famous films being brought to the college screen by ULFS. The next film will be Grand Illusion.

Student discussion leaders for the Y conference here March 14-16 have been announced recently, as well as members of the special committee chosen to evaluate the proceedings. George Knight is head of the organization group to review different types of local cabinet setups; Tony Tucker presides over the spiritual development discussion; Bill Adams will officiate during the social and service activities discussion. Allan Strand is head of the group to review the stewardship of the SCA's, while Don Crosby will preside at the discussion of all off-campus services. Hubert Cannon heads the group on the role of the student Christian Associations in regard to important issues. A special committee to evaluate and analyze the accomplishments of the conference consists of Mrs. Alan Gripe, Prof. H. A. Bauman, Bill White and Jim Speed. Luke Scales has charge of the worship services during the conference. The program is scheduled to open Friday evening and will hold its final activity on Sunday afternoon, March 16. The list of activities consists of worship services, three addresses by Dr. Robert (Continued On Page Four).

Student Forum Touches Politics, Honor Systems

Student leaders from four colleges exchanged ideas at a YMCA panel discussion on student government problems here Wednesday night. Discussion centered around three main topics—constitutional setup, elections, and the honor system. The Wofford delegation revealed that their school has no honor system, but does have open elections. Although they believed that the introduction of an honor system might affect their electoral system to an extent, they nevertheless strongly advocated the open election system, with campaigning and posters, because in this way interest increased and issues on the campus were sharpened. Davidson students in attendance seemed divided on how far to go in altering our present electoral setup, but all agreed that some changes should be made. Dot McLeod, president of the Queens Student Council, revealed that a similar movement to allow a mild form of campaigning is gaining popularity there. Instead of an honor system, Wofford has a monitor system and paid officers on each hall to maintain order. They are currently trying to install an honor system, although such a move was rejected by the student body last spring. Although only 15 Davidson students were in attendance, Hubert Cannon, moderator of the discussion, said he considered the evening a success. Besides the Davidson aggregation, which included Mac McLean and Tom Stockton on the panel, the Converse delegation consisted of Polly Glenn, president of the student body, and Susanne Earnhardt, vice president, while Wofford was represented by George Smith, president of the junior class, and Jimmy Holler, president of the sophomore class.

ATHLETIC COUNCIL WILL CONSIDER APPLICATIONS EARLY NEXT WEEK

Definite action by the Athletic Council on applications filed for the job of head football coach is forthcoming early next week, Athletic Director Paul Scott said yesterday. At that time, Scott said, the field will be narrowed in preparation for the final decision, to be made in “the near future.” No new developments have arisen during the past week to affect the situation as last reported in The Davidsonian. Men currently being mentioned for the job are assistant coach Dick Redding, N. C. State assistant coach Gwynn Fletcher, Fayetteville High's “Bear” Biggers, and Harry Milligan of Richmond Academy in Augusta, Ga.