PAGE FOUR

Barry Relates Court Policy

Earnest Barry, judge of the Court of Control, stated Wednesday his formative plans for the court this year. Judge Barry said that he planned to have the first trial of offenders on this coming Monday night. He did not make any statement as to when he plans to present the guilty ones before the student body. The Davidsonian, starting next Friday, will run each week a list of freshmen who have been brought before the court, their crimes, and their punishment or guilt. This bulletin will be in bold face on the back page of the issue. Another plan of the court this year is to have all men who go before the court three times to wear yellow caps, thus pointing them out to upperclassmen and putting them under strict observation.

REMEMBER, VETS! IF YOU GO TO SCHOOL UNDER THE NEW KOREAN GI BILL YOU'LL GET A MONTHLY ALLOWANCE CHECK FROM VA ... BUT YOU MUST PAY FOR TUITION FEES, BOOKS, SUPPLIES, LIVING COSTS, ETC. For full information contact your nearest VETERANS ADMINISTRATION office.

Paintings In Lobby By Famous Artists

Sixteen paintings by outstanding American Artists are now on display in Chambers Building at Davidson College. Philip Moose, director of fine arts, announced that the paintings were made available for the second straight year by Paul W. Whitener, director of the Hickory Museum.

OVER 200 PLEDGES... (Continued from Page One)

Wes Spencer, Ed Davis, Joe Billy Pharr, Clinton Capps, Buck Reinhardt, Bill Pritchett, Dale Freeland, David Holloman, Bill Lanier.

SIGMA PI EPSILON: Joel Black, Tal Broughton, Dick Peters, Neil Seiler, Moffatt Ware, Hoke Thompson, Joe Garrison, Jim Patterson, Ray Craig, Don Craig, Jim Teeter, John Partridge, John Warlick, John Hiers, Bayless Mack, Jim Marshall.

SIGMA CHI: Perrin Anderson, R. W. Banks, William Bradford, Neil Carroll, Curtiss Cates, William Conine, Charles Curry, William Flynt, Steve Gooding, Thomas Hall, Ray Harding, Lucien “Buzz” Hope, Richard Holshauser, France Jordan, Jimmy Kiser, Bob Klugh, Ralph Long, Robert Mack, Patrick Miller, Thomas Mitler, William Morris, Thomas Murphy, Robert Presley, Theodore Reid, Charles Robinson, Alan Sparks, Brohn Ware.

PHI DELTA THETA: Doug Andrews, Jim Daughdrill, Jim Ensign, Darrell Floyd, Pat Grayson, Bob Graves, Ted Hartsock, Jim Holshouser, Bill Horne, Jason McManus, Vic Morris, Doug Oldenburg, Rob Patterson, John Reed, David Regen, John Regen, Clyde Robinson, Jim Shelton, Harley Smith, Don Stewart, Tom Tennent, Ben Webster, Bert Eyster, Paul Sanders.

For Rent

Large, airy, bright double room for rent. Quiet, suitable for study. Ten minutes walk from the campus. See or call Professor Peak. Phone 4691.

PARKING CAPACITY (Continued from Page One)

"One way," with cars entering by the west gate and leaving by the east one, which will eliminate cars meeting at the turn. Other improvements made in this pavement project were the paving of the parking area opposite the Guest House, the completion of the “Y” drive, and the asphalting of several new paths which students had used. The “D” drive was completed with paving, and due to the new church, it was necessary to straighten out this road as it reached Concord Highway. New paths made are the one from West dormitory to a conjunction on the “D,” which had been a dirt path short-cut for several years, and the one from the main gate of the stadium down between the fraternity houses at the lower end of fraternity court. The total cost of this paving plus the repaving of the walk in front of the new church was approximately $3,500 to $4,000.

THEATRE

THURS - FRI., OCT. 2-3 “Lure Of The Wilderness” JEAN PETERS JEFFREY HUNTER

SATURDAY, OCT. 4 “The Highway Man” PHILIP FRIEND WANDA HENDRIX

MON.-TUES., OCT. 6-7 “Rose Of Cimarron” JACK BUETEL MARIE POWERS BILL WILLIAMS

WEDNESDAY, OCT. 8 “Arctic Flight” WAYNE MORRIS LOLA ALBRIGHT ALLEN HALE, JR.

The Campus capers call for Coke

Everyone enjoys the break between classes. The lid’s off for a time and relaxation’s the mandate. What better fits the moment than ice-cold Coke?

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N. C. “Coke” is a registered trademark. © 1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Law School Test

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Will Be Given In 100 Centers

Princeton, N. J. — The Law School Admission Test required of applicants for admission to a number of leading American law schools, will be given at more than 100 centers throughout the United States on the mornings of November 15, 1952, February 21, April 25, and August 8, 1953. During 1951-52 over 6800 applicants took this test, and their scores were sent to over 100 law schools. A candidate must make separate application for admission to each law school of his choice and should inquire of each whether it wishes him to take the Law School Admission Test and when. Since many law schools select their freshman classes in the spring preceding their entrance, candidates for admission toNext year's classes are advised ordinarily to take either the November or the February test. The Law School Admission Test, prepared and administered by Educational Testing Service, features objective questions measuring verbal aptitudes and reasoning ability. Bulletins and applications for the test should be obtained four to six weeks in advance of the desired testing date from Law School Admission Test, Educational Testing Service, P. O. Box 592, Princeton, N. J. Completed applications must be received at least ten days before the desired testing date in order to allow ETS time to complete the necessary testing arrangements for each candidate.

CATFISH SWIMMERS...
(Continued from Page Three)
away meets with Clemson, South Carolina, The Citadel and single meets with North Carolina, North Carolina State, and Washington and Lee, plus the Southern Conference meet at Chapel Hill in late February. Definite home dates are: January 17, North Carolina; February 13, South Carolina; and February 21, The Citadel. The Catfish will travel to South Carolina on January 13.

In Scotts Bluff, his boss got him a date with “an ugly girl.” But the boss's date was “pretty and she was with me all night. She would sit close to me and I would not kick her away.” This boss wasn't mad, but he never asked Jo to go out with him again. There probably is lots more, but about then chapel was over and we had to end our talk. Just don’t be surprised if you see foreign-looking secret service men slinking around the campus about October 9th.

Many Returnees
Most of last year’s squad which had a 6-4 record, winning the last four meets, are returning for competition this year. Returning is last year’s high point man, Al Ormond, who was a standout as a freshman in the 220, 440, and 150 individual medley. Also returning are backstroke specialist Jim Bryan, captain for the coming year, Paul Cole and Sam Myrick in the distances, and Bud Montgomery, Charles Hull, John Steifel, George Crone, Jim Golding, and Ed Stuart.

CHESTERFIELD
Erwin Lodge Staff Invites Group States Student Visits
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1952

This is an Election Year...
(Continued From Page Two)
the South will lose its Senate committee chairmanships if the Republicans win, as it is his duty to remember that his idea is state’s rights. Furthermore, we must not be taken in by false implications such as those found in the word socialism. More than ever before it is our duty to urge a decision based on reason rather than on emotion. Our future may depend on it. Don’t let the statement that a certain candidate will lose because he is supported only by the rational voters ever be proved in America from this day. We are the generation that can make reason good in politics—G.A.B.

Students are invited to the homes of faculty members and staff on Sunday evenings after vespers again this year as has been the custom for decades, according to an announcement from the office of Dr. Sam Spencer, assistant to the president. The members of the faculty and staff rotate alphabetically so that each opens his house to students at least one night out of the month. Students have been urged by the administration to take advantage of this opportunity to meet their professors and to become better acquainted with them. The after-vespers schedule for the month of October and each succeeding month follows:

First—Bevan, Brown, C.K., Daggy, Davidson, Davis, Erwin, Fulcher, Goldiere, McCutchan, McGavock, Martin, D. G., Miller, Piettenpol, Schenck, Vowles.
Second—Bailey, Crawford, Johnston, McGeachy, Martin, J. E., Mebane, Moore, Morton, Plott, Purcell, Reid, Thompson, Tyson, Watts, Workman, Woods.
Third—Baumann, Blanton, Brown, E. E., Buel, Causey, Cumming, Cunningham, Griffin, Lilly, Parker, Puckett, Ratliff, Scott, Shuford, Spencer, Trakas, Whittle.
Fourth—Beaty, Corriher, Eberhardt, Gallent, Gehring, Gunn, Ives, Jones, Kimbrough, Labban, Logan, Peak, Shewmake, Terwey, Thies, Wilson.
Fifth—Nobody.

CATS GET BREATHER...
(Continued From Page Three)
pick them as even favorites for the tussle, the $75,000 that state spends on football and the fact that they too have had some bad seasons and will be rebounding after an upset still looms on the horizon as the Cats board the bus for “Wolftown.”

WILDCAT OF WEEK...
(Continued from Page Three)
fidence and respect of his men. Then the new Cat coach set about teaching his players some of the tricks which made him a won-lost record of 114-44, two state champion teams at Fayetteville High School, and pulled Eastern Carolina out of the football doldrums. He showed them the Notre Dame box, and he showed them new stuff from the T and the split-T, and he showed them some beautiful pass patterns. In short, he showed them how to win. Now Bill Dole will have to keep after his club until they learn the Dole system well enough to win with it. Whether that will happen this season or later on is one nobody could answer right now. But so far he’s done a good enough job to make the most outstanding Wildcat in the vicinity, bar none.

Ruth to Pace Attack
Coach Dole will again be depending on smooth quarterback Jack Ruth to carry the fight for the first football victory of 1952. Jack has the distinct honor of leading the list of SC passers this week with a completion record of 15 out of 30 for a 500 mark. Bobby Renn will see plenty of action and his second-place 40.1 punting average will get a good test. Also the men who looked so good in the fine fast week will be depended on heavily and will have to hold the thin line for 60 minutes. Dickie Davis, Arnold Whisnant, Neil Graham, Bobby Loy, Ben Craig, and Dick Kelley, to mention a few, will have the chore of carrying the fight to the costaless men of the 'Pack.

BASKETBALLERS...
(Continued from Page Three)
Variable Offense
Whether to use the control type or the fast-break brand of play will be determined by the opponent's personnel and defense. Coach Miller plans to employ mostly the man-to-man defensive set-up with the zone used when necessary.

DICK HARRIS...
(Continued from Page One)
good music, his keen sense of humor, his unashamed contempt for cant and insincerity, and especially his natural and unaffected manner.

When practice gets underway on November 1, Miller will stress the essentials of the game with a lot of time being spent on the basic footwork, tipping, jumping, etc. Though it’s too early to determine what men will constitute the team when it takes to the hardwood for the first encounter this December, Coach Miller has high hopes for a fine season for the ‘52-53 Cats.

DEFERMENT TESTS...
(Continued From Page One)
students achieved a score of 70 or better. In the second series 58 percent of the students made 70 or better. The tests in all three series are equivalent in difficulty.

RICHMOND, VA.
OCT. 18, 1952

TO OFFER BOTH REGULAR & KING-SIZE
BOTH regular and king-size Chesterfields are premium quality cigarettes and come in the smart white pack. BOTH contain only those proven ingredients that make Chesterfields the best possible smoke: the world’s best tobaccos, pure, more costly moistening agents (to keep them tasty and fresh), the best cigarette paper that money can buy—nothing else. BOTH are much milder with an extraordinarily good taste and, from the report of a well-known research organization—no unpleasant after-taste. BOTH are exactly the same in all respects. There is absolutely no difference except that king-size Chesterfield is larger—contains considerably more of the same tobaccos—enough more to give you a 21% longer smoke, yet costs little more.

CONTAINS TOBACCOS OF BETTER QUALITY AND HIGHER PRICE THAN ANY OTHER KING-SIZE CIGARETTE
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
