PAGE FOUR

PROFESSORS’ CORNER: Examinations Can Become A Sporting Proposition

The little man with the horn-rimmed glasses drew deeply from his pipe, then added to the already smoke-filled room. Around the room, the other four men looked silently at him, waiting patiently for his next words. From his overstuffed chair, he spoke precisely and clearly, choosing his words carefully. “Be sensible and think this matter over. We all come from different walks of life, but we have this thing in common. We each have a group of men working under us. Why should we try to get rid of these men when they are our bread and life? It would be hurting ourselves to cause their downfall.”

“Now gentlemen,” it was the one with the horn-rimmed glasses who spoke again, “surely our friend here is getting unnecessarily excited. All I'm asking is, are there any of you here sporting enough to accept my little wager? And here's what I tell you.” He went around the room speaking to each of the other three men who were casually leaning against the wall. “If you have more who yell and admit defeat, the $50 is yours.”

“I'll take it,” said the tallest of the group. “It may take me all night to think up a method for winning, but I accept your wager.” Then one by one, the other men slapped their $50 down over the original $50 of the man with the horn-rimmed glasses. The beady-eyed one was the last to accept, but finally, even he entered the game.

But just then, they were interrupted by a loud long bell. The five men filed slowly out of the smoke-filled room marked “faculty” and headed down the corridor to their classrooms. Exams had begun.

—Myers.

CABBAGE PLANTER... (Continued From Page Two)

Before Tim Holt, Gene Autrey, and Hopalong Cassidy return for their February through May engagement. More important, this is a popular faculty hangout when they're not at Hugo’s, so why not take a little extra trouble and show them how hard you're trying.

Then shall our names,
Familiar in his mouth as household words:
Harry the King, Bedford and Exeter,
Warwick and Talbot, Salisbury and Gloucester
Be in their flowing cups freshly remembered.
—W. Shakespeare.

Chesterfield SPORTS QUIZ

1. What three major league baseball stars were recently recalled into service for a minimum of 17 months, starting next spring?
2. Who is coach of the champion Los Angeles Rams?
3. What Minnesota basketball rookie has been gaining in reputation since he scored 30 points to upset Kentucky?
4. Who is the U.S.’s main hope in the pole vault for the coming Olympics?
5. What basketball star is leading the nation’s colleges in points scored per game?

SCHOLARSHIP CASH... (Continued From Page One)

Plan in order that a student and his parents might estimate, with certainty, expenses for the entire college year. The Committee has substituted for its former requirement of a “C” average for retaining a scholarship or a grant-in-aid, a plan based more directly on the principle that all students receiving aid must be making normal progress toward earning the 122 semester hours and 122 quality points required for graduation.

If the applicant is a rising sophomore, he must have earned 24 semester hours and 24 quality points by the time of entrance into the sophomore class. If the applicant is a rising junior, he must have earned 60 semester hours and 60 quality points by the time of entrance into the junior class. If the applicant is a rising senior, he must have earned 90 semester hours and 90 quality points by the time of entrance into the senior class.

Free cigarettes are still available at the Stud for a song. Lyrical answers to the above questions can be written on the back of a Chesterfield wrapper and turned in to Doug Rice at the Stud.

WRESTLERS... (Continued From Page Three)

Of the evening. Coach Parker was thoroughly pleased by the team’s performance. Coach Parker feels that there may be a bright future ahead for the '52 matmen. Those Cats may have several surprises in store for Davidsoniana this season.

FACE THE... and eight losses. The Wildcats are definite favorites over the Virginians and hope to make them their fifth victim of the current campaign. After tonight's battle, the Cats will remain idle until after exams are completed. They face the strong Furman team on February 1.

HOT “B”... (Continued From Page Three)

Other top performers on the squad are lanky Jim Faucette and Mike Hadge. Eddie Adams, a sophomore, along with freshman Scott Reams, have made good showings from their forward positions. The Jayvee games usually begin at 6:15, and the few spectators who have shown up for their games in the past will vouch for the great brand of hardwood action which these boys play.

(Continued From Page Three)

Points by the time of entrance into the junior class. If the applicant is a rising senior, he must have earned 90 semester hours and 90 quality points by the time of entrance into the senior class. Any questions about these changes should be brought to the Secretary of the Committee in Room 113, South Chambers.

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS!

FOR THE BEST IN RECORDS
DAN RAMSEY RECORD BAR
127½ W. Trade — Charlotte

SVM ORGANIZE... (Continued from Page One)

Pels. The religionist feels satisfied if every man has some sort of god. The Christian’s one concern—which he feels is God's concern too—is that men should not worship false gods but should know their real sonship in their belief and acceptance of Christ Himself—not just His teachings alone.

When you say Christianity is better, what do you mean? How do you know that your yardstick for the measurement is valid? In most instances, your choice in matters is made in the light of certain ideals or principles you have already accepted. Each time you make a choice, you only affirm once more your loyalty to these ideals. If you say you choose to believe in God because that belief is more reasonable, are you not professing a faith in your reason rather than in God?

“What right have we to preach our religion to those who have their own?” But to ask this question is actually to ask, “What right has God to love man?” or “By what right does God dare to offer us any rescue from sin?” But we are not dealing with anybody's right, but Love. No, it is not a question of “force,” or the claim of “better” for the person captured by Christ and His Love. He naturally desires to serve God and obey His commandment to preach to the whole world. The Christian realizes that the completion of the evangelistic task by those who are already members of the new humanity is a part of God’s purpose for mankind. Is any other task more challenging?and liberat-

FINE FOODS
STEAKS
CHICKEN DINNERS
FOUNTAIN SERVICE
Open Sundays
Phone 132
STONESTREET'S
Grade A Cafe
418 South Main Street
Mooresville, N. C.

—come to be digging a well just as thirst is mastering you. According to Plautus, Coca-Cola is the answer to thirst. If you’re digging a well or boning up for exams—keep fresh for the job. Have a Coke.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF CONCORD
"Coke" is a registered trademark. © 1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Grants Offered
Pre-Diplomatics Urge Candidates To Investigate Med Application

Princeton, N. J.—Candidates for admission to medical school in the fall of 1953 are advised to take the Medical College Admission Test in May, it was announced today by Educational Testing Service, which prepares and administers the test for the Association of American Medical Colleges. These tests, required of applicants by a number of leading colleges throughout the country, will be given twice during the current calendar year. Candidates taking the May test, however, will be able to furnish scores to institutions in early fall, when many medical colleges begin the selection of their next entering class.

Candidates may take the MCAT on Saturday, May 10, 1952, or on Monday, November 3, 1952, at administrations to be held at more than 300 local centers in all parts of the country. The Association of American Medical Colleges recommends that candidates for admission to classes starting in the fall of 1953 take the May test. The MCAT consists of tests of general scholastic ability, a test on understanding of modern society, and an achievement test in science. According to ETS, no special preparation other than a review of science subjects is necessary. All questions are of the objective type.

Application forms and a Bulletin of Information, which gives details of registration and admission, as well as sample questions, are available from pre-medical advisers or directly from Educational Testing Service, Box 592, Princeton, N.J. Completed applications must reach the ETS office by April 26 and October 20, respectively, for the May 10 and November 3 administrations.

Can the Christian see vocation with higher meaning than as life and work in the light of God?

SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN TO THE HOME FOLKS!

Washington, Jan. 17—Graduate fellowships totaling $27,000 will be awarded by the School of Advanced International Studies of Johns Hopkins University for the academic year 1952-53. Dean Philip W. Thayer of the school indicated today that the expanded fellowship program expressed the School's desire “to assist promising students in meeting the heavy expense burden of graduate work.” He announced that the deadline for filing applications for fellowships has been extended to February 20, 1952.

The new fellowship program will provide for three awards of $2,000 each, five of $1,500 each, $11,500 in smaller grants, and an additional $2,000 fellowship for Middle East studies at the school, offered by the Middle East Institute with which the school is affiliated. The larger fellowships will be awarded on a competitive basis. The smaller awards will be on the basis of merit plus need. The school, which is located in Washington, is a graduate unit of Johns Hopkins. It has previously granted fellowships amounting to $10,000 annually.

Boys Of Norway Sing February 1

The Singing Boys of Norway, a group of sixty-two boys and young men, will be presented in Chambers Auditorium on the evening of Friday, February 1, at 8:15. Thirteen-year-old Pelle, billed as a “phenomenal” coloratura, is the featured singer. The program will contain selections from Mozart, Palestrina, Grieg, and Mendelssohn, as well as Norwegian folk songs and dances. This choir, now on its first American tour, has forty-six boy singers—sopranos and altos—and sixteen tenors and basses, young men between the ages of nineteen and twenty-five, who were formerly part of the soprano and alto groups. They are accompanied by Elsa Lindemann, harpist.

CANTERBURY CLUB...
(Continued From Page One)

Church, and to develop a loyalty to its corporate life.” The Davidson chapter of the Canterbury Club was organized shortly before Christmas, and has held three meetings since then. Membership is open to all Davidson students.

European Travel Offered In Autos At Student Rate

Students interested in touring Europe at a low-cost student rate in Ford automobiles should contact John Lindmarker who is student agent for the Scandinavian Student Travel Service. The tour has a new angle in that the tourist can specify what type of activity in Europe he would like to observe and the auto in which he travels can be routed that way. All drivers are picked by the travel service and are trained in handling the varying languages and currencies. The plan was devised to open travel opportunities to students and young teachers whose resources were limited both as to time and finances.

HAVE YOU CONTRIBUTED TO THE MARCH OF DIMES CAMPAIGN?

THACKER’S INC.
PRIVATE DINING ROOMS for PARTIES AND BANQUETS
“A Good Place to Eat”
Phone 25-4900
Charlotte
221 South Tryon Street

Campus Food Market

Shows Start at 3 p.m.
MON.-TUE., JAN. 21-22

HOWARD HUGHES
TWO TICKETS TO BROADWAY
TECHNICOLOR

FRIDAY, JAN. 25

For Mid-Winters
February 15, 16, 1952

CHESTERFIELD
AND ONLY CHESTERFIELD

FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 1952

CATALOGUE FACE...
(Continued From Page One)

To take over the job of assistant to the president, he was given the job of getting a new catalogue out. Another matter under consideration is the listing of the professors. In the current issue they are listed in descending rank. Some thought has been given to listing them in alphabetical order and possibly shifting the place of the list to a different location in the catalogue. Brown revealed that material for the new book was due to be in the printers’ hands now, but that production is “a little behind schedule.”

Extensive Research

In preparation for the revising, Dr. Spencer has done extensive research and comparison of other college catalogues. It was found that Davidson’s was somewhat smaller than those published by most other institutions. Dean Brown pointed out that a catalogue has three principal functions. They are to advertise the college to prospective students, to provide a handbook to those connected with Davidson and to serve as a permanent record of the information contained in its pages.

Members of the committee for revision are Dean Brown, chairman, Dr. S. R. Spencer, secretary, J. R. Payne, Dr. E. E. Brown, Professor Workman, W. P. Cumming.

Davidson College Interfraternity Council Presents

NEW CARS
DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF
Dial 3-4513
212 W. Fourth
Charlotte

Patronize Our Advertisers—

DAVIDSON THEATRE

HOWARD HUGHES
TWO TICKETS TO BROADWAY
TECHNICOLOR

PLUS THE SUSPENSE THRILLER
“THE THING FROM ANOTHER WORLD”

FRIDAY, JAN. 25