FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1952 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Vail, Craven Carry Cat Victory Hopes
By HUNTER STRADER

Coach Charlie Parker’s Wildcat wrestlers open their season here tonight in a four-way round-robin match against VMI, Auburn, and Emory.
The action begins in Johnston gym at 8:00 and will continue tomorrow with sessions at two and eight.

Phi Gams Cop Interfraternity Wrestling Crown
By JIM MURR

A strong Phi Gam wrestling squad won last week's interfraternity tournament, racking up 38 points in the two-night event. The
SPEs took second place with 31 points. This year’s meet was a huge success, with a good turnout on both
Monday and Tuesday nights.

In the 123 lb. class, Jones (KA) won from Craig (SPE) by a fall for the championship of this division.
Strand (Phi Delt) decisioned Adams in the consolation match. In the 130 lb. class, Murray (Pi Kapp) pinned Jordan (Indep.),
with Knox (ATO) winning from Miree (Phi Gam) in the consolation match. Dobbins (Phi Gam) decisioned Smith (Kappa Sigma) for
the championship of the 147 lb. class. Topple (Phi Delt) pinned Berry (Sigma Chi) in the consolation. In the 157
lb. class, Coe (SAE) won by decision from Flintom (Phi Gam). Stogner (Kappa Sigma) defeated Swicord (KA) in the consolation.
McElveen (Beta) decisioned Faison (SAE) for the championship in the 167 lb. class. In the consolation, Armfield (Kappa Sigma) won
by decision from Bryson (Phi Gam). In the 177 lb. class, Eastman (Sigma Chi) pinned Patterson (SPE); and Littlejohn (Phi
Gam) pinned Ashby (Kappa Sigma) in the consolation. Burns (SAE) pinned Nelson (Phi Delt) for the championship in the 191
lb. class, with Broughton (SPE) pinning McInnis (KA) in the consolation. In the heavyweight division, Wright (SPE) decisioned Pierce (Phi
Gam) for the championship.

(Continued on Page Four)

All three of the Cats’ opponents offer an impressive lineup of matmen. Auburn’s perennial Southeastern Conference champions are once again
tabbed as the team to beat in the SEC, while Emory University has always come up with a power-packed squad.
VMI made a strong showing in the Southern Conference last year. The Davidson team, captained this season by Morley Vail,
will have their hopes riding on the men in the first five weights, with Gene Craven expected to set the
pace. The probable starters for the Wildcats are Bobby Joe Key, 123 lbs.; Charlie Murray, 130; Morley Vail or Don
Reid, 137; Gene Craven, 147; John Buxton, 157; Bill McElveen or Bill Coe, 167; Bill Bryson, Coe, or Bud Duncan,
177; and Monty Littlejohn, heavyweight. Some of the more promising freshmen have been Craig and Webb at 133 pounds, and
Henry Faison at 157 pounds. Auburn’s ace, Jim McNair wrestling in the heavyweight division, was an outstanding performer in last
year’s Olympic

(Continued On Page Four)

MORLEY VAIL

Time will Tell

All-Interfraternity Grid Team Paced By SPs, Phi Delts

In a poll run among the first-string players of all the fraternities and the Campus Club taken during the past
week, the Sig Eps and the Phi Delts gained dominance of the All-Fraternity Team for the 1952 tag football season.
Horace Ball of the third-place Sig Eps was voted by a large margin to be the outstanding player in the
league this year. Thus, Horace is the captain of the mythical “big seven” of the frat league. Listed below are
the top players of the interfraternity tag football league in order of the number of votes they received:

First Team
Horace Ball, Sr., Sig Ep.
Moffatt Ware, Fr., Sig Ep.
Tyler Berry, Sr., Sigma Chi.
Jim Smith, Sr., Pika.
Max DeVane, Jr., Phi Delt.
T. W. Aldred, Sr., KA.
Don Lazenby, Sr., Phi Delt.

Second Team
George King, Sr., KA.
Tom Lambe, So., Beta.
George Thomas, Sr., Beta.
Tom Hancock, So., Pi Kapp.
Bob Mitchell, Jr., Sigma Chi.
Corky Clark, So., Kappa Sig.

Tie for Seventh Place Between:
Bill Hanna, So., Pika.
Bill Marable, Sr., Sig Ep.
Joe Dugley, Sr., Kappa Sig.
George Lippard, Sr., Kappa Sig.

Horace Ball, Sig Ep (Captain)

Horace Ball was one of the main reasons that the Sig Eps finished another fine season this year. Horace's cool
operations from the tailback slot was the big difference. “H” is a fine passer and a good deceptive runner. This
is the second straight year that Horace has received the honor of being named to the top seven in the
league.

Moffatt Ware, Sig Ep

The only freshman elected to either of the top two teams this year was the Sig Eps’ Moffatt Ware. Moffatt
has been lauded as the best end in the league and he certainly earned that rating. He was probably the
leading scorer in the loop as he scored at least once in almost every game. Next year's Sig Ep squad
will depend heavily on the services of this speedy freshman.

Tyler Berry, Sigma Chi

Tyler led his Sigma Chi aggre-

(Continued On Page Four)

Pack Favored In Conference Tilt
By JOHN HANDLEY

Davidson’s Wildcat basketballers open their 1952-53 Southern Conference schedule tomorrow night in Reynolds Coliseum in Raleigh to tangle with the
powerful N. C. State Wolfpack. State’s defending conference champs are decided favorites in the encounter. Look Magazine's cake predictions for
the nation this season rank State as second only to Illinois. Both teams opened their seasons earlier this week on
a winning note as Davidson took Erskine and State downed Furman. According to Coach Danny Miller who watched the State-Furman
tussle, the “Pack” will be as tough as ever and even taller than last year. Dave Gotkin, a newcomer to
the State ranks, ran away with top scoring honors for State in turning in a fine floor game.against Furman. Gotkin
and Bill Kukoy are the main problems for the Cats. Next Tuesday here in Johnston Gym the Wildcats will take
on one of the finest cage outfits that Furman has produced recently. Led by their big guns Frank Selvy and
Neil Gordon who racked 36 points between them against State, the Purple Hurricane is considered one of the chief contenders
with State for the Conference crown. As the Cats made their debut last Monday night against the Flying Fleet of
Erskine, they showed a fine offensive punch and plenty of hustle in the 89-76 win. Coach Miller used 11 men
with the scoring well distributed among six players. Miller intends to continue using a large number of men at least
until a fine working combination is discovered. The Davidson coach seemed pleased with the showing of his Cats and was
quick to point out that it was definitely a team victory.

King, Dudley Praised

Miller offered special praise for Jerry King who connected for 20 points and for Joe Dudley with 16. However, the
new Wildcat mentor was especially pleased with the fine showing of 6'7" George Melton who came through nicely with 14
markers. These three are pretty sure starters against State tomorrow night. Other members of the squad to see action in
Monday’s tussle were J. V. Howell, Buddy Brown, “Pappy” Fowle, Ed Weeks, Corky Burdette, “Ish” Rennett, Hobby Cobb, and Scott
Reams. Five of these men had never seen varsity action before, but all broke into the scoring column except Cobb.
Coach Miller plans to use this group a lot in future games with many substitutions. The six cagers who carried
most of the scoring punch for the Cats against Erskine have an average height of 6'2" which, though rather short
considering the modern basketball giants, is taller than most of the recent Wildcat clubs.

Cagers In Raleigh For N. C. State Fracas Tomorrow Night; Parker’s Matmen Hosts In 4-Way Wrestling Tourney Here

Swim Meet, Basketball Next On Interfraternity Docket

The wide-open interfraternity sports race will be resumed Monday after a two-week break with the annual swimming meet, which will
be followed on Thursday with the beginning of the basketball tournament. Following last week's hard-fought wrestling tourney, the swimming meet
promises to be another closely-decided event, with last year’s champion Sigma Chis and the runners-up Kappa Sigs and SAEs making
a strong bid for the top spot again. Trials are set for Monday night, and the meet itself will start
on Tuesday, with the finals being held Wednesday night.

Individual and Relay Events

The individual events to be held are: 25-yard freestyle, 50-yard freestyle, 75-yard freestyle, 50-yard backstroke, and the 50-yard breaststroke. Relays
will include a 75-yard medley, a 200-yard relay, and a 150-yard medley. The long basketball tourney beginning Thursday also promises
some fast competition. Last year the Kappa Sigs won the tourney with the Sigma Chis and the KAs coming in
close behind.

Sigma Phi Epsilon leads the way in interfraternity sports competition so far this year with two events completed. The Sigma
Chis are hot on the SPEs' trail, with the Kappa Sigs following closely behind.

Two Seconds For SPEs

The SPEs owe their present ascendency to second places in both football and wrestling, having amassed a total of 245
1-3 points in those two sports. The football championship and the 160 points that go with it are the main
reasons for the Sigs runner-up position. Last year’s interfraternity champions, the Kappa Sigs, now have a total of 228 2-5
points, and still appear strong contenders for the crown this year. The Phi Gams, last year’s runners-up, are now in
fifth place. The present standings, correct through both football and wrestling, are as follows (fractions omitted):

SPEs .......... 245
Sigma Chis .... 233
Kappa Sigs .... 228
Phi Delts ...... 223
Phi Gams ...... 220
KAs ........... 181
Pikas .......... 155
SAEs .......... 151
Betas .......... 149
Pi Kapps ...... 123
ATOs .......... 93
Campus Club ... 70

APPROPRIATE AND PRACTICAL JET CHARCOAL SUIT BY VARSITY TOWN

Nothing could be more appropriate and practical for you this Christmas than the season’s most wanted suit by VARSITY-TOWN. Styled
in Jet-Charcoal flannel or worsted with 2-button coat, flap pockets, semi-natural shoulders and narrow lapels. Sizes 34 to 42. Regulars
& Longs.

FLANNEL SUIT $50
WORSTED SUIT $65

The Label Of Distinction

Thacker Lauded By Press, Writers

By DICK LILES

This is the story of an athlete who really whipped the so-called ‘sophomore jinx’ and went on to set new
records and win more honors than any soph since Charlie Justice. Last week the Charlotte papers announced the AP All-State
selections and Davidson's Jim Thacker was in the first team backfield. The Associated Press's selections are conceded to be the
“big” ones, but to clinch the matter, Jimmie made the Fan's All-State team in The Charlotte Observer. Not only Charlotte
but also Greensboro shouted Thacker’s praises in the Daily News sports pages. Jim, not about to let Larry Parker, John
Mamajek, Larry Spencer, and the like outdo him made honorable mention on the AP All-Southern team which included names like
Scarbath, Lutz, and Smith. And that’s not all. When the votes were counted for the best (Continued On Page Four)

JIM THACKER

And two more years to go.
