This is an "orchids in the way of an oversight" by the editor and the reporter of the final wrestling match of the season for Charlie Parker's Grunt and Groaners. It was not exactly an oversight either, because this page is aimed at the sports picture that "is to be" and not "what has been." In writing up the AAU Tournament, which was a week later and thus the big thing coming up, the reporter failed to mention the most important thing that has happened to Davidson wrestling in the past decade.

W&L DREADNAUGHT VANQUISHED

It was a gloomy day that faced the Cat grapplers on their trip north to face the always-tough Generals of Washington and Lee on the mats. However, the injury-ridden locals decided that they were better than their record showed and got set to prove it. And this they did in determined fashion. And it was Gene Craven, the plucky Captain and undefeated master of the 136 class in the conference, and John Buxton who along with the default in the heavyweight class put the match on ice. (McNeely said it was really no match.) The loss was the Generals’ third in 47 matches and the first time that the Davidsonians have pulled the trick during that time. It also proves that the perennial champs of the SC can be pushed out of their coveted spot and that they will have a tough time taking the tournament this weekend.

SWIMMERS FINISH STRONG

The first winning team since the tennis season of last year to grace the campus has been the Catfish of Coach Dick Redding. The swimmers finished with a 6-4 record and had to really pour on the steam to cop the last five matches after opening with a win over South Carolina. Coach Redding says that the individual stars were few and that the good season is attributable strictly in a team sense. It was the last appearance for sprinters Aubrey Miree and Captain Ken Taylor, who have bolstered the team since swimming came to Davidson three years ago. Orchids to the swimming team and their coach.

SENIOR CAGERS CLOSE BRILLIANTLY

On the trip north to Baltimore this past weekend, four boys ended their basketball careers in the style which has marked their play all through the four campaigns. The "Flying Four" have meant much to basketball here at Davidson since first putting foot here. Captain Bill Brooks perhaps stands out as the leader of the pack, having led scoring for three years and being named to the "Observer" second-team All Southern. Besides this can be added his brilliant play as a Freshman. Mac McLean also dribbled his last and collected enough assists to put him in permanent possession of third place in that department in the nation. Mac has been the floor player with the "cooling down" effect on his teammates. He is honorable mention All-Southern. Al Fitzgerald and Bobby Turk also closed out and these two represent "Improvement Plus" and "Old Reliable." The other senior who is far from being forgotten could not close out on the basketball court, but nevertheless, while he was on the court, made himself known with his driving power and rebound prowess. "Moose" Lazenby is still fighting that sickness off.

DRIZZLER ACTION JACKET

America's most popular action jacket. It's durable, won't snag or rip, water repellent, wind resistant with a hidden elastic waist hugger that stays put. Your answer to your all-climate collection needs. $10.95

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcat Sports

FRIDAY, MARCH 7, 1952

ALL INTER-FRAT TEAM NEXT WEEK

PAGE THREE

WILDCAT OF THE WEEK

There is little that the students don’t already know about the Wildcat of the Week. Bill McNeely or "Big Blue," as he is known on the football field, has become quite a figure on our campus during his four years here. He has contributed much to the athletic program, but this week our attention is drawn particularly to his wrestling. Weighing in at 240, he is always a threat in the heavyweight division. His record in the conference meets points to this quite readily. To date he has lost only one match in dual competition, winning four others and tying twice. In the recent AAU meet he was seeded second behind the popular Bill Norris from Lejeune, but things did not quite turn out as anticipated and Mac took a spill, but came up second. There still remains the annual Southern Conference Tournament to be held in Lexington this weekend and the Southeastern Olympic tryouts the following week in which he will be a strong contender for heavyweight honors.

No One Sport Man

No article on McNeely would be complete without mentioning his performance in other sports. He is a three-letter man, in addition to wrestling, he has lettered in track and football. He has played four years of football for the Wildcats but was somewhat hampered this year by a bad knee. In track last year, he was the team’s high scorer with a total of 55 points and won the trophy annually presented for this accomplishment. His specialties are the shot and discus and as (Continued On Page Four)

Linksters Get Early Start For Florida Holiday Jaunt

By BOB OWENS

Beginning March 28 the Davidson Wildcats break into a nine-match golf schedule, featuring some of the strongest teams in college golf. The Cats battle UNC at Chapel Hill in their opening match among conference foes, and close on May 6 at Charlotte with the University of South Carolina. A tour over some of Florida's toughest courses against such opponents as Rollins, Miami U., and the University of Florida March 21-27 highlights the season’s activities. The Cats will also be on hand for the annual Southern Conference tournament to be held at Winston-Salem on May 16-17.

Bright Outlook

Coach Elgin White has high expectations for his '52 link outfit and hopes to better the 8-6 record of last year’s squad. The Cats are led by Captain Mac McLean and Lettermen Jim Sloan, Al Gaither, Lew Al Fitzgerald, and Bob Brannan. Graham Keith, who is up from the frosh ranks of last year, is a strong contender to fill the shoes of Monty Hill and Cecil Brandon, the only golfers not returning from last year’s squad. Home matches will most likely be played at Charlotte’s Myers Park Country Club, which will particularly appeal to a trio of Charlotte swingers, including Mac McLean, Al Fitzgerald, and Bob Brannan.

The complete schedule is as follows:

March 24—Miami, at Miami.
March 25—Rollins at Winter Park.
March 26—Florida at Gainesville.
March 28—Univ. of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
April 2—Clemson at Charlotte.
April 4—Wake Forest at Raleigh.
April 5—N. C. State at Raleigh.
April 12—Rollins at Charlotte.
April 19—Univ. of North Carolina at Charlotte.
April 23—Clemson at Clemson.
April 25—N. C. State at Charlotte.
May 6—Univ. of South Carolina at Charlotte.
May 16-17—Southern Conference Tournament.Winston-Salem. Scott Asks Support For Coming Olympics

Entries have been received for the Southeastern United States Olympic Wrestling Tryouts to be held here next weekend from the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Auburn, Appalachian State Teachers College, Emory University, Maryville State Teachers College, University of Chattanooga, Ohio State University, Quantico Marines, Camp Lejeune, Washington, D.C., Naval Station, Knoxville YMCA, Memphis Naval Air Station, and Granby High School in Norfolk, Va. A probable total of from eighty to one hundred entrants will take part in the two-day event. It is expected that the Annapolis entries will include John Fletcher, member of the 1948 United States Olympic team. From eight to twelve Davidson men are planning to take part. Athletic Director Scott stated that a charge of $1.00 will be made for all Davidson personnel who wish to see the tournament. The $1.00 tournament ticket will entitle the holder to see all four sessions of the event. The purpose of this charge is to raise money for the expenses of the U.S. Olympic Wrestling Team on their trip to Helsinki this year.

V. Ball, Track Slated Next For Frat Men

By WALLACE ABBOTT

Two more sports will soon be ushered in on this year’s interfraternity sports calendar. The latest schedules to be released show that volleyball will begin next Monday afternoon on both the courts inside the gym and those behind the stadium. Also, next Wednesday and Thursday the all-fraternity track meet will be held at Richardson Field. Both of these sports have been the cause of a lot of rivalry and competition between fraternities in years past. In fact, the high tension of last year’s volleyball season was the one big item that caused the fraternity sports managers to elevate it to a major sport for this year. As far as the track meet goes, well you can't have any more competitive spirit shown than what is seen when all of the groups get together for the big afternoon's competition. Included in the events which are scheduled for the meet are the 100, 220, and 440-yard dashes; the 660 and 3-4 mile run; the discus and shot events; the high jump, broad jump, 120 low hurdles, and the one-half mile relay. Each of these events adds up to one big afternoon next Thursday.

Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville Ice Cream Company
Mooresville, N.C.

From Sigma Chis Sports Mirror

3 Years ago this week—March 11, 1949—SAE's capture cage crown by beating Kappa Sigs, 38-34.
5 Years ago this week—March 14, 1947—KA's hold lead in interfraternity race with SAE’s only one-half point behind.
15 Years ago this week—March 10, 1937—Appalachian wins AAU mat tourney. (History repeats itself.)
20 Years ago this week—March 9, 1932—Black beats Red in spring grid session, 7-0.
25 Years ago this week—March 10, 1927—Davidson wrestlers end season by losing match to Tar Heel grapplers.

NEW CARS
DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF
Dial 3-4513
212 W. Fourth
Charlotte

By WALLACE ABBOTT

The Kappa Sigs came through with a victory over the Pikas this past week and it enabled them to dethrone the Sigma Chis for the intramural basketball championship. Having led in every week since the season started makes the Kappa Sigs’ championship doubly impressive. Out of the entire eleven-game session, only one defeat, at the hands of the KA’s, mars their perfect record. The winners this year can’t boast any individual stars, except possibly Corky Clark, but they can be proud of a team that hustled during every minute of every game. It was this “fast break” and team play that helped the Kappa Sigs come out in front this year.

In firm hold of second place are the Sigma Chis, who were last year’s undefeated winners. Although they did not walk off with the championship, as they did last year, they did show a fine ball club throughout the season and were deservedly near the top.

KA's Boast Stars

The third-place team this year, the KA's, boasts two of the finest individual players seen in many a year. They are Lefty Vance and George King. It was their sterling performances which helped their team wind up in third place. Rounding out the top five are the Phi Gams and Pikas. Both of these teams boast many outstanding players, with Larry Champion and Al Gaither being only two of them. These teams tied for fourth place.

Final Standings
W L
Kappa Sigs .......... 10 1
Sigma Chis .......... 9 2
KA's .................. 8 3
Phi Gams ............ 7 4
Pikas .................. 7 4
Phi Delts ............. 6 5
Betas ................. 5 6
C.C. ................... 5 6
Pi Kapps ............. 4 7
SPE ................... 3 8
ATO ................... 2 9
SAE ................... 2 9

FOR THE BEST IN RECORDS
DAN RAMSEY RECORD BAR
127½ W. Trade — Charlotte

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests
No. 36...THE OTTER

A usually mild-mannered and easy-going lad, he really made the fur fly when he realized the trickiness of most of the so-called cigarette mildness tests! He knew there was one honest test of cigarette mildness. Millions of smokers everywhere know, too — there’s one true test! It’s the sensible test... the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test, which simply asks you to try Camels as your steady smoke — on a pack-after-pack, day-after-day basis. No snap judgments! Once you've tried Camels in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste), you'll see why...

After all the Mildness Tests...
Camel leads all other brands by millions