PAGE FOUR

Give Drill Medals

As part of the regular drill exercises on Tuesday afternoon, May 13, the ROTC Department announces there will be a
parade for the presentation of awards and acts of recognition for outstanding achievement during the past school year. The parade
will start at 2:50 p.m., and the student body, faculty, and other interested persons are invited.

Summer Camp

The summer camp for advanced ROTC students, which is held at Fort Benning each year, promises to be one of
the largest ever this year. The infantry is sending one-third of its advanced ROTC students to Fort Benning this year.
This is a new plan by the army. An expected 5,000 men are due to participate in the exercises held
this year. The program in Georgia will begin June 20 and last until August 1. Forty-seven Davidson men are planning
to take the trip. Along with the diplomas which they will receive at graduation, those seniors in the advanced course
of ROTC will receive their commissions in the Army. Forty-six seniors are expected to receive their commissions.

Oratorio Singers Plan Summer Trip

The Oratorio Singers of Charlotte, under the direction of Earl F. Berg, will perform Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's “Requiem” at the
Myers Park Methodist Church in Charlotte on Sunday afternoon, May 11, at 3:00 p.m. In addition to the oratorio, the
group will also sing two shorter contemporary works by Gustav Holst—the short festival, “Te Deum,” for chorus and orchestra, and
“Psalm 148” for chorus, string orchestra, and organ. The public is invited to attend; there is no admission charge, but
a free will offering will be taken to help with expenses. Mr. Berg, who is the permanent director for the
Oratorio Singers, is also the director of music at the First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte and assistant professor of music
at Queens College in Charlotte. The Oratorio Singers of Charlotte comprise approximately sixty-five members who represent more than twenty churches
and ten different denominations.

CAT TAILS... (Continued From Page Three)

Freshmen. Dole has been looking around the Carolinas and vicinity for new talent ever since he signed a Davidson contract
and thinks he has eight or ten really good ballplayers lined up. Quality rather than numbers is what Dole is
looking for, and it is a pretty sure bet that his frosh recruits will be capable of helping the Red
and Black win ball games. It merely remains now to see what the new Wildcat coach can come up with
in the way of a team. If the next couple of seasons see his team steamrollered over in the manner
of previous years, he may eventually go the way of previous Cat coaches. He won't make any predictions as to
his team’s chances next fall, but as far as we know he hasn't signed up for any business classes yet.
All we can do now is to give him our support, cross our fingers, and hope that he turns out
to be the medicine man that Davidson has long needed.

TUITION... (Continued From Page One)

The decision to raise the tuition charge does not indicate a lack of awareness that many parents are having a
difficult time financing the education of their sons, it was explained by the college. Even with the increase, the Davidson
fee will be on a level with that of comparable institutions in this area, and well below the $600 and
more charged by many colleges in other parts of the country.

FINE FOODS STEAKS CHICKEN DINNERS FOUNTAIN SERVICE Open Sundays

Phone 132 STONESTREET’S Grade A Cafe 418 South Main Street Mooresville, N. C.

THINKING OF TRAVELING? Think of GREYHOUND ... it’s A Happy Thought For Your Trip Home! Asheville ....... $3.45 Augusta ........
$4.20 Greensboro ...... $2.20 Atlanta ........ $6.00 Winston-Salem ... $1.60 Birmingham ...... $8.50 Richmond ....... $6.35 New Orleans .... $14.30
Washington ...... $8.20 Jacksonville ..... $8.85 New York ....... $12.70 Miami .......... $14.95 Bluefield ........ $4.70 Columbia ........ $2.85

WHITE DRUG CO. C. S. Goodrum, Agent Davidson, N. C.

The forum on Courtship and Marriage, conducted by Mrs. Ethel Miller Nash, has been one of the most successful of
the Y forums this year. Many students, after hearing Mrs. Nash in chapel this morning and in the discussion in
the YMCA lounge, remarked that they were greatly aided by her frank and understanding discussion of courtship and marriage problems.
Mrs. Nash, wife of a University of North Carolina Bible professor, Arnold Nash, is chairman of The Parenthood Division and
Family Council, Incorporated, of Chapel Hill. She is the author of several pamphlets on marriage problems. Being very popular with
the students at the University, Mrs. Nash came to Davidson as an experienced lecturer and counselor on the problems of
college students.

STUDENTS PICK... (Continued From Page One)

Opinion centered more around Dr. Vincent Peale, Dr. Franz J. Polgar, and “Red” Barber. Dr. Spencer said that three factors
governed the obtaining of these men for the series. The first is their price. Mr. Murrow is definitely out because
his charge would dent the lecture budget considerably. The second point is availability. Mr. Laughton, a musician, is probably unavailable
due to his playing in a regular concert in New York. The third and final point is the lecture committee
would follow the choice list as much as possible, but that the three governing factors might prevent their getting some
of those suggested.

KA's, ROPER... (Continued From Page One)

Chalmers Davidson, in his usual form, lacking only in that he told no jokes, was the master of ceremonies. The
KA’s took first place with “In 1865,” “Summertime Medley,” “Take Me Out to the Ball Game,” “Dixie” and “All Hail.”
The second place Sigma Chis sang “All Hail,” “Now Let Every Tongue Adore Thee,” and “You'll Never Walk Alone.” The
Pi Kappa Phi, led by Jesse Fisher, took third place in the event. They sang “All Hail,” “Swing Low, Sweet
Chariot,” “Pi Kappa Phi Red Rose,” and “The Whiffenpoof Song.” Tied for fourth place were the Phi Gams and the
Betas. The judges considered the event a successful one.

SENIOR-FACULTY... (Continued From Page Three)

The number of participants is unlimited. Coach Whittle has asserted that no matter how many men the seniors offer, the
faculty will have someone a little better. Alan Groseclose is in charge of picking the senior golf aggregation which will
face the talented faculty group of Elgin White, Major Jones, and several others. The golf competition will be followed by
tennis. The racqueteers will have a chance to display their talents in action which is slated to get underway at
two o'clock. Carol Camp has the herculean task of putting together a tennis team strong enough to defeat Sir Derrick
and his cohorts. The softball contest will start at three o'clock. Both clubs have several heavy hitters. Horace Ball will
serve as manager for the senior team which opposes the all-star faculty club. The final event will be volleyball. This
should prove to be one of the day’s more interesting events. There is a sparkling array of competitors on both
sides. Wallace Abbott and Coach Whittle will serve as opposing captains in this contest. After the athletic events are over,
both sides will retire to Erwin Lodge for food and entertainment. The only thing that Pete Whittle had to say
in regard to it was that he hoped the seniors would make it more interesting than they did last year.
The faculty downed the seniors in all events last year. Whittle said any rebuttal which the faculty had to make
to the challenge would be given at a later date by Dr. Chalmers Davidson.

THE DAVIDSONIAN REVISED... early part of next week.

COL. DAVIS... combat psychology and the rotation plan. Scabbard and Blade outlined its program for the coming year, including its
projects and tentative speakers for the meetings.

CONFERENCE... (Continued From Page Three) (Continued From Page One)Ranged. Since only a part of the shipment arrived yesterday, it will
be impossible for some students to receive their catalogues before the (Continued From Page One) problems of platoon leaders and
replacement officers. He gave a vivid description of the type of enemy we are facing in Korea, including its training.
He concluded by presenting a picture of the morale of the American soldier, emphasizing that it was particularly good despite
the static situation on the front. It was his observation that this was due to the rest and rehabilitation program.

Prime favorite to take home the winner's trophy. UNC and Duke appear to have the strongest team entries, though the
conference championship is decided on the singles and doubles winner. Ronnie Barnes will in all probability team with Tommy Boys
to give W&M a sparkling doubles combination, and thus providing the strong chance of taking both singles and doubles trophies.

RACE FOR CUP... (Continued From Page Three)
Pikas .......... 3
SAE ........... 8
ATO ........... 1
CC ............ 0

TENNIS
Phi Gams ...... 10
Betas .......... 6
KS ............ 9
Phi Delts ...... 7
Pikas .......... 4
SAE ........... 4
SPE ........... 5
KA ............ 2
ATO’s ......... 2
Pi Kaps ....... 2

CINDERMEN ... (Continued From Page Three)
In the Wofford meet by the team composed of Blake Bradley ‘51, Dick Stockton, Bob Henry, and J. V. Howell.
The relay event was about the hardest fought event of the afternoon with no more than two or three yards
separating the two teams during the entire race. Anchor man Bill Shipley finally took the lead “for keeps” at the
final 440 man by about two yards. Coach Whittle is very pleased with the ability and enthusiasm shown by the
thinclads this season and he feels that they have given their best in making this one of the finest seasons
in recent years. The Cats will be gunning for their fifth win of the season in aspiring to finish this
year with a 5 won, 2 lost overall record.

FREE LANCE... (Continued From Page Two)
Arteries, they should have the integrity to say so rather than slobbering over a hazy ideal which they term the
“good name of the college.” But such an admission is only half of the confused ethics at stake in this
problem of censorship. Davidson's attitude toward censorship reflects fairly accurately what is a major flaw in the American conception of
morality in art and in life. Somehow our people seem to have separated sex, for instance, from all other aspects
of their lives. It is discussed much more frankly and frequently than 50 years ago, but is accompanied by a
slight flush of the cheek and a bit of throatiness. Americans just can't seem to get used to the idea
of treating sex as any other phase of life. This is not to say it should lose any of its
enjoyable characteristics, but that it should be no more hush-hush than any of the other pleasures of life. Men should
be able to laugh at it and its failings. They should be able to talk of it as they talk
of a gall bladder or a new auto. Is there, then, a case for censorship at all at Davidson? Quite
definitely there is. Untalented writing and dull humor should be censored. It should be remembered that the appreciation of these
may change with age, but there is no need to tolerate a thing just because it is sexy. More importantly,
there is no need to clasp the professorial breast, murmur a lisping gasp, and condemn it on the spot.

WADE TO SPEAK... (Continued From Page Three)
Athletics this past year have been invited as well as various guests, including several regional newsmen and radiomen. While the
main event will be the talk by Mr. Wade, the greatest interest should center around the awards to be made,
of which the Armfield Blocking Trophy is the most highly coveted. Won two years ago by Johnny Richards and last
year by Jim Fasul, this year’s winner will not be named until the dinner and the presentation of the award.
Letters and certificates will also be awarded to the various varsity players. The awards will be presented by the coaches
of the various teams.

COVER INFLUENCE ... (Continued From Page Two)
That cover affected chapel conduct? It’s beyond the stretch of my imagination! I have talked with a dozen (easily) or
more boys about the matter. Half of them couldn't tell me what was on the cover, the other half didn’t
even realize the boys were supposed to have been on a chapel row. As one of the men who would
have been influenced, I can personally say the drawing failed to develop within me a strong urge to throw paper
airplanes or grow hostile toward visiting speakers. I admit that chapel “conduct” hasn’t been on its best behavior lately, but
then the warm, lazy pre-summer days of May haven't been any high watermarks in chapel conduct or even attendance in
my four years here. No, I hardly think the magazine is any scapegoat for a virtually irrepressible spring reaction. And
if it were, by some twisting of the imagination, could the gentleman of the faculty really have conceived Fick sitting
up in his room, curled around his drawing board (with desk lamp the sole light of the darkened room), fiendishly
plotting the destruction of all we have worked toward in chapel improvement? I think not. He could have done the
job better with a firecracker in the midst of a hymn. The very fact that Jim drew the cover to
me precludes any belief that he would think it injurious to chapel conduct. What worries me is how we sometimes
strain and distort an object of pure fun or humor to see an ulterior monster dangerous in its destructiveness. I
have written this letter to you but with the hope that the members of the administration who have given ear
to any such suggested thought will see how preposterous it is. And also I have written in defense of a
guy who has done almost a one-man job of putting out a top-flight magazine. I hope my emotions didn’t get
too mixed up in this thing. But when a student’s good efforts are being cast in the wrong light, I
feel justified in bringing it into the open, where the light can hit it from all sides and the viewer
draw his own conclusion.

Sincerely,
BILL WHITE.

IDLE MOMENTS... (Continued From Page Two)
Seem appallingly indifferent to the whole thing, considering the fact that the scandal uncovered a situation which should be remedied
immediately. In the Spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns to—to put it more crudely than Tennyson—to sex. Weekend treks
increase both in the number of students participating and in length of time spent. The swish of an adolescent or
secretarial cotton print across the campus sends dozens of eyes and minds in the same improper direction. As the idea
has been expressed by several students: “Select a local hag when you arrive in September, and when she begins to
look glamorous, leave.” Each week we shall “quote” three or four well-known campus personalities, beginning now with the student government
officers for '52-'53. Jack Ruth says: “I’m not an athlete—I’m president of the Davidson student body.” Kiser says: “Hello, Friends.”
Max DeVane says: “See the Student Union—a sign of progress.”

FRIDAY, MAY 9, 195

CHESTERFIELD is MUCH MILDER with an extraordinarily good taste and NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE*
— From the Report of a Well-Known Research Organization
