PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 1952

THE DAVIDSONIAN
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF ........... BILL WHITE
BUSINESS MANAGER ........ ALEX GOLEY

Associate Editors --- Shelly Bence, Pete Kalogridis, George McMurray
Managing Editors .... Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw, John Ottley
Art Editor—Don Mahy
Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Sports Editor—Dick Liles
Feature Editor—Mike Myers
City Editor—Nat Daniels
Assistant Business Manager .. Boo Northcutt
Advertising Manager ---- Jack Hobson
Circulation Manager --- Bob Poston
Collection Manager --- Bill Minter
Subscriptions Manager

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Were State Alumni Covering Up In Irate Counterattack On Editor?

We only know what we read in the papers, but from what we can glean from our exchanges and the
AP accounts, the N. C. State squabble between The Technician, student paper, and 16 Mecklenburg County members of the Wolfpack
Club smells strongly of alumni cover-up of a guilty conscience. What other reason should a group of grown, supposedly intelligent
college graduates have to the publication of facts concerning their program of athletic subsidization? If all is running smooth and
above-board, why should these Mecklenburg members say of editor Paul Foght’s information-demanding editorial: “... it took a lot of nerve
for a student editor to demand information about a matter which was no concern of his or any other student.”

Foght, in an editorial January 25, had requested that H. A. Fisher, chairman of the College Athletic Council resign or
“present a full explanation of his actions in connection with the ouster of football coach Beattie Feathers,” and also sought
information about the Wolfpack Club’s use of Student Supply Store profits for athletic subsidization. Pointing to the fact that 60%
of their college education is “charity” in that it is paid for out of taxes supporting the state school, the
Mecklenburg petition to State College Chancellor J. W. Harrelson asking that Foght be “punished,” also weakly cried, “when any student
reaches the point that he thinks he owns the institution, it is time for him to be advised to transfer
elsewhere.”

Since when was athletic policy of a college, and particularly use of scholastic funds, of “no concern” of any student?
And when alumni, if the college can still call them such, think that they can buy their way into control
of a college's policies—athletic or otherwise, it's high time he moved elsewhere. We're of the old school which still clings
to the idea that the school exists for the student, and that he has the right of inquiry. When alumni
start demanding that a student editor be “punished” (silenced), suppression of freedom has begun. Gentlemen don’t react to criticism—be it
just or unjust—in the manner of the Mecklenburg mudders. That's why we say the mess smells of attempts at a
covered conscience. Even if they're not covering anything with this irate little counter-offensive, that action still, in the terms of
the common man, smells.

Boyd’s Boys Had The Knack For Thrillers --- To The End

Ordinarily we leave such nice duty to the sports department, but The Davidsonian can't help going on record with an
end of the season pat on the back for Coach Boyd Baird and his basketballers. Not for the reason of
record, mind you, but for the thriller-diller entertainment provided these past winter evenings. While moral victories went out with Alumni
Gym, it is still encouraging and enjoyable to see your club in the thick of every fight—even if it is
only until the last minute. We can only recall seeing the Cats turn in sad performances in two instances—the N.
C. State opener and the home-court loss to South Carolina. Out of town Boyd's Boys often fell apart at the
seams, looked ragged, and helped their record none. But they always put on a good show for the homefolks. They
were always tough to take when backed into their home lair. They had that exasperating knack for following a Hollywood
script—the kind that fools you at the end when the hero loses out. Yet it was proof that there’s something
to scrap after all, and their season—though a losing one—fanned the flickering flame of that much discussed and almost snuffed
Wildcat spirit for the current College generation.

Hectic February Saw Losses Range From Little To SAE Lion

Dragged out to the last bitter extra day, February, 1952, passes with a sigh into the past of Davidson history.
Still the shortest month in the year despite its Leap Year addition, February packed 29 hectic days into the life
of the College. February was the month of Crowell Little's resignation, following a facts-of-life talk before the trustees. It brought
the embarrassing chapel on “Abernethy’s Tuesday.” It was the month of reform from the student body, venting expression through the
Friday morning “town meetings.” February saw six more naval reservists summoned to active duty, and SAE was dealt a double
blow when they lost their cast-iron lion, to boot. For the pledges, February meant co-operation in Greek Week, but it
also meant the inconveniencing agonies of hell week. To top the list, the tail end of the month has ushered
in reviews.

One night I am standing in front of Mindy’s restaurant on Broadway partaking heartily of a large pretzel which I
buy from a dealer who is closing out his stock at half price since everyone who is ordinarily partaking of
his merchandise is either in the pokey or a speakeasy. Moreover, I am thinking about how I am to raise
eight bobs with which I can return to Doc Brennan at ten bells as he requests me to the day
before, I go around to see him about a buzzing in my head, he looks in my mouth and speaks
as follows: “You are obviously a man with many worries,” Doc Brennan says. “Come back at ten bells Saturday. Ten
bucks, please.” So I walk out of Doc Brennan's office with one more worry and that is where I am
to get eight more bobs to pay Doc Brennan tomorrow. Well, I am standing there when all of a sudden
I look up and who is looking at my pretzel but Freddy South Philly Muldoon. Now I am no one
to be letting Freddy South Philly Muldoon get close enough to look at me, much less any merchandise which is
connected to my person, because Freddy South Philly is noted for palling around with Actor Willie Sutton, who is a
very wanted man by the coppers, but very unwanted by me or any other reputable citizen. Actor Willie is well
known for sending Freddy out to citizens with notes that he wants to see them and it’s not unusual that
he is the last man they see on this earth. Therefore I remember at this time that I have a
date in Yonkers and am about to start for there when Freddy takes my arm and says, “Are you ever
in trouble?” Now I do not know whether Freddy means Am I ever in trouble? or Am I ever in
trouble? so because I am trying to avoid worrying, I take the first and say no. “Good,” Freddy South Philly
says, “because I am.” This Freddy South Philly does not need to say because I and many other citizens are
aware of this plus many coppers who are often asking me questions concerning such matters. “I am in trouble,” he
says, “because Actor Willie Sutton, whom you know, comes home this morning after work and finds both his girl, one
Miss Wisteria Weep, and one hundred and ten G’s missing. Now he is suspecting that they leave together and because
of this sends me out to find one, where he is confident I will find the other.” I understand Freddy
South Philly’s story because Actor Willie is one party who cannot take a joke on himself. He is often playing
a similar trick on a bank where he works, but he is very nasty when someone whom he trusts turns
the tables so to speak. I cannot solve Freddy South Philly’s problem, however, because he only needs to find Miss
Wisteria Weep and Actor Willie takes over from there. Freddy South Philly continues, speaking as follows: “My problem is that
I am partly responsible for the missing articles,” Freddy says, “because I am the party who persuades Miss Wisteria Weep
to turn up missing and who finds for her an apartment in Brooklyn while I use one hundred and ten
G’s to set myself up in the unlicensed beverage business.” Well, I admire Freddy South Philly’s business snoot, of which
if he has as big a one as he uses on his face, he is a very good business man
indeed because the unlicensed beverage business is up in the paint cards these days, but I am not wishing to
have any truck whatever with any guy who is using for collateral any articles such as his boss's bankroll and
doll. Just as I am again remembering my date in Yonkers, Freddy South Philly takes my arm again and says
to me, “There are five yards in it for you if you go to my boss and tell him that
I am at this address in Brooklyn and am holding the doll and the dough for him to pick up
and for him to bring a car because it is a very refined neighborhood which a shot might cause no
little annoyance in, a ride in the country over in Jersey being a much nicer plan.” As I say, I
am needing eight bobs to give Doc Brennan to find out how to stop worrying, and I am not a
guy who will turn down eight bobs, especially if four hundred and ninety-two bobs are thrown in extra, but I
do not want to accept payment from such a guy as Freddy South Philly for such a job as he
describes. However, on the arm which is not holding my arm, Freddy South Philly is carrying a rod which he
is noted for being second only to Actor Willie in using ac- (Continued On Page Four)

‘Why Not Our Own Backyard?’

Following is the fourth of “Eight Questions Students Ask About Missions,” as set forth in that pamphlet of the National
Student Volunteer Movement to be discussed in the Davidsonian. This condensation is by Davidson SVM member George Knight.

Here's a challenging letter to the Syracuse Daily Orange from a couple of local coeds: Jesus warned us to beware
lest we be so concerned with the speck in someone else’s eye that we fail to notice the two-by-four that
is lodged in our own. Does it not follow that we should wake up to the needs of our native
America and concentrate our energies right here instead of dispersing them throughout the world? The question is a good one
and is not easy to answer. Certainly the Church is not doing all that it should at home—far from it—the
needs are tremendous and our facilities are at best inadequate. It is certainly evident that any policy which passes over
real needs close at hand, to go abroad, lacks essential integrity: if our strategy is insensitive to the job here,
we could question whether it can have real appreciation of the needs in some more complicated fields overseas. Some Christians
are guilty of dodging their responsibility for the close at hand by a great zeal for the remote. Women work
hard at their missionary societies who would raise an eyebrow at the very idea of inviting a Negro to theirthe
home problems be solved first. There is a tendency Yet as we look about us in America, we are impressed
with how much personnel and equipment Christianity does have here: 140,000 ministers, almost that many churches, 60,000,000 Church members, countless
number of agencies inspired by Christianity, an active home mission emphasis within the Churches, and some program of social betterment
combine to produce a huge organizational potential for effective Christian action. The Church’s work in America falls far short of
fulfilling its responsibilities, but when it is compared with facilities for Christian action in other countries such as Africa, where
one missionary may serve an area of 100 miles or more, it is then that we begin to realize that
there is even greater need in other parts of the world. The main stream of Christianity does not place too
much emphasis on the distinction between home and foreign work. All is a part of the Church’s responsibility—our “neighbor” is
not only the man across the street but also the man across the globe. We should not completely neglect a
whole area of responsibility just because we have not finished working in another. Probably neither area will be perfect in
our lifetime anyway, and we must attempt to perform our whole job. Besides, our motive to missionary activity is not
a desire to pass on to others what we have finished with, but rather, to witness to the “good news”
concerning Jesus Christ. The missionary task is God's making His intention real “to every creature”—and we are called to serve
in it until it is accomplished.

NAT DANIEL: A Definition Of Popularity: The Criterion Of Candidacy

One of the criticisms of the present election system has been that elections have been reduced to nothing more than
“popularity” contests. Popularity has been defined as being that recognition based on athletic prowess, scholastic abilities, “friendliness” (knowing everybody) or
the rather dubious notoriety of the “joke” candidate. The implications are that there is a grave danger of electing candidates
to office who have no qualifications other than these, and that the elections system itself is at fault. Now no
matter what sort of election system we have, the most “popular” candidate is going to win. The basis for his
popularity may not be a solid structure—in many instances it isn’t (1948 presidential elections), but at Davidson the situation is
somewhat different, and consequently the so-called standards of popularity are based on a different ideology: the Christian principles upon which
the institution was founded. Popularity is more than just getting the most votes, and we should do well to look
at some of its characteristics:

The first and foremost characteristic of popularity is integrity—the integrity to value character so highly that you can never be
bought or bribed in any way, and the integrity to stand up for your principles in the face of the
most trying conflicts. The second fundamental characteristic of popularity is honesty. This means more than the negative sort of honesty
we present to the outside world—not cheating, not stealing, not lying, etc., and includes the honesty which comes only as
we grow spiritually: honesty with ourselves and with God. Popularity at Davidson requires maturity—the maturity of mental ability, the maturity
required of leadership, the maturity which generates self-confidence without conceit, and the maturity of the spirit which gives God his
proper place in guiding the actions of men. Popularity at Davidson requires sincerity—the sincerity of friendship—not election-day friendship, but lasting
friendship, the sincere desire to give your best to your task without thought of prestige, popularity or power. Last, but
far from least, popularity requires some indefinable something which might well be termed “it,” and though “it” is almost impossible
to define, it is often the deciding factor in an election. Call it friendliness, leadership ability, lack of enemies, ability
to get along with people; almost any name will do, but the average candidate for office at Davidson is lost
without it. The whole point is, gentlemen, that no matter what election system is used, the really important thing is
that the best man get elected. And though the election may be a “popularity contest,” if it’s the right kind
of popularity, so much the better.

Coeds Challenge Our Masculinity And Ruggedness

Dear Editor: Before entering college we had great expectations concerning the college man. Needless to say we were gravely disappointed.
What has happened to the rugged, outdoor man? He is no longer rugged. He eats soft foods, sleeps too much,
and considers the slightest physical exertion too much for him. He is never outdoors, his social life being centered around
the parlor. An energetic game of chess or a snappy bull session is all the exercise he gets. One glance
at his apparel would make you doubt whether he is even a man. Masculine individuality has become a mirage. It
seems that everything he does is inspired by the group to which he belongs. His aims in life are determined
by what others have decided to be worthwhile goals. He no longer has the power to think and decide for
himself. As an example, when he is on a date, the girl must be prepared to decide what movie they
will see, what they will do afterwards, and she must plan to spend the evening entertaining the man, who has
lost the power to take an active part in conversation. Obviously something has to be done. Here is a challenge
to the men of Syracuse University. A few months ago you denounced us girls for wearing slacks, and jeans, etc.
We would be only too glad to give them back to you, if you'd begin to earn your pants.

FEMALES WANTED

Four students of Iowa State University placed the following want ad in the paper: “Wanted—Four female companions for Varieties. Call
‘Joe’ Club 201.” “Joe” received 12 phone calls, 11 of them within a day after the ad had appeared. But
he was only partially satisfied with the ad’s response. “After all,” he said, “there are almost 2,000 women on the
campus. And we only got 12 calls.”

Student enrollment at 818 approved colleges and universities throughout the nation show, as of November 1, an attendance of 1,275,404
full-time students, with 489,133 additional part-time students for a grand total of 1,764,537, according to the thirty-second annual statistical study
conducted by Dr. Raymond Walters, president of the University of Cincinnati. Contrasted with the fall enrollment of 1950, the study
discloses a decrease of 11.4 per cent in full-time students; an increase of 4.6 per cent in part-time students; and
in total enrollment, a decrease of 7.8 per cent. In full-time students, universities under public control have a decrease of
11.8 per cent; those under private control, 11 per cent less; independent colleges of arts and sciences, 10.5 per cent
less; independent technology schools, 10.6 per cent less (although their women students have increased 1.8 per cent); independent teachers colleges,
14.5 per cent less. The over-all 1951 decline in freshmen was 6.5 per cent, the decrease for men being 8.2
per cent and for women, 3.5 per cent. The study reveals a disturbing decline of 11.2 per cent in freshman
men this fall as compared with last fall’s enrollment in four broad fields of study: liberal arts and science, commerce
(business administration), agriculture, and teachers college (education). “Most alarming of all, in view of the need for teachers in the
nation’s elementary and secondary schools, is the calamitous decline in young men and young women entering education courses,” Dr. Walters
emphasized. The freshman engineering enrollment showed a gain of 9.2 per cent over last year’s “toboggan drop” when erroneous statements
were publicized that the engineering field was overcrowded. Present enrollment of engineering students is “far below the technological needs of
the country.” Commenting on the widespread freshman decreases, Dr. Walters suggests these principal reasons: fewer children in the nation’s middle-income
group, industrial and business job opportunities at high pay, uncertainty as to Selective Service and as to the general plans
for the future, and heavier tuition and other college expenses.

Non-Segregated Campus Dances May Be Enforced At U. of N. C.

The University of North Carolina may have a law suit on its hands, if it continues its policy of all-white
dances on campus. The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People says it hopes student pressure will force the
administration to reverse its policy; otherwise, the association will go to court. “It is the policy of NAACP to see
that Negro students enjoy the full privileges of being a student,” said the NAACP attorney. The dispute arose when the
law school association announced its plans to hold an unsegregated spring dance. Five Negro students are members of the law
school association. A similar case occurred there last fall when Negro students were given segregated seats at the football stadium.
Student pressure later forced the administration to allow unrestricted seating. The law school association voted 82 to 63 in favor
of the non-segregated dance. Said the Daily Tar Heel in its news story: “Law school students yesterday decided that a
student is still a student, regardless of the color of his skin, and opened the door for a possible bi-racial
dance.”

At a Big Six basketball game recently the referee did the unheard of: He admitted he had made a mistake
and actually apologized to the players.

Simmons Advocates Excused Vesper Cuts For Off Campus Church Attendance

Editor, The Davidsonian Davidson, N. C. Dear Sir: Just before exams, when of course I should have had my mind
on my studies, an idea crossed my mind as to an addition to the system for Vesper cuts. Knowing that
the probable reasons for denying us the addition that I speak of would be based on the purpose of Vespers,
I tried not to rush blindly into this matter and so got a statement from Dr. Cunningham as to the
purpose of Vespers, which follows: “The purpose of Vespers at Davidson College is to provide an opportunity for corporate worship
by the student body, faculty, and friends of the college at their regular time each week, with the preaching of
the Gospel by the ablest preachers of the various denominations for the inspiration, instruction, guidance, and growth of all related
to the institution.” After having thought over the purpose of Vespers as Dr. Cunningham sees it, I feel that the
regularity and the corporateness of our worship would not be disturbed by the following addition to our Vesper cut system:
that we not only get the cuts that we have at present but also add another type cut which would
allow us to go to a vesper service at some other place of worship other than our own school Vesper.
This would allow boys who were dating at Queens on Sunday evening to avoid rushing back up here to school
plus the avoidance of so many trips back and forth to Charlotte. The Charlotte-Davidson highway is too dangerous to have
us speeding back and forth to make Vespers. Some might say that we ought to leave Charlotte in plenty of
time to make Vespers without speeding back up to Davidson, but let us be realistic and admit that we will
be rushed the majority of the time and especially if we eat our supper here at Davidson and then go
to Charlotte to pick a date up. Only recently a boy in the senior class who is on the Student
Council told me that he had to miss going to Sunday afternoon Communion with his parents because of a lack
of Vesper cuts. Should this boy miss going to such a service with the group which he should be close
to—his family? There need not be more than two of this type cut allotted per semester to each student to
fill this definite need.

Sincerely, CHARLIE SIMMONS.
