FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1952

FEATURE BY HUNTER STRADER: Fraternities Continue Their Five-Year Tradition Of Barium Springs

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Barium Home Grows Strong In 62 Years

“The history of the Presbyterian Orphan's Home is primarily and essentially one of human values. As the onward and steady progress of this work is recorded for posterity in the semi-centennial year of the Home, it will be kept in mind that behind every building at Barium Springs, behind every will in which this Home has been generously remembered, and behind the several millions of dollars which have been contributed by liberal friends since the inception of this Home, has been the principal and actuating thought that all of this has been done out of a sense of love for dependent children, an innate desire to help in their maintenance and to play a part in training them to be Christian men and women.”

Sixty-two Years

The above is a quotation from a book published in 1941 marking the fiftieth year of the Barium Springs Orphanage’s service to the unfortunate children of this and surrounding areas. It expresses the deep conviction of those who are and have been closely connected with the orphanage. Though written eleven years ago, these words are even truer today in a world which many, justly or unjustly, believe to be cold and calculating.

The physical progress of the home has been a marvelous one in the span of sixty years since its inception. From twelve children, a single building, and twenty-five acres, the home has expanded to include over 300 children, more than fifty buildings, and well over one thousand acres. The nominal value at the beginning has increased until the physical plant and endowment of Barium Springs was estimated shortly before World War II to be over one million dollars. This figure has, of course, increased considerably since that time, and today the home is a beehive of activity and fruitful productiveness.

In the preceding paragraph is couched the material progress that has been made, but behind this ever-increasing value of buildings, land, and endowment, there is a glowing history that rebounds to the Synod of North Carolina and to the thousands upon thousands of people who have played their part in this advancement. To some special individuals who have been endowed with wealth can be found living memorials which have been made possible by their wise use of material possessions entrusted to their care.

Pre-History

The home at Barium Springs was established on January 11, 1891, but there was a preliminary history. The purchase of a building with twenty-five adjoining acres and the coming of children to Barium Springs was preceded by a private home for boys and girls established in Charlotte in 1883, which was supervised by some ladies in that city until the Synod decided to establish a permanent orphans’ home at the present locality.

The building purchased was a two-story wooden structure, formerly used as a hotel, which stood on the site of the present Rumple Hall. In November of 1891, this building was completely destroyed by a fire, and the children were housed temporarily in Statesville until plans could be made for another building at Barium Springs.

Mr. George W. Watts, of Durham, challenged the Synod to give a sum of money for a building and promised to give a like amount for another cottage. The Synod accepted his challenge, and Mr. Watts immediately gave the money for the construction of Annie Louise Cottage, built in 1892 and named for his only daughter, Annie Louise Watts. Before this was completed, the Synod’s cottage was underway, and it was likewise finished in 1892.

Over the years since 1892, thousands of contributions have made possible the construction and development of Barium Springs as it stands today. It is remarkable to note the number of buildings which have been constructed from the contribution of one sum. In the majority of cases, each cottage in which the children live is the result of a single bequest by one person or one group of persons. This home has long attracted the attention of many generous laymen, and it may be of particular interest to the present-day Davidson student body to note that the late Mr. W. P. Stultz of Charlotte, who gave so generously to the new church, contributed the necessary money for a cottage at Barium Springs.

Thriving Community

Today the home is a thriving community in itself. Both the boys and girls take a vital interest in the activities involving the maintenance and supply of the institution. Children under ten years of age have few tasks to perform, but from then on until their graduation they have a regular schedule of work, thereby giving them valuable training in the responsibilities of later life, as well as helping to make the home more self-sustaining.

Those duties falling to the fairer sex include such jobs as preparing the meals, washing the never-ending stream of dishes, canning food in the fall, working in the laundry, assisting the matrons in various cottages, and making

THE CAMERA SPEAKS: More eloquent than words are the looks of joy on the faces of these Barium Springs orphans entertained by the fraternities last night.

PURCELL TO MARRY MISS BRADLEY

On December 20, 1952, Professor James Purcell of the Davidson English Department will marry Miss Betty Bradley, Dr. D. Grier Martin’s secretary of last year. The above picture of the couple was taken at Mrs. Little's home when a party was given by friends for the couple. They will be married in Bristol, Virginia, with only close friends of the couple and families attending. Mr. Purcell has been officially declared winner of the sandwich dates and now starts his brand new “career.”and repairing much of the clothing worn by the students. The work of the boys is somewhat more varied, including milking the cows, working in the hundred-acre garden, or in the orchard, running the printing office and shoe shop, or working along such lines as carpentry, painting, and various mechanical skills. Thus the history of the Presbyterian Orphanage has been one of sincere concern for the well-being of young people in our modern society. Barium Springs offers all its students an opportunity to pursue not only a pleasant life, but also one of true Christian fellowship and productive well-being.

HOME for the HOLIDAYS by GREYHOUND the pleasant, friendly way

Buy an Extra Gift with the money you save

SOUTHBOUND
CHARLOTTE, N. C. .--- .50
ROCK HILL, S.C. --.--- $1.20
ATLANTA, GA, ...----- $6.90
COLUMBIA, SC. .--..- $2.85
AUGUSTA, GA. ------ ~ $4.65
NEW ORLEANS, LA. $15.05
JACKSONVILLE, FLA. $8.65
MIAMI, FLA. --..----- $14.95

NORTHBOUND
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. $1.60
GREENSBORO, N.C. _. $2.00
RICHMOND, VA. --.--- $7.15
PHILADELPHIA, PA. $10.85
NEW YORK, N.Y. .... $12.70
BLUEFIELD, W VA. .. 4.70
CHARLESTON, W. VA. $7.95
CINCINNATI, O. ...- $10.60

Plus U. S. Tax
BIG EXTRA SAVINGS ON ROUND TRIP TICKETS
C. S. GOODRUM, Agent
Atlantic Greyhound Lines
Davidson, N. C.

Santa Claus Greets Kids, Masquers Act

“Boy, did you see Sandy Claus with that fake beard tonight?”
“Yeah, but that ice cream was real.”

Such was probably a typical conversation on the buses last night carrying the children back to the Presbyterian Orphanage at Barium Springs. It was pretty apparent that “Sandy Claw’s” beard wasn’t his own, but everyone knew the spirit of Christmas was very real before the night was over.

Twelve groups of children ranging in age from six to fourteen made their annual visit to the Davidson College campus last night, and as always, the hosts enjoyed the visit just as much as the guests did, if not more. The buses arrived at 7:00 p.m. in front of each of the fraternities and the Campus Club. After a few hurried greetings and shy glances, the children tromped into the auditorium to watch that all-time favorite of Christmas plays, “Why, the Chimes Rang.”

The play was produced by the Red and Black Masquers especially for the occasion, and was their own gift to the guests from Barium Springs. Directed by Tad Currie, the play starred Robert Mims as Hogar, the little boy; Kerrie Spiers as his brother Steen; Vance Mizell as Uncle Bertel; and Peggy Whittle as the old woman. The supporting cast were Tink Taylor as the priest; Mary Beaty as the young girl; Bill Pharr as a courtier; and George Walker as the king. Music was furnished by Bill Johnson and Bill Crymes, with sets by Tad Currie and costumes by Courtney Hill.

Well, of course the chimes did ring last night as they do every Christmas for little Hogar as he places the pennies on the altar for the Christ Child, but the Davidson student body has been trying to make them ring especially for the children of the Presbyterian Orphanage since the Christmas of 1947 when the first Barium Springs Christmas party was held. That night, December 17, to be exact, there were stunts, movies, gifts ranging from comic books to cowboy pistols, ice cream and cookies, as well as the proverbial nuts, fruits, and candy.

Since then, the students of Davidson have each year attempted to capture a part of the true meaning of the Yuletide season by entertaining these children. Last night, after the curtain had fallen in Chambers, the group went to the various houses where they were to be entertained for the remainder of the evening. Those aged six to nine went to the Campus Club and the Pika house; the seven to ten group, to the SAE's; eight to ten, to the KA's; eight to eleven, to the Pi Kapps; ten to twelve, to the Kappa Sigs, ATO's, and Phi Delts; nine to eleven, to the SPE’s; and the groups from twelve to fourteen, to the Sigma Chi, Beta, and Phi Gam lodges.

Of course, the fun was only beginning, and the games and stories that followed eventually broke the ice that may sometimes be found between a group of college-age men and children some ten to fifteen years their juniors. It isn't often that such an opportunity avails itself, but last night was one of those rare occasions when the Davidson gentleman has a chance really to play “big brother” to a group of youngsters who eagerly look forward to this season of the year. Perhaps the gifts weren't expensive, but they all meant something to a young heart from Barium Springs.

When the buses left at 9 p.m. they carried a group of children loaded with presents and perhaps somewhat bloated with candy, ice cream, and cake, but they left behind them some eight hundred Davidsonians who have certainly got the Christmas fever—and perhaps a feeling of gratitude for their own blessings and good fortune.

Drink “Coke” is a registered trade-mark.

QUALITY MILK
Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

FOR QUICK SERVICE
BATES CLEANERS
DYEING & ALTERATIONS — HATS BLOCKED
LAUNDRY SERVICE

There’s fun-filled confusion when the campus empties into cars, trains, and planes as Christmas holidays begin. Heading for good times? Pause for a Coke and go refreshed.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N. C.
© 1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

VAN HEUSEN DRESS SHIRTS
White or Colors, 3.95
INTERWOVEN SOCKS 55c up
PARIS BELTS 1.00 up
VAN PAJAMAS 3.95 up
WEMBLEY or BOTANY TIES 1.50 up
ANSON Cuff Links and Tie Bars 1.00 up
WILSON-WRIGHTS
NEXT TO BANK
DAVIDSON, N. C.