Coach Bill Dole’s Cats will go into action against Harvard tomorrow as forty-point underdogs, but that’s not the only reason they've already got two and a half strikes against them. One big reason for that is the fact that scouts from the Ivy League school have eyed every game Davidson's played so far (Five—Count ‘em—Five), and it won't be anybody's fault but their own if the Harvards don’t know more about the Cats than Dole’s men do themselves. Even if Dole can manage to pull something else out of his bag of tricks, his team will have at best only an outside chance of whipping the Yankee lads. It’s the old story of nothing to lose and everything to gain, and Dole & Co. would dearly love to upset the Harvard club.

The big news of the week is that Henry Brown and Pete Peterson will be playing tomorrow afternoon. Henry will run from left halfback, since Fargason has pretty well staked his claim to the fullback slot with some fine running in the last few games. Peterson, however, will be playing his first college football game if he sees service tomorrow. Big Pete is probably as well known as any football player on the Davidson roster, yet he's never played a minute of college ball. We can't expect miracles from the Columbia, S. C., giant, however. He’s had a rough time since he twisted a knee before the season ever started last year. Even Arnold Whisnant, captain and stalwart of the Cats, will be making the trip tomorrow, although it’s not certain how much he'll play. Whiz, another Wildcat suffering from a knee injury, has done a good job of backing up the line this year, and he'll be missed if the leg isn’t strong enough by game time.

As far as the Furman game is concerned, nobody could have asked for more of a thriller. Although they allowed Furman to rack up a two-touchdown lead in the first half, the Cats roared back with everything they had to come within a hair of knotting the score at 14-all. When those buck-lateral plays started clicking in the second half, the crowd came out of its trance and became a wildly cheering mob. If Davidson had scored again, the stands might not even be there now. It is impossible to say that any one mistake or occasion lost the game for the Cats, but it is certain that the poor protection given quarterback Jack Ruth on passes was one of the main reasons Davidson didn’t score again. Ruth, who was really hitting on his aerials last Saturday, was snowed under time and again, and it came as no surprise when we noted he lost 57 yards during the course of the game.

The heartbreaking aspect of the game is that actually Davidson outplayed the Greenville boys in the major departments. The Cats racked up 14 first downs while Furman got eight. Davidson rolled up 215 yards from scrimmage, 15 more than the Palmetto club got. Furman was penalized 60 yards, as compared to five for Dole’s team.

When the final whistle of the Homecoming contest last Saturday sounded, we couldn't help wondering one thing: Did the alumni who came in for the game get just a little more disgusted with their Alma Mater's football team, or did they feel that the Cats played a hard game against what was theoretically a better club? We can't speak for all the alumni, but we like to think that the reaction of Fred Holder, class of ‘51, was typical of all the Sheepskin winners present at the game. Fred writes:

Dear Dick:
It might be of interest to you to know how one Davidson fan enjoyed Saturday’s ball game. No victory came to break the Homecoming jinx but that is far out-shadowed by the fact that the Wildcats played a game in keeping with Davidson ideals. I for one thoroughly enjoyed the game and I wish to congratulate Coach Dole, his staff, and the players who showed us some real football. This game is a clue to the fact that Davidson will be a winning team in the near future. Hats off to the Wildcats!
Sincerely,
Fred C. Holder, '51

As long as Coach Dole and the Cats have support like that, they won't have to worry about anything but pounding the daylights out of their opponents. That, however, is quite a large order at this stage of the game, with Harvard, Richmond (no pushover any longer), George Washington, and The Citadel looming up on the schedule.

Yes, We Have It Too!
Famous Val-Mead Tailoring Line
SUITS AND TROUSERS to your specifications
Materials In Many Weaves
$47.50 up
Wilson-Wrights “Collegiate Fashions”
Next to Bank in Davidson

Wildcat Sports
THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1952
PAGE FIVE

Cats Invade Ivy League To Meet Harvard
By MOODY SMITH

A small but spirited squad of Wildcat gridders left Charlotte by plane this morning for Cambridge, Mass., where they will do battle with the Crimson of Harvard University tomorrow afternoon. The Cats will be several touchdown underdogs against the big Harvard team, which has won four games while bowing only once. Harvard lost only to Columbia, a team which last week fought to a 7-7 tie with mighty Army. Even in losing to Columbia, the Crimson did not look bad, going down by a close 16-7 score. Davidson has lost four games while winning only one, and that over Presbyterian. But the Wildcats have played some very good football in spots. Last weekend’s spine-tingling 14-13 loss to heavily favored Furman was generally considered to be one of the Wildcats' best showings in several years.

The big news from the Davidson camp this week has been that Harry Peterson, the 220-pound sophomore tackle from Columbia, S. C., has at last recovered from an acute knee injury and will be ready to go against Harvard tomorrow. Peterson was injured before the 1951 season began, and has yet to don a game uniform. More good news for Davidson supporters is that Henry Brown, hard-charging fullback who was injured in practice after the VPI game, may see action.

BOB LOY
He'll make Crimson see red

Harvard Harriers Run VMI Here Tomorrow
By FRED ALLEN

Coach Pete Whittle’s Wildcat harriers will run against a strong Virginia Military Institute team here tomorrow morning at 11. The Davidson cross countrymen came away from last week’s meets with the varsity of Washington and Lee and Pfeiffer’s junior varsity here with two victories. In the Conference win Davidson took the first five spots at a time of 22:59 minutes, setting the Generals back with a 15-46 count. The running of Bill Shipley, Floyd Feeney, Homer Sparks, Steve Gooding and Bill Russell pushed the Wildcats ahead over the distance run on the four-mile course. Diggs of W.&L. placed sixth, running first for his lineup. In a 15-49 victory over Pfeiffer, the junior varsity received good running from frosh Archie Joyner, who led the Davidson juniors to the first six places. Howell, Caudel, Alexander, Eagle and Plummer followed. The harriers’ best running to date was against the Generals. Coach Whittle was well pleased with both the individual showings and the victory. More excellent trotting will be needed to keep ahead of the VMI squad. The Cadets, with a smooth running team, are placed well up in conference competition and should give Davidson a lot of trouble. Whittle expects it will be about the toughest meet of the Cats’ season, and their last loop run. The State meeting is scheduled for Raleigh on November 10, with the final conference meet at Richmond on November 17. The Davidson runners, showing much improvement through the year, can be counted on for some hard running in these two events, Whittle commented.

Pikas, Kappa Sigs Hot On The Trail, But Sigs Appear Headed For Crown
By JOHN HANDLEY

The undefeated Sigma Chis kept rolling along this week, but they got a real scare from the Sig Eps in a real thriller last Tuesday. With extra points being the deciding factors, the Sigs eked out a 20-19 decision. Harry Wolfe provided the point margin as he hauled in one TD pass and the two extra points which were completed by the Sigs. The Sigma Chis also played the Campus Club yesterday. The Pikas stayed solidly in second place this week as they piled up a total of62 points in their two games. Led by the steady backfield management of little Jimmy Smith and the fine pass-receiving of Joe Pharr, the Pikas rolled to a 30-6 win over the Phi Gams, and a 32-0 win over the SAEs. Also fighting for second place, the Kappa Sigs downed the SAEs 25-6, the Pi Kapps 25-12, and played the Betas yesterday. The Sigma Chis, who have played only one of the four teams in the top positions, hit a rough week next week as they go against the Kappa Sigs and the Phi Delts. The Pikas go after the Pi Kapps and the Betas. With but two weeks left to play in the season, next week should be a decisive one.

Sigma Chis 20; Sig Eps 19
With Tyler Berry handling the backfield, Harry Wolfe snagging the passes, and Bert Downs being the defensive rock, the Sigma Chis rolled nearer the championship title by downing the Sig Eps 20-19 in a real thriller. The fine play of Horace Ball and Fred Stowe almost turned the trick for the Sig Eps.

Pikas 30; Phi Gams 6
Led by the sparkling backfield performance of playmaker Jim Smith, the Pikas rolled to a 30-6 win over the Phi Gams. Good pass receiving and defense by Joe Pharr and Bill Hanna also stood out for the second-place Pikas. Watt Moore led the Phi Gam forces.

Kappa Sigs 25; SAEs 6
In last Thursday's action, the Kappa Sigs downed the lowly SAEs 25-6 behind the fine play of Johnny Smith and Corky Johnson. Sparking the SAE attack was backfielder Dick Babington and pass receiver Steve Norton.

KA’s 52; ATO 6
The sixth-place KAs rolled up the biggest score of the year in crushing the cellar-dwelling ATOs 52-6. Lanny McIntosh and Poppy Fowle led the KA attack, while Tim Gilley turned in a good performance for the ATOs.

SPEs 36; Betas 27
Freshman end Moffit Wane scored five times as he and Horace Ball combined to down the Betas 36-27 in a free-scoring contest. George Thomas and Graeme Keith led the losers.

Pikas 32; SAEs 0
The Pikas rolled up the biggest shut-out margin of the season as they routed the SAEs 32-0. Led by backfield ace Jim Smith and the fine all-around play of Joe Pharr, the Pikas scored 30 points for the second time this week. Dick Babington and Steve Norton again led the SAE efforts.

Kappa Sigs 34; Pi Kapps 12
Behind the fine backfield play of “Lip” Lippard and the fine performance of George Crone, the Kappa Sigs rattled to a 25-12 victory over the Pi Kapps. Lanky Ben Jones, along with Don Menzies, led the way for the Pi Kapps.

KAs 21; Phi Gams 6
T.W. Aldredge and Adrian Bowen sparked the KA forces as they took the sagging Phi Gams 21-6. Don Reed and Charlie Hall led the Phi Gams.

(Continued on Page Six)

Wildcat Of The Week: Whisnant, Back For Harvard, Really Racked Furman Boys
Playing probably his best game of the season and at a new position from the center position he has played so well for three years, Arnold Whisnant gets the nod for Wildcat of the Week honors. Whiz played magnificently against Furman’s Hurricane from his backer-up position and was one of the big reasons for the fine defensive show of the Wildcats. Arnold is perhaps the man on the Cat squad that has the most “seniority,” having made the squad in his sophomore year. For two years he played offensive center and was one of the most outstanding blockers in the line. Whiz was mentioned favorably for the Armfield Blocking Trophy and would be near a cinch to cop that honor had he played at pivot spot all this year. However, Coach Dole saw fit to transfer Whiz to a line-backing job to utilize his knowledge of football and his great experience. From this spot, he has proved that a good football player can play from any position. He has been outstanding in the secondary both on stopping running plays and in knocking down passes. A bad knee and some hard knocks all along have not stopped the Whizzer, for he was injured in his sophomore year and again last year, yet had the will to fight and come back stronger than ever until last Saturday some Furmanite hit him across said knee and the thing just popped out of place and wouldn’t go back. But again Whiz could not be held down, for the medics fixed the knee and declared him in shape to play in the Harvard game. However, the latest word is that Coach Dole will use Arnold in his old center spot the rest of the season, since the chance of injury here is somewhat diminished. Here again, Whiz’s know-how will come in great, and you can depend on the fact that he'll be just as mean to opposing players here as backing up the line.

CATISTICS 1952
Accumulative Wildcat Statistics Through Oct. 31

Games to Play
Harvard Tomorrow
November 8
George Washington
November 14
The Citadel
November 22

Results to Date
Davidson 14 VPI 27
Davidson 14 Wash. & Lee 33
Davidson 6 N.C. State 28
Davidson 13 Presbyterian 12
Davidson 13 Furman 14

Individual Rushing
Runs Gain Loss Net Avg.
Thacker 35 197 12 185 5.3
Brown 9 18 9 9 1.0
Gray 21 161 16 145 6.9
Fargason 75 299 42 257 3.4
White 19 118 13 105 5.5
Shelton 4 16 3 13 3.3
Renn 10 30 10 20 2.0
Pierce 1 0 1 -1 -1.0
Ruth 26 27 128 -101 -3.9

Individual Passing
No. Comp. Int. Yds. TD
Ruth 59 26 8 249 2
Fargason 5 3 2 36 1
Gray 5 1 0 12 0
Brown 1 0 0 0 0
Thacker 1 0 0 0 0

Team Statistics
Davidson Opponents
52 First downs, rush 62
10 First downs, pass 9
1 First downs, pen. 0
63 Total first downs 71
732 Yards rushing 1246
297 Yards passing 388
1029 Total net yards 1634
71 Passes attempted 60
30 Passes completed 23
11 Passes intercepted 9
14 Fumbles lost 7
36 Number punts 25
40.1 Punting average 40.4
89 Yards punts return 160
19 No penalties 32
470 Yards penalized 293

FRESHMAN LATIN YET! HELL BE CUM LAUDE IN HIS SHE TELL SO HOW CAN SOON? WAIT ‘TIL EXAMS!

for 30 days for Mildness and Flavor
CAMELS are America's most popular cigarette. To find out why, test them as your steady smoke. Smoke only Camels for thirty days. See how rich and flavorful they are — pack after pack! See how mild CAMELS are — week after week!