PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF ------------------------- Frank Hanshaw
BUSINESS MANAGER -------------------- Jack Hobson
ASSISTANT EDITOR ---------------------- John Ottley
Associate Editors ------------------------- Brinkley, Harter, Hope, Myers, M. G., Moylan, D.H.
Managing Editors ------------------------ Hassett, J. M. Moore, Owens
Sports Editor ----------------------------- Dick Roper
Feature Editor ---------------------------- T. A. Williams
Assignments ------------------------------ Strand
News Editor ------------------------------ D. M. Smith
Arts Editor ------------------------------- Mahy
Photographer ----------------------------- Simons
Assistant Business Manager -------------- Poston
Advertising Manager --------------------- Hasty
Circulation Manager ---------------------- Nicholson
Collection Manager ----------------------- Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

POLITICAL ISSUE

DEMOCRATS:
Editor
Associate Editors

REPUBLICANS:
Editor
Associate Editors

Davidsonian Backs Ike and Adlai
Both Leaders are Well Qualified

Seldom before in our history has there been two candidates for the presidency of the United States that are as
capable of fulfilling this high post as Eisenhower and Stevenson. Both men have the many fine qualities of leadership, honesty,
capability, and courage that are essential to success in this high office. Rarely before has there been such a widespread
interest in a national election on the part of the adults and youth of this nation. The air is literally
bristling with controversy between the supporters of the two parties. The shouts range from “We like Ike” to “We like
Ike, but we'll vote for Stevenson.”

In keeping with our platform of full and unbiased coverage of the news, The Davidsonian is for the first time
giving representation to both major political parties. It is hoped that our readers will look at both sides of the
issues as presented by our special political staff, and actually do some serious thinking about the candidates and the parties
which they represent. On November 4, if you are eligible, be sure to vote for the man of your choice.
We think that it is of great significance that America has the choice between these two great leaders. One of
the unique qualities of our democratic system is the way party conflicts before an election are put aside after the
candidate has been chosen, and both sides rally to support the new administration. Regardless of who wins, we are Americans
first and party members second. We can be assured that the light of freedom will continue to shine out from
the United States and that we will maintain a united effort with all free nations to preserve the principles of
justice, freedom, and individual dignity against the tyranny of Communism.

We Have A Legitimate Gripe About The Holiday Situation

It seems clear that the student body has a legitimate gripe for a change. To require, by means of calendar
and double cuts, 800-odd men to hazard New Year's Day traffic or to attempt to arrange reservations on public transportation
systems, and to miss whatever plans their families have for the end of the holiday season is reason enough for
a squeal. It is particularly so when it is realized that only two days of classes are involved. We doubt
seriously that if the accumulated wisdom and experience of the administration were applied to this problem the solution would not
be quickly arrived at... without Davidson’s falling from her academic graces in the associations she has attained to.

There have been, as we all know, several proposals presented which would leave the necessary days of the scholastic year.
We are sure that there are others that are forthcoming. It would leave one to almost suggest that a failure
to solve this difficulty, which is obviously real, would not spring from a lack of ability on the part of
the administration... but from a lack of desire. We, of course, would never make such a surmise for it would
lead people to believe that there are those who consider the plan more important than those planned for.

We think that perhaps the most valid reason for the extension would be that to return before the weekend would
deprive many of an opportunity to see some one of the various bowl games. The other reasons, such as constant
reminders to cut down holiday travel, the consideration of boys who get home only once a year, the fears that
mothers have built up about the drunken drivers on New Year's eve and day are really more negligible. Our parting
word to the reader is this: If you have a legitimate gripe... gripe, but gripe to those who are in
position to make or encourage the change—D.H.M.

THE CABBAGE PLANTER: English Debaters, Less Cowed By Baptists, Talk More Freely

(Before coming to Davidson a couple of weeks ago, English debaters Kenneth Dibben and Ronald George Evans put in an
appearance at Wake Forest College. While there they were interviewed by Old Gold and Black reporter Wilfred Winstead. Due to
their rushed schedule and the lack of opportunity for the average Davidsonian to get to know them, we are reprinting
this week part of Mr. Winstead’s interview as it appeared in the Old Gold and Black of October 27.)

“American college students take things more seriously than do British students, such as football and debating,” agreed Ronald George Evans
and Kenneth Dibben, the Britisher who debated here October 17.

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

According to Evans, from Llangollen, North Wales, and Dibben, from Southampton, England, Americans have a different scale of values from
people “at home.” “Everyone here is striving to win in whatever activity he is engaged in,” said Evans, “while in
Britain we do not even have judged debates, for instance.” Thus the main difference between American and British attitudes was
summed up....

Their experience at Ellis Island, the importation center, was the worst of their visit thus far. While there, a customs
official dubiously questioned Evans, a socialist, about literature he carried concerning the Fabian Society, a socialist organization. After carefully reading
the material, he muttered, “Your politics are your own damn business” and passed the two men.

The first thing that impressed the Britisher about the United States was the docking of the Queen Elizabeth. The liner
came right up to the roadway, instead of docking some distance out as it did in England. Immediately they were
confronted with a “stream of traffic” and were amazed by the “smartly-dressed people, especially the women.” The skyline of New
York, “stupendous” and “gigantic in scale compared to London,” and the Statue of Liberty impressed them, as they do all
people entering the United States for the first time....

Opposing Politics

Speaking of their being chosen to make the trip (they had never met each other prior to their selection), Dibben
said, “I am glad Ronald was not a conservative also.

(Continued on Page Six)

Dr. Daugherty Delivers Memorable Address On The Need For A Rational Christianity

One of the most provocative and challenging messages ever presented to the students here was delivered last week in chapel
by Dr. Daugherty. Speaking with his soft brogue and burred “r’s” he probed deeply into a subject which is crucial
to a man’s day by day existence, and yet is often dealt with inadequately or negatively by many preachers: that
of applied, or practical, Christianity. It was a singular privilege to hear Dr. Daugherty’s astute distillation of the precepts and
principles which govern us, and their direct application to the lives of the average laymen.

He presented a rational hypothesis of life; a realistic, calculated coalition between the profundities of theology and the actions of
the world: and individuals, which, when integrated, form the basis for a workable dynamic faith. Too often we are gorged
full of the ethereal quality of worship and belief, which

Inquiring Student Asks What Davidson Stands For?

Dear Editor:

The question of the Christmas holidays has made evident a much more important question than that of the holidays. That
question is: “What does Davidson stand for, anyway?”

I was under the impression that we, the students, came to Davidson for the purpose of learning and getting an
“education.” I was under the impression that Davidson was here for the purpose of giving us that education in exchange
for our tuition fee. However, it now seems that Davidson is not here for that at all. It seems that
Davidson’s main purpose now is to show the students, who are sent here by their parents, just who is the
boss. The students cannot decide WHEN they get this education, they cannot safely criticize the policies of the college, and
they cannot learn, by having responsibility placed on them, how to grow up.

Perhaps the powers that be are really trying to help us, but they certainly do not understand us. Most of
us do not want to do the things the college has forbidden us to do, but we do want the
ability to decide that we don’t want to do them. That ability is taken away when the college makes the
rules in every minute detail. If the administration would learn that co-operation and not coercion is the way to get
things done, perhaps there would be less discontent with the way Davidson is run.

There seems to be little chance that Davidson will change, though. For like the law of the Medes and the
Persians, once a rule is made, it is unchangeable, even though it be poor. So, fellow Davidsonians, you might as
well give in and accept with complacence the predestined schedule of thisyear. DAVE MATHEWS. is no more than the spun
candy of religion, melting and dissolving when we taste it, but the body and substance of faith is left to
the hearer’s imagination, leaving him with the historical facts of the Bible, yet sadly lacking in the capacity to reconcile
his life decisively with the tenets of his religion. Dr. Daugherty in his address provided the bridge between abstruse theology
and the practicality of the modern world. Christians are not the only people who can be genuinely concerned for humanity
and welfare of the world, nor are atheists the only ones who are liable to shortcomings and faults. The line
of demarcation between the two is not always definitive, nor is it important. A Christian is more concerned about the
fulfillment of a work project which is for the betterment of mankind than he is about the religious leanings of
the individuals who carried out the work. To condemn a man’s achievements, whether good or bad, simply because he does
not profess a belief in Christ is like refusing to buy a certain product because it was not manufactured in
your own town. The assimilation and practice of what is moral, ethical, and honest in relation to each individual’s beliefs
is infinitely more important than the lip service which he gives to a particular creed. A man's philosophy of life
must be integrated with his philosophy of religion into a single motivating force; he cannot use one, then the other,
interchangeably as different circumstances rise without becoming hypocritical. Davidson being Davidson, and a church school, we have amongst us some
misty-eyed theologians whose Christianity is vociferous (Continued on Page Six).

One of the most dangerous consequences of the Davidson brand of authoritarianism was rather vividly portrayed for us in chapel
last Wednesday. Are we nourishing men who will think and have faith in their thinking to act or men who
will think and then falter when there is a hint of disappointing authority? We are reminded of the old adage
“Do something even if it's wrong.” Frankly we were appalled at the apparent reluctance of student leadership to take any
course of action toward resolving the Christmas holiday mess. Many critics of this column believe we advocate radicalism for its
own sake. What we advocate is intelligent action in the students’ interest. There is supreme doubt in our minds from
time to time as to just what Davidson is being run for—the convenience of certain parties or the general welfare
of the students. Admittedly this is no easy question to answer and in many cases there are cases where the
students’ convenience is not justified. There are other cases where the students’ demands are obviously out of line with what
they might seek for themselves in maturer years. We cannot, in all fairness, understand why, once the calendar committee has
set its calendar up, it is immune to the thought of deviation. In the United States we have a tendency
to pride ourselves on a will to get things done. We are an active lot and believe we have a
part in shaping the future.

By JOHN OTTLEY

On the other hand, a silly excuse is given the students that every so many years the Christmas holidays will
be snafued. This sounds so much like the Oriental Kismet it is sad. “It is so written in the great
book of Time.” Why, in the name of thunder, can’t school be started some days earlier on those “fateful years.”
It is absurd to surrender to a column of figures representing days with the placidity befitting an Arab. That is
but a background issue. What really concerns us is the fact that a man had to stand up from the
student body and suggest that we take action just in the hope of results. Someone answers that the leaders must
have the backing of the student body to maintain a democratic student government. True enough, but backing is one thing
and leading is another. We feel most assured that had a man not moved for a petition for double cuts
to be removed with only the hope of its getting approved by the Executive Committee that the matter would have
been dropped. When optimism is at such a low among both student leaders and students, we are inclined to think
there is need for a change in attitude. Do we not recall a speech which climaxed with the ringing words
“a man who will not be afraid to go before the Trustees?” The Executive Committee is not the Board of
Trustees, but if a man has no fear of facing the latter board, it would seem that he would have
the fortitude to take a firm step before the former even if he fears it will be bashing futilely into
the spongy wall of authority. Surely there is all to gain and nothing to lose in this case.

Embryonic Whiteheads

There are perhaps two courses which discourage more freshmen than any two others in the curriculum. One is freshman chemistry
which serves as a rightful weeding out process of those would-be pre-meds who really wouldn’t be. The other is a
course in basic algebra. It has been the nemesis and perennial gripe of every freshman class since the course became
required. Freshmen gripe a lot, but when men are so concentrated upon one thing we wonder if they can all
be wrong. The standard argument is that the course teaches them to think. It disciplines their minds. Psychology has pretty
well shot to pieces that mental disciplinary idea. If a man is not mathematically inclined he merely memorizes the formulae.
How can a thing so closely allied with so much misery install in a man anything approximating the love of
learning? If we must make scholars of them all the hard way why not make it a course in business
arithmetic which will at least be of some use to them later in running their households? We look at the
utility angle because it is suggested often as a reason why the course is made compulsory. Except in physics and
a few other isolated science courses algebra is simply not employed here or elsewhere. We shudder to think how seldom
one would call (Continued on Page Six).

DAVIDSONIAN ABROAD: Short Trip To Berlin Proves Enlightening For Visiting Davidsonian Honor Student

The lights of Soviet Germany shone beneath our plane. It rattled so that the traditional German meal of kraut, potatoes,
frankfurters, and beer began to make my stomach feel funny. Two French newly-weds were chattering by my side, as we
all watched the horizon. Suddenly a mass of lights, red, green and multicolored, appeared before us. Only Berlin could be
so vast. We circled and landed at Tempelhof. With the curious sensation of being surrounded by Russians, I left the
airport, boarded a bus, and went off in the night. At the Berlin Political College a girl student was waiting
for me. We went to a fancy cafe where some Parisian and Berlin students were laughing over the latest joke
on Joe Stalin. “Look what I found,” said my student friend, and the Berliners cheered heartily. Sentiment was strong against
the Russians. A week before the anti-communist free jurist, Dr. Lindse, had been attacked, thrown into a taxi, and kidnapped
into the Soviet sector.

By HERMAN BELL

“Yes, we love freedom,” said the Germans as they pointed out the Freedom Bell, a gift from America, which hangs
in the West Berlin Senate. In spite of danger many students fanatically espoused the cause of liberty. “Why did not
America join us after the war to liberate the Russian people from Communism?” they asked naively. Professor lectured on the
Schuman plan, which unites Western European coal and steel, and will thus make wars between France and Germany “impossible.” The
French students with me were welcomed warmly. Soviet Berlin has distinctly inferior merchandise. Their money which was supposed to be
worth the free German money was actually one-fifth its value on the exchange. Billboards of Stalin and Lenin decorated the
blasted buildings. Perhaps the only attractive feature was a ballet by Prokofiev, Cinderella, in the City Opera. A German friend
came with me to buy the ticket, but since it was unsafe for him to stay where he could be
identified as an anti-communist and imprisoned for five years, he left me with my French friends to enjoy an excellent
ballet. I was afraid to speak to the five-year-old child beside me since I had no diplomatic protection. A red
agent, noticing my American clothes, asked me several questions during the intermission. “Nein,” I replied politely. Berlin is a city
of green forests and meadows and super avenues. The ruins of the Reichstag dominate a tree-less park, and a Soviet
victory monument is nearby to mock it. Above the Brandenburg Gate floats the red flag, and here the “island of
freedom in a red sea” ends. I left Berlin on the French military train. A thunderstorm broke out at Wannsee
and lasted until we reached Potsdam station. Three Russian soldiers were standing on the platform. They had drab green uniforms
with red trimmings and a carbine slung over their shoulder. One walked within a foot of where I was leaning
out of the window and looked me in the eyes.

There’s lots of excitement around the dance floor—greeting old friends, making new ones. Part of the fun of campus parties
is the pause to enjoy a Coke. It’s delicious... refreshing, too.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N. C.

“Coke” is a registered trade-mark. © 1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
