THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

THE FREE LANCE:

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Frank Hanshaw

BUSINESS MANAGER
Jack Hobson

ASSISTANT EDITOR
John Ottley

Associate Editors
Brinkley, Daniel, Harter, Hope, Myers

Managing Editors
Hassell, J. M. Moore, Owens

We wonder if the evolution of a “New Liberalism” in America has brought our thinking to the point where it
is foolish or immature to assume an air of respect if not reverence when the Stars and Stripes are raised.
At the game, certain members of the faculty, their wives, and townspeople were observed by a member of the military
department to be chatting and otherwise creating a diversion during the raising of the flag and playing of the national
anthem. We are, it has been said, very far removed from Korea and the world in general here at Davidson,
but are we ever removed from the heritage which Old Glory symbolizes?

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

United Appeal Opens Oct. 20; Are We Going To Support It?

Charlotte and Mecklenburg County will kick off a real drive October 20, when the United Community Service campaign opens to
raise $760,000. The money will go to twenty-six charitable organizations within the county including such nationals as the American Red
Cross, American Cancer Society, American Heart Association, Salvation Army, U.S.O., etc. Local groups such as the Charlotte YMCA, Boy Scouts,
Missions, Clinics, Boys’ Clubs, and many other groups will also benefit from the drive.

It seems that a campaign of this nature is also very fitting at Davidson. Rather than having three or four
different campaigns throughout the year, why doesn't the student body get squarely behind one campaign and really make it a
success? This would not include the local YMCA Christmas gift fund, however, but would do away with all the other
solicitations. The various student organizations such as the social and honorary fraternities could put a drive of this nature way
over the top.

Many students might question whether or not the funds that we raise should be allocated to all groups in Charlotte,
or to just those organizations that held drives here last year. This would include Red Cross, Cancer, Heart, and Polio.
Although the Foundation for Infantile Paralysis will not take part in the Charlotte drive, they could be included in our
drive if we chose to support these four organizations only. Of course, if we decided to support the United Appeal,
all the organizations would benefit. You can see that there are several possibilities and it will be up to the
student body to decide. What we should all realize is that regardless of where we decide to place the money,
it will be for a worthwhile cause. Let us hear your views on this subject. We want to formulate a
plan soon and make this one of the most successful undertakings of its kind ever completed at Davidson.

A Suggestion for Improvement In New Church Operation

For the past several Sundays, we have noticed, and it has been mentioned by others, that the acoustics seem to
be bad in the rear of the sanctuary of the new church. During the service last Sunday evening, it was
difficult and sometimes impossible to understand what was being said from the front of the sanctuary due to the coughing.
We understand that several phases of church operation are still in the experimental stage. We refer to the overhead lighting
and the lighting of the pulpit. It is hoped that this matter of the acoustics will be investigated and the
possibilities of a speaker system discussed. Might we also recommend that the visiting ministers throughout the year be told of
the necessity of speaking with greater volume due to the size and construction of the sanctuary. We hope that these
suggestions will be taken constructively, for we all are very proud of our new church and want it to be
perfect in all respects.

This Is An Election Year; It’s Time We Began To Think

To live in an election year in the United States is an experience of profound singularity. It is a unique
privilege on our part to witness the democratic process and perhaps to take a part ourselves. Whether we can vote
or not, this year presents a great opportunity for us to think about, discuss, and argue the institutions and the
character of our government. Probably never before has the American electorate been offered a choice between men of such quality
and standards. Each is peculiarly equipped to face the situation of today. Both men are moderates; both have reached the
same general conclusions on the issues. While their respective experiences have been in somewhat different fields, both have given their
lives to government service. In a sense, also, both are new to politics and represent a break with the past.
A good decision, then, will all the more demand thought. Thus we run in circles when we attempt to pit
only the qualifications of the two personalities against each other. We can make valid judgments only if we include in
our analyses the parties behind the men and the needs of the country today. Again, to argue for change alone
is irrelevant, just as to argue for continuation of the present administration is irrelevant. A good decision on the voter's
part will depend a lot also on an ideal such as free enterprise or security for the common man. But
we must not be blinded by the emotional appeal of the ideal. It would be just as contrary to our
political system to ignore practical facts as to ignore the privilege of voting. For this reason, it is as much
the Southerner’s duty to remember that (Continued On Page Four)

FROM THE EDITOR'S MAILBOX:

Hon. Frank E. Hanshaw, Jr., Esquire
Editor, The Davidsonian

Dear Sir:

This being the beginning of a new school year, and therefore a time when we all should be shining up
our morals, ideals, and inherent respect for our beloved Monastery, I feel somewhat recalcitrant about broaching a subject which undoubtedly
has slurred the dignified and reverent atmosphere of our placid little curriculum. In times past, no single function has served
to inspire the Davidson gentlemen to the heights of courage and patriotism as this one has; no event has bestirred
the men to such emotional peaks where they felt the impossible could be accomplished with alacrity and dexterity. Now, and
I say this with genuine sorrow and misgivings, some malefactors have besmirched the sacredness of this institution by heaping ridicule
upon it. This flagrant misbehavior was visited upon a stately procession which emanated from the—and it is only fitting that
we stand and bow our heads for a silent tribute to that hallowed shrine behind West—the ROTC building. It was
not a fitting farewell for those students who, putting service above self, were patriotically going out for a grueling two-hour
pre-cision drill, and whose hearts were set upon achieving that unhoped-for ideal, “complete and utter perfection.” Their highest ambition was
to win a merit, a real, live merit. Pompey and Caesar went forth from Rome to great conquests, rallied and
heartened by rousing chorales of the Delphic Oracles. Richard the Lion-hearted began his Crusade to the Holy Land with the
strains of the English national anthem, “God Save the King, Queen, Jack, 10, 9,” etc., still thundering in his ears.
In the Civil War, the Rebels leaned heavily on “Dixie” for support. And during the First World War, the French
often stormed the conquered towns in search of “The Mademoiselle from Armentiers.” But I shudder to think of what those
noble ROTC cadets—those stalwart pinnacles of military manhood, those courageous defenders of the faith—must have felt when confronted by such
an unpracticed, plebeian group of performers who gathered behind the Gym. As the Corps stepped out smartly, nattily attired in
their tan uniforms and with matched white bucks and blue suede shoes, one could not help but feel it was
an injustice on the part of those misguided souls, who had not had the privilege of being invited into the
ranks, to vent their jealousy upon the Cadre by such a vulgar display of insubordination and lack of respect for
the sacred spirit of the Regiment. Many eyes were wet with tears over such humiliation. Others flickered with a deep
and well-founded indignation. Alas, the shame of it all! So now I leave this problem in your hands, Mr. Editor.
As tycoon of the mighty and powerful weekly (or weakly) called the Davidsonian, I implore you to do all in
your power to right this flagrant miscarriage of justice, and once again restore the ROTC Corps to its position of
respect, dignity and affection, which it enjoyed in bygone days. It is a case of insulted integrity which cannot be
brushed aside. We all shall await your first move with bated breath.

CAT POLL
Are you in favor of the policy by which we return to school from the Christmas holidays on the 1st
of January in time for classes on the 2nd?
YES NO Comments:
1.5% Moose Lazenby: “I'd like to spend New Year's day with the folks.”
Stuart Plummer: “I think it’s regrettable that school starts on the 2nd rather than the third, as in the past,
causing some guys to miss New Years at home.”
Dick Perkins: “It’s a gross infraction of student prerogative wholly incompatible with our civilized views. It doesn’t matter to me
because I won't be doing it.”
Harry Hicky: “No comment!”
Jim Wilson: “I would prefer to return on the 2nd because by necessity I must have my hawg jowls and
black-eyed peas which, as everyone knows, is a requirement for success in the following year.”
Bill Flynt: “I personally like to sleep late on New Year's day out of necessity.”

We feel perhaps making light of the raising of our flag is not setting the best example for men who
have not yet gained the so-called maturity of those who teach us and conduct our business enterprises.

Now that fraternity rushing is out of the picture what of it? In the first place we give a hand
to the IFC for the most workable system which has been devised in at least four years. A double process
of elimination is achieved by allowing the rushees to decide for themselves which fraternities they will honor with re-dates. This,
obviously, takes some of the strain off the fraternity members of those groups which are not so honored. We notice
several discrepancies in the method by which a boy’s name is brought up in consideration for a bid. There is
a complex conflict between ill-considered idealism and somewhat unprincipled pig-headedness. In the first case many men will stand up for
a boy of whom they have absolutely no knowledge. They will stand up because in the back of their heads
they have the notion that no man should be called guilty until so proved. That’s fine in court, but in
court there is only one defendant. The average fraternity here entertains over 100 men in three days for an hour
each night. You simply can't know them all. Secondly, many men will stand up to denounce a man of whom
they have equally as little knowledge. Love or dislike at first sight may be fine in the comics, but personalities
are being dealt with at this juncture. The result of these two extremes is that some ten or less phrases
are repeated about various men unto the point of nausea. The words “good boy,” “asset to the chapter,” “fraternity material”
are by now so familiar to us that we wince. They mean nothing whatsoever since they are applied in varying
strengths both by the man who says them and the man who hears them. We recommend no panacea. We would
like only to see in the future a little more thought put into the recommendations or fault-finding made at the
critical discussions of the rushees. What usually happens is that men listening estimate the speaker's knowledge of human nature and
vote on that rather than what they have heard of the rushee himself. We ask that the members be given
a bit more to go on than merely this estimate. Might it not be wise to compile a list of
those grossly overused descriptions and forbid a man to speak next year if he cannot say more than “We can’t
go wrong with this boy?” This is not a move to scout recruits for the Forensic Council, but only to
approach the voting on a man from a more intelligent angle. Looking at another angle of rush week and bidding,
we strongly question the practice of giving automatic bids to so-called legacies. A cry goes up: “It’s the least we
can do for old Ignatz’ boy.” Sure it’s the least which can be done for the boy. If, however, we
put ourselves in Ignatz’ shoes and ask ourselves whether we would want our son to get a bid only on
the strength of our name, perhaps we would answer in the negative. The name is fine for candidates to the
DAR, but is it quite right here at Davidson?

SOUTHERN RAILWAY SYSTEM
WASHINGTON, D. C.
