SNUBBING BAND FOR DOWNES WAS MISTAKE (See Page Two) VOLUME XL

Davidsonians In Armed Forces

PFC. JOHN (JOE) J. MILLER, AF 14430088, MFSS, Co. “A,” 1st Bn., Ft. Sam Houston, Texas. From Pineville, N. C., Joe graduated in 1951 with a B.S. Degree in Biology. While here at school he was on the track team, member of the D Club, rifle team, Sigma Delta Psi, and Phi Delta Theta. At camp he was awarded the American Spirit Honor Medal for “outstanding qualities of leadership, honor, initiative, and loyalty.”

ENSIGN JOE B. MORTON, 520 S. Ellis St., Salisbury, N. C. He has recently completed the Navy OCS at Newport, R.I. Graduating in ’51 with a B.S. degree in Business, Joe has been a member of IRC, Interfraternity Council and Alpha Tau Omega.

LIEUT. JOHN (JAY) C. ROBERTS, JR. Co. “C,” 13th Inf. Regt., 8th Division, Ft. Jackson, S. C. Before he graduated in 1951 with a degree in Business Administration, Jay had played football and baseball at Davidson. He was a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Scabbard and Blade, being president and vice president. He also was on the Interfraternity Council. His home is Gastonia, N. C.

LIEUT. JAMES D. (DAVID) WHITENER, Co. “G.” 28th Inf. Regt., 8th Division, Ft. Jackson, S.C. An A.B. graduate with a major in English, Dave was a member of Alpha Tau Omega, Male Chorus, Phi Mu Alpha, and Le Cercle Francais. His home is Monroe, N.C.

Will Operate Old Book Store During Exams

Alpha Phi Omega, the newly formed service fraternity, will operate a used book store for the student body during exams, as was held at the end of the first semester. This store is to be operated for the convenience of the students in order that they will be able to buy as well as sell used books at a cheap price and in a spot known to all students.

Unsold books are to be kept until the opening of college next fall, when the store will be reopened. It is to be located in the basement of Chambers next to the new book store. For that reason Alpha Phi Omega urges all students to save their (Continued On Page Four)

Job-Hunting Magazine To Print The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 1951

Allen Is YMCA Vice-President; No Others Are Eliminated

Seniors Get Final Chance

Next week will be one of the last weeks for those interested in obtaining positions through the college placement service. There will be a representative of the Colgate Palmolive-Peet Co., on the campus on Tuesday, April 29, who will be interested in interviewing both technical and non-technical personnel. On Wednesday, April 30th, a representative of Kendall Mills of Charlotte, will be here to interview men who would be interested in their management training program. Both of the above companies offer excellent starting pay. Also on April 29 a representative of Marshall Field Enterprises will meet in the “Y” lounge after 2 p.m., both graduating seniors interested in permanent positions and upperclassmen interested in summer work selling volumes of Childcraft, with average earnings running about $100.00 per week minus expenses. There are also open to those who hold a class “A” certificate, or expect to hold one soon, several positions. Those eligible and interested in any of the above positions can get more information or sign for an interview in room 104 Chambers. With the exception of the Marshall Fields representative in the “Y” lounge there will be no group interviews, and all scheduled interviews will be held in room 108.

S&B Officers For 1952-53 Elected: Function May 3

Frank Hanshaw was named captain of the local company of Scabbard and Blade for the coming year at the fraternity’s Wednesday night meeting. Other officers chosen were: Preston Chaney, first lieutenant; Bob Wearn, second lieutenant, and Sam Hope, first sergeant. All the new men are rising seniors and will be enrolled in their final year of ROTC next year with the exception of Hanshaw who completes his ROTC this year. Retiring officers are Harper Newbold, captain; Dick Boyd, first lieutenant; Kirk Oglesby, second lieutenant, and Sib Dorton, first sergeant. The society will hold its spring function at Erwin Lodge on May 3 to include a combination of weiner roast, square dance and hayride.

Explain Symbols In College Church

As the College Church nears completion and the public gets a peek at its interior, questions have been raised over the symbolism of the chancel furniture used in the edifice. Explanations were made by Dr. Cunningham this week. The divided chancel consists of the pulpit and lectern, the latter being the rostrum from which the Scripture is read. Symbols and meanings on the pulpit include: Wheat, Bread of Life; Lily, Purity and Innocence; Olive Branch, Peace; Vine, Our Savior; Lyre, Sacred Music; and the Torch, Nativity of our Lord. The Lectern contains three symbols—the Messianic Rose, Love; Butterfly, Resurrection; and Palms, Victorious Christian's reward in afterlife. The Descending Dove on the communion table signifies the Holy Spirit. The Font is adorned with the Eagle, St. John; the Scallop Shell, Holy Baptism; Descending Dove, the Holy Spirit, and the Five-pointed Star, Epiphany. Contractors Thompson and Street have requested that the church be visited only during working hours, as it must be closed in the workmen’s absence. Costing close to $800,000 at present, the newest campus structure is scheduled for dedication at the baccalaureate sermon of June 2.

Mac Bulgin’s Vereen Bell prize-winning story “The Latin Scholar,” will be published as a featured article in the forthcoming Scripts ‘n Pranks. The award, announced Thursday, brings Bulgin a $50 cash stipulation. The Vereen Bell contest gives this honor each year to the author of the outstanding piece of creative writing in memory of Vereen M. Bell who was graduated from Davidson in '32. He became a highly successful novelist before losing his life while a naval lieutenant in the Second Battle of the Philippine Sea (1944). Dr. James Southall Wilson made the official presentation, having served as final judge in the contest. In making the presentation he took a moment to speak on the fact that this award furnishes “a great opportunity both for the remembrance of an eminent writer and for the reward to a promising literary mind. It is a living monument rather than one of stone or marble.” When contacted after the award had been presented, Bulgin stated that he was “very surprised” and smilingly commented that the idea for his MS had originally come to him while he was being forced to work in a corn field. (The story itself involves a young man working in a patch of corn.) He had been thinking it over for four or five months before completing his final draft. Dr. Wilson said that “The Latin Scholar,” which is the tragedy of an individual swept away in the flowing tide of his environment, succeeded in its intentions, in that it “gives a sense of frustration that still has satisfaction of its own inspiration.” Dr. Wilson stated that there were five very excellent papers in the final judging. A play by Dick Perkins, he said, “showed great skill in dialogue. I feel that if Mr. Perkins keeps on writing, especially in the field of drama, he may someday be a success.” Dr. Wilson said he believes that young men’s writings so often are unconscious repetition of what they have read. Successful writing comes when one can get himself into the work and can develop a technique of easily expressing himself.

Davidsonian Gets Honor Mention On Safety Edition

Honorable mention for editorial excellence in the 1951 College Newspaper Contest on Safe Driving has been awarded The Davidsonian, it was announced this week by James S. Kemper, chairman of the contest, sponsored by the Lumbermen’s Mutual Casualty Company. The editorials—“Dear Governor: This One’s Been Forgotten,” and “Highway 21 Continues Its Toll Awaiting Overdue Repairs”—published in the December 14 issue, were to direct the attention of Governor Kerr Scott’s road-building and repairing regime to the deplorable state of U. S. 21 between Charlotte and Davidson. The issue also carried a six-photograph layout of hazardous conditions on the highway, an informative feature on the accident total on the road, and a safety cartoon by Don Mahy. Winner of the over-all safety effort by the paper for non-dailies was The Transcript, Ohio Wesleyan. Of fifteen honorable mention awards, The Davidsonian placed sixth. Last year the paper finished in second place among non-dailies, winning a prize of $250.

Freshmen Still In Race For Sec.-Treas. Remaining Y Men Will Run Monday

Herschel Allen, Monticello, Ga., was elected first vice president of the Y, in the voting this morning. From the list of John Bremer, Bob Mitchell, Moody Smith and Hallete Ward, the other vice president will be elected. Voting in the race for the office has narrowed theNumber of candidates to five and is expected to continue next week. Those left are: Charles Cousar, Roy Davis, Floyd Feeney, Dick Gregory, and Leighton McCutcheon. Herschel, a Phi Delt, is a member of the baseball team. In his freshman year, he was a quarterback on the frosh football team and on the strength of this became a Beaver Club member. Speeches by Stuart Plummer and Hubert Cannon, the two remaining nominees for the office of President of the Y, are to be in Monday's chapel. Also on the Monday chapel agenda will be the speeches by the candidates for the Editor of the Davidsonian. As it is stated elsewhere on this page, it is not now known who the candidates for this post are. The two men who emerged from the initial balloting for the Y Presidency on Thursday are Hubert Cannon and Stuart Plummer. Cannon, Phi Gam from Lancaster, Bulletin At presstime the Publications Board had not yet made its official nominations for the editorship of the “Davidsonian,” Bill Adams, chairman of the board has announced. S. C., is completing this year his term of office as second vice president of the Y in charge of forums. A past president of his fraternity, Hubert has also been vice president of Eumanean Literary Society, and manager of the debating team. A pre-law student, he is doing honors work in history. Cannon plans for this summer several months of work in France in a work camp sponsored by the World Council of Churches. Plummer hails from Ashe- (Continued On Page Four) PICKING THE CHAMPS “sg oO a F | T ' 7 A LOOK AT” RUTH’S PROGRAM (See Page Two) NUMBER TWENTY-THREE While little comment was forthcoming from the The Army team which conducted the annual Spring Inspection of the ROTC department this week, Company A was named the best drilled company in the parade by reviewing officers. Shown above inspecting the third platoon of A Company is Maj. Jack L. Lerner, a member of the three-man inspecting team. At left, behind Maj. Lerner is Cadet Captain C. D. Rhodes, company commander, and at extreme left is Cadet Lieutenant Robert Inman, platoon leader of the third platoon—(Photo by Andy Simons.) ULES Is Planning Bonus Film Night With New Movies The United Literary Film Society will present a bonus program at 7:30 on Friday night, May 2. A series of outstanding documentary films are scheduled to be shown, including the prize-winning “River” of Pere Lorentz. This film, made in 1937, was one of the first short informative movies to demonstrate that skillful directing and camera works can make a documentary as dramatic and expressive as the costliest Hollywood product. The success of well-made films like “The River,” soon led to the adoption of the popular semi-documentary technique in Hollywood. “River” dramatizes moods of the mighty Mississippi and brings to life the social problems it creates as well as the many valuable tasks it performs. A special score has been composed for the film by Virgil Thompson. The program also includes a March of Time film entitled “The New South.” It depicts the rapidly changing social scene of the South brought about after the Civil War and in the first half of the twentieth century. Two special films on Sweden will be shown: “Darlane Heart of Sweden,” and “Life in Stockholm.” The first depicts costumes, customs and handicrafts in one of Sweden's most colorful provinces. The second affords an intimate glimpse into the capital of “The Well-Stocked Cellar.” Showing these documentary and news films will be the last activity of ULFS this school year. The joint literary society committee was headed by Stuart Shippey. The many R.O.T.C. Inspectors Say Nothing But Leave Well-Pleased Colonel Frank G. Davis, head of the inspecting team that visited the Davidson ROTC unit last Tuesday, was unable to give any official word as to the results of the inspection due to Army Regulations which call for the findings to be reported directly to Headquarters of the Third Army. The Colonel did express himself off the record as being favorably impressed with all that he saw. The official results of the inspection will not be known until about the first of June. During their tour of the college, the officers and their wives, paid calls on college authorities, inspected 16 classes, the administration, the supply function, facilities, training progress, general discipline, efficiency of the Army personnel here and the cadet drill and parade period Tuesday afternoon. Following the Tuesday afternoon drill and parade, an informal tea was held in the Guest House by the officers of the ROTC Department and their wives in honor of the three inspecting officers, of Lt. Col. and Mrs. Ernest H. Davis, who recently reported for duty here, and of the Senior ROTC Class. In addition to the Senior ROTC Class itself, college officials and wives and heads of academic departments and wives were invited. Episcopalians Hold State Retreat Here The Davidson College Canterbury Club will be host to the regional Canterbury retreat to be held at Erwin Lodge this Sunday, April 27. Episcopal students, men and women, from every college in North Carolina, Negro and white, are expected to join the Davidson students in this period of worship. The Davidson chapter was appointed to have the meeting by the president of the State Canterbury Commission in Chapel Hill. Registration will take place in Philanthropic Hall from 10:00 to 10:45 a.m. Following this there will be a celebration of Holy Communion outdoors at Erwin Lodge. Lunch will be served at 12 noon. The retreat itself will begin at 1:00 and last until 5:00 at Erwin Lodge. It will end at 5:30 with a chicken dinner at the lodge. A registration fee of $1.00 will cover the cost of both meals. Al Ballinger is president of the Davidson Canterbury Club. 180 Athletes Will Seniors Name Have Sports Feed Committees Nearly 180 Davidson athletes who have completed the season as members of their respective teams will be treated to a giant banquet in Johnston Gym, May 12, it has been announced by Athletic Director Paul K. Scott. Confirmation of the guest speaker has not been made and Scott was unable to release that news at this time. This year’s banquet will be the second of its kind to be (Continued On Page Four) Masquers Hard Labor Produces Biggest Theatrical Operation Ever Presented By Davidson College Group When the curtain rises tonight on the Red and Black Masquers’ Fine Arts Week Production of “Macbeth,” many hours of labor will be culminated in the biggest production ever undertaken by a Davidson dramatic group. The play, which has been in rehearsal since late March, features a cast of over 20 and requires a great many scene and lighting changes. Heading the cast in the title role of “Macbeth” is Dick Perkins who last year appeared as Brutus in “Julius Caesar.” Dick is a junior and before coming to Davidson served in the army with a special services unit at Fort Jackson where he did sports announcing for the post radio station. Dick is president of his social fraternity Alpha Tau Omega, a member of the football team and vice president of Alpha Psi Omega national honorary dramatic fraternity. Playing opposite Dick as Lady Macbeth is Mrs. Mary Lou Daggy who is making her first appearance on the Davidson stage although she has appeared in numerous college and little theatre productions. Mrs. Daggy has taken over Mrs. Holly's post as Dean Bailey’s secretary and this along with her family really keeps her busy. Bob Crutchfield makes a return appearance on the Davidson stage to play the part of Malcolm, the eldest son of King Duncan. Bob last year appeared in “Julius Caesar” and since then has confined his dramatic work to doing make-up. Howard Proctor continues his busy dramatic life as he plays the role of Duncan, the ill-fated King of Scotland. Howard has appeared in all three productions this year and just last week did a skit in the D-Club Foolies. Bill Phifer plays the king's other son Donalbain and also appears in the final scenes as Young Siward. Vance Mizelle returns to create the role of the Lord Ross and does his usual fine job. Vance makes this his fourth role this year, a record also held by Tad Currie who plays Macduff. Both Vance and Tad are officers in the Masquers and Alpha Psi Omega. George Walker makes his Davidson debut as the faithful Banquo and has been doing an A-1 job. Bill Gordon also makes his debut as the Lord Lennox. Mac Doubles and Sandy McGeachy portray the murderers as well as several other minor roles. Mrs. Martha Lee Hull returns to the stage after her role in Ten Little Indians to play the part of Lady Macduff and Bob Mims plays her son. Betty Bradley and Bob Dunbar play the Gentlewoman and the Doctor in the famous sleepwalking scene. Others in the cast include Luther Yaun, Tom Dove and Dick Williams as the witches; Vereen Bell, Paul Alexander, Martin McGirt and Frank Renfro as messengers. The play is being directed by Prof. Raymond W. Tyson of the Speech Department. Before coming to Davidson Prof. Tyson taught at Columbia University and did radio work in New York. He has also been connected with the Cleveland Playhouse and played Shakespeare with the Globe Theatre. Heading the stage crew is Tad Currie who is once again acting as assistant director and technical director. Tad designed (Continued On Page Four) For Class Day Six committees for pre-graduation activities have been named for the Senior Class this week by President Tom Stockton. Committees named were: Entertainment Committee—Ansley Moses and Charlie Roper. Flag Committee—Bill Hart and Jack Turner. Senior-Faculty Feed Committee—Charlie Herion, chairman; Hooper Alexander, Al Cain, P. W. Miles, Morgan Bailey. Senior-Faculty Day Committee—Wallace Abbott, chairman; Horace Ball, Carol Camp, Allan Groseclose. Cap and Gown Committee—Stuart Shippey, chairman; Bill Neal, Chick Howe, Bob Murray, Jack Stevenson, Gerry Smith. Bucks (Class Dues) Committee—Bill Buckey, chairman; Jim McFarland, Bill Brooks, Ralph Rob- (Continued On Page Four) Foolies Net $175; Cash To Aid Charity Approximately 600 people paid nearly $175 last Friday night to view the “D” Club Foolies. President Ham Wade indicated that this money would be given to a charity which has not yet been designated. “D” Club activities for the remainder of the year include participation in the sports banquet and the election of officers for next year. Wade said that the election would be held before the banquet.