FEMININE READERS ATTACK PHILOSOPHER (See Page Two) VOLUME XL The Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, MAY 16, 1952 Smith and Proctor Named To Posts The general student body elections will continue next week with the list of candidates lowered, but with only one man, Moody Smith, elected. Moody's post is that of a Y board member. For athletic council representative, Gene Craven and Dick Perkins are left, Dick Kelly having been eliminated in this morning's voting. The other candidates who are left for the Y Board are Herschel Allen, Buddy Lamon, Will Terry, Bob Henry, and Dick Perkins. Howard Proctor was elected earlier in the week to the post of head cheerleader for next year. A summary of all the elections that have been held thus far and their results is in order. Summarizing first by student council officers, then by the classes, a short resume of the recent electoral events on the campus will follow. Jack Ruth was the first man selected in the voting and this was to the highest campus office, that of president of the student body. The vice-presidents are Lyman Kiser and Max Devane. For secretary-treasurer there is Leighton McCutchen. The president of the Y for next year is Hubert Cannon and his vice presidents are Herschel Allen and Bob Mitchell. The names of the members of the Y Board of Directors are presently being decided. Bucky Erwin is president of the senior class with Dave Robinson and Lefty Vance as vice-presidents. Stuart Plummer has been named secretary-treasurer of that class. Freshman Adviser is Larry Dagenhart. Stuart Plummer, Mitchell Patton, Bob Henry, and Lefty Vance are the student council representatives. (Continued On Page Four) Group Writes Student Picks In New Series The committee on the Lecture Series for the school year 1952-’53 has acted in compliance with the recent poll to obtain the student body’s preferences for celebrities for the coming year. The committee is trying to book Charles Laughton for a lecture, but it expresses doubt that he will be available for personal appearances next year. Robert Frost, the most popular literary figure on the recent poll, may be available for an appearance here next year. Frost, who spoke at Chapel Hill this year, was up to his usual high standard in his appearance there. The committee states that it is still considering Senator Paul Douglas of Illinois, Ogden Nash, and Sir Hubert Wilkins, an arctic explorer, for lectures. William and Emily Muir, a painter and sculptor team, may be available for a campus visit of two days during the coming fall. In the course of the two days, they would hold at least one public lecture. Biggs To Play Church Organ On CBS Radio Renowned concert organist E. Power Biggs will play a composition by Professor Harold Frantz, of the college music department, on his weekly radio program, Sunday, June 1. The program, which will be played on the Schlicker organ in the new Davidson College Church, will be carried on a nation-wide broadcast by CBS. In a letter to Professor Frantz this week, Mr. Biggs said that he was delighted to have the opportunity of playing this work. The composition, a Prelude on the 110th Psalm Tune, was written by Professor Frantz for the college vespers last October 28, in commemoration of the 400th anniversary of the Geneva Psalter of 1551. Mr. Biggs also indicated his interest in the Festival Piece for Organ and Brass, which was written by Professor Frantz for the 1952 Fine Arts Festival and performed by the Davidson College Brass Ensemble under the direction of Professor Kenneth Moore. Mr. Biggs stated that this work may possibly be performed on a later broadcast from Cambridge, Mass., where his program usually originates. Sigma Chis Elect Blatt President The officers in the Sigma Chi fraternity for 1952-53, which were elected in the recent meeting of the social fraternity, are: President, Phil Blatt; vice-president, Phil Sellars; secretary, Norman Johnson; treasurer, Stuart Plummer. Archibald Rutledge Will Speak At Commencement On June 2 The long-awaited opening of the College Church will be commemorated by the baccalaureate sermon on Sunday morning, June 1. A last month drive by those working on the grounds is assuring a near-completed appearance around the building in time for graduation. Shown in the photo are: Dr. J. R. Cunningham, Dr. Carl Pritchett, Dr. J. McDowell Richards, Archibald Rutledge, and Dr. James A. Jones. Dedication For College Church Slated For June 1 The new Davidson College Presbyterian Church will be formally dedicated at the baccalaureate service on Sunday, June 1, 1952. Dr. John R. Cunningham, President of Davidson College, will preside over the service which will start at eleven o'clock Sunday morning. The actual dedication will be in charge of Dr. C. R. Pritchett, minister of the church. Rev. J. McDowell Richards, D.D., President of the Board of Trustees of Davidson College, will preach the baccalaureate sermon. Members of the student body, of the church congregation, parents, and friends will participate in the service. At 4:30 p.m., on June 1, a Service of Thanksgiving and Commitment will be held in the new church. Representatives of the Synods of North Carolina and Florida, moderators of the thirteen presbyteries controlling the college, and ministers of all North Carolina Presbyterian churches have been invited. James A. Jones, D.D., minister of the Meyers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, will preach at the afternoon service. Representatives of the controlling synods, of the Division of Higher Education of the Presbyterian Church, of the Davidson College Alumni Association, and of the local church will speak briefly. The Davidson College Male Chorus will sing at both services. Notices Reservations are being taken for parents of graduates to stay in Duke Dormitory during commencement. Those boys who are going to summer school should sign up for the room which they will want in either West or Watts dormitories. These will be the only two dorms open this summer and if a student has any preference he should sign up immediately. Medals Handed Out As ROTC Presents Final Parade The last weekly parades and drill culminated in a grand finale that was staged in honor of the Ambassador to the U.S. from Argentina, El Doctor Hipolito Jesus Paz, as well as the graduating senior ROTC men.Above is the Ambassador flanked by President Cunningham, with the staff in the background saluting as the lead company goes by the reviewing stand. Of Argentine Ambassador, Senior Classmen The ROTC Corps held a parade last Tuesday to climax the year's training. In honor of the Ambassador to the United States from Argentina, El Doctor Hipolito Jesus Paz, it also commemorated the Senior ROTC Class and those cadets winning awards for outstanding performance this year. Accompanied by a prominent Statesville businessman, Mr. Hugh Mitchell, a member of the American Legion, and escort, the Ambassador reviewed the corps and watched the presentation of awards. The medal for the most outstanding cadet in the Senior ROTC Class was awarded to Cadet Colonel Peter G. Kalogtidis, that for the outstanding company commander to Captain Wallace R. Perkins, and that for the outstanding platoon commander to Cadet (Continued On Page Four)

Mr. Archibald Rutledge, Poet Laureate of South Carolina, will make the commencement address at that time. Mr. Rutledge has lectured here several times in years past, telling many anecdotes and humorous tales, in which he is very talented. He comes to Davidson from his old and very famous plantation Hampton Plantation in South Carolina. His ancestors have been famous southerners for the last two hundred years. This service will end the Commencement Exercises for the year. Two Army officers will have left, and three new officers arrived here before the next school year. Lt. James L. Ballard, PMS&T, has been ordered to California for six months and then has been assigned to the American military mission in Caracas, Venezuela. Captain Hull, a reserve officer, will revert to inactive status about the first of September; he plans to return to teaching school in Hillsboro, Illinois. Lt. Col. Davis, here now, will be the new PMS&T. Captain Walter Blanton, a recent grad- (Continued On Page Four)

BY PROCLAMATION: BAREFOOT DAY SEES CAMPUS GO NATIVE

Tuesday, the twentieth of May, has been declared Barefoot Day by lenience of those who declare such things and all customs, regulations, mores and eccentricities normally associated with the observance of such occasion, will be unscrupulously followed by faculty, administration, and students; furthermore, everybody will go barefoot. This declaration is not without justification and rationalization; furthermore, there’s a reason for it. Five, in fact. To wit, Barefoot Day is declared: 1) as evidence of our maturity; 2) To help the farmers, since it is sure to rain if such an occasion has been planned; 3) To save embarrassment to ROTC students who have turned in the ROTC shoes they have been wearing all year by making everyone look the same; 4) To squash ants; 5) To make a good impression on visitors. Furthermore, this significant occasion is duly proclaimed by the following:

PROCLAMATION

Whereas, nature in her kindness has sent us the season of spring again, and Whereas, many human beings at one time or another experience a back-to-nature urge, and Whereas, it is well for young men becoming burdened with the responsibilities of modern living to remember from time to time the carefree days of childhood, and Whereas, the faculty has become accustomed to looking forward to this annual treat of getting a view of the students’ feet, I, therefore, by what authority I do not know, hereby designate Tuesday, May 20, 1952, as STUDENT BAREFOOT DAY on the Davidson campus.

JOHN C. BAILEY, JR. Dean of Students.

Early Hart, and H. N. Cannon. The tapping followed a talk by Mr. John Payne of the Public Relations Department, who spoke on the Davidson of yesterday and that of today, bringing out the need for such an organization as ODK in the awakening of the student body. ODK has three purposes. The first is to recognize those who have attained a high standard of efficiency in collegiate activities; the second is to bring together the most representative men in all phases of collegiate life; and the third is to bring together members of the faculty and student body of the institution on a basis of mutual interest and understanding. The society stresses five major phases of campus life, including achievement in scholarship, athletics, social and religious affairs, publications, speech, music, and dramatic arts. In accordance with scholarship, it is necessary for every candidate for ODK to be in the upper thirty-five percent of his class. Emphasis is placed on the development of a well-rounded man, and the five indispensable qualifications for membership are character, leadership and service in campus life, scholarship, fellowship, and consecration to democratic ideals. (Continued On Page Four)

Frats Answer No

Davidson's fraternities last voted down the IFC proposal to change the Rush Week schedule, it was announced by Lawrence Erwin, IFC president. The new proposal would have Rush Week begin the last two days of orientation, thereby having only three rush days during regular class days. Since this plan was not adopted, the same plan that has been used in the past will be in effect. Rush Week will begin on Monday, September 22, and run through Friday, September 26. Confirmation of dates will be on Monday afternoon and rushing will begin with three dates Monday and Tuesday nights, and five dates Wednesday—two in the afternoon and three at night. On Thursday morning, date cards will again be issued and there will be three dates Thursday and Friday nights. Confirmation for the last two days will be on Thursday afternoon. Pledging (Continued on Page Four)

Faculty Lineup Is Changing Again

The students, or perhaps the professors, are getting a break next year as seven of the latter august group are leaving for other parts next year. (Continued On Page Four)

Profs Win Again In Near Shut-Out

By HUNTER STRADER

This week the faculty again proved its athletic superiority over the best that the graduating class could offer in three out of four events. This was the usual result of Davidson College’s annual Senior-Faculty Day, for the professors have proved themselves perennial champions on the athletic field. In the golf match, the faculty doubled the seniors’ score, winning by 26-13. Team scores for the afternoon action were as follows: White and Jones over Rhodes and Groseclose, 8½ to ½; Carr and Ballenger over Parker and Fetzer, 6½ to 2½; McGavock and Davis over Brooks and Smith, 9 to 0; Sutton and Talbert over Woods and Workman, 6 to 3. The military was much in the limelight on the links as Major Jones and Lt. Col. Davis teamed with White and McGavock to pile up an imposing score that more than made up (Continued On Page Four)

Eberhardt Tribe To Stampede West

Once again the call of faraway places has beckoned to Dr. Charles R. Eberhardt. This summer the Bible professor is planning a trip through the western part of our country, but not alone. His entire family will accompany him in an aluminum “tent” which is actually a shell made up to Dr. Eberhardt’s specifications. The Eberhardts will leave Davidson on June 5 and travel to New York where they will spend a few days. They plan to leave New York on June 10 and take a northern route to the West, through the upper northern states. The trip is not one entirely of pleasure, for Dr. Eberhardt will stop at seminaries and colleges along the way. While in Michigan the Eberhardts will be the guests of Dr. George A. Buttrick, who delivered the baccalaureate address at Davidson three years ago. Dr. Eberhardt stressed that he and his family would not stop at the “conventional” tourist spots, although Little Big Horn, Custer’s last stand, and Yosemite National Park are on his list. While on the West Coast, Dr. Eberhardt will fill several speaking engagements. Sometime in August the Eberhardts will leave the coast to return to their home. They will come East via a southern route so as to see that part of the country which they missed on the way to the West.