PAGE FOUR

BEAVER CLUB: Sr. Auction Mon; 14 New Members

Herschel Allen was elected president of the Beaver Club at its meeting Monday night. At this meeting, which saw the admittance of fourteen new members, Max DeVane and Charlie Cousar were elected vice president and secretary-treasurer respectively. At this meeting, it was decided to hold the senior auction next Monday night. The auction will be led by Dick Perkins and Bill McNeely, and is to be held at 8:30. A definite place for it has not been decided as yet. New members of the group include: Sophomores - G. Keith and G. Crone; freshmen - D. Davis, J. King, F. Feeney, J. Bennett, C. Cousar, F. Mitchener, L. Keesler, E. Weeks, J. Thacker, H. Brown, S. Reams, and C. Clark.

Officers Named; Musicians Chosen

Officers for the Concert Band and Phi Mu Alpha, the music fraternity, have been announced. President of the latter and also secretary of the band is Bill Crymes. Vice President of both is Grier Williams, and secretary of the fraternity is Bill Porter. Treasurer of the latter is Leonard Geiger, while Raymond Lynch is business manager of the Concert Band.

FRATS ANSWER NO.... (Continued From Page One)

...will be from 2 o'clock to 3:30 Saturday afternoon. Several new by-laws have been passed which prohibit the getting of dates during the orientation period and the sending of rush week date cards until August 1. However, rush chairmen may correspond with rushees previous to that date. Dates may be obtained between the end of Orientation Week and the end of the confirmation hour. Erwin also announced that the dance policy will be similar to the one that was used this year. The three dances will have three name bands, membership tickets being sold for each of the three. The possibility of concerts by other bands is being considered,” Lawrence remarked.

ROTC Rifles

Davidson came through in good standing in the annual ROTC National Intercollegiate Rifle Match held last March by tying as the third highest team in the Third Army. The team had five men who distinguished themselves. They were W. W. Abbott, R. C. Garrison, A. D. Groseclose, W. L. Morris, and H. S. Ward. The competition was composed of teams from the Army, Navy, and Air Force ROTC units all over the country, and the winner was the University of San Francisco, in California.

PROFS WIN AGAIN... (Continued From Page One)

...for the pair losing faculty twosomes. In tennis, four out of five matches were captured by the faculty netmen. Probably the hardest fought match was the Johnston and McCutchan vs. Wade and Clark duel. After fighting hard to overcome a 4-5 deficit in games in the first set and finally winning, 8-6, the faculty team faded from a 3-1 lead in the second set and finally lost 4-6. Not to be outdone, however, they came back to grab the last set and their match 6-4. Other scores in the tennis matches were: Causey and G. Martin over Coleman and Tucker, 6-4, 3-6; Stockton and Stockton over Morton and Guerrant, 6-8, 6-4, 6-2; Wilson and Purcell over Fitzgerald and Shippey, 6-4, 6-4; Rice and Baird over Murray and Warren, 6-1, 6-1.

The only bright spot for the class of '52 came in volleyball when they soundly trounced the faculty 21-3 and 21-4. The seniors' overall height proved too much for an apparently inexperienced faculty team that showed spirit, if not ability. Playing for the seniors were Abbott, Ballew, Camp, Davis, Goley, Oglesby, Robinson, Whitfield, and Williams; for the faculty were Baird, Ballard, Bauman, Chandler, Gripe, J. Martin, Rice, Spencer, and Trakas.

On the softball diamond, the seniors saw an eight-run lead melt before a heavy barrage of hits and a considerable number of miscues to give the “retreads” a 13-12 victory in the eleventh inning. Boyd Baird's grand slam homer in the eighth tied it up, and Perry Daniels’ wild pitch allowed Lt. Col. Ballard to come home with the winning tally in the fatal eleventh.

Congratulations and Best Wishes to the Class of '52

Look Reveals Progress in Student Union

MEDALS HANDED OUT (Continued From Page One)

2nd Lt. William L. Brooks. The Scabbard and Blade medal for the most outstanding cadet in the Junior Class was awarded to Cadet Harry V. Lamon, that for the best-drilled cadet in the Sophomore Class to Cadet James E. Brading, and that for the outstanding cadet in the Freshman Class to Cadet Zeb. B. Bradford. The Medal of the American Legion for the best-drilled member of the Freshman Class was awarded to Cadet G. M. Cannon. The ROTC Band played the four flourishes by which an ambassador is honored, the Argentine national anthem, and then our own national anthem. After the parade, the Ambassador was given a coffee hour in the Quadwranglers Room by the members of Sigma Delta Pi, the national Spanish fraternity.

Club Officers Elected In Meet

The Red & Black Masquers announced the initiation of seven new members recently. They are: C. L. Burnett, D. F. Pilkenton, A. G. Griffin, R. E. Mims, L. B. Yaun, W. N. Gordon, and A. Baucomb. Officers for the coming year are Tad Currie, president; Courtney Hill, vice president; Howard Proctor, secretary, and Bill Crymes, treasurer.

ODK TAPS... (Continued From Page One)

Professor A. G. Griffin has been active in town work for many years, being a past president of the Lions Club and an active member of the Men's Bible Class. Kirk Oglesby is a past president of the Kappa Sigma fraternity, a member of the “D” Club and Scabbard and Blade, and was one of the line coaches for the football team this year. During this spring, he was elected president of the elections board. Francis Pepper, a member of Beta Theta Pi, is a member of Who's Who, the Student Council, the Interfraternity Council, Scabbard and Blade, and the “D” Club. This past year he was head cheerleader for the college teams. Tony Tucker, a member of Kappa Alpha, is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Philanthropic Literary Society, of which he was president, Scabbard and Blade, and the YMCA Cabinet, in which he was in charge of chapel programs. Bill Buckey is another Kappa Alpha. He is a member of Who's Who, the YMCA Cabinet, in which he was social chairman, the Student Council and Philanthropic Literary Society. This year he served as Freshman Adviser. Sib Dorton, Pi Kappa Phi president this past year, has been president of both the Football and Concert Bands, a member of Phi Mu Alpha and Scabbard and Blade. He is a Distinguished Military Student. Bob Henry is the new president of Kappa Alpha and captain of both the cross country and track teams. He is a member of next year’s “Y” Cabinet. Larry Dagenhart, from Fayetteville, N. C., is a Kappa Sig and a member of Eumanean Literary Society. This year he was active in Scabbard and Blade and in Sigma Upsilon. Frank Hanshaw is the new president of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity and the new editor of The Davidsonian. He is a member of Scabbard and Blade, being the commanding officer of that group for next year. Hubert Cannon is the new president of the “Y” and has been on the “Y” Cabinet as Forums chairman last year. He is a past president of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity and a member of...Eumanean Literary Society. THE DAVIDSONIAN SIGMA UPSILON: Bulgin President; Seven Initiated

At the meeting last Monday, members of Sigma Upsilon announced the initiation of seven new pledges to that order. Sigma Upsilon is an honorary fraternity of literary-minded students which meets with members of the faculty to discuss, criticize, and evaluate pieces of art that the members contribute. Restricted to junior and senior membership, it is the only organization which combines students and faculty at its meetings. Those who were chosen to be initiated are Don Mahy, Jim Moore, John Ottley, Frank Hanshaw, T. K. MacDonald, Rich Steck, and George Brinkley. The new officers who will serve in their new capacities next year are Mac Bulgin, president; Tom Abel, vice president; and Alden Williams, secretary-treasurer. Last Monday's meeting was the annual faculty-sponsored supper as well as initiation. Even as new features were incorporated into the initiation ceremony, so the old men proved themselves more than capable of concocting a delicious menu. It was an occasion that was enjoyed by all attending.

YMCA Handbook Edited By Myers

Mike Myers, newly elected editor of Scripts ’N Pranks, has been selected for editorship of the Wildcat Handbook. The selection was made some days ago but the announcement has not been forthcoming because of the wait for the completion of the staff. John Maynard took the second honors as assistant editor and Charlie Hasty and Dick Roper will serve as business manager and sports editor. The art editor was not announced, but outside help in that field was mentioned. The messages of welcome sent to the freshmen in the handbook will receive a face-lifting, along with the cover colors. At this time the dedication and the time of publication are not known.

“D” CLUB: Officers Named For 1952-1953

Clay Evatt, a rising senior from Charleston, S. C., was elected president of the “D” Club for the coming year. Arnold Whisnant was named vice president in balloting, and Floyd Feeney, secretary-treasurer. In the meeting, outgoing President Ham Wade was given an ovation for his outstanding work this year. Clay is a member of the football team and has recently been elected president of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. Whisnant, who earned letters this year in football and baseball, is a Pi Kapp from Morganton, N. C. He is also a rising senior. Feeney is a freshman from Charlotte, a Kappa Sig, and a member of the cross-country team. These three succeeded Ham Wade, president; Ken Taylor, vice-president; and Jack Ruth, secretary-treasurer.

ROTC LOSES TWO... (Continued From Page One)

A graduate of the Infantry School, Fort Benning, Georgia, will report here in June as Captain Hull’s replacement. First Lt. Norman L. Williamson, here now, will be the fifth officer next year. There have been no indications given to the PMS&T to date that any of the present group of six enlisted men on duty here will be replaced.

On May 12, by the flaming indignation which united many of his former friends with his foes, politically speaking, barbecued by the members of the Eumanean Literary Society. The impeachment ended a period of demagoguery and corruption never before envisaged on the Davidson campus. By comparison, Tammany Hall stands out as a very saint to the corruption, putridity, and subterfuge of Eu Hall. “Iron Pete” and his henchmen, “Mad Jack” Hunter, “Piedmont” Davidson, and “Rough Element” Daniel, plotted to fertilize their seeds of corruption with an innocent victim of their already notorious Kappa Kappa (KKK). “Whereby the said ‘Iron Pete’ Kalagralsnoot is guilty of willful neglect of duty, incompetency, corruption in office, and of an offense involving moral turpitude,” as these words resounded from the lips of the president-elect, “Honest Bob” Walker, Eu Hall palpitated with shouts of “oust the usurpers,” “Ging the Creek,” “Hungawa,” and various other victory cries. Twenty-two charges, running all the way from simple malfeasance to despotism and tyranny, were brought against “Iron Pete.” It was charged that he had given special commission to an irresponsible person (his gunman), “Toughie Boy” Daniel. Six separate charges of personal graft were made; nine charges involving tyranny and despotism were issued, growing out of his attempt to overthrow the Eu Society through bribery by the Philanthropic Society. Five were for the declaration of martial law, well knowing that no state of insurrection or rebellion existed. Another charge was brought against “Iron Pete” for preventing, by the use of his gunmen, the meeting of a grand jury called to investigate his record. Chief of all was the charge for using militia and gunmen in his attempt to prevent the election which repudiated him so successfully. “Oral” Irvin, “Leech” Lamon, and “Alcatraz” Alexander comprise the Eu Investigation Committee which has instructions to investigate further the real connection between “Mad Jack” Hunter, “Toughie Boy” Daniel, “Piedmont” Davidson, and “Iron Pete” Kalagralsnoot. It is believed that KKK and Phi Hall were in cahoots to undermine the Eumanean Literary Society with “Iron Pete” as a nucleus for bribery from Phi Hall and gunmen from KKK. It seems that “George,” alias “Beowulf,” has skipped the country. His connection with KKK and Phi Hall has not been revealed; but it is known, however, that he has blazed a trail of brutality, abuse, and despotism in the canine world. “Honest Bob,” a veritable product of Eberhardism, was sworn into office after “Iron Pete” had been barbecued. As the Eu members shouted “pucha, pukka, pakka” (Anglo-Indian for well cooked), the guardian spirit of clean government once again reigned in Eu Hall. “Iron Pete” plans to retire to Florida as ambassador.

FACULTY LINE-UP... (Continued From Page One)

Vacancies in the professorial roster touch seven different departments and so will be felt throughout the departmental system. Those leaving are: Professors Abernethy, Ballard, Blythe, Frantz, Gresham, and Guerrant. There are only two definite replacements for these men so far. These are: For Gresham, Peter Tierney, Jr., and for Ballard, Lt. Col. Davis. In the case of the other men, there is no announcement on who will take their places, the Dean of the Faculty has said.

SMITH AND PROCTOR... (Continued From Page One)

In the rising junior class, officers are: President, Charlie Johnson; vice president, Don Mahy; secretary-treasurer, Bill Hood. A long list of names is now being narrowed to the needed two for the representatives, council representatives. Representing the rising sophomore class are: President, Charlie Cousar; vice president, Austin Strand; secretary-treasurer, Frank Mitchener, and the student government representative has not been elected. The staffs of the campus publications have not been completed as yet but the positions of editor and business manager have been selected for each. Scripts 'N Pranks is to be edited by Mike Myers, with business manager Jim Cannon. Frank Hanshaw is the editor of the Davidsonian, and Jack Hobson is business manager. Mitchell Patton is next year’s editor of Quips and Cranks and Dave Robinson is the business manager for the yearbook.