Harriers Entertain W & L While JV Runs Pfeiffer

By BILL SLEDGE

Coach Pete Whittle’s cross country team will still be looking for their first win of the season again this afternoon against Washington & Lee over the rugged 4-mile grind here at Davidson. Very little is known about the Generals’ team this fall, but last year the Wildcats beat them 16-44, and hope to do a repeat performance again this year for the first victory of the ‘52 season.

The junior varsity harriers also have a meet today—their first of the year—with Pfeiffer Junior College here at Davidson. They are expected to win over the less experienced Pfeiffer harriers.

Last Saturday the varsity lost a close one to the University of Richmond by the score of 35-23. It was an upset as the Wildcats were predicted to win easily. Coach Whittle said the boys ran a good race, but Bob Henry, captain of the team, got sick during the race, and was forced to fall way behind. This made quite a difference in the score and outcome of the meet.

Running for the varsity today are the following men: Bob Henry, Steve Gooding, Floyd Feeney, Bill Shipley, Bitt Russell, Andy Turner, Joe Carpenter, and Homer Sparks. Representing Davidson for the junior varsity are: Archie Joyner, Hershel Allen, Joe Caudell, Stuart Plummer, J. C. Eagle, Jr., Don Stewart, J. V. Howell, Jr., and J. H. McKeithan.

The big question which the denizens of Hugo’s, the MGM, and the Broken Anchor will be asking tonight is not primarily whether the Cats can win their second game of the '52 season tomorrow. The real question is whether Davidson can shake off the Homecoming jinx which has been plaguing them since 1941.

Bill Dole’s team isn’t in the best shape to whip the powerful Furman club. But at least they ought to have a little more confidence in themselves since they beat Presbyterian last Friday night. Johnny Gray, who is usually about as talkative as a cigar-store Indian, may have summed up the Cats’ feelings earlier this week. “We're gonna beat ‘em,” said the Statesville speedster simply. And he meant it, too.

But the simple fact of the matter is that Davidson will have to play heads-up ball every minute tomorrow afternoon. They can’t be a first-half ball club and whip Furman. The boys from down Greenville way are no pushovers in anybody's league, and Dole’s crippled team is going to have trouble all the way.

By DICK ROPER

As this reporter has said before, nobody—Old Grads, students, or any other Davidson fans—will blame the Cats if they play a hard ball game and lose. What makes the fans vow they'll never see another Davidson game is some of the sorry tackling, poor blocking, and generally shoddy ball playing that the Cats have shown at times.

Nobody will dispute, however, that the Cats looked good down at Clinton last week. Jimmy Thacker and Leroy Fargason sparked an attack good for 273 yards, and most of the time the center of the Cat line held up pretty well. Pass defense is where Dole’s men showed up worse than anywhere else. In the closing moments of the game, PC looked like a sure bet to close the gap between Davidson's 13 and their own 12 points. That same weakness can make or break them tomorrow. Furman's got a quarterback, name of Pedrick, who is plenty capable of slinging ‘em, and they've also got a freshman in that position who was their hero in their upset of West Virginia a few weeks ago.

It’s probably a good thing that the football game isn't the only feature of a Homecoming weekend, because a loss at that puts a damper on spirits pretty well if there's nothing else to do. But those faithful souls whom we call the Old Grads must go home a little sadder every year Davidson loses on that occasion, because many of them can remember back when Davidson beat the big boys without a whole lot of trouble. But they keep coming back, and that must mean something. Maybe it’s just love of the game, maybe they just like to look over the campus as it grows, maybe they just like to notice how much younger the freshmen seem to be getting every year. But it does seem that they are due to be shown a good hard football game.

Welcome Alumni drop by to see our selection of Flannels and Tweeds “Prices That Appeal” n-Wrights “Collegiate Fashions” Next to Bank in Davidson

wildcat Sports THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1952

WILL HOMECOMING JINX PLAGUE WILDCATS AGAIN TOMORROW? PAGE THREE

Cats Primed For Rugged Furman Club

CAN THE

Here are the 1952 Football Wildcats. They are: 1st row (l. to r.) Babington, Fargason, Wright, Craig, Gray, Whisnant, Perkins, Davis, G., King, Coon, Pierce, Tucker and Ruth; 2nd row: Jones, Stroxzier, Webb, Golding, Taylor, Martin, Amos, Cousar, Graham, Buxton, Davis, D., McCall, Patton, and Littlejohn; 3rd row:

Cats Must Shake Off 11-Year Jinx To Win Tomorrow's Homecoming Tilt

By DICK LILES

Tomorrow's game with Furman is no different than most of the games that the Cats play. They're decidedly the underdogs as usual. There is, however, a uniqueness to this game that may have been overlooked in the pre-festivities rush. It is Homecoming, and a Davidson football team hasn't won one of these jinxed games in eleven years.

Down in Clinton, S. C., Presbyterian’s Blue Hose are saying that Stanley Woodward, national football authority, knew exactly what he was talking about when he picked Davidson’s Jimmy Thacker to be one of the South's finest halfbacks for 1952. It was Thacker who scored both of the Wildcat’s touchdowns as the Red and Black spoiled the Presbyterian Homecoming to the tune of 13-12 and gained sweet revenge for an almost identical 14-12 defeat handed them by practically the same Presbyterian team at Davidson’s Homecoming in 1951.

After a slow start this season, himself in the Presbyterian game and put on a fine running exhibition which netted him 96 yards in 12 tries with the pigskin, for a sparkling average of 8 yards per carry. He took a pitchout from quarterback Jack Ruth in the first quarter and scampered 6 yards around end for Davidson's first score.

Six More for D.C.

Only minutes later in the second quarter Ruth called for an off-tackle stunt with Thacker carrying the ball. Sophomore Jimmy followed his interference well and broke into the clear for a beautiful 34-yard touchdown gallop that broke the backs of the Presbyterian

(Continued On Page Four)

Campus capers call for Coke

Win or lose, you'll get different opinions when the gang gathers to rehash the game. But on the question of refreshment, everyone agrees—you can’t beat ice-coldCoca-Cola. | Thacker seemed to suddenly find a “washer” downpour. 

52 TEAM TURN THE TRICK? Efird, Morris, Davis, J., Thacker, Mauney, Loy, Abernethy, and Graves; 4th row: Rogers, White, Evatt, Smith, Miller, Hoover, Shelton, Brown, Petersen, Kelly, Pate, and Ballard; 5th row: Coaches Miller, Hambright, Clements, Dole, and Fetzer. 

Indeed, it was a bleak November day when the Cats annexed their last homecoming victory. It was in 1940 when teams were pretty good up here on the hill. The defeated team was the Presbyterian aggregation from Centre College, the famous “Praying Colonels,” and the score was 27-12. The year before, the Wildcats had downed Citadel by 22-14 and before that had nearly broken even on this gala occasion.

Jinx Was On But then it all fell through and not a team since has been able to break the jinx that the “Praying Colonels” evidently wished on Davidson. Only once or twice have the boys come close. Against VMI in 1947, they managed a tie, 14-14, with the strong Keydets. Then came last year’s heartbreaker 14-12 score against Presbyterian College. That game proved that there must be something about Homecoming at Davidson that keeps the Cats from winning, because they ran over the Blue Hose all day, but couldn’t score and kick the PATs. In 1948, a strong Davidson team composed of Bill Storey’s mainstays Mapes, Carnegie, Pahl, Richards, Chandler, and Erwin were licked by a dogged Richmond eleven and a complete “gully-washer” downpour. 

Cheerleaders Scruggs and Upchurch were the only bright spots in an otherwise dark afternoon. The score was 6-0 and Richmond was definitely the underdog.

JIM THACKER Back in the spotlight No homecoming was held during 1944 and 1945, so really the Cats have only lost 9 games over a span of 11 years. The games were not held because of the war, but the layoff did not help because the Cats were downed on “their” day in 1946 by Washington and Lee, 26-6. Nobody here at Davidson now has seen a Homecoming victory. We're not alone for many of the faculty are in the same boat, not to speak of our president, who came here in 1941 and hasn’t seen the win.

(Continued On Page Four)

Visitors Rated Favorites But Dolemen Are Determined Furman’s fast and rugged Hurricane will take the field tomorrow afternoon rated several TD favorites over the Cats, but that is not what's worrying Bill Dole’s men. What the Cats want to do more than anything else is to shed an eleven-year jinx on Homecoming games at Davidson. They haven't won that event since 1940.

Dole's men are far from their best physical shape for the game, with fullback Leroy Fargason, guards Gene Davis and Harold Davis, tackles Ben Craig and Neill Graham all nursing injuries. Fargason, who hurt a shoulder last week against P.C., is slated to start at the power slot, but it is doubtful that Craig will see any service. The word on the Furman Club is that the Purple Hurricane will also be slowed down some because of injuries. Bo Barry, fullback in the Furman split-T, halfback Russ Sutton, and quarterback Gene Pedrick are all doubtful quantities for Saturday's action.

Chances are Davidson will have to do more scoring than they have in the four games played so far. Statistics released this week show Furman fifth in the Southern Conference for total offense, with an average of 296.8 yards per game. The Cats’ best effort came last week when they rolled up 273 yards against P.C. The last time Davidson played Furman was in 1950, when the South Carolina boys punched out a 32-20 win.

LEROY FARGASON Can he equal his P.C. record?

Sigs Remain Undefeated, Pikas Move Up As Interfrat Race Nears Half-Way Mark By JOHN HANDLEY The scramble for the interfraternity football crown this week brings three new names up into the high positions. Though there are new teams near the top, the Sigma Chi squad tops the list as their attack seems to pick up added steam with every game. The undefeated Sigs poured it on their two opponents this week in piling up a total of 80 points over the KAs and the ATOs. In Monday’s action, the Sigs trounced the defending champion KAs by a 31-6 count and on Wednesday they piled up the biggest score of the season in defeating the cellar-dwelling ATOs 49-31.

Sigma Chis 31; KAs 6 The sparkling backfield performances of Tyler Berry and Bob Mitchell coupled with the fine play of Buz Hope and Bert Downs brought the front-running Sigma Chis a 31-6 victory over the sagging KAs. The KAs were led by T. W. Aldred and Lefty Vance.

Pikas 13; KAs 7 Again led by the fine play-handling job consistently turned in by Jim Smith along with fine running and defense by Bill Hanna, and the fine all-around play of freshman Joe Pharr, the Pikas downed the KAs 13-7. A last-minute run by Bill Hanna gave the Pikas the margin of victory. T.W. Aldredge played well in the backfield while George King turned in a fine offensive and defensive showing for the KAs.

SPEs 18; Pi Kapps 7 Sparked by the fine play of “Monk” McGill and Vince Gould, the up-and-coming Sig Eps took their second win of the week in downing the Pi Kapps 18-7. Tom Hancock and Mitchell Patton led the losers’ attack.

Kappa Sigs 18; Phi Gams 0 The outstanding performances of Tom Breeden and Bill Elliott and a fine team showing brought the Kappa Sigs an 18-0 shutout over the Phi Gams. Don Reed along with freshman Bill Gentry led the Phi Gam forces.

Sigma Chis 49; ATOs 31 In a real see-saw scoring battle, the undefeated Sigma Chis used much of their reserve strength to down the last-place ATOs in the year's highest scoring game. Jimmy Kiser and Pertin Anderson along with the fine defensive work of Curtis Cates were the Sigs standouts in the rout. Passer Tim Gitley and receiver Murray Page sparked the ATO scoring attack.

(Continued From Page Four)

Jack Wood, Ltd. CHARLOTTE Welcomes Old Grads And Undergrads To DAVIDSON HOMECOMING Remember: The Best Dressed Davidson Men Wear Jack Wood Ltd. Clothes “It Costs No More To Dress Correctly”