By DICK LILES

As you can tell from the Interfraternity All-Stars, the men competing in the program were of a high calibre. Two of the men were on the varsity squad last year and one of the others, Bill Bivins, poured in a phenomenal number of baskets for the Phi Delts. He got hot toward the end of the season and really went to town. The interfraternity basketball program ended last week and was one of the most successful, and contained some of the best basketball in recent years. Seems like the scoring was better as some of the teams “poured it on” under the baskets and racked in a lot of points for interfrat ball. The general play was noticeably better and faster and the individual stars were plentiful by the end of the season.

FROSH BAG TWO SPOTS

Somewhat as the big-brother league—the Southern Conference—freshman stars were plentiful and left their marks on the record books. This is probably the first year that two frosh as outstanding as Corky Clark and Frank Smith have made the “dream team.” Corky polled the maximum number of votes and so along with Bivins won the co-captain honors. Interest remained high in interfraternity athletics and it is hoped that the volleyball and later sports will command as much attention as the basketball season and the track meet commanded as the year waxes on.

NOW THAT SPRING’S HERE

As soon as the last snow was melted away by the warm sunshine and cool breezes, we came to realize that winter was all over and that before you knew it, Spring would be upon us. Along with Spring, just as with ham and eggs, comes baseball, and in our lucky case, golf, track, and tennis. Almost as soon as the robins appeared, it became evident that this could be the best Spring for Davidson in many years. What with the tennis team (between snow, rain, and broom-straw) working out and looking all the better, the baseballers getting off to an early start with their new coach, the golf team stacking up as the best in years, and the track team ready to hold their own in a gruelling six-meet schedule; it indeed does seem like a bright year ahead.

TENNIS AND GOLF GRAB SPORTLIGHT

The tennis and golf teams, strictly from an early observation, look like cinches to cop real honors amongst their opponents this Spring. The tennis team has a better-balanced bunch, and have been strengthened greatly by three freshman stars. The importance of these men can be seen from the positions they copped. The golf team while losing Monty Hill, the No. 1 man, and Cecil Brandon, seems to be better-balanced also and if men like Mac McLean, Al Fitzgerald, Slimy Sloan and Al Gaither come through with the golf they are capable of, the conference can watch out.

BASEBALL, TRACK HAVE HARD ROW

The baseball team is taking on a new coach and losing two of their best sluggers and only pitcher from last year, faces the hardest task. They have a hustling bunch, however, and the competition is keen. If the pitching can be worked out, and the men get on the paths, the record in May just might be better than expected. Track will have to depend on Bill White, Jim Fickeisen, Bob Henry, Bill Shipley, Bill McNeely, and Gene Pierce to carry the thinclads to victories. Again the balance is better and the competition, great. Frosh should help out, too.

Wildcats Of The Week

Probably the greatest comeback and the greatest success story here at Davidson lately comes not from an individual player, but from a whole team. This team started a rather winless year after Christmas by defeating a strong Emory team and falling to a stronger Tar Heel team. Then the winter months came long and hard for the wrestling team and they dropped four or five straight matches. Then deciding that this thing was all wrong, the grapplers traveled to Lexington, Va., and defeated the usually-invincible Generals. It was a strictly team victory and it was sheer fight and guts that pushed the groaners to the win that was the greatest one on Davidson's books since the N. C. State football defeat of 1949. The streak continued and the boys not to be outdone entered the AAU meet and came out, not on top, but with a good record of wins and some second and third places. Then in the Southern Conference meet last week, the Cats pulled something that they haven’t been able to do in the past decade. They placed in the standings when the final match was over! Not only that, but they were only one point out of second place, copping 15 markers to West Virginia's 16. Maryland easily slipped into first place with 41 points having by far the strongest aggregation there. You say that that’s really nothing, but when has a Davidson team come out this well in ANY Southern Conference tournament? Gene Craven continued his mastery of the 130-lb. class, but as has been the case in the past, just didn’t have the luck and experience behind him in taking a second-place behind Champ Jim Flynn of Maryland. Billy McNeely also added a second-place, dropping the championship match to big Bill George of Wake Forest. Morley Vail surprised everyone at the conference meet except the local team with a third-place in the 137-lb. class. Besides that, he won the consolation bracket, proving that only the champs could beat him. As was stated before, this is strictly a great success story. It rests in the books now, but you can bet your bottom you-know-what that this team will be hard to handle next year as they only lose one man. This man has big shoes to fill, for he has filled them better than anyone else in the past few years; Bill McNeely will be missed, but these young grapplers will be a better balanced group and will have the experience that goes with a third-place winner in the Southern Conference.

Cats Wildcat Sports THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 1952 PHI DELTS WIN TRACK EVENT EASILY PAGE THREE OLYMPIC TRYOUTS IN FULL SWING Ten Cat Matmen In Tournament

By DICK ROPER

The Southeastern Olympic Wrestling tryouts got off to a fast start this afternoon in Johnston Gym with some of the best grapplers in this section of the nation participating. The preliminary bouts held this afternoon were the first of four sessions on the mats, with finals climaxing the 2-day event tomorrow night.

Open With Springfield

The Wildcat baseball squad opens its seventeen-game schedule Monday and Tuesday against Springfield College on the home diamond. This year’s Davidson team probably will not be a great hitting team, but it definitely will be running on the base paths and hustling at the plate and in the field. As the situation now stands no definite line-up has been decided upon. However, after the past few weeks of practice, the number of men battling for certain positions has narrowed down. Arnold Whisnant, Hershall Allan, and Diehl Sluss are fighting for the first base position. Johnny Gray is at second with Johnny Guiton as utility. Chuck Elliott is back at shortstop. Max Devane and Bill Southwell are at third base. There are many good prospects in the outfield and six or seven of them will be carried on the squad. A number of pitchers have shown considerable promise thus far in practice and will be kept on the squad. These include Andy Courts, Lyndley Beardsley, Jim Smith, Johnny Smith, and Ish Bennett. From these players a well-balanced staff should be formed. At the present time letterman Paul Eastman has been handicapped by a sore arm, but has still shown up well on the mound. Four players are battling for the catching post. These are Bert Downs, Bill Glidewell, Roy White and Shorty Sfaelos. Because of his experience, Downs should hold down the first-string backstopping position.

For Big Opener

By MOODY SMITH

Anxious to improve on their very acceptable 1951 record of 12 wins and 7 defeats, the Davidson netsmen open their season on the local courts with a match Tuesday with Springfield College. The tennis team, which has been practicing steadily since the first of March whenever weather permitted, looks like a surefire winning entry in intercollegiate competition. Led by Allan Strand in the number one singles berth, the team at present lines up like this for singles competition: Strand, first; then in the second spot, Lacy Keesler; he is followed by his brother and team captain, Dewey Keesler. Then come Johnny Bremer, Corky Clark and Leighton Green in that order. By match time, however, this set-up may be shuffled considerably, because challenge matches are being played constantly, scarcely a day going by that someone does not move up or down on the “ladder.” These singles players are all of surprisingly equal ability, with not a world of difference between any two of them, a fact which could be an ill omen for all opponents.Except for the number one slot, the doubles teams are as yet uncertain. Strand and Dewey Keesler will lead the doubles parade for the Wildcats just as they did last season. Various combinations, including Johnny Bremer, Corky Clark, Lacy Keesler, Leighton Green, Joe Dudley, Bill Bivens, and George Snead are being experimented with for the other two doubles teams, with there being a definite probability that the number two combination will consist of Clark and Lacy Keesler. At present, the team includes about 18 players. It is interesting to note that in this one sport in which a Davidson team has depth, it is little needed. There are more (Continued On Page Four)

INTERFRATERNITY CAGE STARS CHOSEN

Shown above are the winners of the sports managers’ poll for the best players in the interfraternity league. They are, left to right: Frank Smith, George King, Corky Clark, Bill Bivins, and “Lefty” Vance.

A's PLACE TWO MEN ON TEAM; CLARK, BIVINS ARE CO-CAPTS.

By WALLACE ABBOTT

The best in the league! Yes, that’s what can be said about Corky Clark, “Lefty” Vance, Bill Bivins, George King, and Frank Smith, because they comprise this year's first All-Fraternity Basketball team, as chosen by the fraternity sports managers. This group represents variety, not only in their individual abilities, but also in the groups they represent, since there are members of four fraternities on the first team. Only the KA's were able to place more than one man.

CORKY CLARK
Corky proved to be one of the best newcomers into the league in many years. Not only did he help lead the Kappa Sigs to the championship by his scoring ability, but he also worked well under the backboards as he got rebound after rebound. Corky is a freshman this year and a member of Kappa Sigma. He was a hard man to stop this year and will be even harder to stop in future years.

LEFTY VANCE
Lefty is one of the two KA’s to make the team this year, and he is certainly deserving of the honor. Not only did he prove to be a good team man, but he also came through as one of the league’s high scorers. His fine jump shots from the foul circle made him constantly dangerous all year.

BILL BIVINS
Although getting off to a slow start in this year’s play, Bill proved in the last games of the season that he still had the stuff that made him one of last year’s best players. Bill is a member of Phi Delta Theta and is another one of those juniors who will be back to haunt the courts next year. Bill's outstanding value to his team came largely from his ability to hit set shots from any place on the court.

GEORGE KING
George is the second KA who made this year's team, and he certainly proved his worth to them in his first year of intramural basketball. George, as you know, was a member of last year's varsity basketball squad. The experience he gained last year stood him in good stead, as he turned up as one of the leading point producers in the league.

FRANK SMITH
Frank, now a member of Sigma Chi, certainly proved his worth to the Campus Club in the time he played for them. Being only a freshman was no obstacle to Frank as he broke strongly into this year’s intramural play. He is another one of those newcomers who will certainly have to be watched in coming years.

Second Team
Eric Clark (Kappa Sig)
Larry Champion (Phi Gam)
Tyler Berry (Sigma Chi)
Phil Blate (Sigma Chi)
Theo Field (Pika)

Honorable Mention
Lippard, Kappa Sig; Nimocks, Beta; Thomas, Beta; Reid, CC; Erwin, L., Pi Kapps; Gaither, Pika; Hasty, Beta; Wells, CC; Sloan, Kappa Sigs; Ruth, Beta; Camp, Phi Gams; Downs, Sigma Chi; Adams, KA; Bridges, KA; Groseclose, Phi Gam; Elliott, Beta; Mitchell, Sigma Chi; Stowe, SPE; Beardsley, Pika.

Golfers Head For Florida; Meet Miami, Rollins, Et Al

By BOB OWENS

Coach Elgin White’s untested Davidson golf team will pack their clubs and depart from Presbyterian Hollow on Thursday, March 20, on a golfing tour that will pit the Wildcats against some of Florida's toughest college teams. On the successive afternoons of March 24, 25, and 26 the Cat linksters will face the Univ. of Miami, at Miami; Rollins, at Winter Park; and the Univ. of Florida, at Gainesville.

Hampered by frequent wet weather and the fact that McLean, Fitzgerald, and Keith only recently concluded their basketball chores, the golfers have found it very difficult to get the desired amount of practice. Last year the Davidson golfers found the Florida opposition to their liking, and the experience gained in these early matches did much to prepare them for the Southern Conference matches later in the season. FSU and Charleston Navy fell before the DC golfers while Rollins and the Univ. of Florida managed to squeeze by them on a couple of their “off” days. Considering the unseen and hazardous courses on which these matches were played, this record was quite commendable.

So they are out to do it again, and ready to “tee off” will be six boys from the same eight-man crew that blistered the Florida opposition last year. Led by Captain Mac McLean, the Cats are bolstered by lettermen Jimmy Sloan, Al Gaither, Al Fitzgerald, Lew Barnes, and Lawrence Erwin. Bob Brannan and Graham Keith, up from the frosh ranks of last year, are strong contenders to fill the shoes of Monty Hill and Cecil Brandon, the only golfers not returning from last year’s squad. None of these boys are certain of holding their position on the team, however, and before the close of the season many new names may be introduced into the Wildcat line-up.

Phi Delts Cop Track Trophy

By JOHN HANDLEY

The Phi Delts retained possession of the coveted track trophy in interfraternity circles yesterday in capturing five of a possible eleven first spots in the annual meet and compiling 34 5-6 points. Frank Mitchener, a freshman, was the Man of the Hour in capturing top individual honors for his Phi Delts with a grand total of 11½ points. There were plenty of entrants and some good races, but not a single record time or distance was turned in. Mitchener broke the tape three times in winning the 100-yd. dash, the 220-yd. run, and in holding the anchor spot on the winning Phi Delt relay team. Other high scorers were Frank Cenegy of the Pi Kapps with 10½, and Gene Pierce of the Phi Gams with 10. The Phi Delts were followed by the Phi Gams with 15 points; the KA's—14 1-3; and the Pi Kapps—13. The winners of the events were: Shot—Cenegy (42'4") Pi Kapps; 100-yd. dash—Mitchener (10.35) (Continued On Page Four)

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests

No. 37...THE SWORDFISH

They crossed swords with the wrong man when they engaged this swashbuckling senior in combat! At first, he was foiled by the tricky, “one-puff”... “one-sniff” cigarette mildness tests. But he parried their thrusts with this gleaming sword of logic: The only way you can judge mildness is by steady smoking. That's the true test of cigarette mildness! It’s the sensible test... the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test, which simply asks you to try Camels as your steady smoke, on a day-after-day, pack-after-pack basis. No snap judgments! Once you've tried Camels for 30 days in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste), you'll see why...

After all the Mildness Tests...

Most outstanding of the all-star amateur matmen here are John A. Fletcher, a member of the 1948 U.S. Olympic team; Wayne York of Knoxville, 1951 Carolinas AAU champion; Josiah Henson, former NCAA champ; and Eddie Eichelberger of Norfolk, Virginia State high school wrestling champion. Davidson will have several entries in the stiff sectional competition. Wildcat matmen planning to enter the competition were Bill McNeely, Morley Vail, Don Reid, Bobby Jo Key, Bill McElveen, Angus Andrews, John Buxton, Bill Bryson, and Bill Coe. Matches are being judged by Olympic rules, which vary on many points from regular collegiate wrestling rules. Men are judged on the point system, under which it is possible for an entry to win every match he wrestles by decisions and still lose out under a “mad mark” system which is designed to eliminate fairly but rapidly. These rules also specify that a man has been pinned when his shoulders touch the mat for only an instant. Winners in the District Five competition here will participate in the national Olympics tryouts to be held later in the spring. The victors there will constitute the team the U.S. will send to the games in Helsinki, Finland, this summer. Tomorrow's quarter-finals session will begin at 2:00 p.m. with the finals scheduled for eight.

TRADE WITH OUR ADVERTISERS! IT PAYS! THANK YOU!