PAGE SIX

Football Band Marches On Building Credit For D.C.

Davidson’s Football Band as they were forming the figure during half-time festivities at Homecoming. (Photo by Simons.)

WE LIKE IKE...
(Continued from Page One)

Adlai because he sticks to what he says in his speeches.”

Harry Hickey: “Ike is my man. A change in administration will help end corruption in the government.”

Paul Alexander: “Personally I like Adlai, but I’m dissatisfied with the Democratic party, so I'm voting for Ike.”

Mitchell Patton: “I am dissatisfied with Truman and feel that a change is in order. Ike is the man so far as I’m concerned; his war experience will be an aid to him in politics.”

Bob Wearn: “I'll be glad to see the mess in Washington cleaned up. Ike is the man to keep Harry out of the deep freezer business.”

Igor Sviatoslavsky: “I’m for Ike; America needs a change.”

Tom Tennet: “I cast my vote for Adlai. Ike has a good foreign policy, but Adlai has a stronger domestic policy.”

Blake Brinkerhoff: “I like Ike because he uses everyday language that I can understand, Adlai uses stuffy language.”

CATS INVADE...
(Continued from Page Five)

game and has been out for four weeks will be back in the offensive lineup, but not in his old fullback slot. Brown will operate from right half while Leroy Fargason will continue in the fullback role he assumed when Brown was hurt. Captain Arnold Whisnant’s leg injury, suffered in the Furman game, has proved not to be as serious as it was first feared, and he too may be back in playing shape against Harvard. Davidson appears to be going into tomorrow's game in better physical shape, with the possible exception of Whisnant, than at any other time this year. Harvard, however, has a heavier and deeper squad, and the experts will probably be unable to see anything but a fifth defeat in the cards for the Davidson Wildcats.

CABBAGE PLANTER...
(Continued from Page Two)

Since we are representing Great Britain, we should present both sides.” Concerning British politics, the consensus was that the British welfare state needs more efficiency, but in general it works well, and not even the conservatives have taken anything away; instead, they have increased benefits. Dibben, however, said, “Thinking conservatives are beginning to think of drawing a line.” Both agreed that Prime Minister Winston Churchill’s popularity had declined since the war. On American politics, Evans said that the “British attitude is that whoever is elected President will present about the same foreign policy. Corruption in government seems to be thought of as inherent in politics over here, despite an almost reverent attitude for political offices.” Dibben said, “At home we would respect their integrity despite their competence. You criticize them severely here; we would be quiet.”

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS

DANFORTH GRANTS...
(Continued from Page One)

and growing religious perspectives. These appointments to fellowships are described as being primarily “a relationship of encouragement.” A promise of financial aid within certain conditions is made to those who need aid, but students with or without financial need are invited to apply. All Danforth Fellows will take part in the annual Danforth Foundation Conference on Teaching, to be held at Camp Miniwanca in Michigan next September. Each institution is asked to limit its nominations to two, or at the most three. Any student wishing further information should get in touch with Professor Thompson.

PHI BETA KAPPA...
(Continued From Page One)

in political science. He is associate editor of the Davidsonian. He is a member of Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity, of Sigma Upsilon literary fraternity, of the International Relations Club, and is active in the football and concert band. His average for his first three years at Davidson was 2.666. George Bason is from Chapel Hill, North Carolina, and is a member of the Campus Club. He is a member of Eumanean Literary Society, and of Sigma Upsilon. His three-year average was 2.726.

MILLERS SET TO...
(Continued from Page Five)

The schedule:
Dec. 6—N. C. State, Raleigh.
Dec. 9—Furman, home.
Jan. 3—South Carolina, home.
Jan. 6—N. C. State, home.
Jan. 10—Tennessee, Knoxville.
Jan. 16—UNC, Chapel Hill.
Jan. 17—Wake Forest.
Feb. 3—Wake Forest.
Feb. 6—South Carolina, Columbia.
Feb. 7—The Citadel, Charleston.
Feb. 9—Tennessee, home.
Feb. 13—Clemson, home.
Feb. 17—Duke, Durham.
Feb. 20—Furman, Greenville.
Feb. 28—Clemson, Clemson.
VPI, Blacksburg.

PIKAS. KAPPA SIGS...
(Continued from Page Five)

Phi Delts 20; SAEs 7
The fine play of Dan Leach and Max DeVane coupled with the combined efforts of the entire squad brought the fourth place Phi Delts a 20-7 victory over the SAEs. Dick Babington stood out for the SAEs.

Betas 12; Campus Club 0
Tommy Lamb and Graeme Keith joined forces on Tuesday to shut out the Campus Clubbers 20-0 and give the Betas their third win of the season. Brooks Webb and Charlie Harrell led the losing efforts of the CC.

Sig Eps 34; ATO 13
Behind the fine performances of Bill Marable and Hal Davis the Sig Eps coasted to a 34-13 victory over the ATOs. Jim Gilley and Phil Koonce shone even in defeat for the ATOs.

Pi Kapps 26; Campus Club 6
Spanked by the outstanding play of Ben Jones and Tom Hancock, the Pi Kapps annexed their third victory of the campaign in downing the Campus Club 26-6. Brooks Webb led the losing efforts of the Campus Club.

FOR QUICK SERVICE
BATES CLEANERS
DYEING & ALTERATIONS — HATS BLOCKED
LAUNDRY SERVICE

By BUDDY BEEHLER

With trumpets sounding and cymbals clashing, the 57 members of the Football Band, under the direction of Mr. Kenneth Moore, march onto the field to entertain the fans at halftime. The traditional band of Davidson College has again begun its full year of activities. A football game wouldn't be the same without a band to thrill the spectators with its clever marches and precision maneuvers, but have you ever stopped to think who works out these well-organized routines? George Brinkley and Alden Williams constitute the idea committee, which creates many of the ideas that Mr. Moore puts into reality. Each routine seen on the field has been carefully charted and each band member knows exactly what his position is after studying the chart. The band spends approximately fifteen minutes studying this chart while the rest of their time is devoted to getting the music sounding right and the actual routine on the field. Showmanship with the Davidson Band is secondary, because they concentrate on the quality of their music. Bob Beal, drum major, is responsible for many signals, but a majority of the signals are automatic and depend upon the individual to carry them out. This was evident in the clock and pendulum routine, which was presented at one of the earlier games. The band will entertain the students at Coker College in Hartsville, S.C., on its way to Charleston, S.C., where it will play for the Davidson-Citadel game on No-

THE EXERCISES...
Movie star Ava Norring, just to make sure people won’t call her too lazy, goes through a series of exercises on a soft bed—finger wiggling.

PETITION...
(Continued from Page One)

Jack Ruth investigated the problem. Vance Mizelle brought cheers from the student body when he stated that the college was against our traveling on Sunday, but that many of our parents did not want us traveling on the first. Dave Moylan questioned the philosophy of the system of double cuts, saying that he doubted the validity of a system in which students were given freedom from classes and then told when to take it. President Ruth said after the meeting that the change in scoring the cuts, though not the most satisfactory solution, will represent a much better arrangement than the present one.

DAVIDSONIAN

French Club Has Meeting To Begin Year

Le Cercle Francais, an honorary fraternity which recognizes outstanding French students in their third year or in advanced courses, held its first meeting Tuesday night at the home of Professor Watts. Mac Bulgin, president, called the meeting to order and Moody Smith, secretary, read the minutes and called the roll, to which had been added 12 new members. After a short business meeting, the members were provided entertainment, which included resumes read in French by Bill Gordon and Gregory.Dimijian. A skit, “Le Sauvage et Le Missionaire,” was then presented by MM. Vance Miczelle, Eddie Powe, and David Jones. After the skit, Herman Bell gave a discussion on his experiences in France this summer. He spoke at length on life in Touraine, French cooking, French education, and French culture. The meeting was concluded by singing of French songs, after which the members carried on French conversations while enjoying refreshments served by Mesdames Watts and Goldiere. Le Cercle Francais holds monthly meetings which usually consist of skits, plays, readings, and games and other forms of entertainment. Le Cercle usually holds a joint meeting with French students from another school; this year’s plans call for a meeting with the Queens College students. Le Cercle usually holds its last meeting at a dinner held in the Chez Montet, a French restaurant in Charlotte.

November 22, 1952. This will be the last trip of the season for the football band. The Concert Band will be composed of students from the Football Band, but reduced in size so they can make the necessary trips of the season. We will be looking forward to hearing what the Davidson Band has to offer this season.

THE FREE LANCE... (Continued From Page Two)

for a knowledge of it after college. The college it seems modernizes itself in jerks. We feel compelling men to suffer and struggle through algebra is one facet of the curriculum which has not jerked forward. We do not feel it would be departing from tradition or liberality in education to change the nature of the course to something really instrumental.

DR. DAUGHERTY... (Continued from Page Two)

and eloquent. Their stand is adamant on what is to be done and what is not to be done by any Defender of the Faith. Criticism and condemnation are the two weapons which they employ to chastise anyone whose ideals are not the same as theirs, or whose personal life does not strictly adhere to the venerable tenets of Calvinism. Their conception of life is Puritanical. Yet they themselves have failed to apply one of the basic precepts of Christianity: that an individual must be guided by an infusion of personal principles into his everyday life—not toward a cut-and-dried belief derived from the Bible and other sources. It is almost nauseating to listen to a man expound his professed religious convictions, and then see him later as he moves about the campus, presenting in every action the antithesis of what he so glowingly described before. Christianity is a vital organism. And the most important facet of its growth is the personal equation of faith and works which it stimulates in each person.

JACKSON Cleaners

CLEANING EVERY JOB A GOOD ONE SKILLFULLY DONE BY PRESSERS WITH YEARS OF EXPERIENCE ALTERATIONS THAT SATISFY ONE-DAY SERVICE AVAILABLE

Frank L. Jackson, Jr.

THEATRE

THUR.-FRI., OCT. 30-31
San Francisco Story
JOEL McCREA
YVONNE DECARLO
S. BLACKMER

SATURDAY, NOV. 1
Diplomatic Courier
TYRONE POWER
PATRICIA NEAL

MON.-TUES., NOV. 3-4
FREDRIC MARCH
MILDRED DUNNOCK

WEDNESDAY, NOV. 5
Fugitive Lady
JANIS PAIGE
BENNIE BARNES
TONY CENTA

VOTE FOR CANDIDATES OF YOUR CHOICE NOV. 4

Election Talk After Vespers

The YMCA sponsors its first after-vespers discussion group of the year Sunday night at 8:30 in the student lounge of the church. The topic is the coming presidential elections and the issues involved. Participating in the discussion will be Professor Bradley D. Thompson of the History Department, and other faculty members not yet announced. Other discussions are planned for future Sunday evenings on such subjects as socialism, fraternity rushing, and student government. It is hoped that the College Union can be designated soon as the regular meeting place for the discussion groups. All campus politicos and other interested students are invited to the meeting Sunday night. Coffee will be served to keep things from being too dull if such is needed.

SUNDAY VESPERS... (Continued From Page One)

and sex in particular; however, as the group wishes, the informal sessions may radiate into any channel of student life. Dr. Thompson, a native Virginian, will be available for personal interviews, as will the counselors with him. Anyone wishing to secure an appointment may do so through the YMCA office. The YMCA Special Services Committee has expressed the desire and hope that many students will avail themselves of the opportunities presented by these services: “We hope that an atmosphere of sincere, searching thought will result; that each student participating in this year’s Fall Services will benefit in his life as a Christian student from such an atmosphere of concern.”

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1952

Frosh Black List

Only three freshmen charged with serious offenses appeared before the Court of Control this week. No meeting of the Court was held in chapel due to the Homecoming program at that time. One aspect of the Court which is often misunderstood or unknown completely to most students is that of the Court’s pardoning functions. Several times in the course of the Monday night meetings, freshmen are tried and acquitted. These men’s names do not appear in this column, primarily because of its derogatory nature, but they nonetheless form a major part of the Court's program.

Darrel Floyd, found guilty of not wearing a cap and not speaking to upper-classmen, was ordered to wear a ribbon on his cap and to serve as stud boy for a senior. Denis King was directed to wear a large sign bearing his name for failing to wear a name plate. Tom Owens was convicted of being without a cap and was ordered to wear a ribbon and serve as stud boy. Other freshmen came before the Court in order to take a re-examination on the Freshmen Regulations.

Visiting Brass Discusses ROTC

Lt. Col. F. J. Pallister and Maj. J. W. Cavender from the Office of Chief of Army Field Forces, and Col. Wilson from Headquarters, N. C. Military District, will visit Davidson College and the ROTC Department next Thursday, November 6. They will confer with both the military department and college officials on the new Branch General program and its place in the college. They will also make comments and recommendations for improvement of the present tentative Branch General program.

CATHEY-HOYLE AMBULANCE — PHONE 2881

DUO-PIANISTS... (Continued from Page One)

appear on February 6. On February 27, the Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra will appear here. Tickets are on sale at the Music Department office at regular prices. Student date tickets will be sold for $1.00.

SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN HOME! SEE TOMMY DOUGLAS 103 WATTS

NEW CARS DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF Dial 3-4513 212 W. Fourth Charlotte

SEND HER FLOWERS THE GIFT SHE'LL LOVE BEST Say It With Flowers-by-Wire — Member F.T.D. SMITH'S FLOWERS Cornelius, N.C. Phone: Davidson 4131

A responsible consulting organization has reported the results of a continuing study by a competent medical specialist and his staff on the effects of smoking Chesterfield cigarettes. A group of people from various walks of life was organized to smoke only Chesterfields. For six months this group of men and women smoked their normal amount of Chesterfields—10 to 40 a day. 45% of the group have smoked Chesterfields continually from one to thirty years for an average of 10 years each. At the beginning and at the end of the six-month period each smoker was given a thorough examination, including X-ray pictures, by the medical specialist and his assistants. The examination covered the sinuses as well as the nose, ears, and throat. The medical specialist, after a thorough examination of every member of the group, stated: It is my opinion that the ears, nose, throat, and accessory organs of all participating subjects examined by me were not adversely affected in the six-month period by smoking the cigarettes provided.