HOLIDAY SNAFU AROUSES EDITORIAL WRITERS

VOLUME XLI

The Davidsonian

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1952

THIS IS 1952 DAVIDSONIAN POLITICAL ISSUE NUMBER SIX

Davidsonians In Armed Forces

Second Lt. Larry E. Plasters, '50, of Winston-Salem, has been named the most outstanding military student in a class of 90 graduating jet pilots at Bryan AFB, Texas. He is now at Nellis AFB, Nev., for aerial gunnery training. While at Davidson, Larry was in the football band, and a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity.

* * *

1st Lt. E. Lee Burch '51, of Charlotte, has been reported wounded in action on August 11 when his patrol was ambushed. He has been awarded the Combat Infantryman's Badge. Lee was a member of Scabbard and Blade. He transferred here from Mars Hill Junior College in 1949.

A/3C Wm. McCrary, II, '51, of Lonoke, Ark., has been assigned to the 5004th Air Intelligence Service Sqdn., at Elmendorf AFB, Anchorage, Alaska. He was a member of the International Relations Club and of Alpha Tau Omega fraternity. His address is A/3C Wm. McCrary, III, AF18409244, Box 73, 5004th Air Intel. S. V. Sqdn., APO 942, Care Postmaster, Seattle, Wash.

Rifle Team Named; Schedule Published

Try-outs for the ROTC rifle team were completed this week. Those who qualified are: old members — Raymond Lynch, Robert Garrison, Lee Scott, Hallett Ward, W. L. Morris, G. M. Canon, George Bason, John Baker, Ken Parks, Stratton Sterghos, and Wilson Starr. New members are Jack Chipperfield, R. A. Kimbrough, R. M. Wearn, G. R. Cousar, J. P. Teeter, Dick Hobson, H. R. Chamblee, T. H. Robertson, Bob Presley, D. F. Pilkenton, J. D. Stewart, R. M. Johnston, and G. Whitlock.

This team will meet VMI, VPI, Clemson, Wofford, and Oak Ridge Military Institute in shoulder-to-shoulder matches. They will have two contests with each of these schools during the year. The most important contest they will enter will be the North Carolina Southern Conference. This will be a shoulder-to-shoulder contest with Duke, UNC, N.C. State, and Wake Forest. The first half of this match will be held at NC State on December 6, while the second part will be held at Davidson February 28.

Postal matches—that is, matches where the scores are sent in and the teams do not meet face to face—will be held with the Universities of Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, Connecticut, and Pennsylvania.

Petition Goes Rounds in Cuts Change Move

The petition which requests the banning of double cuts for the two days of classes immediately following Christmas vacations is now being circulated. The proposal would have the cuts for the two days in question count as single cuts rather than double as the present system requires.

President Jack Ruth said that the petition will be presented to the proper administrative body, probably the Executive Committee, as soon as the petition has been signed by a sufficient number of students. It was not possible to bring the paper before the Executive Committee at its monthly meeting on Wednesday of this week, because there was not time to complete the petition.

The move to prepare the petition was the result of the first closed meeting of the student body held in Wednesday's chapel. There a number of possibilities were presented, but the conclusion was that little could be done about the situation in which many students are forced to travel from home to college on January first.

This question arose after student ire had been aroused by the prospect of traveling on that day and in some cases even earlier and the Davidsonian editor in chief, with (Continued on Page Six)

Danforth Grants Open To Seniors For Fellowships

President Cunningham has named Professor B. D. Thompson as a liaison official to work with the Danforth Foundation of St. Louis, Missouri, in selecting candidates for graduate fellowships in college teaching.

The Foundation invites applications from college seniors and recent graduates who are preparing to make college teaching their career. The applicant must be planning to enter graduate school in September of 1953 for the first year of graduate study. He must have the following additional qualifications:

1. Evidence of superior intellectual ability in college record.
2. Good record of health and emotional stability.
3. Outgoing personality and the concern for people, essential for successful teaching.
4. Choice of the vocation of teaching as a form of Christian service.
5. Deep religious convictions (Continued on Page Six)

SENIORS TAPPED BY SCHOLARSHIP FRATERNITY

GEORGE BASON

MAC BULGIN

JIM SPEED

ROBIN HINSON

GEORGE BRINKLEY

JOHN MAYNARD

LARRY DAGENHART

Phi Beta Kappa Selects Seven Men

Week’s Chapel

Masquers Plan Play For December 5, 6

The Red and Black Masquers, Davidson's dramatic organization, held its regular meeting last Wednesday night. The main order of business consisted of making plans for the coming year. The date for the next play has been set and is December 5 and 6. The production will probably be one of the following: “Laburnum Grove,” “Yellow Jack,” or possibly “Hasty Heart.” Other productions are planned for next spring, including a Shakespearean classic.

The Masquers are badly in need of new talent, inasmuch as so many of the regularly participating members are seniors, and will, therefore, not be here after this year. All those students having dramatic aspirations are urged to join in these productions.

Magazine Inquires

Are you the ugliest boy in Davidson according to your I-D card picture? If so, you can win valuable prizes in the Scripts 'n Pranks Worst I-D Picture Contest. There are to be ten winners, ten prizes, plus getting your picture in the December issue. So turn your I-D card in immediately to Sam Hope, Mike Myers, Bill Moffett, or Don Mahy; it will be returned to you by next Friday the 7th, in time for the next game.

Film Society Shows French Picture

“Zero De Conduite,” to be shown November 5, at 8:30 p.m., in Chambers Auditorium, will be the second picture of the United Literary Film Society's fall series. Written and directed by Jean Vigo, “Zero De Conduite” is an explosive, yet delightful story of revolt in a boys’ boarding school, depicted through a series of ironic, poetic and merciless episodes.

As is the case with many artists, Vigo was not appreciated in his own country until well after his early death, “Zero” having been banned in France for sixteen years as “being alleged to give a libellous picture of French school life.” Today, it is acknowledged by the French press as one of their classics. The musical score is by Maurice Jaubert. Season membership tickets for those who have not yet obtained them will be on sale at the door.

Moose Arranges Fourth Art Series

The fourth in a series of art exhibits for this year has been arranged by Mr. Philip Moose, head of the department of art. The exhibition deals with life and civilization in ancient Venice. Sponsored by Life Magazine, it will be shown from November 1 to November 8 in the lobby of Chambers building.

The exhibition opens with a panoramic view of Venice in 1500 as imagined from the air by a Renaissance artist, with the grand canal winding like a serpent through the heart of the city. The twenty-four enlarged panels then follow with the story of the fabulous sea-girt city which enjoyed a charmed life.

The pictorial material is organized under four categories: Government, Religion, Art and Literature, Civic and Private Architecture. The exhibition was prepared under the direction of John Goldsmith Phillips, associate curator of Renaissance and Modern Art, Metropolitan Museum of Art. The textual commentary, also by Mr. Phillips, quotes freely fromVarious 15th and 16th century writers describe the Republic of Venice at the height of its power. Mr. Moose has arranged for one or more exhibits to be shown each month for the remainder of the school year.

The Wildcat Club Goal To Raise $35,000

At its first meeting of this school year during Homecoming, the Wildcat Club set for itself a goal of $35,000 for next year. This figure represents a $5,000 increase over the amount pledged last year, and if the goal is met it will mean about a $12,000 increase over the actual amount collected so far on this year’s pledge. W. Olin Nisbet, president of the club, John I. Payne, alumni secretary, and Dr. John R. Cunningham made brief reports to the members at the meeting. Last year's officers were all re-elected for 1953. They are, besides Nisbet: Charles McCrary of Asheboro, vice-president, and Carson McAllister of Charlotte, secretary-treasurer.

Seven seniors were elected this week in the fall election of top scholarship men to the national honorary scholarship fraternity, Phi Beta Kappa. Those elected were George Bason, George Brinkley, Mac Bulgin, Larry Dagenhart, Robin Hinson, John Maynard, and James Speed.

Jim Speed, who was a graduate of Shades-Cahaba High School in Birmingham, Ala., has an average of 2.701 for his first three years in Davidson. He is active in the YMCA, was on its Cabinet for the past year, and is again on the Cabinet this year. He has been vice president of the Philanthropic Literary Society, and is associate editor of Quips and Cranks. He is a member of Delta Phi Alpha, the German honorary fraternity. He is a brother in Kappa Alpha social fraternity, and is majoring in history.

John Maynard, a Pi Kappa Alpha from Hickory, North Carolina, has been on the staff of the Quips and Cranks, has worked on the Wildcat Handbook, and is a member of the Spanish club. He is majoring in business. He has earned a 2.725 average at Davidson.

Robin Hinson, from Rockingham, North Carolina, is a major in political science. He is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, and has a three-year average of 2.631.

Larry Dagenhart is a graduate of New Hanover High School in Wilmington, North Carolina, where he was president of the student body. He is vice president of the student body at Davidson, and is also freshman advisor. A member of Scabbard and Blade, he was battalion commander in ROTC. He is a member of the Eumenean Literary Society, and of Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity. Dagenhart is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. He had an average of 2.840 for his first three years at Davidson.

Mac Bulgin is a graduate of Darlington School in Rome, Georgia, and is from Franklin, North Carolina. He received the Vereen Bell Award for 1952, and is President of Sigma Upsilon for this year. He is also president of Le Cercle Francais this school year. He is an honor student in English. President of the Philanthropic Literary Society this semester, he is a member of Sigma Chi social fraternity. He has a 2.663 average for the first three years he has been at Davidson.

George Brinkley is from Wilson, North Carolina, and graduated from Fayetteville High School in 1949. He is a member of the Eumenean Literary Society, and is majoring (Continued on Page Six)

Sunday Vespers Begins Services

By CHARLIE HASSELL

This Sunday’s vespers will mark the opening of the annual YMCA Fall Services, when Dr. William McIlwaine Thompson, D.D., Ph.D., and Professor of Christian Ethics at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia, will bring to the student body and community the first in a series of sermons on the general theme of Living a Christian Life. A Phi Beta Kappa graduate and former associate professor of Bible here at Davidson, Dr. Thompson completed graduate studies at Union Seminary and Yale and Columbia Universities in addition to studying abroad. He served as a chaplain in World War II and shortly afterwards began his teaching at Davidson College and then Union Theological Seminary.

Accompanying Dr. Thompson will be two recent graduates of Davidson—Neil Leach and Bill Klein, both of the class of '51, now in their middle year of studies at the seminary. Leach will be remembered for his work as president of the YMCA and Klein as president of the Interfraternity Council. These two former students will serve as counselors during the fall services week, living in the dormitories, leading discussion groups on the campus, and being available for personal interviews for those who want them.

In keeping with this general theme of Living a Christian Life, Dr. Thompson will bring a message Sunday night of “The Christian Life, the Christian Witness.” In Monday morning's chapel program he will discuss the problem of drink, and Monday night at 7:30 the topic, “Motives of Christian Living” will be his theme. On Tuesday morning he will continue the series with a sermon entitled “What About Sex?” which will be followed that night with a talk on “How to Beat the Devil.” The last message of his series will be the service in chapel Wednesday when he will use as his concluding subject, “The Living Lord of Life.”

The evening services, open to all, will be conducted in the Davidson Presbyterian Church at 7:30 and will be followed each evening by a discussion led by the Union Seminary students accompanying Dr. Thompson. These discussions will center primarily around social life in connection with Christian living and the problems of drink (Continued on Page Six)

Fellowship Group Begins Talk Series

The Westminster Fellowship, the student fellowship sponsored by the Presbyterian Church, is beginning a series of lectures and discussions on “The Basic Christian Doctrines.” The aim of this series is to re-clarify in our thinking the revolutionary impact of what Christ did and said and its implications for the Davidson College student today.

Three basic doctrines will be explored on succeeding Sundays, beginning on November 2: The Incarnation, The Atonement, and The Resurrection. Discussions will follow the lectures.

The speaker for this series will be Rev. Harold D. Hayward, Th.D., of Matthews, N.C. Dr. Hayward taught Old Testament at Davidson during the absence of Dr. Eberhardt in 1951 and is at present the pastor of historic Providence Presbyterian Church, which supplied Davidson's first two presidents. He has studied at the University of Washington, Cornell University, Northern Seminary in Chicago, Princeton Seminary, Biblical Seminary and New York University, and the University of Edinburgh. He has also served as a missionary to China and as an Army Chaplain in World War II.

The meetings will begin at 6:15 on Sunday evenings in the student room of the church. All interested students are cordially invited to attend and to take part in the discussions.

“WE STILL LIKE IKE,” POLL FINDS AMONG STUDENTS, FACULTY

“We still like Ike,” was the word from the recent straw vote held among students and faculty. In a near replay of last spring's preferential vote which then saw Eisenhower ahead, the students picked the General by a near three to one margin—359 for Eisenhower, and 129 for Stevenson. With the faculty the story was again Eisenhower by a large majority. Ike polled 34 votes to Adlai's 13, with one undecided. Of the students voting only 113 said they were registered, while the faculty had only three voters not eligible to vote.

Here is a rundown of the poll:

Students Faculty
Eisenhower 359 34
Stevenson 129 13
TOTAL 488 47

There was one undecided voter among the faculty and the students turned in numerous unmarked ballots. Some comments by students on the voting were gathered by your reporter:

Bill Bradford: “I voted for Ike and the Republican party for the reason that I think there is too much Socialism in the Democratic party.”

Ben Craig: “I voted for Ike because Dickie Davis voted for Adlai.”

Dickie Davis: “I voted for Adlai because Ben Craig voted for Ike.”

Lawrence Erwin: “I voted for Ike because I believe he will wind up this darn war and keep me out of Korea.”

A. C. Gregg: “I'm for Adlai because he has a good domestic policy and his foreign policy is as good as Ike's foreign policy. Ike is nothing but a military leader.”

Rusty Goode: “I’m backing (Continued on Page Six)