T'was The Night After Harvard

As the football team returned from Harvard last Saturday night, a large group of students were on hand to greet the not-quite-victorious gridders.

CAT TALES...

Now the Cambridgers engage other college teams in lacrosse, soccer, cross country, wrestling, fencing, hockey, squash, indoor and outdoor track, baseball, football, basketball, crew, golf, tennis, skiing, and several other sports. Besides these, the students themselves may organize teams (with the college supplying equipment) to play such sports as rugby, polo, and cricket. As we said before, they do things in a big way at Harvard. There's been some talk about that school de-emphasizing athletics, but you can’t prove it by this reporter.

JACKSON Cleaners
CLEARING EVERY JOB A GOOD ONE
SKILLFULLY DONE BY PRESSERS WITH YEARS OF EXPERIENCE
ALTERATIONS THAT SATISFY

(Continued from Page Three)

RICHMOND HERE...

(Continued From Page Three)

Richmond coach Ed Merrick has many returning lettermen from last year's squad, and the Spiders are large and fast. Smarting from a 20-2 setback handed them by V.P.I. last Saturday, the visitors are expected to be in good physical shape and should have their “T” attack in top form for the Wildcat battle. The Spiders will come to Presbyterian Hollow seeking their second win of the current campaign, having downed Randolph-Macon, a non-conference foe in the season opener, and then dropping their last six games.

ONE-DAY SERVICE AVAILABLE
Frank L Jackson, Jr.

Drink MOOR’S QUALITY MILK

A New twist of magic... Stroock blend of rabbits’ hair, Australian wool and llama fibre that becomes one of the most luxurious sports coatings your fingers have ever stroked! It is unusually soft yet it is extremely long-lived. In its distinctive shade of honey-oatmeal, it stamps the wearer as a man of excellent taste.

By BUDDY LAMON

The ivy-covered walls of Davidson rang clear with the strains of “Dixie,” Saturday night, as the student body turned out to welcome the “scrappy Cats” back home after their encounter with Harvard. This little turnout represents a new high in reference to that intangible something known as the “Davidson Spirit.” About twelve midnight, the drums began to roll, and members of the band along with a formidable host of upperclassmen, and some freshmen drafted for the occasion, canvassed the entire campus in an effort to organize a fitting welcome for the returning gridders. Awaiting the arrival of the bus, the band which had formerly been limited to the sacred works of John Philip Sousa and “All Hail O’ Davidson” gave out with everything from “Shine on Harvest Moon” to “Darktown Strutter’s Ball.” To provide the proper atmosphere for the occasion, several large piles of leaves were set ablaze with the aid of lighter fluid donated by one Hubert Cannon and flint and steel by arrangement with the National Council of Campfire Boys. Bob Henry, social chairman of the Y, suggested that he be informed of such spirited gatherings in the future so that he could provide dates or at least marshmallows (for roasting purposes). But even the lack of such failed to put a damper on the gathering.

In a more serious vein, it is more than gratifying to see the student body turn out in such a fine way to show their devotion to a bunch of guys who are playing their hearts out in every game to turn the tables on the long ill-fated destiny of Davidson football. This exhibition of spirited support will undoubtedly prove to be a great morale factor for the team in future games. It should also serve as a precedent for the students in making the “Davidson Spirit” a reality.

BEAT RICHMOND!

OUT OF Mooresville Creamery, Inc.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
Dial 3-6341

THEATRE

THUR-FRI., NOV. 6-7
The Marrying Kind
JUDY HOLIDAY
ALDO RAY

SATURDAY, NOV. 8
Naughty Widow
JANE RUSSELL
LOUIS HAYWARD

MON.-TUES., NOV. 10-11
Way Of Gaucho
GENE TIERNEY
ROY CALHOUN

WEDNESDAY, NOV. 12
I Was An American Spy
ANN DVOARK
GENE EVANS

OTHER SPORTS COATS FROM $29.50
SLACKS FROM $14.50

Lingle Chapel Is Opened For Private Meditation

By Jim Speed, chairman of the Y Cabinet post on Advancement, has announced this week that Lingle Chapel in the Davidson Presbyterian Church is now open at all times for the private meditation and worship of students and faculty members who wish to avail themselves of it for this purpose. The chapel, at the northwest end of the church, will remain open throughout the week (except Thursday afternoons) primarily for those who, for personal reasons, wish a few moments of silence with themselves. For this purpose, the main door leading from Main Street will remain open throughout the day, and those who feel inclined are urged to make use of this new privilege.

INTERFRATERNITY

(Continued from Page Three)

Bledsoe did a good job for the SAEs.

Kappa Sigs 25; ATOs 0
Eddie Powe and Larry Dagenhart, coupled with a fine team effort, gave the Kappa Sigs a 25-0 shutout win over the cellar-dwelling ATOs. Bob Grigsby and John Livingston led the losers’ attack.

Phi Delts 13; Betas 6
Bill Bivins and Miller Byne joined forces to hand the Betas a 13-6 defeat as the Phi Delts continued their winning ways. Ed Douglas and Tom Lambe played well for the Betas.

Phi Gams 27; SAEs 18
Behind the fine efforts of Don Reed and Watt Moore, the Phi Gams took the measure of the SAEs by a 27-18 count. Dick Babington and Steve Norton showed up well for the SAEs.

FIFTY CANDIDATES

(Continued from Page Three)

Miller and his assistant, Dave Poole, have had the Cats working hard all week on the fundamentals of the game. Passing and dribbling exercises have been stressed. In about another week the squad will probably be cut to about 20 boys so the practice sessions can be somewhat more concentrated.

IRC To Reorganize, Boost Membership

The first meeting of the International Relations Club was held Wednesday, Oct. 15, for the purpose of organizing the club more efficiently this year and of increasing the membership. The International Relations Club meets semi-monthly to discuss world issues, hear lectures, and take part in debates on international problems. The purpose of the organization is to stimulate interest in world relations and problems and to discuss questions of international importance. The chapter here at Davidson is sponsored by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.Club this year is Preston Chaney as president with Buddy McNeil as secretary-treasurer and Lee Harter as program chairman. At the next meeting on November 12, Professor F. S. Morton of the Political Science Department will lead a discussion on the recent national election. During the past few years, the International Relations Club has fallen into lethargy from which it cannot rise without the support of the students. It is hoped that more students will actively participate in the IRC this year and reawaken the dying club.

Electoral College Is Topic For Discussion

The topic of this week's YMCA discussion after vespers Sunday night is to be the Hoover Commission Report as related to the Electoral College. Professor Griffin of the Economics Department will open the discussion with a short statement on the question. The group will meet in the student lounge of the church immediately after the vesper service.

DeMILLE TO JUDGE... (Continued From Page One)

...dom to make a good selection of the beauties of the future.” Any students who have pictures of girlfriends or good-looking sisters are invited to enter these pictures for Mr. deMille’s judging. Bill Bradford, senior, rooming at 126 Duke Dormitory, is handling all entries. This year there will be no restrictions on the size of pictures entered in the contest. Colored or tinted pictures may be submitted, though black and white or glossy prints are preferred. It has been requested that all pictures be removed from wooden or metal frames before they are submitted, in order that they may be more easily mailed to Mr. deMille. The student’s name who submits the picture, the girl’s name, and her hometown should be attached or written on the back of the picture. Pictures sent to Mr. deMille will be returned as soon as the annual staff is able to obtain them after the judging is complete and the engravings are made for the annual.

MILITARY GROUP... (Continued From Page One)

The Scabbard and Blade had its first drill team practice on Wednesday night, Nov. 5. Thirty men entered the competition. Bob Beal is the drill team captain. The drill team expects to make its first appearance at the beginning of the basketball season.

WILDCAT OF WEEK... (Continued From Page Three)

Dole the real hero of the game. So what would you do? Chances are you wouldn't single out any of Bill Dole’s fighting crew for special honors. You'd point to the whole Davidson team as the scrappin’est crowd of football players you'd seen in a long time, and you'd say that all of them were key parts in a football game that Davidsonians will remember with pride for a long time.

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1952 THE DAVIDSONIAN

AED Members See Movies On Surgery

At the first meeting of Alpha Epsilon Delta, pre-medical fraternity, held October 15, two medical films were shown. One film demonstrated an operating technique and the other dealt with the removal of a stomach cancer. Following the films, Dr. Gunn, the new assistant doctor here at Davidson, answered questions pertaining to the films. The Alpha Epsilon Delta is the honorary pre-medical fraternity which seeks to promote excellence in pre-medical work by providing a goal toward which those interested in medicine as their life work may strive in their pre-graduate medical work at Davidson. Varied activities of the fraternity include lectures by prominent doctors of North Carolina, films shown concerning different fields of medicine, and several field trips to surrounding hospitals for personal inspection and observation of operations. Bob Puston is president of AED this year; Jim Bryant and Jim Boulware are treasurer and secretary, respectively.

CHAPEL... (Continued from Page One)

Mr. Shaw Smith, the new director of the Student Union. Thursday, November 13th, will be YMCA day and the tentative plans now are for a band concert. Friday, November 14th, will be student day and Major George Jones will have the brief devotional talk. The Davidson College Football Band will present a concert at Coker College in Hartsville, S.C., on November 21, preceding the Davidson vs. Citadel game on November 22, at The Citadel in Charleston, S.C. The band will also give a concert in chapel on November 18. The Male Chorus will sing during the morning service at the Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, Sunday, Nov. 9, returning to the campus to sing for vespers here that night. Philip Gehring will present an organ recital here on November 23, preceded on Nov. 17, by Louise Ankeny from the First Methodist Church in Charlotte, who will also give an organ recital. On Nov. 24, a student recital will be given in Chambers Auditorium, presenting students from all phases of the Music Department.

HUSBAND AND WIFE... (Continued from Page One)

North Dakota. His wife was born in Chicago. After a year at Vassar College, Mrs. Muir studied sculpture at the Art Student’s League of New York. Mrs. Muir specializes in Maine coastal scenes, portrait heads, and children’s portraits. Her work hangs in the Brooklyn Museum, has been purchased by the U.S. government and is in many private collections. William Muir studied at the Minneapolis School of Art and at the Art Students’ League. In recent years he has devoted a large part of his efforts to wood sculpture.

FOR QUICK SERVICE BATES CLEANERS DYEING & ALTERATIONS — HATS BLOCKED LAUNDRY SERVICE

BEER

...and Accessory Organs not Adversely Affected by Smoking Chesterfields. A responsible consulting organization has reported the results of a continuing study by a competent medical specialist and his staff on the effects of smoking Chesterfield cigarettes. A group of people from various walks of life was organized to smoke only Chesterfields. For six months this group of men and women smoked their normal amount of Chesterfields—10 to 40 a day. 45% of the group have smoked Chesterfields continually from one to thirty years for an average of 10 years each. At the beginning and at the end of the six-month period each smoker was given a thorough examination, including X-ray pictures, by the medical specialist and his assistants. The examination covered the sinuses as well as the nose, ears, and throat. The medical specialist, after a thorough examination of every member of the group, stated: It is my opinion that the ears, nose, throat, and accessory organs of all participating subjects examined by me were not adversely affected in the six-month period by smoking the cigarettes provided.