PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF .................. BILL WHITE

BUSINESS MANAGER ........... ALEX GOLEY

Associate Editors ........ Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis, George McMurray

Managing Editors ......... Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw, John Ottley

Art Editor—Don Mahy

Photographer—Andrew Simmons

Sports Editor—Dick Liles

Feature Editor—Mike Myers

City Editor—Nat Daniels

Assistant Business Manager ------- Boo Northcutt

Advertising Manager ---------------- Jack Hobson

Circulation Manager ---------------- Bob Poston

Collection Manager ---------------- Bill Minter

Subscriptions Manager --------------- Preston Chaney

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Effectiveness Of Spring Services Proves Discussion Emphasis Pays

As was the hope and prediction of The Davidsonian last week, this year’s Spring Services proved to be one of
the most effective special service series in quite some years on the campus. Two reasons can be pointed to for
this success. The first was the speaker chosen, the second group discussion emphasis.

Rev. Ben L. Rose, three and one half years’ chaplaincy putting him at a great advantage in speaking to young
men, captured his audience in a manner that made them reluctant to witness his Wednesday departure. He was a man’s
preacher.

The dorm-fraternity discussion groups were made to order for Davidson. It is surprising that the accent wasn't put there earlier.
The Davidson student body is one which balks at too many sermons—and not without some reason. Even a fresh thing
grows stale with too much exposure to air. Substituting the post-supper hour ‘‘bull’’ session for an evening talk brought the
services to the student on a personal level, where he could participate and benefit from the give and take of
the conversation. May we add to our congratulations to the special services committee an entreaty to next year's group to
follow the plan of their predecessors.

Red Cross Double Barrel Drive Deserving of Double Donation

Two drives—though not for the Red Cross—were kicked off in Davidson today. One was begun in actuality with the presentation
of the opportunity to the student body to give to the Annual Red Cross financial drive. The other drive, Davidson's
second year, is the Red Cross blood drive which will be launched after Spring Holidays. The blood drive began today
actually did begin today in that an appeal for donors has been made.

Like the Army and the government, the Red Cross, from the very vastness of its nature of operation, is subject
to much abusive rumor. That organization continues, however, to be the world’s greatest relief organization; it is first on the
battlefields, at the scene of disaster, and in response to society's need. The American Red Cross needs $85,000,000 to do
its business next year—approximately one-fourth of that figure will go toward providing assistance for our Armed Forces. Mecklenburg County's total,
exclusive of Charlotte, is $4,100. As college-citizens of the county, we are presented an opportunity and a responsibility to contribute
to that total. Spared the misery and heartache of war and disaster, we can share in the aid to those
who literally cry out for help.

Study Handicap For Afflictees Of Love Sickness Proposed

“In the spring man's mind turns to what he has been thinking about all winter—income taxes.” To the underprivileged millions
who are not college students this may be true, but to the eds and co-eds it ain't taxes that cause
trouble. It's love.

This year the problem is no worse than before, but now we propose to bring it to the attention of
some members of the faculty in whom the sap no longer seems to rise. With all due apologies to their
plumbing apparatus there seems to be a great deal of ice water where blood was meant to be. Equipped with
this cooling system it is often hard for gentlemen of the local brain trust to realize that there are a
new set of variable factors conflicting with studies which come into play around the middle of March. These variables usually
appear in sweaters and skirts and move progressively to bathing suits and sun tans. They have an effect upon the
student inversely proportional to the distance and directly proportional to the shape.

Since some persons are affected more than others it seems only fair to give those bothered by these seasonal fluctuations
some sort of handicap. With the honor system as it now stands, a simple pledge could be required to accredit
a student's claim. Before reviews a handkerchief check could be held to ascertain whether a student was one of the
few bothered by the seasonal affliction. If one square inch of lipstick stain could be demonstrated an automatic bonus of
ten points would be awarded on the test. Naturally, married students would not be eligible unless a family is in
prospect. Pinned boys would be given only five extra points. In cases of extreme competition or when the girl is
over four hundred miles away perhaps an extra point or two would be in order.

This is merely a suggestion and it is not mandatory that the executive committee carry out the policy until they
have had time to consider it thoroughly. Student opinion seems strongly in favor of such a move. Furthermore it would
be another step toward keeping Davidson at the forefront as to the most progressive school in the South—N.S.B.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

BY AN ANONYMOUS MILITARY GENIUS

THE CABBAGE PLANTER: Mizelle, Proctor Split Laurels; Troope Takes Thespis’ Wreath

Fancy a novel about Chicago or Buffalo, let us say, of Nashville, Tennessee!

NASHVILLE—A city, port of delivery, and the capital of the State of Tennessee, is on the Cumberland River and on
the N.C.&S.L. and the L.&N. railroads. The city is regarded as the most important educational center in the South.

I stepped into his room at 9:15. Having searched thesaurus in vain for adjectives, I must, as a substitution, hie
me to a comparison in the form of a recipe. Take of knotted orange tapestry 4 parts; Stein’s number 11,
sallow old man, 7 parts; flu, 3 parts; tobacco smoke, one part; Aeschylusian dew-drops, 5 parts; o’ervaulting ambition, 10 parts;
P. T. Barnum, one part; Jose Ferrer, 2 parts; David Garrick 3 parts. Mix. The mixture will give you an
approximate conception of Vance Mizelle's dormitory room. It is not so nostalgic as the Palace nor as squalid as the
Globe; but ‘tis enough—'twill serve.

I was there; I could hardly believe it, but I was there. And talking to me, to me understand, just
a cub reporter out on his first big assignment, was Vance Mizelle. Believe me, I was scared, but it soon
turned out that the old axiom about famous people’s being easy to talk to was true. Vance, that is, Mr.
Mizelle, was as friendly as could be, helpful, encouraging and not at all aware, I am confident, of his standing
as the winner of one of two supporting role awards in Nashville last weekend. No, all his talk, believe me,
this reporter tried to make him talk about himself, but he just wouldn't—all his talk was about how well the
rest of the cast did, and how it was the cast of seven that won Davidson the first place cup
in the Alpha Psi Omega dramatic contest at George Peabody State Teachers College. Blushing modestly, Vance stuttered, “we did a
beautiful job...”

The seven who made the trip were, to quote Mizelle again, three T's, two P's and two M’s. Thinking this
some sort of stage lingo, and not wanting to reveal my stupidity, I kept my peace, but found out later
that he meant, for the lay reader's benefit, Tink Taylor, Tad Currie, Ted Daniels, Dick Perkins, Howard Proctor, the winner
of the other supporting role award, Mac Doubles and he whom I am talking about. That makes seven. Proctor, whose
star, understand, is equally as bright on the horizon as Mizelle’s, was not available for comment. Vance assured me that
he gave a magnificent performance, an unforgettable, a truly superb job. “Otherwise,” reasoned Vance, “how could he ever have won
such an award?”

Concerning the trip itself, Vance was enthusiastic about the support given to the project in Nashville. It was obvious from
what he said that the idea of Theater in the Round is catching on with a solid basis in dramatic
groups all over the country. And entirely fitting it is, too, that Davidson should be taking the lead in the
movement. Theater in the Round, besides possessing technical and artistic advantages that intrigue the actor and producer, is a very
effective and revealing test of our own ability to appreciate something besides television and condensations, purple philosophy and yellow journalism.
It demands an imagination far and above that required by the conventionally staged production. This revival of the oldest form
of the theater is a welcome one, and a heartening indication that perhaps imagination, and its offspring, conversation, initiative, ingenuity,
are not dead but dormant.

The importance of Theater in the Round at Davidson, and its results, go a lot further than having the Dome
Room painted, or winning a first prize at Nashville. It is a test, a very important test for students and
faculty and administration, of whether we realize and utilize the potentialities of a well-trained imagination.

Alumni Praise Wrestlers For Performance

The Davidsonian
Davidson College
Davidson, N. C.

I have just returned from one of the most enjoyable sports events I have ever seen. The “timelight” attraction of
this date may lead you to believe that I am referring to the basketball tournament, but that is not so.
With two other alumni, I attended the Southern Conference Wrestling Tournament in Lexington, Va. The tournament itself was good, and
the finalists in almost every class were close matches which means that the spectator is well rewarded for his coming.

My letter to you is directed, however, as an effort to compliment the coach and the team members for their
conduct and performance in one of the best tournament showings that Davidson has had in a long time. With a
crippled team (only six men) and a will to win your team captured the third place and could easily have
been second but for a few breaks. An improved and eager group of men were there this weekend and they
deserve a fine hand from us alumni and you students as well. The spirit and sportsmanship of your men was
testified not only by their action on the mat, but also the attitude of other teams and coaches toward them.
I wish that I could make remarks about individual contestants, but perhaps that is not the thing to do in
an editorial letter; therefore let it suffice to say that the improvement in all of the members of the team
whom I saw wrestle was marked over their performance last year, and the possibilities for next year’s team are to
me veryHigh. Davidson cannot expect to defeat a team whose membership is composed of approximately two strings of scholarship men,
but it has surprised many spectators, and I might add coaches, too, this year. From experience, I can say that
participation in a sport of the quality of wrestling as it exists at Davidson and with the caliber of men
that compose the team there can be nothing less than an edifying experience for a person who wishes to grow
in character and physical proportions. I covet this experience for more and more of the student body. Let me again
say, and I am certain that I speak for those who were with me, that my hat goes off to
a fine team, a fine captain, and a fine coach. Congratulations are apropos for the team and the school that
produced so fine a group of men. Best wishes for the future. Sincerely yours, contribute to the Red Cross!

FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 1952

NAT DANIEL:

A good bit of the evil in the world today can be attributed to one of the strongest aspects of
Original Sin—Selfishness. It seems to be a fundamental weakness of human nature that pervades all walks of life: every human
institution, every aspect of man’s relationship with his fellow man, with himself, and even with God. And it doesn’t take
much to carry selfishness too far, where in this extreme form it becomes, in good old Westminster Confession terminology, Sin.
But Selfishness as it is commonly preached against (or, more accurately, should be preached against) in Southern Presbyterian pulpits, has
a direct bearing on our everyday living—both with ourselves and with God. No true Christian can really rationalize Selfishness and
Christianity, though many professing Christians do just that every single day. And even atheistic or humanistic groups condemn selfishness as
a stumbling block to human progress.

Now in America today, not excluding our little bit of hemmed-in heaven, selfishness breeds many evils which prevent us from
achieving close harmony with God, with our fellowmen, or both. Selfishness, essentially, gives us a distorted sense of values; an
out-of-focus point of view. We look at the world in terms of how it can pay off in terms of
material and personal benefits: money, power, prestige, etc., and we forget the things which go to make us better humans,
better citizens, and better Christians: honesty, character, integrity, generosity, helpfulness, love for our fellowman—all those things which make for a
more integrated personality. This distortion of values leads us to channel our energies and talents in directions which may pay
off for us at the present, but which may lead us to dissipation, to degeneracy, and finally to destruction. Then,
too, if we ourselves are selfish, we shall more than likely assume that our neighbor is selfish also. The result:
we watch his every move, we misconstrue his actions, we may even come to actively dislike him. We probably never
grow to hate him, but we certainly aren’t as kindly inclined toward him as we might be had we practiced
true Christian altruism.

In America today we are treading on dangerous ground. More and more, as the standard of living goes up, as
the controlling minorities get fatter and more comfortable, as the intangibles of life become less and less respected, and as
the almighty Dollar replaces God in our lives. Selfishness and greed and avarice take hold of our bodies, then our
minds, and finally our souls. And past ages should be an example. As nations have become rich and powerful and
corrupt, they have become lazy and degenerate, and as the brave warriors have become selfish scavengers, their defenses weakened and
fell, and finally their cities crumbled into dust. Here at Davidson we're supposed to be exceptional, almost angelic, but most
of us don’t even try. As the world becomes more complex and more troubled, it behooves each of us to
look at ourselves, our purposes, and our values, and our Christianity, and ask, “Are we living the type of life
which will best prepare us for the task of leading humanity out of destruction and back to the God from
whence he came?”

Aren’t Missions A Form of Western Imperialism? (Fourth in the series of questions Students Ask About Missions. This summary made
by A. K. Garrison.)

“Accept a ruler and you accept his religion.” This in a sentence describes the attitude of many toward the colonization
of the last century. Thus it has been that political control, cultural domination, and Christianity were imposed on an area
in one big bundle and natives were not able to distinguish the ruthless and power-hungry exploiters from the Christian missionary.
Both came to disrupt their previous social and economic conditions no matter what their motive. Western nations were pictured as
going into an underprivileged area with a Bible in one hand and a rifle in the other. Conditions have now
changed in these “backward” areas due to education and modernization. They are no longer content under a foreign power; a
nationalistic fire rages among them and Christianity still connected with western political control, imperialism, is being thrown off as well
as political domination. Missionaries are scrutinized with suspicion in many ports as possible “subversives” to national power. “Yes,” they say,
“let Christianity go, after all, it's really just religious garnishing for the political and social power for the west.”

What shall we say to these accusations? Is the Christian mission an instrument of imperialism, conscious or unconscious, or is
it something above and apart from social and political prejudices? We must quickly admit that the Christian mission has often
taken on a tinge of cultural superiority and the missionary who comes to live among natives with plumbing, strange clothes,
and servants creates many vague misgivings; for, how much of his power is spiritual and how much due to the
awe of the natives for his trappings. Christianity, however, is not an abstract philosophical system which can be transferred from
one culture to another without its carrying over the influences of the previous. Thus the problem of the missionary is
to impart his Lord as he knows Him, a national Jesus, to an area of different national spirit so that
He will neither be a foreigner nor be distorted by pre-Christian patterns of thought. He must in addition urge each
young church to make its contribution to the Church Universal. The Christian mission has encouraged each church, young and old,
to make a full contribution to the whole church because its message is not from one nation, but a gospel
from God to every country. Because it is a message from God it questions whether native religions have the answer
to sin and guilt. A missionary is not concerned whether a native wears trousers or a necktie; his own aim
is to enable them to find Christ for their own. Is it imperialism to share with those who seek in
vain the truth in which we have found life?

Missions have served to counterbalance the effects of imperialism. Today with our widespread advertisements and movies the materialistic phase of
western culture has destroyed the supports of many primitive and non-Christian faiths. Therefore the Christian mission has an even greater
responsibility to keep abreast with imperialism and give to these floundering peoples the peace and security in Christ. The Christian
mission has only this aspect of imperialism; its goal is total world conquest, but it is a conquest of love
and salvation in Christ as Savior.

College Graduates Discover Good Jobs In Retail Grade According To Bureau

It has recently been discovered by Bishop Brown, Director of the Research Bureau for Retail Training of the University of
Pittsburgh, that many college graduates have not thoroughly investigated various career opportunities and their fitness for them. An all too
often forgotten job that many college graduates are very well suited for, but rarely think of, is that of retailing.
There are few industries in the United States today that offer the variety of job opportunities that retailing does. Recent
statistics show that there are over one and three-quarter million retail stores in the U. S. and they vary tremendously
in type and size. Graduates have a choice between working for a huge department store or running a small store
of their own. In a letter to college graduates, Mr. Brown said, “Whether your geographical preferences are North, East, South
or West, whether you prefer a large city or a small town, you can find a rewarding career in retailing
limited largely by your own initiative.” Not all the opportunities are in retailing itself. Other opportunities such as manufacturers selling
to and through retailers, advertising agencies, newspapers, fashion magazines, and a dozen other fields rate retail experience highly. There are
usually 300 to 400 key executive positions in a large department store. Since college graduates are in tune with the
generation whose needs are the greatest, many of these positions are open to the graduate. These positions include such varied
and interesting work as buying, sales promotion and advertising, personnel, accounting and control, and the management of many sales supporting
operations such as delivery and warehousing. Over 30 years ago a group of America’s leading merchants established a unique graduate
school at the University of Pittsburgh. This school was set up for the purpose of training college graduates for the
many career opportunities in (Continued On Page Four)

FROM THE EDITOR’S MAILBOX: Cartoonist Is Reprimanded; Hallowed Home Defended

March 7, Editor, Davidsonian

Honor has been irrevocably damaged today by your infamous cartoonist, Benedict A. Mahy. The sly, underhanded intimation of this insidious
pen-scratcher was that RUMPLE is somewhat less than paradisiacal. May we, the undersigned, point out that the floors of each
room are tilted toward the center solely as an aid to the janitor, and that no breath check is ever
necessary for anyone who has succeeded in climbing the stairs. Moreover, RUMPLE is both light and airy—tight when the windows
are open and airy when they are closed. We will venture no direct rebuttal concerning the ants, since there are
dormitory regulations concerning pets. However, the illustration of the blowtorch is the final all-crushing blow. We have found that a
simple newspaper firebrand, preferably Davidsonian, is sufficient to break up any congregation. We righteously call upon the combined, long fomented
wrath of all lost generations of RUMPLE RATS to join in our vengeance of this ineradicable smirch, and say fie
on Mr. Mahy!

Signed,
ALLAN D. MACY
FIELDING D. RUSSELL, JR.
HARRY PATTERSON
HAMA T. GHEESLING, JR.
WILSON HENDRY
CHARLIE HARRELL
HOBART C. MARTIN, JR.
GILBERT G. GRAGG, JR.
WILLIAM G. EDWARDS
DEAN GOODSELL, JR.
ZEB McMILLAN
ALBERT MAY
CURTIS ELLISON
WM. PAUL McALLISTER
MAURICE WADDELL, JR.
FRED SAMRA
GEORGE E. MELTON
PAUL PINCKNEY
CHUCK MILLARD
