PEON ARMY MARCHES

ROTC unit pays humble respects to the Peoples’ Echelon of non-deferred students.

Echelon Features Satan’s Sad Saps

As a service feature, The Davidsonian brings you on-the-spot coverage of the Peoples’ Echelon at their drill Tuesday afternoon. Pitch
was running high in the P.E.O.N.S. camp as a result of the following proclamation by Cadet Col. R. M. Henry:

SPECIAL ORDER
R.O.T.C. Headquarters
Training Note: 1-A3M1 Revised

Attention to Orders. During the regular ROTC drill period on Tuesday afternoon (from approximately 1330-1530), while an attempt is being
made to coordinate, organize, supervise, oversee, coordinate, maintain, prepare, examine, plan, coordinate, evaluate, enforce, establish, determine, coordinate, inculcate, and coordinate
esprit de corps among the troops, a very serious opposing course of action has been observed. Countless hasty estimates, staff
plans, and supervision have produced varying attitudes. Yet one opinion has been reached—that the “peoples’ army” must be penetrated, enveloped,
devastated, destroyed, repelled, and counter-attacked. This is apparent when the unit commander considers the following two (2) suggestions:

(1) They outshine the ROTC troops in military precision and discipline;
(2) Their distinctive uniforms, or lack of such, fit better than ours;
(3) Their cadet band is better coordinated;
(4) Their unit commander has a broad fundamental understanding, a good general background, a well-rounded staff, and a lot of
experience.
(5) Our morale breaks in their presence.

For the preceding reasons, therefore, it is necessary to order the “peoples’ army” dissolved.

By order of Cadet Col. R. M. Henry
Regimental Commander
ROTC Headquarters
10 October, 1952.

Our roving microphone picked up these random comments:

“Obviously the ramblings of a jealous mind.”—Commander A. C. Gregg of PEONS.
“They're just trying to undermine the male chorus.”—Cadet Lt. Bob Henry of ROTC.
“Toy Malloy is the brains behind our organization.”—Admiral Shady Eller of PEONS.
“The weight of the M.1 trigger spring pin holder is .0926 grams.”—Captain Martin of ROTC.
“We don’t make our boys carry raincoats.”—His Excellency Nab Armfield of PEONS.
“Threw the Overalls in Mrs. Murphy's Chowder.”—Marshall Bill Bradford of PEONS.
“If they interfere with the ROTC band, I'll quit and go home.”—Band Capt. Harold Gilliland of ROTC.
“Remember — our summer camp is at Spivey’s Beach.”—Pvt. Chuck Mann of PEONS.

But it is this paper’s opinion that the entire situation was best summed up in the terse, but wisdom-packed words
of Capt. Martin—“The weight of the M-1 trigger pin holder is 0926 grams.”

“Deserters to PEON ranks will be severely punished.”—Cadet Col. Bob Wearn of ROTC.
“Lemonade will be served at all 20-minute breaks.”—Regent Notice Yancey Robertson of PEONS.

Dave Robinson, business manager of the Quips and Cranks, has announced that there are five 1952 annuals available in the
bookstore at $5 a piece for anyone interested.

“The weight of the M-l trigger spring pin holder is .0926 grams.”—Captain Martin of ROTC.

“Join our ranks of blood cranks. We're the herd who weren't deferred.” (Sung to the tune of “Who Threw the
Overalls in Mrs. Murphy's Chowder?”)

VOLUME XLI
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.
The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1952
EUREKA! EDITOR ALMOST FINDS WAY OUT
(See Editorial)
NUMBER 3

Politics Is Subject Of YMCA Forum

Politics will highlight the first YMCA-sponsored forum for the year which will begin next Wednesday in chapel. Starting the series
of annual lectures and discussions will be two candidates for the House of Representatives from the tenth district. The general
purpose of the forum is the presentation of the platforms of the Democratic and Republican parties. Mr. Charles R. Jonas
of Lincolnton, will present the Republican side, while Mr. Hamilton C. Jones of Charlotte, will give that of the Democrats.

Jesse Fisher, head of the forums and after vespers discussion committee for the Y, said that there might be some
criticism of having the first forum so early in the year. He explained that the nearness of the national elections
made this topic of paramount importance. Also included in the plans for the two-day political emphasis period is a panel
discussion to be held in the “Y" lounge on Wednesday night at 7:30. Mr. Frank L. Jackson will serve as
moderator and featured on the panel will be Mr. David McConnell, chairman of the Mecklenburg County Democratic Committee, and Mr.
J. M. Bailey who is chairman of the Republican Party of North Carolina. All students and other interested persons are
invited to the evening discussion and it is planned that a question and answer period will follow.

The speaker for October 15, will be Mr. Charles R. Jonas. Mr. Jonas seems well qualified to enlighten (Continued On
Page Four)

Cat Riflemen Stage Trials

The rifle team will hold its first practice on Tuesday, October 15. All students who are interested in joining the
team are requested to be present at the armory at 3:45 on that date. All students are eligible whether they
are enrolled in ROTC or not.

The team had a successful season last year, finishing third in the Hearst Trophy Match in the Third Army area.
Although hard hit by graduation losses, the prospects are good for another winning season. A full schedule of shoulder to
shoulder matches as well as postal matches is being completed now. New rifles have been received, and the rifle range
is being revamped with work designed to improve lighting and general appearance. The team will be coached again this year
by Major Jones and Master Sergeant Butts, both of the ROTC. The schedule of matches for this year has not
been worked out as yet, but the first match is expected to be held sometime next week.

Walker Heads Honor Group

Bob Walker was elected president of the Honorary Fraternity Council last Wednesday at the Council's first meeting this year. Allen
Garrison was elected secretary-treasurer.

The Council was organized to serve as a clearing house on student organization. A schedule for honorary fraternity meetings is
arranged by the Council at the beginning of each year, and appears on page 4 of this issue.

The membership of the Honorary Fraternity Council is composed of the presidents of all honorary student organizations on the campus.
Members this year are: Bob Henry, Omicron Delta Kappa; Hubert Cannon, YMCA; Lawrence Erwin, IFC; Hubert Cannon, Forensic Council; Preston
Chaney, International Relations Club; Tad Currie, Red and Black Masquers; Clay Evatt, “D" Club; Herschel Allen, Beaver Club; Frank Hanshaw,
Scabbard and Blade; Mac Bulgin, Sigma Upsilon; Bob Walker, Eumanean Literary Society; Mac Bulgin, Philanthropic Literary Society; Pete Hairston, Delta
Phi Alpha; Mac Bulgin, Le Cercle Francais; Bob Walker, Sigma Delta Pi; Don Lazenby, Sigma Delta Psi; Jim Boulware, Gamma
Sigma Epsilon; Allen Garrison, Sigma Pi Sigma; Bob Crymes, Phi Mu Alpha; Bob Poston, Alpha Epsilon Delta; Vance Mizelle, Alpha
Psi Omega; David Matthews, Photo Club.

Second Exhibit In Chambers Now

The second in a series of monthly art exhibits went on display today in the lobby of Chambers Building at
Davidson College. Philip Moose, Davidson's director of fine arts, announced that the exhibit features 20 large framed color reproductions of
the outstanding modern European artists of this century. On loan from the Modern Museum of Art of New York, the
display highlights outstanding works by Picasso, the father of modern art; Rouault’s “Christ Mocked by Soldiers;" “Gates of Hades,” by
the Swiss painter Klee; Matisse’s “The Pink Tablecloth,” and other works by Miro, Modigliani, Bonnard, and Kandinsky. A brief description,
discussing the importance of each artist in the painting trends developed since 1900, accompanies each painting.

Service-Wide Economy Comes Home As Local ROTC Emphasizes Program

THESE ITEMS COST YOU

Sergeant Penley points out the main idea of the current economy run by the Army. Cadet Lt. Brown Dennis observes.

The Army's cost-conscious and supply economy programs have been extended to include the ROTC training. The limited purchasing power of
the “Defense Dollar” on today’s market demands that all persons using military equipment be thoroughly indoctrinated in the use, care,
maintenance, and cost of equipment. Every effort must be made to ensure the maximum usage of each item of equipment
and each dollar expended for defense.

Since most Americans are accustomed to plenty and waste is an everyday practice in American homes, young men entering the
Armed Forces are inclined to continue these habits. In World War II, battlefield waste and the unnecessary loss of equipment
by most units was appalling. This serious drain on our resources and consequent increase of the public debt called for
preventive action. Beginning in the latter part of World War II and continued in the period leading up to the
Korean War, (Continued On Page Four)

Student Union Dedication To Highlight Homecoming

Sixty to Leave On First Co-ed Weekend Trip

The first exchange day of the year is Saturday, October 10, when sixty Davidson students will leave by car for
Montreat College at Montreat, N. C. Upon arrival at Montreat, the boys will meet their dates and then be entertained
on a supper hike. Later in the evening, a square dance will be held. The guests from Davidson will spend
Saturday night at Assembly Inn. The program for Sunday starts with breakfast at the Inn. Then they will take the
dates to Sunday School and Church. The last event is Sunday dinner. The group will leave in time to return
to Davidson around 3:15 p.m. Sunday.

Bob Henry, social chairman of the Y, said that the only expense will be about 50 cents to cover the
cost of gas. All places for this trip have been filled, and the group will leave the campus around 1
p.m. Saturday. On November 8, 115 girls from Flora MacDonald College at Red Springs, will be entertained on the Davidson
campus. The girls will arrive here at one o'clock Saturday afternoon. They will be taken to the Davidson-Richmond football game
and then to supper at the various boarding houses. The evening will (Continued On Page Four)

Week’s Chapel

On Monday, October 13, Dr. J. A.McGeachy will be in charge of the devotional. On Tuesday, October 14, Dr. S.
R. Spencer will be in charge of the program and will speak on student government at Davidson and in general.
Wednesday and Thursday, October 15 and 16, will be YMCA days for a forum on the national elections. On the
15th, Charles Jonas, Republican candidate for Congress, will speak, and on Thursday, the Democratic candidate, Hamilton Jones, will be the
speaker. On Friday, Mr. Donald B. Plott will have the devotional, and it will also be student day as usual.

SVM Reorganizes For Active Year

The first meeting of the Student Volunteer Movement for Christian Missions will be held on next Tuesday, the 14th, in
the Y lounge. All students interested in Christian Missions, home and foreign, are invited to attend. The Student Volunteer Movement
was founded in 1886 at Mt. Hermon, Mass., when 100 students volunteered for mission service. Among the first 100 was
John R. Mott. In the course of its 65-year existence, SVM has influenced approximately 20,000 men and women to take
the field in the service of the missions of their various churches. In addition, the movement firmly set in the
Divisions of Home and Foreign Missions of the National Council of Churches. It should be noted that the group is
not interested only in those young men and women who are considering missions as a life work, but all who
are interested in the evangelistic expansion of the Christian Gospel. The ultimate ideal of the movement, however, is to provide
the background and situation for the dedication of lives to the cause of the spread of the gospel both at
home and abroad.

DAVID OVENS COLLEGE UNION

Annual Vote Nods Standard Photos

From a poll taken last week in chapel, the upperclassmen decided to continue uniform coats and ties for the annual
pictures, and by a two-to-one majority decided to have their names printed in gold on the cover of the annual.
The question put before the students, “Are you in favor of uniform coats and ties for individual annual pictures?" found
267 replying “yes,” with 236 answering “no.” Mitchell Patton, editor of this year's annual, has stated that beginning Monday at
2 p.m., the photographer will be on the campus to make individual pictures for the annual. This year a new
firm, Waller and Smith from Raleigh, will be in charge of the pictures. Representatives will be on the campus for
the entire week, working each day from 9 a.m. until 5:30 p.m., with an hour for lunch from 1 until
2. Pictures will be taken in the usual place in the basement of Chambers, beside the bookstore. Due to the
change in firms from Charlotte to Raleigh, it will be imperative that all students have their pictures made on campus
next week during the allotted time.

Changes Made In Cut System

Davidson students are requested to notice that cut card procedure remains the same as last year, with the exception of
office hours for corrections and correction of errors in P.T. absences. Dean Bailey's office has found it necessary to set
aside certain hours for the correction of errors on cut cards. The schedule is: Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday: 12 noon-4
p.m.; Saturday and Monday, 4th period. No hours are set aside on Tuesday, since full time is required for preparation
of cut cards. In the past, errors in P.T. absences were handled by the instructors. Under the new procedure, Mr.
Scott will deal with all P.T. errors. For the benefit of freshmen and transfers, a brief statement of the cut
card system at Davidson follows: Cut cards will be in the student's box on Wednesday morning, marked with all absences
charged during the preceding week. If a student feels an error has been made, he will consult the professor of
the course in which the absence is charged. If the professor agrees an error has been made, he will excuse
the absence. As already noted, Mr. Scott will correct all P.T. errors, and Mrs. Daggy will handle the cases in
which errors have been made in chapel and vespers absences. In all cases, the corrected cards must be returned to
Dean Bailey's office for correction of his records. Dean Bailey emphasizes that cut cards should be kept for the whole
semester, as they are the student's only record of absences. Privately kept records will not be acceptable in case a
question about the number of cuts charged arises.

Masquers to Give Eliot's ‘Murder’

Davidson's Red and Black Masquers begin their most ambitious season on next Wednesday and Thursday evenings at 8:30 p.m. with
an experimental theatre production of T. S. Eliot’s “Murder in the Cathedral" in the Dome Theatre of Chambers. Three major
productions have been scheduled for this year: J. B. Priestly’s “Laburnum Grove,” a comedy about a counterfeiting businessman, will be
given on December 5, 6, to be followed by Tennessee Williams’ “The Glass Menagerie” on February 16, 17; a Shakespearean
play, to be announced later, will be presented in late April or early May. Additionally, production of an original one-act
play by a member of the student body is being contemplated. “Murder in the Cathedral,” introduces a new form of
dramatic art at Davidson. Arena staging will be used for the second time, and although the characters will generally read
their parts, the play will be lit and costumed like a regular production. This play, concerning the murder of Archbishop
Thomas Becket in 1170, represents an English attempt at the Greek tragedy form, and makes great use of the Greek
chorus and choral reading. No admission will be charged but because of the limited capacity of the Dome Theatre, all
seats are reserved. Tickets may be obtained from the cast. The cast consists of: Lee Harter as the Archbishop; Tink
Taylor, Bob Klugh, and Dale Freeland as the priests of Canterbury Cathedral; Cary Spears, a herald; Luther Yaun, Vance Mizelle,
Mac Williamson, and Dick Williams as the tempters; Dave Moyland, Jim Seabury, George Walker, and Dunbar Ogden as the Knights;
and the chorus composed of David Jones, Bill Gordon, Fred Myers, Stewart Collins, Phil Howerton, Don Pil- (Continued On Page
Four)

SS Deferment Tests Scheduled For Dec.

The third series of Selective Service College Qualification tests will be conducted by the U. S. Government, December 4, 1952,
and April 23, 1953. To be eligible to apply for the college deferment test, a student must (1) intend to
request deferment as a student; (2) be satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course of instruction; and (3) must not previously have
taken the test. Since all applications MUST be postmarked not later than November 1, 1952, any Davidson student wishing to
take the test should obtain an application blank from the college registrar's office or from any Selective Service office before
that time.

The David Ovens College Union, nearing completion, will be dedicated at 11 a.m., Saturday morning, October 25.

Dances Swapped

Final plans for the 1952 Homecoming weekend at Davidson have been laid out this week. The principal change in the
original plans is the swapping of nights for the formal and informal dances. Featured during the weekend, October 24 and
25, 1952, will be the Furman-Davidson Homecoming football game, various alumni and student activities, and the two important dances at
which Buddy Morrow will furnish music. Lawrence Erwin, president of the Interfraternity Council, announced this week that due to necessity
the formal dance will be held Saturday night and the informal dance Friday night. He pointed out that this change
in plans was made so that football players may attend the Saturday dance. The informal dance will be from 9:00
till 1:00 Friday night, and the formal dance will run from 8:00 till 12:00 Saturday night. As has been previously
announced, Buddy Morrow and his orchestra will furnish music for the Homecoming Dances. Frankie Lester and Joan Hovis will accompany
him as vocalists. Membership cards for the Homecoming Dances should be acquired through the fraternities. President Erwin has asked that
independents who wish membership cards should contact any member of the Interfraternity Council. The Friday night program in Chambers Auditorium
by Valentina Oumansky is expected to overlap the beginning of the informal dance by about thirty minutes. The feature event
for both students and alumni Saturday, Oct. 25, will be the Homecoming football game between Davidson and Furman. In connection
with the football game and with the visit of the alumni, the various dormitories and fraternity houses will be decorated
appropriately. The decoration contest between the fraternities will be run exactly as in past years. All decoration on the houses
must be completed by 10:00 Saturday morning, and shortly thereafter, three judges will choose the winner. The program of events
for the Davidson Alumni on Saturday of the Homecoming Weekend includes a Wildcat Club meeting at 10:00 a.m., the dedication
of Ovens College Union at 11:00 a.m., the alumni convocation at 11:45 a.m., a barbecue luncheon, and the homecoming football
game. The dedication service for the College Union will be a simple service of short duration. President John R. Cunningham
will give a short message, and Mr. Shaw Smith, director of the union, will speak. The Male Chorus and the
Band will provide music. David Ovens, through whose generosity the Union was made possible, is expected to be present. The
barbecue luncheon is open to anyone, alumni and student alike, who has a reservation. Students should make reservations for themselves,
their parents, and their friends at the alumni office.

Prize Is Offered For Cover Design

A contest is being sponsored for the student body by the Music Department and Artists Series Committee. The contest will
be in designing a cover to front the programs for the various presentations that will be held here at Davidson
throughout this school year. A prize of twenty-five dollars will be given to the student submitting the best design. It
is requested that all designs be submitted to either Dr. Spencer or the Music Department by October 25, the closing
date for the contest.
