FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 1952

Examination Schedule

A.M.——ROTC 12, 22, 32, 42

PAGE FOUR | THE DAVIDSONIAN

FIND A CAREER IN THE ARMY — LAWYER, THIEF

(Continued from Page Two)

The fact that not over ten per cent of the student body could tell you anything that was said, and nine persons of those ten per cent don't know why they remember it, it would have been a worthwhile experiment to present each speaker, a reasonable length of time before his speech, with a list of reasonable but not overly controversial questions concerning his stand, with a request to deal with these during his chapel talk.

Whether the subject be Christianity and Politics, Marriage and the Family, War and Peace, all of us have questions for which the answers do not need thirty minutes of generalities to prepare the way. Questions not to get an answer but to start an argument, there can be no real harm in them. Who knows but what we might find an answer?

The Phi Gams last night elected Mac Doubles president, Tad Currie treasurer, Dick Liles IFC representative, and Tim Bryan house manager. Hunter Strader stepped into the post of corresponding secretary, with Billy Pharr becoming recording secretary. Hubert Cannon, former president, was elected historian.

TIME SURVEY...

(Continued From Page Two)

The majority are internationalist, although an isolationist element is certainly present. The majority of the graduates vote as their fathers did, and where they vote differently, the shift has generally been from Democratic to Republican. The type of college attended makes little difference in their social and political views which is not better explained by their family background.

Defense attorney Charles Bryan listens to an objection from the trial counsel in the mock trial of Joel Ware (on witness stand) for the theft of a set of golf clubs. Trials were staged this week by both senior ROTC sections, in connection with their study of military law. Ware was acquitted, by the way—(Photo by Andy Simons.)

GRAD RECOVERING...

(Continued From Page One)

Assault with intent to murder, although the boy who did the shooting told police later that he had decided “not to kill Stukes if they had to shoot him.”

Every good wish for a successful athletic program in football,

Sincerely yours,
LENOX D. BAKER, MD

President Truman may today have Gen. Dwight Eisenhower's resignation as European defense commander, a top Ike-man said today. This news came on the heels of information that the general won 10 more delegates from his home state of Kansas, thus running his total there to 20 of 22.

This Eisenhower backer, who asked not to be identified, spoke out as the Washington Evening Star reported the general's resignation already is on President Truman's desk.

Truman would neither confirm nor deny the report. He talked cautiously, at his weekly news conference, about the report, however, that the true reason was that the Navy was no longer calling college students, as it considered them potential officer material and wanted them to finish their schooling before taking them into the service.

This new fraternity plans many projects, including one for a student used book store to be located near the new bookstore in the basement of Chambers.

STUDENT EXHIBITS...

(Continued From Page One)

Think of clown and circus themes by Mahy, abstract designs by Dudley and Snead, and ink of such a man. Undoubtedly, you had a committee to look intothe situation signs by Rose and Hart, a watercolor by Crutchfield and a portrait by Peck.

COLLEGE SALTS ... but I thought perhaps it would please you to know how much we have been impressed by him.

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS — IT PAYS!

manner in which a successor to Eisenhower would be appointed. But on the question of the general’s resignation, he said he had nothing to give out at this time. 

The President went on to say that when and if Eisenhower wants his resignation announced, he — Truman — will announce it. 

In Paris, Eisenhower himself couldn’t be reached for comment. Reports have circulated for several weeks that the general's resignation is imminent and that the White House won't hold up the announcement of his resignation.

“I had been given to understand the resignation may have arrived two or three days ago,” he told a reporter. “I had expected the President to announce it at his news conference this morning.”

Truman said instead at his meeting with reporters that it’s entirely up to the general whether he leaves the European assignment, adding that if Eisenhower does step out, the President favors Gov. Adlai Stevenson of Illinois, but Truman said today he wasn’t expressing any preference right now. The President said he himself would not accept a draft under any circumstances.

The President said at a news conference that he has a right to his preference, the same as any other citizen. He declared cryptically, however, that he hopes it won't be necessary for him to express a preference. Previously Truman had said the party's July convention could pick any candidates it wanted without any intervention by him.

Johnny Long and his orchestra will play for the dances. Long will be coming from the Roosevelt Hotel in New Orleans. During his stay in New Orleans, he has given Davidson some very favorable publicity. Long is a native of North Carolina and began his career while a student at Duke. He has played for dances at several other schools in the state and has proved very popular.

Mr. Moose announced that the exhibition would run through the entire month of April. It was noted by one of the regular Navy personnel in Charlotte, this letter brings you our continued interest in Davidson, and how much we have been impressed by him.

Johns Hopkins Summer Work Emphasizes Asian Problem

Washington—A summer session emphasizing the current political, economic, and cultural problems of Southeast Asia will be offered at the School of Advanced International Studies of The Johns Hopkins University from June 27 through August 27, 1952, Dean Philip W. Thayer announced today.

In connection with the session, the school will sponsor a conference on “Southeast Asia in the Coming World” during the week of August 11. About 100 representatives of American and Southeast Asian universities, of government and business, will be invited to discuss current questions pertaining to this important area. For the first time, administrators or professors from universities of Rangoon, Indonesia, Hanoi, Manila, Malaya, and from the University of Political and Moral Science and the Chulalongkorn University of Bangkok will visit the United States to participate in such a conference.

The summer session program will offer the following courses by area experts: Colonialism and Nationalism in Southeast Asia, the Economy of Post-War Southeast Asia, Cultural and Social Factors in Southeast Asia, Geographic Factors in Southeast Asia, and Buddhist Political Thought. These courses will complement the more general course offerings on Contemporary Problems in American Foreign Policy, Current Problems in International Law, Problems in International Trade, Contemporary Europe, and Comparative Government and Politics of the Middle East. Facilities and supervision for individual study and research will be available on special topics within the Southeast Asia field.

Five full-expense fellowships of $400 each will be awarded to applicants of outstanding promise on a competitive basis, and grants in smaller amounts will be available on a combined basis of merit and need. All inquiries should be addressed to the Office of the Registrar, School of Advanced International Studies, 1906 Florida Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. The deadline for the receipt of scholarship applications is May 3, 1952.

Students Told Limit Church Viewing To Days

Stay out of church. A strange commandment for Davidsonians, but it only applies to the new church and then only during the evening hours after 4:30 p.m. It has been requested that all men who wish to see how things are progressing inside the edifice visit during working hours only. Construction men go on at 8:30 a.m., and remain until the afternoon hour mentioned above. Apparently quiet from the outside, there is a flurry of activity inside which turns the lethargic outside bricklaying into a false note. Final touches are being put on the interior plastering and woodwork is being arranged. Plans are underway for the installation of the organ sometime in the early future. All concerned hope that the building will meet its timetable and be ready to be dedicated at commencement exercises the first week in June.

It seemed possible, however, that there might be some delay while the question of naming a successor to Eisenhower was taken up. Truman said no consideration has been given to the reports.

NEW CARS DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF

BUSINESS LOAN

Dial 5-4513

FOR THE PURCHASE OF AN AUTOMOBILE NOW IS LIMITED TO 30 MONTHS FOR A NEW CAR AND 24 MONTHS FOR A USED CAR... THE VETERAN MUST PROVE HE NEEDS THE BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION

CHESTERFIELDS are much MILDER and give you the ADDED PROTECTION of NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE

*FROM THE REPORT OF A WELL-KNOWN RESEARCH ORGANIZATION