When you all get out in the world and make your first million and the Collector of Internal Revenue is
breathing down your neck and you need some exemptions and charities, why not give a few thousand to your old
Alma Mammy? They could use it and if you have a good memory, you can remember how swell it would
have been for some old codger to kick in a fortune to the school, especially for the athletic department. If
you do, however, earmark it for use as you would have it. Let me advise you to either talk a
few more into joining you and contribute to the football team for scholarships, etc., or cash it in where you
can get the most out of it. The cheapest major sport which also carries with it the distinction of drawing
the most spectators is the cage sport, basketball.

FOOTBALL AGAIN!

It looks like the alumni of this institution are either satisfied with the status quo, or are just plain stingy
or unconcerned. The three-year Wildcat Club deal has just one more year, and because the football idea spearheaded the thing,
the money that comes in from this source is for that purpose and it is for basketball. Last year they
didn’t come through like the year before and indications are they will be even shorter this year. To make it
short, the college had to sink a few skins on the boys who were already here that the WC had
promised to send on through school and so had to take the money out of the basketball pot (tight budget,
you know). As a direct result of this, we may lose three or four of the best boys for future
basketball material, and we did lose a mighty good coach, although this may not have been the only reason that
Coach Boyd Baird resigned. It would take twice what we are getting from the WC to put us on an
even keel with even the lowest subsidized team in the Southern Conference. (Two or three teams put over $100,000 into
football scholarships, four or five put over $80,000, and two of the weaker rivals that we played this year put
at least $40,000 in their program.)

THREE ALTERNATIVES POSSIBLE

There are only three alternatives which have been hashed out for months and months. Put more money in the program
and keep our schedule or even improve on it (and this would be fine if—the ? was not $), drop
scholarships or stay at our standard, or play some ‘money’ games and make up the difference that we need for
the big-time team. (Of course, Coach Dole could produce a winning team and the whole thing would be solved.) Let
me suggest something that seems to be a fine plan and one that has been carried out by North Carolina
State with a wonderful degree of success. If we could hold our own (which is really the plan as it
stands now for another year) in football and maybe play a few money games, and use the $24,000 for the
basketball team and really hire a top-notch coach and get a team that with the “Davidson spirit” could win some
more games and maybe set the conference on fire in a few years.

THE BUILD-UP IS THE THING

With the freshman playing, we could have a better than even chance since some of the best talent in the
state have been contacted and show their interest in the school, but feel that a scholarship could not be turned
down from another school if Davidson offered them nothing, and that is exactly the case for the coming year. Look
what State did in the few years of the Case “reign.” I believe it could be the same here, because
we have a fine reputation left over from the Norman Shepard days and the fight which the teams of the
past few years have shown has been no slouch. We could fill the gym for every game and maybe the
new Charlotte Coliseum. The potential spectator is here, but the team isn’t. Johnston Gymnasium wouldn't hold half the people who
wanted to get in if we won more than half our games and met State or Duke in a close
game.

PLOWING PROFITS BACK

Then, and it is not preposterous to think of success, the pay-off would come. The profits could then be invested
in the other teams of Davidson and with partial success, the name of this school would spread in athletics more
than it has in scholastics. As you know the athletic situation at the college is not at its best with
most of the coaches leaving for various reasons, and with the wins coming in slowly, but something can be done
and the above is my suggestion. Maybe as alumni, you can help!

PRIVATE DINING ROOMS for PARTIES AND BANQUETS

**A Good Place to Eat**
Phone 25-4900
Charlotte
221 South Tryon Street

Wildcat Sports
BASEBALL, TRACK IN SPRING FROLICS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thinclads Meet USC: Diamonds Hit State
Seek Second Win Of Year Off Gamecocks
By JOHN HANDLEY

Tomorrow afternoon the Wildcat thinclads will return to the Richardson Field cinders to play host to a highly touted squad
from the University of South Carolina. The men in Red and Black will be out for their second win of
the season, having dropped only one meet, their opener, by a close margin to a strong Seminole squad from Florida
State. Last weekend the Davidsonians traveled to Macon, Ga., for a meet with Mercer University’s cindermen. The Wildcats came through
with a decisive 84-47 rout over Mercer. The Gamecocks of South Carolina are a new outfit on the Cat schedule
this year and have shown a lot of promise and scoring punch so far this season. Coach Whittle’s tracksters will
be out to capture their second triumph and to better their present 1-1 mark. Such standouts as Bill Shipley in
the 440, Bob Henry in the 880, Frank Mitchner in the 100 and the 220, and the Stockton brothers, Tom
and Dick, on the long distances will lead the Cat sprinting and running attack. On the hurdles the Wildcats will
depend on the performances of Buddy McKay, Bill White, and Jim Fickeisen who have continually come through in the two
hurdle events.

In the field events the Cats' hopes rest on the shoulders of such stellar performers as big Bill McNeely, Gene
Pierce, and Frank Cenegy in the shot and discus throws, and on Wally Pate with the javelin. In the high
jump, Bob Turk shows a lot of promise while it's Mike York and Bill Shipley in the broad jump. Bob
Poston and Jim Speed are the top contenders for pole vault honors. A good crowd is expected at Richardson Field
with quite a few visitors on the campus for the dance weekend. Prospects for a good Wildcat season are fine
and tomorrow’s meet should be a good one.

SPORTS SECTION
FRIDAY, APRIL 18, 1952

CHIEF GREEK VOLLEYBALLERS

Pictured above are the pick of the sports managers for the top nine spots on the All-Fraternity Volleyball team. They
are, left to right, front row: Scott Reams, Wallace Abbott (captain), and John Whitfield; back row, Allan Groseclose, Bill Brooks,
George King, Roy (Whiz) Davis, and Homer (Muggsy) Phifer. The volleyball season closed with a close finish and was interesting
all the way.

By BOB OWENS

Selected by the votes of the fraternity sports managers, this year's All-Fraternity Volleyball team represents great height and all-around ability.
Of the nine available positions on the top team, the winning Phi Gams have the distinction...Of claiming three honorees, and
the Sigma Chi’s, two, while the others are divided among various fraternities. Wallace Abbott polled the most votes of any
individual and is the captain of the “dream team.” Below are the first team selections with votes polled and a
list of the honorable mentions:

Frat Softball Gets Off Fast
By WALLACE ABBOTT

Monday of this week marked the start of the year’s intramural softball season, and a very fast start it was!
With only three days of play having passed there are only three teams, SPE’s, Pikas and Sigma Chis, who are
still undefeated. Out of these three the SPE’s are currently leading the league with three wins against no losses, and
as has been evident in their first game, it will really take a powerful team to beat them this year.

First Team
Wallace Abbott, Phi Gam .......... 10
Bill Brooks, Sigma Chi .............. 9
George King, Kappa Alpha ........ 9
John Whitfield, ATO .................. 8
Roy Davis, Beta .......................... 7
Scott Reams, Phi Delt ................ 7
George Melton, Sigma Chi ........ 5
Alan Groseclose, Phi Gam ........ 4
Homer Phifer, Phi Gam

Honorable Mention
George Lippard, KS; Tyler Berry, Phi Lee Scott, SPE; Vincent Gould, SPE; Bill Pharr, Phi Gam; Adrian Bowen, KA; Jerry
King, Phi Delt; Allen Vance, KA; Dick Kelly, SAE; Phil Blatt, Sigma Chi; Robin Hinson, KS; Gene Craven, Phi Delt;
Bill Nelson, Phi Delt; Buddy Brown, Sigma Chi; Delt; Joe Sugg, Phi Gam.

Wildcat Of The Week
By BILL BRADFORD

Baseball occupies the limelight this week and even though the Wildcats haven't fared the best this Spring, we feel that
they deserve special mention. Especially one in particular; he’s none other than Ish Bennett. There couldn't be a better choice
for this Wildcat of the Week.

When John Bennett came to Davidson last fall, it wasn’t long before everybody knew that he was a basketball player
of no small degree. But with the end of basketball season, Ish left the hardwood and came out for baseball,
where he has been an invaluable addition to Coach Dave Poole's battery of pitchers. In the nine games played so
far Ish has seen action in seven of them. Mostly as a relief pitcher, but in the two that he
started he boasts a .500 record. It was his pitching that enabled the Wildcats to avenge an earlier defeat by
Clemson by a margin of 4 to 3.

After graduating from high school in his hometown in Norfolk, West Va., where Ish was a star athlete, lettering in
football, baseball, and captaining the basketball team, he entered McCallie prep school. Here he continued his basketball and at the
end of the season was named to one of the coveted positions on the All Mid-South Prep team. But he
did not neglect baseball and in the brief year there, he had a pretty fair record at the close of
the season. Ish is a member of Phi Delta Theta. Although he is only a freshman, his performances in these
two sports have been excellent, and he will prove a worthy asset to the Wildcat teams of the future.

After a somewhat hazardous trip to Chapel Hill and Durham the first part of the week, N. C. State will
arrive here Saturday and if Ish gets called to the mound you can be sure that he will be out
there giving his best for the team.

The games of the first week proved to be slugfests, and it was not uncommon to see as many as
20 runs scored in a game. If the season continues at this rate there will be quite a few .500
hitters around at the end of the year.

In other phases of the intramural scene we see that the Phi Delts have come through with an undefeated season
in ping pong, having 11 wins and no losses. Bill Nelson, Gene Craven and John Alexander proved to be too
much for the Phi Delts’ opposition as they came through the season without a loss. In second place, at present,
are the Sigma Chis with an 8-2 record, and close by are the Kappa Sigs with an 8-3 record. Still
in progress are the horseshoe matches, and they will probably be finished sometime this week. The last intramural sport to
start this year was tennis. Competition began Monday and as yet very few matches have been played. However, there will
be several strong teams around the league this year, with the Phi Gams, Kappa Sigs and Betas being only three
of them.

Ping Pong Standings
W L
Phi Delts .................. 11 0
Sigma Chis ............... 8 2
Kappa Sigs ............... 8 3
Pi Kapps ................... 6 5
ATO .......................... 5 4
Phi Gams .................. 5 6
SPE ........................... 5 6
KA ............................. 5 6
Betas ......................... 3 5
Pikas .......................... 2 6
CC .............................. 1 8
SAE ............................ 1 9

FOR THE BEST IN RECORDS
DAN RAMSEY RECORD BAR
127½ W. Trade — Charlotte

NEW CARS
DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF
Dial 3-4513
212 W. Forth

No. 40... THE WHALE

Sorrell Brings Stronger Pack To Meet Wildcats

State College brings a strong Wolfpack nine here tomorrow afternoon to face a Wildcat nine which proved little more than
a stepping stone for Duke's Blue Devils early this week. Dave Poole's on-again-off-again charges, after pulling off a great surprise
victory over favored Clemson here last Saturday, lost to North Carolina Tuesday and then hit their lowest ebb of the
current season when Duke walked over them 16-1 on Wednesday. The Cats will still own a 3-6 won-lost record when
they meet the Statesters on the local diamond tomorrow. The Wolfpack, though it isn’t burning up the Southern Conference, is
inhabiting a considerably higher spot in the standings than the local nine. For a victory Poole will be counting heavily
on the potent bat of Fred Stowe, the Belmont outfielder.

(Continued On Page Four)

Get Your Camels At The Student Store
