PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1952

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

Frank Hanshaw
BUSINESS MANAGER

Jack Hobson
ASSISTANT EDITOR

John Ottley
Associate Editors: Brinkley, Harter, Hope, Myers, M. G., Moylan, D.H. Hassel, J. M. Moore, Owens

Dick Roper
Feature Editor—T. A. Williams

Assignments—Strand.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

Managing Editors

Sports Editor

News Editor—D. M. Smith

Arts Editor—Mahy

Photographer—Simons

Assistant Business Manager—Foston

Advertising Manager—Asty

Circulation Manager—Nicholson

Collection Manager—Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

D. C. Boasts Best Team, Coach, Cheerleaders Seen In Many Years

As the 1952 football season swiftly draws to a close, the student body can truthfully say that they have watched
one of the best teams that Davidson College has produced in many years. This team began the year young and
inexperienced, but has improved greatly as the season progressed. There is no one single star, but all players have been
outstanding in working together as one team. Although the win-loss column is not in our favor, we must say that
every man on our team has shown more spirit, clean sportsmanship, and a greater desire to play the game and
to win than has been shown in many years. This is the kind of football we like to watch and
the kind of team we will support as was shown last Saturday night when the returning team was greeted by
a rally.

Bill Dole has proven to be one of the finest coaches in the history of Davidson football. He has certainly
received the close co-operation of the team, and has not only won the respect of the students and the college,
but of the sports world as well. Some of the sports writers who witnessed the Harvard game said that Davidson
was one of the best-coached teams that they had seen play in the Harvard stadium.

The cheerleaders are to be commended for the swell job they are doing this year in keeping the spirit high
in the crowd and helping to give the team that extra support when they need it most. Head cheerleader Howard
Proctor and the seven members of the pep squad have added much vitality to the cheering section by contributing many
new cheers and instigating such stunts as the revival of Felix, the long-lost Davidson wildcat. All we can say is
to keep up this good work for the rest of the season and let's add another game to our win
column by running over Richmond tomorrow.

Myers Keeps Campaign Promises To Give Students Humor Magazine

For the most part, the students were somewhat astounded to see the radical change in Scripts 'n Pranks from a
literary work to primarily a humor magazine. This change brought smiles and praise from the majority of the readers, but
also some criticism and disappointment from others. Both attitudes are to be expected when there is a change from the
traditional. We think that the people who criticize should remember that Editor Myers was elected on a platform that promised
to give the student body primarily a humor magazine. Thus he is carrying out the wishes of the majority of
students who elected him when he produces such a magazine.

For the students who enjoy the literary sections and find a total humor magazine tiring, the editor is planning more
literary works of a clever, humorous nature in the next issue, but will continue to produce the same type of
magazine as the first issue. We feel that Editor Myers should carry out his platform to produce a magazine which
will be of interest to the largest number of students as long as the humor is in keeping with the
standards of a church-supported college. We say keep up the good work! For once we can look forward to your
next edition with much anticipation.

Could This Be The Case?

(Ed. note: This is a copy of a letter which was sent home this past week, and should be of
interest to our readers.)

Wednesday afternoon
November 5, 1952

Dear Mom and Dad:

I know you will be surprised to hear from me during the middle of the week—in addition to my usual
Sunday letter—but I have just experienced the most absurd situation. For the past two weeks, as you know from my
previous letters, there has been a general increase in our student body of interest, anticipation, and anxiety while awaiting Fall
Services. Everyone has been urging his friends to be certain to attend; arrangements were made among fraternity brothers to sit
together; and here is what I can’t get over—my professors all urged in class that I attend the services, as
they pointed out the great values of such services, and that these services were being held for the benefit of
us students. Mind you—my professors urged my attendance and then some had the lack of consideration to assign writs and
a review for Tuesday and Wednesday mornings. Well, I couldn't have possibly gone! I had to study for those darn
writs.

To make the whole situation utterly impossible, these same profs had the nerve to ask in class this morning how
we enjoyed the Fall Services. Well, I hate to cut it short, but I was up late last night watching
the election results on T.V. and I have to get back to work. Just a couple of weeks now and
I'll be home for three whole days. Happy day!!!

Love,
—J.L.H.

THE CABBAGE PLANTER: True Purpose, Aims Of IFC Slam Superfluous Student Ideas

DICK LILES

(In accordance with the plans that we outlined at the first of the year—to wit, focusing occasional attention on those
few campus organizations who need neither members, finances nor sympathy, and who need not go to their knees when they
go into print—the Cabbage Planter this week belongs to Dick Liles with a piece on the Interfraternity Council, an unobtrusive
mainspring of Davidson life—TAW)

To start out on an article of this type to explain the purpose, views and aims of the Davidson Interfraternity
Council seems to be somewhat superfluous in the light that the average student sees this representative group of theirs. The
average student probably sees the IFC members as the boys who get together, decide on an orchestra, hire that orchestra,
decorate the gym, and then appear in the figure that takes up valuable time from dancing. That is not altogether
the case, except that primarily the Council is supposed to direct this part of the social life of the campus.

The Interfraternity Council is composed of one member from each of the eleven social fraternities on the campus and a
representative of the Campus Club. Probably its initial commitment, then, is to act as an intermediary between the fraternities and
the administration of the college. This, it does in matters pertaining to fraternity rushing and in the sponsoring of dances
and other social events.

The IFC has its officers elected each Spring from the new members. This year Lawrence Erwin is acting as the
president for the group and has done a wonderful job so far this year. Allen (Lefty) Vance is the treasurer,
and his job reaches pretty large proportions as somewhere between twelve and fifteen thousand dollars a year goes through that
office. Dick Kelley was elected secretary and his job is keeping the records, particularly in connection with rushing.

As far as the duties of the Council go, it is altogether in charge of arranging dates for the three
dances, procuring an orchestra, decorating the gym (which as you probably realize is a tremendous task), and tending to the
various other tasks that go along with the putting on of a dance of these proportions. In connection with rushing,
the IFC oversees the general machinery of fraternity rushing, controlling dirty rushing, acting as a clearing house for confirmed dates,
and the issuing of bids, and instruction of the rushees on the system pro-

DAVIDSONIAN ABROAD: Evening In Paris Exposes French Student World To Davidson’s Cultured Ambassador

HERMAN BELL

At 10 p.m. when all other French people are in bed, the students will dance until the subway starts running
again at 5:30 in the morning. Spanish music, sambas and nostalgic tangos, predominate. The be-bop kings of St. Germain-des-Prés squirm
out their latest existentialist step, while everybody joins in the fast dances. Bearded men and girls in blue jeans dance
beside the most polished socialite. Perhaps the most desirable partners for a girl are the pitch-black hep-cats from Montmartre. “They
really have rhythm,” I have heard the girls admit.

A slightly emaciated French student steps up and shakes your hand. Don't forget to shake hands or he will be
offended. Before the conversation gets rolling, he may offer you a weed, literally. “Ah, you are American,” he observes from
the look of your clothes and the comparatively stupid expression on your face. “What will be the economic results of
Eisenhower’s recent victory?” If you should answer him in three points and a conclusion, he will listen with interest and
criticize your answer. Be practical; any idealistic talk will bring a sarcastic smile to his lips. Above all, don’t admit
that you don’t know beans about the subject. Ignorance may bring you popularity in America, but only peasants are ignorant
in France.

For the first sixteen years of his life Pierre has read and studied exhaustively. Even if he understands nothing, he
is exceedingly well educated, thinks methodically, and can fool any professor or casual acquaintance into thinking: “This Pierre is holding
it,” and he often is holding it. When Pierre entered the University of Paris, a life of liberty opened before
him. No writs and reviews and an unlimited cut system! Frequently he puts off studies until Easter, crams for a
month, and flunks 50 percent of his final exams. Since there are no fraternities, he goes to the political party
meeting or sings sly songs in an alley cafe with a few close friends. “Student life is the most piquant
of all my pleasures,” he may confess in an unguarded moment. Like a fencer, he will match wits with his
comrades. Everyone will throw in a clever remark. Girls will eagerly discussPhilosophy with boys! By this time the Davidsonian has
given Pierre the slip to cut in on the cutest girl he sees. “Comment,” she replies in an offended tone
and continues to dance with her Frenchman. She smiles a few moments later, since someone has explained cutting is the
custom in America. Talk philosophy, imply that you are wise, speak brilliantly with the speed and accuracy of a machine
gun, and she will love you, honestly! Speak subtly with her, since she is a subtle person, but always with
the utmost refinement. Good breeding is the foremost of French virtues. As the Place de la Concorde starts turning pink
with dawn, and the shadows dissipate from the Latin Quarter, a happy face rests on its pillow and sleeps. This
is a student. This is Paris. This is once and never more.

MADLY -- MANY TORN COAT

Also, the Council always stands ready to carry the combined fraternities’ gripes to the administration. This year the IFC has
set out some rather new aims and ideas as well as pledging to carry out an improved dance program and
rushing system. They plan to bring two fine orchestras that the students have been clamoring for for the remaining dances.
Ray Anthony has already been signed for the Spring Frolics dances and it will mark the first time that he
has been on this campus. Beside that, the Council is planning to improve on rushing for the coming year and
is considering sponsoring some concerts by “name” bands in Chambers as these bands pass through North Carolina. Some of these
might be Louis Prima and Sammy Kaye and they would appear for one night for a concert only. Now the
IFC is looking into the problem of fraternity house rent and hope to improve the understanding there. The members of
the IFC are looking forward to a big year with your help. They are representatives of the students and therefore
are open always to your criticism and suggestions. The Interfraternity Council can be a wonderful part of student activities or
it can be just another dance committee.

FINE FOODS STEAKS CHICKEN DINNERS FOUNTAIN SERVICE Open Sundays Phone 132 STONESTREET'S Grade A Cafe 418 South Main Street Mooresville,
N.C.

THE FREE LANCE: Strange Paradox: Candidates Both Vilify and Co-operative Climb On—Quick

The announcer's voice, fuzzy with sleep and partially muffled by clacking teletypes, introduced an ex-chairman of the National Democratic Party.
The speaker, who was an old hand around newsrooms on election nights (he said), made several appropriate losing groans and
then proceeded to laud the voters for expressing themselves and sugared up whatever GOPs who might have been tuned in.
Such last-minute leaping aboard the newest bandwagon by this man and numerous others on both state and national levels was
humorous, but heartening at the same time. It is a strange paradox in this land that candidates and their followers
can vilify one another to an unbelievable extent during a campaign, but promise full cooperation to the winner at the
end. There is much talk of lending support and the ironic but still wonderful thing about it is that in
this country they really mean it.

By JOHN OTTLEY

Black Sheep?

As freshman caps gradually decrease in number together with the religious attention to their conduct by the upper classes, it
is amusing to see the contemporary swing of criticism. As each year progresses it is the seniors who next face
the guns of student concern. They are accused of apathy, lack of school spirit, having no interest in student affairs
and general lethargic tendencies. The fact of the matter is that seniors usually fall into two groups. First is the
group which is frankly tired of going to school. These men are eking out the year with their eyes turned
to future problems. They are sharply aware of the fact that soon they will be either combat officers charged with
men’s lives or family men charged with the planning of a home and running their nation. The second group is
conscious of these problems but still finds time for interest in les affaires d'école. These latter men are differentiated from
their younger critics chiefly by the habit of quietly getting things done rather than bleating that things ought to be
done. They realize the stupidity of revolution and the sensibility of evolution at least at D.C.

In The Days of Old, When Knights Were Bold, They Suffered, Too, From the Calendar’s Toll

In days of old, when knights were bold, and women’s abdominal circumferences were encompassed by, ah—iron girdles, there once was
a group of knights, about 800 or so, who decided to make a crusade for the furtherance of the education
of the world. So they sat around in their camp, polishing up their breastplates and shin guards, and exchanging comments
as to how they would vanquish the infidels of the untutored world. A moving sight it was, to see these
minions of all the knightly attributes, i.e., chastity, courtesy, loving kindness and tender mercy, etc., who were gathered for such
a laudable and praiseworthy cause. Ah, that we should experience in these troublous and darkened times a new flourishing of
knighthood’s shining ideals and stirring ambitions, and a nourishment of the flower of docility and obedience.

Now it was nearing the Yule season of the year, and all were preparing to turn their steps toward home
for one last contact with the beauties of domestic bliss before venturing forth into the rigors of the crusade. Many
wished to equip their wives with little kill-joys before the ensuing journey, while others wished to seclude themselves and meditate
deeply upon their deeds and misdeeds of the previous year. Some few intended to enjoy themselves, but they were frowned
on as plebeian and not possessing knightly behavior by the others. Amidst all these preparations there arrived a messenger from
the Round Table, carrying under his arm a Domenclatun (which, being literally translated from the Old English, means “the daily
poop sheet.”) After assembling the personage present, he proclaimed in stentorian tones that all should be required to return on
the eve of the New Year, to prevent needless loss of time in commencing the crusade. And no excuse would
be accepted. Amen and amen.

Heavy hung the atmosphere over the camp, and great were the mutterings therein. Some, with great fear and trembling, came
before the Star Chamber (the equivalent of the Jewish Sanhedrin), and pleaded for clemency from such a harsh sentence. The
Potentates stroked their beards and rumbled mightily, walked around their chairs three times while reciting ancient laws and statutes to
themselves, and then replied: “Nay, nay.” Once again the young knights prostrated themselves before the Powers That Be, making obeisance
and genuflecting in the most humble manner, and prayed for clemency. But from the raised platform of Authority, the Muses
gazed scornfully down upon the knights there gathered, and, citing the dates on the Gregorian calendar which had been adopted
a century before, somewhat testily wheezed: “That which has been done cannot, will not, shall not and das’t not be
undone.” Again amen and amen.

Thus did these flowers of knighthood grudgingly pack their iron underwear and, with great bitterness of heart, return to their
homes. And the Potentates, with great breast beating and loud voices, proclaimed to all and sundry how they had preserved
discipline among the ranks. Finally the 1st of the year rolled around, and it was welcomed with hearty fervor and
appreciation. Now an event occurred which seemed to be peculiar to ancient English times, in regard to transportation. The Old
English Interstate Chariot Corp. found itself with an excessive number of passengers who were going to, or returning from, some
specific place on the first day of the year. Those of the young knights, always true to duty’s call, who
had tickets were often forced to ride on the running board of the chariot for lack of space, and, by
thus exposing themselves to the elements, got their brand-new Christmas armor all rusty. Others who could not obtain accommodations, may
their souls rest peacefully, had to stay home. The more fortunate knights who had their own transportation experienced different difficulties.
Reckless horseback riding on the crowded roads took its toll. Several arrived back at the camp tied to their horses
for lack of a better way to keep them mounted, belching happily and wandering about rather aimlessly. And the last
stragglers came on foot, heartsick and weary.

Overhung was the atmosphere in camp that day. Repairs, both mental and physical, were made on the men who had
suffered ill over the holiday. But the Potentates were happy; oh, were they happy! They had proved that they could
assemble a group, however motley it might be, at any set date. Really quite an achievement. And all the knights,
as they grew older, saw the light and realized that it was for their own good that they had to
return early and get a fresh start on the first of the year.

Chaperone System At Wake Forest New This Year

The social committee of the faculty at Wake Forest College will institute new regulations this year with respect to chaperoning
student organization social functions. The committee points out that “perhaps the most effective method of solving the chaperon problem if
it exists, is that of making the chaperoning experience a pleasant one for the faculty couple.” The new plan will
require that each chaperon complete and turn in a report after each social function. This form will include statements concerning
the suitability and adequacy of the establishment in which the social is held and the behavior of those attending in
respect to language, drinking, and general attitude. A scale of “compensation of expenses of chaperons” has been established by the
social committee, with the college liable to a maximum of ten dollars per year and the organization liable thereafter.

No matter if this year’s team is the underdog, spirits soar at the homecoming rally. There are bonfires, pep talks,
cheers and for refreshment, delicious Coca-Cola.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N.C.

© 1962, The Coca-Cola Company
