PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1952

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF .......... BILL WHITE

BUSINESS MANAGER .......... ALEX GOLEY

Associate Editors ........ Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis, George McMurray

Managing Editors ........ Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw, John Ottley

Art Editor—Don Mahy

Photographer—Andrew Simmons

Sports Editor—Dick Liles

Feature Editor—Mike Myers

City Editor—Nat Daniels

Assistant Business Manager

Advertising Manager—Jack Hobson

Circulation Manager—Bob Poston

Collection Manager—Bill Minter

Subscriptions Manager—Preston Chaney

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Speedy Executive Action Collapses Sails of Critics

The prompt action by the faculty committee and executive committee in putting through the student body request for lunch lengthening and a more liberal holiday policy leaves critics of the two bodies happily dazed. Hardly filed with The Davidsonian for this week's publication, a letter by one of the student-critics is now outdated and disproved by the announcement of the administrative grants. The writer went to great length to expound the futility of attempted student reform, pointing out that while we might shout and petition until blue in the face, the administration would nod approvingly at our democratic form of self-expression only to nod negatively when it came to a vote. While the two changes required no mountain moving or great sacrifice on the part of the executive committee, they went a long way toward building student confidence in the power of their opinion—a confidence which was in dire need of bolstering.

Elections Need No Basic Change, Two Improvements Would Do It

In the recent closed meeting of the student body the question of changing the election system was brought up and a complete change to a wide open system of campaigning was recommended. While it seems obvious that some changes are desirable it is not a good idea to junk the entire system simply because it does not reflect the intricacies of national politics. The purpose of elections should be to obtain the best qualified officers possible. These officers are not elected to enact laws as in national legislatures, but to hold in trust certain ideals and principles that are set up as the guides of life in the college. Men are needed in these positions who will uphold and typify the Davidson ideals. This may sound a little far-fetched or a little deep, but what it means is that the student council is the body that indoctrinates the freshmen and therefore it must be made up of men with sterling character. In a community as small as this it is possible to know the leaders personally. Each member of the student body can observe any other member at close enough range to know what type of person he is. This is just about as close to perfect democracy as you can get; each man has the opportunity to see his leaders at first hand and each person is free to vote without coercion. Any change of the basic principles under which we now function would be a bad mistake. There are two technical points, however, which might be improved upon. The first of these is the large number of men running for each office which results in a great deal of lost motion and wasted time. The other is the failure to hear just what the candidate proposes to do when he gets in office. By requiring petitions of nomination and a two-dollar filing fee the time wasted every year in chapel with nominating procedure could be eliminated. The fee would eliminate a lot of people who are not interested in the first place and it still would not be a hardship on anyone. An opportunity for five-minute speeches by each candidate could be provided with the time saved by eliminating the nominating sessions. This would give the student body a chance to hear the candidate make constructive proposals for action during his term. In this way candidates would be required to do some constructive thinking on exactly what their job was and how they could improve it. The election system, except for technical changes, is well fitted to the needs of the student body and should not be basically altered. It is felt that the changes recommended could be enacted within the framework of the election system as it now stands.—N.S.B.

Greek Week Makes Bright Debut, But Hell Weeks Still On Scene

In a small but effective way and in an environment incongruous to its very being, Greek Week had its beginning along Fraternity Row this week. And for a beginning, the program was a highly successful one. Inter-Fraternity Council heads had stated last week that they had rather undertake a small schedule and see it through to effective completion than to attempt a large operation and run roughshod over the high spots. This plan was a good one, the results bear that out. But if the seed of this Greek Week, well planted in 1952, is to come to the productive fruition of future years, it must be nurtured and cared for in future years. And any farmer will tell you that raising’s a darn sight tougher than planting. For as the seed makes its bid for life, the environment must be conducive to growth. The environment in which Davidson’s Greek Week had its birth is one, it seems to us, which (Continued On Page Four)

THE MORNING AFTER THE NIGHT

THE CABBAGE PLANTER: Chesterfieldian Offspring Smoke Out Replies to Mid-Winter Bids

What hath this day deserved? what hath it done That it in golden letter should be set Among the high tides in the calendar? —W. Shakespeare.

Among the phases of such a weekend as is now upon us is the extensive correspondence that precedes it for a period of anywhere from six weeks to three hours before the opening gun. And, since without this part of the Growing Boy's Social Development there would be precious little activity this weekend, a fuller understanding of the trend in letter-writing is our duty to bring, to say the least, about. As the above-quoted friend Will would say, “preferment is by letter and affection.” Therefore, we publish herewith six types of letters, four male and two female, on the premise that it takes at least two letters from a man to get one that says anything from a woman. The first, and perhaps most interesting, type is that sent by the Davidson College Davidson, North Carolina

Dear Bill: Since the “town meeting” held in chapel last Friday morning, there have been many discussions about the several criticisms and suggestions that were made. I would like to make a few comments on the subject. First of all, I think that the meeting was a very good idea. It gave the students a chance to express their opinions and to hear what others had to say. However, I think that some of the criticisms were not entirely fair. For example, the criticism of the Student Council for not taking action on certain issues. If the students who made these criticisms had taken the time to find out what the Student Council has been doing, they would have found that the Council has been working on many of the issues that were brought up. In fact, some of the issues have already been resolved. The problem is that the students are not always aware of what the Council is doing. This is partly the fault of the Council for not publicizing its actions more effectively, but it is also the fault of the students for not taking the initiative to find out what is going on. In conclusion, I think that the “town meeting” was a good idea and that it should be held more often. However, I also think that the students need to be more informed about what is going on and that they should take more responsibility for finding out what the Student Council is doing. Sincerely, John Doe

Mr. Bill White Editor Davidsonian Davidson, N. C.

Dear Bill, In the last issue of the Davidsonian an editorial was written on the noisiness of East and West dormitories. There was also given a possible reason for this condition—“the manifestation of the student opinion of its government—a government in name, performing the routine functions, but hardly rough enough to stop a little hell raising at one o'clock in the morning.” In answering this statement in behalf of the Student Council I would like to point out that the editor did not look at this problem from a very practical standpoint. The problem is this. Noise making in the dormitories will continue until each student takes the initiative himself to do something about it. Student Council members can only do so much. It is up to the individual students to take responsibility for their own actions and to respect the rights of others. If the students are not willing to do this, then no amount of action by the Student Council will solve the problem. Sincerely, John Doe

FROM THE EDITOR’S MAILBOX: McLEAN DEFENDS STUDENT COUNCIL POSITION ON CURRENT ISSUES

Davidson College Davidson, North Carolina

Dear Bill: Since the “town meeting” held in chapel last Friday morning, there have been many discussions about the several criticisms and suggestions that were made. I would like to make a few comments on the subject. First of all, I think that the meeting was a very good idea. It gave the students a chance to express their opinions and to hear what others had to say. However, I think that some of the criticisms were not entirely fair. For example, the criticism of the Student Council for not taking action on certain issues. If the students who made these criticisms had taken the time to find out what the Student Council has been doing, they would have found that the Council has been working on many of the issues that were brought up. In fact, some of the issues have already been resolved. The problem is that the students are not always aware of what the Council is doing. This is partly the fault of the Council for not publicizing its actions more effectively, but it is also the fault of the students for not taking the initiative to find out what is going on. In conclusion, I think that the “town meeting” was a good idea and that it should be held more often. However, I also think that the students need to be more informed about what is going on and that they should take more responsibility for finding out what the Student Council is doing. Sincerely, John DoeTurning in a noise-maker should only occur after he has been warned once by the students who live near him. If he persists in making noise, then and only then should he be reported to the Student Council. The Student Council does not hesitate to take action on dormitory disturbers; its past record will vouch for this. Three men have been removed from the dorm this year, and one man has been campused. Until each individual student realizes that it is his personal responsibility, as well as the Student Council members', to hold the noise in the dorms to a reasonable minimum, the dorms will continue to be as noisy as ever, and the Student Council can do nothing to prevent it. Here, Mr. Editor, are the facts.

Our Recent Wave of Criticism: Construction or Rejection?

Unless we make some practical suggestions to solve our problems, we have accomplished little, except perhaps to call attention to problems with the idea of having someone else work out a solution. Usually, however, in order to get a job done, we have to do it ourselves. Finally, criticism is constructive only insofar as it is the means toward an end—in this case, a better Davidson—and ceases to fulfill its task adequately when it becomes an end in itself. This business of criticism for criticism’s sake inflates more egos and does less good than many of the things it criticizes. When criticism reaches this stage of degeneracy, it becomes an easy target for criticism and rejection. Davidson has her faults, but in many areas, both educational and social, she remains strong. It is true she has some responsibility to us, but it is just as true that we owe her something too. By getting the most out of what she has to offer, we may at least be able to present her best to the world, and by ever striving upwards, make that best better.

Ideas or opinions to the Student Council:

The president of the Student Council has always been ready to receive and present student ideas to the Student Council, and then to the Student Body if the ideas were of possible value to the Student Body. No one has taken advantage of this opportunity. Thus, we can see that there has been no call for the Student-Faculty Committee this year. No one has expressed any ideas to the Student Council which warranted any discussion by this Committee. The “town meeting” of the Student Body should bring student opinion out into the open from now on. From this beginning, your Student Government can go into action. Up until this time, it has been hampered tremendously. The reason I write this letter is to show certain members the actions that came forth at that meeting. In the course of one of the discussions, the question was asked: “Why have not the students come either to the Student Body officers or individual members of the Student Council and expressed their desires, ideas, or opinions?” It was suggested that had this been done, the neophyte socialite, or the budding beau, would have had a different experience. This type has never had a date before, but upon reaching maturity, i.e., college, feels that his station demands some Bacchanalian outburst of emotion, and so consents to date a name which a fraternity brother has dug up. His effort: Dear Miss Enneahedron: How are you? I hope you...

ODK PROGRAM ARTICLE: Proposed Changes

It’s always a good thing to air out problems in a public meeting of the sort that was held last Friday. If it accomplished its purpose, it should have started a good many people thinking constructively about the student government at Davidson. On the other hand, depending on what results accrue from it, it may have been merely an opportunity for the student body to demonstrate its impatience with and contempt for the immobility of the college administration, and perhaps for the lethargy of student leadership. The purpose of the present discussion is to look briefly into the question of possible changes in student body election procedures. There has been considerable agitation from several sources for a change in the rules to permit a certain amount of politics to enter into the elections. This, of course, at many other schools, would be a foolish question, for elections and politics go hand in hand in most places. But if politics can contaminate, Davidson has been Simon-pure—at least officially. Perhaps an analysis of existing student government at Davidson would help to explain this situation. As it exists today, the most important function of the Student Council is to preserve and to administer the Honor System, that nebulous ideal, the spirit of which is so often ignored. Theoretically, the Council is to administer the organization of student government as well, but, with the exception of Student Body Regulations, there is just not much organization to be administered. A bit of research on governmental organization at other colleges and on former practices here at Davidson would throw additional light on this last point.

Now, assuming that the Honor System is the Council's prime concern, some good can be seen, I think, in the present system of elections at its best. Integrity, strength of character, and strong convictions about right and wrong—these are perhaps the primary qualifications for members of a judicial board, qualifications which can be judged best without the influence of high-pressure politics upon the voter. When the present system is not operating at its best, of course, there is always the danger of its turning into a popularity contest. The Student Council does not patrol the dormitories, looking for noisemakers, and would not do so if they could. But the Student Council can go into action if and when they find out who is causing the trouble. How can we find out who those noisemakers are? We can find out only when the majority of students—the ones that want a quiet dormitory—find out who the noisemakers are.

“We need men who can spot problems, outdated rules and regulations, antiquated customs and traditions—not only men who can spot problems but men who can solve problems.” This is a direct quote from a speech that was made last Friday in the “town meeting.” It seems this statement was not clear and (Continued On Page Four) of the Student Body that their Student Government has not been idle because it wanted to be, but mainly I write to show that Student Government can function smoothly and effectively only when the Student Body at large takes an active personal interest in it.

Sincerely,
MAC McLEAN.

I would like to answer, too, those men who have spoken about the lethargy, the sleepiness of the Student Government. The Student Council members are the students' representatives. We are the means by which the student should express his desires. Yet no one, not one single man, has expressed his desires.

In Student Election Rules Set Forth By BOB CRUTCHFIELD

But this danger is not restricted to our system, nor is it inevitably a part of our system. Is it not possible that better management of the present elections procedure would eliminate most of its faults? Changes do not have to be drastic! There is a plan afoot which would require each candidate to make one short speech and one only. In his talk, he would set forth his convictions about student government and the part he would play in it. The student body, thus becoming acquainted with the candidates and their opinions, would perhaps be in a better position to choose intelligently the members of its judicial board. Naturally, such modifications as these do not eliminate the danger of the popularity element. Neither are the doors flung wide open to full-scale political operations with their admittedly undesirable consequences. This, then, is what we may call a moderate solution.

Up to now, we have assumed that the primary concern of the Student Council is with the Honor System, to the exclusion of most of what is usually considered the ordinary business of governmental organizations. Recent expressions of student opinion, however, seem to indicate that a number of students favor a general broadening of the aspects of student government at Davidson, with a corresponding increase and diversification of the functions of the officers. If such changes were made in the governmental set-up, it seems obvious that the present system of “sanitary-code” elections would be wholly inadequate to choose men possessed of leadership ability commensurate with the duties to be placed upon them. Corresponding changes in elections procedure would be necessary, changes which would ensure leadership (and integrity) top billing. Would politics be allowed free rein? That would depend, of course, on the will of the students and others concerned; it would probably be desirable to retain some restrictions. The point is that if the scope of student government is to be enlarged, then the elections system must grow to match it.

There is, incidentally, another point to be considered in any discussion on broadening student government, a point perhaps only one who has had experience as a member of the Student Council can fully see. It has to do with the ever-present problem of lack of time in which to work. All of us are aware of the myriad activities open to students at Davidson, and of the vast amount of time required by most of them: in short, this business of “College Life” so recently under fire from high quarters. We all may not be aware, however, of the great amount of time and interest required in the judiciary functions of the Student Council. In fact, due possibly to the necessarily quiet nature of the Council’s judicial work, the probable majority of students are not often reminded that it sometimes meets for as many as sixteen hours in a single week. In the face of this inescapable shortage of time, it seems apparent that if the functions of the government are to be increased, they must be divided among more officers. The implications here are considerable: there may be involved the complete revision of our system of government, including perhaps division into three branches. Certainly, the judicial and executive branches would have to be separated. Now such a drastic change in form may well be good for Davidson; but we would all do well to consider carefully how far reforms can be taken, and how much thought is required to see clearly all the facets of a complex problem such as the one with which we are faced. Certainly, we can all agree on one thing: the elections system as it is presently administered is not adequate. Whether or how it shall be changed rests finally with the student body. But between now and the time when we'll all vote on the changes, the call goes out for concrete suggestions, complete outlines of plans, to be submitted to the officers of the student body. And it may not be too rash to predict that work will begin soon within the Student Council on possible changes in the face of Davidson. Who knows? We may yet disprove the old, old classic statement: “The Administration will forever maintain its majestic immobility amid the swirling currents of transitory student opinion.” But maybe that's just sophomore optimism.