When Wildcat guard Gene Davis was hit in the eye by somebody's foot last week in the State game, the blood ran freely from the resulting gash. But that didn't stop Davis. In the Cat dressing room, the medicos whipped a needle through the skin a couple of times, packed a little protection around the injured area, and Gene finished the ball game. It is not too far-fetched an analogy, we believe, to maintain that the whole Davidson team has performed this season like Davis did in the State game. Knocked down twice straight, without a victory to their credit, Bill Dole’s Cats went into the State game trying once more for the victory which has eluded them since early in the 1951 season. This writer wasn't privileged to see the State fracas, but the word from those who did is that Dole’s men looked pretty sad during the first half of the game, but bounced back for a good second half. That’s a little deviation from the usual, since the Cats are generally a first-half ball club. But at least they showed the spark of competition, the signs of fight which meant that they were still trying. The question that arises is, of course, how long the Cats can continue to get knocked down and still come up swinging. There is a limit to the life of unnourished team spirit just as there is a limit to human endurance, and when that spirit no longer exists a team plays a game perfunctorily, with the attitude that Since It Is Saturday We Will Play a Football Game Today. That attitude is what Coach Dole has been trying to discourage ever since he came to Davidson. If this team doesn't win pretty soon, he'll be hard put to keep his team from feeling that way. All of which is not intended as criticism of Dole's charges. A team with no real depth to speak of, they have played schools with talent to spare. Everybody they play seems to be rebounding from a humiliating defeat by somebody or in that state of being “Up” (i.e., laying) for them. Though they have dropped their first three starts, they've worked hard almost all the way. Tonight Dole’s men run smack dab into another situation in which their opponents will be playing harder than at any other time during the year. Though they've been picked by some of the football prognosticators to win by a couple of TD's, they'll be hard put to whip Presbyterian at the latter's Homecoming. However, if they turn that trick it'll only be turnabout, for the Blue-Hosed boys from Clinton edged out the Cats here last year 14-12 before a Homecoming crowd. Since the game will probably be over by the time this issue of the Davidsonian is published, there’s not much use to predict the outcome. But we won't be a bit surprised if the long-overdue Cats send a lot of PC faithful home tonight in not too good a mood.

THE DAVIDSONIAN By DICK ROPER

P.C. put the damper on Davidson’s homecoming festivities last fall as they eked out a 14-12 victory. Davidson was defeated 28-6 last week by N.C. State in Raleigh, which saw the Cats a bit shaky in the first half. The second half was a different story with the sensational running of halfback Johnny Gray. Up until this game, Johnny had never run an offensive play in his varsity experience. He scored Davidson's only touchdown against State with a 64-yard sprint off right tackle. He should be running a lot of offense from now on and will add that spark that the Cats have seemed to lack. Injuries seem to be hampering Davidson's victory hopes. Henry Brown, hard-running Wildcat fullback, has been out since the first game with a knee injury, and Harry Peterson is still on the non-playing list with an injury he received a year ago. Captain Arnold Whisnant, Ben Craig, and Gene Davis were hurt in last week's action, but all three may be ready to go Friday night.

Renn Third Best Punter

Davidson boasts the third-best punter in freshman halfback Bobby Renn. If Renn can do as well as he has so far, he'll keep the Cats out of trouble with his booming boots. Coach Lonnie McMillan has stated that his team will be at full strength and really up for the game. The Blue Hose (Continued On Page Four)

Cross Countrymen Meet Richmond

Richmond College's cross countrymen will meet the Wildcat harriers here tomorrow afternoon in the first home meet of the season. Coach Pete Whittle’s team will be looking for their first victory in tomorrow's action. They have lost two so far. Straight from a win over Randolph-Macon last week, the Virginians will be ready for the Wildcats. However, Davidson has a good chance for victory unless a number of frosh standouts have broken into the Spider lineup. At last week’s triangular meet with the University of Tennessee and Maryville College in Knoxville, the Davidson team ran well, though falling into third place. Tennessee, the Southeastern Conference champions, did some fine running and took first place, with Maryville coming in second. In last year’s National Intercollegiate Cross Country meet, Tennessee placed six men, and practically the same squad ran this season. It is expected that a return meet with these teams will be held at Davidson next year. The Wildcats, accustomed to running the four-mile course, were at (Continued On Page Four)

By DICK LILES

There is no question as to this week's favorite Wildcat. It could be none other than the recently converted defensive safety for the Dolemen, who took off from a halfback post for 64 yards through the entire State College Wolfpack to score the lone tally that the Wildcats garnered last Saturday afternoon. It's got to be the small, 160-pounder from Statesville who is actually listed as the second-string quarterback for the Cats. It has to be Johnny Gray.

RENTALS ALSO

Wilson-Wrights “Collegiate Fashions” Next to Bank in Davidson

Dole’s Men Still Looking

McKee’s Netmen, Laced By P. C, Practicing Hard

By MOODY SMITH

After absorbing a 6-3 drubbing last Saturday in a practice match with Presbyterian College, Davidson’s tennis squad spent this week in dedicated practice, determined not to let it happen again this spring when the official season opens. Big Allen Morris of Atlanta, Ga., led his team to victory in five out of six singles matches as he blew Davidson’s Lacy Keesler right off the green-surfaced courts. The score was 6-2, 6-0, as Davidson's pride and joy never even got started. In fact, Morris’ mates did just as well. Bill Bivins was the only Wildcat to win his match. In doubles, McKee’s men did considerably better, winning two out of three matches.three. The P.C. lineup seemed just as strong as last year's, which was by no means weak, and has probably been strengthened somewhat by the addition of Morris, who was ineligible last year. If he continues at his present pace, he should make short work of the memory of Frank Spears, P.C.’s ace singles player of the past three years who (Continued from Page One) Johnny has been around for three years, but he won a starting assignment as safety man on last year's team. No one can forget that he was a “forgotten man” back there, although he saved many a sad heart and high score by his timely and vicious tackles. Many times he was the only one left between the goal and the man with the mail, but he always came through when it counted.

Behind Jack Ruth
This year Gray has worked behind Jack Ruth in the quarterback

JOHNNY GRAY
Sixty-four yards and a starting assignment

Wildcat Sports
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1952

NEXT WEEK: HOMECOMING & FURMAN
DON'T MISS IT!

PAGE THREE

Presbyterian Host To Cats At Clinton Tonight
Sigma Chi's, Phi Delts Lead Way For Season's First Victory
Interfraternity Race Gets Up Steam

By BILL SLEDGE
The season's first victory and a chance to spoil Presbyterian College’s Homecoming are the incentives Coach Bill Dole’s Wildcats have to put all they’ve got into tonight’s game with the Blue Hose at Clinton, South Carolina.

By JOHN HANDLEY
The interfraternity football league saw the early season scramble to stay on top narrow down this week leaving but one team each in the first and second positions. The fast-moving Sigma Chi's had to go for two overtime periods before a long Tyler Berry pass was completed to Buzzy Holt for the only overtime score as the Sigs downed the Betas 12-6. The Sigs are the only undefeated team left in the league. The Phi Delts came in with three victories during the week to move into second place. The following games include only those played through Wednesday. Neither of the league leaders were in Thursday’s action.

THE STANDINGS*
Sigma Chis .......... 3 0
Phi Delts ............ 3 1
Kappa Sigs .......... 2 1
KA’s ................. 2 1
Pikas ................ 2 1
SAE’s ............... 1 1
Phi Gams ........... 1 1
SPE's ............... 1 1
Pi Kapps ............ 1 2
Betas ............... 1 3
ATO’s ............... 0 2
C. C. ................. 0 3
*Includes games through Wednesday only.

Sigma Chis 12; Betas 6
In the closest defensive tussle of the season, a beautifully executed 30-yard pass by Tyler Berry and a fine catch and run by Buzzy Holt brought the Sigs a 12-6 victory in two extra periods. The game was featured by fine defensive playing by both the Betas and the Sigma Chis. Along with Berry and Holt, Perrin Anderson showed up well for the undefeated Sigs. Hugh Gramley and Yancey Robinson led the Beta forces in the close thriller.

Phi Delts 7; KA’s 6
In winning their third victory of the week, the Phi Delts gained two honors. They climbed into second place in the league and beat last year's champion KA’s. Don Lazenby, along with Dan Leach, sparked the Phi Delts to their 7-6 triumph. Playmaker T. W. Aldred and Lefty Vance looked good in defeat for the KA’s.

Kappa Sigs 22; Pikas 19
A good defense and an alert offense spelled victory for the Kappa Sigs as they nosed out the Pikas in a close contest. “Lip” Lippard and Rob Hoover sparked the Kappa Sig attack. Little backfield ace Jimmy Smith along with Bob Owens showed up well as the Pikas dropped their first game.

SAE’S 13; ATO’S 6
Ray Lilly and Dick Babington combined to spark the SAE’s to their first victory of the campaign as they took the measure of the ATO’s by a 13-6 count. Leading the ATO attack were Tim Gilley and a freshman, Phil Koonce.

Phi Delts 33; CC 6
The Phi Delts showed fine scoring punch as they downed the cellar-dwelling Campus Clubbers 33-6. Brown Dennis and Buddy Lamon looked good as the Phi Delts used a lot of their reserved strength. Clark Reed and freshman Brooks Webb carried much of the burden for the CC.

(Continued On Page Four)

THE LIGHTEST TUXEDO EVER MADE yet ideal for year-round wear!

This is the lightest tuxedo ever made — almost weightless and completely comfortable. Yet because the exclusive American Silk Mills fabric is woven with Tussah — wild silk — it is strong and full-bodied, ideal for year-round wear. And it is exceptionally luxurious, too — a luxury enhanced by the rich Honan weave and the natural-shoulder, shawl collar, center-vent model. In Charcoal Blue.

This is the Tussah — Wild Silk — Worm that Makes the Waylite Pure Silk Tuxedo Possible
The wild silk worm lives in the far reaches of Asia. He feeds upon oak leaves — spurning the soft mulberry leaves his cultivated cousin eats. It is this diet which makes Tussah — wild silk — far stronger, more resilient and more lustrous. And it is this silk, gathered from the rare wild cocoons... and unreeled by hand by natives... that is blended in the Waylite Pure Silk Tuxedo.

NOTE: WAYLITE is the only tuxedo that contains Tussah — wild silk.

ALSO EXCLUSIVE WITH US:
STROOCK SPORT COATS
STROOCK SUITS
STROOCK TOP COATS
$50 up $79.50 $69.00

H. FREEMAN & SON
PHILADELPHIA
WOVEN BY AMERICAN SILK MILLS, INC.