PAGE TWO . THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, APRIL 4, 1952

THE DAVIDSONIAN
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER

Associate Editors
Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis, George McMurray
Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw, John Ottley

Art Editor—Don Mahy
Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Sports Editor—Dick Liles
Feature Editor—Mike Myers
City Editor—Nat Daniels

Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Managing Editors
Boo Northcutt
Jack Hobson
Circulation Manager
Bob Poston
Collection Manager
Bill Minter
Subscriptions Manager
Preston Chaney

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Winner Dole Will Find That Will Without Flesh Futile In This Loop

Signing on Bill Dole to skipper Davidson's 1952 grid outfit has indeed put a good man at the helm, but
the question remains—which way is our football ship of state sailing? Certainly the builder of winning clubs at Fayetteville High
and ECTC has a tough course chartered for him in his first year on Southern Conference seas. To carry on
the nautical analogy, while Davidson is not necessarily the graveyard of coaches (to wit: Bill Story, Charlie Jamerson, and Crowell
Little, all of whom have left coaching to enter another field directly from Davidson) it has not of late been
known for smooth sailing.

The Davidson dilemma, as brought out in these columns some weeks ago, buffeted the boat about to the end that
it is difficult to see exactly where we are heading. Examine this point: At least a dozen key men will
be missing from next year's roster, and if the Southern Conference goes along with the loop presidents in banning freshmen
from varsity competition this coming fall, our position will indeed be imperiled. Junior college transfers and recruits from the student
body will be our only source of material. A lean year would be understandable if a strong frosh club were
in the building. But will Dole be given sufficient wherewithal to build and do the job that is expected of
him, or will he still be given the funds to do only half the job while expected to do the
full job? The college has set the schedule on a level behind which we lag competitively 50% or better. Dole
is self-expressedly a winning man. One or the other must give. For even a winner like Dole, no matter how
strong and willing the spirit, if you’re not matching that foe in flesh pound for pound, you're still going to
be on the short end of the scores.

Sure, We're Out For Blood...

In this Spring a young man’s fancy should fondly turn to thoughts of blood. Davidson College is again being given
the opportunity to display its willingness to help the wounded who cannot help themselves. It requires but little effort to
give a small amount of one’s time and energy to help a fellow human being stay alive. From the capitalistic
point of view, it is an investment which can bring an almost unbelievable and unsurpassable rate of return—a little of
your blood can make one less white cross. From the personal view, the time may well come when your life
may depend on the willingness of those back home away from the hell of the battlefield to donate blood. And
from the greatest viewpoint of all, service, it would be tragic indeed should American soldiers die from lack of blood
due to the apathy of their more fortunate fellow citizens.

Next Wednesday and Thursday each Davidson student will display either his interest or apathy. Though we have a record to
be justly proud of—500 donations in a single day, which holds the state and regional record—an analysis shows us that
comparatively speaking over one whole class section did not donate last December. Blood is urgently needed. Let us answer the
call with a response greater than even that of last December. Give a little to gain a lot.
—P.G.K.

Proposed Election Amendments

STUDENT BODY ELECTION PROCEDURE

ARTICLE II.— NOMINATIONS
(Article III to be deleted and the following inserted instead)

Section 1. All nominations for officers elected by the Student Body, except nominations for editors of the publications, shall come
from the floor of a Student Body meeting. All nominations for class officers shall be made from the floor at
a class meeting.

Section 2. The day on which nominations are to be made shall be announced at least one week in advance.

Section 3. Each student nominated to run for an office shall be required to signify willingness to be a candidate
for that office by signing a statement to that effect at a time and place designated by the President of
the Student Body.

Section 4. Three candidates for the editorship of each of the student body publications shall be selected by the Publications
Board from lists submitted to the Board by the staffs of the various publications. From these candidates the student body
shall elect the editors of The Davidsonian and Scripts ‘n Pranks. The editor of Quips and Cranks shall be elected
by the rising Senior Class.

ARTICLE IV.—ELECTIONS
Section 6: to be deleted.
Section 7: to be deleted.

Section 6: To be replaced by the following: “Voting procedure in all elections in the Student Body shall be determined
by the Student Council, and administered by the Election Board.”

Section 7. To be replaced by the following: “The three candidates for the editorship of each of the three student
body publications shall be required to make in chapel (Continued On Page Four)

SCOPPERS AND PENTON SKINNERS

LAST WORDS: “I’LL PROVE THAT THE IVY ISN’T ALL THAT’S HOLDING UP RUMPLE.”

THE CABBAGE PLANTER: Ingram Replaces Thor Johnson As World’s Foremost Conductor

Art has its Michelangelo, literature its Shakespeare, science its Einstein and philosophy its Nietzsche but on the musical front, a
new star has risen. Toscanini, Walter, Metropoulos and Thor Johnson may have achieved some small fame in their little worlds,
but they all must pay homage to one of the greatest names among contemporary symphony conductors, T. C. Ingram.

Having recently returned from a triumphant tour of the Eastern states, Ingram has finally shown the world the talent behind
so humble and unassuming a face. T. C., as his conservatory friends affectionately call him, was mobbed throughout his trip,
while critics up and down the coast were rendered speechless at his appearances. It can be safely said, in the
heat of enthusiasm, that no conductor has ever before received the comments that greeted the modest young artist. Upon first
looking into Ingram’s humor, it seemed to this critic a major crime that he had insisted on spending so many
years in comparative obscurity preparing for his debut. But these years can easily be dispatched, now that T. C. has
given his artistry to the world.

With some very serious and well-founded qualms about insufficient instrumentation and poor musicianship among the local symphony groups in Baltimore,
Philadelphia and New York, Ingram wisely secured as his accompanist a traveling organization, the Davidson College Concert, I think it
is, Band, noted for never having played in the same town twice. The artist, whose American villa is in the
Piedmont section of North Carolina, preceded the band to all his dates in a sleek forty-foot limousine that commanded attention
wherever it was parked. After a brief stopover owing to bad weather in Roanoke, Virginia, Ingram proceeded on to New
York, where a tumultuous reception had been staged for him during the morning of January first.

T. C.'s Manhattan concert was like the others, unprecedented, but was marred by one annoying incident. At a banquet held
in T.C.’s honor at the Waldorf-Astoria by music society, Lauritz Melchior, a New York singer, eyed a piece of cherry
pie on Ingram’s plate. It was the day after the Saints and Sinners banquet and the Waldorf was serving left-overs.
The pie had naturally been given to the honored guest, but the head-waiter had not taken special notice of this
fact. Melchior coveted that piece of pie. He called the head-waiter, named Bill, over to him and asked why T.
C. should be given the best dessert. The head-waiter thought a moment, and then said, “Why don’t we ask the
chef what to do about it?” This was all right with Lauritz, so they asked the French chef, named Tom.

Tom, the chef, said that his natural impulse would be to throw Melchior into the garbage can; this made the
singer mad. Not only did Melchior leave the hotel, but he persuaded the company he works for, the Metropolitan Opera,
to leave town too. They did this without much persuasion, because business had been falling off since T. C.’s arrival
anyway. When Ingram, having eaten the cherry pie and feeling very happy indeed, heard about the incident, he immediately cancelled
all of his appearances in Carnegie, Diamond Horseshoe and Town Halls respectively and embarked impetuously for Philadelphia. This was on
Sunday night. He spent Monday looking for Melchior and his cronies; he even gave a concert on Tuesday with hopes
of smoking them out. Early on Wednesday morning he heard that they had stolen away to Baltimore, no sooner had
he heard the news than he was on the trail.

At Baltimore he found Melchior dickering for the use of Baltimore’s newest concert hall, conveniently twelve miles from anything on
the Goucher campus. In his dashing, Continental manner, Ingram tore up the contract, raised his baton with his handkerchief high
in the air and claimed the campus in the name of Davidson and art in general. Revenge was sweet. Melchior
saw that he was beaten, drew his fountain pen, handed it to T.C. and walked slowly out backwards, bowing. The
Metropolitan that night was forced to make the best out of what they found in dingy downtown Baltimore.

Goucher was perhaps Ingram's finest performance. Nothing, of course, need be said about his conducting. What is more important is
the way T.C. unselfishly asked James Christian Pfohl, who had accompanied the band on the tour, to conduct a couple
of numbers. Mr. Pfohl was obviously pleased by this gesture and the band cooperated to make it a memorable occasion.
It was an honor for the Davidson Band to have been chosen by T. C. Ingram to accompany him. He
drove

FROM THE EDITOR'S MAILBOX:

Miss Thompson Criticized For Anti-Semitism Talk Here

Mr. Bill White, Editor
The Davidsonian

Dear Bill:

Enclosed is a letter from Dr. Raymond M. Wheeler of Charlotte, together with a copy of his letter to Miss
Dorothy Thompson. I think you might well like to publish it.

Sincerely yours,
SAMUEL R SPENCER, JR.

Miss Dorothy Thompson
2327 East 48th Street
New York, New York

Dear Miss Thompson:

It was my privilege last Wednesday night, along with a group from Charlotte, to hear your lecture at Davidson College
on Palestine and the Middle East. As a previous long-time admirer of your intellect and integrity, I was greatly disturbed
by several impressions I received from your speech. Being neither Jew nor Arab, I believe my opinions may be objective
and I write you in the sincere hope that you will give this letter thoughtful consideration.

Unfortunately, your effort to make the Palestine issues purely black and white resulted in great oversimplification of a complex problem
involving many shades of gray. Your approach was anything but “unpartisan” and it was a little painful to hear you
use the term so frequently. Your facts were undoubtedly correct and my accusation of partisanship involves no question of your
reportorial accuracy. My reasons are less easily documented but include such things as your choice of points of emphasis, the
relative importance which you attached to various pieces of information, the arrival at incorrect conclusions from literally correct facts—indeed, the
entire emotional context in which you placed the factual information of your lecture.

No one can deny, on moral grounds, the injustice of the dispossession of a people by another people, even when
the trespassers are involved in a fight for survival and have been given no other choice by the so-called Christian
world. However, the tragedy of such a situation is the fact that it exists because man is not yet recovered
from an age-old sickness—his unwillingness to live and let live, to accept a man on the basis ofHere is the
cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

them night and day, it is true, but there wasn’t a member who didn’t feel that it was worth it,
if only to be with T. C. of his true worth rather than according to his race or religious beliefs.
To conduct a calculated campaign to label any nation or group as responsible for what appears to me to be
the sin of society, is to do as great an injustice to that group as was done to the Arabs.
You may protest, and sincerely so, that it was not your intent to point up the Jews as the primary
culprit. I remember your rebuke of Britain and the United States. However, your reference to the “Jewish vote,” whatever that
is; your undue emphasis on the Jewish role in the inevitable atrocities of the war; the absence of any expression
of sympathy for the predicament of the Jew; the absence of any indication that you understood the more complex and
obscure issues involved; the expression at times of what appeared to be actual antipathy toward the Zionists—all these things could
be interpreted only as evidence of your belief that the Jew is responsible for what is admittedly a deeply disturbing
situation. Whether intended or not, the overtones of anti-Semitism were there, and coming from you, they were shocking to me.
I have no doubt that such an impression was left with many people that night, and I fear that people
who previously had no feeling toward the Jew, left with prejudice in their hearts. You may have helped the Arab
cause that night, but you have weakened the cause of democracy. Please accept these criticisms in the spirit in which
they are given.

Yours sincerely,
RAYMOND M. WHEELER, M.D.

FACULTY HOMES NICKNAMED

Faculty members at Davidson take pride in their homes. Many of the homes have names, for example:
McGavocks: “Rebel Dell.”
Davidsons: “Hurricane Hill.”
Erwins: “The Arches.”
Shewmakes: “Sunlit Hill.”
Schencks: “Stoney Broke.”
Johnstons: “Dogwood Dale.”

NAT DANIEL: Student Government Awakens A Challenge To United Action

The present Student Government deserves some commendation for the work it has done in recent weeks in response to severe
criticism, especially concerning the election system, from the Student Body. It took its cues well, and began carrying out a
program which has alleviated many aspects of the Student Government where changes were long overdue. This isn’t saying, of course,
that the task is complete—it will never be completed, but it is worthwhile to note that though the present government
has its weaknesses, it did respond to the challenge of the critics much better than many of the critics themselves
would have predicted.

By the very nature of our institution, the Davidson Student Government is so limited in the scope of its activities
that unless it is given a nudge every now and then, it may be reduced to nothing more than a
pseudo-court which carries out limited judiciary action in connection with the enforcement of the Honor System. But in the past
some governments have risen above this category, and have attempted to carry on constructive projects within its limitations, and we
believe that the response which the present government made in answering the students’ challenges places it in this latter, more
desirable category. It’s far from perfect, but it's still good. So when you talk about what the Student Government isn't
doing, remember that it can only perform those functions which are permitted it by the Administration, Faculty, and Trustees of
Davidson College.

Now there will be some complaints to the effect that the Student Government didn’t carry out all or enough of
the proposals which were originally presented. These, however, will probably come from a minority of students. Most of us will
agree that the steps which have already been taken are adequate for the present, and though some more minor improvements
may be necessary at this time, we might be wiser to tread carefully and intelligently without being lackadaisical. If we
went hog-wild and installed many radical measures, future Davidsonians might discover that we sacrificed some of the good points of
the more conservative attitude merely for the sake of changing things. We can be pioneers of progress, but we should
not forget that progress is founded on the experiences of the past, and that we must retain those aspects of
the past which are still applicable and useful in the present.

It might be well to note here that the Student Council did not pass the points contained in the petition
presented this morning. They were voted down by an element which felt it wiser to retain the present system. We
can forgive them for the point of view, for a wise politician supports the system under which he was elected
to office. Then, too, the vote was fairly close (exact figures are not known to the writer) and one or
two members who might have voted for the platform speeches were absent from the meeting.

It would seem that the action of the Student Council in recent weeks presents a three-fold challenge. It challenges the
present Council to continue to respond as it has in the recent past. It challenges the Student Body to dedicate
fuller support to that Student Council, and to elect those who will ever strive to consummate the program already underway.
It is a challenge to those who will be elected to pledge to create a constructive place for their government
within the college life. Only through the united efforts of the institutions within the government, the united effort of elected
members of those institutions, and the support and participation of each individual student can we ever approach the achievement of
an ever-brightening dream: A better Davidson.

“Do Missions Serve Modern Needs?” (Fifth in the series of questions students asked about missions. This summary made by John
Gibbs.)

As part of a contrasting background for the dynamic Greek spirit of Fifth Cent. B. C., Edith Hamilton observed: “India
has gone the way of the things that are not seen until the things that are seen have become invisible.”
The same observation has been made often of the Christian Church, at times with some justification. But there is another
side of the picture. Confidence in immortality is not synonymous with contempt for present existence. Edward Gibbon to the contrary.
Rather, Christians “... are forever being challenged to abandon all things for the sake of God; and forever being sent
back into the world to teach and practice all things that have been commanded them.” (Christ and Culture, Richard Niebuhr)
The crucifixion and resurrection of Jesus Christ did not take place in heaven or in some remote planet or in
some world of ideas, but it took place within our time, our history, our world. So we must not seek
escape but rather attempt under His leadership to be that redeeming community among men by making the Church a community
of hope, action, and of obedience. “Faith exists only in a community of selves in the presence of a transcendent
cause...” (Christ and Culture). “Behold, the dwelling of God is with men. He will dwell with them, and they shall
be His people, and God himself will be with them.” (Rev. 21.3). This is for which we pray in our
Lord’s Prayer: “Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven.”

The following passages from an SVM pamphlet, describing qualifications of a missionary, indicate that the Christian Mission is indeed contemporaneous
in method and outlook: “The missionary needs more physical stamina than the person who remains at home. The physical tests
for foreign services are more rigorous than those given by the Army or the Navy... If the missionary isn’t sound
physically, he may break down. If he isn’t stable emotionally, his colleagues may break down. You don’t have to be
a nervous wreck to drive your companions to distraction. It’s not popular to be ‘queer’ on the mission field. “The
missionary’s mind must be alert... The world is full of tensions: racial, economic, political, religious. A candidate for Christian service
abroad must be sensitive to these conflicts. An attitude of racial or national or intellectual superiority disqualifies a student for
foreign service. “The missionary must know his own religion; its Book, its history, its founder... One missionary wrote, “Woe is
me if I preach not the Gospel.” That deals with motive. We want compelled men. Your reasons must be unselfish,
based upon your love of God and the desire to serve your neighbors. Unless you now express this love and
engage in this service for those across the street, you should not plan to undertake it for those across the
world.”

Until recently two-thirds of the modern hospitals in all China were mission hospitals. Dr. R. J. McMullen, formerly president of
the thirteen American Christian Colleges in China, says that after the First Revolution in 1910, when Sun Yat-Sen forbade the
teaching of classical Confucianism, the Christian mission schools were the only ones who were courageous enough to demand that it
be continued. It is in such instances as these, when missionaries live in the warp and woof of a people’s
existence, that they most effectively witness the Gospel. Gadgets are not God, nor are they necessary for the Gospel. So,
it is best to leave one’s native culture behind when he speaks of Christ to a foreign people of different
ways. By this, we mean that the most effective missionary is the one who can utilize every resource at hand
for the glory of Christ and do so without trying to impose his own culture in an effort to make
way for Christ. God makes a new beginning for man by making man begin with God. The Christian mission is
to persuade men to begin with God: in education, in all sorts of social problems (health, relief, illiteracy), in international
relations, in community life. The Christian mission of conversion is one of a complete turn-about to God in the lives
of farmers, factory workers, jungle chiefs, of men in every labor that claims the attention of man. It is therefore
incumbent upon the Church to serve in modern ways to men of modern days, lest any man failing in whatsoever
place be left behind by a Gospel which was spoken in unknown tongues.

Mother Nature Sends Flowers To Congratulate Springtime
By DOUG MAULIN

Once again old mother nature has had her way. With one slight movement of her magical wand, she has set
these Southern states into a paradise of bright sunshine, blooming flowers, and spring fever. No doubt about it, spring is
here, and if you don’t believe it, just look around. The sun is a brilliant disc of warmness; the flowers
are blooming forth with various colors and perfumes; and over in front of Main, some poor unfortunate young lady listens
to a lad, hypnotized with the beauty of spring, whispering sweet nothings into her ear. Just listen to him: “Darling,
say something soft and sweet to me.” “Anything for you, my dear.” “Darling, say something soft and sweet to me.”
“Custard pie.”

And then, spring has come to the classroom. Here and there, dotted all over the classroom, someone looks out of
the window and yawns sleepily, wishing he were out basking in the warm sunshine, or over at the tennis courts
playing a good game. The professor explains a formula, but no one hears it, because the little blue bird outside
has chosen this opportunity to exercise his golden voice of song, and yet he sounds like your roommate and his
morning gargle. Another class, and another hour of pure drudgery. Everyone is wondering what everyone else did during the spring
holidays. But we are back once again to the young lovers, still sitting on the bench in front of Main.
“Darling, say you love me.” “What?” “Darling, say you love me.” “Say what?” “Say you love me! Say it!” “I
love you.”

Classes are finally dismissed, and everyone is free to do as he pleases, that is, everyone but those who have
labs. It's spring, and you feel energetic, so you play a little tennis. All at once you trip, and bang,
there goes your shin, and then your head. —The Furman Hornet.
