Maybe the jinx has been broken or the law of averages finally caught up and repaid little ‘ole Davidson, but
at any rate we won a ball game last Monday night and the whole student body should be in the
throes of sheer ecstasy. I heard one professor say that he hadn't missed a game all year, but decided with
a “ah, well” attitude to give the little wife a break and let her go to the game and stay
with the kids himself. He was disgusted, no less, the following day. Another student connected with the team expressed better
than I'd ever heard the whole situation. “It turned the season from a disgrace to just a poor season. It
was just like the first breath of Spring after a long, hard, and cold winter to have gone to the
game last Monday night and felt the feeling of winning and beating a team that you knew was among the
better teams in the conference.”

SCOTT BLAMES PSYCHOLOGICAL WEARINESS

Coach Tom Scott came out the next day in The Observer saying that his team was “tired” and that it
was physical as well as spiritual. He says the team has been “beating its head against the wall” of student
indifference. At some of the games, he said he felt like leading some cheers himself and that the attendance was
so sparse at some of the games, that he felt like moving the bench to the stands. These things have
been circulating about the basketball situation at Carolina for years, and possibly they are becoming worse. It’s a known fact
that the Tar Heels have been suffering from a slump and something must be the trouble. Scott went on to
say that, contrary to public belief, he did not get “half the scholarships that Wake Forest or Maryland give, or
one third what Duke gives.”

WHAT ABOUT COACH BAIRD?

All this is room for gripe and discontent, but what about Coach Boyd Baird and the po’ Wildcats? He doesn’t
get half the scholarships that Scott gets and although the student body has been unusually loyal and interested, the fact
still remains that this has been one of our worst seasons in the past decade or so. It must be
that the Cats have played good ball here at home and have lost so many heartbreakers that the support is
still strong and now should be stronger than ever with only one more home contest on the slate. It seems
to me that Coach Scott's problem is essentially the same as that of “King Carl” Snavely. When you hit the
big time and burn up the league, you are expected to continue the pace or a slump will ruin the
whole thing, because the fans are used to winning and become discontent with a few losing seasons. This precisely has
happened to both the Carolina coaches, but fortunately or unfortunately as you may look at it, Davidson has never had
to suffer with this problem nor its coaches either. Our problem is only keeping spirit up despite the losing teams.

HISTORY WAS MADE IN JOHNSTON GYM

Actually the game started off slowly with the Cats taking the lead and building up a few points lead before
the half, especially on Joe Dudley’s last-minute, not-so-desperate shot. The second half was a different story with the Heel's much-ribbed
Deasy taking the initiative. Also on the home forces new life was experienced. Al Fitzgerald and “Ish” Bennett, who had
taken the flu-ridden King’s place, seemed to be the sparks that set off the fire. It was a team victory,
however, and that is where the beauty of the whole matter comes in. For the first time this season, although
they faltered toward the last of the regulation game, the Cats have been able to effectively “freeze” the ball. In
this fact lies the partial answer to our having dropped so many close ones. The only other aspect is our
failure to show scoring punch in the clinch. Mac McLean and Ish were magnificent in their handling of the ball
and it was Bennett's “easy” crip that stowed the game away. The entire team should get the laurels and the
laurels can be supplied by you.

Kappa Sig's Cling To Lead Despite KA’s Win By 59-40

By JOHN HANDLEY

Though the Kappa Sigma quintet still clings to the first place slot in the interfraternity race, the hoopsters of Kappa
Alpha stole the spotlight this week by handing the Men in Green their first defeat of the current campaign by
a convincing 59 to 40 romp. The victory along with a close 44-43 win over the lowly SPE’s moved the
rampaging KA’s into Number Two position in the standings with a record of 6 wins and 2 defeats. In other
action this week the Kappa Sigs dropped the Sigma Chis to third place by downing the dangerous Sigs, 30-24, in
a hard-fought defensive contest. The Pikas swamped the ATO’s by a 57-28 count to hold their third place standing. The
Phi Delts walloped the Pi Kapps 62-34, while it took the Phi Gams an overtime period to edge out the
Campus Club. In another close one the Betas slipped by the last place SAE's by a 37-36 margin.

With the season well over half completed the individual scoring race finds the top three contenders separated by only 6
points. Phi Gam ace, Larry Champion, still clings to the lead with a 114 point total. George King, in leading
his KA's to victory over the SPE’s and the Kappa Sigs, scored 16 and 25 points respectively in the two
contests to step into second place in the race. The KA’s Lefty Vance is a close third with a 108
total. The averages of the top three are: Champion — 16.3; King — 13.8; Vance — 13.5.

TRADE WITH OUR ADVERTISERS

Wildcat Sports

CHAMPION CLINGS TO SCORING LEAD

THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1952 PAGE THREE.

Face Duke Here In Home Finale

By DICK ROPER

A Wildcat quintet armed with the confidence resulting from a decisive win over North Carolina will take the floor tomorrow
night at Wake Forest in hopes of avenging the Demon Deacons’ 64-63 shading here recently. Bouncing back to defeat the
Tar Heels, 76-71, in overtime after losing to USC and Citadel, the Cats will be making a strong bid to
improve their anemic conference record when they tackle Murry Greason's charges in Deacon Hollow. Following the contest with Wake, Duke’s
Blue Devils will visit Johnston Gymnasium Tuesday night for the final game of the season. Even if the Carolina win
proves to be the shot in the arm that the Cats have been needing, they'll have only an outside chance
to whip the Groat-led Devils. In tomorrow night’s fracas on the Deac’s home floor, Coach Boyd Baird’s probable starting lineup
will have Bill Brooks and Al Fitzgerald at the forward slots, Joe Dudley at center, and Mac McLean and Gerry
King at guards.

“Ish” to See Action

John “Ish” Bennett, dubbed “Ish the Swish” by the Charlotte press after his game-winning overtime performance Monday night, is slated
to see extensive duty against the Deacons. If the margin is as close as it was the last time the
two teams met, the coolheaded Bennett may prove to be Baird's trump card. To take the Wakes the Cats will
have to do a better job of bottling up Center Dickie Hemric than they did last time. Although he was
guarded by two men, the lanky frosh still poured 18 points through the hoop while his teammates took advantage of
a relatively lax defense to eke out a win. On the local hardwood Tuesday the Bairdmen will find a still
tougher job: stopping Dick Groat. The Duke guard stood far ahead of the nearest contender for Conference scoring honors early
this week with 550 points and a game average of 25.

Meet Loyola Feb. 29

Loyola at Baltimore and Maryland at College Park are the final games scheduled for the current hoop season, the dates
being February 29.and March 1, respectively. At the end of the Carolina fracas Monday night, Captain Bill Brooks retained his
commanding lead in the TP column on the Wildcat score sheet. Brooks has poured in 268 points through the net
for a game average of 12.7 for 21 games. Joe Dudley is next with 218, Gerald King’s 173, Al Fitzgerald's
166, and Mac McLean’s 154 account for the rest of the major scoring.

Wildcat Of The Week

There are ball players and then there are ball players, the coaches and long-time observers of the hoop sport will
tell you, but the ones really worth having are those that can come through in the toughest spots. Monday night
a ball player was made. The 21 points deposited in the hoop by Al Fitzgerald that night represented the Wildcat
forward’s highest game score of the season, but they meant more than that. In one of their toughest games of
the season, Fitz's tallies kept the Cats in a game that they came perilously close to not winning.

In a season and a half the senior from Charlotte has come a long way. Not even a regular on
last year’s quintet, Fitz started off the '52 season by consistent play, doing nothing particularly spectacular all along but piling
up enough points (166) to rank fourth among the Cat scorers. A versatile athlete, Fitz is also one of the
mainstays of Coach Elgin White's Wildcat golfers. On the other side of the college ledger, Fitz can boast a scholastic
average for three and a half years' work that ranks him near the top of the senior class, a triumph
few athletes have ever achieved. With only four games left on the 1952 schedule and only one of them on
the home court, chances are Fitz will close out his final season giving Cat foes a real run for their
money.

"FITZ" ... improvement plus.

INTERFRATERNITY STANDINGS

DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF
Dial 3-4513
212 W. Fourth
Charlotte

Chesterfield SPORTS QUIZ

1. Where did Furman star Neil Gordon play last year?
2. Who recently passed George Mikan in the scoring race in the National Basketball Association?
3. Who received the James E. Sullivan Memorial trophy as the nation’s outstanding amateur athlete of 1951?
4. Who is the new Davidson baseball coach?

Turn in your answers on a Chesterfield wrapper to Doug Rice at the Stud. The first correct set will win
for the “brainchild” a carton of Chesterfields.

Jim Bryan, above, has been making big strides for Coach Dick Redding’s Catfish and is one of the main reasons
for a .500 season so far this year with two more possible victories in sight before the curtain is rung
down at the pool. This is only Jimbo’s second year in the tank and he has been consistently winning in
the 440 backstroke event and has already set one team record and is looking for more laurels in the conference
meet.

Wildcats Swim Tiger Tankers
By MOODY SMITH

With a very good chance of finishing the season with a winning percentage, the Davidson College swimming team departs for
Clemson tomorrow to face the Tiger in its lair, so to speak. The Wildcat “fish” have thus far this season
won 4 meets while losing a like number. Included in their list of victories is a previous triumph over the
Tiger tankmen by the score of 57 to 27. Should they defeat Clemson and go on to take next Monday
at Davidson the measure of The Citadel whom they have already beaten once this season, they would assure themselves of
a season’s record of 6 wins, 4 losses. After concluding their regular season with the Citadel meet, the Catfish will
participate in the Southern Conference meet to be held February 28-March 1 at Carolina. The Catfish boast victories over South
Carolina, whom they have decisioned twice, Clemson, and The Citadel, having dropped meets to North Carolina, VPI, State, and Washington
& Lee.

Davidson's swimming team, initiated only two years ago, has quickly won for itself a place of respect in Southern Conference
swimming competition, and prospects for the future success of local tank teams are promising too. The brightest of these prospects
is Alex Ormond, a Freshman who has virtually all the qualities of a fish except scales. Ormond swims in the
150-yard medley, the 200-yard backstroke, and the 440. The workhorse of the team, he is the leading point getter with
58 to his credit so far. Jim Bryan, a junior, has also contributed his share of the point-making. Big Jim
usually starts the Cats off with a bang in the 300-yard medley relay, and is counted upon to take the
backstroke, which he has done 5 times in his 8 attempts. Also doing yeoman duty have been Bob Patten in
the 100-yard dash and the 400-yard relay, Aubrey Miree in the 50-yard dash and the relay, and Captain Ken Taylor.
Ed Stuart has performed well, especially in the 50-yard dash, but has been handicapped throughout the season by illness and
injury.

THE BEST IN RECORDS
DAN RAMSEY RECORD BAR
127½ W. Trade — Charlotte

THACKER’S INC.
PRIVATE DINING ROOMS for PARTIES AND BANQUETS
A Good Place to Eat
Phone 25-4900
Charlotte
221 South Tryon Street

Rebounding Cats Hit Deacons

W&L Play Host To Wrestlers In Final Match Of Season
By BO TYNES

Lexington, Virginia will be the site of the mat activities for the Cats tonight as they close out the season
looking for their second win. The determined Wildcats will meet the always-powerful Washington and Lee team, one of the best
the conference offers. The Virginians will be out to gain another victory after successive victories over Duke and VPI. Although
the Cats will undoubtedly afford the W&L grapplers a good contest, it would be doubtful for any followers to conceive
a Cat victory.

The dance weekend seemed to have taken its toll last week when the barebacks entertained visiting Virginia Tech by bowing
out to a 22-8 defeat. The Cat grapplers were disappointing in putting on a not too-enthusiastic performance before an impressive
audience. Gene Craven started things off in the second bout of the afternoon by defeating his opponent handily, but there
the spark seemed to die. Three bouts later Freshman Johnny Buxton won by a fall, his second pin in three
appearances on the mat. Charlie Murray, Don Reid, and Bill Coe will be new faces in the line-up that will
tackle W&L tomorrow. Charlie Murray, who has gained experience in several bouts in the 130-pound class, has moved down to
123, ousting Bobby Joe Key from his former position. Reid will take over Johnny Guiton’s duties at 137. Bill Coe
squeezed out Bill McElveen to slate himself in the 177-pound division. McNeely and Andrews have shown considerable improvement in the
past week's workouts.

Although Coach Parker’s charges have had a dismal season, the Cat supporters can find some light in following some of
our better pugilists through the AAU meet which is to be held here the weekend of March 1. Practically all
members of the team will compete in this competition as well as in the Olympic trials.
