Basketball—America's Number One spectator sport—moves into the sports spotlight after tomorrow's football finale with The Citadel, and even though the
Cat cagers don’t open their season until December 1, they will soon find themselves getting a lot of attention from
those who want the lowdown on the 1953 team. The man who stands to be the focal point of all
this interest is not likely to be concerned a whole lot about it. Danny Miller, who came in this year
replacing Boyd Baird as basketball headmaster, is an easygoing guy with a quick smile who simply has a job to
do and is concentrating on getting it done. If you haven't heard about this man Miller yet, better get pencil
and paper ready, because his list of accomplishments is as long as it is impressive. Miller, who will be 33
in just a few days, entered the coaching profession in 1946 when he became basketball coach down at Wingate Junior
College. Rising costs forced that small school to give up football during the war, so basketball assumed the predominant position
in sports. At present, the hoop sport is more than a game at Wingate—it’s a way of life, and Danny
Miller had a large hand in making it that way. In his first year at Wingate, Miller's team won the
State junior college championship and was good enough to be asked down to Cuba to the Havana Invitational Tournament where
it again walked off with top honors.

By DICK ROPER

Since then, Wingate has taken the State championship three more times—in 1948, '51, and '52. In six seasons, Miller has
compiled a won-lost record of 165 wins and 39 losses and has sent many of his players on to star
on senior college teams. Darrell Floyd, presently enrolled at Davidson, was a Little All-American selection on Miller's 1952 Wingate team.
One reason that the Braddock, Pennsylvania native has produced such consistently good teams is doubtless because he was a star
performer on the hardwood for Appalachian before he graduated in 1942, winning all-conference honors after each of his four seasons
of play. When you see him working with his squad, you begin to realize another reason for Miller's great success
in such a few years. With his team, he is soft-spoken, authoritative, and forceful. There should be no doubt that
Davidson’s 1953 basketballers will have confidence in their coach. They realize already that he has the feel for the game
and the ability to get across to his players the fine points which make a good team. In deciding to
come to Davidson, Miller suffered from no illusions about the state and policy of intercollegiate athletics here. He knows that
basketball scholarships are practically nil and that victories have been few in the seasons past. One factor in his favor
is that he won't be on the spot this year. Last season, the Cat cagers won only seven games while
dropping 18, though there were some mighty close ones in the latter category (e.g., a 78-77 shading by Carolina). But
Miller isn't overloaded with talent, and any success his team has this year will be due largely to his effectiveness
as a coach. We've said quite a lot about Miller as a coach. Now just a word about Miller as
a man. In the junior college loop, he was recognized by officials as a man who knew his basketball, and
he seldom squawked unless he had a legitimate gripe. And when Wingate had to send delegates to any sort of
educational convention or meeting, the people who usually went, they say, were the president of the college and Danny Miller.
Miracles aren't expected from the new hoop coach. But whether he wins or loses this season, he will be entitled
to the respect and support of the student body.

The hour hand moves fast the night before exams—lots of ground to cover and panic setting in. To relax and
refresh? That's easy. Have a Coke... it’s delicious.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY

Wildcat Sports

THE DAVIDSONIAN - FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1952

ALL-FRATERNITY TEAM TO BE ANNOUNCED | SEE NEXT ISSUE PAGE THREE

Interfrat Wrestling Meet To Begin Monday Night

The second annual interfraternity wrestling tournament will begin Monday night and continue through Tuesday night, Interfraternity Sports Director Pete Whittle
announced yesterday. Weighing in for the tourney will be held all Monday morning in the basement of the gym. If
this year's event follows the pattern set by the tourney last year, it will be a huge success. Pete Whittle
says that the tournament will be bigger this year with nearly 120 men participating, and because of the large number,
it will be necessary for some men to wrestle twice in one night. Monday night the action begins at 7:30
with the preliminaries and quarter-finals being run off then. Tuesday night, starting a half hour earlier at seven, the semi-finals,
finals, and the consolation matches will be held. Members of the wrestling team will officiate with Coaches Parker, Scott, and
Whittle overseeing the proceedings. Following last year's procedure, two matches will be run off simultaneously. Due to the huge success
of last year's tourney and the growing popularity of the sport, the tourney was made an annual affair. Last year
the Phi Delts nosed out the Phi Gams for the title, but it looks like this year will be a
different story with several frats fighting for the lead instead of two. According to early activity on the mats, the
Kappa Sigs, Phi Delts, KAs, and Phi Gams seem to have the strongest aggregations.

Cagers Not Pessimistic In Preparing For Tough Season

JIM MURR

Despite one of the toughest schedules of any school in the conference, and with only five returning lettermen, the '53
Wildcat basketballers are looking to the coming season without any pessimism. “We're going into every game with the feeling that
we are going to win, no matter how tough the opponent,” stated Coach Danny Miller.

Champion Sigma Chis Scored 253 Points In Close Interfraternity Football Race

As the Sigma Chis rolled on to the interfraternity tag crown this week, they brought to a close one of
the most successful seasons ever enjoyed by a team in the league’s history. In taking the measure of the Pikas
last Monday to annex their tenth win, the Sigs pushed their point total to 253. The Sigs were among the
stingiest defensive outfits also as they allowed only 98 points to be scored against them in their 11 games. That's
an average of just a little over one TD per game that the league leaders allowed their opponents while their
offensive averaged almost four. Billed in the pre-game reports as the “game of the year,” the Sig-Pika encounter last Monday
turned out to be just that as the two teams battled to a 6-6 deadlock which had to be decided
by an overtime playoff. In the closest, hardest-fought game of the season, it was the defensive play of both squads
which

Can You Top This Dept: UNC Standards ‘Too Strict,’ SaysDaily Tar Heel Writer

So you think we got troubles? The story of good high and prep school athletes being turned down at Davidson
because of grades not up to strict standards here is practically as old to the athletic department as intercollegiate sports
itself. But it seems we're not the only North Carolina school to have such troubles. Up at Chapel Hill, where
football victories have become even rarer than here at D.C., one student has come up with a new—to most fans—theory
as to what's wrong with the gridiron sport at Carolina.

Writing in the Daily Tar Heel, the official UNC student newspaper, columnist Carlton Byrd states that the football material at
Carolina is “below average... and it's going to get no better. If anything, it's going to get worse.” Reason for
this situation? Here’s Byrd's explanation:

“I’m no authority on the subject, but in those ‘keep-this-in-the-family’ conversations, I hear the entrance requirements are too strict to
allow (Coach Carl) Snavely to get his share of good talent.” Lamenting the fact that such gridiron greats as Maryland's
Big Mo and Dick Modzelewski, Texas's Gib Dawson, and Wilmington High’s nifty Charlie Niven were turned away from Carolina because
their grades weren't up to scratch, columnist Byrd comments further: “One coach told me it was almost impossible for a
high school football prospect from out of state to enter Carolina unless he was in the upper 25 percent of
his class. Which certainly rules out a lot of good prospects from the Pennsylvania coal region.

“All Tar Heel athletes must average ‘C’ on all their subjects to remain eligible. A few years ago they had
only to average ‘C’ on half their subjects.” The gravity of the Chapel Hill situation leads columnist Byrd to ask
whether Carolina's entrance requirements were more strict than those at other schools in the Southern Conference. “I've never been able
to get a definite answer from any member of the athletic staff,” says Byrd. “Some say the requirements are more
strict—others say they don't know.”

—Roper.

Sigma Chis 6; Pikas 6 (Overtime win for Sigma Chi)

On the second play of the overtime period, Tyler Derry, Sig backfield ace, broke loose to gallop some 30 yards
to give the Sigma Chis the yardage edge over the Pikas. In a fine defensive game, Bob Mitchell stood out
for the Sigs while Tyler Berry sparked the (Continued On Page Four)

This week's games included:

In a recent scrimmage, Davidson defeated Catawba with points to spare. Both coaches used every man on their squad in
this closed practice game. Catawba played a control game throughout, and consequently, there was not too much fast breaking in
the game. As far as Davidson was concerned, J. V. Howell and Scots Reams showed up well offensively, along with
Jerry King and Joe Dudley. Pappy Fowle and Ed Weeks played a good defensive game. The D.C.-Catawba game was a
typical early season scrimmage, marred somewhat by poor passing and numerous traveling infractions against both teams. Joe Dudley, Ish Bennett,
and Jerry King appear to be the three sure starters for the opening game with Erskine on December 1, but
Pappy Fowle and Ed Weeks are pushing Bennett and King for the starting assignment.

Citadel In Charleston

Citadel's Bulldogs are the opposition for the Wildcat gridders as they wind up the ‘52 season tomorrow afternoon in Charleston,
S. C. Kickoff time for the game is 2:30. A squad sadly depleted by injuries will be the main reason
Bill Dole’s team is a decided underdog in tomorrow's action. Neither Henry Brown nor Leroy Fargason will be able to
see any service at fullback, and Dan McCall will again start at quarterback with neither Jack Ruth nor Johnny Gray
available for duty. The Citadel hasn't done any better in the win column this season than the Cats, but they're
nevertheless a formidable outfit. Coach Quinn Decker’s team pushed VMI to the limit last week before losing 20-19, and appear
in shape to come back strong to make Davidson their third victim this season. The Bulldogs have whipped PC and
Newberry this year.

The offensive burden for the Cats will fall largely on halfbacks Jim Thacker, Roy White, and frosh fullback Jim Shelton.
Shelton, who ran wild against Richmond two weeks ago, was pretty well bottled up in the Cats’ 40-13 loss to
George Washington last Friday, but Thacker uncorked a beautiful 98-yard TD run in the final moments to provide the game's
biggest thrill. That run put Thacker in a three-way tie for first place in the Southern Conference scoring race, with
48 points in eight games racked up.

ROY WHITE Climaxes sparkling career Saturday.

Lungs, Throat, and Accessory Organs not Adversely Affected by Smoking Chesterfields

A responsible consulting organization has reported the results of a continuing study by a competent medical specialist and his staff
on the effects of smoking Chesterfield cigarettes. A group of people from various walks of life was organized to smoke
only Chesterfields. For six months this group of men and women smoked their normal amount of Chesterfields — 10 to
40 a day. 45% of the group have smoked Chesterfields continually from one to thirty years for an average of
10 years each. At the beginning and at the end of the six-month period, each smoker was given a thorough
examination, including X-ray pictures, by the medical specialist and his assistants. The examination covered the sinuses as well as the
nose, ears, and throat. The medical specialist, after a thorough examination of every member of the group, stated: “It is
my opinion that the ears, nose, throat, and accessory organs of all participating subjects examined by me were not adversely
affected in the six-month period by smoking the cigarettes provided.”

ASK YOUR DEALER FOR CHESTERFIELD — EITHER WAY YOU LIKE ‘EM

CONTAINS TOBACCOS OF BETTER QUALITY & HIGHER PRICE THAN ANY OTHER KING-SIZE CIGARETTE

Copyright 1952, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
