PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF
BILL WHITE

BUSINESS MANAGER
ALEX GOLEY

Associate Editors
Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis, George McMurray
Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw, John Ottley

Art Editor—Don Mahy
Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Sports Editor—Dick Liles
Feature Editor—Mike Myers
City Editor—Nat Daniels

Assistant Business Manager
Bob Poston

Advertising Manager
Bill Minter

Circulation Manager
Preston Chaney

Collection Manager
Ne

Subscriptions Manager
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

This Is The Davidson Dilemma

This is the Davidson dilemma. It is a problem that seemingly defies solution, or perhaps it is simply that we
lack the courage to follow the only true solution. The problem logically begins with the natural desire to win in
their athletic competition. To the Davidson mind winning means a .500 or better season, and athletic competition is generally considered
to be in the lower half of the Southern Conference. To have a .500 or better season, a team must
have a 50-50 chance when it enters competition — it must be competitive.

Competition in intercollegiate athletics today necessitates competition in: 1) money outlay for subsidization, and 2) academic requirements which are in
general conformity to the schools of your competitive realm. Agreeing that we must be competitive if we are to realize
even a .500 season, let us examine Davidson's position in these two elements of competition.

Through the organized efforts of the Wildcat Club, Davidson has, for the past two years, spent approximately $25,000 per season
for football scholarships (football alone being considered because of subsidization’s predominance in that sport). Sources close to the athletic program
here for the past decade say that at best the contributions before formation of the Wildcat Club probably never topped
$10,000 in any one year. Despite this 150% increase in athletic grants, however, Davidson still is least among the subsidizing
seventeen members of the Southern Conference. More emphatically, Davidson pools just about half the total collected and spent by the
Conference's next lowest school. For Davidson to even begin to compete financially, then, in the Southern Conference, Wildcat Club members
will have to double their present contribution or their present size (about 800 of an alumni of 8,000).

Not only, however, is Davidson non-competitive financially. She is non-competitive academically. Under the late NCAA Sanity Code, the Southern Conference
required all men receiving athletic ‘‘scholarships” to maintain a C average. When the Sanity Code was done away with in
January of last year, the Southern Conference dropped the C rule. Hence, as long as any man met the minimum
academic requirements of the school he could participate in that institution's sports program. Davidson did not drop the C rule—then.
It did recently, upon recommendation of the Athletic Council, and installed in its stead the ‘‘quality points, semester hours’’ system.
Under this system, to be eligible for a fall of football a man must have earned 24 hours during his
freshman year, 60 by the end of his sophomore year, and 90 by the completion of his junior year. Provided
a freshman earns only the required 24 hours his first year, he must make 36 hours his sophomore year. One
failure throws him into summer school, or out of a scholarship.

Though the American Council of Educators this week moved to do away with all athletic grants, other schools of the
Conference are free from this restrictive ban making scholarship requirements applicable to athletic grants. The College, persuaded through alumni pressure,
permits an athlete to be brought to Davidson for the primary purpose of bolstering our football stock. Then, to ease
its compromising conscience, it says that a grant given for athletic ability must be retained by the maintenance of a
set scholastic standard. Scholarships are to be given on the basis of scholastic ability: athletic grants should be on a
basis of athletic performance.

Under such conditions a coach is also done an injustice. Hired by an alumni which clings nostalgically to the days
we whipped UNC, Wake Forest, and even Washington and Lee, the mentor is given a set of orders which call
for a competitive team, while at the same time restricting him from the use of competitive methods to attain that
end. As this past week has shown, O’ Davidson, you may not keep coaches very long under those conditions.

What, then, are we to do? Do the alumni, trustees, and administration think that Davidson College's position should be this
one of dallying indecision—drifting around like a lost lamb, waiting to see if the fold is going to return to
us before we decide how we shall find our way out? As the Wildcat Club continues to pour its money
down a rathole, does it really believe that—short of professionalization, it can hope to achieve its end in the Southern
Conference competition? If we await a return of our Conference brethren to our level, we are indeed in for a
long wait. In athletic prestige, as in democracy, one wants equality only so far as his own level—not below. After
eating high on the hog for several seasons, Washington and Lee, Citadel, and VMI are hardly ready to turn back—on
their own. Nor are, we would guess, Richmond, Furman and VPI.

Waiting in the middle of the road, then, seems out. And so we arrive at our two alternatives—double your expenditure
in a frantic, never-catch-up, constantly fluctuating chase for higher competition, or get into an area in which you can be
competitive.

(Continued On Page Four)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

HIGHWAY PLEASURES OF ROUTE 21

DAVIDSON CHARLOTTE

CROSSING

PASSING THE CABBAGE PLANTER:

Sienkiewicz Sinks; Dome Room Theatre Opens With O’Neill...

With all the industry of a starving summer stock company, but working at considerably low temperatures, a dozen of Davidson's
foremost Thespians were found painting, pulling, pushing, primping and all around preparing Tuesday night for the Thursday night curtain-raising on
two one-act plays, O'Neill's Bound East for Cardiff and Shaw's lighter How He Lied to Her Husband. With a unanimity
of spirit not before seen by this reporter in any dramatic work on the campus, the student crew led by
Tad Currie and the faculty committee of one had just run off a dress rehearsal and, not content with the
first four hours of work, were setting up the latest in audience conveniences, chairs, of which a few more than
130 can be arranged around the Dome Room Theater, new citadel of Mecklenburg Masterpieces.

“Wouldn't you say that your end is in sight, Mr. Tyson?” asked this interviewer of the faculty committee. “Why, yes,”
he said, turning red, “but these are just my gardening pants; I never wear them to class, of course.” Obviously,
I had started off on the wrong track.

More relevant information included the fact that the arena type staging to be used for the two productions had its
contemporary birth at the University of Washington. The movement has spread quickly over the country and has been carried to
an almost professional status in the University of Miami’s new Ring Theater under Fred Koch. The Miamians have scheduled seven
plays for this season, ranging from contemporary drama back to a couple of pieces by the obscurer Shakespeare including an
apparently balconyless Romeo and Juliet. The chief reason for the arena style’s popularity is obvious. Action is all on a
circular stage either at or below the level of the audience, who are seated either all around or on three
sides of the players. Naturally no elaborate sets can be used, and bulky props are cut to a minimum, as
well as production costs, the universal bane of amateur drama.

Herein lies the arena play's legitimate claim to an ancient origin. According to Director Tyson, it seems that everybody did
it at some time or other. Beginning with Adam and Eve, who played some of their most dramatic scenes with
precious few props, the Greeks took it up, added four acts, some jokes that are still used, and then shuttled
it on to the Romans, who suffering under the same deficiency of decent playwrights as plagues Broadway today, killed Christians
before sellout houses. Just one of these early dramas has lasted through the years: Quo Vadis, a stereotyped vehicle, and
little more than, to quote critic Georgic Janius Nathaius, ‘a colossal spectacle.”

“If the Romans couldn't do Quo Vadis well,” sighed student director Currie, “What's in it for us?” Consequently, the Shaw-O'Neill
double bill, as second choice, has received first class attention from a first class cast. Even to an impassionate critic,
little inclined to applaud anything after a walk in the rain, a door in the face and four flights of
stairs, both of these one-acters appear to be worth far more than the quarter that the scalpers are asking for
tickets. Bound East for Cardiff, wound around tragedy among seamen on a tramp steamer, is pulled straight from Eugene O'Neill's
personal wanderlusting during his early days after he parted with his actor father of Monte Cristo fame and spent much
of his time at sea, both physically and mentally. Some say he has returned in one respect during the past
two decades. Vegetarian G.B.S., unforgettable and vitriolic as ever, uses the stock triangle to highlight a social bout with marriage
in How He Lied to Her Husband. It’s short, Shavian and should keep you well entertained. A solid evening of
good theater, these two.

NAT DANIEL

FROM THE EDITORS MAILBOX:

Sacred To The Memory Of The Fine Davidson Gentleman

On Tuesday morning, February 19, 1952, the Davidson Gentleman died of a broken heart, and took his place in the
Davidsoniana Room as another relic of a glorious past that has dimmed considerably as the years have passed. For many
months he had lingered between life and death, hoping against hope that he might achieve victory, but the battle proved
too strenuous, and he finally gave up in despair, relinquishing his position to the new Davidson “student”—the Simple Tool. The
strain of living in direct opposition with such a creature was too great, and he died as a martyr—a prophet
without honor in his own country.

The first years of the Davidson Gentleman's life had been useful. He was born in Mecklenburg County, N. C., in
1837, in the minds of a few Southern Presbyterian visionaries who saw in the liberal arts college the opportunity to
produce men who could lead men, and with the education of these leaders foremost in their minds, they founded Davidson.
And though many aspects of her life have changed throughout the years, the principles on which she was founded are
fundamental, and are still with us today. And in his youth the Davidson Gentleman grew, and increased in stature, and
gained for himself quite a reputation in the world outside. But the Davidson Gentleman was human, and being human, he
had many undesirable characteristics. And as the years went by there came to the campus a modern, inferior type of
person, who, blinded to many of the intangibles of life, copied the Davidson Gentleman's evil qualities and ridiculed his good
ones until the time came when the evil outweighed the good, and the Gentleman's decline and fall took new impetus.
He held on as long as his tired heart could withstand the pressure, and when he died last Tuesday, he
was replaced completely by the clothed baboons who whistled, catcalled and talked their way through chapel. His flesh had long
been weak, and now his spirit was broken.

Despite his human limitations, the Davidson Gentleman had many good qualities, and as befitting the memory of so noble a
character, we would do well to look at some of them. The Davidson Gentleman was mature. Basing his education on
his purpose in life, he set out to do his best to achieve that purpose, and consistently endeavored to acquire
all the knowledge within his reach: from books, from trial and error, and from the experiences of those around him,
and when he had finished he knew where he was going, and he had acquired the means of getting there.
He did not hesitate to examine himself closely—to recognize and expand his limitations, and to admit and correct his errors.
The Davidson Gentleman was also intelligent.In every aspect of the college life, he expanded his capabilities to the utmost, he
discriminated wisely, and if the class was dull and the lecture uninteresting, he attempted to overcome his personal feelings of
dislike and gain all the knowledge he could out of the materials presented him. On the level of human relations,
the Davidson Gentleman was above all, considerate of the rights and obligations of others. If a professor or lecturer felt
obligated to present some topic to him in which he wasn’t particularly interested, he remembered, first, that the speaker was
a fellow human being, and that he, as a gentleman, was just as obligated to respect what the lecturer was
trying to do, despite his personal dislike concerning subject or materials. Last, and most important of all, the Davidson Gentleman
was a Christian. We don’t mean a professing or professional Christian—most of the Davidson Boorse profess Christ—we mean a practical
Christian—a true friend of Christ, who applied the Master's teachings to everyday living in the Twentieth Century. A Christian who
prayed each day that he might live so that those who knew him wouldn't have to ask if he were
Christian. He didn’t always live up to the standard, but the sincerity of an honest attempt was there. Yes, the
Davidson Gentleman has passed on. A few of us will miss him, but soon we too shall pass on, and
the Simple Tool will reign unchallenged. And so as we gaze with utter despair at the Davidson of today, and
almost hopelessly hope for a better Davidson tomorrow, we bow our heads for a moment in memory of the Davidson
Gentleman, who gave his all to his Alma Mater, and who now passed on to his well-earned reward.

FIRST GREEK WEEK CRITICIZED; NEW PROGRAM PROPOSALS MADE

To the Student Body:

As we all know a Greek Week was attempted this year for the first time on the Davidson Campus. One
of the facets of the foundling program was to bring together individual groups—fraternity presidents, the pledgemasters, Pan Hel members, etc.—to
criticize and discuss the system. Out of one of these meetings, that of the pledgemasters, came the following thoughts and
suggestions. It is our hope in writing this article that perhaps some of the proposals will parallel your thinking and
that perhaps out of it all will come a better program for subsequent years.

In the first place, it was the unanimous opinion that the whole fault of this year's effort lay in a
complete lack of interest. The reasons behind this seemingly wholesale passivism toward the program are several: the new system was
untried; those who instituted the week had no real knowledge of the capabilities or already full schedules of individual pledge
classes; most fraternity men were afraid that the schoolwide program would take the individuality out of the project or so-called
Hell weeks of the separate fraternities; and finally, no one had or wanted to take the time to organize it
effectively. These four reasons would be remedied, we feel, by doing one thing: placing both the planning and execution of
the week in the hands of the combined pledgemasters. With this system the pledges will have some advance knowledge of
what's going on, and consequently there will be more enthusiasm, their duties will not all come in the same frantic
week, and the program will be coordinated by those with a real interest in and knowledge of the pledge classes.
Under such an organization, too, the fraternities will be of real use throughout the entire pledge period, for anyone—townspeople, faculty,
or students—who seek pledge assistance shall contact the president of the pledgemasters who will investigate the need and then take
the necessary action. The big task for Greek Week will have been carefully selected in advance. When the day comes,
then let the pledgemasters go with the pledges to see that the groups split up and work with other pledges
from all fraternities. And when the day comes for the concentrated push of all pledges, then combine a little play
with the work. What do you think of the idea of having help-day or cleanup-day on a Friday or Saturday
afternoon? Arrange beforehand with a neighboring girl's school (possibly one with pledges) to come and work the last part of
the afternoon with the pledges. That evening then would be a fine time for a square dance and a barbecue.
However, if there is no real need (the pledges could conceivably be keeping everything under control), then don’t send them
out just for the sake of doing something, i.e., some task such as cleaning up the backs of the merchants’
stores downtown. The exchange dinner idea was a good one, but another which fell short in practice. Under this year’s
(Continued On Page Four)

STUDENTS VOICE OPINION ON CHAPEL CONDUCT

New Movement Concerned With World Mission Field

By JOHN GIBBS

Mr. Bill White
Editor, The Davidsonian
Davidson College
Davidson, N. C.

Dear Bill:

During chapel last morning the once-active “monster” of chapel conduct again reared its distorted head to prove that its recent
inactivity has not in the least impaired its evil powers. The behavior of the Student Body in chapel Tuesday was,
to say the least, abominable and absolutely indefensible. Chapel conduct on that day was by far the worst this year
and was not only insulting to the speaker and a disgrace to the college and the Student Body but was
disgustingly embarrassing to students, professors, and visitors alike. Such conduct might be expected in an institution for psychotics but when
it is found in an institution of higher learning it makes one wonder about the advantages of having an education.
Those students who persistently take part in such conduct are showing themselves to be sadly lacking in those qualities of
courtesy, respect, and decency which should be characteristic of any self-respecting person. Having been a member of the Student Body
for almost three years I am well aware of the numerous reasons and excuses which are sometimes given in defense
of Tuesday chapel conduct of this sort; but I am also of the opinion that conduct such as was evidenced
Tuesday morning or any such conduct in a similar situation is absolutely inexcusable. Any person making a serious address in
chapel, no matter what he is saying, has a right to be heard in a respectful manner, and what is
just as important, the students who are interested in the speech have a right to listen to it unmolested. Dr.
Abernethy’s speech Tuesday was not entertaining—it was not intended to be; but it was relevant to Davidson students and it
was interesting and informative to a large number of the Student Body, and should have been of interest to the
majority, if not all, of those present in the audience. If there were students present, however, whom the speech did
not interest, and it is quite evident that there were, then those students did not have the right to act
like uncivilized savages, insulting the speaker and making it difficult if not impossible for the others in the audience to
hear. Even if the speech had been of such a nature that it was not of interest to even a
small percentage of the Student Body, there still would have been no justification for conduct such as we had in
chapel Tuesday. In many classes after chapel and (See LEWIS BAKER, on Page 4)

To the Student Body of Davidson College:

The Davidson “boys” refuse to be men. A senior, having had several happy and successful years at Davidson, looks back
over the student body for the assurance that everything is in order, and all he is able to see is
chaos, rudeness, disrespect, corruption, and hypocrisy. It comes not only from the freshmen, who perhaps don’t know better, but also
from the sophomores and juniors who soon will be the college leaders, and also from the seniors who certainly ought
to know by now what it means to have grown up. This week we witnessed an excellent lecture by a
learned professor, but we not only did not listen to it, but rejected it and his efforts. To me it
was shocking to look about and see along with the usual “children” the whole student body, including the “sincerely” professing
Christians (I would venture to say that at least one-half of the student body is in this group), the campus
leaders, the pre-ministerials and those who are considered as refined and gentlemanly, acting up. What are we doing? Why are
we here? Who are we trying to fool? That chapel was the “damndest” half hour I have ever spent here.
I was ashamed of being a Davidson man and wanted no part with the student body. And you ought to
feel that way also! My impressions of Davidson, its student body and the Southern youth were shattered. This incident was
not unusual for the student body, for this has been going on all year. We have found it impossible to
walk around in the dorms without stepping on broken glass on the floor from light bulbs, window panes, milk bottles
and coke bottles. We hear constantly noise in the halls from “bright” little boys thinking up some new stunts for
the day. We hear fire-crackers, sirens, and whistles going off without end. We are even fortunately able to see our
trees beautifully draped with toilet paper. College students ought not be boys, and I propose that we begin looking at
ourselves rather than the college for improvement. Davidson is considered the best college of our church, and one of the
top-rated colleges in the South. Here we stand for Christian ideals, physical, mental and spiritual growth, all of which means
maturity. We are looked upon by the Church and by Southern society as leaders. Society thinks a great deal of
Davidson. But if these proceedings characterize the leadership of Davidson, God help society and the Church. I now speak as
one who has been around in the world and in life, and (See AL DAVIES on Page 4)

Sent from God “with boldness and confidence because of your faith,” and sent to men as living evidence of the
fact that “God is at work in you, both to will and to work for His good pleasure.” Such is
the Christian missionary. And with such a mission, a new group of men has arisen on our campus, the Student
Volunteer Movement, formed at Davidson Wednesday, February 6, 1952, with Dave Moylan as president and Moody Smith as secretary pro-tem.
It is the conviction of this group that the Great Commission from our Lord is the divine imperative to every
Christian, who has already begun to experience the divine presence and who has, therefore, “the assurance of things hoped for,
the conviction of things not seen.” And so with no sense of special personal worthiness and with no feeling of
pious achievement in so doing, the members of the Student Volunteer Movement dedicate themselves for five things on this campus:

1. to prepare yourself through regular habits of Bible study, prayer and stewardship, alone and with others;
2. to witness for Christ on your campus;
3. to enlist Christian students for service in the world mission of the church;
4. to join with others of like purpose in the performance of the above tasks;
5. to participate responsibly in your church and student Christian group.

The Student Volunteer Movement is particularly concerned with the world mission of the church. It is the only organization which
unites in this work the young men and women of almost every Protestant denomination (all denominations which belong to the
National Council of Churches of which the SVM is an agency). Thus, the SVM is an ecumenical (worldwide) church group,
and its mission is the propagation of the Gospel on a worldwide scale. It was evident from the start to
the group here at Davidson that this is a tremendous job and that it would be quite easy indeed for
only 25 or 30 men to attempt too much and accomplish too little. There was long and lively discussion on
the floor as to what the aims and emphasis would be here. Stuart Plummer pointed out that “our purpose is
evangelism whether in Africa, Japan, or here.” Profes- (Continued On Page Four)
