PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF ............... BILL WHITE

BUSINESS MANAGER .................... GOL

Associate Editors .......... Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis, George McMurray

Managing Editors .......... Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw, John Ottley

Art Editor—Don Mahy

Photographer—Andrew Simmons

Sports Editor—Dick Liles

Feature Editor—Mike Myers

City Editor—Nat Daniels

Assistant Business Manager .......... Boo Northcutt

Advertising Manager .......... Jack Hobson

Circulation Manager .......... Bob Poston

Collection Manager .......... Bill Minter

Subscriptions Manager .......... Preston Chaney

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Several Good Lessons Learned From S-Day Financial Worry

“S” stood for several things last Saturday, but among them was not success. The Senior Class-Scabbard and Blade joint dance venture left its sponsors $150.00 in the hole and proved one or two things to those who would attempt a similar weekend in the future.

Of course, hindsight has that wonderful characteristic of experience that foresight doesn’t carry, but even beforehand we had our doubts about the afternoon tea dance. The cost of the brief, sparsely attended afternoon affair was almost equal to the evening hop, yet how many folks would have refused to buy tickets merely because an afternoon dance had not been included. The average fellow buys his ticket for the dance that night, and figures the afternoon functions—like concerts—thrown in to fill any spare time. A joint sponsorship of one dance, then, by the Senior Class and Scabbard and Blade would probably have seen the thing pay for itself, with the possibility of a small profit.

Another lesson learned was that there's not the “need” for a school-wide social function during the Mid-Winter-Spring Frolics gap that planners had thought would assure their dance’s success. Possibly the time of year chosen was wrong. Maybe it would have gone over better during a winter lull, but we can’t offhand think of a more opportune time than the date picked for S-Day. One concludes, then, that three school dances, padded by fraternity functions and his own weekend dating excursions, satisfy the social life of the Davidson man.

A final lesson is being learned by the Senior Class, who will be assessed about one buck per. In voting for the dance, they typically pulled out the railroad throttle and voted without a single dissenting “no” for the dance. Maybe they'll think twice now, before getting themselves in even one dollar's worth.

He’s Putting Queens on the Map For The First Time, Underlined

So that the wise guy and Scripts ‘n Pranks’ space fillers may have their little crack, we'll concede that there may be a pig sty, Kentucky or Tennessee or some place, but as far as we are concerned Queens College is currently being put on the map for the first time and underlined so that folks in the Southland will cease to wonder what and where the school is. And there’s a reason for it—Dr. Charlton C. Jernigan.

The man with literally bright ideas for an erstwhile drab institution is blowing like a fresh breeze through the musty, confining halls of our sister school. His first move naturally made an impression on a few of our lot with the construction of a stylish and adequate snack and dance hangout for on the campus dating. Elimination of the quarter-century outmoded rules and hours has brought many a round of applause from both ends of the line. But those things we like because they directly benefit us. It’s more than that. Pick up the newspapers—in Charlotte or in many other of the state's leading cities—and you're apt to run into publicity on our Old Reliables out on Selwyn Avenue. The same is true through the other mediums, too. Like we say, they’re putting the old girl on the map.

It took spring with its changes and its turning to a young man’s fancy for us to realize that the old somber, grey cloak is actually being shed for a bright, attractive, young girl's gown. With a sister a guy's apt to be too teasingly critical, but when she begins to grow up and the Old Man treats her as such, you just can’t help but sit up and take notice.

An Opportunity Being Provided To Begin 1 of 365 With Christ

Sunday morning at sunrise the Westminster Fellowship will undertake what we sincerely hope and pray will become an annual service at Davidson, an Easter Sunrise Service. To own up to the facts, the average Davidsonian who remains on campus over a weekend does not spend his time in church. It is better spent in rack time, on the tennis courts, or studying. He, then, will be hard to rouse at sunrise on Easter or any other morning. Easter a particular day? Yes. It is the most glorious observance of the Christian faith. No, worship on Easter carries no bargain blessings or anything of that sort, but to every Christian it should be the renewing of his faith and indebtedness to the Lord who died to redeem him. The opportunity, at least, is being provided—at the least, an opportunity to begin one day out of 365 with Christ.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE CABBAGE PLANTER: Student Body Eats Humber Pie, Emerges Still Unnourished

A comment that reached this reporter after the final speech in this week’s “Which Way Peace?” forum went something like this: “I’m not a pacifist, an interventionist, nor a world federalist. Yet I agree with everything these men said, and I still don’t know how we can insure peace.” With the possible exception of Mr. Humber’s remarks on World Federation, the perplexed quotee was about right.

Excellent in theory, the forum, (called the Review Week Special in less reverent quarters) broke down in practice. What were its avowed purposes? As listed in the program, they were (a) to present different attitudes that are held toward World Peace, (b) to give the student a deeper understanding of the principles involved in War and Peace, (c) to present the different efforts that are being made in this country to achieve World Peace. Correspondingly, we have drawn these conclusions: (a) they all want peace. As for (b), Mr. Libby, the pacifist, relies on, as a principle of peace, something or other that he forgot to mention; General Ginsburgh, on a cooperative stalemate; and Mr. Humber, on cooperative coercion. In (c), the different efforts are being made toward World Peace (always capitalized, by the way to add Dignity and Meaning), were much like the rules of Love and War, implied rather than explicit.

Mr. Libby made veiled allusions to countless member organizations of the National Council for the Prevention of War. He did not, of course, name any of these, fearful that we might join one of them. He quite definitely stated that the NCPW has a working staff of fifty, and implied that they do something, though he didn’t happen to mention just what.

As for General Ginsburgh, there was something about the way he looked that told you his organization was working for Peace. He and his followers, the Armed Services, have left no doubt as to where they stand on this military preparedness stuff. Nevertheless, one had to take it for granted that they left no doubt.

Mr. Humber, I'm afraid, took too much for granted when he assumed that all eight hundred listeners were well acquainted with the World Federalism movement, the officers of the organization and the United World Federalist publications. This information can easily be secured in any library that boasts either the UWF bulletin or President Cord Meyer’s Peace or Anarchy. But how many have secured it? Or have had any pressing reason to do so? Mr. Humber should not be so wrapped up in his travel and work among well-informed legislators and executives that he neglects to indoctrinate the average audience on the major principles of the United World Federalists.

However, though our above-quoted friend could agree and not be a pacifist or an interventionist (would not military preparednessist be more accurate?) he would have a hard time nodding his head at everything Mr. Humber urged and not have a few faint world federation stirrings in him. Epigrammatically a gold mine, Humber’s talk showed the enthusiasm and apparent logic that have won resolutions from fifteen state legislatures advocating the world federation principle, while rallying great support in several others.

Speaking of the “watershed of history,” he insisted that the forces of today are reversing the forces and the heritage of yesterday. “Science has scrambled the eggs of nations and has made an omelet of us all,” he said, adding that, like any omelet, we cannot be divided and set up as we were. The one object must be, therefore, World Peace.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Mr. Humber spoke on a universal level. “Unlimited nationalism,” he predicted, “is mortgaging this civilization... The world has buried lesser institutions... why not bury war?” When the student body was certain that the world is in a fix, and chafing at the bit to do something about it Right Then and There, Humber raised his voice and pointed out two alternatives: (1) Diplomacy, which doesn’t work because there were ten thousand world treaties in 1930 and we still had World War II and (2) World Federalism, which must work, because it hasn’t been tried and everything else has failed. Besides, to quote another Humber-gram, “Law enforcement ends in the courts, diplomacy, on the battlefields.”

Mr. Humber presented the most logical of the three platforms, that of individual punishment for individual crimes through world law. However, like Mr. Libby and General Ginsburgh, he left many ramifications ignored, many details skimmed over, and many minds perplexed and/or unaffected.

This returns us to the original point: were the chapel talks worth the time? I should say not, but I should insist, as before, that the theory behind them was good. Despite a jam-packed YMCA on Wednesday night, there were several students that didn’t make the discussion, for good and poor reasons. However, this was potentially the most effective of the sessions, since it was the one place where those ramifications and details could be brought out, and those minds made less perplexed.

An answer? It is this reporter's view that if more of that Y lounge atmosphere were brought into chapel, there would be more in the Y lounge at night. Considering the (Continued On Page Four)

FROM THE EDITOR’S MAILBOX: NAT DANIEL:

For centuries the religions of the world have recognized the coming of Spring as a time of joy, bringing a new life and vigor to a nature still sluggish from the slumber and confinement of the winter months. It is fitting, therefore, that we Christians should celebrate the resurrection of Christ in the Spring, for as the Spring brings a renewal of life and action to the world in which we live, so should the Spirit of Easter serve as an inspiration for renewal and rededication of our spirits in the work delegated to us by our resurrected Lord.

But today it would seem that Americans have forgotten about Christ, and a cross, and an empty tomb, and have shoved him into the past as a legendary figure who lived a long time ago. Easter has become nothing more than the great American Spring Fashion Show.

In 1947 Time asked college presidents what they wanted most to know about their graduates. They sent in more than 800 suggestions. After a committee of experts had framed questions to bring out the answers to these and other points, we prepared a 133-page questionnaire and mailed it to graduates from the octogenarian class of 1884 to the fledgling class of 1947. The book describes what has happened to 9,064 graduates of more than 1,000 colleges, quoting generously from their letters, organizing the results of a detailed survey and presenting a mass biography of the whole group.

Some Random Notes From “They Went To College”

The majority of the graduates credit their college training for substantial help in their occupations. Asked,“Would you say that your college courses have helped a lot, helped some, or none in your present occupation?” 70 per cent felt they had helped a lot, and only 2 per cent said they had not helped at all. Men are more satisfied with the results of their college training than women, but still almost two-thirds of the college women did feel that college had been helpful to them. When the graduates were asked to rate their education in more general terms, they still expressed satisfaction with their college courses. If they had to do it all over again, 98 per cent would again go to college, 84 per cent would select the same college, while 14 per cent would choose a different institution. The vast majority would repeat their major. In one respect at least, college graduates judge the value of their education by their present salaries, for when asked whether they regretted their choice of major, the people who specialized in college were more pleased with their selection than those who did not specialize. The latter group would exchange at least part of their education for greater vocational training. Nevertheless, even those who most regretted their choice of subjects believe they were wise to matriculate. Jewish graduates find and hold good jobs more consistently than do Protestants, earning better salaries on average. The Catholics, on the other hand, have not been “rewarded” as richly in terms of jobs and incomes as either the Jews or the Protestants. The earnings of Negro college graduates are way below all others (but the Negro does not lay the blame for this at the door of education). The figures regarding income earned by college graduates show beyond any question that graduates who had to earn part or all of their college expenses have lower incomes than do people who were supported during college. Although the self-help students earn considerably more than the national average, their average earnings are substantially below those of graduates whose way was paid. The success achieved after graduation apparently bears some relation to grades earned in college but little or no relation to the degree of participation in extracurricular activities. “Grinds” make out just as well as people whose college careers were more rounded, and the achievements of the “Big Man on Campus” are not in any way reflected in his later earnings. The wealth of a college, computed on a ratio of endowment to the number of students, is clearly reflected in the graduates’ later earnings. Students who attended the wealthiest colleges earn the most. Among the graduates of rich colleges and universities, alumni of Ivy League schools stand out with the highest post-graduate earnings. And among these, the graduates of Harvard, Yale, and Princeton consistently earn more money at every point in their careers than do any other group of college men. The graduates who were the best students in college prove to be the great source of political Independents. Those who took a broad, general college course tend to be much more interested in social and political questions, to be less prejudiced, and are more often listed as “Independent” voters. College graduates settle in large cities after they have gone to college. Higher education has a definite function as a population redistributor. The study shows that little more than half of the graduates are still living in the home areas where they spent most of their pre-college years. Forty-four per cent have settled down outside their home states. People who leave their state for their education are much more likely to remain away from home after graduation than are those graduates who attended college within their state. Almost two-thirds of the graduates who go away to school are lost to the “home state” for good. If the graduate does stay home for his education, there is a good chance, again almost two-thirds, that he will remain within his state after he finishes his education. Graduates who majored in science, and particularly in engineering, are much more likely to move to a different area after graduation. It also appears that migration is more common among those who were the best students in college. Among college graduates, there is a direct relationship between income and family life. For example, as the graduate’s income increases, so does the number of children. This is the exact opposite of the figures for the general population where the poorest groups have the largest families. Whether the college woman graduated from a co-educational school or from a women’s college seems to have little or no effect upon her ultimate marriage chances, the number of children she will bear, the stability of her marriage, or her outside employment. Divorce occurs most often among working wives. The smallest proportion of spinsters among college graduates is to be found in the Jewish group, and, surprisingly, the largest proportion by far comes from the Catholic group. The results of an opinion section in the questionnaire show beyond any doubt that America’s colleges are not turning out radicals. On questions of politics and government, the graduates are considerably more conservative than the folklore would have you believe. They appear to be fairly tolerant, although less tolerant of foreigners than of American minorities.