PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1952

Air Force Wants Weather Officers

College graduates and second-semester seniors with credit for one year of college physics and mathematics through integral calculus are now
eligible to apply for USAF commissions and government-expense training to become weather officers with the USAF Air Weather Service. Successful
applicants will be commissioned as second lieutenants in the Air Force Reserve and ordered to active duty by mid-August 1952
to begin a 12-month meteorology course at one of seven participating U.S. colleges and universities.

NEW SYSTEM ... (Continued from Page One)

didate nominate himself which would almost require that he present a platform. However, if he were eliminated by the first
ballot, it would relieve the necessity of presenting so many platforms. The Committee favors the latter plan. On the question
of the two-dollar nominating fee, Kalogridis said that he, along with several other committee members, believed this would eliminate the
“joke” nominations that come up every year.

Schools which will offer the weather training courses are the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, New York University, the University of
California at Los Angeles, Pennsylvania State College, the University of Chicago, Florida State University, and the University of Washington. Interested
young men and women who will graduate before August of this year are urged to write immediately to the Chief,
Air Weather Service, Andrews Air Force Base, Washington 25, D.C., for application forms and detailed instructions for applying for a
USAF commission and meteorology training. Selection will be made on a best-qualified basis and, since several months will be required
to process applications for the 1952-53 program, interested men and women are advised to apply at once.

Graduates who are accepted for the USAF-sponsored training program will be commissioned immediately and will attend the weather course as
second lieutenants in a full pay status, including allowances for quarters and subsistence. During their initial tour after training, new
weather officers will be assigned as forecasters in Air Weather Service weather stations. The Air Weather Service is a global
meteorological system in 26 countries which provides specialized weather service for the Air Force and Army wherever USAF and Army
units may be found.

gest conflict between Harter and Kalogridis, Harter felt that allowing the campaign speeches to be reserved for only the top
five men would be an inequitable practice and would be a slight to a man who was nominated in the
beginning if he were defeated without being given the opportunity to present and defend himself.

Kalogridis indicated that some of the committeemen were not in favor of requiring a man to nominate himself. He said
that a man, though he might have the qualifications of a good leader and be capable of filling the office,
might not nominate himself. The committee's view on campaign speeches was that if a person weren't able to carry enough
votes to get into the top five, he wouldn't sway enough votes by his speech to get himself elected. (On
presenting their platforms, Kalogridis said that they would speak in chapel and that they would be the five men nominated
for the president of the student body, the president of the YMCA, the editors of the Davidsonian, Scripts 'n Pranks,
and Quips and Cranks.)

The meeting was begun by the presentation of George Brinkley’s amendment to the Constitution. The form that the Student Council
has prepared still allows that amendments originate in the Student Council but also admits for petitions for amendment from the
student body at large. President McLean asked for some discussion on the conduct of the student body during Tuesday's chapel
exercise. After comments by various students, McLean was given a vote of confidence to take a group from the Student
Council to apologize to Dr. Abernethy.

Phaedrus philosophized: You will soon break the bow if you keep it always stretched.

Recipe for relaxation—take the contents of one frosty bottle of Coca-Cola. Delicious, too.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF CONCORD © 1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY “Coke” is
a registered trade-mark.

YMCA MINUTES

This meeting was held at Erwin Lodge as part of the program of the cabinet retreat. Since the last meeting,
Don Crosby has taken over the post handling interracial activity. The cabinet was led in an opening prayer by Cannon
after which Strand presented the possibilities of starting a Hi-Y program at North Mecklenburg High School and Gra-Y's at nearby
schools. Homer Sparks was mentioned as being very much interested in this program. The cabinet gave its approval for going
ahead with the program.

Speed made a report of the progress being made on the program for the study conference to be held in
March. After discussion, it was decided to send two delegates to the regional YMCA conference to be held this weekend
in Atlanta. Expenses will be paid out of the conference budget. Mr. Gripe explained to the cabinet the filing system
to be adopted in the office. This will include a report of every activity in every Post and an individual
record of each student's participation in the Y program. Following a suggestion from the Board of Directors, the cabinet approved
having a debate in chapel on voluntary or involuntary membership. This will be under the direction of Kalogridis, Cannon, and
Tucker.

Nickels asked the cabinet to consider the need of a Johnson C. Smith student from the Davidson community who cannot
continue his education without financial help. Speed suggested that the need be presented to the Bible Class for their help.
The cabinet agreed to take enough from the benevolences to bring the total to $100. After a long indecisive discussion
on the qualifications for cabinet membership in which nothing definite was agreed upon, the meeting was adjourned.

(Continued From Page Two)

Davidson's dilemma boils down to this: Nobody wants to follow either alternative. We abhor the evils of professionalization of our
intercollegiate athletic program, and we cling to the prestige of Southern Conference membership. Running from either alternative, we meet ourselves
once again in the middle of the road. Someone with strength must lead Davidson out of this muddle—be he president,
athletic director, or trustee. But it will take someone with courage to follow the only solution we can see—the seeking
of a level on which we are competitive. So strong in some convictions, Davidson has appeared two-faced and indecisive too
long in this question of athletics. But action is only in the hands of those who have the power to
act.

Letters Continued ...

AL DAVIES... (Continued From Page Two)

who has a deep concern for the welfare of humanity. I have had the opportunity to live and work with
over 100 European students (some of whom are now under Communism) in an international work camp, and also I have
been a student at two other institutions besides Davidson and have visited numerous others. I have traveled over Europe and
have been in every state east of the Mississippi except two, and hence feel an understanding of some of today’s
world problems. The world is looking for some positive leadership. The world, I believe, is crying for the type of
leadership which Davidson professes to produce. The world wants mature, intelligent men, with not only mental and physical development, but
with a spiritual understanding and growth. We profess to have it, but do we? The world is sick, and many
people are looking to the United States to heal it. Many more are looking to the small colleges like Davidson
to furnish the leadership and help. But it looks as though we, the Davidson student body, are sick also. The
many Christians here believe that Christ is the Way, the Truth, and the Light, and yet they don't ever display
that belief on the campus. If what we have to offer the world is displayed in our daily conduct (and
that is what we are judged on) then it seems...To me, it seems that we are offering the world something
which contributes little good. Can we not say that many of the wounds of the world are not caused entirely
by our enemies or the ravages of war, but in part by us, here at Davidson? For we are, in
many respects, narrow, lazy, unconcerned about the people around us, uninterested in knowledge not given in class, complacent, out for
a good time, with hardly a serious thought in our minds. We are also rude, undisciplined, disrespectful, and hypocritical. All
this was displayed in chapel this week.

LEWIS BAKER
(Continued From Page Two)

In almost every boarding house at noon, the conversation centered around chapel, and almost everyone who expressed an opinion said
that chapel conduct that morning had been terrible. This has also been true to a great degree in the past
when similar situations have arisen. The mystery is: How can chapel conduct be so bad when outside of chapel almost
everyone appears to be disgusted with such behavior? If all those who, outside of chapel, believe that such behavior is
disgraceful would, once they get in chapel, refuse to take part in such conduct, then the problem would be to
a great extent alleviated.

There are those of us in the Student Body who have been greatly concerned with chapel conduct ever since we
came to Davidson. We had hoped that the new system initiated this year, which has improved the chapel programs, would
solve or at least alleviate the problem. For a time, it seemed as if this were going to be true
and that Davidson's chapel conduct problem was on the way out. But chapel Tuesday almost extinguished these hopes. It seems
that there are students here who delight in the opportunity which chapel gives them to lose their individual identity and
hide behind the massed Student Body where they can act like spoiled brats and let the Student Body take the
blame. But the Student Body is made up of individual students, and students who act as individuals would be willing
to take the blame for their acts as individuals. It is true that attendance at chapel is compulsory, but attendance
at Davidson is not; and if a student does not feel that he can participate in that part of the
college exercises without acting completely uncivilized, then I do not believe that either Davidson or that student will profit by
his remaining in college here. I do not know what measures, if any, should or could be taken, but if
we as individual students refuse to act as gentlemen, then I believe the time has come for drastic action of
some sort to be taken either by the Student Council or the faculty. The whole problem of chapel conduct, however,
would vanish overnight if we as individuals would put into practice the common, everyday courtesy and decency which any self-respecting
person should possess.

Sincerely,
LEWIS BAKER

Little Resigns
(Continued From Page One)

No suggestion of a possible successor to Little or word on the status of the present athletic staff was forthcoming
tonight. Little came to Davidson two years ago last month to assume the head coach’s post, succeeding Charlie Jamerson. University
of North Carolina grid standout of the late 30’s and freshman coach at UNC before coming to Davidson, Little had
a building job cut out for him when he arrived on the campus. A passing club built around Auburn Lam,
the new Cat coach in his first year as a Southern Con- Colleges, injuries and cut deeply into his to
forestall a 1-8 season.

FACULTY SALARIES
(Continued On Page Four)

With pledges amounting to over $2,800,000, it showed that over two and one-half million dollars have been paid to date.

NEW MOVEMENT
(Continued From Page Two)

Professor Wilson called for men who are personally committed to life-service as missionaries and expressed the opinion that the success
of this group would in large measure depend upon such men as these for whom missions are most necessary and
vital. Dave Moylan warned against becoming “a study group” on missions, and Bill Lord pled for training in personal evangelism.
The purposes and interests of all present were eloquently summed up by Prof. McCutchan, himself a missionary for eight years,
who spoke of the need for the most excellently trained men in every technical and professional skill who would go
abroad. He reminded the group that in proclaiming the Gospel, every talent and earnest Christian endeavor is called for. The
discussion ended with the decision that the SVM here would make an intensive study of the world mission situation today
and would attempt to combine this with some practical application on the campus both in bringing information about missions to
the student body and in trying here and now to be witnesses to individual men of the Gospel and its
potency in a man’s life. It is the hope of many that the SVM will be a channel for the
effectual expression of the enthusiasm which was evidenced among those present. The group was organized with the conviction that good
intentions are not enough, but that individual aspirations, stalemated as they are by individual limitations, must be joined together to
the end of inspired concerted action. The opening hymn might well express the concluding thoughts: “Heralds of Christ, who bear
the King’s commands.”

MARTIN NODS
(Continued From Page One)

Ways would better accommodate the traffic to and from the boarding houses. Secondly, the construction of parking spaces would prevent
reckless drivers from driving haphazardly through the middle of the court. This would make for a safer walkway for the
student heading for the Concord Road boarding houses. At present, he is never sure when the jokesters will use their
brakes before hitting him. Thirdly, the present condition of the court structure provides no efficient method for drainage. Finally, if
some of the trees in the court were cut down, more sunlight would be shed on struggling fraternity lawns. This
would have to be done anyway if parking spaces and landscaping were added to the circle. It has been the
complaint of certain members of the court that grass would not grow well in their yards.

FIRST GREEK WEEK
(Continued From Page Two)

Plan no one really got to know anyone else. Next year, if there is to be a Greek Week, why
not let all the visiting pledges meet the host pledges a half an hour before supper at the house of
the host pledge group? In this way, eating dinner with another fraternity would mean something more than just eating out.
The skit idea also was good and will be bettered by this year's shortcomings. However, more time should be allowed
for each skit and a strict adherence to that maximum time limit should then be maintained. With adequate planning, these
skits could become the highlight of the pledge training. With adequate planning too, the whole week can be improved by
tremendous proportions. The week should not immediately precede a dance weekend, for one will inevitably appear anti-climactic. If professors will
cooperate in the proposed well-organized week, then the pledges will not be encountering tests and long assignments during this one
week. One proposed feature of this year’s plan was that of a pledge-brother day comparable to the freshman-sophomore day. This,
the pledgemasters unanimously agreed, was not good and should be left to the jurisdiction of the individual fraternities. Through working
and playing together within each fraternity comes pledge spirit and solidarity. If the ultimate purpose of Greek Week is to
do away with the individual fraternity’s project or Hell Week, then let us go on record as prophesying its failure;
but if the plan behind Greek Week is to help the pledges to meet each other and to accomplish some
positive good, then let us assert our wholehearted support. It is with this aim in mind that we submit the
foregoing proposals. In closing, let us say again that these proposals are not set forth as hard and fast rules,
but merely as recommendations after discussing this year’s program. Each year invariably will bring different problems requiring separate solutions. However,
as a step toward accomplishing some concrete action, we would like to suggest two distinct things for the serious consideration
of the eleven fraternities: first, that as soon as next year's pledgemasters are selected, they organize and elect a chairman,
or co-chairmen; and secondly, that they be authorized by the fraternities to plan and coordinate next year's Greek Week. Give
them the responsibility then to settle all the nebulous details in accord with their best judgments and the existing situation,
and the result, we feel, will be a better Greek Week for all concerned.

Sincerely,
BOB HENRY

Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville Ice Cream Company
Mooresville, N. C.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Shows Start at 3 p.m.
Mon.-Tue., Feb. 25-26
