OUGHT WE HAVE TO JOIN THE YMCA? (See Page Two)

VOLUME XL

Davidsonians In Armed Forces

CAPT. WILLIAM J. LYMAN, JR., a graduate of Davidson, was killed in action in Korea on January 16, after having recently recovered from an injury received while on duty in September. This former editor of Scripts 'n Pranks and managing editor of the Florence (S.C.) Morning News also served and was injured in World War II, while with the infantry in Italy. He was a Phi Gam, on the staff of both Davidsonian and Quips and Cranks, president of the Publication Board, basketball manager, president of Sigma Upsilon, on the Honorary Fraternity Council, a member of Eumanean Literary Society, “D” Club, Red and Black Masquers, and after graduation was vice-president of the Charlotte Alumni Association. Lyman, whose home was in Birmingham, Ala., was the holder of the E.T.O. ribbon with five battle stars, the combat infantryman’s badge, a Presidential Unit Citation, and two Bronze Star Medals with Cluster.

PFC. REGINALD MAXWELL, JR., ’50, is now with the A.F. He is known to Uncle Sam as AFr 14396384 of 6969th A.F. Division, Scty. Sqd., Rm. C-118 at Fort Myers, Virginia. He was a freshman basketball manager and hails from Augusta, Georgia.

PHILLIPS M. MILLER entered Davidson in ‘48 to study chemistry and is now serving his country in the Maintenance Division of the Air Force. He is with the 3555th Maintenance Division, Perrin Air Force Base, Texas.

Lingle Is Honored By Church Council

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president emeritus of Davidson College, has been awarded a citation for distinguished world-wide service as the first president of the North Carolina Council of Churches. The citation, presented on behalf of the council by Dr. Clyde A. Milner, president of Guilford College, and Morton A. Jortz, executive secretary, was awarded to Dr. Lingle at a meeting of the council in Greensboro last week. Dr. Lingle, president of Davidson from 1929 to 1941, was president of the council during the first year of its operation.

Two One-Acts Are Scheduled By Alpha Psi

The Iota Kappa Cast of Alpha Psi Omega, national honorary dramatic fraternity, announced this week that it would present two one-act plays in arena staging in the Dome Room Theatre of Chambers Building at 8:15 p.m., on February 21, 22, and 23. The plays to be presented are How He Lied to Her Husband by George Bernard Shaw, and Bound East for Cardiff by Eugene O'Neill. The cast for the Shaw play includes Vance Mizelle as the Poet; Mrs. Alan Gripe as the Wife; and Tad Currie as the Husband. The cast of the O'Neill play is headed by Tink Taylor as Yank; Dick Perkins as Driscoll; Ted Daniel as Davis; Howard Proctor as Cocky; Mac Doubles as Scotty; Vance Mizelle as Olson, and Tad Currie as the Captain. Professor R. W. Tyson will direct both plays. The production crews are headed by F. G. Currie as technical director; Jack Pietenpol, Charles Burnett, Guin Griffin on lights; Mac Williamson on sound; Bill Crymes on make-up, and Courtney Hill on costumes. The method of staging the productions marks the first time an arena production has been given in this area. As the audience is seated completely around the acting area, thus the name arena, they feel as if they are a part of the play and according to Professor Tyson the result is an adventure and a thrill seldom experienced by the average theatre-goer. The admission charge is 25 cents and since the seating capacity of the theatre is limited all seats are reserved. Tickets may be secured either from Tad Currie in 112 East or from Prof. Tyson in 142 Chambers. Seats will also be sold in the lobby of Chambers after chapel beginning on Monday, February 18.

Deadline Nearing For Annual Shots

Time is running out to turn in those favorite snapshots for use in this year’s Quips N’ Cranks. Editor Bill Adams says he and Sammy Hope will take ’em in any shape, size or condition, but Monday is the last day. Place to take them is either to Hope in 224-225 Duke or to Adams in 305 West.

Dating In Sweden Is Lots Simpler

By INGMAN LINDMARKER

After the somewhat disastrous story in this paper by Mr. Meyers about man, and I made to venerable Salem College, I have concluded that it might be wise to eliminate the terrible misconception of the dating system in Sweden and Holland. I will give M. and some others an idea of how to behave when dating a girl in my home country.

No Blind Dates

Let us say that you are a foreign student at a Swedish college for boys. You would have to get used to our unfriendliness (we don’t speak to everyone on the campus, etc.) and forget about blind dates. In my country, we call that “cow trading” and it is used only among the Laps in the extreme north. Of course, your first thought would be to get hold of a tent, but forget about that. It is only in Holland that the girls’ colleges look like a camping convention every weekend.

Get a Bike, Ike

You get to know the young ladies at informal dances to which you need not bring your own date. When you have found a so-called queen, you need not even worry about getting a car, because only snow shovelers and socialists have their own cars. All the rest have bicycles or toboggans. In the summertime, you take your girl riding on your bike and on your toboggan in the winter. It is all very charming and the girls often judge their date after how fast he can cycle or down how steep the hills he dares to go with his toboggan. I know that at least in the South you very likely give the girl an inferiority complex unless you tell her that you love her passionately on the first date. Don’t ever tell a Swedish girl that. She will be scared to death or just laugh at you and leave you.

No. 11 Is the One

For the first ten times, you had better just take her for rides and talk about Communism and T. S. Eliot. On your eleventh date, you had better act. If you would ask a girl to go to a football game with you, she would think that either you were insane or pulling her leg. Don’t try to compliment her on her hair or dress, for she knows that she and all other Swedish girls are pretty. Don’t try to assure her she is the most wonderful girl you have ever seen, she will appreciate it more if you ask her to drop dead.

It’s Cheaper There

After the first date, it is customary to let the girl pay her own way. If you don’t let her, she will take it as a personal insult. Don’t brag about your being an (Continued On Page Four)

ALRENBDA LURK UB CREA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1952

Dean Brown Explains: Type Error Adds Day To Holidays

One more holiday is added to Spring holidays, it has been revealed by Dean C. K. Brown who pointed out a typographical error in the current catalogue. The present schedule lists holidays as March 21-25 and it should read 21-26. Dean Brown said that there is absolutely no possibility of lengthening the spring vacation, either now or in the future, unless the amount of the extension be added to the end of the school year or subtracted from the examination period. The association to which Davidson belongs demands a minimum of fifteen weeks of class days, excluding the exam period. “It is impossible to lengthen the school year,” he said, “as such would interfere with the summer sessions. As it is now, Davidson has a longer examination period than the great majority of institutions, having ten days where most have seven. This is of decided advantage to the students, as it gives them more time for review before exams and affords many students an opportunity for a short vacation in the midst of this tiring period.” While it is possible that at some time the faculty may decide to lengthen the spring vacation at the expense of the exam period, Dean Brown said that it is most likely that the extension would be one of not more than one or two days, as a longer interruption in the school program is undesirable.

Notice

Stuart Plummer has announced that the next issue of the devotional booklet, “Faith On Campus,” will come out Wednesday, February 13. It will be printed along the same plan used for the last issue, but will this time contain devotionals for the two-month period February and March, rather than for a one-month period.

Pledge Projects Open Greek Week

Abbreviated to three days for its shakedown cruise, Greek Week will be officially launched as a program of the Inter-fraternity Council on the Davidson campus Monday afternoon. Originally scheduled for four days of activity, the initial operation of Greek Week was trimmed to three days by the IFC for two reasons, president Dick Stockton explained. Many fraternities have initiations planned Thursday night, along with their formal banquets and individual ritual in connection with the initiation. Secondly, the IFC felt that a small program, done well, would get Greek Week off to a much better start than failure of an attempted large-scale program.

Cooperative Project

“The fraternities are interested, and rightly so, in preserving their individuality,” Stockton said. “Our program is one entirely of voluntary cooperation, for the stimulation of closer feelings between the fraternities, and to develop our fraternity system along constructive lines. We don’t want to monopolize the fraternities’ time during the important period of member installation. As they grow to know and understand the Greek Week program, they will lengthen it themselves, if they want, by voluntary cooperative action through the IFC.”

In Business Area

This year’s schedule begins Monday afternoon at 1:30 with the pledges of the fraternities assembling for a sanitation work project. They will move in, back of the business district, cleaning up trash and clearing away high grass and weeds which stand as fire hazards and nests for rats. Upon completion of this task, they will move to Erwin Lodge, working toward the campus in the construction of a path to connect the two. Pete Kalogridis, president of Beta Theta Pi, will be in charge of the work projects. Monday night there will be an exchange supper, with pledge classes splitting and visiting among the various fraternity boarding houses.Show Tuesday night, a variety show under the direction of SAE president Alex Goley will be presented in Chambers Auditorium. Each pledge class will be given five minutes for its contribution to the show. Judges will be Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, Professor James S. Purcell, Jr., and D. Grier Martin. Wednesday night there will be another exchange supper and a 6:30 meeting of fraternity officers to discuss mutual problems. Stockton said that every fraternity has expressed full support of the first program.

First Town Meeting Key-Noted
WALKER URGES RE-AWAKENING (See Page Two)
NUMBER FOURTEEN
By General Reform Movements

Pygmalion’ Is YMCA’s Opener Here In March

The Y cabinet has formulated tentative plans for a Study Conference on YMCA activities and the Student Christian Association, to be held at Davidson, president Allan Strand said today.

In New Series

The United Literary Film Society has announced four outstanding foreign and American films for its 1952 Spring series. The films are all significant from the point of view of their subject, acting, and cinematic techniques and represent some of the best works that have been done in the medium of art films. The purpose of the U.L.F.S. has been to provide relief from the constant avalanche of brilliantined cuties, smirking heroes, and tedious commercial formulas emanating from Hollywood. Season tickets are $1.00 and may be purchased from Jack Hunter or Stuart Shippey. The following are the films on the program:

FEBRUARY 29 — PYGMALION — This play by George Bernard Shaw is superbly acted by Leslie Howard and Wendy Hiller. The movie is the product of an unusually brilliant combination of talents with the screenplay by Shaw himself, music by Arthur Honegger, and production by Gabriel Pascal.

MARCH 7 — THE MIKADO — This delightful operetta by Gilbert and Sullivan is performed by Kenny Baker, John Barclay, and the world-famed D’Oyly Carte Company. The film is in technicolor and staging, acting, and music all measure up to the D’Oyly Carte’s finest tradition.

MARCH 28 — GRAND ILLUSION — This is the story of a German prison camp and features the acting of one of the best-known actor-directors in Europe and America: Eric von Stroheim. The director is Jean Renoir. The film was acclaimed by the National Board of Review as “One of the greatest films in any language.”

APRIL 11 — FAME IS THE SPUR — This little-known British film was produced by the studio that turned out “Hamlet” and “Henry V.” The film presents a panorama of political England from the labor unrest of the 1870s to Ramsay MacDonald’s first national government. Michael Redgrave’s superior acting and the film's intelligent handling of British history drew the following comment from Archer Winsten of the New York Post: “Anyone who believes that films can be art, serious art, and that art can also teach and tell and show, in the highest sense, must see this film.”

The purpose of this conference is to determine what the Y as a national organization is doing in the varied fields of Christianity, and to evaluate its program with an eye to improvement. Representatives from 17 colleges, both women and men, will attend the forum, and a series of discussions will constitute the program.

Some Open Meetings

As yet there is no definite schedule of events, but some of the meetings will be open to the student body, which is cordially invited to attend, and all the worship services are open to the boys and faculty.

Boyd Is Main Speaker

The main speaker at this conference will be Dr. Robert Boyd, pastor of St. Andrew’s Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. Acting as resource leader and observer will be Rev. Edward Driscoll, secretary of the Southern Area Student Council of the YMCA, with offices in Atlanta. An interesting note in connection with Rev. Driscoll is that while attending the University of Florida, he was a member of the church where Dr. Cunningham was pastor. He is a graduate of Union Seminary in New York and visited the campus in October. The Y hopes to benefit by his assistance in the discussions and looks forward to his help in directing the conference along the proper lines.

Phi Welcomes Fifteen Members

The Philanthropic Literary Society welcomed 15 freshmen into its hallowed hall Monday night at the society’s first meeting of the second semester. The new members are Ronald Wilson, Vereen M. Bell, R. Madre Bell, Cortez A. Cooper, Fred H. Allen, Austin C. Strand, John Leighton Green, David R. Jones, Malcolm R. Williamson, Dunbar Ogden, Frederick M. Hudson, Dick Gregory, Swain Loy, J. Roy Davis, and Kenneth B. Lewis. After the formal acceptance of the new members, a heated discussion ensued concerning the language in which Davidson College diplomas should be written. Latin and Greek were those most vigorously favored.

(Continued On Page Four)

Senior Class Plans Dance For March 8

Preliminary plans for a dance March 8, sponsored by the senior class, were announced this morning by class president Tom Stockton. An informal affair to be held from 8:00-12:00 Saturday night, the dance is not to be confined to members of the senior class, Stockton stressed. Bids will be sold on a membership basis, such as the Interfraternity Council bids, but will be at a low price—probably about $1.00 per couple. The dance is not a profit-making project, Stockton added, but one by the seniors to break into the social inactivity that is present during the Mid-Winters-Spring Holiday interim. Any profits realized will be added to the fund for the senior class gift. Several bands are presently un-

(Continued On Page Four)

Name Davidsonian Pastor Of Year In Rural Georgia

Rev. Miles C. Wood, a Davidson graduate of 1947, has been named “Rural Pastor of the Year” in Georgia. Pastor of four Presbyterian Churches in Franklin County, Wood makes his home in Carnesville, Ga. In addition to his pastorates, the Floridian native has been moderator of the Athens Presbytery, active in the organization of young people’s work, and in building projects for his churches. Mr. Wood was presented a set of commentaries in recognition of the place he fills in the rural church program. A native of Dade City, Fla., Wood was a dive-bomber pilot serving in Italy during World War II. Shot down, he was a prisoner of the Germans for over a year. He returned to Davidson after the war.

HERE’S WHAT’S BEEN DONE TOWARD STUDENT UNION COMPLETION

In 1917, supposedly one of the best athletic plants in the South, old Alumni Gymnasium is rapidly undergoing the reconversion process this year which will make it one of the most serviceable student unions in this area. Workmen began the reconversion late last summer and spent the better part of the fall in clearing the “bull” of the building of its gymnasium fixtures. Then, literally starting from the ground up, they have begun to rebuild. The basic steelwork has been completed, the first floor relaid, and joists for the second floor installed. The above picture was taken from the southeast corner of the building, a corner of the ballroom. On the extreme right can be seen one of the four supports for an elevator shaft. The hole perceivable in the center of the picture, where a ladder can be seen protruding, is the new stairway site. The ballroom, for fraternity functions, etc., extends to the outline made by the second-floor girders. Beyond will be offices of the various student organizations, lounge, recreation rooms, and YMCA offices. The cafeteria and student store will be on the basement floor.—(Photo by Andy Simons.)

Constitution Comes In For Investigation

By JIM MOORE

A general revision of Davidson's electoral system, key-noted by Lee Harter’s motion for revision of two points under Article IX of the Constitution, was the main thought expressed in the first “town meeting” of the student body this morning. After pointing out some of the inadequacies of the present electoral set-up, Harter went on to show that the means for better student-faculty relationships existed but were not being employed. He said that the Student-Faculty Committee which is provided for in the Constitution was not now in existence. Harter then made a motion for the formation of a committee to revise the Constitution to meet its present needs. McLean, acting as leader in the open discussion, said he would appoint such a committee.

Extended “Lunch Hour”

A petition to the Executive Committee for the extension of the lunch period was read by George Knight. The student body voted almost unanimously in recommending the petition to the Executive Committee. George Brinkley presented an amendment to the Constitution.

(Continued On Page Four)

Once Draft-Free, Campus Sailors Off To High Seas

“The Navy wants you! You will, if found physically qualified .... proceed in time to arrive at Naval Training Command, Bainbridge, Maryland, not later than, nor prior to 21 April, 1952.” These orders reverberated in the P.O. last week as nine Davidsonians read and reread the news that may make gobs of them by April. But in the grand tradition of the Navy their motto resounds, “Don't give up the ship! There’s hope yet.” Bunny Baird, Louis Nelson, Dave Freeman, Jim Moore, Marshall James, Victor Taylor, Raymond Lynch, Adrian Bowen, and Cam Criddlebaugh have been called from the Naval Reserve Division at Charlotte to report for active duty. All nine of these boys have applied for deferments to finish college. The commander at Charlotte has said that he believes deferments are only granted on a semester basis. All these budding sailors are from one division. One stated that the division had decreased about 50 percent in size since he joined. Eighteen were called to active duty from this division. The only two Davidsonians in this division not called were Robin Hinson and Lana Sims. Several of the boys who were called have applied for the Reserve Officer's Candidate program. Under this program, a candidate goes to regular meetings of the Naval Reserve and two training sessions in the summer. A person would be automatically deferred until the completion of school if accepted in this program. At the present time, it is a “sit and wait” proposition until the deferment board decides their fate. If they have to go it might be possible to adopt the following courses: (1) Drop out of school and wait until April. (2) Consult the Executive Committee to see if it would be possible to have credit given for their courses without attending classes for the rest of the semester, or (3) have their courses accelerated.