In the only ‘post-season, post-bowl, post-everything game of the football year, Davidson has been contacted and asked to play Montana
in the annual “Futility Bowl” to be held in Death Valley before a non-paying gate of possibly no people, says
Deke Houlgate in a UP article datelined Los Angeles and printed in several large Pacific Coast papers as well as
the Honolulu papers. Deke says he picked the two teams “because they never went anywhere during the regular season and
now need a trip.” The one to Death Valley would be a good trip for both, he says.

GA. TECH NEARLY WRECKS PLAN

“There was never any question of Davidson's right to the nomination until Coach Crowell Little's eleven roared into action at
the end of the season and held Georgia Tech to a 7 to 34 count.” Montana was a doubtful starter
because of season victories over New Mexico and Montana State, but clinched the bid with a rousing defeat at the
hands of Washington State by 10 to 47.

“To win the ‘honor,’” Houlgate continued, “the teams have to play nationally-ranked opponents and have to lose a few of
them.” The game will be sanctioned by the NCAA and will be broadcast by the DVBC (Death Valley Broadcasting Co.)
and will be televised, but until release date, all bids had not been received and so the network has not
been announced.

We are glad to see that Davidson is getting nationwide publicity, but are of the opinion that it would certainly
be futile for the Wildcats to enter a bowl game if for no other reason than the fact that since
the conference has outlawed them, Davidson would be put on probation with Maryland and Clemson and end up by playing
each of the above teams along with a rather steep schedule.

NEW SCHEDULE ANNOUNCED

Elsewhere on the page will be seen the story of the new grid schedule, which is one of the best
in recent years. Although there is some argument “that since we’re getting licked, we might as well be licked by
the best teams” (Georgia Tech, W. and L., etc.), the fact still remains that we've been playing clear out of
our class and should stick to schools that are nearer our size or our athletic policy. The Harvard game is
an innovation which should prove interesting enough. Harvard shouldn't be any tougher than one of the small schools of the
SC, and they brag of the fact that they don't ‘subsidize’ athletes. Interesting, because for so many years the Ivy
Leaguers have somewhat isolated themselves and here in the South, we have no idea of the comparative strength of the
Southern and Ivy. The return of Furman into the fold was welcomed and the word is that they have begun
a de-emphasis on football because of the extremely high cost of maintaining their newly-set-up program. However, what happened to Lenoir-Rhyne?
There seemed to be a seed of rivalry already sprouting between the two schools after only one game—something you don’t
see much of at Davidson lately. There were more people in the visitor's stands that rainy night than in our
own. Although it is somewhat lowering ourselves to play the North State teams, it did look like a wholesome thing
since the schools are so close and either game, here or there, would draw crowds and the spirit.

SWIMMERS START STRONG

Coach Dick Redding’s Catfish did themselves proud last weekend by drowning the South Carolina dolphins in the opening swim meet.
It seems phenomenal how after only two years, the swim team has taken its place in the Southern Conference and
although Carolina and State loom ahead, still nothing can be taken from the boys in the pool and the progress
they’ve made. Two names were outstanding by their absence in the meet results, Ray and Pepper, but some new ones
loomed brightly as ever. Ed Stuart, Al Ormond, and Aubrey Miree are some comparative newcomers although Stuart was a freshman
swimmer last year and Miree saw action two years ago. Ormond, however, is a frosh with lots of promise for
the Cats.

“B” TEAM HOT ON COURTS

One of the teams that has been getting little or no attention is our Jayvee basketball squad which has been
moving on at a terrific pace these last two weeks. In fact, the Wildkittens are undefeated this season and although
they haven't met any of the “B” teams of the other Southern Conference schools, they have met Gardner-Webb and two
good high school aggregations this past week. The boys usually start about 6:15 when at home and so the attendance
has been sparse at the games, but they have proven to be very exciting at times. They are ably coached
by Tom Fetzer, who is doing a wonderful job as a tutor.

EX-GLOBETROTTER LEADS SCORING

Buddy Brown of Charlotte, better known to the basketball ring as “Goose” seems to be showing the most promise of
the yearlings on the team. Jim Faucette and Mike Hadge also are doing a good job along with last year’s
ace from the frosh squad, Eddie Adams. Brown is the high scorer at center while the two guards are Hadge
and Adams. Faucette and Scott Reams round out the first team at forwards. Coach Fetzer reports that he is trying
to get a game with the JV’s from his Alma Mater, Wake Forest, when the varsity squads meet, but that
nothing could be worked out satisfactorily with the teams of Carolina, Duke, etc. At any rate, the Kittens have several
more games on tap this year and are shooting for that undefeated season.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcat Sports

FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 1952

HARVARD HONORED ON GRID SLATE

PAGE THREE

CITADEL TONIGHT

Fraternity League Gets Fast Start

KS Fast, Potent; Sigma Chis Sharp In Early Games

By WALLACE ABBOTT

This year’s interfrat basketball season got off to a fast start, as all 12 teams in the league played games
in the first three days of this week. Obviously from the six games played there are that many teams that
came out on top, and thereby are tied for first place. Among the stronger teams around the loop as seen
in action by this writer this week are the Kappa Sigs, KAs, Sigma Chis, and Pikas. The Kappa Sigs, who
scored 44 points in their first outing, possess a wealth of talent, both in newcomers and returnees from last year,
and should thereby rank high up in the final standings. Among their more seasoned performers are Jim Sloan, Eric Clark,
Ham Wade, and George Lippard. The freshmen starters seem to be mainly Floyd Feeney and Corky Clark. George King and
Lefty Vance, both former varsity squad members, are leading the strong KA team into action. Both of them showed up
well, as they scored 13 and 15 points, respectively in the KA's 55-29 victory over the SAE’s. Also aiding in
the scoring parade was Skidmore who tossed in 13 points. The Sigma Chis boast almost the same team that won
last year's championship. Among the starters are Paul Eastman, Bert Downs, Tyler Berry, and Phil Blatt. Although they went through
last year’s season undefeated, it looks as if they will have a little harder time repeating that feat this year.
The Pikas suffered a real blow in the loss of Al Gaither, one of last year’s All-Fraternity players. However, on
hand to take Al's place are Fields and Beardsley, who both saw a lot of action Tuesday night in the
Pikas' first game. At the present time, these teams look like the leading contenders in the basketball race for this
year. However, as you all know, any one of the other eight teams is capable of coming out on top.
So we'll wait until a few more weeks have passed and see how things go then.

Results

KA's 55 - SAE’s 30

Pikas 44 - Campus Club 35

Kappa Sigs 44 - Pi Kapps 27

Betas 35 - ATO's 24

Phi Gams 46 - Phi Delts 26

Sigma Chis 33 - SPE's 18

LEADING SCORERS

Champion, Phi Gam - 16

Vance, KA - 15

Fields, Pika - 13

Beardsley, Pika - 13

Skidmore, KA - 13

King, KA - 13

Seago, Phi Delt - 12

Wells, CC - 12

Sloan, KS - 12

C. Clark, KS - 12

Chesterfield SPORTS QUIZ

Who won the All-American Amateur Golf Match last year?

Who won the men's doubles at the Forest Hills tennis matches?Last year? What FBI man won the one-mile national AAU
indoor title? What horse last won the Kentucky Derby? Who is the welterweight boxing champion? Don't be misled by claims
of other cigarettes! There is no such thing as a “high cost" in cigs. Answer the above questions and you
get a WHOLE CARTON of Chesterfields FREE!!! Answers on a Chesterfield wrapper should go to Doug Rice at the Stud.

Wildcat Of AL ORMOND By TAD CURRIE

When the Davidson College Catfish left Columbia, S.C., last Saturday night, they left a slightly dazed and definitely beaten USC
swimming team wondering what had hit them. The answer was simple, it was a determined and steadily improving Davidson team
that cut the Gamecock swimmers down to size by winning the first meet of the season by a 48 to
35 point count. At the beginning of the season, the number one question around the tank in Johnston Gym was,
“Who will take Bill Ray and Ray Cunningham's place?” After the meet Saturday night, it looked as if the answer
to that question had been found in the person of a lanky Yankee, Al Ormond. In his first real collegiate
meet, Al won the Individual Medley and came in second in both the 220 and 440, a good record in
anybody’s book.

This Saturday, the wrestling team goes down to Atlanta to meet Emory University in the second match of the year.
After having dropped a very close match to the University of North Carolina, 20-15, the Wildcats will be looking for
a win. Coach Parker says the two teams will be closely matched and Davidson has about a 50-50 chance. The
starters for the Cats are as follows:
123—Bobby Joe Key.
130—Johnny Guiton.
137—Captain Gene Craven.
147—Don Reed or Morley Vail.
157—Angus Andrews.
167—Nabbie Armfield.
177—Bill McElveen.
HeavyWt.—Bill McNeely.

The strength of the Wildcats lies in such veteran performers as Captain Gene Craven, Johnny Guiton, Morley Vail, and Bill
McNeely. Gene looks like he is headed for his best year yet and there is a good possibility that he
will go through the season with a clean slate. He is recognized as one of the best wrestlers in the
Southern Conference now. After winning the AAU meet and placing third in the Southern Conference tournament, don’t be surprised if
Davidson has a first-place conference champion in its midst at the end of the season. There are also promising reserves
up from the Freshman class. Johnny Byxton is one of them who has been doing very well this week. After
only three days of practice, he was in there with the best of them and is almost sure to be
a starter before the end of the season. Peter Peck will be missed, however, as he was forced to quit
due to scholastic difficulties.

Friday week marks the date of the encounter with the Wolfpack of N. C. State. It will take place after
the VPI basketball game. All in all, it looks like a big year for wrestling here at Davidson.

The Week | 5 Years Ago This Week—January 10, 1947: VMI Downs Mat Team, 36-0.
10 Years Ago This Week—January 12, 1942: Tommy Peters has scored 188 points for an average of 15 points per
game for the Wildkittens.
15 Years Ago This Week—January 11, 1947: Duke and Carolina drop contests to rampant loop Wildcats, 41-39, 46-39.
20 Years Ago This Week—January 1, 1932: ‘Cats defeated by fast Furman five, 19-8. (How about that?)
25 Years Ago This Week—January 13, 1927: Wildcat grapplers win from Concord ‘Y’ team in first meet of year.
30 Years Ago This Week—January 13, 1922: Contest for basketball berths is getting warm. Probably will be light fast team.

Hailing from Akron, Ohio, Al went to Mt. Hermon Prep School in Northfield, Mass., and it was while he was
there that Al began his swimming in earnest and got some much-needed experience that will prove beneficial in collegiate competition.
When it came to selecting a college, Davidson got the nod for both Al's father and uncle are graduates of
the school. Al is a pre-med student and a pledge of Phi Gamma Delta. If this freshman from Yankeeland keeps
up his steady improvement and is matched by the rest of the team, the season for the Catfish could be
the most successful in their brief history, for having once tasted the sweets of victory they know how pleasant it
is to win. Carolina and then State are the real tests, but if the team improves as much as the
above Wildcatter, new things may be in store for the guardian father of the swimming titles.

By JOHN HANDLEY

Two new names will appear on the Wildcat’s grid schedule for 1952. Mighty Georgia Tech is being replaced by a
new foe, Harvard; while Furman’s gridsters will return to the roster after a one-year absence. Lenoir Rhyne College has been
dropped from next year's schedule. When fall rolls around, the 1952 version of the Davidson grid Wildcats will open at
Richardson Field against the Gobblers of Virginia Tech on September 20. The following Saturday, September 27, the Generals of Washington
and Lee will be entertained by Coach Little’s charges. On October 4, N. C. State will play host to the
Wildcats at Raleigh. Following this tilt, there is an open date with the next game being played on October 18,
with Presbyterian’s Blue Hose on their home gridiron. Furman makes a trip to the local campus on October 25. Davidson
then invades the home grounds of the Ivy League for a game with Harvard on November 1. On November 8,
the Wildcats play host to the Richmond Spiders, followed by another open weekend. In rounding out their eight-game card, the
Wildcats will travel to The Citadel on November 22. Although there are two open dates in the schedule as it
now stands, these are by no means final and may be filled at a later date. Here is the schedule
as it now stands:
Sept. 20—VPI—Davidson.
Sept. 27—W&L—Davidson.
Oct. 4—N. C. State—Raleigh.
Oct. 11—Open.
Oct. 18—Presbyterian—Clinton.
Oct. 25—Furman—Davidson.
Nov. 1—Harvard—Cambridge.
Nov. 8—Richmond—Davidson.
Nov. 22—Citadel—Charleston.

He thought they were trying to make him the butt-end of a joke when he was asked to judge cigarette
mildness with a mere puff of one brand and a quick sniff of another. The fancy footwork didn’t dazzle him!
He knew that the pinnacle of pleasure comes from steady smoking and that there is only one test that gives
you enough time to permit conclusive proof. Smokers throughout America have made the same decision! It’s the sensible test... the
30-Day Camel Mildness Test, which simply asks you to try Camels on a day-after-day, pack-after-pack basis. No snap judgments! Once
you've tried Camels for 30 days in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste), you'll see why...

Sports Mixer | Face Toughened Bulldogs In Looking For League Win By BO TYNES

Tonight Coach Boyd Baird's boys will take the floor against the powerful Citadel Bulldogs. The lanky aggregation from Charleston will
be favored slightly in the tussle and hopes look slim for Davidson. Many believe that Davidson has a stronger team
than records indicate. This is probably true enough, but only time will tell. In the past, Davidson has always gotten
off to a slow start while finishing comparatively strong. Last Friday night found a heartbroken Davidson following. The Wildcats dropped
a 72-64 decision to the South Carolina Gamecocks. Many were disillusioned by the Cats’ triumph over the Gamecock basketeers in
the Charlotte Invitational Tournament over the holidays and were decidedly disappointed in the outcome of the re-match between the two
teams. The Cats were definitely not up to par in the second game, but at the same time, the observer
could easily see that South Carolina decidedly outclassed the Cats all the way. Thus far, Davidson's lone conference win has
been a 69-64 victory over Washington and Lee, although the Cats, as aforementioned, downed South Carolina in placing third in
the Charlotte Invitational. Dick Groat and company from Duke found Davidson easy prey as they rolled up an 88-49 score
just before the holidays. Bill Brooks starred for Davidson in the Charlotte Invitational, but from the looks of his post-holiday
appearance on the hardwood, it appears like he...

(Continued On Page Four)
