SCRUGGS & UPCHURCH RECALL GOLDEN AGE (See Page Two)

VOLUME XL

Davidsonians In Armed Forces

LT. FRED W. BEST, JR., Student Tr. Regt. 8th Div., Fort Jackson, S. C. Fred’s home is 936 Sycamore St.,
Rocky Mount, N. C., where his wife lives. While at Davidson he was a B.S. major in Business Administration. He
was a member of Le Cercle Francais, Scabbard and Blade, IRC, and Sigma Chi. He received his commission from the
ROTC.

LT. MASON G. (GANT) CARLTON, A-8 Dolly Madison Apts., Greensboro, N. C. Here at school he was a member of
the D Club, Beta Theta Pi. He played varsity football. He graduated with a B.S. degree in Physics in June
1951. Gant recently completed the 8th Div. Cadre Training Course at Ft. Jackson, having the highest academic average (98.6) ever
received by a student at the school.

CPL. GROVER R. MARTIN, 1501 The Plaza, Charlotte, N.C. A B.S. graduate in Business in '51, Grover was a member
of Pi Kappa Alpha. He has recently completed the eight-week leader course of the 41st Training Bn. of the 8th
Division, Ft. Jackson, S.C.

LT. ENOCH M. (MARVIN) THOMPSON, Co. G, 13th Regt., 5th Inf. Div., Ft. Jackson, S. C. From Norwood, N. C.,
Marvin graduated in 1951 with a degree in Business Administration and was a member of Alpha Tau Omega and IRC.

Rifle Team Ends Best Season In Recent History

The rifle team, sponsored by the ROTC Department, last week completed one of the most successful seasons in its history.
During the season it won 8 out of 12 shoulder-to-shoulder matches, and 19 out of 31 postal matches. In addition,
it finished third among 44 competing Third Army teams in the William Randolph Hearst Trophy Match, and fourth in the
Third Army Intercollegiate Match. By placing so high in the Intercollegiate Match, the team qualified for the National Intercollegiate Finals,
results of which are not yet known. It is believed that, since the team fired 115 points higher in the
National match than in the Third Army Match, the team may well achieve national recognition.

The team was ably coached by Major Jones and M-Sgt. Butts of the ROTC staff. The team developed rapidly during
the season and won its last eight shoulder-to-shoulder matches. Teams defeated in this streak were: Oak Ridge twice, Wofford twice,
NC State twice, and Clemson twice. The following students comprised the team: Raymond Lynch, captain, W. W. Abbott, J. L.
Baker, George Bason, R. C. Garrison, J. B. Gordon, Alan Groseclose, B. J. Key, D. B. McIntyre, W. L. Morris,
K. L. Parks, Lee Scott, W. C. Starr, S. N. Sterghos, and H. S. Ward.

Two Debaters Get Big Ten Honors

Representing Davidson, Roy Davis and Hubert Cannon placed in the Big Ten in the Grand National Forensic Tournament held at
Fredericksburg, Virginia, April 9-12. In the system of rating used at the Grand National, judges are not used and therefore
decisions are not given on the individual debate. Instead, teams are rated in relation to their opponents in rounds of
three debates each. Then teams having top ratings in these rounds meet each other in succeeding rounds until winners can
be announced. Teams representing schools from the Dakotas and Texas to New England and Florida (Continued On Page Four)

The Davidsonian

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, APRIL 18, 1952

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

"HERE'S THE LOW DOWN..."

Col. Ernest H. Davis, right, listens as the man whom he is to succeed as Professor of Military Science and
Tactics at Davidson, relates some of the pleasantries of this type of Army duty. On the other hand, outgoing Lt.
Col. J. L. Ballard, Jr., got the latest word from the Colonel on the art of Korean fighting. Terminating a
three-year tour here as PMS&T, Col. Ballard expects overseas assignment this summer, and would not be surprised if it came
in the Far East Command.—(Photo by Andy Simons.)

Federal Check Of ROTC Dept. Coming Tues.

The annual formal inspection of the ROTC Department, by the Department of the Army, will take place next Monday and
Tuesday, April 21 and April 22. During that period a team of three senior officers, from Headquarters, Third Army, will
inspect and observe all features of the ROTC program at Davidson. This will include administration, training, instruction, drill, military courtesy,
and relationships with the college and with the community.

Lt. Col. James L. Ballard, Jr., PMS&T, has indicated that a complete schedule has been prepared, to include a tea
to be given at the Guest House late Tuesday afternoon in honor of the inspectors and of the ROTC senior
class. The team will be comprised of Colonel Frank G. Davis, Major Jack L. Lerner, and Major Albert H. Perkins.
This team is one of several operating in the Third Army Area, and will arrive here late Sunday after inspecting
Presbyterian College and Wofford College this week. Upon completion of the inspection here late Tuesday, the team will move on
to Duke University to inspect the ROTC unit at the Duke University School of Medicine.

Colonel Davis is a native of Maryland, and graduated from West Point in 1918. In his 33 years of service
as an officer, Colonel Davis has seen service in Panama and the Philippines, and in the European Theatre in World
War II. He is a graduate of a number of service schools. Colonel Davis has been decorated numerous times. His
decorations include the Legion of Merit, the Bronze Star, and the Commendation Ribbon with Oak Leaf Cluster (2nd award).

Students Get Say On Celebrity Pick

In conjunction with the Celebrity Series Committee, the Davidsonian will conduct a poll among the student body next week to
determine what type of program the student body prefers. Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, heading the committee, expressed concern over the
fact that most series programs were largely attended by outsiders, and to that end he is seeking to line up
a series for 1952-53 in accordance with student requests. Students will be given the opportunity to indicate the type of
program they prefer, the subjects of most interest to them, and the particular artists they would like to hear.

The man is Lt. Col. Ernest H. Davis and he’s here to take over the position of Professor of Military
Science and Tactics which Col. Ballard now holds. His predecessor will exchange operations areas with him--Korea that is. Col. Davis
is currently residing at the Fulcher home with his wife and eight-year-old daughter.

Davis, whose home is in Ashland, Kentucky, was graduated in 1940 from the University of Kentucky with a B.S. in
chemistry, and one leg in a cast which was broken in a ball game. He began his military career with
the Chemical Corps at Edgewood Arsenal in Maryland. From here he went to Camp Rooker, Alabama, where he was stationed
for 11 months with the 84th Chemical Mortar Battalion.

During World War II he went to Africa and from there to Italy where he took part in the invasion
of both Anzio and Salerno on “D” day. For his actions during this two years in Italy he was promoted
to captain and awarded the Purple Heart. After serving in Italy he returned to the U. S. and served for
one year with the office of the Chief of Chemical Warfare. Here he received the Army Commendation Ribbon.

He then went to Fort Benning to the Advanced Class of Infantry School after which he taught an advanced class
in Tactics and Staff at Edgewood Arsenal for three years. At the outbreak of the Korean situation he was flown
to Korea where he was made G-3 at 8th Army Headquarters for six months. Col. Davis then applied for combat
duty with the 5th Regimental Combat team. He was quickly promoted and saw action as Executive Officer and then Commanding
Officer of the 3rd Battalion of that regiment. He was awarded the Bronze Star Medal with “V” device for “heroic
achievement” during an assault on key hill positions in a bitter engagement near Hajinhyon on October 16, 1951. While in
Korea he was promoted to his present rank of Lt. Col. Later in combat he won the Silver Star and
Combat Infantryman's Badge.

Col. Davis takes a keen interest in baseball, softball, football, and golf. He shoots in the eighties, but said the
Korean links are in terrible shape. Col. and Mrs. Davis said Davidson laid out the best carpet of any of
his stations, and he looks forward to a happy tour of duty.

Rules Outlined For Frat Sing

Gamma Kappa Chapter of Phi Mu Alpha, national honorary music fraternity, completed basic plans at its bi-monthly meeting for its
annual sponsorship of the Interfraternity Sing. The Sing is slated for Thursday evening, May 8, at 7:30 P.M. The master
of ceremonies and the three judges have been chosen and invited by the chapter and their names will be revealed
at a later date. Phi Mu Alpha is hoping that competition will again this year be keen for the trophy
annually awarded to the outstanding fraternity chorus. The trophy last year was awarded to Alpha Tau Omega and has been
in their possession during this school year.

The regulations governing this year's sing are the same as in past years with a few minor changes. They are
as follows: (1) The maximum number in the participating chorus is to be 40 and the minimum 25, except in
the case of fraternities having a membership of 35 or less the minimum will be 20. (2) The allotted time
for presenting all numbers will be six minutes; time will be called on those exceeding this limit. (3) All groups
are expected to include the Davidson College Alma Mater, “All Hail, O Davidson.” (4) No help may be obtained from
any member of the music faculty or any other person outside the participating fraternity. (5) There will be a maximum
of one novelty number for each group. (6) Singers will be judged on the following basis: Entertainment values, 20%; mode
of presentation, to include stage deportment, 10%; arrangement of songs, such as 4-part, 2-part, unison, etc., 15%; choice of songs,
15%; and general tonal effect, 40%. (7) Accompaniment will be by piano only, although of course fraternities may sing a
cappella.

Phi Mu Alpha initiated ten new brothers into active membership March 30. They are A. M. Baucom, C. Leonard Geiger,
William W.Johnston, Charles M. Murray, (Continued On Page Four)

Kiser Elected: Ruth, Cannon, & Dagenhart To Run Over

Lyman Kiser of Raleigh was elected first vice president of the student body this morning, having a majority in this
initial voting for the three student government offices. Hubert Cannon, Larry Dagenhart, and Jack Ruth remained in the race for
president, George Nickels being the only elimination on the first balloting today.

At 7:00 tonight the tabulations on the secretary-treasurer voting were incomplete, but elections board chairman Kirk Oglesby revealed that no
one man has a majority in this initial run. Running over for the office of second vice president will be
Herschel Allen, Johnny Bremer, Bob Crutchfield, and Max Devane.

A total of 688 votes were cast for president, 1,281 for the two vice presidential posts, and a figure close
to the presidential count for secretary-treasurer. Balloting came this morning following five-minute talks in chapel by each of the four
presidential candidates. Speeches by the candidates came for the first time today in recent Davidson elections, the result of the
amendment to the constitution passed only last week.

Cannon, Phi Gam from Lancaster, S.C., stressed upholding of the honor system as the keystone of the president’s position, combining
that with closer student-faculty cooperation and the president's responsibility for the welfare of the students. In addition to his office
as president of Phi Gam fraternity, Cannon has served as (Continued On Page Four)

Jim Cannon Will Manage Yearbook

Jim Cannon has been elected to the post of business manager of the 1953 Quips and Cranks it was announced
by Bill Adams, president of the Publications Board. Cannon, a Kappa Sigma, takes over the position vacated by Parks Dalton,
this year’s manager. He is a veteran of the annual staff. Editorial candidates for the yearbook will be announced in
the near future together with those for the Davidsonian and Scripts ‘n Pranks.

ROPER CHALLENGES PREVENTIVE WAR

Olin Downes, left, and Leonard Eisner team in a unique lecture demonstration on music in Chambers Auditorium Monday night. Downes,
New York Times music critic, and Eisner, nationally famous pianist, will present “Ideas Behind Music” as a feature highlight of
the Fine Arts Festival being observed next week.

Frantz Premier Arts Highlight

Highlighting the Davidson College Fine Arts Festival, April 20-26, will be the premiere performance of Prof. Harold Frantz’s original composition,
“Festival Piece for Organ and Brass,” on Tuesday night at 8:15 in Chambers Auditorium. Frantz’s composition will be presented by
the Davidson Concert Band and Brass ensemble, under the direction of Prof. Kenneth R. Moore. Commissioned by the other members
of the Fine Arts Committee, Prof. Johnson has worked several months on his concertina of one movement, adapting the first
letters of Davidson College Fine Arts Festival to their corresponding notes on the organ from which he developed his theme
in three sections.

The Fine Arts Festival officially begins Sunday night with a concert by the Male Chorus, directed by Prof. Donald Plott,
during the vesper service. Olin Downes, music editor of the New York Times, and Leonard Eisner, rising young concert pianist,
on Monday night will present a lecture-demonstration, “Ideas Behind Music,” at 8:15, in Chambers Auditorium as part of the Davidson
College lecture series. Parts of Mr. Downes’ lecture will be “demonstrated” by Mr. Downes at the piano.

Continuing the festival, Lacy Cherry Crisp, director of the N.C. State Art Gallery in Raleigh, will give an informal talk
on “Art in N.C.” at the Guest House Wednesday at 2:30 p.m. The Vereen Bell award for creative writing will
be presented Thursday in chapel to the winning Davidson student, by Prof. James Southall Wilson from the University of Virginia.
Prof. Wilson will also present the annual Phi Beta Kappa address Thursday night at 8:15 in Eu Hall. His subject
will be “Edgar Allan Poe After One Hundred Years.”

Friday and Saturday at 8:15 p.m., the Red and Black Masquers, under the direction of Prof. R. W. Tyson, will
present Shakespeare’s “Macbeth,” with Dick Perkins playing the title role. Prof. Joseph Henry Booker, head of the music department of
Dillon University, will be on the Davidson campus Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, speaking informally at 9:30 p.m. Thursday in the
record room of Phi Hall, and at various other times during the remainder of the week. His subjects will be
“The Negro Spiritual,” “Organ Music of Bach,” and “Choral Conducting.”

The Fine Arts Festival Committee is composed of Professors (Continued On Page Four)

Wall Street Lawyer Is Now Collecting Material To Disprove Marshall Ney Legend

The College Guest House entertained a distinguished guest over the weekend of April 12, albeit one who promises to undermine
one of Davidson's most cherished traditions. The gentleman is Mr. William Henry Hoyt, a Wall Street lawyer, who was here
for the purpose of gathering some final material for his forthcoming book exploding the Peter Stuart Ney-Marshal Ney “myth.”

Mr. Hoyt said privately that he regretted very much being unable to accept the local conviction with respect to Peter
Stuart Ney’s identity. But after extensive research in France and Scotland, he has information which forces him to the conclusion
that the two men were not the same. He has not yet disclosed his evidence, and the host of Ney
believers are awaiting his findings with interest but without fear.

Interestingly enough, it was the same author who did so much to undermine national acceptance of May 20th as the
date for Mecklenburg’s Declaration of Independence in 1778. This book was published in 1907 when Mr. Hoyt was a very
young man. While on his visit to the campus, Mr. Hoyt took tea with Professor Chalmers G. Davidson who is
well known to be entirely orthodox with respect to Mecklenburg’s Declaration. In Dr. Davidson's copy of his 1907 book on
the Mecklenburg Declaration, Mr. Hoyt wrote, “If this be treason, make the most of it.” Professor Davidson's statement for the
press is that he has been making the most of it for twenty years past and expects to continue to
do so.

With respect to the Ney controversy, Dr. Davidson is more non-committal. “It will be necessary to see the evidence before
expressing an opinion. But whoever Peter Stuart Ney may have been in Europe, in North Carolina he was the designer
of the sacred seal of Davidson College. That alone entitles him to immortality.”

Mr. Hoyt came bearing a peace offering which the director of the library did not decline. He presented the library
with a Contoura Contact Camera, an expensive but relatively simple apparatus for making photographs of rare manuscripts and pictures. Such
a camera is most welcome to Davidson College. The library receives frequent requests for material by many Ney enthusiasts as
well as persons doing research in other fields. Original material, of course, has not been circulated outside the building. With
the new Contoura Contact Camera, it will be possible to supply the wants of many who otherwise would be required
to make a special trip to Davidson.

Although Mr. Hoyt is a native New Yorker and a Wall Street lawyer, he does not investigate North Carolina history
as an alien. On his maternal side, he is descended from the distinguished pre-Civil War North Carolina Judge Archibald Murphy
who was himself a historian of note. Judge Murphy did much to put North Carolina on the map. (See Page
Two)

NUMBER TWENTY-TWO

'D' Pranksters, Two Big Hops Launch Frolics

With a weatherman’s promise for warm, clear skies, Spring Frolics weekend gets underway tonight with the D Club Foolies prefacing
the formal dance in Johnston Gymnasium. Featuring the act of two Davidson graduates of 1949, Bill Scruggs and McNeil Upchurch,
the Foolies boast the best talent line-ups in years, including performances by athletic department members Elgin White and Buddy Chandler.
The Foolies, with Dick Perkins as ringmaster of a circus format, have curtain time at 7:30 and are expected to
be over by 9:00. The formal dance, with the music of “local boy” Johnny Long and his orchestra, begins at
9:00. Tomorrow night's informal dance will begin at 8:00 and run until 12:00.

Workers Install Organ; Complete Church Interior

The new Davidson College Presbyterian Church, costing slightly under $800,000, is now receiving the finishing touches from the building contractors.
The exterior of the new church, which is to be dedicated Sunday, June 2, during the baccalaureate sermon, is completed,
but much work still remains to be done upon the interior of the sanctuary. The organ, costing $35,000, is in
the process of being installed as are the pews and other furnishings of the chapel and sanctuary, costing $55,000. The
chapel is to be called the Walter L. Lingle Chapel in dedication to Dr. W. L. Lingle, president emeritus of
the college.

The contractors, Thompson and Street, along with all members of the faculty connected with the new church, urge students to
visit only during working hours and to obey any barriers placed to guard objects in the building, for visiting personages
have already caused some unnecessary damage. This new Davidson structure will hold 1,042 people in its sanctuary which has an
overall dimension of 152 feet. It has a large room which will be used jointly as a banquet-recreation room, not
to mention a student lounge, a ladies’ lounge, a library, offices for the minister and the director of religious education,
and Sunday School space for all departments. Red brick and Indiana limestone compose the outside of this edifice, and although
it has colonial features, it is generally reminiscent of the Classical Revival period of American architecture.

Firestone & FBI To See Seniors

Mr. John Dillon stated earlier this week that two representatives of the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company would be on
the campus Tuesday, April 22, to interview any men interested in affiliating themselves with Firestone. All seniors, especially business majors,
who are interested should meet for a group interview at 8:45 Tuesday morning in room 108 Chambers. The Firestone Company
representatives are interested in those men seeking either sales or managerial positions.

Of an entirely different nature, but of equal importance, will be the interviews on Thursday the 24th, when the Federal
Bureau of Investigation will send men here to interview certain seniors, who have previously filled out application blanks for entrance
into the FBI. Anyone else interested, who will graduate in July or August and will be at least twenty-three years
of age upon graduation, is urged to attend the group interview which will be held at 8:45 on Thursday morning
in room 108 Chambers.
