PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF ------------------------- Frank Hanshaw
BUSINESS MANAGER --------------------- Jack Hobson
ASSISTANT EDITOR ---------------------- John Ottley
Associate Editors ------------------------ Brinkley, Daniel, Harter, Hope, Myers
Managing Editors ----------------------- Hassell, J. M. Moore, Owens
Sports Editor ---------------------------- Dick Roper
Feature Editor --------------------------- T. A. Williams
Assignments ----------------------------- Strand
News Editor ----------------------------- D. M. Smith
Arts Editor ------------------------------ Mahy
Photographer ---------------------------- Simons
Assistant Business Manager ------------- Poston
Advertising Manager -------------------- Hasty
Circulation Manager --------------------- Nicholson
Collection Manager ---------------------- Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Welcome Alumni and Patrons To 1952 Davidson Homecoming

The Davidsonian staff would like to take this opportunity to extend for ourselves and the student body, a hearty welcome to all the alumni and friends of Davidson College. We are glad that you are able to be with us for the many activities during this 1952 Homecoming celebration.

While you are here, we hope that you will have an opportunity to visit with the various groups and organizations on the campus. Many of the fraternities have planned open house this weekend, and are looking forward to having you with them. This is an excellent time to renew old acquaintances with the active chapter. You are also invited to tour the college union and the new church and to visit the YMCA and literary societies. Many of you will want to attend the dance Saturday evening. We hope that you will take part in as many activities over the weekend as is possible.

As you return to the campus, the parade of progress that has taken place over the last few years is much more apparent to you than it is to those of us who are students here now. And yet, even with the expansion of the physical structure, Davidson is basically the same as it was when you were here. It continues to stand for the better things in life and engenders those high ideals of character and manhood that give it a distinction and a good name to set it far above the ordinary.

It is with regret and mixed emotions that we announce the passing of QUO VADIS
Born Dec. 5, 1951
Died Feb. 7, 1952
“The faculty's sword is mightier than the student's pen”

For the freshmen we offer a brief note of explanation. Quo Vadis was a student paper attempting to discuss certain touchy topics the college-backed Davidsonian had to side-step. “We're not in competition with the Davidsonian,” began the first issue. But this policy seems to have been forgotten in the war-of-digs that followed between the two papers. The Davidsonian boys howled at the obvious bragging of the Q.V. boys... “get more mail to the editors with one issue than the D. does in two years.” That first issue dealt with Policy, Student Myopia, That Undeterminable Something, and Our Money's Worth (a really good evaluation of what the D.C. student gets and what perhaps he should get for his 900 skins per year.) The first masthead bore the names Brinkley, Crutchfield, Hope, Hunter, and Stuart. By the next issue three more had joined their ranks—Lamon, Myers, and Shippy. Maybe these three were lurking behind the scenes of the first Q.V. but waited to see if it would be a success or failure before committing themselves. Vol. 1, No. 2, had these articles: Davidson’s Popularity Contest—Student Body Elections, Holidays, Our Lack of Them: ROTC Drill, and Indigestion. The student body then set back to await further issues— None came. Months covered the memory of Q.V. with a thick layer of dust, but occasionally an upperclassman would dust it aside with the question Quo Vadibatis, Quo Vadis? (where did you go, Quo Vadis). A Davidsonian editor and staff who are really interested in improvements and the right presentation of the news is the answer. Look at the masthead at the top of this column and compare it with Quo Vadis. The three ringleaders, Brinkley, Hope, and Myers have been added to this staff. Some might think it was a complete waste of time and paper, but look again at the articles. The one on elections suggested (1) a four-minute talk for major candidates, (2) a campaign manager to write a factual report to be printed in the Davidsonian telling the qualifications, scholastic average, activities, and platform. The first suggestion has now been put into our constitution, and the second still doesn’t sound like a bad idea. “Holidays, Our Lack of Them” might take possibly a little credit for letting Jack Ruth know the students weren't completely satisfied with the old system. The ROTC article proposed moving drill back 15 minutes. Shortly after that issue appeared it was moved back 10 minutes. Then there were the Faculty Evaluation Sheets. Some faculty members realizing that there is always room for improvement used these evaluation sheets to a high degree of success. They dealt with such questions as classroom manners, lectures, textbooks, use of humor, etc. The present editor would undoubtedly list the greatest contribution of the mimeographed sheet as the stirring up of student interest with a resulting increase in the “Letters to the Editor” department. Before Q.V. these were few and far between. Farewell, Quo Vadis—your life was a full one. May it never be necessary for an off-spring of yours to again appear on the Davidson campus.—M.G.M.

“George! Great to see you again!”
“Hello Bill! How’s the drugstore in Nashville?” (Tom—Sells Ford in Concord)
“Er—Fine.” “You still in the bank at Richmond?” (Jim—Sells Fords in Concord)
“Tell me, how’re Helen and the kids?” (Tom—Married, has an offspring)
“Great! And yours?” (Jim—Confirmed bachelor)
“Sure remember your great touchdown against State!”
(Tom—Raven Bald)
“And your sprint record in track!” (Jim—Chess)
“Those were the days. Well, so long, Bill.”
“See you later, Sam.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE CABBAGE PLANTER: A Nash Poses Social Problem For Homecoming Reflection

It’s taking an awful chance
At a dance
To say:
That’s a pretty girl over there,
I think I will try to attract her
When you don’t know hers and
Very probably not even your own blood factor.
For instance if she were Type B and you were Type A
There wouldn’t be anything at first to keep you both from being very gay;
But if you got married
You would to say the least wish you had tarried.
It would have been easier before going to the altar
To have told her
I think you are unusually attractive but I am Type A, RH Positive and I am afraid in the long run we would both feel regretive
If you happen to be, as is entirely possible, Type B, RH Negative.
Obviously it is safer and much more expedient to have a few salient facts for reference
Than deference.
With apologies to Ogden Nash.

A man walked into the Mt. Mourne Consolidated Ball Bearing Industries the other day and applied to the personnel manager for a job.
“References?” asked the manager, and the applicant, Quintence Brown, handed over several letters from former employers.
“Hmm,” said the manager. Shortly he knew that Quintence Brown would probably do better as a Rivet Rodder than a Ball Bearer, pointed it out to Brown, and they parted with no hard feelings.
That night Quintence went to Mt. Holly, as was his custom, stopped outside his girlfriend’s house and honked. Soon Hydrangea came out, got in the car and they started off. Neither had anything to say, but they weren't self-conscious about it because they had been going together for a year and a half and it seemed natural. Pretty soon, though, Hydrangea told Quintence that she had been thinking about something for a while and might as well tell him then. Despite the fact, she said, that they had been keeping company for a year and a half, she felt that there was nothing about Quintence that she liked, and several things she disliked. These were (a) his honking, (b) wearing loud ties (c) his bank account and (d) his technique. Well, said Quintence, I’m glad you brought that up because I have a similar list. I don’t like (a) high heels, (b) short hair, (c) your father, (d) your mother and (e) you. So they went to the show, went dancing, drove out and looked at the moon, drove home and parted forever, mad as hell.

The point here is that all this might have been avoided, and the obviously unwise Quintence-Hydrangea relationship might have been headed off a year and a half earlier as quickly and efficiently as the Mt. Mourne Ball Bearing affair that morning. It required only a little research before they first dated. Quintence, for instance, had never dated any girls but short-heeled, long-haired orphans, while Hydrangea’s onlySteady beau before Quintence was an undertaker who used the company’s car and naturally didn’t honk for people. How much simpler it would have been if both Hydrangea and Quintence, a year and a half earlier, had been able to show each other references from these former companions! Many times, even when an employee is fired, he is provided a fairly decent reference covering his good service; the same sort of thing is made to order for couples who split up. As it is now, males and females are distressingly irrational about it, and frequently carry grudges, frustrations, or torches for unreasonably long periods. Often, because they are on the rebound, they date unsuitable companions and waste a lot of time. If all the eligible, however, carried references given them by rational, departed, formerly-loved ones, people could make a habit of exchanging them on trains, at parties, in church, and anywhere they had a free moment. The results are obvious. Away with inane romantic vacillation. Don’t take a chance on a glance at a dance. Don’t trust the hand of fate; by then ‘twill be too late. Demand proof.

THE FREE LANCE: As the grizzled hordes descend on their alma mater one might wonder how a man can say, “I never met a Davidson man I didn't like.” In this crowd of smiling old grads who attend the annual bid for a democracy they never knew even in the shadow of old Chambers, what is there common to them which would prompt an intelligent speaker to comment as he did? Is it love of learning? There will be a smattering of Phi Beta Kappa keys among the lot, although some of these even will be hypocritical reminders of long-forgotten hours in the library. Perhaps a few who still read critically and conscientiously are here, but their virtue is lost amid the jovial shouts of the ex-jovials who still think Pericles is a sort of opera cloak. Is the common virtue a deep religion? Despite compulsory chapel and vespers, we suspect there are a few alumni here today who allot matters of religion to Sunday and let it go at that. Perhaps the thing which sets us apart is humility. Wait—we detect the brash tones of someone here in the crowd who has made a fool of his rival textile mill and is more than anxious to let his audience hear about it. A love of humanity is what many will suggest as the summum bonum of a Davidson education. But here in the throng is a doctor who at the core of his inner being is more interested in collecting his bills than in what physical or mental health he imparts to his patients. No, a love of humanity is something that an individual must develop on his own. Surely every Davidson man is honest. Few of our graduates, we admit, turn to the path of civil crime. How many on the other hand are totally honest with themselves? How many force themselves to unbiased judgments out of a pure love of honesty? “Why,” pipes up a squeaky voice from a blue serge suit and vest, “I know every one of my classmates is reliable.” “Well, everyone of yours may be, buster, but not every one of mine,” answer too many voices to enumerate. As we progress through the list of virtues we find none which can be attributed collectively to the men of old D.C. What is it that this institution inculcates in all its men? We believe the quality that sets the Davidson man apart from the students of other schools and colleges is the fact that he has a rather acute sense of moral responsibility. He believes there is a right and that he can attain it. Obviously from the above, he does not always do so, but deeply ingrained upon his code of ethics is a sense of “ought.” It's a thing which makes him almost involuntarily say “That's not right!” He may not say it aloud, but at least for a while he thinks it. We cannot but feel that this is the virtue which is most desperately needed before a man is prepared for life in the outer world. This is not to excuse the curriculum as it stands now and mitigate the complaints of business majors who say they aren't getting the preparation they could at Carolina or Harvard.

(Continued On Page Four)

FROM THE EDITOR'S MAILBOX: Purpose Of The Campus Club Necessitates Its Continued Existence on the D.C. Campus

Dear Editor: I want to thank you for making available to me the columns of your paper to clarify a common misconception that exists on the campus concerning the purpose of the Campus Club. I had hoped that our position would have become self-evident, but recent conversations with faculty and student leaders have convinced me that such a statement is necessary. Four times since last April representatives of national fraternities have encouraged us to reorganize as a local fraternity and petition their groups. Four times we have declined—not because we oppose fraternities, but because we feel that a real need exists to make available to non-fraternity men a medium of fellowship on a basis of open membership. It would not be possible to have such an organization within the framework of a national fraternity. Therefore we have chosen to remain autonomous. Freedom of voluntary association or the right of one individual to choose his associates and exclude from them anyone he deems undesirable is basic to our democracy. The nature of our fraternity system is such that it could not be effective unless something were done to see that a relative degree of congeniality exists among the group. I believe that the process of selection is justified as used at Davidson. Yet we cannot abandon the non-fraternity students here to their own fate. Some provision must be made for these men to participate in athletic, social, and humanitarian activities. It is just as necessary for them as for anyone else to have friends, to join group activities of one kind and another with their fellow students, and to enjoy all the other benefits which come to the members of a social organization such as a college fraternity. It was a realization of this necessity that was responsible for the formation of the Campus Club five years ago. The need has been lessened by the establishment of two additional social fraternities, but it will not be eliminated by the establishment of another. If simply adding fraternities would solve the problem, there would be a chapter of Sigma Nu at Davidson, and a local fraternity petitioning DKE, both off-shoots of the Campus Club.

Respectfully yours, ED BLANTON, President The Campus Club.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1952 By JOHN OTTLEY

D. C. Imparted Distinct Virtue To Each Paunchy Homecomer

Ours is not a frame of mind that is antagonistic to or different from those of our classmates. We share and respect their enthusiasm for their own particular organizations. In every respect of major importance the Campus Club is like the fraternities at Davidson. The differences are minor—our location is not on fraternity court, we have an English title, we are not affiliated with a national organization, and finally, we have open membership. What has given me cause for concern was the assumption made by members of the faculty and administration, as well as by students, that we intend to affiliate with a national fraternity whenever the opportunity presents itself. Either they are unfamiliar with our organization or they believe we are insincere when we maintain it is our conviction that there is a definite need for the Campus Club at Davidson, and that only when a better way is found to meet the need will we seriously consider affiliation.

Respectfully yours, ED BLANTON, President The Campus Club.

ONLY TIME WILL TELL

THE MAN SAID IN 48 HOURS THERE WOULDN'T BE A MOUSE IN THE HOUSE

ONLY TIME WILL TELL HOW GOOD A MOUSE IS, AND ONLY TIME WILL TELL ABOUT A CIGARETTE!

TAKE YOUR TIME... MAKE THE SENSIBLE 30-DAY CAMEL MILDNESS TEST. SEE HOW CAMELS SUIT YOU AS YOUR STEADY SMOKE!

CAMEL leads all other brands by billions of cigarettes per year! R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.

LOOK AT THOSE CLAWS! A VERITABLE TIGER...OF THE FELIS GO-GETTEM TYPE! GO GET 'EM, TIGE! I KNOW YOU CAN DO IT!

Smoke CAMELS for 30 days and find out why CAMELS are America’s most popular cigarette. To find out why, test them as your steady smoke. Smoke only Camels for thirty days. See how rich and flavorful they are—pack after pack! See how mild CAMELS are—week after week!