With baseball, tennis, and track grabbing all the space in the papers, not much has been heard on the progress
of Davidson’s 1952 gridders as they go through off-season drills. And as far as Coach Bill Dole is concerned, that’s
as it should be. The new Cat football mentor has been quietly conducting spring practice for sixteen days now, slowly
rounding his squad into shape for his debut in the annual Southern Conference Heartbreak Ball next September. In order to
avoid having his men completely dehydrated by the scorching May sun, Dole resorted in the middle of this week to
having the Cats work out at night under the lights on Richardson Field. So far, the experiment has proved successful,
both in improving morale and bettering the performance of the squad in scrimmages. If the Wildcats don’t know the fundamentals
of football by the time they take the field against V.P.I. here September 20, it won't be Dole’s fault. He
has devoted practically the whole spring session to blocking, tackling, and the other basic essentials of a good football team.
On the other hand, he hasn't been entirely neglecting the development of an offense. His basic formation is a Split-T,
not a great deal different from Crowell Little’s lineup, but he utilizes a Notre Dame box behind his line in
addition to the conventional T backfield. What will the Cats rely on principally to gain the ground for first downs
next year? “We've got a good, hard-running fullback in Henry Brown,” says Dole. “But we won't rely principally on a
cunning attack. With a team as small and with as little depth as Davidson has, that would be foolish. We'll
throw the ball a lot next year. I have always played a wide-open game, and next year’s Wildcats will be
that kind of team.” That puts the big load squarely on the shoulders of quarterback Jack Ruth, whose aerials can
make or break the Cats next fall. In case of injury to Ruth, Dan McCall will be the man to
step in. Freshman John Archer, Number 2 man in the QB slot last fall, won’t return to Davidson in September.
On the receiving end of these tosses, Dole has Dick Kelly and Gene Pierce, both rising seniors. The shifting of
Pierce, who has played at the guard and tackle slots for the past two seasons, has proved highly successful so
far. As for defense on the flanks, Dole isn’t sure yet who his men will be. At the tackles, Ben
Craig and Bob Loy have been turning in good performances. Dole has high hopes that Harry Peterson, the giant South
Carolinian who was hurt in pre-season drills last fall, will have sufficiently recovered from a knee injury to hold down
one of the tackle slots in September. Looking good in the guard slots have been Charlie Cousar, Dickie Davis, and
Bob Patton. Dole isn't at all certain about his center, since first stringer Arnold Whisnant hasn't been doing any scrimmage
because of a broken nose suffered in baseball a few weeks ago. Dick Perkins, linebacker on the '51 team, will
probably see extensive service at this post next fall. In the backfield, things are still pretty wide open. In addition
to Brown, Ruth, and McCall, several others have shown capability though there have been few spectacular runs ripped off in
scrimmage. Freshman Jim Thacker, still nursing a serious shoulder separation suffered last fall, has been going through light drills only,
running plays in dummy scrimmage. The key to a winning season, after all other factors have been considered, can be
summed up in one important (Continued On Page Four) this spring, not much!

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Dehydrating Gridders Finish Spring Drills Under Lights

Wildcat Sports

SPORTS SECTION FRIDAY, MAY 9, 1952

ATHLETES FETED MONDAY NIGHT PAGE THREE

TENNIS TOURNAMENT BEGINS THURSDAY

Wildcat of the Week . . . Bill Shipley

Senior-Faculty Day Sees Competition In 4 Events

By THEO FEILD

After four years of “blood and tears," the Class of '52 finally gets a chance to show the faculty how
things are done outside their classrooms. The undergrads and the profs meet head-on Wednesday afternoon in the annual Senior-Faculty Day
competition. The annual affair will include four athletic contests. These are in golf, tennis, softball, and volleyball. After these events
are over, the participants will gather at Erwin Lodge for a weiner roast. Coach Pete Whittle is in charge of
the faculty team. Letters have been sent out to all the members explaining the situation and asking for their services.
Whittle seemed very pleased with the response from the letters. All members of the senior class are eligible to compete
in Wednesday’s events. Those boys who have received athletic awards are not allowed to take part in the events in
which they received their letters, but may offer their skills in other games. Starting off the day will be the
golf matches. These will be (Continued On Page Four)

Wade to Speak To Athletes At Sports Feed

By TAD CURRIE

Jake Wade, sports publicity director at the University of North Carolina, will be the main speaker at the second annual
Davidson College all-sports banquet which will be held on Monday evening in Johnston Gym. Plans for the dinner were revealed
this week by Davidson Athletic Director Paul Scott, who hopes to make the event a really fine affair. Wade, a
former sports editor of the Charlotte Observer, is a well-known figure around Davidson, having sent two sons, Jake, Jr., and
Ham, to Davidson. The idea for an all-sports banquet was begun last year in an effort to consolidate the many
small affairs that were being held to honor each team. All Davidson men who participated in intercollegiate ath- (Continued On
Page Four)

Cindermen Close Season With N.C. State At Raleigh

By JOHN HANDLEY

Tomorrow afternoon the 1952 Davidson cindermen will travel to Raleigh to meet the powerful N.C. State Wolfpack for the final
meet of the regular season. State is strong in almost all of the 15 events and will provide some of
the stiffest competition thrown at the Cats this season. The men of the Red and Black shone even in defeat
against Clemson last weekend in running, by far, their best meet of the season. Six of the Wildcat thinclads ran
their best times of the season, making it a hotly contested, fast meet all the way; one of which Davidsonians
can justly be proud. The score of last week's meet was a very close 69½ to 61½ count. Coach Whittle
was high in his praises of his Wildcats after the Clemson encounter. Dick Stockton, Bill Shipley, Bob Henry, and Frank
Mitchener all came through with their fastest times of the year in placing first in their respective events. Bill White
and Buddy MacKay both ran their best times also, but each was nosed out in his hurdle event to take
a very close second. The Cats took seven first spots, a tie for first, and a total of twenty placed
in the entire meet. Those taking firsts were: Bill McNeely (45' 2½") in the shot put; Dick Stockton (4:39.5) in
the mile; Bill Shipley (51.7) in the 440; Bill McNeely (130' 5") in the discus; Bob Henry (2:03) in the
880; Frank Mitchener (22.7) in the 220; Bob Poston (10' 6") in a four-way tie in the pole vault, and
the mile relay team (J. V. Howell, Bob Henry, Bill Russell, and Bill Shipley—3:30.7) in the relay. In winning the
relay event with their 3:30.7 time, the relay team broke the record for the local track which stood at 3:32.
The old record was set last year (Continued On Page Four)

Chesterfield SPORTS QUIZ

What is the name of the winning horse in the Kentucky Derby last Saturday and who was the jockey?

Who is the current leading in Room E East (basement),

SHIPLEY ... the gazelle has been antedated

By DICK LILES

In the fall of 1950 when the annual Frosh Cake Race had been run over the usual tough course and
the red-faced and tired crew assembled for their rewards, Pete Whittle was not the least bit reticent to awardThe huge
cake that was to go to the first man, because he could see that the winner would “bring home the
bacon” in years to come. Last Saturday Bilt Shipley lived up to all expectations and caused Coach Whittle to heap
high praises on him. “That $1.7 440 is the best he’s ever done, but before Shipley leaves Davidson, I want
him to break our record (50.6) and I think he'll do it. “I’m taking him to the conference meet and
expect him to do great things,” is the way it went in an interview with Whittle after the Clemson meet.

Frosh Records
Saturday was not the only time that eyes have been cast proudly toward the lean, always-smiling Shipley. Last year, his
freshman year, he was a member of the freshman cross-country team and set two important course records that year. Besides
making the varsity look silly by cracking the existing Davidson course record with a 12.025-minute scamper, he went to Pfieffer
Junior College and broke their course record and set a new record for junior colleges to shoot for in the
state. Also last year for Ray Brown's frosh team, he went undefeated in the two running events that he entered
in every meet. He carried the Kittens to victories in the 440 and 880 and also was anchor man on
the once-beaten relay team and broad-jumped in his spare time.

Steady Winner
This year the likable Signia Chi has been the steady 440 man and anchor man on the highly successful relay
team as well as broad-jumping sometime and running the 880 when the call came. Coach Whittle continued, “He really has
been the anchor man in the true sense of the word on that relay team. Some of the victories we've
copped would not have been so, if it had not been for Shipley’s great stamina and burst of speed. We're
expecting great things of him before he leaves Davidson.” And so our Wildcat of the Week truly deserves the honor
that has been bestowed on him and it is with all hope that the Asheville, N. C., boy will continue
in the conference meet and in the years to come, the precedent that he has set as a sophomore; a
winner.

KAPPA SIGS OR PHI GAMS? Race For Cup Goes To Wire
By WALLACE ABBOTT
The 1952 interfraternity sports season is practically all over except for the shouting, which will be done next Tuesday in
chapel when Coach Whittle announces the final overall standings in the year’s race. At the present time it appears that
the winner of the cup will be either the Kappa Sigs or the Phi Gams. Both of these teams are
very close in the point total, and the winner will not be known until varsity participation is computed. Close behind
both of these teams and still standing an outside chance are the KA’s and Phi Delts.

SOFTBALL
W L
SPE's 10 1
Phi Gams 10 1
KA 9 2
PS 8 3
Phi Delts 6 5
Sigma Chis 5 6
Betas 4 7

Winners of last week’s quiz were Tom Lamb, Max Morrison, Ralph Holt, Bill Minter and Jack Joyner. Remember that awards
of two packs of Chesterfields are being made to the first five students who turn in correct answers on an
empty Chesterfield wrapper to Charlie Hall. For the SPE’s it was the consistently good pitching of Perry Daniels and the
strong hitting of Horace Ball, Bill Rabb, Leighton McGill, and a host of others that pulled them through. Among the
co-champions were pitcher Ben Groseclose and heavy hitters Matt Moore and Charlie Hall.

Conference Aces Convene To Compete For Net Crown
The Southern Conference tennis tournament begins on the local courts Thursday afternoon with the best netmen the member schools can
offer competing for the title won last year by North Carolina's aggregation. Davidson Coach Derrick Barton expects larger participation in
this year’s tourney than in the 1951 event, which was also held here. Duke, Davidson, North Carolina, and William and
Mary appeared to get the top seeded positions for the tournament, as all four have posted good records for the
current season. Barton's Wildcat netmen, not yet back from a week-long Northern trip, will have only a short rest before
entering the hot tournament competition. The Cats lost to Harvard and Princeton early this week, then defeated Wesleyan Wednesday.

The men the Cats will be competing with make a formidable list. They include Tommy Boys and Ronnie Barnes of
William and Mary; Kes Deimling and John Schellenger of Duke; Del Sylvia, Herbie Browne, and Tommy Payne of North Carolina.
Against these men Derrick Barton will pit Wildcat standouts Lacy Keesler, Dewey Keesler, John Bremer and Allan Strand. Davidson is
banking heavily on freshman and sophomore talent to bring the tennis crown back here. The crown was last won by
the Cats in 1950 with the top combination of Bo Roddey and Whit Cobb. Since his graduation from Davidson Roddey
has become North Carolina singles champion. In addition to the above-named teams, others who will enter the play Thursday are
South Carolina and Washington and Lee. North Carolina State is also expected to send a delegation. The man to watch
in the singles event is Tommy Boys of William and Mary. He was eliminated last year in the semi-finals, but
has been burning up the courts of the conference this season, and is the man to beat.

Wildcat Golfers To Winston-Salem For Tournament
Coach Elgin White's Wildcat golfers journey to Winston-Salem next Friday to compete in the Southern Conference tournament held in that
city. Going into the tourney with a 4-4 record in conference competition, the Cat linksmen stood to be seeded no
higher than fourth at the beginning of the first day’s play. Men competing in the tournament for Davidson are Graeme
Keith, Lew Barnes, Bob Brannon, Al Fitzgerald, Mac McLean, and Jim Sloan. Though they have only a .500 record in
conference play, the Cats will be riding the crest of an impressive win over South Carolina this past Tuesday. They
whipped the S. C. golfers 19½ to 17½ as sophomore Bobby Brannon toured the tough Myers Park course in 68
strokes, four under par. Davidson's team average, a convincing 74, was enough to make them bear watching in the proceedings
Friday and Saturday. The overall mark for the Davidson's linksmen shows five wins against seven losses, including three early lickings
from Florida teams during a spring vacation tour.

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS — IT PAYS!

THESE STAMINA-TESTED SPALDING MADE TENNIS BALLS HAVE TOP RATING IN CHAMPIONSHIP TENNIS. SPALDING AND WRIGHT & DITSON IS THE ONLY
OFFICIAL BALL OF THE USLTA NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIPS SINCE 1927... OFFICIAL CUP MATCH BALL. THEY ARE PLAYED IN MORE MAJOR TOURNAMENTS
THAN ALL OTHER TENNIS BALLS COMBINED. FOR A SHARPER GAME... PLAY THE TWINS OF CHAMPIONSHIP TENNIS.
