Last week may be looked at as having been rather a dismal one for Davidson from a number of different
ways, and in contrast to the belief that the win over Carolina could cure all evils, it was a great
win and restored confidence in both the players and the students. But one game like that cannot possibly offset the
loss that this college withstood when Coach Crowell Little resigned as head football coach to go into private business. Much
can be said about the past few years both pro and con, but the fact still remains that ex-Coach Little
added a great deal to the football situation at Davidson. True, he had two bad seasons here since he relieved
“Jolly Charley” Jamerson in the Spring of 1950, and at numerous times, just as with any group that loses, there
has been dissatisfaction and lack of support from the campus.

NEW LIFE?...NEW BLOOD...WILDCAT CLUB

However, from the very first day, you could tell that Little was an “eager-beaver” and Davidson immediately and under his
direction entered into a new era of athletic policy. Coach Little went right to work on the support he needed
to take Davidson to the place it deserved on the ladder of sports participation and formed the composite “Wildcat Club”
composed of Davidson alumni who were interested in supporting athletics at their alma mater and organized in the leading cities
of the area. This was something new for Davidson and although the instigators of the policy knew that it would
take a long time, they felt that they had accomplished something that would profit in the future. They were able
to raise about $25,000 a year for use as scholarships for boys with athletic ability and without means of attending
a college. Also, Coach Little went to work on recruiting, but with his fund short as yet, couldn't produce a
championship team in one year. His second year turned out worse and with all the quarterback’s ideas, you still have
to consider that at the end of the season only nine of his starting eleven in September had dropped out
because of injuries. The competition cannot be sneezed at either. And still, he brought in some of the finest ball
players that the college has seen lately. Only time will bear me out on this.

POPULARITY STRONG ON CAMPUS

Despite the losses and the grumblings you might have heard, the boys who played under Little expressed their feelings toward
him personally in a recent meeting of last year's team. The boys almost to a man told their petty gripes
and he in return explained the reason he was leaving was not because of any recent discontent, but because of
the wonderful opportunity that had been offered him. They all left the meeting with a rousing vote of confidence for
their coach and a petition to go along with it urging his staying.

MAY HAVE HIT SNAGS

It is very evident that although the business deal swung Coach Little around, he probably felt that he couldn't have
done much more than was already done toward improving the athletic policy because of the concrete rules and regulations of
the college and various other factors both on the faculty and among the alumni. When the “sanity code” disappeared from
the intercollegiate scene, Davidson's code was kept on and even “improved” on. Things like that are nightmares to coaches who
are supposed to win. At any rate, Davidson has been left with the job of hiring a new head coach
and a problem that can’t be solved by the new coach or anyone else with no more power than he
will get. Coach Little’s leaving has been felt by everyone on the campus and the general consensus is that he
did a swell job and his leaving will hurt. Let’s just hope that his successor will do half the job
he did on keeping the Wildcat Club up and of putting out a spirited, even if losing, team that will
make all Davidsonians happy.

Pearl Grey Flannels
100% Wool
$13.95
Wilson-Wright's “Collegiate Fashions”
Davidson, N. C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Wildcat Sports
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 1952

“BONES” BOWS OUT IN SPOTLIGHT

PAGE THREE

Competition Carolina AA Maryland, Loyola Hosts To Hot And Cold Cats In Finale

By JOHN HANDLEY

A sojourn northward to Maryland is the order of the weekend for Davidson's basketballers as they wind up the season.
Loyola in Baltimore tonight and the University of Maryland tomorrow wraps up the 51-52 schedule for Coach Baird’s quintet.

Hot In Meet Craven Places Title On Block; Meets Marine

By BO TYNES

For the second consecutive year Davidson College is host to the WILDCAT OF THE WEEK. When William Brooks reflects on
the Good Old Days about thirty years from now, we will offer odds that his first thoughts will be on
his achievements as one of Boyd Baird’s Wildcat basketballers. Although his team didn’t approach the .500 mark in season's play
during either of his last two years on the varsity, the hustling Kentuckian will carry the good record of leading
his teammates in the scoring column during both those campaigns on the hardwood. The angular athlete from Frankfort, Ky., copped
Cat scoring honors last season with a point total of 345 and a game average of 13.2. Though a little
behind his 50-51 schedule, “Bones” still led.

The invasion of Maryland is the first and last one of the season, and also marks the lone occasion on
which the Cats meet either of the two teams. Baird’s charges will enter both contests as decided underdogs, although neither
of the opposing clubs rank too high nationally. Though finishing the current season well down in the Southern Conference standings,
the 1951-52 Davidson basketballers will not soon be forgotten after their sparkling play against Duke's high-flying Blue Devils on last
Tuesday night. Even though finding themselves on the short end of a 58-50 count at the final horn, the Cats
made their last home game of the season one of their better, if not their best, played contests of the
year. It took Groat and company 25 minutes of hard play to pull ahead for the first time of the
evening. The Wildcats led at the end of the first quarter by a 14-9 count. The score was knotted at
23-23 at half time and only midway in the third period did the “control-minded” Cats fall behind at the end
of that stanza by a close 38-36 score.

Dudley Led Cat Attack

Joe Dudley led the Wildcat attack with 12 markers, while Mac McLean and Al Fitzgerald each bagged 10, followed by
Bill Brooks and Jerry King with 9 each. Mac, “Fitz,” and Bill, all seniors, played their last home game in
a Davidson uniform and compiled a total of 29 points. All three have been starters the entire season and will
be hard to replace when next season rolls around.

Kappa Sigs Hold Slim Lead As Season Nears End

By WALLACE ABBOTT

At the end of the next to last week of intramural basketball, the Kappa Sigs are still in first place
in the standings. Their record remains at 7-1 with only a defeat by the KA’s to mar it. However, close
on the heels of the Kappa Sigs, with only two defeats, are the Pikas and the Sigma Chis. Because the
Pikas and Kappa Sigs have not yet played, it looks like that game may be the deciding one as far
as the championship goes. In third place this week are the KA’s, who possess a 7-3 season record, and behind
them in 4th place are the Phi Gams with a 5-4 record.

Hot Games On Tap

With only one more week remaining in the basketball season, it appears certain that there will be some mighty close
games on tap, since all of the teams will be out to improve their records. Going into the final week,
the individual scoring record shows that Bill Bivins, of the Phi Delts, has taken over the scoring lead with 152
points for nine games. Close on his heels is...

Carolina AAU Wrestling Tournament. Johnston Gymnasium is to be the center of the activities, the first round matches being held
tonight at 8 p.m. Most of last year’s final medalists are returning to face an excellent crop of new contenders.
Competition will be more highly spirited than that of last year’s, incited by the growing popularity of wrestling in this
state.

By JACK EFIRDSeveral Wildcat Entries

Davidson's Wildcat baseballers will open a 17-game slate against Springfield College here March 17, Athletic Director Paul Scott announced today.
The season will end May 10 against Furman.

For the second consecutive year, the Cats will open the season with a new coach. This year Dave Poole replaces
Frank Packard.

Forty On Squad

The present squad numbers more than forty hopefuls. With this quantity of material to choose from, Poole should come up
with a good team to improve last year’s record of two wins in fifteen games.

The pitching staff probably will be led by lettermen Paul Eastman and Jim Smith. Behind these men will be returnee
Vic Taylor and several men without varsity experience. Soph Johnny Smith and frosh Ish Bennett are high on Poole’s list
of prospects.

Downs Is Receiver

Catching the deliveries of this mound corps probably will be letterman Bert Downs, who shared the backstopping chores last year
with two other men, but should move up to take over the No. 1 post this year.

Returning to three positions in the infield are lettermen from last year. At first base is Arnold Whisnant who is
a fancy fielder and a heavy hitter. At the keystone sack is Johnny Guiton, who will again cover the ground
between first and second capably. At shortstop is Chuck Elliott who is again ready to hold the position which he
held last year. Third base is one of the positions to be filled by a new man. All of those
who played in the hot corner last year have graduated. Any member of the squad could take (Continued On Page
Four)

Diamond Nine Opens 17-Game Slate March 17

Davidsonians will have a particular interest in this tourney because of the promising outlook afforded by several members of the
Cat aggregation.

In defending his 128-pound AAU title, D.C.’s Gene Craven will meet ready and capable opposition in Camp Lejeune's Ed Hanson
in the 136.5-pound division. Incidentally, all weight classifications have been revised, 125.5 pounds replacing 121, 136.5 replacing 128, etc. Morley
Vail will be a strong contender for the 146.5 title, with Bill McNeely, last year's runner-up, somewhat of a favorite
in his heavyweight position. Johnny Buxton will also try to go all the way in the 160.5 scramble. At present,
two divisions seem to be fairly wide open; they are the 174 and 191.5-pound classes. Bobby Joe Key and Charlie
Murray will be the Cat hopes at the 114.5 and 125.5 divisions respectively. Although Camp Lejeune and Appalachian are favored,
Tournament Chairman Paul K. Scott has visions of a possible upset by his Wildcat grapplers.

Olympic Rules Utilized

The officiating will be conducted so as to comply with the International (Olympic) Rules for Wrestling. The rules are vastly
different from those used in conventional matches, making faster and more interesting bouts from the spectators' viewpoint. The changes will
affect the length and number of periods, types of holds, and requirements for pinning.

Mrs. Walter Oakes, registrar for the tourney, has announced that thus far there are fifty-one entries listed. The entries include
participants from Camp Lejeune, Appalachian, N.C. State, Boone High School, and (Continued On Page Four)

Team Spirit Was Key To Catfish Success — Redding

By TAD CURRIE

Team spirit. These two words can sum up the reasons behind the winning season of the Davidson Catfish which drew
to a close last Monday afternoon with a thrilling victory over the Citadel, and gave the Davidson team a season’s
record of six wins and four losses.

It has only been three years since the first meet was held in the Johnston gym pool and the Catfish
have come a long way under the able tutelage of Coach Dick Redding. According to Coach Redding it was “Team
spirit, individual encouragement of each other in workouts, unity of desire, and the will to do better every time,” that
paid off in a winning season.

It was hard work and expert leadership by Captain Ken Taylor, whom Redding calls one of the best he has
ever seen at Davidson, that won the close ones and made the difference. Last night most of the team left
for Chapel Hill and the Southern Conference meet in which the men will participate as individuals and not as a
team. The competition will be stiff but the Davidson swimmers should come through with their share of the honors.

Best bet for a winner will be Al Ormond in the 150-meter event, but Paul Cole should also be in
there fighting. Other team members who have excellent chances of winning or placing are Aubrey Miree in the 50-yard dash
in which he will be defending the trophy which Bill Ray won last year. Captain Taylor will swim with Miree
in the 50-yard freestyle, Jim Bryan will try for a win in the 100-200 backstroke event and Ed Stuart and
Bob Patton will swim the 100-yard event. Other team members who will be trying for wins are Bud Montgomery and
George Crone who will try the 100-yard breast, 100-yard medley and 200-yard breast.

The meet, which lasts till Saturday night, will mark the final swimming efforts for Davidson by Captain Taylor and Miree
and their loss will be a big factor in next year's season. Taylor and Miree will be missed, but a
determined team with the same spirit as this year could repeat and give Davidson another winning team, of which she
has too few.

Bivins’ heels are Phi Gam’s Larry Champion and the KA’s George King, both with a 143-point total. Bivins is now
sporting a 17 points per game average, while Champion is averaging 16 points and King is averaging 14.3 points.

Standings

Kappa Sigs .......... 7 1
Sigma Chis .......... 6 2
KA’s ................ 7 3
Phi Gams ............ 5 4
Pi Kapps ............ 4 5
Betas ............... 4 5
Phi Delts ........... 4 6
SPE’s ............... 2 6
ATO’s ............... 1 6
SAE’s ............... 0 6

After all the Mildness Tests...

Camel leads all other brands by millions

THE WEEK - - - Bill Brooks

Bill Brooks and all his teammates going into tonight’s game with Loyola, sporting a 286 total for a 12.4 average.
Laboring under the handicap of a very good freshman year, Bill has found the going rough as far as pleasing
the fans who seemingly expected a 100 percent improvement every year. Though he hasn't set any conference records, Brooks has
continually been the backbone of a Wildcat quintet which might have done considerably worse than they have without him.

Though he naturally enjoys seeing his point total climb every game, Brooks puts the team’s welfare above his without any
hesitation. His mates paid him the tribute of electing him captain of the Cat five this year—an honor which goes
strictly to team players.

A natural aggressiveness and an inability to keep his lanky six-three frame out of opponents’ way has caused Mr. Bones
to foul out of several contests during the season, hurting the Cats’ chances no little. It is doubtful that he'll
soon forget the applause he has received on such occasions—or any of the accompanying moans which were forthcoming when the
fans realized that the backbone of the Davidson five had left the game for good.

Tomorrow night in College Park, Maryland, Bill Brooks will play on the Cat five that rings down the curtain on
the hoop sport as far as Davidson is concerned, and basketball will soon be forgotten. But they’ll miss Mr. Bones
next year.
