Fraternities To Give Annual Barium Springs Party Thursday Night

STUDENT ATTITUDE PROBED BY R. WILSON (See Page Two)

GRTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UB)

1952. DAVIDSONIAN “GIMME” EDITION

VOLUME XLI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1952

SPECIAL PLAY Frosh Fate BY MASQUERS. Falls To Fatall;

The eleven social fraternities and the Campus Club will play host to the boys and girls from Barium Springs next
Thursday, December 11. As has been the custom in the past, each fraternity will entertain a certain age group ranging
up to the seventh grade. These groups will arrive at approximately 7:15 p.m., and will remain on the campus until
about 9:30.

This year the Red and Black Masquers will present a play, “Why the Chimes Rang,” in Chambers Auditorium at 7:30
for the entertainment of the kids. The cast will be: Kerry Spiers as Steen, Bob Mims as Hogle, Vance Mizelle
as Uncle Bertel, and Peggy Whittle as Old Woman. The play will be under the direction of F.G. Currie, and
will be open to the public as well as students at no charge.

At 8:00 each group will go to the designated fraternity house where refreshments will be served. Santa Claus will visit
each house and distribute each individual gift. The parties will close about 9:15.

Club Plans Dance, Elects Officers

Holding its first meeting of the year last Monday after chapel, the Davidson-Charlotte Club, with about 60 students present, elected
officers for the club year, and made tentative plans for their main project, which is to be a Christmas dance.

Every year with the Christmas season a new organization comes to life on the Davidson College campus. This organization is
usually short-lived and goes into oblivion after the Christmas holidays are over. Its main purpose is to give Davidson students
who live in Charlotte social fellowship with friends from other colleges and with each other over the Christmas holidays. To
be eligible for membership a person must be a student at Davidson whose home is in Charlotte or immediate surrounding
areas.

The new officers are T. W. Aldred, president and Floyd (Continued On Page Four)

Require Exams.

Princeton — The Graduate Record Examinations, required of applicants for admission to a number of graduate schools, will be administered
at examination centers throughout the country three times in the coming year, Educational Testing Service has announced. Next semester candidates
may take the GRE on Friday and Saturday, January 30 and 31, April 17 and 18, July 10 and 11.
ETS advises each applicant to inquire of the graduate school of his choice which of the examinations he should take
and on which dates. Applicants for graduate school fellowships should ordinarily take the designated examinations in the fall administration.

Professor Jay Ostwalt said that he will administer the tests at Davidson on the January 30-31 date only. The GRE
tests offered in these nationwide programs include a test of general scholastic ability, tests of general achievements in six (Continued
On Page Four)

LIFE SNUBBED D. C. CO-ED, RETURNS TO PAY HER DUE

Mrs. Tom Daggy, secretary to Dean Bailey, was rather pleasantly surprised last Wednesday afternoon when Judy Holden, a Life magazine
correspondent, called the Dean’s office to get some information about Davidson's only co-ed, Mary McGill, whose father is the college
Bursar. It seems that upon reading Life's story about the one coed among some 900 boys at Colorado Mines, several
students wrote to Life, saying in substance, “They ain't got nothin’ on us.” The call from Life’s headquarters was due
to these letters.

Mrs. Daggy supplied all the pertinent information on Miss McGill's status as a Davidson coed, including her courses, plans for
a major, etc. No information was forthcoming from Life as to how they planned to use this information in a
story, but Mrs. Daggy surmised from her conversation with Miss Holden that it would be used in the “Letters to
Editor” column.

These Are The Guys You're Helping - 3rd ROKA Hospital: Dr. Torrey, the man who is credited with having begun
the movement, with quadruple, bilateral leg and bilateral arm amputee.

Contest: Tues.

Will the freshmen be able to discard their crimson headgear forever or will they be compelled to wear the hated
beanies until the end of the first semester? Freshman-Sophomore day will answer the question. On Tuesday, December 9, at 3:45
p.m., the annual freshman-sophomore competitive games and festivities will get under way on Richardson Field. If the freshman teams win
two out of the three events, then all the freshmen are free to burn their hats and go bareheaded as
they please. But woe to the frosh if they lose. Judge Barry of the Court of Control stated that he
expected the freshmen to show lots of spirit and that if they didn’t “it will be too bad for them.”

The first event will be a football game played according to inter-fraternity rules; the game will see a determined freshman
eleven captained by Moffet Ware and Joe Billy Pharr pitted against the forces of the sophomore crew. From the numerous
varsity football players and the fraternity ball handlers, the freshman class should be able to collect a potent team capable
of giving the sophomores a run for their money. During the half time, a 400-yard relay track event will be
staged. Bill Morris, a junior class member, is to be in charge of selecting four speedy freshmen to run on
the relay team. Immediately following the football game, the battle of beef and brawn—the tug of war— will take place.
Big Bilt Taylor will lead a heavy (Continued On Page Four)

Dean Is IFC Rep In New York City

Dean John C. Bailey attended as the representative from Davidson the National Interfraternity Conference in its forty-fourth annual session November
27-29 at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York City. Sixty national social fraternities are represented on the NIC, including all
of those having chapters at Davidson. In all, 3100 individual chapters are represented which have a total active membership of
1,365,571 men.

The meeting opened on Thursday, the 27th, with registration, undergraduate conferences and an informal social period for all delegates. Friday
saw the first formal meeting, at which time the Conference officers made their reports, committees were announced and introduced, and
reports of special and standard committees were heard. A panel discussion on the subject of “Fraternity Scholarship” followed.

On Friday afternoon individual round table discussions were held on such topics as: “The Purpose, Objectives and Functions of the
NIC,” “A Survey of Help Week and Greek Week,” “A Survey of the Business Side of Fraternity,” “A Survey of
the Attention Given to Spiritual Values and Fraternity Fundamentals in the Undergraduate Chapters and Alumni Clubs,” and “Alumni Interfraternities Councils.”

Saturday morning a business session was held, after which the meeting was adjourned. Chairman of the NIC is Charles E.
Pledger, Jr.; vice chairman is C. R. Yeager. Included among the Conference's standing committees are those on scholarship, Greek Week,
finances and budget, and ideals and spiritual inspiration. There are also special committees concerned with combating Communism, deferred rushing, awards,
and cooperation with the American Red Cross Blood Drive.

NUMBER TEN

BLOOD DRIVE STARTS WEDNESDAY

Amputees Need Told By Tragic Korean Reports

By CHARLIE HASSELL

There is a need. “Tragic terrified eyes blinking to restrain tears stared through the mass of bandages. The lad, about
ten years old, sat tensely by his mother on a bench in the hall of the Taegu Presbyterian Hospital. What
little could be seen of his face through the bandages was lacerated and streaked with blood. Vainly he tried to
conceal his arms and their blood-soaked wrappings. The left hand was gone above the wrist. Several fingers were missing from
the right hand. The anguish of those frightened suffering eyes haunted me. Shock, agony, and hopelessness were etched in the
lines of the child's face. Then his eyes caught sight of the hook at the end of my mechanical arm
as it opened and closed on a notebook. He was fascinated. With such a contraption maybe he could do something.
Maybe he would be less of a burden to his parents. Maybe — maybe — life might be worth living
after all. This boy, who had picked up a discarded missile in the fields, was only one of the growing
number of Korean children being mutilated by forgotten land mines, hand grenades and unexploded shells that infest the fields and
hillsides ofKorea. Little bodies mutilated by high explosives, pitiful, grotesque faces resulting from napalm burns have touched the hearts of
the United Nations soldiers. They have raised a fund to help rehabilitate these innocent victims of war. Your gifts are
needed too.” The above was written by Dr. Reuben A. Torrey, director of the Korean Rehabilitation Project. This is just
one example of the pressing need for a rehabilitation program in Korea. There are some 30,000 Korean war amputees, filling
hospitals and crowding the streets of Korea's cities and towns. “Little has been done for them and they are fortunate
if their wounds heal and a crutch or stick enables them to hobble out to swell the host of beggars,”
says Dr. Torrey. There are, unfortunately, appalling numbers of child amputees, such as those shown in the pictures, and scores
even (Continued On Page Four)

Three Win Prizes Shooting Turkeys

Members of the faculty, administration, and their families competed in the annual Turkey Shoot on November 21, sponsored by the
ROTC Department. In the men’s division, the hottest competition was among Professors Spencer, Morton, McCutchan, and McGavock. Professor McCutchan edged
out this competition to win in the division. The winner of the women’s division was Mrs. A. Heath Whittle. The
winner of the Turkey Mystery was also a woman, Mrs. John R. Cunningham. The Turkey Mystery consisted of shooting at
a picture of a turkey whose heart has been misplaced. The person hitting nearest the part where the turkey’s heart
had been placed won the contest. When Elgin White shot at the picture, his strategy, intentional or unintentional, was to
miss the whole picture. Mr. White won no prize since there were no booby prizes.

COMMITTEE AT WORK—Earnest Barry, head of the Y Gift Fund, is shown with his committee composed of: from left to
right, Mike Myers, Bill Hood, Charlie Hassell, and Leighton Green. The drive runs from Thursday of this week to next
Monday.

Hamilton Conducts ROTC Inspection

The ROTC department will undergo an informal inspection on Tuesday, November 9. This annual review will be conducted this year
by Colonel Raymond C. Hamilton, District Chief of the North Carolina Military District. He will be assisted by his chief.
Colonel Hamilton will inspect the ROTC building, rifle range, and all ROTC equipment and supplies and facilities. They will visit
ROTC classes throughout Tuesday morning, where all cadets will be in uniform. During the afternoon Colonel Hamilton and his staff
will inspect the drill program of the cadets. Col. Hamilton's son, Ben M. Hamilton, class of ‘50, is now serving
in the U.S. Infantry. While here he was a member of Scabbard and Blade and the Sigma Chi fraternity and
active in several other organizations.

Large Bequest Left To Davidson

Mr. W. Z. Stultz, the man for whom the sanctuary of the College Church is dedicated, has left the college
over one-fifth of his estate, according to the terms of his will. Mr. Stultz, a prominent Charlotte businessman and member
of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church, divided his estate among five institutions in this state of which Davidson is one.
In the Development program, Mr. and Mrs. Stultz were credited with the largest single donation to the college and in
their honor a plaque is soon to be placed in the church. His death in October, followed closely that of
his wife who died early in the summer. Dr. Cunningham assisted in the services of the funeral for Mr. Stultz.
The other institutions to which the estimated estate of one million dollars will be divided are: Queens College, Myers Park
Presbyterian Church, Barium Springs Orphanage, and the Methodist Children's Home in Winston-Salem. Long connected with the Reynolds Tobacco Co., Mr.
Stultz was an investment banker in the latter part of his life.

Cunningham Guest Of Navy On Tour

Dr. J. R. Cunningham has recently returned from spending three days as a guest of the United States Navy at
the Naval air base at Pensacola, Fla, and aboard the aircraft carrier USS Monterey. Traveling with fifteen men from the
Atlanta Naval District, North and South Carolina, and Georgia, the group joined some forty college presidents, bankers, publishers, and prominent
businessmen from all parts of the country to observe the air training program of the Navy. Dr. Cunningham, in an
interview, mentioned many interesting events on the tour and commented particularly on the efficiency of operations and training of the
Navy. He was somewhat amazed, however, at the apparent lack of concern over the loss of expensive equipment in training
exercises on these particular demonstrations. The Navy’s purpose for the tour was a part of a current program to better
acquaint the American public with the actual training and service of the Navy. The Navy has expressed a need for
more college graduates to enter this naval air program.

Clothing Drive Begins Monday

The Beaver Club clothing drive will start next Monday, December 8 and run through Saturday, December 13. Containers will be
placed in each dormitory for donations. With a goal of at least one article of clothing from each student, the
Beaver Club hopes to exceed last year’s total of 257 pounds. Summer clothes as well as winter clothes will be
collected. These summer clothes will be sent to the Philippines and the winter clothes to needy persons in Europe. Initiated
into the Beaver Club at the regular meeting Monday night were Bob Patten and Ben Craig. Besides the clothing drive
each year the Beaver Club, which is composed of juniors and sophomores, meets visiting athletic teams and entertains them.

VESPERS AND CHAPEL

December 7th, Dr. C. U. Broach, St. John’s Baptist Church, Charlotte, North Carolina, will be the speaker. Sunday, December 8th,
George Labban will be in charge of the devotional. Tuesday, December 9th, Buddy Lamon will be in charge of the
program and will introduce speakers from the ROTC Department on the Blood Drive. Wednesday, December 10th, Professor Peter Terwey, Jr.
of the Math Department, will have the devotional. Thursday, December 11th, Rev. Harley Williams, pastor of the Davidson Methodist Church,
has been asked to have the program. Friday, December 12th, Professor H. R. Shuford will have the devotional.

Y.C.A. GIFT FUND GOAL $4,500

Blood is the word as final preparations are being made by the Scabbard and Blade for the two-day stay of
the Red Cross Bloodmobile on the Davidson campus next Wednesday and Thursday, Dec. 10-11. This drive for blood donors is
the first of the year for the school and community, and a goal of 600 pints plus has been set
for the two days. Donations will begin at 11 a.m. on the morning of the tenth, and continue until about
5 p.m. that night. The next morning the doors of the gym will open at nine to begin another day
of blood-giving, and will stay open until all who wish to contribute have done so. Appointment sheets have been distributed
by the Scabbard and Blade to all the social fraternities and to the Campus Club. All students wishing to donate
have been asked to be sure that they have signed up for the time which is most convenient to them,
either on their fraternity appointment sheets, or elsewhere. Independents may sign up at the ROTC building at their convenience. This
must be done in order that the Red Cross and Scabbard and Blade may be able to handle the crowds
efficiently.

Letters Sent

Last week personal letters were distributed to all members of the student body calling to their attention the continued need
for blood, in whole plasma form, both in Korea and in this country for use where disaster strikes. Next Tuesday,
Scabbard and Blade members will canvass the Davidson community soliciting donors, and reminder cards will be given to those wishing
to give blood.

Asks Support

Buddy Lamon, the student chairman of the drive, has asked that all students under 21 years of (Continued On Page
Four)

Amputee Improvises His Own Legs

Lieut. Lee, double below knee amputee, walking perfectly on artificial legs made from aluminum from discarded gas tanks. In charge
of simple prosthetic shop at 31st R.O.K.A. Hospital. Mrs. E. Adams, Dr. Torrey, Col. Kim Nan Kyu, Com. Officer, Maj.
Lee Chong Duk, orthopedic lab.
