OLYMPIC HOPEFULS HERE THIS WEEKEND
Sports, Page 3

VOLUME XL

Davidsonians In Armed Forces

PFC. DAVID L. TORRENCE, a graduate of Davidson High School, and a student at Davidson College, voluntarily withdrew from college
in October '50. He was sent to Lackland Field, San Antonio, Texas, for basic training. Later he was transferred to
Tyndall Air Force Base in Florida. David enjoyed two trips home. In April '51, Pfc. Torrence again arrived in Texas,
this time at Shepherd Air Force Base, where he received a seven-month study course.

PFC. JOE G. SINK, JR., whose home is on 112 Cedar St., Mooresville, North Carolina, is now with the 338th
Tech. Training Wing at Keesler Air Force Base in Biloxi, Miss. While a student at Davidson he became a member
of ATO fraternity and was also a member of the band. Joe received his flight training at Lackland Air Force
Base in Texas.

PHILIP D. COX, son of Dr. Warren M. Cox, Sr., of Route 8, Evansville, Indiana, entered Davidson in '48, transferred
to the University of Illinois, and joined the Armed Forces in 1951. Phil is now at the 3332 Student Squadron,
Box 928, Scott Air Force Base, Belleville, IL. He was a freshman track standout while at Davidson.

Best In 8 States
“Bound East” Wins Regional

The Davidson College chapter of Alpha Psi Omega, national honorary dramatic fraternity, was named the winner of the one-act play
contest held in conjunction with the regional conference of the fraternity at Nashville, Tenn., last weekend. This was the first
contest ever entered by a Davidson dramatic group and the local cast faced competition from eight states: Virginia, North Carolina,
South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Florida, Tennessee, and Kentucky. Other schools which placed in the contest were Lynchburg College, Lynchburg, Va.;
Furman University, Greenville, S.C.; Murray State College, Murray, Kentucky; and Troy State Teachers College, Troy, Alabama.

The play which was entered by the local cast was "Bound East for Cardiff" by Eugene O'Neill and was presented
here last month as part of a twin bill of one-act plays which inaugurated the new Dome Theatre. The cast
was made up of seasoned vets and included Vance Mizelle as Olson; Tink Taylor as Yank; Dick Perkins as Driscoll;
Howard Proctor as Cocky; Ted Daniel as Davis; Mac Doubles as Scotty; and Tad Currie as the Captain. The play
was directed by Prof. R. W. Tyson and staged by Tad Currie.

Noted Journalist To Meet Students

Opportunity to meet and talk with famed woman journalist Dorothy Thompson, concerning the vital problems of the Middle East, will
be afforded Davidson students following Miss Thompson's lecture in Chambers Auditorium Wednesday night. Dr. Sam R. Spencer, director of the
Davidson Celebrity Series, has announced that Miss Thompson will be present at an informal reception in the YMCA lounge after
she has addressed her audience on “Palestine and the Middle East.” When the committee planning the Celebrity Series began casting
about for a speaker on the subject last summer, Miss Thompson was recommended as the top choice. There was the
added admonition, however, that she might be hard to sign for the engagement. “We are indeed fortunate to have a
person so qualified in the subject to talk on this vital topic,” Dr. Spencer commented. “Certainly there is no spot
on the globe of greater concern to the future security of the world than the Middle East today.”

Papers submitted by members of the student body on the Middle East are in and are being read by the
judges. The contest winner, to receive $15 or eight Modern Library Giants, will be announced in chapel Monday morning.

The daughter of a Methodist minister, Miss Thompson first entered social work after graduation from Syracuse University. While (Continued On
Page Four)

Recital Follows Vespers Sunday

A recital of music will be given this Sunday evening, March 16, at 8:45 p.m., in Chambers Auditorium by students
in the music department of the college. The program, which will follow the vespers service, will be the first of
a number of student musical programs planned for this semester. Students taking part in the recital will be Perry Daniels
and William Porter, pianists; Leonard Geiger and Sandy McGeachy, vocalists; Charles Roper, bassoonist; and William Johnston, organist. Herbert Russell will
be piano accompanist. The recital is open to the public, and faculty and students are cordially invited to attend.

DOROTHY THOMPSON

Long-Service ATO's Honored At Founders’ Day Banquet

Tonight the local chapter of Alpha Tau Omega fraternity will hold its annual Founders’ Day banquet in the college dining
hall. Highlight of the evening’s program will be the presentation of several long-time membership certificates to alumni of ATO living
in the general vicinity. Representatives of the college faculty and administration along with members of the Charlotte Alumni Association of
ATO will be present as guests of the local group at tonight’s affair.

The program will open with the singing of “Old Alpha,” one of the fraternity’s songs, and following the invocation dinner
will be served. A welcome to the guests of the chapter will then be made by John Whitfield, president of
the local organization, and a message from Johnny Vann, national president of the fraternity, will be read by Dick Johnston,
province chief of the fraternity for North and South Carolina. Dr. Warner Hall of Charlotte and an alumnus of ATO
at Southwestern College will deliver the main address of the evening.

The next event on the program will be the presentation of a Golden Circle award to Arthur G. Odell of
Concord for membership in the fraternity stretching over a period of fifty years, and of Silver Circle awards to Dr.
Hall and Jesse Page of the Charlotte Alumni Association for being members of ATO for twenty-five years. Following the presentation
of the awards, the guests of the chapter will be introduced. The program will close with the singing of “Our
Jewels,” another of the fraternity’s songs.

Tonight’s affair will mark the first Founders’ Day banquet to be held since the organization of the local group as
a chapter of ATO a little more than a year ago. Since its founding here the fraternity has taken an
active place with the other fraternities on the campus. The local organization has been noted for its advocacy of “Help
Week.”

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 1952

Reps From 13 Schools Convene For Conference

Full Session Of Discussions On Tomorrow

Delegates from 13 colleges and universities of this section of the country gathered on the Davidson campus for the three-day
YMCA-YWCA-SCA study conference. Dr. Robert Boyd, pastor of the St. Andrew's Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, gave the opening address at
7:00 o'clock this evening. A discussion of the purpose of the various student Christian organizations was scheduled for 8:30.

The program will begin tomorrow morning with a worship service at 8:30, followed by three simultaneous discussions. George Knight will
lead a discussion on organization; Tony Tucker, on spiritual development; and Bill Adams, on social and service activities. At 2:00,
Dr. Boyd will again address the group. At 3:00 p.m., Allan Strand will lead a discussion on stewardship; Don Crosby,
on off-campus services; and Hubert Cannon, on the SCA’s stand on important issues. The conference banquet is scheduled for 6:00
p.m.planned for 6:00 p.m. At 8:00, the Davidson College Quartet will provide entertainment for the delegates. A special committee, composed
of Professors Henry Bauman, Mrs. Allen Gripe, Jim Speed, and Bill White, will meet at 8:30 Saturday evening to evaluate
the accomplishments of the conference. Delegates are invited to join the YMCA Bible Class for coffee and doughnuts at 9:45
and the Sunday School lesson at 10:00 Sunday, as well as to attend the morning worship service at the Davidson
College Presbyterian Church. Dr. Boyd will close the conference with his third address at 2:00 p.m. (Continued On Page Four)

Student Artists Slate Exhibition

Philip Moose, instructor of the Fine Arts Department, announced today an exhibition of original paintings by members of the Davidson
fine arts class. The exhibition will be hung in the main lobby of Chambers next week, and has been invited
by the Mint Museum of Art in Charlotte to be shown there during the month of April. Student exhibitors in
this show are Don Mahy, Lynn Neagley, Claude Ives, Jr., Peter Peck, W. D. Hart, T. B. Rose, W. H.
McEachern, Bob Crutchfield, R. G. Smith, and W. H. Duncan. The exhibition includes a wide range of media, with paintings
in oils and watercolors, drawings in red chalk and in black ink over wax. Sculpture also is represented by a
series of four imbecile-featured “heads,” carved from coconuts by Don Mahy. The sculptures are entitled “Before, During and After Exams”
and “A Professor.”

Will Unite Effort Of Pledgemasters

The Interfraternity Council has approved a suggestion that pledge masters be organized and given full control over the planning of
Greek Week next year. The suggestion, made by Bob Henry of the junior class, included recommendations governing work days, skit
planning and running time, and coordination of pledge effort. The IFC gave its backing to these also. Today, approximately 35
delegates...

THE GROUNDWORK

Planning for the conference of YMCA leaders on the Davidson campus this weekend was underway many months ago. Heading the
conference committee was Jim Speed, pictured above, discussing details with Y president Allan Strand, left, and committeeman Bill Lee. Other
members of the planning committee were Luke Scales and George Nickels. The conference got underway tonight and will run through
early afternoon Sunday. (Photo by Andy Simons.)

Baker Finalists Coming to Battle For Five Awards

Twenty finalists in the annual Baker Scholarship competition have been invited to Davidson on March 28-29. The scholarships are awarded
to high school seniors who have demonstrated outstanding leadership, scholastic ability, personality, and character. The value of the awards ranges
upwards to $1,100 a year, and may be worth as much as $4,400 to an individual during the four years
he is at Davidson. Seventeen Baker Scholarships have been granted in the past three years to seven juniors, six sophomores,
and four freshmen. The committee anticipates making at least five awards this year. The finalists this year are: (Continued On
Page Four)

March Is Dotted By Alumni Meets

No less than eight Davidson meetings are scheduled between March 21-31, according to Alumni Secretary John L. Payne. March 21,
Dr. Olin Puckett, Paul K. Scott, and Mr. Payne will be in Gastonia to head up the alumni program presided
over by Coit M. Robinson, ’10. Two meetings are slated for the 24th, one in Bristol, Tenn., with Dr. S.
M. Spencer and D. Grier Martin in attendance; the other at Fayetteville, with Mr. Scott and Mr. Payne attending. The
latter pair will also be present at meetings March 25-27 at Durham, Rocky Mount, and Florence, S. C., respectively. Dr.
Puckett and Mr. Scott will be in Concord March 31, while Dr. Frontis Johnston and Mr. Payne will be at
Raleigh. New officers will be elected at each of the meetings. Dr. Spencer was the chief speaker at the Davidson
Alumni Convention held at Charlottesville, Va., last week. Dr. Frank D. Daniel, ’28, presiding. A film, “That Learning Be Cherished,”
was shown.

Beautiful Performs

Jeanne Mitchell, young and experienced concert violinist and native North Carolinian, will appear as the fifth guest in the current
Davidson College Artist Series Monday night in Chambers Auditorium. Miss Mitchell was born in Wilmington, in 1926, and her family
moved to New York in 1931. Both of her parents are interested in music, her mother singing in the Branscombe
Choral and playing the viola in an amateur symphony. Since beginning her violin lessons at the age of eight Miss
Mitchell has been under the instruction of Chester La Folette. She studied piano with Dorothia Anderson La Folette for four
years and composition with Vittorio Giannini for five years. After studying under the Joline musical scholarship at Barnard College and
graduating in 1944 at the age of nineteen, she made her New York debut in Town Hall in 1947. Her
Carnegie Hall recital in 1949 was “an immensely gripping performance, one in which the young artist proved not only that
she knows what must be done with the concerto but that she can do it with ease and enthusiasm,” according
to the New York Times. Since then she has given two subsequent recitals in Carnegie Hall. In 1949 Miss Mitchell
played before an audience of 80,000 during (Continued On Page Four)

Masquers Planning ‘Macbeth’ Tryouts Monday, Tuesday

Tryouts for “Macbeth,” the Fine Arts Week presentation of The Red and Black Masquers and Alpha Psi Omega, will be
held in the Dome Theatre at 7:00 p.m., on Monday and Tuesday night, March 17 and 18. Prof. Tyson will
be in charge. If any member of the student body wishes to try out but cannot attend tryouts on Monday
or Tuesday, he is asked to see Prof. Tyson before Wednesday. Any person interested in serving on the stage crew
or production staff are asked to see Tad Currie in 112 East or at the Dome Theatre on Monday and
Tuesday evenings.

GEORGE DISCOURSES ON VARIED TOPICS See Page Four

NUMBER NINETEEN

Will Feature Fleet Green

FLEET GREEN

Big S Day—S for Senior class, Scabbard & Blade, and Salem—will feature the music of Fleet Green and his orchestra,
senior class officers disclosed this morning. Set for April 5, S Day will include a Scabbard & Blade sponsored tea
dance following the track meet with Florida State, and a semi-formal Saturday night sponsored by the senior class. Salem girls
will be guests on the campus that weekend. Green and his band have long been popular performers in and around
the Charlotte area, playing for country club, organizational, and holiday dances. Tickets for the affair, open to all members of
the student body, will be placed on sale shortly after return from spring holidays. Price per couple will be about
$1.50, officers said.

ECTC Debate Open To Students Here Saturday

The Jarvis Forensic Club of East Carolina College will be on the Davidson College campus tomorrow to participate in two
debates. The national debate topic, “Resolved, that the federal government should adopt a permanent program of wage and price controls”
will be used in these debates. Davidson will be represented on the affirmative by Roy Davie and Hubert Cannon, and
on the negative by Buddy Lamon and Mac Williamson. Professors Thompson and Hathorne will serve as judges. Faculty members and
students are invited to attend these debates which will be held in Eu and Phi halls at 1:30 Saturday afternoon.
The Forensic Council is presently preparing itself for three major tournaments which will take place within the next few weeks.
These trips are to the Grand National in Fredericksburg, the All-Southern at Agnes Scott, and single debates at Annapolis.

Violinist Monday

JEANNE MITCHELL

recitals in Carnegie Hall. In 1949 Miss Mitchell played before an audience of 80,000 during (Continued On Page Four)

Red Cross Pushes 2 Drives For Blood, Money This Month

Two big Red Cross activities are being conducted in Davidson this month. Currently local citizens and students are being asked
for contributions to the annual fund raising drive for that organization. After the holidays another blood drive will be held.
Students were given an opportunity to donate money to the Red Cross this morning and members of ODK will again
be at the rear entrances of chapel on Monday. The charity organization needs more money this year it is reported
by chairmen Dr. Tom Daggy and Col. J. L. Ballard. Higher prices and a greater number of men in the
armed forces are listed as reasons. Last year the town of Davidson with the college students turned over a sum
of $765.10 to ARC officials. The drive chairmen hope this will be upped this year to materially add to Mecklenburg
County’s goal of $4,100 for the territory not including Charlotte. Eighteen local men have been canvassing every residence and business
firm in town today. From the entire country ARC hopes to net $85,000,000. Col. Ballard expressed enthusiasm over the prospects
for the second blood drive to be held shortly after spring holidays. He urged men to take advantage of the
time at home to get releases in plenty of time for the drive. Releases for men under 21 may be
obtained from the ROTC Department. The drive will have the support of ODK.
