Another week like last in the basketball circles and some of the conference big-wigs will look up and take notice of the team of Wildcats from Davidson College. Any team that can score a hundred points against any sort of team, no matter how sorry, must be holding something of the basketball prowess. And then to come up and scare the daylights out of the Carolina Quint by a 77-78 score on the opponents’ home ground. The Cats were nothing short of phenomenal in their start against Citadel and even though the Bulldogs might be lacking on defense, nevertheless the show the boys put up would be quite a story in nearly any gym in the Southern. It seemed to be just that old “Davidson luck” that whipped us in the tilt with the Tar Heels, because as has happened numerous times before (mostly last winter), the locals were ahead with a few minutes to go but lacked the scoring punch or the ability to handle and hold on to the ball to carry for a win. With the VPI game coming up tonight, it looks like an easy victory for the hoopsters and probably just what they need to gain the confidence they will need before starting on the long, hard road after exams.

“TO PAY, OR NOT TO PAY...”

Again the long, drawn-out struggle of our football or athletic policy in general has been brought to the fore. Since it was worded as the athletic policy on the questionnaire recently presented to the students, it is best that we base our conclusions on that aspect. And here right off the bat you run into the fact that in a lot of schools just as with Davidson, the football program seems to be in actuality, though not in theory and basis, an entirely separate field from the other sports. We spend more money on the whole for the grid game than for any other sport and have more scholarships than nearly all the other sports combined. It seems to the writer that since the football situation here at Davidson brought up the whole matter (although we had some fairly dismal failures in some of the other sports last year), that here is where the problem should rest and if there is any solution, it should be applied here.

THEORY OF PURE COMPETITIVE ATHLETICS

The theory of athletics is pure and wholesome and if we could revert to it along with the other schools of the country or of the conference, it would all be very nice. Athletics basically is a means by which men improve their bodies as well as their minds and build a clean competitive spirit. From this “competitive spirit” and the fact that our civilization has advanced to the place where college training is nearly a must, stemmed this business of subsidization and scholarships for men of unusually talented bodies in athletic games and competition, but with either lack of financial means or mental means to attend colleges and universities. Although some schools might have had it in mind from the start, I do not believe that colleges entered this subsidization merely from the big-business standpoint. I believe that the thing just evolved until it is at the point where we find it today with a lot of big-time teams in a big-time business.

WHICH WAY FOR DAVIDSON?

If we continue to get beat by teams in our conference while we give a few small scholarships, what will we do if there was no help given at all? And here is where the questionnaire somewhat failed in its purpose. There was no mention of getting out of the conference and playing teams that are more nearly our size and adhere to the policy that we would adhere to. It would be more slaughter than we have seen here in the past few years for Davidson to embark on a non-scholarship basis in the high seas of the Southern Conference. I am not for any such de-emphasis without such a stipulation and I don’t believe anyone else would consider such a move. I am for continued support to athletes of merit (with no favoritism shown by the Admissions Committee), and if anything, more support for the other athletic teams. Davidson has done well in tennis, track, and basketball over the past years without much subsidization whereas the main contention has been over football. There are many reasons why this stand is a sturdy one at the present time, but these are only a few:

1. There is a movement for de-emphasis in the country and especially in the conference. The SC now has a commissioner and he is keeping a sharper eye on the various schools than has been done formerly. This will tend to equalize schools and do away with some of the unfair practices. In other words, the little schools will profit and the big-timers are due for a fall.

2. Many of the boys who have gotten a college education would not have done so and won't in the future if it hadn't been for the help college and wealthy alumni have offered.

3. Many boys want to come to Davidson just because of Davidson and not to the schools that offer the most athletic scholarships. With this drawing effect and maybe with a few winning teams, more could be done with a smaller amount of money at Davidson than at other schools.

4. Our schedule for next year is one of the best in many years. It is nearer our size and power. We should play more small teams in the two states and build up more spectator interest as well as being in a position to win a few. We don't play football or anything else just to win as would be supported by the “theorists,” but it is a quirk of human nature to want to stay in the win column. Here at Davidson, we've won enough “moral victories” and rocked along with losing teams until it seems the spirit and backing is becoming dormant. There must be an answer other than giving up the ghost.

Wildcat Sports

“NEEDLE” SLIPS INTO SPOTLIGHT

THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 1952

KA’s, KS's, Sigs Wrestlers Face Stay Undefeated In Greek Loop

By WALLACE ABBOTT

This year’s intramural basketball season is only two weeks old, but in that short length of time the number of undefeated teams left in the league has dwindled down to three. Those three being the KA’s, Kappa Sigs and Sigma Chis. So it seems fairly apparent that this year’s season isn’t going to pass without a lot of upsets and near-upsets. If only three teams can go through two weeks without a defeat it looks as if there are going to be some mighty close games between all the teams. This fact is even more obvious when we notice that two of the teams, the Kappa Sigs and Sigma Chis have only played two games while several of the other teams have played three. However, before we can form a more accurate opinion of how the teams will stack up in the final standings, we will have to wait for the next two weeks of exams to pass. Then maybe we can tell more about which team will win the coveted basketball championship.

INTRAMURAL STANDINGS

Team W L
KA 3 0
Kappa Sig 2 0
Sigma Chi 2 0
Phi Gams 2 1
Betas 2 1
Pikas 2 1
CC 1 1
Pi Kapps 1 2
SPE 0 2
ATO 0 2
Phi Delts 0 2
SAE 0 3

TEN LEADING SCORERS

1. Champion, Phi Gam 63
2. Vance, KA 42
3. King, KA 38
4. Beardsley, Pika 36
5. Smith, CC 35
6. Erwin, Pi Kapps 27
7. Downs, Sigma Chi 26
8. Fields, Pika 25
9. C. Clark, Kappa Sig 24
10. Whisnant, Pi Kapps 24

Tough Wolfpack

By BO TYNES

Coach Charlie Parker's charges face a tough assignment in their meet with N. C. State tonight. The Cats, who returned last week from Emory with a 16-12 victory, have shown great improvement, but the Wolfpack team is one of the highest touted in the state. The State wrestler’s season record, which has no indication of their strength. The matmen from Raleigh dropped a very close meet to Duke, one of the Conference's better teams. Tonight's encounter between the two evenly matched clubs should produce one of the best events of the season. It will take place immediately after the V.P.I.-D.C. basketball game.

The trip toAtlanta not only brought a morale-building victory, but also gave the coaches a better estimate of the weak and strong potentialities of the grapplers. A few revisions will probably be found in the line-up. Freshman Johnny Buxton will probably take over the duties in the 157-pound class tonight. In spite of Bobby Joe Key’s stellar performance at Emory, Charlie Murray has been pushing him hard for his position. Murray has to first contend with his weight; he has difficulty in meeting the 123-pound requirement. There is a possibility that Bill McElveen may drop down to the 167-pound division, while “Bull” Freeman may take over Bill's post at 177. These changes will possibly greatly strengthen the team.

Last week’s match was a close one, the outcome not being evident until the decision of the final bout. Entering this bout with Davidson behind, Bill McNeely won by a fall over one of the best heavyweights in that section. 123-pounder Bobby Joe Key started things off for the Cats by pinning his man in the second period. Johnny Guiton and Gene Craven followed with successive decisions over their aggressors, while Morley Vail lost by a narrow margin in one of the best bouts.

(Continued On Page Four)

The senior Wildcats’ meeting with the Deacons from Wake Forest. The Belmont aggregation, after already dropping one contest to the Wildkittens, will return to the Johnston Gym boards hoping to even up their season mark with the home five. Following this encounter, the “B” cagers will travel to Raleigh with the varsity on February 9, seeking revenge from the State JV’s who own the only victory over the Wildkittens this season. As a preliminary to the UNC-Davidson clash, the “B” team will meet the Charlotte College five. In the final presently-scheduled game of the season, the Little Cats will tangle with the Belmont Abbey loopsters. Although this does finish the season as the schedule now stands, Coach Fetzer hopes to add several other games to the card before the “B” team record books are closed on the 1951-52 season.

Coach Fetzer is depending on his regular performer at center, Buddy Brown, to carry a lot of the load in the remaining tilts. Buddy, heralded as the most improved “B” team basketballer of this season, has really been doing a great job at his center slot.

(Continued On Page Four)

WILDCAT OF THE WEEK - By DICK ROPER

Hands down. That's how center Joe Dudley won Wildcat of the Week honors this week, after a performance on the hardwood which left the hearts of several thousand UNC fans much the worse for wear in Carolina's Woollen Gymnasium last Monday night. When the smoke and the slightly partisan crowd had cleared away after the final gun, the lanky Wildcat had a reason to be proud even though his team had come out on the short end of a 78-77 score. His 25 points led the scoring for both teams for the night, but there was more to the story than that.

The affable Winston-Salemite came to Davidson in 1949 and went out for basketball almost immediately. But they didn’t pay Joe too much attention that year. He played in a few games but set no courts on fire. Last year Joe found he was still consigned to obscurity, but he continued to work hard, getting in as much extra practice in spare moments as possible. And if ever perseverance paid off, it did for Joe Dudley. In the season opener against Catawba this year, Joe managed to avoid a zero in the “TP” column by sinking a foul shot. But then he began to get rolling, and his point total rose accordingly. He hit for nine against Furman, 16 against W&L, seven at Duke, 13 against South Carolina, playing good, steady basketball all the way. But the high spot was in Chapel Hill, when the acclaim of the crowd made all the hours of practice worth the trouble and all his past obscurity on the Cat bench seem like a bad dream.

Another, if not as well known, of Dudley's achievements is his total percentage of field goals attempted. Joe is tied with senior Mac McLean with a mark of .356 for eleven games, having sunk 31 of 87 tries (not including the UNC game). With a total of 118 points for the season, he stands second only to Captain Bill Brooks. With a season and a half to go, Joe will have to prove that Monday's performance was no fluke. But Coach Baird isn’t worried about that. He knows his center has worked too hard to let up now.

Sports Mirror

2 Years Ago This Week— January 21, 1950: Amazing Cats give vaunted N.C. State a scare before losing, 43-45. Whit Cobb gets 10 points.

5 Years Ago This Week— January 20, 1947: Grapplers drop Georgia Tech match, 20-16. Rufus Long wins second victory in as many starts.

10 Years Ago This Week— January 22, 1942: None of Davidson cagers were ruled ineligible because of scholastic difficulties. (Will this hold true?)

20 Years Ago This Week— January 21, 1932: Davidson quint downed in tilt with U.N.C., 29-41. Weethers (U.N.C.) is high scorer with 15 points.

25 Years Ago This Week— Wildcat quint smothers Union Theological Seminary. McAuley high scorer for Davidson with 13 points.

30 Years Ago This Week— January 20, 1922: Basketball Scrubs Swamp Huntersville “Y” players, 64-14. (Davidson breaks into the big time!)

PAGE THREE

GOBBLERS ON LOCAL HARDWOOD TONIGHT Face Inspired Cats In Conference Go By BOB OWENS

The much-improved Wildcats of Presbyterian Hollow entertain V.P.I.’s Gobblers tonight on the local Johnston Gym floor. The varsity scrap was scheduled to get under way at the usual 8:15. In looking for their third conference win, Coach Baird expected to start Mac McLean and Don Lazenby at the guard positions, Bill Brooks and Al Fitzgerald at the forward positions, and Joe Dudley at center.

In their last two outings, the Cats were very impressive in soundly defeating the Citadel quintet 100-66 and losing a close one to U. North Carolina 78-77 at Chapel Hill. In the Citadel game, every member of the Wildcat squad saw action, and the 100 points represent a new scoring record for a Davidson team. North Carolina had to scramble last Monday in the final minutes of play to sneak away with their one-point margin of victory. In the Tar Heel game, Joe Dudley was sensational for Davidson, dumping in 25 points. In these two games, the high-scoring Cats hit over 45 percent of their shots from the floor and a remarkable number from the foul circle. If this kind of action continues, the Wildcat followers will have little doubt as to a winning record at the season's close.

Tonight’s game will be the first meeting for the two teams this season; the last time they met was in 1949 when Davidson walked off with a close 60-56 decision. V.P.I. has a young and inexperienced team, featuring Cantrell as the only returning letterman from last year’s fine squad. The Gobblers so far have failed to break into the win column, losing two conference games to Washington and Lee, and West Virginia, and posting an overall record of no wins and five losses. Coach Baird is confident that if the boys continue their sparkling play, they will begin to even up their present record of four wins.

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests No. 32...THE YAK

He’s far too sophisticated to be amused by slap-stick comedy! From the minute the curtain went up, he knew that you just can’t judge cigarette mildness by one fast puff or a single, swift sniff. Those capers may fool a frosh — but he’s been around and he knows! From coast-to-coast, millions of smokers agree: There’s but one true test of cigarette mildness! It’s the sensible test... the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test, which simply asks you to try Camels as your steady smoke, on a day-after-day, pack-after-pack basis. No snap judgments! Once you've tried Camels for 30 days in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste), you'll see why...

(Continued On Page Four)

After all the Mildness Tests... Camel leads all other brands by millions