Pikas Overtake Sigs As Interfraternity Race Roars Down Stretch
By JOHN HANDLEY

The interfraternity football race grew torrid in the stretch this week as the Pikas caught up with the front-running Sigma
Chis to lock in a tie for first place. The Sigs, who went for eight games without a defeat, fell
to the hard-playing Phi Delts by an 18-7 score, while the Pikas romped to a 25-0 victory over the Betas.
Close behind the two league leaders and still very much in the running are the Phi Delts and the Sig
Eps. The Phi Delts took the measure of the Pi Kapps, 32-13, the Betas 13-6, and the Sigma Chis, 18-7,
while the Sig Eps rolled to victory over the KAs, 25-19, and the Campus Club, 32-14.

Fittingly enough, the contest which can well be considered the “game of the year” in interfraternity circles between the two
first-place clubs falls on the very last day of the regular season, next Tuesday. Each team has defeated the team
which defeated the other. The Pikas whipped the Phi Delts 19-12 while their single loss came at the hands of
the Kappa Sigs, 22-19. The Sigs beat the Kappa Sigs 7-6 while bowing to the Phi Delts 18-7.

The games through Thursday:

Pikas 25; Betas 0
In climbing into the first place slot alongside the Sigma Chis, the Pikas rolled over the Betas by 25-0. The
Pikas, led by some fine pass-snagging by Avery Jones and Joe Pharr and some good running by Bob Owens, turned
in a fine team performance. Leading the Betas in the lopsided contest was tailback Tommy Lambe.

Pi Kapps 18; Phi Gams 6
A fine overall team showing coupled with an outstanding performance turned in by Ben Jones gave the Pi Kapps an
18-6 win over the Phi Gams. Leading the losing efforts of the Fijis was lanky Watt Moore.

Campus Club 32; ATOs 13
In capturing their second win of the season, the Campus Club capitalized on the fine performances of Brooks Webb and
the three TDs scored by Al Wells to beat the ATOs 32-13. Leading the losers was Tim Gilly.

Sig Eps 32; CC 14
The Campus Club really gave the Sig Eps a scare as they held the fourth-place club to a close score
until the waning minutes of the contest. Sparking the Sig Ep attack were Horace Ball and Bill Marable. Al Wells
and Sandy Shive paced the Campus Club.

Sigma Chis 53; CC 0
In the biggest shutout of the season, the Sigs poured it on the Campus Club to the tune of 53-0.
Leading the Sigs in the rout were Chuck Mann and Frank Smith. Pacing the Campus Clubbers were Sandy Shive and
Brooks Webb.

Phi Delts 18; Sigma Chis 7
In finally turning the trick on the formerly undefeated Sigs, the Phi Delts capitalized on some fine defensive work by
the whole squad along with the good offensive efforts of Dan Leach and Don Lazenby. Tyler Berry and Bob Mitchell
looked good for the Sigs even in defeat.

Sig Eps 25; KAs 19
Passer Horace Ball and receiver Moffatt Ware joined forces to bring the Sig Eps a close victory over the KAs.
Sparking the Kappa Alpha attack were T. W. Aldred and Lefty Vance.

Betas 25; Kappa Sigs 6
Last Thursday, the Betas upset the Kappa Sigs in handing them their second defeat, 25-6. Leading the Beta attack were
George Thomas in the backfield with Tommy Lambe doing some fine receiving.

Pikas 31; Pi Kapps 12
The fine offensive and defensive play of Bill Hanna along with the outstanding efforts of Jimmy Smith and Wes Spencer
gave the Pikas a 31-12 decision over the Pi Kapps. Standouts for the losers were Lawrence Erwin and Tom Hancock.

Sigma Chis 7; Kappa Sigs 6
In a hard-fought defensive struggle, the Sigma Chis emerged victorious behind the fine performance turned in by the Sig defensive
unit. Individual standouts for the Sigs were Tyler Berry and Bert Downs. Leading the Kappa Sigs’ losing efforts were “Lip”
Lippard and Bob Hoover.

Phi Delts 32; Pi Kapps 13
Jerry King and Don Lazenby led the third-place Phi Delts to an easy 32-13 win over the Pi Kapps. Ben
Jones turned in a fine backfield performance for the Pi Kapps.

KAs 21; SAEs 6
In Tuesday's action, the KAs turned in a sharp performance as they downed the lowly SAEs 21-6. Howard Proctor and
Dick Lovett led the way for the KAs while Bill (Continued On Page Four)

As Coach Bill Dole’s battered but proud Wildcat gridders prepare for their last home game of the '52 season with
Richmond, last week’s fracas up in Cambridge becomes little more than another line in the record book as far as
its national significance is concerned. Yet that game has earned a place in Davidson football history all its own.

The only regret this reporter has about the Harvard game is that the whole Davidson student body couldn't be on
hand to see it. As soon as the head knocking started on that balmy afternoon, it was obvious that Davidson
was going to be in the ball game in a big way, contrary to the predictions of the oddsmen and
the highly overconfident wearers of the Crimson. It is doubtful that a Davidson team has ever played a more inspired
game than they did last Saturday. There is no student, faculty member, or alumnus of Davidson who would not have
been filled with pride at the performance of the Cats that day. That is one reason why we didn't single
out any one player as Wildcat of the Week. It was the Davidson team all the way, and along with
some real football exhibition, Dole’s team also showed the Ivy Leaguers what real Southern sportsmanship was like.

It is impossible to say what single factor, if there was any, that caused the Cats to play such a
terrific game against a much stronger and more powerful team, but there isn’t any doubt that the headlines that greeted
them in the Boston papers Saturday morning aroused their ire more than somewhat. Headlines proclaiming HARVARD SEEN EASY WINNER, HARVARD
SUBS SEE ACTION AGAINST UNDERDOGS, and HARVARD TO REST REGULARS AGAINST LITTLE DAVIDSON made the Cats burn, and there is
little doubt the Harvards could have cheerfully strangled the men who wrote those stories.

In spite of brilliant playing and smart strategy on the part of the Davidson aggregation, the final score stood at
35-26. But that’s one score nobody from D.C. need be ashamed of. That fact was pretty plain when the team
struck up a couple of good rousing choruses of “Dixie” as the chartered buses went careening through the streets of
Boston after the game.

A Few Facts On Harvard Athletics
Things are done in a big way at Harvard as far as athletics are concerned. A little discreet questioning in
Cambridge brought forth some startling facts, not the least of which is that the Ivy League school spent a cool
million dollars on their athletic program last...year, and that doesn’t include football scholarships, which they don’t give. In this connection,
however, it is interesting to note that most, if not all, members of the Harvard football team have scholarships based
on scholastic ability. They don't have fraternities at Harvard, but there is an intramural program similar to Davidson's, in which
the various “Houses” compete against each other in several sports, and the competition is just as keen there as it
is here. The College of Harvard University has some 4500 students enrolled, and a very high percentage of them engage
in the college-sponsored and unofficial intercollegiate sports. Way back about 100 years ago, the first intercollegiate sports event in America
was held when the Harvard crew raced an outfit from Yale on the Charles River (so the Harvard publicity man
told us).

By DICK ROPER
(Continued On Page Four)

Sharpest Yet
Crosby Square Plain Toe Cordovans
With Black Rubber Soles only $15.95
Wilson-Wrights “Collegiate Fashions”
Next to Bank in Davidson

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Wildcat Sports
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1952

WHITTLE’S TEAM TO SEEK FORTUNE MONDAY UP IN RALEIGH
PAGE THREE

Richmond Here For Cats’ Home Finale

Fifty Candidates Report For First Basketball Drills

Basketball coach Danny Miller started practice last Monday with fifty boys showing up for the first week of workouts. Five
lettermen are returning from last year’s squad, and at least three of them are expected to win berths on the
first team. They are “Ish” Bennet, Jerry King, and Joe Dudley, all starters last year. The rest of this year's
squad is made up of about fifteen upperclassmen and fifteen freshmen. Scotty Reams, Buddy Brown, and Jim Faucette, who played
on the “B" squad last year, appear to be strong contenders for varsity berths this season. There are several good
freshman prospects working out with the team, but Miller observed that he could not tell at this early date just
how big a part these men would play in the Wildcats’ campaign.

(Continued On Page Four)

Suppose you had the unenviable task of picking the Wildcat of the Week. Who'd be your choice after the Cats’
great game with Harvard last Saturday? Would you pick Johnny Gray, who set up the first Davidson TD with a
beautiful 79-yard punt return, and who otherwise played a whale of a game at halfback? Or would you take Roy
White, who scored two of the Cats’ four TDs, one in the last minute of the game on a magnificent
98-yard kickoff return? Or would you make it Jack Ruth, whose passing kept Davidson in the ball game quarter after
quarter, making the Crimson look ridiculous in their “breather”? Maybe you'd choose Harry Peterson, who played a terrific game at
defensive tackle, especially if you realized that it was Pete’s first college game. Then again you might like Bob Loy,
who wasn’t letting anybody get away with anything that balmy Saturday afternoon. Perhaps you'd take Neil Graham, who turned ‘em
every way but loose in his new position, the linebacking slot which carries as many if not more rough knocks
than any other position on the team. But if you picked any of these guys, would it be fair to
linemen like Ben Craig, and Gene Pierce, and Harold Davis, and Dickie Davis, and Dick Perkins, and Jim Patterson, and
Charlie Cousar, and Tom Owen, and Bob Patten, and Neil Graham, and Jimmy Davis, and Gene Davis, and Dick Kelley,
or any other of the linemen who did such a great job against the overstuffed Ivy Leaguers? And what would
you say about Jim Thacker, whose pass snagging brought the Cats several first downs, and who scored the second Davidson
TD? Or what about Tal Broughton and Bobby Renn, whose defensive play at halfback kept the Crimson attack subdued? And
what could you say to justify skipping over Leroy Fargason and Henry Brown, both of whom turned in fine jobs
at fullback before getting put out of commission? Then, when you considered the whole game and the strategists of the
event, you'd probably be mighty tempted to call Coach Bill...

(Continued On Page Four)

Ruth Doubtful Starter; Gray To Take Over Duties

By BOB OWENS

Quarterback Jack Ruth today appeared a doubtful starter for the Cats’ final home game of the season against Richmond Saturday
afternoon. Coach Bill Dole named Johnny Gray as the man to step in should an internal ailment keep Ruth sidelined.
Several injuries in the last quarter of the Cats’ 35-20 loss to Harvard last Saturday proved costly to the Wildcats,
and there are a total of eleven other top players who are doubtful starters for Saturday’s battle with Richmond. Fullbacks
Henry Brown and Leroy Fargason, along with halfbacks Jimmy Thacker, Tal Broughton, and Johnny Gray, all suffered injuries and most
will see only limited duty against the Spiders. Several linemen, including Tom Owen, Bob Patten, Charlie Miller, and Gene Pierce
also are nursing injuries. Captain Arnold Whisnant, who was painfully hurt against Furman two weeks ago, and alternate captain Dick
Kelley, who is nursing a bruised shoulder, are two steady performers who will not be up to par for Saturday's
encounter with Richmond. Freshman Jim Shelton is slated to fill the fullback slot in the event Fargason can’t play tomorrow.
Shelton has seen only limited duty this season, but showed up well in his tour of duty at Cambridge last
week. The biggest job for the Wildcats appears to be that of stopping the polished Spider offense led by quarterback
Bobby Tyler, who has run and passed for a total of 746 yards in seven games and ranks third in
the Southern Conference for total individual offense...

(Continued On Page Four)

The Tackle--Spiders’ Eye View

BEN CRAIG
He'll see plenty of action tomorrow.

Monday for the State meet to be held that afternoon on the N. C. State course. Duke, State, Carolina, and
Pfeiffer Junior Colleges are the other participants in the event. State College’s harriers will go into the meet rated as
strong favorites. “It'll probably be a walkaway for State,” Davidson coach Pete Whittle commented, “with the rest of the teams
fighting it out for second place.” The winning team will be awarded a team trophy, and the top ten runners
of the meet will be given individual trophies. Whittle’s harriers lost last week to a strong Virginia Military Institute team
which was third in the conference last year. The Davidson team showed improvement, however, as six of the eight runners
bettered their previous times.

Sparks Outstanding

The brightest spot in last week’s action was the running of Homer Sparks. Sparks, in one of his best performances,
placed first and bettered his previous time by over a minute. Whittle was pleased with the overall performance of his
team against VMI, and hopes to place high in the State meet Monday. “The men making the trip Monday are:
Homer Sparks, Bob Henry, Bill Shipley, Floyd Feeney, Bill Russell, Steve Gooding, Andy Turner, and Joe Carpenter. Although his team
has only an unimpressive 1-4 record at present, Coach Whittle has been quick to praise the hard work and strong
competitive spirit of the cross countrymen.

—WILDCAT OF THE WEEK—

They All Sparkled Up At Cambridge
