PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF .................... BILL WHITE
BUSINESS MANAGER ............... ALEX GOLEY

Associate Editors ........ Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis, George McMurray
Managing Editors ........ Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw, John Ottley
Art Editor—Don Mahy
Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Sports Editor—Dick Liles
Feature Editor—Mike Myers
City Editor—Nat Daniels
Assistant Business Manager ........ Boo Northcutt
Advertising Manager ........ Jack Hobson
Circulation Manager ........ Bob Poston
Collection Manager ........ Bill Minter
Subscriptions Manager ........ Preston Chaney

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Why Not Combine the Two Views On Student Membership in YMCA

After a valiant but vain attempt to lift itself by the bootstraps in the chapel debate and evening forum last
Friday, the YMCA finds that it has failed to create a live issue out of its membership status and wonders,
“Where do we go from here?” The very apathy which the Y heads were seeking to toss out via issue
stimulation killed their attempts. Attention given debaters was very good, considering compulsory attendance, but the attendance forum that evening indicated
a definite lack of student interest in whether the Y membership should be voluntary or continue compulsory.

Aside from that which exists in the minds and the concerned consciences of the Y leaders, there seems to be
no real issue. But to settle the matter, may we offer a proposed solution. Those advocating a change to voluntary
membership do so, as we see it, on a theoretical basis. No one should be forced to join and contribute
to an organization if he does not so wish. They contend volunteers will give more conscientiously of their time and
talents than will compelled members. Practically, however, it is doubtful that the YMCA could exist and perform even its present
functions under voluntary membership, for purely financial reasons. As it is now, the Y employs all the boys it can
who apply for Y work, and we can safely assert that there is no “deadwood” among the present group. How,
then, shall the remainder of the student body contribute if not through the initial registration Y membership fee and the
contribution to the vesper offering as a Y member?

Our proposal is a simple one. Merely make it possible for a boy, on registering, to decline to pay the
listed five dollar Y fee if he so desires. There is the volunteer idea in theory. Our guess is one
in a hundred will look at the listing and decline to pay. The practical then has his money. It is
almost as good as having your cake and eating it, too.

Davidson’s brief encounter with co-education Saturday is all but forgotten now. Pleasant while it lasted, but forgotten now. A worthwhile
experiment, but forgotten now. Didn’t we try to make it work? Didn’t we act like gentlemen? Didn’t we restrain ourselves?
Didn’t we? The executive committee’s verdict? Will co-education work? Hah!

Just like ants crawl on anything too tired to fight them off, likewise did two hundred western North Carolina high
school students swarm over the campus after five hard days of classes. Many a weary, bleary-eyed collegian, starting a dreary
Saturday with a stuck drawer or a balky shower nozzle, looked out of his window to see looking in two
beady eyes, smaller and more alert than his own. Inspecting them closer, he found them to be (a) without bags
under them in most cases and (b) not bloodshot, from which he concluded that (a) the owner was not another
collegian, (b) there was something funny about all this and (c) what did it matter anyway? This reasoning sustained most
of us until the crisis had passed, since we hadn’t seen a girl since high school and were unimpressed by
the lack of change in the species during the one to four years since graduation. But other more inquisitive scholars,
curious about just who else on the campus would be interested in a balky shower nozzle, investigated and found that
the beady, alert eyes belonged to delegates to the annual North Carolina Music Educators’ Competition. While the easterners were getting
unstrung at Duke, twenty-nine western schools were represented by approximately 250 aspirants here.

“We make no bones about it,” admitted Kenneth Moore, of the music faculty, who had charge of the event. “The
publicity that Davidson received was a major motivation in deciding to hold it here.” Commenting on the college’s cooperation in
donating its facilities, Moore expressed the hope that the convention could become an annual event, not at all bitter about
stuck drawers or balky shower nozzles. Moore went on to explain that the NCMEA competition is a registrar’s utopia in
that those students who participate in extracurricular ensemble and solo work are the outstanding products of the instrumental program in
secondary schools, and that such a competition automatically singles out the most promising college music prospects.

There was, however, no champion declared among the contestants. Competing against the fixed standards set up by the NCMEA, soloists
and ensemble groups could expect only criticism and a rating on their individual performances without reference to other contestants. The
rating sheet is a comprehensive and confused piece of paper with columns allowing for comments on contestant’s accuracy, tone, color
of eyes, technique, rhythm, phrasing, telephone number and interpretation. Theoretically, everyone could have come out with the highest rating, that
of superior. Next down the list were excellent, good, average and below average. Although there were no top-ranking schools, several
groups stood out. Among these were the perpetually high-ranking Lenoir Rhyne, Gastonia, Marion, Thomasville and Asheville’s Lee Edwards.

Questioned on the human interest side of the day’s program, Moore grinned, and with a twinkle in his eye, chuckled,
“Now of course you can’t print this, but ...” Reluctantly, this scribe agreed as the youthful and usually hard-working music
mentor spent fifteen minutes recalling unprintable anecdotes. Nothing indecent, of course, but still too much for a boys’ college newspaper.
Mr. Moore will be in his office every afternoon next week to see anyone interested in helping with next year’s
program or hearing about this year’s.

S. V. M. too.

Fraternity Discussions Bring Religion Close To Campus Life

Emphasis on discussion, particularly through the medium of fraternity house sessions, should make the Spring Services next week the most
beneficial religious services held on the campus in some time. Predicated on the fact that the conference is a better
mode of instruction than is the lecture, the discussion groups in the dormitories and fraternity houses will draw a greater
number of the student body members into the Spring Services program and will relatively increase the spiritual gain to each
man in attendance. The use of the fraternity houses for post-supper informal chats, built around the talk of the morning,
is an effective way of tying religious thought more really to our lives. The plan is another step forward by
the special services committee in the constant improvement, of late, in the stimulation of religious interest and thought on the
campus.

(Following is the third of “Eight Questions Students Ask About Missions,” as set forth in the pamphlet of the National
Student Volunteer Movement to be discussed in The Davidsonian. This condensation is by a Davidson SVM member.)

“Isn’t the Missionary Job Already Done?”

“Wait now! Why should we send missionaries to India? They have their own leadership now. Why should we interfere and
halt their progress?” asks the “informed” American churchman, sitting in his stately church of 1625 vintage. China, India, Japan, Indonesia,
Brazil, South Africa, Persia, the Islands of the Pacific, Korea, Siam, the Gold Coast, and Chile: all are now parts
of a world-wide Church. These younger churches are showing that they have an independent reality grounded in their own experience
of Jesus Christ. The Church of South India, for instance, has pioneered in bringing together several denominational groups. Notable also
is the missionary concern of the younger churches. Protestant missionaries from Brazil are at work in Portugal, as are Koreans
in China.

A new day is ushered in: Modern missions, as a world movement, has ceased to be the sending of the
Gospel from America and Europe to the “benighted heathen” of non-European areas. Our missionaries, however, can aid in the evangelization
of Japan, for example, but the leadership must be taken by the Japanese church. Yet we must realize, first, that
the Christian world mission is only at its beginning; and second, the younger churches are still pitifully small minorities within
their own nations. Two-thirds of mankind are estimated to be outside of the Christian community. Our job is one of
facing and overcoming, in the power of Christ, streamlined old idolatries, the new “ism’s” of today, and unmet human needs.
God’s love becomes concern for every aspect of human welfare. While we recognize the amazing fact of the growth and
existence of the younger churches we must be realistic in realizing that the new churches are set as tiny minorities
in the vast non-Christian and sometimes anti-Christian environment. Christians number fewer than 1 in 200 of the population in the
world outside Europe and America. The Christian world strategy must be directed toward dedicated redistribution of manpower. In America 50%
of the population is related to some Church; in Asia the figure is less than 1%. The younger churches want
missionaries to help them in their task. Real pioneers are needed, such as in the ministry to labor, a group
to which in industrial as well as agricultural areas Communism appeals more.

On The Economy Of Time

There are three things that every Davidson man does a lot of. He eats, sleeps, and studies. Beginning with the
supposition that a student will sleep eight hours a day and will spend thirty minutes during each of three meal
periods, we may ask ourselves the question: “Where and how do I spend the remaining fourteen and a half hours
of the day?” Obviously, a significant amount of this time is spent performing the mechanics of life, i.e., dressing, undressing,
taking a shower, getting a haircut, writing letters, checking the P.O. Extra-curriculars, various and sundry sorts of athletics, and school
classes consume another sizable hunk of our twenty-four hour day. Despite all of these, it would amaze you if you
figured up the number of hours during the day that could be utilized for study. Regardless of how many of
these possible study hours we use, whether it be forty-five minutes or eight hours a day, we should be interested
in getting the most out of our study time. If we should increase our studying efficiency 30 per cent, and
some of us can increase it more, think of the time we could have on our hands. We could either
have more time to study our work more thoroughly or we would have added free time to do with what
we pleased.

Here are a couple of economy study hints: Study day by day; avoid that last night review cramming. More can
be better learned in the same amount of study time if you break your work up into daily study periods.
Don’t just read to understand or become familiar with your subject but be intent on retaining and being able to
recite. If you are interested in the organization and techniques of improved concentrative study check by the library for books
on this subject. It pays off.

THE DAVIDSONIANto-day than any other faith. Because the Church is one family, we look to continuing increase in mutual help
and exchange of leadership between all parts of the Church. Can we be so blind as to call the missionary
task “complete,” when more than half the people of the world are outside the knowledge of Jesus Christ? The mission
task is not completed, has not been wound up and laid away. We still face the fresh meaning of “Go
ye into all the world and preach the Gospel.”

GOING PLACES

A group of enterprising students at Yale University have published a little book called “Going Places,” designed to help college
men date college women on a sounder, smoother basis. Twenty women's colleges are dealt with at some length, including maps
of each campus, important telephone numbers and details about curfew. One of these colleges, we regret to say, is a
fiction. Located somewhere in New Hampshire, its women are beautiful and its regulations are lax. The editors hope other colleges
will take the hint.

NAT DANIEL: FRIDAY, MARCH 7, 1952

A Warning To Student Body: The Disease Of Indifference

In recent weeks both the pros and cons concerning voluntary YMCA membership have been tossed out to members of the
student body, aired publicly in debate, and an attempt has been made to give the issue the impetus it needs
to be resolved successfully. Most of the arguments favor voluntary Y membership, but the issue at stake is not as
important as the way it has been received—or more accurately—not been received by the student body at large. The students—nominally
members of the Y, seem completely indifferent and disinterested in the issue at stake, which should be vital to all
concerned. It is evident that a change is necessary—the Y organization as it is is ineffective and cumbersome in many
ways, but few people seem to want to do anything about it. They sit back and express opinions, but are
too indifferent to put those opinions into action. And this very indifference is one of the reasons why membership should
be voluntary: An organization with indifferent membership is incapable of effective action.

To be indifferent is first of all to be lazy, too lazy to get up from the table, or out
of the sack, and wake up to many of the problems of campus society; to get up enough energy to
really find out some facts, discriminate and weigh the evidence, and draw intelligent conclusions concerning the problem; too lazy to
give to our world what we owe it as citizens. To be indifferent is to be stupid; so stupid to
recognize the importance of the things that are going on around us; too stupid to realize that each day presents
new challenges, new ideas, new problems which must be evaluated and investigated if we are to grow in wisdom and
in knowledge; too stupid to realize that in dealing with relatively simple problems which confront us today, we may learn
how to cope with the more complex problems of our life tomorrow. To be indifferent is to be selfish; too
selfish to want to do anything which concerns our fellow human beings; too selfish to come out of our little
safe shells lined with papa’s checkbook, and give ourselves to the task of making the world a better place for
our neighbor and his descendants to live. To be indifferent is to be immature; too immature to stop behaving like
adolescents and take upon ourselves the responsibilities which the world of today holds as a challenge to us—the personal challenge
of bettering ourselves, the national challenge of bettering our nation, the human challenge: creating one world, and the Christian challenge:
making our best better for God. But we sit here idle and care not that man, unless we ourselves do
something, may be well on the road to self-destruction. And so the problem is not so much whether or not
the YMCA has voluntary membership, but more burning questions are: What do you think, and what are you going to
do about it?

LOOK AT THE FLAPPER ERA; Writer Compares, Finds Our Generation As Panned By Time No Worse Than Others

By JAMES TINTNER, Associated College Press Reporter

All older generations have one tradition in common: their habit of talking about younger generations. Last November, Time magazine carried
on the tradition. Time asked the question, “Is it possible to paint a portrait of an entire generation?” What followed
were four pages about “The Younger Generation”—a portrait painted in vivid, brilliant color. According to Time, each (generation) has a
quality as distinctive as a man’s accent.” Maybe so. But whether or not an older generation is capable of feeling
out these distinctions is another question. To find out how other Younger Generations—Time’s, for instance—have been sized up by their
elders, we went back to articles written in the 20s and '30s. Below are 10 Time quotations plus an equal
number of quotations about other younger generations. The result, we believe, is that Time’s colors become slightly blurred.

—Time: Today's generation, either through fear, passivity or conviction, is ready to conform.
Maxine Davis in “The Lost Generation,” 1936: This lack of revolt is more ominous than active radicalism.

—Time: The most startling fact about the younger generation is its silence. With some rare exceptions, youth is nowhere the
rostrum. By comparison with the Flaming Youth of their fathers and mothers, today’s younger generation is still a small flame.
It does not issue manifestos, make speeches, or carry posters. It has been called the “Silent Generation.” But what does
the silence mean? What, if anything, does it hide?
Forum, 1922: But perhaps their (youth’s) scandalous failure in expression, when expression is what they yearn for and demand at
all costs, may be a symptom of something deeper: of a radical mistake they have made in the direction of
their efforts and aspirations.

—Time: There is no formal religious revival among the young Americans, God . . . is still a vaguely comforting
thought, theology a waste of time, and denominations beside the point. To large numbers of them, religion is still merely
an ethical code. But God (whoever or whatever they understand by that word) has once more become a factor in
the younger generation’s thoughts.
Outlook, 1925: That most young people, and especially that growing number of them who are finding their way to and
through college, are comparatively indifferent to many of the questions that have divided the churches into camps factions is apparent.
To some this appears a sign of religious indifference. It may be indeed, a sign of indifference to doctrine and
dogma, but it is not a sign of indifference to religion.

—Time: The younger generation seems to drink less. “There is nothing glorious or inglorious anymore about getting stewed,” said the
college professor.
American Mercury, 1931: Most American men, I believe, drink less today than they did 10 years ago and a great
deal less than they drank in 1900. So with college boys. They may go on occasional gaudy toots, but the
steady boozing of 30 years ago is now out of fashion.

—Time: But youth’s ambitions have shrunk. Few youngsters today want to mine diamonds in South Africa, ranch in Paraguay...
Literary Digest, 1936: Ambitions have been humbled, enterprise has been chilled.

—Time: Novelists like Truman Capote, William Styron and Frederick Beuchner are precocious technicians, but their books have the air of
suspecting that life is long on treachery, short on rewards. What some critics took for healthy revolt in James Jones’
“From Here to Eternity" was really a massively reiterated gripe against life. But Jones is not the only young writer
to wallow in a world of seemingly private resentments. Most of his fellow writers suffer from what has become their
occupational disease: belief that disappointment is life’s only certainty.
Saturday Review of Literature, 1935: It can be said without much likelihood of contradiction that the middle generation of American
writers have defeatist written on their foreheads.

—Time: In real life, youth seems to know, peoples always drop the ball. Youth today has little cynicism, because it
never hoped for much.
Literary Digest, 1927: Can you be surprised if a generation, robbed of its youth, with its ideals empty as blown
bubbles around it, turned for a time to a mood of pessimistic cynicism... The mood has passed, and the younger
generation is attempting soberly to adjust itself to this bruised world.

—Time: Educators across the U. S. complain that young people seem to have no militant beliefs. They do not speak
out for anything.
New York Times, 1920 (in an editorial): Why are college boys so inert, so seldom rebels or anarchs? Several elaborate
and far-fetched explanations have lately been made by college professors...

—Time: Perhaps more than any of its predecessors, this generation wants a good job.
Literary Digest, 1926: A resume of the replies to the question, “What would you like to accomplish within the next
10 years?” shows ... that the majority indicate a desire ... to get an economically safe position ... to obtain
a good position in society ... to be a successful business man ... to attain money.

—Time: “I observe that you share the prevailing mood of the hour,” Yale’s President A. Whitney Griswold told his graduating
class last June, “which in your case consists of bargains privately struck with fate—on fate’s terms.”
Commencement speech, 1937, by Harold W. Dodds, president of Princeton University: “It is easy in these days to feel that
fate plays with crooked dice loaded against you.”

Who Controls The College Press?

A poll taken among college editors at last fall’s ACP convention throws considerable light on the question of college press
censorship. The feature service will include detailed results of this poll in later issues. Meanwhile, here is a cross-section of
answers from editors of state-supported schools to the question, “What types of editorials are most likely to be censored by
the administration?”

“Controversial editorials which might affect the state budget for the school.”
“My editorials when they are on an important issue.”
“Policy of administration, football, scholarships...”
“In all cases this censorship would be after publication.”
“The administration gives us a free hand.”
“We have at times called administration officials down—particularly over loyalty oath—with no pressure of any sort resulting.”
“Those dealing with allocation of our activity fee have recently been under fire.”
“Editorials blasting school policies and campus conditions.”
“Gripes or criticism on action of the state legislature, and mention of things that might hurt ‘U’ public relations—reference to
liquor, etc.”

IT'S ALL IN THE WAY YOU LOOK AT IT!

The following contains typical phrases that we read daily in the newspapers. Their logical interpretations are in parenthesis:

“... was rolled up in sweeping gains by the U.N. military machine.” (We captured a hill in Korea.)
“... yielded only after relentless suicidal attacks by hordes of crazed Oriental fanatics.” (They took it back.)
“... 5 MIGS destroyed in U.N. air victory.” (Russians lost 5 planes.)
“No American losses reported.” (You have to guess it!)
“... Disorganized Chinese units fleeing in wild panic before the onslaught of the Allied forces.” (They're retreating.)
“... Planned withdrawal to more strategic positions in the rear.” (We're retreating.)

JOHN LANGFORD—Ga. Tech “Technique”
