EDITOR GIVES ADVICE, INFORMATION— ASSORTED AND SUNDRY (See Back Page)

ALENDA CUR UBS ORTA GIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1952

Work Goes Ahead On College Union

One of the most long-sought needs of the campus development program, the college union, is nearing completion. Conversion work began
in the summer of 1951 on the 34-year-old Alumni Gymnasium which has been completely modernized to meet the needs of
the students and faculty. Although it was hoped that the union would be readied by this September, the exact date
of opening is still uncertain, but not too far in the future, according to Mr. Shaw Smith, new College Union
Director.

During the process of the work, the interior was completely cleared away and all floors and partitions removed, leaving little
more than one large room three stories high. Several changes were also made on the exterior. Where there was a
short front porch, there is now a terrace from the north side extending around the front of the building. To
the south side of the union, which was part of a parking lot, there will be a patio with tables
and chairs for eating and socializing. Doors to the cafeteria, which will be on the lower level, were cut in
the south side to facilitate dining on the patio. The dining hall will be located in the S.W. corner of
the lower level with the kitchen and storeroom in the N.E. To the front of the lower level will be
a large recreation room with ping pong, billiards, cards, etc. The student store will be located between the recreation room
and the cafeteria, approximately in the center of the lower level. Future plans include a bowling alley to run across
the front.

Principal room on the main floor will be the ballroom, located in the S.E. corner. To the left, upon entrance,
or in the N.W. corner, will be the student lounge, equipped in a similar manner as the present Y lounge.
There will be a room for meetings which will be used for small banquets. On the top floor, the upper
reaches of the ballroom consume about one-third of the space with a walkway around the edge for spectators. The majority
of the upper floor will be taken up with rooms for the various organizations—the student government, the yearbook, the magazine,
The Davidsonian, the campus chaplain’s office, and similar groups.

Greets Class Of ‘56

September 12, 1952.

Dear Friends:

I am appreciative of the opportunity given me by The Davidsonian to extend to you a hearty welcome to the
Davidson campus. It is a fact, as you will be told again and again during orientation, that this is one
of the most important transitions in your life’s experience. For over a hundred years Davidson has been opening her doors
annually to a new group of students. This is, therefore, no new experience, and yet we are always thrilled and
challenged by it. It is our hope and our desire that you may find here a place in which you
will make the best of friends, develop to the fullest your intellectual qualities, and mature in your Christian character. The
members of the Faculty, the Administration, and Staff join me in offering you our cooperation to the end that your
College life may be both happy and successful.

Cordially,

J. R. CUNNINGHAM, President.

Dean of Students John C. Bailey talks to the student counselors before their first meeting yesterday in which final plans
for the orientation program were discussed. Seated on the first row (left to right): are Larry Dagenhart, Freshman Adviser, and
Bob Henry; President Cunningham (Artist Series Too (Orientation Begins For Student Open Sept. 26 Leonard Warren, leading baritone of the
Metropolitan Opera Association, will begin this year’s artist series program with a concert on Friday evening, September 26. Mr. Warren
has been acclaimed as “The possessor of the most sumptuous baritone voice of our time.” Davidson College brings to its
campus each year two series, the Concert Series and the Artist Series, for the enjoyment of the student body and
the faculty. This year's series, which was suggested by a poll of the student body, will include many well-known figures
in the music, stage, literature, and art circles. Other artists who will appear include in the Concert series, Nelson and
Neal, a young Australian duo-piano team, on November 7; Anna Russell, musical comedienne, on February 6; and the Indianapolis Symphony
Orchestra, recognized as one of the nation’s finest, on February 27. Valentina Oumansky, dancer of such productions as “Oklahoma” and
“Carousel,” will lead off the Artist Series on October 24; William and Emily Muir, painter and sculptor, on November 13;
Margaret Bourke-White, photographer-correspondent, on December 16; Charles Laughton, noted actor, on January 29; and Robert Frost, one of the really
great American poets, March date to be announced. The total cost of tickets is included in the students’ activities fee.

Frosh Get Reminder About Regulations From Judge Barry

Ernest Barry, Judge of the Court of Control, reminds all freshmen that they should obtain their '56 caps, megaphones, and
the list of freshmen regulations from the student store as soon as possible. Barry particularly stressed the importance of regulations
two and nine which it will be to their particular advantage in the coming weeks to follow. Following are several
of the freshman regulations.

1. Freshmen shall show respect to upperclassmen at all times.
2. Freshmen must know all college yells and songs by the seventh day after school opens.
3. Freshmen must wear at all times the caps prescribed for them by the Court of Control.
4. Freshmen shall not walk on the grass on the campus.
5. Freshmen shall remain in chapel seats until all upperclassmen have cleared the room.
6. Each freshman shall have his own placard with his name inserted in the proper place, hanging in a conspicuous
place in his room throughout the year.
9. Freshmen are required to wear the YMCA nameplates until October 10.

Dean Bailey talks to the student counselors before their first meeting yesterday in which final plans for the orientation program
were discussed. Seated on the first row (left to right): are Larry Dagenhart, Freshman Adviser, and Bob Henry; second row:
Mike York, Bill Dobbins, and Homer Sparks; third row: Buddy Lamon, Max Devane, and Jim Speed; next row: Don Crosby,
Buddy McNeill, Stuart Plummer; last row: Leighton McCutchen, Charlie Hassell, Luke Scales, and Joe Dudley.

Orientation for the Class of ‘56 began yesterday with the first meeting of the student counselors. Larry Dagenhart, Freshman Adviser,
and Dean Bailey are directing the activities of these student aids. About 270 freshmen have been registered, assigned to one
of 21 groups, and will be guided during their first days at Davidson by the following group leaders:

LUKE SCALES, senior from Shawmut, Ala., is in charge of Sunday School work on the Y cabinet.
MAX DEVANE, the genial Phi Delta Theta from Jennings, Fla., is second vice president of the student body.
BILL DOBBINS, a smiling pre-med student who is one of our best wrestlers, is a Phi Gamma Delta from Montgomery,
Alabama.
JIM SPEED is from Birmingham, is a KA, and is an associate editor of Quips and Cranks.
STUART PLUMMER, towering Asheville native, is a Sigma Chi, who only last year came into his own in track and
cross country.
HERSCHEL ALLEN, a Monticello, Ga., lad, is also a Phi Delt, Phi Society, Beaver Club man.
MIKE YORK, a soft-spoken Kernersville, N. C., boy, who callsthe Phi Gam House, his haven on the campus, heads the
Scout work for the YMCA. DON CROSBY, a songbird for the Male Chorus, comes from Crestview, Fla., and is an
Alpha Tau Omega brother. JESSE FISHER, president of Pi Kappa Phi from Concord, N.C., is on the Y Board of
Directors. LARRY DAGENHART, a Kappa Sig, was tapped for ODK last spring, besides being in Sigma Upsilon and Eu Society.
BUDDY LAMON hails from Macon, Ga., is a Phi Delt, and in the Y cabinet. LEIGHTON McCUTCHEN, a Nashville, Tenn.,
native who is secretary of the student body, is a pre-ministerial student. CHARLIE HASSELL, a Kappa Sigma from Charlotte, is
head of publications on the Y cabinet and calls himself a pre-med. BUDDY McNEILL, an ATO who is pre-min and
active in YMCA work, is a Red Springs, N.C., native. BOB MITCHELL wears the Norman Shield of Sigma Chi, is
from Goldsboro, N.C., and serves this year as second vice-president of the Y. JOE DUDLEY, lanky Winston-Salem lad, captain of
the basketball team, also is a Kappa Sig. LEFTY VANCE, the KA Inter-fraternity Council Representative, calls Bristol, Tenn., home and
Eu his society. HOMER SPARKS, a transfer of one year ago, is in orientation this time as a leader. A
Kappa Alpha Order man, he is from Anniston, Ala. ERNEST BARRY, the head of the Court of Control, from Jackson,
Miss., is one personality all the freshmen will get to know. BOB HENRY, captain of the track team and president
of ODK for this year, also president of the Kappa Alpha fraternity.

The ROTC Greets You; Points Out Value In Training

The Military Department welcomes you to Davidson College. Our unit of the Army Reserve Officers Training Corps is one of
the oldest in the country. It was established as an infantry unit in 1921 and has remained so until 1952.
This year it is one of thirty units being converted to a branch general unit. This means that our graduates
may be commissioned in any branch of the Army except the medical corps and the chaplains corps. The freshmen, sophomores,
and juniors will study this new course which is called the general military science course. The seniors will continue the
infantry course for this year only. The government is especially interested in allowing these young men to secure as much
training as possible before they enter military service in order that they may assume a position of leadership and responsibility
from the beginning. ROTC teaches leadership. This training in leadership may also be applied in any civilian career. Teamwork, taking
care of yourself, and many other useful subjects are a part of the military science course. The military personnel stationed
here will be glad to help you in any way they can. They join me in wishing for you a
successful and enjoyable stay as a student of Davidson College.

ERNEST H. DAVIS
Lieutenant Colonel, Infantry.
Professor of Military Science

QUEENS COME CALLING IN SQUARE DANCE DEBUT (See Lead Below)

Heavy Schedule Of Talks, Testing Broken By Dance Tomorrow Night

Davidson opened its doors to its 116th class this morning with an assembly program in Chambers Auditorium. Begun with a
devotional by Larry Dagenhart, Freshman Adviser, and followed by his welcoming speech, the 250 freshmen started an intensive program of
activity designed to acquaint them with the college. This class is not as large as the preceding one as the
number of replacements possible in the senior class just graduated is not so great as it was with the class
of ’51. The loss of upperclassmen to the draft has not been heavy and the number of men joining a
service during the summer has not been unduly large. Total enrollment this year is expected to be 836, as that
is the number who have pre-enrolled. Of these, 15 are transfers and two are exchange students—Igor Sviatoslavsky from Bethlehem, Jordan,
and Jason Hyun of Korea. The ROTC, though not as large as it was last year, will boast of an
enrollment of near 525. The regiment is expected to include about 45 officers who will head two battalions, six companies,
plus the band, with Captain Walter P. Blanton instructing the freshmen.

Today's program was taken up with a battery of psychological tests conducted by Professor J. H. Ostwalt, a series of
speeches covering a wide variety of subjects, physical examinations, chest X-rays, and photographs. Jack Ruth, president of the student body,
explained the honor system and student government. The church facilities in Davidson were presented by Mr. F. L. Jackson, and
Lt. Col. Davis talked on the ROTC program. On tap tomorrow night is the reception by the faculty and administration
with their wives receiving the new classmen in Johnston Gymnasium. After this, there will be a square dance with the
Queens freshmen and their student counselors. Sunday the YMCA Bible class will hold its first meeting of the year in
the student lounge of the College Church. Professor Iain Wilson will have charge of the eleven o'clock service. In the
first vesper service of the year, Dr. Warner L. Hall of Charlotte will speak. After vespers, the students will visit
in the homes of their faculty counselors. Monday is another full day of testing and talks on various phases of
college life, terminating with group conferences from 9:00-9:30. Tuesday is a half day, consisting of tests with the physical education
department and drawing of ROTC equipment. Lunch at one o'clock concludes the orientation period.

Promises Of More Than Books Await Neophytes In Coming Year

By JOHN OTTLEY

Soon you will begin wondering what else there is to do around here but study. To add a bit of
glitter to your lives there are certain events throughout the first semester which for the most part you will find
diverting to say the least. Especially designed to get you off to a bad start academically and completely confuse you
about themselves, eleven cunning social groups have planned a week of madness charitably called fraternity rush week. At most universities
this means fraternity plush week—and pay later. Here, however, there is no pretense, no glimmering chimera. Here there is actually
a fairly honest portrayal of what fraternity membership will and will not mean. You are uncommonly fortunate here at Davidson
in that membership draws no lines. There are many reasons for this, the chief being that the individuals concerned refuse
to permit it.

You will more than likely begin to hear of Homecoming from the time the upperclassmen arrive until the last date
leaves on that classic weekend. The catalogue says rather snippedly “Homecoming a holiday.” Several years ago le pas-de-deux and all
other forms of dancing were forbidden on the campus. How the students cracked this nut is not recorded, but the
Homecoming dances are now held in the new gym, usually in October. This makes for a much more convenient if
somewhat bridled weekend. Of course, there will be football games with lots of opportunity for yelling. We can't guarantee whether
you'll be yelling at or for the team, but you will see plenty of scrap on the gridiron. The inter-fraternity
game has been more or less spayed and fewer injuries result. It still requires going heavy on the Wheaties, though.

On Tuesday afternoons several of the ROTC students meet for a gentlemanly round of supplementary training on the Samson DeMille
Hrothgar Memorial Athletic Grounds. These sessions, termed “close order drilling” by the Third Estate, are purely voluntary. It was specified
in the Hrothgar will that those who wished to advance themselves in the realm of the gentleman-soldier should have said
opportunity. During the semester certain dramatic productions are given by the Red and Black Masquers. This is not a band
of organized holdup artists, but a rather creditable group of amateur thespians. Also on the stage appear lecture and concert
artists of no little renown. Last year the college really outdid itself in procuring a history-making bill of stars. This
year it is adopting a new policy of attempting to sign those notables picked to an extent by an all-student
poll. These latter entertainments are gratis—you've already paid for them.

These are for the most part the things which will lure you away from those piles of books. That is,
these are the things due to occur on the campus. There will be loves and laughs at a nearby legend-shrouded
seminary for shoats, but these are beyond our scope—not from lack of experience, but from lack of space.
