PAGE TWO \ THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

Frank Hanshaw
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

BUSINESS MANAGER
Jack Hobson

Associate Editors
Brinkley, Daniel, Harter, Hope, Ottley, Myers

Managing Editors
Hassell, J. M. Moore, Owens

Sports Editor
Dick Roper

Feature Editor
T. A. Williams

News Editor
D. M. Smith

Assignments
Strand

Arts Editor
Mahy Simons

Photographer
Assistant Business Manager
Poston

Advertising Manager
Hasty

Circulation Manager
Wilkins

Subscription Manager
Chaney

Collection Manager

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Chaplain’s Resignation

Since there have been requests for some clarification of the news article printed last week announcing the recent resignation of
our chaplain, Alan G. Gripe, we wish to comply and give a brief explanation, less ambiguous we hope, than last
week's article.

Mr. Gripe has been with us here at Davidson for only a short while—one school year. He has performed very
well the tasks and duties as chaplain and his resignation came quite unexpectedly. It was received by the Board of
Directors of the YMCA and it was with regret that his resignation was accepted by that board.

It is with regret also that we learned of Mr. Gripe's resignation and that the article in last week's edition
of the Davidsonian was felt by some to be ambiguous and perhaps poorly stated. We all join in extending to
Mr. Gripe our kind personal regards and every good wish for his success in any position he might decide to
accept in the forthcoming year.

I am at the end of my tether. —K. Tyler, looking back over the year so quickly drawing to a
close, it seems only fit that there be some sort of “summing up,” in the manner of one S. Maugham,
in order to gather the loose ends, so to speak. Recalling, therefore, the beginnings of all this business, what in
the first column did I say I'd do? Or, to change the subject, what did I do? Furthermore, what happened?
With the answers to these questions before me, there is but one thing left to do: write a few words
of advice to the man who is to replace me.

The next man who plants stuff in this space, be it cabbages or seeds of rebellion, will find ample response
to his efforts. I have chosen at random one or two notes among the many that have come my way
during the year. I couldn't, out of modesty, quote all of them, but there were some, typical of them all,
that were pretty moving. The brief discussion earlier in the year of the professorial oath carries implications deeper than implied
by that quick glance —implications which we should not let pass unnoticed. I did not feel that these comments were
all deserved; they show, however, a surprising lack of research.

My neophyte replacement will find that not many people will take the trouble to find out just how much Quo
Vadis paid me to write for The Davidsonian. Reading mail from Quo Vadis’s editors has given me some of my
happiest moments. For instance, this sentence was on the note they enclosed with the last check: “Your columns, every week,
in the Davidsonian, have increased circulation by 60% ... Awful... Terrible... Ugh... Keep it up.”

There will be lasting rewards for my successor. One of these will be the little bit of sunshine that the
column may possibly have brought into a drab little corner of someone’s lonely life. It is heartwarming to feel that
perhaps someone, somewhere, has remembered, and treasured in his heart some insignificant phrase or paragraph that passed unnoticed in more
callous circles.

Probably most of us have forgotten Susan Reed, who was with us for a concert last fall. Nevertheless, just a
week ago I was in the post office checking the box next to mine (it always has mail in it)
when an elderly lady came up to me and tapped me gently on the shoulder. Out from behind her black
shawl she asked my name in a quivery voice. Having found it out, she ripped off the shawl, screamed, “Well,
I like ballad singers!” and poked me in the nose.

Any column must be representative. I have tried to put something or other sometime or other in the Cabbage Planter
that would appeal to someone or other. Consequently, I've discussed magazines that nobody reads, concerts that nobody attends, speeches that
nobody listens to, customs that nobody follows, and matters that nobody cares about. Herein lies a real opportunity for an
ambitious person to make his column, like the Cabbage Planter, unequalled for absolute uselessness. There will be, of course, the
usual war cries from the wounded prides of professors who claim this distinction and can see not any other subject
than their own.

He who next takes up the columnist’s pen had better hope fervently that Don Mahy will again occupy the space
above him. In all seriousness, without Don's top-flight artwork, the Cabbage Planter would not have had either of its readers
this year. Don’s cartoons have been continual sources of hilarity by their pertinence and subtlety of expression. Moreover, both of
this column’s readers were lured into reading it when they thought the Cabbage Planter was a caption for Don’s cartoon.
Once they had started, of course, they couldn't lay it down, reading on to see where it began.

As with all columnists worth their salt, you will have to make predictions. Moreover, painful as it may be, you
will have to keep a record of their accuracy. I made only two; unfortunately, I missed the mark on both
of them. The first was that I'd run out of material in November, and second, that I'd lose whatever readers
there were, in December. This seemed logical, even realistic. But even more painful than having them turn out wrong is
the way in which they proved faulty. I lost the readers in November, and didn’t run out of material until
December.

With these vistas shining bright for you, courageous young scribbler, set out for the horizon. I salute you. But choose
a grassy plot to walk on. While you're so ambitiously lifting yourself by your bootstraps, like the rest of us,
you might trip, and it will

The Challenge Of 1951-1952 Is Progress In 1952-1953

This semester and the year 1951-'52 are rapidly passing away, but not without leaving behind their mark upon Davidson. Though
perspective always tends to smooth over the rough places and hide the faults, we can justifiably claim this year as
a progressive one. Yet progress always brings with it the pangs of birth and readjustment. A forward march means stepping
on unfamiliar ground, and meeting unforeseeable obstacles.

After the seed was planted by Quo Vadis in its short but turbulent career we saw the institution of a
new election system. We agitated for more holidays—with appreciable success. We have changed our Constitution, debated the lack of academic
freedom, and looked seriously at the honor system. This is an admirable record, but we now find ourselves in the
middle of the stream. It will be left to next year to take the steps necessary to complete the crossing.
Our Constitution has become outdated, contradictory, and incomplete. Revision will be essential. We have had many promises from candidates who
ran in the recent elections. Will these promises materialize? These are problems we have inherited with progress. We must now
look forward to their solution and not forget our efforts this year. This is the challenge presented by 1951-1952. May
1952-1953 not let it go unheeded!—G.A.B.

Real Spirit Behind Student Union Benefits Both Students, Faculty

As the new Student Union which all Davidson has been watching with the greatest of anticipation, finally shows signs of
near completion, we would like to give a brief word of the real significance of a student union and what
shall be incorporated in our new Student Union.

A student union centers all activities on the campus other than departmental and classroom activities into one central location; to
further educational objectives by purposeful leisure-time activities: social, cultural and recreational activities. To mention but a few purposes of our
new student union: It will improve the student's morale through meaningful programs; it will produce interesting weekend programs which will
make it unnecessary to leave the campus for weekend recreation; it will bring the student and faculty into a closer
relationship outside the classroom, and our new student union will more productively utilize the student's free time.

Our student union will have a main lounge where all can gather in their leisure time—faculty and students. There will
be a moderate-sized auditorium which can be used as an auditorium, a small ballroom for dances which can be set
up in cabaret style which the fraternities seem to favor, a banquet room, a room for lectures, a room for
any activities which require the use of a stage. There will be many rooms for campus organizations to use for
offices and conferences. The offices of the YMCA will be housed in the new union as well as offices for
the student government. There will be a television room, a dark room for photography, a crafts shop, as well as
ample space for other varied activities. The cafeteria and snack bar as well as the student store will be housed
on the ground floor of the building and will open out onto a terrace on the south side of the
building which will accommodate any overflow of students. The building will be quite modernistic and equipped with most modern equipment.
The director of our new student union, although his name has not been released, is known to be a man
with great ability for such a position, rather well known public entertainer in his own right. It is hoped that
the building will be completed by next fall when classes are resumed and that our Student Union can be dedicated
at homecoming.—J.L.H.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE CABBAGE PLANTER: Harvest Time, Long Awaited, Finds Cabbage Patch Bare

T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

Local “Glamorous Ones” Chide Friendly Philosopher

Dear Mr. Daniel:

As to your “disjointed babblings” in the Friendly (>) Philosopher's column of the May 9th Davidsonian, we would like to
say that we “local hags” often wonder if the Davidson student ever stops to think of the fact that this
is our home town, be it good or bad; and that we cannot very well go into hibernation when the
students arrive in the Fall, and come out when they leave in the Spring. If some Davidson alumnus would return
to his Alma Mater and establish a “Female Tea Room,” there would be no occasion for us, “hags” to run
into you Stalwart Heroes of 1952 at the local M&M.

Since we realize, evidently more than college students do, the necessity for improving our minds, we are occasionally found inside
the library making use of its facilities, rather than on the steps discussing life’s inanities. But, in the words of
a real philosopher: “There is no dispute about taste.”

By this letter we hope to deflate the egos of those students who think they can “select in September, and
discard at their convenience.”

TWO GLAMOROUS ONES.

PS. Time to leave, boys.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

be nice to have a soft place to fall.

THE FRIENDLY PHILOSOPHER: FRIDAY, MAY 16, 1952

Davidson Scene In Retrospect

The Immediate Tomorrow

The approaching end of school and the finality of this issue of The Davidsonian leave no recourse but to examine
briefly the past year: its successes, its failures, and its challenge to the future. This is Davidson in retrospect; 1951-'52.
This is the immediate heritage of tomorrow: Davidson, '52-'53.

More than ever before during the past year, the Davidson student openly and intelligently questioned the inadequacies, the inconsistencies, and
the absurdities of the status quo. A few over-eager critics (who ME?) forgot that criticism should be positive and constructive;
a means rather than an end. While they were gnashing their teeth, more conscientious students were initiating corrective action. As
a result, we got a longer lunch hour, more vacation time, better chapel programs, some needed changes in the elections
system, and somewhat better harmony between students and faculty. These were steps in the right direction; they serve best to
point out the great task which lies ahead. The work of carrying on that task will depend in no small
measure on the clear thinking and effective action on the part of next year's Student Body. We must not let
ourselves sit back and say, "The job is finished." The job is never really finished. If Davidson is to make
real progress, she must more than match changes for the better in present-day society. Let's take a look at some
of the things which might be undertaken next year:

1. The question of voluntary Y membership was left hanging in mid-air. We, the members of the Y, should renew
our examination of the problem, draw definite conclusions one way or the other, and make a public statement of our
policy.
2. The elections system still bogs down in spots. The business of running three separate elections at the same place
and at the same time is very inefficient. We could examine the possibility of precinct voting, improve the speech-making set-up,
and permit open campaigning for the office of head cheerleader.
3. We should make a careful and critical analysis of the Honor System to see if there aren't some weaknesses,
both in the system, and among the users of the system, which should be remedied.
4. The Student-Faculty Committee should be re-organized, in order that these groups may meet together formally to discuss and attempt
to solve mutual problems.

The list could go on for pages. If the students of Davidson College go back to sleep next year, it
will become even longer. The challenge is ours collectively, but for it to be accepted, we must respond to it
as individuals. Only you can decide what your answer will be, but it will play a large part in determining
the success of Davidson tomorrow.

We could not conscientiously close out the year without a word of farewell to the seniors. They are leaving the
shadows of the cathedral spire and the chambermaids to step into a world of strife and tension. Davidson has not
completely prepared them to face that world; only time, further growth, and experience can achieve that. It is hoped that
she has given them certain valuable principles of thought and action which will guide them in the momentous task of
making the world a better place in which to live; fundamental intangibles which they will cherish forever.

Nat Daniel says: "Don't sigh with relief: I shall return."

FROM THE EDITOR’S MAILBOX:

Recent Election Speeches Called A Mere Test Of Speaking Ability

Dear Frank:

This letter is written from the point of view of one who has observed the student body elections as a
reporter for the Davidsonian in covering the elections as an assignment, and one who, because of this, has attempted to
remain aloof from the politics and clash of personalities in the voting. The ideas I am presenting are not recommendations
in the strict sense of the word but may be used by anyone who would desire a copyright on them
as they are neither wholly original nor entirely mine, but rather an anthology of criticisms and interested observations by a
wide variety of students and faculty members. This, in a word, is a summary of opinions.

The elections this year as they draw to a close have seen several innovations in the system as we knew
it before and have run the course of all good elections—officers have been selected. From the presidency of the student
body to the frosh representative on the council, there have been races that were both hotly contested and have taken
a long time to complete. The fact that the elections have taken so long has caused some amount of disinterest
among the students, but by and large the general feeling has been one of responsiveness and responsibility.

The speeches which were begun through the adoption of the amendments to the student body government constitution, have been generally
well-received by the students. The main objections to the speeches are that those who don’t know a man well, especially
the freshmen, are unduly influenced by a good speech, and the man who is not such a good speaker might
not be elected even though he be better qualified for the job and because of a talk that did not
exhibit an overly attractive talent for making a good public appearance, he would not be elected. This point is being
discussed particularly as it touches on the editorships of the publications. A possible solution that has been advanced is that
the use of a second person who would act not as a campaign manager, as we still want no campaigns,
but who would serve as speaker for the person who is nominated. This, too, has its drawbacks, the main one
being that it borders too closely on sheer politics, but the other suggestion that has been discussed, namely that of
lowering the number of students so that the speeches would be unnecessary, seems even further out of the question when
the amount of a tuition raise that would be required with such a change, is considered.

The question of having or not having speeches has been the focal point of the questioning on the running of
the elections for this year and so deserves the deepest and most conscientious study by those who might appraise its
worth or lack of value. Not signing the ballots has proved a minor change and was one that would have
seemed superfluous among a group of supposedly mature young men. As long as there is the possibility of clique forming,
and this will be a constant uncertainty as long as we have fraternities, there will remain no way of ever
checking up on this corrupt method of ram-rodding a candidate into an office. The original reason for signing the ballots,
that of ensuring that there was no stuffing of the ballot box, has been stopped by giving ballots out by
rows and if continued, this will tend to retain the purposes of the first method. I saw in an election,
earlier in the year, certain students who did stuff the ballot box by picking up all the unused ballots that
were left in the hymnal racks and signing the names of those men whom they'd noted weren't in chapel or
who refrained from voting. This is impossible under the present set-up and whoever it was who had the idea for
beginning the procedure that was used this year is to be commended.

In closing, I may only say that the actions in and out of the elections on the part of both
those voting and those being voted on has been in keeping with the Davidson traditions of democracy and of rewarding
those who deserve honor by electing men, who have the capabilities of leading the student body and the college in
the year 1952-’53 to one of the best ever.

JIM MOORE

CAT POLL

By DEAN GOODSELL

What do you think of combining rush week and orientation week?

PRO
Freshmen .......... 48.6%
Upperclassmen ...... 52.0%
TOTAL ............. 50.5%

CON
Freshmen .......... 51.4%
Upperclassmen ...... 48.0%
TOTAL ............. 49.5%

172 total number polled. (74 freshmen, 98 upperclassmen)

COMMENTS

We need more time as it is—R. M. Stevenson.

It would be financially extravagant for the students and unfair to those that would like to understand the position of
remaining independent.—George Knight.

You need a few weeks to get adjusted and acquainted, anonymous.

Rush Week should be at the beginning of second semester. “The Planking” Dutchman.

25% asked: “What about second semester rushing?” The unfortunate interruption of studies, a grievance of both faculty and students, would
be avoided, and, inasmuch as orientation itself takes up comparatively little time, the freshmen would be able to attend rush
parties without hindrance—Jim Allen.

Having rush week begin a few days before classes commence would be an ideal way to keep it from provoking
comment from the profs and would be more in line with those schools which do their rushing during the first
semester. Of course, as the poll shows, it is something different and this combined with the traditional laziness of students
here will make it impossible if left up to the boys of Davidson.—John Otten

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.
