PAGE FOUR

PONDERS QUESTION

Caught by the camera's eye in momentary thought before replying to an interviewer's question, campus figure George “Leroy” Brownie strikes
a pose familiar to those who have known and talked with him. Prominent in the community, George is known for
his wont to go into lengthy lectures at the slightest provocation. (Photo by Andy Simons.)

George Bares All In Exclusive Story

MIKE MYERS

I found him coming out of Ratliff’s Eco. with that smug look on his face. I shouted to George as
I elbowed through the crowd, but he only glanced my way and headed for chapel. I could tell right then
this was going to be a tough interview. “I'll catch him after chapel,” I thought. But no. He decided to
help the janitors clean up. I knew if he saw me coming he would shun me, so I got on
all fours and waited for him at the end of a row. “Now I'll get to talk to him face
to face.” But I was wrong again. As George backed out of the row he gave me the old raised-eyebrow
treatment.

“Now look here, George, be reasonable. Just a few questions. Do you think Truman will run and if so what
are his chances?” I could see George was pondering my query and I waited for his well-thought-out answer. Just as
I thought the answer was on his chops he suddenly remembered he was due down at the P. O. to
see that everyone got the right mail. He wheeled and was off with me at his heels. I couldn't keep
up with him, so when we got to the stoplight I got up on my feet to trot along beside
him, pencil and pad in hand.

“The Middle-East! The Middle East, George. What's the solution to that problem?” At last he answered. “How simple can you
humans get! The solution is obvious.” Or at least that’s how I interpreted his sigh. Then George lay down at
the “square” by the traffic light and watched for speeders. Occasionally a speeder would go by and I could tell
that behind George's innocent look he was making a mental note of the offense. To get the best results from
an interview you must put yourself on a level with your subject—make him feel at ease. As George and I
sprawled on the sidewalk in the warm mid-morning sun, I asked my next question. “Is it true your ancestor was
the dog used by Pavlov in his famous saliva experiment?”

I could tell I had hit a sore spot with George. He lowered his majestic head between his outstretched paws.
Was this sad philosopher withholding something from me? Was there some scandal in his family background? Did his family tree
have some rotten branches? I took his silence as a sign of encouragement and prodded him further. “George, you can
tell me. Speak freely—it will make you feel better.” He looked at me in deep thought and I saw a
tear creep into his eye (or was it phlegm?). I understood. “No, George. This won't get any further than you
and me,” I promised. The relief that came over him was a joy to see. He pulled himself up on
his haunches and unfolded the story of his family. It was one of the true, great tragedies of our time.
By the time he finished several dogs had gathered around to listen and some were sniffling. I felt choked up
inside. His was a story of tender love, hate, passion, violence. But an oath is an oath and I had
vowed not to print it.

Mr. Copeland began complaining that we were blocking all the traffic that his store usually gets, but George just ignored
him as only George can ignore. His expression was easy to read. All over his face was written “WHO does
he think he is?” Any taxpayer should know common law as applied under the Magna Carta gives dogs pre-empted rights
to authenticate their peregrinations under the vindictive eye of diabolical machinations at unprepossessed barbarians under Ordinance No. 8, Davidson township,
section A-6. It was in longhand, too.

But it was time for George to act in his capacity as boarding house inspector. I wanted to ask him
many, many more questions—how he lost his tail, his favorite movie star, was he once dishonorably discharged from the Saint
Bernard Rescue Team for drinking his own whiskey, etc., but I knew his noble heart was already too burdened with
the cares of the world to bother with such trivialities. As he was about to leave, I asked softly if
he was worried about losing some of his popularity to that up-and-coming brown-and-white pup Ztalgru. His yawn and sigh seemed
a clear enough answer. Then he turned and with his massive head held high plodded off down the street, his
mind already on some higher plane of ethereal thought.

THACKER’S INC.
PRIVATE DINING ROOMS for PARTIES AND BANQUETS
“A Good Place to Eat”
Phone 25-4900
Charlotte
221 South Tryon Street

FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 1952
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Tell Appointees

VIOLINIST ... phia. She was soloist with the New York Philharmonic Symphony during the 1949-51 seasons. She has also performed
on several TV programs.

In 1949 and 1950 she played some twenty concerts in the East and South. She has also performed on the
Philadelphia Inquirer's festival in Municipal Stadium in Philadelphia.

(Continued From Page One)

Lab Courses

June 5: Summer Sessions To Conference Will Begin June 11 Committee Posts

The first term of the 1952 summer session for eight-hour and four-hour laboratory courses in science will begin on Thursday,
June 5, and for six-hour and three-hour courses on Wednesday, June 11. Registration for laboratory science courses will be held
from 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. on Thursday, June 5, classes beginning in these courses at 2:00 p.m. that day.
Registration for six-hour courses will begin at 2:00 p.m. on Tuesday, June 10, classes beginning in all six-hour courses at
8:00 a.m., Wednesday, June 11.

The second term, offering only six-hour and three-hour courses, will begin on Thursday, July 24, and end on Friday, August
29. Classes will meet during the second term on all Saturdays except August 2 and 16. Bulletins listing courses to
be offered and additional information are available at the office of Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, registrar.

Dr. C. K. Brown informed The Davidsonian that Economics 41, organization and finance will be offered in place of business
42, insurance, which is incorrectly listed in the bulletin.

All six-hour courses meet twice a day for seventy-five minute periods during each 30-day term. Eight-hour courses are completed in
40 days. A student attending both terms of the summer session is required to earn a minimum of six semester
hours of credit in order to re-enter Davidson College in September. A student, by entering June 5 and remaining through
August 29, can secure fourteen semester hours of credit. By entering on June 11, he can secure twelve hours credit.
Work done in either term will be credited without reference to the other. The standard of work and the system
of grading for the summer session are the same as those of the regular session. Likewise, the rules governing student
conduct are the same. Students residing in dormitories during summer sessions are required to take full-time work. Students living in
their own homes will be permitted to take part-time work.At the discretion of the registrar and the dean, students in
residence during the summer terms will take their meals in the college dining hall. High school graduates wishing to enter
Davidson in June should write to the registrar of the college as soon as possible, informing him of their intention.

NETSMEN ... (Continued From Page Three)
There are more than a few very capable tennis players here who will probably see little action this season. But
their presence should serve to keep the men who are playing on their toes, lest they be rooted out of
their positions.

PHI DELTS CAPTURE... (Continued From Page Three)
Phi Delts; ½ Mile—Archer (3:48.2) Sigma Chi; Discus—Pierce (109'3") Phi Gams; Low hurdles—Wade (5.1) K.S.; High jump—Oldenburg—Phi Delts, Tucker—KA, and
Ballenger—SAE (tie, 5'4"); 440—Russell (57.4) Betas; 880—Bill Jenkins (1:35.5) Phi Delts; Broad Jump—York (19'5") Phi Gams; 220—Mitchener (24.0) Phi Delts;
and the 1-2 Mile Relay—Phi Delts (1:41.4).

NEW CARS DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF
Dial 3-4513
212 W. Fourth Charlotte

FINE FOODS
STEAKS
CHICKEN DINNERS
FOUNTAIN SERVICE
Open Sundays
Phone 132
STONESTREET'S Grade A Cafe
418 South Main Street
Mooresville, N.C.

NOTED JOURNALIST ... (Continued From Page One)
On a visit to Europe, she met and talked with the famous Irish patriot, Terrence McSweeney, several hours before a
hunger strike leading to his death. The story resulting from this chance interview marked Miss Thompson’s debut as a journalist.
She spent 17 years in Vienna and Berlin for the Curtis newspapers, the Philadelphia Public Ledger, and the New York
Evening Post. When she took over the important Berlin office of the New York Evening Post, she was the first
woman ever to hold such a position for the American press. She wrote several articles on Hitler before his rise
to power in 1933. After the publication of her book, “I Saw Hitler,” in 1934, she was ordered out of
Germany and permanently denied permission to return. Miss Thompson's other books include “Refugees: Anarchy or Organization,” “Dorothy Thompson's Political Guide,”
and “Let the Record Speak.” Her newspaper column, “On the Record,” is distributed by the Bell Syndicate to such newspapers
as The Boston Globe, St. Louis Post Dispatch, Chicago News, Detroit News, and the Washington Star.

BAND HEARING ... (Continued From Page One)
The Music Educator's National Conference has a membership including nearly all public school teachers in the United States. A convention
of the National Conference is held every other year, while the regional conferences around the country meet during the intervening
year. This year's conference is scheduled to meet from March 21 through March 26. Members of the Davidson Band will
not spend the complete holiday period traveling for various concerts. It is definitely planned that they will be given sufficient
free time in Philadelphia to visit there or to go to New York City.

COLLEGE GRADUATES... (Continued From Page Two)
An interesting feature of Pitt's Retail Bureau is that students earn while they learn by combining classroom discussion with actual
work experience. During the annual Christmas rush period, classes are suspended and the students take over full-time supervisory positions. Each
student earns approximately $500. On completing the course, a student receives a master’s degree.

FOR THE BEST IN RECORDS
DAN RAMSEY RECORD BAR
127½ W. Trade — Charlotte

Travel and study ABROAD this summer
LOWEST FARES EVER make university-sponsored tours via TWA most attractive. Spend your summer profitably and enjoyably on one of 16
four- to ten-week study tours in Great Britain, Europe, Asia, or Africa. Earn full credit while you travel and study.
Arranged by specialists in the educational-travel field, in cooperation with TWA. Tour price takes care of all necessary expenses, including
TWA’s money-saving new fares. For tour information, mention countries that interest you most when you write to: John Furbay, Ph.D.,
Director, TWA Air World Tours, 80 E. 42nd St., New York 17, N.Y. Effective May 1, subject to government approval.

The appointments to the Faculty Conference Committee were announced here today. For the faculty, Dr. Cunningham has named Dr. Puckett
as chairman, and Professors Ostwalt and Plott to complete the selection; for ODK, Pete Kalogridis has been selected. Also included
on the committee are the presidents of the three upper classes and the freshman advisor. The reactivation of the committee
was caused by the recognition by the faculty of certain requests for this action. The step took place at the
March meeting of the faculty. It is believed that the first meeting will be held in the near future, and
that the meetings are to be open ones. It was in the 1938-39 session that the original committee was established,
Dr. Spencer noted, in giving some background on the committee.

BAKER FINALISTS ... (Continued From Page One)
Richard Abdullah, Jacksonville, Fla.; Linny Marshall Baker, Kannapolis; Robert Adair Burnett, Spartanburg, S.C.; James H. Daughdrill, Atlanta, Ga., and the
McCallie School; Norman Sears Fletcher, Fitzgerald, Ga.; Albert H. F. Kuykendall, Charlotte, Central High; Lawrence White McIntosh, Hapeville, Ga.; Julian
Harold McKeithan, Winston-Salem; Jim Beaumont Marshall, Clarksville, Tenn.; Arthur Morrison Martin, Winnsboro, S.C.; Patrick Dwight Miller, Atlanta, Ga.; Richard Herbert
Morehead, Huntington, W.Va.; William Harold Morris, Charlotte, Harding High; Fred Glenn Myers, Spartanburg, S.C.; William David Payne, Jr., Henderson; Clyde
Odell Robinson, Jr., Raleigh; Nathan Richard Skipper, Wilmington; and William Ernest Taylor, Williamston.

Y REPRESENTATIVES ... (Continued From Page One)
Among the guests will be Edward A. Driscoll, Southern Area Student Secretary of the YMCA. The colleges represented in this
conference are: Vanderbilt University, North Carolina State, Johnson C. Smith, University of North Carolina, A and T College, Duke, Hampden-Sydney,
Livingston, Presbyterian, Agnes Scott, Flora MacDonald, Queens, and Davidson.

THEATRE
Shows Start at 3 p.m.
Mon.-Tue., Mar. 17-18
An American in Paris
To the music of George Gershwin
Gene Kelly, introducing Leslie Caron, Oscar Levant

Wednesday, Mar. 19
Thrilling Screen Event!
Sponsored by Junior Class of North Mecklenburg High

Thursday, Mar. 20
Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., and Claire Trevor in
"Detective Story"

Friday, Mar. 21
Shakespeare described—
“There’s not a minute of our lives should stretch without some pleasure”
Anthony and Cleopatra

A minute’s enough to stop at the familiar red cooler for a Coke. Pleasure? Certainly ... and refreshing, too.

DRINK
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF CONCORD
"Coke" is a registered trade-mark. © 1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

LIGHT AND RIGHT FROM SPRING THROUGH FALL!
TROPIC-TEX TWEED
British Lounge Model
BY THE HOUSE OF WORSTED-TEX®

For the man who prefers the casual, comfortable look as well as the fine quality and handsomeness of 2-ply 100%
virgin wool—Tropic-Tex Tweed by the House of Worsted-Tex is a natural preference! The rich, fine quality fabric has a remarkable
porousness and an amazing resistance to creasing—the result is just about the last word in coolness and lightness. And the
addition of the British ‘Lounge’ Model tailoring—the exclusive construction that adds a broader-shoulder look as well as height, slimness, and
poise to your appearance—makes the Tropic-Tex a distinctive value with the valuable quality of being wearable most of the year.

$50
Street Floor
CHARLOTTE
