If Bill Dole felt like a man stepping from the coolness of the pantry into the fire with no intermediate
steps, he showed no signs of it on his first visit to the Davidson campus in his new capacity last
Monday. The newly signed Wildcat football coach told an assembly of the Cat gridders and several future hopefuls simply and
frankly that he was here to make a winning team out of a losing one. Along with this came, without
malice or sarcasm, a reminder that the idea of the game is, after all, to win—not merely to make an
appearance on the field for a couple of hours every Saturday afternoon. At the most, it was not an inspiring
talk. It was, rather, a short statement of policy from a man who knows what he wants and is used
to getting it.

In three years at Eastern Carolina College, the school he left in favor of D.C., Dole did an admirable job
of pulling ECC’s Pirates out of the doldrums. Before that, he put in a three-year stint at Fayetteville High School,
producing some of the best prep teams ever to see action in the Tar Heel state. Wake Forest’s Nub Smith
was one of Dole’s proteges, as were the recently departed Wildcat stalwarts Jim Fasul and Bill Acker.

Though we hate to admit it, Dole’s prospects aren't the brightest ever faced by a new coach. Only 25 men
responded to the call made for the Monday afternoon meeting, and not nearly all of these were lettermen. There will
have to be a lot of new material coming in from somewhere—the most probable source being next year's freshman crop.
Even with the frosh being permitted to play, Coach Dole will soon find that sailing will be anything but smooth.
Because of a sanity code which is rougher than anything the Conference ever imposed on its member schools, Dole is
likely to find himself in the same position many another Wildcat mentor has faced; it is comparable to that of
a prizefighter entering the ring with his hands handcuffed in front of him. Though he can flail about mightily, he
can’t be expected to compete with his opponent on an equal basis.

The scholarly-appearing Dole, however, has the look of a man who has been faced with tough problems before, and it’s
a good guess that the decision of whether to come to Davidson was one of them. There is no doubt
that Dole is aware of the fact that the last three Cat grid mentors stepped from Davidson out of the
coaching profession entirely. Whatever inferences he might have drawn from this is unknown, but it should be enough for the
present to say that Dole has enjoyed a successful career as a coach and evidently plans to continue doing so.
It'll be a long, tough road, but Dole has a few plans to put Davidson back into the win column.
He won't change Crowell Little's basic formation very much. He describes his lineup as a cross between the Chicago Bears’
type of T and Don Faurot’s Split-T. “I don’t split the linemen too much, but I do have my quarterback
moving out and back of the line,” Dole explains. “This, plus passing. Don’t forget that.”

Before he begins the '52 season Dole will need at least one more assistant to coach his line. The resignation
of Dick Redding and Buddy Chandler within a few days of each other leaves Dole with only one remaining member
of the ‘51 staff, backfield coach Tom Fetzer, to orient him with the problems the Davidson position involves. The addition
of Chuck Clements of Gastonia should give the new coach an adequate staff for the Spring drills. At best, no
one will be expecting miracles from the new Wildcat coach. If he can mold a team which can win half
the games it plays next fall, the Davidson faithful won't have anything to complain about. Even that would be a
great improvement over the last couple of seasons, during which the Red and Black won only four games in all.

The best thing that could happen to Dole right now would be to receive a full vote of confidence from
his squad, the student body, the faculty, alumni, and the Wildcat Club. With the appearance of Dole on the Davidson
sports scene it’s a new ball game, and should be looked upon by all concerned as such. If he has
the support of all the above-mentioned plus a few more good ball players, Coach Dole may be able to pull
the Wildcats out of the slough which they have sunk into in the past few years. We wish him a
lot of luck.

Phi Gams Cop Volleyball Crown As Season Nears End

Although the intramural volleyball season is not quite over, the top team has already been decided for this year. The
winners of the intramural volleyball championship are the Phi Gams with an 11-0 record for the season. This year’s showing
marks the fourth straight year that the Phi Gams have been in the top four in volleyball, but it is
the first year they have walked off with first place. The championship this year was in doubt until the final
game when the Phi Gams met the Phi Delts, both teams being undefeated. The Phi Gams proved to be the
stronger, and thus bested their opponents in two games. The victory for the Phi Gams wasn’t due to any one
member's outstanding ability, but was, quite naturally, a team victory.

In second place at present we find the Phi Delts, who have lost only one game, but they still have
three games remaining and anything can happen. The Sigma Chis, with a 9-2 record, are already assured of third place,
and the possibility of a second place position if the Phi Delts should lose any more games. Rounding out the
top five at present are the KA’s and SPE’s with three losses apiece.

STANDINGS
Team W L
Phi Gams 11 0
Phi Delts 7 1
Sigma Chis 9 2
KA’s 6 3
SPE 8 3
Betas 6 6
ATO 4 6
Pi Kapps 4 6
Kappa Sigs 3 8
Pikas 0 7

By BILL BRADFORD

In the springtime tennis is always a big sport on the campus, and although Davidson last year sank below the
standards set by Cobb and Roddey during the previous years, there are several factors that indicate that it won't be
long before the Cats are once again in that No. 1 spot in the Southern Conference. One of these is
a powerful bunch of freshmen headed by Lacy Keesler who is our choice for the Wildcat of the Week. Lacy
comes from a family in which tennis seems to be second nature. He was preceded by three brothers who for
the past eight years have kept the name of Keesler high on the starting positions of some powerful Davidson teams.
This year his brother Dewey is captain. Lacy was literally born with a tennis racket in his hand and his
accomplishments in this sport prior to his coming to Davidson make a pretty impressive record. He won the state high
school championship two years running and last year he was victor in the State Jr. Men’s Tournament. In his hometown
of Charlotte last year, he was the juniorSingles champion and was a member of the winning doubles team. In the
preceding year, he was a finalist in both of these events. Although Lacy is only a freshman, he has slammed
himself into the Number One position and shows every sign of being able to hold it for the rest of
the season. In the four matches to date, Lacy has won all of his matches. Possessing unlimited potential, he gives
promise of becoming, under Coach Barton's tutelage, one of Davidson's really great tennis stars. Outlooks for this season look bright
and with a little luck, it should be quite successful with the prospects for the coming years looking even better.

Golfers Meet Rollins Again
By BOB BRANNAN

A well-balanced Davidson links team will play a return match with Rollins College Saturday morning at Myers Park Club. On
their Florida tour, the Wildcats were defeated by the Rollins team by one point, 14-13, in pouring rain. Coach Elgin
White is looking for the linksmen’s second victory of the season with this match. As to who will be put
in the number one position is yet to be decided. This and the number two spot have been the weak
points in the lineup. These two positions collected only a total of one and one-half points out of a possible
16 in matches with Wake Forest and N.C. State. The Wildcats were defeated 15½-12½ and 15-12, respectively, in these matches
last weekend. So far this year, Mac McLean, Al Fitzgerald, Jim Sloan, and Graeme Keith have been tried in the
top slot by Coach White. The team was greatly crippled by the loss of Tom Abel because of scholastic deficiencies.
He was the team’s strongest man at the time of his departure. The Wildcats have matches with Rollins, North Carolina,
Clemson, N.C. State, and South Carolina remaining on the schedule. All of these are home matches.

Racqueteers Roll Over PC

Davidson’s victory-minded netsmen scored their fourth victory against only one defeat Thursday afternoon when they downed fighting Presbyterian College by
a score of 7-2. Freshman standout Lacy Keesler, playing again in the number one singles, bested P.C.’s Frank Spears 6-4,
1-6, 6-2, in one of the best matches of the afternoon. Brother and team captain Dewey Keesler, not to be
outdone, whitewashed P.C.’s Ken Thompson, 6-0, 6-0. The Cats met Lehigh this afternoon and the results were too late for
publication. Bill Bradley scored the only singles victory of the afternoon when he defeated Allan Strand in a long and
grueling match which ended with Strand on the long end of a 6-3, 6-8, 6-2 score. It was just not
Strand's day. The former Davidson captain went down together with Dewey Keesler, in straight sets in the number one doubles
match, 6-4, 6-1, for Davidson's second and last loss of the day, as the Wildcats swept all the rest of
the matches. Match scores were as follows:

Singles
1) Lacy Keesler (D) defeated Spears (P), 6-3, 1-6, 6-2.
2) John Bremer (D) defeated Bill Toole (P), 6-3, 4-6, 6-3.
3) Bill Bradley (P) defeated Allan Strand (D) 6-3, 6-8, 6-2.
4) Dewey Keesler defeated Ken Thompson (P) 6-0, 6-0.
5) Corky Clark defeated Joe Dodd (P) 2-6, 6-4, 6-3.
6) Joe Dudley (D) defeated Skip (Continued On Page Four)

Tomorrow afternoon, the Wildcats of Coach Dave Poole will go out on the diamond to oppose again the Tigers of
Clemson. In the first meeting of these two ball clubs, the Cats were trounced 21-6 in a game marked by
high winds, hits, and errors. The starting battery for the home team will probably be Andy Courts or Jim Smith
and Bill Glidewell. The infield will stand with Southwell, Gray, Guiton, and Whisnant. The outfield will probably be made up
of Gilley or McCall, Stowe, and Branch. The Cats have a record of two wins against Springfield and The Citadel
and four defeats at the hands of Springfield, Furman, Clemson, and Ohio University. The Tigers have a record of three
wins and six defeats. At the beginning of the week, they lost two games to Wake Forest. The games were
wild and woolly from beginning to end with forty-seven runs and fifty-five hits being made by the two teams. On
Tuesday, the Wildcats lost an 8-3 decision to Ohio University even though the home club outhit the visitors fifteen hits
to ten. This marked the first game in which the Cats had really found their batting eyes, getting twice their
usual number of hits. Poole is counting on this newly found hitting strength to help the tight fielding infield to
capture this second Clemson game. Recently, the hitters have been led by Fred Stowe and Arnold Whisnant. The fielders have
been paced by Johnny Gray and Johnny Guiton. The pitching staff has been having a rough time in the last
three games in allowing thirty-seven runs to cross the plate. Thus far, Jimmy Smith has shown up as the leading
pitcher on the staff.

Gridders Open Spring Drills

Spring practice for the Wildcat footballers begins Wednesday afternoon with Head Coach Bill Dole in the driver’s seat. The new
Cat mentor will have only about two full teams of regulars to work with, but he has expressed high hopes
that former high school athletes at Davidson not out for the gridiron sport will respond to his call for more
men. In the twenty-day period that is the duration of spring drills, Dole will have a major task on his
hands. He'll have to learn the capabilities of all his lettermen, determine the possibilities of the new grid hopefuls, and
orient himself with an entirely new school and conference. But the biggest job Dole will face will be the one
of installing his T-formation, which, as he describes it, appears not a great deal different from Crowell Little's modified split-T.
Dole has his quarterback moving out and back behind the line, utilizes the box formation, along with some fast, tricky
buck-lateral plays. He will have some good help in Tom Fetzer and his new assistant, Charles Clements of Gastonia. Though
the new grid mentor will have to do a great deal of rebuilding in the line, he'll have many dependable
backs to work with. Jack Ruth, Roy White, Henry Brown, Johnny Gray, and several others are expected to answer the
call on Wednesday. In the line, Arnold Whisnant will return at center; Gene Pierce and Dickie Davis at guards; Harry
Peterson, Bob Tucker, Bob Loy, and Wallace Pate at the tackle posts; and Dick Kelley, Charlie Rankin, and Dean Edwards
at the ends. Other names to watch in the line are Ben Craig, Neil Graham, Charlie Cousar, Johnny Buxton, and
Ronny Whitson. Dick Perkins, who saw a lot of service as a linebacker on the ’51 team, will be important
in Dole’s plans.

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS — IT PAYS!
