WHAT IS CRITICAL ELECTION ISSUE? ONE LAST QUIET LOOK (See Page Two) The Davidsonian NUMBER TWENTY-FOUR DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.
C. VOLUME XL FRIDAY, MAY 2, 1952

Hanshaw, McCutchen, and Mitchell were the men elected in this week's voting by the student body. Frank Hanshaw, of Huntington,
W. Va., is the new editor of the student newspaper. In Year Book polling, Sam Hope and Mitchell Patton are
the two remaining candidates for the editorship of the college annual, Quips and Cranks, 1953 issue. In the initial voting
by the rising senior class, which is the only group that votes in this election, only one of the three
original candidates was eliminated. Hope, a Fayetteville resident, held the job of managing editor in the '51-52 annual staff. A
member of Eu Society, he is also a Beta in which he was historian last year. Having been newly-elected to
Scabbard and Blade, that fraternity has given him the job of secretary for the coming year. Hope was head frosh
cheerleader in his freshman year and has been one of the cheerleaders each year since. Mitchell Patton, a Baker Scholar
from Greenville, S. C., is a Pi Kapp who is no alien to publishing as he has not only been
on the staff of the annual for the past four years but also was the editor of the fraternity paper
for this year. He has been the alumni secretary this year and for the coming year Mitch has been selected
for (Continued On Page Four)

Music Men Give Recital Monday

Students in the Department of Music will present a recital Monday evening at 8:15 in Chambers Auditorium. Vocalists on the
program will be Don Crosby, tenor; Jack Mills, baritone; and Herb Russell, bass. Piano students taking part will be Robert
Jones, Owen Leland, Wil- Blade. They will live under all West Point regulations while there.—(Photo by Andy Simons.)

Future GI's Convene For Info, Advice

All men who expect to either be called or enlist in the armed forces will meet for an informal question-answer
session at Erwin Lodge Tuesday about 2:30 p.m. This is the first time these men will have convened as a
group. Since the future military men have never before been brought together for any reason, and since it is evident
that they will be entering a new type of living and environment, and consequently have many questions, problems and uncertainties
on their minds, the purpose of the gathering is to familiarize them with these problems and try to give them
solutions and answers to them. The men who will lead the discussion and answer any questions concerning the military life
are: Professor Iain Wilson, who served during World War II as a chaplain in the Royal British Army; Dr. William
Workman, who served

Hubert Cannon, recently elected president of the Y.M.C.A., this morning released the names of the members of his new cabinet.
Two of the positions are not affirmed as yet, and one other, the Freshman Adviser, has yet to be elected.
The following are the cabinet departments and their heads for the coming year: Advancement, Jim Speed; Chapel, Buddy Lamon; Hall
Prayer Meetings, Dave Moylan; Special Services, Stuart Plummer; College Bible Class, Lyman Kiser; Social Life, Bob Henry; Publications, Charlie Hassell.
A continuation of this list is: Forums, Jesse Fisher; Student Government, Jack Ruth; Scouting, Mike York; Sunday School Extension, Luke
Scales; Boys’ Work, Homer Sparks; and Christmas Gift Fund and Vesper Services, Ernest Barry. The departments still in debate are
Deputations and Community Work, but Cannon felt that he would have made these appointments by early next week.

Selwyn Site For Male Chorus Soon To Tour Carolinas

The Davidson College Male Chorus will give a concert of secular music in the Highland Presbyterian Church of Fayetteville, Saturday
night, under the direction of Donald Plott. The chorus will also sing during the Sunday morning service. Sunday afternoon the
chorus will sing in a vesper service at the Sanford Presbyterian Church, in Sanford. The recently elected officers of the
Male Chorus for the year 1952-53 are: Phil Sellers, president; Robert Dunbar, vice president; and C. Leonard will assume the
responsibilities of his office next week. The final vote for the student body office of secretary-treasurer found Leighton McCutchen, Nashville,
Tenn., as the elected man. Bob Mitchell, Sigma Chi from Goldsboro, N. C., was elected earlier in the week to
the post of second vice-president of the Y. Hanshaw, a Pika who has worked on the staff of the paper
since his freshman year, made a speech in chapel on Wednesday with the two other candidates, Nat Daniel and John
Ottley. In his speech Hanshaw emphasized the place of the Davidsonian in student life with particular stress on complete coverage
of all phases of campus activities and definite editorial aims and goals. Frank is a Eu member and has been
the secretary of that group. For next year he has been elected captain of Scabbard and Blade, and for this
year served as adjutant of the regiment in ROTC. A business major, he is relinquishing his post as one of
the managing editors of the paper. He plans an organizational meeting of his staff for next week. Rising sophomore Leighton
McCutchen was the lone survivor of a long list of candidates who did not weather the voting storm. This contest
has taken longer than any other single office to run off. Bob Mitchell, a pre-min student who has been active
in the Y since his freshman year, appeared before the student body this year in the controversial debate on compulsory
Y membership. His name now completes the roster of officers in that Christian organization. Kirk Oglesby, chairman of the elections
board, could not be reached for a statement, but it is expected that the speeches by the three candidates for
editor of Scripts 'N Pranks will be in a chapel program early next week. Beside the editor of the magazine,
there is only the head cheerleader to be elected in the general student body elections.

Registration Urged

Eleven Get ROC; To Train In California

Eleven Davidson men, members of the Naval Reserve in Charlotte, were informed this week of their selection as ROC candidates.
This number included all those who applied this year. The men who have been selected are: Lewis Nelson, Raymond Lynch,
Mitch Patton, Calvin Baird, Robin Hinson, Lana Sims, Bob Loy, Ralph Holt, Bob Tucker, Jim Golding, and Bill Bledsoe. U.
S. Naval Station, Long Beach, California, is to be the site of the summer training and classes which are to
begin about July 7. Courses studied include navigation, gunnery, naval justice, nomenclature of ships, duties of the line officer, fire
fighting, and other related subjects. The provisions of the Reserve Officers Candidate Program allow that two training periods of approximately
six weeks length, that are open in the summer, will qualify a man for anHere is the cleaned OCR text,
preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

ensign’s commission in the Naval Reserve upon graduation from college. In the case of juniors, the completion of the last
summer’s training period, which will be after college graduation, will signify the beginning of their commissions. Bill Neal, a member
of the senior class, last summer completed his second summer of training and is to be awarded (Continued On Page
Four)

Seek Seniors Geiger, secretary-treasurer. liam Porter and Edward Stuart. as chaplain in the U. S. Navy;

For Summer School Moose Has Added Much To D.C. Arts

This year’s Fine Arts Festival at Davidson was made more representative of the arts as a whole by the inclusion
of an exhibition of paintings by two prominent North Carolina artists, by an exhibition of student painting, and a lecture
on “Art in North Carolina and the Appreciation of Modern Art” by Miss Lucy Cherry Crisp, director of the State
Art Gallery in Raleigh. Also appearing on the program will be Perry Daniels, who will play a movement of a
Mozart Concerto for Horn; and Herb Russell, organist, who will be heard in music by Bach and Vierne. The recital
is open to the public, and faculty and students are invited to attend.

Lt. Col. E. H. Davis, who recently returned from active duty in Korea and who will become the PMSA&T next
year at Davidson; and Chaplain Major Augustus T. Noland, chaplain of N.C. Military District from Fort Bragg. These men all
have had experience and are familiar (Continued On Page Four)

Fiji Pig Dinner

Members of the local chapter of Phi Gamma Delta, with members of the Charlotte Graduate Chapter, and regional alumni, will
gather this Saturday evening in the Selwyn Hotel to hold their annual Pig Dinner. Speaker for the occasion is Dr.
Lauchlin M. Currie, Davidson, '18, who is vice president of the National Carbon Company with headquarters in New York. During
the past World War, Dr. Currie was one of the leading figures in the Manhattan Project and climaxed his service
with the government by attending the first Atomic tests at Bikini. Dr. Currie holds a Ph. D. from Cornell and
honorary degrees from Clarkston Institute of Technology and Davidson College. Dick Liles of the local chapter will serve as toastmaster
for the dinner which is held yearly by each chapter of Phi Gamma Delta in the United States and Canada.
Special tribute will be paid to Mr. Robert Stowe of Belmont for services rendered the fraternity in recent years. An
open house will be held by the fraternity in the afternoon and a number of alumni are expected to attend.
Chairman for the dinner is Tad Currie who is being assisted by Maynard Bellamy.

On April 26, the group gave a concert in Fort Mill, S.C. They were presented in a choral Vesper service
in Greenwood, S.C., by the Greenwood Chapter of the American Guild of Organists on April 27.

Dean Brown announces that it is urgent that all students who plan to attend summer school at Davidson register now
with Mr. Hengeveld in order to avoid conflicts in subjects.

A Tear For Judas

Placement director John Dillon has announced that during the coming week three companies are sending representatives to Davidson College to
interview seniors who wish to secure jobs after graduation. On Tuesday, May 6, a representative will be at Davidson from
S. H. Kress and Company. He will interview seniors, seeking future executives of the Kress chain. The president of Asheboro
Concrete Products Company

Doubles, Cannon To Europe

Mr. Moose is a professional painter, living in Newton, N.C., and commuting twice a week to meet his fine arts
classes here. He is well known among North Carolina artists and achieved national fame when he won the Pulitzer Prize
for painting in 1948. Philip Moose began his art study in 1936. He worked and studied in numerous art schools
in the East, among them The National Academy of Design in N.Y., The Tiffany Foundation of Long Island, Columbia University,
and The Skowhegan School in Maine. At the beginning of World War II, Mr. Moose entered the Air Force and
served in England and on the Continent. After the war he again returned to his art study in the United
States. In 1948 he was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for painting, which allowed him to travel to Europe to study
and paint in France and (Continued On Page Four)

Davidsonians In Armed Forces

PFC. JAMES E. (ELWOOD) MITCHELL, JR., Hdq. Co. Sec. 3431, ASU, Fort Jackson, S.C. While at Davidson, before he left
in his junior year, he was a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity. He was in the class of ‘51.
His home is Greensboro, N.C.

LIEUT. JAMES G. (GROVER) LEE, JR., 21st Inf. Regt., 24th Inf. Div. APO 24, c/o P.M., San Francisco, Calif. Grover,
class of '50, was in the Spanish Club, IRC, D-Club, and Pi Kappa Alpha when here at Davidson. He also
played football and was on the track team. He received his commission through the ROTC. He is now stationed near
(Continued On Page Four)

Hubert is to participate in the reconstruction of a recreation center in the small mining town of Bruay, in northwestern
France. This camp is to be held during the month of August. Both students plan to earn part of their
fare across the Atlantic and arrive in Europe in time to see a great deal of the continent before their
camps begin. These camps, sponsored by the World Council of Churches, are opened in communities throughout the world in order
to give young people of different backgrounds an opportunity to work together on needy projects, bringing better understanding among Christian
young people, and providing an opportunity for Christian service. Participants work about 40 hours a week, play, learn, and worship
together. This summer camps will be held in Germany, Austria, Belgium, France and Puerto Rico. One camp will be opened
this summer at Swannanoa, N.C., from June 15 until August 20. Anyone interested in attending this, or any other Ecumenical
Work Camp, may obtain further information from Chaplain Gripe.

Gets College Nod

According to the circulation statistics for this year at Davidson College, the most popular book in the college family is
LeGette Blythe's “A Tear for Judas.” The biblical historical novel appealed about equally to faculty members and students and led
by a considerable margin all other titles in the popular reading category. Dr. Blythe is a neighbor and good friend
of Davidson College. He lives in Huntersville and has been writing novels for some 20 years. Davidson College gave him
a D. Litt. degree several years ago for his distinguished work in creative writing. The next best seller has also
a local connection. It is Bill Styron’s “Lie Down in Darkness.” Styron spent his freshman year at Davidson and then
went to the war and to Duke. “Lie Down in Darkness” is a modern novel in the Faulkner manner. It
received extravagant praise from the nation’s top reviewers. It is hardly in the Davidsonian tradition except that what the author
set out to do, he did well. Some might question whether or not it was worth doing but apparently not
those who set our standards in literature today. In order of their popularity, the next in the first ten at
Davidson are as follows: Monsarrat, “The Cruel Sea,” Jones, “From Here to Eternity;” Marshall, “A Man Called Peter;” Street, “The
High Calling;” Michener, “Return to Paradise;” Davis, “The Ragged Ones;” Mitford, “The Blessing;” Barr, “Monk in Armor.”

On Wednesday, May 7, for interviews with men interested in being office management trainees or salesmen. He will choose one
man for each job. The office management job will be offered only to one who can do double-entry bookkeeping, and
will eventually lead to one of the top jobs in the company. The job as a salesman will involve no
overnight travel. John G. Ornsby of the J. C. Penny Company will be in Davidson on Thursday, May 8. He
will interview seniors who wish to enter the executive training program. He has openings for men in from eight to
ten North Carolina and South Carolina stores. On all three days there will be group interviews at 8:45 a.m. Individual
interviews will follow. All interviews will be held in room 108 Chambers Building. Seniors are asked to sign up for
the interviews immediately in room 104 Chambers.
