PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, MAY 2, 1952

Draft Deferment | New Magazine Retest May 22

Major General Lewis B. Hershey, director of Selective Service, today announced an additional Selective Service College Qualification Test to be
held May 22 at 1,000 testing centers for the benefit of students prevented by illness, emergencies, or some other reason
from taking the test on December 13, 1951, or April 24 of this year. Officers at National Headquarters said they
could not emphasize too strongly that students who have an admission ticket for either the December 13, 1951, or April
24 test which they failed to use on the assigned date must submit a new application if they wish to
take the May 22 test. The old admission ticket, they pointed out, will not admit a student to the May
22 test. He must make an application to receive a new admission ticket.

Application blanks for the May 22 test may be obtained by students from the nearest local board. They do not
have to return home to the local board which has jurisdiction over them. Applications for the May 22 test should
be mailed as soon as possible to the Educational Testing Service, Princeton, New Jersey. Applications postmarked later than midnight May
10 will not be accepted.

To be eligible to take the Selective Service College Qualification Test, an applicant, on the testing date (1) must be
a selective service registrant who intends to request deferment as a student; (2) must be satisfactorily pursuing a full-time college
course—undergraduate or graduate—leading to a degree; (3) must not previously have taken the test.

The criteria for consideration for deferment as a student at the present time is either a score of 70 or
better on the Selective Service College Qualification Test or class standing among the male members in the upper half of
the freshman class, upper two-thirds of the sophomore class, or upper three-fourths of the junior class. Seniors accepted for admission
to a graduate school satisfy the criteria if they are among the upper half of the male members of their
senior class, or they make a score of 75 or better. Students already enrolled in graduate schools may be considered
for deferment so long as they remain in good standing. These criteria are guides for the local boards. The local
boards are under no compulsion to follow them, but any local board classification is subject to appeal. The appeal must
be filed in writing with the local board within 10 days after the local board mails a notice of classification.

General Hershey has urged all eligible students to take the test so they will have scores in their files when
the local boards reopen their cases to determine whether or not they meet the criteria for deferment as students during
the next academic year. General Hershey also has repeatedly stressed that no deferment is an exemption. “A deferment is a
delay or postponement,” he said, “and in no way cancels the duty of the registrant to meet his obligations.”

(Continued On Page Four)

IN BRIEF RETROSPECT ... for vigorous discussion, not rumored wonder. Few issues have been created in the speeches made turned
to the light, viewed by the student body mind from With an efficient Election Board and the perennial good judgment
of the Davidson student body, there seems little danger of the system constituting the first wedge in open politics on
the campus. But it is a system in which the unexpected is always to be expected when men are given
free reign with an audience, must be continually under control, particularly in these formative years.

Band Goes Outside For Spring Music

The concert band, under the direction of Kenneth R. Moore, will present two open-air concerts during the next two weeks.
The feature soloist of the first concert will be Grier Williams, first trumpet, who will play “Summertime” from George Gershwin's
folk opera, “Porgy and Bess.” This latest form of band entertainment will be staged at the south side of Chambers
Building between the library and the science building on May 6th and May 13th. Light, summertime music will be played
on each of these occasions from seven until about eight p.m.

WADE JOHNSTON ... (Continued From Page Three) match and matched strokes with him and even bettered Locke by one stroke.
The score... 74 and 75.

DAVIDSONIANS IN... (Continued From Page One) Seudai, Japan. A/3c WILLIAM W. McCRARY, III, AF. 18409244, Box 73, 5004th Air Intell,
Ser. Squad, APO 942, c/o P.M., Seattle, Wash. Graduating in the class of 1951, Bill’s home is Lonoke, Ala. He
was a member of the IRC and Alpha Tau Omega while here at School. He is now stationed at Elmendorff
AFB, Anchorage, Alaska.

ROBERT C. MURRAY, NAS, Memphis, Tenn., was a member of the Class of 1954. His home is Mountain Home, N.
C.

NEW CARS DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF Dial 3-4513 212 W. Fourth Charlotte

FOR THE BEST IN RECORDS DAN RAMSEY RECORD BAR 127½ W. Trade — Charlotte

CHESTERFIELD SPORTS (Continued From Page Three) sentative on the campus, has announced an important change in the Chesterfield Sports Quiz
rules. Due to the high interest shown in last week’s quiz, Hall has announced that from now on five prizes
of two packs of Chesterfields each will be awarded to the first five contestants with correct answers to the above
questions written on the back of a Chesterfield wrapper. Answers should be turned in to Room E East (basement) on
Friday night after the Davidsonian has been published.

SVM COLUMN ... (Continued From Page Two) special revelation to our own personal lives to indicate that we fall under
that general duty. What we need is a special call to assure us that we are exempt from personal obedience
to that presumptive and general duty.

To Exploit Campus Field

College Life, something new in the magazine field—a national collegiate magazine—will make its first appearance in October. The bimonthly publication
will feature articles by professional writers and experts on such topics as job opportunities, vacations, fellowships, dating problems, and clothes.
In addition, it will seek original photographs, poems, short stories, feature articles, and drawings from gifted college students. With a
potential audience of over two million, College Life will be distributed via subscription and newsstand sales. The magazine has openings
at present for campus representatives to serve as combination subscription salesmen, correspondents, and talent scouts. Reps will receive good pay
for performing all three functions. Students interested in applying for the campus rep positions should write College Life at 175
Fifth Avenue, New York, 10, N. Y., at once. They should have at least one year of college remaining. Applicants
should list major courses they have taken and extracurricular experience. Previous sales experience and writing ability are preferred but not
necessary.

Job Outlook Seen As Very Good For Graduating Class

The job outlook for new college graduates this year is excellent. Our economy is operating at extremely high levels and
is expanding, and that expansion is expected to continue and intensify during the rest of 1952 and 1953. Record employment
levels are being reached nearly every month. Unemployment is extremely low and is expected to edge downward even further. Defense
production and employment have been rising steadily for many months and are scheduled to expand rapidly until the end of
1953. After that time defense output will remain on a high plateau for a number of months. Production and employment
for civilian use have been edging downward in recent months and a further decline may be anticipated during much of
this year. During 1953, however, employment levels in this segment of the economy are expected to climb upward until they
have more than recovered the losses of 1952.

Graduates seeking information on expanding industries or sections of the country need to remember this basic fact: most of the
jobs taken by this year’s college graduates will be, as usual, those which have been vacated by other workers. Deaths
and retirements at the top of the occupational ladder create the largest number of openings at the bottom. It follows
that most of the openings will occur in the large industries and the areas where there are now the heaviest
concentrations of employment.

MOOSE HAS ADDED... (Continued From Page One) Italy in the following year. In addition to thisYear in Europe in 1949,
Mr. Moose has traveled widely through New Mexico, Mexico, and Guatemala, spending the winter of 1948 in Mexico and returning
in the summer of 1951 to Mexico and Guatemala to observe the work of the great Mexican muralists, Diego Rivera,
Jose Orozco, and David Siqueriros. Many paintings by Mr. Moose are owned in private collections, but they are also represented
in art museums in such widely separated areas as The Art Museum in Colchester, England; The Museum of Taos, New
Mexico; The Art Museum of Norfolk, Virginia; and the Mint Museum in Charlotte. Because of his ability and experience, Mr.
Moose has been able to make many improvements in the fine arts department during his one year here. In his
concern for wider student understanding and appreciation of art, especially contemporary “modern art,” he has benefited not only his class
but the entire college and community by regular exhibitions of paintings in the Chambers lobby. The first exhibition last fall
was a collection of realistic landscapes, mostly mountain scenes, borrowed from the art museum of History. The second exhibition included
realistic oil portraits and landscapes by the Charlotte artists, Dayrell and Katherine Kortheuer and Paul Bartlett. The third exhibition was
a collection of watercolors of rural scenes. The fourth showing exhibited the paintings of about 10 students in Mr. Moose’s
fine arts class. This exhibition was invited to Charlotte, where it has been showing in the Mint Museum during April.
The last exhibition shown during Fine Arts Week is the work of two prominent North Carolina artists, Kachergis and Howell.
These paintings are modernistic in approach, as contrasted with the other exhibitions which were more realistic in style. It is
Mr. Moose’s hope that these exhibitions will bring more and better art to Davidson. With better exhibition space and more
funds for top-notch museum traveling exhibitions, it is thought Davidson College could work toward the day when its contribution to
the appreciation of art would match its contribution of fine music in this area.

THACKER'S INC.
PRIVATE DINING ROOMS for PARTIES AND BANQUETS
“A Good Place to Eat”
Phone 25-4900
Charlotte
221 South Tryon Street

Withers Electric
Radio Repairs
Electrical Supplies
Light Bulbs

Scholarly Nicholas Udall affirmed—
“Mirth cometh
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY
“Coke is a registered trademark, prolongs life, and causeth health”
Ralph Reister Deicke

Cares fade away and good cheer joins the gathering when frosty bottles of Coke are served.
OF CONCORD
© 1952, The Coca-Cola Company

PATTON, HOPE ...
(Continued From Page One)
The post of rush chairman. A member of the French Club, he is a business major. In the speeches that
were required of the candidates, there was a similarity of awareness of responsibility and a sense of duty to office
that was expressed by all three. Hope brought out the marks of a better annual saying that the photographs and
engravings could be improved and he would strive to do so if elected. He said that his annual would be
original, well-planned, and representative. Patton, emphasizing new ideas and originality, illustrated this by giving a number of proposed changes, among
them that of allowing the decision of the debated use of uniform coats and ties to be left in the
hands of the student body. Elections board officials expect that the contest will continue in chapel on Monday.

ELEVEN GET ROC...
(Continued From Page One)
His commission at graduation this spring. Last year between 20 and 25 Davidson men applied for the ROC, but none
were selected. The reason given by the officers at the Charlotte unit was that those who applied had not been
in the reserve long enough to be picked.

FUTURE GI'S...
(Continued From Page One)
With the problems which young men face. The conference is intended to be informal and planned for you, in order
that you will have a better knowledge of what type of life you will be entering and so that you
will be better equipped to meet the problems which will be faced. All men who are planning to enter military
service this summer are urged to attend. This conference is sponsored by the YMCA, supported by the ROTC department and
the planning is under the direction of Al Davies, with Pete Kalogridis, Frank Warren, and Sib Dorton assisting.

Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville Ice Cream Company
Mooresville, N. C.

DAVIDSON
Shows Start at 3 P. M.
MON.-TUE., MAY 5-6
AFRICAN QUEEN
TECHNICOLOR
WEDNESDAY, MAY 7
THIS WOMAN IS DANGEROUS
THURSDAY, MAY 8
FRIDAY, MAY 9

Jewish Women To Give Essay Prize
Class of '53 students who have their own ideas about academic freedom will have a chance to compete next fall
for $5,000 in cash prizes in a nationwide essay contest on this timely and important subject sponsored by the National
Council of Jewish Women. Any next-year senior, man or woman, in any American college is eligible. The essays, of 2,500
words maximum, are to be on the subject, “The Meaning of Academic Freedom.” First prize will be $2,500; second, $1,000;
and third, fourth, and fifth, $500 each. Heading the Committee of judges will be Supreme Court Justice William O. Douglas.
Other members will be Ralph Bunche, winner of the Nobel Peace Prize in 1950; Thurman W. Arnold, author and former
Associate Justice of the U. S. Court of Appeals; Mrs. Douglas Horton, educator and former head of the Women’s Reserve,
U. S. Navy; and Abram L. Sachar, president of Brandeis University. The contest will be open for receipt of entries
September 15, 1952; will close December 31, 1952; winners will be announced about the middle of April, 1953. It is
being announced at this time so that students will have an opportunity to work on their essays during the summer
if they wish. Detailed rules and instructions will be made available at the beginning of the fall term, and copies
may be obtained at that time from the college administrative offices. The purpose of the National Council of Jewish Women
in conducting the contest, as explained by Mrs. Irving M. Engel, national president, is “to encourage thoughtful exploration and forthright
expression on the subject of academic freedom among the students themselves.” The National Council of Jewish Women has long been
committed to the preservation of the dignity of the individual and to the protection of fundamental American liberties. Reports of
recent restraints on the traditionally free exchange of ideas and opinions in our colleges and universities have been received with
deep concern by our organization. “We know this is not true in all colleges,” Mrs. Engel said. “But if it
is true in any substantial number—if it is only partly true—we of the Council believe our democracy should take warning,
and that we should do everything we can to safeguard the priceless tradition of free exchange of thought and opinion
in education from any threat of repression from the outside world or from fear to ‘speak up’ within the classroom
or lecture hall. “We believe the survival of American freedom—in school and out—will depend on the ability of America’s citizens
to think for themselves and on the courage of those citizens in speaking up for the things they believe in.
This has been the very core of our nation’s strength from its earliest days.”

Camel leads all other brands by billions
Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests
No. 41...THE MAGPIE
A chatterbox himself—outclassed by no one! But the fancy double-talk of cigarette tests was too fast for him! He knew—before
the garbled-gobbledygook started—a true test of cigarette mildness is steady smoking. Millions of smokers agree—there's a thorough test of cigarette
mildness. It’s the sensible test...the 30-day Camel Mildness Test, which simply asks you to try Camels as your steady smoke—on
a day-after-day, pack-after-pack basis. No snap judgments. Once you've tried Camels in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste),
you'll see why ... After all the Mildness Tests ...

VETERANS! YOUR LAPSED GF TERM POLICIES (NSLI OR USGL) MAY BE REINSTATED ONLY DURING THE TERM PERIOD. IF YOU FAIL
TO DO THIS BEFORE THE TERM PERIOD EXPIRES YOU CAN'T GET ANY MORE GI INSURANCE. For full information contact your
nearest VETERANS ADMINISTRATION office.
