DAVIDSON GROWS UNDER SWAIN'S EYES (See Page Four) VOLUME XLI

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1952

EDITOR SAYS FACULTY-STUDENT COMMITTEE IS THE ANSWER

NUMBER EIGHT

Davidsonians In Armed Forces

2ND LT. JAMES M. BROWN JR., ’51, of Kannapolis, is now serving on security duty with the First Cavalry Division
in Japan. While attending Davidson, he was a member of Alpha Tau Omega fraternity.

2ND LT. AUBURN C. LAMBETH, ‘51, of Decatur, Ga. is a platoon leader of Company I of the 14th Infantry
Regiment, 25th Infantry Division in Korea. During his four years here, Auburn won many honors, among them being: vice president
of the student body, president of ODK, Beaver Club and “DD” Club; Seabbard and Blade; captain of the football and
baseball teams; chosen for the “Who’s Who in American Universities and Colleges,” and a member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity.

2ND LT. YALE W. GREER, ‘51, of South Boston, Va., is now serving with the First Cavalry Division in Japan.
While at Davidson he was a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity. His address is: Lt. Yale W. Greer, 02002770;
Co. I, 8th Cavalry Regt.; APO 210, Care of Postmaster, San Francisco.

(Continued On Page Four)

Morton Addresses IRC On Politics And National Elections

Professor Frederick Morton of the Political Science Department spoke on the recent national election at the meeting of the International
Relations Club, Wednesday, November 12. He gave several explanations for the Republican landslide, stressing the importance of Eisenhower’s tremendous popularity
and the tactlessness of Truman during the campaign. He was not convinced that the outcome of the election will mean
the rise of a “two-party” system in the South, as some have suggested. Instead, he believes that the Southern people
rallied behind Eisenhower himself and not the Republican Party.

Professor Morton discussed the future of the country and the two political parties for the next four years. An immediate
Washington turnover is scheduled for the opening months of 1953 as Mr. Eisenhower brings in new appointees. The speaker sees
a sterner diplomatic policy for this nation against Russian aggression. Problems facing the new administration include the possibility of total
war or economic recession. Professor Morton and Dr. S. R. Spencer will serve as faculty advisers for the group this
year.

(Continued On Page Four)

ARTISTS SERIES COVER DESIGN WINNER

Free Press Probed In Sunday Talk

What effect does student criticism of college policies have? How much faculty supervision of student publications should there be? Questions
such as these will be tossed back and forth Sunday evening at the YMCA discussion on “A Free Press at
Davidson College.” Dr. Wilson McCutchan, adviser to Scripts ‘n’ Pranks, and Professor Fred Morton of the Economics Department, will lead
the discussion. The editors of the college magazine and The Davidsonian will also make short statements expressing their views on
the question. The bars will then be let down for open discussion among the group. Indications are that this part
of the evening will produce some rather heated debate, since opinions are known to differ widely among both students and
faculty.

The YMCA committee in charge of the discussions has announced the schedule for the remainder of the semester. Included are
discussions on predestination, led by Dr. Eberhardt; fraternity rushing and membership, led by Dr. Spencer and several other faculty members;
and the admission of Negroes to southern colleges, with Dr. Workman as leader. Complete schedules are posted on campus bulletin
boards. The meeting Sunday night will be held as usual in the student lounge of the church.

Mahy Cops Prize In Cover Contest

It was announced today that Don Mahy has won the cover design contest sponsored by the Music Department and the
Artist Series Committee. This design will be used as the central motif on the front cover of the Artist and
Concert series presented here at Davidson throughout the school year. The first prize was twenty-five dollars. Pete Hairston won honorable
mention with his cover design entry and several other entries were made. It was with a great deal of difficulty
that a final choice was made by the judges. They were Mr. Moose, Mr. Plott and Dr. Spencer. The cover
design included a palette which represented painting, a lyre, music; a mask, dramatics; and laurel, academic milieu. Don, who is
a native of Lansdowne, Pa. is a member of the senior class, Sigma Chi fraternity, Sigma Upsilon, Phi Literary Society
and Davidsonian staff. He was originally from the Philippine Islands where his father now teaches at Silliman University. It is
not known as yet whether the cover, which must be fully designed, will be ready before January. It is hoped,
however, that it can be used for the Margaret Bourke-White program on December 16. If not ready then, the full
cover will appear for the Charles Laughton program on January 29.

DR. W. M. THOMPSON

With the announcement of the death of Dr. W. McIlwaine Thompson, a deep feeling of sorrow descended upon the student
body. For less than two weeks ago, this man had walked among us, and talked with us, making his witness
as a Christian felt on our campus. Needless to say, we are filled with a sense of regret because of
our association with him. And yet, he wanted not our sorrow or our pity while he was here, and for
that reason I do not think he would want it now. Death for him was not a burden or a
fear, but rather, I believe, a time of release, enabling him to go to Him whom he had served so
faithfully. He wanted not our pity, but instead that we should have in us that which was in him. —Stewart
Plummer.

Three Korean Vets Join R.O.T.C. Staff

Three officers have been added to the ROTC Department of Davidson’s cadet corps. They have assumed positions as instructors in
the Military Science Department. These additions include Captain Randolph M. Summerall, Captain Walter P. Blanton, Captain Russell C. Hatch.

Captain Randolph M. Summerall, who will teach MS 4, attended Mississippi College and the Infantry School. During World War II,
he served with the 3rd Division in Italy and Southern France. He later served in Korea for 13 months. There
he was a battalion and regimental intelligence officer. His regiment, the 25th Infantry Regiment (better known as the “Wolfhounds”), was
part of the 25th Infantry Division. His awards are the Silver Star, Bronze Star, Purple Heart, Unit Citation, French fourragère,
and a Combat Infantryman Badge with star.

Captain Walter P. Blanton

(Continued On Page Four)

Thumbs Down On Holidays, Ex-Com. Says Gift Fund Projects To Be Announced

UNION PLANS ARE REVISED IN LOWER LEVEL CHANGES

The College Union is coming in for some revamping before it’s finished, or so said Grier Martin and Shaw Smith
in an

On Wednesday, November 12, the Executive Committee, composed of Dr. Cunningham, Deans Bailey and Brown and Professors Eberhardt, Erwin, McCutchan,
Pietenpol and Purcell, released their decision concerning the students’ petition for the New Year’s extension. Neither alternative was accepted. The
decision was announced by Dean C. K. Brown to Frank Hanshaw, editor of The Davidsonian, and to Bob Henry, president
of ODK, in the absence of Student Body President Jack Ruth. Because it was felt that the Executive Committee could
more adequately present the issue, its interplay, and their decision, it was suggested that they write the report of that
decision. It was requested that all relevant data be included in that article. The account of the Executive Committee’s action,
which was most cooperatively released for all students through the Davidsonian, can be found on page two.

Trueblood Is Otts Lecturer

Dr. Elton Trueblood, professor of Philosophy at Earlham College, will deliver the 1953 series of the Otts Lectures early in
March. The theme of the lectures is also unannounced, other than the assurance that the lectures will be on matters
which are of current concern to the Christian world. Dr. Trueblood will begin the series of addresses at Vespers on
Sunday evening, speaking twice a day thereafter until Wednesday. Dr. Trueblood taught at Stanford University before joining the faculty of
Earlham College. He is widely sought after as a speaker by young people and laymen across the country. He is
also a writer, his latest book Your Other Vocation being an October selection of the Religious Book Club.Book Club. His
earlier writings were mostly in an academic vein, but in his later books, he has directed his ideas to men
and women outside the schools. An authority recently said, in referring to him: “By birth and conviction, Elton Trueblood is
a Quaker; by training, he is a philosophical scholar with a Doctorate in Philosophy from Harvard University; by his personal
decision, he is a friend and counselor of students and youth.”

The Otts Lectures were begun in 1893 by Rev. J. M. P. Otts, D.D., LL.D., who established a fund for
securing distinguished speakers in support of Christian faith. Dr. Otts himself gave the first series of lectures. The most recent
lectures were given in 1951 by Dr. J. Hutchison Cockburn under the title “The Church and State in Eastern Europe.”

Sig Upsilon Hears Three Papers Read

The hoopla of the races, the dejection of a useless life, and the workings of big city slums—these were the
meat of the program brought before the recent Sigma Upsilon meeting. Jim Moore’s witty letter to his hypothetical girlfriend on
the subject of a Davidsonian’s off-campus education at the races held last spring at Camden, S.C., brought some comments of
favorable note. Tom Able, vice president of the honorary literary fraternity, presented his short story on the realization of a
life wasted. The old man finally sees what all his years in the shipping department mean—nothing. Alden Williams’ excursion into
the realm of the lives of men on the edge of civilization proved the most controversial, as far as discussion
went, of any of the papers read.

Interview early this week. A re-estimation of the facilities of the cafeteria and its future needs will involve primarily enclosing
a part of the south patio in a glass extension so as to allow more lower-level space. The change is
not so simple as providing a larger dining area, explained Mr. Martin, but involves an expansion of the kitchen area
as well. It amounts to an entire “redoing” of the lower level, said Shaw Smith, even before very much has
been done. Essentially, the difficulty in bringing about the changes arises in relocating the pipes and wiring as well as
building the extension so as to accommodate the new locations of the kitchen and dining equipment. The extension will still
be used as a terrace and in the summer will be opened in such a way as to allow it
to be of an open type construction, while in the winter the glass will be closed off allowing that part
to be heated and used.

Through the findings of the management engineering firm which is making the survey of the college for its efficiency, it
was determined that the dining and kitchen space in the Union was inadequate. Thus the decision to alter some of
the plans for the Union was made. Now it appears that completion of the lower level will be delayed until
Spring. This also means a delay in the hoped-for opening of the Union. Grier Martin, in commenting on the move,
said that it was felt by those who made the decision that all who used the Union in later years
would benefit by this alteration in the plans. There is presently no date set for the opening of the Union,
which was dedicated at last month’s Homecoming, but the delay is caused by more than just the switch in plans.
The walks surrounding the building have not been laid and certain parts of the first and second levels have not
been completed. Mr. Martin and Mr. Smith emphasized that every effort is being made to provide the Union as adequately,
as rapidly, and as close in keeping to the overall needs of the college as possible.

Tireless Teachers To Tussle Turkey

As Thanksgiving approaches each year at Davidson College, the Military Department sponsors and conducts a Turkey Shoot, on the ROTC
rifle range, for all members of the faculty and administration and their families. This annual event will be held next
Friday, Nov. 21. A display of weapons, equipment, and training aids will be on display. Refreshments will be served at
the display. Prizes will be awarded to both the gentlemen and the ladies. These prizes are donated by the local
merchants. The children will be shown movies, and refreshments will be served to them on the top floor. Last year
over 100 adults and 50 children participated in the Turkey Shoot activities.

By HUNTER STRADER

At a meeting held last Wednesday, the Y Cabinet selected a list of three projects for the annual YMCA Gift
Fund. Various members of the Y will present the projects to the membership of the YMCA during chapel on Friday,
November 21. Immediately following this presentation, the student body will select by majority vote the project they prefer.

The first plan is one of aiding in a program of rehabilitation of Korean amputees, which is being sponsored by
the Board of World Missions in the Presbyterian Church U.S. and by the National Council of Churches. The $4000-$5000 would
be used in providing artificial limbs and in vocationally rehabilitating the recipients. Dr. Ruben Torrey of the Northern Presbyterian Church,
whose son is a Davidson graduate, has been selected as director of the project, and Dr. Paul S. Crane, Davidson,
‘41, is to do most of the surgical and orthopedic work in the Presbyterian Chonju Hospital. The need is indicated
by the fact that there are 30,000 civilian or military amputees in Korea today, many of whom are children.

The second project involves aiding the endowment of undergraduate scholarships in the new Japanese International University, which will open its
doors in April of 1953. The university has been built by contributions from over 350 American colleges and universities and
other Christian organizations in an effort to foster Christian education in Japan. They are now faced with the problem of
ensuring financially needy students with the opportunity of studying there. General Douglas MacArthur has said, “This proposed university with its
unique combination of Christianity and education cannot fail to play an essentially important part in Japan’s future. Its high purpose
entitles it to every man’s support.” Among its numerous supporters are John Foster Dulles, Cecile B. DeMille, Gil Dodds, E.
Stanley Jones, J. Spencer Love, George C. Marshall, and Chester W. Nimitz.

An orphanage in Palestine is the focal point of the third suggested project. The Cabinet learned of this cause from
Igor Sviatoslavsky, one of our own foreign students. Before 1948 the Syrian Orphanage in Jerusalem was under the direction of
Pastor Herman Schneller, whose father had founded it many years before. The orphanage had grown from a meager beginning of
twenty children into a prospering institution of 1000. It included a two-year seminary, a variety of vocational schools, and a
school for the blind. When the British left in 1948, the Jews forced Schneller to leave the orphanage and go
over to the Arab side, resulting in the loss of about $5,000,000 in equipment and property. Herman Schneller is now
starting with branches in Jordan and Syria. He has practically no funds.

(Continued On Page Four)

Drive Is Success Says Dagenhart

The United Appeal, according to preliminary reports, is a success on the Davidson campus in its first year of operation.
Although fraternity reports are not complete, a $500 sum at least will be turned over to the Mecklenburg County Committee.
Independents and others who wish to contribute should see Larry Dagenhart in chapel Monday morning, and all fraternity reports should
be in by then also.

As was the original plan, little was done to push the United Appeal other than to ask for cooperation from
the fraternities and independents. This policy paid off as everyone got solidly behind the drive on a voluntary basis and
pushed it over the top. Though no goal was set, it was hoped that $400 could be obtained. The success
of the drive is especially gratifying since students gave not to reach a goal or as a response to pressure,
but because they wanted to. The first reaction to the idea of combining all charity drives in one appeal was
favorable, although some opposition developed. This was to be expected, however, for the same has been true on the national
level. Davidsonians showed their general approval, though, by their response in cold cash, and so United Appeal will probably assume
a permanent place in student activities.
