DUKE DOCTOR GIVES NOD TO DOLE (See Page Two) VOLUME XL DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. ORTA LCIBERTAS Che Mabidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 1952 S-DAY CASH BALANCE TAKES NOSE DIVE (See Page Two) NUMBER TWENTY-ONE

Blood Drive Donations Top 900 Pint Mark

Coming close to its last year record of 500 pints, the two-day blood drive on Wednesday and Thursday finished by
having marked up 488 pints. In the words of Lt. Col. Ballard, however, “The goal was technically reached,” as there
will be the donations by the tennis and track teams in the near future. These two groups were prohibited from
giving blood at this time because of the nearness of meets in the two sports.

In a statement that was given just after the close of the drive, Colonel Ballard, director of the semi-annual event,
said “I was pleased at the response, although I had hoped to do a little better.” He also stated, “I
wish to express the appreciation of the ROTC and to thank the student body for their generous support in donating
blood and in solicitations. In the latter ODK and IFC had such a large part that they deserve special commendation.”
The Pi Kappa Alpha and Pi Kappa Phi social fraternities gave one hundred per cent when donating in their respective
groups.

Mrs. Synder, head nurse with the Red Cross, had this word of comment on the participation of the Davidson students:
“The spirit that has been shown by Davidson at this blood drive is the highest that could be hoped for.”
She also said that in the near future, because of some student requests, she would be certain to assign only
the prettiest and most unmarried nurses to serve at the Davidson drives.

Much praise was accorded Col. Ballard himself for his ingenuity and overall leadership displayed during the drive buildup.

Davidson On Air Each Wednesday With News Show

Davidson College is now on the air each week over WSOC in Charlotte. Each Wednesday at 12:30 p.m., a 10-minute
program is broadcast directly from the campus. The program is entitled Campus News and includes interviews with students, professors, and
members of the administration. Also, news of athletic contests and other campus events are also included on Campus News. The
program is not just a short series, but it will continue each Wednesday for an indefinite period.

FEC, Motor Club Will See Seniors

The Placement Bureau of the college has announced that the Federal Employment Commission will be on campus, and all graduating
seniors who are interested in finding a job should try to see them. A group interview will be held at
8:45 a.m., Friday, April 18, in room 106. Following the group interview there will be individual interviews conducted at intervals
of 20 minutes. Even if the Federal Employment Commission does not have an available job waiting, they will, nevertheless, try
to find a job for an applicant.

Also on the campus next week will be the director of sales of the Carolina Motor Club. Any men who
wish to be affiliated with this organization should see this representative when he is here April 16. All those graduating
seniors who still need a job and are interested in either the Federal Employment Commission or the Carolina Motor Club
would please come by the Placement Bureau, starting April 12, to sign up for an interview.

An Easter Sunrise service, sponsored by the Westminster Fellowship for the entire student body and community, will be conducted at
6:30 a.m., Easter Sunday near the baseball field. George Knight, president of the Davidson College Westminster Fellowship, will be in
charge of the program which will include special music, prayer and meditation, and songs by the worshippers. A pine cross
will be placed in the natural setting. Mr. Plott, who has worked with volunteer members of the Male Chorus and
Chapel Choir in preparation for this service, will also participate. Knight commented: “This is the first service of its kind
sponsored by any campus organization and it is my hope that the entire student body will take advantage of this
opportunity to worship in this service commemorating our Lord’s victory over death.” In case of rain, the service will be
held in Chambers auditorium.

Foolies Features Grad Gagster Act

Bill Scruggs and McNeil Upchurch will be featured in the annual “D” Club Foolies to be presented next Friday night
at 7:30 o'clock. These two old Davidsonians, who only a few years ago were head cheerleaders and leading cut-ups on
the campus, will be the main feature of the program to be staged in Chambers at a cost of 35
cents per stag and 50 cents per couple.

In the immediate post-war years of a student body dotted with veterans, Scruggs ‘n Upchurch was a household word at
Davidson representative of college life at its zaniest. They starred in the D Club Foolies of 1948 and 1949, gave
many command performances for the students and community, and made a tidy sum on the side throwing (literally) their act
for civic groups, clubs, and organizations. Now respectable, settled, and familied, the inimitable team masquerades as a couple of young
Charlotte businessmen. They cut the act out not too long ago because it was demanding too much of their time.
But they couldn’t refuse to play at Chambers one more time, for old time's sake. And the oldtimers will vow
that their appearance makes the show worth the price of admission.

Ham Wade, president, stated that this year’s Foolies would be in the form of a circus with Dick Perkins acting
as ringmaster. The many varied acts include a parade, a tight rope artist, clowns, and the world’s greatest wrestler. Many
other acts, remaining unmentioned due to curiosity, will be produced, including a song by a surprise vocalist. Wade has promised
that the show will be over in ample time for the first of the Spring Frolics dances.

Rolling For Spring Voting

Student Body President Mac McLean today reported that machinery will start rolling for the spring elections of officers to lead
Davidson student affairs next year. Nominations will be heard from the floor for president, vice president and treasurer at chapel
Monday. An important step will be the voting on certain proposed amendments listed for the students last week. These are
concerned with compelling all of the top five candidates for student body and YMCA president to give a short “campaign”
speech.

Publications Editors

The other point covered by the proposed amendments is in reference to the nomination of editors for the various publications.
There are to be three candidates for each editorship from each of the staffs. Additional candidates may be nominated from
the floor and all will have to give a short “campaign” speech also.

Elections Board Named

Noteworthy action was seen in the appointment of representatives from all social fraternities, independents and the Student Council to the
elections board. These men have the responsibility of maintaining proper voting procedure and counting the ballots. Kirk Oglesby was elected
to head the election board. Kirk is the representative from Kappa Sigma.

Criticize System

It is thought that unusual student interest will center around the polling places this year in light of the heavy
fire which the election system has received from the student body.

Heavier Voting Expected

Despite many groanings in the past a relatively light vote is seen when the time for casting the ballots came
around. An aroused student interest should alter this condition it has been thought.

Student Exhibit Showing At Mint

An exhibition of paintings and sculpture by Davidson College students is now on display at the Mint Museum in Charlotte.
Philip Moose, director of fine arts at Davidson, announced that the exhibition includes pen and ink, crayon, water color and
oil paintings by the students. Represented in the exhibition are Don Mahy, Peter Peck, Claude Ives, Jr., T. B. Rose,
W. H. Hart, Robert Crutchfield, R. G. Smith, W. H. McEachern and J. C. Hill. Outstanding among the works are
a series of studies in crayon (Continued On Page Four)

Campus Club Host To Barium Choir

The Campus Club entertained April 3 and was entertained by the choir from the Barium Springs Orphanage. The Choir presented
a music program of seven spiritual and folk songs and members of the choir made up the sections for songs
in solo, duet and trio form. Following this program, refreshments were served, after which some members danced while others watched
the clubs’ new television set.

Dressed in the garb of the gangster (not gagster) he made famous, “Lucky” Scruggs strikes the pose that struck terror
in the hearts four years ago on the Davidson scene.

Plan Communion Before Vespers

The Westminster Fellowship will sponsor a Communion service Sunday night open to the student body at 6:30 p.m., preceding the
Easter vesper service. Dr. Carl R. Pritchett, pastor of the College Church, will serve the communicants in the Quadwrangler’s room
on the third floor of Chambers building. George Knight, president of Westminster Fellowship, and Bob Dunbar will lead part of
the worship. “Since the vesper committee does not plan to have a communion service this year,” Knight said, “the Westminster
Fellowship is providing this opportunity for the student body as a union to worship around the Lord's table and partake
of the sacrament as He has ordained.”

New Publication Business Heads

Six Fraternities List New Officers

Manager Appointment Forthcoming

Rising seniors Jack Hobson of Charlotte and Dave Robinson of Raleigh have been appointed business managers of The Davidsonian and
Quips and Cranks, respectively, it was announced today by Publication Board president Bill Adams. The two men were appointed by
the board in a session on Wednesday. The business manager of the magazine, Scripts ‘n Pranks, has not yet been
named. Hobson and Robinson become the first of the flood of new officials to be named this month for the
coming 1952-53 school year. The men they are to work under, their editors, will be elected by the student body
late this month. In further action, the elections board, in keeping with the tabled amendment to the constitution, nominated three
men for the editorship of each publication. Their names are being withheld, of course, until the amendment authorizing the board
to name three men for theStudent body to vote on has been made a part of the constitution. Hobson, a
member of Beta Theta Pi, has served as advertising manager of the paper this year, while Robinson, also a Beta,
has worked extensively in the advertising field for the annual. The two appointees will begin understudying their present managers, Alex
Goley of The Davidsonian, and Parks Dalton of Quips and Cranks, and will assume their full duties as soon as
their respective editors for the coming term have been elected.

ALPHA PHI OMEGA OFFICIALS DUB PLEDGES AT VISIT HERE

Representatives from the N.C. new honorary fraternity, Rho chapter of Alpha Phi Omega pledged new members to Alpha Phi Omega
here Wednesday night. The local chapter, formed and led by Earnest McCutchan, has been in organization for approximately six months.
The pledging took place in Eumanean Society Hall at seven o'clock at which time nearly 20 boys were pledged to
the Alpha Phi Omega. Alpha Phi Omega invites all students who have had previous training in scouting and who wish
to render service to the community to become one of their number. The only requirement for membership is that the
prospective member must have been a scout; rank is not (Continued On Page Four).

Most Frats Pick First May Weekend To Hold Functions

Most of Davidson's social fraternities have chosen either May 3 or May 10 as the date for their spring functions.
On the evening of May 3, the SPE's will hold their Queen of Hearts Ball; and the Kappa Sigmas will
hold their function—a square dance. The Beta Bowery Ball, the Pi Kapps’ Rose Ball, the Pikas’ Dream Girl Ball, the
ATO White Rose Ball, and the Phi Gam Fiji Island Ball will all be on the night of May 10.
Other fraternities, the SAE, Phi Delta Theta, and Sigma Chi, have already held their spring functions.

Greek and Modern Contrasted By Eu

The Eumanean Literary Society, in its regular meeting Monday night, had a program on “The Greek Tragedians and Broadway Today.”
The comparison between the theatre of ancient Athens and our modern stage was brought out in a talk by Jack
Hunter, and Hubert Cannon, the vice president of Eumanean, was moderator of a floor discussion which followed.

Mac Erwin Gets Head Coach Post

Mac Erwin, ‘49, has recently been named head baseball coach at Johns Hopkins University. A football and baseball standout for
three years at Davidson, Mac coached here his senior year, his Southern Conference eligibility having run out as he played
a year at South Carolina before entering the Navy. After leaving Davidson, Mac coached at Darlington Prep School. This fall
he joined the Johns Hopkins staff as the backfield grid coach, and tutored that institution’s freshman basketball team to an
8-5 record. Erwin is a member of SAE and a native of Greenville, S.C.

Notice

Any students having photographs which they would like to have in the Fine Arts exhibit April 18-26, are requested to
see D. A. Matthews (404 West), as soon as possible. The Photo Club will make prints from your negatives if
you wish.

Six social fraternities have elected officers to lead them for the coming year as of the end of this week.
Kappa Alpha named nine men as its heads for '52. They are Bob Henry, president; Allen Garrison, vice president; Homer
Sparks, recording secretary; Jim Speed, corresponding secretary; George King, historian; Josh MacKenzie, treasurer; Mac Richards, censor; T. W. Aldred and
Angus McInnis, initiation assistants. Lefty Vance was chosen to represent the fraternity on the IFC and also to manage the
boarding house.

Frank Hanshaw was elected president of Pi Kappa Alpha. The Pikas also selected Milton Craig, vice president; Theo Field, secretary;
Ricky Benton, treasurer and Al Gaither, IFC representative.

Clay Evatt was elected next year's president of Kappa Sigma fraternity. Other officers chosen were: Larry Dagenhart, vice president; George
Lippard, second vice president; Charles Hassell, secretary; John Bremer, treasurer, and Charles Simmons, IFC representative. Most of the other fraternities
will elect officers within the next two weeks.

Beta Theta Pi chose Dave Robinson and Jim Boulware president and vice president. Other Beta officers are Dick Gregory, recorder;
Dick Coburn, treasurer; Bill Russell, boarding house manager, and Jack Ruth, IFC representative.

Named to head Phi Delta Theta was Bob Poston. His fellow officers are Bill Bivins, secretary; John Alexander, treasurer; Fletcher
Bright, boarding house manager and George Nickels, warden.

Dick Perkins was voted new president of Alpha Tau Omega and John Livingston will hold the post of chaplain. Scribe
for the new year will be Calvin Baird and Leonard Douglas was named to the treasurer's slot. Other officers are
Sandy McGeachy, keeper of the annals; Larry MacDonald, usher; Scott Downs, sentinel; Duke Fowler, IFC representative; George Brinkley, boarding house
manager; John Nesbit, sports manager; and Owen Kellum, Calm reporter.

Frolics Bids Advance Sale Opens Monday

Interfraternity Council President Dick Stockton announced today that membership bids for Spring Frolics will cost six dollars and will be
placed on sale within the next few days. The formal dance will be held Friday night, April 18, from 9
till 1. The tea dance will follow the track meet with South Carolina on Saturday afternoon, and the informal dance
will be held Saturday (Continued On Page Four).

Cast Selected Festival Play

The Dome Theatre once more came alive as members of the cast of the Red and Black Masquers’ annual Shakespearean
production began rehearsals of this year’s play, Macbeth, which will be given in Chambers Auditorium on April 25 and 26.
Playing the title role of Macbeth will be Dick Perkins, whose splendid performance as Brutus in Julius Caesar will long
be remembered. Playing opposite Dick in the difficult role of Lady Macbeth will be Mrs. Mary Lou Daggy, who is
making her first Davidson appearance. Alden Williams returns after his role in the year’s first production to play King Duncan,
and Bob Crutchfield and Bill Phifer will appear as his sons, Malcolm and Donalbain.

Vance Mizelle and Tink Taylor play the roles of the nobles, Lennox and Ross, and newcomer George Walker appears as
the ill-fated Banquo. Tad Currie plays the ever watchful Macduff with Mrs. Martha Lee Hull and Bob Mims portraying his
wife and son. Supporting Macbeth in his evil deeds are Mac Doubles and Jim Speed as the murderers. Others in
the cast include Luther Yaun, Paul Alexander, Mac Williamson, Bill Gordon, Bob Dunbar and Tom Deve.

Prof. R. W. Tyson of the Speech Department will direct the production and will be assisted by Courtney Hill in
charge of costumes; Don Baucom, props; Bill Pharr, bookholder; Bill Crymes, make-up, and Phil Howerton, publicity. The multiple setting was
designed by Tad Currie and is being built by Don Pilkenton, Charlie Burnett, Howard Proctor and Jim Bryan. The lighting
is designed and executed by Jack Pietenpol and Gwynn Griffin.

Grad Recovering From Shooting

Ex-Davidsonian Joe T. Stukes is expected to recover from bullet wounds in his chest inflicted this week when two of
his students refused to surrender outlawed pin-ups. Stukes is dean of men at the Rabun Gap-Nacoochee School in north Georgia.
Upon learning that two of the male students had pin-ups he asked them to hand them over or he would
have to expel them. The boys refused and one went to get a .22 caliber pistol from his room. The
pistol’s owner fired it at a trash can to prove to Stukes it was loaded. When the youthful English and
history teacher asked again for the forbidden pin-ups, the boy shot him. The assailants are charged with (Continued On Page
Four).

Sheepskin For Sheepshead: College Salts Out Before They're In

All but one of the Davidson students who were recently called to active duty from the Naval Reserve have received
cancellations to their orders. All but one of the Davidson students who were recently called to active duty from the
Naval Reserve have received cancellations to their orders. Adrian Bowen is the only man who has not received the notification
of his change of status and he believes that too will be forthcoming. Those who are affected are Bill Bristow,
Jim Moore, Phil Hammond, Dave Freeman, Marshall James, Victor Taylor and Parks Dalton. The surprise arrival of the cancellations from
the Navy came on the heels of the news that all candidates for the ROC who had received their active
duty orders were exempt from such orders until action had been taken on their applications. Thus almost all the Davidsonian
seamen who were planning on entering the Navy this summer have been given, if not an exemption from that fate,
at least a deferment. The only explanation for the unexpected change that was given in the orders was that the
quota had (Continued On Page Four).
