DIRECTOR OF THE UNION

Shaw Smith Set For Magical Role

By MIKE MYERS

A light editorial in the Greensboro Daily News this week poked fun at the high-sounding title of Davidson's newest addition
to the staff. “Just what, pray tell, does a co-ordinator of student activities do? But the one at Davidson, we
understand, is also a magician... which might be a better name for the job.”

After talking to Mr. Shaw Smith, I wonder if the task cut out for him isn’t one big enough to
make even Blackstone shrink. He told me he wants the students to think of him not as a director, but
as an advisor. He is the middle man, so to speak, that is often necessary between students and administration.

To me, it seems to boil down to this: a guy has a problem—maybe financial, maybe at the heart, maybe
a gripe about the college—that he wouldn’t feel quite at ease presenting to a faculty member. Shaw's the man for
the trouble, no matter how trivial it may seem, for once his office door is closed you are in his
strictest confidence.

He hastened to point out the fact that he was not replacing anyone on the faculty, for if the matter
can't be adequately solved by him, he will advise you where to take it. Also note that he has no
disciplinary authority. He is not even honor-bound to report student violations, as are the faculty. He would like to teach
English.

(Continued On Page Four)

President Greets Alumni

The Davidsonian is gracious in allowing me space for a word of affectionate greeting to you gentlemen—our alumni—at this Homecoming
season. Surely you need no word from me, as happy as I am to say it, to understand how heartily
your Alma Mater receives you upon every return to this familiar spot. In this repository of friendship and sacred associations,
there is already a spirit which you must feel as you come and go.

These are strange and critical days in the life of our nation. Davidson seeks now, as ever, to make her
substantial contribution to the life of the Church and the State. This we shall continue to do, supported by your
confidence and aid in the years ahead. May there be for each of you, as you return today, something of
healing and warmth in the associations which await you here. Be assured that your presence is a joy and a
reassurance to those of us who labor in the College. We feel the impact of your interest and your good
will and your helpfulness every passing week.

Very Cordially,
J. R. CUNNINGHAM.

The Davidsonian

ORTA LIBERTAS

VOLUME XLI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1952 NUMBER FIVE

Union Dedicated Tomorrow

David Ovens Gave His Fortune To Aid Others As Holiday Begins

Mr. David Ovens, who made possible the student union which is to be dedicated tomorrow through his gift of $100,000
to Davidson, is a man who has given away his fortune. Within three months of the time he made his
gift to Davidson, he gave away a total of $580,000 to Queens, Duke, Presbyterian Hospital Nurses’ Home, Edgar Tufts Memorial
Association, Toccoa Falls Institute, and Davidson.

In making these gifts, Mr. Ovens said at that time: “It is my belief that the hope of the future
lies in the Church-endowed colleges such as Queens and Davidson, which are sending out all over the country young men
and women with that fine type of religious, cultural, and intellectual training found in these institutions.”

Mr. David Ovens, the co-founder of Iveys in Charlotte, and the man who made the Davidson College Union a possibility,
is expected to be on the campus for the dedication ceremonies. Mr. Ovens has made his name synonymous with Queens
and Davidson, having given to each large sums in the past few years. A number of his friends have prepared
a booklet on his life entitled, “He Gave His Fortune Away.”

Mr. Ovens, who was born in Ontario, Canada, came to Charlotte in 1905. There he has long been one of
the civic and community leaders, as well as co-founder of the J. B. Ivey Company which now operates as a
leading department store in five cities.

Seven Scholars Are Rhodes Candidates

Seven Davidson College students have been selected by the Davidson College Rhodes Scholarship Committee as candidates for Rhodes Scholarships. The
next elimination will be made by states, and the seven Davidson candidates are entered in three different states. A student
is eligible to enter either in his home state or in the state which his college is located.

The applicants are George F. Bason, Randolph M. Bulgin, Larry J. Dagenhart, and William B. Hood, all entered in North
Carolina; Hubert Cannon and James W. Jervey, entered in South Carolina; W. H. Bell, Jr., entered in Virginia. The Rhodes
Scholars are chosen for their scholarship, leadership, and physical fitness.

Open for inspection during the weekend, the College Union is now nearing completion and should be completely finished by January.
Shown above, reading from the left bottom corner around the perimeter are: the second floor meeting room; the stage of
the ballroom; the conference room with its twelve-foot table; the dining room of the first floor; and the ballroom lounge.

Spirit Seen High

Spirit among the students just prior to the biggest fall celebration of the season is high by all the usual
indicators of that intangible quality. After Davidson's defeat of Presbyterian last Friday night, hope of a second victory for the
Wildcats has been running rampant. Coach Dole has been priming his gridders all week for one ofthe hardest games of
the year when they meet Furman.

URGES SUPPORT

Head Cheerleader Howard Proctor says the cheerleaders are going all out to give their stellar performance of the year in
boosting the cheers for Saturday's struggle. Proctor urged the same support of the team that has been shown at all
the games this year and promises new cheers, surprises, and several added attractions before and during the game.

FELIX REAPPEARS

Familiar to most all the alumni but not so to more recent graduates and present students, will be the reappearance
of Felix. Felix was the name given to the wildcat mascot the students in former days kept for moral boosting
purposes. A grand entrance is planned for the honored guest of the befuzzed kingdom.

GIRL CHEERLEADERS?

There had been some rumors of girl cheerleaders, but this has not panned out. The usual bevy of beauties for
the dances, ballgame, and parties will be on hand, however, and the one-day holiday will be put to good use.

Weekend Schedule

Friday, October 24
8:00 P.M.—Recital, Shirlee Emmons.
9:00 P.M. (or following recital)—Interfraternity Homecoming dance, informal, with Buddy Morrow and his orchestra.

Saturday, October 25
10:00 A.M.—Wildcat Club Annual meeting, Gymnasium.
11:00 A.M.—Dedication of the David Ovens College Union, Union Building.
11:45 A.M.—Alumni Convocation, Chambers Auditorium.
1:00 P.M.—Barbecue Luncheon for alumni and guests, south court (back campus).
2:30 P.M.—Football game—Davidson vs. Furman University.
8:00 P.M.—Interfraternity Homecoming dance, formal, Buddy Morrow and his orchestra.

Sunday, October 26
7:30 P.M.—Vespers, Rev. Vernox S. Broyles, Jr.

The winning display on fraternity court will be announced during half-time of the football game. The fraternities will have open
house before and after the game on Saturday. The fraternities will hold intermission parties during dance intermission.

Old Gym Changes Role, Retains Founders’ Ideal

When the “Old Gym” officially becomes the David Ovens College Union at dedication services tomorrow morning, it will mark the
end, in a sense, of a historic building on the Davidson campus. The old gym was begun in 1914 and
completed in 1917 at a cost of $100,000. Funds for the erection of the building were donated and collected by
a group of industrious alumni. After the gym was completed a plaque was placed there dedicated to those members of
Davidson graduating classes from 1858 to 1918 who contributed to the gym’s building. At the time of its completion, the
gym was considered by many to be one of the finest jobs in the South. Its facilities included the coaches’
offices, a student lounge, and, of course, a basketball court. This plant for over 25 years served thousands of Davidson
men. With the passage of time, however, and the increase in the size of the student body, it became increasingly
evident that there was a pressing need for a larger physical education establishment. Several years ago the new Johnston gymnasium
was planned, and in the due course of events the cornerstone was laid and the building completed, being dedicated at
Homecoming, 1949. With the completion of Johnston Gymnasium, the old gym fell into a short period of disuse. But when
in the fall of 1950, Mr. David Ovens contributed $100,000 to Davidson College for the purpose of converting it into
a modern student union, it became apparent that the (Continued On Page Four)

Dedication Marks High Point In Development Program

By MOODY SMITH

Dedication ceremonies for the new David Ovens Student Union will begin tomorrow morning at 11 in front of the building.
On hand will be Mr. Ovens of Charlotte whose gift of $100,000 to Davidson College financed the conversion of the
old gym into its present form. The principal dedication speech will be delivered by President John R. Cunningham who has
been instrumental in guiding the development program that has resulted in the erection of several new buildings on the Davidson
campus within the past few years. The student union is a completely new structure with the exception of the outside
walls and roof which housed the old gymnasium. Inside there are three floors: the first, which was the basement of
the old gym; the second or main floor at which the main entrance opens; and the third. The first floor
will include a cafeteria, dining room for 60 people, recreation room with ping-pong and pool tables, provisions for a bowling
alley and workshop, and a patio. On the second floor there will be a student store, TV room, powder room,
ballroom, and the office of the student union director, Mr. Shaw Smith. Several conference rooms, offices for all the student
publications, and a faculty room will be located on the third floor. In addition, there will be an elevator, and
a mail drop, but no P.O. boxes. All lighting will be indirect or fluorescent. The student union will be open
to inspection by alumni, visitors, and students throughout the Homecoming weekend, but will be closed Monday and until it is
ready for actual use. Mr. W. E. Swain, who supervised the construction of the library, science building, Johnston Gymnasium, and
the new church, was the superintendent of this construction job also. When he began working with the Davidson development program,
Mr. Swain was living in Charlotte, but when one project came on the heels of another, he found it necessary
to move to Davidson.

Noted Alumni Here

This weekend will see a number of distinguished alumni on the campus here to join in Homecoming festivities. Among the
trustees who will be here tomorrow are: J. Archie Cannon, Concord; John I. Smith, Greenville, S.C.; E. P. Nisbet, Charlotte;
Dr. A. A. McLean, Lenoir; Rev. James A. Jones, D.D., Charlotte; J. Harold McKeithan, Winston-Salem; Dr. Thomas D. Sparrow, Charlotte;
D. R. LaFar, Jr., Gastonia; Dr. Hamilton W. McKay.
