PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1952

Why We're Voting For Ike

Today America finds itself at the crossroads of political destiny. Our future with the Democrats has been lucidly manifested by their twenty years of aggrandizement of federal power at the expense of state and local governments; by their rising taxes; by their deficit financing, uneconomical government spending, and inflation; by their corruption in government; and by their encroachments on free enterprise by federal bureaucracy. On the other hand, the Republicans under the leadership of General Eisenhower have committed themselves to a Spartan frugality, to sane government spending and taxation, to honesty and integrity in government, to a decentralization of federal power with an emphasis on local government, and to a policy of free enterprise without destruction of individual initiative and liberty.

Any political party in power for twenty years tends to become narrow, rigid, dependent on precedent, lacking in initiative and resourcefulness to carry out the true will of the people—in short, the Democrats are responsible for federal bureaucracy with a capital "B." The time for a change not only involves the candidates and the political parties, but moreover a permutation from the tenor of federal government propagated by the Democrats in the last twenty years.

General Eisenhower and the Republican Party have consistently favored a decrease in government spending and taxation, and the Republican Eightieth Congress elucidates this fact. The Republican Congress cut the Truman budgets over $6 billion; reduced the national debt $7 billion; and balanced the Federal budget for the first time in seventeen years with the largest surplus in history, $8.4 billion. But what about taxes? The same Republican Congress reduced taxes $4.8 billion per year, took 7.4 million taxpayers off tax rolls, and cut taxes for 47 million others. The Republicans, when given the opportunity, have proven that they can reduce taxes and balance the budget, a feat the Democrats are not concerned with.

What may seem like prosperity by the Democrats’ standard of value is, in actuality, the sinister shadow of inflation. On the other hand, the Truman administration alone has spent $319 billion and the Federal Government takes one dollar out of every four for taxes. The result of the Democrat administrations has been a cut in half of the value of your dollar, caused by rampant inflation, soaring prices and wages with a decrease in the standard of living in the past two years. Governor Stevenson offers no abatement of New Deal-Fair Deal policies, which is illustrated by his administration as Governor of Illinois. Governor Stevenson collected $60 million more taxes than his Republican predecessors; spent a Republican surplus of $150 million; put Illinois in the red; spent $2 million a month more than he took in; and carried on deficit spending of more than $70 million in three years. These are the records of two administrations, that of Governor Stevenson and President Truman, with their appalling figures of taxation, spending, and deficits, with their emphasis on big government, and with their synonymous policies of tax, tax, tax, and spend, spend, spend!

Are we to elect Governor Stevenson who supports the Truman Administration tooth and nail? Are Americans naive enough to elect a candidate who contends to alleviate the problems of our government by a continuation of the policies that created inflation, insecurity, war and a decrease in our standard of living?

The Democrat's unsuccessful foreign policy has created or, at the very least, has directly influenced most of the domestic problems, for the defense expenditures at home and abroad consumed 68 percent of the $80-billion Federal budget. In 1949 a formal warning from the House Republicans was issued showing how the Democrats invited disaster when they failed to properly arm South Koreans and withdrew our troops from Korea in 1949, and predicted that the Communists might move in and thereby imperil Japan and the entire Far East. Republicans pointed out that the Democrats invited war in Korea when Secretary of State Acheson publicly announced that Korea was outside our defensive zone in the Pacific. The Democrats’ foreign policy has been inconsistent and wavering. The Democrat leadership appeased at Yalta, conceded at Potsdam, faltered at Paris, bungled in China, and diminished our best hopes of securing peace.

Dwight Eisenhower knew the answers when he directed the unprecedented invasion of Europe. No hesitation, no confusion, no half-hearted measures bungled the achievement of his plan. No offer of appeasement gave the enemy a chance to outmaneuver our position or entangle us in a costly deadlock. Which of the candidates, Eisenhower or Stevenson, would you want to represent the United States in a meeting with Stalin? Which candidate would Stalin fear and respect the most? Which man has had the most experience with foreign policy in general and Soviet tactics in particular, and which man knows the best methods with which to kill the disease of war and communism?

The true test of a statesman is his ability to change a nation from what it is to what it ought to be. General Eisenhower can give this country the change it needs most—the courage to act confidently, effectively and constructively to prevent another World War, and the determination to maintain an honest, efficient government founded on security. General Eisenhower is neither a militarist nor an isolationist, as Truman and Stevenson have ambiguously labeled him; but the Republican candidate is for a firm, not a haphazard, foreign policy within our economy’s limits and on the principle of pay-as-you-go. His administrative and organizing experiences have been tested as efficient and effective. He represents unity, honesty and improvement. General Eisenhower believes in persuasion and education, sustained by statutes defining rights, as the true American way rather than by compulsion, which the Democrats have so avidly used in such problems as Civil Rights and their compulsory health-insurance scheme. We want a President who can challenge Americans to a higher concept of citizenship, a no-deal man, and a statesman and candidate who is not committed to a policy of failure at home and abroad. For these reasons, our vote shall go to a friend of truth, a statesman loyal in action, unclouded in honor—Dwight David Eisenhower.

Our Candidates Ike and Dick; They Are Qualified To Lead

IKE

Dwight D. Eisenhower was born in Denison, Texas, on October 14, 1890. Two years later the family moved to Abilene, Kansas. To help the family’s meager income, the six Eisenhower boys worked after school at odd jobs. In 1909 Ike graduated from high school with a very good scholastic and athletic record. In 1911 Eisenhower was appointed to West Point by Republican Senator J. L. Bristow and graduated in 1915 in the upper third of his class. He went to Fort Sam Houston, Texas, where he met Mamie Geneva Doud whom he married in 1915. Eisenhower's Army career is marked by a series of assignments at various posts and in a wide range of duties. By mid-year 1942 he had risen to the rank of Lt. General, and was commanding General, European Theater. On November 19, 1945, General Eisenhower succeeded General Marshall as Chief of Staff. From June 7, 1948, until December, 1950, he was President of Columbia University. On December 16, 1950, he became Supreme Allied Commander, Europe. A climax of the confidence which his command restored to Europe came on February 22, 1952, when NATO unanimously agreed to join in a full-fledged European defense pact.

NIXON

Richard N. Nixon was born in Yorba Linda, California, on January 9, 1913, the son of Quaker parents. An ardent follower of sports, he was on the football squad at Whittier College. Nixon attended Duke Law School and practiced law for five years before joining the Navy in August, 1942. He holds two battle stars for service in the South Pacific and two commendations. Nixon married the former Patricia Ryan in 1940 and they have two daughters. Nixon's political career began when he was selected by a citizen’s committee in the old 12th Congressional District as their choice to unseat the five-term, New Dealer, Congressman Jerry Voorhis. In 1950 he defeated Helen Gahagan Douglas by 700,000 votes for the post of junior Senator from California.

—T.C.

A PROFESSOR’S VIEW: A TALK WITH IKE

Have you ever talked personally to General Eisenhower? Has he ever called you by name and introduced you to “my wife Mamie?” Has he ever considered an invitation to dine at your home, called your folks, and parted, saying “be sure to look me up when I come to Charlotte.” Only one Davidson student can answer “yes” to all these questions. Steve Stewart's chance meeting with the presidential candidate showed him a completely down-to-earth personage with a personality that radiates warmth and sincerity. The meeting came about in this manner: Steve was in New York over this past Labor Day weekend when a calamity gripped him that has tapped every college boy on the shoulder at one time or another... he was out of money. He couldn't write a check as it was Sunday and the next day was Labor Day, a bank holiday. So Steve started walking from his hotel on 75th Street to his father’s office on 1st Street, to put the bite on him. As he passed the Washington Arch he noted a small crowd and on a closer look saw Cardinal Spellman blessing the gathering. Steve walked on. A few blocks away Steve thought he saw a familiar pair window-shopping. Steve approached the gentleman and said, “Pardon me sir, but aren’t you General Eisenhower?” The General introduced himself and his wife, then chatted with Steve for ten or so minutes. The General was on his way to an audience with the Cardinal, saw he was fifteen minutes early, so got out of his cab a few blocks from the meeting place to leisurely walk the remaining distance. When he found out that Steve was from Richmond he realized his party would be there in a few weeks and invited Steve to come to one of the receptions. The General took Steve's phone number and parted with “Steve, it certainly has been nice talking to someone who's not a politician and who's from the South.” Steve, like so many other people, was impressed with the General's personality. “If he could talk to every voter for a few minutes like he did with me, he’d win by a landslide.”

—M.G.M.

THE REPUBLICAN PARTY — ITS HISTORY, RECORD, AND AIMS

The Republican Party was organized almost a century ago in a spontaneous revolt against the spread of slavery. It has remained the party of human freedom and equal justice, and has become the political expression of American enterprise and self-reliance. The first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln, faced the primary task of preserving the Union, “that government of the people, by the people and for the people shall not perish from the earth.” Successive Republican administrations built the weak and divided nation into a great power commanding the world’s respect. Republican Presidents occupied the White House more than three-fourths of the time from 1861 to 1931, a period of unparalleled growth. Lincoln once said that the legitimate object of government “is to do for a community of people whatever they need to have done, but cannot do at all, or cannot so well do, for themselves, in their separate and individual capacities.” He added, “In all that the people can individually do as well for themselves, government ought not to interfere.” Republican policy has always been guided by this simple formula. In recent years the party has fought vigorously against the concentration of power and the...growing paternalism and bureaucracy in Washington. Republican Congresses and Republican Presidents established the solid foundation on which American progress was achieved. Republicans founded the national banking system, got rid of the Civil War greenbacks, and saved the nation from the “free-silver” proposals of that erratic orator, William Jennings Bryan. In 1900 they fixed the country firmly on a gold basis which remained unchallenged for more than thirty years. As the country grew, new agencies were created by Republican Congresses to do things that the people couldn't do for themselves. The Department of Agriculture and various of its constituent bureaus were established to provide the farmer with research on better methods of production and to promote cooperative marketing. Under the leadership of President Theodore Roosevelt, programs were launched to conserve the country’s forests and to reclaim dry lands for farming.

The expansion of industry, encouraged in many ways by Republican administrations, created more and more jobs at rising pay scales. Republican Congresses adopted numerous laws to protect the rights of working men and women and to bring about fairness and harmony in their relations with their employers. Republicans established both the Department of Labor and the Department of Commerce. The Sherman Anti-Trust Act, passed in 1890 to prevent monopoly and assure competition, has since been called “the Magna Carta” of Labor, agriculture, and industry.

Republican contributions to efficient government have included the national budget system; the General Accounting Office which audits government accounts for Congress; the Civil Service Act of 1883, which introduced the merit system; and the Classification Act of 1923, which gave federal personnel equal pay for equal work. In dealing with foreign powers, Republican Presidents insisted firmly on the protection of American interests, and on independence of action. They enforced the Monroe Doctrine, keeping Latin America free from European interference. After Lincoln, only one war, the brief conflict with Spain, occurred in a Republican Administration. Throughout its history, the Republican Party has stood for those issues and ideals which promote integrity and economy in government, for individual enterprise, for human liberty and dignity. In these times, it is freedom from government domination. Men must be neither the property of other men nor the property of the state. Today, the Republican Party stands for and is fighting for those ideals upon which this great nation was established.—T.C.

The Men, The Issues, The Parties
By FREDERICK MORTON

Knowing well that Dr. “D” will espouse ably the “partisan” point of view, even if due in small measure to some remote degree of kinship with the Democratic candidate for President, I shall state briefly the method by which I have been led to the conclusions which follow. It seems to me that the candidates as men, the issues, and the parties of each political faith must be examined. Each should add something to understanding (or understandable confusion), and particularly significant are the relationships and associations among all three. Available for examination are the reported words, deeds, promises, platforms, voting records, etc.

THE MEN.
In Gov. Stevenson I see a man whose experience must be appraised on the basis of certain rather specialized World War II civilian jobs, limited experience with the State Department, and the governorship of the State of Illinois. I know little of his work prior to the governorship other than that he is reputed to have done a good job of assigned tasks, although it was during this period that he came to know Alger Hiss and later testified to Hiss’ good character (good, but not very good, said Stevenson), which so far Stevenson has not seen fit to repudiate. There have been substantial exposures of graft (some by the Governor himself) among his own appointees in the state administration, and there is a record of close relationships with Jacob Arvey and an unsavory Democratic Chicago political machine. Gov. Stevenson has NO military experience. Finally, far from repudiating the record of the present national administration, he has repeatedly stated that this is the record on which the Democratic party must go to the people.

In Gen. Eisenhower I see a man whose training and experience is primarily military. His education and background in economics and politics are rudimentary and of a late date. Yet, he is committed to no one. Here must be pointed out the difference between unifying diverse elements of the same general philosophy as Eisenhower did in the cases of Dewey and Taft, and the obviously expedient attempts of the Stevenson-Truman-Harriman-Sparkman lineup to appeal to all of the highly organized political, racial, and religious minorities on a straight “trade-for-votes” basis. The General is a unifier and not a setter of class against class. His fundamental beliefs in the supreme worth of the individual and the need for guaranteeing opportunity for self-expression and development stand out brightly against the cynical demand of our times for security to which the Democrats so basely appeal. Finally, as a military man of broad experience he will stand the country in good stead in a period such as the current one and will be even more valuable in the event of all-out war.

THE ISSUES
1) Foreign Policy—In the western world since 1945 we have watched almost passively the lights of freedom blink out in Yugoslavia, Albania, Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Austria, Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, and Eastern Germany. We finally drew the line in Greece. In the east, the disappearance of China behind the Iron Curtain and the Korean War followed our pulling out the plug of American support from Chiang Kai-shek and Nationalist China as surely as day followed night. We have at best perhaps purchased a breathing spell with our foreign policy.
2) General economic prosperity—The war increased the volume of money and level of productivity in the economy. For anyone who will think further than just counting the dollars of his income every month, and reduce them by the increases in prices, higher taxes, the spread of which is a tribute to the ingenuity of man, and the share of the public debt for which we haven't been taxed yet, this illusory prosperity becomes more apparent than real.
3) Labor relations—The major contribution in this field, the Taft-Hartley Act, belongs to the Republicans and was bitterly opposed (and still is) by the Democrats at every step of the way. Without the Taft-Hartley Act or rather around it—the Administration has conducted labor relations and general industrial relations policies directly between the President and the leaders of organized labor in and out of the side door of the White House. This door has always been open to them, and the result has been one-sided federally-forced bargaining agreements.
4 and 5) Agriculture—There appear to be no major differences between the objectives of the General and the Governor.
States rights vs. federal powers—Today the Republicans are the states-rights party while the Democrats seek to expand federal powers in the areas of civil rights, health and medicine, aid to education, public power, and tidelands oil reserves.
6) Government finance and fiscal policy—Sound finance for the Democratic party means tax and spend and elect; tax to redistribute wealth from the “haves” to the “have-nots;” spend for whatever programs seem socially desirable or politically expedient; and, the electing follows quite naturally (and may well again since no one beats Santa Claus). Query: Can we spend our way out of the next depression? If so, then how about the one after that? Can anyone believe that a Democratic Congress will ever again balance the Federal budget?
7) Government efficiency and morality—the present administration is a proven bonehead here; of the present two candidates one offers no record for inspection and the other offers a poor one.

THE PARTIES
The Democrats are a party of large city political machines, i.e., Arvey, Hague, Tammany, Pendergast, etc.; highly organized, vocal, aggressive minority groups; greater Federal powers in the areas of civil rights, education, health and medicine, taxing and spending, and social security; and, advocates of a system of administrative law whereby a single agency (Federal Trade Commission, etc.) is enforcer of the law, prosecutor, trier of fact and law (jury and judge), reviewer of the case, and adviser on the writing and rewriting of the statutes which they themselves enforce. Finally, the Democratic party in this area is Hamilton C. Jones.

The Republicans are a party favoring close scrutiny of any further extension of powers to the Federal government; sound economic policies such as an honorable recognition of the Federal debt, lower taxes to increase incentive and less Federal spending more efficiently done; and, less guaranteed work and pay but greater guarantees of opportunity to work and produce. Though the Democratic party was the party of my fathers, as of today, it is not mine. Economically, politically, and socially the South needs two vigorous political parties. General Eisenhower and the Republicans are my choices.

A THREE ACT PLAY: DR. TRUMAN AND MR. STEVENSON

ACT I. SCENE—Demagogue Dungeon at Corruption Corner.
HARRY: Invective, Insult, Red Herring is my campaign,
Honor, honesty, truth I do disdain,
On you old Ike fie, fie, fie!
Stir my mud well and Add-A-Lie!

Enter Adlai
ADLAI: Harry, how do you do it? Twenty-two major scandals in the Executive Department alone! In my three years as Governor I've only had fourteen food inspectors caught for bribe-taking in the horse-meat scandal; the cigarette tax fraud; my personal assistant and campaign manager involved in a race track stock deal who resigned because of ill health with a new Cadillac, $25,000, and my blessings; and not to mention several other scandals.
HARRY: He's my boy that Adlai,
Your scandals in Washington will multiply,
Blame the people as the cause,
The fools know naught but to give applause.

ACT II. SCENE—Spendthrift Sanatorium near Taxation Tavern
Enter Adlai
ADLAI: Although I've been the most expensive governor in Illinois’ history, spoke economy while boosting the payrolls, and hired 2,500 more workers, my spending is peanuts as compared with yours. More lessons, master! How do you add $28 million every 24 hours to the public debt, and how did you and Franklin spend 6 times what our government cost in the preceding 144 years?
HARRY: Spending and taxes are the secrets to my plan,
One dollar out of four I tax per man,
Sixty million dollars you increased taxation,
With my advice you'll ruin the nation.

ACT III. SCENE—Contradiction Cavern.
Enter Adlai
ADLAI: “If I get nominated I'll shoot myself.” How could I ever equal Harry’s record! I wish Alger were here, or just Wilson or Arthur. I think I'll favor amending the Taft-Hartley Act.
(One month later)
ADLAI: I'm the captain of my ship, the master of my soul. Where is Harry? Did he tell me to favor repealing the Taft-Hartley? I think that’s right because that’s what Philip and John L. said. Oh! Where is Harry! Now I’m to push compulsory health insurance, UMT, anti-poll tax, and federal aid to education, compulsory FEPC, anti-lynch bill, the Brannan Plan, and anti-trust legislation. Where is Harry? I fear I’ve forgotten one!

Enter Harry
HARRY: Your platform is complete my faithful protégé,
This loyal jester never will my policies betray,
Continue with bureaucracy and follow Dean too,
Depression and World War will thereafter soon ensue?
—BOB WALKER