PAGE FOUR

British Schools

Monday Deadline List Grad Study For U.S. Students

Five of Britain's leading universities are offering places to American graduate students in this year’s summer school program. The courses
are offered in subjects for which the universities are recognized as authorities—Birmingham, London, Nottingham, Oxford, and St. Andrews.

The courses are intended chiefly for teachers, post-graduate students, and other qualified men and women, but are also open to
undergraduate students in their senior year. The cost, including tuition, meals, and residence, ranges from $168 to $201.60.

Through the generosity of an anonymous British donor who has given a sum of money for Anglo-American cultural relations, a
small number of free trans-Atlantic passages will be provided for American students attending the summer schools in Britain during 1952.
In addition, the participating universities are offering a limited number of grants to cover part of the accommodation and tuition
fees.

The courses offered include:
- Shakespeare and Elizabethan Drama (University of Birmingham), July 5-August 16, 1952, to be held at Shakespeare's birthplace, Stratford-on-Avon;
- Problems of Britain's Economic Recovery (University of London), July 14-August 22, 1952, to be held at the London School
of Economics and Political Science;
- Education in England (University of Nottingham), July 12-August 23, 1952;
- Britain and the Modern World (University of Oxford), July 5-August 16, 1952;
- Life, Literature, and Politics in Contemporary Britain (University of St. Andrews), July 5-August 16, 1952.

Applications should be made to The Institute of International Education, 2 West 45th Street, New York 19, N.Y.

EU INITIATES... (Continued From Page One)

- Gayle Averyt, The Plantation Home;
- E. O. Stuart, Tintern Abbey;
- Jimmy Thornton, Communism in Relation to the Proletariat Bourgeoisie;
- Jesse Fisher, The Ideal Davidson;
- Phil Howerton, Hitch-Hiking;
- Martin Foil, Dawn of Eternity;
- Charlie Cousar, Football Policy;
- Floyd Feeney, My Hobby.

The members of Eumenean considered the readings very good as a group. The candidates will be given acceptance notices in
the near future.

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
THEY OFFER BARGAINS

THACKER’S INC.
PRIVATE DINING ROOMS for PARTIES AND BANQUETS
“A Good Place to Eat”
Phone 25-4900 Charlotte
221 South Tryon Street

For Draft Tests

Major General Lewis B. Hershey, director of Selective Service, today reminded college students that applications for the April 24 Selective
Service Qualification Test must be postmarked not later than midnight March 10. National headquarters estimates that upward to 100,000 will
make application to take the April 24 test. This will be the last test given during the current academic year.

Application blanks may be obtained by students from the nearest local board. They do not have to return home to
the local board which has jurisdiction over them. Davidson men may obtain blanks from Professor Olin Puckett.

To be eligible to take the Selective Service Qualification Test, an applicant, on the testing date (1) must be a
selective service registrant who intends to request deferment as a student; (2) must be satisfactorily pursuing a full-time college course—undergraduate
or graduate—leading to a degree; (3) must not previously have taken the test.

The criteria for consideration for deferment as a student at the present time is either a score of 70 or
better on the Selective Service College Qualification Test or class standing among the male members in the upper half of
the freshman class, upper two-thirds of the sophomore class, or upper three-fourths of the junior class. Seniors accepted for admission
to a graduate school satisfy the criteria if they are among the upper half of the male members of their
senior class, or they make a score of 75 or better. Students already enrolled in graduate schools may be considered
for deferment so long as they remain in good standing.

These criteria are guides for the local boards. The local boards are under no compulsion to follow them. Many students
have been confused in differentiating between the 1-S and 2-S deferments. The 2-S deferment is considered on the basis of
class standing or qualification test and is discretionary on the part of the local board. It may be granted by
the local board each successive year, thus enabling students who continue to meet the criteria to complete their education.

The 1-S deferment, on the other hand, is provided for by the law. A college student ordered to report for
induction while he is satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course is entitled to this 1-S deferment until he finishes his academic
year provided he has not had his induction postponed or been deferred as a student prior to June 19, 1951.
He may be given but one such deferment and it is incumbent upon him to notify his local board of
his status when he receives the order to report for induction.

On January 1, 1952, there were 1,258,735 male college students between the ages of 18½ and 26. The selective service
status of these students was as follows:

- Number of students with statutory 1-S deferment to end of academic year: 11,857
- Number of students with 2-S deferments as a result of class standing or test score: 209,710
- Selected ROTC students deferred by law: 263,000
- Students who are veterans and exempt by law: 377,503
- Divinity students deferred by law: 28,930

Grand total deferred or exempt: 891,000Total males in colleges 18% to 26 .......... 1,258,735
Total students deferred or exempt .......... 891,000
Remainder potentially in pool .......... 367,735

Many of these 367,735 cannot be inducted into the service because they are members of the National Guard or organized
Reserves and approximately 40 percent of the remainder will probably fail to meet the minimum physical and mental standards.

Weather Service Pays In Future

Air Weather Service training has paid off in dollars and cents for many former U.S. Air Force weathermen who have
returned to civilian life to enter one of the many varied meteorological fields, according to a recent statement by the
Secretary of the American Meteorological Society. Increased interest in the field of meteorology has come about as a result of
the recent announcement by Air Force headquarters that 3300 college graduates with credit for one year of college physics and
mathematics through integral calculus will receive immediate USAF commissions as second lieutenants to enter a 12-month course of weather training
this fall.

Commenting on the subject of “Civilian Careers in Meteorology,” Mr. Spengler quoted information and experience. Aside from the obvious opportunities
at the U.S. Weather Bureau and the major airlines, other areas of employment have claimed Air Weather Service “graduates.” Many
meteorologists have gone into business for themselves, establishing weather consultant services in various parts of the United States, to which
industry and business can bring their weather problems.

Pleasure, the sovereign bliss of humankind
Alexander Pope, January and May

To quiet thinking or quick action, ice-cold Coca-Cola brings the pleasure of real refreshment.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO., OF CONCORD
“Coke” is a registered trademark. © 1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

THE DAVIDSONIAN

D.C. Gunners Whip DAVIDSON THRATEN State Wolfpack, Will Enter Finals

Shows Start at 3 p.m.

The sharpshooting riflemen for the Red and Black defeated North Carolina State on the local range Saturday, by a score
of 1807 to 1659, out of 2000. Wallace Abbott was high scorer for the Wildcats with 369 out of 400
points. This was the fourth straight shoulder-to-shoulder victory in the last three weeks. Two victories have been over the Wolfpack,
and the others over Wofford and Clemson. Matches with Oak Ridge and Wofford still remain on schedule.

Word was received over the weekend that the team from Davidson placed fifth among all competitors in the Third Army
Area in the recent National Intercollegiate Matches. By placing, the team qualified for the National Finals, which will be fired
soon by about fifty teams during the month of March.

LEADERS NAMED... (Continued From Page One)

Boyd of Charlotte’s St. Andrews Presbyterian Church. A special feature of the conference is that after each group of talks
there will be a joint meeting of all the secretaries to record progress records. Entertainment will be corralled that night
in the form of the college quartet. This will be followed by a report from a committee appointed to summarize
the progress of the conference. Sunday the delegates will spend at various worship services and hearing a final address from
Dr. Boyd.

WILDCAT OF WEEK .... (Continued From Page Three)

weight man he is sure to prove himself invaluable to the track team in his final year. Blue will be
conspicuous by his absence on the mat as well as the gridiron and track when next year rolls around, but
he certainly won't be forgotten and his record will be penned into the Red and Black sports annals. If not
for his great athletic prowess, he will not soon be forgotten for his cheerful manner, ready wit, and old Chevrolet.
Big Mac gets our unanimous vote for Wildcat of the Week.

TRADE WITH OUR ADVERTISERS! IT PAYS! THANK YOU!

SPRING FRIDAY, MARCH 7, 1952 Is Just Around the Corner...

TATE-BROWN Is Just a Step from the Square

CHESTERFIELDS are much MILDER and give you the ADDED PROTECTION of NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE*
*FROM THE REPORT OF A WELL-KNOWN RESEARCH ORGANIZATION

In the Spring a young man’s fancy, particularly if his wardrobe includes clothes from Tate-Brown, truly one of the South's
finest stores. Tate-Brown has been Davidson's clothiers since 1897. Drop by, browse on our 1st and 3rd floor, and see
the national brands awaiting your selection. Remember, you're always welcome.

TATE BROWN COMPANY, W. S. Tate, President, Class of '28.
126 S. Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C.
