WHAT EMPHASIS? WADE ASKS See Page Two

VOLUME XL

Davidsonians In Armed Forces

AUBURN C. LAMBETH was one of the greatest ball players and passers that Davidson has ever known. His football awards and honors are too many to be mentioned here. He was a Phi Delta Theta, a member of the student council for three years, president of “D” Club, O.D.K., and Beaver Club, captain of both the baseball and football teams, and a member of Scabbard and Blade. He was also chosen for Who's Who in American Colleges and Universities. This Georgia boy is in Georgia, but this time with the Army. His address is 106 M Co., 1st BTN., 2nd Student Regt., Fort Benning, Ga.

2nd LT. RICHARD E. BLANKS is now with the 16th Co., 2nd Bt., 2nd Sr., located at Fort Benning, Georgia. Dickey entered Davidson as a pre-dental student in 1947. He lettered his freshman year in football. Richard lost most of the year in '49 due to a shoulder separation injury received in the fall of ‘48. The shoulder kept giving him trouble. While he was here at Davidson he was an active Phi Gamma Delta who took part in football, basketball, and track. He was a member of the “D” Club and ROTC platoon leader.

LOUIS THOMPSON RUNGE, a former resident of Greensboro, North Carolina, now stationed at the U. S. Air Force Base, Biloxi, Miss., Pfc. Runge entered Davidson in September, 1950. While he was here he was one of the Cripple Creek Boys, and an excellent singer. He withdrew in March, 1951, to enter the Air Force.

THOMAS HUGH LAMB, now Lt. Lamb, entered Davidson in September of 1947, and graduated with a B.S. in 1951. He belonged to Phi Delta Theta and was called “Tubby” by his friends. He was recently back on the campus with his wife for a short visit. Lt. Lamb is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Hugh E. Lamb of 16 Casier St., Asheville, North Carolina.

Canterbury Club Hears Rev. Barr At Second Meet

The Canterbury Club of the Episcopal Church held its second meeting of the new year Tuesday night in the Y lounge. The Rev. John M. Barr, pastor of St. Mark's Episcopal Church in Huntersville, addressed the group on the subject: High and Low Church in the Episcopal Church. Bob Dunbar opened the meeting with a brief worship service, after which Mr. Barr discussed the historical development of the differences within the Episcopal Church, which were originally doctrinal in nature, but now are largely external and procedural.

One In Spirit

Mr. Barr emphasized that the church is one in spirit, in spite of minor variations in doctrine and procedure, and closed his talk with the admonition: In important things, unity; in unimportant things, variety; in all things, charity. This, he said, should be the belief and practice of all Episcopalians concerning diversities within their church.

Al Ballinger took charge of refreshments after the regular meeting was adjourned, and an informal discussion, chiefly relating to Holy Communion, followed Mr. Barr's formal address.

Next Meeting

The next meeting of the Canterbury Club will be Tuesday night, February 5, at eight o'clock, in the Y Lounge, President George Bason announced. “The aim of our Canterbury Club,” he states, “is to serve the mission of Christianity here at Davidson, to increase among the students a better understanding of the faith and practice of the Episcopal (Continued On Page Four)

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

NCAA Limits T-V, Registration Spring Practices Deadline

A limited spring football practice was the most important decision reached at the National Collegiate Athletic Association meeting in Cincinnati last week. Davidson's delegation included Dr. Frontis Johnston, Mr. P. K. Scott, Coach Crowell Little, and Coach Dick Redding. The number of out-of-season practice sessions allowed and the number of days in which these sessions are to be held for the two major sports, football and basketball, are: football, 20 sessions, within 30 calendar days; basketball, 20 practice sessions within 24 days. It has not yet been decided when spring football practice will begin here at Davidson.

“Because of the conflicts imposed on football players participating in other sports at the same time as the football spring practice, it is difficult to assign a time that will be feasible to all,” said Coach Buddy Chandler on Wednesday of this week.

The reason given for baseball's not being mentioned was that it has not proved as objectionable as the other two sports. However, it was noted by Athletic Director Scott that a committee has been formed to study the seasonal dates for all sports and this committee will report its findings next year at the meeting.

Another important issue that was passed was the continued supervision and control of TV. This will be done by restricting the number of games that will be televised in a certain area. An alternate method will be that of blacking out completely certain areas from any games so that better gates may be assured. This decision was based on the observation in experiments in TV by a special investigating committee over the past year in which time the same type of supervision was used.

The subject of TV produced the hottest debate of the convention. Several schools, notably Pennsylvania, contended that control of TV is illegal and would subject the organization to an anti-trust suit by the government. There was no large dissenting vote against the measure as it passed 163-8.

On the question of bowls the body called for a further study of post-season games by a special committee and meanwhile placed a ban on making new commitments for such games to be played after January 2, 1953. Davidson has been a member of the NCAA since 1936, when it also joined the Southern Conference. All the Southern Conference schools are in the organization.

ATHLETIC COUNCIL CALLS FOR FUTURE CONTESTS ON CAMPUS

The Athletic Council has decided to play all 1952 home football games at Richardson Field, it was announced by Athletic Director Paul Scott here today. Also discussed at the meeting was the 1952 football schedule which has already been published. The present and future program of Davidson's athletics was also reviewed. Especially well received by the group was the recent action by the Southern Conference on scholarship aid. Each school has to submit an annual report on all aid received by all athletes, giving the amount, source, and individual. If a student accepts aid in excess of what the conference allows, it will make him ineligible.

Poll Nets Ad-lib Advice, Opinions

The Davidsonian straw vote poll of the student body on athletic policy brought a flurry of ad-lib vote-in advice. Some showed some thought, others just that the signee could write. A cross-section glance produces:

“I am in favor of a soccer team at Davidson (unsubsidized).”

“Either de-emphasize athletics or get in a league where we can do some good. Either one or the other, but not the present program.”

“I am in favor of de-emphasizing football and further emphasizing basketball and tennis.”

“Let’s don't be in the middle of the road. If we can't subsidize to the limit, then go to the other extreme.”

“I favor changing the program, not subsidization.”

“I am in favor of continuing the policy, but transferring to a smaller conference.”

“I am in favor of emphasizing other sports, such as wrestling...” (signed, a wrestling letterman.)

“I am in favor of emphasizing only one sport to an extreme—that is, give scholarships in only one sport.”

“I am in favor of placing more emphasis on basketball and the more minor sports, rather than football.”

“I am in favor of de-emphasizing whoever or whatever is conducting this snide, underhanded poll.”

Saturday Noon

Spring term registration has been going on this week, and is to be concluded tomorrow, Saturday, reported Registrar F. W. Hengeveld. Those students who have course or schedule changes should have already registered. For most freshmen and sophomores no changes are necessary. They simply continue their first semester courses. Registering is done this week so that books may be ordered and received for the new courses before the second semester starts. Fees for the second semester are to be paid at a later date. Each student will receive a letter explaining the payment of fees, along with a spring term registration card similar to the form used first semester. The letter states that spring term fees are due January 31. With the aid of the enclosed card, the student can determine the amount he is expected to pay. The card is to be filled out, and if possible, a check prepared for the exact amount due. If any student is uncertain about being in college the spring semester, he is asked to stop by the cashier’s office and sign a tentative registration card. Payment of fees in such a case can be deferred until definite status can be determined.

Scholarship Cash Is Now Offered On New Standing

At its last meeting, the Committee on Scholarships and Loans made two changes in policy which vitally affected all students who now hold scholarships or grants, or who intend to apply for such aid in the future. From now on, scholarships or grants-in-aid will ordinarily be awarded for an entire year rather than for one semester at a time. In other words, a student who receives notification of an award at the beginning of the academic year can ordinarily count on the full amount specified, regardless of his grades at the end of the first semester. This policy will apply immediately, and means, in effect, that scholarships and grants for the current year will not be revoked for academic reasons at the end of the first semester. Payments will, however, continue to be made in two installments, approximately one-half of the total award at the beginning of each semester. The Committee adopted this (Continued On Page Four)

FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 1952

WILLIAMS EXAM TIP SHEET See Page Two

NUMBER THIRTEEN

Hengeveld Nixes Rumor Of Large Withdrawals

CHARLIE SPIVAK

Charlie Spivak will supply tunes for Mid-Winters here February 15-16. Inter-Fraternity Council chief Dick Stockton announces tickets will go on sale February 5 for the formal and informal dances. Student optimism is at high tide since Spivak made his mark at last year's Mid-Winters festival.

Mid-Winters Hop Ducats Ready 5th

Membership bids for Mid-Winters will be placed on sale two weeks from Tuesday, February 5, itThe following is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

was announced today by Dick Stockton, Interfraternity Council president. The formal dance will be held Friday night, February 15, from 9 to 1, and the informal dance Saturday night from 8 to 12. Charlie Spivak and his orchestra will furnish the music for both dances. Francis Pepper will be in charge of the decorations, the theme being around “Stardust.” Sandy Morton is in charge of the figure Friday night. Spivak and his orchestra will present a concert Saturday afternoon after the wrestling match with V.P.I. “The general consensus of opinion is that Spivak was the best orchestra we had last year so we asked him back,” Stockton said.

Catalogue Face Lifting To Include Illustrations, New Briefs on Courses

A better-looking and easier reading college catalogue is the goal of a faculty committee which has been working toward rearranging the format of the present booklet since the early fall. Headed by Dean C. K. Brown, the group has made recommendations that the book be printed in a larger type and that illustrations be included. The proposed new book will be larger and the course descriptions are to be either rewritten or the present descriptions standardized as to length.

More Appealing

“The action is being undertaken to make the catalogue more appealing and informative to prospective students and their parents,” explained Dean Brown. He added that such a project has been in mind for some two years, but that no one was able to devote their full-time attention to the project. When Dr. Spencer came in the fall (Continued On Page Four)

D. C. Stalwarts Pitch Tent At Salem, Spend Night As 300 Girls Stare Wide-Eyed

By MIKE MYERS

Saturday morning Johannes and Admiral Peary had his nerve going to the Arctic and facing the perils of the North. Certainly Livingston is to be admired for braving the dangers of darkest Africa. But these men were amateurs when compared with Davidson's Miedema and Lindmarker. Johannes and John spent last Saturday night in a tent, protected from the whipping wind only by the walls of Clewell and Sisters dorms at Salem College. With only a thin tent and a brick wall separating them from 300 females these men became the first in history to survive, or even attempt such an ordeal. They seem none the worse for their adventure, but as yet no word has been received from Salem.

Johannes received a small package from home last Friday. In it were his camping equipment, a bicycle, and enough cooking utensils to equip an Italian restaurant. Saturday morning Johannes and John got together and decided to take a shake-down cruise to the rolling mountains of North Carolina. That afternoon they caught a ride with six other boys and headed for the hills at Winston-Salem. The ride took them as far as Salem College, which, after all, is as good a place as any to rough it.

Our boys, living up to true Davidson tradition, remembered the article in the handbook about camping on other college lawns, so sought the president’s permission. They went into the lobby of the main building there and plopped their equipment down (the tent when folded is about the size of an inflated pontoon bridge). President Gramley wasn't there, but his son, Hugh, showed the modern Marco Polos a nice camping spot within calling distance of the president's house in case they were bothered.

They put the tent up—a nice little four-man, double-deck job—and stated a claim about the details of how this was done. Johannes went on. “At ten the next morning I was in front of the tent in my ‘doieshals’ (Dutch for skivvies) making tea when a boy taking his date to church came by. I offered them tea but they couldn't speak—evidently not thirsty.” They left and in about two minutes five or six other couples came back with them just to stand and admire the tent. They looked hungry with their mouths open, but they didn't speak either.

After breakfast, they washed dishes from a tap on the side of one of the dorms. Then they packed up and came back to Boys’ Town. They hope a deputation of Salem girls will come here some day for camping. That's all I could get out of them except one final comment. “We plan to camp at W.C. after exams.”

States Departure Of 127 Unfounded

"Great Exodus" rumor was still only a rumor this morning according to Registrar F. W. Hengeveld. Mr. Hengeveld, with a constant finger on the pulse of the student body, said that so far as he could tell only the “usual” number of students would be withdrawing from Davidson at the end of the first semester, January 30.

Authentic Sounding

For the past several days the very authentic sounding word has been passed from mouth to mouth that a group of students, numbered at 127, would be leaving school at the end of the semester. No reason is attached as rider to the rumor. “The odd thing about the whole business is this figure of 127," Mr. Hengeveld smilingly remarked. “Dean Bailey heard about it about the same time I did, and he came to see if I had any facts to substantiate the rumor. Both of us had had the number put to us as 127.

“No more than the usual number of men have come to me about transferring to another school, entering the service, or going to work. I would say we lose generally 30 or 40 boys at the end of our first semester. Even with the draft scare and flee for air force recruiting stations this time last year, we didn’t have wild rumors like this. If it's anything more than a wild rumor, I certainly know nothing of it.”

Beavers End Call For Old Clothing

Over 100 pounds of used clothing has been collected by the Beaver Club for contribution to needy European children and young adults. The spare collegiate duds are now on their way to New York for processing. Before the Christmas holidays the athletic club placed bags around the dorms and launched their plea for gifts. Receiving last-minute handouts, the Beaver men closed their drive after Christmas and sent the clothes on to Gotham. This drive is the first of two yearly activities sponsored by the undergraduate lettermen. In the Spring they hold an auction for senior heirlooms. Usually accompanied by a band and colorful charivari, the auction perennially draws a big crowd.

SVM Will Organize Here At Meeting On February 5

An opportunity to join the Student Volunteer Movement for Christian Missions (SVM) will be afforded Davidson men Wednesday, February 6, at 8:00 p.m., in the Y lounge, when George Knight leads a meeting here at Davidson College. Knight, acting as moderator for the group, will explain in general the meaning and purpose of SVM and will outline projected activities for the local chapter, and then he will throw the floor open to discussion and questions about SVM.

“The Student Volunteer Movement for Christian Missions,” he states, “is a movement of students and senior friends committed to the task of making Jesus Christ known, loved and obeyed in every sphere of life and every part of the world. Its members are joined in a common declared purpose ‘To Serve Christ in the World Mission of His Church.’”

The inspiration for forming a Davidson chapter of the Student Volunteer Movement comes from the recent 16th Quadrennial Conference of SVM in Lawrence, Kansas, which a large number of Davidson students attended, and which will be the subject of the chapel program Thursday, January 31, and of the Westminster Fellowship meeting this Sunday night at 6:30 in the Quadranglers’ Room. Davidson's delegates to this Conference met the night of Sunday, January 13, to discuss plans for setting up an SVM chapter here, and decided upon the date indicated above, February 6, at 8 p.m., as the time for an organizational meeting of all Davidson students interested in the movement.

Knight emphasized that all students interested in the mission work of the church, whether at home or in the foreign field, are invited to attend this meeting. The SVM is interdenominational. The national organization of SVM has prepared pamphlets on “eight questions students ask about missions,” which will be discussed in a series of articles in The Davidsonian, beginning this week. The first question: “Why Force My Religion on Others?” is discussed in this issue.