THE DAVIDSONIAN
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Frank Hanshaw

BUSINESS MANAGER
Jack Hobson

ASSISTANT EDITOR
John Ottley

Associate Editors
Brinkley, Daniel, Harter, Hope, Myers

Managing Editors
Hassell, J. M. Moore, Owens

Sports Editor
Dick Roper

A Word For The Wise

Once again the campus takes on a new look as it does about this time each year. A multitude of new faces appear. On some are looks of uncertainty, on others are looks of homesickness, while on others are looks of genuine happiness that finally they are free and on their own, finally they are college men.

We would like to be able to assure everyone that all will turn out fine for him in the next four years. The truth of the matter is that it will be up to the individual. It would be impossible to map out the course for success at Davidson College, for each man will follow a somewhat different route. We would, however, like to mention just a few things that will make the road much easier.

No matter how much space your accomplishments in high school or prep school may have occupied in the yearbook, it is of little consequence when you begin your new life as a freshman in college. You do not rest on your past accomplishments here, but must begin anew. This is very hard for some freshmen to realize and there is much disillusionment. The freshmen must know his place in respect to upperclassmen, who may not always be the wiser, but who are older. He must obey and carry out the freshmen regulations and particularly note the advice furnished by the Court of Control.

Davidson offers a four-fold education which develops a well-rounded personality. We refer to the religious, academic, athletic, and social curriculum programs. It is wise to consider all four in planning your schedule this coming year. The many extra-curricular activities such as newspaper, magazine, yearbook, YMCA work, dramatics, etc., should not be forgotten. An early start in the activity of your particular interest is very important if you expect to achieve honors in later years of college.

While college may for the next few weeks seem to be a bed of roses, you will soon find that there will be much required of you academically. Don't wait to begin work until the first six weeks grades are handed you by your faculty advisor, and you discover five F's, and a D. It may be too late.

You will have a great opportunity to make friends while you are here at Davidson. Take advantage of this opportunity and get to know your classmates, the upperclassmen, and, very important, your professors, who, believe it or not, are most interested in the freshmen’s welfare and anxious to help you get started on the right track.

It is very essential to begin your freshman year by making a tentative plan of what you want to try to accomplish in the next four years in getting a well-rounded education. At least, you should think you know where you are going. Your plan may change several times through the course of your education, but it is better to have some type of a plan than to wander aimlessly through four years and still not know where you are when you graduate.

Summing it up, the key route to a successful trip through four years at Davidson is contained in one small four-letter word—WORK. And you can reach any destination or goal that you may set while you are here.

Whisnant, Kelly Captains Of ‘52 Gridders

Arnold Whisnant, senior from Morganton, has been elected captain of the Wildcat football team. Dick Kelley, a Hartsville, S. C., senior, is the alternate captain.

Whisnant, who stands six-one and weighs 188, is serving his third year on the varsity. He won his letter as a sophomore and has developed into an excellent offensive center.

Also a third-year man on the varsity, Kelley will see extensive service at end this year. Tipping the scales at 180 and standing six-two, Dick has proved a formidable opponent on defense and has looked good snagging passes in this year’s early drills.

Cats Meet Vi-i

New Grid Schedule Includes Harvard, Geo. Washington

Three new foes have been scheduled for the Wildcats this fall. Coach Bill Dole’s team will meet Harvard in Cambridge, Massachusetts on November 1 to begin a series that may run for several years. George Washington will play host to the Cats at Washington on November 14.

Furman, scheduled for October 25, is not a complete newcomer to the Cats. The Purple Hurricane played and defeated Davidson in 1950, but was not on the Cat's 1951 schedule. Furman will be the Cats’ homecoming opponent on October 25, at 2:30.

Monday & Tuesday
September 15-16
Freshman and Transfer Days
AT WILSON-WRIGHT'S

FREE REFRESHMENTS

DRAWING TO BE HELD FOR:
SWEATER — PAIR SLACKS — SPORT SHIRT — DRESS SHIRT — 2 PR. WOOL ARGYLES (1 each) — 4 TIES — 2 BELTS — CUFF LINKS

Get Your Name In The Box
Wilson-Wrights
Next to Bank in Davidson

Teams Rated Even In Season Opener

A close, hard-fought game with the breaks deciding the outcome is the way Davidson's season opener hereWith Virginia Tech appearing a week away from game time, the Cats whipped the Virginians last year, 32-20, and the visitors will be sparing nothing to avenge that defeat. Freshmen may prove to be the key to success for either team. The Gobblers have several highly-touted frosh on their squad and will count heavily on them as the season wears on. Cat Coach Bill Dole also has a lot of faith in the ability of his freshmen and will undoubtedly use several in the opening game.

Ruth in Driver's Seat

Quarterback Jack Ruth will direct the Wildcat attack, and much depends on the small but stocky Kings Mountaineer. Moving the ball will be Henry Brown at fullback, and Jim Thacker, Roy White, and Bobby Renn at the halfback slots. The Cat forward wall will not be terrifically large, but it will have power. The names to watch here are Pierce, Kelly, Gene and Dickie Davis, Wright, Peterson, Patten, Harold Davis, Patterson, and several other hustling, hardworking linemen.

Line Needs Frosh

Harold Grissard and Pete Stevens at the guards have given the Gobblers a hard core for a line which will probably be drawing heavily on freshmen for support. Tech will be running from the T again this year, whereas Dole’s charges will use a varied attack, including a conventional T, wing-T, and Notre Dame box. Tech holds the edge in the series between the two teams. In the long haul, the Gobblers have won eight, the Cats two, with one tie. Last year VPI was the only team the Cats beat. They lost the remaining eight games on their schedule.

JACK RUTH
He'll call ’em for D.C. this year.

By the time this issue of The Davidsonian gets into your hands, you will undoubtedly be mulling over quite a nogginful of advice, admonitions, and tradition, with the promise of a great deal more in the next few days staring you in the face. So this column will try not to prolong the agony in giving you a little of the low-down on athletics at Davidson.

If, while you were in high school, you followed Davidson’s various teams through their respective seasons, you're pretty well aware that when we win a game, it’s usually because of greater ability, higher spirit, and that indispensable quality known as hustle. When we lose, it’s usually because we lack these qualities. You won’t hear any of this ‘moral victory’ stuff around here. But there's one thing to always bear in mind about the sports program at D.C.: athletic events are considered as games and are always played as such. This is, unfortunately, a day in which it matters little who wins or loses, but how many pay to see the game. This fact has caused athletics at many colleges and universities today to be considered as not much more than a business and the participants treated as chattel. And, as far as the students themselves are concerned, that's where we think we've got it all over a lot of schools. You see, at Davidson the athletes are not considered a different breed as they are at many of the big schools. You will find that there is no special code of ethics nor any different scholastic standards set up for them. They will have to abide by the same rules as you and study just as hard as you in order to stay in school. That's because they are you.

The corollary of this point is that many of you will want to come out for the various sports at D.C., and you should. All of you should make it a point sometime to go down and talk to the coaches. Many of them are as new to Davidson as you are. They'll want to meet you too, and they'll want you to come out for their teams. They'll need you to be successful in their jobs. Although the varsities get most of the publicity, you'll find that some of the keenest competition of all is in the interfraternity sports program. Anybody who joins a fraternity or the Campus Club is eligible to participate here. And then there's the physical training program which you will be hearing a lot about. So you see, the school’s got the facilities, if you've just got the time. Take advantage of them. You'll get a lot more out of college if you do.

By DICK ROPER

It will be up to you.

YOU'LL SING THEIR PRAISES, too, when you see our newly arrived Eagle Clothes. The handsome glen plaids, authentic imported tweeds, and unusual checks are just a few of the high notes in Eagle's full scale of styles for Fall. Because each pattern, each design, each weave is original with Eagle, it’s exclusive with Eagle. And for perfect harmony with your individual build, Eagle Clothes come in more than 245 different models and sizes. If you want to put your appearance in the right key for Fall, put yourself in a new hand-tailored Eagle suit or coat, today!

EAGLE SUITS FROM $65.00
SPORT COATS FROM $50.00
FASHION ACADEMY AWARD AS ADVERTISED IN

Men's Clothing
Street Floor