PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF ------------------------- Frank Hanshaw
BUSINESS MANAGER --------------------- Jack Hobson

Associate Editors ------------------------- Brinkley, Daniel, Harter, Hope, Ottley, Myers
Managing Editors ------------------------- Hassell, J. M. Moore, Owens
Sports Editor ------------------------------- Dick Roper
News Editor -------------------------------- D. M. Smith
Feature Editor ----------------------------- T. A. Williams
Arts Editor --------------------------------- Mahy
Assignments -------------------------------- Strand
Photographer ------------------------------- Simons
Assistant Business Manager ------------- Owen Poston
Advertising Manager ---------------------- Hasty
Circulation Manager ---------------------- Wilkins
Subscription Manager --------------------- Chaney
Collection Manager ------------------------ Minter

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Better Davidsonian Depends On Student Faculty Support

It is a great honor for us to serve as next year's editor of the Davidsonian and to shoulder the
responsibility of giving you the type of paper Davidson College should have. We appreciate the interest that so many of
you have already shown by submitting numerous suggestions and ideas for next year’s paper. The editors and writers listed in
the reorganized staff promise to form a nucleus around which can be built one of the best Davidsonians ever published.
We certainly do not want this to be the only staff of the paper, for we want each of you
to take an active interest in your paper, submitting from time to time articles and suggestions to make this a
better Davidsonian.

Bill White is to be commended for doing an excellent job on the paper last year. We hope that we
can follow in his footsteps and continue to improve the standards of the paper. The Davidsonian will have a definite
policy next year which will be expressed by the editor and the associate editors in this editorial section of the
newspaper. Other articles will be printed on the editorial page expressing new ideas and opinions to create interest and discussion
in the student body and this student body opinion should be aired in letters to the editor. The Davidsonian should
be the formative source on the campus, bringing news, events, feature stories, and well-rounded sports coverage to the students. It
should provide organizations with equal but ample coverage of news. It must become representative of the student body, provide a
medium between the student body and faculty and administration, and a means to express ideas and views for the betterment
of any condition on the campus which needs improvement. All sides of any issue which is of interest to its
readers will be presented on a fair and impartial basis.

It is our intention to work very closely with the student body officers, student council, and YMCA as well as
the many other organizations on the campus. We hope that closer faculty-student relations can be developed next year through the
Davidsonian by faculty expressing opinion in the paper and through personal interviews. We want to take maximum advantage of first-hand
coverage of news concerning the student body as discussed in the faculty, executive, and trustee meetings, so that the students
will know the facts on policies of these groups and any actions that affect the student body as a whole.
This next year the staff will try to publish a paper that commands the interest of its readers and will
appeal to all the members of the student body.

The Bottles Go Crashing Down

Doug Rice has spoken of a recent problem that has confronted the student store. This is the big expense incurred
in the replacement of bottles that are taken to the students’ rooms and later broken. In fact, the total loss
for the last six weeks was 55 cases. This has also caused the shortage of soft drinks because the companies
will not fill orders unless empty bottles are exchanged.

We all well remember the inconvenience and expense involved in leaving bottle deposits last year when we wanted to bring
milk or soft drinks to our rooms. Few of us ever bothered to return the bottles, losing the deposit. Doug
says that if this loss continues, ten cents will have to be charged for each drink and a slip on
each bottle given for the five cents extra deposit on each bottle.

We, for one, thought it a very sensible change when the present system was adopted—no deposits charged and the janitors
take the bottles back to the “stud.” But a few of the students may cause this system to be again
changed due to their childish action of dropping bottles from the top floors of the dorms to hear them crash
on the concrete below. This has been particularly bad between East and West. We seriously hope that these few people
will think a little while about this unnecessary expense and the danger of hurting fellow students, so that the system
of no deposits can be kept for the convenience of the majority.

What Is Your Opinion On Between Semester Holidays?

The Davidsonian is printing on page one this week a petition from the president of the student body that will
be submitted to the faculty and administration for consideration and signed by various organizations and students. The Davidsonian endorses this
plan for holidays wholeheartedly. We call on you, the student body, to write the paper expressing your opinions to the
faculty and administration on this matter. Reasons for such a vacation as enumerated in the petition seem only reasonable, for
there are very few schools that begin the second semester the very next day after exams.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ribbon-Smuggling Gang Meets Challenges Of Ivy League

Since knowledge is but sorrow’s spy, it is not safe to know.—Sir W. Davenant.

Last week we discussed the moral fibre, the intellectual stability and the social consciousness of three Ivy League institutions, Princeton,
Yale and Harvard. We must look to them, we decided, if we were ever to light our candle on the
altar of time. It is them whom we must copy. To review briefly, we saw that three outstanding events had
ennobled their reputations. At Princeton, the student body had staged a riot, blocked traffic and created general havoc through their
wailing protestations on the proposed decrease in their janitorial force. Yale's social relationships classes had held a laboratory involving a
seventy-two man bicycle relay race to Vassar, the qualifying stint for each lap being the consumption of a quart of
beer. Though we couldn't prove it, we granted two Harvard undergraduates the distinction of having broken the Russian face-slapping record
of something over twenty hours by slapping each other’s insomnious physiognomies for something under thirty hours.

The discussion closed with an appeal to look carefully to see if we couldn’t find a beam somewhere in our
own eyes before we became content to idolize motes in other folks’ eyes. It was phrased rather as a challenge,
a note of defiance thrown in the face of general apathy and languor. The challenge was met! But by whom?
A student leader, anxious to guide his fellows on to greater glory? An ambitious associate professor, eager to show his
mettle and advance in the world? Nay, ignominy of ignominies, the challenge was met rather by a subversive, international ribbon-smuggling
gang that seized the opportunity to establish itself among the student body and sabotage installations until the general ribbon-smuggling invasion
scheduled soon.

This on-the-spot reporter, who was really on the spot throughout the Wednesday night uproar, racing from dormitory to dormitory looking
frantically for evidence, was able to ascertain that the planted revolutionaries follow a mystical potentate whom they called Mustapha Hail’al.
There seemed to be some magic significance, some hidden spur to greater endeavor in the repetition of the word. Several
times during the night, and at one time in particular on Rumple’s steps, a cleverly disguised Arabian ringleader was seen
to wave his hand in a mystical half-moon motion and repeat the dynamically inspiring “Hail’al.” His disguise was clever, indeed.
Research showed that for three weeks preceding the incident he had posed as a sunbather behind Rumple, and had bleached
his skin, which was turning whiter every day, by nineteen days of continuous exposure.

The rebellious hours were well planned. The revolutionaries had located military installations and attacked these first. There are varying reports
as to the extent of the damage done to military property. In fact, the only evidence that served to prove
the ribbon-smugglers’ part in the affair was the quantity of secret code tape which they distributed to the unwitting student
accomplices and deposited at strategic points across the campus. Gentlemen, the challenge that we offered last week was sincere, but
even more sincere is this warning: subversive elements are afoot, watch your step, as well as theirs!!

A man lives not only his personal life, as an individual, but also, consciously or unconsciously, the life of his
epoch and his contemporaries.

EDITOR’S MAIL:

Cover Influence On Chapel Called “Preposterous”

Dear Frank:

I know that some things are best if left uncommented upon, but I can't suppress this—particularly when I feel the
particular thing I am commenting upon could well have been left unsaid. Through a few pretty reliable branches of the
grapevine, I have learned of what I consider a very warped criticism by some members of the administration of Jim
Fickeisen’s last magazine cover. The cover, you will recall, was a caricature of a row in chapel—one fellow reading, another
sleeping, another throwing a paper airplane, another taking issue with the speaker. As I understand it, one professor commented to
Jim that he (the professor) thought it a very mean trick toward the administration on Jim’s part drawing a cover
which probably would do more to hurt chapel conduct than any one act in several years. Several other faculty members
apparently feel the same way, whether proselytes of the first critic I do not know. But just openly I would
like to pose this question—how in the sam hill could anyone really believe (Continued On Page Four)

EXECUTIVE MEETING REPORT:

IDEAS OF HONOR SYSTEM REVISION PRESENTED

At a recent meeting of the Executive Committee of the Faculty held April 23, a member of the student body
was given the opportunity of presenting a statement to those in attendance at this meeting. This statement has just been
released to the Davidsonian and was presented as follows:

“Gentlemen of the Executive Committee:

“I am here this afternoon to speak to you in hopes that here, within this representative body of the faculty,
a movement may take its beginning, which if successful I am certain will produce a profound joy in each and
every one of us.

“The subject which I have for your consideration concerns the severity of punishment for infractions of our rules here at
Davidson College; rules made by the faculty as well as those made by the student body which are for the
protection and welfare of all concerned to be sure.

“Infractions of some of these rules, most specifically those rules embodied in the Student Body Honor System, as stated in
the Student Body Constitution, and the rule with regards to use of alcoholic beverages as imposed by the faculty, infractions
of these rules in general are usually associated with expulsion from the college, in short, one is generally expelled from
the college if any one of these specified rules is broken. Such a punishment, gentlemen, accompanies the recipient for a
great number of years, if not for life, not only in his reputation, but what isMuch more important, perhaps also
in his personality which through a lack of understanding can become somewhat embittered in certain respects. “I feel, and this
is a personal feeling although I am certain some other persons have the same feeling that there are some who
would be very sympathetic to such a feeling—I feel that his punishment for a man’s first offense is too severe.
“Can we not find or create a punishment for these infractions other than expulsion? Can we not give such a
man who might break a rule another chance? Can we not give ourselves another chance to work with him, to
guide him, to help him, to counsel him, to show him the way. If he is perhaps such a man
that after his second chance proves too weak to abide by the rules of the college, then perhaps we are
not equipped to handle him any further unless he learns his lesson from some other source, meaning that perhaps he
be permitted to return after some period of time. “You see, we do not know with which man to work
until he breaks a rule. We cannot be aware of his weakness until it is revealed except that we do
know, gentlemen, all men can make mistakes—you and I included. “Perhaps we can take away a few of his privileges
such as the use of a car should he have one; the use of fraternity court should he be a
fraternity man; or perhaps we can restrict him to the campus for a definite but lengthy period of time. Whatever
punishment might be devised the man should understand that should he fail to live up to the punishment as well
as the rules of the college in the future, then he should have to leave the college. “These alternative suggestions
most probably do not meet with your approval, but I beseech you, gentlemen, I am very confident that if we
work together enlisting the support and work of others that we can find or create, as I have said, a
punishment which will prove satisfactory, leaving expulsion for a man’s second major offense. Perhaps even after such method of punishment
that might be inaugurated we can give the man a choice of the two, with the sincerest hope that he
take what I would personally term the less severe, giving us a chance as well as he. “I feel that
this subject has been given much consideration in the past and perhaps the difficulty of finding another solution has proven
too great for us. I prefer to think that such is not so—that such is not too great for us.
I prefer to think that such is not too great if we will but give ourselves to the finding of
another solution to this problem. “I feel so greatly concerned about this matter that I have requested and have been
granted the privilege of presenting it to you. I am certain it would be a joy to each and every
one of us if we could send a man away from our midst with no doubts as to his future
and what he has to offer to the world and society, no doubts as to his personality, and to his
character. I am sure we could all rest with more peace of mind if we knew all who leave us
leave as a man. This perhaps shall never be realized, but I do feel that we can reduce the number
greatly of those men who leave us for whom we have doubts as to his future, even though this number
is now very small.” In the general discussion that followed the presentation of this statement to the Executive Committee, it
was very clearly explained by the student that there should be a severe punishment for a man’s first mistake, however,
not expulsion nor suspension; and that as a Christian College, Davidson was somewhat obliged to be a pioneer in the
area of developing more of a corrective type Honor System than purely penal as it has at the present time.
It should be included here for the benefit of the Student Body, that the faculty representatives on this Executive Committee
were very sympathetic with this statement presented by a member of the student body. There is a movement developing on
the Davidson campus to alter the penal aspect of the Honor System, combining with it a corrective aspect which to
many appears very desirable.

FRIDAY, MAY 9, 1952

THE FRIENDLY PHILOSOPHER: Idle Moments Of Thought: Disjointed Babbling From The Steps Of D.C. Library By NAT DANIEL

Since we're all one big happy family here at Davidson, bicycles are community property. It would be more polite, however,
to put the family bike where you found it. It's both frustrating and time-consuming to have to wander all over
the campus looking for your two-wheeled method of transportation.

One of our projects next year should be a careful examination of the Honor System. Several students and faculty members
feel that the system is not working as well in the areas of lying, stealing, and reporting violations as it
does with cheating. The students have been accused of moral degeneracy but we hope it isn’t that bad. It is
hoped that in the coming year the students will take it more seriously, and educate the incoming freshmen to do
so.

Columnist’s note: Last week we began a new type of column, approaching life at Davidson from a more amiable and
positive point of view. We have not forgotten the inadequacies of the status quo, and we shall continue to point
them out from time to time. Whenever a subject warrants it, we shall devote a whole column to it, but
we shall leave criticism for the sake of criticism to the fiery pen of one John King Otley, III (see
below). Some of our material may be neither friendly nor philosophy, but since the new title has a pleasing appearance,
and is definitely (self) flattering, we make no apologies for it.

Bill White, as Editor Hanshaw has probably pointed out in the editorial column, did a superior job as editor of
the Davidsonian this year. Under his guidance the paper came closer to being a real college newspaper than ever before.
But it still has a long way to go. Next year each of us can help it on its journey
by further participation in the production of “our student newspaper.”

Last week we mentioned a case in race relations and promised to have a story. Out of deference to the
individuals concerned, we decided not to publish the crude details. The case was one in which a Negro girl was
attacked by a local white citizen. Similar cases have come up oftener than we Southerners like to admit, but they
are usually thrown out of court. This time, however, justice was rendered as the judge found probable cause. Citizens of
the town (Continued On Page Four)

On the surface, some of us may feel that Alan Gripe's hitch as college chaplain (at present a glorified name
for Y secretary) has not been completely successful. Before we make a hasty evaluation of his services, let us be
sure to take into consideration that he’s had to buck a great lack of cooperation; both from higher-ups in the
administration and the Student Body in general.

THE FREE LANCE: D. C. Publication Censors Have A Few Twisted Ideas By JOHN OTTLEY

Readers of American literature of the roaring twenties will be quick to note the origin of this column's name. Writing
for the Baltimore Sun during that memorable era was one of the hottest flames that ever seared the pants off
this country, one H. L. Mencken. This column will not emulate his thumbs down policy on everything, but will be
an uninhibited weekly critique of the Davidson scene and will venture abroad when the national panorama becomes more than normally
ludicrous.

Censorship at D. C.

Regardless of the outcome of this week's race for magazine editor, we noted striking implications of the excoriation of censorship
of both humor and literature here at Davidson. To try to analyze the motivations of the censors themselves poses a
problem with too many possible answers. The average Davidson mind is submitted to so many conflicts with reality that it
presents to the psychologist a rather hopeless phantasmagoria. Looking at the general policy of censorship itself, a first consideration is
the humble fact that the college magazine and newspaper are paid for in the main by the students, are written
by students and have as their sole purpose for existence the stimulation of the students.

One of the immediate tasks which faces a man starting a publication is to determine who his reading public is
going to be and to see how he can angle what is printed in his publication so as to achieve
the maximum interest from that public. An example of this can be seen in the fact that small town newspapers
carry a much larger percentage of farm hints than do metropolitan sheets.

An answer too often given to indignant editors here is that blank publication is being sent into the homes of
the boys and it has a very great deal to do with the name of dear Davidson. All this is
true, but the publication simply is not being run for the parents. This statement, though painfully obvious, cannot be over-emphasized.
We suspect the real motivation for censorship of this type is the point that Karl Marx drove home so effectively.
If the censors are afraid that a less censored magazine would cut the college's financial (Continued On Page Four)

CAT POLL

What do you think of the speeches by the candidates that have become a part of the election system?

56% LIKE
22.2% DISLIKE
22.2% INDIFFERENT

An advantage for the winners; a disadvantage for the losers. —Nat Daniel

For the size of the student body we now have it seems almost necessary to have political talks for elections.
However, it should not be a man’s ability to speak, but his character that gives him an office at Davidson.
I am for the speeches until we become a small college again (and the sooner, the better).—Chalmers G. Davidson.

Some of them have turned out to be a farce, primarily because of our method of nomination—Lee Harter.

These speeches, when they have been serious, have given me something to vote for when the candidate’s qualifications were unknown
to me—Harry Hickey.

They are fine when used in the case of officers in which there is room for controversy as long as
they are used in the right manner.—Bryan Robinson.

It gives a lot of boys a chance to know better who to vote for—Don Lance, Jr.

I am afraid that at times the speeches or the response to the speeches might not be indicative of the
things which the new method should show.—Vance Mizelle.

They do create some semblance of a platform so that the voter isn’t voting for a reputation but for an
idea—Ronnie Wilson.

I don’t particularly have an opinion.—Mr. Downright Typical.
