FRIDAY, APRIL 4, 1952 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE: Cats Sign Dole: Lose Chandler, Redding In Shuffle Leaves East Carolina Netters Down/Thinclads Pound Local Cinders To Take Grid Post Here Harvard Crew|!2 Opener With Florida State

It has always been a mystery to me for what unearthly reason “varsity participation” was included in the intramural sports program of this college. It really has nothing to do with in- By JOHN HANDLEY By TAD CURRIE

Tomorrow afternoon at Richardson Field the 1952 David- thing to do with in- fleet-footed Wildcats have been hard at work and a fine group of 25 men will don the Red and Black for tomorrow's meet before the visitors from Salem as well as a large crowd of local onlookers. are supposed to work together for the good of the whole school. The only way that it could be construed to look like competition between the various fraternities is to compare the number and prowess of the men of one fraternity to another, i.e., ‘the Sigma Omega’s have got the football team sewed up, but we got the majority in basketball.’ Then a talk with Pete Whittle gave the answer to the reason for first including the “activity” and the question of how it has remained over these past few years.

COACHES REAP THE BENEFITS

The whole idea of the thing is to get the boys out for the varsity teams and keep them out, mainly because here at Davidson we have such a small student body and even smaller athletic subsidization and emphasis. The fear was that the fraternities would talk a good athlete to drop some sport in order to play for the fraternity team and that they would come out better if they would help keep the boy out for the particular sport. Varsity participation is considered as a major sport in figuring up the totals and the number of participants in all varsity sports (freshmen are included this year as well as every other year) is divided into the membership of each fraternity to get the percentage of members that participate (although quite a few men participate in as many as three sports a year) in varsity sports.

IS IT STILL A “MUST”?

My whole idea is not a gripe over the seeming irrelevancy of the thing or the fact that it is for the betterment of the school’s athletics, but just to place the question before the fraternities and especially the sports managers who vote on any changes from year to year as to whether it belongs in the intramural program or not. I don’t believe any fraternity considers one way or the other as to whether they will benefit more from a boy’s remaining out for a sport or quitting to join the frat team. It usually is in the hands of the boy and whether he thinks of the “varsity participation” clause or not, cannot be decided. I’m sure that a boy who is good in say touch football will not quit the fraternity team JUST to get the points for his group in varsity participation. At any rate it is a problem that can be debated and although quite a few other schools use this system, it still holds the “bug” that boys from one fraternity are not competing with another in intramural athletic prowess.

A logical plan to meet all your summer needs. Buy two suits and with the mix and match method... have four Wilson-Wrights Collegiate Fashions

Coaches Buddy Chandler and Dick Redding are shown above in their last Davidson attire. Both men resigned last week from the coaching staff, Chandler to coach at Bridgewater College, and Redding plans to enter business in New York. New head coach Bill Dole will have to find new line coaches to replace these men.

Kappa Sigs Out In Front In Interfrat Cup Race

By WALLACE ABBOTT

In looking at the overall competition this year, towards the interfraternity athletic cup, we find that the Kappa Sigs are now leading the field by a considerable margin, and it looks as if they will be tough to beat again this year. However, fairly close on their heels are four fraternities who are within about 100 points of them. These four are the KAs, Phi Delts, Phi Gams and Sigma Chis. All of these fraternities stand a good chance of overtaking the leaders in the remaining competition this year. Currently three sports are in progress: volleyball, horseshoes and ping pong, and a strong showing in all of these could put any contender within reach of the Kappa Sigs. At present the Phi Delts and Phi Gams are battling it out for first place in volleyball, while the other sports haven't progressed far enough along to make a very good guess as to who will come out on top. Still left to be played this year after the current sports are over are softball and tennis.

STANDING

Fraternity Points
Kappa Sigs .......... 667
KA .................. 597
Phi Delts ........... 592
Phi Gams ........... 565
Sigma Chis ......... 561
Betas ............... 500
Pi Kapps ........... 489
SAE ................ 426
Pikas ............... 371
SPE ................ 368
ATO ................ 332
CC ................. 275

Golfers Primed For N.C. State; Wake Forest

By BOB OWENS

Having matched strokes with four of the strongest college golf teams in the South, the Wildcat links team finds itself warmed up and determined to notch two Southern Conference victories as they face Wake Forest and N. C. State at Raleigh this weekend. The Cat swingers failed to break into the win column in a hurried trip through Florida during Spring Holidays in which they met Miami, Rollins, and Florida before rushing home to fulfill a Chapel Hill date with North Carolina's Tar Heels. Laboring under the disadvantage of a short practice season, Coach Elgin White's club lacked the polish of the free-swinging Floridians, but the meets were close in every respect, many not being decided until the last putt. The Wildcat linksters faced three Southern Conference foes this week in a determined effort to break into the win column in a big way. They engaged Clemson's Tigers on the Myers Park Country Club course in Charlotte, Wednesday, and were victors by a 24-3 score. Then they moved over to Raleigh for matches with Wake Forest and N. C. State today and tomorrow. With aces Mac McLean, Al Gaither, Jimmy Sloan, Al Fitzgerald, Lew Barnes, Graeme Keith, Bobby Brannan, Tom Abel, and Lawrence Erwin getting back into the swing, the linkmen are rated as one of the best teams in the conference and are ready to start chopping heads for the remainder of the season.

Spikes Return; Meet Ohio U.

By JACK EFIRD

Ohio University’s baseball team ending a tour of the Southern States, plays our Cats here Monday and Tuesday. The local nine will have five games under their belts as they take the field for the first Ohio game. At press time their record was two wins and a like number of defeats. The first two games of the season were split with Springfield winning one and the Cats winning one. The Massachusetts club took the first,4-1, giving up only one hit to the Cats who made nine errors. The next day behind the base-clearing three-run triple by center-fielder Fred Stowe, the home nine won, 6-4. Jim Smith was the winning pitcher. The next victory was hung up against The Citadel, 4-2, in the best-played game of the season for the Cats who committed no errors and who didn’t allow any runs until the ninth inning. Again, Stowe was the leading contributor to the victory. This time the slugger blasted out a double and three singles in four appearances at the plate to bring his season’s average to .556. He drove in the first two runs of the game and started a two-run uprising in the sixth inning with a single. The Wildcats used Andy Courts, Johnny Smith, and Ish Bennet in posting their first conference victory of the year. Wednesday and Thursday of this week, the Wildcat team traveled into South Carolina to play Clemson and Furman. The Tigers of Clemson clawed the Cats, winning 21-6, with a big twelve-run uprising in the fourth inning.

Since Chuck Elliott was in- (Continued On Page Four)

There were too many downs, but if Bill Dole, new head football coach, has anything to say about it, there'll be some changes made. Dole, who was head coach at Eastern Carolina College at Greenville, was named to his new post on Monday and no sooner had he signed his contract, the usual two-year agreement, than he announced that spring football practice would begin on Friday, April 11. Dole is a stranger when it comes to working with losing teams for he produced, and that’s just what he did, the team at East Carolina which was runner-up in this year's North State League race. Dole was formerly head coach at Fayetteville High before going to Eastern Carolina. With the announcement of Dole’s appointment as head man in the football realm, came the news that the Wildcats would lose the services of two of their other football men, Coaches Buddy Chandler and Dick Redding. The news was not pleasant to most men on the campus for both Chandler, who leaves to be head coach at Bridgewater College in Virginia, and Redding who will work in New York, were greatly respected, and Redding especially will be missed as he was largely instrumental in producing a winning swimming team.

Clements Still Likely

With these two holes existing in the coaching staff, there is much speculation as to who will get the nod. Best bet is Chuck Clements of Gastonia who worked with Dole at Fayetteville. According to Clements, he hasn’t been approached as yet but if he is, well, he will more than likely accept. In accepting his position as head football coach, Dole clearly stated that he didn’t think Davidson was a “graveyard” as far as football coaches were concerned. Said Dole, “I wouldn’t have accepted the post if I had felt that way.” Dole says he will work from the “T” and use passing, a weak spot in the Wildcat book of tricks. Dole says he doesn’t expect a winning record the first year but he feels that the team can do better than this year’s record of 1 and 8. While he knows the competition is rough, Dole feels that with some new faces and a bit of spirit plus the know-how which he intends to give the boys starting next week, Davidson should cease being the “doormat” of the Southern Conference.

Sports Mirror

1 Year Ago This Week—April 6, 1952: Netters triumph over Harvard, 12-4; 10-7.
5 Years Ago This Week—April 4, 1947: Gamecocks whip Cat cindermen, 83½-47½. Gray, Lacy, Temple take first places for Davidson.
10 Years Ago This Week—April 7, 1937: Cat netters win five victories on tour in South, but are unable to overcome Georgia Tech at home.
20 Years Ago This Week—April 6, 1932: Florida downs Cat track team in exciting meet at Davidson, 74-62, W. and L. Generals win over golfers.
25 Years Ago This Week—April 7, 1927: Lenoir-Rhyne defeated in one-sided encounter with Davidson nine, 17-3. Wildcat nine loses to Elon sluggers, 7-3. Cats field well, but are unable to hit.

The men rang up their second victory in as many days over Harvard University yesterday afternoon on the local courts. The match score was 6-3. Wednesday, the Davidsonians had taken the measure of the Ivy leaguers to the tune of 7-2. Outstanding in the singles competition for Davidson were a freshman, Lacy Keesler, and a senior, Allen Strand. Lacy, playing in the number one singles spot for the first time Wednesday, defeated Harvard's Charlie Ufford in a hard-fought match, 6-4, 3-6, 7-5; and yesterday he routed John Rauh 6-4, 6-3. Strand, who had previously played number one, showed that the “demotion” hadn't affected his morale or his game, by defeating Dave Watts, 6-1, 6-2, in the first match, and Art French, 6-4, 11-9, in the second. Harvard Coach Jack Barnaby, still trying to find the right singles and doubles line-up for his squad, shifted his players around completely for Thursday’s match after an agreement was made with Davidson to do so. The number one and number two Davidson doubles teams, consisting (Continued On Page Four)

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS — THEY OFFER BARGAINS!

The Floridians have been practicing since early January and already have one meet behind them as they face the Cats. The State team boasts two of the conference’s finest runners in the persons of John Poston, the captain of the Florida squad, and Wood Parker, a sophomore sensation. Poston is the team’s top sprint man with such impressive records as a :09.8 100-yd dash, a 21.6 220-yd dash, and a :50.5 440-yd sprint. Parker was Dixie champion as a freshman last year and is an outstanding member of the FSU relay team. FSU came in a close third in the Florida Relays last week.

McNeely, Mitchener in Two

On Wednesday of this week, time trials were run among the Cat squad to determine those who would qualify to run in tomorrow's event. The first three placers in each event were considered as the qualifiers. The men who won first positions in Wednesday's events were: Javelin—Wally Pate; high jump—Bob Turk; mile—Tom Stockton (4:48); shot—Bill McNeely (42' 4”); discus—Bill McNeely (131' 1”); 440—Bill Shipley (52.4); 100—Frank Mitchener (10.4); Hi Hurdles—Bill White (15.5); 880—Bob Henry (2:2.6); 220—Frank Mitchener (24.1); 2 mile—Tom Stockton (10:47.7); low hurdles—Buddy McKay; and broad jump—Mike York (19' 8"). The other qualifiers who will represent Davidson tomorrow are Fickeisen, Branch, Huffaker, D. Stockton, Pierce, Petree, Cenegy, Howell, Russell, Caudell, Morris, Landers, and Feeney. Coach Pete Whittle feels that this year the Wildcats are a better balanced group as compared to the cinder squad of one year ago and is hoping for a much better season. This should be a bang-up event and a good crowd is expected to see the thinclads go into their new season.

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests No. 38... THE WOLF

“MOST OF THEM AREN'T WORTH HOWLING ABOUT!”

Sharp character on campus — he’s not easily duped by deceptive devices! From the onset of the tricky cigarette tests, he knew there was one true test of mildness. Millions of smokers throughout America have learned, too! It’s the sensible test... the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test, which simply asks you to try Camels as your steady smoke, on a pack-after-pack, day-after-day basis. No snap judgments! Once you've tried Camels in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste), you'll see why...

After all the Mildness Tests... Camel leads all other brands by billions.