CHAPEL CONDUCT BEST IN YEARS: DICK ROPER VOL. XL! * day pledging is the life of the group. (More Pics
on Page 4).

Fraternity Pledging Closes Eventful Week Of Rushing
By MAURICE CROUSE

The end of Rush Week found 231 Davidson men affiliating with fraternities and social clubs in rainy Saturday afternoon pledging
ceremonies. Sigma Chi again gathered the largest number of pledges by securing 30, followed by several groups who got 20
or more pledges. Pi Kappa Phi was runner-up with 28 pledges; Phi Gamma Delta, Kappa Alpha, and Beta Theta Pi
each had 24; Kappa Sigma and Phi Delta Theta received 22; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 20; Alpha Tau Omega, 17; Sigma
Phi Epsilon, 12; Pi Kappa Alpha, 5; and the Campus Club, 3.

A list of pledges follows:

SIGMA CHI: Eugene Auten, John Baker, Mercer Blankenship, Fred Brandt, Lance Charles, James Daniels, Walter Davis, Rex Dillingham, Thomas Estes,
Harold Hall, Stuart Fountain, David Hambrick, David Hood, Guy Hunt, William Huntley, James Kuist, Thomas Mann, Read McGehee, Mal McSwain,
Donald Moore, William Morrow, Harry Orr, James Pressly, Robert Rhodes, David Shaw, Robert Shaw, John Trotti, Frank Turner, Ben Williams,
Roger Williams.

PI KAPPA PHI: D. Y. Cannon, Buddy Carothers, William Carter, Billy Duke, Bruno Eynard, Thomas Firor, Sam Fretwell, Henry Goodwin,
Tommy Griffin, John Greer, John Hill, John Hunter, Joe Huskins, John Lennon, John Maultsby, David McFayden, Neil McMillan, Belton O'Neall,
Billy Pitser, Pete Reavis, Jerry Robinson, Roy Robinson, John Robison, Edward Rondthaler, William Shuford, Gordon Swain, John Vernon, Phil Winstead.

PHI GAMMA DELTA: D. J. Allen, J. L. Barksdale, W. M. Bullock, D. R. Comer, R. O. Douglas, J. W.
Garden, J. H. Gray, A. G. Griffin, E. M. Hadley, T. G. Hawpe, J. W. Holshouser, J. S. Horne, R.
R. Isenhour, W. D. Kelly, J. D. Kivett, R. C. Neale, W. C. Peden, J. T. Poulson, F. C. Robert,
W. H. Rogers, B. B. Roper, C. E. Wiley, R. A. Wilkinson, J. K. Williams.

KAPPA ALPHA: Harry Antrim, Jim Brice, Joe Brown, Mac Calcote, Johnny Gilmer, Waddell Haggins, Allan Harless, Adair Hatcher, Dick James,
Bill Lampton, Bill Lazenby, Bill McCaskill, David McCaw, Al Myers, Lea Powell, Basil Sharp, Jack Trawick, Lawrence Trotti, Gordon Ward,
Richard Weeks, Stanley Miller, Mac Williamson, Bob Majors, Andy Whaley.

BETA THETA PI: Tony Dick, Jim Martin, Jim Covington, Dave Long, Gordon Bondurant, Bill Cunningham, Bill Martin, Jim Batten, John
Edwards, Abe Lincoln, Roswell Mallory, Henry Massey, Reese Middleton, Reitzel Snider, Leon Harwell, Zell McGee, Sewars Wall, Larry Wright, Ed
Bell, Paul Hennen, Carl Cooper, Phil Kukura, Gaylord Walker, Bill Gramley.

KAPPA SIGMA: Bob Armfield, Pete Ashcraft, Dallis Brewer, Tom Brewer, Bob Campbell, A. D. Cannon, Gerald Cathey, Mack Dagenhart, Mike
Fennegan, Jim Foil, Jim Gaither, John Kimbrough, Huger King, Dan LaFar, Ken Lawing, Jim Lippard, Bob Moffitt, Ralph Robinson, Bill
Roland, Phil Sasser, Alec Sheppard, Stuart Vaughan.

PHI DELTA THETA: Russell Barringer, David Brown, Dick Bucky, Warren Buford, Baxter Cochran, Vernon Hunter, Ed Lanham, Tom Lee, Lyle
Llewelyn, Tom Newton, Bunny Perkinson, Barney Poole, Everett Price, Bob Pulliam, Somers Randolph, Barney Regen, Norman Richards, Tommy Rivers, John
Robinson, Joe Sandifer, Tommy Thompson, Johnny Thorpe.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON: Bob Alexander, Ted Baker, Bill Ballentine, Sloan Cassels, Danny Crates, Snyder Garrison, Dan Haley, Buster Jenkins, Jack
Kerr, Sonny Kincey, Dyke Little, Boyce Martin, George Mitchell, Jim Robinson, David Simpson, Bill Smith, Bill Wheless, John Winfrey, Chuck
Wright, Eddie Young.

ALPHA TAU OMEGA: George Houck, Rip Pischotta, Warner Hall, Bob Haywood, Charles Gribble, Phil Tosh, Wally Pharr, Charles Efird, Tom
Morgan, Bob Haywood, Bob Carmichael, Sandy Stubbs, David White, Sam Sutton, Hank Daniel, Joe Hodges, Kim Kimbrough.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON: Donnie McRee, Don Campbell, Joe Cagle, Tom Moody, Tom Dove, Fred Teal, Bob Beall, Sonny Jarrett, Charles
Brown, Jim West, Jack Graham, and John Wilder.

PI KAPPA ALPHA: Donald Tucker, Jerry Brooks, Irvin Walther, Mack Hamor, Steve Huntley.

CAMPUS CLUB: Sills Bunn, Ben Byers, Lawton Posey.

D.C. Camera Club | Vespers & Chapel Opens Activities

The Davidson College Camera Club will hold its first meeting of the year this coming Tuesday evening, October 6, in
the Green Room of the College Union at 8:15 p.m. All old members are urged to be present, and any
other student who is interested in photography, whether a beginner or advanced worker, is cordially invited to attend. Off to
a fast start, the Club has (Continued On Page Four)

October 4: Dr. John R. Cunningham will be the speaker.
Chapel, October 5: Professor Raymond Tyson will have charge of the devotional.
October 6: Professor James S. Wilson will have charge of the devotional.
October 7: Professor Jay H. Ostwalt will have charge of the devotional.
October 8: The YMCA program has not been determined.
October 9: Professor A. V. Goldiere will have charge of the devotional.

'53 Rhodes Competition

The announcement of the annual competition for Rhodes Scholarships to Oxford University will undoubtedly be of interest to Davidson students.
Davidson is justly proud of the fact that ten of its graduates have been selected as Rhodes Scholars. Three of
these were chosen during the past four years. The ten are: The Reverend Wilson P. Mills, '03; the Reverend Benjamin
R. Lacy, '06; Shelby T. McCloy, '18; the Reverend J. McDowell Richards, '22; Robert F. Davidson, '23; Dean Rusk, '31;
Carleton B. Chapman, '46; Charles T. Davis, '50; Joseph J. Murray, '51, and Hubert N. Cannon, '53, who is now
en route to Oxford to begin his first year as a Rhodes Scholar.

This past record of Rhodes Scholarship winners indicates strongly that the Davidson product has a better than average chance in
the scholarship competition, and that according to size Davidson is far ahead in the number of Rhodes Scholarships that have
been awarded to its students throughout the years.

Dr. W. P. Cumming, chairman of the local Rhodes Scholarship Committee, announced today that the applications of possible candidates must
be in the hands of state committees by October 31, and emphasized that those interested in the scholarships should see
him immediately since there is considerable detail involved in submitting an application. Dr. Cumming also added that all information available
on Rhodes Scholarships will be placed on reserve in the library for the use of prospective candidates.

SCABBARD & BLADE MEETS OCTOBER 13

Scabbard & Blade, national honorary military society, will hold its first meeting on Tuesday night, October 13, in the Green
Room of the College Union. The meeting, scheduled to begin at 7:15 p.m., has been called to discuss sponsorship of
a Scabbard & Blade rifle team. Also, plans for the fall tap day will be made. Tap day will be
held in early November with only seniors eligible for tapping. The spring tap day will be open to rising seniors
as well as to seniors. Buddy Lamon, president of Scabbard and Blade, has been selected as the delegate to the
National Scabbard & Blade Convention and Leadership School to be held in Cincinnati, Ohio, on November 19th, 20th, and 21st.

Maxin Assists Rains In ‘Words and Music’

Jack Maxin, who assists Claude Rains in his dramatic program of “Words and Music” which is being presented at D.C.
on October 14, is considered one of the most talented of the younger generation of pianists. Young Maxin was selected
from many excellent musicians to be the participant in this program. One of the numbers on the program is the
reciting of Tennyson's “Enoch Arden” to music. Born in Philadelphia on July 18th, 1929, and the youngest of five children,
Maxin began piano lessons at the age of six and two years later played his first concert. (Continued On Page
Four)

Campus Magazine Seeks Frosh Talent
By JOHN T. HARMON

Freshman writers will have their chance to shine this fall for bigger and better awards than ever in the annual
Scripts ‘n Pranks Freshman Prose Contest, Editor Alden Williams announced today. Details of the annual competition, to be announced in
the October issue of the magazine, include the publication of the winning story in a future number, plus “a cash
first award doubling last year’s.” For the first time, he added, awards will be given to the second and third
place manuscripts.

“In the past three years,” Williams stated, “contest winners have come from both prose fiction and non-fiction. The contest will
be judged by the Scripts ‘n Pranks staff on the basis of artistic merit, not veracity.”

Scripts ‘n Pranks’ fall issue, slated for delivery toward the middle of October, will feature, he said, the outstanding art
work of Executive Editor Don Mahy, besides an all-star cast of junior and sophomore veterans. Professor J. Wilson McCutchan is
faculty adviser for the magazine. Joint subscription prices for girlfriends and parents are under consideration and will be announced later.
They are expected to run well under the four-issue single price of two dollars. The remaining issues, which are to
be published in December, March, and May, will present the subject matter that student bodies of the past have liked
best.

“The surest way to get fullest (Continued On Page Four)

ORTA LIBERTAS DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1953

ADS BLOOD DRIVE

BRITISH TO GRANT U.S. SCHOLARSHIPS

Beginning in the academic year 1954-55, twelve Marshall Scholarships will be available for American graduate students wishing to study at
a British university. The Marshall Scholarships have been established by the British government as a gesture of thanks for Marshall
Aid, in gratitude for America’s generous and far-sighted program for European recovery. Twelve scholarships will be granted annually, each for
a two-year period which may be extended to three. Eligible for competition are U.S. citizens, men or women under the
age of 28, and graduates of accredited U.S. colleges or universities. The scholarships may be held at any British university.

The value of each award will be $1,540 a year, with an extra $560 a year for married men. This
sum will comfortably finance a year's study at a British university, since academic fees and living costs are considerably less
than in the United States. Transportation is provided from home to the British university and back.

Qualifications for the awards (Continued On Page Four)

TICKET BROKERING BY INDIVIDUALS STOPPED BY I.F.C.

In a move to curtail “brokering” of tickets by fraternity men to independents, the Interfraternity Council on Wednesday night passed
a ruling requiring independents to purchase their tickets separately. The tickets will be of a different color, and no independent
or member of the Campus Club will be admitted on a fraternity man’s membership ticket.

This action was taken, an IFC spokesman related, after repeated attempts in the past to stop the reselling of tickets
by fraternity men to independents had failed. The resale of a ticket by a fraternity member eliminates one independent who
might have bought a ticket; thus the IFC could not depend on any independent ticket sales, which meant that the
fraternities had to cover the cost.to be charged a somewhat higher amount to cover the expense of a big-name band.
The Council expects band prices to be appreciably higher this year and accepted this plan as a means of avoiding
an increase in fraternity assessment. By this method, the difference in expense is expected to be covered by the sale
and fraternity men should (Continued on Page Four)

BAND FURNISHED NEW FALL OUTFIT

For the past two years, Mr. Satterfield, band director, and Mr. Moore, head of the band, have been planning the
uniform which the Davidson College marching band will wear for the first time at halftime activities of the Davidson vs.
Presbyterian football game. The initiation of this uniform will be one of the highlights of the Homecoming Dance weekend. The
uniform is styled somewhat similar to those used in the Yale and other Ivy League bands. The coats will be
a dark red color which will set off the light grey pants. White buck shoes and black ties will complete
the new uniform. The hats, which were so familiar to the antiquated military uniforms, have been discarded as have been
the conventional pant stripe. The drum majors will wear a white coat of the same style. The sixty members of
the band will have the honor of being the first band in the South to wear the new style in
marching uniforms. As well as being stylish, the uniforms are practical, for they will be used for afternoon concerts.

DAVIDSON DEBATERS SOON TO SELECT MEN FOR FORENSIC TEAM

Davidson debating will get off to an early start in October by reintroducing debates on the Davidson campus. Official inter-squad
debates will be used to select teams to attend intercollegiate debates. Definite plans are being made to attend three debate
tournaments this fall: the Southern Regional Tau Kappa Alpha Tournament, Mercer University, Macon, Ga.; the Agnes Scott Tournament, Decatur, Ga.;
and the University of Florida Tournament at Gainesville, Fla. The spring debating culminates in tournaments at Georgetown University in Washington,
D.C., Mary Washington College in Virginia, Emory University in Atlanta, Ga., and the South Atlantic Tournament at Lenoir Rhyne College.
Tentative plans are being made to send the top team or teams to the West Point Eliminations which is considered
to be the stiffest debate competition in the nation. The debate topic for the '53-'54 season is Resolved: “That the
United States should adopt a policy of free trade.” In the near future, there will be a meeting of all
freshmen and upperclassmen interested in debating. Again sponsoring the Davidson debating will be the Forensic Council headed by Buddy Lamon.
The debate manager is Roy Davis. All debaters are voting members of the Forensic Council. Above (Continued On Page Four)

Student Committee Selects Best Films

Among the many features of the Davidson College Union this year will be the presentation of various films as selected
by a newly appointed film committee. This committee is headed by Buddy Bechler, and Royster Chamblee is acting as chief
operator. The other members are Will Terry, President of the Eumanean Society; Bob Crutchfield, President of the Philanthropic Society; Dr.
Spencer and Mr. Smith. Since it is the purpose of this committee to select films which would be most interesting
to the student body, any suggestions concerning this selection would be appreciated.

SNACK BAR LAX; BOOKSTORE BIG WASTE

JIM MOORE NO. 2

RED CROSS BLOODMOBILE ON CAMPUS THURSDAY, FRIDAY OF COMING WEEK

“Gamma Globulin for Polio” is the slogan for the YMCA-sponsored blood drive which opens next week when the Red Cross
bloodmobile returns to the campus. Red Cross personnel will be in Johnston Gym on both Thursday and Friday from eleven
until five to receive donors.

Three D.C. Alumni Get Commissions

T. Henry Wilson, Marshall P. James, Jr., and Gray W. Hampton, Jr., all alumni of Davidson College, were graduated from
the Navy’s only officer candidate school on September 11. These men were three of 180 to exchange their white hats
of enlisted men for the gold-trimmed caps of the officers in the Navy's Supply, Civil Engineering, and Medical Service Corps.
Henry Wilson of Morganton, N. C., graduated with a B.S. degree in English in 1951 from Davidson. He was a
member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. Marshall P. James, an SAE from Maxton, North Carolina, graduated with a B.S. degree
in Economics. Gray Hampton of Charlotte received from Davidson the B.S. degree for Business Administration. He was a member of
Sigma Chi social fraternity. These men have just completed a two-month indoctrination course to familiarize them with the fundamentals and
requirements of a naval officer’s life.

Washington Study Offered D.C. Students

Davidson has been added to a list of representative universities and colleges throughout the United States which are now participating
in the Washington Semester program of American University in Washington, D.C. The purpose of the program is to allow members
of the junior class, interested in national or international affairs, to spend their spring semester in the nation’s capital to
receive special training designed to acquaint them with the practical problems of government at the same time that they are
carrying on certain classroom (Continued On Page Four)

Last year Davidson ranked second among the nation’s colleges and universities in the percentage of students donating blood. Although the
Korean war has stopped, the demand for plasma has not decreased, for the number of wounded veterans requiring transfusions is
still great. Moreover, large amounts of blood must be used in the preparation of gamma globulin for the fight against
polio. Next week’s drive is being sponsored by the YMCA with Cortez Cooper and Frank Mitchener acting as co-chairmen. The
ROTC Department will again cooperate fully by furnishing personnel and equipment. Red Cross nurses and doctors will attend the blood-taking
process which is absolutely painless. Mecklenburg County’s quota for this year is 12,500 pints. Five thousand of these will be
used in the county’s hospitals during the first six months; the balance will be sent to a national blood bank.
Sam Magill, YMCA secretary, said that no one under 18 years of age will be allowed to give blood. This
is a national restriction. For those under 21 years old, written permission from parents must be shown before blood may
be given. Mr. Magill said releases will be sent to all the homes of this age group by the YMCA.
All the parents have to do is to sign these and send them back to the “Y” here at school.
These releases will be on file by the time the mobile unit arrives. Cooper said the main use the blood
will be put to is in the preparation of gamma globulin. This serum is used to combat the dreaded disease,
infantile paralysis. This is a relatively new medicine, but its worth was proved this summer during the polio outbreaks that
reached epidemic proportions in East Tennessee, Alabama, and North Carolina. Other services the blood will perform will be for veterans
of the Korean War, and for serum albumen.

Court Should Loom Ominous To An Unoriented Frosh Class Of ’57

Get that guy’s name! No cap? No tag name? Impersonating an upperclassman? Disrupting Lyman Kiser’s study hall? Send him to
the Court... Such are the scrutinizing comments that are heard throughout the campus, as all eyes are eagerly focused upon
that blushing bloom of unsuspecting innocence, the freshman under the red beanie. From the close judgment of some informed upperclassmen,
Davidson’s 1957 class of characters has not removed the high school attitude from its demeanor and is sadly wanting in
the characteristics of a true gentleman. Such wrongs must be righted. This year’s Court of Control under the able and
ardent leadership of Judge Fred Stowe holds the key that can unlock the door of learning for all freshmen. According
to the Chief Judge, more and more complaints are pouring in from upperclassmen, and it appears that the courtroom will
have standing room only in its first sessions. The eight champions of gentlemanly justice that compose the Court are not
only well qualified for their position but have many sound ideas ready to put into use for the righting of
freshman errors. One of the two sophomores on the Court is James Shelton who hails from Winston-Salem, N. C. Jim
is a member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity, D Club, Beaver Club and plays on the football team. His major
qualification for this position is the experience he gained at Marine boot camp this summer. When asked for his opinion
of the class of ’57, he gathered together his knowledge of Lilly's English, chose his words carefully and said: “I
believe that they are a group of the most insubordinate, overbearing, cocky characters that I have seen or heard of
in my short career.” A senior member on the Court is Dan McCall from Marion, N. C. Mr. McCall is
a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity, the D Club and Beaver Club, vice president of Sigma Delta Psi, and
is also a stalwart football player. Dan is looking forward to a busy Court year and has many constructive methods
for misguided freshmen. One of the outstanding juniors of the Court, Frank Mitchener, blossomed out of the cotton plantations of
Sumner, Mississippi. Frank, a member of Phi Delta Theta, D Club and Beaver Club, is one of Coach Pete Whittle’s
leading cinder men. He was treasurer of his sophomore class and is scheduled to be one of the leaders in
the coming Y blood drive. Another senior on the Court is “Bantam” Bill Shipley who claims Asheville, N.C., as his
home base. Bill is a member of IFC, Sigma Chi Fraternity, Sigma Delta Psi, Honorary Fraternity Council and is co-captain
of the cross-country team. When asked for his hallowed thoughts on the freshman class, “Sweet William” replied: “Spirited but cocky.
I believe that a good remedy for this would be at least two weeks on campus so they will have
a chance to integrate their spirit with that of the whole school.” The other sophomore on the Court is Dick
Adams, formerly of Charlotte, now residing in Cleveland, Ohio. Richard is a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity, is secretary-treasurer of
the Beaver Club, and is a first-rate basketball player. Dick believes that the class of ’57 is somewhat out of
hand, and “It’s going to be rough.” Another junior member of the court is Harry Petersen, a native of Columbia,
South Carolina. Last but not least is Fred Stowe, Chief Judge of the Court, who comes from Belmont, N. C.
This is Fred’s third year on the Court, and with this experience behind him, he has shaped a few aims
and principles for this year’s panel of judges. According to Chief Stowe, “strict attendance and cheering at all home games,
especially the freshman games,” will be a must. He hopes to meet as often as possible in chapel and he
hopes that the whole program will be constructive. Fred is president of Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity, and a member of
the D Club and baseball team. So the Court of Control has already begun, and freshmen, walk carefully, for the
eyes of Davidson are upon you.
