FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 1953

Director Smith Announces Display; Union Swings Into Busy Schedule

Smith, director of the Student Union, announced today that the Union Gallery Committee has been appointed to be in charge
of arranging the art display board on the main floor of the union building. Members of the committee are: Don
Mahy, Bob Crutchfield, Courtney Hill, Vance Mizelle, and Prof. Pitt Moose, faculty adviser. The displays will include all types of
art work, charcoals, oils, and photography. It is hoped that a new display will be arranged each week. Prof. Moose
commented: “I believe we can make this display an interesting thing for the boys.”

Smith also urged groups who wish to book the facilities and the ballroom of the Union to see him in
order to avoid conflicts. Lockers on the second floor of the building are now available to honorary fraternities upon request.
Interested groups should see Mr. Smith immediately. Keys will be issued on a first-come, first-served basis. Mr. Smith said, “The
Union has no suggestion box, but I am anxious for the boys with suggestions that would make the Union more
serviceable, useful, and enjoyable to come by and talk to me.”

CHURCH SUPPER: COME ONE AND ALL

There will be a chicken and dumpling supper Saturday night beginning at 5 p.m. at the Calvary Presbyterian Church. The
supper is sponsored by the church to raise money for a building program. Plates will be $1.00. All students and
faculty are invited. (The church is located one block beyond the railroad on Depot Street.)

JACKSON Cleaners CLEARING EVERY JOB A GOOD ONE

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WILSON SPEAKS... GRAPPLERS MEET...

(Continued from Page One) (Continued from Page Three)

the Nazi party, holding out the many problems in Germany after World War I, unemployment, unparalleled inflation, and political disunity,
which facilitated this rise to power. In 1933 when Hitler came into power he began a drastic and temporarily successful
reconditioning of Germany. But along with these reforms, he sowed the seeds of his own destruction. Church groups were dissolved,
and a Gestapo was installed, the necessity for which revealed the beginning of a resistance movement. For a while, however,
this resistance was unorganized and weak. Prof. Wilson described fascinatingly several attempts to assassinate Hitler. He was in Germany at
the time of the great attempt of July 1944 and knew personally the would-be assassin of a former attempt. After
a summary, Prof. Wilson and Johannes Miedema answered questions from a European standpoint as they were proposed by the audience.

SLUMPING CATS...

(Continued from Page Three)

tanky captain Joe Dudley and guard Jerry King. In dropping to Carolina last Tuesday by 71-60, the Cats were sparked
by Dudley with 20 and King with 18. Buddy Brown also turned in a fine performance for the Cats as
he connected for 11. The Red and Black quint has now suffered five setbacks in their last five starts. However,
in most of these games, they've been pitted against the best teams in the league plus one strong non-conference opponent,
Tennessee. As the season nears the halfway mark, the Cats hold a 2-6 record.

GREEK WEEK...

(Continued From Page One)

to the house of the fraternity with whom they eat. New members, Roy Davis, Mickey Cannon, and Martin McGirt, were
present. Wednesday afternoon each pledge class will work on an individual project of community interest and value, thus enabling each
group to demonstrate its individual ability and ingenuity. Exchange suppers will again be held and following the meals there will
be discussion groups held in several of the fraternity lodges for all who are interested, both brothers and pledges, on
such topics as rushing, alumni relations, and scholarship.

SPANISH SOCIETY

(Continued From Page One)

advanced courses are bid to Sigma Delta Pi. The two organizations viewed colored movies of Spain and Mexico at their
joint meeting in December. The films were made and shown by Charlotte's recreational director, Dr. Halberstadt, who has traveled extensively.

JAMES HYUN...

(Continued From Page One)

on his homeland battlefront and is thankful for his Davidson opportunity, but still he’s a bit disappointed. “I think the
Korean expects us to be a country full of Gene Kelleys and Errol Flynns, for the only taste of America
James and his friends in Seoul got prior to his trip here was through the American movies. Most of them
were musicals with Korean subtitles. You can imagine his opinion of college life after seeing ‘She’s Working Her Way Through
College’ or of the American businessman after seeing ‘Lost Weekend.’ Instead, he found us. Of course, we aren’t as bad
as the movie heroes, but still he’s a little concerned about our morals and may occasionally make a joking remark
about his roommates running around. He was shocked to see girls smoke, but James is far from bitter... who can
really blame him for being somewhat resentful or jealous when he compares our plush surroundings to his homeland. Then in
the same breath, James will gladly tell you how friendly everyone is to him here and that we’re not nearly
as tough as he thought we would be, judging from the American GIs he met. This same frank opinion holds
for our basketball and football.

CLEANED BY COMMITTEE...

The student members of the Faculty Student Committee met before the holidays with the Faculty Committee on the College Calendar
to discuss the 1953-1954 schedule. The purpose of the meeting was to try to prevent any conflicts in the schedule
as far as possible during the next school year. The below calendar, when approved by the faculty, will be adopted.
It should be noted that the same holiday vacations were maintained. The longer Christmas vacation, which includes three weekends, was
made possible by shortening each exam period by one day. If congestion arises in the schedule, students will be permitted
to switch sections if the professor has two sections. And, if three exams come in a row, students will also
be allowed to switch as is now the policy.

May 29—Friday: Meeting of the Trustees.
May 30—Saturday: Alumni Day.
May 31—Sunday: 11 a.m., Baccalaureate Sermon.
June 1—Monday: Commencement.
June 5-6—Friday and Saturday: Re-examination.
June 4—Thursday: Classes begin for 8-hour and 4-hour lab courses.
June 10—Wednesday: Classes begin for all other courses.
July 3-4—Friday and Saturday: A holiday.
July 22—Wednesday: End of first term.
July 23—Thursday: Classes begin for all courses.
Aug. 28—Friday: End of second term.

FIRST SEMESTER 1953-1954

Sept. 11-15—Friday through Tuesday: Orientation period. Attendance required of all freshmen and entering transfers.
Sept. 14-15—Monday and Tuesday: Re-examination.
Sept. 14—Monday: First faculty meeting; registration of sophomores, 2 p.m.
Sept. 15—Tuesday: Registration of juniors and seniors.
Sept. 16—Wednesday: Classes begin.
Oct. 19-31—Monday-Saturday: Review period.
Oct. 17—Saturday: Homecoming.a holiday. Football game, Pres. "Basketball is foolish, and foot- .byterian College. ball takes too much time decid-
Nov. 16-25—Monday-Saturday: Review period. ing what to do, but I like it when Nov. 25—Wednesday 4:40 p.m.: Thanksgiving recess begins.
all of a sudden everybody runs off Nov. 30—Monday, 8:20 a.m.: Thanksgiving recess ends. the field and others run back
on Dec. 18—Friday, 4:40 p.m.: Christmas recess begins. Aggressiveness, sharp shooting, and team spirit were the main fac- tors contributing
to the ATO’s 35 to 33 upset victory over the Phi Delts. Linny Baker was the big gun for the
ATOs, collecting 17 points while Ted Oldenburg led the previously undefeated Phi Delts with 13 points. Sigma Chis 55; Phi
Gams 40 SAEs 37; Phi Gams 31 Sigma Chis used 12 men as they rolled to an easy 55-40 win
over the Phi Gams. Tom Shaw and Frank Smith provided the Sigs’ scoring punch as they collected 18 and 12
markers, respectively. Another combination, Larry Champion with 15 and Joe Sugg with 13 led the Phi Gams. KAs 45; Pikas
35 Using their height to good advantage the powerful KAs rolled to a 45-35 decision over the Pikas. George King
was high for the KAs, while Lindley Beardsley took high-point honors for the night scoring 14 for the losers. SAEs
39; Campus Club 24 Freshman forward Tom Darst led his SAEs to a 39-24 swamp of the Campus Club as
he hit for 21 points. The SAEs grabbed the lead early and were never headed. Bobby Renn was high for
the losers as he collected 9 tallies.

DAVIDSONIAN ABROAD (Continued From Page Two) where the chariot races were run; Hadrian's tomb; the Forums; the Catacombs and many
other sights. One of the best views of the city in their places. The boys tell me what you want
to do is push the ball over the end lines, but as soon as you do they bring it back
to the middle of the field again.”

PRESSING SECOND SEMESTER — 1953-1954 Jan. 28—Thursday: Mid-year examinations end. Jan. 29—Friday, 8:20 a.m.: Second semester begins. Feb. 17—Wednesday: Meeting
of Board of Trustees. Feb. 22-Mar. 6—Monday-Saturday: Review period. Mar. 17—Wednesday, 4:40 p.m.: Spring recess begins. Mar. 19—Friday, 2:00 p.m.:
Re-examination. Mar. 24—Wednesday, 8:30 a.m.: Spring recess ends. Mar. 29-Apr. 10—Monday-Saturday: Review period. May 20—Thursday: Second semester examination begins. May
28—Friday: Second semester examinations end. May 29-31—Saturday-Monday: Commencement. June 4-5—Friday and Saturday: Re-examinations.

If James had been born 40 years ago he wouldn't have any marriage problems, for up until that time mates
were picked out at birth. And it still isn’t uncommon for a 10-year-old boy to marry a 20-year-old girl. On
a Korean date the couple usually go to a tea room and sit for 4 hours. That's what he said.
James likes America. Maybe it’s just that he realizes more than we do how lucky we really are.

SKILLFULLY DONE BY PRESSERS WITH YEARS OF EXPERIENCE

Student officers of the Spanish club are: Bob Walker, president; Jesse Fisher, first vice president; Larry Champion, second vice president,
and Jenks Jervey, secretary.

SCABBARD & BLADE (Continued From Page One) Col. E. H. Davis will speak on active duty orientation at the May
meetings. Refreshments were served at the end of the meeting.

The culmination of Greek Week will come on Thursday night when each pledge class will present a five-minute skit in
Chambers Auditorium. These skits were termed highly successful last year, and are again expected to lend a fitting climax to
the festivities. Following the skits, which will begin at 7:30 p.m., a social will be held in the Union, along
with what is hoped to be some very unusual and engaging entertainment for those who wish to attend.

Committees appointed to handle details of the week are: Combined Project—Dick Liles and Max DeVane; Individual Project—Tyler Berry and Homer
Sparks; Exchange Suppers—Duke Fowler and Gayle Averyt; Skits and Social—Joe Neisler and Larry Dagenhart; Discussions—Rodney Howell and Jim Boulware.

D. C. DELEGATES (Continued From Page One) The power to punish schools violating NCAA rules was placed in the hands
of a seventeen-man council composed of the organization’s top officers. This council will be empowered to act when the national
conference is not in session.

Formal approval was voted on action previously taken against three member schools; the University of Kentucky, Bradley University, and Midwestern
University as punishment for violation of eligibility rules. Kentucky had been barred from all basketball competition and declared ineligible to
compete in any NCAA events in 1952/53. Bradley had been barred from the NCAA basketball tournament while Midwestern had gotten
off with a reprimand.

In other balloting the conference voted to continue to restrict post-season football and basketball practice, though these restrictions were liberalized;
and to continue to limit the televising of college football games, the latter over the opposition of several larger schools.

THEATRE THURS.-FRI, JAN 15-16 One Minute To Zero ROBERT MITCHUM CHARLES McGRAW

“I smoked Chesterfield in college—I smoke ‘em now. Read this ad and you'll know why I say... MUCH MILDER CHESTERFIELD
IS BEST FOR ME!” NORTHWESTERN UNIV. ‘52

SATURDAY, JAN. 17 Brave Warrior JON HALL CHRISTINE LARSON

CAT TALES (Continued from Page Three) The team has been fairly fortunate so far as to injuries. There have been
no knees dislocated so far, no wrists smashed in bad falls on the hardwood. Ish Bennett has been the only
loser to date, having lost a tooth in the UNC game last Tuesday.

NOW... Scientific Evidence on Effects of Smoking! A medical specialist is making regular bi-monthly examinations of a group of people
from various walks of life. 45 percent of this group have smoked Chesterfield for an average of over ten years.
After eight months, the medical specialist reports that he observed... no adverse effects on the nose, throat and sinuses of
the group from smoking Chesterfield.

WEDNESDAY, JAN. 21 The Sniper ADOLPHE MENJOU ARTHUR FRANZ

FOR QUICK SERVICE BATES CLEANERS DYEING & ALTERATIONS — HATS BLOCKED LAUNDRY SERVICE

First and Only Premium Quality King-Size Cigarette

He's a “heavy” in the play, but short on time. Busy students need quick refreshment. That’s where Coca-Cola comes in.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N. C. “Coke” is a registered trademark.
© 1952, The Coca-Cola Company

CONTAINS TOBACCOS OF BETTER QUALITY AND HIGHER PRICE THAN ANY OTHER KING-SIZE CIGARETTE
