PAGE FOUR ~~ Buddy Sehler interviews Treasurer Grier Martin on the first of a scheduled series of radio programs originating
from the College Union over Station WSOC, Charlotte, at 12:45 a.m. every Monday. The man in the foreground is the
WSOC technician.

Cunningham Addresses Chicken Feed Tycoons
President John R. Cunningham addressed a regional gathering of Ralston Purina Company executives in Asheville last Sunday, November 15th. The
founder and chairman of the board of this milling company is William H. Danforth. Mr. Danforth is also president of
the Danforth Foundation which annually grants fellowships for graduate study. Allen Garrison of Lake Wales, Florida, a member of Davidson’s
1953 graduating class, received one of these fellowships. Wednesday, Dr. Cunningham presided at the meeting of the board of the
American Association of Colleges in Washington, D.C. He is serving this year as president of the association.

Off-Moorings . . . (Continued From Page Two)
Concerning the finances of football at Davidson might be termed a minor issue if it weren't for two important considerations.
There is no football scandal at Davidson as to using general funds for football scholarships. This does not include those
few scholarships given in other sports. The entire procedure has been one of good business practices in the limits placed
on the Treasurer and the General Scholarship Committee of which Mr. Martin is chairman.

The limitation consists in having to set up scholarships for the football players without a positive assurance of having all
of it paid for by the Wildcat Club. The other important point to consider is this. Davidson alumni have had
a hard enough time banding together and raising the amounts they have. Even setting higher goals does not seem to
produce better results. The conclusion must obviously be that unless there is some radical increase in the percentage of alumni
contributing or some single large contributor turns up, it is not possible for us to go in for all-out subsidization.
The only other source from which the money for a subsidization program could come would be the general fund of
the college.

The Matthews Award Contest Is Announced; Deadline February
The J. B. Matthews Testimonial Dinner Committee announces a cash award of $500 for the best essay on “Communism and
Academic Freedom,” written by an undergraduate student of an American college or university. Essays must be limited to two thousand
words or less and submitted not later than February 1, 1954. All manuscripts must be typewritten. Only original essays will
be considered. The winner of the award will be announced on March 1, 1954. Judges of the awards will be
George E. Sokolsky, Eugene Lyons, Ralph de Toledano, and E. Merrill Root. Manuscripts should be mailed to the Matthews Award
Editor, The American Mercury, 11 East 36th Street, New York 16, New York.

SAEs Capture... (Continued From Page Three)
For consolation honors. In the 191-lb class, Dave Burns (SAE) decisioned Randy Johnson (Pika) in the championship match. Monty Littlejohn
(Phi Gam) defeated Barney Poole (Phi Delt) for third place. In the heavyweight division, Firor (Pi Kapps) won by a
fall over David Regen (Phi Delt). Long (Phi Gam) came in third by a decision over Lawing (Kappa S. A.).
To determine final team totals, the following point system was devised:
1st place—6 points
2nd place—4 points
3rd place—2 points
4th place—1 point
Each fall—1 point

An ethical question arises here as to whether a college should support its football program in this way at the
possible expense of other functions. Of more pragmatic value, is the assumption that this view does not coincide with the
expressed opinion of either Dr. Cunningham or the Trustees. It is not an easy problem to solve, and perhaps that
is the only conclusion that can assuredly be made.

CREW—short point, round button-down,
RANGE—wide spread collar, angle stays.
STYLE WITH THE PROPER CASUAL TOUCH
Here are just two of the many smart new collar-styles Manhattan has designed for the latest campus emphasis on the
casual dress look. When you consider the host of fabrics, patterns, and colors these are available in, you begin to
realize why Manhattan has been the continuing style leader for almost a full century. Why not see why for yourself—today.

Wildkitten Cagers . . . (Continued From Page Three)
Weeks; at center, Gaylord Walker; and at the forward posts will be Alec Shepard and Dave Shaw. The team which
will back up this first team consists of Robert Shaw and George Mitchell at guards, Mal McSwain at the center
slot, and Dan Haley and Tom Brewer at the forwards. The remainder of the frosh roster reads as follows: Roger
Williams, John Hunter, Bob Pullium, John Winfrey, Barney Regen, Mick Fennegan, and the freshman manager is William McCaskill.

Carolina Distance (Continued From Page Three)
Medals. Ashcraft beat Duke’s number one freshman contender in the State meet held at Raleigh last Monday in capturing second
in the freshman competition.

Big Improvement
This year’s cross-country team has shown considerable improvement over last year’s, which gained only one win and finished eighth in
the Conference meet. This year’s edition defeated Richmond and William and Mary, tied Maryville, and lost to N.C. State, V.M.I.,
and W. and L., and Duke for a 2-4-1 record. The third place in the Conference meet is the highest
Davidson has finished in a number of years.

Davidsonians Back . . . (Continued From Page One)
Were led by experts in the affairs of these two countries. A banquet topped off the day's activities, and the
toastmaster was Sam Magill’s father, Mr. Orrin Magill, chairman of the United Nations Seminar Committee. Dr. Edwin Espy, Executive of
the National Student Council YMCA, led the invocation, and the speakers were Mrs. Savilla Simons, General Secretary of the National
YWCA, and Mr. Elmore Jackson, Consultant for United Nations Representative for India and Pakistan. Following the banquet was a party
in which delegates got a chance to get acquainted through dancing and games. Davidson students were surprised to find such
a big group of Southerners and discovered that North Carolina had the most representatives of any state with large representations
from W.C., State, Guilford, and Carolina. The majority of the other groups were from the Midwest and New England. With
the exception of the University of Nebraska, Davidson had the largest delegation.

Beginning the program Saturday was a lecture on UNESCO by Dr. Solomon Arnaldo, director of the New York UNESCO office,
in which he explained the important work being done in the fields of education, science, and culture through the United
Nations. Many consider this to be more important and lasting than the political work the organization does. Then came a
complete tour of the modern UN buildings, and another visit to the General Assembly. The program Saturday was brought to
a close with an uptown luncheon in which some of the major impressions of the conference were discussed by Miss
Jimmie Woodward, the director of the Seminar, who talked briefly on “What We Have Learned and What We Can Do
About It.” She was followed by a student panel led by Miss Fern Babcock, Program Secretary of the National YWCA
on “Effective Campus Programs on World Affairs.” Closing the discussions was Mr. Ernest Lefever, Executive Director of the Department of
International Justice and Goodwill of the National Council of Churches, who gave some thought-provoking ideas on “Student Responsibility for World
Affairs.”

Saturday afternoon and evening were free for sightseeing or the theatre. Some of the Davidson group spent the time touring
Rockefeller Center, visiting the Empire State Building, and seeing some of the other famed sights, while the rest of the
group attended such plays or musicals as “Can Can,” “Wonderful Town,” and “Picnic.” A breakfast meeting officially closed the Seminar
Sunday morning. Mr. M. M. Thomas, Indian Student Christian Movement leader, spoke challengingly on “Christians in the World Struggle.” The
group from Davidson, who stayed at the Sloane House YMCA on 34th Street, came back with a keener insight into
the problems of the United Nations and a deeper appreciation for their great contributions to the betterment of humanity. Some
are already talking of attending the spring conference.which will be held just after spring holidays. Those who attended the conference
were: Bob Crutchfield, Gilbert Gragg, Hugh Gramley, James Knox, Ted Hartsock, Swain Loy, Joe Riddle, John Snyder, Ed Stuart, Will
Terry, and Mike York.

THE DAVIDSONIAN GRADUATE

Prof. George Abernethy, chairman of the Faculty Scholarship Committee, has announced several graduate scholarships and fellowships available to college seniors
for study at Johns Hopkins, Washington University School of Law, Vanderbilt, Peabody, and U.N.C.

Johns Hopkins University
The Johns Hopkins University announces special scholarships for graduate work in English which carry stipends of $1,350 and $1,750. Other
scholarships providing the remission of tuition are also available. Further information about these scholarships may be obtained from the Secretary,
Department of English, the Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore 18, Maryland.

Washington University Law School
The Washington University School of Law in Saint Louis has announced the National Law Scholarships to be awarded to young
men or women who give promise of becoming distinguished lawyers and, in addition, show strong potentialities of exercising moral leadership
in their community. These National Law Scholarships carry stipends up to $1,500 a year and are renewable. Other scholarships carrying
stipends of $600 and $300 a year are available. For further information, interested students may consult Professor Morton.

Vanderbilt University Graduate School
The Vanderbilt University Graduate School invites applications from seniors for a large number of fellowships and scholarships. Teaching fellowships of
$1,000 to $1,400 are offered in Biology, Chemistry, Economics, English, History, Mathematics, Physics, Psychology, and Sociology. Cordell Hull Fellowships of
$750 to $1,250 are open to students interested in international affairs. Research and industrial fellowships of $1,000 to $1,800 are
available in Chemistry, Chemical Engineering, and in the science departments of the School of Medicine. Ten special scholarships of $1,500
and ten University scholarships of $1,000 are also available to beginning graduate students. Further information about these awards may be
secured from The Dean of the School, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, 5, Tenn.

Vanderbilt and Peabody
Vanderbilt University in cooperation with Peabody College is offering thirty-seven awards of $1,200 for first-year graduate students interested in secondary
school teaching. A program is offered which combines subject matter and professional training in equal proportions. For application forms and
information, address Dr. Robert Provine, Joint University Library, Nashville, Tenn.

MOREHEAD SCHOLARSHIPS
January 15, 1954, is the final date for the submission of applications for the John Motley Morehead Scholarships at the
University of North Carolina. Davidson College, which was selected as an eligible institution for these graduate scholarships worth $1,500 per
year to the recipient, is allowed to nominate a maximum of three students this year. Although the scholarships are awarded
for only one year at a time, any student receiving one of these grants may have it renewed until the
completion of his course if his conduct and scholarship warrant it. The graduate scholarship may be given to anyone interested
in technical, scientific, professional, or post-graduate study. The criterion for making this award is scholarship, character, and accomplishment rather than
financial need. A number of Davidson graduates have received these Morehead Scholarships in past years. Any senior interested in getting
further information should see Professor Edward O. Guerrant.

Omicron ...
(Continued From Page One)

ALDEN WILLIAMS
Alden Williams from Montreat, N.C., is editor of Scripts 'n Pranks. He is feature editor of the Davidsonian and vice
president of Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity. He is a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society, the Red and Black
Masquers, and Le Cercle Francais.

HUNTER STRADER
Hunter Strader from Burlington, N.C., is a pre-medical student. He is President of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity; President of Alpha
Epsilon Delta, honorary medical fraternity; President of the Honorary Fraternity Council; Assistant Editor of the Davidsonian; and Treasurer of Gamma
Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemical fraternity. A member of the YMCA cabinet, he is head of this year’s Christmas Gift Fund.
He is also a member of Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German society; and the Philanthropic Literary Society.

FRED STOWE
Fred Stowe from Belmont, N.C., is also a pre-medical student. Fred is Judge of the Court of Control and President
of Sigma Phi Epsilon, which he also serves as boarding house manager. Having lettered in varsity baseball, he is a
member of the “D” Club.

HOMER SPARKS
Homer Sparks from Anniston, Ala., is majoring in psychology. He is a member of the Kappa Alpha order, the YMCA
cabinet, Scabbard and Blade, and the Philanthropic Literary Society. A member of the “D” Club, he is captain of the
cross country and track teams.

BUDDY LAMON
Buddy Lamon from Macon, Ga., is a history honors student and a Baker scholar. He is Vice President of Phi
Delta Theta fraternity; President of Scabbard and Blade; President of Tau Kappa Alpha, national forensic society; President of the Forensic
Council; and Treasurer of the YMCA cabinet.

CHARLIE HASSELL
Charlie Hassell from Charlotte is also a pre-medical student. He is president of the Interfraternity Council and is a member
of Kappa Sigma; the Male Chorus; Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary medical fraternity; Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German Society; and the
Eumenean Literary Society.

BEN CRAIG
Ben Craig from Gastonia, N.C., is majoring in economics. He is a member of Kappa Sigma, Scabbard and Blade, and
the Honorary Fraternity Council. He is captain of the varsity football team, a Lieutenant-Colonel in the ROTC, and President of
the “D” Club.

Other student members of ODK are Lyman Kaiser, President of the Student Body; Moody Smith, editor of the Davidsonian; Bill
Hood, Editor of Quips and Cranks; and Charlie Williams, President of the YMCA.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
THURS-FRI., NOV. 19-20
“THE TORCH SONG”
JOAN CRAWFORD

SATURDAY, NOV. 21
“COMBAT SQUAD”
JOHN IRELAND
LON McCALLISTER

MON-TUES., NOV. 23-24
“PETER PAN”
A Big All-Cartoon Feature
Children's Admission 25c.
Passes not good on this picture.

WEDNESDAY, NOV. 25
“CONQUEST OF COCHISE”
JOHN HODIAK

THURS-FRI., NOV. 26-27
“WHITE WITCH DOCTOR”
SUSAN HAYWARD
ROBERT MITCHUM

SATURDAY, NOV. 28
“SKY COMMANDO”
DAN DURYEA

GREYHOUND...
Heap Big Bargain for Everybody Going Home for Thanksgiving!
CHARLOTTE 50
ROCK HILL, S.C. 1.20
STATESVILLE 4
WASHINGTON, D.C. 9.30
GREENSBORO 2.35
NEW YORK CITY 12.85
WINSTON-SALEM 1.60
DETROIT, MICH. 16.05
ATLANTA, GA. 6.45
COLUMBIA, S.C. 2.85
AUGUSTA, GA 4.45
BOONE, N.C. 2.50
Plus U.S. Tax
Big EXTRA Savings on Round-Trip Tickets
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1953

Citadel Bulldogs
(Continued From Page Three)

Patton, who calls the defensive signals for the Cat forward wall, fills a tackle position and has proved to be
another of the most valuable linemen in the Cat lineup. Dan McCall, the quarterback turned end, has shown great improvement
in his new position since his shift at the beginning of the season. The Citadel tilt is slated to get
underway at the usual 2:30 p.m., and if comparative statistics can be held in any value, the game should be
one of the most exciting of the campaign.

Cross Country...
(Continued from Page Three)

be one of the top runners in the South. Last year he placed 22nd in the conference meet, being Davidson’s
only trophy winner. Besides Sparks, Davidson’s Dick Lovette, Floyd Feeney, and Andy Turner also brought back trophies, finishing thirteenth, fourteenth,
and nineteenth respectively. John Handley was the fifth man for Davidson finishing 28th.

Juniors, sophomores, and freshmen may have looked around and whispered, but the senior section of Chambers Auditorium was quiet for
once Tuesday morning. Shown above is a scene from the tap exercise as Hunter Strader, second from left, is tapped
by Bill Hood. Shown at extreme left is Fred Stowe, also tapped during the exercise.—(Photo by Andy Simons.)

STYLE IS THE WORD
Popular oxford cloth gets a refreshing new treatment in our Manhattan shirts with the new Crew collar. This round-point style
buttons down for all-day neatness. Colors: white, blue, grey, and tan. Neck sizes: 14-16... sleeves: 4.50. Manhattan “Pinioned” white oxford
cloth or broadcloth, $4.50. In blue, grey, tan, and green, 3.95. French cuffs. Neck sizes: 14-16... sleeves: 32-35.
C. S. Goodrum, Agent
126 SOUTH TRYON STREET
CHARLOTTE
